









Contents




Cover


Other Titles


Title Page


Copyright


Contents


Epigraph


Prologue: Waking Up


Part One: Origin Myth




Chapter One: Childhood Snapshots


Chapter Two: Under the Influence


Chapter Three: Dream Come True


Chapter Four: Life Gets Real


Chapter Five: Coping with Fantasy


Chapter Six: Summer Interlude






Part Two: Inside the Labyrinth




Chapter Seven: Fantasy Becomes Real


Chapter Eight: Cherry






Part Three: Thread Leading Out




Chapter Nine: Textual Movement


Chapter Ten: Winding Up


Chapter Eleven: Dirty Secrets






Dreaming


Acknowledgements


About the Author








Landmarks




Cover


Cover


Title Page


Table of Contents


Start


Copyright








Print Page List




i


ii


iii


iv


vi


vii


v


viii


ix


x


1


2


3


4


5


6


7


8


9


10


11


12


13


14


15


16


17


18


19


20


21


22


23


24


25


26


27


28


29


30


31


32


33


34


35


36


37


38


39


40


41


42


43


44


45


46


47


48


49


50


51


52


53


54


55


56


57


58


59


60


61


62


63


64


65


66


67


68


69


70


71


72


73


74


75


76


77


78


79


80


81


82


83


84


85


86


87


88


89


90


91


92


93


94


95


96


97


98


99


100


101


102


103


104


105


106


107


108


109


110


111


112


113


114


115


116


117


118


119


120


121


122


123


124


125


126


127


128


129


130


131


132


133


134


135


136


137


138


139


140


141


142


143


144


145


146


147


148


149


150


151


152


153


154


155


156


157


158


159


160


161


162


163


164


165


166


167


168


169


170


171


172


173


174


175


176


177


178


179


180


181


182


183


184


185


186


187


188


189


190


191


192


193


194


195


196


197


198


199


200


201


202


203


204


205


206


207


208


209


210


211


212


213


214


215


216


217


218


219


220


221


222


223


224


225


226


227


228


229


230


231


232


233


234


235


236


237


238


239


240


241


242


243


244


245


246


247


248


249


250


251


252


253


254


255


256


257


258


259


260


261


262


263


264


265


266


267


268


269


270


271


272


273


274


275


276


277


278


279


280


281


282


283


284


285


286


287


288


289


290


291


292


293


294


295


296


297


298


299


300


301


302


303


304


305


306


307


308


309


310


311


312


313


314


315


316


317


318


319


320


321


322


323


324


325


326


327


328


329


330


331


332


333


334


335


336


337


338


339


340


341


342


343


344


345


346


347


348


349


350


351


352


353


354


355


356


357


358


359


360


361


362


363


364


365


366


367


368


369


370


371


372


373


374


375


376


377


378


379


380


381


382


383


384


385


386


387


388


389


390


391


392


393


394


395


396


397


398


399


400


401


402


403


404


405


406


407


408


409


410


411


412


413


414


415


416


417


418


419


420


421


422


423


424


425


426


427


428


429


430


431


432


433


434


435


436


437


438


439


440


441


442


443


444


445


446


447


448


449






OceanofPDF.com

























OceanofPDF.com















Also by Angélique Lalonde


Glorious Frazzled Beings
 (2021)




OceanofPDF.com

























OceanofPDF.com

















Copyright © 2026 by Angélique Lalonde


Original trade paperback edition published 2026


All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced, scanned, transmitted, or distributed in any form or by any electronic or mechanical means, including information storage and retrieval systems, without permission in writing from the publisher, except by a reviewer, who may quote brief passages in a review. No part of this book may be used or reproduced in any manner for the purpose of training artificial intelligence technologies or systems.


McClelland & Stewart and colophon are registered trademarks of Penguin Random House Canada Limited.


The authorized representative in the EU for product safety and compliance is Penguin Random House Ireland, Morrison Chambers, 32 Nassau Street, Dublin D02 YH68, Ireland, 
https://eu-contact.penguin.ie


Library and Archives Canada Cataloguing in Publication


Title: Variations on a dream : a novel / Angélique Lalonde.


Names: Lalonde, Angélique, author.


Identifiers: Canadiana (print) 2025022013X | Canadiana (ebook) 20250220202 | ISBN 9780771012600 (softcover) | ISBN 9780771012655 (EPUB)


Subjects: LCGFT: Novels.


Classification: LCC PS8623.A4475 V37 2026 | DDC C813/.6—dc23


Ebook ISBN 9780771012655


This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places, and incidents either are the product of the author’s imagination or are used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual persons, living or dead, events, or locales is entirely coincidental.


Cover design by Kate Sinclair


Cover art: © 2025 Burckhardt Studio, Inc


McClelland & Stewart


A division of Penguin Random House Canada


320 Front Street West, Suite 1400


Toronto, Ontario, M5V 3B6, Canada


penguinrandomhouse.ca




a_prh_7.3_154987115_c0_r0






OceanofPDF.com

















Also by Angélique Lalonde


Epigraph


PROLOGUE: WAKING UP


PART ONE: ORIGIN MYTH


Chapter One: Childhood Snapshots


Chapter Two: Under the Influence


Chapter Three: Dream Come True


Chapter Four: Life Gets Real


Chapter Five: Coping With Fantasy


Chapter Six: Summer Interlude


PART TWO: INSIDE THE LABYRINTH


Chapter Seven: Fantasy Becomes Real


Chapter Eight: Cherry


PART THREE: THREAD LEADING OUT


Chapter Nine: Textual Movement


Chapter Ten: Winding Up


Chapter Eleven: Dirty Secrets


DREAMING


Acknowledgements


About the Author






OceanofPDF.com















I went on dancing in my grotesque disguise, but not before I told him: “I am lonely and miserable but I am wearing my last skin. Since you are almost face to face with the Gods do not abandon me.” In human language, this is called love.


Leonora Carrington


Ambivalence about responsibility for our own freedom does not mean we are stupid, self-destructive, incapable, or desirous of harm. It means we are human. And part of being human is not always wanting every moment of our lives to be a step on a long march toward emancipation and enlightenment. It also means contending with desires to circle or enter dark rooms.


Maggie Nelson




OceanofPDF.com































OceanofPDF.com















Once upon a time, Sarah fell asleep in a castle and woke up in Sarah’s kitchen.


It was an age-old awakening.


This was where Sarah lived.


There was a man, Trevor, in their kitchen, talking.


In her hands were a wet rag and a plate.


In his hands were air and history.


In her hands were water and invisibility and time.


Sarah was a woman who lived in the kitchen and Trevor was a man who knew how to be in a kitchen talking to a woman.


He ate what she ate.


She ate what she made.


Once a week he cooked and she did the dishes afterward.


Most of the time she cooked and she did the dishes afterward.


They had two children, though once there were none.


Once it had been just the two of them and Trevor had liked that very much.


He had liked it when Sarah was his alone.


Their children would not eat beans, though the woman tried consistently, waiting for the moment this would change.


He would eat anything; sometimes it made him sick, sometimes he appreciated it.


He told her she was very good at holding a wet rag; he admired how efficient she was with it.


It was so much faster for her to do the dishes.




———


A scene played out with slight variations time and time again.


The dance of domestic estrangement repeated in the same disappointing ways.


General, and so particular.




———


Sarah’s hands were soppy. She was holding a wet rag. Pursing her lips and scowling because it smelled goddamn awful.


She had been trying to concentrate on the warm water, the patterns on the plates, the rhythmic motions, humming Bruce Springsteen’s “Dancing in the Dark” as a way to be present in her liveliness, her duty, and the joy that might be taken in these things despite the tiredness. She had intentionally manifested this—Sarah’s private dance party—happily inhabiting Sarah in the kitchen.


Someone had posted it on her feed. A quote from a renowned Buddhist teacher about all work being sacred duty, dependent on one’s quality of mind.


Sarah wanted a high-quality mind.


She was working on feeling joy for what she was doing instead of resenting that she was always the one doing it, swaying her body to the inner song, tap, tap, tapping her feet and popping up her shoulders like Bruce—a little smile playing at the corners of her lips. She would write about this after, headline it 
“Dish Dancing!”
 Complete with a playlist curating a perfect dish dancing soundtrack. Should 
she also choreograph a dance routine and make a video of that? No, too much. She didn’t have time to choreograph a dance routine tonight! Moms didn’t have time to learn a choreographed dance routine for doing dishes, it would just be more work!


It had to be spontaneous. She mentally updated her headline: 
“Dish Dancing on the Spot!”
 It was perfect! She could even include a small quip about her favourite scrubby with tips on how to spot-scrub baked-on grease while dancing! Get commission with an affiliate link, some free samples for herself. God, she loved her job!


Then Trevor had walked into the room to talk about a historical shift in consciousness. Which he talked about often. It was a legitimate fear. But not anything she could do anything about 
atm
. She had her own thought stream going, and she wanted to dance!


He had interrupted her dance to talk about how hard it was all becoming, how uncertain he was about his place in the world, whether any of it had any meaning. How distant his students seemed now, how unresponsive, whereas before he had felt so close to them.


He was trying to connect, or rather looking for someone—anyone—to listen to what he had to say. Sarah knew it had nothing to do with her, specifically. He just needed an audience.


She didn’t want to give her space up, yet again, to his ever-enduring existential misery.


She’d been dancing!


For a split second, had thought to share her joy with him—on the verge of inviting him to dance with her, until she saw the look on his face.


Shoulder-popping smile swiftly transformed to jaw clamp, shutting down her system so she would not be drawn into the anxiety-with-no-reprieve dance of Trevor’s. The only dance he seemed to know the moves to anymore in the home they shared—but open the door to the outside world and the man was all amiable smiles.


All her energy drained into the greasy water, balled in the fists of her soppy hands. He broke in before she had a chance to extend the invitation. “It’s the encroachment of death, Sarah. I feel it coating my throat, like a sickness that never ends. I think I might be coming down with the girls’ cold—another time-fuck, more days of work I can’t afford to miss. Feels so pointless sometimes.”


Compassion, Sarah, compassion
, suggested the mindful voice in her head. She sighed, releasing her fists. “It’s hard, Trev, I know. Feels like a lot. I’ve just spent an hour putting the girls to bed and I’d like to finish these dishes so I can get my post up before I collapse. I just got this great idea while I was doing the dishes that I know will really resonate.”


“I feel like I’m on the edge here, Sarah! And you want to talk about your blog? I felt it in my heart just now—maybe something serious? Down my throat straight into my heart. Can you touch? Do you feel palpitations? Should 
we call the nurse’s line?” He was getting frantic. She needed to calm the frantic before he really built it up.


“Trev, come on, it’s too much. It’s the kids’ cold. I had it a few days ago, and now you’re getting it. Give it a few days to run its course. Your heart is fine, maybe you have a little fever? Stick the thermometer in your mouth and check, if you’re worried. Besides, life’s not going to fall apart if you rest for a couple of days. It would probably do you good. Maybe give you the headspace to prioritize so it doesn’t feel so overwhelming.”


“You’re not taking me seriously, Sarah! My life is going to shit and all you’re worried about is the house, the kids, or your trivial posts about doing the dishes, as if these are important things in the world when there are wildfires threatening to engulf us all, wars and famines, and my heart is about to give out,” he retorted, then huffed to the couch, collapsing with the greatest fanfare, tossing his arm over his eyes, letting out small communicative moans that Sarah used her well-honed jaw-clamping technique to block out while she finished the dishes.


Trivial? Compassion! Trivial? Did he help me out when I was sick with the cold?
 “He doesn’t mean it!” she thought. “He never means it. He’s just upset right now. Compassion! He just wants attention. You need to give him more attention.” 
Maybe if he did the dishes sometimes, I wouldn’t have heart palpitations every time he asked for my attention!




———


Getting nothing from Sarah, Trevor took himself to the bedroom.


Sarah touched her hands to her stomach and breathed big deep belly breaths to calm herself. She would not let herself be drawn into it tonight.


When she opened her eyes, something inside offered up a few lines of classic Beyoncé about love getting her looking crazy.


She knew Beyoncé was singing about a different kind of crazy, not the hair-pulling, sopping stinking rag, leaden feet, resentful, tired kind of crazy flooding in, wrenching her out of her flow.


She forced a smile. 
Keep at it, Sarah.
 Something to be grateful for: the playlist was bubbling up out of the dishwater—Bruce and Beyoncé’s dance moves intermingling in a musical daydream. And then she pictured it: her wet rag like the exploding fire hydrant Beyoncé kicks into a shower in response to the flames of Jay-Z’s burning car—an unhappiness intervention to get her groove back while Trevor’s dejection dragged at her feet, wanting her to respond to his fears with appropriate care, tend to his anxieties, just cheer him up a little. Redirect her flow to bring him out of his constantly churning unhappy mind whenever he needed a pickup so that he wouldn’t be left out in the cold. Knowing that Sarah would always be there with her eternal wellspring, taking care of him, like she’d always done.


It was the least she could do, being a woman in a kitchen.




———


What was wrong with her? Why was she being so godawful to him? She must be PMSing. Maybe needed to get to more yoga, up her meditation to fifteen minutes? She needed to nip this irritability in the bud so it didn’t get the better of her.


She went into the bedroom and offered Trevor a glass of ice water. Apologized for not listening when he needed her to, teasing her hands into his hair, soothing him with a gentle head massage, leaving the blog post unwritten.




OceanofPDF.com















Trevor went to sleep in his empty marriage bed after masturbating to his favourite porn video and woke up in his university bed holding a worn paperback of Bukowski’s 
Play the Piano Drunk Like a Percussion Instrument
 in his right hand, stiff cock in his left, stroking, imagining it was Ariadne’s hand.


Then he felt it—her hand replacing his, her lips, whispering in his ear, her body there, beside him, still half dreaming! “Ariadne,” he moaned, and the hand slipped away, the warm breath leaving a spit of cold air on his earlobe.


He opened his eyes—Sarah.


“In your dreams,” Sarah said. “Just me—one of these days you’ll stop hoping.”


“Fuck, Sarah, I’m sorry. I didn’t mean…”


“You did, but it’s okay. It’s a process. I think about her all the time too. Maybe it’s just easier for me because I could never mistake you for her, so I’ll take it as a compliment.”


“Keep going?” he asked.


“Say something nice to me first—something about me.”


Trevor released the book, brought his hand to Sarah’s head and gripped her thick curly hair. She loved it when he did that. She let out a sigh. He kissed her forehead, moved his lips to her ear, breathed her name there, “Sarah.”


And then again, “Sarah.”


“You, Sarah, you. You are mine. My Sarah. My moon-eyed girl, my beautiful sweetheart. I love hearing your lips say my name. I want to wake up and feel your body next to 
mine every morning for the rest of my life. It’s you. You, you, you, you, you.”


Which did the trick.


Sarah slid her hand back to its proper place and wrapped her legs around him, her wetness hot against his thigh.


“Trevor! Trevor! Trehhh-vooohrh! Can you get out here and give me a hand please?”


Sarah, frantic.


“Now!


“I’ve got the baby on the breast and Amelie’s just taken a dump in the potty and is running around with half of it still all over her cheeks!


“Now!


“Before it gets. All. Over. The. House!”


Trevor sighed. “Coming!” Though he hadn’t, quite yet. Back in his marriage bed, after all.




OceanofPDF.com















Masha went to sleep in her mother’s arms and woke up alone in a hospital incubator, wailing for a breast she’d never receive.


She hated this dream. She wanted another, so she woke herself up.


Found herself in her room in Prague, remembering the shoot was today. She felt giddy. No going back to sleep now. She got up and did some stretches, flushed with a desire to go up on pointe.


Today was the day. Was she ready? It was going to be intense. Gorgeous, intense. She was prepared, but there was so much feeling one couldn’t predict, and the unanticipated gestures that might arise from that. She had gone through the choreography so many times, had the piece memorized. Had done the work needed to prepare with the other performers. They, too, knew their roles. She brought her hands together, as if holding a large ball of thread with several loose ends, which she pretended to cast in all directions. Flopped back down on the bed and put her headphones on, curled up with her pillow and closed her eyes, drifting into character with the first few notes of Jessye Norman singing “Es gibt ein Reich.”




OceanofPDF.com















Yuna awoke in the darkness of pre-dawn, blue just beginning. A body slipping through darkness, into an imaginal world. They felt their heart thump with the blood of all thumping hearts. Time a continuum of rushing water, singing. They would tell the one they loved of this beauty. With their words, made from the blood of time. Though how much truer to tell wordless, heart to thumping heart.




OceanofPDF.com















Ariadne Awoke


by Sarah Perkins


Once upon a time Ariadne went to sleep on an island, wrapped in the threads of a myth.


As though for thousands of years she’d been spinning in a captivating story.


Her destiny hinged on falling in love with a hero and offering him a clew to win his devotion—a ball of red thread to lead him out of the labyrinth after his deed was done, from darkness back to light.


His task was to kill the monster within. An aberration made manifest by genius costuming—Ariadne’s mother having cosplayed a heifer to fulfill her god-induced desire—thereafter birthing a half-bull son.


In gifting Theseus an escape, Ariadne had betrayed her family, rendering herself homeless. Her future now in Theseus’s hands.


A gift of string. A string of words.


A hero’s pledge.


A woman’s destiny.


Ariadne, believing in love and the future offered in return—a beloved’s words, akin to the quickening within.




———


Telling between word and deed is tricky. Myths diverge, though most agree that Theseus emerged from the labyrinth victorious after killing the Minotaur, sailing off—as promised—with Ariadne. Stopping off at some point on the island of Naxos.


What happened between getting on the ship and stopping 
off on Naxos is anybody’s guess, but given a beautiful lovestruck girl away from home for the first time in the company of a hero with convincing words, probably a lot of sex.


They disembark, and Ariadne falls asleep sweetly in the arms of her lover. When she awakes, he is gone. Along with his ship.


And here is where the variations begin:




———


Ariadne, after discovering she’s been abandoned by her one true love, hangs herself.




———


Ariadne, after discovering she’s been abandoned by her one true love, lives through nine months of devastation, then dies birthing Theseus’s twins.




———


Ariadne is abandoned by Theseus, not through his own will, but through the force of Dionysus, deity of pleasure and loosened inhibitions, who wants Ariadne for himself.




———


Ariadne, devastated after she discovers she’s been abandoned, contemplates killing herself, but is rescued by Dionysus, who consoles her with his godly love.




———


Ariadne is killed by the goddess Artemis, rescued from the land of the dead by Dionysus, and made immortal, birthing Dionysus’s immortal sons.




———


In a world of mortals, gods, and myth, Ariadne had a part to play.


But what did Ariadne desire? And what power did she have to make what she desired real?




———


Ariadne felt lost. She was sharing a dorm room with a stranger who whispered in the night, in a city in which she knew no one, and her hair was a mess because her roommate had claimed her hairbrush. Not to mention that she hadn’t done laundry in two weeks because she had not attended the orientation on laundry and didn’t have the energy to try to find the laundry room, let alone come up with the quarters she needed to run the machines.


Ariadne’s mother had been dead four years, but Ariadne felt her presence, her thoughts sometimes filled with her mother’s voice saying things like: “Go ask Housing Services for information about laundry, Ariadne, you are running out of underwear. It’s up to you to write your own destiny. You can begin by cashing that ten-dollar bill in for a roll of quarters.”


Sometimes Ariadne felt trapped inside her own mind—a maze of thoughts, sensations, feelings, and only her uncertain inclinations or a ghost’s to guide her; her father too lost in his own grief to offer anything that made sense. “Tomorrow, Mom, tomorrow. I promise. I don’t have the energy today.” And then “You will be alone forever, forever, forever. She is gone, gone, gone.”


Ariadne did not want her mother to be dead or to be alone in the world. Ariadne did not want to write her own destiny. Sometimes she wanted someone else to do things for her, so she didn’t always have to do them herself. She didn’t want a destiny. She wanted her mother back.


But in this life, Ariadne had no divine husband who would go to the land of the dead, find her mother, and bring her back to the land of the living to pull a roll of quarters from her purse.


She had no choice, really, but to write her own story, because if she didn’t, she’d get kicked out of university and have to go back home to live with her grieving father and have to do his laundry too. Or end up on the street, and then she really didn’t know what she’d do for clean clothes.


So where should she begin? Should she eat shellfish for breakfast? Should she go for a run? What should she wear today? Anything! Anything she wanted! Though choices were getting desperately low. “The world is your oyster,” the ghost in her mind told her. Also, it told her, “Get out there, girl! Go live ‘your one precious wild life.’ ”


Ariadne hated it when the ghost misquoted Mary Oliver, though she’d loved it when her mom had read Oliver to her.


What Ariadne really had to do was get her ass out of bed and get to her Intro to Anthropology class, which started in thirty minutes. Fine. A good way to start a destiny. A real alternative that didn’t hinge on the moment she would finally fall in love with a heroic Athenian youth who had a destiny greater than hers, but who needed her love to fulfill it, after which she was negotiable; her destiny decided by everyone but herself.


Good thing she was in Victoria, fat chance of any heroic Athenian youths here.


She had a greater destiny at hand.




———


Sarah couldn’t believe she still had it! The story she had written in university almost twenty years ago! A moment in time she had imagined for Ariadne, her new best friend: getting out of bed, making her way to the class where, instead of meeting a hero, she would finally meet Sarah! A new beginning that would save them both from being lost in the obscure destinies grief had cast upon them—reawakening Ariadne to life from the loss of her mother, and Sarah to playful imagination in the wake of her father’s dark death.


She wondered if Ariadne remembered this story. Ariadne would not be surprised that Sarah still had it because Sarah still had everything. Her archives were immaculate—her notebooks meticulously organized in chronologically ordered, methodically stacked plastic totes, labelled with the cool vintage label maker she and Ariadne had picked up on one of their thrifting expeditions, tastefully arranged on industrial-grade steel shelving in Sarah and Trevor’s garage.


How time flew!


Sarah, with the records to show for it.


Here she was, looking up ancient files, researching a blog post on best practices for archiving the family—the label maker intervening, drawing Sarah back into the real world, reminding Sarah that she was almost out of the gold sticker tape she needed, reserved exclusively now for labelling her notebook totes. What would she do when it ran out? She made a mental note to start looking on eBay for 
vintage sellers who might have stock before she found herself in a labelling emergency!


How many times had she had this same thought and not started looking? Sarah was slipping. Really slipping. She should be on top of these things! Maybe she needed to revamp her to-do list approach? She’d see if any of her blogging moms had new content for prioritizing to-do lists that fell into different life categories and how she might properly categorize this one so it didn’t always fall off the list. These were her lifelong notebooks! What would happen if she had to switch to another labeller? Would it knock her completely off-brand? And then who would she even be, Sarah wondered, interrupted by “Mommy! Mooooomy!!!”—Arlynn waking up from her nap upstairs in the bedroom.




OceanofPDF.com































OceanofPDF.com

















Chapter One


Childhood Snapshots




The Chick


“Papa! Papa, look!” Sarah ran, cupping the newly hatched chick in her hands. Holding its preciousness ever gentle, up against her heart. Looking down at the chick instead of closely at Anthony as she ran across the yard toward him.


Anthony was down at the truck, tinkering.


She should have known better.


If she’d looked. If she’d listened first. If she’d not been in such a rush.


“The goddamn fucking piece of shit truck, better to light the fucking thing on fire,” Anthony was muttering to himself as he tried to pry loose a seized bolt, the fingers on his left hand greasy and slipping as he started to slam the 
wrench in his right hand harder and harder, stripping the bolt, ripping up his knuckles.


“Câlisse de merde! Éstis de câlisse de crisse de tabarnak! Maudit de junk! Piece of fucking shit!” he shouted, jerking upright, flinging the wrench as hard as he could, bringing his knuckles to his mouth.


If she hadn’t been so excited about the chick.


If she hadn’t been anticipating it—the egg she’d incubated with a lightbulb near the fireplace, turning it three times a day for three weeks. Except the last four days when it had to be left still. Three whole weeks! Papa helping her set up the box. Lending her his shop lamp, putting up a crossbar with little hooks so she could move the lamp around and adjust the heat. Going around to the neighbour’s to get a hold of a thermometer with a humidity gauge, looking in on it every evening before bed to make sure Sarah hadn’t forgotten anything.


If she’d had her head up instead of down, she would have seen the wrench, maybe dodged it.


He hadn’t heard her over his mutters. Hadn’t looked before flinging the wrench. It had been an accident.


The wrench hit her hands, breaking three of her fingers, squishing them in on the chick. She stumbled, trying to keep the chick safe, to not fall on top, not yet realizing it was already dead. So she fell headfirst, cheek turned sideways, smashed her left temple on the corner of Anthony’s metal toolbox.


Bloody knuckles in his mouth, running over to where she’d just fallen, not realizing the wrench had hit, Anthony cursing, “You crazy, sauvage girls! Just like your câlisse de mère! Be careful! Never give me one goddamn break for one goddamn minute. Fucking sows can’t fucking think for one second. Can’t you see? Oh fuck. Oh shit”—seeing the wrench he’d just thrown next to his daughter’s crumpled body—“what have I done? Baby? Baby? Sarah, ma fille?” Anthony crouched, picking up his daughter’s bloody head, seeing the mashed form in her hands, little beak poking out of crushed fingers, Sarah unresponsive.


Anthony was gone for two months after that. Sarah never knew if it was Grace made him go or him gone on his own. When she woke in the hospital it was just her mom and sister Chlea there.


“My chick?” she asked.


“I’m so sorry, my girl, the chick didn’t make it,” Grace answered, holding her hand.


“What happened, Mama?”


“I don’t know, baby. I’m not sure. You tripped and fell. No one saw but Papa. Do you remember?”


“I don’t remember,” Sarah said. “I was running to show Papa, and then my hands got broken, and I fell but I didn’t want the chick to get hurt.”


But she heard words in her head, she heard, “Fucking sows, can’t think for one second.” Also, she heard, “What have I done? Baby? Baby? Sarah, ma fille? My girl?” She 
heard her papa’s voices loud and clear. She heard them all.


Sarah had killed her chick because she’d forgotten to pay attention right. And then she’d made her papa go away by getting herself hurt.


“Is Papa okay?”


Marbles


As a boy, Trevor collected marbles. He would sit by the window, holding his favourite ones up to the light, turning them between his fingers, rolling them in his palm. Cat’s eyes in orange, blue, red, and mixed green and yellow, making him feel like he had been pounced on by some creature outside the bonds of family and all the incessant rules he was always butting heads with at the marble ring with the boys at school. How badly he wanted their prized marbles, how furious he became when they won his—an anger so deep he was banned from playing.


The school called home asking that Trevor no longer bring his marbles, since the other kids had accused him of stealing. He wasn’t stealing, he was just taking his marbles back, he told his mother. She tried to explain that this was not how the game worked. But Trevor didn’t care about the rules of the game, he just wanted the marbles—his and the other kids’, because the other kids could not feel the light inside the way Trevor did.


The two he was most transfixed by were his aquamarine and blue taws. They were the most beautiful—the one, and then the other—his devotion pulled back and forth between 
them. His sister Mimi had given him the aquamarine, which she’d told him was a little water planet. He moved beyond form inside this marble, dissolving into a pre-human amalgam. Later, watching 
Deep Space Nine
, he would witness Odo joining himself to the mercurial lake of his species’ unseparated wholeness, and feel that same jolt of longing he had felt turning the aquamarine taw in the light.


The deep-blue taw was something different. He’d taken it from Mimi’s room without asking and pretended he didn’t know where it was when she accused him of stealing it. Like space, like beyond, like dreams that could never turn to nightmare. He could not quite see into its centre—an always-hidden place. A place he was drawn toward and terrified by. He never looked into the blue for too long because it disoriented him. Made him fear he would get stuck and never be able to get out. His as long as he could manage the thrill of keeping it hidden away when it rightfully belonged to another.


His steelies he loved to tap on the window. Turn and tap. Tap, tap, tap, the tiniest sound. Not loud enough that his father could hear and yell from downstairs to stop the incessant noise. He liked to feel the weight of them in his palm, a coldness different from the glass cold of his other marbles. A different kind of power—the steelies could break a window if thrown, he learned in the schoolyard, after which his father took the steelies away. Threatening to take all of his marbles if there were any more problems.




———


Trevor awoke the next day and took a hammer to them all. Smashing them to pieces, sweeping up the shards and dumping them in the trash before his father could find the wreckage. All but the deep-blue taw, which he hid away in the recesses of his closet, vowing he would never look at it again. Bar it from his mind so his father would not suspect he had anything precious at all.


What use were precious things if there were other, bigger, stronger men to take the things you loved away? Who would inevitably come and claim them as their own, or deny you access, letting you know you did not deserve them.


By wrecking them, he made sure no one could take them away. The secret of the beauty they had once announced, his alone to keep. To marvel at, to covet, to lock away. To annihilate if he so desired.


Sublunar


Sarah had once believed the moon existed as a secret only for her. It was not that other people couldn’t see the moon, or feel its pull, or be dazzled beyond reason by its power. Rather, it was that she understood the moon had a secret language, and was able to converse openly with it as though the moon were her BFF orbiting the earth.


Sarah felt that the moon often felt misunderstood, and that she, Sarah, offered the moon a kind of attention that the moon secretly longed for. Finding it only in the rarest of humans who were gifted with sublunar insight into the realms of the moon’s orbit and influence.


Once, Sarah’s father had told her, most people had been this way—when they had lived so much more of their lives under open skies. But now, because of light pollution and rooftops, and all the trappings that defined human lives, the moon had lost much of its influence, becoming, for most, simply symbolic. A circle on wall calendars that changed shape throughout the month, though the form in the sky the shapes represented was rarely, if ever, seen. Let alone sensed and understood through all of the body’s knowing.


For much of Sarah’s pre-adult life, the moon’s influence made the preoccupations of other humans mostly unimportant to her. To Sarah, it seemed as though most people were only concerned with the surfaces of their lives, identifying themselves by what they gathered—unaware of their phasing in the variegations of light cast by the moon upon their earthly skin. Sarah, meanwhile, could see the energy fields arising in response to the moon’s entreaties, rippling just under the skin of other humans, and beasts, and plant matter—enlivened by waves borrowed from the sun, and from other, more ancient stars beyond.


It was all very gorgeous. But it made friendships with other children difficult.


Until Sarah went to school and learned to discipline her thinking. Learned, in fact, that the cosmic languages she was listening to were fabrications of an overactive imagination. That none of it was logically real.


Sarah had a good long while, however, with her fantastic ability to hear what the moon was whispering, because 
she was homeschooled. Her mother encouraged devotion to the stars, and the moon, and moon snails, and the prickly skin of wild hazelnuts as authoritative sources of knowledge. Sarah did not go to school until she was fifteen, begging her parents to allow her to attend the high school in the nearest town to the homestead she was raised on.


The sudden plunge into sociality proved both awkward and revelatory to Sarah, who was busy looking for every other student’s light, while they were all mostly busy trying to corral that light into the most conventional forms possible so as not to shine out of the bounds of their expected containers. They were meant to illuminate certain geometrical forms, Sarah learned—forms which conformed to the particular shapes and hues of the bodies they had been born into, replicas of the normative ideals epitomized in the short-lived power coupling of Brad Pitt and Gwyneth Paltrow, an idealized matching so potent that the couple still hovered years later in Sarah’s psyche as a Fate that should have been, but wasn’t, and only if it had, if that one couple had stuck, then maybe the world would have turned out differently than it did—shattered into so many terrifying news clips. She had learned about them at school from the other girls and had reasoned that the only way she would ever find belonging was to find out everything about them that she possibly could, so the other girls would think she was cool and the boys would see her as worth paying attention to.


She had used her money from selling surplus eggs to 
buy a poster of them, which, much to her mother’s dismay, Sarah kept on the wall above her bed, just at the spot above her sleeping head where the moon’s light would shine in her window on clear nights of fullness, conversing with both Sarah and her idols at the same time.


Sarah feared, when she learned of the couple’s breakup, that she had somehow been involved. That she had failed to do something to properly idolize them, thereby causing a cosmic split in the sublunar realm that made their differences irreconcilable. A thing for which she could never forgive herself. Probably it wasn’t her fault. Did she really have that kind of influence? Rational thought told her she was just one girl among potentially millions who idolized the couple, but those other girls did not have the moon’s power behind them like Sarah, and probably knew how to idolize in the right way, whereas she, Sarah, did not. She had loved them too much, or wrongly, and somehow the moon had felt their coupledom as too strong a cosmic force, unbearable, and so had teased its way through Sarah into the poster, somehow severing their bond.


Hex Key


Until he turned twelve, Trevor was fairly certain his father’s vocabulary consisted almost entirely of words in two general categories: things he approved of and things he disapproved of. Things he approved of were universally true. Things he disapproved of were errors and false worldviews held by people who were different from himself and therefore wrong.


Some who were wrong knew better and some didn’t—neither, in Trevor’s father’s opinion, deserved much from him other than complete disregard, or, given the chance to set them straight, correctives to set them back on course. Those who knew better would do what they could to correct whatever misfortune had prevented them from fitting into his worldview; those who did not would continue on living their corrupt lives.


As far as Trevor could tell, Walt’s favourite words were “redundancy,” “complacency,” “inefficiency,” “government changeover,” and “moral corruption.”


Most of Walt’s favourite words had to do with political and economic order. But “moral corruption,” Trevor understood, meant anything vaguely hinting at improper intimate relations between people. The only proper intimate relations being those that took place between husbands and wives behind closed doors, and mothers and children, within reason, during the given time mothers needed to be in close proximity to their children’s bodies in order to care for them.


Moral corruption, Trevor intuited further, meant wanting things that did not correspond to the model home and model family Walt and Eileen made for Trevor and Mimi, in which a mother was charged with household order, and a father with economic security and household law. The lines were cut and dry.


Which was why it came as a shock when Trevor discovered his father’s porn collection hidden away in a section of the garage where neither Trevor, his sister, nor his mother 
ever wandered—VHS tapes and magazines stacked behind obscure tools Trevor didn’t know the names of in his father’s locked tool locker. The key was not hard to find, attached to his father’s keychain, smaller than the others, labelled with the word 
Mastercraft
, hanging off a small hook under his work table.


Trevor discovered the collection while looking for a hex key to adjust the seat on his bike. He knew what that was, at least. His father had shown it to him the last time he’d helped Trevor raise his bike seat, then showed him where he could find it in the garage—above the tool locker, hanging on a nail under a label he’d written out for Trevor: 
Bike Hex Key
. In case Trevor needed it when Dad wasn’t home. Permitted to go in his father’s garage and get something! A great manly honour that neither his sister nor mother had been granted.


But it wasn’t there. And Trevor had sort of been invited by Becca King to meet up with some other kids from school at the skatepark. He wasn’t going to show up looking like a douche (whatever that meant—something bad, he knew—stupid, he thought, though he wasn’t completely sure) with his bike seat too low. He wasn’t really sure he’d show up at all. He’d pretend he was just riding by, and if it seemed like Becca noticed and smiled or waved or something, gave him some sign that she really wanted him to hang out, then he would stop, but if she didn’t, then he’d know she hadn’t really invited him and would keep going. Either way, he couldn’t look like a douche.


He couldn’t find the hex key anywhere, so he thought maybe it had gotten locked away. He opened the tool locker cautiously, all of his nerves on fire—not entirely allowed, but feeling like it wasn’t a punishable transgression, because his father had permitted him the hex key, and if it wasn’t on the hook, this was its most logical place.


When he reached to pull the box labelled 
Hex Keys
 out, he toppled the stack of mechanics magazines beside the boxes, which felled the VHS tapes. Frantically, he began to pick them up, piling them in what he hoped was the right order, looking at each cover closely.


8 to 4!
 read the chunky rectangular box in big pink bubble letters, over the head of a half-naked woman with very big puffy brown hair and huge breasts hanging out of an unbuttoned blouse, her skirt lifted up, exposing parts he’d never seen before and had never imagined existed in such glistening confusion. Parts so unlike the parts women showed outside their clothing! Secret parts that made him feel very urgent feelings. Hot, fast sensations that revealed a potential outcome for the strange nervous feeling that overtook him whenever Becca King sort of talked to him, making him want to get up close to a secret he felt like she was keeping. Now knowing exactly what that was.


The woman with big brown curly hair was leaning against a big office photocopier, looking back at a man unbuttoning his pants with a smile on his face Trevor had never seen a grown man make.


One need alone now alive in Trevor’s body—to rush the tape into the VCR as fast as he possibly could. Before somebody came and took the chance away. Hex key forgotten, beckoned by an immediate need to find out what really went on at the office when his father went to work every day.


Trevor sat on the garage floor mesmerized, cumming into his pants before the man on the screen even entered what he called the woman’s “pussy.” Astonishing! Was this what the boys in his class meant when they called each other pussies? Was he the only one who hadn’t known? Always assuming it meant the same thing as “scaredy-cat.”


A dream future with Becca spun itself forth. Becca revealing these parts to Trevor after Trevor found the right key to make her want to. His parts revealed in response, and him knowing just what to do with them.


New understanding dawned, images formed for powerful naughty words he’d heard but never really understood—
sex, pussy, cunt, fuck me!
 Hearing his father’s car in the driveway, he scrambled to put it all away, bolting up to his room to hide in the closet amid his nest of pillows and comic books.


So, his dad had a broader vocabulary than he’d imagined. And secrets that contradicted all the unquestionable moral lessons he imposed.


That night Trevor ate dinner with his family without uttering a single word, face down at his food as though meatloaf and ketchup were the most interesting substances 
in the world while images from the video looped in his mind, cheeks flushed red each time his mother tried to pull him into conversation. Tang of ketchup on his tongue making him want to forego the ridiculous knife and fork and stick his mouth right to the slab of juicy meat, licking the ketchup down his throat.


Images flashed of his mother and father doing the things he’d seen in the video. Disgusting! Did Mimi know about this? Was she giving her pussy up to her boyfriend Rick Roberts? Could he ask her? No! These things were dirty. Dirty secrets hidden away in a locked box no one was supposed to know existed.


Trevor came to know his father’s collection intimately, learning a whole new vocabulary—his father’s, and now his, secret words. A secret that his father did not know he knew, granting Trevor power outside of his father’s control.




———


In the months following, Trevor snuck down to the garage whenever the opportunity presented itself, which was nowhere near as often as he needed it to be, given that his mother paid such close attention to him. Limiting his unsupervised time to one tiny window between 3:30 and 4:10 on Wednesdays after school, when Mimi was at volleyball practice, Eileen on extended volunteer shift at the church until 4:30, and Walt not home until dinner at 5:45. A forty-minute window in which Trevor was supposed to be doing his homework. Which he did, very, very quickly, so he could have time for what really mattered.


Wednesday by Wednesday he worked his way methodically through his father’s entire collection, covering his tracks with the greatest attention.


When he was back at the beginning the second time through, he decided he was ready to turn the key on Becca.


The next day at school, Trevor boldly approached her, shaping his mouth into the mask he’d practised in the mirror, looking her in the eye as the men in the videos did with their women, projecting his voice in invitation. “Hello, Becca.”


Instead of looking at him with interest, his bold greeting causing her lips to utter his name, she stared at him, stunned, then quickly looked away, back to her group of girlfriends, like he didn’t even exist, like his words had not been spoken.


Trevor fled, hearing the girls break down into giggles.


“Oh my god, Becca! Are you guys, like, dating?” he heard Shelly Parker ask.


“As if I would ever! Shelly. So weird!”


He turned back then, looking at Becca, seeing her for what she was—a stupid girl who knew nothing. He didn’t even like her.


A dirty fucking cunt.




OceanofPDF.com

















Chapter Two


Under the Influence




Bukowski


His first week of university Trevor was partnered with Sean in mandatory Survey of English Literature—just his luck to be paired with the behemoth who dwarfed everyone in the room and likely could not speak more than a five-word sentence. A man who had likely done time and was now going back to school to reintegrate. Or maybe he’d recently been discharged from the army?


But no, the bruiser was only nineteen, just like Trevor. Though he wasn’t fresh from under his mother’s apron, calling home every day, like Trevor—sick in his stomach, berating himself until he fell into fitful sleep every night for following through on the insanity of attending university on the other side of the country, wondering how long 
he’d last with the cafeteria food that gave him unending diarrhea that would surely kill him before Thanksgiving, at which point his parents would have to take him back.


At the end of the second week, Sean invited Trevor to drink beer with him at the beach after class.


“Brewskies on the beach? I’ve got a six-pack in my bag.”


Trevor, on his way to chemistry, almost said no. The beers would be warm, wouldn’t they? It was only noon! Trevor had to get to the cafeteria and find something that wouldn’t make him shit before class started and have to get up three times to shit during class, and would he have to shit on the beach while they were drinking beers down there?


But then something slipped in between his brain and his mouth and different words came out.


“Beers, um?” he asked, lifting his wrist to look at his watch.


“Yeah, man, by the time we get there it’ll be after lunch. I’ve got a quinoa salad in my bag, too. Plenty for both of us. Even brought two forks.”


“What the fuck is quinoa?” Trevor thought to himself. And, “This guy eats salad for lunch?” Saying, “Yeah, fuck, why not, eh? Really. Why the fuck not?” Why the hell this guy would want to hang out with him made Trevor wonder if there was something wrong with Sean, given what a wreck Trevor was, but maybe he was just a friendly guy who’d hang out with anyone he met in class?


Sean raised his hand for a high-five, up above his head, expectant. And then, locking eyes with Trevor, his brain 
quickly did the generous thing that very tall men’s brains must do in the company of shorter men—barely a pause, like he was still on the upswing, swishing for a moment before lowering ever so slightly—not so low that it would be considered a low-five for him, which would carry with it a tinge of humiliation for the man who had to reach—and not so high that Trevor would have to jump—but just to that ideal height that would spell a perfect high-five for Trevor, where he could slap just as hard as he liked, sealing their camaraderie in the resonant thwack that echoed to all those within hearing range, an aural-tactile confirmation of collegial white male friendship solidified.


Settling in on the beach, Sean said, “It’s bucolic, eh? I’d call it ‘Slow Waves Lick Sand on Cadboro Beach.’ ” A small pause to crack his beer, and then, “First lines, maybe:




pretty sailboats anchor on bay,


big houses protrude like shafts


of concrete


from lush forest.
”




Then he chuckled, shot Trevor a half smile using only the left side of his mouth, and, as though all part of the same expression, took a swig, slipped off his steel-toed leather boots using only his heels, peeled off his socks using his toes, and dug his naked feet into the sand.


Trevor learned that Sean had already read most of the required texts on the reading list and was currently working 
his way through what he referred to, with some irony, as “the Bukowski canon.” Trevor had no idea why this was funny as he had no idea who Bukowski was, but then Sean pulled a worn paperback of 
Play the Piano Drunk Like a Percussion Instrument Until the Fingers Begin to Bleed a Bit
 out of the pocket of his jeans, taking a swig from his Pabst before reading Trevor a few lines from the poem “59 Cents a Pound.”


Trevor was dumbstruck by Bukowski’s gaze, his predatory desire to see within from afar. His use of the word 
attrition
 to describe the harrowing feeling when others came too close—morphing from morsels of distant delight to cloying people wanting something in return.


Then Sean paused, gazing out at the beachgoers passing between them and the water, before turning to look directly at Trevor. Trevor was mesmerized. Beer bitter in his mouth, slipping fizzy and viscous into his hungry belly—beer before quinoa salad in Sean’s world—and in the space between the words, caught up in the after-effects of the sounds that danced meaning in his mind—concepts and sensualities intermingling in his body, hovering him on the precipice of something holy as he took in the massive life-shifting ordinariness of Sean’s hands holding a small book. Almost engulfing it—bringing vital poetry into Trevor’s life where only a vague sense of numbness had been for so long Trevor could barely remember otherwise.


Trevor looked up and met Sean’s eyes. Ice-blue, blunt, almost burning. An intensity that brought Trevor into a 
land where feeling and living stirred together and life was what words made of it.


Briefly an image of a blue orb flashed, Trevor’s mind quickly covering it, burying it back in time, telling him it was a glint of light off the water.


Then Sean went on reading, some of Bukowski’s words washed out by the incoming tide and ocean wind, others lodged into his psyche like a framework for life—if he dared to look and see what was on offer. A world seeking to reveal itself to him, should he be bold enough to take it in.


Sean’s eyes locked again on Trevor’s as he spoke the last word of the poem—
beautiful.


Brave and crazy thoughts sparked.


And then, Sean completely captivated Trevor by bolting upright, moving word into world, stripping down to his underwear and running into the cold water, diving headfirst when he got deep enough to plunge. Rising up seconds later, shouting his craziness, his lust, his ecstasy into the seemingly unshakable propriety of a Tuesday afternoon, backed by windows on beachfront homes in one of the city’s wealthiest neighbourhoods, reflecting the wildness of the world, keeping it out at the same time.


Later, with a smile so large Trevor’s face exploded in response, Sean said, “I would’ve gone naked if it were dark. Don’t want Gramma Jones over there calling the cops on us. Friday night? Maybe?”




———


Trevor came alive with Sean, wanting to bridge, as Sean did, two worlds of masculinity—authenticity that held knowledge as well as corporal potency. Coupled with not giving a fuck what anyone else thought about him. Sean was who he was. End point. But fucking kind, too. Not playing a game of gains and losses as everyone else seemed to be doing. Nothing to hide, Sean. Free of the shame that riddled Trevor.


If he followed Sean, if he did as Sean did, might he also earn his way to freedom?


Sean was a poet—more potent yet, a drunken one. Trevor would become one too!


The things Sean wrote made Trevor’s skin crawl. That a kid like Sean could write from his insides to make Trevor feel life in a body his parents had done their best to raise antiseptic. When Sean read to him, Trevor felt like time stopped lurching forward. Like the duration of Sean’s reading was the universe unfolding, and Trevor at the centre of that unfolding.


Right in the middle of hammering, fistful of nails, Sean would stop working, grab a book off the shelf he’d built with stacks of 2 x 6’s and concrete blocks, light a smoke and read something quietly to himself, and then, if it hit right, read it aloud to Trevor, who had by the grace of Sean been rescued from the dormitory and poisoned cafeteria food and was now living in the second bedroom of the near-derelict house Sean had bought with a season of deckhand earnings on his uncle’s salmon fishing boat. Trevor 
was helping Sean fix it up to flip post-graduation while Sean educated Trevor in what he called “working man’s poetry”—manual exertion manipulating materials to purposeful ends coupled with the inspirited lyrics of Bukowski.


When Sean read Bukowski, Trevor thought the word 
virility
, which he’d learned from Sean, and which made him feel so fucking uneasy, but also driven. His heart making a sound in his ears. For the first time in his life, Trevor felt compelled to make something of his own. To do something with himself. To feel. To fucking feel what was inside. To tell it like it was, to live it like it was, instead of pretending to live something, while a whole secret life roiled underneath.


There was, however, a problem. A glaring problem that Trevor tried to overlook for that glorious, hellish year of his drunken poet apprenticeship. Which was that Trevor was allergic to alcohol. He’d learned, after three trips to the ER to have his stomach pumped, Sean dragging him in unconscious, that the drunken part of the drunken poet apprenticeship was a dream he’d have to let go of if he wished to make it through another year of university and not end up either dead or back in his parents’ basement until death by mundanity took him.


Sean, eager to take on a challenge, had given up the drink with him, suggesting they take up running instead.


“I could use a break myself, man,” Sean said. “I don’t want to end up like my old man with a beer gut, or like Bukowski, old and wrecked, in service to the bottle, like the words might not come if you stop sucking it back for even 
a second—life’s got enough to it, why don’t we try feeling it sober for a bit? Seems like synchronicity too, hey? I was thinking back just yesterday on running long-distance track in high school. How much I fucking loved to just run. Put my sneakers on and go. Didn’t matter where. No one with me, just the thoughts in my mind, or the music in my ears, and the thoughts would get a cadence to them, kind of rhythmic instead of static, buzzing, or fast and punchy like they sometimes get. Or just full of rage, you know, when you think about some of the really fucked-up bullshit. And how when I’d run, the thoughts almost seemed to land on my breath and ride there. And after, be calmer. Like the harder thoughts would get expelled and I’d find there were other thoughts underneath that saw the world so differently. And how lately it’s all felt leaning toward chaos, you know, maybe that line where chaos and beauty meet? That line drink gets you to. But so, you can’t quite tell, either, after a while, if there even is a line and maybe it’s all just beauty and all just chaos and there is no beauty outside of that? But there used to be. There used to be, and now there isn’t—and just like that, I look over at the kid next to me and he’s reading a running magazine. Page open to an article about this guy who runs ultramarathons in the desert. Ultramarathons, dude! In the desert, and in the mountains! Then he put his magazine down on the table and left it there. Right in front of me. Walked away. Like he was there just to deliver providence! So, I pick it up and start reading. 100K! All fucking night. Up mountains and shit. High on 
the peaks and valleys of the body’s physical limits, roping his mind constantly away from the abysses of self-doubt whispering to him whenever fatigue would set in, and then finding something, some kernel, some trick to keep going.”


Sean had paused, looking at Trevor like Trevor should get something he wasn’t getting. But Trevor’s mind was on the other side of near-death poisoning, gut bleeding from the inside, throat raw from vomiting and intubation. His body still metabolizing the dregs of the spirits it seemed had wanted him dead. He had no mind for threading underlying meanings, all the life in him being spent on survival. So, Sean, ever eager to help a buddy out, had gone on.


“Why don’t we fucking do it? Next fall? We’ll train until then. Pause all that other shit. Fuck, we’re not going to get younger. Booze’ll always be there. Maybe if you get your heart pumping some real good clean blood through it, things might look different next year?”


“Dude, are you fucking serious?” Trevor had asked, before doubling over coughing. Coughing that felt like his throat was going to close up again, like his insides were going to tear open. Coughing that turned to gasping. And Sean had buzzed the nurse. So, they’d dropped it for that moment. Because how was a kid as sick as Trevor, unable to even get up from his bed for a week, liver on the edge of collapse, heart uncertain of the role it was supposed to play with poisoned blood pumping through it for the last year, heart rate slowed to a bare register, supposed to imagine running 100K through a desert? As fucking if.


But Sean was serious. He wouldn’t drop it. He became a man with a new mission in life. A mission to turn Trevor into some kind of athlete. Sean had that perpetual look in his eye, the drive that Trevor knew he would pretty much follow anywhere. This man was in it for the long haul. For some reason Trevor could not understand, Sean was challenging him to live, to take it beyond what it was, and he was willing to fucking haul Trevor to do it.


Trevor felt like he was running toward collapse every time his heart started pumping faster, while Sean took to it like he’d never stopped running. Like there hadn’t been a gap of two years since he’d last laced up his sneakers. The fridge, empty of beer, now had ample room for Sean’s ever-expanding fermentation experiments. Shelves stacked with krauts, kefir, and flavoured kombuchas. Crisper drawers packed to the brim with varieties of veggies Trevor had not known existed, delivered to their door weekly in a wooden box.


Sean prepped all the meals for the two of them—coach and chef combined. Trevor Hart knew with no inkling of doubt that he’d won the grand lottery of friendship. Back from the brink of death and, it turned out, more able than ever to write poetry, which slipped into him as he ran. His heart pumping with glimmering words for the return to his desk after running.




———



				Trevor’s dad freaked when he switched his major from chemistry to English literature, with a minor in creative writing. He threatened to cut Trevor off, since there was no 
way in hell he would ever find success as a writer, and what was he going to do with a literature degree? But in the end, his father came around. For once, Trevor didn’t waver. His mother understood when he told her, “Mom, I like having poets and writers in my head instead of just myself, it makes me feel less lonely.” She found a way to make his dad begrudgingly accept.


Almost a decade down the road, not yet envisioned as the course life would take from that first worn paperback, Trevor’s Ph.D. dissertation on Bukowski would be an embarrassment to Walter and Eileen Hart.


He would try to tell them not to bother reading it, that it wouldn’t be their thing, but they would insist, and he’d feel he owed them, seeing as their money had paid for most of his education—a rare English lit Ph.D. coming out the other end debt-free.


“I don’t read poetry, son,” was what Walt would say. “But you’re a smart kid, and I can tell you know your stuff. That man though, he makes no sense to me. He’s got no morals other than a commitment to himself as far as I can tell.”


“Well, he’s a dirty man, and a misogynist,” Eileen would offer. “It’s hard for me to like anything he has to say. Me and your father, we don’t live our lives that way. But I can see that he speaks to you, that there’s a rawness to him that could be appealing to young men. I just wish it seemed like he cared about something. He seems like he just wants to eat everything up forever and not clean up after himself. Like he’s not even aware of everyone else who will have to.”


Trevor would be surprised at his mother’s statements about Bukowski, because she 
did
 clean up after his father all the time, and had cleaned up after Trevor when he’d lived there, and she never outwardly complained about it. At least not to him—her life obscured for him by her ever-present role, blurred into that one impossible symbol, the eternal caregiver.


Despite pretending otherwise, Trevor had harboured a small delusional hope that his parents would be moved by his work. Imagining for a moment that they might truly see him, allowing themselves to glimpse Bukowski’s spirit as something alive in themselves, perhaps even gaining some small insight into how the whole façade of 
their
 lives was what the man was tearing apart by virtue of the way he lived his—made real by his raw gift of language. How grotesque it all was. How their bodies were there, and animal underneath. All the raging desires they had to suppress to be as they were.


His hope would be crushed, as it had been so many times, by the easiness of his father’s disapproval, and his mother’s unwillingness to see beyond the walls of her immaculate world.




———



				Though Trevor’s heartfelt desire was to shine in the world unequivocally as Bukowski’s literary offspring, he was, he would come to accept over the course of his poetic education, more his parents’ child than Bukowski’s literary progeny. Trevor was simply unsuited to living raw life with 
abandon. Yet he could find consolation in an intellectual superiority that made him able to see deeply into the game at play.


A game most people were stuck in without even realizing it! Which some won out of luck or circumstance, while others lost due to misfortune or odds tipped against them. And while Trevor lacked certain things, he had the fortitude, cleverness, and words to pull strings to turn the game to his favour.


Trevor had learned much from Bukowski, but he would find his own kind of freedom. He could not be Bukowski, nor could he be Sean. He had to make of Trevor what he could. His words, one day, to be carried in worn paperbacks in the pockets of other men.




———



				Though Bukowski had been the first and most formative, there were others Trevor treasured, memorizing lines as his own voice took form. Gems he discovered in the most unlikely places, alert to their otherwise hidden potencies, unearthed by his obsession for scouring the world for obscure lines. Left in his path, he knew, for him to transform to greatness. Books by unimportant, long-dead poets in second-hand shops; the foreign-language stacks in the university library where he pulled poetry books off shelves in random order to find English translations that would never have revealed themselves in the digital catalogue. A basement dive in a colonial neighbourhood frequented only by fledgling poets and elderly patrons where, one evening, 
as Trevor was deeply considering his virgin screwdriver, crunching an ice cube to shards between his teeth, twirling his tongue among the fragments, he heard a young woman’s voice from the mic.


Unusual. The slight hesitation in her voice gave Trevor pause. A brief show of nerves before something else took over. It was rare in this joint for a woman so young, likely a lowly undergrad like Trevor and Sean, to expose herself to the scrutiny of grad students and more established poets.


He looked up and was immediately enraptured in the shock of her cheekbones, the curvature of her lips as they parted, releasing an echo that subsumed the murmurs in the room in its otherworldly halo.


Ice exploded luminous on Trevor’s tongue as though birthing a cosmos into being—his body burst open into new realms of sensing as he fell into synesthesia—rendering him almost completely incapable of normal function.


He did not hear her speak her name.


All her words were light within him.


Possessing him entirely.


She held all meaning and made none.




———


This was not the drive he felt with most girls to peel their clothes off, find the secret place they kept, and fuck them there, if they let him.


He’d had some successes. The drink had helped with that. Now that he was sober, it was harder to slip off the inhibitions. But maybe this too was a sign? That his 
attention was not meant to be directed wholly at getting pretty girls naked, but for purer means.


Grace. Revelation. Undoing.


He was meant to get close to this one.


This singular one who was not a girl at all, but some kind of goddess descended from heaven.


Love Under the Influence


Sarah met Ariadne. And then she met Trevor.


Ariadne was the first person whose mind made visible to Sarah the beat of her own heart—she could almost see it thumping outside herself in resonant beats of silver, like moon glinting off snowflakes set in rhythm with Ariadne’s beating heart.


With Trevor, when the spark came, it burned, flaring blue within an orange halo, pulling her to its obscure core.


Sarah thrilled at this new allure in proximity to brilliant minds—her body and mind alight in response. Awake again to dreaming across realms into others’ dreams.


A feeling she had felt often enough from books, or from the forest and river in deep conversation. From the moon’s pull. Each sparking within her its own unique spell.




———



				Ariadne was a profusion of passions and curiosities that inspired Sarah’s imagination. A pull both inward and outward that Sarah had not felt since she’d begun busying herself trying to belong in a social world her father had 
done his best to keep her out of. Whatever tentative connections she had made in that world severed almost completely when he died the summer before her final year of high school, and Sarah dropped out to stay at home with her mother.


A year passed in the world, or one long day become night become day.


It was hard to tell time severed from humanity.


Sarah managed to complete her high school courses by correspondence and fill out university applications because her mother threatened to sell the homestead and move them both to the city if Sarah did not. Sarah had refused, but Grace insisted that if Sarah did not go to university on her own, Grace would apply for her, then rent them a dismal one-bedroom basement apartment where she would sit at the window sipping chamomile tea, grief-stricken and miserable, dragging Sarah to classes, where she would sit behind her and murmur to herself the whole time, afterward dragging her home for late nights listening to Joni Mitchell’s 
Blue
 album on repeat, forcing Sarah to bear not only her own sorrow, but also Grace’s lifelong harassment. Grace, not one to make idle threats, had been convincing enough that Sarah had carried through on her demands.


Now here Sarah was on an island in the Salish Sea, attending university. Without her mother.


She felt here, but not here. Grace could force her out, but she could not force her to presence.


Sarah wanted to try, but she felt stuck, like her father had taken her future with him to the grave. As though some part of her were rotting under the earth while the unfeeling parts of her went on enacting the life she was supposed to be living.


Over the phone, Grace assured her that even though Sarah could not feel it now, there was still hope alive in her somewhere that would one day make itself known once the part under the earth decomposed, pushed to the surface in worm casings, absorbed into new life cycles of sunflowers or dried to dust in the summer sun, blown by an insistent wind into airborne debris, drifting up to the reaches of the atmosphere before finally returning to the stars.




———


Ariadne reawakened Sarah’s aliveness. Fate peeling itself open with the perfect opening line.




———


Sarah had arrived at her first Intro to Anthropology class almost late, scoping the room for an open desk as the prof set herself up at the pulpit. Pulled to sharp attention by an empty spot reflecting moonlight, though there was no window in the room—and certainly no moon tucked in the corner of the fluorescent-lit ceiling.


Sarah turned her head slightly to see that the light was emanating from a young woman sitting in the desk one over. Unambiguously inviting Sarah to step across a threshold that had nothing and everything to do with the forthcoming survey content of humanity’s entire becoming.


Sarah felt herself float down to the moonlit seat, not noticing that her hair was full of dried leaves from having spent the ten minutes before class buried under a pile of the most magnificently coloured fall foliage she had ever seen, in a courtyard on campus no one but her seemed to know about, turning her face to the source of the light.


“Hi, I’m Sarah, and you are glowing. What’s your name?”


To which the other young woman replied, “Ariadne.”


Sarah lit up brighter than a thousand stars, beaming a cosmic radiance that travelled through Ariadne’s eyes, right into her muted and jittery first-day-of-class heart. “Ariadne! Of course! I am so very pleased to meet you here on Naxos, where you’ve just awakened from a very bizarre dream!”


“You’re a strange one,” Ariadne responded playfully, emanating warmth like a midwinter hearth when the world outside is frozen. Moonlight drawing Sarah in, sunlight shining unimpeded in return.


Ariadne’s eyes danced specks of gold in a halo of earthy green akin to the yellow flame she plucked from Sarah’s tangles. Which Ariadne proceeded to place face down on the tiny surface of desk attached to the lecture hall seat, ripping a lined sheet from her wire-bound notebook with her left hand as she pulled a length of graphite from a bag in her pocket with her right, staining her long fingers silver as she disappeared the leaf beneath her paper, smirking as it reappeared in contour with the rapid rubbing of her hand. Her brow furrowed in serious concentration as she wrote a few lines underneath, handing the paper back 
to Sarah before slipping the leaf between the pages of her textbook.


Sarah felt a tingling aliveness travel from the page through all her pathways of sensation, illuminating filigrees like the most delicate leaf veins through the numbness blanketing her heart when she read what Ariadne had inscribed:














———



				Ariadne collected marvels, as Sarah once had. Picking up bits of the world’s magnificence to take home and draw at 
various angles, considering their formation, making gestures in response—moving Sarah to join in with her own creativities.


Together they gathered detritus sharpened to shared meaning. Each walk through the city an expedition! So that when Sarah was with Ariadne, a bus ride downtown felt as exciting as Alice falling down a rabbit hole, never knowing what might come.


To Sarah, Ariadne was the world’s living beauty personified. She drew eyes toward her like the moon draws and mystifies sunlight. Sarah privileged with the closest closeness.




———


With Trevor, the flame flickered haphazardly to fire. It took Sarah a while to know she was burning.


She noticed him first as a sort of after-flare slinking out from the shadows of the Student Union building to the coffee counter, almost always within moments of Ariadne departing.


Sarah could see he was orbiting Ariadne as she was. She could see he had no idea at all what he was orbiting. She could see he had a whole massive world inside him dying to break out, barely able to look Sarah in the eye as he ordered his coffee, as though forces were agitating words at intergalactic speeds that he could not bring himself to speak. How adorable, Sarah thought. And maybe a little frantic?


She could sense that Trevor had no idea how to live in his own body. That his body was a pulsing quasar, at the centre of which was a black hole that Trevor was seeking to fill to assuage a great hunger.




———


Once they became an official couple, Sarah liked to joke that they fell in love under the influences of Ariadne and Vlad the Impaler.


The medieval history class discussion Trevor had successfully manoeuvred into a digression regarding Vlad the Impaler and his relation to the modern figure of Dracula was the first time Sarah heard Trevor speak a full sentence. Upending her impression of him as an awkward kid who could barely talk when she served his Americanos “short.” Sometimes over-pouring just to get a reaction out of him. Watching the alarm flare as the water trickled just a tad over short to goad him. Stopping as soon as his eyebrows lifted, offering him slightly disgruntled relief.


Sarah would learn years later from Sean that he had roped Trevor into sitting in on a fourth-year “Monsters and Myths” film studies course with him the semester prior to this fateful discussion, and that Trevor had basically repeated verbatim the notes he’d taken down from the overhead slides about Vlad the Impaler as historical vs. Dracula as cult figure.


Sarah would neatly interpret this new information with matured recognition gained from experience that Trevor was not after all an unparalleled genius, but that he had, as 
all young scholars did, absorbed knowledge from the minds of those who preceded him, and that the important part was the unique way Trevor had made the knowledge his own, then used that knowledge to make sense of things in ways Sarah and the other students in the class had never thought of before.


In the beginning, Sarah couldn’t tell if she liked or hated Trevor. He said things in class that made her cringe, but so many other things that sparked her curiosity. Her uneasiness grew to excitement over the course of the semester as she found herself transitioning from slight repulsion at his sometimes obnoxious proclamations to a state of fairly insistent daydreaming about how to continue the conversation with him once class ended, imagining all sorts of scenarios for how to get him to pay attention to her.




———


He was paying attention. Very close attention. Studying Sarah.


Trevor knew Sarah as the girl who was always in the company of the one he’d been captivated by at the open mic, the one who drew 
all
 of his attention.


Sarah being the reason he’d signed up for the class in the first place. Because he’d overheard her in the café telling a co-worker she had signed up for medieval history class—“a crush on the professor,” how inane—which had prompted Trevor to dial into the course registration system as soon as he got home, swapping out the Chaucer class he was only minorly interested in—a literary necessity he could make 
up for next semester—in favour of medieval history, convinced this bubbly wild-haired brunette had just dropped him the clue that would guide him down the pathway to his soulmate.




———


“Hi, I’m Sarah,” she said when Trevor sat down beside her a few weeks after the start of their sophomore year.


Not wanting to seem too eager, Trevor had taken those weeks to hop around from desk to desk, each day choosing a different location, so it would seem to anyone looking that he had no particular reason for sitting here or there, taking note that Sarah always sat in the same place. Finally, on his chosen day, he made sure to arrive right after Sarah, so he could get the seat next to hers—three rows back, four in from the centre aisle on the left.


“Troy, er Trevor,” Trevor responded, ducking his head, wincing, then a drawn-out pause, his face doing all sorts of weird things. “You’re friends with…the most beautiful girl on campus?”


“Ariadne? Yes, we’re roommates.”


At which point he looked at Sarah with the most intense look she’d possibly ever seen. A look that lasted about two seconds, before he quickly looked away.


She felt something within her gape open.




———



				Compulsion mixed with confounding unease. He fiercely wanted something of her. Something that had nothing to 
do with her, and yet, she felt herself wanting to find some way of giving it to him.


It was completely disorienting.




———


It was not the first time she’d had some version of this conversation. Boys approached her often to ask about her beautiful friend—too intimidating to approach directly.


Sarah made a game of tracking the facial expressions of strangers when she was out with Ariadne. Men stumbled, bumped into things, dropped their sentences, following her with their eyes, as though she were a disturbance in space-time.


Ariadne had learned to put up horse blinders, carrying herself in the world cut off, protecting herself from the allure she inspired.


Glances fell on Sarah as an afterthought, overlooking her as though she were not even there. It gave Sarah a certain power. Being inside the force gave her a certain vantage to observe, while bestowing Ariadne with mooring. Sarah was Ariadne’s anchor. She dropped others’ desires back to earth, freeing Ariadne of them so she did not have to be alone in a world in which everyone wanted to eat her up.


With Trevor, Sarah felt implicated somehow. Unanchored. She needed to get away from him.




———


But then Trevor had started up about Vlad. And Sarah was rapt.


Such surprising things to say!


In this manner, through the alchemy of Sarah’s curiosity and Trevor’s keen interest in the things that interested him, they developed a sort of friendship.


Sarah offered insights, feeling sparked, because what she offered set him off, she could feel this. Her spark enlivening his.


They enjoyed one another’s minds.


And Sarah was happy to hand out small clues when Trevor asked about the mystical Ariadne. Who he kept enough distance from that it might seem like he wasn’t following her, except that he clearly was. Which made him even more compelling. A strange smart kid with beautiful lips and secrets he kept to himself! Secrets Sarah might discover if she played Trevor’s game right.




———


A few weeks before the end of class, Sarah and Ariadne had a conversation that went like this:


“You know the weirdly bright guy from my medieval history class I was telling you about? Trevor? He’s totally infatuated with you.”


“Which guy?”


“The one I told you about! Remember? Weirdly into Vlad the Impaler, but in like, a pop culture meets history kind of way that is sort of sexy? Hangs out with the beautiful tall blond guy—the only other person on campus in the same category of gorgeousness as you, so you might have taken notice.”


“Hush, Sarah, stop. What do you want me to say? So, this guy you like that has never so much as even talked to me is infatuated with me?”


“I didn’t say I liked him, Ariadne!”


“Of course you do! I can see the little smile on your lips. You like him, just admit it. You just said he was sexy! It’s okay to like someone, Sarah.”


“But he likes you!”


“He doesn’t even know me. I have Absolutely No Interest! 
None at all
. You know I have eyes only for you, because you so desperately delight me with your quirky weirdness that somehow is a perfect match for my own.”


And Sarah had blushed. Blood rushing inside a little. Or a lot. Confused by what she was feeling, never quite knowing what Ariadne meant when she said things like this. Because Sarah felt the same way, loving every single moment of time in Ariadne’s company, in complete adoration, sometimes feeling a pull that sparked with a kind of hotter energy, which always dissolved into giggles.


“He’s funny, Ariadne! And super smart. Almost as smart as you.”


“Still, no interest. Especially not if he’s infatuated with me before he has ever even spoken one word to me. Infatuation, if you hadn’t noticed, leaves little room for the object to articulate their own subjectivity. Plus, I don’t have time for that stuff, Sarah. My mind is so full of other things.”


“What, like you’d rather pretend-kiss Captain Picard on the TV screen than a real guy?”


“Yup, any day. Captain Picard is a total babe. And he’s not obsessed with me. He’s got other things on his mind.”


“It’s true, he does have a lot of things on his mind. All the nuance of how to interpret the Prime Directive! How to respond to hostile life forms with tact! How to keep Troi and Riker from ripping each other’s clothes off in the heat of battle! I want to pretend-kiss him too. But I was looking at Trevor’s lips the other day. Watching the little bit of spittle gather at the corners of his mouth when he gets excited about something—the way his tongue slips over and licks it up, poking out of the corner of his lips, and I couldn’t help it, my lips got all tingly, and I wanted to kiss him. Bizarre, right? I’m such a weirdo. Like he’s ever going to be into me!”


“Sarah, it’s not bizarre. I mean, it is to me, because like I said, zero interest, and the spittle part is kind of gross, but it’s cute too. It’s super cute. It’s okay to feel that. To feel curious and excited about someone! I’m happy for you. Just hang out with him. You’re wonderfully bizarre. But that’s why I love you! You’re amazing! He’ll see you if you give him a chance. He’d be stupid not to. And if he can’t get past his obsession with the not-me-he-thinks-is-me and see you, then he’s a chump. And you’ve got me, and Picard, and Troi, and Riker. And any number of people you haven’t met yet whose lips will also cause yours to tingle.”


Sarah had never seen Ariadne show any interest in boys. Or girls for that matter. Any interest in anyone, really, other than Sarah, and Picard, and what went on inside herself. She 
always had her head in a book. Or her mind was drifted out to whatever she was creating or observing—her drawings, the clouds, or rocks—wholly absorbed in whatever she saw there.


Sarah knew why. Ariadne, in one of her more open moments, had told her, “Sarah, when my mom died my heart closed up. I felt like I was walking in the world in a body detached from the life that had once animated it. Trapped inside myself. Surrounded by people who felt as far off as the closest galaxy. Swirling masses of energies I wanted only to shrink away from. And then I met you. And the first time you smiled at me with a head tangled in flaming leaves, I knew I would love you forever. That I could trust you, that you were made of the same stuff as me. You laugh me back to life, Sarah. And you surprise me. I love sharing my life with you.”




———



				It was a kind of love that needed Sarah to neither do nor be anything that she wasn’t already. Sarah did not have to make anything of herself to hold Ariadne’s attention. She was not driven toward gaining Ariadne’s interest as she was toward gaining Trevor’s. With Ariadne it was like zooming around in space together, with Trevor it was like she was in a car driving somewhere with all these sideroads she felt compelled to follow. As though she was being led astray, and she wanted this more than anything—fear intermingled with desire. Because what might she find there in the darkness if she cut the headlights? What parts of 
herself might these tracks lead to that she could not find on her own? That Ariadne would never lead her to, because Ariadne’s love was so full of celestial light that it illuminated everything.


Ariadne loved, but did not want to possess or be possessed by Sarah. She had lived through enough variations of tragedy in her millennia-long myth to be a bit done with all that nonsense.


Sarah sometimes wanted to break into Ariadne’s dreams and dream them for herself. It was ferocious, but Sarah felt it was beautiful. 
Find yourself
, Ariadne sometimes had to remind Sarah. 
Stop looking for me
.




———


Sarah thought Ariadne told her everything, as she told Ariadne everything. Full and total disclosure so you were ready for danger together when it inevitably arrived—Ariadne, her living, breathing confidante. No one left out in the cold. She thought their total companionship explicit.


Until the night Ariadne did not come home.


Casting Sarah into painful, confusing bewilderment. Blanketing her in acute terror with waking dreams of Ariadne standing in for every maimed female body the media had gifted her with seeing, degraded by monsters lurking in shadows, her good spirit sucked out of her eyes by gaping mouths that laughed and taunted as Sarah scrambled to save her, failing over and over again. At 3 a.m. finally falling into a fitfull sleep.


She awoke before daybreak to find that Ariadne was still gone, wracking her mind for any clue she might have missed for where Ariadne might be. Resolving to head to campus after reporting her missing—Ariadne’s last known whereabouts.


The police operator offered no solace, just a deeper despair, Sarah mad with certainty, talked down to like an unknowing child. Told not enough time had elapsed to report a missing person. She tried to make them understand the danger of Ariadne’s beauty, how someone must have taken her, that they needed to start looking right away! Convinced beyond all reason that Ariadne lay somewhere ravished and abandoned, isolated and left for dead.


Sarah was the only one who could find her!


She paced room to room, frantic. Feral in the cage of her own mind, cycling through starts and stops and impossibilities—
nowhere, nowhere! Ariadne has been sucked into the dark abyss forever!
 “No, think. Think. You can find her. She’ll come back. Where can she be? Slow down, it’s there, you just have to”—stopped in her tracks, darkness making a mirror of the inside world at the dining room window—glimpsing herself looking just as her mother did each time her father disappeared.


The same wild eyes. The same desperate searching.


Hope washed out of her that with daylight would come deliverance—her mother’s voice on the other end of the line, coaxing her back to her senses.


Sarah collapsed. Madness to mush. Floor on her hands, feeling into the hardwood. Here. Now. She could not drag her mother into the same hell her father had dragged her into so many times.


Ariadne didn’t have any friends in the city besides her.


She would not call Ariadne’s father until she knew something for certain.


Her sister was too far away, unreachable.


There was no one to call.


Sarah retreated to a silent place beyond time.


Until Ariadne whisked through the door at 9:36 a.m., at which point Sarah pounced, embracing her tightly, smoothing down her hair, kissing her cheeks. “Are you okay, Ariadne? What happened?”


Ariadne met Sarah’s frenzied gaze with eyes full of pleasurable excitement—pupils wider than possible, as though possessed.


Sarah pulled back, terrified. “What?”


“Sweetie, I’m okay, I just went out to a party with some of the folks from my art class.”


“Why do your eyes look like that? What did they do to you?” Sarah demanded.


“No one did anything to me, Sarah,” Ariadne laughed. “I guess my pupils are still dilated from the E. It was weird, everyone looked so wide open. When I saw my eyes in the mirror, I burst out laughing at how hard they were working to let in as much light as possible, like they were hungry for light.”


“E?”


“Ecstasy—you know.”


“You did E, on your own? Without me? With people I don’t even know?”


“Sarah, I’m allowed to have a life and experiences of my own! Just like you need to have a life and experiences of your own so it’s more fun to share with each other! I’d love to do E with you sometime, to have you meet my friends. If you want to.”


“I don’t want to!” Sarah snapped. Crestfallen, backing out of the room. “I never want to,” she whispered as she rushed herself to her bedroom to hide beneath her blankets, shaking, her whole world closing down around her. The terror she had felt through the night cascading, filling her mind with strange corrupt stories that contradicted all goodness. Her mind trying to save itself by severing the bond to make the terror stop.


Ariadne was not truly her friend, after all. Not if she was going to lead her to such darkness and abandon her there.




———



				Ariadne slept all that day while Sarah made a petulant show of doing the things that needed doing around the house, smashing pots, bumping the vacuum into every possible obstacle, running laundry in the room right next to Ariadne’s so the noise would reverberate through the walls, growing her self-loathing with every clang and rumble, finally exhausting herself with punishment she was visiting only on herself, walking to the beach where the ocean absorbed her 
futility, lapping undulating truths at her in crests and waves.


Perhaps it was not the end of their friendship? Perhaps Ariadne had not meant to hurt her? Perhaps she was not uncaring and Sarah was truly special to her and her new friends would not steal her away if Sarah could somehow manage not to ruin it all?


In the evening, Sarah returned home frazzled, but less mean, resolved to regain her friend. When she walked in Ariadne smiled at her with such easy happiness, tucked into the breakfast nook with a pot of tea and a book.


“You’re finally home! Thank you for cleaning. It looks great. Come have tea with me and tell me where you’ve been all day.”


And just like that, the wall came down. How could she bear this kindness after what she’d just been through that Ariadne could not even feel?


“I can’t, Ariadne, I have too much schoolwork,” Sarah replied bitterly, refusing to make eye contact with her. This stranger in her house.


“Sarah, don’t do that to me.”


“Do what?”


“Shut me out like that because you’re hurt.”


“I’m not! I just don’t want to hang out tonight. I have a life too!”


“You are shutting me out. And you are hurt, I can feel it. You’re all tight and balled up, like you’re going to explode. But don’t do that to me. I didn’t do anything wrong. It’s okay to be hurt, but it’s not okay to take it out on me. I love you, 
you’re my dearest, but you don’t get to choose what I do or be angry with me after because I did something without you.”


Sarah could feel herself getting small, shrinking, trying to pull her outsides into her insides to fill up the swirling space.


“I’m sorry I hurt you,” Ariadne went on. “I didn’t mean to, but I can see that I did. It was thoughtless of me not to call. I guess I was worried you might try to talk me out of it, and I wanted to try it, so I didn’t.”


Sarah touched her hand to her heart. It was hurting so badly, cracking apart, it felt like all her breath had gone out of her and she would never breathe again. She was losing Ariadne; she could feel it. She was awful. Ariadne thought she would hold her back from the life she wanted, and now Ariadne was casting her out. All the goodness they had shared was slipping away because now Ariadne could see what a frightful jealous scared awful creature Sarah was, not worthy of her love after all.


“I was terrified, Ariadne. Terrified. I thought all sorts of terrible things…my dad…”


“Sarah. Oh. I’m so sorry. I’m right here,” Ariadne said, approaching her, placing her hand over Sarah’s. “Right here, Sarah, come back.”


Sarah recoiled, bumping against the stove, but then she looked up and met Ariadne’s eyes and they were so clear. Seeing her. Loving her, feeling alongside her, instead of casting her out. She softened, moved her hands to Ariadne’s, then tried to project her pain into Ariadne, so that Ariadne 
might feel the depth of her anguish, washing Sarah clean with Ariadne’s goodness instead.


“No Sarah, not like that. Stay here in the room with me. Feel my hand on yours, your hand on your heart, we’re here, two people, together in our kitchen. Breathe, baby. It’s you, and me, here now. You can feel your way through these really hard things, and come back. I’m here beside you. Still me, and I love you.”


Words and gestures Ariadne’s mom had offered so often when Ariadne was a child lost in the pain of living. “We’re okay, Sarah. When you’re ready, I’ll tell you all about it. I see you, and I’m sorry I hurt you. I should have called. It was cowardly of me not to, because I feared your judgment. And in my fear caused you pain. I wish I’d been courageous enough to be strong in my own conviction and called anyway, even if you had tried to talk me out of it. You have to know I’m okay out there, I’m still me. You can learn to trust that. We’re going to be okay. Let’s drink tea and I’ll show you one of the line drawing exercises I learned in class. I draw a line and you add to it, back and forth, like that, making it up together.”


As they drew, the remainder of the tension in Sarah’s body dissolved, untruthing the awful dreams. The lines brought Sarah back to a shared belonging with Ariadne, who moments ago had almost disappeared entirely. But now she was here with Sarah again in the room, and it had not fallen apart to nothingness. Ariadne’s love for Sarah remained, as did the deeper truth of Sarah’s love beyond the fear.


She had never been brought back to herself by another, restored in this way to belonging. Her mother’s love had been potent but unreliable. So often frazzled to singeing wires by her own fear and pain, so when Sarah went looking for her, even though she was there, Grace was too lost for Sarah to find. For the first time in as long as Sarah could remember, she felt home.


“I’m sorry too, Ariadne. Sorry I was unkind,” Sarah whispered, adding a line like an arched bridge to repair a break in the silly squabbily one Ariadne had just drawn.












Following long moments of easeful silence sipping tea and drawing together, Ariadne suggested suddenly, “Why don’t you invite that guy from your class to our end-of-the-year party?”


“Do you think he’d come? I mean, he seems kind of straitlaced. But it would be funny to see him in a wedding dress!”


“I have no idea! But we can make an epic invitation! You can give him one and then it’s up to him.”


“He’d probably only come to see you. Or he’ll be too scared to!”




———


Trevor had arrived to their “Beyond the Bride Party” in a state. He had come! Though he was clearly inebriated, and his friend Sean seemed agitated with him, trying to get Trevor to leave almost as soon as they’d arrived.


“Take it easy, Hart,” Sean admonished, when Sarah handed Trevor a flute of Prosecco and he downed it in one go.


An hour into the party, Trevor cornered Sarah and snuck her off, out the bathroom window upstairs to the roof where he talked and talked and talked to her through the veil someone had placed on his head. Sarah listened, shivering in her sleeveless lace gown, trying to wrap the long train around herself as a blanket. Trevor, not noticing she was cold, spoke words Sarah wove together to warm herself. They were here, alone, together, she could not break the spell and suggest they go back inside. She could tell Trevor really needed someone to talk to, so she pretended her body could handle it, suppressing her shivers by pressing her tongue hard against the roof of her mouth.


All the questions were about Ariadne—Troy, he called 
her for some reason. Funny boy, couldn’t even say her name without losing himself!


“Why do you keep calling her Troy?”


“Umm, it’s sort of weird, I guess. I’m embarrassed saying.”


“Okay, but you keep saying it, so you might as well say why, otherwise I’m going to tell her.”


“You wouldn’t!”


“I might.”


“You’re cruel, Sarah. Okay. I’ll tell you, but you have to promise not to laugh.”


“Promise.”


“Helen of Troy. The most beautiful woman in the world. A woman men would start wars over!


“Before I knew her name, I called her Troy. In case her name really was Helen, and if I said it and she heard, she would think I was talking about her, which I was, but I didn’t want her to know. Stupid, right? But it feels easier for me than saying her real name out loud. Like I’m not ready yet. When I call her Troy, it speaks to what lives inside me that she brings to life. That she awakened.”


Sarah understood. Ariadne held herself apart, like the social world made no difference to her. Yet all of that, Sarah knew, was a sort of shell to protect the very gentle creature who lived within, who Sarah loved so deeply.


Sarah sensed that when looking at Ariadne, Trevor saw what he wished for her to be and not the magic she made of herself, as though her beauty made her both sacred and not quite human—a mortal goddess in need of his devotion.


He desperately wanted Sarah’s advice.


“Should I talk to Troy tonight about my love? No! I’m too drunk tonight! I haven’t had a drink in a year! It makes me violently ill. But I couldn’t help it tonight. The pressure was too great. Being at Troy’s house! I almost didn’t come. I couldn’t believe it when you invited me! But was it really you, or was it a greater force guiding you? Was Troy the one to suggest it, or was it your idea?” he asked, without waiting for Sarah to answer.


“Sean said he wouldn’t come, because he was pissed at me for drinking to calm my nerves before the party, but I wore him down, telling him I needed a chaperone! Promising a month of dishes so I wouldn’t have to show up drunk and alone like some kind of loser douchebag.


“But then I got so disoriented walking through the front door. Not a door, but a portal! A portal into some crazy otherworld! Everyone in wedding dresses! All the weird lights! Your house is so bizarre! Do you know it’s bizarre? Whose bizarreness is this, yours or Troy’s?


“Then you gave me another drink. And someone had a flask of whisky going around. And now I’m fucking wasted, Sarah. Wasted. Like Bukowski! Do you read Bukowski? Did you know he was a drunk? Have you read Nabokov? The man was a genius! A genius! And I am going to be just like him. I cannot fail. Can never fail. I know I have this greatness in me. But ever since Troy. Since I first heard her read that poem at the open mic. It’s so fucking bizarre. Were you there too? Is Troy a witch? Can you see 
the light emanating off her? Do you notice how her smell inundates a room?”


A pause, Sarah not knowing how to respond through her now insuppressible shivers, wanting to offer warmth, but having none. Listening, trying to take in the deluge of words. But before she could offer anything, he’d gone on.


“I can’t get her off my mind. I feel like she’s bewitched me! Every time I sit down to write, all that comes are these sappy love poems. But I’ve started my first novel. It is going to be so epic! Beyond epic. Post-epic! I had this inspiration. Almost dead in the hospital, like somewhere between alive and dead and I had to decide. I could sense this space. This liminal space and I am going to write the whole novel from that liminality. But then Troy. And ever since her I can’t get back there. Like she is in that space now. Like she slipped in there and is filling it all up.” Finally spent of word, he looked Sarah in the eye. “Do you know what I mean?”


“Yeah, Trevor, I do. I know what you mean. I feel liminal in Ariadne’s presence sometimes too. Like I feel liminal in yours.”


Sarah understood he wasn’t joking about Nabokov. She had laughed like she got it. She didn’t, because she’d never read Nabokov and even later, when at Trevor’s suggestion she did, she still wouldn’t get it, because she had no concept of Russian culture, language, and political exile, and no foothold in desire for literary grandeur. After all, how ridiculous for a woman to even imagine herself as Nabokov—taken to 
be truly great by men! It would take quite the costuming to achieve that!


Trevor was already great in Sarah’s mind. He certainly said great things! Greatness coupled with such intense doubt. He seemed like he needed someone to believe in him, and Sarah did. Maybe if he saw that she believed in him, he would believe in himself more too. Stop agitating so much about needing approval and do what he hoped to do with his gifts. Great things. Great things! But did desire for greatness lead to greatness? Or did it block honest expression of the greatness already there when proof was driving? Sarah’s mom had talked often about the difference between cultivation of gifts and the corruption of them when Sarah’s father was in his dark phases. Was it the threat of falling off the roof, freezing her ass off, more than slightly drunk herself, that brought these impressions up in her as Trevor spoke?


She focused in again on his face. His lips. Presence! She was in the presence of burgeoning greatness! It really was a gift to be alive, she thought—and then she began laughing uncontrollably, getting a bird’s-eye view of the situation, as she sometimes did. Seeing the two of them from above, suspended out of time—Sarah in her wedding dress and Trevor teetering on the edge of a precipice, preoccupied with greatness. How absurd human words were in the grand scope of things!


“What is it?” he asked. “You’re laughing at me! You think I’m ridiculous.” And he tried to scramble inside.


“No, Trevor, no! The farthest thing from that. I think you’re great. I’m laughing at the scene—us, here, now, out on the roof. We should get back inside.”


They locked eyes. Something passing. And then he put his hand around her neck, pulled her close, and kissed her. “You’re beautiful too, you know.”


She pulled back, uncertain. A moment ago, he was telling her about his infatuation with Ariadne, and now he was kissing her? A confusing mess of feelings. She wanted this. And she wanted to break down in tears at the same time.


“Let’s go back in. I’m cold.”


“Sorry. You didn’t like that?”


“I did. I liked it very much. But you were just telling me you were infatuated with my best friend.”


“It isn’t an infatuation. It’s far, far greater than that. Your beauty and hers are not comparable,” he said. “I see you too, Sarah.” Grabbing her hand. And they sat there for a moment.


He was troubled, she could see, but weren’t great ones always? There had to be some trade-off to greatness. It made it difficult to live rightly in the world. Others might so easily misunderstand. Poor Trevor. She vowed then and there to help him in whatever way she could. To help him realize his dreams. To be an ear for him, if anything, and try to understand where others didn’t. He was a mess. A great mess. She could help him feel safe so it wouldn’t all feel so messy. She didn’t feel messy. She felt brilliant. Brilliant and curious and so full of life! Sometimes when she looked at 
her skin in the dark, she could almost see it glowing with moonlight. Even when the moon in the sky was invisible.


She started to lead him back inside and he stumbled, almost falling off the roof. Sarah grabbed his arm, almost falling off herself, before hoisting him in the window. She had a firm grip on the inside of the house, arms used to hauling an unwilling cow to the birthing stall, and she dragged them both in.


They crashed into the bathroom with a loud thud, Trevor on top of Sarah. Close, and drunk, and coursing with energy, resuming their kiss, now urgent under the influence of intoxicated blood and a near-death fall.


Which was when Ariadne opened the door.


“Sarah? Is everything okay?” she asked.


Her voice sending Trevor flying as far back from Sarah as he could manage, given that their legs were entwined. The counterforce of which flung Sarah back so far that she smashed her head on the side of the bathtub hard enough that she doubled over, panting, curled up with her head in both her hands.


“Sarah!” Ariadne called, running over to her, taking her in her arms.


Sarah catching her breath: “I’m okay. I’m okay.”


Trevor, face in a wince: “Oh god, I’m going to vomit.”




———


But before he did, forces flashed about the scene in almost imperceptible succession:


From Trevor to Ariadne: an invocation to be taken, at any expense.


From Ariadne to Trevor, seeing clearly: an apotropaic eye embedded in a gorgon’s glare.


From Ariadne to Sarah: a sheltering.


From Sarah to Ariadne: confusion, adoration, a hint of naughty glee.


From Sarah to Trevor: perplexed delight.


From Trevor to Sarah: dissociated magnetism.




———


Trevor had been carrying a letter in the front pouch of his backpack for months, waiting for the moment he would receive the sign. Over and over again he had read it, crossing out passages, rewriting the entire thing. How many copies had he burned? The night of the party was to have been the night. He had put it in his pocket intending to show Sarah, to find out what she thought, what she thought Ariadne would think. But then foolishly he’d kissed her! He hadn’t realized he had those kinds of feelings for her. Would he have if he hadn’t been drunk? And then Ariadne had walked in. And looked at him with such vehemence. The first time she’d turned eyes directly upon him, and he knew she had estimated him worthless. He intended to burn this letter, too, but it was nowhere to be found.


Ariadne found it the next day cleaning up. How happy it would make Sarah to receive such a letter from Trevor! Though Sarah deserved more honourable words than these.


Ariadne tore it up and dumped it out with the compost, hoping benevolent decomposers would break it down, freeing the forces grappling inside Trevor that she knew Sarah would give her own precious heart to heal, unheeding of what it might cost her.


Trevor’s Letter


April, 2000


For as long as I can remember, I’ve carried this misery inside me.


Sometimes it seems all there is.


I find myself engulfed in a seemingly impossible fog through which I cannot find my way, the whole world indistinct. I hear voices, perceive shapes, but they all seem empty, meaningless. As though I am caught halfway between the land of the living and the dead, lost and alone, terrified of what calls from the other side.




———


The moment I first heard your voice, the fog parted—your words like light through a prism. I heard and meaning tingled, I saw light reveal its rainbow of colour—your face so clear, so luminous. I felt a knot in my core loosen. A ball wound so tight as to be almost rock miraculously loosened its bonds, its mineral structure jostling, unravelling, threading through my entirety, leading directly to you.


And from there, as though scattered into infinite threads of what might be possible with you in my life. In a world now revealed to be blessed with something so beautiful.


I awoke. As though my life before that moment had been a dream—my eyes, my ears, my whole body alive, my soul reaching for yours, feeling your soul calling me.


Misery evaporated.


Ariadne, your light redeems me. I would follow you anywhere.


I am a mortal looking upon a star. And yet, to see you! To see you! To stand upon the earth and be pulled to life by your light is to be invited into holiness.


You are a constellation, burning!


And so, I invoke Auden


hoping for you to flare in return,


—vowing to be the more loving one.


Forever yours, Trevor


Sarah had not talked to Trevor since the party. After the final exam, she waited for him in the hall, anxious and coursing with desire she had fought off during the entire exam, holding herself back from stealing glances, exercising the greatest mental effort to keep herself focused on the work at hand. She feigned blasé when she saw him come out the door. Lost in his own world, hands sweeping through hair, lips moving in deep conversation with himself.


As though she were not really waiting for him, just hanging out in the hallway after class for reasons that had nothing to do with what she really wanted.


When he saw her, his face lit up in a sheepish grin.


“What did you think of the exam?” she asked.


“I was on fire!” he replied. “I could barely stop writing about Vlad Dracula as hero/psychopath, comparing historical accounts with artistic representations through the ages, culminating with modern pop culture’s obsession with vampires as a romanticized corruption of the unimaginable horrors of medieval warfare that makes bloodthirst sexy in an age of bodily understimulation.”


“You’re amazing, Trevor. You know that, right? You always make me want to hear more. I wish I had the great fortune of grading your essay.”


Trevor grinned.


How enticing, recognition.


Sarah hoped Trevor might ask how it had gone for her in return, but he was caught up in Vlad, which was understandable. Still, she offered, assuming they were having a conversation.


“I did well too, I think? I breezed through the multiple choice. I don’t know how Professor Amini will take the final essay, though. I wrote it as a fairy tale from Guinevere’s point of view, considering how her romantic decisions shaped the political outcomes of the round table where her husband and lover sat determining the fate of the world, while she and other women played with magic to enact what influence they could. I got all the dates right, I’m sure.”


“You’re quirky, Sarah. Professor Amini has a good sense 
of humour. I bet he’ll have a chuckle at your take on things, and you’ll do great.”




———


Sarah and Trevor began walking, neither knowing where to, compelled not to leave one another’s company, in that stage of life in which neither had anything pressing to do but study and write exams they felt certain would determine the future courses of their lives. Heightened by their own studious devotions and the lull after intellectual orgasm.


They wandered around campus, finding themselves in the rhododendron gardens in full bloom. An unexpected miracle! Sarah had never been to this part of campus before. “What audacious shrubs!” she exclaimed. “I had no idea!” She inhaled deeply, feeling alive, intoxicated by plant pheromones; intensified, she reasoned, by the presence of Trevor. 
He enhances my sense of smell,
 offered a voice from inside. At which point Trevor started to sneeze uncontrollably.


“Let’s get out of here,” he suggested. “Such hubris, these godawful plants. If only they’d gone out with the dinosaurs!”


Trevor led them out, through the forest grove down the hill to the beach, where he and Sean had spent many an afternoon.


Trevor removed his shoes. Sarah did the same.


They sat, Trevor gazing out at the water, Sarah gazing back and forth from the shimmering bay to Trevor’s profile, memorizing the curvature of his nose, watching the spittle 
gather at the corners of his lips as Trevor outlined detailed plans for his first novel.


He had almost gotten to the denouement when his words were suddenly sucked up by Sarah’s mouth pressed up close against his.


They paused, looking at each other, each affirming more was wanted.


Their kisses went on, as kisses do.


Sarah, wanting more, wanting all, wanting it, but not here, shivering, despite the heat within: “I’m cold, Trevor. Can we go somewhere inside?”




———



				Trevor looked into Sarah’s eyes, and Sarah into Trevor’s, noses pressed close, lips exchanging breath. It hurt. Sarah had done this a few times before, as awkward then as it was now, but she’d read up since then about how to do it in 
Cosmo
, knew she had to relax.


Trevor hadn’t seemed to understand that a little more wetness would have made it easier to slide in and Sarah didn’t want to be directive. He’d pushed and pushed more until it had, stretching her skin to abrasion, Sarah adjusting, wiggling her hips around to help out. Then she’d willed herself to relax, stop wincing, and with that, the wetness had come.


At which point she’d been able to close her eyes, trying to lose herself to it like Trevor seemed to be doing.


“Relax, Sarah. You have to relax. It’s the only way this is going to feel good. You want this to feel good so Trevor 
will want to do it again.” Why did it feel so weird? “It will get better. You’re just inexperienced. Relax.”


“Ugh, ugh, ugh.” From Trevor. Then, “Yes, baby, yes. You like that? You dirty, dirty little girl? You want this? You want more?”


“Umm?” Sarah thought. How to respond? Surprising. She wanted this. She did. She wanted Trevor. But what was she supposed to say? She would need to see if 
Cosmo
 had articles about dirty sex talk. “Dirty girl? Me?” she thought. She felt innocent, not dirty. She tried, “Be nice to me?”


“Nice? You want nice? Dirty girls don’t deserve nice. Nice girls don’t ask to be fucked.”


Play along, Sarah. Just play along, you might even enjoy it.


It would get better. She knew. This was just the first time. They would figure it out together. She squeezed her vaginal muscles like she had read to do, and Trevor gasped. “Ugh, yes.”


“Oh!” So that worked! She did it again. And he started going faster and harder. “Ow!” she yelped, pulling back.


“Oh?” he asked.


“Maybe not so deep, so fast?” she replied.


“Sorry,” he said, his mouth all over her ear, sticking his tongue inside. 
Gross!
 She turned, putting her mouth back on his, arching her hips toward him, clenching her hands hard around his ass.


“I’m going to cum, oh I’m going to cum, Sarah.”


“Pull out! Pull out!”


He pulled out fast, cumming all over her belly, looking at her coyly, reaching for his boxer shorts to wipe up.


“Sorry,” he said again. “It’s been a while. I’m out of practice.”


“We didn’t use a condom.”


“Sorry. I should have asked?”


“I should have said.”


“I don’t have anything.”


“Me neither, but I could get pregnant. I won’t now, because I’m not ovulating. But we need to be careful.”


“We’ll be more careful next time.”


“Okay.”


Sarah fell asleep with deep self-recrimination. Angry at herself for not having asked him to wear a condom. She knew what she’d done was stupid. She knew nothing about his sexual history. Now she would have to go get tested. Make sure to have condoms ready for the next time. Ariadne would be so angry with her if she knew! Angry with him, probably more, for being reckless. If he was reckless with Sarah, who else was he reckless with? Sarah had wanted it, and not liked it all that much, and now she felt bad about herself and suspicious of him. So many confusing things to think about! She would have to channel Ariadne next time, get him to put on a condom first, and then it would all be okay.




———


Trevor awoke to find Sarah looking at him. “Tell me your dreams,” she said, smiling. Eyes so bright Trevor raised his arm over his brow to shield himself from her morning light.


“I don’t dream, Sarah. I haven’t since I was a child.”


“You have to dream, Trevor,” Sarah replied. “It’s just that you don’t remember.”


“I don’t dream.”


“I know you dream,” she went on, holding out her hand and unwrapping it from around a deep-blue marble. “I found this in my dream. You gave it to me from yours.”


“You’re a strange girl, Sarah Perkins,” he said, taking the marble and putting it on the night table before reaching his hand around her waist to pull her closer, his want more immediate than his need to make sense of whatever story the strange girl in his bed was making up about his dreams, holding a blue orb that sparked some kind of recognition, a flicker of something wholly unimportant to the moment at hand.




———


A few weeks and many couplings later, waking often in the night to urgently find their way back into one another, Sarah almost perpetually wet, Trevor more confident with his fingers to help with that, Sarah learning how to move in response to help it feel better, Trevor awoke, as he did every morning they slept together, to find Sarah looking at him.


“Tell me your dreams, Trevor.”


Instead of the usual reply, Trevor paused, looking at Sarah, as though he were reaching into deep recesses, remembering something ancient, before beginning. Focusing deeply on something Sarah could not see.


Finally trusting her enough to share his dreams with her.


“It was about you and I, Sarah. Our future together. The two of us holding hands, walking together through a darkness I could not see through, as though you were leading me, knowing how to find the light. I was afraid, Sarah. So afraid. You must understand what vulnerability I admit telling you this. But I walked with you when we reached the threshold. You beckoned me to your side and together we emerged from the darkness into forever, Sarah. You and I, forever.”


Afterward, he trailed off, looking at her very, very seriously, then said:


“I’m dreaming again, Sarah—your love has conjured my dreams.”


Sarah Chooses


To enter into Sarah and Ariadne’s house, one had to dodge between hanging stalactite fabric structures in the small boot room; like an entrance to a cave, or womb, depending on what time of day it was and how the light shone through the fabrics.


The two young women had been inspired by an archaeology course on human dwellings and an art history course on interior design and gendered constructions of family. For their final project for the art history course, they had come up with a manifesto describing their home as a living installation, the goal of which was to skew expectations of contemporary human dwelling using bricolage that combined natural and fabricated elements to cultivate space for 
existential uncertainty, bewilderment, soul-wrenching sadness, and love.


Throughout the course of the semester they had documented their process of transforming an otherwise mundane mid-century bungalow geared toward the postwar nuclear family into a living installation, papering over one of the walls in the living room with a side table of art supplies at the ready for spontaneous acts of artistry. Visitors were encouraged to participate by adding marks to the tableau already there. Every month the roommates papered over the existing scene with blank paper so the wall came to resemble an absurdist version of a centuries-old farmhouse layered in successive applications of wallpaper. Or what they described as an archive of concealment and possible experience of living space attesting to a fascination with whimsy. An intrusion into the status quo.


One night, while high on mushrooms, Ariadne and Sarah found themselves painting the living room wall and their own bodies various hues of green. Sarah was not comfortable with the idea of doing mind-altering drugs made in a laboratory with strangers, but mushrooms were living organisms that imbued mystical potencies, so she had asked Ariadne to take them with her in the safety of their own home.


Under their influence, the wall was taking on a sort of abstract expressionist flavour, deeply reminiscent of early Helen Frankenthaler, until Sarah started detailing in networks of interlocking filaments in black ink that, no surprise, given the psilocybin influence, resembled mycelial pathways.


“Whoa, Sarah! Don’t you think that looks like the diagram of the electrochemical signals in the brain Lucy showed us in her biochem textbook?”


At which point they stopped their painting, deciding that the very best thing to do would be to lie flat on their backs and watch their hallucinations of a forest in communication play out before their eyes, holding hands and giggling, and then, at some point, turning toward one another, eyes understanding that what flowed between them was pulling them into the unfolding world they had painted. Pulling them into one another, as close as they could become, like hyphae growing to know one another by touch.


Their lips met and Sarah dispersed. Sarah’s particles loosening bounds of self beyond skin, electrified by the softness that was Ariadne. So unlike the roughness she encountered when her body met Trevor’s. So unexpected! For a long time, their lips travelled, tongues intertwining, hands and fingers through hair, gracing skin and cloth, enamoured of one another’s textures.












They kissed as the forest kisses under earth, breathing breath inhaled by the paper trees around them. They kissed lips and eyes and throats and necks, all over their lips kissed—naming one another in a language Sarah remembered hearing in the forest as a child, now fruiting sensations from the magic their lips released. Tongues parted lips and lingered and lingered and lingered. Heat rose. Shivers ran. Sarah knowing she would never again be Sarah alone, Ariadne now of her.




———


The following day Sarah awoke to great aching bewilderment.


Ariadne/Trevor.


The divide between them a breaking point.


Guilt gnawed at her gut; little spasms of self-recrimination mixed with what had felt the night before like infinite love. Infinite possibility. Somehow convincing herself in the throes of it that Trevor would understand. That perhaps, even Trevor and Ariadne might learn to love one another through Sarah—Sarah the vehicle by which Trevor’s dream of Ariadne might finally come true—cementing his love for her as the harbinger of his dreams. That Sarah might have it all, more even, than she ever dared desire, like pieces of a puzzle falling perfectly into place.


The morning brought another version of reality forth with unshakable conviction—Trevor would take Sarah and Ariadne’s love as both a great betrayal and an insurmountable desecration.


Sarah’s boyfriend and Sarah’s best friend loathed one another.


Sarah had tried repeatedly to get the two to form some kind of friendship, so she could hang out with her two favourite people at the same time, but they always ended up arguing. Their differing opinions like spears used to hack at one another’s basic existence.


Ariadne began excusing herself whenever Trevor was there, so as not to cause grief for Sarah. “I don’t trust him, Sarah, I’m sorry. Nothing he says feels like it has any underlying truth. His words are like stories extracted from other people’s truths that he desperately wants to believe in. He’s all show, trying to cover up the basic fact of his own emptiness. But it’s not for me to say. I can see you feel really excited about him, and maybe you see parts of him I can’t because I don’t look at the world with the same generous eyes as you. I don’t want him to hurt you. But I trust you. I trust you to be you and if you want to be with Trevor, then I support you, but I don’t want to spend time with him, because every time I do, I find myself feeling very, very agitated.”


There was no light feeling in Trevor for Ariadne. She, who he had worshipped, had rejected his love—though he’d never come to actually express it to her, Sarah knew, because he’d confessed it only to Sarah and Sean.


Whatever had happened in the bathroom the night of their first kiss had befuddled the enchantment. Revealing to Trevor that Ariadne was not the deity of pure love he’d envisioned, but a false idol. All the light she had once held revealed to be a smokescreen for an undeniable vanity and underlying depravity.


“There’s something off about her, Sarah. She looks at me with such ill intent, without ever having given me a chance. She’s possessive of you. Jealous of our love. I saw the good in her, only the good, but she just shuns me. I try to talk to her and she looks at me like she wants to erase me from existence, or comes back at me with critical remarks. Sometimes I worry about you spending so much time with her and what kind of influence she has on you. I feel her envy leaking out to poison the room whenever she catches us being close with one another.”


“As though she ever had anything to do with how you felt about her!” Sarah often thought, exasperated, whenever Trevor shot off on one of his anti-Ariadne tirades after a particularly painful encounter. Still, whenever Ariadne was near, Sarah could feel his energy reaching, trying to find words to make some kind of connection. Everything he said to Ariadne or about her sounded so off from the way he normally spoke, like he was trying to prove something that could never be proven.


The first month of dating Trevor had been so painful. He’d gone from eager puppy intent on making a good impression to feigned indifference in Ariadne’s presence, 
making sarcastic quips about her at every opportunity when she wasn’t there, attempting to put her in a place he might look down on, instead of having to contend with the complete insignificance he was for her. Ariadne dismayed by the fact that he had influence over one she held dear.


Sarah learned to change the subject with Trevor whenever Ariadne came up. And truth be told, she liked staying at Trevor’s. She felt less inhibited being with him there, not having to worry about disturbing the peace she and Ariadne had at home.




———


Sarah had so badly fucked up!


Trevor would never forgive her.


Things had been so smooth. Like she had finally hit a sweet spot, living two separate lives. When she was with Trevor, she was all for him. “My Sarah.” How much he needed her. How she longed to be so profoundly needed.


Trevor was moving on from his obsession with Ariadne, wrapped up in his book, and in Sarah. Training for an ultramarathon with Sean. Just one year of undergrad left after the summer, Trevor already preparing his MFA applications. Life was so, so sweet. There was Sarah at home with Ariadne, and Sarah in love with Trevor when she wasn’t with Ariadne.


The future was upon them.


How badly Sarah wanted a future with both of them in it.


She could not envision it any other way.


Even though Ariadne was talking about Chile. Thinking of going there the following summer to do a field school on the Chinchorro mummies. But that felt so far off. Sarah had no idea what she wanted to do other than spend as much time as possible in bed with Trevor and all the rest of her time with Ariadne. She didn’t want it to change. And yet, it was. Everything was changing. How could she hold on to it all?


She had been hoping Trevor would ask her to go with him wherever he ended up. He hadn’t asked her yet, but she was certain he would. He was just too preoccupied right now with his applications. Once those were done, he would ask her. Probably he didn’t want to impact whatever her decision might be and was waiting for her to come up with some of her own plans, so she should. She should come up with some of her own plans so he wouldn’t think she was waiting around for him. She couldn’t seem like all she wanted to do was follow those she loved and be as close to them as she could be, forever doing the things they loved to do together.


But how could she plan her future with Trevor when she had ruined it? Crossing a line she should never have crossed with Ariadne?


Sarah went over it in her head from every angle, imagining the conversations they might have:


“Trevor, I have to tell you something. Promise not to hang up. Promise to talk to me.”


“O-kay? But you’ve got me feeling nervous.”


That was as far as she would get before weeping, unable to make the words necessary to say anything at all.


There was no story to tell.


It is not Trevor’s story
, a quiet voice offered, almost like a peep.


It is Sarah and Ariadne’s
.


You’re allowed to keep secrets, Sarah. It doesn’t all belong to Trevor.


She would never tell Trevor. But it could also never happen again. She and Trevor had a dream to make come true. This would only destroy it.




———


Ariadne awoke and found Sarah in the kitchen sipping tea.


Sarah looked up at her with eyes that had shut part of herself away into a hidden place. Walled off from the inside.


“Ariadne, last night was one of the most beautiful feelings I’ve ever felt. But I can’t. I can’t, because of Trevor.”


“I understand,” was all Ariadne said in response. Going on as though nothing had happened, though everything had.


With this part of Sarah shut away, everything between them shifted. They tried pretending it could somehow be the same, numbing the truth between them. Closeness became unbearable.


A month later Ariadne announced she had been accepted into a student exchange and that she’d be leaving for Chile in September.


“I’ll sublet my room so you can stay here until the end of the year, and after that, my aunt is coming back and we were going to have to move anyway.”




———


Sarah felt an all-encompassing sense of loss. This too, she shuffled away into the hidden place.


Life would not be as she’d so beautifully imagined. The three of them together. But it was also a kind of freedom. It would be so much simpler. Require so much less of Sarah. Ariadne was giving her the freedom to be with Trevor. To have a chance at the happily-ever-after glowing ever more assuredly on their horizon. Which, Sarah had to admit, was possible only if freed from the confusing tangle Ariadne made of her and Trevor’s story.


Sarah and Ariadne had a destiny of lifelong friendship they’d briefly misinterpreted, but space and time would ease them back into the connection they were meant to have. Sarah was sad, but also giddy. She could pivot. She had a great deal of source material to draw on. So much! A whole industry of source material! She dreamed for her and Trevor a familiar dream, a dream already dreamt for her in every film she had ever seen, every song she had ever heard about true love’s arc when two people are lucky enough to find one another, as Brad Pitt and Gwyneth Paltrow once had. And now she could redeem that long-ago idolization through the very real future that was opening up before her and Trevor. She had learned from Brad and Gwyneth’s 
rupture that even true ordained love could so easily be lost, and because of this, how important it was to never, ever let go.


It was all falling into place. This was the path she was meant to follow.


Trevor needed her for his dreams to come true. Ariadne did not.


Sarah could see her role so clearly in Trevor’s dreams. They were her dreams too, after all.




———


Into Ariadne’s suitcase, Sarah slipped a letter.


August, 2001


Ariadne,


I know I’ve told you, but I want to write it down so you always remember who you are to me, even when we feel so far apart.




———


When I was a child, I dreamed of you.


You are so much a part of me that I know we can never be lost to one another.


I am not Sarah without Ariadne.


I know I hurt you. I think you also know my love for you is not marred by my love for Trevor. Our love exists in a different realm. The realm of Sarah and Ariadne. A myth as yet unwritten. Our story to make up together.


You make my world alive by being in it. Everything I do, I want to tell you about. Everything I do, I wish you were doing 
with me—even the things I know you can’t do with me. It gets confusing sometimes. How to be me when you’re not there. And I know some things I do, you would never want to experience. So, I spare you that! We are separate, though sometimes I feel like we’re not. I know there are things you want to live without me too.


I love what you do with the world! I love what you make of it. You silly, beautiful, creative creature! I know you feel lost and sad and uncertain sometimes. I know you miss your mom so much and the hurt feels like all there is and you want to hide yourself away. Even if you hide from me, I’ll keep seeing you. I won’t try to pull you where you don’t belong. You know I’d hoped for it to be different than it is, but I’m also so, so excited for you to be following your dreams. I can’t wait to come and visit you when you feel ready to see me again!


I won’t abandon us. I’m here beyond the pain, remembering each time I read Ariadne’s myth as a child, weeping when she awoke to find herself abandoned by her beloved—that terrifying aloneness I felt as my own.


In the version I read, Ariadne was offered no redemption.


Later, reading other versions, sometimes she would be.


I drew her so many other possible stories. In my drawings, she became a child again, just like me. Alive in a future in which girls could have many choices.


My companion.


We even brought her Minotaur half-brother back to life, and let him play with us. I knew her heart was broken for the cruelty that befell him at her father and Theseus’s hands—the Minotaur as powerless as Ariadne to determine fate.


We learned how to do so many fantastic things! Knitting scarves for the squirrels from Ariadne’s magic thread that could form any garment we wished, never depleting itself. Daring to do things I would never otherwise do on my own. Like swim in the creek when I wasn’t supposed to, but we were together, and Ariadne was a good swimmer! And so smart! We read all the same books, and talked about them together. And best of all, my Ariadne loved to wear whatever clothes the people in the books were wearing—woven from her magic thread.


While I had only one outfit—the Red Riding Hood cape my mother helped me sew from the gorgeous velvet curtains I found at the thrift store, sections of which were light-faded, but usable enough to make two matching child-sized hooded capes, one for each of us.


When the first cape got tattered, I wore the matching one since Ariadne refused to wear it, because it reminded her of her brother’s blood on her hands.


The cloak was our beach towel, my traveller’s garb, our forest napping blanket, a harvesting bag into which we gathered mushrooms, spruce tips, rose blossoms, and precious spring fiddleheads. Sometimes Ariadne helped me make a wrap dress from it tied up with satin ribbons if I needed to dress up for one of her royal parties.


Later, when I got a bit older—I’m embarrassed writing this part, a part I haven’t told you, but it’s part of the story, and I don’t want to be ashamed of it—when I first started touching myself, I pretended it was Ariadne touching me, and me touching her. I had heard other kids talk about touching yourself like 
it was disgusting, something only bad or sick people did. The boys would call each other “masturbators” with twisted delighted faces. And the girls, they never talked about it at all, like it was something too horrendous to even say aloud. To me it felt lovely, an extension of us. And if we were doing it with each other then maybe it wasn’t masturbating?


We were imaginary and as real as the birch tree and all the creatures I called friends. The birds and foxes and hens, who ask humans to extend imaginative feeling to allow themselves to be known. Which they then extend back in the same sensual language.


I’ve told you this part, too. How Ariadne stopped appearing when my father died. Nothing real, nothing imaginary. Nothing but the barest need to attend to my strange body and my mother’s body, and to the other things on the homestead that lived. Death now clinging to all the strange movements of the living.


I’d almost forgotten she’d existed until I saw you sitting in class. A figment from a dream awakening me from a fog I hadn’t been able to shake. A light calling me home, where the imaginary and the real intertwine, bringing stories to life.


You had grown up! So much more beautiful than what I had dreamed, emanating the same force I’d felt in my imaginary Ariadne.


Your eyes met mine and I was led to the centre of a universe we had yet to create.


I found words.


The numbness around my heart, that incredibly vulnerable place I’d hoped to never feel again—it opened.


And then your voice brought me back to earth. So full of warmth and human kindness. You as confused and out of place in that room as I was. As though you had just awakened from your own dream and found me there.


Dream lucidly with me,


Sarah


Tell Me Your Dreams


“Tell me your dreams,” Sarah whispered, every morning—gazing at Trevor as though he might disappear into the invisible world inside his mind, as he did every night when he closed his eyes. This invisible world Sarah felt in every nerve of her body. Wanting to do all she could to bring Trevor’s good dreams to life, her love soothing his pain so he would not have to feel it anymore, now that Sarah was here to dream-keep. Trevor no longer having to dream alone for the rest of time.


Eight months of Sunday-morning dreams following Saturday date night, which always ended with Trevor fucking Sarah the way she liked to be fucked—hard and fast and dirty. She wanted him to rip her clothes off and play rough, giving him her body however it was he wanted to take it. She wanted him to express himself, so she took it. She took it all, because she was Sarah, and she could take what Trevor gave and make love from it.


Enough love for them both when he struggled to feel the love the world was giving him in every waking breath.


“How strange that I have a body,” she would often think, 
feeling the sting between her legs, the itchiness of the places in her skin where her capillaries had so recently been smacked—little ruptures receding back into her larger bloodstream now that Trevor’s palms were curled up into tight fists, as they did when he slept, tucked in close under his chin like a small child fighting in his sleep.


In the bathroom afterward, making sure to pee so she wouldn’t get a UTI, she would find her eyes in the mirror, watching her face morph, becoming obscure, almost as though when it was all stripped away there was no real face at all—just a field of ever-arising sensations her mind had so much trouble making sense of. Trevor there, filling up her inner space, so she felt as much Trevor as Sarah. A screensaver of her devotion.


Then she would wash her hands, rinse her face in cold water, feeling water’s uncomplicated truth before returning to bed, where she would look at Trevor in the obscured orange light from the street lamp outside, seeping through the thin bedsheet he had pinned over the window as a curtain, seeing his wholeness, feeling herself fall towards sleep. “Trevor’s Sarah,” she would whisper, guiding herself to dream back in her place beside him.


Trevor to Sarah


Jan 5, 2003


Dear Sarah,


You’re on the East Coast now! A country away from me—you on one ocean, me on another. And we’ll both be devoting 
ourselves to our writing! I hope you’ll not forget to write to me. I’m happy for you. I know you’re sad to be so far apart, but it’s romantic, too. And the lives we’re living apart will only enrich us, only make us stronger. Our love can withstand anything! We’re Trevor and Sarah! And whatever other loves we feel will be part of this story—the Trevor and Sarah story—the enduring one.


You are my Sarah, my moon-eyed girl. My mystical dreamer. You see me in ways no one else can. You gave me back my dreams. Each dream I have, each story I write, each body I touch, all the eyes I look into, the women I fuck, it all leads back to us. The story of us. It can only deepen our bond, make us sturdier to weather the storms, always finding our way back to each other.


I ask only that you share with me, too. Don’t stop telling me your dreams, Sarah. I know I’ll be jealous when you start seeing other men. That will be my cross to bear. I’ll bear it for us. I want you to explore your body with others, bring your own passion to life. The thought of you being fucked by other men turns me on. Imagining your beautiful lips around another man’s cock—I’m hard thinking about it. I have to stop and touch myself now. I ache for you, ache with the thought of you naked for another man. I long for the next time your body is mine again.


Yours, always and forever, totally


—T.


p.s. I love the typewriter you left on my doorstep before leaving town. How retro! I promise to write letters only to you on it, a small way for us to stay exclusive. You’re such a clever girl to 
ask such a thing. There’s even a typewriter store in this city that sells new ribbons, so I was able to replace the worn-out one. You should see the man who works there, like a character straight out of a typewritten novel—like he was born a full-fledged typewriter repair and maintenance man the same moment this typewriter was manufactured and hasn’t moved forward in time alongside the rest of the world. It’s eternally 1977 in there! Even his clothes are the same colour beige as the plastic case and metal body and his eyeglasses the same black as the keys! I’ll bring you there when you come and visit and you can get a new ribbon for your typewriter too. How cute that we have matching ones to write to each other.


p.p.s. Hope you like the mix tape—your lips are as juicy as the ones Olu Dara sings about!


xxxxxx


Sarah to Trevor


Feb 14, 2003


Dear Trevor,


Happy Valentine’s Day! I know we’ll talk on the phone later, but I wanted to write you. I wish we were together. I keep thinking of last year, how you showed up on my doorstep with the book of Neruda poems, and when I opened the door, a total mess, snivelling and broken-hearted, missing my dad so much, you used the sleeve of your coat to wipe up my face, and looked at me, your eyes so full of compassion. “Sweet, sweet, Sarah,” you said, “I’m here.” And then you read to me, and as you read I felt 
the depth of your thirst, the grace of my body spilling to fill your boundless desire—satiating you beyond fullness, knowing the infinite ache would return, renewing us to longing—Oh! The infinite ache, Trevor!


I weep anew, in anguish for you and the distance between us. Heartbroken and yet, so full of love, too. Holding the book, feeling your hands, an eternal thirst, but oh, the unbearable pain, Trevor. I didn’t understand how much it would hurt to be apart. Why am I here? Why am I here when you are there? I ask myself this so many times a day. Sitting in seminars, trying to feel like I’m there, but I’m not. I’m with you. In your bed, the last time we made love—a place my body never wants to leave.


Yet I know you don’t want me there now. Not because you don’t love me—I know you do. I feel it. But because you want to live your life, focus on your work, be with other women so later, when it’s just us again, we’ll know we truly allowed ourselves to live. I know you’re right about that, but sometimes it’s confusing for me. I want you to live the life you want, and it hurts me at the same time.


I love you; I love you; I love you, Trevor. I miss you with every part of me. I feel so lonely here, so foreign. Pretending to be someone I’m not. Now it’s yet again a new role—a journalism grad student? It’s exciting too, don’t get me wrong, there are parts of me that feel compelled. And the full scholarship must mean I have talent, but can I really do this? Me? I did very well my first semester, which is encouraging. I like my supervisor. I think she understands it’s hard for me, but she says she sees my potential, too, and wants me to develop discipline around my writing. 
There are times when it feels like I’m doing the right thing. Like I’m finding a voice. Do you think I’ll always be confused like this? It feels like my m.o.—Sarah, the confused one!


I loved the mix tape. I walked around the harbour listening to it, finding my way to the old cemetery. It’s quiet there, peaceful. I don’t know why people say it’s the dead that haunt. The dead are peaceful. It’s the living who make ghosts of them. They don’t need anything of me, or want me to be anything. My dad feels so much calmer now that he’s a ghost. Not having to live in the world at the same time. I can hear my own thoughts among the dead. It’s so much harder being around the living—their words always seem to drown out my own. I don’t hear my dad speaking from beyond the grave. Finally, it’s gone quiet for him. I remember him now as he was when he was alive in his better moments, like all the bad washed away with his body. All I feel is the love he wanted to live that seemed so hard for him to find among his torments.


I will tell you if I meet anyone. I haven’t met anyone I want to be close to yet, but I’ll try to stay open. It’s just, I’ve told you, there are so very few people in the world I’m attracted to that way. It’s hard when I feel so full of you already. You’re always on my mind, Trevor. Always. You, and Ariadne. She and I have been writing steadily again. She loves it in Chile. I know you don’t want to hear about that, but it’s important to me. I need to be able to share that too. And if I feel I can’t in person, I don’t want to keep it from you totally, so I’ll share it in writing.


Whenever the hurt gets going over missing those I love, I try to look at it another way, knowing I don’t want to hurt you 
or Ariadne, and if I live in the hurt I feel instead of the love I feel, then I can only hurt, and not love. It’s one of the things my mom told me once about how she could always find her way back to my dad after he hurt us. It didn’t make sense to me then, it just felt confusing. It still does, like there’s never any place that’s wholly good, just always this back and forth between hurt and love. I hope that will change some day.


I’ll stay open, I’ll try. I know you think it would be good for me to have sex with other people, that it will only make what we share more passionate, but I worry it will just hurt, because I’ll know I’m not with you, and it will feel all wrong somehow. I know you’ll say that’s just my culturally imposed limitations talking. That I need to liberate myself by giving myself up more often. I feel scared, I guess. I don’t know how to fuck someone without loving them, and love destabilizes.


Maybe I’ll have more exciting news next time instead of just a Sarah sob story! I’ve made you some drawings. A series of impressions from my days: the inversion of worlds I feel seeing the boats in the harbour, older women at the pool—their heavy bulbous bodies floating, becoming so beautiful in the water, as though they finally found their watery homes after lifetimes of labouring on land. When I watched them swimming, I didn’t feel afraid of ageing. Their beauty overtook me—how much more beautiful they seemed in their floating than I felt in my confused walking, sharing their clarity and abandon with me in the moment I chanced to look—Tom Waits’s “Cold Cold Ground” the perfect soundtrack, reminding me to stop feeling sorry for myself.


I’m waiting, Trevor. I miss you. It’s cold outside, but older women find beauty swimming in the pool, water reflecting dim winter life, blurring the distinctness between their otherwise solid bodies and the water that gifts them relief from the weight of time.


Your Moon-eyed girl












The Proposal


Trevor agreed to marry Sarah because he didn’t want to lose her. She was, as his father had put it, “the kind of woman you marry if you’re lucky enough to find her.”


A bit of fatherly advice Trevor took seriously, because it had been one of the rare exchanges between him and his father that felt like it had anything of substance to it—Walt sharing something that seemed to come from within.


“I just don’t know if I want to, Pop. I don’t understand why we have to change things. They feel good the way they are.”


“A man has to grow up sometime,” Walt said. “I know you and I don’t always see eye to eye on how a man should live his life, but I’ll tell you one thing I know: Sarah’s a good woman. She takes care of you. She’s stuck by you through these years you’ve lived apart. She’s a hard worker. She’ll be a good mother. And she’s funny. You laugh together. She’s not one to let go of, Trev. And a man doesn’t have to stop living either, once he’s settled down. There are many ways to make a marriage.”


“What do you mean by that?”


“There are things that can be figured out, Trev, said or unsaid, and while it may look to you like me and your mom live boring lives, there’s a lot you don’t know about what happens because you’re our kid, and you don’t need to. You don’t stop being a man because you get married.”


A statement like this coming from Walt? It had been a shock to Trevor. There was more than one way to make a marriage? His parents’ marriage seemed more like a business arrangement for child-rearing in the most removed, orderly way possible than a life together. It was almost impossible for Trevor to believe there was anything beneath the surface of the façade. But Trevor could not deny the sense his father had made of things, either. Sarah was a hard worker. She’d offered to work while he went on to do his Ph.D., and then after he was done, they could have babies, and she would take time off to be with them. She was practical. And generous. She was offering him the time and freedom he needed to not worry about finances while he 
studied. His parents would help, but with Sarah’s contributions, he wouldn’t have to worry about anything. She would take care of him. Granting him one kind of freedom at the expense of another.




———


On his twenty-fifth birthday, Trevor found a note in Sarah’s handwriting on his pillow, accompanied by a hand-drawn map leading him to a slip of beach along the seawall in Stanley Park. “Strange,” he thought. Sarah was in Southern Manitoba doing research for a piece on tornadoes. Maybe she’d mailed it to one of his roommates and had them help her out with a surprise? It would be just like her to come up with an elaborate romantic plan he could never come up with an equal to.


He found her there just before sunset, sitting on a boulder.


She smiled, patting the spot beside her.


“I don’t think you’re going to get here on your own, Trevor, but this is important to me. I need to know where I’m going from here. So here goes! Will you marry me, Trevor Hart?” she asked, holding out a small blue velvet box, inside of which was the tiniest book Trevor had ever seen.


The book was wrapped in a piece of parchment that read: 
One hundred pages for the one hundred years we might live together.
 It was so delicate; hand-stitched and bound within a birchbark cover. All of the pages blank. Inside the box was also a strike-anywhere match, taped to a note on a piece of flash card. The note read: 
This is it. Here we are. Say yes and we begin filling the pages of the book with whatever 
we make of our life together; or light the match and burn the book, and from here we go our separate ways.


Trevor looked at Sarah, looked deep into her brown eyes. He did not want to see Sarah go up in flames. These were eyes that tethered him to the world, made him feel like he might have a place in it, after all. Eyes accompanied by strangenesses such as this, things he could never expect. His Sarah.


And yet. Only this? Only this for the rest of time?


They were so young!


Go forward in time together, or each their separate way? Why did it have to be a choice? Why did Sarah have to force this on him? He wanted to do neither. He wanted to throw the book and the match in the water, some other choice outside of this one she was cornering him into.


He picked up the match, ran it against the rough boulder, igniting it to flame, holding the little book in his other hand.


The flame flickered in the wind as he moved it toward the book, looking Sarah in the eyes, watching her hope falter.


And then, at the last moment, he blew it out, inhaled, and on the next exhale replied, “Yes, Sarah Hart, I will.”


“You’re cruel, Trevor, you know that?” she said, punching his arm, mock-hurting him in return. And then, “Sarah Hart?” she laughed. “You want me to change my name?”


“Will you,” he asked, “change your name for me?”


If he was giving up so much, she could give something up too.




OceanofPDF.com

















Chapter Three


Dream Come True




The Labyrinth


They entered the labyrinth.


Sarah holding the ball of thread; passing it to Trevor as they made their way in, Trevor blindfolded, Sarah leading the way.


Trevor unravelling it.


Sarah assuring Trevor he was the hero of her story.


Purifying past errors, forging a path for her co-starring role in stunning red velvet tights and a gorgeous white silk tunic.


When they reached the centre of the labyrinth they paused, Sarah removed the blindfold, and they looked at one another with glints in their eyes, enacting time.


There was no Minotaur lurking in the shadows.


It was a tourist hedge maze in Bavaria! No need for the ball of thread, or the fear, after all.


Only one direction to follow; the signs clearly read in multiple languages: 
No going back!


Trevor dropped the ball.


Scooping Sarah up in his arms, lifting her to him.


“I’m going to fuck you now,” he whispered in her ear.


“Yes,” she affirmed, expectant.


He turned her around and pulled her leggings down. “So much better than slaying a Minotaur,” he said, wildly pleasing her—the quick thrill of being caught, murmurs and footsteps of the next round of tourists, a few turns of the labyrinth behind them.


Rushing their clothes back up, linking hands to run the rest of the way before being seen.


A path clearly marked. No chance of getting lost.


Ball of thread forgotten.




———


Emerging from the labyrinth, they saw two humungous black swans floating, as though props.


“Black swans?” Trevor asked.


“Are they real?” Sarah murmured.


“I don’t know.”


“They are,” Sarah exclaimed, “look!”




———


How fantastic to be invited into the myth unfolding around them.


First the labyrinth, now the black swans! They really were making life their own.


They wished to continue the story—and as humans are fond of mimetic gestures to affirm shared meaning, they did what they could with their own bodies to become swan-like, lifting their arms above their heads in mock-swan necks, fingertip beaks touching as they brought their lips together to seal the future in place.


Their true beginning.




———


In the midst of the kiss, Trevor suddenly remembered a class trip he’d all but forgotten, to a wildlife refuge where mute, trumpeter, and tundra swans floated gracefully on placid waters.


The mute swans were introduced. Invasive. Bigger and more aggressive than the native tundras and trumpeters. Orange beaks with black crests. These were the kind of swans that showed up in the picture books at school. The tundra swans were the smallest, black-beaked like the trumpeters, but quieter, and only present during their spring migration. It was hard to tell from a distance. Trevor had remembered these details for the test but forgotten them when looking at the swans on the lake. They were swans, plain and simple. White swans with pretty necks swimming around on water. Easy targets to throw rocks at.


He hadn’t been trying to hit her head. Just her big fluffy white back. He thought the rock would bounce off and 
splash into the water and the bird wouldn’t even feel it. Maybe make a loud panicked ruckus, flapping and scattering complaining cygnets in surprise.


There had been a ruckus. The cygnets did flee.


And the mother had keeled over, but only after letting out a shriek that momentarily froze Trevor in time, an eternity of seconds, before he tried to run away.


At which point he had tripped on his own feet, hitting his head hard on the gravel walkway while his classmates looked on in shock.




———


Trevor flinched—away from the kiss, pulling his arms swiftly to his chest, ducking his head down.


“Are you okay?” Sarah asked. “What is it?”


“Nothing, sorry! A weird shock in my arm, like hitting a funny bone.”




———


Trevor hadn’t known which was the mom and which the dad! He hadn’t thought about it. He hadn’t believed his desire to throw the rock at the bird on the water and killing mama swan could go together—that one might be the outcome of the action he had undertaken without thinking through the consequences. He was eight years old, such a little kid. No nature sanctuaries for him after that. No other class trips either.




———


Sarah, too, was at the behest of a swan history secretly roused from the depths of memory by the kiss.


A sudden image of a book she had made for imaginary Ariadne as a child. 
Swan Variations
, a title she had picked up from listening to Glenn Gould’s 
Goldberg Variations
 with her father on his old record player—the soundtrack to her bookmaking.


How could she have forgotten? There had been black swans, and purple ones, rainbow swans, swans that were part turtle and maybe even had human hair. Swans with clothing, also—very intricate dresses and pinafores. Swans in regular workaday clothes—overalls and rubber boots, flower-print aprons, or power suits with exceedingly large shoulder pads, which they didn’t really need with their large wings. But she was a child of the eighties in love with the Bette Midler and Lily Tomlin movie 
Big Business
, and took her cues from them about what kind of clothing could make a swan woman successful.












Sarah had only seen the movie once at a neighbour’s house, because they did not have a TV set on the homestead, but it had left an impression.


Enough of an impression that in their sophomore and junior years of university, Sarah and real-life Ariadne had dressed up as the switched twins, and Sarah got to be the Bette characters both times. Ariadne could in no way pass for Lily Tomlin, but that didn’t matter since no one had guessed who they were supposed to be anyway. Which suited the duo just fine.


The memory made Sarah’s lips pull back slightly in a smile as she and Trevor kissed. Perhaps causing the shock to run through him, she feared, as he retracted his arms, shielding himself from her memory surge.


“I have to be careful what I think about,” Sarah thought. And then, “How awful of me! Right in the middle of our kiss! Poor Trevor.”




———


Barely remembered successful swan women and dead swan moms aside, Sarah and Trevor were on their honeymoon! Sarah took Trevor’s hand to reassure him, offering a smile he graciously returned.


“I’m hungry,” Trevor said.


“Starving!” Sarah echoed.


“Excuse me,” they heard in German-accented English from a man approaching with a very large camera, offering 
to post them a snapshot of their forever-after kiss candidly captured, in exchange for permission to use it in his portfolio.


“Astonishing!” Sarah exclaimed, picturing it hanging on the wall in the castle they would make together. Seeing it so very, very clearly, as though she herself had been the candid photographer framing the moment in time.


The Making of a Domestic Goddess


“You, Sarah, are my Domestic Goddess,” Trevor would often say to her in their castle in Mississauga, during the dream-come-true phase of playing house together—secured thanks to an auspicious inheritance from Trevor’s maternal grandmother when Trevor landed the teaching position that, in concert with the forthcoming publication of his first book, put him right on track for future aspirations of tenure.


“This is my husband, we’re newlyweds,” Sarah would say as often as possible—for what? A year? A little less? A little longer? Maybe three?—when introducing him. How long could being newlywed last? Could Sarah say it for a decade if it felt that way? Sometimes she thought she might. Imagine if she still said it when they were celebrating their golden anniversary! She thought she would! She dreamed from now until then, one golden line, and the whole fifty years they would still be newlyweds! That’s how perfect their marriage was. How romantic if they even had it engraved on their matching headstones for their eternal life together—
Newlyweds, Forever.
 My god, 
she was so delighted! She would be having newlywed sex all her life!




———



				Sarah was keeping husband and home and Trevor was so very pleased to have a wife he could find whenever he wished, somewhere in the house doing the mysterious things wives did while husbands did other things. He would look up from his work and think, “I have a wife, I should go and find her,” and there she would be, looking up from her wifely work to offer him the most welcoming smile. And with this smile he would be drawn in, magnetized, sidling up to her in the kitchen as she deftly handled a knife, gently, gently, to make sure she did not cut a lovely finger, sliding the knife out of her hand to turn her toward him into his arms, looking straight in her eyes and kissing her once, swiftly, on the tip of the nose, then spinning her back, gliding the knife back into her palm, sidling away, sashaying out the door, back toward his study, from where he had emerged, just momentarily, to let his wife know just how very grateful he was that she was making dinner for him while he worked. Just a swift kiss, but also a promise. A promise that later, there would be more. More to the so-much there was already as Sarah sipped her glass of chilled Sauvignon, spatchcocking a free-range chicken and rubbing it down with Himalayan salt while Bonnie Prince Billy crooned from the turntable, alive in the creative solitude of her preparations as Trevor made magic in the creative solitude of his study. His study! His very own study where he would create his great works. 
Breaking once the chicken was crisp and succulent to savour Sarah’s dedications—another glass of wine for Sarah and spritzer for Trevor, some Sharon Jones & the Dap-Kings to see them through the meal, onto the couch, layers peeled, a swift record swap—Depeche Mode’s “I Feel You”—to reveal the naked stuff underneath, up against the doorjamb, and then, the promise fulfilled, the performance sealed with Trevor’s standing O.


A pause, a brief rest on the living room floor, some quick cleanup of spilled fluids with a T-shirt from the laundry hamper, Trevor beginning to gather his clothes for the return to work, and then, a requested encore by Sarah—she too desiring an O for her performance. Not standing, but reclined on her up-cycled sidewalk sofa reupholstered in vintage sea blue and chartreuse chintz found for five dollars at an estate sale, her back arched graceful and long, hips lifted skyward, meeting Trevor’s mouth, tongue reaching toward and toward and toward her as he held one supportive palm underneath, guiding the arrhythmic fingers of his other hand within—Sarah’s cushioned neck a resplendent S, her head haloed in the welcoming plush of her contrasting black-and-white-chevron couch pillow.


Yes, newlywed sex was where it was at! Such promise the kiss and the future held. How far they had come together from their first awkward fumbling.


Promise fulfilled, Trevor headed back to his study for the rest of the night and Sarah tidied up the kitchen, a teeny bit miffed. Just a teeny bit, that Trevor had opted out—but 
he had so much to do, she knew, and though she had an article she was working on for a travel magazine about Bavarian castles, she could work angles in her mind as she scrubbed chicken grease off the cooking pot, possessed of the glorious gift of multitasking. Images and words linked up in a kind of interwoven sequence as she prepared a pot of tea, sipped water to speed alcohol metabolism, snapped Tupperware lids into place, arranged Trevor’s lunch portion and hers separately in the fridge for the next day, wiped the counters and backsplash, and when it was all tidied up, all put away, ready for tomorrow’s promises, Sarah, with a mind now clear and still floating on the rippling waves of fulfilled arousal, could confidently sit at her lovely little desk in the bedroom and write a few hundred words.


Feeling for all the world in that moment like a woman living a dream.


Domestic Goddess
—a jibe between them. One of those marital binders that ridiculed convention while also upholding it, melding a couple into a shared articulation of fidelity, indicating that they both played a part in something simultaneously exclusive, homey, divine, and ever-enduring—the heterosexual monogamous pair-bond of the educated modern urban couple.


This endearment had been birthed into existence on Trevor’s thirty-second birthday, when he had arrived home from a ten-hour day at the university after having taught an undergrad Intro to Creative Writing course, led a graduate fiction workshop, attended a departmental meeting, 
held office hours attended by one disgruntled, one besotted, and two anxious students, hosted one-to-one conferences with two grad students from his workshop, and edited a conceptual prose poem sequence on Deleuze’s immanent ethics featuring a man with four arms and no feet turning around on his hands in endless repetitive circuits, wearing a hole in the carpet and the skin on his hands.


The poem had been accepted by a reputable literary journal, and Trevor’s revisions were due. He had gone over and over his final line on his bike ride home, trying to decide between 
castrated
, 
gelded
, and 
desexed
 as the final word, to find that Sarah had rearranged the living room, added new décor, and organized a surprise five-course 
cuisine française
 formal dinner party that was to be attended by a few of Trevor’s colleagues and their respective significant others, who were due to arrive at six o’clock for aperitifs.


It was 5:35. Trevor had a short twenty-five minutes to get ready, eight of which were to be spent with Sarah giving him a timed blow job on the couch, the next twelve having a quick shower and then slipping into the suit Sarah had laid out for him on the bed, arriving in good form, with five minutes to spare, to pour the pastis and welcome his dinner guests.


Sarah informed him of his itinerary as he walked in the door, hands already on his zipper as the word 
castrated
 still swirled somewhere behind his eyes, whizzing out his right earhole as one of her hands cupped him from underneath while the other stroked him until he hardened, at which 
point her lips spread, like an octopus sucker on a tasty fish, suctioning around his tip.


As Sarah delivered the happy-birthday 
Welcome Home!
 Trevor wished would happen after every exacting day at the office, he had a stimulating time taking in the living room redesign, complete with two new shelves Sarah had mounted.


One of the shelves displayed a select grouping of Trevor’s favourite books, and the other a select grouping of Sarah’s, all of which, Trevor noted with approval, had been gifts to her from him. Upon closer inspection, Trevor saw that the mounting braces were handcrafted wrought-iron swans, graceful necks bent upward so their beaks held up thick slabs of birch with strips of bark still crusted on the edges.


After emerging from the shower limp, limber, and steaming, Trevor found his 
habit
, as Sarah had called it, laid out atop a quilt, clearly made by Sarah, whose prominent feature was a pair of appliquéd black swans forming a heart in the centre as their beaks met in a kiss in front of a stitched replica of Rosenau Palace. One of the swans was stitched together from a collection of old Metallica T-shirts Trevor momentarily feared were his own, realizing upon closer inspection that they were blessedly sound of fabric and therefore not the beloved garments worn thin over time by his own sweat and heat. The other swan made from the crocheted dress Sarah had worn on their first date.


The quilt made of the bed almost a mirror reflecting the photograph on their bedroom wall, taken on their honeymoon, the two of them kissing, their heads encased within the heart made by their arms arched overhead, fingers meeting in the heart’s valley while the black swans floated idly in the misty background out of which the castle loomed—silly, slightly awkward, romantic and precious, just like the two of them.














The meal was served on the new dinnerware set that Sarah had painstakingly crafted at her twice-weekly evening community ceramics class—white plates with transfers of hand-sketched black swans. This time, instead of kissing, each piece in the collection demonstrated its own vignette of the swans living out their swan lives: slurping pond grasses, making nests, playing cards, reading books about pond maintenance. It was over-the-top ridiculous, thought Trevor, but touching too. So touching. The way Sarah was over-the-top-ridiculous and touching, about most things in life.


She needed to be kept busy, and she was between jobs, writing freelance now that Trevor was gainfully employed, taking the opportunity to really focus on her work and acquire new skill sets. Hence the ceramic swan plates, which, she had informed Trevor, were useful, sentimental, quirkily romantic, and serving her journalistic aspirations, since she’d been so inspired by the artisans in her class that she intended to write a piece about emergent crafting entrepreneurship.


“It’ll be tax deductible!” she informed Trevor after he followed her into the kitchen, carrying the cleared amuse-bouche plates, holding one up to really look at the design, wiping up a slick of duck liver pâté from a swan’s back and licking it off his finger.


“Babe, the plates are gorgeous, truly, and the shelves too. And the quilt! Sarah! You’ve really outdone yourself here. I mean, it’s over the top. Really. Over the fucking top. I’m honoured. But how much did this all cost?”


It felt like it echoed in her mind for seven sentences beyond, some part of her frozen, another wanting to reassure Trevor it was all good, all good, all of it good, and just for him: “Tax deductible, deductible de-duck-table, de-duuuck-taaaable, de-duh-duh-duh-duh-duck-table, tuh-ble, tuuuh-bull.”


And Trevor, looking at her with a strange mixture of confusion and awe as the echo filled her internal mind space, swelling tears up into her eyes, blessedly read something in her features that made him shift from the borderlands of domestic criticism back to the safe terrain of domestic 
kindness that averted rather than ignited an impending dinner-party dispute. After all she’d gone to! For him. All of this! It was crazy to think of all she’d planned out so far ahead of time. All the hours she’d put in for this grandiose spectacle for her husband’s thirty-second birthday!


He leaned toward her, pulling her close, taking back his words as best as words can possibly be taken back after they’ve been said and heard, existing now in that sensitive realm where they might yet be quickly forgiven rather than stored up in that special pantry in the mind in which spousal criticisms are kept, threatening to spill out in choreographed routines as each partner plays their part in fanning the flames of small hurts that might, over time, become deeply held resentments if left to linger unaddressed.


This time, Trevor extinguished rather than fanned, recognizing the gift for what it was, after all.


“Sarah, my dear sweet. You’re amazing. Truly. My wife, my swan, my quirky Domestic Goddess.”


He whispered this in her ear, hand on the back of her neck, his crotch pressing her ass into the kitchen counter lip behind her, slipping his hand up her thigh under her black silk dress.


“Trevor! Don’t! Not right now! This whole thing, I’ve got to execute it just right! Goddess’s Domestic timetable! You’ll get me all flustered and our guests are out there! Get some wine to them, will you?” But she gave him a playful slap as he turned, letting him know the groping was not altogether unwelcome.


“Tie my apron, before you go back, I don’t want to get any grease on my dress as I slice the duck.”


The way she brandished a knife always made Trevor feel a strange mixture of elated confusion. Her precision with cooked meats, preceded always by the sound of the knife blade on the steel, like a shrill whisper, made the backs of his knees feel weak.


“My castle! My very own home, forever!” Sarah thought, every time she walked in the door during the Domestic Goddess year, when the dream was in the making.




———



				Then finally, she landed her dream job—a staff editorial position at 
Travel + Leisure
—that had her on assignment for weeks, sometimes a month at a time, having to brace herself every time she came home for the disorder Trevor made of things when she wasn’t there.


It took great fortitude for Sarah to swallow the shocking disarray upon returning home. Knowing she’d have to spend two days cleaning, putting her horse blinders on so she could focus on what was truly important—being the loving wife Trevor needed her to be, making up for being away so much more than was good for him.


If she let the disappointment reign, her time at home would start with a fight that had no resolution. So, Sarah would find herself apologizing for being disgusted and frustrated at what he’d made of the house, for holding expectations that were unfair. For setting Trevor up for failure.


“I can’t manage on my own, Sarah, you know that. I need 
you to be here to take care of things. If you choose to be away, you can’t expect me to keep up with all of it while you’re gone. I’m not good at this stuff like you are. Why do you have to heap all these expectations on me and then treat me like shit when you get home because you feel shitty about it?”


For a brief stint of time—three years—she worked her dream job, managing to live two dreams simultaneously. In one of the dreams, she and Trevor were trying for a baby.


They tried and tried and tried—four miscarriages—until the specialist made it clear that trying would not be enough if Sarah kept up the hectic lifestyle. She would need to pare it down if she wanted to be successful.


Sarah was given new instructions. And truth be told, after three years, she had had enough, hadn’t she? Now that the dream job was edging in on her dream life, maybe, she was coming to realize, the dream job was too much. Her body overstressed, her doctor, and her second-opinion doctor, told her. Nothing exactly wrong that wouldn’t let the babies take.


So, she was going to be home again for a while. Taking a break. A sabbatical of sorts—a perfect time for redesign! Intentionality, Sarah knew, was key in creating twoness as one. She had done that with the swan décor, but they were no longer newlyweds. It was time for Sarah to graduate from Domestic Goddess to Divine Mama.


Perhaps, in fact, the immovability of the décor had been part of the awful holding pattern? Sarah needed to move the energy! Transform the living space to make room for the next phase of the dream! She’d been too focused on her 
own work to see the full picture. And truth be told, Trevor hated the swan décor. Not even a month following the reveal, he had begun to complain about the clutter. About how it stalled his creativity to see Sarah’s busy style everywhere he looked. Could she not keep it more contained?


She moved all the over-the-top Sarah stuff to her office corner, mounting the swan bracket shelves to hold her notebooks. They had too many books now, anyway, for the small bookshelves. Trevor wanted a library in the living room to help clear some space in his study, and Sarah agreed. It would look classy. They decided on built-in white shelving. Trevor would organize the books. Sarah got to pick the contractor and arrange all the materials. Sarah splurged and also had the contractor build bookshelves up the stairwell, where she could store the books Trevor didn’t want on display.


Sarah’s office corner was getting cramped, but she knew how to work wonders in small spaces, given the cabin she’d grown up in. Her corner harkened back to childhood—a small magical nook in which to create ordered abundance. A small Sarah ecosystem. Trevor needed emptiness to move around in, whereas Sarah needed to feel like she was in a nest of gathered materials to create.


When first setting up the house, Sarah felt a shared office would be the fairest arrangement, but it had ultimately been decided that Trevor would get the office since he needed total and utter concentration to write.


Trevor let the house go to shit when Sarah wasn’t there, but he liked Sarah to keep it tidy. They needed to have a 
house they could invite people into that would not completely overwhelm the senses. His office, on the other hand, was a place he could let his own superstitious chaos reign. Before each new project he cleared the slate, but when a new story began, the creative madness built up around him in a kind of mythic order. His piles were stacked in a very particular way that held great significance, and if he talked about that, or anyone moved anything, the entire structure of his work might collapse. He knew if Sarah was in the office with him that she would disturb things. There was no question of sharing an office.


They had talked about Sarah making her office in the third bedroom, but that wouldn’t work either because Sarah was adamant that she didn’t want the TV in the living room. It was important they have some private leisure space from one another! She had read that in one of her books about taking the right home design steps to making a marriage work. So in the end, putting Sarah’s office in the corner of the master bedroom just made the most sense. And later down the road, when Trevor got a promotion, or when Sarah was earning more, she could renovate the garage into a studio. As for the TV room, Sarah had already begun drawing up plans to split it, imagining a little nursery in her mind’s eye. She could feel the calmness of this space, where neither she, nor Trevor, but a whole new living breathing entity—her future baby—would dream beautiful baby dreams.




———


Ariadne had picked apart the décor the one time she came to visit, just after Sarah’s Divine Mama renos. A painful sting.


Sarah had been so eager to show off her home to Ariadne, so excited when the stars aligned for Ariadne to make a trip to visit during the same week that Trevor was away at a conference.


“Wow! Grown-up, Sarah! So grown-up. I don’t recognize you anywhere. I mean, it’s just so put-together. I can see you feel pleased by it. But, um, I don’t know, maybe it just feels—consolidated? Maybe that’s not the right word? I’m looking for Sarah and I see you here in front of me, but I don’t see you in the house somehow.”


“Juxtaposition—not consolidation. Isn’t that obvious? It seems obvious to me,” Sarah protested.


“Oh, sweetie, forgive me! Sorry. Manners. God, I’m so excited to see you! I’ve never seen your grown-up home is all. Silly of me, I know. I guess I was expecting to walk in and find you in your room back on Chester, all curled up in your little orange velvet armchair with your headphones on and a textbook in your lap, straining your eyes in the dim gleam from your Christmas lights, steaming mug of tea beside you!”


“I’ve still got the trunk!” Sarah exclaimed, and she led Ariadne to her and Trevor’s bedroom, where Ariadne could see the small space the Sarah she knew still inhabited, all cramped up in the corner.


Shortly following this visit, Ariadne mailed Sarah a photograph that Sarah had not known existed—a polaroid 
of the glowing mobile of thrifted wedding dresses spinning in the centre of their old living room, hanging from a papier-mâché umbrella above the open trunk—one of the pieces they’d put together for their “Beyond the Bride Party,” the night of Sarah and Trevor’s first kiss.


Sarah’s trunk, that had been her sleeping place as an infant, her dress-up box as a child, that she’d brought with her to the city, full of the things she’d thought she might need for her student life, that she and Ariadne had transformed into a costume bin of defunct wedding gowns. Now her memento box. It held her letters from Ariadne—so many now after years of correspondence; her own wedding dress—carefully wrapped in crêpe and zipped into a plastic sarcophagus, so time could not undo the magic woven into place in the beaded pearl bodice; a set of badger-hair paintbrushes her father had made for her; sachets of dried lavender that almost totally erased the musty smell the trunk once had from the time before it was hers.


Looking at the photograph of the wedding dresses made Sarah feel—very briefly, for a moment, just for a flash—like some part of her, or perhaps many parts, were not after all present in her domestic arrangement.


It disturbed her, this feeling. This energy inside her that made her want to go into the living room and start knocking things off the shelves, spatter paint all over the walls, break a few dishes and use the shards to etch designs into the drywall. “How absurd!” she quickly thought. Ariadne! That troublemaker. Trevor always called her that. A troublemaker.


“A woman who stirs up trouble,” he’d say, when Sarah mentioned her. Speaking with a voice that hurt Sarah somewhere inside that she refused to touch too closely—an old raw feeling from when Trevor had loved Ariadne and Ariadne had loved Sarah and Sarah had loved them both, but had chosen Trevor. This future. Trevor assuring Sarah that he would love her for the duration, as a husband loves a wife. A love they would grow over time, unlike the infatuation Ariadne had been. “She can never give you the life you want, Sarah,” he’d said once. “You know that.”


“Yes, trouble,” Sarah thought. “Reminding me of another life.”


Still, the photograph jolted her. She had loved that life. How truly happy she had been to live there in that house with Ariadne, every day a delight. Ariadne had been so fun to play house with.


She did not seem convinced when Sarah explained that her tastes had matured and resources to buy things had altered since the days when twelve-dollar wedding dresses and two-dollar garage sale ceramic wall hangings pushed the limits of extravagance of what could be had, but Sarah knew this was because Ariadne found the whole concept of marriage distasteful.


Ariadne had long ago vowed she would never marry. She had invited Sarah to vow with her, and though some part of Sarah had wished to be as courageous as Ariadne, as sure of her own independence, she found that she could not make 
this promise. Because somewhere inside Sarah there lived a dream. The dream she was living here, in this house, with Trevor. These other vows that she had made. Sacrosanct vows written in law, whereas Ariadne’s vows were lawless.


Perhaps Ariadne is jealous that your dream has come true
, a voice offered from inside.


Sarah put the photograph away in the trunk.




———


Sarah mulled almost obsessively over Ariadne’s comments, mentally writing a series of responses that never made it to the page—wanting to explain herself, to have Ariadne understand and accept that Sarah was truly happy. Wanting her to see that marriage required sacrifices, sometimes selflessness, revising the dreams one might have held for oneself along the way if they didn’t fit with the other person’s dreams. Each person supporting the dreams of the other.


Weeks later, halfway through drafting yet another response, she realized that Ariadne was not her audience. Though she loved her friend dearly, their paths had diverged.


But this didn’t mean there wasn’t an audience out there! An audience of women like Sarah, who would get what she was talking about. Who were trying, as she was, to make the best lives possible for their families, no matter what life threw at them.


She did not have to defend herself to Ariadne, who would see through her defences and make her own interpretations anyway. Interpretations Sarah did not have the heart for.


Sarah was home. She needed to focus on what was truly important now that she’d set the stage for the next phase. Her life with Trevor, her desire to become a mother. Her marriage was suffering because she’d gotten sidetracked by her own ambitions and now her body was chronically stressed. Sarah was sensitive, Trevor often reminded her following the horrendous incident that had left them both so shaken. She needed to take better care of herself.


She knew she could work harder than anyone! But she wanted to have a baby. And each time she lost one, a little more doubt crept in that maybe she couldn’t, after all, work harder than anyone and still keep it all together.


The last one—on the plane on the way back from Singapore—had made her see how truly fragile and untenable things had become.


She had come home early to surprise Trevor. Blood all over the goddamn seat. Fifteen weeks. Her longest yet. She had been so sure. So sure this one was going to stick, had even started talking to her. She was singing when the cramps came. Just softly, softly, too quiet to even be a whisper. And it had been a fucking nightmare. Everyone on the plane witnessing her body’s failure to hold on to her baby. The plane had made an emergency landing in Montreal.


A full twenty-four hours had passed before the hospital had been able to contact Trevor. He had apparently lost his phone charger. And he hadn’t been expecting her for another week. She’d spent two nights alone in the hospital, hemorrhaging enough that she needed a blood transfusion. 
But at some point, she’d awoken from the terrible nightmare to find that Trevor was there. Holding her hand. And they had cried together for a long time.


Each miscarriage had escalated Sarah’s desperation. Her body not only protesting, but upping the stakes every time, dragging her along a little longer, building hope, and then digging her deeper into anguish, until her hormones surged once again, stringing her hope along, tangling up her thinking, making her want beyond all reason to try again, until this final one, making a humiliating show of it, for all to see. Grounding the fucking plane!


Sarah could not keep going on this trajectory. Trevor had been beside himself. How could he focus on his work when he was being called at the office, having to take a week off to drive to Montreal to pick Sarah up and bring her home because she could not get on a plane? He was totally on board when the doctor suggested Sarah take time off to recuperate after what he referred to as the “Singapore Incident.”


What began as a leave of absence turned into a career overhaul when Sarah discovered blogging—divinely inspired by another former journalist who wrote on the life transformation she had manifested by taking charge of the doom and gloom with a positive mindset framework, coaching herself to a successful home-based career as a blogger.


Really? This kind of thing was possible?


Only if you believed in it!


Sarah knew how to believe in things!




———


Blogging helped shift the narrative. Ridding Sarah of the darker thoughts that crept in when she allowed herself to travel into the future—all her hopes and dreams hijacked by swirling terrors blowing in from the past that Sarah needed to sweep out.


She decided on a slightly ironic persona that would keep it light, but with a kind of snarky humour that embraced positivity while acknowledging its limitations. 
Sarah at Home.


She could see it all perfectly! An innovative platform for undertaking an aesthetic exploration of artistry in women’s domestic expression, while simultaneously challenging negative perceptions of female domesticity. She wanted it to be serious, but also funny and practical, and popular enough that she could make a bit of money on the side for her Divine Mama projects, so Trevor could not complain about her spending his money on home design expenditures.


She would will belief into being!




———


Between steps outlining the exact approach needed to perfectly execute her grandmother’s delectable buttermilk biscuit recipe, Sarah mused on what it meant to be a home’s keeper, comparing marble, wooden, and glass rolling pins in tapered, cylindrical, or handled styles for her grandmother’s recipe, monetizing her content with affiliate posts, and describing how she felt contemporary care work could be both beautiful and radical.


Sarah’s extensive contacts from her former life as a journalist provided a significant platform from which to launch.


Within a year, Sarah was earning far beyond what she’d initially envisioned.


Within two, with a handful of significant sponsors, her platform had expanded exponentially.


Sarah was gaining recognition, earning enough that she was already blogging about her upcoming garage redesign—a home office that would even allow her to hire an assistant to help manage demands for increased content.


SARAH IN THE GARAGE!


You make it work.


You know how it is. You take what you’ve got and you make it work the way you want it to. It isn’t exactly what you want, but you know down the line it will be. That’s what you keep in mind. Do I want to be in this corner of my bedroom bringing together all these beautiful things for you, dear readers? These inspirations for your homes that you are working with to make it work the way you want it to? Not exactly. It wasn’t what I wanted, but I compromised, knowing down the road it would pay off. Hubby got the office, because if he’d been in the corner, I’d never have heard the end of it! He’d never have fit anyway, and then I would have had to sleep with his books on my face! Sex between the sheets and his manuscripts in progress? 
No Thank You!
 Ouch, papercuts! And him editing lines between kisses?


And you know what, I love this corner! The corkboard, my father’s trunk. The salmon houndstooth motif painted on the wall (see October 15th’s post for how-to). January 18th’s desiccated flower accents collected from neighbourhood winter 
gardens—the effect would not have been as remarkable in a bigger space! It would have seemed insignificant. Small is a simple pathway for imaginative tweaks!


But, my dear, sweet, design-savvy sweethearts. IT IS 
Time! Garage Redesign!
 Sarah at Home is upsizing. Amping up inspiration for how to build the dream life one corner at a time. I’m planning an IRL gala once it’s all said and done for those of you nearby enough to dress up and pop a cork with me to celebrate! (Open to theme suggestions!) There will be sourcing spreadsheets and budgeting tips and designers-to-go-to for legacy pieces some of us will only ever dream of. But hey, dreaming is half the fun, or sometimes all of it!




———


And then, Amelie stuck.


A Creature


With Amelie on the way, Sarah’s focus shifted. She could not let the fear engulf her. She had to begin preparing so she could become the best mother in the world now that her miracle was on the way! She had brought this miracle into being! She was ready for anything!


There was no longer time for design blog growth; Sarah now had greater priorities.


Mom blogs assured her that with proper planning so much unnecessary struggle could be avoided, so that if unexpected things happened, which they certainly would, a new mother could still be prepared, thus keeping everything on track—expectant moms like an army of preppers 
for the nigh times of good housekeeping after the new-baby apocalypse.


Sarah filled the chest freezer with soups, casseroles, muffins, and energy balls to basically last until Amelie went to college. She’d toyed with the idea of a second freezer, but Trevor had balked. “Freezer burn, Sarah.”


Three months of pre-baby prep work Sarah was grateful she had done, because the first month of Amelie she could basically do nothing, given the infection that set up camp in what had once been a very distinct space between her anus and vulva that had become, after the birth, a fissure of infectious bacterial activity reaching almost entirely between the two, following what Sarah overheard the obstetrician describe to the resident doctor in a hushed whisper as “ungodly tearing that sometimes occurs in cases when forceps are used to assist delivery.”


Sarah had to stay prone, manoeuvring painfully to lie on her side and nurse. Which left more up to Trevor than he had ever imagined having to manage. Because whereas Sarah had been prepping for what seemed like her entire life for this, Trevor had not imagined the baby would be real until the moment it came out.




———


During Amelie’s first weeks of life, Trevor dreamed over and over again a horrible dream. A secret nightmare he could never reveal to Sarah, instead scrawling it into one of his notebooks—material to use in a future story for a character he’d not yet written.




I stood at the edge of the lake watching the white swan, knees weak with beauty.


Each day I returned, weakened a little more—


time’s shadow pulling me to earth.


By the fifth day I was prone.


Still, I returned—


crawling, dragging my decrepit body.


Beauty called me.


Making me delirious—


I could not resist.


By the eighth day the swan started singing, or maybe it had been singing all along, and I had not heard because my ears had not yet been weakened enough to hear its range—


By the tenth day I could no longer move anything but my head, now seeing clearly.


The swan had grown human breasts and was suckling a wild thing. A baby brought up from the depths that would feed there for eternity, milk draining the white swan of its purity.


It turned to look in my direction, seeing through me as though I did not exist.


The swan was looking down at the wild thing as though it was an angel.


I saw the demon behind the baby’s eye, felt its hunger draining the white swan’s beauty.


Knowing it would feed until the swan lost white, seeking 
the blood that had fed it before the swan brought it up from the depths.


Weak as I was, my aim was off.


I aimed for the wild thing, killing the white swan instead.




For the first weeks of Amelie’s life, Trevor lived in a confusing oscillation of love and terror, doing the best he could to be there for Sarah. He adored and feared little Amelie. Sometimes settling into the deepest surety he had ever felt when he lay back with her on his chest and she found comfort from him, her small baby breaths grounding deep into his heart, felling them both to slumber.


He had never loved anything more than he loved this baby. And yet, he also found her horrendous, feeling utterly powerless to give her the life she demanded from Sarah, pulsing need and hunger as though a cosmic force from the tiniest amalgamation of bone and flesh he had ever seen. Amelie demanded of Sarah, and Sarah demanded of Trevor. She needed his help, he knew this. And he was willing to give it. His child! His child alive in the world.


Yet weeks wore into months wore into years and the distraction of needs did not lessen, only seemed to grow along with the baby. Distractions he had to combat if he was ever going to get anything done. A constant battle in this new reality Sarah had brought to life, threatening to overtake him. He needed to be vigilant if he was to maintain course.




OceanofPDF.com

















Chapter Four


Life Gets Real




Organic Crossovers



				Two short years after the first baby, a second—another little girl! Time had passed in days and nights of fluids and ruptured sleep, celebratory milestones, and thousands of photographs of Amelie doing every new thing an infant does for the first time in the world on its way to toddlerhood, whittled down to the most telltale shots on Sarah’s socials: Amelie walking for the first time, Amelie with first-birthday cake all over her face, Amelie blowing on a dandelion head, delighted by the flying seeds, Amelie going down the big slide at the park, face alight with fear become elation, Amelie, frowning a little, trying to smile for Mama, holding a little sign labelled “Big Sister” to announce the big news—flushing Sarah with dopamine-hits of approval from 
supportive readers anticipating the expanded content to come now that there would be two. Meanwhile, tenure and promotion for Trevor, and a next book well on the way!


Sure, they lived far away from any supports—Sarah’s mom on the other side of the country and her sister on another continent, Trevor’s family a few hours’ drive north and not really ones to intrude on the couple’s privacy, and the few colleagues Sarah had counted as friends childless, not really available, with hectic lives on the go—but Sarah had a Mom and Baby group she went to once a week, and her online community was there whenever she needed it!


There had been some struggles, but they had persevered to become the family Sarah had always dreamed of. The real family she now had, in a nice house full of nice things in the city. The family she had pretended was her family as a child holed up in a hollow in a birch tree while her parents seethed inside an unfinished house—Sarah’s mom drawing demons out of her father, sometimes lashing them in return, while Sarah escaped into a dreamworld outside.


How far Sarah had come! How tempered, her and Trevor’s words to one another, so aligned—almost entirely free of disagreement.


The kids! The house—designed with highest-quality elements to fit the functional and aesthetic needs of the style-forward nuclear kin group. Tasteful ensembles, a good hairstylist (there had been a few mishaps along the way, but now they had Chloë, who they tipped well, knowing how truly valuable she was), children in eco-chic ensembles that 
Sarah special-ordered from websites promoted on 
Swan Mom
—the blog that had evolved organically from 
Sarah at Home
, following Sarah’s life-upgrade from Domestic Goddess to Divine Mama.


Home design was background stuff; necessary, but only as set for the plot of family life unfolding within. Her content now focused on her two bright children dutifully concentrating on Sarah’s clever learning activities, engaging in imaginative free-play, or hilariously hijacking over-planned educational flops, because they were children, after all. It couldn’t all be perfect, but it was an impeccably curated family!


Sarah’s socials attested to it. With regularly updated links to 
Swan Mom
, where one could always go to learn how to pull it all together, as Sarah did, with Trevor’s unwavering support.


Their library featured heavily. Trevor’s extensive and eclectic collection took up the whole open-concept living room/dining room wall. Trevor loved picking passages for Sarah to use on 
Swan Mom
. Sarah loved endorsing titles and working in quotes alongside photographs of meals recreated from inspiration found in the pages of her favourite books, where there was always ample material to riff off of. She thrilled at pairing passages from books with staged replays of the kids enacting the parts of a variety of literary characters.


The internet allowed for so many organic crossovers in life! Instead of casually name-dropping books in conversation, Sarah could take a simple photo and post it, drawing 
attention to her collection of parenting books written by every expert who’d ever thought the word 
child
, accompanied by succinct yet encouraging cutlines with convenient links to specialist sites, where parents could access coaching and consultation services. Sarah’s learning wasn’t just for her! It helped other moms find the support they needed when they felt they had nowhere to turn. Helpful, informed, and pleasantly housed in her curio feature on the staircase—the little cubbies she so loved in the wall that climbed alongside the stairs.


How many precious photographs of the girls feeling it out with Mama had been taken on that staircase? It was exceedingly annoying to have to vacuum in between the stairs and book crevices, having to pull out all the books to make sure there were no visible dust bunnies in the shots, but it kept Sarah on her housecleaning toes.


The blog had been going six years. Six years! It was a total success, earnings steadily on the rise. There had been a slight drop following Arlynn’s birth, when things were tough and Sarah could not keep up. But she had recovered, as she always did. 
Swan Mom
 had prevailed. She now had the most adorable six-year-old, as well as a spunky three-and-a-half-year-old. Her proudest delights around which to build an amazing world.


Swan Mom
 On
 Swann’s Way


And soon, mechanically, oppressed by the gloomy day and the prospect of a sad future, I carried to my lips a spoonful 
of the tea in which I had let soften a piece of madeleine. But at the very instant when the mouthful of tea mixed with cake-crumbs touched my palate, I quivered, attentive to the extraordinary thing that was happening in me. A delicious pleasure had invaded me, isolated me, without my having any notion as to its cause. It had immediately made the vicissitudes of life unimportant to me, its disasters innocuous, its brevity illusory, acting in the same way that love acts, by filling me with a precious essence; or rather this essence was not in me, it was me. I had ceased to feel I was mediocre, contingent, mortal. Where could it have come to me from—this powerful joy?


—Marcel Proust (translated by Lydia Davis,
 The Way by Swann’s
)


How could I not? Of course, I had to! A perfect tidbit dear Proust left us to follow on
 Swan Mom. 
Les “petites madeleines” mais oui! Amelie and Arlynn delighted in preparing these cakes with me (Proust’s maman’s recipe follows).


I used the petites madeleines tin moulds picked up in an antique shop in Paris on the honeymoon—serendipity for this post waiting in a future I had not yet imagined? Trevor was not pleased to have to fit the trays into the backpacks! From my archives, you can see him pouting, holding the tins after I’ve gleefully purchased them, his other hand holding his copy of
 Swann’s Way 
picked up at the bookshop next door, pretending he’s being doubled over by the added weight of the tins and not all the books he’s carrying!


Since we’re time-travelling, here’s me, convincing him later in the day it will be worth it, biting into an inspirational petite madeleine at a nearby café. Ever the trooper, Trevor carried these tins across Europe for us. Proust would have been proud.


The girls are dressed in adorable period dresses from one of my fashion mom faves, 
Pinafore Pretties
. This mama makes old-timey looks in modern eco-materials kids can play in that you feel good about. Laurelei collects vintage patterns and knows her fabrics—all her playsuits, dresses, and pinafores (time to bring those back!) are machine washable.


My heart lifts with Proust’s “powerful joy” to have captured this perfect moment of the girls munching their madeleines and sipping Proust’s tea, no doubt totally unaware of mediocrity or contingent mortality. I hope, dear readers, you too are inspired to pay special heed to the pleasures of motherhood that manifest in moments like these—all the pieces aligning extraordinarily, as they did today!


To the madeleines! But first, let me add that the moment would have been nowhere near as impeccable without the 
Deerheart Ceramics
 tea sets made by Milanda in Montana! Who collects clay from the Clark Fork River to craft unique pieces embossed with local fauna and printed with transfers of the coolest little critters. These fairy-tale-meets-art-school treasures are almost indestructible, so you can rest assured they won’t meet innocuous disaster as the littles sip! Pieces you’ll hold on to for life!




———


Sarah worked hard for “powerful joy.” Weeks she had put into staging this. Holding back from revealing the pinafores until the last minute, once it was all set up, so the girls would be excited to put them on. But Amelie had refused. Because Arlynn’s pinafore was nicer than hers and she wanted Arlynn’s!


Sarah had taken so long to decide. Had waffled between the fox and the bear, thinking probably it would be best to get them both the same, but then at the last minute had chosen different ones, wanting to promote the different designs, perhaps land a few more linked sales with the added inspiration of a fox-and-bear conversation.


“But it doesn’t fit, honey. You can’t wear this one. Don’t you see, Mama got you the one with foxes on it. Like Monsieur Renard!”


“Monsieur Renard doesn’t look like that. This fox is bad. It’s a bad fox. I want the one with the kind bear Arlynn has.”


“Mama can get you a kind bear one later. We can send this one back, but for today, can you put this one on for the party Mama set up? You can help make the little shell cakes, les petites madeleines! And eat as many as you want after we do the photos.”


“You always give better ones to Arlynn!” Amelie shouted, grabbing the fox pinafore out of Sarah’s hands and throwing it at Arlynn, trying to pull the bear one out of Arlynn’s hands as Arlynn held tight, and then Arlynn fell, smacking her head on the floor, screeching, and Amelie stumbled back, knocking her head on the table where the tea sets 
sat—two little fox cups and two little bear cups tumbling off the table—one of each broken apart—sharp white shards on the shiny blue tiles Sarah had lovingly grouted with white contrasting lines. Both of the girls now piercing her ears with horrendous destructive wails.


Sarah stood, dumbfounded, rage rushing fast, planting her feet, screeching back, “Amelie, look what you’ve done! You’ve ruined it! You’ve ruined it all!” Making them both screech louder. And then, screaming louder than them both, because she was bigger and could drown them out. As big and loud as her father! Flattening everyone else in the room!


And it worked. They both stopped, looking up at her in shock.


Draining her completely—her daughters there, on the verge of shattering. Not pretty at all.


“Babies, babies, I’m so sorry. Oh sweeties. Mama’s right here.” Pulling them in. Holding them close. Getting small with them on the ground, breathing them back to safety, out of the horrible brokenness. She would make it work. She would make it better. It was recuperable. Just a little mishap. And after the tears, after it had all been cried out, they managed, the three of them, to make a game of the slightly broken tea party, and Sarah got her shots.


Swan Mom’s Dad Content



				Trevor had been reluctant to commit to the dad content Sarah had insisted on at 
Swan Mom
’s inception, but Sarah had convinced him, reasoning that it would differentiate 
what she had to offer from what other moms were offering and up the potential to further monetize her posts. Framing it in economic terms had been a surefire way to get Trevor to contribute.


“I have so much on my plate already, Sarah, now you want me to contribute to your blog on top of it all?”


“It will be fun, Trev. And maybe you can stop taking yourself so seriously for a few minutes and write something enjoyable! It would really set my project apart. We need to hear more fathers’ voices. You know that as well as I do. When I hear you talk about how you want to do better for Amelie, be more present. How you learn about the more tender parts of yourself by giving your love to Amelie and helping me take care of her. Other fathers need to hear that too.”


He had been so amenable those first few months on parental leave after Amelie’s birth, feeling things he had never felt before, being present in the home—for Sarah—in entirely new ways. Feeling this burgeoning caregiving role inside of him. It had been a revelation.


Though he had been so reluctant to take the leave. So reluctant.


He had finally landed the tenure-track job when Sarah had gotten pregnant. In that tenuous phase before tenure when he had to really give it his all. It wouldn’t look good. But it was university policy. He 
could
 do it. Other fathers could do it, though they rarely did. He was better than those other fathers. He could take the leave and come back strong. He owed this to Sarah. They had settled on five months. 
Five months was what he could manage if he wanted to stay on track. And even this was asking a lot. A lot he was giving to Sarah here. More than any of the other men in his department.


He could see how much work Sarah had done to bring their child 
to life
. But he felt wholly inadequate, so unsure about his place in it all.


This creature he loved would most certainly die without Sarah! Because how would he keep her alive? He had no idea. There was all this vulnerability that he 
wanted
 to express. It felt kind of deranged, but sincere too. Was this what other fathers felt like? What was this emergent desire for sincerity now that he had brought another being to life? Trevor found himself asking questions like this often. Questions that had never once entered his realm of thought before. About what other men might be feeling. He thought often enough about what other men thought of him, how they measured up to one another, but what they might be feeling themselves? The thought had never entered his mind until he first held Amelie.




———



				Whenever Sarah felt like real and virtual life were a little misaligned, she would hyperlink back to the very first post of Trevor’s to remind herself of the firm, solid roots of parenthood that had started it all, feeling deeply how when things were hard it was because Trevor was afraid. Just like the children were often afraid. And she could see and remember that and draw him back again toward the love 
she knew was there within him. Love they could share, from which she could draw the nourishment she and the girls also needed. Nourishment she and other moms sometimes needed to remind themselves they still existed in the miracle of life when the marriage and all sense of any previous reality of independent existence sometimes got a little lost.


Letter to a Daughter


by Trevor Hart


Gazing upon your newborn face for the first time, I wept. Hit with a potent sense of realness I’d never before felt.


I had known you were there, felt you move inside your mother’s womb, but I had not known you’d be real. It sounds strange, but that is what I felt.


A certain truth that my life would never again be mine alone. It was terrifying. Tears of fear as much as love—or perhaps this kind of elemental love cannot be separated from fear? I felt it in my body—you—made of the same matter as me. I now had something to lose that I feared might also kill me.


And then a question—how could I be responsible for this?


I could not fail.


I would fail. How could I not fail given my total inadequacy?


And yet, there you were. And I loved you.


How could my love be equal to you?


It brought to mind Rilke:


“It is also good to love: because love is difficult. For one human being to love another human being: that is perhaps the 
most difficult task that has been entrusted to us, the ultimate task, the final test and proof, the work for which all other work is merely preparation.”


I will work for you, Amelie. As unprepared as I am.


—Papa


This first post had put Trevor on a roll. A confessional mode he had never thought himself capable of. Which he would have scoffed at before the new feeling Amelie had opened in him. Subsequent posts prompted him to reflect on his role tending to Sarah, opening up this new mental space from which he could express with utmost sincerity how he loved the feeling of Amelie napping on his bare chest—the weight of her new body pressing down on his heart, like love flowing between two separate yet united selves. He could write this on Sarah’s blog without the sticky feelings of need and want and privation that always wheedled into his work—the push-pull dance he had felt his entire life, like revelation, then anguish, satisfaction, and finally disgust. The way people inevitably disappointed. Never living up to the potential they initially held. Amelie was all potential. But she was something more, too. She would never disappoint.


There was fear, yes, but no anguish in loving Amelie.




———


Except in the night.


In the night when she would not sleep, robbing him of his dreams, or turning into a demon baby.


But that wasn’t Amelie!


That was his own ugly psyche making a beautiful thing into a monster.


A thing he had to protect Amelie from.


Looking at her peacefully sleeping he often wondered when nightmares began. Did babies have them? Did they wake because they felt sinister things, or just because they were hungry? Hunger and the pain of being in frail human bodies the only sinister things they yet knew.


Over time the tone within Trevor shifted. Darker thoughts that emerged in the night, lingered on now in the days. There was so much he sometimes wished to say in his dad posts that he could not say. Darker thoughts sweeping innocence away, like the recurrent nightmare of killing the mama swan.




———


For the five months of his parental leave with Amelie, Trevor had been consistent enough with the dad content, truly believing he had turned a new leaf, that Amelie had changed him.


Sarah was all admiration, offering him lavish praise!


But once back at work, his commitment waned.


It was not a drive from within that had kept him contributing, he realized, but the payback he got when moms swooned—firing off comments about how good a man he was, how beautifully he articulated himself, how deeply their husbands had been moved by his words. But as hits do, the thrill of approval had waned over time, not steady enough to keep him charged. It became more and more of a chore. 
As irrelevant to him as most of the things Sarah blogged about. A farce he was now expected to uphold, underpinned by a disturbing reality there was no room for anywhere in Sarah’s sophisticated hyper-positive virtual world.


Amelie was very, very real. Requiring so much of Sarah. And Trevor was tired.


Real life pounced like a predatory cat on the tail end of parental leave. Whereas once the dad content had spurred good feeling between him and Sarah, it had grown quickly enough into yet one more thing for her to hassle him about. Why had he ever committed? Then, one day, a rare miracle! Sarah approaching with a request that freed, rather than asking more.


“Trev, I feel like you just aren’t interested in the dad content anymore, like I’m always niggling at you to get it done, stressing about whether or not you’re going to. And then I feel resentful about it when you keep putting it off. I hate that. This is supposed to be fun.”


“I know, babe. I just can’t seem to get to it. I’ve got so many other things—my writing, assignments, reviews, policy docs, grading. I’m not getting paid for this. It’s your thing, not mine. But I know it’s important to you, so I will. I’ll keep at it.”


“Well, I was thinking, maybe you shouldn’t? Maybe once in a while, if you feel like it. If you feel inspired. But I want to help you out, take things off your plate. This is maybe a little weird, but—would you be okay if I kept it going, writing the posts for you?”


Off the fucking hook! “Um, sure, babe, if you’d really be okay with that? It would remove a lot of pressure for both of us. Then you could get what you want and I don’t have to feel like a failure for not pulling through for you.”




———


By the time his second parental leave came around, the dad content had long since faded from Trevor’s awareness.


The thought of contributing again did not even arise.


The second time around, he was only able to spare three months. Three months that seemed like one long fog. He knew by now fatherhood was no true redemption. Trevor loved Arlynn! Of course he did. She was his baby too, but he was still going to be Trevor a few months down the road when real life started up again. He had understood this after Amelie.


And Arlynn did not delude them into blissful baby miracle fantasies as Amelie had. This baby was fucking difficult! Allergic to Sarah’s milk. Allergic to almost everything she ate—a year before she slept more than half an hour straight on any given night. Trevor busted his balls being there for Sarah in the ways he could. Trading off with her during the day and getting up for Amelie if she too woke in the night. But he also had a book to write that he was barely able to work on. He just couldn’t find the headspace with everything going on at home, keeping up with reading other people’s books so he stayed relevant, and students who needed his fullest attention at school. Who were gracious and rewarding, who were searching, as 
he still was, for threads of the miraculous. He adored and was adored by them; the rewards, when they came, were immeasurable, unexpected. The potential always there, but so rarely realized. A total contrast to the domestic entanglement of routine comforts and inconveniences that dragged him down into the domain of Sarah’s chaotic fantasy family world.


All magics waned over time, and what did he truly have to offer an infant? Sarah had it all under control. The children were her domain. He didn’t have the tolerance she did, and he had so much to accomplish. He played with Amelie to help, bounced Arlynn and held her for as long as she would accept before reaching for Sarah again. They had barely any interest in him anyway, always asking for Mama. He was grateful to head back to work when the three months were over.




———


After the first year of Arlynn’s life, Trevor took stock.


Was this all life was going to be from here forward?


Since this baby had been born, he’d basically been nonexistent, achieved nothing. No headway on the book; not really present with Sarah and the girls. In permanent distraction. He couldn’t be where he wanted—writing—and couldn’t give himself over to what family life required, either. So often he found himself retreating to his office, getting nothing done. Agitating. Wasting time doing “research” that led nowhere, procrastinating by reading books he could barely pay attention to, always chasing a comet’s tail.


His dreams were getting more and more off course. His first book had been a moderate success—a book of stories based on his and Sarah’s dreams, written during his M.F.A., revised and finally published shortly after he’d begun teaching. A creative escape he’d continuously plugged away at during the Ph.D. dissertation. He’d received enough attention to finally land the tenure-track job and had from there, with the publication of a few stories and poems in literary journals, alongside several academic articles, glided into tenure. He’d been on fire then! On fire! Completely enthralling. Truly alive. Unstoppable.


He’d envisioned something completely different for his second book. Yet all he could seem to manage were short pieces based on his nightmares.


Sarah was always trying to come up with solutions for him.


“You can reset the mind at any moment, Trevor. There are all sorts of things you can learn to do that. Resetting life, though? No matter what you do, you’re still going to be Trevor, finding yourself in the same mind under different circumstances.”


She could be so unhelpful sometimes. She had a fucking explanation for everything with all the goddamn reading she was always doing. When did he even have time to truly read anymore? But there was truth to it too, he knew. And he didn’t want to reset his life completely! He didn’t want to erase his family, just pause them. Pause them so he 
didn’t feel so overwhelmed. For them to be there again when he was ready, but not there all the time, always wanting things from him he didn’t have to give, leaving him no time for the things he was meant for.


Trevor knew he should try harder. Give what Sarah was saying a chance.


“I listened to the podcast you sent about mind chatter and the stories that limit what we think is possible on my ride to work. The one by—what was that guy’s name again?” Trevor said, and then went on without waiting for a reply, “That guy has almost the same voice in his head as me! And it floored me that I’m not the only one with that voice in my head! That inner critic. The asshole Trevor who’s always warning me of impending doom, agitating about how nothing is ever good enough, and how I can learn to tell him to fuck off. Draw on that other voice, the one that knows how much greatness there is in me. Listen to that voice instead. Follow that lead. The one that knows the real truth of who I am.”


Sarah replied, “I think it was more like giving him a big hug inside himself, wasn’t it? That was my takeaway. Not that you kick the inner asshole to the curb or focus on what you need to achieve to be great, but that you learn to give him a little love? You know, think of that guy as at one time being just like Arlynn and Amelie—tender and beautiful and worthy of love—just one part of you among many, a part that needs acceptance, maybe even so much more than 
the other parts that feel like the great parts of you? A part that has been deeply wounded and learned to talk to itself in ways that magnify rather than heal the pain?”


“Yeah, I guess,” Trevor replied, giving her a withering look. But instead of stopping, Sarah went on about other things the podcast expert had said and other important points about ways Trevor could change to like himself more and therefore become a better person. And Trevor tuned out, losing the content of what she was saying, disassociating because instead he was thinking about how she was always wanting him to be different than he was, and how he was never good enough for her standards, how she always had some ulterior motive that wasn’t about helping him achieve what he needed to achieve but about trying to manipulate him to be how she wanted him to be, and this was just another example of that, even though he had connected with what the guy said. Had felt seen by the man, or at least mirrored—a successful man, by all counts, big research lab at UPenn, a voice that made you take him as an authority so you believed everything he said was truth based on some natural quality of leadership and a high-profile academic job. This man had this voice inside him too, the inner asshole full of self-doubt about thwarted aspirations and truer visions who was always looking for someone to blame.


Trevor tried to look his inner asshole in the face and see little Amelie—bright and funny and full of life, full of need, and so scared sometimes, then brimming with joy, 
glee that bubbled, silliness and wiggles, and then so much anger, this little vacillating creature that most of all needed her mother’s love and adoration. Her mother’s, and her father’s, too. How she’d come to him, trying to draw him out, when he had so much on his mind. Sometimes he could see her through the fog, other times he’d push her away. Because he didn’t have time. And he knew Sarah was there. That she’d give Amelie what she needed. And he’d feel bad afterward, but he’d just push the badness away. Later. He’d connect with her later, when he had more time on his hands, when he’d done what he needed to do for the day, though he rarely felt like he had.


Trevor tried to find the boy he’d been inside himself, but it was like he was locked away or lost to time and Trevor could not feel him. All he could remember was feeling like a weak fuck of a thing always in need of something he could not seem to grasp, not getting what it was he needed time and time again, having to find his own ways of getting what he wanted.


It was a stupid exercise. Frustrating. He wasn’t a goddamn child anyway. Couldn’t even remember what that had felt like. And when he had been, his mom hadn’t been like Sarah. Or other mom-blog-reading moms. All those Sarahs out there with their smug mom expressions knowing how to do everything right and their husbands were just supposed to fall in line with whatever new parenting thing was the 
it
 thing as though the children, now that they were born, were suddenly the only important thing in the world, as 
though it was totally forgotten that Sarah and Trevor’s lives had existed, and been full, and interesting, and a hell of a lot more enjoyable before the children came along, becoming the utter and total focus of everything for Sarah.


For Christ’s sake, the woman no longer even remembered how to fuck!


But she had known. She had known once.


When he looked at her now, he still saw his girl there. That creature whose body had yearned at one time only to give itself over to him. Wanting nothing more than his approval. She had been that pliant. His girl. His girl. His wife—but now, the mother to his children. So important. God, he was glad she was doing it all. He was grateful! She was amazing! But what he wanted was his girl back. She was in there somewhere, wasn’t she? That girl he had wanted to make into his wife. Why couldn’t she still be that girl sometimes?


At least he had his students. How potent it felt to walk into a room and hold court—all eyes trained on him, absorbing his passion, flaring theirs in return. Getting to know the more eager ones over the course of semesters, sometimes even years, being made privy to intellectual life flourishing, before real life made a mess of it all. This future, grinding out to eternity.


Imagining The Husband



				As Sarah read, she often thought of Trevor—“What would Trevor think of this?” Or, “I think this would really resonate 
with Trevor.” How much she encountered that she wished to share with him, but didn’t! Because she knew Trevor didn’t have time to read more on top of his own reading lists! So she had to assess whether something was really worth sending, navigating that space between her thoughts about Trevor and the ways she might express care for him, and Trevor in the real world.


Sarah wanted to share all of her sparkling thoughts with Trevor, but she could console herself by redirecting the material that she knew would not interest Trevor to her dad blog posts! Trevor’s interpretations were so popular with her readers! Did it really matter that Sarah had been writing the posts herself for several years now, because Trevor had long ago opted out?


She’d made it seem to him like he was being let off the hook because she could no longer bear his procrastination, avoidance, and mounting annoyance with her every time she asked. What had been a fun creative project together had become an aching chore for him and a sore disappointment for her. So, she’d pivoted. She didn’t need him for this. In fact, it was much more fun to do without him!


There was so much she could do to model a kind of masculinity that could offer support to so many moms! Little ideas for how to get husbands on board that might hold more weight because they came from a man. So many of the ideas did anyway! What did it matter that Sarah was reading them, and then putting herself in a Trevor mindset to write about them?


As she read for Trevor content, she needed to consider whether to share with Trevor and risk Trevor either glossing over what she’d said as though she’d said nothing or going on a tirade about how much he had to read already and how could Sarah really expect him to have the bandwidth, making him feel like a dick instead of having the foresight not to put this burden on him. She had learned to share basically nothing. Instead, she talked things out with her pretend internal Trevor voice. The Trevor she’d internalized that had become part of her psyche. The Trevor that wrote the dad posts.


Pretend internal Trevor, also known as PIT, was pretty dreamy, because he reminded Sarah of Brad Pitt, who had been so important to her as a teenage girl. So important. And now she had her own PIT, who she could talk to whenever she wanted, who would always answer back!


PIT allowed Sarah to live the kind of relationship she hoped to live, when Trevor wasn’t available. Because PIT, a.k.a. the Trevor that lived on Sarah’s blog, was ten thousand times more helpful than real-life Trevor. The Trevor Trevor wanted to be, or at least the Trevor Sarah hoped for. As dreamy as the father that had been born when Amelie and the blog were! A Trevor Sarah could look in her archives or in her mind and always find. The father who had assured Amelie he would work for her. That he knew this work would be hard, but that he would always show up to do it. The Trevor who had said he was in it for life. “For life, Sarah!”


Sarah knew PIT wasn’t 
exactly
 real, but the Trevor living in the house with Sarah and the girls had become so 
withdrawn, unreachable, grouchy, morose—as though real life had stolen her husband and deposited an ogre in his place. An ogre or a sullen child playing the role of a good man as soon as he walked out the door.


“Sarah, you have no idea what real life is. You’re living in a fantasy world.” One of the things real Trevor might say when she daydreamed about fun things they might all do together as a family that would require some planning and cooperation from Trevor. “Where am I going to find the time for a camping trip? And realistically you aren’t going to sleep if we camp, and it’s just going to end up being a shit show.” He wasn’t wrong. It usually was a shit show when they tried to do things together as a family. Just getting out the door with Trevor and the girls was a shit show. Trevor always found something to stress about, some minor thing to panic over at the last minute, no matter where they were going, starting the shit show before the family even got out the door.


How lucky Sarah was to have PIT to spend time with while Trevor was in the real world! Conversations with PIT really helped Sarah shift perspective.


Conversations like: “I’m feeling so uncertain, Trevor. I just don’t really know what to do. I feel so worn out all the time. The children’s needs are incessant—they never stop for one second, and I haven’t slept for more than half an hour straight in six months because they won’t ever sleep at the same time and just trade off on being awake as though somehow by being awake at different times each of them 
can squeeze the most love out of me. And I can feel you needing me too, wanting me to give you love and I feel so guilty that I’m not, and I go to the bathroom to shut the door for just a thirty-second pee break, some blessed breaths on my own, and then Amelie is there knocking on it, wailing, ‘Mama! Mama!’ And I try not to because I know what will happen, but by accident I catch a glimpse of myself in the mirror and there is this zombie looking at me and I want to rip my own hair out and scratch the bags and greasy skin away until my old face comes back so I can see myself instead of a living dead person when I look in the mirror.”


And then PIT might respond, 
“Honey, oh honey, that sounds really hard. God! You give so much, so much. All the time. Come here, let me just hold you, and you feel what you’re feeling, and then we’ll talk about it after if you feel like it will help. It’s real, honey. It’s all so real, and huge, and totally overwhelming. For you, and for me, too. I just don’t know what to do.”


And then there would be a pause and PIT would hold Sarah for a good long while, his nervous system acting to settle hers, knowing what to give without expecting an immediate payback or shifting the focus back to him and his unmet needs. In PIT’s arms she might feel held enough to let go a little. She might break down and heave and cry forever and never stop until they were both floating in her tears and he would hold her still, unbroken by her sorrow. And because she could cry, she would also know she was not a zombie, just an unslept mom on the verge of living death.


“I can’t fix this,”
 PIT would then say, 
“but I’ll do what I can to help. Let me spend a bit of time thinking about it, and if I can’t come up with any ideas on my own, I’ll do some research for how I might help, talk to some of the other dads I know about how they’re coping, since right now I don’t have any answers, but I promise I’ll come back to you with something so you don’t feel alone in it all.”


But then, because Sarah didn’t want to be unrealistic and paint PIT as an ideal husband who wasn’t a real person with real-life concerns of his own, PIT might also switch the subject after the crying was done and Sarah seemed settled to get them focused on some life stuff that also needed attention—fantasy stuff in Trevor’s mind, but PIT understood it was real to Sarah.


For instance, PIT might start talking about something else on Sarah’s mind, like how to optimize their grocery shopping list with a new app he’d heard one of the guys at work talking about that he and his wife used so he didn’t have to be texting her all the time from the grocery store to see if he was forgetting anything or get her opinion on something he wanted to buy but wasn’t sure she’d approve of. And with the app, this couple avoided all of that! PIT was interested in the specs, which bored Sarah to tears. Luckily, luckily! PIT did not take every single thing Sarah said personally, so she could tell him, “Babe, please! Please stop! Can we just try the app and you can get really into the technical details and I’ll just be grateful to not have one more thing to manage?”


And then PIT might chuckle. Might laugh a little at himself instead of feeling like Sarah was criticizing him, and after that, because PIT was actually Sarah and not real Trevor, Sarah would do some research and come up with some ideas for how real Trevor might help, because obviously she needed some real fucking help here or she was going to completely lose it, and she just had to find the right words to share with Trevor so he might help her instead of continuing, like PIT, to not know what to do, but unlike PIT, just going on and leaving it all up to Sarah to figure out on her own and never, ever coming back to help, putting it completely out of his mind so Sarah would understand it was up to her to repair herself if she wanted things fixed.


All real. All pretend. It was so hard to tell sometimes. Just like make-believe.




OceanofPDF.com

















Chapter Five


Coping With Fantasy




String Games


Trevor had not told Sarah all those years ago that one of the reasons he had let the blog posts wane was that as more and more time had passed, whenever he found himself sitting down at his computer to write the posts, all he really wanted to write about was fucking.


Six months after Amelie and they still hadn’t had sex! Trevor had finally broken down, getting Sarah to consent. One dissatisfying fuck that had her weeping at the end, and then they’d gotten to the year mark and Sarah still didn’t know when she’d “feel ready.”


He had wanted to write about how gorgeous her huge tits were, swollen and leaking, and how he wanted to suck on them. But then, how could he go from that to the jarring 
disappointment gnawing inside, since she recoiled every time he put his hand anywhere near her big brown nipples?


“It just doesn’t feel right. They don’t feel erotic,” Sarah had told him enough times it had started to feel like a catchphrase.


He didn’t want to be insensitive and write about how much he just wanted to get laid on her mom blog, because he was supposed to be encouraging dads to be supportive, not writing about the porn sites he was bingeing on and which ones he’d recommend to sexually frustrated dads when their wives were always breastfeeding the goddamn baby!


The porn he didn’t feel badly about. Sarah didn’t care if he watched porn. They had watched together sometimes before the baby, and when they did, he always let Sarah pick because some things he was into he didn’t want to subject her to, or have her judge him about.


During this long dry spell he spent quite a bit of time on sites he knew would not be Sarah-approved. Venturing into some of the kinkier stuff that Sarah would have been offended by. He felt like a dirty man—a dirty, dirty man—for the duration of the videos he watched of women getting gang-banged—cocks in all their holes at the same time. Other men standing around stroking themselves, waiting for a turn. Not that he’d ever want that for Sarah!


Although he might be into it, if she were—but then, he wasn’t sure how he’d feel about all those other cocks in their marriage bed! He had loved imagining it in grad school, when they’d been in an open relationship. His little Sarah 
out there in the world, getting it from other men. It had turned him on to think of himself fucking someone other men had recently fucked, like a team sport with teammates on teams he’d never actually be a part of. But he knew Sarah would never want that. And really, what would he actually do if there were other men in the room? Could he even perform or would he look at their cocks and find his lacking? See them pleasuring her and her responding in ways she didn’t for him, finding himself crumpled with insecurity?


It was fantasy. Not real. In any event, when they’d gotten married, Sarah had been clear that that time of life was over. She wanted to be exclusive. He had agreed, not understanding that exclusive would mean he’d find himself completely dry after the kids were born. No access to sex at all. He felt at times so utterly, completely denied.


The way he saw it, porn was a way to reclaim his right to sex, without really hurting anyone. He binged on various sites using his favourite keywords: “threesome,” “hardcore anal,” “kink,” “gangbang,” and, when he wanted a real treat, “exotic pussy.” He browsed with rigour and abandon. Methodically consuming as much as his other commitments would allow. It wasn’t out of hand, just normal. He was just a normal guy who wasn’t getting the attention he needed and porn was there for him.


He sometimes wondered—if he’d never found these videos, never seen them in the first place, would he ever have imagined the things he now did? Which of the fantasies were his? And which of his desires were only there because 
he’d seen them played out on the screen? He knew that, as a young man, before online porn had become ubiquitous, he hadn’t imagined most of the things he now did. His fantasies had been more obscure, confusing even, shameful. There were the ones he had seen played out on his father’s VHS tapes, but there had also been other, stranger fantasies. Things that had made him so excited, but left him feeling confused, sometimes depraved. Because he’d had no script to follow, just feelings that arose, not knowing which parts he might play.


Sometimes he’d imagined he was being taken by an eagle. That the eagle was wrapping him up in soft feathers, plucking a feather off and entering his body with the thin pointed tip while its wings sheltered him from all the world.


What were these strange daydreams? And did they mean he was strange? To imagine these things? A fucking pervert having sex with predatory birds?


But now there were so many fantasies available to him, he didn’t even need to come up with his own, just the keywords that would open the lock to the right one. Trevor didn’t have to feel shameful about porn. Someone else had thought of the fantasy first.


His dad’s porn had been so innocent! Not like the things he now gravitated to—the slapping and hair-pulling, and so many cocks at one time! Bigger than his, always, but not so much that he felt dwarfed or impossibly small. Still, they enlarged what was possible, didn’t they? And showed him too what some women liked that they would never say.


These actresses—weren’t they giving voice to desires most women repressed? God, he loved how the women in these videos were so willing to receive. How the men knew just what to do. They were never shying away, or doing things the women didn’t like. They always liked it. It always worked out just the way it was supposed to. It was all so smooth. No one ever had to ask anyone what they liked, or how they liked it, or guess, or worry whether what they were doing was liked, whether they were measuring up, because everyone always liked everything on offer. Wanted just what was given in just the way it was given. There was no emotional messiness, no disguised thoughts. The performances were always on cue and everyone came, or at least pretended to.


So very simple. The way things should be.


There was no way he could keep up. So much new content each time he clicked. People could fuck in so many ways!


But really, when he broke it down—which he didn’t really like to, but sometimes the thought would slip in on its own when he felt himself getting bored, seeing another round of hard fucking, the same groans, the same pleading for more!—each video was really just a slight variation on one form of fucking. The pace almost always the same. The same plot crescendo. He knew what was coming. He knew when. He knew it would start out with a flash of seduction—hook the viewer. Maybe a few cursory minutes of acknowledgement between the actors to give some inkling that they were people beyond the impending fuckfest. And 
then the frenzy would build and build and build to the point of release. But he didn’t really know what came after. Because he never made it to the end of any video, always clicking shut once he’d gotten what he came for. Often, he skipped right over the acknowledgement and seduction parts to the hard fast fuck and money shot.


This habit served him well during his porn-allotted time. That little midday slot between courses, just following his 11 a.m. run, preceding his 12:30 lunch, before 1 p.m. classes, which he had penned as 
Meditation
 in his schedule so the rest of the department would know he was off-limits.


It 
was
 a kind of meditation! It left him clearer-headed, and he found if he missed it, he’d hit an afternoon slump. A wall. A dysfunction. He’d tried napping. It was out of the question. So hard to get through the day. Really affected his teaching performance.


Just like when Sarah interrupted him out of the blue with inane texts. She could be so demanding. She always had little things popping up. Some days he elected not to read her texts at all, knowing she’d be asking him to pick up something she’d forgotten—to deviate from his own plans. If he didn’t read them, he wouldn’t know. Could say he hadn’t had the time to check his phone, which was sort of true. He hadn’t read 
her
 messages. Hadn’t had time for 
those.


“Tuesdays and Thursdays,” he told her. “Tuesdays and Thursdays, babe, I’ve got you. Text me then and I’ll be sure to respond.” And he did. He always responded to Sarah’s texts on Tuesdays and Thursdays. It was more than 
fair. He even had it in the schedule. After his afternoon classes, before office hours on Tuesdays and Thursdays, 
Respond to Sarah’s texts. Send her a nice message if she hasn’t asked for anything.




———



				Routines were necessary for optimal functioning. If Eric down the hall could reserve fifteen minutes of time on his schedule to be completely undisturbed while he sat on his cushion and disciplined his breath, why couldn’t Trevor set reasonable boundaries around his wife’s texts or reserve fifteen minutes during his work day to do what 
he
 needed to settle his nerves? The porn was against campus viewing protocol, or at least it was likely to be—perhaps something that could get him in trouble if he wasn’t meticulous about using his personal laptop and clearing his browsing history, but that was all puritanical bullshit prejudice around sex anyway. Plus, he took pleasure from the slight bit of naughty he felt every time he closed his office door and flipped the little placard on the outside that read 
In Meditation. Please do not disturb.
 Bukowski would have approved. Or not. Bukowski likely would have had real women in there with him instead. Approved enough, then. All Trevor really needed.


Just touching his fingers to the sign, like slipping them into the elastic band of a woman’s panties, he would feel himself grow hard. Gently stroking with his left thumb on the walk back to the desk, almost like another’s hand. And then he’d sit, lean back, slowly open the screen with his 
right hand, feeling every increment of its rising, take the mouse in his palm, press firmly on the cursor with his pointer finger until he felt the click—everything rushing—though he moved deliberately, unhurriedly—stretching out the rush to a persistent trickle, delicate foreplay. Being very, very mindful about it.


So diligently contained.


It lessened the strain to not have to think about what to do when. It was all predetermined. Except for the variation that occurred within the timeframe. The unexpected—the spice of life within the structure. He didn’t know beforehand, for instance, just which video he would find. Which keyword he would type in. He allowed for these spontaneities. The thrill of the keyword!


How life could turn on a dime with slight variations. As it had, the day Sarah had finally declared after the post-Amelie dry spell, “Fuck me, Trevor, I need you right now,” basically tearing his clothes off.


Trevor should have seen it, but he hadn’t been looking. Why would he have looked deeper when life was finally back on course? The dry period had just been a phase, as Sarah had told him. That phase was over now. Sarah had figured herself out.


And then the declaration: “I want to try again, Trevor.”


Another baby?


“Yes, Sarah, if that’s what you really want.” If it meant more sex, he was game. He would keep this phase going as long as he could. Finally, they were both so happy. Sarah 
again with a glint in her eye when she looked at him, instead of always just looking exhausted.




———


But then, Arlynn.


Phasing everything out of sync so Sarah was almost completely fuzzed out.


But this phase would pass! Like the last one had. Trevor just had to be patient. Let Sarah figure it out. Focus on other things until she did.




———


In this manner, Trevor stumbled through the first tough years of Arlynn’s life, keeping his eyes open for rare flares of inspiration, staying on course toward these guiding lights while Sarah blended into home so completely it was like Sarah, the girls, and the house itself were a superorganic entity in a delirious world—a fog that wrapped around him as soon as he crossed the bridge on his bike ride home from work, holding him hostage until he biked back across the next morning, clearing on the other side.


Work was a relief, but there was the ever-present bullshit of the grind. The million interruptions that held him back from the writing writhing within him. Still, Trevor kept secretive delights. His keyword searches. His bright students. His lunch soups. Knowing he would always choose a soup, only not knowing which one. There was chance in that. Greater forces that sometimes rewarded him and other times punished him. The cooks making mockery or exhilaration of Trevor’s daily experience. Shifting his moods. Buoying 
him when it was Thai curry, disappointing him when it was rigatoni floating in a meaty broth. He and the counter girls bantered about it. Making flirtatious substance of otherwise banal conversation. The cute undergrad—Simone—who knew by now which soups would delight him, which would be taken without complication, and which would cause him to have to order the salad instead, or order nothing at all, throwing off the rest of his afternoon.


He knew which days Simone worked, tried to position himself in line so it would be Simone who would serve him instead of Liam. Liam who was just too loud, his “Hey man!” over the top. Liam too knew Trevor’s soups. He paid attention. Wanted to be in on what Trevor and Simone had going on. But it was a false closeness. Liam didn’t really care. Liam thought it was funny. “Sorry, man, rig-A-TONY today! What kinda salad can I getcha?” Trevor having to ball up his fists, a slight smile to suppress teeth he wished to bare in a snarl to make the idiot shut his goofy trap once and for all.


Simone, she was all kindness. Real appreciation for his tastes at the soup counter. “Hey Dr. Hart, I’m so sorry, but it’s going to be a salad day today.”


So kind she didn’t even say 
rigatoni
, knowing it would disappoint. To hear the words spoken from those innocent lips. It would be a degradation. Simone was wise—a wisdom beyond her years. She knew better than to say such a disagreeable word out loud—just in his presence? Or at all? Trevor wasn’t sure, but he hoped, for her sake, that she 
maintained her purity in his absence—that she avoided 
ever
 uttering it. He imagined this uncorrupted beauty for Simone.




———



				So much was made possible in an insufferable world if you just created the right structure for the variations to reveal themselves. Which was why he found it impossible to spend too much time with the girls. They were all chaos. They challenged everything he put in place. They were always trying to tear it all down. And Sarah! She knew. She 
knew
 how important it was to him to have things go the way they were supposed to go. How hard it was for him when things deviated—when she threw things at him last-minute that he 
needed to do today, right now!
 Trying to engulf him in her obscure demands.


But he had his routines and secret flares. Careful not to let them burn too bright so they did not obliterate. Just enough that he could absorb inspiration and channel the magic into words. Guarding his space ferociously so the fog did not seep in completely and make it all unintelligible.


In this manner, soup by soup, keyword by keyword, spark by spark, word by word, his second book cohered into form.


He had enough, more than enough, to finish and move on.




———


The book was done! Trevor blinked and blinked again, and out of the haze walked a three-year-old Arlynn and six-year-old Amelie.


He looked at Arlynn confused, expecting her to be Amelie, but no. The babies were gone. Little girls were now in their place. Vivacious and stunning! Precious angels calling him “Papa!” and wanting him to play games with them. Him, Trevor. Of course! Of course! He put on his armour to be their knight while they pretended to be dragons blowing fire in his face, or princesses bossing him to do knightly things in their imaginary worlds.


Soup-counter Simone had graduated, as most of them did, and been replaced by Kim.


Liam, infuriatingly, was still there. How Trevor wished Liam would move on! But no, he had switched his major, again. He would never leave. A forever undergrad who liked the story he was in and wanted to stick with it, time moving on while he played the same character over and over and over again, the rest of the cast changing around him.


It was on a Thai curry day when, his mouth still tingling with lemongrass and kaffir lime, his keyword search conjured Her.




———


Trevor had typed in “gangbang bondage,” clicking on a thumbnail that brought him to an unfamiliar subscription site.


Most sites gave a freebie teaser, and Trevor had won the porn lottery, given full access to the whole video.


A Greek myth scenario in which the actors all started out in togas. Classical music soundtrack, for fuck’s sake! 
Trevor almost clicked it shut—who in the hell had conceptualized this?


He didn’t, though, already hard, something compelling him to keep watching. It was a weird mix of narrative and slow build-up, but the sex was hard-core within the first few frames after the intro, none of the lingering camera work and clichéd foreplay that he got bored with on the femme-focused sites. The men’s faces were shadowed, blue light of dawn like the promise of a new day, waking up to fuck first thing in Olympia. His own expression a figment barely perceivable in the slight reflection from the light through the window overlaying the screen’s blue light.


And then he saw her face. Immediately enraptured in the shock of her cheekbones, the curvature of her lips as they parted.


Troy—Ariadne!


What the fucking fuck?


Holding a large ball of red string—one end loose in her right hand, the other wound in a series of knots all around her body, creating a webbing effect, so it looked almost like she was a spider prowling on a web, spinning silk.


His heart skipped.


His breath stopped.


Then he inhaled a breath so profound it felt like the first gasp of clear air he’d taken in since the night he’d first heard her speak.


Troy?


Troy?


If he weren’t sitting, he would have collapsed. Tears came to his eyes. He wiped them, turning the back of his right hand into a salt lick.


No.


It wasn’t.


Of course it wasn’t.


Renewed breath gave his mind reason. Ariadne was forty now, and this girl was what, twenty-two, maybe? This was not a twenty-year-old video.


It was so, so strange.


An inversion of time.




———


Trevor loathed Ariadne! The woman was a wily bitch.


But the girl in the video.


She looked exactly like the girl he’d fallen in love with so long ago!


The one that had possessed him. Then marooned him in the hell of his own moronic longing. Shaping the course of life that had led him here. And now here she was again!


Beckoning him.


Paused. Like a tape. Fate hitting the play button to start the reel spinning.




———


This one.


This one.


This one.


Choose this one, again.




———


It was titled “String Games.”


Trevor lost all desire for variety—the once-and-never-again urge that usually drove his porn consumption.


This one.


He spent a good amount of time figuring out how to download it onto his desktop at home. Placed it in a special subfolder hidden away in his 
Work in Progress
 folder. Finding himself wishing he had his old VCR, that he could somehow convert it to analog, hold it in his hands, to know it was really real.


He came to it over and over again. Heeding its call outside of his regular timeframes, hearing it whispering, whispering—a string of sound through his ear to the part of his brain where desire clicked on and drove him. A binding hex.


This one. Pushing the desire for any other out of his mind.


This one. Blazing through the miasma.


He couldn’t figure it out. But did he have to? No. It was porn, for god’s sake. A fucking frenzy he could click on any time of day. But this one was special. He could have a special one.


It was so disorienting. Almost like falling in love.


Dad Costume


Somewhere along this half-lucid timeline of repeat childbearing, breastfeeding, infant and toddler rearing, the insanity of disrupted sleep, and ever-relevant content creation for a successful mom blog, Sarah had begun wearing Trevor’s clothes, working from his home office, sitting in his chair, sipping coffee from his favourite cup (Sarah did not otherwise drink coffee), pretending to be Trevor while writing Trevor’s blog posts.


The Trevor costume had been PIT’s idea.


During one of Sarah and PIT’s intimate conversations discussing content for the next post, at a moment when Sarah was feeling particularly frazzled, Sarah had looked up from Trevor’s computer, her gaze falling on the rumpled pile of clothes Trevor had dumped beside his hamper, starting to tense up, feeling the familiar rage bubble, but then, PIT had settled a hand on that thick knotted place between her shoulder blades, and whispered, 
“Costume change!”


“Ew! Gross, Trevor’s dirty laundry?”


“Try it. Just slip in. It will help you get into character.”


Trevor’s smells and garments layered atop her like a second skin, allowing PIT to express himself fully in Sarah’s body, granting her almost total release.


She sauntered to the chair, slumped deliciously over, spread her legs wide and began to write.




———



				Sarah-as-Trevor took to the stage as often as busy life allowed, giving Sarah a much-needed lift out of the fog of 
home. Sarah fitfully entering the room, crossing the threshold—across the bridge from baby and toddler time, PIT flushing within her, the two of them as Trevor strolling across the other side into a world of ideas you could sink into, lose yourself in, knowing the world outside was tended to by someone else, none of it your concern, and truly make word come to form. A magical world where the projects you had going in the life you hoped for were not consistently hijacked by the need for a hug, a tantrum only you could provide solace for, a diaper blowout only you could properly attend to, a disrupted nap, the need for a snack, but not that snack, a different snack, a jealous sibling battle resulting in a nosebleed, potty training accidents, big grumpy week-long Papa protests, a list of never-ending chores, or a momentary Mama meltdown when it all felt like a bit much.


Sarah’s precious hour, during what had been Arlynn’s afternoon nap while Trevor was at work and Amelie at school—now become Arlynn’s TV time, since she was no longer napping. Was she damaging her child’s brain with screens? The experts were unclear. Blog Sarah recommended forty-five minutes max—Mama’s mental health break—but some days Sarah let it go to an hour, feeling guilty, negligent, awful, yet needing too, to give herself this pause to bring PIT’s hopes, dreams, challenges, and continuous wishes for growth and transformation alongside his growing family to life on Trevor’s screen—binding their worlds together.




———


One day in the office, wearing Trevor’s favourite forest-green zip-up sweater overtop his faded Poison T-shirt, matched with a pair of rust corduroys that Sarah rolled up so they wouldn’t drag, showing a little peek of his matching navy narwhal socks that were basically knee-high on Sarah, toes deliciously roomy in Trevor’s wedding shoes—the gorgeous oxblood half-brogues that Sarah had bought for him that he had not worn since their honeymoon—Sarah typed in Trevor’s password, and there, open on his desktop, was his 
Work in Progress
 folder, with a subfolder labelled 
Troy
.


Sarah paused.


Troy?


What was that about?


What 
was
 he working on?


“Maybe it will help with the piece, to get into a solid Trevor mindset,”
 PIT suggested, 
“if you read just a bit of it?”


He shared his first drafts with Sarah anyway! A practice that had started in grad school with his M.F.A. thesis—the stories that became his first book, about the dreams burgeoned into being when they first got together. She was his first reader and most trusted editor, knowing where to guide him along while avoiding “heartless criticism” that might send him into a two-week spiral, threatening to axe the entire project in the face of her disapproval, pondering whether they were on the edge of a breakup now that she no longer saw his genius. It had happened only once, very early on. After that, Sarah had learned to be much more delicate with her feedback.


PIT really just wanted a spark of inspiration for Trevor’s blog article! Maybe tap into some of the ideas swirling around in Trevor’s head and then change them to make them appropriate for Sarah’s audience. Not really trespassing into Trevor’s privacy.


What did Trevor have to hide? Besides, Sarah and PIT were getting so good at playing Trevor that it was basically just Trevor going into his own files, after all.


“Let’s do it!”
 PIT said. 
“We should have a look.”




———



				Inside the 
Troy
 folder was a video, not a story.


A long musical interlude. Shadowed figures.


Some gesticulation.


Fading into and out of perception.


A sense of chaos.


A crumpled figure centre-scene, unmoving.


And then the shadows floated toward her, rousing the female figure.


Starting and falling back.




———


Trevor was into modern dance now? Interesting.




———


The dancer filled the entire visual field, a patchwork of shadows, holding a big ball of rope. Wrapped and knotted all around her body, like a web. Spinning the huge ball in her hands.


Sarah recognized the music. The Strauss opera 
Ariadne auf Naxos.
 Oh—Ariadne’s thread! The story clicked into place.


Then the stroking began. In earnest. Robes dropping off the men, the woman already naked, Sarah now saw, except for the ropes.


Each masked figure began to wind and tie his own thread around the knotted woman. First one, and then another, pulling her in, the other threads slack enough for her to be drawn away, but still held tight, binding. Her mouth open—as though in song, or wail, to be filled up in turn by each of them.


Oh! Oh! What she was looking at clicked into place. Not modern dance.


Oh?


And though some part of her mind told her to shut it off, she didn’t.


Other parts urged her on. Something stirring—alive, this thing inside. Starting and falling back and starting and falling back between urge and censorship. And as the figure emerged out of shadow into the light she saw—it was Ariadne!


Ariadne?


No. There was a big tattoo up her arm. And she was about twenty years younger.


Still. Ariadne enough—and all those men! Oh Ariadne would so, so hate this! Not an Ariadne fantasy at all. But set to 
Ariadne auf Naxos
!


What was this and where had Trevor gotten it? Oh god! She had definitely trespassed into Trevor’s private life! Oh god! Really? This?




———


Sarah turned it off.


And sat, stunned.


Her beautiful Ariadne! What was this? A flash of anger.


“Fucking pig!” And, “In his fucking dreams Ariadne would have let him! Or any of them! What is going on with the ropes? How did he get a hold of this?”


Then PIT: 
“Settle down, Sarah. Stop judging.”
 PIT, ever at the ready. That reliable voice urging—
“It’s alright, Sarah. Just let yourself go. You know you want to.”


Sarah again: “But Trevor doesn’t like opera! Does he even know what the music is?”


To which PIT responded, 
“Shhh, it doesn’t matter. That’s not the important part.”


And then a sudden urge—a rush of heat—up from what had felt for so long now just the birthing place, trembling again with feeling—up through her guts and lungs and heart, up through her throat to her cheeks and tongue and fingers, up to the tingling space at the back of her nape, loosening the knots. Not in any way brought forth by a hormonal drive to reproduce.


Yes. She did want this. They wanted this. They wanted it together—Sarah and PIT—as though dissolving the boundary between them.


Sarah looked around Trevor’s office, a space devoid of her housekeeping, a portal to a liminal world where the rules of Sarah’s house slackened.


She now Trevor as much as Sarah between the screen and the real world.




———


They clicked the video open again, tapped on the play icon.


Then suddenly everything on screen shifted. Fast. From slumber to gangbang within a handful of frames. A frenzy of cocks in flight.


“A fucking gangbang? Really, Sarah? Oh my god!”


But then PIT spoke up. 
“No, you’re not Sarah, you’re Trevor.”


PIT reached down and tied the laces of the shoes tighter, feeling the knots squeeze their feet inside. Binding them into the otherwise loose brogues.


“Okay. I’m Trevor. Yeah, baby 
that’s hot? Yeah. Ooh, she likes it! She wants it!”


They morphed into one of the men’s bodies. God-like.


A chorus of Dionysuses.


Ariadne’s fantasy!


She, directing the god to multiply himself when he arrives on the island to find her abandoned, betrayed, and alone.


The god attempts to rouse her to him, which she will not do until he complies. Each god taking one of the strings she offers.




———


Ariadne wanting more.




———


A woman who could always take more.




———


Everything a god might have had to give. No matter how dark, deranged, demonic, delicate, dumb, dangerous, or drippy, and make of it her own salvation.




———


Ariadne’s love for Theseus had left her broken. Become the lover of a god instead of the wife of a man. And not just any god, but the god who will give you all the pleasure you desire.




———


Ariadne wanted more.




———


Not wifely! Not wifely at all—holder of threads! How many gods might it take to loosen the inhibitions of a woman’s shattered heart, releasing her into her own abandon?


The question arose in Sarah—remembering the story.




———


A shift on screen.




———


Ariadne awoke.


Stretching to her full height, arms and legs in all directions. Spun, pulling all the threads in simultaneously—choreographing the Dionysuses into her own unfolding pornographic plot line. Threads and knots and webbing—a complex erotic tapestry.


Like she was simultaneously fucking all of them. Each compelled to please her. And she was pleased! Or at least a very good erotic actress. And the cinematography was stunning. Blue light playing with shadow, threads gleaming 
silver and fading to invisibility, like spiderwebs dancing in sun rays. Binding, unbinding, disappearing threads. So hard to know what to follow leading where.




———


“Mama! Mama! The ponies stopped singing! I want more pony songs!”—Arlynn’s feet scampering across the floor toward the stairs.




———


Spell broken; magic deactivated by a powerful antidote.


Sarah closed it all down.


Back to the desktop she had found upon opening.


Blog post unwritten, damn!




———


She was wobbly.


Like she was being pulled apart.


She touched her hands to her face, to her belly, to that place where her ribs met, putting Sarah back together under Trevor’s clothes. She felt her heart pumping. Like there was something in there trying to get out, as though some kind of story were emerging from an old one that had gone wrong somehow in the telling.


She unzipped the sweater, slipped Trevor’s T-shirt over her head, stood up, tripping in the too-big shoes, knocking her knee on the underside of the desk, hitting her temple on the lip as she bent down, fingers fumbling with the tight knots, rushing to return to herself before Arlynn came upstairs and caught her half-dressed in Papa’s clothes. 
“Mama’s coming, Arlynn!” she yelled. “Mama’s on her way! Hop down the stairs like a silly bunny and find a hiding nest so Mama fox can come and find you!”




———


A thousand years it seemed to take to unknot the enchanted shoes while time beyond the shoes hovered in suspended existence—


Such beautiful shoes! Unworn since the staged photos at the castle in Wales. Not where they’d been married, but Sarah had insisted they bring their wedding clothes on the honeymoon for documentation purposes. Cumbersome. Especially since they were backpacking. And she had them lug that ridiculous suitcase around. Her dress, his entire getup. In and out of the wedding clothes.


By the end Trevor had been sick of it. Pretending the wedding too many times over so the original seemed to lose meaning for him in the repetitive displays. And his guts hurt. All through their honeymoon. Something wasn’t right inside.


Trevor had said he wanted to preserve the shoes when she asked why he never wore them. Sarah suspected there was something more to it. Some aversion he couldn’t quite name mixed with a reverence he couldn’t quite name. Which may have had something to do with Sarah’s anger on their honeymoon when Trevor hadn’t wanted to scuff them up during that unfortunate last shoot. The very last one. The most magical. The finale! And she had fallen because he was more worried about his shoes than holding her in the 
pose they were being instructed to hold. And her wedding dress! Oh god! She had wept after the photo. God, she had wept seeing the streaks of mud on her dress. And he had stared at the scuffs on his shoes, seething.


But it had been okay in the end. The photographer knew a good cleaner. Only one tiny, tiny little stain. Barely there at all. Hidden in the folds behind her right thigh. One had to know it was there and search. Really search to find it. And the shoes—Sarah had polished them when they got home—good as new. There was no evidence at all of the scuffle. They deserved to be worn, these shoes, for their beauty to be honoured, rather than being stuffed away in their shoebox at the back of Trevor’s closet, compartmentalized into a realm of invisibility—barely ever thought of, basically not existing at all.


The photo had come out gorgeous! It hung in their bedroom in a gilded frame, right next to the other they had taken earlier in the trip in front of the black swans at Rosenau Palace. The swans’ reflection mirrored in the still surface, just slightly morphed by the moving waters, hinting at something unseen.


Sometimes when she looked at the photo for too long, Sarah’s gaze was drawn to that amorphous hint, a disturbing undercurrent drawing her mind downward. Underneath, underneath, all of it drowned right out, infilled with cold water filtered through with light that had no use for imagery. All blended through and fluid, as though there were a strange presence down there wanting to surface.


And then she’d snap back up to the surface so as not to disturb. Back to the swans. All well. All well. Such a perfect framing, after all.


Yes, they had really nailed those shots.




———


Finally the knots came loose, and the shoes slipped off, followed by the corduroys, and Sarah robed herself in her linen housedress and wool slippers, whisking herself out the door of Trevor’s office just as Arlynn began stomping again up the stairs.


“Mama! I hid for so long!”


“Yes, sweetie, I know. I was just tied up for a moment. Mama fox is coming! Go bunny go!”


Arlynn’s face beamed with glee as she turned and fled, squealing “Ee, ee, ee!” Sarah moved slowly, exaggerating each step, letting bunny get a head start, moving down on all fours when she got down the stairs, sniffing and huffing, “I smell a sweet sweet bunny!” Nosing gently into the blanket Arlynn had buried herself under as giggles and screeches erupted from underneath.




———



				At first the urge to watch the video was primly sequestered in the few moments before working on weekly dad content—a rising anticipation as Sarah began setting up Arlynn’s shows, logging into the kids’ account—a little smile at the edge of her lips when she thought of what was in store for her once Arlynn’s make-believe babysitters captured her full attention for a blessed forty-five minutes. A little tingle. 
A pleasant jolt. An enlivened thread. A knot slipped in to hold it all in place.


But then the wanting started to seep out of its sequestered time.


Maybe an hour before, she’d catch a glimpse of movement from the shadowed hall leading to the stairs, hear a note—was it a note? Yes, it was! No, not a note of the song, just a notification on her phone! She had to change that text tone! It was so eerily close to the song. She’d hear it and her mind would spin toward the video. Her gaze flick over to the hallway, feeling herself mounting the stairs. Could she sneak up for just a quick peek while Arlynn was absorbed in the blocks? Until she heard the kettle scream on the stove? Turn the heat down. Just a quick three minutes? Sound low, so low, just one bar—door open, so she could hear the stove and the toddler. She’d just glimpse. Just run her eyes over Ariadne coming to life. God, she almost orgasmed just thinking about it. Feeling herself get plump and slippery.


“Yes,”
 PIT whispered. 
“Yes!”
 Eek! Ha! Little flush to the cheeks.


“Really, Sarah?” While her toddler sat on her hip, clutching her as she stirred the soup pot, turned away from the heat of the stove, crick in Sarah’s neck from the weight on the left-hand side. Toddler reaching for the spoon, fingers in Sarah’s mouth and ears. Kisses on her nose and eyes. Down to the floor for a little playtime.


“Not now…”—a thing she said often enough to Trevor, 
yet to PIT it was so much more playful. To PIT it held a promise of later, a flirtation, a hint.


What was happening to her?


Sarah could not turn away from Ariadne’s strings.


Bound to this fantasy incursion into the lingering anhedonia brought on by the unending demands of motherhood and what she had to admit to herself sometimes was maybe a less than ideal marriage.


Feeling guided to some shared vestiges of recognition—ropes leading her back into the labyrinth.


The same one she had chosen to lead Trevor out of—away from Ariadne, so long ago.


And now here they were again, so strangely, strangely entwined.




———


A mess.


Sarah had gotten herself into a messy nest of strings.


What was wrong with her?


Watching the video, she wanted to fuck imaginary Ariadne as Trevor and as Dionysus. Or become Ariadne, giving herself over to the gods she had conjured.


Yet the thought of having sex with Trevor made her body recoil. She could imagine being in Trevor’s body having sex with someone else, but not in her own body having sex with Trevor. Perhaps never again.


It trickled up, this knowing, but she would not admit it. It was too awful a thing to think.


No. It was just another phase. She would get through this. She would come around again. This was just one step along the way. She just needed to find a way to make him see her again. And once he did, those old feelings would come alive inside her, leading them back to each other, where they both knew they belonged.


They loved one another, after all.




OceanofPDF.com

















Chapter Six


Summer Interlude




Sarah and Trevor came to an agreement.


They would split summer break.


Sarah would take the kids to Vancouver for the month of July to visit her mother so Trevor could have time to write. Come August, Trevor would take the kids for the long weekend to his parents’ place on his own so Sarah could recalibrate, after which she would come and join them all for a week at the Hart cottage along with Trevor’s sister Mimi and Trevor’s ten-year-old nephew—a kid Trevor had only seen once, as a baby, who he always thought of as Scott, because in the photos Eileen kept of him on the fridge, he always looked to Trevor like a Scottie dog. “His name is Randolph,” Sarah would say, each time Trevor, prompted by a new fridge photo, would ask Eileen, “How 
is
 Scott doing?” Mimi had moved to San Diego after law school and had been too busy working her way to senior partner to pay much attention to Trevor’s life, so why would he have any interest in hers?


Trevor would need a break from the festive reunion—a perfect opportunity to whisk Sarah away with all the family-backup, so he convinced his parents to babysit the girls for two special nights, renting a cottage on the other side of the lake—within range of Walt’s long-range walkie-talkies, for Sarah’s peace of mind, since there was no cell reception.


The last few weeks of August, the girls would have day camp and Sarah and Trevor would alternate weekend parental duties—Trevor on Saturdays, Sarah on Sundays—time at home without kids during the week to focus on work and maybe a little kid-free fun on the side.


July went off without a hitch.


Trevor in a groove he hadn’t found since grad school—waking up at 6 a.m., running ten kilometres with no thoughts in his mind but his own, overnight oats waiting when he got back, followed by that first sweet cup of coffee as he sat at his desk, flicked on Sean’s old lamp, and brought the screen to life—writing undisturbed until his 11 a.m. date with the video. His body geared like clockwork, ticking in perfect tempo until 10:30 a.m., when he started to get fidgety, but he would push himself through—like those last two kilometres when he was hungry and yearning for it all to just be over, mastering his weaker impulses, “Keep going you fucking coward,” and that’s when the real gold would 
come—words in his mind like fire, which he dictated into his phone as his feet hit the pavement, voice huffing with adrenaline and insight. And then, at eleven, the sweet, sweet release of those first notes, Ariadne coming to life just for him.


Morning over. Epic starts to a month of perfect days.


Everything triple-backed-up. Trevor was taking no chances with the magic flowing through him with this new book! Going so far as to save it front and centre on his desktop, prime real estate, letting it know it was the real writing that truly counted.


Trevor skipped to the kitchen to pull out one of the lunch packets Sarah had stacked and labelled in the freezer—“Thai fucking curry today, Hart”—he really was the luckiest man in the world! What a phenomenal wife he had. A quick text to Sarah and the girls with a photo of him eating his deeply appreciated soup while making a silly papa face, and back to the desk from noon until the magic stopped coming. The video, again. Then whatever plans he’d made for the evening. Spent and so fucking happy, humming the notes to his new favourite tune.




———



				Sarah debated whether or not to slip the video on a thumb drive to take along with her to Vancouver, but PIT cautioned against it. 
“At Grace’s, really? I hardly think that’s the place! How will you slip into character?”


PIT was right. Also, Sarah knew he could be fussy. He might refuse to show up at all if she brought the video 
without him agreeing to it. She thought about insisting, but she knew PIT would come back at her about potentially corrupting the magic by removing the video from its special place in this special room and the special rituals they had, which kept the video sacred.


The first week in Vancouver, Sarah was exhausted and edgy with no time to herself, navigating mother logistics on top of the usual kid stuff. “You’ll settle in,” Grace assured her. “Once the girls get used to me and aren’t so skittish. Just be patient.”


Finally laying her head down on her pillow at night, Sarah would feel herself being tugged by Ariadne’s thread, imagining herself slipping out to a place beyond Sarah’s frazzled nerves, settled into the fantasy of awakening some other body, coiled in waiting within this one, unravelling as she moved through the choreography in her mind. God, she missed the video! She shouldn’t have left it behind! She needed it now! It would help her unwind. 
“Sshh, Sarah, settle down,”
 PIT offered. 
“It’s waiting for us when we get back. We can’t watch it here, anyway.”


By the second week the girls had taken to calling Grace “Frowny Witch Grandma,” eager to accompany her to art/garden classes at the community gardens where Grace volunteered. Classes where, according to Grace, they would be making witch’s potions out of magical plants from her medicinal herb garden.




———


Sarah accompanied Grace and the girls to the first few classes, marvelling at what Grace had managed to create—a small thriving wonderland abuzz with colour, fragrance, life, and light—a sanctuary reminiscent of the garden on the homestead that Sarah had spent so much time in as a child, here tucked between concrete buildings in a shadowy urban world. Grace had installed mirrors and trellises, to help guide as much light in as possible. Sarah was reminded of the admiration she held for her mother, so hard in so many ways, yet alive with so much life to share with others. She felt heartened that the girls could experience some of this magic for themselves, so grateful to be here, just the four of them, without having to think about what Trevor would need if he were here—so often at odds with what anyone else needed. Sarah was about to take out her phone and start snapping photos: what a perfect montage this would make! But then she caught Grace’s eye, registering the slight frown, and put the phone away, resolving just to be part of the class, with the girls, led by her mother for the day.


“Sarah, I think you should just do your own thing tomorrow,” Grace said later that evening. “Let me take the girls to the garden and you get out on your own. You don’t have to be with them 
all
 the time, you know. It’s good for them to do things without you.”


“I like being with them, Mom, and with you. We get such little time together.”


But then another voice piped up: 
“You deserve something for just yourself”
—PIT.


“You’re always doing everything for everyone else.


“What about
 us, 
Sarah? The rest of your day will feel so much better if you give yourself some time to just let go.”
 Apparently, PIT was feeling a bit neglected!


Grace looked at her a little oddly.


“Did you say something just now?” Grace asked. “I felt like I heard someone speaking, but it didn’t sound like you, and your mouth wasn’t moving.”


“No, Mom, I didn’t say anything, just thinking. Wondering about what I would do with myself. I guess I could get out and take some shots, do some research, plan for getting back to work when I’m home.”


“You don’t always have to be 
doing
. Why don’t you try 
being
? You’re always so busy. It won’t hurt you to try enjoying yourself without making something of it,” Grace responded.


“Ugh, so bossy!”
—PIT—
 “But she’s ri-i-ght!”


“What was that?”—Grace.


“Nothing, Mom. Just thinking!”—Sarah, snarky.


“Sshh, PIT! I think she can hear you!” she thought.


Sarah regretted having heeded PIT about not removing the video from its magical nook in Trevor’s computer. They could use it now!…But maybe they didn’t 
need
 the video 
every
 time? PIT was her husband! They could innovate playtime.


PIT wanted to get to it, but Sarah made him wait. She would take 
her
 time today. No need to rush! Grace and the girls were gone for the day. After a delicious cup of tea, all by herself curled up in Grace’s reading chair, Sarah led PIT into her mother’s guest shower stall, deliciously filled with hot steam, lathered herself up, detaching the long-necked shower head, humming their favourite tune, almost hitting all the right notes of the crescendo, thanks to the acoustics of the steamy stall. Just enough room in the cramped space for the two of them.




———


And so, Sarah too found her groove. Out on her own a few afternoons a week freshly showered, tasting delicious morsels of what the city had to offer while her mom was out and about with the girls, then in the early evenings lovely free-play time on the beach all together, Grace and Sarah laughing as the girls ran around in the sand, helping them build castles and collect shells.


The girls seemed so free here, so happy to have their mama and grandma delighting in the world with them. On days Grace didn’t take them to the garden, Sarah had planned a full itinerary of intergenerational outings all over the Lower Mainland, firing off little teasers when Grace was focused on the girls and not strictly monitoring Sarah’s screen time, keeping her followers basically on the edges of their screens anticipating the next hit of quality matrilineal memory-making. And in the evenings, cups of chamomile 
tea and quiet reading beside Grace, not feeling like anything more was required.


Sarah felt so light. She went to bed going through her days. Full, and yet not 
busy
. The girls were not even squabbling. Sarah was not being petulant with her mother. That first week she had wanted to flee back to her Ariadne otherworld every night as her mind fought the sleep she so desperately needed. But now she was here. Fully 
here.
 “I love you so, so, so, so much, Mama, you’re the best mama in the world!” Amelie said to her, eyes glowing, every morning when she crawled into Sarah’s bed.


Under Grace’s tutelage, Amelie was sharing so much better with Arlynn. Not feeling like she had to hold on to every precious scrap, but open and giving, even hugging Arlynn instead of always pushing her away. And feisty little Arlynn was trying new food and not breaking out in hives. Grace’s salve had basically cleared up her perpetually rashy cheeks. And not once this week had she complained about her belly hurting.


As Sarah drifted into a hypnagogic dream, whirling into the shells she and the girls had decorated their sandcastle with earlier that day, a fleeting thought whispered up from the conch she was holding: 
Maybe you don’t have to go home?


“The video?”
 PIT offered. But Sarah barely heard him as she ran across the drawbridge toward the glittering light to put the shell in its place among the others.




———


Trevor was prepared for their return. He was 
so
 on top of his game! Ready for whatever the world threw at him. Knowing he had it in him now to take it all in stride.


Yet as he stood at the airport gates with his sparkly-eyed wolf and snow leopard stuffies—picked up at the nearby kiosk, an afterthought—and a bouquet of farmers’ market wildflowers for Sarah—premeditated—his dread began to mount as a procession of harried travel moms stepped through what seemed like the gates of hell—wailing infants slung across their bodies, flailing children tipping dangerously out of improperly fastened carriers—hauling unwieldy loads of luggage smeared with remnants of plane snacks, dropping bits of their messy lives all over the airport throughways. “Oh my fucking god!” he thought, considering dropping it all, bolting as quickly as possible out the conveniently self-opening doors.


But then he saw Her.


This woman, glowing like the moon, reflecting such beautiful light in the faces of his two moon-eyed daughters.


The only woman in the entire line who had it all under control.


Not just under control, but luminescently so.


She was radiant! His mystical wife!


“Sarah, Sarah!” he almost sang, waving the flowers in the air, jumping up and down like a little boy.


“Papa! Papa!” Amelie squeaked, running over. And Trevor scooped her up in his arms, then ran to Sarah and Arlynn, pulling them all in. His perfect shining family.




———


The welcome Trevor gave them almost completely washed out the niggling feeling in Sarah’s gut. He was a good man. A passionate man! He just needed so much more time to himself than he ever got. The time apart had been so good for both of them! Sarah needed to make sure to arrange these things more often.


But what would she find when she got home after a month away? She felt her happiness drain out a little, mired in disgust for every time she had come home after a work trip to her despoiled house. “No, Sarah, don’t,” she told herself. 
“That’s right, Sarah, trust him”
—PIT.


Trevor looked like he was going to run circles around the yard chasing his own tail, smirking, eyeing Sarah so closely as she opened the door.


The house was immaculate.


Bouquets of wildflowers in Sarah’s old swan-motif vases, in every room in the house.


Sarah looked at Trevor, completely shocked.


“I found them in the garage. The tote was labelled. I appreciate you so, so much, my swan.”




———


The rest of the summer was a dream.


Sarah was shocked at the change lingering in her body from all the loveliness she and PIT had shared in her mother’s shower stall. She found herself not only willing, but eager. Trevor was his old self again! He truly was. He had managed to come back to her. He was alive, and present, and interested in her—basically PIT. Her dear, enthusiastic, 
committed Trevor. She’d been so convinced she’d never have him back again. He’d just needed time. They both had. Time apart to be Sarah and Trevor so they could find each other again.


For two days and two nights in that cabin on the lake, Sarah and Trevor fucked like their old selves, skinny-dipping after radioing in to say good night to the girls across the lake. And then home again, co-parenting seamlessly, in love again, after all this time.




OceanofPDF.com































OceanofPDF.com

















Chapter Seven


Fantasy Becomes Real




First Day of School


It was the first day of the fall semester. Students abuzz with the twin promises of intellectual enlightenment and classmates who might become more, uncertain how they would measure up in the competitive minefields of university success—marked by who one managed to socially bond with, who one might bring to bed, and how the course might affect one’s GPA—once a bowel-wrenching anxiety that had, with confidence gained from experience, become a thrill to Trevor. He well remembered the anticipation. Though now he was in the position of pulling the expectant strings, with so much more power to delineate the outcome.


Trevor thought of his beautifully crafted syllabus. He had done so much to plan for this semester! He’d had to 
cut out some of his favourite writers to make room for new content he’d never taught before. He worried that excluding some of the classics would leave gaps in the students’ education, but he knew it was important to shift the status quo. He thought of the steps he’d taken to consult with junior female colleagues—those who knew he had a feature on his wife’s mom blog. To whom he often lent an ear for conversations about how much they were expected to shoulder, feeling like they were competing in structures that were never set up for their benefit. Trevor thought of the trust they placed in him and how much effort he had put in on their behalf in departmental meetings the last few years, siding with them against some of their more defensive male colleagues about the importance of teaching female writers. This semester his syllabus would prove once and for all how open he was to moving along with the times.


Trevor wanted to stay relevant, and he supported greater exposure for some truly phenomenal female writers, but he was still a man needing to prove himself in a world of men. He kept a close eye out for who else was in the room when bantering with male colleagues about how they knew it shouldn’t, but it did irk them that female colleagues would get tenure, and then inevitably be on maternity leave before the end of the same year.


Any tenured prof had seen it enough times to know how it went. If the potentially childbearing candidates waited until after their Ph.D. and post-docs to start a family, 
adjuncting for a few years until they landed a tenure-track gig, then when they finally got the security they’d been waiting for they would have to get the show on the road before it was too late, and then it would be a year off and maybe another year back at work and another baby, so another year off. Then they’d be back and complaining, like others before them, that they were discriminated against when it came time for promotions because of the time they’d lost at home to have babies. Complaining too that their male colleagues who had kids were building their careers without pause because their wives were doing the majority of the childcare work—their successes built on the labour of their wives’ bodies.


Trevor understood because he too had made the temporary sacrifice. Yet for some reason, his female colleagues acted like it was not temporary, like it was something that completely altered the way they showed up to work for the rest of time!


Trevor got it. He did. He knew they were in a bind. But he had his own concerns to think of as well. He understood that some of his colleagues faced challenges that he did not have, which was why he was willing to make changes where he could. Still, there was always some up-and-comer ready to take your place if you didn’t jump through the hoops with gusto. He wasn’t going to completely snuff out his ambitions. He had put in his time at home and it had set him back. But now he was on the road to recovery! The system benefited him if he played it right.


Trevor did his best to stay on everyone’s good side, making sure he got his own needs met without appearing to be one of the guys who was taking as much advantage as he could. It was why he masturbated in his office with the door locked instead of taking up the offers his students made at least once per semester, spurred on by his passionate lectures. Not something he encouraged, just a by-product of his allure.


Trevor was a good guy.


He wasn’t exemplary. He’d long given up on exemplary.


In some ways, the less people expected of you, the easier it was to duck out without anyone noticing. But you had to step up often enough that you didn’t get labelled a dick, inspiring the more righteous colleagues to take special interest in your failings.


Trevor had learned his lesson, because there had been one time he had not been a good guy. A time he both regretted and imagined repeating over and over again. Each time turning away from the pull. Back on track. Back on track.


There had been another time, too, but that one didn’t count because he hadn’t gone all the way. He’d realized pretty quickly after the first kiss that the girl was wacko—sending him fifteen emails a day, slipping lovesick notes under his office door, threatening to show up naked at his house if he didn’t fuck her right there on his desk. Opening up her trench coat to show her plump luscious body underneath—pubic hair shaved to a thin line, breasts like heavy melons. He had been so hard he thought he was going to 
explode, but instead he had sat down behind his desk, invited her to sit too, on the chair opposite him, instead of on his lap. And then he had talked to her about his little girl, and told her he thought she was beautiful, but that he couldn’t. Couldn’t do that to his wife and child. He had hoped it would be enough to make her pity him for not being able to realize the desire he felt for her, instead of callously turning her away.


But she had been persistent, begging him to slip his hand up her pussy and make her cum, as he had the first time she attended office hours, debasing herself with some made-up fantasy about how he had promised her more.


But he would never have done that, he told her. Suggesting that perhaps she had fabricated these fantasies to try to trick him into doing something they would both regret. She was probably under a lot of stress with exams coming, he suggested. He understood, but she could face expulsion if he were to open the door and call for one of his colleagues to come in to help him defuse the situation.


He had tried to be sweet to her, but she was clearly mentally unstable.


Luckily, he had shut her down before she started spreading lies around.


She had covered herself up, retreated, apologized for her brashness. Admitted her mistake, had the dignity to drop his class.




———


Trevor had been so good these last few years. He had learned from past misunderstandings. Not that he was completely to blame. They had happened when he was lost in the fog after Arlynn’s birth. Now he was so much more careful.


Still, he didn’t want to completely shun his female students just because they were young and lustful. He just had to do whatever he could to not get too close. And though his imagination fed him possibilities, and he sometimes walked that line with the truly gorgeous ones so they did not quite know what was possible and impossible, he would, after a time, draw the line. Draw it harshly if he had to. If kindness didn’t work. Making the possible impossible. Still, why couldn’t he enjoy drawing the possible out a while so that there might be some amount of satisfaction along the way?


So it was that Trevor walked into the seminar room of his Intro to Creative Writing class glowing with anticipation for the unveiling of his new syllabus, assessing his new crop of young unfamiliar faces. A nod here and there, rote greetings of acknowledgement, when his gaze snagged on a girl at the back of the class.


What the fuck?


He did a double take, trying to shake off the illusion.


The illusion did not shake off—a contortion of lips to which no identifiable emotion could be applied as he attempted to fabricate denial.


His mind looped inside his body, making his knees weak—arousal, shock, disgust, doubt, which he struggled to keep from being written out all over his face.


No, it couldn’t be!


But it was.


It was!


He had seen those lips perform such generosities.


Lingered on the angles of those cheekbones.


That body. The tattoo on her upper arm—a snake wound around what looked like Athena’s spear. It was fucking unmistakable.


Their eyes locked and she smiled a shy new-student smile, which sent a surge of energy so profound through Trevor’s body that he almost felt as though he’d orgasmed, the song from the video ripping through, leaving him gasping.


He curtailed the expulsion of air from his mouth by pressing his lips together tightly, managing to professorially nod his head at her to acknowledge her studious greeting.




———


Trevor began to feel himself dissociate.


Withdrawing from a reality too confusing to possibly exist.


This was 
his
 classroom.


She
 could not be 
here.


The mindfuck was threatening to choke Trevor, but Dr. Hart would adhere to his lesson plan. A performance he had down by rote. Words coming out of his mouth that he had repeated dozens of times before, while Trevor writhed within—restraining the very strong competing impulses to either bolt from the room and plunge himself in cold water to wash away this strange illusion, or drag the girl by the 
rope he knew she had coiled somewhere, hidden beneath her clothes, back to his office, where he would teach her the lesson she’d come for.




———


Dr. Hart did neither of these things. Instead, he had the students spend fifteen minutes composing a piece of writing about water in whatever genre came most naturally to them, as he always did on the first day to get a sense of where they were starting out.


Water was universal. Something everyone could relate to. It was on everyone’s mind these days, given climate change, given fires and the droughts. Given the stainless-steel water bottles the students were always sipping out of in class since single-use plastics had been banned on campus.


Trevor ricocheted around while Dr. Hart calmly collected student papers, as though all was right in the world, even offering Masha Novak a kind smile as she placed her paper on top of the stack.


Masha returned his kindness with her own shy smile, ducking her head in response—a primate gesture of subservience.


Dr. Hart patted the top of her paper with his right hand, noting her name, saying, “Thank you, Masha,” while Trevor’s left hand shook, almost violently, wanting to tear into the sheet and stuff it in his mouth, a gesture which Dr. Hart corrected by gripping this rogue hand to the side of the table.




———


Dr. Hart rushed to his office, papers clenched against his chest instead of tucked into his duffel with his laptop and lecture notes, panting as he shut the door.


Trevor pulled Masha’s sheet to the top of the stack, eating up her words:




Pleasure, pain


sublimation


Water


over water


Ice to vapour


vapour to ice.


Dreams writhe forth


binding time to breath.


Flash of ancient love


through black screen


quartz gone blank.


Friction of earth and skin


ice hollows.


Strings tracing time


crystallized in myth.




“Is she a fucking sorceress reading my mind?” Trevor wondered, tracing his sweaty pointer finger over her loopy scrawl, smudging the ink a little. “Did she have some kind of surveillance tied into my webcam?


“This has to be a joke. A weird fucking trick.”




———


After class he’d ridden home with no memory of unlocking the bike or of the route he took, whether he’d evaded any oncoming cars, or even whether he’d ridden home at all.


All he knew was that he was there, in front of his computer—Sarah and the girls blessedly out of the house—where he could watch the video without worrying about who might be lingering in the hall outside.


It was unmistakably Her.




———


Trevor was at a loss. For the first few weeks he tried his usual mind trick of shoving the unwanted thing away, over in a corner where it could not disturb. Making the disturbing thing feel very, very small. So small it would become insignificant.


He had to get her out of his fucking class. Or tell her he knew everything and finally fuck her.


Wasn’t this where it had been leading all along?


It had to be fate.


There were too many intertwined strings for it to not be the thing he’d been waiting for.


The thing to finally shift things, so that Trevor might finally live the life he was meant to live.


Conjured first on the screen, bringing him renewed energy, lighting his words on fire all through the summer, and now out of the screen into his classroom! What might she awaken in him in real life?


He heard a voice bubble up. 
“Write about it, man.”
 A habit he had purged himself of when he was trying to get over his youthful obsession with Troy—compulsively penning shitty poetry and journal entries about his feelings, believing she was his sole audience and that every word was a golden extension of his soul.


He had shredded the pages of those old journals, unceremoniously tossing them in the recycling bin after the loss of 
the
 letter that had 
thankfully
 never found its way to Ariadne. They were full of embarrassing imitative poems and unsent confessional letters he was grateful now he’d never been ridiculous enough to share with anyone but Sean, who’d graciously listened and suggested he might want to hold off on attempts at publication or daily secret admirer envelopes dropped on Troy’s doorstep. “Write about it, just for the sake of it, not for anything else,” Sean would say. “Just cause it’s shit doesn’t mean doing it’s worth nothing. Shit turns to compost if you leave it long enough. Eventually you’ll get to something good. It’s for you, not her, anyway.”


Maybe to write to Sean could be useful now? Trevor had no one else. It had always been Sean, and then it had been Sarah, and Sean for the things he could not tell Sarah. But Sean had disappeared during a bike trip through Mongolia the year Trevor had defended his doctoral dissertation—a trip Trevor was supposed to have accompanied him on to celebrate his defence, but which he’d had to opt out of because he’d hit a parked car on his bike and broken his left wrist, as well as several ribs, slightly puncturing one of his lungs.


Sean’s bike had been found mangled just off a road through the Khangai Mountains with most of his gear gone. His body had never been located.


With Trevor still unable to travel, Sarah had gone in his place to aid in the search efforts. She had organized everything—accommodations, translators, meetings at the embassy, drivers, and guides to scour the countryside.


“It’s nothing at all for me to do this,” Sarah had assured Sean’s parents. “It’s the least I can do.” Sarah had toured Mongolia doing research for a piece on slow tourism the year previous—the impetus for Sean and Trevor’s bike trip. She had helped Sean organize everything for that too, since Trevor was too preoccupied with the dissertation to be of any use.


How guilty she felt. How responsible. Trevor, too. If he’d been there, this would never have happened. He sat at home feeling like the most worthless lump of shit that had ever lived, waiting for news.


After the initial search turned up nothing, Sarah had stayed in Mongolia for an extra month, attempting to turn up leads. By the time she came home, Sean had been presumed dead. There had been no funeral.


Trevor had titled his first book in dedication to Sean: 
Dream the Text Like a Persistent Certainty
, a small way to pay him homage. A joke between them, hearkening back to their glory days of Bukowski and brewskies on the beach.




———


Trevor still found himself talking to Sean in his head sometimes. Trying to imagine what Sean would say. To this it would have been, “Get a fucking grip, Hart.” Or, “Let’s run it off, man, some shit you can’t wrap your head around, no matter how many angles you try looking at it from.”


Fucking Sean. Where was the guy? How could he have just fucking disappeared? How was Trevor supposed to get by without him?


He was frantic. Erratic. Just the other day, he had almost crashed his bike into a pedestrian at full speed. And earlier this evening, he’d been short with the girls too—yelling at them to stop messing around, making them cry at bedtime. Which happened enough anyway. They were little tyrants at bedtime, but it had become chronic since his porn star had stepped out of her video and into his class.


How could this be happening now?


Trevor on the verge of ruining all the gains he had made at home after their sweet, sweet summer.


It had taken an hour to calm the girls back down. Well, for Sarah to calm them back down, because he was a “mean Papa” and they didn’t want to talk to him or have him go anywhere near them “ever again!”


Sarah had been such a bitch to him afterward. Pissed at him about how she’d “already spent all day with the girls and can’t I have a few hours in the evening to not be parenting on top of everything else?” And could Trevor “not hold it together long enough to play with your girls while your wife washes the dishes after shopping for all the food and making all the meals your family has eaten all day?” A pause, hoping it would stop there, fucking praying, but no, she was really on a tear, “Not to mention that your wife also vacuumed, and took the car in to be serviced, which you were supposed to do last week but forgot, once again! This on top of three loads of laundry, all put away! All put away, including yours—folded the way you like—colour-coded and categorized in your drawers!”


“Sarah!” he’d responded sharply. “Enough! I get it, I get it. Calm down. Just calm down. The girls are here for Christ’s sake!”


“Now you’re worried about the girls? Now you’re worried, after you’ve just spent the last forty-five minutes being short with them?”


“Sarah! Enough!”


“Mama?” Amelie had piped up, running over to her, tears down her face. “Don’t yell at Papa! We don’t yell!”


“You’re right, baby, you’re right. Mama shouldn’t yell at Papa,” Sarah had responded, lifting her up.


“Mean Mama! Mean Papa!” Arlynn shouted from the couch, arms crossed, face in a pout, and then she’d put her face into the pillow and cried.


And Sarah had shifted just like that, out of angry wife mode to kind Mama mode.


There was no place for Trevor in Sarah’s world. No matter how much he invested, it would always come back to this. She would find something to blame him for. As if he didn’t feel bad enough already!


The summer had been a delusional dream. They were back in the banal nightmare, after all.


Troy 2.0


Hey Sean,


This is fucking weird man, but I’ve got to get it off my mind. Goddamn I miss you. You don’t know how much I need you right now. Give my head a fucking shake, run 10k together, then 10 more before you’d even let me talk about this. Man, what trouble I’d have avoided in life if you hadn’t gone off on me. Left me alone to figure this shit out. But here goes. Here goes.


My porn star became a person.


A student in my class with a name of her own! Masha Novak—well, not a porn star, exactly, because I only ever found 
one video. Though I looked. Again and again, I looked. And I am literally fucked by this. Mad with thoughts of her and everything I have done to her with my mind! And everything I have wanted to do and have done to me by her.


So many times, Sean, so many times I’ve watched it all play out across the screen.


My porn star lives in time, for god’s sake! Not the video’s eternal present—but human time. Class time. Office hours.


When she walks in the room, I trace her.


I want to redeem her, Sean. To protect her. To possess her. This beautiful, pained, potent girl that is almost a woman, but still so much a girl. I feel like she is asking this of me.


And yet what do I even know? What do I know of anything? This girl has more real to her than I do at forty-three. More real to her than Sarah, who in the course of becoming the mother to my children has become more and more unknowable to me, giving the girls everything, leaving nothing for me. Making us less and less real as our real life together becomes ever more unhappy. Or is it my life with her?


You remember, Sean, how I told you my dreams were gone. You used to tease me about it, but Sarah wouldn’t believe me. What kind of person has no dreams? She was relentless. She needed to know my dreams so she could help me realize them, so I began to make them up. And what is the difference, really? Made up or really dreamed, either way a fabrication of the mind.


All of this. It feels dreamlike.


Everything.


Fantasy/dream/reality. What does life really consist of?


I’ve let Sarah believe all this time that the dreams spawned the stories, rather than the other way around. I know Sarah would see me as a fraud if I told her the truth.


Have I lied myself into dream so entirely that my entire dreamworld is, in fact, one great delusion? And Trevor in this life—husband, father—a delusion based on a plagiarized version of the man I imagine I should be, but am not? A grotesque facsimile of a man?


Asexual


Writing to Sean shifted something in Trevor. He felt like himself before life got messy—just him and Sean, basically kids, taking pauses from their studies to nail up a few boards and read Bukowski.


Bukowski would have fucking loved this! What if he wrote about it to Bukowski? Bukowski wouldn’t see him as depraved. He’d eat this shit up. It wasn’t Trevor who was erring here. It was the fucking rules. All the rules a man submitted himself to. How they constrained him.


And in whose service were the rules, after all?


Certainly not Trevor’s.




———



				He tried not to think about the video. Every time he was in his office alone, “Not the video, not the video, do your work, man, grade your papers.” But then another voice, 
Just watch the video and get it over with instead of playing this stupid game. Watch the video and then you can get your work done. You’re not getting anything done now.


Whenever it felt like he could swing it without getting caught, he would listen to this voice. It knew him best. It knew if he just watched then he wouldn’t have to agitate in the anguish of something he wanted so badly that there really was no stopping it.


He pared it down, though, limiting the urge—just the five-minute clip of the twenty-two-minute film that got him off with minimal time commitment. The beginning part when it seemed the men were taking porn Ariadne, gathering her up from the mess of herself to fuck her to her salvation. What she needed to free herself from the chains of her abandonment. Rescue by fucking.


But now Troy 2.0! She was tempting him beyond resistance.


And Trevor was trying so hard at home. Was making all the effort. Despite the frenzy. He 
could
 focus on his family. Give it his all. Keep the self-obsessed thoughts at bay and try to focus on what Sarah wanted. Her needs were important, he knew that. He had gone astray. If he gave her more of what she wanted, they would find their way back to one another. That was what they both wanted. The effort he had put in this summer, it had borne fruit. He needed to put in more effort.




———


“Whatever happened to date night, Sarah?”


“I’m too tired for date night, Trevor. I just don’t have anything left at the end of the day. And even if I had the energy to find a sitter, it seems impossible.”


“We could do it at home. Do something special, you know—a nice bottle of wine for you, some good music?”


“I honestly don’t have the energy to think of anything, let alone prepare anything, honey, but if you want to take it on, I’ll try.”


“Okay. I’ll think of some things.”


Trevor suggested movie night, but Sarah was always asleep before the movie got past the half-hour mark. He suggested massages, but the two times they tried, Arlynn woke up in the middle of Sarah’s massage, and then Sarah was in the room for half an hour getting her back down, and by the time she returned, all the will was gone, haggard defeat hanging all over her eyes.


Maybe a board game? Or a puzzle? Or a few colleagues over for a board game? Was that still date night? But no, Sarah didn’t want to do a board game or a puzzle.


“Want to try dancing, babe?” Trevor asked.


“Sure, we could try,” Sarah responded.


And it was fun the first time! Awkward and funny. They did silly dances for each other. Picking records out of the stack. Their old favourites. And when Arlynn woke up, Sarah went up happy and came back down happy. She kissed him on the cheek and said, “Let’s do it again next week.”


So, they did. And Trevor thought, well, why not pre-select a few of their old sexy favourites? Slip them in after the fun ones. You never know. And Sarah let herself get all sensual. Trevor remembered those moves. That body, her 
now moving it for him. So, he tried getting sexy with her. And she pulled away. A crestfallen look in her eyes.


“I just want to dance, Trev. Can we just dance without jumping to sex? It feels so far off for me right now. But I was enjoying myself with you. Could we, like, think of it as dating? Like we’re dating again and getting to know each other instead of jumping to sex?”


And Trevor responded without thinking. She had been so responsive at the lake. But now she was so fucking cold again, rejecting him, so he came back at her, “Fine, Sarah, fine,” lifting the stylus off the record. Sitting on the couch, head in hands.


Then: “Do you think you’re maybe asexual?”


Sarah looked at him, stunned, sinking down to the floor, hugging her knees—“What do you mean by that?”


“One of my students wrote a paper about it recently, and I thought about you when I read it. How you aren’t interested in sex.”


Sarah held herself close, emotions he could not read working their way across her eyebrows, just under the surface of her skin. He could see her searching, braced himself for recriminations. But none came. Instead, Sarah seemed to deflate, all emotion washed out. “It’s not that I’m not interested in sex,” she replied. “We had such a nice time together this summer. Away from each other, away from home. I thought it would last, but as soon as the semester started up, it was gone.


“It’s hard for me to imagine having sex with you right 
now, the way things are, because I don’t feel any emotional connection to you. It’s like even when you’re here you’re not really here. You’re so agitated all the time and we never have any time together that’s not centred around the girls, or everything that needs to be done, or money. I feel like you’re not interested in me, my life, my thoughts. Like the sex you want doesn’t have anything to do with me anyway.


“I guess my body doesn’t feel sexy here at home. It feels tired and spent, and busy all the time. I don’t have anything left to give and sex just feels like one more thing I have to give. All I really want is to sleep, or go for a walk by myself. For you to be with the girls without me feeling like you’re resenting me, so that I can give some love to myself.


“For me, home is the most unsexy place in the world, and it’s where I am all the time.”




———


He’d tried so hard, and here she was, reproaching him! Trevor left the room. Left her there on the floor. Because how was he going to respond to that? Putting the blame back on him, again, for things he was failing to do.




———


She brought it up again the next morning in bed, when he woke to find her looking at him the way she used to when they were first together. He half expected her to ask him about his dreams.


“Where are the girls?” he asked.


“I put a show on for them.”


“A show first thing in the morning?”


“We need to talk. I don’t want to go through my whole day going over it in my head. I didn’t mean to hurt you. I wasn’t trying to put the blame on you. It’s just that it feels like neither of us are getting our needs met here. And I couldn’t sleep last night, so I looked it up—asexual, to try to understand better what you were saying. I don’t think it fits. Because there are times when I feel very sexual. When I feel turned on by you. You know that. But I did find another term—demisexual, that is, on the spectrum of asexuality—that I think does fit. Have you heard of it?”


Trevor shook his head, barely awake, wishing she had instead asked him about his dream, holding on to the last vestiges of it—Troy and porn-Troy were both in it. God, he had to stop calling her that! Her name was Masha. But it felt wrong to call her that too, because of what she did in his mind. And just like that he was hard—not his usual morning hard, but an arousal hard, and not from the dream, but from thinking about it afterward.


“It means not having sexual attraction unless there’s emotional connection first?” Sarah said, intoning for approval instead of just saying what she had to say. “I had assumed it was like that for most women, but reading about it makes me see that it isn’t. I hadn’t known there was a term! But it is like that for me. Totally like that. I don’t feel anything sexually unless I feel emotional arousal. Intimate feeling arouses me.” And then she looked at him, waiting, but he didn’t respond.


“Would you look it up? To see if it makes sense to you? 
And then maybe we could talk about it more?” she asked.


Running his hands through his thinning copper hair, feeling his age growing sparse between his fingers, he responded, “Yes, I’ll look it up.” But he was thinking about his dream Troys, wanting to hold on to them, because he was sure they’d been lavishing some really needed attention on his cock. And then he looked at her, into her eyes, and something stirred, because he could see the tears forming in her eyes. His strong, distant Sarah. Just like that, the erection subsided.


“I’m sorry, babe,” he said. “Sorry you’re struggling.”


And she folded her head down, tears turning to sobs, moving toward him. He took her in his arms.


And he really wanted to stay there with her, to hold her as long as she needed, but he had to get to work. Had prep to do before his morning lecture, and the girls’ show would be over soon, anyway, so he pulled away, leaving her there, saying, “I’m sorry, hon, I feel like a duck, I mean dick—like I should be here for you, but I have to start getting ready for work or today will be a shit show.”


“Yeah, yeah,” she said, laughing a little. “I know, duck, get to work. I’ll just take a minute, so I can be ready for the girls.” Swallowing her tears, pulling it together.


Jenny


After Amelie had been dropped off at school and Arlynn at daycare, Sarah went for an unscheduled walk around the park, stopping at the duck pond.


She should have been home working on her post about gluten-free pastry that would satisfy even Jack Kerouac’s penchant for a great apple pie. Wrapping up in good time to film herself sealing the kitchen sink backsplash in the late-morning light for next week’s post. Hoping to get everything cleaned up before it was time to pick up the girls.


Why was she here? Especially considering that she had to stop by the stationery store for highlighters! This would throw off her whole game plan for the day. Wasting precious mental energy on ducks when she should have been working. Or were the ducks drawing her to them somehow?


“Calm down, Sarah,”
 PIT offered. 
“You know what happens when you start flipping out! You ruin it all.”


Instead of flipping out, Sarah began to flip mentally through the exercises she had practised with Trevor, Arlynn, and Amelie over the weekend. Coaching them through an activity that was meant to encourage all family members to participate in rule-making so they felt like they had a stake. She thought of the banner she would hand-letter with the family motto they had come up with. Trevor had been so cute with Amelie, telling her about synonyms, helping her to come up with simple words Arlynn could understand—
Be kind, every time!


Sarah loved it!


She hoped writing it out would help her and Trevor follow it, too. Follow it, but without feeling like a failure every time she didn’t, or being hard on Trevor when he didn’t. Well, it was something to work toward, not something you 
necessarily always achieved, she reminded herself. Still, she couldn’t help but wonder if they were setting themselves up for future resentments, rather than positively affirming their family culture as a nurturing space.


If they completely failed at this awesome motto they’d created, would that make her kids feel like they were failures? Or like their parents were hypocrites? How could she know what was right?


She just had to write about it! Of course. Convince your followers by convincing yourself. Just tow the line and conviction will follow.


The ducks were looking at her.


How will you do that, though?
 they seemed to be quacking, intruding into her thoughts. 
Considering this morning?


Fuckers. Knowing exactly what had happened. No way to hide it from 
them
.


Amelie repeatedly ignoring her instructions until they had morphed into aggressive pleas to “just get your shoes on for school!” Amelie flat out ignoring her, continuing to pretend they were penguin flippers on her hands, flapping around the kitchen.


At first, she’d been encouraging: “Come on, honey, we have to get going or we’ll all be late. Put your penguin flippers on your penguin feet and let’s get in the sleigh!”


But Amelie hadn’t listened, had just kept flapping circles around the house while Arlynn whined that Amelie had a bigger dried mango slice—the bribe Sarah always used to get them in the car. So, Sarah had tried another 
tactic: “Okay honeybee Amelie, your reindeer is ready for you to hop on. Get on Mama’s back and I’ll trot you to the car.” And Amelie had acted as though Sarah was on mute, or invisible, a switch turned off in her brain, which seemed to flip a switch in Sarah’s, making heat rise up through her whole body to her tightly clenched jaw, coiled and explosive, Sarah spiralling inside while her body raced around gathering last-minute items, flipping through her mental list of things needing to be done, trying to hold it all together. Then Arlynn had shrieked, “Mama! Mama! Amelie took my pony!” Amelie screeching back, “I did not! I had it first! It’s a sharing pony! You had the pony yesterday so it’s my turn today and I’m going to keep it 
all day
.” As Trevor yelled from the other room, “Sarah, where are my running socks? I left them on the floor yesterday and now they’re not there!”


At which point Sarah had lost it.


Stopped in her tracks, planted her feet, and screamed, “Stop! Everyone just stop! All of you!”


Her voice a sonic boom like a freezing spell, bringing it all to a halt.


And then, in a voice that tore into the fragile places of all living creatures in the room, Sarah spoke. “I don’t know where your goddamn socks are, Trevor! Did you try checking the wash? If you leave them lying around, I put them in the wash. If you don’t want me to put them in the wash, put them somewhere other than the floor! Preferably somewhere I don’t have to see or smell them!”


Seeming to leap across the whole expanse of the hallway, she had then grabbed the pony out of Amelie’s hands and hurled it across the kitchen, snarling, “I don’t care whose pony it is! Get in the car! Both of you! Now! Amelie take your shoes off your hands and get in the car, barefoot if you have to! I’m sick and tired of this fucking shit show!”


Amelie, now listening intently, had tightened her gaze, looked Sarah in the eye and replied, “Mama, you’re not being kind now. You’re supposed to be kind, 
every
 time.” Then she’d turned away from Sarah, closing herself off, as though Sarah were a horrendous beast, while Arlynn broke down in big heaving sobs and Trevor looked at her, stunned, holding the pony he’d picked up in one hand and the pair of limp socks he’d found under the butcher’s block in the other, immobilized.


Moving not a muscle to offer help of any kind.


Sarah had clenched her teeth, sucked in a deep breath. Exhaled loud and fast, inhaled again, and then once more, scooping to pick Arlynn up and snuggle her close, whispering, “Shh baby, shh, it’s okay, it’s okay,” and in a calmer voice, contained, but nowhere near regulated, responded to Amelie, “Yes honey, you’re right. Mama isn’t being kind. Mama’s done being kind right now, she just needs you to get in the car.”




———



				Of course, the fucking kid was listening closely to catch her at her worst, instead of when she needed to be listened to. 
The stupid games she put so much energy into to try to get the kids and Trevor to listen.


They were listening. Some things they just chose not to hear.




———


Sarah watched the ducks bob their heads below the water, gliding along the surface. Now ignoring her. Offering nothing to help her out.


She was a bad parent.


Maybe even a terrible one.


What right did she have to write a mom blog when she couldn’t even get the kids in the car without falling apart?


What life-destroying future dysfunction was she inflicting on them?


Was she going to ruin her children’s chances at any kind of good life by being too acquiescent and then flipping out?


Causing them traumas they would later have to have therapy for because she couldn’t keep track of her own emotions or articulate herself properly?


Should she book a therapy appointment for them now?


Would this help mitigate her unkindness?


Keep them from becoming drug addicts?


Had this outburst of hers been the turning point?


The thing Amelie would look back on and pinpoint as the moment that had spurred her now-impending heroin addiction?


Like Sarah’s sister, Chlea. Who had told her one time it was her only way to cope. The only way to take the shit 
feeling being herself felt like and make it not matter. How it washed out the words swirling in her head about her worthlessness. Those words their father hadn’t meant. Not really. He hadn’t meant them. Sarah had understood that. They were his own terror circulating, that he’d needed to get out. Landing it on them, even though it didn’t belong to them. And now she was doing the same!


Chlea had absorbed those feelings, couldn’t quiet them, until she met heroin, which washed them completely out. But it wasn’t the be-all-end-all, was it? Chlea wasn’t using anymore. Even had a wife and a steady job. Sarah could see the old happy in her when they FaceTimed. It wasn’t just anguish like it had been for so many years.


Maybe Amelie would be okay after all?


The ducks intervened with a mad rush to the edge of the pond where an elderly woman was tossing breadcrumbs, pecking each other and squabbling, a frenzy of wings, algae-covered beaks and webbed claws, and a pond disgustingly full of fecal matter that the bubbling air filters could never keep up with.


“Why do I feel so miserable? What is wrong with me?” Sarah wondered, at the same moment a pair of white mute swans glided in, dispersing the duck fray. Majestic, humongous—wings open skyward, reminding Sarah of her ancient entanglement in a fairy tale world beyond this one. Her spirits almost lifted.


Until the swans snorted and the ugliness of their voices accompanied by the chaos of frenzied ducks drew her back 
to the fetid water that was colouring their underside feathers green.




———


“My swan,” Trevor had nicknamed her on their honeymoon. Another lake, another lifetime.


From the pamphlets at Rosenau Palace, they’d learned the swans were introduced by Queen Victoria as an homage to her eternal love after the death of her husband Prince Albert, who had been born in the château. Trevor had told her swans paired for life. The world’s poster-child monogamists. He had told her that if one died, the other would never find another mate, and she had believed him, not questioning the truth of his claim, accepting it as a gift he was giving her, a symbol of their love.


Swans.


Swallow your doubts, Sarah. Embark
. These words! She had heard them before, at Rosenau.


She had heard and swallowed them up at every castle, with every pair of swans that affirmed their love as they honeymooned, electing to put aside the little doubts that gnawed as they’d travelled, concealing the exhaustion and mustering all her joy in response to what it actually felt like to travel with Trevor, who found something to complain about, something not right, something perhaps monumentally wrong, at every step of the journey. Sarah breathing deep, seeing what she saw, this wonderful world around him which he was too lost to see, encouraging him to close his eyes, and open them again, look with renewed spirit, and 
see what else there was around—the wondrous and not just the miserable.


She had been so helpful; this was part of the journey.


She had been helping Trevor to see the beauty as they went. The swans! The swans!


By the end of their honeymoon, he had been the one pointing them out, seeing them first, gifting their grace to her, grateful for every time she had encouraged him to close and reopen his eyes, seeing that she was right. That yes, indeed, despite the soggy train sandwiches that made his guts ache, there were glorious mountains out the window, swans floating on a lake in front. Acknowledging that she was probably right, that the train staff had not made them on purpose to poison him, that they would find delicious croissants at their next stop, and that the croissants would taste even more delicious given the awful train sandwiches.


They had been so young; she had been able to draw happiness out of him, then. She had devoted so much energy to doing this.




———



				Sarah didn’t know why the idea occurred to her now to look it up, what Trevor had claimed about swans forever mourning a departed beloved, but she pulled out her phone and googled it. And it turned out it was a crock of shit. She cross-checked, and swan sites were in agreement that female mute swans would find another mate within weeks if their mate died. Also affirming that sometimes swans left each other if the mating didn’t take, or even sometimes if it did. 
The term “divorce” was used in the birding community to describe these decouplings. And there were same-sex pairs too, which Sarah hadn’t known. Though she should have, considering the kids’ book about the penguins that she and the girls loved.


There was just so much that people didn’t see because they weren’t looking, she realized, watching the swans swim around—loud, honking, green-tinged with algae, and maybe stuck here because their wings had been clipped by the groundskeepers so they could not fly away.




———


“My swan,”
 PIT said. And Sarah found her lips turning down in disgust.


“Don’t call me that. I hate it.”




———


Instead of going to the stationery store, Sarah drove herself home, went straight to Trevor’s office as though spellbound, slipping into her disguise, losing herself in the video, then tumbling back into the real world with her senses rearranged.


That familiar flood of elation and anticlimax after a porn orgasm.


Here she was forging new threads through the narrative of the sexual education she’d received. What it meant to be a dutiful girlfriend, a good wife. She deserved things for herself! But still the gnawing guilt that maybe she did not. Swallowing it down. 
It’s okay. You deserve pleasure, too.


Not quite right.


She should be working, not secretly dressing up as her husband and masturbating in his office to his porn for god’s sake! Was she becoming sick? Really sick in her mind? Or was this okay? Was it okay? It wasn’t hurting anyone, was it? She felt good doing it. Was it okay for her just to feel good?


Why did she have to feel bad after feeling good? Bad that she’d taken a moment to make herself feel good? Was her feeling good supposed to be only for her husband? Was she denying him something by feeling good like this alone, in his clothes, in his office, when most of the time she only ever felt bad when he touched her?


Bad touch.


Touch that felt bad. So much bad touch.


Some good touch too! Some of it good, sometimes. When Trevor was good and approached her with goodness.


The cottage.


But not so often these last years.


Miserable touch. Trevor reaching for her, touching her out of misery, wanting her to take the misery away, put pleasure in its place.


How very, very different good touch and bad touch felt in her body.


Sarah’s lips curled downward, remembering Jenny.




———


How Sarah loved that she could watch the Ariadne film to the end without having to watch any cum spilled anywhere that would have to be cleaned up after.


She appreciated that whoever made the video had saved whoever was watching it from having to think about cleaning up at the end. She had to clean up a bit, wash her hands, wipe the chair of her own fluids—no resentment having to clean up the messes she made, just those other people made that she had to take responsibility for.


So many messes Trevor left for her to clean. Behaving as though it was totally okay for her to always be cleaning up everyone else’s messes—emotional, sexual, domestic. Sarah, the Domestic Goddess who could take all the mess and make from it a happy home.




———


Jenny.
 Sarah’s gut felt tight. And then she felt a surge—a force that wanted to escape from her body and destroy rather than clean and make new again.


PIT was not Sarah’s first foray into cosplay.


When Trevor had first started teaching, he had invited Sarah to come in and see him at the office after-hours when his colleagues weren’t around.


He’d asked her to pretend to be a student knocking on his office door, which he had thought locked—left intentionally a sliver open.


Jenny would knock quietly, so quietly—a little shy, Jenny. But hearing something inside.


Then, needing to see her professor. Needing to. She would slowly open the door just enough to poke her head in, catching him mid-stroke, watching porn.


Their eyes would meet and it would be understood that she was to step over the threshold of a forbidden line, come hither, and fuck her professor instead of getting the feedback she was looking for on her Nabokov essay.


The first time, Trevor actually had Sarah read Nabokov’s first novel 
Mary
 and write an essay on the theme of nostalgia already emerging in Nabokov’s early work, feeling it would really help them get into their roles.


Sarah had so wanted Trevor’s approval. It was bizarre—a fake essay for a fantasy student, but still, she’d been hoping for an A. She had put a lot of work into it, feeling she deserved an A, maybe even an A+.


Trevor had only given her a B+ so she was coming to his office to complain. She was actually a little miffed. She was going to ask why she had not received a higher mark.


Trevor told her that there was still a practical component to the essay, through which she could earn bonus points. The assignment wasn’t finished yet, he said with a look in his eyes that made the backs of her knees feel weak. He wanted her now to act out what might have happened had the protagonist seen his fantasy through, instead of turning away.




———


Trevor had told Sarah these scenes got a lot of play in his spank bank, snapshots he could slap on the reel of his mind later, when he needed to get past the midday slump.


She had even sent him a few pretend Jenny emails. But he’d gotten paranoid that these could be traced on the 
university servers and said that maybe it was best if Jenny no longer wrote to him.


In the beginning, Sarah had been thrilled to play Jenny. It had felt like her fantasy as much as Trevor’s. An opportunity for her to play out desires for professors she had crushed on as an undergrad, desires that she would never have dared dream to act upon.


But this was her husband! So, it was legitimate—a little dirty, maybe, but spicy-dirty. The only line being crossed was having sex at Trevor’s work. But they were careful to do it when no one was around, and that little bit of slightly not-okay but not really crossing a line still kept Sarah safely in the terrain of vanilla, her very favourite pantry staple.


Imagine! Sarah had rarely even dared to fantasize about her attractions to the very few professors that were young enough or cool enough to not seem like intellectual versions of TV dads when she had been a student. She had been attracted to one or two of them, wondered about them, but very clearly saw a line between fantasy and reality that was never to be crossed without seriously bad outcomes, probably most seriously bad for her. Because when did young female students ever come out on top in any kind of situation in which they came up against an older male professor?


As Jenny she could cross the line, or at least play the part with Professor T., because underneath it she was Sarah with Trevor, and Trevor was her husband, who was looking out for her.


Jenny liked to wear fishnet stockings and knee-high leather boots. She wore her short hair in pigtails that stuck straight up in the air. Her dresses she bought off vintage racks at thrift stores—late-sixties space-age-style minis that halted midway between knee and groin. Jenny was an art student who was into manga and wanted to paint manga as high art. She was also into Japanese literature in translation, so was taking Professor T.’s Murakami class in addition to his Russian lit class.


Professor T. wanted to know if Jenny was into bukkake, which she wasn’t, because she didn’t know what it was, but she told Professor T. that she was, because she wanted Professor T. to like her. Really, really like her, and see her as the kind of girl who would try anything and like it, if that was what he wanted.


Sarah googled bukkake after Professor T. had asked Jenny about it, and was horrified at the thought of Professor T. wanting to inflict that on Jenny. But then, she reasoned Trevor was likely hoping that Jenny would enjoy it, and there weren’t ever going to be actual other men there to ejaculate on her face with him, so maybe it was the kind of fantasy he might imagine and be turned on by, but never actually want to do? Kind of like when she used to imagine her real Russian lit prof coming on to her, and what she would do to win his affection.


In Sarah’s fantasy the Russian lit prof fell madly in love with her and asked her to marry him rather than cumming on her face, but she also knew each person was entitled 
to their own sexual fantasies and she wanted to explore the limits of her own desire in relation to the limits of Trevor’s. So, she could at least pose the question of whether or not Jenny was into bukkake, rather than just revile the thought of it.


When they tried it, though—well, an improvised version of it, since Professor T. was the only man in the room—Sarah couldn’t hold on to the Jenny persona. Jenny slipped away, and Sarah was left there, offended by the mess, feeling very, very disgusted with Trevor for wanting to do it to her, and with herself for allowing it.


She didn’t want Trevor to feel ashamed, so she pretended to like it, wiping her face with her bunched-up underwear. Afterward, pantyless and worried about an accidental reveal in her minidress, wet panties bunched into Jenny’s black leather backpack, she went to the bathroom at the end of the hall to scrub her face with the pink push-soap, trying to wash it away.


Pathways


Masha knew Dr. Hart had seen it the moment he looked at her, fumbling his papers, almost dropping his laptop, eyes popping out of their sockets as he sucked in his breath and forgot to exhale for so long that when he finally did remember, it came out as a sputtered cough.


“Fuck!” she thought. There was no denying it—the flush of red to his face, the awkward, apologetic smile. The professor mask slipping over the porn-watching-man mask.


But it was too late. Masha had seen his eyes bug out and mouth drop open, his tongue poke out to the top of his teeth when his eyes took her in—and she knew that this was a gesture he made during sex. Likely a gesture he had made before, watching her have sex with other men.




———


She had shot the film in Prague, the summer following high school graduation. It had been enough years now, and Toronto seemed far enough away from Prague, that she thought chances were slim that any of her classmates would have seen an art-house feminist porn film shot in another country when they were barely old enough to have hard-ons. But obviously, her professor had not been too young. And was not too old now.


Prague had been her dad’s gift to her and her stepmom, Nikki. Which, like all his gifts, was not exactly the gift she or Nikki wanted, but there you had it. He had his assistant rent them a villa, buy flights, even book tickets for ballets in Paris, Moscow, and Brussels that aligned with his business meetings. All for his baby Masha, who had danced for years—once dreaming of dancing for Les Grand Ballets.


Until she stopped wanting to do anything that made her father happy, electing instead to do everything she could to punish him for sending her to boarding school—quitting ballet being the first of many such protests.


Masha had begged her father to hire a nanny and let her stay home, since the school was only a few blocks away, but Oliver felt it was in Masha’s best interest to be housed 
at the school, declaring that she was in a privileged position compared to the other girls since she could stay with him a week each month when he was in the city. Finding an adequate nanny was dubious, at best, and Masha was displaying too much troublesome behaviour to make that situation tenable. The school was one of the best in the country, so Masha would be in good hands.


But then, blessedly, Nikki had appeared in their lives—her fairy stepmother, insisting Masha live at home, since she was plainly miserable boarding. It gave Nikki a good excuse, too, not to have to accompany Oliver on endless business trips that gave her absolutely no freedom to do as she desired. Nikki loved being a part-time wife and full-time stepmother to a very independent, creatively alive girl, and Masha found her stepmother utterly fascinating.


Nikki had been the one to help Masha make the connections in Prague. Nikki—SM as Masha liked to call her—stepmom/sadomasochist—and what was the difference, exactly? A joke they both thought exceedingly funny, Nikki agreeing wholeheartedly that being stepmom to Masha and wife to Masha’s father felt like a pretty good definition of sadomasochism as far as she was concerned.


The filmmaker, Rika, was a friend Nikki had met when they were at the Sorbonne studying archaeology but wanting to be photographers. They’d quit to move to a squat in Berlin where they’d taken up with a group of feminist filmmakers who wanted to make porn films centred on women’s pleasure. Not erotica, but porn. For women.


Rika had become enamoured with camera angles to eroticize parts of sex unseen in mainstream porn and Nikki started taking stills of actors’ faces building up to orgasm that she showed at raves in industrial warehouses, using flashing coloured strobe lights set in sync with hard trance beats to stimulate ecstatic crescendos—building, building, building—the epic break—collective holding, hovering on the edge—music thumping back in, finally granting release—the crowd screaming as Nikki’s face-shots of actors mid-orgasm flashed in and out on hanging white bedsheets.


Nikki believed all women should be educated in their own sexual awakening and that Masha, at eighteen, was not too young to name for herself what she wanted. In fact, Nikki knew that Masha had started her sexual awakening years before, at fourteen, when she’d first come to Nikki for advice. It was then that Masha learned that Nikki had been Nixxxi before she was Nikki. Well, first she had been Nicole, then Nikki, briefly Nicole again, and while in Berlin, Nixxxi.


She still used Nixxxi as her artist name, but when she’d met Masha’s dad, Oliver, and become a stepmom to a twelve-year-old girl, she’d revived Nikki.


Nikki did not tell Oliver she would help to educate his daughter in her sexual awakening. Masha had asked her not to. And it was part of the privilege of being a stepmom who was closer in age to her stepdaughter than husband to be a sort of pseudo-parent that straddled the line between parent and friend, or at least that’s the way Nikki saw it.


Oliver left the parenting to Nikki, which Nikki didn’t mind. She saw Masha as a little sister in need of secure attachment, since Oliver had been absent most of Masha’s life and Masha’s mother, Annette, had pretty much relegated all responsibility for Masha to Oliver after the divorce, moving permanently to their house in Bali with her creepy new lover, with whom Masha refused to live.


If Nikki was going to be doing most of the work, she felt she may as well do it the way she wished it had been done for her just a few short years ago, with as much instead of as little information as possible about what the fuck sex was and how it was so often something that harmed girls and separated boys from their emotional worlds, rather than connecting young people to their bodies’ possible pleasures.


Even though sex was everywhere, it was also shrouded in mystery, secrecy, violence, commodified desire, and shame. So, part of Nikki’s modus operandi was to make sure Masha started out her sexual life thinking about how to approach the question of her own pleasure and who and what she was interested in—thinking outside the script of what might please the boys and men she might sleep with, whose affection she hoped to win—which so many young women learned was their life’s erotic purpose.


Although Nikki, Oliver, and Annette were as white as the bedsheets in Nikki’s installations, Masha was not, which complicated things for her even further. Because Nikki knew how much more dangerous the world was for girls 
who looked like Masha—exoticized and sexualized in layers of supremacist desires that had nothing to do with their inner experiences of themselves.


Over a glass of wine one night on their villa patio, Masha confessed to Nikki that since she first started touching herself, during the same time they were studying modern interpretations of Greek myths in different art forms at boarding school, she’d had a fantasy of being pleasured by multiple men taking the role of a Greek god, all at the same time.


It had started after a very ambitious drama teacher had taken her class by train from Toronto to New York to see Strauss’s 
Ariadne auf Naxos
 at the Met, which had blown Masha’s mind. She loved the comedy interrupting the tragedy, daring to converse back with it, and even disrupting the storyline. She loved how Zerbinetta interrupted Ariadne’s despair at being abandoned by Theseus, basically telling the girl she’d been ghosted—the coward disappearing on her while she slept—and that the fucker wasn’t worth it; better for Ariadne to shake off the shackles of her grief by shacking up with someone else.


And then who showed up but the god of loosened inhibition, who might actually give the girl some real pleasure, should she dare to imagine it?


In Masha’s fantasy, Dionysus multiplied himself to really be able to give a girl what she might want—morphing into multiple concurrent lovers.


“Oh!” Nikki exclaimed, using what Masha thought of as her sultry Nixxxi voice. “That’s a good old-fashioned gangbang!”


“Doesn’t sound very nice!” replied Masha, pulling the neck of her shirt up over her lips and hunching her shoulders, bashfully attempting to cover the brazen erotic delirium of a fantasy she had never imagined verbalizing. “I think I like the way it plays out in my mind better, like a theatrical opera—with the music in the background and the gods floating in and out of focus, responding to what Ariadne imagines, like drawing the fantasy out of her mind and then right back into her body, with her body always as the focal point—her pulling the strings. Like in Ariadne’s aria when she’s singing about death and wanting it to come sooner and everything in the background is black with just her face glowing in the stage lights, making her incandescent. I imagine it like that—and get off on it every time.”


“That is deeply alluring, Masha! And beautiful in the strange way you have of making beauty appear in unexpected places. Rika would love it. She would absolutely love it.”


And Rika had. And Masha had. Had loved playing Ariadne among men she didn’t know who didn’t want anything from her except to tease as much pleasure as possible out of her body in front of a director and film crew who created scenes of sexual pleasure or facsimiles of sexual pleasure for a living. She could easily substitute the men for the fantasy of the gods she’d played out so frequently in her mind. It wasn’t the kind of fantasy she would ever have 
enacted on her own, fearful of having to do her own recruiting of men who she could trust would follow her directions, rather than trying to impose their own fantasies on the scene they were being asked to play.


The studio and onlookers were a safety net for Masha. A stage for her to choreograph and enact her sexual fantasy in the way she wanted it done. It had all been rehearsed beforehand. Rika was directing, the actors had been hand-picked and agreed to by Masha, who had been invited to some of their other shoots to get to know their sexual characters. A sound and lighting crew were there to deal with the soundtrack and make sure the right body parts were properly lit to ensure the right shots.


It wasn’t all that different to Masha from dancing ballet. The shapes and passions she contorted herself into. Except her feet didn’t get bruised and bloodied, and with Dionysus there, multiplied, it was more about the total abandonment of inhibition, rather than ballet’s emphasis on complete mastery, its repetition and restraint allowing for flares of creative energy constrained by complete adherence to form. There was artwork to wielding the threads—it was a complex choreography—one could so easily end up back in a messy labyrinth of tangled knots without rapturous attention to the rope play.


There had been a lot of awkward mess-ups to get to the momentary transcendence, a lot of hilarious mishaps and slips, and some exhausting days on set that felt as far from sexy as she could imagine. But she’d been delighted by how 
it had turned out, finding moments of such expansion when she’d let herself slip into the character that was at once Ariadne redeeming herself and Masha authoring her own sexual narrative. Rare moments caught on film when fantasy and embodied experience coalesced to shoot through her organism as sexual transcendence.


Afterward, though, when it had gone online and become something people could consume, she’d experienced something else. She wished they had smudged out her tattoo while filming. But she hadn’t thought of that at the time.


She made a few more films with Rika after, because the pay was good and she was in Prague, and she was eighteen and curious, and in these later films she’d had it covered up, worn masks, even, so she wouldn’t feel exactly like herself, but like a costumed version of herself with blank skin, playing a sexy role. It left her less recognizable. And for the most part, she enjoyed the sex. They spent so much time planning it all out beforehand, and everyone knew what they were there for. There were no nasty surprises working with Rika. Masha felt both in control and out of control at the same time—channelling something primal with none of the emotional weirdness that often came after sex. Rika was big on the post-performance debrief, particularly for the more hard-core scenes. She had more experienced actors coach newcomers to prepare their bodies for more extreme acts.


Masha liked the straightforward way bodies were talked about in this work. All the shame removed. Assholes needed 
to be stretched, for instance, before going to anal. There were ways to work up to that. With some of the boys she’d had sex with before this work, and a few that came after, even the word “vulva” made them blush. It was give or take whether they knew what a clitoris even was. Despite the fact that most of them watched porn. What was all that rubbing about, then? They just tried to mimic the actions without spending any time wondering about what the other person was feeling. They had no idea how to respond to another living body, showing up like they were meant to be performing something of which they were always in control, instead of experiencing something together with another.


Masha liked that the porn work was about both of these things. She got to know the limits of what her body liked and didn’t like without the emotional weirdness of a relationship with a partner and having to negotiate all the invisible attachments. Which got so magnified in sex, and were then usually snuffed out in male fragility or aggression around sexual performance, so that she’d find herself consoling the more sensitive guys she fucked for not pleasuring her properly, and having to protect herself from the more aggressive guys for whom the importance of consent slipped out the window as soon as their cocks got hard, if they even cared about it in the first place.


For Masha, the film work was like hooking up with strangers you met travelling, which all her friends were texting her about on their summer holidays, except her hookups got filmed, and she got paid for them, and the strangers 
knew what they were doing, and, working with Rika, Masha felt safe doing it. But it wasn’t like a career choice or anything. Once she got back home, she moved on to other things. And, unlike many of the actors, she knew she was privileged, because she didn’t need the money. Papa would foot the bill as long as she wanted him to—it was the only way he knew how to express affection toward her.


The public availability, though—that made her nervous. But she reckoned the platform Rika had it on wouldn’t be ubiquitously available back home in Toronto, or only available to those who actually paid for their porn, so that added another level of discretion. And though most young people her age were all over social media and it might be the kind of thing that could come back to haunt in the virtual world, Masha shunned the spectacle that online life demanded. She could not feel connection through her feed.


There were so many other things she wanted to pay attention to that would never, ever be found online. She saw how online life ate people up, sucked them in, called to them and called to them and called to them from the little screens in their hands so that they stopped paying attention to the sensual world around them. It wasn’t that Masha was embarrassed about the existence of the video. She wasn’t. It was just that she didn’t want to have to relate to people on the basis of a fantasy she’d acted on, which later played out in viewer fantasies she had no control over. She knew people would assume things about her because they’d been 
privy to her erotic self-abandonment, thinking maybe it was something they could own or buy.


Nikki had warned her about this. She and Rika had talked to Masha about what it meant to put herself out there this way. But Masha had wanted to put herself out there! To dare herself out of a confined life defined by everyone around her—a world she did not fit into and did not want to fit into—propelling herself into a wider life in which she could disperse, leak out, explode, even, if she desired. She could begin with her body as character, as stage, as stand-in for every woman punished for pursuing her desire in the myth of Ariadne, but then, instead of being redeemed by a male god, she would enact her own redemption.




———


For a few years now, Masha had been working as a waitress in a cocktail bar and writing poetry.


Oliver was always on her to go back to school before it was too late.


“It isn’t like having babies, Papa, it doesn’t get too late to go to school.”


“Oh, but it does, Mashenka. When you’re young you think you have all the time in the world, but you don’t. School isn’t just about the learning, it’s about the people you meet there too. The people who become friends you might stay connected to for life.”


Masha had looked over at Nikki, hoping for backup, but this time SM was on Papa’s side.


“It’s how I met Rika, after all. You never know where your studies will take you. You’ve been talking about wanting change, Masha, why not just give it a shot for a few semesters?”


“Do I really have to go to school to be a poet, Papa?” Masha felt she didn’t. But she knew they were right. What did she have to lose? She could use a change of scenery, Papa was paying, and she was eager to learn more, receive guidance, and meet other poets. It was just that she wanted to do things she wanted to do, not the things Papa wanted her to do! But she had to grow up sometime, and in this case it made no sense for her not to do it just because what she wanted happened to align with things Papa wanted.


The thought of sharing her poetry scared her in a way other performances didn’t. Because she wouldn’t be using her body as medium or distraction. Instead, she’d be sharing her voice, which she felt protective of, because it was vulnerable—tremulous sometimes, unlike her exultant body, which knew exactly how to feel.


Embodying The Husband



				PIT and Sarah were a little on the rocks. Probably because Sarah had not been kind 
every
 time to him for a while. She did not want to admit to herself how unkind she truly was. That every time she heard him speak—that old comforting friend—another voice inside her, a very angry voice, began telling PIT to shut the fuck up—
stop trying to drag me down—I don’t want to hear anything you have to say!


Sarah also did not wish to admit that what had started out as an occasional game of afternoon dress-up had become a compulsive habit that seemed to be taking possession of her now that she was back home and the year ahead, so full of promise in the spaciousness of summer—floating in a cool dark lake, holding hands with her beloved—now felt like a swan dive straight into a familiar fetid livestock pond.


Unkind Sarah now felt blurred in confounded certitudes as soon as she put Trevor’s pineapple button-up shirt on. Swaggering a bit when she slipped into his half-brogues, knotting the extra lengths of laces she brought with her for her sessions onto the ends of the laces already there, winding and tying them tight around her calves. Not PIT, not Sarah, not quite Trevor, but some liminal creature, slipping between the loops of the binding threads. The pressure from the ropes binding the transference in place.


Sarah gone.


Become Trevor at his desk thinking about the essays he still had to mark and the steaks Sarah had asked him to pick up from the butcher for the dinner party on Friday, and whether or not “E Unibus Pluram” was too dated for students, like maybe it would be better to just direct them to a YouTube video about the essay rather than assign them the essay, since it would give them a bit more depth than the Wikipedia page they would inevitably read instead of the essay, and they might actually watch the YouTube video, whereas it was likely that maybe only one-quarter of them would read the essay even halfway through, and was TV 
even a relevant idea to them? And was it even more not okay because of #MeToo? And where did Dr. Hart sit on the misogyny vs. genius divide? He couldn’t remove every misogynistic genius from his syllabi now that all his heroes were deemed to be monsters! Couldn’t they have an open and critical discussion about all this anyway? Should Dr. Hart have Dr. Dass come in and have a debate about it with the class?


Sometimes Sarah slipped in, trying to have a conversation with Trevor he did not want to have while he was getting ready to watch porn. Sarah’s mind drifting off-focus when Dr. Dass came to mind. Remembering the hearty debate at the department Christmas party she and Trevor had hosted last year. And how Ramona, one of Trevor’s grad students, had been there, also joining the discussion about whether a writer’s work should be measured against their life.


David Foster Wallace—no wonder her mind was drifting! Trevor had been defending him, arguing that being a critic and a reader were different, and that one could not omit the importance of literary innovation in Wallace’s work by holding it against the man’s life—that the two should not be conflated. Dr. Dass—Sammi—had been on the side of cancelling Wallace. Of removing his work from the classroom altogether—there were so many other authors one could include, whose work had been overlooked by the very same structures of oppression that privileged Wallace, celebrating him while overlooking the sometimes violent oppression he inflicted on the women he had sexual and 
intimate relations with. Meanwhile Ramona had offered another opinion, saying that the man’s work and life needed to be read in conjunction. To broaden the critical perspective. Suggesting that looking at both revealed things we might otherwise fail to fully register because as readers we are embedded in the structures, steeped in and sometimes unwittingly supporting them, without realizing it. That we read with the same invisible biases writers write with when we read from within dominance. Ourselves implicit in rape culture and the sexual oppression of women, refusing to acknowledge what is playing out right before us in a cultural framework that upholds toxic masculinity through the very notion that what a person writes, and how a person behaves, might be considered separately instead of as clear indications of what they truly believe.


“A mind making meaning symbolically is an act undertaken in a moral order,” Ramona had argued, “making belief palpable.”


Sarah had not fully understood then, and she did not fully understand now, the scope of what they’d been debating. Trevor had had her read Wallace’s 
Infinite Jest
 at some point in their twenties, but she had gotten lost. Not lost in the way she liked to be lost, but overwhelmed by a sense of flooded weariness that overtook her every time she tried to engage with the man’s mind.


It reminded her of listening to her father rave when she sat outside his cabin door. All the strange things that would come out of his mouth—the stories and words he’d never say 
in anyone else’s presence that spewed forth in endless fury, criticism and sometimes ongoing encyclopedic explanation in the presence of his wife and daughters that it seemed his demons demanded of him. All the blame falling on those around him. The structures that corrupted a man’s soul. Sometimes alternating shrieks and barks in French, a language Sarah could blessedly not understand, though the messages were clear enough without her needing to know the meaning of the words. There were words that sounded like they were in another language too. So few of these, which were less recognizable. These words seemed softer somehow, like they were trying to reach into his other words and draw him out from the deluge. How her father would vacillate between characters so seemingly at odds with one another and the world, and how Sarah would sit outside his door, outside his mind, hearing all of it, wanting to find some way to grab her father’s hand and lead him back into the world she saw. The world she knew he could see when he wasn’t stuck in this one. Because he was the one who had shown this other marvellous loving world to her, too.


“Focus, Sarah, focus
. 
You are in costume now.”


“PIT?”


They grabbed the mouse, but then, before the arrow landed on where they were trying to get to, their mind swung back to the other side of the Sarah-Trevor pendulum and she remembered that she had to think about what to pack for the girls’ school lunches and daycare snacks and what to buy or get Trevor to buy at the grocery store to go 
into those lunches and who would eat what and not eat what if you put it in their lunches and which were strictly no nuts and who had decided this week they were never eating carrots again after loving them last week and now no one would eat carrots but if she just slipped them in at school and other kids were eating carrots they might forget and eat the carrots anyway—


“No!”
 Trevor got so quickly bored of this line of thought, which was so inconsequential to him. Sarah would tell him if he got it wrong, which was annoying, but at least he didn’t have to put in the effort to remember, so it was probably a good trade-off.




———


“Rope it in!”


PIT slipped through, reaching down to tighten the laces.


All the Sarah thoughts squeezed out.




———



				They clicked on the 
Work in Progress
 folder, anticipating scrolling down to the 
Troy
 subfolder nestled between 
Shiloh’s Hangover
 and 
The Face
, pausing briefly when the scroll passed over a new incongruous document without a subfolder of its own, entitled “Making Twilight.”


Sarah had, at Trevor’s request, read the documents in his 
Work in Progress
 folder multiple times already—with the exception of this one.


If Sarah’s thoughts had not been squeezed out, she might have wondered why he hadn’t shared this one yet, but PIT did not wish to linger.


They weren’t overly curious. He would show her when he was ready. They already knew that “Shiloh’s Hangover” was Trevor’s retelling of a story he’d overheard one of his students recount to another about a fantastical hangover in which the pressure in his head was so loud it was like he was inside a washing machine. The protagonist had a washing machine for a head and was trying to relate to the world around him while also trying to figure out how to order a drink when all that would come out of his mouth were soap bubbles and his wife kept adding dirty laundry into the door that led to his brain every time she saw him.


And “The Face” was not one of Trevor’s best. It was a barely fictionalized account of Trevor’s infatuation with Ariadne in university. He hadn’t even bothered to change her name or his name in the story. Sarah he’d changed to Sara, for some reason. She had questioned him about this when he’d first shared it with her, and he’d gotten huffy, not answering directly.


“It’s still in draft form, Sarah,” he’d said, annoyed.


“I know, I get that, babe, sorry. Maybe I didn’t ask the right way. I just wonder if it’s story or memoir? And why is my name the only one changed? Well, not exactly changed, just spelled differently?”


“It’s somewhere in between. It’s called 
autofiction
. I’m going to add some more character details later. I got the auto part down now and I’m going to play with the themes and work the fiction in from here. What I want to know is how you feel about how I’m portraying you in the story.”


“I mean, okay, I guess. It isn’t how I would describe myself, but that makes sense since you don’t see me the way I see me. But I don’t like that you dropped the 
h
 in my name when you kept everyone else’s the same. It feels like I’m a caricature and the others are real people.”


“Oh, it’s a reference to the Dylan song. You’re my mystical wife.”


Sarah had paused. Mystical wife? Why did that make her want to throw one of the kids’ toys at Trevor’s face? “Isn’t that song about Sara leaving him?”


“It’s about him loving her. Just not being able to live in real life together. About his enduring love for her.”


“The poor man,” Sarah had responded. “Living in real life is hard, but does Sara get to stop living in real life too, or does she have to stay in real life and take care of the kids while he goes on to write songs about her mystique? Does she get to experience being mystical, or does he just get to project his desires onto her that way?”


“You’re so critical, Sarah! This is Dylan, for god’s sake. The man is an icon. The song is a song for the ages! You used to put it on every single mix tape you made. I thought you loved it? I wrote it like that for you!”


“I used to, Trevor. I did. You’re not wrong about the way I used to be. But I hear it differently now.” Sarah had paused, then gone back to another question about the story—“I guess I’m just wondering what your angle is? What are you trying to say with it, or what are you trying to get at?”


“I don’t quite know yet. Something about absence, I think.”




———



				To their surprise, when they clicked open the 
Troy
 subfolder, there was another new Word document contained within—“Troy 2.0.”


This, they 
were
 curious about.




———


And then my porn star became a person.


A student in my class with a name of her own! Masha Novak.




———


Slowly, sentence by sentence, the source of the pressure shifted, the ropes creating a friction Sarah could not bear.




———


This girl has more real to her than I do at forty-three. More real to her than Sarah, who in the course of becoming the mother to my children has become more and more unknowable to me, giving the girls everything, leaving nothing for me. Making us less and less real as our real life together becomes ever more unhappy.




———


“Nothing for him?” Sarah thought.


“I have given him everything! All of me. All of me. All of me given to making his children, keeping his castle, feeding his body, laundering his clothes, listening to his troubles, organizing his Christmas parties, keeping track of his finances.


“For god’s sake, he lives permanently in my mind!


“I’m dressed in his goddamn clothes!”


There is nothing left to give.


Sarah.


My Swan.


Domestic Goddess. Jenny. Sara.


Mama.




———


I’ve let Sarah believe all this time that the dreams spawned the stories, rather than the other way around. I know Sarah would see me as a fraud if I told her the truth.




———


What did she truly know about this man she’d given half her life to, who had knowingly hidden this awful truth from her? As he was now hiding the truth about his feelings for Masha. And if he was hiding these awful truths, what other awful truths might there be that she had perhaps refused to see?


This man did not see 
her
.


He was looking through the filter of a mind that believed he didn’t have to look because he knew 
she
 was always looking.


Looking for the best in him all the time, trying to understand, to make the world better for him, but she had erred somewhere, somehow.


When he was looking at her, he was looking at his own reflection—Sarah obscured by her mirroring of him with all the neurons in her body, attuning to the emotions of this person in front of her, giving him her all, feeling it along with him.


When she looked at him, she never encountered her own image. There seemed to be no reflection at all of her reality in his gaze, though sometimes her body would come into focus, which inspired in him not empathy, but desire.


Desire to act on her, to bring her in, to envelop her, to subsume her in the image of himself.


She felt like a smudged character. She was a smudged character. Smudge, smudge, smudge, smudge, smudge.


Less and less real…


Less and less real…


Less and less real…




———


Have I lied myself into dream so entirely that my entire dreamworld is, in fact, one great delusion? And Trevor in this life—husband, father—a delusion based on a plagiarized version of the man I imagine I should be, but am not? A grotesque facsimile of a man?




———


He wouldn’t talk, and when he did, how much of it was muddied truth or controlling fabrications? She would find out this way, then.


She was all smudged out anyway; she didn’t know where the line was.


The line between Sarah and Trevor.


The line between okay and not okay.


The line between husband and wife.


The line between believe and make-believe—between delusion and dream.


Sarah exited the 
Troy
 subfolder and scrolled back up to the file called “Making Twilight,” wanting something like understanding, knowing she wouldn’t find it there, clicking anyway.


Making Twilight


by Trevor Hart


“Tell me your dreams,” Sara whispered.


I closed my eyes, and began: “We awoke. A four-poster bed in a medieval castle. Not us, as we are now, but dressed as though we belonged there and then, speaking a language I could not understand. There was a hint of menace. Terror lurking, exciting us. You were wearing a white dress, the bodice beaded with pearls that looked like tiny moons, emitting a white light even in the darkness. Your lips were blood-red, hands dirty, as though they’d been scraping mud, but your dress bore no smudge.


“I was wearing a heavy burgundy tunic, belted at the waist, with wolf fur adorning neck and cuffs, shod in calfskin-leather knee boots. On my belt hung a thick ring with an iron key. You held my hand as I led you down stone stairs into darkness, my other hand holding a flaming torch, burning fat acrid in my throat.


“Iron hinges creaked as I opened the barred door, and you went into the cell willingly, your eyes flickering in the torchlight, as though begging me to play honourably; uncertainty mixed with desire—my captive.


“I closed the door, lifted the key from the ring, and locked you in. Then turned and scaled the stairs, looking back at you—the pearls in your dress a shimmering twilight.”


The story went on, but Sarah found she had no taste for it.


Writing as though her master!


Her insecure husband with his limp socks and plagiarized dream stories.


He had borrowed this vignette from her!


The cruel embellishments were his, but the scene, and the costumes, the castle and dungeon, those were from a story she had shared with him in their early days, when she had been in the habit of writing fiction.


“Tell me a bedtime story, Sarah,” he had begun asking her each night. And she would, and the next morning, he would recount his dream, plucking things from her stories—Sarah delighted that he was so rapt that her imagination made its way into his dreamworld!


The two of them, building a dreamworld together.


When she had first read 
Dream the Text Like a Persistent Certainty
, she had felt so much a part of it! So joyous to see bits of her stories woven through his. His clever word-tricks, his devotion to his own literary idols so clear in his work, with embellishments and genius all his own, transforming her stories to something great.


But something else was stirring now, a hot, rageful feeling. As though something essential had been taken from 
her that she had not consented to giving, debased by the cruelty he enacted upon his captive, hopeful Sara.


Captive. Smudged. Begging. Twilight. What was Sarah if she gave so much of herself to Trevor, and this was what he made of her? Seeing her entrapment, revelling in his trickeries. Caring not at all what he inflicted.


Crack!



				Sarah’s head whipped forward then lashed back as the car came to an abrupt stop. Its forward momentum halted by the post of the 
PARENT PICKUP PARKING
 sign at Amelie’s school, which was now embedded in the front of her car.


Her hand went to the back of her neck. “Fuck!” she grunted. “How fucking embarrassing!”


Emma Ridley was staring at her, mouth agape, her son Marshall tucked in tight against her hip. Amelie and Amelie’s teacher, Ms. Singh, were there too, just two metres away from the post—Amelie with her hand over her mouth, Ms. Singh with her hand reaching toward Amelie, and then firmly grasping Amelie’s arm, holding her back.


There were also other kids and other parents, but Sarah didn’t register them as individuals, just a crowd of people. A crowd of people witnessing her major fuck-up.


“Get it together, Sarah,” she said to herself, not allowing herself to feel the impact of what had just happened, instead propelling herself to action, knowing the feelings would render her as useless as the crumpled car.


“Not now, not now, now is not the time to feel,” she rasped, tears beginning to wet her eyes, hot fast fear-despair rising in her esophagus. She opened the car door, inhaled a quick gasp, filling her lungs with air and then spitting it out again, pulled herself upright, tucked her chin in, internally repeating, “Breathe, breathe, breathe. In a-a-a-a-a-and out. In a-a-a-a-a-and out. One breath in, and gently out. Breathing in, and breathing out.”


She repeated it three times, the same words she said to herself when the kids were mid-tantrum and losing it. A life hack she had posted on her website after extensive research. A self-corrective, though her readers didn’t know the half of it, following the pony-throwing breakdown.


Sarah pictured her website banner, imagining herself sliding the cursor over to the 
Toolkit
 drop-down that popped into several side menus, one of which was titled 
Thirty Second Quickies
 that were meant to help parents stay centred and calm when the kids were out of control instead of having breakdowns bigger than those of their children.


The breathing calmed her. This was not the few notches of nervous-system activation she needed to come down from during recurring fights over whose turn it was with the Playmobil horses, but an actual potential crisis in which she could have hit a child, maybe even her own child, and killed them instead of just impaling her car with a post!


Imagining it made her nerves kick in again, so she brought up the banner once more—visualizing the cursor 
hovering over 
Toolkit
 drop-down, 
Thirty Second Quickies
 tab, 
Not an Emergency
 sub-submenu while she repeated “This is not an emergency. This is not an emergency” in her soft gentle Mommy voice to herself.


Sarah walked to the front of the car in not-an-emergency mode as though a person, as though a person in a body moving in the world. And then the slow-motion world clicked back into real-time and Ms. Singh was there with her hand on Sarah’s arm, her warm schoolteacher eyes full of concern—one hand on Amelie, one hand on Sarah as Amelie screamed, “Mama! Mama? Are you okay?” Arms around Sarah’s waist.


And Sarah brought her hand down to Amelie’s back, feeling warmth pass from her to Amelie, remembering her role. Her role to comfort Amelie, who was scared to see her mother crash semi-hard into a post at her school, terrified that things were falling apart because she was six and things were always falling apart and it was terrifying, and this time it was her mom making the world unsafe. Her mom—the one who was supposed to keep things together. Sarah wanted to assure Amelie that it was all okay, that it was not all falling apart, that Mama was here, a warm loving version of Mama who could offer comfort even though it 
was
 all falling apart inside and the car crashing into the signpost was making that visible to everyone around her and now she would have to play the scene in such a way that seamed everything back together so no one could tell.


What the fuck was wrong with her? Why couldn’t she just be a normal mom like Emma Ridley?


“It’s okay, baby,” Sarah said, “Mama’s foot slipped from the brake to the gas pedal. It’s just a dent in the car, no big deal. But Mama has to let Papa know he has to pick up Arlynn—I’ll just send him one quick text, to make sure he gets there in time.”


Sarah snapped a photo of the signpost embedded in the car and sent it to Trevor along with a text that read: 
Crashed car into sign. Everything OK! Need you to pick up Arlynn ASAP. At school with Amelie. Meet you at home later.


Jesus fuck Sarah sure yer ok
 Trevor texted back, neglecting his usual punctuation and spelling protocol. A rare response on a Monday—so he did check his messages on Mondays, after all, Sarah noted, just neglected to respond to her texts on this special day in which he’d instructed her not to expect it because he didn’t have time to check his phone. Fucker. She had known it all along.


Fine. Please get Arlynn now! Take her home, and text me when you get there, to say it’s all good. Talk after!


She had to be explicit in her instructions, she knew, otherwise Trevor would ask what his next steps should be, or worse, he would get Arlynn and then show up at the school and then Sarah would have to deal with the car, and Amelie, and Trevor, and a preschooler, and she was sure there was no way she’d be able to hold it all together then.




———


How much effort it took, upholding this massive delusion!


And now it was all falling apart!


As though a spell’s magic was failing.




———



				Ms. Singh asked again, “Sarah, are you 
sure
 you’re okay?”


“God, yes, Deepa, I’m so, so sorry! What a mess! What a scene! I don’t know what happened. These shoes maybe? The sole is so slippery! No tread on them. My foot slipped off the brake and onto the gas pedal just as I was slowing down. Thank god no one was hurt!”


“Sarah?” Emma Ridley came over, pulling Marshall by the hand. “Can I call someone? Do you have insurance? Looks like you’re going to need a tow. Or…” Emma hesitated, clearly trying to think of the best way to be helpful without adding more strain to the situation. “Do you want me to take Amelie back to my place while you get this sorted?”


“Thanks, Emma, thanks. Yes, please, if you could take Amelie, that would be great!” Sarah replied, a little desperate, trying to sound grateful while wrenched with deep self-recrimination. 
You idiot, Sarah, how could you?
 She had never been to Emma Ridley’s house. Could she send her daughter there? Would it be safe? But she couldn’t parent right now. She had to sort this out and she couldn’t focus with Amelie afraid, looking to her for guidance! Sarah had to seem strong, certain, confident. She thought back to all the encounters she’d had with Emma Ridley, flashing 
through memories of Emma at Mom and Baby group, always being there on time to pick her son up, bringing baked goods on his birthdays, how her son seemed like a well-cared-for child, a nice kid. It would be okay. Just this once. She would make it up to Emma by buying her a bottle of wine, baking her a pie, buying her a gift card to that new delicious bakery.


“Would you like that, honey? To go to Marshall’s for a bit until Mama or Papa can come and get you?”


“Can we watch a show there? We always watch a show after school,” Amelie asked, tentatively, looking up at Sarah and then at Emma.


“Sure, sweetie, Marshall usually watches something while Mommy makes dinner, don’t you, buck-o?” Emma replied, speaking for and semi-including Marshall in the conversation.


“Do you like 
Octonauts
?” Marshall asked. “I’m going to watch the one with the walrus pups where Captain Barnacles has to help Orson and Ursa save the walrus pups stuck on an ice floe.”


“I’ve seen that one,” replied Amelie, “but I love it! So, I would watch it again.”


“What a great plan, then!” exclaimed Sarah. “You’ll go with Marshall and Marshall’s mommy, and Mama will call the tow truck to get the car and then me or Papa will come and get you in a little bit to take you home after your show. Sound good?”


“Yes! Can we eat a snack too?” asked Amelie.


“You bet we can, you tell me what you like and you and Marshall can eat a yummy snack while watching your show,” responded Emma, taking Amelie’s hand, smiling reassuringly at Sarah. And then, “Let’s go kiddos, off to 
Octonaut
 land!”


And Marshall responded, “That’s not what it’s called, Mommy!”


“Oh, just a sec, Emma, let me grab Amelie’s booster for you.” Sarah was still a 
safe
 mom, keeping her kid safe. She grabbed the booster out of the car and ran it over to Emma’s open passenger’s-side rear door, buckling Amelie in.


“I love you, sweetheart, have fun and I’ll see you soon, soon, soon,” Sarah whispered softly to Amelie, kissing the top of her head, running her hand down Amelie’s long auburn hair, with just the same glinting tints of flame that Trevor’s had had before it had started fading to a washed-out copper.


Ms. Singh stayed with Sarah while she sorted out the details of the tow truck. The insurance company would send a driver as soon as they could, who would take it to the nearest shop for an assessment. Sarah got out her phone to get a Lyft, but Deepa wouldn’t hear of it.


“Sarah, let me just get you home, it’s really no trouble at all.”


And Sarah’s resolve slackened, just a bit, because here she was, being looked out for by others—first Emma, and now Ms. Singh. Instead of judging her harshly, these women were helping her! Helping her and her kids be safe.


“Sure, Deepa, thank you. I appreciate it. I really do. I just don’t want to put you out of your way. Already you’re home late from work! On account of me and my stupid slip-up!” Sarah responded as she collapsed into the passenger seat of Deepa’s lovely powder-blue Prius, the last car left in the staff parking lot.


“Stop being so hard on yourself, Sarah!” Deepa scolded her, starting up her almost silent car. “It was an accident. No one was hurt—other than your car, and the sign that should probably be a bit further back from the curb anyway! We’ve all done something like that at some point. I just want to make sure you’re okay.”


And then Sarah looked at Deepa, really looked, as Deepa was looking at her. Looked without looking away to somewhere else, as she and Trevor had been doing for most of the last—how many years? As Sarah did most of the time these days with everyone but her kids, since talking to actual people in the real world was so much more complicated than writing website content, blog posts, and comments on social media feeds.


When was the last time Sarah had spent time with anyone she would actually consider a friend? God, she missed Ariadne!


In Deepa’s gaze a floodgate opened, because she wasn’t just asking in order to be kind, even though she was. She was asking because she was genuinely concerned, and could see Sarah’s anxiety rippling underneath the tight set of her jaw and quick darting eyes, all the brightness gone out of 
them, just a pretend jauntiness that looked, to anyone actually looking, like quick-firing nerves.


The floodgate was actually just a sigh. A real deep belly sigh. A sigh to end all sighs that Sarah let float out into the embryonic space of Deepa’s hybrid. “No, Deepa, I don’t actually think I’m okay. I don’t think I’m okay at all.”


“No, it doesn’t seem like you are, Sarah,” replied Deepa. “A lot of us aren’t sometimes and pretend to be.”


“I think my marriage is falling apart,” Sarah admitted. “I think it has been for a long time and I have been pretending it isn’t, or that if I just found the right formula, the right glue, the right Instructable, I might be able to stick it back together, if not exactly in the right way, then at least in some kind of way that isn’t disastrous.”


Sarah slumped into the Prius’s contoured passenger seat, exhaling so deeply it was as though all the breath she’d been holding, all her unspoken words, her unthinkable thoughts, were releasing themselves in the cozy chamber of another human’s accepting warmth. Then Sarah cringed, wrapped her arms around herself, fearing Deepa would reach over, open the passenger door from the inside and shove Sarah out for having so invaded her sanctuary. Feeling tears almost come, squeezing her eyes, holding them back, knowing if they came they might never stop, and she might drown herself and her kid’s kindly teacher in the salty mess of her fear.


But instead, Deepa sighed, matching her breath to Sarah’s, waiting. And when Sarah looked up, Deepa looked her in the eye.


“That sounds hard, Sarah. It sounds like you’ve got a lot on your shoulders. I think it’s important to just give yourself space for that right now.” And then she paused, laying a hand on top of Sarah’s hand. “I don’t have any answers for you, unfortunately! But my sister Arya’s a great therapist?”


Sarah exhaled, wanting to give it all up. All of it. Her body giving her signals she did not know how to heed. Wanting to give it up, and possessed of a dire need to hold it all together. She inhaled, puffing out her chest, straightening herself. “I’ve been trying to get Trevor to go to couples therapy for a long time. Waiting for him to agree before reaching out to someone. It just seems so futile sometimes.”


“Well, it seems to me like you probably should stop waiting for him and maybe just talk to someone yourself?” Deepa responded. And then, “Can I at least put you in touch with her? Send you both an email? It couldn’t hurt to have someone to talk to.”


“Oh god, Deepa, how embarrassing this is. You’re my kid’s teacher, and here I am falling apart in 
your
 car after ruining 
my
 car in the parking lot.”


“It’s okay, Sarah, we all fall apart sometimes. I’ve been in your seat before; I just happen to be in this one now.”


“You’re right, Deepa. You are. I’ll take Arya’s number. I mean, I have to. I have to do something. It’s not getting any better on its own.”




———



				The damage had not been as bad as Sarah had imagined. A big crack across the windshield, some front-end work. 
A week in the shop and a thousand dollars out of pocket. Better, Trevor reasoned, than using their insurance and making the premiums go up.


“Sarah, what happened?” Trevor asked. “Were you on your phone? Checking your socials?”


“God, Trevor, no! I would never! Especially at Amelie’s school. You know how I feel about phones and driving. I don’t know what happened, I told you. My mind kind of gapped and before I knew it, I had hit the post. I think my foot slipped.”


“This worries me, Sarah. It worries me a great deal. How can we be sure it won’t happen again if you don’t even know what caused the accident?”




———


Following the accident, every time Sarah was alone in the car, she imagined other accidents.


Bigger ones.


Accidents in which the car would be completely totalled, her body as crumpled as the car, causing Trevor bigger worry than he could ever imagine!


But no! No! She could not do that to the girls.


Perhaps a burning car scene in a movie, then? After a high-speed chase, the cops suspecting her of having her husband tied up in the trunk of her car, and her, fleeing. Because what choice did she have? If they caught her, they would find him there, gagged and bound, and then Sarah would go to jail and the children would have to be raised by Trevor. No, not that. Instead, she would crash the car into 
a gas truck and it would go up in a burning heap of flames and she would walk out from the wreckage wearing her childhood Red Riding Hood cape, it billowing around her in the force of the hot wind, she completely unmarred, Trevor neutralized in flames.


But then who would raise the children?


She would have to make it look like an accident. Somehow mask herself. Wear her Trevor costume and switch out the plates on the car, perhaps put sticker decals on it that looked like they were painted, so anyone witnessing the scene would think it was a man in a similar but different car than the one Sarah drove. She would run Trevor down on his bike, mangle him up, proving something to him. That there were repercussions in this world! And somehow, after that, everything would have to change.


She imagined so many scenarios. In some of them she was in the car with Ariadne and the young woman from the video—Masha. The three of them together. They were going somewhere fast, escaping a world in pursuit, 
Thelma and Louise
-style. Together they had done something awful. Something awful but necessary to reset the balance of the scales in a world in which the scales were so unbalanced. The world was coming after them, but they knew what freedom felt like and they were going to take it any way they could—Sarah would drive them off a cliff, and the scene would end there. Like that. Except there would be an epilogue scene. Just a flash so you didn’t know if it was really happening or if it was all in Sarah’s mind, and they would 
all have parachutes that turned into hang-gliders, and they would propel themselves across the void, toward some future. A future that was open, where freedom and the lives they wanted for themselves were possible. Lives Sarah wanted to imagine for herself and her girls. The stupid family car crashed on the bottom of a precipice.


Sarah could not 
really
 crash the car so stupendously. But she could scratch it against curbs, smash it into shopping carts, inch it into barricades, back it up into fences. Slowly, scrape by scrape enacting its devaluation. Causing nothing terrible to happen, but feeling like her small acts of damage might finally align with her fantasies. Each new dint like a sideways path scratched out for which way not to go, as though somehow leading her to finally see a path forward that would free her from this anguish without causing damage to the girls.




———


But Trevor had been right.


It happened when Sarah was late to pick up the girls after spending too long with the video, gunning her left turn on a yellow turned red before she’d made it fully into the intersection.


Hit at fifty kilometres an hour by an impressive man in an Audi, flooring it through the intersection while distracted by a notification on his phone.


He emerged from his car in a rage. Went to Sarah’s driver’s-side door and yanked it open, yelling at her for being a rushing mad idiot, desecrating his beautiful new car!


Eyes as piercing as her father’s.


“Sorry, so sorry, so sorry, I…” she muttered into the airbag.


Seeing her there, damaged but breathing, sputtering useless apologies, quelled his rage to disgust. He stepped back to survey the damage.


The woman’s ancient Volvo was a complete writeoff, back passenger’s-side door crumpled, broken glass all over the booster and child car seat. Thank God her kids weren’t with her! Crazy mother, driving like that! A total fucking catastrophe, this woman and her car! While his car was miraculously unscathed. A tiny little scratch. Made of such durable materials. It was well worth it to pay for quality.


Sarah craned her neck to watch him. Testing to see if she could still move. Seeing it all in slow motion. As if she were the man surveying the scene.


He was coming back. She looked up at him, her left eye swollen shut, face streaked with blood. She could feel it sliding down, almost hear it dripping into her lap.


She was trying to unlatch her seatbelt, but her hands were clamped shut around something delicate.


“My eye?” she asked him. Then it flashed in her mind. The projectile. Amelie’s special rock. The one she’d insisted Sarah place on the dashboard, so she could toss it into the pond later with Papa. 
Dash trash
, Trevor had called it.


Sarah had been so stupid! She’d known it was dangerous to drive around with a rock on the dash, but Amelie 
had insisted. Sarah had meant to remove it, but had gotten so used to it she’d forgotten it was there, neglecting to see the insidious threat it posed every time she got into the driver’s seat. So long in her direct view it had basically become invisible. The exact same throb. The familiar hurting place.


She held her crumpled hands up, fingers twisted unnaturally.


“My chick?” she said to the man. She could feel its heart pumping.


“Is it still alive?” she asked him.


She got out, then fell, opening her hands before hitting the pavement to let the chick go free, seeing it scuttle across the road—a perfect yellow-brown fluff, scooped up in a pair of badger paws extended by a little girl in a red cape, who gathered it up and tucked it safely into her heart, beaming Sarah a spry smile just as Sarah’s eyes blurred out.




OceanofPDF.com

















Chapter Eight


Cherry




Open Your Ears



				Sarah found herself cloudy in the head with a concussion, one eye swollen shut, blooming a stunning array of blues, greens, yellows, and pinks, making an evolving Impressionist painting of her face—desperately without transportation. Having to meet concerned, prying stares as she hauled groceries, kids, snacks, backpacks, umbrellas, and other various weather-appropriate gear onto the bus to get the family where they needed to be, doing what they needed to be doing at multiple points throughout the day, trying to keep herself organized with reminders on her phone that dinged and beeped confusing signals as she agitated the girls into bus seats amidst the swirling madness of rush-hour commuters, bus schedules she could not wrap her head around, 
preschool food allergies, weather forecasts, and shopping lists she seemed to be able to make no sense of when she arrived at the grocery store, feeling as though all the aisles had been rearranged since her last visit so the items on the shelves no longer bore any logical relationship to one another, making the items on her list now impossible to find.


Trevor believed the crash was a surefire sign it was time for the family to go carless. That whatever strangeness was going on with Sarah made her unfit to be behind the wheel.


“You are a danger to yourself and the girls, Sarah. You have to see that. This is a glaring sign that you should not be adding more fuel to an already burning world to get the girls to piano lessons, dance, and daycare, when there is public transportation at hand!


“This is your chance to finally make a difference instead of contributing to the problem. The universe is sending you a very clear message.”


Trevor wanted to help. He had done a great deal of research. He believed the answer to all their problems was for Sarah to get an electric bike with a cargo component up front for Arlynn that would also fit whatever gear the girls needed, along with a ride-on seat at the back for Amelie.


Amelie was almost old enough to ride on her own, and soon Arlynn could ride on the back and the front cargo component could be used for groceries and whatever other gear they needed. Sarah could even get the dog she had promised Amelie for her eighth birthday in there if she wanted!


“The crash was a blessing in disguise, babe. If you would only open your eyes, you would see that. Think about the content! The photos of you and the girls on the bike in different places, demonstrating to others how easy it is, after all! You comparing different brands and settling on the right one. Maybe you can even get sponsorship and get a discount?”


Trevor was giddy with the imagined possibility of his whole family on bikes, fulfilling his fantasy of an ethical commuting revolution among middle-class moms. As though somehow, Sarah dropping her attachment to the car to pedal herself beyond her unreasonable fears would have enough social media influence to singlehandedly overturn the climate crisis.


“Those are really beautiful images, Trev. I would love to take photos of me and the girls—or better yet, you and the girls, like that. In a few years when they’re older and able to ride their own bikes. Or if you want to commit to teaching them how to feel safe on an e-bike with a confident parent who is not going to lose their shit in the middle of traffic because they’re scared out of their wits to be on any kind of bike at all, let alone one that goes super-fast.”


Sarah paused, knowing she had to be careful with her words, but then, her eye began throbbing hard, causing her to lose sight of Trevor’s feelings. “But it’s unrealistic for me. Especially after what I’ve just been through! Would you please open your ears to what I’m trying to tell you? I want a car like Deepa’s. I felt so safe in there!”


Trevor looked away. His face a wall. Sarah stopped, reaching out to touch his arm. He turned back toward her.


“Open my ears? You know how hard it is for me to hear you when you say stuff like that? It doesn’t even make sense!”


“That’s the only part you heard in all that? After you told me to open my fucking eyes when one of them is swollen shut from a horrifying car wreck, and you think it’s a viable solution to get an e-bike? Do you know how insane that sounds?”


Trevor turned away from her, leaving the room, only to return a moment later. “You’re brutal, Sarah. You know that? Always shifting the blame to me. How is any of this my fault? I’d like to know! You are the one driving like a fucking maniac out there. Crashing the car at the school for god’s sake! You could have killed our own daughter. With a car. Not a bike! And now 
this
 car wreck. You could have fucking died! And then who is going to take care of the kids? Are you doing this on purpose? You’re on about me being insane?”


Sarah gasped, crouching into a little ball on the floor.


And Trevor’s voice had softened, suggesting, “Maybe it would be safer for everyone if you weren’t behind the wheel of something capable of causing so much damage?”


There it was.


Sarah’s fault. Sarah ruining it all.


The cozy hope that somehow from the wreckage there might come redemption squeezed out of her. Trevor couldn’t 
hear her. No matter how she said the words. How could she get it through to him that to keep it together she needed a vehicle in which she could feel safe?


She looked up at him from the floor, from the tiny seed of herself, and in a tiny voice, responded, “I did do that. I didn’t mean to.”


He looked down at her, numb. Not knowing what to offer, so offering nothing. He would not be heard. She was beyond comfort. He returned to his office to clear his mind of her drama. She would figure it out, as she always did. This was Sarah, after all.




———


Sarah and Trevor needed to have another talk besides this one, but where to begin? Where to begin if the same patterns repeated time and time again, in which it seemed none of her words ever got through and Trevor refused any responsibility for change or undertaking repair once the damage was done? She felt so lost. Confused about what was real and unreal. Difficult to think through the smudge and concussion, hard to see clearly through the swollen eye.


Sarah’s sessions with Arya were slowly peeling open the painful layers of this dysfunctional dynamic, allowing Sarah to see that she had her part to play, but that Trevor also had his, and that somehow Sarah had gotten into the habit of taking all the responsibility and the blame, trying to find ways to fix it, subsuming her needs in the family’s needs, as though to be a valiant wife and good mother meant having no needs at all.


It had been so debilitating to see herself in this light. Another way she was failing. But Arya was patient, and kind, and encouraged Sarah to extend 
herself
 kindness as she unravelled the threads of stories that had led her to frame herself into 
this
 story in which she and Trevor were enmeshed.


A story she desperately needed to get out of, because it was wrecking her. A story she wanted Trevor to find his way out of too. For them both to find their way out separately, but somehow still together.


How could she reconcile this with the truth of how sapped she felt trying to have any conversation with Trevor?


Knowing, in this case, she could not simply rely on her habit of giving Trevor the upper hand, or she was going to follow the same path she had been following for decades, giving in to him, doing anything to mend the damage, winding herself up with an e-bike instead of the car she needed.


She could see this future looming all too clearly. Her, pluckily announcing to Trevor that she was on board after all, inviting him to take her e-bike shopping after a month of secret lessons so that when she finally got on the bike, she could prove to him that she was capable of anything. Not frail and diminished, or insane behind the wheel of a car, but the superhero Sarah she’d been once, a long time ago, willing to try anything, wanting to be whatever ideal Trevor imagined for her. Before having to be everything to two small humans, a Divine Mama, on top of trying to be Sarah. On top of trying to be Trevor’s Domestic Goddess. On top of 
Swan Mom.
 On top of it all! While Trevor lived 
whatever secret reality he was living, not feeling like it was his responsibility to do anything to help her keep it together as it all fell apart.


Because deep down he had never believed in any of it! Doubt threaded so deeply into his core. Sarah knew this. She saw his doubt in everything else, she had just glazed her eyes over with the veil of her own belief in him, somehow unable to see it extended as deeply into her as it did into himself. How could it not?


She wondered now at her naïveté. At him, playing along while also holding so much back. Knowing he was doing it. Always wanting more or different, no matter how much Sarah gave. The story was wiping her out, so what could they possibly make belief of?


She could see it all so clearly: on a good day, having to wake up at 4 a.m. instead of 6 a.m. to make sure they’d be on time. Having a minor panic attack while getting the girls into their gear, loading it all up in her panniers and dry heaving all the way to preschool, riding on the least busy streets she could find which she’d have to spend half an hour pre-mapping each morning, based on current road conditions.


Yet worse—she and the girls in the middle of a blizzard, the girls wrapped up in every blanket in the house, she wearing a high-vis vest and flashing as many lights as she could, trying to pedal through an intersection and losing traction while commuters whizzed by honking, skidding on the ice, smashing into them, her on the pavement again, the girls’ little bodies splayed and bloody on the asphalt, 
pulpy as her little squashed chick—oh god! How could Trevor do this to them? How could he even think it after what she’d just been through?




———



				She had to be strategic, perhaps by reminding him of past instances of total bike failure that he’d been there to witness in person, attempt to get him to feel inside himself a small inkling of the fear and pain that 
were real for Sarah
, so he might shift out of the realm of his convictions to make space for 
Sarah’s truth
.




———


She approached him in the middle of his coffee preparations, knowing this would give her a small slip of time during which he could not walk away.


“Trev, I’m sorry about my tone last night. I was harsh. I know it’s hard for you to hear me when I’m harsh. You’re right about so many things. I fundamentally agree with you. But this is me. I’d lose my mind trying to ride 
any
 bike in traffic, let alone an e-bike! Remember the disastrous crash in Amsterdam and the crossbar indentation I can still feel in my crotch? The breakdown on the mountain biking trip in Fernie? Up the mountain on a chairlift! How I walked all the way down pushing the bike and you were furious that you’d bought the lift tickets and I’d crashed two minutes into the descent, because I was so scared I got the brakes and gear shifts confused?”


“Sarah, you have got to let that stuff go! You’re still holding on to it? That was over a decade ago! All that. If 
you don’t challenge yourself, you’ll never get over your fears. It isn’t like that. E-bikes are basically doing the riding for you. I could watch the girls while you take bike lessons to build your confidence.


“Let’s look at it this way,” he went on reassuringly, feeling Sarah give, sensing victory at hand, “a top-of-the-line electric freight bike for the whole family would run us about $8,000 with all the bells and whistles, maybe less if you promote it on your site!


“If we’re lucky to find one, a 
used
 Prius would likely run us at least twenty-five grand. Plus, regular repair and maintenance. It’s a no-brainer! Sure, $8,000 is excessive as an add-on purchase, but this is a requirement! With the insurance money coming back, we’ll actually be saving money by getting the bike and not replacing the car! And with those savings, we can allow ourselves to rent vehicles to get out of town. I ride my bike all winter long. And you can get studded tires for it! They sell covers for the cargo component, so the girls can stay dry, and you just have to suit up. You won’t even feel it once you’re used to it! I guarantee it. We can even ride together as a family some mornings. Plus, it’s such a great way to stay in shape. You’re always talking about how you’d like to finally lose the baby weight.”


Trevor paused, looking at her enticingly. “Remember how hot you looked in your Jenny miniskirt? Just think how you’d look in a miniskirt on a bike with the girls looking so cute in their biking gear. Every man who saw you would have 
MILF
 lit up like a neon marquee in his brain, and my 
god would the company move a lot of bikes with that kind of influencing!”


Inside, Sarah felt herself deflate like a blow-up sex doll that had just been punctured with a sharp projectile. Then a flash of heat flushed through her system, a geyser about to spew.


While Sarah on the outside looked at Trevor blankly. Just blank. Dissociating, lest she destroy it all.


“It truly is shocking to be a woman sometimes,” she thought, instead of screaming a scream that would flatten the world.


Amelie and Arlynn were within earshot. So, what Sarah said in a small Sarah voice was, “Wow, Trevor, wow.”


“Have you totally forgotten you used to want to be sexy, Sarah? I wish you didn’t always have to be so defensive. I was just trying to be playful.”


Coffee done, conversation over, Trevor sealed his to-go mug and headed out the door as Sarah methodically wiped up the grounds he always left scattered across the counter.


Cherry


It was all said and done. Sarah slid herself into the driver’s seat of her brand-new AWD Prius, put her hands on the wheel, met her own eyes in the rear-view, and said aloud, “Here we go, Cherry.”


Before going home, she pulled Cherry to a stop in front of her favourite bakery, watching the sleek red reflection waver in the front window, one eye still seeing a bit oddly 
from the wreckage, watching her image morph as she stepped out of the car, so that instead of seeing Sarah in her flower-print capri mom tights and oversized black T-shirt, she saw another Sarah in a slinky dress, almost dripping off her body. Clinging red velvet, six-inch heels with ribbon lacing like ballet slippers wrapped up to her knee, striding and not giving a fuck. Another body emerging into the world from within the one she was seeing through.


Just a momentary flash in the window, morphing quickly back into her mom garb, opening the door, hearing the bell jingle, walking to the counter for a baker’s box of croissants and Danishes for her and the girls.


She wished Ariadne could see her pulling her stealthy red beast into the driveway, traversing the threshold, holding the box of pastries like a haughty server above her head, making a show of dropping her key fob in the basket on the ledge where she always dropped her keys, so that Trevor would see her doing it.


She had already decided she would say nothing. She was done talking. She was going to leave it to Trevor to decide how he was going to take up the subject of the replacement car, anticipating that he would see her putting the fob down and immediately understand when it fell into the basket.


But Trevor didn’t notice the gesture because he was used to seeing Sarah drop her keys in the basket and wasn’t paying attention to what she was doing, or thinking about the fact that they no longer had a car. He was otherwise occupied, prepping a snack for the girls, and couldn’t hold space in 
his mind for snack-preparation and gesture-observation at the same time.


“Croissants! Mommy bought croissants!” Amelie shouted. “I want one, I want one.”


“I want the cherry one!” Arlynn exclaimed.


“No, I want the cherry one!” Amelie retorted.


“Girls, there are enough cherry ones for all of us!” Sarah chimed in, putting out plates for them, setting the pastries down, making big googly eyes at the girls, squealing in delight as she bit in, tearing with her canines, ripping into the flesh, allowing the goo inside to ooze down her chin, declaring, “Mama’s a hungry badger! She’s eating up a tasty squirrel!”


“Eww, Mama! You have squirrel blood on your chin!” Amelie whinnied, delighted.


“Mama ate a squirrel!”—Arlynn.


At which point Trevor turned around, incredulous. “Sarah! That’s revolting! You’re teaching them to eat like animals! Giving them sweets before dinner while I’m busting my—” he paused, considering the girls, “making them a 
healthy
 snack.” Then, haughtily, “Like you always insist I should?!”


“Lighten up, Trevor,” Sarah quipped—too polite to quite be a growl, using her finger to wipe up the cherry goop, licking it off, then adding, prim and proper, “Girls, you can have a squirrel-blood Danish as long as you promise to eat Papa’s healthy snack after.”




———


Sarah assumed Trevor wasn’t saying anything because he didn’t know how to respond, but had also decided that she wasn’t going to say anything herself, so she went on with the evening not saying anything to Trevor, watching and waiting to see if he’d say anything to her, while she prepped, served, and cleaned up after dinner and Trevor swapped out the pedals on his bike, then searched around the house, agitated, trying to find the right-sized hex key to adjust his seat, which, with the new pedals, was no longer at optimal height—both of them constantly interrupted by alternating requests from the girls to have books read, attention paid to a new dance routine they had come up with, squabbles about toys and games refereed, and help going to the bathroom to protect them from the scary monster that lived in the drain—so by the time bedtime rolled around, Sarah had almost forgotten entirely about the new car.


Trevor arrived in the kitchen, hands gripping at his hair, imploring, “Are you sure you haven’t seen it, Sarah? It’s the only one missing! And my multi-tool is nowhere to be found!”


Before Sarah could answer, Amelie shouted from the living room, “There’s a car in our driveway! A car the same colour as the apples on Applejack!”


Trevor went over to look, and immediately understood—not only that Sarah had bought a new car, but that she had been playing some kind of game with him all night that he hadn’t known she was playing—so he was not just incredulous, but deeply enraged.


His body shook, burbling with the familiar sensation of routine marital hate. It flared from his fingertips to his throat, rippling through his skin, tightening his lips, landing in his eyes, so when he looked at Sarah, he felt not just this moment of loathing, but all the moments of loathing built up like a thick wall of burning bricks over the years he had been forced to live with her. Her petty, stupid games. This adversary who had infiltrated his house and poisoned the mind of his wife, who he now had to subjugate.


And Sarah shot a look back, full of her own versions of these all-pervading feelings. A gorgon’s glare, as though spun through time, borrowed from a friend long ago.


Sarah broke the gaze. “That’s our new car, kiddos! Her name is Cherry!” She turned again to look straight at Trevor with a gleeful smile that scorched all the space between them before Trevor could spit out the poison inside. “Who wants to go out and see?”




———


The girls rushed out the front door with Sarah at their heels while Trevor shot out the back, pulled his bike out of the shed, and sped away, down the driveway past the red abomination and a gaggle of giddy girls.


He rode for hours, not returning until he knew Sarah and the girls would be in bed. When he drifted up the drive, he had to resist every urge to scratch his pedal across the monstrosity that was now parked permanently in his driveway.


He thought he had cooled down enough on his ride to face the energy field of home, but it all reached toward him as he dismounted and set his feet on the slabs of slate paving-stone that Sarah had hauled home from one of their camping trips, broken into shards, and arranged into the shape of a sunflower that now pierced through his pores, siphoning the life force out of him, like all her fucking decorations!


When he went in, Sarah was on the couch, waiting for him, wearing a red velour dress. She had on red lipstick and her nails were painted red. She even had on red patent-leather high heels with satin laces wound tight all the way up her calves, bound into a knot behind each knee.


What the fuck?


He had never seen Sarah in a pair of heels in his life.


Was she trying to seduce him?


Now?


God, she looked hot!


Why couldn’t she dress like this more often?


He stopped in his tracks, eyeing her.


Why did this remind him of the porn-Troy video?


He felt himself grow hard.


No, wait, something was very, very wrong here. What the fuck was she playing at? She looked dangerous, like there was an animal tensed up inside her ready to rip him to shreds if he approached. Was she holding a ball of thread in her hand?


Trevor said nothing. He turned from her as though her existence was too much to bear, went up the stairs to their 
bedroom and locked the door from the inside, just in case she tried to come and talk to him.




———


But Sarah did not go talk to him. She had gone silent. Like Trevor so often did. She, too, could play Trevor. She had secretly been learning how.


Cherry sat in the driveway like a sleeping red dragon while the couple floated past one another inside.


Praise


After that first class, Masha had considered dropping the course. She had felt so confident writing her piece. It had just come to her—as soon as Dr. Hart dropped the prompt. Washing out her preoccupation about whether or not he’d seen the video.


But her confidence had faltered after she’d handed in her paper, feeling as though she’d just given up something she was eager to give, but also feeling like it had been coaxed out of her. An uncanny feeling.


Still with her as she walked out of the classroom, head down, chewing her lip, confused by the sudden jittery feeling when the paper had transferred from her hand to his. His hand loomed large in her mind’s eye, like his skin pores were magnified and she could see right down to his hair follicles. Distracted, she bumped into another student, knocking the book they were holding to the ground.


“Sorry. I’m so sorry,” Masha said, bending to pick it up. “I wasn’t looking.”


It was a slim volume of poetry with a beautiful dragon on the cover. The dragon looked strikingly similar to Masha’s snake tattoo, like her snake had suddenly grown legs and head frills. But so much more brilliant, with flecks of gold on some of the scales—colours muted out in skin that stopped the eye on paper. Masha wished her skin could shine so boldly.


A rushing-water feeling washed out the jittery one when Masha locked eyes with the student, handing the book back.


“Your book,” said Masha.


“Thanks—no.”


“No?”


“I mean, no, I’m sorry. I wasn’t looking, either.”


Then the student gathered the book up to their chest and sort of bolted. Masha was struck, her gaze transfixed, until she lost sight of them in the crowded hallway.


“One more class, Masha. You have to give it at least one more class,” she whispered to herself. She was curious what the other students had written about, and some part of her wanted feedback.


And maybe she’d see this student again, if they had a class nearby at the same time?




———


Dr. Hart had been so positive about Masha’s water piece! It had made her feel a little glow inside. Perhaps she had pegged him wrong? Maybe he hadn’t seen the video. And what difference did it make if he had? He hadn’t shown any lack of composure since that first instance.


He was her teacher. So what if he watched porn? Most men did. And men who weren’t gay wanted to have sex with women. There were rules about when, where, and who they were supposed to have it with, to make it seem like they didn’t always want to. But even if they followed the rules, even if they said or revealed nothing, so often, they still wanted something. Masha knew, because she could sense it. All her nerves working to shut down her allure so she could have simple conversations with the men she had to interact with.


Masha knew she was beautiful. It wasn’t something she could hide. It wasn’t something she wanted to wield, though, either. Her interest in men had grown minimal. They rarely took her seriously. Too dumbfounded by the effect she had on them to have coherent conversations with her that weren’t caught up in whatever fantasy webs they were spinning as they tried to get closer or simply watched her in awe from afar.


Why did her beauty have this effect on men, and how could she avoid it? Or call it to her only when she felt like it?


She used getups as an alternate point of focus, hoping to distract. She put a lot of effort into them. Hoping to get men’s gazes caught up in questions about her strangeness rather than being taken as an invitation to come closer. Distancing filters. She was more interested in women and nonbinary folks anyway. Not that she’d written men off completely, but really, she just found masculinity so unimaginative. Men wore it like it was all there was, trying to impose their fantasies on her to be what they sought, 
imagining her as a beguiling force that might fulfill their desires rather than making space for all the Mashas she was. Most men were so out of touch with themselves, they had no idea where to even begin to imagine what might be possible between one being and another.


Dr. Hart’s praise had felt a little lavish. Syrupy, even. Or did he really see something in her words? The language he used 
was
 enticing. He knew how to look into a poem and see things she did not know how to see. He talked about her raw talent. Her innate capacity, her fluidity of form. How much certain things had moved him. Talked to her as though she’d thought of these things when she’d composed the piece on the fly. As if the beauty she felt within her flowed through the words. Did they really have this strong of an effect, or was he using his erudition to seduce? It was seductive. She felt pulled. She wanted to hear more. She had even daydreamed of reading to him alone in a room! Watching him feel the words, feeling his feeling. Finding herself smiling as his eyes lit up and took her in.


God, she was daft! 
Masha, you silly, silly girl. Do not fall for your professor. Do not fall into this trap.
 His trap, or her daydream? She would 
never
 have daydreamed it without his words pulling her.


She needed to get herself out there, make connections with her classmates to get a broader perspective. But that was going to be hard if Dr. Hart lavished praise on her that made the other students take notice. She had seen their looks when he talked about her piece. When he read some 
of her lines aloud. She had felt their envy. Had felt them summing her up, summing him up. Could almost hear them thinking it: 
It’s just because she’s gorgeous
. Her words reduced to meaninglessness in his desire for her.


She would prove it to them. She wouldn’t let him get the upper hand. She’d keep at it. None of it belonged to any of them, she knew. Yet how to make authentic connections? She would pay attention to their words. Pay deep attention. Let them know when their words roused, so they would feel seen too.


Divine Words


How lovely to take her in. To read her lines aloud in class. A deep fulfillment. What strange providence at a moment in which Trevor’s life was going to complete shit. His wife behaving like a disgruntled lunatic at home, doing insane things to get his attention.


The signs were clear. Even the daftest man could not ignore them. Trevor was being offered a gift. But how to receive it without ruination? What would happen to Sarah and the girls if he truly became the man he wished to become? It was unthinkable. He had made vows to this woman. These were his children!


But perhaps there could be an alternative. Some clue he could not yet see. Masha’s lines seeking to reveal something to him he could not yet grasp. And in the meantime, the pleasure of her innocent company in the classroom.




———


Such a contrast to what was going on at home, where whenever Trevor was there and the girls were sleeping, Sarah changed into her intolerable costume—a strange red succubus pulling at his insides, confusing him, making him feel hot, bothered, and angry. He wanted to rip that stupid dress off her, hurl one of her heels across the kitchen to knock her in the head, kiss her lips so hard the stupid lipstick smudged off, have her suck him until he came all over her face, rubbing his cum into the smudge.


He wanted her to disappear forever so he never had to see her again. So he could step into his future with Masha in a way that was not complicated by this life Sarah had created that he was expected to participate in, in which he had no 
real
 place.


But what about the children? He did not want them to disappear, and he could not care for them on his own. He could not think of Masha and the girls at the same time. When he did his mind swirled into dangerous realms—words washed out in the most disturbing images—transforming his angels to dreads.




———


That thing in the dress, that inhuman thing who had gone out and bought a car without even talking to him, who now floated through the house like a hot beast who pretended to eat squirrels—it took care of his children. It was supposed to take care of him too!


No one was taking care of him!


There was never anyone to take care of him!


He had once had a wife who did, hadn’t he?


Hadn’t he once had a Sara?


Who was this now in her place?


How was he supposed to focus on the important things if she was playing ridiculous dress-up games, trying to get his attention but refusing to talk to him? Abandoning him now when he most needed her? He was so fucking distraught already! Every day having to show up to class with Masha trying to pull him into her porn labyrinth. Him wanting desperately to disappear in there forever, never ever having to come out.


What was wrong with these women? They were so confusing. He needed them out of his fucking mind. He just needed for it to stop!


Though Masha, sweet Masha. She was not porn-Troy! She must have been so confused making that video. She had come to him looking for guidance, entrusting him with her redemption, offering him his own redemption from the spell Ariadne had cast over him so long ago. Might they rescue each other?


Sarah could have Ariadne, and he could have Masha!


Of course, this was the clue being offered in all of this. Only how to click it all into place?


Merriment



				During her silent period, unable to find the heart to post content when real life was so very far off-brand, finding herself with an excess of words, Sarah busied herself with a 
narrative therapy assignment Arya had given her, revising the story she had somehow let Trevor take possession of, responding to “Making Twilight” with an apropos version of her own.


Merriment


(Re-authoring the Origin Myth)


by Sarah Hart


He appeared to me in a dream. It was that kind of marriage.


My costuming began with the wedding dress, which was woven by angels from the silk of iridescent worms kept in the silk chambers of a palace built by giants, perched on a craggy outcrop on Mount Miracle.


The pearls embroidered in the bodice were manufactured in outer space by aliens who had never shown themselves directly to humans, but had set up an exclusive trade arrangement with an Italian shepherd when he was out one day at pasture with his goats, and the aliens sent a hologram, along with a sample of pearls, to invite him to trade the terroir cheese his family had been producing for six generations.


I spent a fortune on the dress as a way to assure my husband-to-be of my devotion.


We travelled around Europe with just the skin on our backs and our backpacks, which sometimes wore the skin on our backs rough. Plus, we were always hungry for one another so it’s possible we might have been nipping too hard, or licking too much, and some of the rawness was due to that.


We had planned an entire itinerary around castles. It’s what happens when you marry a prince.


I secretly began to question, after our third stop, whether the castles were in fact fabricated to imprison beloveds rather than protect them—terror built directly into the foundations. In some of the layouts it was dungeons below ground—torture equipment and all that, cages with scratches in the walls—we’ve all seen the movies, or been to the wax museum and its Chamber of Horrors. Well, there were those chambers, and then floors above, the epic towers—chambers for ecstatic nights and daily marriage beds and birthing chambers and eating rooms. Slave quarters and servants’ quarters. Treasure chambers too. And places of divine worship in which sacrifices were part of the proceedings, and the dungeons came in handy for those as well.


My husband admired the audacity. He wanted me to put on my wedding dress and pretend to be locked in the dungeon so he could rescue me and carry me up to the tower and disrobe me, as if for the first time.


I acquiesced, because I was into that then—because acquiescence felt titillating in the arms of my beloved, ordained from heaven in the hearts of mortals playing the parts of man and wife. I just assumed he felt the same life-affirming bond, which was my first mistake.


I agreed without affirming his long-term plans or really considering my own because I had granted him my trust—my second and most grievous mistake. I expected him to come back 
within the hour, but he left me in the dungeon for three nights, paying the tourist guide and castle security guards a shitload of lei in order to carry out his roguish fantasy. As he ascended the stairs I begged him not to leave me, sobbing and sputtering, telling him that I’d learned my lesson and was ready to be released. But he said he wanted it to be realistic, and that I would need to be punished a little longer.


He got busy exploring the cafés and drinking coffee with the locals. A few times he thought he should probably come get me, but was too amped on caffeine to stop his wanderlust through the cobblestone streets. Plus, he reckoned, he had left me a sudoku book, a pencil nub, and a one-litre water bottle, and he was pretty sure I had my purse with me—where I always stashed snacks so as not to become hangry—plus an LED penlight with which to do my sudoku in the dark.


It came as a surprise to me to learn that my prince was sometimes an ogre.


Despite the terror clawing at me from within, I allowed that my captivity and fear would grant us both a kind of high in his promised future—he the hero, me the new bride in distress. We didn’t have a safe word. My next grievous mistake. Though thinking on it now, I doubt he would have heeded it, even if we had. Ogres don’t always understand maiden language.


Down there in the dungeon I got to wondering if I had really made a good choice after all, marrying my sweetheart and going off to Eastern Europe like this.


He had taken my cell phone, not wanting to risk having to receive desperate texts from me while he was taking in the sights. A lot of things started to cross my mind. A lot of questions, I guess, that I did not want to know the answers to. A lot of things I wanted to pretend away because I really liked the story we were telling about us, and our life, and how lucky we were to have finally found each other. How truly brilliant it was that we, two people among billions, had chanced upon one another and felt our hearts burst open into such tremendous love!


I reasoned with my fears, convincing myself that first, I just needed to pass this one trial. To show him I was strong, and brave, and clever—the kind of wife he’d always been hoping for.


And once back from the honeymoon, we’d start the process of making a proper home. One that I would become Queen in and design in accordance with our shared vision for our future life.


I felt some dark things down there. I won’t deny it. I wondered at the blurry edges between love and hate. Between birth and destruction. Between honour and degradation. I questioned his need to render me abject and what it would ultimately bring. I wondered at his potency and impotency but was under the spell of Fate and therefore hungry for realized meaning.


I used my fingernails to construct a facsimile of my trusty tarot deck in the earthen floor—a three-card spread. I asked about what he might want, what I might want, and where the conversation was headed. And here is what I learned:




















Ten of Cups






The Sun






Nine of Cups










Harmony,


reunions,


security,


domestic bliss,


found family






Satisfaction,


accomplishment,


joy,


luck,


vitality






Dreams realized,


fulfillment,


pleasure,


recognition,


triumph








I fondled my pearls and read the spread as auspicious. I was really on my way to something big down there and just needed to get through it to triumph! What he was doing up on the surface was testing me, to make sure I was worthy of the domestic bliss in store for us. Most likely he was up there, as tortured as I at our separation. Wishing he did not have to inflict this upon me, but seeing a bigger picture that I could not see—in command of this scenario, in command of life itself, my dear beloved husband. He really had my best interests at heart, only 
I did not have access to his full vision. A failure of true faith on my part.




———


After the second night, despite my auspicious tarot, I began to shiver uncontrollably, and then to sweat profusely. I was worried about my wedding dress and damaging it beyond repair because it was going to become an heirloom passed on to my unborn daughter and her unborn daughters.


My temperature was fluctuating so wildly I decided to go naked, to drape the dress over me like a shroud. I slept then, finally, and in my sleep had a dream. Or in my wakefulness had a visitation.


The otherworldly pearls untethered themselves from my dress and began to work themselves into my naked flesh. Some of them went down my throat and attached themselves to my synapses. Others became so small as to sink into my skin pores. And then they began to hum. They hummed a vibration that was warm as well as sonorous. It altered my nervous system so that I was no longer on the brink of despair. A numinous force intervened in this desecration and remembered in me a song.


I felt it almost tell me how to get out of the dungeon once and for all on my own, showing me that there was a key hidden somewhere, but quickly I lost touch with its resonance because another voice intervened. A voice that told me to turn back, to glance again at my auspicious tarot scratched into the dungeon floor. Reminding me that my role was now that of mystical wife. Yes, yes, I hear you. Yes, yes, yes! All of a sudden, I felt myself 
get wet and begin to squirm a little. My need for my husband entirely overtaking my senses, my longing for his body completely unmaking me. Was he projecting his voice into me while he waited to come to me? Wait, my dear, wait. I am coming. Oh, I am coming!




———


He fucked me like I was a tattered jewel the night he finally came to get me. In equal measure vicious and absurdly tender. I was grateful because sometimes in our lovemaking he seemed almost indifferent, like his cock was driving him and his mind was somewhere else, and once the cock was spent, he forgot my body, or leaned toward its incompleteness grudgingly, trying to get me off as quickly as possible, wrestling with something that wanted to just turn away and bask in its own satisfaction.




———


There is no photograph of that Romanian castle with its dungeon in my archives. When I ask him about it, he says we were never there.


Petty Games


After three days and three nights, Trevor broke the silence.


It was 5:45 a.m., the girls were still in bed. Sarah was in the kitchen in her red dress, prepping smoothies. He would not mention the costume. Just pretend it wasn’t there. Just pretend it was all normal, a slight variation on the regular flannel cat pyjamas. Was Sarah perhaps sliding down the road her father had slid down? Did she have some undiagnosed mental illness? She had started therapy and it had 
made things fucking worse! As he’d suspected. First the car, and now this? She was creating so much trouble for him. Forcing him to respond to her stupid petty games.


Why were the laces on her shoes so tight? Her skin was bulging between the ribbon cross-hatches. Wasn’t it cutting off her circulation? And when had she learned to walk in six-inch heels? Had she secretly been practicing walking around in high heels while he was at work? Who was this woman?


Clearly, she wanted something. She wanted something and she was not getting it so she was acting like a child. He did not have time for this.


But the car had to be addressed. She could not just go out and buy a car without even talking to him about it! If she would not return it, he would cut off her credit cards. He would go to the bank and move all their money to his account and she would have no access to it. She was wasting money frivolously without a word!


But he would try to reason with her first. Punish her only if she continued to behave like a child.


“Are you kidding me, Sarah?” Trevor finally managed. “You went out and bought a car without even talking to me about it?”


Sarah placed the lid on the Vitamix, and then pressed the button. She knew Trevor hated this sound. Usually gave him a warning so he could leave the room before she turned it on. A sound that miraculously did not wake the girls, but likely woke Mr. Jones sleeping in his house next door, as 
well as Elaine and Marie Côté the next house over, also sending the mice in the basement into a panic, so Trevor could almost hear their terrified scampering and squeaks as they fled into the yard, now made deaf for the rest of their lives—easy prey for Mr. Jones’s five cats who spent most of their time making a litter box of Sarah’s vegetable garden, contaminating the soil with their intestinal bacteria and urine so Sarah was forced to use the veggies mostly for photo ops and compost, rather than the delectable home-grown meals she pretended the family was eating on her mom blog—nowhere mentioning her middle of the night internet searches about 
Toxoplasma gondii
, and the statistical chances of Arlynn being infected, thereby causing potential lifelong personality alterations, because she’d eaten a sprig of tatsoi less than ten centimetres away from a shrivelled turd.


As the blender assaulted Trevor, Sarah turned, pivoting on the heel of her right shoe, tapping the toe of her left out in front, shifting her weight so it almost looked like she was going to catwalk. She lifted the power lever, cutting out the blender’s hysterical grating. And in a level voice that deeply bothered Trevor, a voice he did not recognize coming out of Sarah’s mouth, she responded.


“I did talk to you about it, Trevor. I told you that I needed a car but you wouldn’t listen. You didn’t ask me any questions about why I felt I needed a car, and got angry with me, telling me I was being unfair for not listening to your ideas, fixating on the e-bike as the only course of action.


“It is such a good idea for you, Trevor. I get that. I would love for the family to have an e-bike as an option, especially if it would encourage you to get out more with the girls. But I don’t even feel safe riding a bike alone. Can you really not see how much of a strain it would put on me to try to commute with the girls that way?”


“That is not the point right now, Sarah. The point is that you went out without even talking to me and bought a car we can’t afford!”


Sarah stiffened at Trevor’s elevated tone. “I needed a car, and you weren’t helping, so I went and got one myself!” Then added, “We 
can
 afford it. When was the last time you even looked at our finances? And by the way, I’ve hired a housecleaner, too. She comes on Friday.”


“Fuck!” Trevor shouted, throwing his hands in the air. And as he turned to leave the room, he shot out, “I can’t have this conversation with you.”


“Of course you can’t!” Sarah shouted. “You can never have any conversation with me. Why don’t you just go into your office and watch some porn, since having an adult conversation with your wife about what is actually going on in real life is far too difficult for you!”


Trevor blanched. He jammed his hands into his sweater pockets, keeping them close to his body so they would not flail out and cause damage. There it was! The hex key! Without thinking, he grabbed it in his fist, and threw it at Sarah.


In the split second between him launching it and it hitting her in the face she thought perhaps it was a stone—but 
then some force shot through her and she spun, fast on her heels, leaning back, putting up her hands, closing them around an old rusted skeleton key that felt oddly familiar, as though it had busted through the veil between story and life. Some long-forgotten key that might open a dungeon door or fire up the ignition of a cherry-red flying steampunk ship that could take her anywhere she wanted, anytime, across multiple dreamworlds.


Sarah slipped it into the slinky pocket of her red dress and it seemed to absorb right through the thin velour into her flesh.


“What did you just say?” Trevor asked.


Sarah swivelled, the key now fused into her skin, and left the kitchen with her smoothies, neglecting to respond.




———


Trevor retreated to his office. “It feels like someone has been sitting in my chair,” he thought, shifting it back into place.


Did she know?


No, unlikely.


She was just being petty. There was no way she understood the depths of it. She had no capacity to see into his complexity, she never had. She was too caught up in her own ideas about how she wanted things to be. But there was something going on with her. Something strange.


He needed to spend time thinking about what to do to make things right with Sarah. He was too angry right now. He needed to clear his mind. Calm down.


Had he just thrown something at her? No, he would never do that. The hex key? No, that was too bizarre. It was just his mind. He had been looking for it, imagining it, and so his mind was now imagining hurting Sarah somehow, making her take notice! But he would never hurt Sarah. He was not that kind of man. Still, it was disturbing. He had to get control of himself, but she was doing everything to make him angry all the time!


There was no way he could talk to her when he was this angry. She was angry too. Angry enough to buy a car. He should have done couples therapy with her. Then at least he would have known what was going on. What was she doing with the therapist behind closed doors? All of these strange behaviours all of a sudden.


Masha would completely devastate him if she came to class in the dress Sarah was wearing. God, he wanted to see that. Oh, he wanted it so much. No. Stop. He did not want that. She could not wear that dress. He did not want that.


He had to concede that maybe he had pushed it too far with the e-bike. She was terrified of biking. He’d just been so excited! He had thought the crash was a sign. And that the bike could be a positive change for her. A way to solve her complaining about not feeling comfortable in her body. A good economic and ecological choice. But maybe he had been insensitive?


Masha. Her tits in his mouth, him suckling while she read a poem to him. His cock in her mouth to make her 
stop talking. She wanted to stop talking. She needed him to fill her up so she could finally let go of her words.


Sarah!


He needed to think about Sarah. But he could not think about Sarah, because Masha kept interrupting his thoughts. He would hate to have to cut Sarah off. This was fucking excruciating, but she was giving him no choice. Behaving like this. She was forcing his hand.


Maybe he could ask Masha to stay after class today?


Just watch the video. Get the urge out of your system.


Watch the video.


There might be a clue in there.


“No!” He had work to do. He needed to focus on work, for fuck’s sake. Get these women out of his mind.


“Focus.”




———


Then he saw it.


It was clear. He needed to go back in time.


Back into the story of how it had all played out with Troy. Back to the beginning, get a grip on it. His own words to drown out their intrusions.


He opened “The Face,” the story that was giving him such trouble, that he could not seem to get quite right. Rereading the first lines:


She struck me.


I followed.


When Sarah opened the door.


“Come with me,” she said, reaching for his hand.


He wanted to pull it back and let her take it at the same time, hesitating.


She did look so stunning in that dress.


He wanted to be led away. She was offering him a hand.


“Take it,” he thought. “What do you have to lose?”


She led him to the driveway and opened the driver’s-side door of her new car, beckoning him to get in.


“Sarah, the girls are sleeping, we can’t just leave.”


“We’re not going anywhere. Get in.”


He hesitated again. Could he trust her?


She was talking to him. Telling him what to do. There was no confusion.


She looked at him with her moon eyes.


Yes, those eyes, he recognized them. The eyes he’d been looking for, Sara! Something in him settling for the first time since Masha had stepped out of the video into his classroom, invading his waking dreams.


He got in and Sarah shut the door, going around the front to the passenger side, swaying her hips as a woman must in six-inch heels. Holding all of Trevor’s attention—a shadow emerging from twilight, through the dark of night into a newly arising dawn.


She slid into place beside him.


“Put your hands on the wheel,” she commanded.


“What are you doing? Sarah?”


“I’m making it up to you, Trevor. Changing your association with the car,” she whispered in his ear, licking, hand sliding down his chest to his groin.


His mind gave a warning, but his body heeded, as it always did, to her attention. He needed this, but something felt off, like he was being pulled now into Sarah’s game, with rules he did not understand.


She pulled him out of his waistband, so gentle, so gentle, her lips finding him again after so very, very long. 
Yes
. This was what he had needed all this time! Her head lolled as she licked and sucked, intermittently bumping it on the steering wheel, her ribs slightly crushed by the centre console while Trevor fully relaxed, sliding and leaning the seat back to give her more room.


Somehow, in that tight space, in her ice-pick heels, Sarah managed to manoeuvre herself on top of him, fucking him in the driver’s seat, christening Cherry theirs.


“Forgive me?” she asked after he’d cum.


“Not yet,” he responded, playfully digging his fingers into her hair, massaging her scalp. “I’m going to need a few more mornings like this, first.”


They toppled out of the car as dawn turned to day.


“I really hope all the neighbours are still asleep,” Trevor laughed—what would they think, seeing Sarah in this getup, the two of them emerging from the car? Trevor led Sarah by the hand back into the house, things falling properly back into place.




———


A short hour later, Trevor watched Sarah load the girls into the car and drive away. Standing at the top of the driveway, holding his bike by the handlebars, waving them off.


“Sarah, Sara”—he found himself singing the words of the Bob Dylan song. She was both Sarah and Sara. They were all grown up now. It had changed, but it was also still the same. “It’s not such a bad car after all,” he thought. “Sarah does make good choices.” She was thinking about the girls. She was trying her best. She had made a mistake. He had been a bit unreasonable. She wanted what was best for him, too. She was not out to get him, after all.


All was right. He felt giddy with anticipation, realizing he would see Masha soon, wondering what she’d be wearing today. All of her getups seemed put together specifically to charm him. On his ride to work he allowed himself to imagine the many possible assignments he might give her.


Things were turning. He could play this right. Things had been hard, but they would get better. Sarah was finally dealing with whatever had been troubling her. He didn’t need to be troubled by it anymore. Such a relief. And Masha. It could only be a gift. He was being offered something here, he knew this. He would be able to make the best of it all.




———


Sarah had run across some Esther Perel videos someone had posted on their feed about bringing eroticism back into your marriage, and then had read another article about shifting the dance. Trying different moves, unanticipated ones, opening a space for the other to respond differently instead of always the same jive. Sarah knew how to play dress-up! She just needed a costume that gave her power, rather than giving it up or trying to assume Trevor’s!


So, Trevor was not the person she had imagined him to be. People changed. She had changed. So, her marriage was kind of a sham. Okay. A lot of marriages were shams. But to give up on it completely? To completely lose her head and fall into desperation? To put the girls through that? There was so much at stake. She could not tolerate what had been, but now she knew. She didn’t have to pretend anymore.


She had learned over and over again that trying to get Trevor to see things from her perspective did not work. But she could get him on her side by seducing him back into a shared vision.


She had given Trevor all the power. But she too had power.


Power that she had not been using.


She just needed to up the allure factor! Trip Trevor’s desire wires and get him focused on her. Call him back. Get her marriage on track from here. From this point forward. She owed the girls a family. She had to keep trying.




———


Cherry! A wicked car.


Out of the house, in 
her
 car!


The car sex had not felt like her giving. It had felt like her taking control. Not as a way to connect with Trevor, but for something else. Such a different feeling than the alienation his body sometimes inspired in hers when she sought deeper connection with him, failing to find it.


She just needed to update the fantasy!


Update the costume to make it relevant to the moment.


What was life but a series of roles?


She was a loyal wife.


It was for better or for worse.


Women did what they could to make their marriages work, otherwise would there even be any marriages at all?


She’d written some version of that on the blog!


She might as well have fun instead of always being frustrated while doing it!


Get the Sarah who had travelled the world back online to make something more of this life than what she’d allowed it to become.


Sarah laughed a wicked laugh, a laugh she hadn’t heard herself make before, slipping out of her seductress dress into her mom clothes before moving to the next phase of the day, following her and Trevor’s little escapade.


Just a regular day in family life, while Sarah behind the scenes did a costume change.


She was delighted to finally find a way to play this right, finding the key to fit a stuck lock after so very long.


The Assignment


Trevor’s daydreams were lovely. His charisma in full force; the class completely in his thrall.


He’d completed a story in one sitting. How long since he’d done that? And he and his wife had started fucking again. Not the depressing domestic sex he had felt he had 
to beg for since the kids were born, but hot sex. In the car. In the driveway! Almost like his wife was his lover again. Like those nights at the cottage, which had not, after all, been a one-off.


The girls too were being delightful. So sweet. “I want Papa to read to me instead of Mama tonight,” from Amelie. “I love you Papa,” from Arlynn, over and over and over again—such a switch from last week when she’d been yelling, “No Papa! No Papa!” whenever he tried to get close.




———


His sleep, though. His sleep was fucking with him. The recurring nightmare. Him, stuck in the labyrinth searching for the missing thread, knowing the Minotaur was there, feeling it approaching, bearing down. Sarah, Masha, Troy, the girl who had found him in the fog—their bodies in grotesque arrangements. Sometimes the Minotaur coupling with them, watching Trevor as he did.


Moments when he least expected it, the nightmares would replay. Seeping from his sleeping dreams to his waking ones.


Why was his mind doing this?


Why, when everything was finally going his way?


“Gratitude practice!” Sarah would say, if he told her.


He did not want to hear Sarah’s positivity mindset suggestions right now. This was so much more powerful than Sarah’s hobunk mind tricks.


Here he was, forty-three years old, mind-fucked by porn-Troy/Masha raising her black-painted fingernails 
skyward in a dream classroom, cocking her eyebrows to ask about ekphrasis, wearing Sarah’s red dress.




———


Urgently I strip my clothes off—standing naked in front of the class—past students in shadowed desks, their faces achingly familiar, masking the greatest contempt.


Porn-Troy’s red dress shed like snakeskin on the floor beneath her feet, ropes binding her flesh.


The classroom morphs into a labyrinth from which there is no escape.


In vain I try to retrace my path, finding myself ensnared by the thread that was meant to lead me out—coiled impossibly tight around my wrists—thrusting toward porn-Troy’s always-receding figure as something dangerous bears down from behind. The floor is slick with sex fluids so half the time I am crawling or writhing, belly scraped to earth. My hands want something to throw to keep the pursuer I cannot see at bay, or strike her to make the pulling stop.


I come up empty-handed.


Push my fists into my eyes.


Confusing pain forces me to look again, two swans now digging their beaks into my skin.


I can’t tell if they are trying to loosen the ropes or peck me to death.




———


A figure emerges from the shadows, scattering the swans—a flurry of white and black feathers drifting on air.




———


Trevor began muttering entreaties under his breath as he biked to work. Trying invocations like the affirmations Sarah scrawled in mock-calligraphy with metallic gel pens on thick cardstock, pinning them up where he was sure to see them.




———


He needed to get rid of Masha. He could not do this. He needed it all to stop. She would not give him the peace he needed.


“Let 2.0 drop the class, let 2.0 drop the class.” Or, “Please make 2.0 go away. I vow to be a better husband. I vow to be a better father and colleague, to show up instead of always turning away, leaving others to take care of it. What did I see in her in the first place? Her poetry isn’t magnificent. She’s no better than any other girl. It’s a trick. A trick. Another one of my stupid unfounded fantasies. The video is nothing. Just a happenstance. There is no meaning to any of it. She’s a nice girl. She’s kind and caring. It isn’t right to obsess over possessing her. 
But what if she wants this? What if we both want it? If we just give in, this might all go away—erase the failure of Troy—too cowardly to have even confessed your love. You’re a man now, not a boy. You can take control of this.


“No! Let 2.0 drop the class, let 2.0 drop the class.”




———



				Masha did not drop the class. Instead, she showed up every day, eager, excelling at all the assignments, asking questions about the readings and the other students’ work that were insightful, empathetic, encouraging, and critical. Clearly 
this girl had done some reading and some thinking, as well as a good deal of fucking. On top of that, she knew how to write a line. And then another line, and a line after that, too. He could not deny this, after all.


Just when he began to see through her, put her in her proper place in his mind, she would lure him back in.


Why was she so fascinating?


Wearing things that shocked and subdued—one day a prom dress that girls might have worn to a late-nineties suburban graduation party paired with Spice Girl platform runners and bits of yarn and feathers braided into her hair—the next day a forest-green velvet sheath over white culottes, with what looked like old man’s beard hanging from her sleeves, giving the impression that her arms were downslung branches.


A walking distraction with getups that she cut patches from to let her snake tattoo peek out. She was wearing one of these snake windows the day they were discussing approaches to literary non-fiction. In the pause between passages from Dionne Brand’s 
A Map to the Door of No Return
 and Joan Didion’s 
The Year of Magical Thinking
, Trevor became trapped momentarily in the snake’s gaze, feeling its eyes glowing out at him like a CGI apparition. It communicated with him like a flashback scene in a movie, but in a university prof kind of way, in which it illuminated the assignment he’d been trying to conjure—the assignment through which he might be able to peer into the backstory 
behind 2.0’s career in erotic film, and in this way bring 2.0 and Masha into singular focus, demystifying her.


He had just had one of the students read from Brand, half listening to the words spoken:




Writers do not lead, they follow.…They gush out what they see—whatever thought they have, and everyone around them is startled because they’ve said what everyone’s been thinking.…Sometimes they gush their fears, and then sometimes they blurt out their affinities.




Trevor snapped out of the snake’s enchantment. Then stuttered through the Didion passage he’d chosen, which, on reading after the snake’s ensorcellment, made him wonder if he had in fact spoken in tongues, the snake’s voice replacing his own, or at least replacing his intended meaning:




Survivors look back and see omens, messages they missed.


They remember the tree that died, the gull that splattered onto the hood of the car.


They live by symbols. They read meaning into the barrage of spam on the unused computer, the delete key that stops working, the imagined abandonment in the decision to replace it.




He had prepared a question for them, though his notes now seemed to tangle themselves on the page.


What did it mean to heed symbols in life vs. literature?


Some scrawl about addressing his discomfort as a white man teaching Brand, a Black female writer.


GRIEF
, Trevor had penned in all caps. 
White Male Fragility
 !!
 he had underlined. 
Courage in the face of discomfart. What? No, not discomfart—discomfort. Courage in the face of discomfort.
 Yes, he had written this note for himself.


A smile played on his lips.


He could do this. Yes, he saw exactly how he could.


He would follow. Follow the snake’s lead.


“Read chapter 12 of Didion’s 
Magical Thinking
, considering how she probes into her deceased husband’s books for signs and omens as a way to try to make meaning in meaningless absence.


“Take note of Brand’s approach to finding symbols and omens pairing two unrelated texts bound by the random happenstance of reading them together on a long, dreamlike plane ride of disturbed sleep. How together the books haunt her. They haunt what is already haunted, feeding her questions, disturbing her affinities. Without the tension between them, would the haunting have taken place? The symbols projected to heightened meaning?


“Follow with Joy Harjo’s poem ‘Remember.’ Notice the repetition of the words—‘Remember, Remember’—leading the reader to remember truths layered over with colonial debris. Bodily and cultural truths that exist outside of the violence of displacement.


“Your assignment is to write a three- to four-thousand-word exploratory essay based on personal symbols that 
produced heightened feeling in reading Brand’s, Didion’s, and Harjo’s texts together, remembering deeper truths hidden beneath the ordinary.”




———


This was not a Dr. Hart assignment. Dr. Hart would never assign his students the task of writing about being haunted, drawing on intersectional and women writers to do so. Dr. Hart was normally pretty uninterested in what the students thought of themselves. He had other exercises he routinely used to tap into telling a story. Was it appropriation for him to open up this private space of feeling in his students? He didn’t know. But here he was, snake-bit, assigning the fucking task to them!


It was too late now to change what he had said. The snake had spoken through him, the students had written down his words, Masha asking, “Professor, will the assignment be up on the class board after class? I’m not sure I got all the details. And I don’t see it in my syllabus here, where to access the poem? I see the chapters from the books are in our course packs. Will you put the poem up too?”


“Yes…Tr—Mm—ahhh—sha. Masha,” he replied, slurring her name, then speaking it aloud—her name. Catching himself. “I’ll post the assignment by the end of the day. And links to the poem—you can find it online, or the library will have copies. And to be respectful to your classmates, maybe for now just copy the poem instead of taking the book out, so others can copy it too.”


He paused, then went on, “I have the books in my office as well, if you’d like to come by and borrow those to make copies from.” He looked at her as he said it, not at any of the other students.


He almost stopped his hand over his mouth. He did not routinely lend his books to Intro students—only grad students, from whom he could be mostly sure to get them back in a relatively unmarred state—but he knew he was issuing an invitation to Masha. Hoping 
she
 would come. That she would want to read 
his
 copies of the books. Or at least come to his office so he could talk to her one-on-one.


Excrutiating Revisions


Such relief, Cherry. Heralding in a new beginning in the Hart household.


A performance that required repeat.


Sarah became aroused the moment she slipped her red dress on, stirring Trevor up a few short minutes later when he walked into the kitchen to find her. Momentarily shocked, fearing the return of the silent treatment—flushed with relief when she turned to him and smiled, holding out one hand, dangling the fob in the other—the first bad association being replaced by new good ones.


They had turned over a new leaf. Sarah had fired the ignition. She had just needed to metamorphose a modern charmed key out of an ancient tainted one.




———


Sarah could see how much difference small changes made.


She knew there was so much more work to do, but she had figured out the trick. Life had gotten overwhelming, and she’d gotten confused. But she was gaining clarity.


Sneaking around in Trevor’s clothes! Not a costume she should have been wearing.


The dream could still hold if she stayed fashion-forward. A dream reflective of today’s Sarah and today’s car!




———


Sarah still needed to talk to him about the video and his student. But how to do it without alarming him? He needed her support. Long ago on a rooftop, she had vowed to herself that she would do everything she could to help Trevor realize his dreams. But she could not admit to him she’d been snooping, or all her gains would be lost. She needed him to stay open but also find a way for them to get past this together so he wouldn’t be alone in this disturbing secret he was carrying around.


How was he coping?


His student! The video! What an astonishing relief that she hadn’t thought about the video in a week. A week! Not since they’d started up with the car sex.


Thinking about it made her feel impulsive. Well, why not? Why not? It didn’t all have to be for Trevor. God, that was the whole point! Sarah wanted to watch the video. In her red dress. As herself.


There was so much to do, but she had already decided 
before the video even came to mind that she was going to do none of it today. Her plan was to go back into “Merriment” and make revisions. She wanted to send it to Ariadne. She knew Ariadne would be proud of her. That she’d be happy to know Sarah had started writing fiction again. Ariadne had so loved reading Sarah’s whimsical stories. “Merriment” would delight Ariadne! She had felt a little of Ariadne’s wry wickedness with her as she’d written it. Her audience shifting. Not her fellow moms, not Trevor, but Ariadne. A different conversation.


First the video, then “Merriment.”




———


At Trevor’s computer, in her red dress, Sarah readjusted the chair, lowering it to Sarah-height.


Trevor’s autofictional story “The Face” was open on his desktop. 
Ugh—Sara.
 He was still calling her Sara, despite Sarah telling him she didn’t like it, that it didn’t do anything for the story. Trevor, 
Troy,
 Sean, and 
Sara.
 She felt her spirits lessen. Why were the women characters the only ones with fictitious names? She could see he’d been revising. 
Oh!
 A small hope bubbled up; perhaps he’d been inspired by their newfound happiness and had changed other aspects of the story to include her perspective? She shouldn’t be so quick to judge!


As she read, her radiant dress began to dim, and then to crinkle up like a too-small skin.




———


She struck me, I followed.


As I am following now.


Red, like the Minotaur’s blood, coating me.


Shock of cheekbones subsuming me in an otherworldly halo, inverting time.


A second chance at Troy.




———


Once, long ago, my love for Troy gifted me instead Sara, sweet sad Sara—my mystical wife. Gifted to me in the throes of faithlessness. Emerging from the wreckage as flesh and blood—a vessel I could sink my soul into that would accept what I had to give as precious, for whom I would always be a hero, no matter my deeds.


Sarah’s skin began to crawl, her breath reduced by a heart collapsing in on itself.


Troy has returned to me—a belief lost so long ago! First as apparition, now as flesh—a new Troy, showing me the way.


Sara—Troy.


I slip the red dress off Sara, sliding it over Troy, giving her a new skin. Both of them glowing in moonlight, my hands washed clean…


The red dress began to burn like a toxic coating abrading her skin, frothing into her bloodstream.


Her beautiful dress transformed into another element in Trevor’s freshman fantasy. How simple it was for him to 
disrobe her and slip it onto another, imagining her still glowing for him as he left Sara there naked in waiting.


It was no real power.


No matter how many ways 
she
 changed to fit herself in, he was still playing the game the exact same way.




———


Merriment
.


She had already spelled it out, so why was she trying to rope herself back in? Like somehow, if she made a lark of it, she was a real player in the game, when she was just a pawn like he was, feigning narrative control.


Whose betrayal was this? His, or hers against her own better judgment?


Trevor!
 He was 
her
 Trevor! He needed 
her
. She wanted to care for him! Who would they be without one another? Half her life she’d spent trying to find the right way to care for him so he could feel something real. Anything real, even if it weren’t through her. Feel something real that he could believe in. Maybe 
she
 was the false story.


She wished he would see that she had been there the entire time, giving him her all. She loved this man, and loving him was diminishing her. Each time she hoped, he shattered it. Showing his real self to her, time and time again, and she had just been refusing to see, blotting herself out in the process.


See me! See me! See me!
 she heard a little voice inside her shout.


See me! See me! See me!


A little girl in a red-velvet cape.


Sarah in her birch tree calling down to Papa.


She had to look carefully first, to make sure. Sometimes she shouted for him to see and he would look, beaming at her with love, augmenting her glowing heart with his wondrous light, but other times he would look, something deep inside totally obscuring his vision, and the eyes with which he looked at her made her shrink into her hollow, turn herself back into a badger instead of being out in the open as a vulnerable little girl in need of affection.


“Stop shouting at me! Can’t you leave me alone for one minute? Blood-sucking girl!”




———


Merriment.




———


One costume after another. Sarah the Stripper—where was the real skin?


The girls deserved something real and upholding. And Trevor would never be the one to give it.


Her body, both universe and stage.


There was something real. She could feel it within. A place where there was no grasping, no weaving, no costume at all.


She felt real with Ariadne, and she felt real when she was alone with the girls. She felt real, too, when she was alone with herself, attuned to the living world. In her birch tree she had felt real—until calling for her papa’s attention.


Real when he saw her, unreal when he didn’t.


Making herself real again by changing her form, sensing the world with her badger nose, a world in which human concerns didn’t hurt.


All the travelling she had done. All the places she had been and things she’d seen. She had a life beyond Trevor.


Just because he failed to see her, it didn’t mean she wasn’t there.




———


There was real love. A deep well that could always hold and sway the moon’s light, make life and tend to its living, unless she allowed the veil to obscure it.


She stripped herself to her bare skin beyond the make-believe dreams she’d been keeping alive for Trevor.


She wished to serve this love, not Trevor. It lived inside her, as it always had. She would not let it become what he made of it.




OceanofPDF.com































OceanofPDF.com

















Chapter Nine


Textual Movement




Transference


Sarah inserted a memory tampon into the proper hole and let “Merriment” seep into its absorbent fibres. She pulled on the string and popped the tampon out, padding down to Trevor’s office.


It slipped right into Trevor’s drive as though not soaked in the memory blood of her desktop, bleeding “Merriment” into Trevor’s 
Work in Progress
 folder.


No matter how she told the story, he would read it from his own isolated perspective, or not read it all, pulling the blanket back over his eyes so he did not have to look at truths he had the privilege not to be made to see. So long as he had a Sara who’d come and lift the tiniest corner, hand 
him nourishing snacks, whisper warm entreaties, telling him it was safe to come out now that she’d fixed herself up. “Come out, come out, wherever you are.”


Sara was tired.


Sarah wanted to give her a break.


Trevor’s blanket was too small and wrapped too tightly around him. There was no room inside for Sara. She needed some nourishment too, and some warm entreaties. A place to hide away, where someone would sometimes come and help her to find her way out when she got scared. Sarah would give her those, so Sara did not have to be stuck in a mystical loop, walking through the same scenes over and over again, forever being mystically, achingly unreachable.


My Body in Three Acts


Mid-term Assignment CW 101


Dr. Trevor Hart




My Body in Three Acts


by Masha Novak


Act 1: Formation


I remember the space between non-being and being.


Half unmanifest.


A hollow where snakes writhed and I was the space between their bodies.


 




———


Where does memory live? In the cells? In the mind? In the gaps and passageways between matter and consciousness—between roots beneath cedar—cellular matter inside grandmother’s womb.




———


Always my mother carried the possibility of me. Both threat and gift.


Girls are taught to understand there is danger in their bodies.


Danger to make life. Danger to invoke desire that is life-taking.


A delicate art to acquiesce and refuse at the same time. Tricky to simultaneously debase and uphold oneself.


Keep the secret, only to be told at the right time.


Or else have it taken unwillingly.


Efface the entire range of feeling between willing and unwilling through shame cast upon girl flesh—the horror of its emergence. The beauty, also.


Flowering/deflowering.




———


I remember being thistle.


Spikes, sweet purple nectar.


Sweetness and danger, both.


Does a girl smell her own pungency before other forces act to take from her what she may never learn to feel as her own essence? Drawing toward herself bees that tickle so gently, not harming her in the process? Transforming her to seed-bearing fruit.


Bees impregnate flowers with the sex of other flowers. Girls, if they know what’s good for them, do everything they can to prevent impregnation.




———


I formed too soon for my mother. Memory gives me nothing but a gap where story slips in.


Am I writing about my mother’s body or my body? If my mother were able to tell a true story about her body, how would she tell it?


It is beyond my power in life to redeem my mother’s body, though not beyond my power in word. I remember being in my mother’s body, but I do not remember my mother. She gave birth to a baby the world would not uphold her to keep.




———


I was formed of my father’s desire. From the heat and the friction of his body in my mother’s body.


Did my mother want my father back? This I will never know.


I remember divinity and I remember desecration.




———


I do not remember my father’s body.


I do not remember my father.




———


The mother I came to know found me. My body a thread woven into story. My body as rift and gift both.


I remember ice. Cold on my tongue, binding me to cold metal bars. I remember pain as heat melded my skin to the 
steel’s cold surface. Frozen hands in snow, my mother’s eyes. How I loved her more than anything, and hated her for everything she could not give. But wanted her love more than anything, and so formed myself to please her, my wants merging with hers.


I remember hate, and I remember love.


I remember joy at the outreaching of my body. The way it spread as speed in the world, careening toward all manner of discoveries. Hurts happened—skinned knees, gravel embedded in palm-skin, bruises, scabs to be picked at and re-bloodied. But they were small, temporary sufferings. My body was joy. Glorious happening. It knew the world. The world spoke to it, and it, in turn, spoke back by the force of bones encased in skin that knew the gentle rub of caterpillar feet and the tickle of discovered feathers. Skin turned copper in the summer sun. The cold weight of stones become hot in my hands, hurled into water, reverberating ripples that made lily pads dance and frogs hop into the safety of their underwater worlds. I ate from the world—berries dripping down my chin. I flourished.


Act 2: Sexualization


I remember betrayal.


My body’s or the world’s?


I flourished. My body invoked desire I did not desire. Other bodies wanted to take what was mine, whether or not I desired to share.


Some things I could not hide.


My power was to refuse.


Many tried to deny me this power.


Some succeeded.


I remember I had my own desires. Sometimes clear, sometimes muddy. I remember sometimes I desired and what I received was not what I desired.


Sometimes I did not refuse because I felt I owed a response. And what I learned to give felt like estrangement. Making 
consent
 an empty word—easier to consent than bear the psychic or physical brunt of refusal. Body untethered from mind. Mind watching body give, feeling nothing back. Tiny pleasure streaks rising from places that were always improperly touched on the way to male release, and then hazed over. I watched as though a long way off, pretending closeness.


Gaps haunt, blur memory, connections sever in the blur.


I remember gaps between snakes coiled together in an underground hibernaculum—space I could always recede to.


I remember I danced, training the mind to ignore the pain of the body in order to push through to form. Pain transformed into an articulation of grace through serious repetitive effort. Pain in order to build memory in the body, until mastery, and then no longer pain, but expression of will from within. Consciousness no longer needed.


I remember I lost myself in desire—subsumed in ambition to become the bodies of dancers I admired. Want and will entwined. Thousands of minute repetitions 
layered into choreographed memory amalgamated to performance—remembered beyond memory, re-enacted. Executed with spirit.


I lost spirit when my body betrayed me, granting me breasts and hips and an ass that unbalanced. I began to stumble.


For years progressing toward ideal form, then my body un-becoming my dreams, betraying them with its own intentions, transforming me without my bidding. Making a mockery of my grace, smudging out body memory as a new body emerged—a facsimile of the female form fed back to me as model. Uninhabitable. Not dancing, just a thing on display.




———


I remember my mother’s wants changed over time. She wove me in, and then the weft unravelled, and I was left behind with my father.


I remember my father sent me away.


Act 3: Fornication and my Fairy Stepmother


I remember boys whose faces I don’t always remember—wanted and unwanted hands and kisses carved into memory like slashes in shed skin.


I remember my fairy stepmother.


Possessed of her own unhidden wants.


Drawing me from my hiding place.




———


Inhabiting her body as celestial form, teaching me to wear my own skin.


Gaps as entry points rather than terrible abysses.


Teaching me to become curious—margins in the gaps, interior experiences under the radar. Aware within oneself.


When I write about my fairy stepmother, transgression looms. She could be read as corruption. But what she offered was absolution. Inviting me to witness desire as celebration. Sharing with me art forms in which women’s pleasure was an organizing principle rather than gaping exclusion or signifier of shame. Inviting me to ask questions, to speak, to voice my own desires.


I remember learning to curate my own experience within the gaze. Which shook apart the story.


Is it corruption to shake a corrupt story?




———


For a girl to change the choreography of a myth?




———


Masha!


This piece is an anthem. Your voice is a punch to the gut and a feather down the cheek at the same time. You understand what to do with repetition! I reread it three times, and then reread it once more. You tackle difficult stuff with honesty and bravado! I have some thoughts I’d like to share with you about pacing and style, could you come into office hours this week?


Professor T.


Correspondence


Two letters slipped through time to land on Sarah’s floor. One from Ariadne on her trademark embossed stationery, and another, penned in stunning calligraphy that made Sarah ache to get out her own stylus and try her hand at the spirit flowing through the letters of her own name.




———


She opened the second letter reverently, not knowing who had written it.




———


Then dissociated from the world for the amount of time it takes for a myth to unravel itself.




———


She returned to life when her fingers registered a texture she recognized underneath the myth-breaking letter—Ariadne’s stationery. A warmth emanating from it, reaching through a broken story to call Sarah back.




———


Ariadne’s letter contained fragments for a memoir Ariadne was working on—bits of source material and reflections on archaeological research methods, musings about time and scientific data proving arsenic poisoning from water sources had led to staggering rates of infant mortality among the Chinchorro. Ancient people who, for thousands of years, made mummies of babies that had died too young, carrying them forward in life, making daily company of their dead.


Water as both life source and cause of premature death. Complex mourning rituals for living and dying on land that gave as much as it took—mummies as relics of perpetual grief. Death a constant feature of life, rather than a disgusting secret no human should be subject to except for entertainment purposes—violence supposedly contained in commodified fantasy worlds.


Layers of multiple truths.


How did Ariadne always know?


Real. Unreal. Ariadne was enmeshed in the same questions as Sarah, only she came at it so differently! Analyzing stages of flesh decay, climate change, rainfall, bacterial threat, skull preservation, desiccation techniques, and flayed sea lion skin woven through with fine needlework using human hair, with which the Chinchorro patched together facsimiles of dead kin. Ancestral ghosts as symbolically alive as the living.


Dear Sarah,


I’m including what I know is a mess of notes! I need your help! I know you already have so much on your plate. But the idea keeps coming up for me so I’m floating it to you. Co-write the memoir with me! I am planting the seed. You have always helped me speak my scattered thoughts into a coherent language.


Sarah’s heart moved within her ribcage. Shifted, she was sure of it, opening a chamber she had sealed shut. She 
felt blood surge, washing out the settling pond her heart had become, surviving on whatever backwaters came its way. A vibration that made her limbs tremble.


Shaking Trevor’s stories and the myth-breaking letter out.


Sarah lay down on her bed, hand over Ariadne’s letter, letter over heart, everything cohering—all her interwoven selves.


Wetness emerged from her eyes, forming water droplets, saline and heavy, staining her cheeks, leaving traces like salt rivulets in a desert.


I keep having this daydream of you staying with me here with the girls while we write the book together. I know it would be hard on your end to figure out, but can we talk about it? My sabbatical starts at the end of this semester and I’ve got money from a research grant to pay you. I hope you’ll think about it. You actually being here would help so much with the texture of the dreams that come unbidden in this landscape. Well, I won’t say too much about those now!


Yours always,


Ariadne


Sarah went through the notes feverishly. They were disordered, but as soon as she’d spread them out on her bedroom floor, a thread emerged. She could see how she would write Ariadne’s story. She could feel without doubt that in doing so, she would also bring life back to her own.


She pictured it as though from a bird’s-eye view.


She and Trevor in the tourist hedge maze in Bavaria, Trevor dropping the ball. The two of them running in haste through the exit, emerging to find the black swans.


Sarah had lived that story.


She looked again, then scrawled on the back of Ariadne’s envelope:




———


Once upon a time, Sarah fell asleep and woke up in the centre of a labyrinth. There were a series of signs instructing her very clearly to go in the right direction. There was a ball of thread—a strand leading back the way she knew she had come in.


Sarah picked up the thread, turned around, and followed it, retracing her steps, winding the thread up into a ball full of dust and cobwebs gathered from all the years of lying on a labyrinth floor. Knowing she would emerge not into the past holding a fabled clew, but to a place where she had many choices to make.


She felt a tug on the string, and looking up, she saw her children in front of her, holding the thread in their hands. They had picked it up, and were walking with her, following the thread in the same direction as she wound it up behind them. Ahead of them, almost disappearing beyond each turn before Sarah could see her, was another girl wearing a red cape, just a figment, this one, but she was with them too, astonished to be coming out into the light after all this time.




OceanofPDF.com

















Chapter Ten


Winding Up




Back In Class


Let us not pretend the way out was as straightforward as simply following a thread or crossing a threshold.


Sarah banged into walls.


Got lost in halls of mirrors, baffled by her own reflection.


Threw the ball of thread as far away from her as she could, hoping for it to explode.


She wept.


And raged.


Curled her head into her hands, making herself into a little seed on the floor, unmoving.


Got up.


Because life.


Took care of the children as though minutes before she had not been curled up on the floor.


Sarah had plans to make. She made them between tears that felt like parts of her dying.




———


Once, on the floor, she daydreamed she was Jenny.


Showing up in Trevor’s class in fishnets and a miniskirt, black leather boots up to her knees. Hair plaited in the middle, two French braids swirled like pink-and-black candy canes to her shoulders. Breath smelling of orange Tic Tacs, lips tasting of cherry Chap Stick, sitting down next to Masha.


“Hi, I’m Jenny.”


“Masha. I haven’t seen you before—you’re joining halfway through the semester?”


“Just checking it out. I’ve heard compelling things about the prof.”




———


Being so close to Masha, would it be hard for Sarah to stay in character? Would she feel her own desire surge? Or was that contextual? Brought on only by the video? In class, Masha would be a student. Not a porn actor. Jenny would get the difference. Would Masha find Jenny interesting? Would she want to be friends with her?


Masha might pause then, looking at Jenny, uncertain, pupils expanding black saucers.


Jenny would ask, concerned, “Are you okay?”


“Yeah,” Masha might respond, looking away. Maybe not wanting to be friends if Jenny was only there to check out the prof.




———


Trevor would walk into the room, not seeing Jenny at first, eyes drawn to Masha.


Double-taking.


“Hi Professor T.,” Jenny would pipe up, uncrossing her legs, spreading them wide, bringing her fingers between her knees, up through her miniskirt, making a show of it. Not pretending it was any other way.


“I revised the poem you gave me feedback on. It’s a performance piece now. It requires your participation,” Jenny would say, slipping her fingers in between a gap she had made in the strings.


Everyone in class turning to stare at the spectacle.


At which point Jenny would get up, give Professor T. a wink, and, slow as oil, saunter out the way she had slithered in, leaving Trevor to do whatever he would do in the aftermath.


Reckoning


Sarah could not risk Trevor finding out. She knew he would do everything he could to derail her.


“I am their father; I have a right to decide!” he would say. Or, “What madness is this, Sarah? There is no way you can do this alone. I’ll be damned if I’m helping finance 
this escapade!” Or, failing more overt tactics: “I’ll do better, I promise. I’ve just lost my way, I need you. I want to change. I will change. I’ll prove to you I can. You know I can’t do this without you.”


How many times had Sarah heard these words, believing them, hope building for the duration of time in which Trevor tried, crashing when he gave up trying, because it was “all too goddamn much, Sarah. These constant unending demands.”


Why should he be granted the right to decide, given that he spent all of half an hour engaging with the girls directly on any given day, maybe a few hours on the weekend, as long as he was not distracted by other things that needed his full attention? Had he earned this right, as Sarah had? Earned the right by basing almost every one of her decisions for the past decades of her life on Trevor’s and then the girls’ needs? On what was best for 
them
.


Did he have the right to decide, given that he was so obsessed with a student he believed might be the one for him because she was the star of a porn video that had found him on the internet? Did he have a right to decide, given the letter that had so artfully spelled things out, that she could not pretend away, as she had so many of Trevor’s betrayals?


Sarah did not believe Trevor deserved the right, but the effort it would take to prove it to others was beyond her at the moment. Still, she had to get out, and she had to take 
the girls with her because she was afraid of what Trevor would do once the walls of the castle truly crumbled.


How many times? How many times had he crossed the line?


How could this man guide the life of his daughters?


He had hurt Sarah. Had hurt her repeatedly. Hurt her and hurt her and hurt her without ever taking responsibility. Always managing somehow to shift the blame to her. And Sarah, wanting to see Trevor’s perspective, knowing she was fallible, had accepted it. Because there was truth in his words too. But could everything be Sarah’s fault all the time? Was Trevor blameless?


Believing he existed in the world to do what was important to him, and when he wasn’t consumed with that, satisfying his urges by consuming whatever he came across that aroused—eating his fill of women’s beauty, abandoning them to deal with the debris. His shit, which he would take no responsibility for. She knew. She knew well enough. She who had lived so long charged with his toilet, his yucky words, his smears.


Masha.


How disturbed Sarah had been after the first time seeing the video. The twin impulse to recoil and surge. The questions that came on the heels of the feelings—is this girl okay? Is this what she wants? Is she being coerced into this? Just acting like she really wants this? What is going on here, I mean, what is going on? Is she really in control?


Desire had washed out concern. When she was pretending to be Trevor, thoughts like these were barred from disrupting the viewing experience. But they had rushed in again when Trevor receded, when she was back to being Sarah. She could not impersonate Trevor forever.


Sarah knew there were people behind the cameras, and she had worried that they were taking advantage. What had been going on in Masha’s body and in her mind when she put her clothes back on and left the set?


In one of their sessions, Arya suggested that these were important questions to ask, and prodded Sarah to get curious rather than turn away from her unease. Well, if there was anything Sarah knew how to do, it was follow leads.


She began to devour criticism by pornography scholars, as well as content by women working in the industry, and what they were saying about their own agency and fantasies. How they were aware of threading the line between exploitation and agency. How they played that line to serve their own interests and desires. Some of them, anyway. Those with enough agency to reflect on and articulate their experiences. Some even did it as political engagement, wanting to create sex-positivity and alternative female fantasies to the deluge of misogynistic porn that flooded the internet.


She also read critics who argued that the commodification of women’s bodies was still commodification, in service of images that served to subjugate women, no matter their experienced agency. She read the feminist philosopher 
Amia Srinivasan, who argued that “porn does not inform, or persuade, or debate. Porn trains.”


She liked what cultural critic Maggie Nelson had to say about “a different kind of freedom drive—one that longs to be self-forgetful, incautious, overwhelmed.” Was struck by Nelson quoting sexuality scholars Lauren Berlant and Lee Edelman, that sometimes in sex there was a “desire to be non-sovereign, and sometimes not-autonomous.”


Imagine writing about this on her mom blog! It was so off-brand! Though she did get a kick thinking about a 
Porn for Sexually Uninterested Moms
 drop-down.


It was funny, and it wasn’t. Because there was so much exploitation, and so much shame. Complex, intertwined, and prevalent. People bought in and pretended not to. According to Srinivasan, reports had shown that young boys were accessing online porn at the average age of eleven, and that most boys now believed sex 
was
 porn, approaching their lovers’ bodies as though teenage girls were porn stars who wanted to be fucked the way the free online porn they could get their hands on depicted men fucking them. Which was often brutal. Misogynistic fantasies played out on the screen. And in this way, they were being trained into their sexual selves as brutalizers rather than lovers.


This part sickened Sarah. Is this what had happened to Trevor? What had made him such a dissociated lover? Requiring so much emotional labour from her to bring him into a place of connection to have the kind of sex she desired.


She wanted to redeem all these young men. Give them porn that honoured women’s bodies and desires; if they were going to be watching porn anyway, whether or not their parents wanted them to, shouldn’t they be watching kinder forms of it? Forms that gave the opportunity for different kinds of bodies to demonstrate different kinds of pleasures?


Oh, she was glad her kids were so young still, but the time would come when they would want phones, enticement, self-forgetful experiences, and sex. There was no stopping that. But she wanted so much more for her girls’ bodies than for them to be acted upon as porn bodies by the boys and men they might seek someday to know. Just thinking of this made her wish her girls would seek other girls’ bodies instead, or the bodies of anyone who did not identify with the male bodies of free pornlandia. She wanted her girls to seek out bodies of other beings who would show them tenderness, with whom any act would be held in tenderness, even if there was wild energy at the core of it—energy that spun with gale force, sweeping bodies up into freneticism and pounding—still, for there to be tenderness harmonizing between the bodies—tethering being to being in generosity rather than rapacious hunger.




———



				Sarah read, absorbing. There was so much to take in. She was not alone, she knew. There were so many others wanting, hoping, fearing, desiring, in bodies akin to hers. Wanting to be honoured and honourable rather than desecrated and 
desecrating, sometimes learning right by learning wrong, and sometimes that learning took so much longer than was good.


Sarah wanted her children’s learning to be easier than hers had been. She knew most parents did. How could she guide them in a world full of men whose desires were mired in a sense of fragile superiority imposed by misogynistic porn and competition with other men—desires manufactured in repetitive media loops that tripped brain wires to make men believe it was all a game of pursuit and subjugation. That to be proper sexual beings, men had to impose their wills on bodies with less social power in some kind of supposedly mutually desired performance. It was one way to do sex, and sometimes Sarah had wanted this kind of play with Trevor, but she had wanted so many other kinds too, broader roles—for him to be okay trying different things instead of feeling threatened by anything that fell outside the script. As her body changed and needs shifted, Sarah had grown tired and turned off by the limitations and collateral storylines this scenario required of her.


It began at home, she knew. She and Trevor were performing the future stories their children would subconsciously seek to re-enact. If the girls saw their mother take the shit—take it over and over and over again, her whole being recoiling in protest, contorting itself to try to make life livable while their father went about re-enacting the same damaging stories—then what stories would they come to believe in for themselves?


Sarah did not have the power to change the ways in which Trevor told his stories.


But she could choose whether or not to play with him.


Professor T.


Masha was deeply ambivalent about Dr. Hart’s feedback.


The directions had been confounding. And her piece was so personal.


Why did it feel important to demonstrate to this man what it felt like on the other side? To assume that he would read, and in reading make a move to shift his perspective to allow her point of view to hold space in his mind?


She wanted him to see, but she didn’t really want to hear his perspective. She didn’t need to. She already knew his perspective. There was no way to avoid knowing Dr. Hart’s perspective. It was everywhere.


Still, she could not deny that there was a draw. Something enticing about the way he looked at her. It stirred her uncomfortably. Why did his approval even matter? Not just matter, but make her feel more worthy somehow? God, she wished her prof were someone she felt she could trust instead of someone who seemed to want something from her.


She wasn’t in class to be sexualized, she was there to learn, to be taken seriously. His praise for her work felt baited—little hooks hidden under pretty words. Hard to actually believe.


Yet she admired him, too. She had read his work. She 
had found his stories fascinating. He was erudite, surprising. He swept a reader up. His turns of phrase had made her laugh, while also offering depth, questioning the line between fantasy and reality, never quite offering resolution.


Did he really like her work? Or did he just want to win her over?


Masha wasn’t so naïve as to believe she was truly unique in his eyes. That she was as special as he seemed to want her to feel she was. The energy was too calculated. Too precise. She had enough experience with men to understand a lascivious look when she met one. She had plans for herself and her work that did not include being a professor’s young plaything.


Yet still, how enticing for one’s uniqueness to be held in the light of one they admired; it 
did
 stir her!


Reading the passages Dr. Hart had assigned as prompts, she had felt herself float away, underlining almost every second line. She knew she was in the presence of greatness, reading these works. The Harjo poem had made her weep. As though someone she knew were in it, speaking to her. Masha did remember. Her being remembered. She remembered, but was also lost.


Masha was grateful to be gifted readings she would not have found on her own, to be in the presence of greatness, and Dr. Hart had made this possible for her. But she was not grateful that Dr. Hart wanted to discuss her essay with her. She should have thought that this was where it might lead when she turned it in. Because that was his role, after all. But 
she hadn’t thought about him or the other students when she’d written it. Only after she’d hit the send button on her email, immediately wishing she’d waited. Written something else instead. Submitted something less vulnerable, less honest. That she had kept in mind who her audience was, instead of allowing herself to become lost in her own gesture.


But it was too late. She had sent it. He had read it. And now he wanted to talk to her.




———


Yuna cringed when Masha showed them the note Dr. Hart had scrawled on her essay.


“He’s a creep.”


“Why do you say that?”


“He just is. He creeps on the girls in class. He’s got a new pet every few years.”


“I don’t mind being teacher’s pet, it beats being the invisible student!”


“Maybe,” Yuna replied. “I guess it depends what kind of pet you are.”


“I like to think of myself as a pelican,” teased Masha. “Mouthful of fish and a beak that could cause some real damage if rubbed the wrong way.”


Yuna didn’t laugh, just stroked Masha’s arm in a way that always made Masha melt inside. Her sparkly dragon friend—fierce with wizened humour that tore cracks in the fabric of the world so magic could find its way out. Like Ursula Le Guin’s Tehanu, the burned girl who was also a dragon. A person with whom Masha could be all her 
silly-serious, flawed, mouth-full-of-shredded-fish-parts pelican selves. Who reciprocated with their own complexities and idiosyncratic appetites rippling through eyes flecked with gold like the scales of their poetry, glittering all through Masha’s skin.


“Just be careful, pelican, your words are precious,” Yuna said, finding Masha with eyes, and hands, and mouth, and sounds that didn’t need to form words to make meaning.




———


Later, Masha asked, “Yuna, would you come to office hours with me?


“I do want feedback. I want to know how to make my work better, but I don’t feel comfortable going in there alone. I don’t like the way Dr. Hart looks at me. I know what you mean about the creep factor. I want to believe it’s sincere attentiveness. That he truly sees something special in me. But I also feel like he’s looking right through me, or trying to pry into me. I can’t exactly place it, but it feels off somehow.


“And ‘Professor T.’!? I mean, I get that it upends formality, but that weirds me out.”


Yuna didn’t respond, so Masha continued, “I didn’t tell you before because I wanted to put it out of my mind, and it seemed doubtful, but I can’t shake the feeling he’s seen me on film, and that he recognizes me. That he feels like something of me belongs to him, because of what he’s seen.”


Masha hesitated. “I’ve been trying to shake it off, vacillating between dropping the class and just bearing my way 
through this semester, since it’s a pre-req for all the other classes I want to take.


“But I also want to believe what he says about my work! He even quotes me in class to demonstrate passages that move him! He’s done it once or twice with other students, but it doesn’t feel the same. When he reads my lines, I feel them differently. It’s weird. I want it to be funny, the pet thing, but honestly, I don’t feel like a pelican when I’m around him. I feel more like a very pretty kitten. A kitten who wants to get close to the man holding a sweet dish of milk.”


That was when Masha noticed Yuna’s head was bowed, and Yuna’s hands were clenched together, balled up at their throat, and Yuna was very quietly heaving.




———


Yuna had never talked to anyone about what had happened with Professor T.


So many times, they had wanted to tell Masha, to warn her, but when they tried, they found shame still gnawed away their words.


They had to say something now, or else Masha might find herself ensnared. And so, they told Masha the story of how Dr. Hart had shone his light upon them. Shone and shone and shone, until finally, Yuna shone the full force of their own light back. And then he had snuffed it out, shattering them to incomprehension.


Masha learned that Professor T. had written Yuna a similar note about their first assignment, inviting them to office hours to talk about their poem.


Poetry was everything to Yuna.


There is something very, very special about your work, Yuna,
 Dr. Hart had written. 
It’s so delicate. Your use of language—you approach it almost timidly, but then introduce fire, hinting at hidden power within.


Yuna remembered because they had written it all down in their journal. Every encounter, every word. The first two workshops had been titillating. “You are like a Flower Dragon,” Dr. Hart had said to them once, pulling words from one of their poems.


Their senior year, Yuna became hopelessly infatuated with Professor T.—which Dr. Hart insisted his favourite students call him. Yuna knew Professor T. was married, that he had a little girl and a new baby. They knew his wife had a blog. And even though Yuna wasn’t a mom, they read the blog religiously because they wanted to know everything they could about Professor T.


They often reread the post he had written about becoming a father. The tenderness, the remade identity, the deep vulnerability and fear. They wanted to gather Professor T. up in themself and hold all his tenderness. They also wanted to take him as the tender man he was, to feel their way into him, giving him something he barely knew he wanted. They looked every few weeks for his feature on his wife’s mom blog. Loving him from a distance. Rapt in the tension between the distance and the closeness they could feel, growing ever closer as fall turned to winter, turned to spring, Dr. Hart pulling them closer and closer with each note slipped into 
Yuna’s hand. Only a few lines—an unending poem they were writing together class by class—Yuna composing their return lines almost constantly in their mind, searching for the right words to share, secretly passing them back to him.




———



				Yuna had almost no longer been his student at the graduation party. They were still waiting for their grade on their final project—a prose poem sequence developed from that first poetry assignment. 
The Fire Series
, they had titled it. Professor T. wanted them to include “flower” in the title, hinting at the secret delicacy, and Yuna had almost changed it, in the end deciding to trust their own word.


At the party Yuna had brought Professor T. and themself each two shots of tequila, then, learning he didn’t drink, had pounded back three in succession, Professor T. stopping them from taking the fourth by handing it to another student so Yuna would not be “completely annihilated.” Drunk and brave, Yuna asked if he wanted to microdose, suggesting he take one gel cap, but Professor T., spurred on by the festivities, feeling unusually daring, had wanted to take two each—“together.”


Yuna felt fire, their skin burning near Professor T’s. His eyes unmaking them.


“Can I walk you home?” he asked.


They walked through the park. He was pushing his bike. “I’m too disoriented to ride.”


He leaned his bike against an old maple and started to climb. “Up?” he asked, holding out his hand.


He pulled them up to his lap and held them there, locking his eyes on theirs, stroking their cheek with his hand.


“Your wife?” Yuna asked.


“We have an understanding,” he said. “Flower Dragon, Yuna.”


“It means kindness,” Yuna replied.


“You know how to be kind?” he asked, touching his fingers to Yuna’s lips. “Your face is glowing with light.”


And then Yuna showed him the kindness their body was. First in the tree, riding him as he balanced on the thick branch below them, bracing his back against the trunk, and after, back in their apartment, feeling uninhibited, wanting to express the full force of their desire, “Do you know how to be kind, Professor T.?”


And he responded with his tongue, whispering, “Yes.”


Yuna asked again, “Do you know how to be kind, Professor T.?” Making their way into the harness of their strap-on. “Suck me, then.” And he had. He had sucked, and they had turned him over and shown him again the kindness of their body as he groaned for more.


Then he had gone home. And Yuna had floated in the remnants of the intoxication.




———


They emailed him later that night, uncertain of when they’d see him next, since class was over, unable to wait to put it on paper as had been their custom:


Light Source


A tree aglow


kindness


burned into kindness.


To which he did not respond.




———


And the next day, quoting Audre Lorde:


Touching you I catch midnight


as moon fires set in my throat


To which he did not respond.




———


And the day after that:


Three days later I still feel you


bark branded skin.


To which he did not respond.




———


Yuna returned to the tree, hoping their presence would resonate to him through the force of their connection, spending a good part of the night perched between watchfulness and dream. And the night after that, and the next night after. Refreshing their email inbox every ten minutes, waiting for his response.


In their next email, they were more direct.


Dr. Hart, Professor T.? Anything?


And then, the next time they refreshed, there it was, the response they had been waiting for. Their heart leapt into their throat seeing his name in bold, crashing when they read his response.


Yuna, it never happened. It wasn’t real.




———


How many responses did Yuna write to Professor T.? A hundred, perhaps a thousand? Each one they burned.


Each one they burned.


Each one they burned.


And burned and burned.


Along with all the unreal notes he had given them.


And by the end of the burning, Yuna was there, altered by the fire, charred and yet glowing again within. After a poem that never happened and a night that never happened and the things Yuna had thought were true that weren’t, even though they were. Because Yuna lived in the real world and knew what they felt there to be true.


The poem had been written, the night had been lived, the glow and burning had compressed their spirits within a core of co-creation before flaring them out—Yuna reformed, Professor T. in convenient denial.


It was not just that Dr. Hart was a creep, Yuna understood, but a coward.


He had no guiding light, so he sought sparks in other bodies, drawing other beings’ lights into himself to light his own fire, discarding the source once his fire was burning, their 
light now diminished by the fury of his flaring. Then, when all the fuel was gone, exhausted, he turned outward, once again, seeking new light to draw him out of the darkness.


Still, even after so long, sometimes the force of the burning between them overcame. They had felt his spirit. It was there somewhere—the man corrupted, but the spirit yearning to love, as all spirits did. How sad Yuna sometimes felt, from the spirit within their own being, for the spirit within his that had to live amidst such deprivation.




———


Yuna had felt so brave that fateful day, a copy of their newly printed book in hand. Overtaken by an absurd notion that somehow, it would finally free them to look him in the eye, hand him the book, and walk away without scattering to ash.


Standing outside the classroom, their courage had begun to wane. Their body growing restless. This was a terrible idea! What were they hoping to prove? Their body was pulling them in two directions at once, wanting to get away and wanting to give the book to Dr. Hart, when providence had blessedly intervened, knocking it right out of their hands.


The sound of the book smacking the linoleum had shocked them into stasis—that old hollow coldness—their words discarded, as flat and cold as manufactured flooring.


Shivering in a tree, wordless.


But then the book had been retrieved. Handed back to them by a magnificent stranger, who had paused briefly to look closely at the cover before giving Yuna back their words. Looking at Yuna with warmth, kindness, and curiosity—in 
blunt contrast to the skittish way she had just rushed out of Dr. Hart’s classroom.


“Your book,” Yuna heard.


Then heard themself mutter, “Thanks—no.”


“No?” the stranger asked.


What the fuck am I doing here?
 Yuna thought, suddenly.


“I mean, no, I’m sorry. I wasn’t looking, either,” they managed.


And then they’d bolted, knowing the freeze would return if Dr. Hart were to walk out the door and lock his eyes to theirs.




———


A few days later, at the book launch, Yuna had heard a voice that drew their gaze from the page. “I recognized the cover from the display at the Student Union bookstore. I saw you were having a book launch, so I came. It’s stunning. Your poetry is stunning. Thank you.”


“Um, oh, uh, thank you?” Yuna had managed, unsure of what to say but wanting to say more. “I’m Yuna.”


“I know. It’s on the cover,” she had said, smiling radiantly. “I’m Masha.”




———


“Why didn’t you tell me before?” Masha asked, cupping her hands around Yuna’s.


“I didn’t know how. It was like the words were sucked out of me, or stuck somehow in my throat. My body knowing it had all happened, that it had all been real, my mind doubting me. Like maybe I’d made it all up. Like it was all 
my fault somehow. And if I’d just done things differently it would have gone differently. He said it had been me—that I had tricked him into it.


“I had wanted it so badly. But I didn’t go there on my own. He invited me.”


Yuna paused, and Masha could feel them being sucked back in, their whole face contorted in agony. She squeezed Yuna’s hands, smiling, to remind them they were here and now, together.


Yuna continued, “I see you. You’re real. And I can feel it all happening again. Him coaxing you when you know better. I don’t want him to use you like he used me.”


Dressed for Success


Dear Dr. Hart,


Thank you for the positive feedback on my essay. I can’t make it into your office hours, unfortunately. I’d be happy to receive any additional comments in class or by email.


All my best,


Masha Novak




———


The following week, Masha showed up to class looking like a different person. She had cut her hair short, an above-the-ear pageboy, and dyed it fluorescent red. She was dressed in a loose-fitting men’s button-up that came down past her knees. She showed no skin except on her face and neck, wearing old-fashioned white satin gloves over her hands. 
On her feet were shoes that looked so much like Trevor’s oxblood half-brogues that he did a double take. They weren’t, being sized properly to Masha’s much smaller feet, but they were damn close. They made him shiver, his own feet shrinking in on themselves. Her lips were painted a glistening purple colour. She looked like an androgynous vampire.


Trevor had never seen what he thought of as an ethnic vampire, but here Masha was in class—Eastern European, he’d assumed by the name, but now he knew she was adopted, so she was some other kind of exotic to him—unplaceable, exactly. Still, he thought, he could click the 
Ethnic
 tab to find her—and then immediately felt slightly disgusted with himself, disturbed by how his porn browsing crept so easily into his every day.


Trevor bore through the fabric on her arm to her tattoo. What was it with women and costumes? First his wife in the red dress, and now this? He knew how to see through whatever clothes they put on their bodies—to wash whatever was intended away, the immense pleasure of disrobing. He almost felt he could see two glowing orbs—the snake’s eyes—beckoning him. He chewed his gum to bring himself back, mashing away the feeling of disappointment he’d felt at the response she’d given him.


He’d offered his special attention and she had put him off. Intentional? Wanting him to work a little harder? She was tough. It made her all the more enticing.


“Masha! Hello. Welcome back to class,” he said, and then invited each of the students to read a five-minute 
excerpt from the essays they had submitted the previous week for critique.


“Remember, as you hear your classmates reading, to keep in mind that we are trying to encourage one another to find our voices. Where is the truth in this? What feels strong to you? What feels like it needs work? We will be workshopping these pieces and this will lead into our next assignment—“Flash as Form”—in which each of you will write a flash prose piece, working from the themes brought forth in your essays.”


Masha wrote in her notebook, 
Where is the truth in this?
 Circling it, and underlining three times. 
What is strongest? What needs work?
 She wanted to remember these questions as she heard her classmates read. When they did, she was able to put Professor T. out of her mind.


Floating



				The departure to Chile was less than a month off. Sarah’s first draft of Ariadne’s notes had been posted, the original document synced in a folder on her desktop and laptop, labelled 
Ariadne
. Also in the folder were copies of all their travel documents.


Sarah and the girls were headed back to Vancouver to visit Sarah’s mother.


“You were just there and you’re going back so soon? Pulling the girls out of school to visit right now? It’s unlike you to plan a last-minute trip, Sarah.”


“I know, but my mom really misses the girls, and I’m just 
remembering this summer—how good it was for both of us to have the space. I can see the end-of-the-semester grind is starting to get to you and I thought if the girls and I took a trip now, it would be good for everyone. There are a few more spots I want to hit up before I launch my Vancouver travel guide, and getting somewhere warmer for a few weeks also feels pretty appealing before winter fully sets in.”


“It all makes sense, Sarah. You should go. You should definitely go.”


“This might be just what I need,” Trevor thought. It was strange, but everything was strange right now. Summer 
had
 been good. So good. Perhaps this would be the start of longer periods of ease now that the girls were getting older, with Sarah giving him time alone to focus on his work. He could carve out a sweet creative groove, instead of spinning all the time between Sarah, Masha, and all that life demanded!




———


Although Sarah was keeping it together, fuelled by a stoic determination to see this thing through, she was harried by a persistent feeling that somehow Trevor would find out and hijack it all, roping her back into the maelstrom.


A break from the tension the charade required of her—civility and feigned playfulness cling-wrapped over deep disgust and roiling rage—was exactly what was needed. She had to bide her time until she was safe in Chile with the girls, and from there, reveal the truth to Trevor.




———


Amelie insisted that Grandma Grace take them first thing to visit Science World, since they had missed it the last time! And Sarah had 
promised
 they would get to go this time around!


Sarah had almost gone too, wanting to be there with them, but Grace had refused.


“I don’t want you to come, Sarah. It will be more fun without you stressing about this and that, itching to take photos. Me and the girls will just do what we do, taking our time. We’ll amble or the girls can rush around while I sit and watch.


“Just take the day to yourself. Or can you not even settle enough to take one day to not be working or doing everything for everyone else?”


“A whole day, Mom? Seriously? I don’t know what I’d do.”


“That’s the question, isn’t it, dear.”


Oh god, this was exactly how she sounded to Trevor! So annoying when someone else was always right about what you needed!


Was it still 
not working
 if she was doing it to meet Grace’s challenge? Whatever. She 
did
 need a break, so she set out with no plan in mind other than to walk, look at things, and eat when she got hungry.


Which was how she found herself wandering the seawall.


She’d specifically avoided it on her last trip.


So many memories.


Her as a child, visiting Grandma Joan with her mom and sister—elation coupled with anxiety over leaving Anthony behind on the homestead with no one to look after him.


Those feelings, overlayed by the flush she always felt during grad school, boarding the plane in Halifax, anticipating the intensity of the week she would spend visiting Trevor, flying from the edge of one ocean to the edge of another.


Proposing to him on the beach up ahead, setting into motion the life that had led her here.


Was she the same Sarah?


How heightened life had felt every time she visited this water. Every single moment leading to the future. Her singular future.


She was not singular anymore; Amelie and Arlynn were always with her, even when they weren’t. She had walked so long beside Trevor, always adjusting her pace to his. She felt her body begin to drag, just thinking of the effort it took to walk with him always coursing around in his mazes—drawing him out when he got stuck, wailing, and wailing, and wailing, until she doubled back, altered her trajectory to take him by the hand and heave him along, him both protesting her efforts by dragging his heels and agitating for her to pull him out, proclaiming that he was incapable of finding his way on his own.


She would stay stuck there with him so long as she kept believing him. She had bigger faith in both of them. Even if he couldn’t see it.


She took a deep breath, filling herself back up, breathing Trevor out. She was walking toward an unknown. There was so much uncertainty. Coupled with a deep conviction that she was making a necessary choice.


Even though her mind was in her body as she walked, she also felt it disperse, becoming part of human action piled upon human action—runners, walkers, bikers, skaters, dog-minders, sand-diggers, swimmers, Segway-zoomers, photographers, drinkers, readers, crossword junkies and other junkies, pot smokers, girls taking selfies in sheer garments, picnickers, wheeled babes, and elderly folk watching seagulls in the surf. As though the entire world were here in all this movement, just one oscillating wave in the thronging ocean of humanity. There were all sorts of people. All of them moving according to the blueprints of their invisible psychic houses, occupying space Sarah could not see but could feel through her skin. That old sublunar feeling. Heightened and grounded at the same time. Gravity and celestial vacuum in deep conversation.


She sat on the beach watching other people brave the water, most of them in wetsuits, a few courageous souls wading without. After a short while, she pulled the book she had borrowed from Grace out of her bag.


The words failed to hold her. She put it back down and observed the people around her instead. Her gaze returning multiple times to a man sitting with his legs pulled up to his chest, feet bare in the sand, reading a book she couldn’t make out the title of.


Something about him compelled her to look again, to look longer, to keep looking.


She wanted this man to see her. The way she felt she was seeing him—a spark of curiosity, an attraction. How long since she had felt this feeling?


Noticing this, she felt a surge of embarrassment about the historical romance she had borrowed from Grace. Self-consciously, Sarah tucked the book back into her bag so the man would not see it. She did not want the man to think she was the kind of woman who routinely read historical romances! She was the kind of woman who read serious books by people who were recognized by other people as being worth reading! Intellectual books through which she could learn things she didn’t know! Parenting books by reputable researchers with letters after their names! Books that raised hard questions but didn’t answer them! Books that probed into the human condition with care and critique! Books that enlightened rather than simply entertained or passed the time.


As she tucked the book away, questions began forming in her mind. Questions that shape-shifted into a daydream in which she engaged the man in a conversation of a deeply philosophical nature.




———


“How do you feel about a Monte Cristo?” she imagined asking him.


She didn’t know if she wanted to ask him to know how he 
really
 felt about the sandwich, or to know how she felt 
about the sandwich herself. It seemed like knowing how he felt could really help her feel more certain about how she felt, so she could really know for sure whether she could say she loved a Monte Cristo or was indifferent to it. And this was important to her! So she would know if she should order one the next time she was in the kind of diner that made Monte Cristos. Not all diners did.


Ariadne had loved a Monte Cristo.


Before Ariadne, she hadn’t even known what one was.


A ham and grilled cheese on French toast? Excessive! Mixing so many proteins together? Making one meal out of so many possible meals? Not Grace’s approach on the homestead. Sarah did not know if she could truly enjoy a Monte Cristo without thinking of it slipping down her throat, a greasy slide, and landing plumply in her thighs to pudge out her already packed saddlebags.


But hadn’t she earned the thighs? Weren’t they worth something in this world? Something, in fact, of great value? She had grown two humans to full fruition inside her, suckled them out of infancy to solid food and beyond. Plus, the almost-humans that had not been viable—she’d stored food in her body for them too. Wouldn’t the extra nutrition strengthen her bones, so that as she made the transition to menopause she would have extra density that reduced the risk of osteoporosis? Shouldn’t she be spending energy loving her thighs rather than imagining asking a stranger how he felt about a Monte Cristo sandwich?


There it was.


She could always learn to love her thighs later, after a Monte Cristo. Or maybe a Monte Cristo was the vehicle to her own self-love? Like, if she could learn on her own to take deep pleasure in a Monte Cristo, really appreciate the shitload of calories without thinking about them, just letting her tongue probe between the lofty French-toasted brioche slices into the gooey provolone cheese and sweet-salty ethically sourced pig flesh, butter tickling her tongue so her eyes opened wider in surprise as her teeth bit down through the fine dusting of powdered sugar on top of the fried bread, maybe then it wouldn’t matter so much what this stranger liked or didn’t like?


Because what would his like mean, anyway? To the way her tongue salivated in response?


Well, she was hungry just thinking about it!


And now had a mission in front of her—a deep desire to meet as many Monte Cristos as possible—to journey into the delectable unfolding of Monte after Monte and Cristo after Cristo! Learning, even, how to ceremoniously enact the making of a Monte Cristo herself.


As a treat, mind you, a special treat, a ceremonial meal, and not just the stuff of everyday sustenance.


Her body wouldn’t like to subsist on Monte Cristos. Of this, she was sure. But a rare private pleasure of which she made a holiness was surely a gift she could grant herself!


Sarah’s tongue tingled with the aliveness of her imagination as she looked toward the man who might have so much or nothing to say, or just a few wise words, or bullshit 
she was not interested in hearing, about a Monte Cristo. But he was no longer there. She saw him up the beach, sitting on the pavement, wiping the sand from his feet.


She was relieved she hadn’t managed to draw his gaze toward her.


She distanced herself from him in her mind, feeling some kind of freedom, yet still sensing desire in her body.


Embarrassment flushed—but now it was embarrassment toward herself for having hidden the historical romance! She pulled it out.


She was the kind of woman who sometimes read historical romances. As well as other kinds of books. All kinds of books. She was not pretentious about what she read. This hearkened back to a time when she read any book she could get her hands on. Devoured book after book after book, borrowing every book from the local library, hauling stacks of books up into her tree to flip through pages again and again, under an umbrella, even, to keep the books safe from the rain. Sometimes pretending to be Mrs. Badger and badger student, and Mrs. Badger assigning badger student to read and then draw a synopsis of the stack of books she had read.


It was Trevor who had taught Sarah to hide what she read, because of an important thing he had that she did not, a thing he referred to as “good taste.” He took it upon himself to curate reading lists for her, to help culture her tastes so they would not run rampant every which way, resulting in tasteless gaudy bookshelves full of drivel.


She would relearn how to scent out her own thrills if 
she felt them arising. To become, once again, a studious and exultant badger guided by her own appetite.


Her nose picked up a scent as she fanned the pages of the thin, cheap paperback with her thumb—the musty smell of brown paper intermixed with the scent of the stranger’s non-filtered self. The thing beyond the masculine mask. She thought of nosing around the man’s genitals and anus to get a better sense of him, and a laugh burst out from her mouth, her spit projected in a fine spray all over the sand at her feet.


Sarah wanted to receive the being beyond the masculine mask with the being beyond her own costumes, a thing she had once thought of as a soul, but now thought of more as something bodied—a life impulse like a badger thrumming and alive inside her, full of unrepentant rage and tenderness. Her body had felt the stranger’s creatureliness rippling as he read, opening himself to his book—a hardcover, something with girth to it—believing himself unobserved.


When he began to move again in the world as a man, his mind took over, his socialized self guiding his return to the human world around him—a well-to-do white man moving in the world. All his codes flashing off him like a neon sign. He slipped his shoes back on and she felt her body release its desire.




———


Suddenly, an urge to be in the water came upon her.


“But I’ve brought nothing along to swim,” she thought. “It’s going to be so cold!”


Loosen your grip, Sarah, no one cares! Brave it.


She stripped down to her underwear and waded in slowly, acclimatizing.


The water was not as unbearable as she’d expected. Cold but not shocking. Tentatively she lay back, the water closing over her ears, her inner world reverberating with her own heartbeat, spreading her arms, lifting her feet off the ocean floor—floating with all the Sarahs she had been so far in this lifetime. Feeling this Sarah here now along with all the Sarahs yet to come—Sarahs she could not even envision.


The past intertwined with the present, constant repetition. The same sensation floating here now as when she had been a girl looking out at a world she was so much a living part of, which was so big and confusing and dreamlike at the same time.


The water had seemed 
much
 colder then. Was it climate change or just that she was perimenopausal and premenstrual, flushed with hormones that had her soaking her own salty waters out of her overheated body, attempting to regulate the burning within? This new heat to contend with when for so many years Sarah had put so much concerted effort into trying to stay warm!


She was hit with a sudden pang, as though she’d just inhaled the smell of her mother’s kitchen in the house her father had built—herbs hanging off nails near the cookstove, always a faint hint of woodsmoke, animal dung stuck to the bottoms of all the boots in the doorway, wafting in sweet and earthy.


Just as quickly as it had surfaced, the sensation faded. Sarah’s body starting to become cold, bringing her mind back to the here and now, telling her she needed to warm up.


Sarah stepped out of the water, shivering intensely, questioning the wisdom of her swim. There were repercussions to daring, after all. She had brought no towel. She needed to warm up. Was she going to go hypothermic on the beach? Would a passing stranger dial 911?


Jump, Sarah, jump!


She had a choice. She could freeze or move. So there on the beach at English Bay, sopping, near hypothermic, a forty-three-year-old mother of two in threadbare black lace panties and a pilled rainbow bralette began doing jumping jacks.


Very off-brand for Sarah to be treating the gulls and tourists to her cold nipples ascending and dropping hard when her bare feet hit the ground, moments before they received an even more compelling show as Sarah peeled off her wet panties, exposing herself before tugging her jeans back on, the fabric resistant on her still-damp skin. Off with the rainbow bralette—such lovely breasts Sarah had—a Brazilian tour group and a trio of foraging crows were granted a rare sighting of them between the moment the bra was stripped off and the linen tunic slipped on.


Luckily Sarah had brought along her Responsible-Down-Standard hooded jacket. What grace there sometimes was in a cozy humane garment! “Thank you, geese!” she said aloud, wrapping herself in its warmth, sitting down 
to wipe as much sand as possible off her still-wet feet with her wool socks before inching them on, slipping back into her sneakers, and continuing along the beach—drawn toward the huge trees in the distance.


In their shadows she could almost feel herself turning the pages of 
The Tree Book
—the book of devotions she’d made the summer before her father had died. A hand-stitched series of line drawings collaged with words bound in strips of birchbark from her tree.


She had shown the book to Anthony after one of their walks in the forest, knowing that if she wanted to share she had to watch carefully, hoping a walk might give her the chance. She didn’t know her father’s thoughts walking through the forest, because he rarely talked when walking, other than to show her something, teach her about a medicine, or how to identify an animal track. The forest was a place to listen. She wasn’t permitted to walk with him unless she was silent. So, she learned how to walk silently. To listen as best she could. If she were silent long enough, he might permit her to share something too.


When they’d returned home, she had handed him the book, and he had looked, saying nothing. Given it back to her with just a nod. But in his eyes, Sarah saw, there were tears. Tears that contained a father’s invisible world, an overwhelming sensation that Sarah had hardly ever felt from her father, flooding her entire being with love.


Anthony, Sarah heard her mother say once, had been christened Antoine. Yet when other francophones spoke 
to him, he answered back in English. There was no hiding his accent, but the only time she heard him speak French was in the kindly way he sometimes called her “ma fille,” or when he lost his temper, stringing French and English cusses together with such eloquence it was both terrifying and mesmerizing—“Osti de tabarnak de câlisse de ciboire de criss de marde! Estis de fuck de calvaire! Shit de fuck de merde de putain! Mon esti de marde de câlisse de chiard!”


This eloquence was ever-present in Anthony’s work routines. Sarah and Chlea would time the impending explosions by cadence and order. Making a game of finding and fortifying observation blinds from which to watch Anthony labour, as though he were a grizzly bear in the wild and they the hidden researchers seeking to know its habits—fearing they would be eaten or shredded to death with his gigantic claws if they were to be found out.


When he really got going, when the frustration had grown too much to bear, they knew danger was approaching, and then they covered their ears and cowered, making not a sound. Waiting in their hideouts until he was far enough away for them to run back to the house, to the safety of Grace.


A lifetime ago. Yet it had been everything. She hadn’t thought of 
The Tree Book
 in so long. The hours she’d spent making it. The hopes she had put into it. The things she’d wished to share with her father, hoping to bring him the same happiness she had felt while making it, sharing the world he had helped her see.


She had burned the book and mixed its ashes with her father’s when they scattered him in the forest. That love. That rare unburdened love. So much anguish, and always in her a desire for the rare, precious gift that was his unfettered presence.


Let the anguish go
, a voice offered. 
It was never yours to begin with.


The love is yours to live with.


Sarah began to bawl.


She led herself off the walking path, down the concrete steps to a rocky, barnacle-encrusted beach, hearing small cracks—squished molluscs meeting their end with every footstep.


Sarah wept for the annihilation made in the wake of her footsteps. She wept her salty tears and her father’s salty tears. She wept the tears of all the ancestors she did not know who had so much to grieve. She wept Trevor’s salty tears too, for all the hurt he held within and all he had inflicted on others because he refused to attend to his own. She wept for her daughters, who would have to do the same kind of work to feel their father’s love, unless he somehow learned to feel it himself. She wept and wept, not knowing so much. Loosening her grip, which loosened all the knotted-up time that had dammed up the world’s weeping, containing it, when what life needed was for it to flow.




———



				All washed out, her eyes drifted to the water, where a huge black swan descended from the sky, landing right in front of 
her on the bay. Sarah smiled. Life was a funny place. A ridiculous stage on which humans took themselves so seriously!


The swan was a little unwieldy, causing a splash, coming in off-kilter.


“What? Are you kidding me?” Sarah thought, looking around to see if anyone else was looking or if she was hallucinating. “A black swan in Vancouver?”


Others on the seawall were looking! Pointing, getting out their phones to snap photos and post that shit as quickly as possible to prove to others that life was real.




———


A memory surfaced.


Sarah had seen black swans in Stanley Park with her grandma as a child.


She had known they existed, all along!


The black swan floated through time, questioning her. It did not seem to be going anywhere soon, so Sarah fact-checked, flitting her eyes back and forth between phone and apparition.


Was it a true memory?


There had once been resident black swans at Stanley Park! Though the last one had disappeared in the mid-eighties. But they had been there, once! So, it was likely she 
had
 seen them. Why had she buried this truth she’d known to be true at Rosenau, spinning it as though she and Trevor were at the epicentre of a black swan event?


The image grew stronger. Black swans floating among white ones, intermingling on the pond.


She had wanted to feed them! To feed them and see what they would do. But she and her grandmother had had no food with them.


She looked again at her phone, reading on, learning that some decades after the black swans had disappeared, the non-native mute swans had been deported, so there were no longer romantic resident swans at Stanley Park. Making this whole black swan event so very, very improbable—but not totally impossible, given the nature of an unpredictable world.




———


Where was its mate? Sarah looked up into the sky, scanned the shoreline and nearby waters, but there was no other swan. Just this one black swan that had started bobbing around looking for snacks, right in front of Sarah.


Sarah was a grown-up now.


She could act as she saw fit. She had a mom purse always equipped with snacks.


She dug around in her satchel, pulling out her eco-baggie of carrots, and a paper bag with a half-eaten croissant. Buttery pastry was not good for a black swan’s aquatic digestive tract, she knew from having raised waterfowl on the homestead, so she tossed it a handful of julienned carrots, which the swan promptly began to snatch up from the water.


And together the pair took a snack break.




———


Photos dotted social media platforms for a week before being replaced by other trending news. It had been a one-off, an apparition—albeit one verified by a slew of eye-witness smartphones.


The black swan disappeared as poignantly as it had materialized. Flown off, back into the realm of dreams, or been shot and served at a feast for some medieval rite of passage from one life to another.




OceanofPDF.com

















Chapter Eleven


Dirty Secrets




Flash as Form


Masha looked up periodically as she read her piece to see Dr. Hart’s face contort in raw discomfort.




———


“This piece is titled ‘Yuna.’ ”




I trace their fine features, fingers slow on jawbone, soft across lips—touch wetness to hard white teeth. Skin a burning threshold glowing with light.


Undressing.


Their thighs like silk, wiry hair I wind tight around fingers. Unbinding—breasts round and heavy, making of us contours and sensations.


A flower that wears both sexes.


Mirrors that transcend duality.


Dress up.


Consumable nakedness—everything vacuumed out.


Alone with them, a holy nakedness.


Vastness in place of absence to possess or womb to cradle into.




In the silence that followed, Masha felt she could almost hear two voices emerging from Dr. Hart—one loud and booming, thrashing everything in its path, throwing a tantrum so huge his body seemed to shake in a strange stiffness. And another, whimpering, muffled from behind haunted eyes which had momentarily forgotten how to make sense of the strange world of seeing and the feelings that seeing gave rise to—vacillating madly between action, enthrallment, banality, irrelevance, and all-consuming dread. Yet still looking, reaching, grasping for a thread that might lead him out—hoping that Masha might be the one holding it. Hope vanishing to nothing when she refused to hand it to him. Eros degraded.


Sarah’s Dirty Secrets



				He’d been so looking forward to Sarah and the girls’ trip; just a few weeks ago daydreaming of the class party he would give while they were away. How he might create the 
right conditions for Masha to find herself staying on a little later than the others.


He had slipped so far.


A decade ago, there would have been none of this hesitation. He would have had Masha in his grasp by now.




———


Yuna?


There was no way this was a coincidence.




———


Yuna. Whose poems had brought him back to life, once—a light source drawing him out of the abysmal hole he had fallen into during the fog. Fearful that life would be forevermore a grasping, unending scramble, with all the crushing responsibilities of fatherhood and marriage ever preventing him from living the life he was meant to live.


He’d been so inspired by Yuna’s delicacy with language—a perfect nectar to dapple among his own sentences. A sweet little secret world unto himself.




———


A great sense of doom descended. How in holy hell had Yuna made her way into this?


He had put the Yuna problem behind him.


So why was she here?




———


Yuna had been such a gift at first. Then she’d ushered in sickening confusion. But he’d gotten over it. He had found his way back to Sarah.


So why was Yuna showing up, again?


He had just wanted to support her. Had offered such encouragement. And she had turned it on him. Why did it always have to turn out this way? Why did the beautiful ones always lead him astray?


How thoroughly he had blocked her out. Rarely thinking of her.


Sometimes he would allow himself small moments. When he encountered words, for instance, that reminded him of hers. She had so delighted him in class. She had been so bright! Shining for him. And how sweet it had been up in the tree—her small body riding him, releasing it all inside her—and then it had morphed—her taking him, petting him nice and soft, calling him her puppy. “Come to Yuna, little puppy. Yuna will be kind. Lick me here and here and here. That’s a good boy. Now what does puppy want? Oh, he’s begging! Puppy wants Yuna to fuck him. Come puppy, come to Yuna.”


She’d tied a collar around his neck, attached to a little leash that she held taut as she fucked him. All thoughts had slipped out. How easy it was to just be a little puppy. Someone else telling you how to behave.


He had wanted it. He had wanted it more than anything. “I’m your little puppy, I’m your little puppy. Puppy wants it harder.” And then, “Softer, please, softer, don’t ever, ever stop.” And then she’d slowed right down, slowed to the barest thrust, pulling the leash tighter around his 
throat to make his veins pop, sucking hard on his neck skin, as she seemed to put the ocean inside him, and he’d cum into thin air with enough force that some splattered on his face and into his open mouth, almost like tasting her—and she had kissed him, tasting back. “Good boy, good boy, good boy.”


No, she had done none of those things! But she had caused him to daydream them. They had fucked one another, and it had felt so good. Even though it had hurt too.


After it stopped, and in the months following, all he’d wanted was more.


Which had made him feel sick every time his family inevitably rushed in. Want and duty facing off in his gut—or maybe it was an after-effect of the mushrooms, upsetting his delicate stomach permanently. A punishment for his recklessness. How had he allowed this to happen?


This was his student, for god’s sake! And she had fucked 
him
! Binding an imaginary collar around his neck, holding him tight by the leash, him making himself her little puppy. The line had been annihilated!


Hard-core was something Professor T. liked to watch—to fantasize about when it was done to others. But Trevor did not have the guts to live in its thrall. There was a difference between fantasy and reality.


It had taken months to exorcise.




———


Porn became his condemnation and liniment—helping him focus on other cocks to obscure the one Yuna had worn.


Before Yuna, he had never openly fantasized about being in a woman’s place. But after that night, when he watched, he found himself morphing between the bodies of the men and the bodies of the women. He did not know what to make of himself. How to recover from the schism Yuna had made. He watched as much with shame as with pleasure. The two intermingling—twisting up the threads. A shame that had never been his before.


The mushrooms had skewed his reason. Making him into something he wasn’t. Even though at the time it had felt like a new and emergent truth.


Yuna had too much power over him. She had seemed so timid. But he had seen the self-assuredness in her writing too. The precision. He needed to get control of himself. So, he willed it. He willed it. He willed it. He willed himself to stay in his place when he watched. To have it all be visited on the women’s bodies—objects to act upon, to take pleasure in, to gangbang with other men, rising together. Never, ever feeling the thing’s experience.




———



				He hadn’t seen Yuna since that night. And she hadn’t tried to get in touch with him again after his forbidding email. What else could he have done? He couldn’t do this. He couldn’t let himself be 
that
 man. That was not who Trevor was. He had no recourse to those feelings in any of the poets he admired. He was beyond a stage in life when he was willing to open himself to a new kind of poetry; he had to pretend Yuna had never been real.


But now she was back. She was back with Masha. 
They
 were back. He understood that. It made sense. He had felt the script become amorphous in Yuna’s presence. It had thrilled, and terrified.




———


Masha! He wanted her, but there was another thought underneath, a thought that was as pure as any thought, and yet, which he reviled. Parts of him shutting it down before it ever had time to surface.


He wanted her, and wanted to 
be
 her at the same time.


To suck what she was into himself and finally be annihilated—no longer having to contend with what it meant to be Trevor.




———


Yet now, Masha’s behaviour toward him felt dangerous. As though there were some implicit threat in her polite refusal to let him get any closer.




———


All the shady edges of his choices were sidling up to him, hissing. He was now in a game he didn’t know the rules of, was not the one making the rules. Choosing when to move the pieces. Masha—porn-Troy—2.0. As though someone was pulling his strings through a corrupt crystal ball.


He had the house to himself, but he could find nowhere to settle, pacing from room to room, sentried in his office chair to exorcise by word, only to find himself agitating to get up, move, get outside.


Look up at the sky to remind him of a world beyond this swirling madness.


Snake eyes watching him. Seeing him for what he was. A clear reptilian seeing. Snake. Dragon. A seeing that saw heat as well as light—the radiating impulses underneath. All of his hidden longings, the urges he tried to mask—how his thoughts made blood course through familiar paths in his body, arousing in response to stimuli, rushing erotic messages to his brain. His deep unending need. Masha and Yuna—a snake and a dragon, they were like vipers with pit organs sensing his lust and his humiliation.


He was a glowing infrared cygnet separated from its mother, swimming under a dark starry sky, looking up at the stars as though dreaming, all the while being stalked by a slithering body on shore, scraped into earth. Surveilled by Sarah’s moon orbs among the stars, barely visible through the haze of light pollution.




———


His computer crashed two days before Sarah and the girls were due to come home. He had absentmindedly left his laptop at school and had emails he needed to respond to. He owned only an old flip phone for the texts he was required to send and receive, and did not want to go back to the university.


But there was Sarah’s desktop!


When he moved the cursor, he found a file open on the desktop—“A Song: Mummification.”


Normally Trevor would have had no interest in Sarah’s content, but the word “mummification” captured his attention. Had Ariadne written this? She must have, since it seemed to be a memoir.


He minimized the file, and there among the pristine housekeeping of Sarah’s desktop were four folders—
Swan Mom
,
 Family
,
 Past Projects
, and 
Ariadne
. Since when had Sarah had an Ariadne folder? He clicked it open. There were three subfolders inside: 
Ariadne’s Memoir Notes
, 
Chile Travel Documents
, and 
Letter.


“Chile Travel Documents?” Trevor clicked it open to find copies of Sarah and the girls’ electronic plane tickets, vaccination records, and detailed packing lists.


“What the fuck is this? What is Ariadne playing at?”


He opened Sarah’s email and began to go methodically through Ariadne and Sarah’s correspondence, his stomach churning to a vile froth with every word. Up into his heart the poison bubbled, setting his jaw to a grind so powerful he felt he might crack right through his teeth.




———


So Sarah had secrets too. Sneaky, slithering, deceitful secrets.


Ariadne was fucking him!


They were all fucking him!


An ogre stood up from where Trevor had sat and began to scream, pulling at his hair, raging around the room. He picked up Sarah’s chair and smashed it on the floor, then stomped on it barefoot, cracking two of its legs and breaking some of his toes.


“Fucking Christ! Owww! Ohhhh! Fuck!” Writhing on his back, holding his toes tight in his fists, his mind going fast and hard, trying to find a way to obliterate the damage.


She was planning to take the girls without even fucking telling him! Ariadne was leading her! Yuna was robbing him of Masha! It was all slipping out of his control, and there was nobody! Nobody to help him!


The ogre screamed.




———


Trevor stood up. He was going to call Sarah right now and put a stop to this fucking charade!


Pain seared from his toes all the way through to his head, toppling him to the ground.


There was no way he was letting her take the girls to fucking Chile! To go cavort with Ariadne. For a fucking year!


Why now? Why now when there was so much going on for him? When it had been so sweet between them? He needed Sarah now more than ever!


Why hadn’t she just been honest with him? He would have been happy with a break. A month maybe! But a year? That was a quarter of Arlynn’s life, for fuck’s sake. Why would she keep a secret like this? They could have figured this out together. She was his wife, his wife, his fucking wife!


Things had been so good lately.


Why were all these women around him planning sinister schemes? He was a good fucking guy, for Christ’s sake. A slip-up here and there. He could be so much worse than he was! There were so many real monsters out there! He’d 
been doing so much around the house lately too! And with the girls! Sarah had seemed grateful. Happy, even. And he hadn’t been anything but kind to Masha. Only kind. He just wanted to talk to her about how good he thought her work was, and how she should be careful, because there were a lot of creeps out there, and she was vulnerable, wasn’t she? Making films like that!


Or maybe she was actually wacko? Oh my god! He hadn’t even thought of that. How she might have been out to get him the whole time? A fucking vampire! Seducing him the way she had. Like maybe she and Yuna had planned this all along? It was punishing. They were all so punishing. Why was he being punished?


No!—the video had been made before he’d ever met Yuna. So, no. Or had it? Maybe not. How was he supposed to know what was real? That snake tattoo. It was otherworldly. It wasn’t sane, the way it seemed to make him lose control. Venomous or vampiric? He couldn’t tell.


He was losing control. He was losing fucking control.


God, he needed Sean. He needed Sean to help him sort this out. Sean would see right through it all. He would know how to tell the figments and freaks in the fairy tale apart from those of true heart.


Get a fucking grip, man!


And then it slithered into his mind. The video.


But it wasn’t Troy/Masha getting fucked by a handful of gods. Now it was him, Trevor, and the gods were Sarah, Ariadne, Masha, and Yuna, and they were all there 
watching him down on the ground, looking at him from above. He could hear another voice too, like a swan hissing. No, fuck! It was the opera music. They were all singing.


He had a rock in his hand.


They were naked, all of them, wraiths with white robes falling off them like shed snakeskin, and their vulvas were swirling, morphing into pulsing phalluses. They were coming for him. There was nothing he could do. All along they had been coming for him. They were going to gangbang him, spit their venom all over his face.


Finally, finally drown him.




———


He felt himself sink into poison. Then silence.


He lay on the ground, spent and sticky.


And then panic started to build.




———



				It came as though from behind a wall, a small voice. 
“Hey, you fucking loser.”


And again, 
“Hey, asshole.”


“Shut the fuck up, man.”


“Asshole. You fucking piece of shit, you fucking loser. Psychotic fucking loser, afraid of a little pussy? Afraid the pussies are going to get you?”


“Get a fucking grip, Trevor! You’re going wacko! Breathe, Trevor. Breathe. Stop for a second. Just one second, shut up!”


He breathed. And breathed again. Every time a word started, he breathed. And his asshole relaxed. And the panic settled a bit, and with the panic settling, the space between 
words grew, and the internal constriction, too. He was in a lot of pain. He would have to get X-rays, and painkillers. A splint of some kind, probably.


Later.


First, Trevor had to finish reading.


Read through it all. Get a sense of what he was up against with Sarah. Then, see to his foot.


After that, call Sarah.


He still had time. He could catch her in her own game.




———


Or maybe they had to figure this fucking thing out? Instead of playing whatever insane game they’d been playing, with all these moves going on behind his back he hadn’t even seen.




———


He could feel the wraiths pulling at his mind, the ogre feeding him images, urging him to look, to turn away from here. What keywords had he used to first conjure the video? He needed to find it, watch it again, here, now! To see if there were any clues he’d missed. Release the tension! It could give him a clear mind. A clear mind. Show him what to do.




———


No!


He closed the cinematic eye. He wasn’t going to look. Not right now.


He was going to keep reading.




———


Trevor pulled the keyboard and mouse pad down and perched them on the splintered chair, holding his leg with the broken toes out to the side, his other leg curled in, footpad resting on his thigh, almost comforting. It was awkward angling his head up, but Sarah liked a big screen, so he could still read easily enough after magnifying the text.


He felt humble down there on the floor, on top of Sarah’s flower-print rug. A relief being unseated.


He gave himself an assignment: read everything there was to read. He was going to concentrate on his work, piece things together to figure out what to do next. He needed the information first.


In one of the emails from Sarah to Ariadne, he read:


I’ve attached the first instalment of your memoir based on your notes—I’m calling it
 A Song: Mummification—
along with a story I’ve written, “Merriment.” I’m so excited, Ariadne! For the way words are forming into stories. It’s hard to explain. Stories have always been Trevor’s thing, not mine. They used to be, but it’s been so long since I felt compelled to write one. For a long time there were the articles, and then blogging became the work I needed to be doing. Knowing how isolated I felt, knowing it must be like this for other moms, too. How hard it was so often, every single day for all those years. Total over whelm intermixed with all this love. Always feeling guilty for needing so much more, feeling alone in it all. Wanting to get it right. Trying to be there for Trevor but not feeling like he understood, or cared enough to be there for me.


Then I realized that no matter how much love I gave to Trevor, it would never be enough for us both.


“Merriment” is about a story I believed in for a long time. And the spectacle of the mystical wife. It makes me laugh and cry at the same time. I’m sending it along—be gentle when you read! Tradesies—I’ll write your story if you’ll read mine!


“Merriment”? Hadn’t he seen that title recently? Something one of his students had written?


It was familiar, but he couldn’t place it. Still, there was a feeling he’d seen it somewhere. Noticed but irrelevant, so not fully taken in.


Trevor double-clicked on Sarah’s story.




———



				Afterward, astonished by the power in Sarah’s voice, he felt himself morph between his and Sarah’s variations—wife, ogre, man. Somewhere in the morphing, for a brief moment, he felt another presence—a terrified little boy, hiding, shivering uncontrollably, crouched in a little ball, hands over his ears, saying, 
“No, no, no, no, no, no, no,”
 and then hitting his ears, 
“Be quiet, Trevor, not now, Trevor.”
 Screaming and screaming at the nightmare it all was.


No one came.


Was he a monster? Or was he a man, breathing in a room he had once shared with a woman? How could he live with himself as both?


How can I trust Trevor to positively influence my daughters, 
given what he makes of women? Given how he tortures himself in his own mind?
 Sarah had written this in one of her emails to Ariadne. “Positively influence” his daughters? She expected this of him? What did she even mean by it? They were his 
daughters
, not women. Why was Sarah confusing these things in her mind? Positive influence was her schtick. What did he have to contribute to that, anyway? He was always there for shits and giggles. To distract when Sarah was too busy with other things, until she was ready to take over again. He towed her fucking line with all the running around, and it was never enough anyway!




———


Sarah’s stories—these variations on his own that painted him in such different light.


How hard he worked to be a man. What did they expect of him?


He was terrified!


Some part of him had always been terrified. That pathetic little boy, cowering inside him. Why did they all hate him?




———



				The boy was cowering from the ogre and the man, trying to scramble behind Bukowski for some reason, as though Bukowski could understand. But all Bukowski wanted to do was give the boy a drink and fuck his mom. They were all there but not there. Pretending the little boy did not exist, but he did! And they could feel him. And Sarah could feel him. She was always trying to feel through the man 
and the ogre to 
him
. Through the failure and rage when he did not get what he wanted, which infuriated him!


The ogre wanted to eat the boy. The man wished to ignore him until he went away, or could be forgotten altogether, so that the man could turn his attention to other things, pretending he could not hear him whimper. Bukowski was drunk and eloquent, gifting words that entertained the others, making them all feel that perhaps the boy had finally gone away. Almost as though the pitiful creature did not exist. But Sarah saw him. And she wanted Trevor to see him. But why should Trevor have to? If Sarah had been taking care of him properly, like she was supposed to! It was her job, not his!


The ogre had a mind to destroy it all! Scatter the debris in the gaping worthless emptiness.




———


Trevor looked at the boy. The boy was holding something. A rock? No. It was something dark blue, and glowing. A beautiful orb.


Trevor reached. He reached toward the boy, wanting to help the boy bring the orb up to the light so the others might see it too. But the boy recoiled, knowing Trevor could not be trusted.




———



				There was one last folder to open. 
Letter.
 Trevor did not want to open it. He knew enough. More than enough. He did not need to know more. Yet he had set himself the task. 
If he left this last folder out, he might miss key pieces that Sarah would hold against him.


There was one file inside. A scanned copy of a handwritten letter. Trevor froze when he saw Sarah’s name spelled out in Yuna’s unmistakable calligraphy.


Dear Sarah,


There are certain instances of skin that bind together people who have never touched.


We have shared vibration through your husband’s flesh.


I believed in him because my skin glowed—


like a gathering of stars


scattering dust to earth, long ago.


Cohering to form a new layer atop my body.


I transgressed an invisible line—loving him, knowing he was bound to you.


Choosing to believe you accepted this love because I trusted him.


Lost in his illusion.


Unseeing that which I did not wish to see—that love shared under illusion is duplicitous.


I did not keep to my orbit, crashing against him. Allowing his force to destabilize me.




———


After the explosion, I learned there was no surface, just a vacuum of ongoing space.


I passed through the space, but it disappeared me. For a time, I was annihilated. He was there at the ready, capturing the light.




———


Life regenerates in the aftermath of cosmic collision.




———


My skin pulses. Wanting to shed the remnants of the illusion bound up in words that still hold power over me, after all this time.


“I trust you to never tell.” “My wife and I have an implicit understanding.” “The world does not understand love like ours.”




———


He no longer holds power over my words.


Hurt now lives where the words come from—yet to heal requires honesty.


I haven’t been the only besotted underling, Sarah.


Is it wrong of me to use your name? I don’t want to reduce you, to disappear you as though my actions do not create an impact on your life.


I played my part.


I do not wish to harm in retribution, but I do feel a need to take responsibility, to disrupt the pattern so he does not go on taking advantage of others, as he did me. As he has others. Perhaps you allow it, or perhaps you don’t know. I cannot know the truth based on his dishonest words.


I feel your skin upon my skin—a presence binding us. I reach through its form toward you, offering you my truth, knowing you may not wish to see it, knowing too that abuses perpetuate if we choose to look away from the pain.


Yuna Tanaka


The truth was unendurable.


Trevor hobbled to the bathroom and grabbed the bottle of T3s from the medicine cabinet, with a mind to swallow them all. But the bottle was almost empty. Only three left. He put them on his tongue, tasting the acrid medicine, put his mouth under the tap and swallowed hard, then hobbled back to the bed, nestling himself in the covers, mind emptied out. He lay, unmoving, ferried to codeine dreams once the painkillers kicked in, floating close to the source where life and death intermixed and blurred between one another, washed in blue twilight.




OceanofPDF.com































OceanofPDF.com















Inside the ogre’s hope chest were garments and gold and Trevor’s grandfather’s pocket watch. Bones of small animals and pretty brassieres. Hockey cards and sticks, rotting leaves, books, and books, and torn out pages of books, as well as student assignments. It could hold the world; it went on forever. The dreamer pulled out a paper, and on it was a poem:


Light Source


A tree aglow


kindness


burned into kindness.


There were snapshots of memories too: Sarah saying “Tell me your dreams.” Sarah, wearing an apron in the kitchen, spatchcocking a chicken. Sarah laughing in front of Rosenau Palace, in love. With him, or a him she believed him to be. He could feel her love and he wanted it to never end.


A pair of black swans.


How did the ogre get Trevor’s good memories and hide them away in here?


Him inside Yuna in the tree, Yuna inside him in Yuna’s bedroom.


Masha reading from her essay in class.


Arlynn kissing all over his face.


Amelie holding his hand.


Ramona submitting her thesis, the look on her face telling him she knew she had succeeded, sharing this with him.


Ariadne reading a poem in a dark pub, smoking a clove cigarette outside, the smell, the longing, the smoke.


Worn Bukowski paperbacks, heavily annotated by a young Trevor.


Sean plunging into the ocean, holding finishing nails in his lips in his living room, cracking open a beer. Looking at Trevor with eyes that did not make Trevor want to hide himself away, as the eyes of most men did.


His sister Mimi laughing at the pond, him chasing her—both of them with sticks in their mouths, slapping their feet like beaver tails.


His bike and an empty mind, flashes of the world as he breathed, up to the top of the hill, and then, water as far as he could see.


Sarah handing him the smallest book of empty pages, inviting him to write the story with her.


Underneath all the flotsam, a trunk-bottom full of marbles, holding light.




———


The ogre had taken all this precious life and hidden it away, all these moments that felt like love when Trevor looked at them. These sacred gifts, hoarding them.


Making it so he often forgot they were there. He felt the ogre’s hand reach inside his abdomen, where the chest was hidden away, and slam the lid down.


“You don’t deserve my treasures.”


“But they’re mine.”




———


The ogre opened another box.


And in it were Trevor’s failures that had somehow been turned into corruptions instead of mistakes that could have been repaired. Abominations.


A plagiarized poem. A fake dream.
 Dream the Text Like a Persistent Certainty.
 A dungeon in a Transylvanian castle, bruises on Sarah’s ass and thighs after hitting too hard. An email that read, “It never happened.”


All the times he saw but looked away, because he could, because he knew if he did, someone else would deal with it. Everything he heard but pretended not to hear if it worked to his advantage.


Sarah, sleepless for a hundred years. No prince come to relieve her from having to hold it all together so that she could fall asleep and dream. Locking her in a dungeon to do love’s dirty work out of sight, out of mind—a baby at each of her breasts and her womb leaking miscarriages. Blood and milk and blood. Still with a smile on her face and a little cheer for Trevor to keep doing his best, because she believed in him.


Yuna in a tree, weeping.


The empty book of a hundred pages, still blank, never a word written in. Though he’d meant to, he’d meant to. Someday he would.


Smart pretty girls wanting his attention, and him giving it to them, asking too much in return. Giving them love that damaged and confused, rather than knowledge that would set them alight for the parts of their lives that would come after. Giving that was taking, always taking, feeding and never 
thinking about the hunger of others after his fill. Only his own hunger. Only his own fill—everything in his sight, his to take if he was able.


“All I wanted was love,” said the little boy, turning a blue marble in the light, watching it stretch across time—disfigured and beautiful.


“And when you received it,” grunted the ogre, “what did you give in return?”


“I was just a boy,” said the boy.


“And then you weren’t any longer,” the ogre sniggered back.


“But I still am,” protested the man.


“Are you?” asked the boy. “Who is taking care of me, then?”


“I am,” said the ogre, grabbing the boy and putting him in the chest with all the beautiful memories.




———


Trevor fell asleep in his bed and woke up with his right hand to his neck, his eyes landing on the photograph of him and Sarah on their honeymoon in front of Rosenau Palace—those two beautiful, pitiful black swans.


He threw his pillow at the framed photograph, missing, knocking their wedding photo off the wall behind the dresser. He heard the unmistakable sound of shattering glass, feeling guilt, and satisfaction, and movement in something that had been stuck for a good long time.


He stood at the doorway, bracing himself.


Looking back across the threshold he saw the slightly darker rectangle on the wall. A spectre of empty space. The 
broken glass was there behind the dresser, he knew. He had heard it smash.


If he walked away, left it there, no one would come to clean it up.


There might be shards embedded in the rug and he might cut his already mangled foot—or if he didn’t deal with it now, he might forget, and then when the girls were back, one of them might crawl under the dresser.


Pain shot up from his toes to his gut when he tried to pull the dresser away from the wall, so he got down on his knees and looked underneath. The glass was shattered into large shards, most of which were still in the frame. He angled the frame, sliding it along the floor, and when he pulled it up, trying to keep what he could intact, one of the shards slipped, cutting his pointer finger and thumb to the bone. Blood pooled to the surface of his skin, fast and hot, seeping through the cracks in the glass, all over Sarah’s white dress, staining it red.




———


The story stopped.




———


Time stood still for a hundred years.




———


Starting up again when he heard a familiar voice shouting from downstairs.


His heart crashing wildly inside his chest.


It couldn’t be.


It couldn’t be.


He had to still be dreaming.


“Upstairs!” Trevor shouted back, just in case it was real. “I’m all fucked up. I can’t come down.”


He heard the unmistakable footsteps.




———


The bedroom door opened, and Sean stood there looking down at the floor, observing the mess Trevor had made.


“Hart? What the fuck, man? Are you okay?”


“Sean! Are you really here? Or am I hallucinating? I must be hallucinating. What the fuck? Are you really here? Where have you been? Everyone thought you were dead.”


“No, not dead, man, just had to disappear out of your dissociated fantasy for a while. Looks like you might need some help. I’ll get you to the hospital and we can tell each other our stories along the way.”




OceanofPDF.com















I’m looking for you and looking for you and looking for you. Where are you hiding my children? I’m digging beneath rocks and making holes with my badger claws. My teeth are points. My claws are daggers. I can dig a sett deeper than the winding length of your intestines, deep, deep, deep inside the earth. All of me is muscle and fur. All of me is hunger. All of me is love and you are between me and my children. I am looking for them but you are trying to fill up the dream, distract me. Playing a game I do not wish to play.


I would rip out your intestines. I would gnaw them to shreds, disembowel you. You try to keep me playing. Believing I mean you harm, which I never have. Though I sometimes daydreamed revenge when the harm you cast upon me felt like too much to bear.




———


And then I find them, small children badgers with gorgeous silver fur, streaked black and white, claws black and thick as pencils, sharp points they stroke my nipples with when they suckle, scratching my itchy skin. I find them colouring in books of humans dressed as badgers doing badgerlike human things. The images in the books are streaked with soil from my children badgers’ dirty paws. They are gleeful at the saturated colours of their markers, which you must have gifted them, being a human man. I see you on a rock outcropping, well out of reach, looking down at us as though from a great distance. You are wearing thick gauntlet gloves with steel mesh, so as not to be bitten. You are armoured, as though a medieval knight. But I can see the 
rust streaks and know you are masking your vulnerability with old metal. That you do not trust the strength of it. That you have forgotten to tend to your armour, and that it has therefore become weak. Still, I have no interest in biting you now that I have found my children. I spit the taste of you out. You think you know my ferocity, fear that it will drive itself into you. But I am only here to collect my children and return to the earth, knowing the costs of your service.


I click to them. They come.


We return to the earth and leave you with the rusty metal that does not protect your heart, or allow you to share it. It seeps into you. Your heart clanks its loneliness. We hear the tinny sound. The badger children have forgotten the sound of a human heart and do not register your clanking. I look back at you, human eye memories flitting behind the screen of my badger seeing. A feeling rises in my throat, something akin to kindness.


I wish for you to learn how to take off your armour without fear. To be creaturely. The children flit between badger and human form. They are of both of us. I fear they will forget they are always both badger and human, that you will trick them into the human world. Or if not you, then the world that tricked you into forgetting yourself, arming you with metal skin in which you have forgotten how to do anything but rust in place, feeling yourself to be a victim of falling rain. “Take your costume off!” I try to shout, but what comes out is,“GRRkkkaaallff csst uff.”




———


Sarah fell asleep in Ariadne’s guest room and woke up to see the moon floating in a starlit sky, its light stirring her. How long since she’d dreamt badger dreams! She closed her eyes, falling back under, awake to it all.




OceanofPDF.com















I went to sleep at the river in a strange costume and awoke in my own skin. The river took me. The river flowed outside and inside, and through. I swallowed its waters. Its waters were life, unbidden. It entered where it could enter without harming me. Time cycled in the dream, months of ablution in the melted surge of millennia-old ice. Minuscule creatures of epic proportions and ancient memories suspended within.


It is not exactly right to talk of cleansing, because I was not dirty. But my body did not know its own truth.


The river remained unknowable.


I became again. Unwritten. A thing never made word.


I no longer felt I had a part to play.


All my possible selves coalesced.


In the dream I stripped the gaze embossed in my flesh, and my humanity went with it.


It is dangerous to be naked, we are taught to forget how.


If you see me, walking clothed in the world, you will never know.


My sovereignty is total, and nebulous.




———


Masha fell asleep entwined in Yuna’s arms and woke up feeling alive, wanting to share her dream.




OceanofPDF.com















Clouds danced on the mountain


we had known that as myth.


Yuna opened their eyes and saw Masha looking at them, lines from their dream lingering. They turned over, wrote them down quickly, then turned back to Masha, whispering, “Tell me your dreams?”




OceanofPDF.com















Acknowledgements


With profound thanks to Stephanie Sinclair, who has been with me since the beginning of this journey and has been instrumental in helping the novel find its form, offering guideposts as I doubled and circled and dreamt my way through it. Thank you also to Rebecca Rocillo for knowing how and where to cut and splice to keep it all moving, and for celebrating milestones along the way. Thank you to Rachel Letofsky for first placing, and to Marilyn Biderman and Amanda Orozco for taking it up.


Thank you to the Canada Council for the Arts and the B.C. Arts Council for grants that funded time to write the stories that became the scaffold for the first draft of this novel. Thank you to the Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity 
and the Virginia Center for the Creative Arts for time, space, and nourishment to write parts of this work.


Thank you to dear ones who read early and offered encouragement to go on.


Boundless thanks to katherena vermette for reading at a pivotal moment, and offering the wise counsel to keep the play alive.


Thank you to Yen Ha for committed and expansive correspondence.


Thank you to my friends, who have shared parts of their stories and hearts, especially those who practise the epic work of cultivating love for futures to dream into.


Thank you to my lovers for the hoping and manifestation of possibilities beyond, and from the wise places and the wounds wanting to be healed.


Thanks to the living processes for decomposition, reorientations, growth, and ongoing learning.


Thanks to those who come closest to light up and practise dying with one another so we might learn what we are.


Thank you to my parents for loving in the ways they knew how and giving what they had to give and more, because parenthood asks more than any of us are prepared for.


Thank you to my sisters, who dreamt and continue to dream alongside me.


Thank you to my children, who offer me the gift of their becoming and unconditional love, who challenge me daily to live up to better ways of honouring what we are given. Most parts of most days I dance in gratitude to have 
been blessed with the calling. The madness works itself out in dreams.


Thank you to the writers and thinkers whose works have shaped my mind. There’s no way to name all the varied influences in this sensational, astounding, confusing, emergent, complexly intertwined world. I thank the named, and those I haven’t named all the same.


Thank you to my neighbours, for reciprocal care and nourishment.


Thank you to Carolyn Himmelright, for keeping the house I have made home affordable to live some kind of writing life in. Thank you to the house and everything it holds.


Hami’yaa to the land, waters, and beings I have been privileged to learn love among over many years and seasons on the unceded territories of the Gitxsan people, who have cultivated kinship among land, rivers, and more-than-human beings since time immemorial.




OceanofPDF.com





























OceanofPDF.com















Reading List


Brand, Dionne (2011). Conjugations in Disgrace and Paradise. In 
A Map to the Door of No Return: Notes to Belonging
 (pp. 125–134). Vintage Canada.


Bukowski, Charles (1979). 59 Cents a Pound. In 
Play the Piano Drunk Like a Percussion Instrument Until the Fingers Begin to Bleed a Bit
 (p. 115). Black Sparrow Press.


Carrington, Leonora (2017). My Mother is a Cow. In 
The Complete Stories of Leonora Carrington
, trans. K. Talbot and A. Kerrigan (pp. 179–186). Dorothy, a publishing project.


Didion, Joan (2006). 
The Year of Magical Thinking
, Chapter 12 (pp. 142–158). Vintage Books.


Foster Wallace, David (1996). 
Infinite Jest
. Back Bay Books/Little, Brown and Company.


Foster Wallace, David (1997). E Unibus Pluram: Television and U.S. Fiction. In 
A Supposedly Fun Thing I’ll Never Do Again: Essays and Arguments
 (pp. 21–82). Little, Brown and Company.


Harjo, Joy (1983). Remember. In 
How We Became Human
 (p. 42). W.W. Norton & Company.


Lorde, Audre (1997). Recreation. In 
The Collected Poems of Audre Lorde
 (p. 296). W.W. Norton & Company.


Nabokov, Vladimir (1970). 
Mary
, trans. M. Glenny and V. Nabokov. McGraw-Hill International, Inc.


Nelson, Maggie (2021). The Ballad of Sexual Optimism. In 
On Freedom: Four Songs of Care and Constraint
 (pp. 73–126). McClelland & Stewart.


Neruda, Pablo (2023). Body of a Woman. In 
Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair
, trans. W.S. Merwin (p. 3). Vintage Classics. (Original work 1969.)


Oliver, Mary (2008). The Summer Day. In 
The Truro Bear and Other Adventures
 (p. 65). Beacon Press.


Proust, Marcel (2002) 
In Search of Lost Time
 Volume 1: 
The Way by Swann’s
, trans. L. Davis (p. 47). Penguin Books. (Original work 
Du côté de chez Swann,
 first published 1913).


Rilke, Rainer Maria (1984). 
Letters to a Young Poet
, trans. S. Mitchell (p. 68). Vintage Books. (Original work 1903–1908).


Srinivasan, Amia (2021). Talking to My Students About Porn. In 
The Right to Sex: Feminism in the Twenty-First Century
 (pp. 33–72). Farrar, Straus and Giroux.




OceanofPDF.com































OceanofPDF.com



























Scan the QR code to listen to Sarah’s Mixtape.




OceanofPDF.com















Angélique Lalonde
’s work has been featured in 
PRISM International
, 
The Journey Prize Stories
, 
Room
, and 
The Malahat Review
, among other publications. She received the 2019 Writers’ Trust McClelland & Stewart Journey Prize. She lives on Gitxsan Territory in northern British Columbia. Her short story collection 
Glorious Frazzled Beings
 was a finalist for the Giller Prize.




OceanofPDF.com



