Ugly Love Colleen Hoover, From Colleen Hoover, the #1 New York Times bestselling author
of It Ends With Us, a heart-wrenching love story that proves attraction at first sight can be
messy.
When Tate Collins meets airline pilot Miles Archer, she doesn't think it's love at first sight. They
wouldn’t even go so far as to consider themselves friends. The only thing Tate and Miles have in
common is an undeniable mutual attraction. Once their desires are out in the open, they realize they
have the perfect set-up. He doesn’t want love, she doesn’t have time for love, so that just leaves the
sex. Their arrangement could be surprisingly seamless, as long as Tate can stick to the only two
rules Miles has for her.
Never ask about the past.
Don’t expect a future.
They think they can handle it, but realize almost immediately they can’t handle it at all.
Hearts get infiltrated.
Promises get broken.
Rules get shattered.
Love gets ugly.
PDF File: Ugly Love

Top 10 Best Seller Books
Book Lovers
[PDF]
“One of my favorite authors.” —Colleen Hoover Named a Most Anticipated Book of 2022
by Oprah Daily ∙ Today ∙ Parade ∙ Marie Claire ∙ Bustle ∙ PopSugar ∙ Katie Couric Media
∙ Book Bub ∙ SheReads ∙ Medium ∙ The Washington Post ∙ and more! An insightful,
delightful new ... Read More...
The Five Things We Cannot Change
[PDF]
“A lucid, thought-provoking, and illuminating” guide to finding fulfillment and “fluid
acceptance of life as it is” (Martha Beck, life coach and New York Times –bestselling
author) Why is it that, despite our best efforts, many of us remain fundamentally
unhappy and unfulfilled in our ... Read More...
The Billionaire's Unexpected Baby
[PDF]
Leah Andrews did not plan to be that woman who gets pregnant after a one-night stand.
But she never expected that throwing up over the side of a yacht could lead to
spontaneously marrying steamy billionaire party guy Brooks Larson. Only the marriage
that was supposed to save Leah’s job and reputation is ... Read More...
Dictionary of Word Origins
[PDF]
This extensive reference volume presents the etymological history of thousands of
English words. The story of how words come to be is the story of how humans think, and
how we fashion our civilizations. Words can be the product of long and intertwining
histories, migrations from other languages, or new... Read More...
IOU
[PDF]
“You will never mention me or my favors, nor will you disclose what favors we trade. I am
a ghost to you.” Or a genie. I think a genie is way less scary, don't you? It’s official. I,
Ainsley James, am crazy. Desperate and crazy. It’s the only explanation as to why I’m
nauseous, standing outs... Read More...
PDF File: Ugly Love

Nick and Charlie
[PDF]
A short novella based on the beloved characters from Alice Oseman’s acclaimed debut
novel Solitaire and graphic novel series Heartstopper – now a major Netflix series. From
the author of the 2021 YA Book Prize winning Loveless. Absence makes the heart grow
fonder, right? CHARLIE: “I have been g... Read More...
Dream Town
[PDF]
... Read More...
Under One Roof
[PDF]
From the New York Times bestselling author of The Love Hypothesis comes a new
steamy, STEMinist novella… A scientist should never cohabitate with her annoyingly hot
nemesis—it leads to combustion. Mara, Sadie, and Hannah are friends first, scientists
always. Though their fields of study might ta... Read More...
The Ursulina
[PDF]
The mythical beast goes by many names. Bigfoot. Sasquatch. Yeti. In Black Wolf County,
he’s called…the Ursulina. But to Deputy Rebecca Colder, the beast is no myth. A serial
killer has taken on the identity of the monster — and with each body left behind, there’s a
chilling message written in blood... Read More...
Heartstopper #1: A Graphic Novel
[PDF]
Boy meets boy. Boys become friends. Boys fall in love. A sweet and charming coming-of-
age story that explores friendship, love, and coming out. This edition features beautiful
two-color artwork. Now streaming on Netflix! Shy and softhearted Charlie Spring sits
next to rugby player Nick Nelson in class... Read More...
PDF File: Ugly Love