@® MONARCH NOTES
SA
$3.95
Ernest Hemingway’s
THE OLD
MAN AND
THE SEA
A GUIDE TO
UNDERSTANDING
THE WoRLD’S
GREAT WRITING

Ernest Hemingway’s
THE OLD MAN
AND THE SEA
Laurie Rozakis, Ph.D.
The State University of New York
at Farmingdale
BARNES
& NOBLE
Bere kK. Ss
NEW YORK

Copyright © 1997, 1965 by Simon & Schuster, Inc.
This edition published by Barnes & Noble, Inc.,
by arrangement with Macmillan Publishing USA,
a division of Simon & Schuster, Inc.
All rights reserved. No part of this book
may be used or reproduced in any manner whatsoever
without the written permission of the Publisher.
1997 Barnes & Noble Books
MACMILLAN is a registered trademark of Macmillan, Inc.
Monarch and colophons are trademarks of Simon & Schuster, Inc.,
registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.
Macmillan Publishing USA
A division of Simon & Schuster, Inc.
1633 Broadway
New York, NY 10019
ISBN 0-7607-0573-9
Text design by Tony Meisel
Printed and bound in the United States of America.
97 98 99 0001M987654321
RRDC

CONTENTS
Introduction
The Old Man and the Sea: Overview
The Old Man and the Sea: Analysis 20
Essay Questions and Answers 33
Survey of Critical Opinion on Ernest Hemingway 38
Bibliography 43

SRA |4 speiaineas vr ert
Ped) wrt tee oe =
; Naber d ei Hasyn ta
ae yer ed
| Bie ine Oar & Aoehtr<
ah Ws ete
ie tae wy CA
ee "Vawaniteadl wend ae norniq? tc e e
2 — vie ‘a
he ae aT > - ip j i “~% y
, 5 oP 7 sat . J
eaney ‘ 7 «en Trl \bricne - ieW A werwS lqaxg' oi<q at ealye
0 = caeaazy . hey
Lis

INTRODUCTION
PREFACE
There has been no American writer like Ernest Hemingway.
Perhaps it might be more accurate to say that there has been
no American like Ernest Hemingway who was also a writer.
For this “enfant terrible” of the World War I “lost generation”
was in many ways his own best character. Whether as the
young “Champ” or as the middle-aged “Papa,” Ernest
Hemingway became a legend in his own lifetime. So com-
pletely has his name been absorbed into American culture,
that he might almost seem a hero of folklore rather than a
creative writer.
From New England campuses to Oregon lumber camps, the
name of Ernest Hemingway is known, and known well, even
by men and women who find it difficult to remember when
they last opened a book of serious literature. People who
never read anything Hemingway wrote and cannot produce
the title of one of his books will often know exactly what you
mean by “the Hemingway type of man,” and are more than
likely to know something about “the Hemingway style.”
Whether Hemingway “belongs to the ages” certainly can be
(and has been) debated. But there can be no doubt that he
“belongs” to the people of America and the people of the
world.
Although the drama and romance of his life sometimes seem
to overshadow the substance of his work, the fact remains
that Ernest Hemingway was first and foremost a literary man—
a writer and reader of books. This is too easily forgotten amid
all the talk about safaris and hunting trips, adventures with
bullfighting, fishing, and war. That Hemingway enjoyed be-
ing famous is clear enough; he played in the public spotlight
with enthusiasm. But he was also aware that any artist who
makes “good news copy” is in danger of becoming little more
than another Sunday-supplement feature, and Ernest

6 THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA
Hemingway was an artist—a man who knew very well that a
writer might become a “celebrity” for all the wrong reasons.
BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH
Ernest Hemingway was born on July 21, 1899, in Oak Park,
Illinois, the second of six children. His father, Dr. Clarence E.
Hemingway, a physician and enthusiastic outdoorsman, helped
shape Hemingway’s love for hunting and fishing. This influ-
ence was not reinforced by Hemingway’s mother, Grace Hall
Hemingway. A religious and pious woman, she wanted Ernest
to learn music. But the young Hemingway followed his father’s
example; he spurned the church organ and took to the fish-
ing rod and gun. Despite his pursuit of outdoor sports,
Dr. Hemingway was rather sentimental and over-domesticated
at home—a fact which the young Hemingway resented and
remembered in later years.
At school Hemingway was a “loner” although he edited the
school paper. Not especially popular, he learned through his
school experience that life is hard, and that only the
toughminded survive. Hemingway’s life at this time reflected
his growing restlessness. He learned boxing and suffered a
broken nose and serious eye injury; he ran away from home
twice and spent months “on the road,” working at a variety of
jobs.
When the United States entered World War I in 1917,
Hemingway tried to enlist, but was rejected because of his
eye injury. After working as a cub reporter on the Kansas City
Star he served as a volunteer ambulance driver for the Ameri-
can Red Cross in Italy where he was “blown up” by a mortar
shell and received a wound which was to leave serious scars
on his mind and spirit.
On his return to the United States, Hemingway worked
as a newspaperman for the Toronto Star and Star Weekly. He
came to know many good writers, among them Sherwood

THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA 7
Anderson. In 1921 he married Hadley Richardson and returned
to Europe, getting to know and love Spain, Switzerland,
Austria, and France. At the age of 23 he covered the Greek-
Turkish war as a journalist; by the time he was 25 he had
interviewed such world-famous figures as Lloyd George,
Clemenceau, and Mussolini.
After covering the war, Hemingway went to Paris with an
introduction from Sherwood Anderson and met Gertrude Stein.
He was seriously trying to write at this time but all was not
going well with his marriage: Hadley was pregnant and wanted
to return home. Meanwhile, Hemingway’s stories had began
appearing in avant-garde and popular magazines (including
Atlantic Monthly). In 1923 he published Three Stories and
Ten Poems. In 1924, In Our Time—a series of 32 fragments—
was published in Paris. The collection of Nick Adams stories,
In Our Time, was published in the United States the following
year, and in 1926 The Torrents of Spring appeared, as did
Hemingway’s first successful novel, The Sun Also Rises.
Divorced from Hadley in 1927, Hemingway married—that same
year—Pauline Pfeiffer, an editor of Vogue. In 1928 came a
great shock: the suicide of his father, an event which affected
him profoundly.
Later in 1928 Hemingway left Europe and took up residence
at Key West, Florida, where Patrick Hemingway was born in
1929 and Gregory in 1932. A Farewell to Arms, which had
appeared in 1929, sold 80,000 copies in four months and made
Hemingway financially secure. Hemingway now had three
children John Hemingway was the son of his first marriage),
and was well into the role of “Papa.”
Death in the Afternoon appeared in 1932, followed a year
later by Winner Take Nothing. During 1933, Hemingway also
published the first of thirty-one articles and stories which were
to appear in Esquire magazine during the next six years.

8 THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA
Never one to stay put for long, Hemingway then traveled
extensively, and the result was The Green Hills of Africa which
appeared in 1935. With the outbreak of the Spanish civil war
in 1936, he devoted himself to the cause of the Loyalists, and
in 1937 served in Spain as a correspondent for the North Ameri-
can Newspaper Alliance. That same year marked the appear-
ance of To Have and Have Not—three related stories, two of
which had been published separately. In 1938 Hemingway
published The Fifth Column and the First Forty-Nine Stories—
a volume containing the title play, and all the stories of his
previous collections, in addition to seven published but
uncollected tales.
Hemingway completed For Whom the Bell Tolls in 1940, but
his marriage was once again heading for the divorce court,
and in 1940 he and Pauline separated. Hemingway married
the writer Martha Gelhorn later that same year and began
new travels with his new wife; after visiting China, they settled
in Cuba. When World War II erupted, Hemingway leaped into
the fray. After editing Men at War in 1942, he served as a war
correspondent, accompanying American troops as they pushed
the German forces back across Europe. Hemingway took to
the war with enthusiasm. Known as “Papa” by respectful troops,
and a celebrity everywhere, he helped “liberate” the Ritz
Hotel in Paris, actually posting a guard at the entrance with a
notice: “Papa took good hotel. Plenty stuff in cellar.”
Divorced from Martha in 1944, Hemingway next married Mary
Welsh, a Time magazine correspondent; after the war they
settled in Venice. In 1950, Across the River and into the Trees
appeared, and met with much ¢ritical disapproval. This
response infuriated Hemingway; The Old Man and the Sea,
which appeared in 1952, was seen by some readers as an
attack on the critical “sharks” themselves. Again Hemingway
traveled, and in 1954 narrowly escaped death in an airplane
crash, an event which occurred in the same year that he
received the Nobel Prize. After a period of illness, Ernest

THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA 9
Hemingway met his death as the victim of a “self-inflicted
gunshot wound” in 1961, at Ketchum, Idaho, in the rugged
country he loved so well.
THE ARTIST
It was not enough for Ernest Hemingway to be a “celebrity.”
He was a writer and the job of the writer is to write. As a
young man in Paris after World War I, he read voraciously and
wrote deliberately with a kind of self-discipline approaching
severity. He was far from being the romantic soldier-of-
fortune, the “lost” expatriate drifting from bar to bed to bull-
fighting arena. From the very beginning, Hemingway was pre-
occupied with his craft, his art, his work. Literature was never
far from his mind. He was so concerned with his writing that
fellow writer Gertrude Stein once described him as being a
man of “museums”’—an image which hardly fits the Sunday-
Supplement portrait of Hemingway the Bearded (or unbearded)
Adventurer. In Paris, Hemingway himself recollected, “I was
trying to write, and I found that my greatest difficulty (apart
from knowing what you truly felt, rather than what you were
supposed to feel, or what you had been taught to feel) was
to note what really happened in action, what the actual
things were which produced the emotion which you experi-
enced. ... I was trying to learn to write, commencing with the
simplest things... .”
This preoccupation, which must be the preoccupation of any
artist, never deserted Ernest Hemingway. In the lean years
when his work was going badly, no amount of hunting or
fishing or bullfighting could drown the taste of his own fu-
ture—or fear of failure. “He had destroyed his talent by not
using it, by betrayals of himself, by drinking so much .. . by
laziness, sloth, and by snobbery, by pride,” he says of the
writer in The Snows of Kilimanjaro, adding that “the thought
of his own death obsessed him... .” This was a warning that
Ernest Hemingway gave to himself many times in his life,
with an intense honesty basic to the man no less than to his

10 THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA
work. “You made an attitude that you cared nothing for the
work you used to do, now that you could no longer do it.”
This would seem to be a peculiarly solemn self-reproach from
a Romantic Adventurer—or perhaps not so peculiar after all.
For Ernest Hemingway understood all too well that while many
people can function in obscurity, it takes a strong person to
survive fame—at least as an artist. In his brief acceptance
speech for the 1954 Nobel Prize, for example, Hemingway
remarked that “a writer is driven far out past where he can go,
out to where no one can help him.” And in this acknowledg-
ment of essential loneliness, the ever-present danger of
failure which must accompany true work, Hemingway was
reminding his public—and himself—that every artist must
indeed be Santiago the fisherman in The Old Man and the
Sea: that is, an individual who attempts to transcend his or her
own limitations.
THE HEMINGWAY CULT
That Hemingway's work has limitations is obvious enough,
and it is unfortunate that efforts to define these limitations
have often aroused passions which have nothing to do with
the work itself. Something of a “Hemingway cult” has arisen,
a sort of club encouraged by men who often seem more like
cheerleaders than literary critics. Hemingway himself, of course,
was partially responsible for this development. He was haunted
by fear of failure all his life—failure of art, failure of nerve,
failure of other and perhaps more intimate areas of existence.
Perhaps because of these fears, Hemingway could tolerate
little criticism. Too often he reacted to challenges
either with bellowing denunciation or adolescent sulking. He
questioned the motives, not to mention the manhood, of those
who actually cared enough to read his work instead of merely
praising it. Hemingway's use of baseball-boxing-hunting
jargon in the most absurd circumstances indicated that he had
come to believe in his own “colorful” public image; unleav-
ened by self-perspective or self-humor, the mannerisms had

THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA 11
become the substance. “I trained hard and I beat Mr. de
Maupassant,” he bombulated to Lillian Ross of The New Yorker;
“Tve fought two draws with Mr. Stendhal and I think I had an
edge on the last one.” Only Hemingway could have said it,
and only Hemingway could have believed it.
It is always difficult, of course, to know when a writer’s sub-
ject becomes an obsession, but Hemingway’s insistence on
“virility” and “manhood” does have its ludicrous aspects. One
cannot escape the conclusion that his perpetual assertion had
its basis in some murky substratum of anxiety. Certainly, the
Hemingway hero is often a refugee from what is ultimately
the most “dangerous” area of existence: the complexities of
the human soul. Action itself, after all, may be a narcotic—a
way of making it unnecessary to “confront” any experience
that cannot be handled as one handles a gun or a trout line. It
is possible for a man to be so frightened of life that he has to
run out and shoot something, and in this sense Hemingway’s
work has been termed, with some justice, an “art of evasion.”
LIMITATIONS
Throughout Hemingway’s work there is a panic-stricken flight
from all complexity, human or nonhuman, and this produces
a thin aesthetic. It is one thing for an artist to translate com-
plexity into simplicity; it is quite another thing to ignore the
complexity altogether, and to limit one’s work to those areas
where “thinking” is no longer necessary. This reservation ap-
plies to his language as well. It may be true that, as Hemingway
said, good prose is like an iceberg, with only a small part
showing on the surface. But it is also true that icebergs must
remain in chilly and arctic waters—or they turn to mush. If
the “hard” surface of Hemingway’s prose is in some ways
admirable, in other ways it is flabby and increasingly dated.
This is not to say that Hemingway’s work is to be dismissed as
insignificant. Indeed, it was precisely because Ernest
Hemingway was an artist that he could turn his own failures

12 THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA
and fears into an art which is both significant and true. But in
order to understand what he did produce, it is necessary to
understand what he could not produce. In short, Hemingway
made the best possible use of his limitations, but we must
clearly define these limitations in order to appreciate the use
to which he put them.
Two episodes in Hemingway’s life—the fact that he was “blown
up” in World War I, suffering a painful and terrible wound
without any “stance of manhood” whatsoever, and the fact
that his father committed suicide—shaped many of his
attitudes and much of his work. The nightmare of chaos and
passivity was a terrible nightmare to be avoided at all costs.
That Hemingway evolved his own solutions to this nightmare,
and based his art upon them, is something for which every-
one interested in people and books must be thankful. But we
need not assume that his solutions were universal ones, nor
need we shrink from examining the art itself.

THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA
OVERVIEW
THE HERO AND REALITY
The basic philosophical premises from which all of
Hemingway's work proceeds are: that God does not exist,
and that furthermore, there is not even such a thing as human
nature. Thus there are no guidelines, no rules for life. As Sartre
puts it, “Man is nothing but what he makes of himself.” In the
face of this conviction, individuals are lost in his world, forced
to pick their way from moment to moment, to create their
own rules for life. But life does not lend itself to individual
solution without struggle, and ultimately people must face
the fact that whatever they may make of their life, it will end
in death. This is the reality which Hemingway’s characters
constantly confront. Readers must view the characters and
events of his novels against the background of this reality.
But to understand the full import of this background we must
also understand the nature of this “lostness.” The French
philosopher Jean Paul Sartre refers to it as a “forlornness,”
which, he says, follows when we understand that “God does
not exist and we have to face all the consequences of this.”
This is very different from the simple idea of atheism, which
holds that while God does not exist, honesty, progress, and
humanism can still be considered valid without proof. For
Sartre, as for Hemingway, it is nowhere “written that the God
exists, that we must be honest, that we must not lie,” and
consequently, “man is forlorn, because neither within him
nor without does he find anything to cling to.”
GOD AND VALUE
Yet for Hemingway, as for his heroes, the fact that God does
not exist does not preclude the matter of religion as a serious
concern. It would be a mistake to assume that Hemingway is
nihilistic. Sartre plumbs the importance of this distinction in
terms of the existentialist, who, he says, “thinks it very

14 THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA
distressing that God does not exist, because all possibility of
finding values in a heaven of ideas disappears along with
Him; there can no longer be an a priori Good, since there is
no infinite and perfect consciousness to think it. . . . Indeed,
everything is permissible if God does not exist.” Thus while
Hemingway’s premises prevent both a divine and humanistic
ideal as a standard of value and conduct, they do leave
the field of life open to an individual, to “what he makes of
himself.”
Hemingway introduces his hero as a man who has learned
this view of reality and confronts death with a full and steady
awareness. But the hero’s life does not merely constitute a
despairing confrontation of an individual’s impermanence.
Rather, the hero must accept humanity. How the hero comes
to terms with this reality shows that he is heroic. The way of
the hero is not an abstract ideal, but a rule for life which the
hero has made for himself. This rule holds with various slight
modifications for all Hemingway’s heroes. It has generally been
called the “Hemingway Code.”
THE “HEMINGWAY CODE”
In accordance with this code, the hero must establish his own
values by facing life courageously and acting honestly. There
is no alternative in life, and in fact those who seek alterna-
tives find only disaster. Thus the hero’s primary attribute is
courage. He does not turn from reality toward abstract ideals
such as religion or politics. He does not pretend that people
or situations are other than they are, no matter how unfavor-
able they might be to him. Further, he avoids self-pity
because it is a form of dishonesty. He knows that, in
Hemingway’s terms, we are all “biologically” trapped—that
is, all people find themselves in the same condition merely by
being born. Thus it is dishonest to pity oneself as if one’s own
lot were worse than another’s. We are all part of a universe
offering no assurance before or beyond the grave. Therefore,
we must all make what we can of life.

THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA 15
Further, the hero must not make trouble for others. People
are free, but our freedom only extends to the end of the next
person’s nose. Finally, the hero must view others with as little
moral condemnation as possible, not because he does not
distinguish between good and bad, but because he tries to
view other men objectively, with “irony and pity.”
The Old Man and the Sea provides Hemingway’s personal
vision—a vision that accepts the fact of man’s ultimate
destruction, but insists that even in that destruction man need
not accept defeat but can achieve a spiritual victory. The means
to spiritual victory for Hemingway have always been embod-
ied in the Code, and it is essentially this Code to which the
fisherman Santiago adheres. In keeping with the heroic ideal,
he is unflinching in his confrontation with things as they are.
He is courageous and without self-pity. He views the world
and its creatures without self-righteousness.
But for Santiago, the Code has undergone subtle changes in
meaning. This changes the hero in a profound way.
Hemingway's original hero held that there was no God, no
human nature; the older, wiser hero is clearly aware of a power
beyond himself and beyond what he perceives. But while he
acknowledges that it exists, he sees that before such a power
all creatures are equal, Thus there is no way in which
the hero can call on its power for his own ends. Like the
- original hero, his success will come only from luck and skill—
for the hero still believes in luck. His skill, which consists of
his knowledge of and conformance to the ritual prescribed
for the action he has undertaken, is also a virtue of the
original hero.
Now, the hero is no longer alone. In recognizing the equality
of all creatures before this power, he finds a community of
peers. To the original hero, all creatures were equal because
they were “biologically” trapped, but they remained separate
in their anguish in the world. Now the hero is not merely

16 THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA
involved in the world of men; he is related to them, and even
further, to all the creatures of the earth.
The close relationship between Santiago and the nonhuman
as well as the human world is essential to the power of the
novel. Santiago can die at any moment of his long struggle.
But because the marlin assumes the very proportions of
Santiago himself, the struggle assumes the proportions of a
heroic combat whose outcome is of the greatest importance
to us.
But as we are aware, it is not the outcome that is important
but rather how it is achieved. We must know if the hero will
yield to fear and give up the struggle by falling back on self-
pity or by appealing to a divine power. Santiago’s triumph is
that he does not yield, even as the fish triumphs as it fights
until he is overmastered. In fact, even as he is brought to the
brink of death, Santiago seems to gain understanding of his
circumstances. He returns from his confrontation with death
no sadder, but wiser.
Now, compassion has replaced the old “irony and pity.” The
irony and pity which found particular expression in The Sun
Also Rises presumes a kind of lofty position for the hero from
which he looks down upon those who do not belong to the
club of the elect. But compassion implies love. Thus we can
see that this difference also grows out of the recognition of an
impartial power in the world, for with the brotherhood of all
creatures, love for all is possible.
ACTION AND PASSIVITY
These are the ground rules for Hemingway’s heroes and against
which the reader can evaluate each of his heroes. To under-
stand the nature of the hero fully, we must also be aware of
how the hero tries to maintain these rules in the face of the
unrelenting conflict of life. The means are action and ritual.

THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA 17
Hemingway’s heroes are men and women who choose to act,
to feel, to engage sensibly in the world about them rather
than to observe or think about what is going on. They distrust
thought as a substitute for action. This attitude reflects
Hemingway’s own distrust of the abstractions which intellect,
unchecked by experience, can create. Thus action is linked to
honesty. Action also allows the hero to exercise his will and
choose “what he makes of himself.” Hemingway’s heroes avoid
whatever cannot be controlled by their will. The other is
tolerable only insofar as it can be manipulated, as one
manipulates a gun, a bullfight, a load of dynamite, or a fishing
line—as do the heroes of Hemingway’s novels.
In this context, action is also the antidote to Hemingway’s
ultimate nightmare—male passivity. Hemingway’s hero
image is deeply enmeshed in Hemingway’s idea of manhood.
To Hemingway, passivity is a curse because it means inaction
and because it constitutes the feminine rather than the mascu-
line posture to life. Since Hemingway clearly links the
feminine principle to nature, passivity is identified with yield-
ing to that situation. The hero must avoid passivity, for it would
cause him to give up his control of his destiny and face
defeat. Thus man must be the doer rather than the person
done to; he must retain the initiative against the forces of life,
especially against the unknown.
AN APPROACH TO AGE
For Ernest Hemingway, far more than for most men, old age
was a terrible spectre indeed. In part, this was because the
action upon which he had based his art and his life was the
action of youth. Even in his later years Hemingway was
delightfully “boyish” (or regrettably so, depending on one’s
point of view). The problem of old age was never far from his
mind nor, for that matter, from his conversation.
Death and the hero’s involvement with it is one of the central
themes of all Hemingway’s novels, and one which has been

18 THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA
much discussed and interpreted. To Hemingway, death is the
ultimate reality, and thus it is the fact the hero must most
surely confront. Consequently, Hemingway’s heroes are
always in training for their confrontation with death. The hero
must control and even choose his death. The hero must over-
come death by meeting it in the fullness of his hero-hood. He
must face death with courage and honesty, without self-pity.
Whether Hemingway ever achieved an ultimate solution to
this dilemma is not for us to judge, although the circumstances
of his death would indicate that he could not and would not
abide a final weakening of those powers which were so
important to the protagonists of his stories. In the last decade
or so of his life, however, Hemingway did find a way to cope
with his own advancing age: he would dramatize what he
could not avoid. “Because of his absolute youthfulness,” said
one of his closest friends, “he regarded growing old as an
utter and complete tragedy, as it is of course, the only true
tragedy, and he is not going to degrade himself by maturing
or anything absurd of that sort. All the same, since he has a
sense of costume, he will emphasize his decline in all its hope-
lessness by sprouting a white beard and generally acting the
part of an old man.”
If the young Hemingway had been an almost legendary
figure of youthful and virile adventure, the old Hemingway
would take up the role of Grand Old Man, the battle-scarred
veteran, the aging but still indomitable combatant. Hemingway
“The Champ,” (as he liked to call himself), would become
“Papa” Hemingway—the Citizen of the World. He would still
be rough-edged and manfully poetic, but now he would also
be mellowed by experience and years. He would come to full
bloom as a connoisseur of life, bullfighters, women, fishing,
and war.
From now on, Hemingway’s public role would be the
resources of age rather than the powers of youth. This would

THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA 19
be his literary role as well. The Old Man and the Sea,
published in 1952, is the story not of youthful idealism, or
youthful love in a world of chaos, or youthful frustration and
anguish (bolstered by a code of manly nonsentiment). Rather,
it is the story of an aged “champion” for whom the power of
will has replaced the power of flesh, and the wisdom of hu-
mility has replaced the arrogance of either simple pessimism
or romantic self-sacrifice.
Humility and true pride, however, are not qualities likely to
be possessed either by the Crusading Idealist (such as Robert
Jordan in For Whom the Bell Tolls), or by heroes of nostalgia
(such as Colonel Cantwell in Across the River and into the
Trees). Nor is it likely to be found by protagonists of alien-
ation like Frederic Henry in A Farewell to Arms, who refuse to
play the game of life (and death) if the rules are not of their
liking. The qualities of humility and pride, indeed, must be
forged in the smithy of a man’s own soul.

THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA
ANALYSIS
Hemingway was preoccupied with individual courage, will,
and endurance. He valued the need for self-contained action,
ritualized form, precision of motion (and emotion). Perhaps
most important, he insisted on the absolute necessity of initia-
tive as a definition of manhood.
Only when the individual neither requires nor uses external
crutches can he achieve that power of selfhood (which for
Hemingway is synonymous with manhood) that old Santiago
the fisherman achieves in his open boat, alone with his pain,
his endurance, his love for the noble marlin that is his oppo-
nent, his defeat, and his ultimate triumph.
Ultimately, the only “cause” is a man’s own being, his own
truth; romantic love is an illusion of youth, and political or
social motivation is either so complex as to be meaningless,
or so corrupt as to defeat its own rhetorical purpose. Unlike
Robert Jordan, Santiago does not attempt to justify his struggle
in terms of externals; unlike Frederic Henry, he does not
attempt to worship a “sacred object”—a kind of “Love-
Goddess” for whose sake all things may be sacrificed. For
Santiago, the only justification for life is living, and the only
justification for death is dying: he is a fisherman and the
marlin is a fish. Joined together by a larger pattern in which
each is merely a part, they fulfill their destinies.
The relationship between Santiaga and the marlin, in short, is
self-contained and self-meaning. Not only is their struggle
without hate, but—because the struggle itself is a link in that
holy chain of life-and-death whose sole “reason” is its own
existence—the contest becomes an act of love, almost an act
of worship. And for Ernest Hemingway (much to the irritation
of his more socially oriented critics) no act of worship could
be defined in terms of group therapy.

THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA 21
THE ISOLATED MAN
The Old Man and the Sea, in short, marks a return on
Hemingway’s part from some attempt at social involvement
to justify action. It is an examination of action itself—and a
hymn of praise to the sacred nature of such action, to its
purity, when uncorrupted by external cause. “From the first
eight words of The Old Man and the Sea,” says the critic
Robert P. Weeks (“He was an old man who fished alone . . .”),
“we are squarely confronted with a world in which man’s
isolation is his most insistent truth.”
Human isolation: the basic fact of our existence, the “insistent
truth” that people often disguise by verbiage or theories. These
disguises include titles or property, the cosmetics and
comforts offered by society, entrenched religion, and lust. As
a result, people often lose sight of the isolated itself. Only in
Santiago’s old age, when the lusts of the flesh have cooled
and the egoism and ambition of youth are no more than
distant echoes, does he act in such a way that the act
becomes its own truth.
Without illusion as to his own importance (the marlin, he
understands, has as much “right” to victory as he does), with-
out despair or whining that all his labor has come to nothing
(he admits to being beaten but refuses to admit defeat), with-
out making excuses for himself (he knows that he has gone
“too far out” and so attempted to defy time and nature itself),
Santiago faces—and triumphs over—his own mortality.
SANTIAGO AS SENTIMENT
Part of the dramatic effect of The Old Man and the Sea, how-
ever, may be weakened by the fact that Santiago is in many
ways a romantic picture of old age itself. His very oldness is
monumental and rock-like; his endurance becomes a poetic
symbol rather than a human reality.
For Hemingway, looking toward his own old age and attempt-

22 THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA
ing to construct a means of coping with it, the vision of Santiago
must indeed have seemed a noble possibility. That the Santiago-
solution is more allegorical than possible, however, is some-
thing that Hemingway could not face. After all, not every old
man can go out to sea in an open boat and catch giant marlin.
And in his insistence on seeing old age only by the values of
courage, endurance, and will which he had worshipped all
his life and insisting that the old man must be simply a young
man grown wiser and tougher and purer, Hemingway may
well have been setting up his own final tragedy.
SANTIAGO AS SYMBOL
“No good book was ever written that had symbols arrived at
beforehand and stuck in,” said Hemingway, with characteris-
tic bluntness. What he did not deny, however, was that action
and event, objects and landscapes could be both literal and
symbolic. “I tried to make a real old man, a real boy, a real
sea and a real fish and real shark. But if I made them good
and true enough they would mean many things. The hardest
thing is to make something really true and sometimes truer
than true,” he said about The Old Man and the Sea.
Perhaps the key point in this remark by Ernest Hemingway is
the phrase “truer than true,” a kind of truth that indeed means
“many things.” Reality itself, in other words, can produce a
sort of echo in the mind of the reader, a meaning which be-
gins rather than ends with the mere “facts” of any story. He
admitted that “facts” themselves could “mean” more than the
simple reality of their own existence. When Hemingway
describes the true as opposed to the false bullfighter, for
example, he is also presenting us with his own aesthetic creed
as a writer: the same qualities which create “truth” for the one
create truth and beauty for the other. But the first requirement
is that the description of the bullfight itself be accurate and
real, and that no “meaning” be superimposed on the subject
at the cost of real experience and real life.To say that The Old
Man and the Sea is a work of literary symbolism, then, is not

THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA 23
to deny the importance of its story; in fact, it is the way that
the story is put together that creates the symbolism.
Taken as a poetic symbol, as an allegory of an ideal, Santiago
the fisherman remains one of the most memorable creations
of modern American literature. “Everything about him was
old except his eyes,” we are told of Santiago, “and they were
the same color as the sea and were cheerful and undefeated.”
Even the scars on his withered and sun-blotched body have a
quality of monumental endurance: “They were as old as
erosions in a fishless desert.” Santiago’s very aura is majestic.
Although weakened by time and mortality, he remains
awesome: his shoulders are “strange,” and “still powerful
although very old,” and his creased and weather-beaten neck
is also “strong,” kept erect and proud by something beneath
the surface of the skin itself.
Old but not senile, “unlucky” but not defeated, gentle but not
soft, proud but not boastful, resigned but not passive, and—
perhaps most important—hopeful for himself without being
jealous of others, Santiago the fisherman is himself a poet of
the human spirit. Critics have seen the novel’s symbols in
two ways.
First, some critics claim that Santiago symbolizes the artist
who attempts the impossible by going “too far out.” In this
approach, the story is seen as an allegory of the artist at work.
We may interpret the symbolism in the following manner. The
artist sets out alone into the sea of the unconscious. He sets
out mental “bait” at various levels of the deep inner self. He
takes care that the “bait,” the initial ideas, are set and kept at
the right depth. Otherwise, he may find that what he assumes
to be a profound “catch” is only something from the surface
levels of the mind. The basic idea is “hooked” from the depth.
There is a long struggle to bring it up into its final form as a
work of art and make it one’s own. Second, there is the
return in which the critics attack the work, tearing at it

24 THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA
voraciously with their analyses. Finally, there is nothing left
but the skeleton of the artist’s original idea to show the
grandeur of his original intent. What was Hemingway’s
conclusion in this context? One may assume that in terms of
the story, he had gone out too far.
The second approach to the novel views The Old Man and
the Sea as a loosely woven allegory of the last days of Christ.
From this point of view, Christ and Santiago are both fisher-
men and moral teachers. Santiago’s forty days of bad luck can
be viewed as parallel to Christ’s forty days on the mountain.
Further, Santiago suffers in his struggle with the fish for three
days, as Christ suffered three days on the cross. Santiago’s
hands are torn as Christ’s were pierced by nails, his back is
lashed by the line as Christ’s was lashed before being taken to
Calvary, and he gets a piercing headache, as Christ was
subjected to pain by the crown of thorns. Still further, Santiago
kills the fish at noon on the third day, as the soldier pierced
Christ’s side with a spear at noon on His third day on the
cross. Finally, Santiago carries his mast, as Christ carried His
cross, and Santiago finally falls upon his bed in the attitude of
Christ on the cross.
The transfer of the Christ image from Santiago to the fish at
the moment of death can be understood in at least two ways.
First, the fish has always been a symbol of Christ in the Chris-
tian religion and is identified with Him, so that Christ, fish and
fisherman are, in a sense, one. Secondly, the ritual of the
Roman Catholic Mass includes the moment of Transubstantia-
tion when the priest is made,one with Christ, as the
priest-fisherman is united with the Christ-fish. Hemingway
underlines this momentary union of fisherman and fish in
the novel.
But if you accept the analogy of Santiago and Christ, you
must also conclude that Santiago represents Christ as a man
who has been perfected by his inner struggle and courage

THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA 25
rather than Christ as a preordained deity. The critic Clinton
Burhans made the importance of this aspect of the novel clear:
. out of Chis) concern with action and conduct in a
naturalistic universe, Hemingway has not evolved new
moral values; rather, he has reaffirmed man’s oldest
ones—courage, love, humility, solidarity, and interde-
pendence. It is their basis which is new—a basis not in
supernaturalism or abstraction but hard-won through
actual experience in a naturalistic universe which is at
best indifferent to man and his values . . . Through per-
fectly realized symbolism and irony, then, Hemingway
has beautifully and movingly spun out of an old
fisherman’s great trial . . .a pragmatic ethic and its basis
in an essentially tragic vision of man; and in this reaffir-
mation of man’s most cherished values and their reaffir-
mation in the terms of our time rests the deepest and
the enduring significance of The Old Man and the Sea.
The pattern of Christian symbolism is obvious enough, but
this does not mean that Santiago must be understood
simply—or even chiefly—as a “Christ-figure.” In a basic sense,
Christian terminology, as we have indicated, is superimposed
upon what the critic Mark Schorer calls a “fable” which in
essence is non-Christian, or perhaps pre-Christian. So too,
Carlos Baker remarks that Santiago’s “is not necessarily a
Christian victory”; so too, Melvin Backman emphasizes the
primitivistic animism which permeates the book:
“. . Santiago’s struggle with the fish is natural. As he
says, he was born to be a fisherman and the fish was
born to be a fish.” (‘The Matador and the Crucified,”
Ernest Hemingway: Critiques of Four Major Novels, ed.
Carlos Baker, New York, 1962, p. 142.)
There are also echoes of Greek stoicism, of primitive
animism, of a system of value which does not so much

26 THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA
oppose the flesh with the Spirit, but which rather elevates the
flesh itself—when proper ritual permits the elevation—into
spiritual terms. If there is indeed a trinity in The Old Man and
the Sea, it is not the orthodox Christian Trinity, but rather that
trinity of conscious will, deliberate courage, and willed en-
durance which together form a sacred unity: the ultimate value
of spiritual initiative and individual manhood.
Whatever symbolism you accept, The Old Man and the Sea
has an obvious poetic quality. In its musical language, simple
story, and great dignity, The Old Man and the Sea may well be
the finest book Ernest Hemingway ever wrote.
STYLE
Perhaps one reason why The Old Man and the Sea is so mov-
ing is the novel’s economy and the strict focus of its narrative,
It is actually an expanded short story or novella, Hemingway
himself once remarked that all his novels began as short sto-
ries, a fact which would tend to bear out the critics who insist
that Hemingway is at his best in works of short fiction.
Certainly the virtues of Hemingway's style—accuracy of
object and motion, simplicity, repetition, and use of language
to record precise observation of physical surfaces—are most
effective in short narratives.
The book’s style represents’a continuation of the style which
Hemingway spent a lifetime perfecting. Once again there is
the exact and precise use of detail; the surface simplicity of
concrete objects and concrete action; the avoidance of ab-
straction of any sort (or perhaps one might say the translation
of abstraction into sequences of concrete action and object);
the use of “cinematic prose” which plays upon “real” surfaces
as though Hemingway were manipulating a camera.
With The Old Man and the Sea, Hemingway achieved com-
plete control of both his subject and its rendition—a kind of
equilibrium of matter and manner which may account for the

THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA 27
fact that the book is very difficult to paraphrase. So closely
related are music and meaning, action and symbol, that the
unique quality of the novel must be lost through any retelling.
No summary can do justice to this little novella which is also
a poem.
STRUCTURE
The Old Man and the Sea has a simple structure. First, there is
the alternation of dream and action (that is, Santiago’s mental
reminiscing or dialogues with the creatures of the sea, set
against the immediate demands for precise response to chal-
lenge). There is also a time sequence which plays on “sacred
numbers” common both to Christianity and pre-Christian
religions: the struggle with the marlin lasts three days; Santiago
falls seven times bearing the mast; he kills seven sharks; he
fished alone for forty days unsuccessfully. There is also a
contrast between the reality of the village—where “tourists”
come to gape at life without understanding it—and the truth
and nobility of more primitive, and therefore holy, environ-
ments like the sea.
THEMES
The saga of Santiago represents something of a new direction
for Hemingway because the book is an attempt to cope with
the problem of old age. It is an attempt to make a fable
concerned not with the romantic postures of youth, but rather
with the resources of manhood and initiative open to an indi-
vidual whose youthful strength and youthful romance are far
behind him. These resources, however, themselves represent
no great change, for the sacred value of manhood is, in The
Old Man and the Sea, still defined by the qualities of will,
pride, and endurance which made up the “Hemingway Code”
in all his books.
Unlike the two novels which preceded The Old Man and the
Sea, the story of Santiago relies neither upon political and
social abstractions to justify the ritual of manhood (abstrac-

28 THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA
tions which are a central element in For Whom the Bell Tolls),
nor upon nostalgic reminiscences (which provide the basis of
Across the River and into the Trees).
The story of Santiago represents a return to the theme of
isolation—the individual confronting his own destiny, and
redeeming this destiny by means of a ritual of manhood which
becomes its own justification. The ritual itself is not “new” in
Hemingway’s work; at most we can note a refocusing of his
attention upon the individual who rises to Divinity-in-
Manhood by means of sacrifice, pride, and endurance.
The story of Santiago the fisherman is certainly a story of
defeat. The isolated old man, who goes “too far out” in search
of “the big one,” returns home with the useless skeleton of a
“fish that was.” He returns exhausted, bloody, stripped of gear,
and even poorer than when he started out. His entire journey
has “produced” nothing except food for the scavenger sharks.
But every man must sooner or later end his own journey
through life, his own “hunt,” in much the same condition.
Man shakes his temporary fist at the stars, defies the universe,
but after a few brief moments of boasting is thrust into a hole
in the ground, unclean: his eyes dissolve to dust and his mouth
rots away into silence.
This is a harsh vision. The novel does not have a “happy
ending”; the hero is not rescued at the last moment. We age,
weaken, and die, and finally lose all that we have gained at
great sacrifice to ourselves (or sometimes, to others). From
the standpoint of material considerations, every old man is a
pauper and every corpse is a bankrupt—a fact which our
own illusions may lead us to forget. Hemingway is suggesting
that it is not what we “get” out of life that matters, nor what
we “produce” either. What matters is the manner in which the
individual faces the fact of his own mortality, his own
inevitable “defeat.” And precisely because the defeat is so
inevitable, the “meaning” of life is not to be found in

THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA 29
“success” or “failure,” but rather in the struggle itself, the form
which the individual—alone in his own pride, weakness,
strength, and endurance—is able to impose upon indifferent
fate.
These are the qualities which in The Old Man and the Sea
create Santiago’s heroic manhood. The trinity of ultimate value
which had always been part of Hemingway’s ritual—will, pride,
and endurance—are the “weapons” Santiago uses in his great
and moving relationship to “a force which he scarcely
comprehends, but which he knows he must continue to strive
against, knowing too that the struggle must end in defeat” in
the words of critic Joseph Waldmeir.
And still the possibilities of The Old Man and the Sea are far
from exhausted. There is good reason for considering the novel
as an idealized affirmation of manhood-in-age, an affirmation
of qualities which indeed “defeat time” by postulating a
definition, or clarifying one Hemingway had long since
formulated, which is spiritual rather than temporal (or physi-
cal) in nature.
The important thing about Santiago is that his struggle speaks
to everything human in ourselves. It speaks not to ignorance,
or sentiment, or foolish hope in achieving “victory” from life.
It tells us that we can define ourselves in dignity and pride by
achieving knowledge of our own mortality, and acting so as
to redeem the mortality itself. And those who never achieve
such knowledge will never achieve the redemption. They may
be defined by blind appetite—like the scavenger sharks whose
jaws work to swallow flesh even as they die. Or they remain,
like the blandly ignorant tourists at the end of the novel, igno-
rant and ignoble to the very moment of their own defeat.
Their defeat will lack the majesty of Santiago’s defeat. It will
not have the pride, will, and endurance which for Ernest
Hemingway shape the very essence of humanity.

30 THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA
HEMINGWAY AND RELIGION
The terms of this struggle cannot be set into the precast molds
of ordinary religion. Hemingway had little patience with those
who use “prayer” as a crutch; he despised attempts to
“panhandle God” by begging for favor, or demanding unfair
advantage over an opponent. And yet the basic values of
Hemingway’s ritual, a ritual which old Santiago so beautifully
dramatizes and symbolizes, are the very opposite of material-
ism; for in order to be “pure” the struggle must exist for its
own sake, and not because of any “product” involved.
So complete is Santiago’s refusal to “turn to God” as a kind of
mechanism-for-victory, that he rejects the very religious
terminology he uses as a kind of verbal incantation. While he
calls on Christian Divinity in the depths of his pain, he also
refuses to consider the matter of “sin” as anything but a
distraction. For Santiago, “sin,” is simply irrelevant to the only
ritual he acknowledges: the ritual of Sacred Manhood in which
the only true altar for a man is the altar of his own flesh.
For this reason many critics have seen Santiago’s “religion” as
pagan or non-Christian humanism rather than orthodox Chris-
tianity. In this connection, you may wish to consult Arvin B.
Wells’s “A Ritual of Transfiguration: ‘The Old Man and the
Sea,’” University ofK ansas City Review XXX (December, 1963),
95-101. The fact that Santiago’s vision is essentially non-
Christian would also seem to be very much related to
Hemingway’s own “primitivism.”
Santiago emerges noble in defeat because his struggle is based
neither upon mere acquisition, nor upon prayer for such
acquisition. Even while he is thinking of the money “the big
one” will bring in market, the old man’s relationship to his
Opponent transcends any material definition. It certainly
transcends any view of the struggle as merely a contest
between a “good guy” (Santiago) and a “bad buy” (the
marlin). This is the pathos and beauty of the book. For Santiago

THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA 31
does not depend on external powers, but rather acknowl-
edges the fish as no less a child of the Great Power than he is
himself, and so no less entitled to Divine aid, which is
precisely why they are “brothers.”
So completely does the ritual of struggle override all material
or orthodox considerations, that at one point Santiago actu-
ally acknowledges that his own death would be no less “right”
than that of the marlin he has hooked by “trickery” (meaning
the use of his human weapons of pride, will, and endurance).
The close relationship between Santiago and the nonhuman
world is essential to the power of The Old Man and the Sea,
and this is also part of the Hemingway ritual. For Santiago,
old and crippled, brought to the edge of his strength and
surviving by will alone, is exposed to the possibility of defeat
at every moment during his long struggle. In short, the hunter
may at any moment become the hunted, and this potential
reversal of roles is what makes the ritual itself take on an
almost mystical significance. Through his fear and pain,
Santiago becomes aware of universal life and death.
That this brotherhood is by no means an orthodox Christian
one, however, is indicated by the fact that Santiago himself
despises and hates those forms of life which are neither noble
nor beautiful; if he kills and loves the great marlin, he butch-
ers and spits at the scavenger-sharks, and his attitude toward
the Portuguese Man-of-War (the bladder of “beautiful poison”
that floats by his boat) is one of unrelieved loathing.
Santiago does not respect those forms of life which, either
through appetite or trickery (or, as in the case of the tourists
at the end of the book, simple ignorance), are “outside” the
pattern of nobility and beauty. These forms of life, because
they “risk” nothing, do not fight “purely,” or feed on carrion,
provide no opportunity for a man to celebrate the ritual of
manhood. This theme of the “initiated” versus the “outsider”

32 THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA
recurs throughout Hemingway’s work, which inevitably
celebrates a brotherhood of the worthy and “noble” rather
than any sort of universal love.

ESSAY QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
QUESTION
How does The Old Man and the Sea exemplify the “Hemingway
Code”?
ANSWER
The “Hemingway Code” of manhood does not involve mere
physical strength, sexual potency, or an ability to accumulate
wealth. According to this code, a man is defined by will, pride,
and endurance: the endurance to accept pain, even loss—
when the loss cannot be avoided; the pride of knowing that
one has done one’s best, and has acted according to one’s
own nature; and the will to face both defeat and victory truly,
without whining on the one hand or boasting on the other.
Santiago the fisherman certainly does embody this code, which
is essentially one of human dignity rather than “success” of
any sort. Despite his age and poverty, Santiago is a “man” in
the fullest sense of the word. Although his strength has gone,
his endurance and will remain; faced with defeat, he does not
quit. He is undefeated.
QUESTION
Discuss The Old Man and the Sea as a work of literary
symbolism.
ANSWER
Literary symbolism is a method which organizes the “facts” of
real life and real experience, so that the facts themselves “mean”
more than their own existence on a literal level. Symbolism, is
“reality-plus’—a way of writing in which the “facts” of a story
are quite true-to-life, but somehow “echo in the mind” with
significance beyond that of the story itself. In this sense The
Old Man and the Sea is a work of literary symbolism. The
story of Santiago is very “real” indeed; Hemingway writes with
his usual care and precision to achieve an exact portrait of

34 THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA
fishing. Permeating this story is an “echo” of additional mean-
ing. Christian symbolism runs throughout the book: the paral-
lel to the suffering and nobility of Jesus (who was also a
“fisherman”) is obvious.
This is not to say that Santiago himself is necessarily a Christ
figure. For the Crucifixion itself is a symbol of willed sacrifice,
of the power and beauty of the human spirit. Other interpre-
tations of The Old Man and the Sea are quite possible; indeed,
more than one meaning might be “right”—and this too is char-
acteristic of literary symbolism. Some critics, for example, have
seen the book as symbolizing the pain, suffering, loneliness,
and glory of the artist who does what every true artist must
do: that is, attempt to go “too far out.” Even the scavenger
sharks may be seen as symbolizing those who are defined
merely by their own appetite, or those who feed on the artist’s
agony and endurance. The essential point is that The Old Man
and the Sea does have these “echoes” of meaning which tran-
scend the “facts” of the story—although the facts themselves
are beautiful and realistically described.
QUESTION
In what way does Santiago relate to other Hemingway
heroes?
ANSWER
Although Santiago is an old man, he shares many characteris-
tics with other Hemingway heroes—characteristics which for
Hemingway were essential aspects of heroism itself. First, of
course, there is the “trinity of values” which Hemingway
worshipped all his life: will, pride, and endurance. These three
qualities in turn enable a man to maintain his initiative, to
shape action and choice according to his own will, to set up a
ritual of life—and death—and so provide a framework of form
about what would otherwise be a meaningless and chaotic
universe.

THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA 35
Even in his early books, the definition of manhood was for
Hemingway a matter of this initiative, an ability (through willed
endurance) to set up a code or ritual of action. In The Sun
Also Rises, for example, it is Jake Barnes and Pedro the mata-
dor who emerge as men, while Robert Cohn—despite his
strength and wealth—is little more than an overgrown boy.
All of Hemingway’s heroes are heroic in the direct ratio to
their ability to control, to endure; and in this respect Santiago
represents a continuation rather than a departure from the
Hemingway Code.
Like other Hemingway protagonists, Santiago is unwilling, and
perhaps unable, to pursue ultimate metaphysical or intellec-
tual problems. When Santiago asks himself whether he has
the “right” to kill the marlin, or even the noble Mako shark,
his only answer is that such questions are too difficult to
manage. He must concentrate on the “work”—the action, or
the killing, itself. In this sense, Santiago represents the
“Hemingway retreat” no less than the “Hemingway Code.”
The code itself does represent a retreat from all complexities,
to those areas in which action can be defined on its own
terms, and in which the justification for action need not be
examined at all.
Santiago differs from a protagonist like Robert Jordan (in For
Whom the Bell Tolls) chiefly in his refusal to attempt to rely
upon social or political sloganeering to justify the killing in
which he is involved. But both in his virtues (will, pride,
endurance) and in his limitations (an avoidance of all
complexity and reduction of human motivation to self-
contained action and ritual) Santiago remains very much a
hero cut to the pattern which Hemingway followed through-
out his career.

36 THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA
QUESTION
Who are the “outsiders” in The Old Man and the Sea?
ANSWER
In any Hemingway work, the “outsiders” are those who do
not follow the “code” of will, pride, and endurance, or those
who do not understand how mortality can be redeemed by
the code. The tourists, for example, cannot understand the
glory of Santiago’s struggle; mere spectators of the struggle of
life, they have neither dignity, pride, nor the will which alone
can redeem man’s inevitable defeat. And the scavenger sharks,
who swallow flesh even as they die, are mere brute mecha-
nisms for feeding, defined by nothing beyond their own
digestion.
QUESTION
Why does Manolin insist that Santiago had not been “beaten”?
ANSWER
Manolin, Santiago’s disciple, has learned more than fishing
from the noble old man. He has learned that the means are
always more important than the ends, that the “success” of
one’s struggle is less important than the struggle itself. For
Manolin understands what a heroism of pride, will, and
endurance the old man’s struggle must have involved. To get
such a fish, against all odds, in the face of loneliness and
pain, is actually far more important than the loss of the marlin
to the scavenger sharks. What happened with the sharks could
have happened to anyone (indeed, sooner or later a similar
“loss”—death itself—must happen to all people). What Santiago
did with the marlin, however, was the work of a true cham-
pion of the human spirit—or rather, of the divine greatness of
the human spirit when true to its own humanity.

THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA 37
QUESTION
What meaning do you attach to the “young lions” of Santiago’s
dream?
ANSWER
As we have indicated, one of the major characteristics of liter-
ary symbol is that no single “meaning” can be attached to a
symbol. As a symbol, however, the image of the young lions
communicates a grandeur which complements the novel’s
theme and the nobility of Santiago himself. Santiago repre-
sents power without meanness and the timeless spirit of youth.
It is fitting that Santiago should dream of lions—rather than
wealth, or violence, or women. The lions suggest that the
“old man” of Hemingway’s novel is eternally young even in
his great age, and his youth is of the spirit rather than of the
flesh.

SURVEY OF CRITICAL OPINION
ON ERNEST HEMINGWAY
The stream of Hemingway criticism has been continuous and
enormous, and gives no signs of drying up. Critics around the
world have examined his work. Such international critical at-
tention is perhaps even more significant than the Nobel Prize
awarded to Hemingway in 1954. Hemingway is indeed one of
the major figures of American literature as indicated by the
sheer bulk of writing about his work. There is more writing
about his work than the author himself ever produced. This is
not to say that critical opinion on Ernest Hemingway is in any
sense unanimous, although there has been greater agreement
on The Old Man and the Sea than there has been on either of
his World War II novels (For Whom the Bell Tolls and Across
the River and into the Trees).
FOREIGN CRITICS
Foreign critics have tended to be enthusiastic about
Hemingway’s work, but have viewed it in broadly cultural
rather than in strictly aesthetic terms. They see in his writing a
reflection of that violence which is so close to the surface of
the “American character.”
With the exception of a few critics such as Arturo Barea, who
insist that Hemingway was trapped by his own preoccupa-
tions when dealing with other cultures, foreign critics are
fascinated with Hemingway the man rather than with
Hemingway the artist. The result has tended to be sociologi-
cal and psychological rather than literary analysis.
ENGLISH AND AMERICAN CRITICS
English and American critics, of course, have not been
altogether free from the “Hemingway image.” From the very
beginning, much critical ammunition has been expended on
Hemingway’s personal life and personal philosophy, rather

THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA 39
than upon the art for which this philosophy provided the raw
material. Hemingway himself was often impatient with those
“schoolmarm” critics who insisted on rapping his knuckles
for moral reasons instead of looking at his books as books. In
1929, for example, when Hemingway was already being
hailed—and denounced—as a spokesman for the Lost
Generation, he wrote a “Valentine” to critics:
Sing a song of critics / pockets full of lye / four and
twenty critics / hope that you will die / hope that you
will peter out / hope that you will fail / so they can be
the first one be the first to hail / any happy weakening
or sign of quick decay. / (All very much alike, weariness
too great, / sordid small catastrophes, stack the cards on
fate, / very vulgar people, annals of the callous, / dope
fiends, soldiers, prostitutes, / men without a gallus... )
(From Little Review 12 May 1929, p. 42.)
NEGATIVE CRITICISM
Some critics saw The Old Man and the Sea as an attack on the
critical “sharks” themselves. One might note that there was
some justification for Hemingway’s resentment. Any writer
with his force of personality must expect to make “literary
enemies,” and Hemingway had created perhaps more than
his share of personal resentment. Too many critics, at any
rate, had seemed to get a kind of satisfaction from the failure
of Across the River and into the Trees, and Hemingway did
not hesitate to express his scorn for gentlemen who seemed
so willing to serve as mourners in the burial of a literary
career still very much alive.
Not all the deprecatory criticism, however, has been the work
of “schoolmarm” critics. From Sean O’Faolain to Leon Edel,
from Wyndham Lewis to Harry Levin, critics have attacked
what they view as Hemingway’s extremely “thin” art, an art
whose protagonists could only deal with complexity by
running away from it. “Think of nothing,” says Santiago the

40 THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA
fisherman, and this is a slogan not only for the old man, but
for virtually every Hemingway hero. The Hemingway
protagonist takes a kind of panicked refuge in mindless
action. It is action in which killing men is put on the same
level as shooting animals, and shooting animals is put on the
same level as making love to women, and making love to
women is put on the same level as drinking wine.
In the phrase of the prominent scholar Leon Edel, Hemingway’s
art is an art of “evasion” rather than of confrontation.
Anything which the Hemingway hero could not reduce to a
sort of appendage to his own ego, Edel and other critics
insisted, was simply eliminated from any consideration what-
soever, and the result was an art based less on true economy
of style than on failure of imagination. By eliminating all that
could not fit into his private ritual, Hemingway produced books
of the mindless for the mindless, books which (despite a
certain narrative skill and ease in reading) reduced human
motivations to an adolescent formula, and human love to an
autoerotic image.
If the Hemingway woman was, as Edmund Wilson once
remarked, “amoeba-like,” the Hemingway man was hardly
more impressive—except, of course, when shooting some-
thing, or hitting something, or catching something, or drink-
ing something, or being hit by something, or going to bed
with one of the “amoebas.” That Joe DiMaggio is held up as a
symbol of heroism in The Old Man.and the Sea is, after all, not
without a dimension of absurdity. The fact that in his very last
novel Ernest Hemingway used a big-league baseball player to
represent human glory is perhaps a comment on his vision
both as a man and as an artist. Perhaps one might sum up the
“anti-Hemingway” school of criticism in the following phrase:
“He was the best seventeen-year-old novelist who ever lived.”
AFFIRMATIVE CRITICISM
Those critics who see Hemingway as a major artist, however—

THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA 41
and their number is legion—insist that Hemingway’s work is
“simple” only on the surface. They say that his heroes are
neither callous nor mindless, but possessed of enormous
sensitivity both to human dishonesty and universal suffering;
that his style communicates far more than it overtly states;
and that in his best books Ernest Hemingway is a lyric poet of
the English language. Such critics, including Carlos Baker and
Philip Young, remind us that for Hemingway the “real” world
is itself an arena where the human soul must struggle to face
its own mortality. If he did limit his subject matter, they insist,
he did so deliberately, in order to achieve an essentially
formal and symbolic rather than “realistic” art.
That Hemingway is capable of complete realism is indicated
by those scenes which he chooses to render with breath-
taking precision; that he has deliberately limited his subject
matter to particular types and situations is hardly unique with
Hemingway. From workers in stone such as the Greek build-
ers, to workers in words such as the American novelist Henry
James, creative artists have always limited their subject matter,
and have so utilized it that the subject transcends its own
limitations.
The subject which an artist uses is less important than is the
universality he achieves; and in this respect, as Carlos Baker
has pointed out, Hemingway is perhaps this country’s most
universal writer. His work has been translated in all parts of
the world, and speaks to the essential humanity of individual
human beings of all cultures and all races.
Ernest Hemingway, indeed, may well have been more
sophisticated than most of his critics. He read much, and was
deeply aware of literary development and history. If he
distrusted over-embellishment, such a conviction is as legiti-
mate as any other for the working artist. Remember also that
Hemingway’s vision was itself shaped by the horror and chaos
of World War I, a war which symbolized the empty bombast
and rhetoric of so-called Western “culture.”

42 THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA
Despite the violence of his subject matter, Hemingway’s
vision is affirmative. In a period when annihilation hangs over
the world, Hemingway offers resources of human strength
and the hope for individual value. His “code,” as Mark Spilka
has pointed out, “gives meaning to a world where love and
religion are defunct, and where the proofs of manhood are
difficult and scarce and where every man must learn to define
his own moral conditions and live up to them.”
Whether for praise or blame, Hemingway critics have agreed
upon one thing: that he is one of the great figures of our time.
Almost a legend in his own lifetime, Hemingway was a
remarkable man as well as a remarkable writer. It remains to
be seen, of course, whether his books will survive for very
long after his death, but in this matter each reader must judge
for himself. The Old Man and the Sea has certainly captured
the attention and the imagination of hundreds of thousands
of readers who have no particular literary “ax” to grind.
Hemingway’s reputation may yet depend on the judgment of
readers.

BIBLIOGRAPHY
HEMINGWAY’S PUBLICATIONS
Three Stories and Ten Poems. Paris: Contact Publishing
Company, 1933.
In Our Time. Paris: Three Mountains Press, 1924.
In Our Time. New York: Boni and Liveright, 1925.
The Torrents of Spring. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons,
1926.
The Sun Also Rises. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1926.
Men Without Women. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1927.
A Farewell to Arms. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1929.
Death in the Afternoon. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons,
1932.
Winner Take Nothing. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1933.
Green Hills ofA frica. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1935.
To Have and Have Not. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons,
Vale
The Spanish Earth. Cleveland: J. B. Savage Co., 1938.
The Fifth Column and the First Forty-Nine Stories. New York:
Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1938.
For Whom the Bell Tolls. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons,
1940.

44 THE OLD MAN ANDTHSEE A
Across tbe River and inio the Trees. New York: Charles Scribner's
Sons, 1950.
The Old Man and ibe Sea. New York: Charles Scribner's Sans,
1952.
A Moveable Feast. New York: Charles Scribner's Sons, 1904.

THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA 45
CRITICISM
Backman, Melvin. “Hemingway: The Matador and the Cruci-
fied,” Modern Fiction Studies, \ (August, 1955), 2-11.
Baker, Carlos. Hemingway: The Writer as Artist. Princeton:
Princeton University Press, 1956.
Baker, Carlos. Ernest Hemingway: A Life Story. New York:
Collier Books, 1988.
Baker, Carlos, ed. Hemingway and His Critics: An Interna-
tional Anthology. New York: Hill and Wang, Inc., 1961.
Beebe, Maurice, “Criticism of Ernest Hemingway: A Checklist
with a Study of Separate Works,” Modern Fiction Studies, |
(August, 1955), 36-45.
Bishop, John Peale. “The Missing All,” Virginia Quarterly
Review, XII (Summer, 1937), 107-21.
Brian, Denis. The True Gen: An Intimate Portrait of Ernest
Hemingwayb y Those Who Knew Him. New York: Grove
Press, 1988.
Buckley, Peter. Ernest. New York: Dial Press, 1978.
Civello, Paul. American Literary Naturalism and Its
Twentieth-Century Transformations: Frank Norris, Ernest
Hemingway, and Don DelLillo, Athens, GA: University of
Georgia Press, 1994.
Cohn, Louis H. A Bibliography of the Works of Ernest
Hemingway, New York: Random House, 1931.
Colvert, James B. “Ernest Hemingway—Morality in Action,”
American Literature, XXV\. (November, 1955), 372-85.

46 THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA
Compley, Nancy R. Hemingway’s Gender: Rereading the
Hemingway Text. New Haven, Yale University Press, 1994.
D'Agostino, Nemi. “The Later Hemingway,” Sewanee Review,
LXVIII (Summer, 1960), 482-93.
Ernest Hemingway. New York: Chelsea House, 1985.
Flora, Joseph M. Ernest Hemingway: A Study of the Short
Fiction. Boston: Twayne Publishers, 1989.
Flora, Joseph M. Hemingway's Nick Adams. Baton Rouge: Loui-
siana State University Press, 1982.
Friedrich, Otto. “Ernest Hemingway: Joy through Strength,”
American Scholar, XXVI (Autumn, 1957), 410, 518-30.
Fuentes, Norberto. Ernest Hemingway Rediscovered. New York:
Scribner, 1988.
Gajdusek, Robert E. Hemingway and Joyce: A Study in Debt
and Payment. Corte Madera, Calif.: Square Circle Press, 1984.
Graham, John. “Ernest Hemingway: The Meaning of Style,”
Modern Fiction Studies, VI (Winter, 1960-61), 298-313.
Griffin, Peter. Less Than Treason: Hemingway in Paris. New
York: Oxford Universirty Press, 1990.
Hemingway in Italy and Other Essays. New York: Praeger,
1990.
Hemingway Repossessed. Westport, Conn.: Praeger, 1994.
Hemingway's Neglected Short Fiction: New Perspectives.
Tuscaloosa: University of Alabama Press, 1992.

THE OLD MAN ANDTHE SEA 47
Hillinger, John. Hemingway and the Dead Gods. Lexington,
Kentucky: University of Kentucky Press, 1960.
McCaffery, John K. M., ed. Ernest Hemingway: The Man and
His Work. Cleveland: The World Publishing Company, 1950.
Mellow, James R. Hemingway: A Life without Consequences.
Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1992.
Meyers, Jeffrey. Hemingway, A Biography. New York: Harper
and Row, 1985.
Nelson, Gerald B. Hemingway, Life and Works. New York:
Facts on File, 1994.
New Critical Approaches to the Short Fiction of Ernest
Hemingway. Durham: Duke University Press, 1990.
Reynolds, Michael S. Hemingway, The Paris Years. New York:
Blackwell, 1989.
Rovit, Earl H. Ernest Hemingway. Boston: Twayne Publishers,
1986.
Samuelson, Arnold. With Hemingway: A Year in Key West and
Cuba. New York: Random House, 1984.
Selkirk, Erroll. Hemingway for Beginners. New York: Writers
and Readers, 1994.

NOTES

MONARCH NOTES
Ernest Hemingway’s
THE OLD MAN”
AND THE SEA
Clear and to the point, Monarch Notes provide students and interested
readers with an excellent supplement for the understanding and appreci-
ation of the world’s great writing. Each volume helps the. reader to
encounter the original work more fully by placing it i
focusing on the important aspects of the text, and pa
Monarch Notes include:
6€£S0/0g6a9kI se2Ig0V
* Background on the Author and the Work
* Detailed Plot Summary Aas
m
TH1 9YS
an
¢ Character Analysis G)
ez LSFSHAALV NMdSO NIWSH
WO
* Major Themes in the Work Oo
Ss
NO Boo
CO
* Critical Reception of the Work m
oO ( (
* Questions and Model Answers
* Guides to Further Study
ISBN 0-7607-0573-9
Ww) =
ee,
m N
2 PAS
Po)
ro
9 "780760°705735
by
=i=