







  THE QUIET AMERICAN


  Graham Greene


 


 


 


  Graham Greene, whose long life (1904-1991) nearly
spanned the twentieth century, was one of its greatest novelists.
Educated at Berkhamsted School and Balliol College, Oxford, he
started his career as sub-editor on 
The Times
. He began to
attract notice as a novelist with his fourth book, 
Stamboul
Train
, in 1932. In 1935 he trekkled across northern Liberia,
his first experience of Africa, told in 
Journey Without
Maps
. He converted to Catholicism in 1926 and reported on
religious persecution in Mexico in 1938 in 
The Lawless
Roads
, which served as background for his famous 
The Power
and the Glory
, one of several ‘Catholic’ novels 
(Brighton
Rock, The Heart of the Matter, The End of the Affair)
. During
the war he worked for the Brisish secret service in Sierra Leone;
afterward, he began wide-ranging travels as a journalist, reflected
in novels such as 
The Quiet American, Our Man in Havana, The
Comedians, Travels with My Aunt, The Honorary Consul, The Human
Factor, Monsignor Quixote
, and 
The Captain and the
Enemy
. As well as his many novels, Graham Greene wrote several
collections of short stories, four travel books, six plays, two
books of autobiography, A 
Sort of Life
 and 
Ways of
Escape
, two of biography, and four books for children. He also
contributed hundreds of essays and film and book reviews to 
The
Spectator
 and other journals, many of which appear in the late
collection 
Reflections
. Most of his novels have been
filmed, including 
The Third Man
, which was first written
as a film treatment. Graham Greene was named Companion of Honour
and received the Order of Merit and many other awards.


 


 


  
WORKS BY GRAHAM GREENE


 


  
NOVELS


  The Man Within


  Stamboul Train


  It’s a Battlefield


  England Made Me


  A Gun for Sale


  Brighton Rock


  The Confidential Agent


  The Power and the Glory


  The Ministry of Fear


  The Heart of the Matter


  The Third Man


  The Fallen Idol


  The End of the Affair


  Loser Takes All


  The Quiet American


  Our Man in Havana


  A Burnt-Out Case


  The Comedians


  Travels with My Aunt


  The Honorary Consul


  The Human Factor


  Doctor Fischer of Geneva or The Bomb Party


  Monsignor Quixote


  The Tenth Man


  The Captain and the Enemy


 


  
SHORT STORIES


  Collected Short Stories


  (
including
 Twenty-One Stories, A Sense
of


  Reality 
and
 May We Borrow Your
Husband?)


  The Last Word and Other Stories


 


  
TRAVEL


  Journey Without Maps


  The Lawless Roads


  In Search of a Character


  Getting to Know the General


 


  
ESSAYS AND REVIEWS


  Collected Essays


  Reflections


  Yours Etc.


  Morning in the Dark


 


  
PLAYS


  Collected Plays


  (
including
 The Living Room, The Potting
Shed, The


  Complaisant Lover, Carving a Statue, The Return of
A. J. Raffles,


  The Great Jowett, Yes and No 
and
 For Whom
the Bell Chimes)


 


  
AUTOBIOGRAPHY


  A Sort of Life


  Ways of Escape


  Fragments of Autobiography


  A World of My Own


 


  
BIOGRAPHY


  Lord Rochester’s Monkey


  An Impossible Woman


 


  
CHILDREN’S BOOKS


  The Little Train


  The Little Horse-Bus


  The Little Steamroller


  The Little Fire Engine


 


 


  GRAHAM GREENE


  THE QUIET AMERICAN


  PENGUIN BOOKS


  
in association with William Heinemann
Ltd


 


 


  PENGUIN BOOKS Published by the Penguin Group


  Penguin Putnam Inc., 375 Hudson Street, New York,
New York 10014, U.S.A. Penguin Books Ltd, 27 Wrights Lane, London
W8 5TZ, England


  Penguin Books Australia Ltd, Ringwood, Victoria,
Australia


  Penguin Books Canada Ltd, 10 Alcorn Avenue, Toronto,
Ontario, Canada M4V 3B2


  Penguin Books (N.Z.) Ltd, 182-190 Wairau Road,
Auckland 10, New Zealand


 


  Penguin Books Ltd, Registered Offices:
Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England


 


  First published in Great Britain by William
Heinemann Ltd 1955 First published in the United States of America
by Viking Press 1956


  Viking COmpass Edition published 1957


  Published in Penguin Books in Great Britian 1962


  Reset and reprinted in Penguin Books from the
Collected Edition in Great Britain 1974 and in the USA 1977


  45 47 49 50 48 46 44


 


  Copyright © Graham Greene, 1955, 1973


  All rights reserved


 


  ISBN 0 1401 8500 3


 


  Printed in the United States of America


  Set in Linotype Times


 


  Except in the United States of America, this book is
sold subject to the condition that it shall not, by way of trade or
otherwise, be lent, re-sold, hired out, or otherwise circulated
without the publisher’s prior consent in any form of binding or
cover other than that in which it is published and without a
similar condition including this condition being imposed on the
subsequent purchaser.


 


 


 


 


  
Dear Réné ana Phuong,


  I have asked permission to dedicate this book to you
not only in memory of the happy evenings I have spent with you in
Saigon over the last five years, but also because I have quite
shamelessly borrowed the location of your flat to house one of my
characters, and your name, Phuong, for the convenience of readers
because it is simple, beautiful and easy to pronounce, which is not
true of all your countrywomen’s names. You will both realize I have
borrowed little else, certainly not the characters of anyone in
Viet Nam. Pyle, Granger, Fowler, Vigot, Joe—these have had no
originals in the life of Saigon or Hanoi, and General Thé is dead:
shot in the back, so they say. Even the historical events have been
in at least one case rearranged. For example, the big bomb near the
Continental preceded and did not follow the bicycle bombs. I have
no scruples about such small changes. This is a story and not a
piece of history, and I hope that as a story about a few imaginary
characters it will pass for both of you one hot Saigon evening.


  Yours affectionately,


  
Graham Greene


 


 


 


 


  “I do not like being moved: for the will is


     excited; and action


  Is a most dangerous thing; I tremble for


     something factitious,


  Some malpractice of heart and illegitimate


     process;


  We’re so prone to these things, with our


     terrible notions of duty.”


  A. H. CLOUGH


 


 


  “This is the patent age of new inventions


  For killing bodies, and for saving souls,


  All propagated with the best intentions.”


  BYRON


 


 


 


 


  
PART ONE


 


 


 


  
Chapter 1


 


  AFTER dinner I sat and waited for Pyle in my room
over the rue Catinat; he had said, “I’ll be with you at latest by
ten,” and when midnight struck I couldn’t stay quiet any longer and
went down into the street. A lot of old women in black trousers
squatted on the landing: it was February and I suppose too hot for
them in bed. One trishaw driver pedalled slowly by towards the
river-front and I could see lamps burning where they had
disembarked the new American planes. There was no sign of Pyle
anywhere in the long street.


  Of course, I told myself, he might have been
detained for some reason at the American Legation, but surely in
that case he would have telephoned to the restaurant—he was very
meticulous about small courtesies. I turned to go indoors when I
saw a girl waiting in the next doorway. I couldn’t see her face,
only the white silk trousers and the long flowered robe, but I knew
her for all that. She had so often waited for me to come home at
just this place and hour.


  “Phuong,” I said—which means Phoenix, but nothing
nowadays is fabulous and nothing rises from its ashes. I knew
before she had time to tell me that she was waiting for Pyle too.
“He isn’t here.”


  
“Je sais. Je t’ai vu seul à la
fenêtre.”


  “You may as well wait upstairs,” I said. “He will be
coming soon.”


  “I can wait here.”


  “Better not. The police might pick you up.”


  She followed me upstairs. I thought of several
ironic and unpleasant jests I might make, but neither her English
nor her French would have been good enough for her to understand
the irony, and, strange to say, I had no desire to hurt her or even
to hurt myself. When we reached the landing all the old women
turned their heads, and as soon as we had passed their voices rose
and fell as though they were singing together.


  “What are they talking about?”


  “They think I have come home.”


  Inside my room the tree I had set up weeks ago for
the Chinese New Year had shed most of its yellow blossoms. They had
fallen between the keys of my typewriter. I picked them out.
“
Tu es troublé
,” Phuong said.


  “It’s unlike him. He’s such a punctual man.”


  I took off my tie and my shoes and lay down on the
bed. Phuong lit the gas stove and began to boil the water for tea.
It might have been six months ago. “He says you are going away soon
now,” she said.


  “Perhaps.”


  “He is very fond of you.”


  “Thank him for nothing,” I said.


  I saw that she was. doing her hair differently,
allowing it to fall black and straight over her shoulders. I
remembered that Pyle had once criticized the elaborate hairdressing
which she thought became the daughter of a mandarin. I shut my eyes
and she was again the same as she used to be: she was the hiss of
steam, the clink of a cup, she was a certain hour of the night and
the promise of rest.


  “He will not be long,” she said as though I needed
comfort for his absence.


  I wondered what they talked about together. Pyle was
very earnest and I had suffered from his lectures on the Far East,
which he had known for as many months as I had years. Democracy was
another subject of bis—he had pronounced and aggravating views on
what the United States was doing for the world. Phuong on the other
hand was wonderfully ignorant; if Hitler had come into the
conversation she would have interrupted to ask who he was. The
explanation would be all the more difficult because she had never
met a German or a Pole and had only the vaguest knowledge of
European geography, though about Princess Margaret of course she
knew more than I.I heard her put a tray down on the end of the
bed.


  “Is he still in love with you, Phuong?”


  To take an Annamite to bed with you is like taking a
bird: they twitter and sing on your pillow. There had been a time
when I thought none of their voices sang like Phuong’s. I put out
my hand and touched her arm—their bones too were as fragile as a
bird’s.


  “Is he, Phuong?”


  She laughed and I heard her strike a match. “In
love?”—perhaps it was one of the phrases she didn’t understand.


  “May I make your pipe?” she asked.


  When I opened my eyes she had lit the lamp and the
tray was already prepared. The lamplight made her skin the colour
of dark amber as she bent over the flame with a frown of
concentration, heating the small paste of opium, twirling her
needle.


  “Does Pyle still not smoke?” I asked her.


  “No.”


  “You ought to make him or he won’t come back.” It
was a superstition among them that a lover who smoked would always
return, even from France. A man’s sexual capacity might be injured
by smoking, but they would always prefer a faithful to a potent
lover. Now she was kneading the little ball of hot paste on the
convex margin of the bowl and I could smell the opium. There is no
smell like it. Beside the bed my alarm-clock showed twelve-twenty,
but already my tension was over. Pyle had diminished. The lamp lit
her face as she tended the long pipe, bent over it with the serious
attention she might have given to a child. I was fond of my pipe:
more than two feet of straight bamboo, ivory at either end.
Two-thirds of the way down was the bowl, like a convolvulus
reversed, the convex margin polished and darkened by the frequent
kneading of the opium. Now with a flick of the wrist she plunged
the needle into the tiny cavity, released the opium and reversed
the bowl over the flame, holding the pipe steady for me. The bead
of opium bubbled gently and smoothly as I inhaled.


  The practised inhaler can draw a whole pipe down in
one breath, but I always had to take several pulls. Then I lay
back, with my neck on the leather pillow, while she prepared the
second pipe.


  I said, “You know, really, it’s as clear as
daylight. Pyle knows I smoke a few pipes before bed, and he doesn’t
want to disturb me. He’ll be round in the morning.”


  In went the needle and I took my second pipe. As I
laid it down, I said, “Nothing to worry about. Nothing to worry
about at all.” I took a sip of tea and held my hand in the pit of
her arm. “When you left me,” I said, “it was lucky I had this to
fall back on. There’s a good house in the rue d”Ormay. What a fuss
we Europeans make about nothing. You shouldn’t live with a man who
doesn’t smoke, Phuong.”


  “But he’s going to many me,” she said. “Soon
now.”


  “Of course, that’s another matter.”


  “Shall I make your pipe again?”


  “Yes.”


  I wondered whether she would consent to sleep with
me that night if Pyle never came, but I knew that when I had smoked
four pipes I would no longer want her. Of course it would be
agreeable to feel her thigh beside me in the bed—she always slept
on her back, and when I woke in the morning I could start the day
with a pipe, instead of with my own company. “Pyle won’t come now,”
I said. “Stay here, Phuong.” She held the pipe out to me and shook
her head. By the time I had drawn the opium in, her presence or
absence mattered very little,


  “Why is Pyle not here?” she asked.


  “How do I know?” I said.


  “Did he go to see General Thé?”


  “I wouldn’t know.”


  “He told me if he could not have dinner with you, he
wouldn’t come here.”


  “Don’t worry. Hell come. Make me another pipe.” When
she bent over the flame the poem of Baudelaire’s came into my mind:
“
Mon enfant, ma soeur
...” How did it go on?


 


     
Aimer à loisir,


     
Aimer et mourir


     
Au pays qui te
ressemble.


 


  Out on the waterfront slept the ships, “
dont
l”humeur est vagabonde”
. I thought that if I smelt her skin it
would have the faintest fragrance of opium, and her colour was that
of the small Same. I had seen the flowers on her dress beside the
canals in the north, she was indigenous like a herb, and I never
wanted to go home.


  “I wish I were Pyle,” I said aloud, but the pain was
limited and bearable—the opium saw to that. Somebody knocked on the
door.


  “Pyle,” she said.


  “No. It’s not his knock.”


  Somebody knocked again impatiently. She got quickly
up, shaking the yellow tree so that it showered its petals again
over my typewriter. The door opened. “Monsieur Fowlair,” a voice
commanded.


  “I’m Fowler,” I said. I was not going to get up for
a policeman—I could see his khaki shorts without lifting my
head.


  He explained in almost unintelligible Vietnamese
French that I was needed immediately—at once—rapidly—at the
Sûreté.


  “At the French Sûreté or the Vietnamese?”


  “The French.” In his mouth the word sounded like
“
Françung”
.


  “What about?”


  He didn’t know : it was his orders to fetch me.


  “
Toi aussi
,” he said to Phuong.


  “Say 
vous
 when you speak to a lady,” I told
him. “How did you know she was here?”


  He only repeated that they were his orders.


  “I’ll come in the morning.”


  “
Sur le chung
,” he said, a little, neat,
obstinate figure. There wasn’t any point in arguing, so I got up
and put on my tie and shoes. Here the police had the last word :
they could withdraw my order of circulation: they could have me
barred from Press Conferences : they could even, if they chose,
refuse me an exit permit. These were the open legal methods, but
legality was not essential in a country at war. I knew a man who
had suddenly and inexplicably lost his cook—he had traced him to
the Vietnamese Sûreté, but the officers there assured him that he
had been released after questioning. His family never saw him
again. Perhaps he had joined the Communists; perhaps he had been
enlisted in one of the private armies which flourished round
Saigon—the Hoa-Haos or the Caodaists or General Thé. Perhaps he was
in a French prison. Perhaps he was happily making money out of
girls in Cholon, the Chinese suburb. Perhaps his heart had given
way when they questioned him. I said, “I’m not going to walk.
You’ll have to pay for a trishaw.” One had to keep one’s
dignity.


  That was why I refused a cigarette from the French
officer at the Sûreté. After three pipes I felt my mind clear and
alert: it could take such decisions easily without losing sight of
the main question—what do they want from me? I had met Vigot before
several times at parties—I had noticed him because he appeared
incongruously in love with his wife, who ignored him, a flashy and
false blonde. Now it was two in the morning and he sat tired and
depressed in the cigarette smoke and the heavy heat, wearing a
green eye-shade, and he had a volume of Pascal open on his desk to
while away the time. When I refused to allow him to question Phuong
without me he gave way at once, with a single sigh that might have
represented his weariness with Saigon, with the heat, or with the
whole human condition.


  He said in English, “I’m so sorry I had to ask you
to come.”


  “I wasn’t asked. I was ordered.”


  “Oh, these native police—they don’t understand.” His
eyes were on a page of 
Les Pensées
 as though he were still
absorbed in those sad arguments. “I wanted to ask you a few
questions—about Pyle.”


  “You had better ask him the questions.”


  He turned to Phuong and interrogated her sharply in
French. “How long have you lived with Monsieur Pyle?”


  “A month—I don’t know,” she said.


  “How much has he paid you?”


  “You’ve no right to ask her that,” I said. “She’s
not for sale.”


  “She used to live with you, didn’t she?” he asked
abruptly. “For two years.”


  “I’m a correspondent who’s supposed to report your
war -when you let him. Don’t ask me to contribute to your scandal
sheet as well.”


  “What do you know about Pyle? Please answer my
questions, Monsieur Fowler. I don’t want to ask them. But this is
serious. Please believe me it is very serious.”


  “I’m not an informer. You know all I can tell you
about Pyle. Age thirty-two, employed in the Economic Aid Mission,
nationality American.”


  “You sound like a friend of his,” Vigot said,
looking past me at Phuong. A native policeman came in with three
cups of black coffee.


  “Or would you rather have tea?” Vigot asked.


  “I 
am
 a friend,” I said. “Why not? I shall
be going home one day, won’t I? I can’t take her with me. She’ll be
all right with him. It’s a reasonable arrangement. And he’s going
to marry her, he says. He might, you know. He’s a good chap in his
way. Serious. Not one of those noisy bastards at the Continental. A
quiet American,” I summed him precisely up as I might have said, “a
blue lizard”, “a white elephant”.


  Vigot said, “Yes.” He seemed to be looking for words
on his desk with which to convey his meaning as precisely as I had
done. “A very quiet American.” He sat there in the little hot
office waiting for one of us to speak. A mosquito droned to the
attack and I watched Phuong. Opium makes you quickwitted—perhaps
only because it calms the nerves and stills the emotions. Nothing,
not even death, seems so important. Phuong, I thought, had not
caught his tone, melancholy and final, and her English was very
bad. While she sat there on the hard office-chair, she was still
waiting patiently for Pyle. I had at that moment given up waiting,
and I could see Vigot taking those two facts in.


  “How did you meet him first?” Vigot asked me.


  Why should I explain to him that it was Pyle who had
met me? I had seen him last September coming across the square
towards the bar of the Continental: an unmistakably young and
unused face flung at us like a dart. With his gangly legs and his
crew-cut and his wide campus gaze he seemed incapable of harm. The
tables on .the street were most of them full. “Do you mind?” he had
asked with serious courtesy. “My name’s Pyle. I’m new here,” and he
had folded himself around a chair and ordered a beer. Then he
looked quickly up into the hard noon glare.


  “Was that a grenade?” he asked with excitement and
hope.


  “Most likely the exhaust of a car,” I said, and was
suddenly sorry for his disappointment. One forgets so quickly one’s
own youth : once I was interested myself in what for want of a
better term they call news. But grenades had staled on me; they
were something listed on the back page of the local paper—so many
last night in Saigon, so many in Cholon: they never made the
European Press. Up the street came the lovely flat figures—the
white silk trousers, the long tight jackets in pink and mauve
patterns slit up the thigh. I watched them with the nostalgia I
knew I would feel when I had left these regions for ever. “They are
lovely, aren’t they?” I said over my beer, and Pyle cast them a
cursory glance as they went up the rue Catinat.


  “Oh, sure,” he said indifferently: he was a serious
type. “The Minister’s very concerned about these grenades. It would
be very awkward, he says, if there was an incident—with one of us,
I mean.”


  “With one of you? Yes, I suppose that would be
serious. Congress wouldn’t like it.” Why does one want to tease the
innocent? Perhaps only ten days ago he had been walking back across
the Common in Boston, his arms full of the books he had been
reading in advance on the Far East and the problems of China. He
didn’t even hear what I said; he was absorbed already in the
dilemmas of Democracy and the responsibilities of the West; he was
determined—I learnt that very soon—to do good, not to any
individual person but to a country, a continent, a world. Well, he
was in his element now with the whole universe to improve.


  “Is he in the mortuary?” I asked Vigot.


  “How did you know he was dead?” It was a foolish
policeman’s question, unworthy of the man who read Pascal, unworthy
also of the man who so strangely loved his wife. You cannot love
without intuition.


  “Not guilty,” I said. I told myself that it was
true. Didn’t Pyle always go his own way? I looked for any feeling
in myself, even resentment at a policeman’s suspicion, but I could
find none. No one but Pyle was responsible. Aren’t we all better
dead? the opium reasoned within me. But I looked cautiously at
Phuong, for it was hard on her. She must have loved him in her way:
hadn’t she been fond of me and hadn’t she left me for Pyle? She had
attached herself to youth and hope and seriousness and now they had
failed her more than age and despair. She sat there looking at the
two of us and I thought she had not yet understood. Perhaps it
would be a good thing if I could get her away before the fact got
home. I was ready to answer any questions if I could bring the
interview quickly and ambiguously to an end, so that I might tell
her later, in private, away from a policeman’s eye and the hard
office chairs and the bare globe where the moths circled.


  I said to Vigot, “What hours are you interested
in?”


  “Between six and ten.”


  “I had a drink at the Continental at six. The
waiters will remember. At six forty-five I walked down to the quay
to watch the American planes unloaded. I saw Wilkins of the
Associated News by the door of the Majestic. Then I went into the
cinema next door. They’ll probably remember—they had to get me
change. From there I took a trishaw to the Vieux Moulin—I suppose I
arrived about eight thirty—and had dinner by myself. Granger was
there—you can ask him. Then I took a trishaw back about a quarter
to ten. You could probably find the driver. I was expecting Pyle at
ten, but he didn’t turn up.”


  “Why were you expecting him?”


  “He telephoned me. He said he had to see me about
something important.”


  “Have you any idea what?”


  “No. Everything was important to Pyle.”


  “And this girl of his?—do you know where she
was?”


  “She was waiting for him outside at midnight. She
was anxious. She knows nothing. Why, can’t you see she’s waiting
for him still?”


  “Yes,” he said.


  “And you can’t really believe I killed him for
jealousy—or she for what? He was going to marry her.”


  “Yes.”


  “Where did you find him?”


  “He was in the water under the bridge to Dakow.”


  The Vieux Moulin stood beside the bridge. There were
armed police on the bridge and the restaurant had an iron grille to
keep out grenades. It wasn’t safe to cross the bridge at night, for
all the far side of the river was in the hands of the Vietminh
after dark. I must have dined within fifty yards of his body.


  “The trouble was,” I said, “he got mixed up.”


  “To speak plainly,” Vigot said, “I am not altogether
sorry. He was doing a lot of harm.”


  “God save us always,” I said, “from the innocent and
the good.”


  “The good?”


  “Yes, good. In his way. You’re a Roman Catholic. You
wouldn’t recognize his way. And anyway, he was a damned
Yankee.”


  “Would you mind identifying him? I’m sorry. It’s a
routine, not a very nice routine.”


  I didn’t bother to ask him why he didn’t wait for
someone from the American Legation, for I knew the reason. French
methods are a little old-fashioned by our cold standards : they
believe in the conscience, the sense of guilt, a criminal should be
confronted with his crime, for he may break down and betray
himself. I told myself again I was innocent, while he went down the
stone stairs to where the refrigerating plant hummed in the
basement.


  They pulled him out like a tray of ice-cubes, and I
looked at him. The wounds were frozen into placidity. I said, “You
see, they don’t re-open in my presence.”


  “
Comment
?”


  “Isn’t that one of the objects? Ordeal by something
or other? But you’ve frozen him stiff. They didnt have deep freezes
in the Middle Ages.”


  “You recognize him?”


  “Oh yes.”


  He looked more than ever out of place: he should
have stayed at home. I saw him in a family snapshot album, riding
on a dude ranch, bathing on Long Island, photographed with his
colleagues in some apartment on the twenty-third floor. He belonged
to the skyscraper and the express elevator, the ice-cream and the
dry Martinis, milk at lunch, and chicken sandwiches on the Merchant
Limited.


  “He wasn’t dead from this,” Vigot said, pointing at
a wound in the chest. “He was drowned in the mud. We found the mud
in his lungs.”


  “You work quickly.”


  “One has to in this climate.”


  They pushed the tray back and closed the door. The
rubber padded.


  “You can’t help us at all?” Vigot asked.


  “Not at all.”


  I walked back with Phuong towards my flat. I was no
longer on my dignity. Death takes away vanity—even the vanity of
the cuckold who mustn’t show his pain. She was still unaware of
what it was about, and I had no technique for telling her slowly
and gently. I was a correspondent: I thought in headlines.
“American official murdered in Saigon.” Working on a newspaper one
does not learn the way to break bad news, and even now I had to
think of my paper and to ask her, “Do you mind stopping at the
cable office?” I left her in the street and sent my wire and came
back to her. It was only a gesture: I knew too well that the French
correspondents would already be informed, or if Vigot had played
fair (which was possible), then the censors would hold my telegram
till the French had filed theirs. My paper would get the news first
under a Paris date-line. Not that Pyle was very important. It
wouldn’t have done to cable the details of his true career, that
before he died he had been responsible for at least fifty deaths,
for it would have damaged Anglo-American relations, the Minister
would have been upset. The Minister had a great respect for
Pyle—Pyle had taken a good degree in—well, one of those subjects
Americans can take degrees in: perhaps public relations or
theatrecraft, perhaps even Far Eastern studies (he had read a lot
of books).


  “Where is Pyle?” Phuong asked. “What did they
want?”


  “Come home,” I said.


  “Will Pyle come?”


  “He’s as likely to come there as anywhere else.”


  The old women were still gossiping on the landing,
in the relative cool. When I opened my door I could tell my room
had been searched: everything was tidier than I ever left it.


  “Another pipe?” Phuong asked.


  “Yes.”


  I took off my tie and my shoes; the interlude was
over; the night was nearly the same as it had been. Phuong crouched
at the end of the bed and lit the lamp. 
Mon enfant, ma soeur
-
skin the colour of amber. 
Sa douce langue
natale
.


  “Phuong,” I said. She was kneading the opium on the
bowl. “
Il est mort
, Phuong.” She held the needle in her
hand and looked up at me like a child trying to concentrate,
frowning. “
Tu dis
?”


  “Pyle 
est mort. Assassiné”


  She put the needle down and sat back on her heels,
looking at me. There was no scene, no tears, just thought—the long
private thought of somebody who has to alter a whole course of
life.


  “You had better stay here tonight,” I said.


  She nodded and taking up the needle again began to
heat the opium. That night I woke from one of those short deep
opium sleeps, ten minutes long, that seem a whole night’s rest, and
found my hand where it had always lain at night, between her legs.
She was asleep and I could hardly hear her breathing. Once again
after so many months I was not alone, and yet I thought suddenly
with anger, remembering Vigot and his eye-shade in the police
station and the quiet corridors of the Legation with no one about
and the soft hairless skin under my hand, “Am I the only one who
really cared for Pyle?”


 


 


 


  
Chapter 2


 


  l


 


  THE morning Pyle arrived in the square by the
Continental I had seen enough of my American colleagues of the
Press, big, “ noisy, boyish and middle-aged, full of spur cracks
against the French, who were, when all was said, fighting this war.
Periodically, after an engagement had been tidily finished and the
casualties removed from the scene, they would be summoned to Hanoi,
nearly four hours’ flight away, addressed by the
Commander-in-Chief, lodged for one night in a Press Camp where they
boasted that the barman was the best in IndoChina, flown over the
late battlefield at a height of 3,000 feet (the limit of a heavy
machine-gun’s range) and then delivered safely and noisily back,
like a school-treat, to the Continental Hotel in Saigon.


  Pyle was quiet, he seemed modest, sometimes that
first day I had to lean forward to catch what he was saying. And he
was very, very serious. Several times he seemed to shrink up within
himself at the noise of the American Press on the terrace above—the
terrace which was popularly believed to be safer from
hand-grenades. But he criticized nobody.


  “Have you read York Harding?” he asked.


  “No. No, I don’t think so. What did he write?”


  He gazed at a milk-bar across the street and said
dreamily, “That looks like a soda-fountain.” I wondered what depth
of homesickness lay behind his odd choice of what to observe in a
scene so unfamiliar. But hadn’t I on my first walk up the rue
Catinat noticed first the shop with the Guerlain perfume and
comforted myself with the thought that, after all, Europe was only
distant thirty hours? He looked reluctantly away from the milk-bar
and said, “York wrote a book called 
The Advance of Red
China
. It’s a very profound book.”


  “I haven’t read it. Do you know him?”


  He nodded solemnly and lapsed into silence. But he
broke it again a moment later to modify the impression he had
given. “I don’t know him well,” he said. “I guess I only met him
twice.” I liked him for that—to consider it was boasting to claim
acquaintance with—what was his name?—York Harding. I was to learn
later that he had an enormous respect for what he called serious
writers. That term excluded novelists, poets and dramatists unless
they had what he called a contemporary theme, and even then it was
better to read the straight stuff as you got it from York.


  I said, “You know, if you live in a place for long
you cease to read about it.”


  “Of course I always like to know what the man on the
spot has to say,” he replied guardedly.


  “And then check it with York?”


  “Yes.” Perhaps he had noticed the irony, because he
added with his habitual politeness, “I’d take it as a very great
privilege if you could find time to brief me on the main points.
You see, York was here more than two years ago.”


  I liked his loyalty to Harding—whoever Harding was.
It was a change from the denigrations of the Pressmen and their
immature cynicism. I said, “Have another bottle of beer and I’ll
try to give you an idea of things.”


  I began, while he watched me intently like a prize
pupil, by explaining the situation in the north, in Tonkin, where
the French in those days were hanging on to the delta of the Red
River, which contained Hanoi and the only northern port, Haiphong.
Here most of the rice was grown, and when the harvest was ready the
annual battle for the rice always began.


  “That’s the north,” I said. “The French may hold,
poor devils,” if the Chinese don’t come to help the Vietminh. A war
of jungle and mountain and marsh, paddy fields where you wade
shoulder-high and the enemy simply disappear, bury their arms, put
on peasant dress. But you can rot comfortably in the damp in Hanoi.
They don’t throw bombs there. God knows why. You could call it a
regular war.”


  “And here in the south?”


  “The French control the main roads until seven in
the evening: they control the watch towers after that, and the
towns—part of them. That doesn’t mean you are safe, or there
wouldn’t be iron grilles in front of the restaurants.”


  How often I bad explained all this before. I was a
record always turned on for the benefit of newcomers—the visiting
Member of Parliament, the new British Minister. Sometimes I would
wake up in the night saying, “Take the case of the Caodaists.” Or
the Hoa-Haos or the Binh Xuyen, all the private armies who sold
their services for money or revenge. Strangers found them
picturesque, but there is nothing picturesque in treachery and
distrust.


  “And now,” I said, “there’s General Thé. He was
Caodaist Chief of Staff, but he’s taken to the hills to fight both
sides, the French, the Communists...”


  “York,” Pyle said, “wrote that what the East needed
was a Third Force.” Perhaps I should have seen that fanatic gleam,
the quick response to a phrase, the magic sound of figures: Fifth
Column, Third Force, Seventh Day. I might have saved all of us a
lot of trouble, even Pyle, if I had realized the direction of that
indefatigable young brain. But I left him with arid bones of
background and took my daily walk up and down the rue Catinat. He
would have to learn for himself the real background that held you
as a smell does : the gold of the rice-fields under a fiat late
sun: the fishers’ fragile cranes hovering over the fields like
mosquitoes: the cups of tea on an old abbot’s platform, with his
bed and his commercial calendars, his buckets and broken cups and
the junk of a lifetime washed up around his chair: the mollusc bats
of the girls repairing the road where a mine had burst: the gold
and the young green and the bright dresses of the south, and in the
north the deep browns and the black clothes and the circle of enemy
mountains and the drone of planes. When I first came I counted the
days of my assignment, like a schoolboy marking off the days of
term; I thought I was tied to what was left of a Bloomsbury square
and the 73 bus passing the portico of Huston and springtime in the
local in Torrington Place. Now the bulbs would be out in the square
garden, and I didn’t care a damn. I wanted a day punctuated by
those quick reports that might be car-exhausts or might be
grenades, I wanted to keep the sight of those silk-trousered
figures moving with grace through the humid noon, I wanted Phuong,
and my home had shifted its ground eight thousand miles.


  I turned at the High Commissioner’s house, where the
Foreign Legion stood on guard in their white képis and their
scarlet epaulettes, crossed by the Cathedral and came back by the
dreary wall of the Vietnamese Sûreté that seemed to smell of urine
and injustice. And yet that too was a part of home, like the dark
passages on upper floors one avoided in childhood. The new dirty
magazines were out on the bookstalls near the quay—
Tabu

and 
Illusion
, and the sailors were drinking beer on the
pavement, an easy mark for a home-made bomb. I thought of Phuong,
who would be haggling over the price of fish in the third street
down on the left before going for her elevenses to the milk-bar (I
always knew where she was in those days), and Pyle ran easily and
naturally out of my mind. I didn’t even mention him to Phuong, when
we sat down to lunch together in our room over the rue Catinat and
she wore her best flowered silk robe because it was two years to a
day since we had met in the Grand Monde in Cholon.


 


 


  2


 


  Neither of us mentioned him when we woke on the
morning after his death. Phuong had risen before I was properly
awake and had our tea ready. One is not jealous of the dead, and it
seemed easy to me that morning to take up our old life
together.


  “Will you stay tonight?” I asked Phuong over the

croissants
 as casually as I could.


  “I will have to fetch my box.”


  “The police may be there,” I said. “I had better
come with you.” It was the nearest we came that day to speaking of
Pyle.


  Pyle had a flat in a new villa near the rue
Duranton, off one of those main streets which the French
continually subdivided in honour of their generals—so that the rue
de Gaulle became after the third intersection the rue Leclerc, and
that again sooner or later would probably turn abruptly into the
rue de Lattre. Somebody important must have been arriving from
Europe by air, for there was a policeman facing the pavement every
twenty yards along the route to the High Commissioner’s
Residence.


  On the gravel drive to Pyle’s apartment were several
motorcycles and a Vietnamese policeman examined my press-card. He
wouldn’t allow Phuong into the house, so I went in search of a
French officer. In Pyle’s bathroom Vigot was washing his hands with
Pyle’s soap and drying them on Pyle’s towel. His tropical suit had
a stain of oil on the sleeve—Pyle’s oil, I supposed.


  “Any news?” I asked.


  “We found his car in the garage. It’s empty of
petrol. He must have gone off last night in a trishaw—or in
somebody else’s car. Perhaps the petrol was drained away.”


  “He might even have walked,” I said. “You know what
Americans are.”


  “Your car was burnt, wasn’t it?” he went
thoughtfully on. “You haven’t a new one yet?”


  “No.”


  “It’s not an important point.”


  “No.”


  “Have you any views?” he asked.


  “Too many,” I said.


  “Tell me.”


  “Well, he might have been murdered by the Vietminh.
They have murdered plenty of people in Saigon. His body was found
in the river by the bridge to Dakow—Vietminh territory when your
police withdraw at night. Or he might have been killed by the
Vietnamese Sûreté—it’s been known. Perhaps they didn’t like his
friends. Perhaps he was killed by Caodaists because he knew General
Thé.”


  “Did he?”


  “They say so. Perhaps he was killed by General Thé
because he knew the Caodaists. Perhaps he was killed by the
Hoa-Haos for making passes at the General’s concubines. Perhaps he
was just killed by someone who wanted his money.”


  “Or a simple case of jealousy,” Vigot said.


  “Or perhaps by the French Sûreté,” I continued,
“because they didn’t like his contacts. Are you really looking for
the people who killed him?”


  “No,” Vigot said. “I’m just making a report, that’s
all. So long as it’s an act of war—well, there are thousands killed
every year.”


  “You can rule me out,” I said. “I’m not involved.
Not involved,” I repeated. It had been an article of my creed. The
human condition being what it was, let them fight, let them love,
let them murder, I would not be involved. My fellow journalists
called themselves correspondents; I preferred the title of
reporter. I wrote what I saw. I took no action—even an opinion is a
kind of action.


  “What are you doing here?”


  “I’ve come for Phuong’s belongings. Your police
wouldn’t let her in.”


  “Well, let us go and find them.”


  “It’s nice of you, Vigot.”


  Pyle had two rooms, a kitchen and bathroom. We went
to the bedroom. I knew where Phuong would keep her box -under the
bed. We pulled it out together; it contained her picture books. I
took her few spare clothes out of the wardrobe, her two good robes
and her spare trousers. One had a sense that they had been hanging
there for a few hours only and didn’t belong, they were in passage
like a butterfly in a room. In a drawer I found her small
triangular 
culottes
 and her collection of scarves. There
was really very little to put in the box, less than a week-end
visitor’s at home.


  In the sitting-room there was a photograph of
herself and Pyle. They had been photographed in the botanical
gardens beside a large stone dragon. She held Pyle’s dog on a leash
-a black chow with a black tongue. A too black dog. I put the
photograph in her box. “What’s happened to the dog?” I said.


  “It isn’t here. He may have taken it with him.”


  “Perhaps it will return and you can analyse the
earth on its paws.”


  “I’m not Lecoq, or even Maigret, and there’s a war
on.”


  I went across to the bookcase and examined the two
rows of books—Pyle’s library. 
The Advance of Red China, The
Challenge to Democracy, The Rôle of the West -
 these, I
suppose, were the complete works of York Harding. There were a lot
of Congressional Reports, a Vietnamese phrase book, a history of
the War in the Philippines, a Modern Library Shakespeare. On what
did he relax? I found his light reading on another shelf: a
portable Thomas Wolfe and a mysterious anthology called 
The
Triumph of Life
 and a selection of American poetry. There was
also a book of chess problems. It didn’t seem much for the end of
the working day, but, after all, he had had Phuong. Tucked away
behind the anthology there was a paper-backed book called 
The
Physiology of Marriage
. Perhaps he was studying sex, as he had
studied the East, on paper. And the keyword was marriage. Pyle
believed in being involved.


  His desk was quite bare. “You’ve made a clean
sweep,” I said.


  “Oh,” Vigot said, “I had to take charge of these on
behalf of the American Legation. You know how quickly rumour
spreads. There might have been looting. I had all his papers sealed
up.” He said it seriously without even smiling.


  “Anything damaging?”


  “We can’t afford to find anything damaging against
an ally,” Vigot said.


  “Would you mind if I took one of these books—as a
keepsake?”


  “I’ll look the other way.”


  I chose York Harding’s 
The Rôle of the West

and packed it in the box with Phuong’s clothes.


  “As a friend,” Vigot said, “is there nothing you
could tell me in confidence? My report’s all tied up. He was
murdered by the Communists. Perhaps the beginning of a campaign
against American aid. But between you and me—listen, it’s dry
talking, what about a vermouth cassis round the corner?”


  “Too early.”


  “He didn’t confide anything to you the last time he
saw you?”


  “No.”


  “When was that?”


  “Yesterday morning. After the big bang.”


  He paused to let my reply sink in—to my mind, not to
his : he interrogated fairly. “You were out when he called on you
last night?”


  “Last night? I must have been. I didn’t think . .
.”


  “You may be wanting an exit visa. You know we could
delay it indefinitely.”


  “Do you really believe,” I said, “that I want to go
home?”


  Vigot looked through the window at the bright
cloudless day. He said sadly, “Most people do.”


  “I like it here. At home there are—problems.”


  “
Merde
,” Vigot said, “here’s the American
Economic Attaché.” He repeated with sarcasm, “Economic
Attaché.”


  “I’d better be off. He’ll want to seal me up
too.”


  Vigot said wearily, “I wish you luck. He’ll have a
terrible lot to say to me.”


  The Economic Attaché was standing by his Packard
when I came out, trying to explain something to his driver. He was
a stout middle-aged man with an exaggerated bottom and a face that
looked as if it never needed a razor. He called out, “Fowler. Could
you explain to this darned driver . . . ?”


  I explained.


  He said, “But that’s just what I told him, but he
always pretends not to understand French.”


  “It may be a matter of accent.”


  “I was three years in Paris. My accent’s good enough
for one of these darned Vietnamese.”


  “The voice of Democracy,” I said.


  “What’s that?”


  “I expect it’s a book by York Harding.”


  “I don’t get you.” He took a suspicious look at the
box I carried. “What’ve you got there?” he said.


  “Two pairs of white silk trousers, two silk robes,
some girl’s underpants—three pairs, I think. All home products. No
American aid.”


  “Have you been up there?” he asked.


  “Yes.”


  “You heard the news?”


  “Yes.”


  “It’s a terrible thing,” he said, “terrible.”


  “I expect the Minister’s very disturbed.”


  “I should say. He’s with the High Commissioner now,
and he’s asked for an interview with the President.” He put his
hand on my arm and walked me away from the cars. “You knew young
Pyle well, didn’t you? I can’t get over a thing like that happening
to him. I knew his father. Professor Harold C. Pyle—you’ll have
heard of him?”


  “No.”


  “He’s the world authority on underwater erosion.
Didn’t you see his picture on the cover of 
Time
 the other
month?”


  “Oh, I think I remember. A crumbling cliff in the
background and gold-rimmed glasses in the foreground.”


  “That’s him. I had to draft the cable home. It was
terrible. I loved that boy like he was my son.”


  “That makes you closely related to his father.”


  He turned his wet brown eyes on me. He said, “What’s
getting you? That’s not the way to talk when a fine young
fellow


  “I’m sorry,” I said. “Death takes people in
different ways.” Perhaps he had really loved Pyle. “What did you
say in your cable?” I asked.


  He replied seriously and literally, “‘Grieved to
report your son died a soldier’s death in cause of Democracy.’ The
Minister signed it.”


  “A soldier’s death,” I said. “Mightn’t that prove a
bit confusing? I mean to the folks at home. The Economic Aid
Mission doesn’t sound like the Army. Do you get Purple Hearts?”


  He said in a low voice, tense with ambiguity, “He
had special duties.”


  “Oh yes, we all guessed that.”


  “He didn’t talk, did he?”


  “Oh no,” I said, and Vigot’s phrase came back to me,
“He was a very quiet American.”


  “Have you any hunch,” he asked, “why they killed
him? and who?”


  Suddenly I was angry; I was tired of the whole pack
of them with their private stores of Coca-Cola and their portable
hospitals and their too wide cars and their not quite latest guns.
I said, “Yes. They killed him because he was too innocent to live.
He was young and ignorant and silly and he got involved. He had no
more of a notion than any of you what the whole affair’s about, and
you gave him money and York Harding’s books on the East and said,
‘Go ahead. Win the East for Democracy.’ He never saw anything he
hadn’t heard in a lecture-hall, and his writers and his lecturers
made a fool of him. When he saw a dead body he couldn’t even see
the wounds. A Red menace, a soldier of democracy.”


  “I thought you were his friend,” he said in a tone
of reproach.


  “I 
was
 his friend. I’d have liked to see
him reading the Sunday supplements at home and following the
baseball. I’d have liked to see him safe with a standardized
American girl who subscribed to the Book Club.”


  He cleared his throat with embarrassment. “Of
course,” he said, “I’d forgotten that unfortunate business. I was
quite on your side, Fowler. He behaved very badly. I don’t mind
telling you I had a long talk with him about the girl. You see, I
had the advantage of knowing Professor and Mrs Pyle.”


  I said, “Vigot’s waiting,” and walked away. For the
first time he spotted Phuong and when I looked back at him he was
watching me with pained perplexity: an eternal brother who didn’t “
understand.


 


 


 


  
Chapter 3


 


  1


 


  THE first time Pyle met Pbuong was again at the
Continental, perhaps two months after his arrival. It was the early
evening, in the momentary cool which came when the sun had just
gone down, and the candles were lit on the stalls in the side
streets. The dice rattled on the tables where the French were
playing 
Quatre Cent Vingt-et-un
 and the girls in the white
silk trousers bicycled home down the rue Catinat. Phuong was
drinking a glass of orange juice and I was having a beer and we sat
in silence, content to be together. Then Pyle came tentatively
across, and I introduced them. He had a way of staring hard at a
girl as though he hadn’t seen one before and then blushing. “I was
wondering whether you and your lady,” Pyle said, “would step across
and join my table. One of our attachés


  It was the Economic Attaché. He beamed down at us
from the terrace above, a great warm welcoming smile, full of
confidence, like the man who keeps his friends because he uses the
right deodorants. I had heard him called Joe a number of times, but
I had never learnt his surname. He made a noisy show of pulling out
chairs and calling for the waiter, though all that activity could
possibly produce at the Continental was a choice of beer,
brandy-and-soda or vermouth cassis. “Didn’t expect to see you here,
Fowler,” he said. “We are waiting for the boys back from Hanoi.
There seems to have been quite a battle. Weren’t you with
them?”


  “I’m tired of flying four hours for a Press
Conference,” I said.


  He looked at me with disapproval. He said, “These
guys are real keen. Why, I expect they could earn twice as much in
business or on the radio without any risk.”


  “They might have to work,” I said.


  “They seem to sniff the battle like war-horses,” he
went on exultantly, paying no attention to words he didn’t like.
“Bill Granger—you can’t keep him out of a scrap.”


  “I expect you’re right. I saw him in one the other
evening at the bar of the Sporting.”


  “You know very well I didn’t mean that.”


  Two trishaw drivers came pedalling furiously down
the rue Catinat and drew up in a photo-finish outside the
Continental. In the first was Granger. The other contained a small,
grey, silent heap which Granger now began to pull out on to the
pavement. “Oh, come on, Mick,” he said, “come on.” Then he began to
argue with his driver about the fare. “Here,” he said, “take it or
leave it,” and Sung five times the correct amount into the street
for the man to stoop for.


  The Economic Attaché said nervously, “I guess these
boys deserve a little relaxation.”


  Granger flung his burden on to a chair. Then he
noticed Phuong. “Why,” he said, “you old so-and-so, Joe. Where did
you find her? Didn’t know you had a whistle in you. Sorry, got to
find the can. Look after Mick.”


  “Rough soldierly manners,” I said.


  Pyle said earnestly, blushing again, “I wouldn’t
have invited you two over if I’d thought ...”


  The grey heap stirred in the chair and the head fell
on the table as though it wasn’t attached. It sighed, a long
whistling sigh of infinite tedium, and lay still.


  “Do you know him?” I asked Pyle.


  “No. Isn’t he one of the Press?”


  “ I heard Bill call him Mick,” the Economic Attaché
said.


  “Isn’t there a new U.P. correspondent?”


  “It’s not him. I know him. What about your Economic
Mission? You can’t know all your people—there are hundreds of
them.”


  “I don’t think he belongs,” the Economic Attaché
said. “I can’t recollect him.”


  “We might find his identity card,” Pyle
suggested.


  “For God’s sake don’t wake him. One drunk’s enough.
Anyway Granger will know.”


  But he didn’t. He came gloomily back from the
lavatory. “Who’s the dame?” he asked morosely.


  “Miss Phuong is a friend of Fowler’s,” Pyle said
stiffly. “We want to know who...”


  “Where’d he find her? You got to be careful in this
town.” He added gloomily, “Thank God for penicillin.”


  “Bill,” the Economic Attaché said, “we want to know
who Mick is.”


  “Search me.”


  “But you brought him here.”


  “The Frogs can’t take Scotch. He passed out.”


  “Is he French? I thought you called him Mick.”


  “Had to call him something,” Granger said. He leant
over to Phuong and said, “Here. You. Have another glass of orange?
Got a date tonight?”


  I said, “She’s got a date every night.”


  The Economic Attaché said hurriedly, “How’s the war,
Bill?”


  “Great victory north-west of Hanoi. French
recaptured two villages they never told us they’d lost. Heavy
Vietminh casualties. Haven’t been able to count their own yet but
will let us know in a week or two.”


  The Economic Attaché said, “There’s a rumour that
the Vietminh have broken into Phat Diem, burned the Cathedral,
chased out the Bishop.”


  “They wouldn’t tell us about that in Hanoi. That’s
not a victory.”


  “One of our medical teams couldn’t get beyond Nam
Dinh,” Pyle said.


  “You didn’t get down as far as that, Bill?” the
Economic Attaché asked.


  “Who do you think I am? I’m a correspondent with an

Ordre de Circulation
 which shows when I’m out of bounds. I
fly to Hanoi airport. They give us a car to the Press Camp. They
lay on a flight over the two towns they’ve recaptured and show us
the tricolour flying. It might be any darned flag at that height.
Then we have a Press Conference and a colonel explains to us what
we’ve been looking at. Then we file our cables with the censor.
Then we have drinks. Best barman in Indo-China. Then we catch the
plane back.”


  Pyle frowned at his beer.


  “You underrate yourself, Bill,” the Economic Attaché
said. “Why, that account of Road 66—what did you call it? Highway
to Hell—that was worthy of the Pulitzer. You know the story I
mean—the man with his head blown off kneeling in the ditch, and
that other you saw walking in a dream . . .”


  “Do you think I’d really go near their stinking
highway? Stephen Crane could describe a war without seeing one. Why
shouldn’t I? Ifs only a damned colonial war anyway. Get me another
drink. And then let’s go and find a girl. You’ve got a piece of
tail. I want a piece of tail too.”


  I said to Pyle, “Do you think there’s anything in
the rumour about Phat Diem?”


  “I don’t know. Is it important? I’d like to go and
have a look,” he said, “if it’s important.”


  “Important to the Economic Mission?”


  “Oh, well,” he said, “you can’t draw hard lines.
Medicine’s a kind of weapon, isn’t it? These Catholics, they’d be
pretty strong against the Communists, wouldn’t they?”


  “They trade with the Communists. The Bishop gets his
cows and the bamboo for his building from the Communists. I
wouldn’t say they were exactly York Harding’s Third Force,” I
teased him.


  “Break it up,” Granger was shouting. “Can’t waste
the whole night here. I”m.off to the House of Five Hundred
Girls.”


  “If you and Miss Phuong would have dinner with me .
. .” Pyle said.


  “You can eat at the Chalet,” Granger interrupted
him, “while I’m knocking the girls next door. Come on, Joe. Anyway
you’re a man.”


  I think it was then, wondering what a man is, that I
felt my first affection for Pyle. He sat a little turned away from
Granger, twisting his beer mug, with an expression of determined
remoteness. He said to Phuong, “I guess you get tired of all this
shop—about your country, I mean?”


  “
Comment
?”


  “What are you going to do with Mick?” the Economic
Attaché asked.


  “Leave him here,” Granger said.


  “You can’t do that. You don’t even know his
name.”


  “We could bring him along and let the girls look
after him.”


  The Economic Attaché gave a loud communal laugh. He
looked like a face on television. He said, “You young people can do
what you want, but I’m too old for games. I’ll take him home with
me. Did you say he was French?”


  “He spoke French.”


  “If you can get him into my car . . .”


  After he bad driven away, Pyle took a trishaw with
Granger, and Phuong and I followed along the road to Cholon.
Granger had made an attempt to get into the trishaw with Phuong,
but Pyle diverted him. As they pedalled us down the long suburban
road to the Chinese town a line of French armoured cars went by,
each with its jutting gun and silent officer motionless like a
figurehead under the stars and the black, smooth, concave
sky—trouble again probably with a private army, the Binh Xuyen, who
ran the Grand Monde and the gambling halls of Cholon. This was a
land of rebellious barons. It was like Europe in the Middle Ages.
But what were the Americans doing here? Columbus had not yet
discovered their country. I said to Phuong, “I like that fellow,
Pyle.”


  “He’s quiet,” she said, and the adjective which she
was the first to use stuck like a.schoolboy name, till I heard even
Vigot use it, sitting there with his green eye-shade, telling me of
Pyle’s death.


  I stopped our trishaw outside the Chalet and said to
Phuong, “Go in and find a table. I had better look after Pyle.”
That was my first instinct—to protect him. It never occurred to me
that there was greater need to protect myself. Innocence always
calls mutely for protection when we would be so much wiser to guard
ourselves against it: innocence is like a dumb leper who has lost
his bell, wandering the world, meaning no harm.


  When I reached the House of the Five Hundred Girls,
Pyle and Granger had gone inside. I asked at the military police
post just inside the doorway, “
Deux Américains
?”


  He was a young Foreign Legion corporal. He stopped
cleaning his revolver and jutted his thumb towards the doorway
beyond, making a joke in German. I couldn’t understand it.


  It was the hour of rest in the immense courtyard
which lay open to the sky. Hundreds of girls lay on the grass or
sat on their heels talking to their companions. The curtains were
undrawn in the little cubicles around the square—one tired girl lay
alone on a bed with her ankles crossed. There was trouble in Cholon
and the troops were confined to quarters and there was no work to
be done: the Sunday of the body. Only a knot of fighting,
scrabbling, shouting girls showed me where custom was still alive.
I remembered the old Saigon story of the distinguished visitor who
had lost his trousers fighting his way back to the safety of the
police post. There was no protection here for the civilian. If he
chose to poach on military territory, he must look after himself
and find his own way out.


  I had learnt a technique—to divide and conquer. I
chose one in the crowd that gathered round me and edged her slowly
towards the spot where Pyle and Granger struggled.


  “
Je suis un vieux
,” I said. “
Trop
fatigué.” She
 giggled and pressed. “
Mon ami
.” I said,
“
il est très riche, très vigoureux
.”


  “
Tu es sale
,” she said.


  I caught sight of Granger flushed and triumphant; it
was as though he took this demonstration as a tribute to his
manhood. One girl had her arm through Pyle’s and was trying to tug
him gently out of the ring. I pushed my girl in among them and
called to him, “Pyle, over here.”


  He looked at me over their heads and said, “It’s
terrible. Terrible.” It may have been a trick of the lamplight, but
his face looked haggard. It occurred to me that he was quite
possibly a virgin.


  “Come along, Pyle,” I said. “Leave them to Granger.”
I saw bis hand move towards his hip pocket. I really believe he
intended to empty his pockets of piastres and greenbacks. “Don’t be
a fool, Pyle,” I called sharply. “You’ll have them fighting.” My
girl was turning back to me and I gave her another push into the
inner ring round Granger. “
Non, non
,” I said, “
je suis
un Anglais, pauvre, très pauvre
.” Then I got hold of Pyle’s
sleeve and dragged him out, with the girl hanging on to his other
arm like a hooked fish. Two or three girls tried to intercept us
before we got to the gateway where the corporal stood watching, but
they were half-hearted.


  “ Whatll I do with this one?” Pyle said.


  “She won’t be any trouble,” and at that moment she
let go his arm and dived back into the scrimmage round Granger.


  “Will he be all right?” Pyle asked anxiously.


  “He’s got what he wanted—a bit of tail.”


  The night outside seemed very quiet with only
another squadron of armoured cars driving by like-people with a
purpose. He said, “It’s terrible. I wouldn’t have believed...” He
said with sad awe, “They were so pretty.” He was not envying
Granger, he was complaining that anything good -and prettiness and
grace are surely forms of goodness—should be marred or ill-treated.
Pyle could see pain when it was in front of his eyes. (I don’t
write that as a sneer; after all there are many of us who
can’t.)


  I said, “Come back to the Chalet. Phuong’s
waiting.”


  “I’m sorry,” he said. “I quite forgot. You shouldn’t
have left her.”


  “
She
 wasn’t in danger.”


  “I just thought I’d see Granger safely . . .” He
dropped again into his thoughts, but as we entered the Chalet he
said with obscure distress, “I’d forgotten how many men there are
...”


 


 


  2


 


  Phuong had kept us a table at the edge of the
dance-floor and the orchestra was playing some tune which had been
popular in Paris five years ago. Two Vietnamese couples were
dancing, small, neat, aloof, with an air of civilization we
couldn’t match. (I recognized one, an accountant from the Banque de
l”Indo-Chine and his wife.) They never, one felt, dressed
carelessly, said the wrong word, were a prey to untidy passion. If
the war seemed medieval, they were like the eighteenth-century
future. One would have expected Mr Pham-Van-Tu to write Augustans
in his spare time, but I happened to know he was a student of
Wordsworth and wrote nature poems. His holidays he spent at Dalat,
the nearest he could get to the atmosphere of the English lakes. He
bowed slightly as he came round. I wondered how Granger had fared
fifty yards up the road.


  Pyle was apologizing to Phuong in bad French for
having kept her waiting. “
C”est impardonable
,” he
said.


  “Where have you been?” she asked him.


  He said, “I was seeing Granger home.”


  “Home?” I said and laughed, and Pyle looked at me as
though I were another Granger. Suddenly I saw myself as he saw me,
a man of middle age, with eyes a little bloodshot, beginning to put
on weight, ungraceful in love, less noisy than Granger perhaps but
more cynical, less innocent, and I saw Phuong for a moment as I had
seen her first, dancing past my table at the Grand Monde in a white
ball-dress, eighteen years old, watched by an elder sister who had
been determined on a good European marriage. An American had bought
a ticket and asked her for a dance: he was a little drunk—not
harmfully, and I suppose he was new to the country and thought the
hostesses of the Grand Monde were whores. He held her much too
close as they went round the floor the first time, and then
suddenly there she was, going back to sit with her sister, and he
was left, stranded and lost among the dancers, not knowing what had
happened or why. And the girl whose name I didn’t know sat quietly
there, occasionally sipping her orange juice, owning herself
completely.


  “
Peut-on avoir l”honneur
?” Pyle was saying
in his terrible accent, and a moment later I saw them dancing in
silence at the other end of the room, Pyle holding her so far away
from him that you expected him at any moment to sever contact. He
was a very bad dancer, and she had been the best dancer I had ever
known in her days at the Grand Monde.


  It had been a long and frustrating courtship. If I
could have offered marriage and a settlement everything would have
been easy, and the elder sister would have slipped quietly and
tactfully away whenever we were together. But three months passed
before I saw her so much as momentarily alone, on a balcony at the
Majestic, while her sister in the next room kept on asking when we
proposed to come in. A cargo boat from France was being unloaded in
Saigon River by the light of flares, the trishaw bells rang like
telephones, and I might have been a young and inexperienced fool
for all I found to say. I went back hopelessly to my bed in the rue
Catinat and never dreamed that four months later she would be lying
beside me, a little out of breath, laughing as though with surprise
because nothing had been quite what she expected.


  “Monsieur Fowlair.” I had been watching them dance
and hadn’t seen her sister signalling to me from another table. Now
she came over and I reluctantly asked her to sit down. We had never
been friends since the night she was taken ill in the Grand Monde
and I had seen Phuong home.


  “I haven’t seen you for a whole year,” she said.


  “I am away so often at Hanoi.”


  “Who is your friend?” she asked.


  “A man called Pyle.”


  “What does he do?”


  “He belongs to the American Economic Mission. You
know the kind of thing—electrical sewing machines for starving
seamstresses.”


  “Are there any?”


  “I don’t know.”


  “But they don’t use sewing machines. There wouldn’t
be any electricity where they live.” She was a very literal
woman.


  “You’ll have to ask Pyle,” I said.


  “Is he married?”


  I looked at the dance floor. “I should say that’s as
near as he ever got to a woman.”


  “He dances very badly,” she said.


  “Yes.”


  “But he looks a nice reliable man.”


  “Yes.”


  “Can I sit with you for a little? My friends are
very dull.”


  The music stopped and Pyle bowed stiffly to Phuong,
then led her back and drew out her chair. I could tell that his
formality pleased her. I thought how much she missed in her
relation to me.


  “This is Phuong’s sister,” I said to Pyle. “Miss
Hei.”


  “I’m very glad to meet you,” he said and
blushed,


  “You come from New York?” she asked.


  “No. From Boston.”


  “That is in the United States too?”


  “Oh yes. Yes.”


  “Is your father a business man?”


  “Not really. He’s a professor.”


  “A teacher?” she asked with a faint note of
disappointment.


  “Well, he’s a kind of authority, you know. People
consult him.”


  “About health? Is he a doctor?”


  “Not that sort of doctor. He’s a doctor of
engineering though. He understands all about underwater erosion.
You know what that is?”


  “No.”


  Pyle said with a dim attempt at humour, “Well, I’ll
leave it to Dad to tell you about that.”


  “He is here?”


  “Oh no.”


  “But he is coming?”


  “No. That was just a joke,” Pyle said
apologetically.


  “Have you got another sister?” I asked Miss Hei.


  “No. Why?”


  “It sounds as though you were examining Mr Pyle’s
marriageability.”


  “I have only one sister,” Miss Hei said, and she
clamped her hand heavily down on Phuong’s knee, like a chairman
with his gravel marking a point of order.


  “She’s a very pretty sister,” Pyle said.


  “She is the most beautiful girl in Saigon,” Miss Hei
said, as though she were correcting him.


  “I can believe it.”


  I said, “It’s time we ordered dinner. Even the most
beautiful girl in Saigon must eat.”


  “I am not hungry,” Phuong said.


  “She is delicate,” Miss Hei went firmly on. There
was a note of menace in her voice. “She needs care. She deserves
care. She is very, very loyal.”


  “My friend is a lucky man,” Pyle said gravely.


  “She loves children,” Miss Hei said.


  I laughed and then caught Pyle’s eye; he was looking
at me with shocked surprise, and suddenly it occurred to me that he
was genuinely interested in what Miss Hei had to say. While I was
ordering dinner (though Phuong had told me she was not hungry, I
knew she could manage a good steak tartare with two raw eggs and
etceteras), I listened to him seriously discussing the question of
children. “I’ve always thought I’d like a lot of children,” he
said. “A big family’s a wonderful interest. It makes for the
stability of marriage. And it’s good for the children too. I was an
only child. It’s a great disadvantage being an only child.” I had
never heard him talk so much before.


  “How old is your father?” Miss Hei asked with
gluttony.


  “Sixty-nine.”


  “Old people love grandchildren. It is very sad that
my sister has no parents to rejoice in her children. When the day
comes, “ she added with a baleful look at me.


  “Nor you either,” Pyle said, rather unnecessarily I
thought.


  “Our father was of a very good family. He was a
mandarin in Hué.”


  I said, “I’ve ordered dinner for all of you.”


  “Not for me,” Miss Hei said. “I must be going to my
friends. I would like to meet Mr Pyle again. Perhaps you could
manage that.”


  “When I get back from the north,” I said.


  “Are you going to the north?”


  “I think it’s time I had a look at the war.”


  “But the Press are all back,” Pyle said.


  “That’s the best time for me. I don’t have to meet
Granger.”


  “Then you must come and have dinner with me and my
sister when Monsieur Fowlair is gone.” She added with morose
courtesy, “To cheer her up.”


  After she had gone Pyle said, “What a very nice
cultivated woman. And she spoke English so well.”


  “Tell him my sister was in business once in
Singapore,” Phuong said proudly.


  “Really? What kind of business?”


  I translated for her. “Import, export. She can do
shorthand.”


  “I wish we had more like her in the Economic
Mission.”


  “I will speak to her,” Phuong said. “She would like
to work for the Americans.”


  After dinner they danced again. I am a bad dancer
too and I hadn’t the unselfconsciousness of Pyle—or had I possessed
it, I wondered, in the days when I was first in love with Phuong?
There must have been many occasions at the Grand Monde before the
memorable night of Miss Hei’s illness when I had danced with Phuong
just for an opportunity to speak to her. Pyle was taking no such
opportunity as they came round the floor again; he had relaxed a
little, that was all, and was holding her less at arm’s length, but
they were both silent. Suddenly watching her feet, so light and
precise and mistress of his shuffle, I was in love again. I could
hardly believe that in an hour, two hours, she would be coming back
to me to that dingy room with the communal closet and the old women
squatting on the landing.


  I wished I had never heard the rumour about Phat
Diem, or that the rumour had dealt with any other town than the one
place in the north where my friendship with a French naval officer
would allow me to slip in, uncensored, uncontrolled. A newspaper
scoop? Not in those days when all the world wanted to read about
was Korea. A chance of death? Why should I want to die when Phuong
slept beside me every night? But I knew the answer to that
question. From childhood I had never believed in permanence, and
yet I had longed for it. Always I was afraid of losing happiness.
This month, next year, Phuong would leave me. If not next year, in
three years. Death was the only absolute value in my world. Lose
life and one would lose nothing again for ever. I envied those who
could believe in a God and I distrusted them. I felt they were
keeping their courage up with a fable of the changeless and the
permanent. Death was far more certain than God, and with death
there would be no longer the daily possibility of love dying. The
nightmare of a future of boredom and indifference would lift. I
could never have been a pacifist. To kill a man was surely to grant
him an immeasurable benefit. Oh yes, people always, everywhere,
loved their enemies. It was their friends they preserved for pain
and vacuity.


  “Forgive me for taking Miss Phuong from you,” Pyle’s
voice said.


  “Oh, I’m no dancer, but I like watching her dance.”
One always spoke of her like that in the third person as though she
were not there. Sometimes she seemed invisible like peace.


  The first cabaret of the evening began : a singer, a
juggler, a comedian—he was very obscene, but when I looked at Pyle
he obviously couldn’t follow the argot. He smiled when Phuong
smiled and laughed uneasily when I laughed. “I wonder where Granger
is now, “ I said, and Pyle looked at me reproachfully.


  Then came the turn of the evening: a troupe of
female impersonators. I had seen many of them during the day in the
rue Catinat walking up and down, in old slacks and sweaters, a bit
blue about the chin, swaying their hips. Now in low-cut evening
dresses, with false jewellery and false breasts and husky voices,
they appeared at least as desirable as most of the European women
in Saigon. A group of young Air Force officers whistled to them and
they smiled glamorously back. I was astonished by the sudden
violence of Pyle’s protest. “Fowler,” he said, “let’s go. We’ve had
enough, haven’t we? This isn’t a bit suitable for

her
.”


 


 


 


  
Chapter 4


 


  l


 


  FROM the bell tower of the Cathedral the battle was
only picturesque, fixed like a panorama of the Boer War in an old

Illustrated London News
. An aeroplane was parachuting
supplies to an isolated post in the 
calcaire
, those
strange weather-eroded mountains on the Annam border that look like
piles of pumice, and because it always returned to the same place
for its glide, it might never have moved, and the parachute was
always there in the same spot, half-way to earth. From the plain
the mortar-bursts rose unchangingly, the smoke as solid as stone,
and in the market the flames burnt palely in the sunlight. The tiny
figures of the parachutists moved in single file along the canals,
but at this height they appeared stationary. Even the priest who
sat in a corner of the tower never changed his position as he read
in his breviary. The war was very tidy and clean at that
distance.


  I had come in before dawn in a landing-craft from
Nam Dinh. We couldn’t land at the naval station because it was cut
off by the enemy who completely surrounded the town at a range of
six hundred yards, so the boat ran in beside the flaming market. We
were an easy target in the light of the flames, but for some reason
no one fired. Everything was quiet, except for the flop and crackle
of the burning stalls. I could hear a Senegalese sentry on the
river’s edge shift his stance.


  I had known Phat Diem well in the days before the
attack—the one long narrow street of wooden stalls, cut up every
hundred yards by a canal, a church and a bridge. At night it had
been lit only by candles or small oil lamps (there was no
electricity in Phat Diem except in the French officers’ quarters),
and day or night the street was packed and noisy. In its strange
medieval way, under the shadow and protection of the Prince Bishop,
it had been the most living town in all the country, and now when I
landed and walked up to the officers’ quarters it was the most
dead. Rubble and broken glass and the smell of burnt paint and
plaster, the long street empty as far as the sight could reach, it
reminded me of a London thoroughfare in the early morning after an
all-clear: one expected to see a placard, “Unexploded Bomb”.


  The front wall of the officers’ house had been blown
out, and the houses across the street were in ruins. Coming down
the river from Nam Dinh I had learnt from Lieutenant Peraud what
had happened. He was a serious young man, a Free-mason, and to him
it was like a judgement on the superstitions of his fellows. The
Bishop of Phat Diem had once visited Europe and acquired there a
devotion to Our Lady of Fatima—that vision of the Virgin which
appeared, so Roman Cathol-ics believe, to a group of children in
Portugal. When he came home, he built a grotto in her honour in the
Cathedral precincts, and he celebrated her feast-day every year
with a procession. Relations with the colonel in charge of the
French and Vietnamese troops had always been strained since the day
when the authorities had disbanded the Bishop’s private army. This
year the colonel—who had some sympathy with the Bishop, for to each
of them his country was more important than Catholicism—made a
gesture of amity and walked with his senior officers in the front
of the procession. Never had a greater crowd gathered in Phat Diem
to do honour to Our Lady of Fatima. Even many of the Buddhists—who
formed about half the population—could not bear to miss the fun,
and those who had belief in neither God nor Buddha believed that
somehow all these banners and incense-burners and the golden
monstrance would keep war from their homes. All that was left of
the Bishop’s army—his brass band—led the procession, and the French
officers, pious by order of the colonel, followed like choirboys
through the gateway into the Cathedral precincts, past the white
statue of the Sacred Heart that stood on an island in the little
lake before the Cathedral, under the bell tower with spreading
oriental wings and into the carved wooden Cathedral with its
gigantic pillars formed out of single trees and the scarlet lacquer
work of the altar, more Buddhist than Christian. From all the
villages between the canals, from that Low Country landscape where
young green rice-shoots and golden harvests take the place of
tulips and churches of windmills, the people poured in.


  Nobody noticed the Vietminh agents who had joined
the procession too, and that night as the main Communist battalion
moved through the passes in the 
calcaire
, into the Tonkin
plain, watched helplessly by the French outpost in the mountains
above, the advance agents struck in Phat Diem.


  Now after four days, with the help of parachutists,
the enemy had been pushed back half a mile around the town. This
was a defeat: no journalists were allowed, no cables could be sent,
for the papers must carry only victories. The authorities would
have stopped me in Hanoi if they had known of my purpose, but the
further you get from headquarters, the looser becomes the control
until, when you come within range of the enemy’s fire, you are a
welcome guest -what has been a menace for the 
Etat Major

in Hanoi, a worry for the full colonel in Nam Dinh, to the
lieutenant in the field is a joke, a distraction, a mark of
interest from the outer world, so that for a few blessed hours he
can dramatize himself a little and see in a false heroic light even
his own wounded and dead.


  The priest shut his breviary and said, “Well, that’s
finished.” He was a European, but not a Frenchman, for the Bishop
would not have tolerated a French priest in his diocese. He said
apologetically, “ I have to come up here, you understand, for a bit
of quiet from all those poor people.” The sound of the mortar-fire
seemed to be closing in, or perhaps it was the enemy at last
replying. The strange difficulty was to find them : there were a
dozen narrow fronts, and between the canals, among the farm
buildings and the paddy fields, innumerable opportunities for
ambush.


  Immediately below us stood, sat and lay the whole
population of Phat Diem. Catholics, Buddhists, pagans, they had all
packed their most valued possessions—a cooking-stove, a lamp, a
mirror, a wardrobe, some mats, a holy picture—and moved into the
Cathedral precincts. Here in the north it would be bitterly cold
when darkness came, and already the Cathedral was full: there was
no more shelter; even on the stairs to the bell tower every step
was occupied, and all the time more people crowded through the
gates, carrying their babies and household goods. They believed,
whatever their religion, that here they would be safe. While we
watched, a young man with a rifle in Vietnamese uniform pushed his
way through: he was stopped by a priest, who took his rifle from
him. The father at my side said in explanation, “We are neutral
here. This is God’s territory.” I thought, “It’s a strange poor
population God has in his kingdom, frightened, cold, starving -’I
don’t know how we are going to feed these people,’ the priest told
me—you’d think a great King would do better than that.” But then I
thought, “It’s always the same wherever one goes—it’s not the most
powerful rulers who have the happiest populations.”


  Little shops had already been set up below. I said,
“It’s like an enormous fair, isn’t it, but without one smiling
face.”


  The priest said, “They were terribly cold last
night. We have to keep the monastery gates shut or they would swamp
us.”


  “You all keep warm in here?” I asked.


  “Not very warm. And we would not have room for a
tenth of them.” He went on, “I know what you are thinking. But it
is essential for some of us to keep well. We have the only hospital
in Phat Diem, and our only nurses are these nuns.”


  “And your surgeon?”


  “I do what I can.” I saw then that his soutane was
speckled with blood.


  He said, “Did you come up here to find me?”


  “No. I wanted to get my bearings.”


  “I asked you because I had a man up here last night.
He wanted to go to confession. He had got a little frightened, you
see, with what he had seen along the canal. One couldn’t blame
him.”


  “It’s bad along there?”


  “The parachutists caught them in a cross-fire. Poor
souls. I thought perhaps you were feeling the same.”


  “I’m not a Roman Catholic. I don’t think you could
even call me a Christian.”


  “It’s strange what fear does to a man.”


  “It would never do that to me. If I believed in any
God at all, I should still hate the idea of confession. Kneeling in
one of your boxes. Exposing myself to another man. You must excuse
me, Father, but to me it seems morbid—unmanly even.”


  “Oh,” he said lightly, “I expect you are a good man.
I don’t suppose you Ve ever had much to regret.”


  I looked along the churches, where they ran down
evenly spaced between the canals, towards the sea. A light flashed
from the second tower. I said, “You haven’t kept all your churches
neutral.”


  “It isn’t possible,” he said. “The French have
agreed to leave the Cathedral precincts alone. We can’t expect
more. That’s a Foreign Legion post you are looking at.”


  “I’ll be going along. Good-bye, Father.”


  “Good-bye and good luck. Be careful of the
snipers.”


  I had to push my way through the crowd to get out,
past the lake and the white statue with its sugary outspread arms,
into the long street. I could see for nearly three quarters of a
mile each way, and there were only two living beings in all that
length besides myself—two soldiers with camouflaged helmets going
slowly away up the edge of the street, their sten guns at the
ready. I say the living because one body lay in a doorway with its
head in the road. The buzz of flies collecting there and the
squelch of the soldiers’ boots growing fainter and fainter were the
only sounds. I walked quickly past the body, turning my head the
other way. A few minutes later when I looked back I was quite alone
with my shadow and there were no sounds except the sounds I made. I
felt as though I were a mark on a firing range. It occurred to me
that if something happened to me in this street it might be many
hours before I was picked up: time for the flies to collect.


  When I had crossed two canals, I took a turning that
led to a church. A dozen men sat on the ground in the camouflage of
parachutists, while two officers examined a map. Nobody paid me any
attention when I joined them. One man, who wore the long antennae
of a walkie-talkie, said, “We can move now,” and everybody stood
up.


  I asked them in my bad French whether I could
accompany them. An advantage of this war was that a European face
proved in itself a passport on the field: a European could not be
suspected of being an enemy agent. “Who are you?” the lieutenant
asked.


  “I am writing about the war,” I said.


  “American?”


  “No, English.”


  He said, “It is a very small affair, but if you wish
to come with us ...” He began to take off his steel helmet. “No,
no,” I said, “that is for combatants.”


  “As you wish.”


  We went out behind the church in single file, the
lieutenant leading, and halted for a moment on a canal-bank for the
soldier with the walkie-talkie to get contact with the patrols on
either flank. The mortar shells tore over us and burst out of
sight. We had picked up more men behind the church and were now
about thirty strong. The lieutenant explained to me in a low voice,
stabbing a finger at his map, “Three hundred have been reported in
this village here. Perhaps massing for tonight. We don’t know. No
one has found them yet.”


  “How far?”


  “Three hundred yards.”


  Words came over the wireless and we went on in
silence, to the right the straight canal, to the left low scrub and
fields and scrub again. “All clear,” the lieutenant whispered with
a reassuring wave as we started. Forty yards on, another canal,
with what was left of a bridge, a single plank without rails, ran
across our front. The lieutenant motioned to us to deploy and we
squatted down facing the unknown territory ahead, thirty feet off,
across the plank. The men looked at the water and then, as though
by a word of command, all together, they looked away. For a moment
I didn’t see what they had seen, but when I saw, my mind went back,
I don’t know why, to the Chalet and the female impersonators and
the young soldiers whistling and Pyle saying, “This isn’t a bit
suitable.”


  The canal was full of bodies: I am reminded now of
an Irish stew containing too much meat. The bodies overlapped : one
head, seal-grey, and anonymous as a convict with a shaven scalp,
stuck up out of the water like a buoy. There was no blood: I
suppose it had flowed away a long time ago. I have no idea how many
there were: they must have been caught in a cross-fire, trying to
get back, and I suppose every man of us along the bank was
thinking, “Two can play at that game.” I too took my eyes away; we
didn’t want to be reminded of how little we counted, how quickly,
simply and anonymously death came. Even though my reason wanted the
state of death, I was afraid like a virgin of the act. I would have
liked death to come with due warning, so that I could prepare
myself. For what? I didn’t know, nor how, except by taking a look
around at the little I would be leaving.


  The lieutenant sat beside the man with the
walkie-talkie and stared at the ground between his feet. The
instrument began to crackle instructions and with a sigh as though
he had been roused from sleep he got up. There was an odd
comradeliness about all their movements, as though they were equals
engaged on a task they had performed together times out of mind.
Nobody waited to be told what to do. Two men made for the plank and
tried to cross it, but they were unbalanced by the weight of their
arms and had to sit astride and work their way across a few inches
at a time. Another man had found a punt hidden in some bushes down
the canal and he worked it to where the lieutenant stood. Six of us
got in and he began to pole towards the other bank, but we ran on a
shoal of bodies and stuck. He pushed away with his pole, sinking it
into this human clay, and one body was released and floated up all
its length beside the boat like a bather lying in the sun. Then we
were free again, and once on the other side we scrambled out, with
no backward look. No shots had been fired: we were alive: death had
withdrawn perhaps as far as the next canal. I heard somebody just
behind me say with great seriousness, “
Gott sei dank
,”
Except for the lieutenant they were most of them Germans.


  Beyond was a group of farm-buildings; the lieutenant
went in first, hugging the wall, and we followed at six-foot
intervals in single file. Then the men, again without an order,
scattered through the farm. Life had deserted it—not so much as a
hen had been left behind, though hanging on the walls of what had
been the living room where two hideous oleographs of the Sacred
Heart and the Mother and Child which gave the whole ramshackle
group of buildings a European air. One knew what these people
believed even if one didn’t share their belief: they were human
beings, not just grey drained cadavers.


  So much of the war is sitting around and doing
nothing, waiting for somebody else. With no guarantee of the amount
of time you have left it doesn’t seem worth starting even a train
of thought. Doing what they had done so often before, the sentries
moved out. Anything that stirred ahead of us now was enemy. The
lieutenant marked his map and reported our position over the radio.
A noonday hush fell : even the mortars were quiet and the air was
empty of planes. One man doodled with a twig in the dirt of the
farmyard. After a while it was as if we had been forgotten by war.
I hoped that Phuong had sent my suits to the cleaners. A cold wind
ruffled the straw of the yard, and a man went modestly behind a
barn to relieve himself. I tried to remember whether I had paid the
British Consul in Hanoi for the bottle of whisky he had allowed
me.


  Two shots were fired to our front, and I thought,
“This is it. Now it comes.” It was all the warning I wanted. I
awaited, with a sense of exhilaration, the permanent thing.


  But nothing happened. Once again I had
“over-prepared the event”. Only long minutes afterwards one of the
sentries entered and reported something to the lieutenant. I caught
the phrase, “
Deux civils
.”


  The lieutenant said to me, “We will go and see,” and
following the sentry we picked our way along a muddy overgrown path
between two fields. Twenty yards beyond the farm buildings, in a
narrow ditch, we came on what we sought: a woman and a small boy.
They were very clearly dead: a small neat clot of blood on the
woman’s forehead, and the child might have been sleeping. He was
about six years old and he lay like an embryo in the womb with his
little bony knees drawn up. “
Mai chance
,” the lieutenant
said. He bent down and turned the child over. He was wearing a holy
medal round his neck, and I said to myself, “The juju doesn’t
work.” There was a gnawed piece of loaf under his body. I thought,
“I hate war.”


  The lieutenant said, “Have you seen enough?”
speaking savagely, almost as though I had been responsible for
these deaths. Perhaps to the soldier the civilian is the man who
employs him to kill, who includes the guilt of murder in the
pay-envelope and escapes responsibility. We walked back to the farm
and sat down again in silence on the straw, out of the wind, which
like an animal seemed to know that dark was coming. The man who had
doodled was relieving himself, and the man who had relieved himself
was doodling. I thought how in those moments of quiet, after the
sentries had been posted, they must have believed it safe to move
from the ditch. I wondered whether they had lain there long—the
bread had been very dry. This farm was probably their home.


  The radio was working again. The lieutenant said
wearily, “They are going to bomb the village. Patrols are called in
for the night.” We rose and began our journey back, punting again
around the shoal of bodies, filing past the church. We hadn’t gone
very far, and yet it seemed a long enough journey to have made with
the killing of those two as the only result. The planes had gone
up, and behind us the bombing began.


  Dark had fallen by the time I reached the officers’
quarters, where I was spending the night. The temperature was only
a degree above zero, and the sole warmth anywhere was in the
blazing market. With one wall destroyed by a bazooka and the doors
buckled, canvas curtains couldn’t shut out the draughts. The
electric dynamo was not working, and we had to build barricades of
boxes and books to keep the candles burning. I played 
Quatre
Cent Vingt-et-un
 for Communist currency with a Captain Sorel:
it wasn’t possible to play for drinks as I was a guest of the mess.
The luck went wearisomely back and forth. I opened my bottle of
whisky to try to warm us a little, and the others gathered round.
The colonel said, “This is the first glass of whisky I have had
since I left Paris.”


  A lieutenant came in from his round of the sentries.
“Perhaps we shall have a quiet night,” he said.


  “They will not attack before four,” the colonel
said. “Have you a gun?” he asked me.


  “No.”


  “I’ll find you one. Better keep it on your pillow.”
He added courteously, “I am afraid you will find your mattress
rather hard. And at three-thirty the mortar-fire will begin. We try
to break up any concentrations.”


  “How long do you suppose this will go on?”


  “Who knows? We can’t spare any more troops from Nam
Dinh. This is just a diversion. If we can hold out with no more
help than we got two days ago, it is, one may say, a victory.”


  The wind was up again, prowling for an entry. The
canvas curtain sagged (I was reminded of Polonius stabbed behind
the arras) and the candle wavered. The shadows were theatrical. We
might have been a company of barnstormers.


  “Have your posts held?”


  “As far as we know.” He said with an effect of great
tiredness, “This is nothing, you understand, an affair of no
importance compared with what is happening a hundred kilometres
away at Hoa Binh. That is a battle.”


  “Another glass, Colonel?”


  “Thank you, no. It is wonderful, your English
whisky, but it is better to keep a little for the night in case of
need. I think, if you will excuse me, I will get some sleep. One
cannot sleep after the mortars start. Captain Sorel, you will see
that Monsieur Fowlair has everything he needs, a candle, matches, a
revolver.” He went into his room.


  It was the signal for all of us. They had put a
mattress on the floor for me in a small store-room and I was
surrounded by wooden cases. I stayed awake only a very short
time—the hardness of the floors was like rest. I wondered, but
oddly without jealousy, whether Phuong was at the flat. The
possession of a body tonight seemed a very small thing—perhaps that
day I had seen too many bodies which belonged to no one, not even
to themselves. We were all expendable. When I fell asleep I dreamed
of Pyle. He was dancing all by himself on a stage, stiffly, with
his arms held out to an invisible partner, and I sat and watched
him from a seat like a music-stool with a gun in my hand in case
anyone should interfere with his dance. A programme set up by the
stage, like the numbers in an English music-hall, read, “The Dance
of Love ‘A’ certificate.” Somebody moved at the back of the theatre
and I held my gun tighter. Then I woke.


  My hand was on the gun they had lent me, and a man
stood in the doorway with a candle in his hand. He wore a steel
helmet which threw a shadow over his eyes, and it was only when he
spoke that I knew he was Pyle. He said shyly, “I’m awfully sorry to
wake you up. They told me I could sleep in here.”


  I was still not fully awake. “Where did you get that
helmet?” I asked.


  “Oh, somebody lent it to me,” he said vaguely. He
dragged in after him a military kitbag and began to pull out a
wool-lined sleeping-bag.


  “You are very well equipped,” I said, trying to
recollect why either of us should be here.


  “This is the standard travelling kit,” he said, “of
our medical aid teams. They lent me one in Hanoi.” He took out a
thermos and a small spirit stove, a hair-brush, a shaving-set and a
tin of rations. I looked at my watch. It was nearly three in the
morning.


 


 


  2


 


  Pyle continued to unpack. He made a little ledge of
cases, on which he put his shaving-mirror and tackle. I said, “I
doubt if you’ll get any water.”


  “Oh,” he said, “I’ve enough in the thermos for the
morning.” He sat down on his sleeping-bag and began to pull off bis
boots.


  “How on earth did you get here?” I asked.


  “They let me through as far as Nam Dinh to see our
trachoma team, and then I hired a boat.”


  “A boat?”


  “Oh, some kind of a punt—I don’t know the name for
it. As a matter of fact I had to buy it. It didn’t cost much.”


  “And you came down the river by yourself?”


  “It wasn’t really difficult, you know. The current
was with me.”


  “You are crazy.”


  “Oh no. The only real danger was running
aground.”


  “Or being shot up by a naval patrol, or a French
plane. Or having your throat cut by the Vietminh.”


  He laughed shyly. “Well, I’m here anyway,” he
said.


  “Why?”


  “Oh, there are two reasons. But I don’t want to keep
you awake. “


  “I’m not sleepy. The guns will be starting
soon.”


  “Do you mind if I move the candle? It’s a little too
bright here.” He seemed nervous.


  “What’s the first reason?”


  “Well, the other day you made me think this place
was rather interesting. You remember when we were with Granger . .
. and Phuong.”


  “Yes?”


  “I thought I ought to take a look at it. To tell you
the truth, I was a little ashamed of Granger.”


  “I see. As simple as all that.”


  “Well, there wasn’t any real difficulty, was there?”
He began to play with his bootlaces, and there was a long silence.
“I’m not being quite honest,” he said at last.


  “No?”


  “I really came to see you.”


  “You came here to see me?”


  “Yes.”


  “Why?”


  He looked up from his bootlaces in an agony of
embarrassment. “I had to tell you—I’ve fallen in love with
Phuong.”


  I laughed. I couldn’t help it. He was so unexpected
and serious. I said, “Couldn’t you have waited nil I got back? I
shall be in Saigon next week.”


  “You might have been killed,” he said. “It wouldn’t
have been honourable. And then I don’t know if I could have stayed
away from Phuong all that time.”


  “You mean, you 
have
 stayed away?”


  “Of course. You don’t think I’ll tell 
her -

without you knowing?”


  “People do,” I said. “When did it happen?”


  “I guess it was that night at the Chalet, dancing
with her.”


  “I didn’t think you ever got close enough.”


  He looked at me in a puzzled way. If his conduct
seemed crazy to me, mine was obviously inexplicable to him. He
said, “You know, I think it was seeing all those girls in that
house. They were so pretty. Why, she might have been one of them. I
wanted to protect her.”


  “I don’t think she’s in need of protection. Has Miss
Hei invited you out?”


  “Yes, but I haven’t gone. I’ve kept away.” He said
gloomily, “It’s been terrible. I feel such a heel, but you do
believe me, don’t you, that if you’d been married—why, I wouldn’t
ever come between a man and his wife.”


  “You seem pretty sure you 
can
 come
between,” I said. For the first time he had irritated me.


  “Fowler,” he said, “I don’t know your Christian name
... ?”


  “Thomas. Why?”


  “I can call you Tom, can’t I? I feel in a way this
has brought us together. Loving the same woman, I mean.”


  “What’s your next move?”


  He sat up enthusiastically against the
packing-cases. “Everything seems different now that you know,” he
said. “I shall ask her to marry me, Tom.”


  “I’d rather you called me Thomas.”


  “Shell just have to choose between us, Thomas.
That’s fair enough.” But was it fair? I felt for the first time the
premonitory chill of loneliness. It was all fantastic, and yet ...
He might be a poor lover, but I was the poor man. He had in his
hand the infinite riches of respectability.


  He began to undress and I thought, “He has youth
too.” How sad it was to envy Pyle.


  I said, “I can’t marry her. I have a wife at home.
She would never divorce me. She’s High Church—if you know what that
means.”


  “I’m sorry, Thomas. By the way, my name’s Alden, if
you’d care . . .”


  “I’d rather stick to Pyle,” I said. “I think of you
as Pyle.”


  He got into his sleeping-bag and stretched his hand
out for the candle. “Whew,” he said, “I’m glad that’s over, Thomas.
I’ve been feeling awfully bad about it.” It was only too evident
that he no longer did.


  When the candle was out, I could just see the
outline of his crew-cut against the light of the flames outside.
“Goodnight, Thomas. Sleep well,” and immediately at those words
like a bad comedy cue the mortars opened up, whirring, shrieking,
exploding.


  “Good God,” Pyle said, “is it an attack?”


  “They are trying to stop an attack.”


  “Well, I suppose, there’ll be no sleep for us
now?”


  “No sleep.”


  “Thomas, I want you to know what I think of the way
you’ve taken all this—I think you’ve been swell, swell, there’s no
other word for it.”


  “Thank you.”


  “You’ve seen so much more of the world than I have.
You know, in some ways Boston is a bit—cramping. Even if you aren’t
a Lowell or a Cabot. I wish you’d advise me, Thomas.”


  “What about?”


  “Phuong.”


  “I wouldn’t trust my advice if I were you. I’m
biased. I want to keep her.”


  “Oh, but I know you’re straight, absolutely
straight, and we both have her interests at heart.”


  Suddenly I couldn’t bear his boyishness any more. I
said, “I don’t care that for her interests. You can have her
interests. I only want her body. I want her in bed with me. I’d
rather ruin her and sleep with her than, than . . . look after her
damned interests.”


  He said, “Oh,” in a weak voice, in the dark.


  I went on, “If it’s only her interests you care
about, for God’s sake leave Phuong alone. Like any other woman
she’d rather have a good . . .” The crash of a mortar saved Boston
ears from the Anglo-Saxon word.


  But there was a quality of the implacable in Pyle.
He had determined I was behaving well and I bad to behave well. He
said, “I know what you are suffering, Thomas.”


  “I’m not suffering.”


  “Oh yes, you are. I know what I’d suffer if I had to
give up Phuong.”


  “But I haven’t given her up.”


  “I’m pretty physical too, Thomas, but I’d give up
all hope of that if I could see Phuong happy.”


  “She is happy.”


  “She can’t be—not in her situation. She needs
children.”


  “Do you really believe all that nonsense her sister
. . .”


  “A sister sometimes knows better ...”


  “She was just trying to sell the notion to you,
Pyle, because she thinks you have more money. And, my God, she has
sold it all right.”


  “I’ve only got my salary.”


  “Well, you’ve got a favourable rate of exchange
anyway.”


  “Don’t be bitter, Thomas. These things happen. I
wish it had happened to anybody else but you. Are those our
mortars?”


  “Yes, ‘our’ mortars. You talk as though she was
leaving me, Pyle.”


  “Of course,” he said without conviction, “she may
choose to stay with you.”


  “What would you do then?”


  “I’d apply for a transfer.”


  “Why don’t you just go away, Pyle, without causing
trouble?”


  “It wouldn’t be fair to her, Thomas,” he said quite
seriously. I never knew a man who had better motives for all the
trouble he caused. He added, “I don’t think you quite understand
Phuong.”


  And waking that morning months later with Phuong
beside me, I thought, “And did you understand her either? Could you
have anticipated this situation? Phuong so happily asleep beside me
and you dead?” Time has its revenges, but revenges seem so often
sour. Wouldn’t we all do better not trying to understand, accepting
the fact that no human being will ever understand another, not a
wife a husband, a lover a mistress, nor a parent a child? Perhaps
that’s why men have invented God—a being capable of understanding.
Perhaps if I wanted to be understood or to understand I would
bamboozle myself into belief, but I am a reporter; God exists only
for leader-writers.


  “Are you sure there’s anything much to understand?”
I asked Pyle. “Oh, for God’s sake, let’s have a whisky. It’s too
noisy to argue.”


  “It’s a little early,” Pyle said.


  “It’s damned late.”


  I poured out two glasses and Pyle raised his and
stared through the whisky at the light of the candle. His hand
shook whenever a shell burst, and yet he had made that senseless
trip from Nam Dinh.


  Pyle said, “It’s a strange thing that neither of us
can say ‘Good luck’.” So we drank saying nothing.


 


 


 


  
Chapter 5


 


  l


 


  I HAD thought I would be only one week away from
Saigon, but it was nearly three weeks before I returned. In the
first place it proved more difficult to get out of the Phat Diem
area than it had been to get in. The road was cut between Nam Dinh
and Hanoi and aerial transport could not be spared for one reporter
who shouldn’t have been there anyway. Then when I reached Hanoi the
correspondents had been flown up for briefing on the latest victory
and the plane that took them back had no seat left for me. Pyle got
away from Phat Diem the morning he arrived: he had fulfilled his
mission—to speak to me about Phuong, and there was nothing to keep
him. I left him asleep when the mortar-fire stopped at five-thirty
and when I returned from a cup of coffee and some biscuits in the
mess he wasn’t there. I assumed that he had gone for a stroll—after
punting all the way down the river from Nam Dinh a few snipers
would not have worried him ; he was as incapable of imagining pain
or danger to himself as he was incapable of conceiving the pain he
might cause others. On one occasion—but that was months later—I
lost control and thrust bis foot into it, into the pain I mean, and
I .remember how he turned away and looked at his stained shoe in
perplexity and said, “I must get a shine before I see the
Minister.” I knew then he was already forming his phrases in the
style he had learnt from York Harding. Yet he was sincere in bis
way : it was coincidence that the sacrifices were all paid by
others, until that final night under the bridge to Dakow.


  It was only when I returned to Saigon that I learnt
how Pyle, while I drank my coffee, had persuaded a young naval
officer to take him on a landing-craft which after a routine patrol
dropped him surreptitiously at Nam Dinh. Luck was with him and he
got back to Hanoi with his trachoma team twenty-four hours before
the road was officially regarded as cut. When I reached Hanoi he
had already left for the south, leaving me a note with the barman
at the Press Camp.


  “Dear Thomas,” he wrote, “I can’t begin to tell you
how swell you were the other night. I can tell you my heart was in
my mouth when I walked into that room to find you.” (Where had it
been on the long boat-ride down the river?) “There are not many men
who would have taken the whole thing so calmly. You were great, and
I don’t feel half as mean as I did, now that I’ve told you.” (Was
he the only one that mattered? I wondered angrily, and yet I knew
that he didn’t intend it that way. To him the whole affair would be
happier as soon as he didn’t feel mean—I would be happier, Phuong
would be happier, the whole world would be happier, even the
Economic Attaché and the Minister. Spring had come to IndoChina now
that Pyle was mean no longer.) “I waited for you here for
twenty-four hours, but I shan’t get back to Saigon for a week if I
don’t leave today, and my real work is in the south. I’ve told the
boys who are running the trachoma teams to look you up—you’ll like
them. They are great boys and doing a man-size job. Don’t worry in
any way that I’m returning to Saigon ahead of you. I promise you I
won’t see Phuong until you return. I don’t want you to feel later
that I’ve been unfair in any way. Cordially yours, Alden.”


  Again that calm assumption that “later” it would be
I who would lose Phuong. Is confidence based on a rate of exchange?
We used to speak of sterling qualities. Have we got to talk now
about a dollar love? A dollar love, of course, would include
marriage and Junior and Mother’s Day, even though later it might
include Reno or the Virgin Islands or wherever they go nowadays for
their divorces. A dollar love had good intentions, a clear
conscience, and to Hell with everybody. But my love had no
intentions: it knew the future. All one could do was try to make
the future less hard, to break the future gently when it came, and
even opium had its value there. But I never foresaw that the first
future I would have to break to Phuong would be the death of
Pyle.


  I went—for I had nothing better to do—to the Press
Conference. Granger, of course, was there. A young and too
beautiful French colonel presided. He spoke in French and a junior
officer translated. The French correspondents sat together like a
rival football-team. I found it hard to keep my mind on what the
colonel was saying : all the time it wandered back to Phuong and
title one thought—suppose Pyle is right and I lose her: where does
one go from here?


  The interpreter said, “The colonel tells you that
the enemy has suffered a sharp defeat and severe losses—the
equivalent of one complete battalion. The last detachments are now
making their way back across the Red River on improvised rafts.
They are shelled all the time by the Air Force.” The colonel ran
his hand through his elegant yellow hair and, flourishing his
pointer, danced his way down the long maps on the wall. An American
correspondent asked, “What are the French losses?”


  The colonel knew perfectly well the meaning of the
question—it was usually put at this stage of the conference, but he
paused, pointer raised with a kind smile like a popular
schoolmaster, until it was interpreted. Then he answered with
patient ambiguity.


  “The colonel says our losses have not been heavy.
The exact number is not yet known.”


  This was always the signal for trouble. You would
have thought that sooner or later the colonel would have found a
formula for dealing with his refractory class, or that the
headmaster would have appointed a member of his staff more
efficient at keeping order.


  “Is the colonel seriously telling us,” Granger said,
“that he’s had time to count the enemy dead and not his own?”


  Patiently the colonel wove his web of evasion, which
he knew perfectly well would be destroyed again by another
question. The French correspondents sat gloomily silent. If the
American correspondents stung the colonel into an admission they
would be quick to seize it, but they would not join in baiting
their countryman.


  “The colonel says the enemy forces are being
over-run. It is possible to count the dead behind the firing-line,
but while the battle is still in progress you cannot expect figures
from the advancing French units.”


  “It’s not what 
we
 expect,” Granger said,
“it’s what the 
Etat Major
 knows or not. Are you seriously
telling us that platoons do not report their casualties as they
happen by walkie-talkie?”


  The colonel’s temper was beginning to fray. If only,
I thought, he had called our bluff from the start and told us
firmly that he knew the figures but wouldn’t say. After all it was
their war, not ours. We had no God-given right to information. We
didn’t have to fight Left-Wing deputies in Paris as well as the
troops of Ho Chi Minh between the Red and the Black Rivers. We were
not dying.


  The colonel suddenly snapped out the information
that French casualties had been in a proportion of one to three,
then turned his back on us, to stare furiously at his map. These
were his men who were dead, his fellow officers, belonging to the
same class at St Cyr—not numerals as they were to Granger. Granger
said, “Now we are getting somewhere,” and stared round with oafish
triumph at his fellows; the French with heads bent made their
sombre notes.


  “That’s more than can be said in Korea,” I said with
deliberate misunderstanding, but I had only given Granger a new
line.


  “Ask the colonel,” he said, “what the French are
going to do next? He says the enemy’s on the run across the Black
River . . .”


  “Red River,” the interpreter corrected him.


  “I don’t care what the colour of the river is. What
we want to know is what the French are going to do now.”


  “The enemy are in flight.”


  “What happens when they get to the other side? What
are you going to do then? Are you just going to sit down on the
other bank and say that’s over?” The French officers listened with
gloomy patience to Granger’s bullying voice. Even humility is
required today of the soldier. “Are you going to drop them
Christmas cards?”


  The captain interpreted with care, even to the
phrase, “
cartes de Noël”
. The colonel gave us a wintry
smile. “Not Christmas cards,” he said.


  I think the colonel’s youth and beauty particularly
irritated Granger. The colonel wasn’t—at least not by Granger’s
interpretation—a man’s man. He said, “You aren’t dropping much
else.”


  The colonel spoke suddenly in English, good English.
He said, “If the supplies promised by the Americans had arrived, we
should have more to drop.” He was really in spite of his elegance a
simple man. He believed that a newspaper correspondent cared for
his country’s honour more than for news. Granger said sharply (he
was efficient: he kept dates well in his head), “You mean that none
of the supplies promised for the beginning of September have
arrived?”


  “No.”


  Granger had got his news: he began to write.


  “I am sorry,” the colonel said, “that is not for
printing: that is for background.”


  “But colonel,” Granger protested, “that’s news. We
can help you there.”


  “No, it is a matter for the diplomats.”


  “What harm can it do?”


  The French correspondents were at a loss: they could
speak very little English. The colonel had broken the rules They
muttered angrily together.


  “I am no judge,” the colonel said. “Perhaps the
American newspapers would say, ‘Oh, the French are always
complaining, always begging.’ And in Paris the Communists would
accuse, ‘The French are spilling their blood for America and
America will not even send a second-hand helicopter.’ It does no
good. At the end of it we should still have no helicopters, and the
enemy would still be there, fifty miles from Hanoi.”


  “At least I can print that, can’t I, that you need
helicopters bad?”


  “You can say,” the colonel said, “that six months
ago we had three helicopters and now we have one. One,” he repeated
with a kind of amazed bitterness. “You can say that if a man is
wounded in this fighting, not seriously wounded, just wounded, he
knows that he is probably a dead man. Twelve hours, twenty-four
hours perhaps, on a stretcher to the ambulance, then bad tracks, a
breakdown, perhaps an ambush, gangrene. It is better to be killed
outright.” The French correspondents leant forward, trying to
understand. “You can write that,” he said, looking all the more
venomous for his physical beauty. “
Interprétez
,” he
ordered, and walked out of the room leaving the captain the
unfamiliar task of translating from English into French.


  “Got him on the raw,” said Granger with
satisfaction, and he went into a corner by the bar to write his
telegram. Mine didn’t take long: there was nothing I could write
from Phat Diem that the censors would pass. If the story had seemed
good enough I could have flown to Hong Kong and sent it from there,
but was any news good enough to risk expulsion? I doubted it.
Expulsion meant the end of a whole life, it meant the victory of
Pyle, and there, when I returned to my hotel, waiting in my
pigeon-hole, was in fact his victory, the end of the affair—a
congratulatory telegram of promotion. Dante never thought up that
turn of the screw for his condemned lovers. Paolo was never
promoted to Purgatory.


  I went upstairs to my bare room and the dripping
cold-water tap (there was no hot water in Hanoi) and sat on the
edge of my bed with the bundle of the mosquito-net like a swollen
cloud overhead. I was to be the new foreign editor, arriving every
afternoon at half past three, at that grim Victorian building near
Blackfriars station with a plaque of Lord Salisbury by the lift.
They had sent the good news on from Saigon, and I wondered whether
it had already reached Phuong’s ears. I was to be a reporter no
longer: I was to have opinions, and in return for that empty
privilege I was deprived of my last hope in the contest with Pyle.
I had experience to match his virginity, age was as good a card to
play in the sexual game as youth, but now I hadn’t even the limited
future of twelve more months to offer, and a future was trumps. I
envied the most homesick officer condemned to the chance of death.
I would have liked to weep, but the ducts were as dry as the
hot-water pipes. Oh, they could have home—I only wanted my room in
the rue Catinat.


  It was cold after dark in Hanoi and the lights were
lower than those of Saigon, more suited to the darker clothes of
the women and the fact of war. I walked up the rue Gambetta to the
Pax Bar -1 didn’t want to drink in the Metropole with the senior
French officers, their wives and their girls, and as I reached the
bar I was aware of the distant drumming of the guns out towards Hoa
Binh. In the day they were drowned in traffic-noises, but
everything was quiet now except for the tring of bicycle-bells
where the trishaw drivers plied for hire. Pietri sat in his usual
place. He had an odd elongated skull which sat on his shoulders
like a pear on a dish; he was a Sûreté officer and was married to a
pretty Tonkinese who owned the Pax Bar. He was another man who had
no particular desire to go home. He was a Corsican, but he
preferred Marseilles, and to Marseilles he preferred any day his
seat on the pavement in the rue Gambetta. I wondered whether he
already knew the contents of my telegram.


  “
Quatre Cent Vingt-et-un
?” he asked.


  “Why not?”


  We began to throw and it seemed impossible to me
that I could ever have a life again, away from the rue Gambetta and
the rue Catinat, the fiat taste of vermouth cassis, the homely
click of dice, and the gunfire travelling like a clock-hand around
the horizon.


  I said, “I’m going back.”


  “Home?” Pietri asked, throwing a four-to-one.


  “No. England.”


 


 


 


 


  
PART TWO


 


 


 


  
Chapter 1


 


  PYLE had invited himself for what he called a drink,
but I knew very well he didn’t really drink. After the passage of
weeks that fantastic meeting in Phat Diem seemed hardly believable
: even the details of the conversation were less clear. They were
like the missing letters on a Roman tomb and I the archaeologist
filling in the gaps according to the bias of my scholarship. It
even occurred to me that he had been pulling my leg, and that the
conversation had been an elaborate and humorous disguise for bis
real purpose, for it was already the gossip of Saigon that he was
engaged in one of those services so ineptly called secret. Perhaps
he was arranging American arms for a Third Force—the Bishop’s brass
band, all that was left of his young scared unpaid levies. The
telegram that awaited me in Hanoi I kept in my pocket. There was no
point in telling Phuong, for that would be to poison the few months
we had left with tears and quarrels. I wouldn’t even go for my
exit-permit till the last moment in case she had a relation in the
immigration-office.


  I told her, “Pyle’s coming at six.”


  “I will go and see my sister,” she said.


  “I expect he’d like to see you.”


  “He does not like me or my family. When you were
away he did not come once to my sister, although she had invited
him. She was very hurt.”


  “You needn’t go out.”


  “If he wanted to see me, he would have asked us to
the Majestic. He wants to talk to you privately—about
business.”


  “What is his business?”


  “People say he imports a great many things.”


  “What things?”


  “Drugs, medicines . ..”


  “Those are for the trachoma teams in the north.”


  “Perhaps. The Customs must not open them. They are
diplomatic parcels. But once there was a mistake—the man was
discharged. The First Secretary threatened to stop all
imports.”


  “What was in the case?”


  “Plastic.”


  “You don’t mean bombs?”


  “No. Just plastic.”


  When Phuong had gone, I wrote home. A man from
Reuter’s was leaving for Hong Kong in a few days and he could mail
my letter from there. I knew my appeal was hopeless, but I was not
going to reproach myself later for not taking every possible
measure. I wrote to the Managing Editor that mis was the wrong
moment to change their correspondent. General de Lattre was dying
in Paris : the French were about to withdraw altogether from Hoa
Binh: the north had never been in greater danger. I wasn’t
suitable, I told him, for a foreign editor—I was a reporter, I had
no real opinions about anything. On the last page I even appealed
to him on personal grounds, although it was unlikely that any human
sympathy could survive under the strip-light, among the green
eye-shades and the stereotyped phrases—”the good of the paper”,
“the situation demands . . .”


  I wrote: “For private reasons I am very unhappy at
being moved from Vietnam. I don’t think I can do my best work in
England, where there will be not only financial but family strains.
Indeed, if I could afford it I would resign rather than return to
the UX. I only mention this as showing the strength of my
objection. I don’t think you have found me a bad correspondent, and
this is the first favour I have ever asked of you.” Then I looked
over my article on the battle of Phat Diem, so that I could send it
out to be posted under a Hong Kong dateline. The French would not
seriously object now -the siege had been raised: a defeat could be
played as a victory. Then I tore up the last page of my letter to
the editor. It was no use—the “private reasons’ would become only
the subject of sly jokes. Every correspondent, it was assumed, had
his local girl. The editor would joke to the night-editor, who
would take the envious thought back to his semi-detached villa in
Streatham and climb into bed with it beside the faithful wife be
had carried with him years back from Glasgow. I could see so well
the kind of house that has no mercy—a broken tricycle stood in the
ball and somebody had broken his favourite pipe; and there was a
child’s shirt in the living-room waiting for a button to be sewn
on. “Private reasons”: drinking in the Press Club I wouldn’t want
to be reminded by their jokes of Phuong.


  There was a knock on the door. I opened it to Pyle
and his black dog walked in ahead of him. Pyle looked over my
shoulder and found the room empty. “I’m alone,” I said, “Phuong is
with her sister.” He blushed. I noticed that he was wearing a
Hawaii shirt, even though it was comparatively restrained in colour
and design. I was surprised: had he been accused of un-American
activities? He said, “I hope I haven’t interrupted . . .”


  “Of course not. Have a drink?”


  “Thanks. Beer?”


  “Sorry. We haven’t a frig—we send out for ice. What
about a Scotch?”


  “A small one, if you don’t mind. I’m not very keen
on hard liquor.”


  “On the rocks?”


  “Plenty of soda—if you aren’t short.”


  I said, “I haven’t seen you since Phat Diem.”


  “You got my note, Thomas?”


  When he used my Christian name, it was like a
declaration that he hadn’t been humorous, that he hadn’t been
covering up, that he was here to get Phuong. I noticed that his
crew-cut had recently been trimmed; was even the Hawaii shirt
serving the function of male plumage?


  “I got your note,” I said. “I suppose I ought to
knock you down.”


  “Of course,” he said, “you’ve every right, Thomas.
But I boxed at college—and I’m so much younger.”


  “No, it wouldn’t be a good move for me, would
it?”


  “You know, Thomas (I’m sure you feel the same), I
don’t like discussing Phuong behind her back. I thought she would
be here.”


  “Well, what shall we discuss—plastic?” I hadn’t
meant to surprise him.


  He said, “You know about that?”


  Thuong told me.”


  “How could she ... ?”


  “You can be sure it’s all over the town. What’s so
important about it? Are you going into the toy business?”


  “We don’t like the details of our aid to get around.
You know what Congress is like—and then one has visiting Senators.
We had a lot of trouble about our trachoma teams because they were
using one drug instead of another.”


  “I still don’t understand the plastic.”


  His black dog sat on the floor taking up too much
room, panting; its tongue looked like a burnt pancake. Pyle said
vaguely, “Oh, you know, we want to get some of these local
industries on their feet, and we have to be careful of the French.
They want everything bought in France.”


  “I don’t blame them. A war needs money.”


  “Do you like dogs?”


  “No.”


  “ I thought the British were great dog-lovers.”


  “We think Americans love dollars, but there must be
exceptions.”


  “I don’t know how I’d get along without Duke. You
know sometimes I feel so darned lonely . . .”


  “You’ve got a great many companions in your
branch.”


  “The first dog I ever had was called Prince. I
called him after the Black Prince. You know, the fellow who ..
.”


  “Massacred all the womeu and children in
Limoges.”


  “I don’t remember that.”


  “The history books gloss it over.”


  I was to see many times that look of pain and
disappointment touch his eyes and mouth when reality didn’t match
the romantic ideas he cherished, or when someone he loved or
admired dropped below the impossible standard he had set. Once, I
remember, I caught York Harding out in a gross error of fact, and I
had to comfort him: “It’s human to make mistakes.” He had laughed
nervously and said, “You must think me a fool, but—well, I almost
thought him infallible.” He added, “My father took to him a lot the
only time they met, and my father’s darned difficult to
please.”


  The big black dog called Duke, having panted long
enough to establish a kind of right to the air, began to poke about
the room. “Could you ask your dog to be still?” I said.


  “Oh, I’m so sorry. Duke. Duke. Sit down, Duke.” Duke
sat down and began noisily to lick his private parts. I filled our
glasses and managed in passing to disturb Duke’s toilet. The quiet
lasted a very short time; he began to scratch himself.


  “Duke’s awfully intelligent,” said Pyle.


  “What happened to Prince?”


  “We were down on the farm in Connecticut and he got
run over.”


  “Were you upset?”


  “Oh, I minded a lot. He meant a great deal to me,
but one has to be sensible. Nothing could bring him back.”


  “And if you lose Phuong, will you be sensible?”


  “Oh yes, I hope so. And you?”


  “I doubt it. I might even run amok. Have you thought
about that, Pyle?”


  “I wish you’d call me Alden, Thomas.”


  “I’d rather not. Pyle has got—associations. Have you
thought about it?”


  “Of course I haven’t. You’re the straightest guy
I’ve ever known. When I remember how you behaved when I barged in .
. .”


  “I remember thinking before I went to sleep how
convenient it would be if there were an attack and you were killed.
A hero’s death. For Democracy.”


  “Don’t laugh at me, Thomas.” He shifted his long
limbs uneasily. “I must seem a bit dumb to you, but I know when
you’re kidding.”


  “I’m not.”


  “I know if you come clean you want what’s best for
her.”


  It was then I heard Phuong’s step. I had hoped
against hope that he would have gone before she returned. He heard
it too and recognized it. He said, “There she is,” although he had
had only one evening to learn her footfall. Even the dog got up and
stood by the door, which I had left open for coolness, almost as
though he accepted her as one of Pyle’s family. I was an
intruder.


  Phuong said, “My sister was not in,” and looked
guardedly at Pyle.


  I wondered whether she were telling the truth or
whether her sister had ordered her to hurry back.


  “You remember Monsieur Pyle?” I said.


  “
Enchantée
.” She was on her best
behaviour.


  “I’m so pleased to see you again,” he said,
blushing.


  
”Comment?”


  “Her English is not very good,” I said.


  “I’m afraid my French is awful. I’m taking lessons
though. And I can understand—if Phuong will speak slowly.”


  “I’ll act as interpreter,” I said. “The local accent
takes some getting used to. Now what do you want to say? Sit down,
Phuong. Monsieur Pyle has come specially to see you. Are you sure,”
I added to Pyle, “that you wouldn’t like me to leave you two
alone?”


  “I want you to hear everything I have to say. It
wouldn’t be fair otherwise.”


  “Well, fire away.”


  He said solemnly, as though this part he had learned
by heart, that he had a great love and respect for Phuong. He had
felt it ever since the night he had danced with her. I was reminded
a little of a butler showing a party of tourists over a “great
house”. The great house was his heart, and of the private
apartments where the family lived we were given only a rapid and
surreptitious glimpse. I translated for him with meticulous care—it
sounded worse that way, and Phuong sat quiet with her hands in her
lap as though she were listening to a movie.


  “Has she understood that?” he asked.


  “As far as I can tell. You don’t want me to add a
little fire to it, do you?”


  “Oh no,” he said, “just translate. I don’t want to
sway her emotionally.”


  “I see.”


  “Tell her I want to many her.”


  I told her.


  “What was that she said?”


  “She asked me if you were serious. I told her you
were the serious type.”


  “I suppose this is an odd situation,” he said. “Me
asking you to translate.”


  “Rather odd.”


  “And yet it seems so natural. After all you are my
best friend.”


  “It’s kind of you to say so.”


  “There’s nobody I’d go to in trouble sooner than
you,” he said.


  “And I suppose being in love with my girl is a kind
of trouble?”


  “Of course. I wish it was anybody but you,
Thomas.”


  “Well, what do I say to her next. That you can’t
live without her?”


  “No, that’s too emotional. It’s not quite true
either. I’d have to go away, of course, but one gets over
everything.”


  “While you are thinking what to say, do you mind if
I put in a word for myself?”


  “No, of course not, it’s only fair, Thomas.”


  “Well, Phuong,” I said, “are you going to leave me
for him? He’ll marry you. I can’t. You know why.”


  “Are you going away?” she asked and I thought of the
editor’s letter in my pocket


  “No.”


  “Never?”


  “How can one promise that? He can’t either.
Marriages break. Often they break quicker than an affair like
ours.”


  “I do not want to go,” she said, but the sentence
was not comforting; it contained an unexpressed “but”.


  Pyle said, “I think I ought to put all my cards on
the table. I’m not rich. But when my father dies I’ll have about
fifty thousand dollars. I’m in good health—I’ve got a medical
certificate only two months old, and I can let her know my
blood-group.”


  “I don’t know how to translate that. What’s it for
?”


  “Well, to make certain we can have children
together.”


  “Is that how you make love in America—figures of
income and blood-group?”


  “I don’t know, I’ve never done it before. Maybe at
home my mother would talk to her mother.”


  “About your blood-group?”


  “Don’t laugh at me, Thomas. I expect 
Tm

old-fashioned. You know I’m a little lost in this situation.”


  “So am I. Don’t you think we might call it off and
dice for her?”


  “Now you are pretending to be tough, Thomas. I know
you love her in your way as much as I do.”


  “Well, go on, Pyle.”


  “Tell her I don’t expect her to love me right away.
That will come in time, but tell her what I offer is security and
respect. That doesn’t sound very exciting, but perhaps it’s better
than passion.”


  “She can always get passion,” I said, “with your
chauffeur when you are away at the office.”


  Pyle blushed. He got awkwardly to his feet and said,
“That’s a dirty crack. I won’t have her insulted. You’ve no
right...”


  “She’s not your wife yet.”


  “What can you offer her?” he asked with anger. “A
couple of hundred dollars when you leave for England, or will you
pass her on with the furniture?”


  “The furniture isn’t mine.”


  “She’s not either. Phuong, will you marry me?”


  “What about the blood-group?” I said. “And a health
certificate. You’ll need hers, surely? Maybe you ought to have mine
too. And her horoscope—no, that’s an Indian custom.”


  “Will you many me?”


  “Say it in French,” I said, Tm damned if I’ll
interpret for you any more.”


  I got to my feet and the dog growled. It made me
furious. “Tell your damned Duke to be quiet. This is my home, not
his.”


  “Will you marry me?” he repeated. I took a step
towards Phuong and the dog growled again.


  I said to Phuong, “Tell him to go away and take his
dog with him.”


  “Come away with me now,” Pyle said. “
Avec
moi”


  “No,” Phuong said, “no.” Suddenly all the anger in
both of us vanished; it was a problem as simple as that: it could
be solved with a word of two letters. I felt an enormous relief;
Pyle stood there with his mouth a little open and an expression of
bewilderment on his face. He said, “She said no.”


  “She knows that much English.” I wanted to laugh
now: what fools we had both made of each other. I said, “Sit down
and have another Scotch, Pyle.”


  “I think I ought to go.”


  “One for the road.”


  “Mustn’t drink all your whisky,” he muttered.


  “I get all I want through the Legation.” I moved
towards the table and the dog bared its teeth.


  Pyle said furiously, “Down, Duke. Behave yourself.”
He wiped the sweat off his forehead. “I’m awfully sorry, Thomas, if
I said anything I shouldn’t. I don’t know what came over me.” He
took the glass and said wistfully, “The best man wins. Only please
don’t leave her, Thomas.”


  Of course I shan’t leave her,” I said.


  Phuong said to me, “Would he like to smoke a
pipe?”


  “Would you like to smoke a pipe?”


  “No, thank you. I don’t touch opium and we have
strict rules in the service. I’ll just drink this up and be off.
I’m sorry about Duke. He’s very quiet as a rule.”


  “Stay to supper.”


  “I think, if you don’t mind, I’d rather be alone.”
He gave an uncertain grin. “I suppose people would say we’d both
behaved rather strangely. I wish you could marry her, Thomas.”


  “Do you really?”


  “Yes. Ever since I saw that place—you know, that
house near the Chalet—I’ve been so afraid.”


  He drank his unaccustomed whisky quickly, not
looking at Phuong, and when he said good-bye he didn’t touch her
hand, but gave an awkward little bobbing bow. I noticed how her
eyes followed him to the door and as I passed the mirror I saw
myself: the top button of my trousers undone, the beginning of a
paunch. Outside he said, “I promise not to see her, Thomas. You
won’t let this come between us, will you? I’ll get a transfer when
I finish my tour.”


  “When’s that?”


  “About two years.”


  I went back to the room and I thought. “What’s the
good? I might as well have told them both that I was going.” He had
only to carry his bleeding heart for a few weeks as a decoration
... My lie would even ease his conscience.


  “Shall I make you a pipe?” Phuong asked.


  “Yes, in a moment. I just want to write a
letter.”


  It was the second letter of the day, but I tore none
of this up, though I had as little hope of a response. I wrote:
“Dear Helen, I am coming back to England next April to take the job
of foreign editor. You can imagine I am not very happy about it.
England is to me the scene of my failure. I had intended our
marriage to last quite as much as if I had shared your Christian
beliefs. To this day I’m not certain what went wrong ( I know we
both tried), but I think it was my temper. I know how cruel and bad
my temper can be. Now I think it’s a little better—the East has
done that for me—not sweeter, but quieter. Perhaps it’s simply that
I’m five years older—at the end of life when five years becomes a
high proportion of what’s left. You have been very generous to me,
and you have never reproached me once since our separation. Would
you be even more generous? I know that before we married you warned
me there could never be a divorce. I accepted the risk and I’ve
nothing to complain of. At the same time I’m asking for one
now.”


  Phuong called out to me from the bed that she had
the tray ready.


  “A moment,” I said.


  “I could wrap this up,” I wrote, “and make it sound
more honourable and more dignified by pretending it was for someone
else’s sake. But it isn’t, and we always used to tell each other
the truth. It’s for my sake and only mine. I love someone very
much, we have lived together for more than two years, she has been
very loyal to me, but I know I’m not essential to her. If I leave
her, she’ll be a little unhappy I think, but there won’t be any
tragedy. She’ll marry someone else and have a family. It’s stupid
of me to tell you this. I’m putting a reply into your mouth. But
because I’ve been truthful so far, perhaps you’ll believe me when I
tell you that to lose her will be, for me, the beginning of death.
I’m not asking you to be ‘reasonable’ (reason is all on your side)
or to be merciful. It’s too big a word for my situation and anyway
I don’t particularly deserve mercy. I suppose what I’m really
asking you is to behave, all of a sudden, irrationally, out of
character. I want you to feel” (I hesitated over the word and then
I didn’t get it right) “affection and to act before you have time
to think. I know that’s easier done over a telephone than over
eight thousand miles. If only you’d just cable me ‘I agree’!”


  When I had finished I felt as though I had run a
long way and strained unconditioned muscles. I lay down on the bed
while Phuong made my pipe. I said, “He’s young.”


  “Who?”


  “Pyle.”


  “That’s not so important.”


  “I would marry you if I could, Phuong.”


  “I think so, but my sister does not believe it.”


  “I have just written to my wife and I have asked her
to divorce me. I have never tried before. There is always a
chance.”


  “A big chance?”


  “No, but a small one.”


  “Don’t worry. Smoke.”


  I drew in the smoke and she began to prepare my
second pipe. I asked her again, “Was your sister really not at
home, Phuong?”


  “I told you—she was out.” It was absurd to subject
her to this passion for truth, an Occidental passion, like the
passion for alcohol. Because of the whisky I had drunk with Pyle,
the effect of the opium was lessened. I said, “I lied to you,
Phuong. I have been ordered home.”


  She put the pipe down. “But you won’t go?”


  “If I refused, what would we live on?”


  “I could come with you. I would like to see
London.”


  “It would be very uncomfortable for you if we were
not married.”


  “But perhaps your wife will divorce you.”


  “Perhaps.”


  “I will come with you anyway,” she said. She meant
it, but I could see in her eyes the long train of thoughts begin,
as she lifted the pipe again and began to warm the pellet of opium.
She said, “Are there skyscrapers in London?” and I loved her for
the innocence of her question. She might lie from politeness, from
fear, even for profit, but she would never have the cunning to keep
her lie concealed.


  “No,” I said, “you have to go to America for
them.”


  She gave me a quick look over the needle and
registered her mistake. Then as she kneaded the opium she began to
talk at random of what clothes she would wear in London, where we
should live, of the tube-trains she had read about in a novel, and
the double-decker buses: would we fly or go by sea?”And the Statue
of Liberty . . .” she said.


  “No, Phuong, that’s American too.”


 


 


 


  
Chapter 2


 


  AT least once a year the Caodaists hold a festival
at the Holy See in Tanyin, which lies eighty kilometres to the
north-west of Saigon, to celebrate such and such a year of
Liberation, or of Conquest, or even a Buddhist, Confucian or
Christian festival. Caodaism was always the favourite chapter of my
briefing to visitors. Caodaism, the invention of a Cochin civil
servant, was a synthesis of the three religions. The Holy See was
at Tanyin. A Pope and female cardinals. Prophecy by planchette.
Saint Victor Hugo. Christ and Buddha looking down from the roof of
the Cathedral on a Walt Disney fantasia of the East, dragons and
snakes in technicolour. Newcomers were always delighted with the
description. How could one explain the dreariness of the whole
business: the private army of twenty-five thousand men, armed with
mortars made out of the exhaust-pipes of old cars, allies of the
French who turned neutral at the moment of danger? To these
celebrations, which helped to keep the peasants quiet, the Pope
invited members of the Government (who would turn up if the
Caodaists at the moment held office), the Diplomatic Corps (who
would send a few second secretaries with their wives or girls) and
the French Commander-in-Chief, who would detail a two-star general
from an office job to represent him.


  Along the route to Tanyin flowed a fast stream of
staff and C.D. cars, and on the more exposed sections of the road
Foreign Legionaries threw out cover across the rice-fields. It was
always a day of some anxiety for the French High Command and
perhaps a certain hope for the Caodaists, for what could more
painlessly emphasize their own loyalty than to have a few important
guests shot outside their territory?


  Every kilometre a small mud watch tower stood up
above the flat fields like an exclamation-mark, and every ten
kilometres there was a larger fort manned by a platoon of
Legionaries, Moroccans or Senegalese. Like the traffic into New
York the cars kept one pace—and as with the traffic into New York
you had a sense of controlled impatience, watching the next car
ahead and in the mirror the car behind. Everybody wanted to reach
Tanyin, see the show and get back as quickly as possible : curfew
was at seven.


  One passed out of the French-controlled rice-fields
into the rice-fields of the Hoa-Haos and thence into the
rice-fields of the Caodaists, who were usually at war with the
Hoa-Haos: only the flags changed on the watch towers. Small naked
boys sat on the buffaloes which waded genital-deep among the
irrigated fields; where the gold harvest was ready the peasants in
their hats like limpets winnowed the rice against little curved
shelters of plaited bamboo. The cars drove rapidly by, belonging to
another world.


  Now the churches of the Caodaists would catch the
attention of strangers in every village; pale blue and pink
plasterwork and a big eye of God over the door. Flags increased:
troops of peasants made their way along the road: we were
approaching the Holy See. In the distance the sacred mountain stood
like a green bowler hat above Tanyin—that was where General Thé
held out, the dissident Chief of Staff who had recently declared
his intention of fighting both the French and the Vietminh. The
Caodaists made no attempt to capture him, although he had kidnapped
a cardinal, but it was rumoured that he had done it with the Pope’s
connivance.


  It always seemed hotter in Tanyin than anywhere else
in the Southern Delta; perhaps it was the absence of water, perhaps
it was the sense of interminable ceremonies which made one sweat
vicariously, sweat for the troops standing to attention through the
long speeches in a language they didn’t understand, sweat for the
Pope in his heavy chinoiserie robes. Only the female cardinals in
their white silk trousers chatting to the priests in sun-helmets
gave an impression of coolness under the glare; you couldn’t
believe it would ever be seven o’clock and cocktail-time on the
roof of the Majestic, with a wind from Saigon river.


  After the parade I interviewed the Pope’s deputy. I
didn’t expect to get anything out of him and I was right: it was a
convention on both sides. I asked him about General Thé.


  “A rash man,” he said and dismissed the subject. He
began his set speech, forgetting that I had heard it two years
before—it reminded me of my own gramophone records for newcomers.
Caodaism was a religious synthesis ... the best of all religions
... missionaries had been despatched to Los Angeles ... the secrets
of the Great Pyramid ... He wore a long white soutane and he
chain-smoked. There was something cunning and corrupt about him:
the word “love” occurred often. I was certain he knew that all of
us were there to laugh at his movement; our air of respect was as
corrupt as his phoney hierarchy, but we were less cunning. Our
hypocrisy gained us nothing—not even a reliable ally, while theirs
had procured arms, supplies, even cash down.


  “Thank you, your Eminence.” I got up to go. He came
with me to the door, scattering cigarette-ash.


  “God’s blessing on your work,” he said unctuously.
“Re-member God loves the truth.”


  “Which truth?”I asked.


  “In the Caodaist faith all truths are reconciled and
truth is love.”


  He had a large ring on his finger and, when he held
out his hand I really think he expected me to kiss it, but I am not
a diplomat.


  Under the bleak vertical sunlight I saw Pyle; he was
trying in vain to make his Buick start. Somehow, during the last
two weeks, at the bar of the Continental, in the only good bookshop
in the rue Catinat, I had continually run into Pyle. The friendship
which he had imposed from the beginning he now emphasized more than
ever. His sad eyes would inquire with fervour after Phuong, while
his lips expressed with even more fervour the strength of his
affection and of his admiration-God save the mark—for me.


  A Caodaist commandant stood beside the car talking
rapidly. He stopped when I came up. I recognized him—he had been
one of Thé’s assistants before Thé took to the hills.


  “Hullo, commandant,” I said, “how’s the
General?”


  “Which general?” he asked with a shy grin.


  “Surely in the Caodaist faith,” I said, “all
generals are re-conciled.”


  “I can’t make this car move, Thomas,” Pyle said.


  “I will get a mechanic,” the commandant said, and
left us.


  “I interrupted you.”


  “Oh, it was nothing,” Pyle said. “He wanted to know
how much a Buick cost. These people are so friendly when you treat
them right. The French don’t seem to know how to handle them.”


  “The French don’t trust them.”


  Pyle said solemnly, “A man becomes trustworthy when
you trust him.” It sounded like a Caodaist maxim. I began to feel
the air of Tanyin was too ethical for me to breathe.


  “Have a drink,” Pyle said.


  “There’s nothing I’d like better.”


  “I brought a thermos of Urne-juice with me.” He
leant over and busied himself with a basket in the back.


  “Any gin?”


  “No, I’m awfully sorry. You know,” he said
encouragingly, “lime-juice is very good for you in this climate. It
contains -I’m not sure which vitamins.” He held out a cup to me and
I drank.


  “Anyway, it’s wet,” I said.


  “Like a sandwich? They’re really awfully good. A new
sandwich-spread called Vit-Health. My mother sent it from the
States.”


  “No, thanks, I’m not hungry.”


  “It tastes rather like Russian salad—only sort of
drier.”


  “I don’t think I will.”


  “You don’t mind if I do?”


  “No, no, of course not.”


  He took a large mouthful and it crunched and
crackled. In the distance Buddha in white and pink stone rode away
from his ancestral home and his valet—another statue—pursued him
running. The female cardinals were drifting back to their house and
the Eye of God watched us from above the Cathedral door.


  “You know they are serving lunch here?” I said.


  “I thought I wouldn’t risk it. The meat—you have to
be careful in this heat.”


  “You are quite safe. They are vegetarian.”


  “I suppose it’s all right—but I like to know what
I’m eating.” He took another munch at his Vit-Health. “Do you think
they have any reliable mechanics?”


  “They know enough to turn your exhaust pipe into a
mortar. I believe Buicks make the best mortars.”


  The commandant returned and, saluting us smartly,
said he had sent to the barracks for a mechanic. Pyle offered him a
Vit-Health sandwich, which he refused politely. He said with a
man-of-the-world air, “We have so many rules here about food.” (He
spoke excellent English.) “So foolish. But you know what it is in a
religious capital. I expect it is the same thing in Rome—or
Canterbury,” he added with a neat natty little bow to me. Then he
was silent. They were both silent. I had a strong impression that
my company was not wanted. I couldn’t resist the temptation to
tease Pyle—it is, after all, the weapon of weakness and I was weak.
I hadn’t youth, seriousness, integrity, a future. I said, “Perhaps
after all I’ll have a sandwich.”


  “Oh, of course,” Pyle said, “of course.” He paused
before turning to the basket in the back.


  “No, no,” I said. “I was only joking. You two want
to be alone.”


  “Nothing of the kind,” Pyle said. He was one of the
most inefficient liars I have ever known—it was an art he had
obviously never practised. He explained to the commandant, “Thomas
here’s the best friend I have.”


  “I know Mr Fowler,” the commandant said.


  “I’ll see you before I go, Pyle.” And I walked away
to the Cathedral. I could get some coolness there.


  Saint Victor Hugo in the uniform of the French
Academy with the halo round his tricorn hat pointed at some noble
sentiment Sun Yat Sen was inscribing on a tablet, and then I was in
the nave. There was nowhere to sit except in the Papal chair, round
which a plaster cobra coiled, the marble floor glittered like water
and there was no glass in the windows. We make a cage for air with
holes, I thought, and man makes a cage for his religion in much the
same way—with doubts left open to the weather and creeds opening on
innumerable interpretations. My wife had found her cage with holes
and sometimes I envied her. There is a conflict between sun and air
: I lived too much in the sun.


  I walked the long empty nave—this was not the
IndoChina I loved. The dragons with lion-like heads climbed the
pulpit: on the roof Christ exposed his bleeding heart. Buddha sat,
as Buddha always sits, with his lap empty. Confusius’s beard hung
meagrely down like a waterfall in the dry season. This was
play-acting: the great globe above the altar was ambition : the
basket with the movable lid in which the Pope worked his prophecies
was trickery. If this Cathedral had existed for five centuries
instead of two decades, would it have gathered a kind of
convincingness with the scratches of feet and the erosion of
weather? Would somebody who was convincible like my wife find here
a faith she couldn’t find in human beings? And if I had really
wanted faith would I have found it in her Norman church? But I had
never desired faith. The job of a reporter is to expose and record.
I had never in my career discovered the inexplicable. The Pope
worked his prophecies with a pencil in a movable lid and the people
believed. In any vision somewhere you could find the planchette. I
had no visions or miracles in my repertoire of memory.


  I turned my memories over at random like pictures in
an album : a fox I had seen by the light of an enemy flare over
Orpington stealing along beside a fowl run, out of his russet place
in the marginal country : the body of a bayoneted Malay which a
Gurkha patrol had brought at the back of a lorry into a mining camp
in Pahang, and the Chinese coolies stood by and giggled with
nerves, while a brother Malay put a cushion under the dead head: a
pigeon on a mantelpiece, poised for flight in a hotel bedroom: my
wife’s face at a window when I came home to say good-bye for the
last time. My thoughts had begun and ended with her. She must have
received my letter more than a week ago, and the cable I did not
expect had not come. But they say if a jury remains out for long
enough there is hope for the prisoner. In another week, if no
letter arrived, could I begin to hope? All round me I could hear
the cars of the soldiers and the diplomats revving up: the party
was over for another year. The stampede back to Saigon was
beginning, and curfew called. I went out to look for Pyle.


  He was standing in a patch of shade with his
commandant, and no one was doing anything to his car. The
conversation seemed to be over, whatever it had been about, and
they stood silently there, constrained by mutual politeness. I
joined them.


  “Well,” I said, “I think I’ll be off. You’d better
be leaving too if you want to be in before curfew.”


  “The mechanic hasn’t turned up.”


  “He will come soon,” the commandant said. “He was in
the parade.”


  “You could spend the night,” I said. “There’s a
special Mass—you’ll find it quite an experience. It lasts three
hours.”


  “I ought to get back.”


  “You won’t get back unless you start now.” I added
unwillingly, Til give you a lift if you like and the commandant can
have your car sent in to Saigon tomorrow.”


  “You need not bother about curfew in Caodaist
territory,” the commandant said smugly. “But beyond . . . Certainly
I will have your car sent tomorrow.”


  “Exhaust intact,” I said, and he smiled brightly,
neatly, efficiently, a military abbreviation of a smile.


 


 


  2


 


  The procession of cars was well ahead of us by the
time we started. I put on speed to try to overtake it, but we had
passed out of the Caodaist zone into the zone of the Hoa-Haos with
not even a dust cloud ahead of us. The world was flat and empty in
the evening.


  It was not the kind of country one associates with
ambush, but men could conceal themselves neck-deep in the drowned
fields within a few yards of the road.


  Pyle cleared his throat and it was the signal for an
approaching intimacy. “I hope Phuong’s well,” he said.


  “I’ve never known her ill.” One watch tower sank
behind, another appeared, like weights on a balance.


  “I saw her sister out shopping yesterday.”


  “And I suppose she asked you to look in,” I
said.


  “As a matter of fact she did.”


  “She doesn’t give up hope easily.”


  “Hope?”


  “Of marrying you to Phuong.”


  “She told me you are going away.”


  “These rumours get about.”


  Pyle said, “You’d play straight with me, Thomas,
wouldn’t you?”


  “Straight?”


  “I’ve applied for a transfer,” he said. “I wouldn’t
want her to be left without either of us.”


  “I thought you were going to see your time out.”


  He said without self-pity, “ I found I couldn’t
stand it”


  “When are you leaving?”


  “I don’t know. They thought something could be
arranged in six months.”


  “You can stand six months?”


  “I’ve got to.”


  “What reason did you give?”


  “I told the Economic Attaché—you met him—Joe—more or
less the facts.”


  “I suppose he thinks I’m a bastard not to let you
walk off with my girl.”


  “Oh no, he rather sided with you.”


  The car was spluttering and heaving—it had been
spluttering for a minute, I think, before I noticed it, for I had
been examining Pyle’s innocent question: “Are you playing
straight?” It belonged to a psychological world of great
simplicity, where you talked of Democracy and Honor without the u
as it’s spelt on old tombstones, and you meant what your father
meant by the same words. I said, “We’ve run out.”


  “Gas?”


  “There was plenty. I crammed it full before I
started. Those bastards in Tanyin have syphoned it out. I ought to
have noticed. It’s like them to leave us enough to get out of their
zone.”


  “What shall we do?”


  “We can just make the next watch tower. Let’s hope
they have a little.”


  But we were out of luck. The car reached within
thirty yards of the tower and gave up. We walked to the foot of the
tower and I called up in French to the guards that we were friends,
that we were coming up. I had no wish to be shot by a Vietnamese
sentry. There was no reply: nobody looked out. I said to Pyle,
“Have you a gun?”


  “I never carry one.”


  “Nor do I.”


  The last colours of sunset, green and gold like the
rice, were dripping over the edge of the flat world: against the
grey neutral sky the watch tower looked as black as print. It must
be nearly the hour of curfew. I shouted again and nobody
answered.


  “Do you know how many towers we passed since the
last fort?”


  “I wasn’t noticing.”


  “Nor was I.” It was probably at least six kilometres
to the next fort—an hour’s walk. I called a third time, and silence
repeated itself like an answer.


  I said, “It seems to be empty: I’d better climb up
and see.” The yellow flag with red stripes faded to orange showed
that we were out of the territory of the Hoa-Haos and in the
territory of the Vietnamese army.


  Pyle said, “Don’t you think if we waited here a car
might come?”


  “It might, but 
they
 might come first.”


  “Shall I go back and turn on the lights? For a
signal.”


  “Good God, no. Let it be.” It was dark enough now to
stumble, looking for the ladder. Something cracked under foot; I
could imagine the sound travelling across the fields of paddy,
listened to by whom? Pyle had lost his outline and was a blur at
the side of the road. Darkness, when once it fell, fell like a
stone. I said, “Stay there until I call.” I wondered whether the
guard would have drawn up his ladder, but there it stood—though an
enemy might climb it, it was their only way of escape. I began to
mount.


  I have read so often of people’s thoughts in the
moment of fear: of God, or family, or a woman. I admire their
control. I thought of nothing, not even of the trap-door above me:
I ceased, for those seconds, to exist: I was fear taken neat. At
the top of the ladder I banged my head because fear couldn’t count
steps, hear, or see. Then my head came over the earth floor and
nobody shot at me and fear seeped away.


 


 


  3


 


  A small oil lamp burned on the floor and two men
crouched against the wall, watching me. One had a sten gun and one
a rifle, but they were as scared as I’d been. They looked like
schoolboys, but with the Vietnamese age drops suddenly like the
sun—they are boys and then they are old men. I was glad that the
colour of my skin and the shape of my eyes were a passport—they
wouldn’t shoot now even from fear.


  I came up out of the floor, talking to reassure
them, telling them that my car was outside, that I had run out of
petrol. Perhaps they had a little I could buy. It didn’t seem
likely as I stared around. There was nothing in the little round
room except a box of ammunition for the sten gun, a small wooden
bed, and two packs hanging on a nail. A couple of pans with the
remains of rice and some wooden chopsticks showed they had been
eating without much appetite.


  “Just enough to get us to the next fort?” I
asked.


  One of the men sitting against the wall—the one with
the rifle—shook his head.


  “If you can’t we’ll have to stay the night
here.”


  
”C”est défendu.”


  “Who by?”


  “You are a civilian.”


  “Nobody’s going to make me sit out there on the road
and have my throat cut.”


  “Are you French?”


  Only one man had spoken. The other sat with his head
turned sideways, watching the slit in the wall. He could have seen
nothing but a postcard of sky: he seemed to be listening and I
began to listen too. The silence became full of sound: noises you
couldn’t put a name to—a crack, a creak, a rustle, something like a
cough, and a whisper. Then I heard Pyle : he must have come to the
foot of the ladder. “You all right, Thomas?”


  “Come up,” I called back. He began to climb the
ladder and the silent soldier shifted his sten gun—I don’t believe
he’d heard a word of what we’d said : it was an awkward, jumpy
movement I realized that fear had paralysed him. I rapped out at
him like a sergeant-major, “Put that gun downl “ and I used the
kind of French obscenity I thought he would recognize. He obeyed me
automatically, Pyle came up into the room. I said, “We’ve been
offered the safety of the tower till morning.”


  “Fine,” Pyle said. His voice was a little puzzled.
He said, “Oughtn’t one of those mugs to be on sentry?”


  “They prefer not to be shot at. I wish you’d brought
something stronger than lime-juice.”


  “I guess I will next time,” Pyle said.


  “We’ve got a long night ahead.” Now that Pyle was
with me, I didn’t hear the noises. Even the two soldiers seemed to
have relaxed a little.


  “What happens if the Viets attack them?” Pyle
asked.


  “They’ll fire a shot and run. You read it every
morning in the 
Extreme Orient
. ‘A post south-west of
Saigon was temporarily occupied last night by the Vietminh’.”


  “It’s a bad prospect.”


  “There are forty towers like this between us and
Saigon. The chances always are that it’s the other chap who’s
hurt.”


  “We could have done with those sandwiches,” Pyle
said. “I do think one of them should keep a look-out.”


  “He’s afraid a bullet might look in.” Now that we
too had settled on the floor, the Vietnamese relaxed a little. I
felt some sympathy for them: it wasn’t an easy job for a couple of
ill-trained men to sit up here night after night, never sure of
when the Viets might creep up on the road through the fields of
paddy. I said to Pyle, “Do you think they know they are fighting
for Democracy? We ought to have York Harding here to explain it to
them.”


  “You always laugh at York,” said Pyle.


  “I laugh at anyone who spends so much time writing
about what doesn’t exist—mental concepts.”


  “They exist for him. Haven’t you got any mental
concepts? God, for instance?”


  “I’ve no reason to believe in a God. Do you?”















  “Yes. I’m a Unitarian.”


  “How many hundred million Gods do people believe in?
Why, even a Roman Catholic believes in quite a different God when
he’s scared or happy or hungry.”


  “Maybe, if there is a God, he’d be so vast he’d look
different to everyone.”


  “Like the great Buddha in Bangkok,” I said. “You
can’t see all of him at once. Anyway 
he
 keeps still.”


  “I guess you’re just trying to be tough,” Pyle said.
“There’s something you must believe in. Nobody can go on living
without some belief.”


  “Oh, I’m not a Berkeleian. I believe my back’s
against this wall. I believe there’s a sten gun over there.”


  “I didn’t mean that.”


  “I believe what I report, which is more than most of
your correspondents do.”


  “Cigarette?”


  “I don’t smoke—except opium. Give one to the guards.
We’d better stay friends with them.” Pyle got up and lit their
cigarettes and came back. I said, “I wish cigarettes had a symbolic
significance like salt.”


  “Don’t you trust them?”


  “No French officer,” I said, “would care to spend
the night alone with two scared guards in one of these towers. Why,
even a platoon have been known to hand over their officers.
Sometimes the Viets have a better success with a megaphone than a
bazooka. I don’t blame them. They don’t believe in anything either.
You and your like are trying to make a war with the help of people
who just aren’t interested.”


  “They don’t want Communism.”


  “They want enough rice,” I said. “They don’t want to
be shot at. They want one day to be much the same as another. They
don’t want our white skins around telling them what they want.”


  “If Indo-China goes . . .”


  “I know the record. Siam goes. Malaya goes.
Indonesia goes. What does ‘go’ mean? If I believed in your God and
another life, I’d bet my future harp against your golden crown that
in five hundred years there may be no New York or London, but
they’ll be growing paddy in these fields, they’ll be carrying their
produce to market on long poles wearing their pointed hats. Ute
small boys will be sitting on the buffaloes. I like the buffaloes,
they don’t like our smell, the smell of Europeans. And
remember—from a buffalo’s point of view you are a European
too.”


  “They’ll be forced to believe what they are told,
they won’t be allowed to think for themselves.”


  “Thought’s a luxury. Do you think the peasant sits
and thinks of God and Democracy when he gets inside his mud hut at
night?”


  “You talk as if the whole country were peasant. What
about the educated? Are they going to be happy?”


  “Oh no,” I said, “we’ve brought them up in

our
 ideas. We’ve taught them dangerous games, and that’s
why we are waiting here, hoping we don’t get our throats cut. We
deserve to have them cut. I wish your friend York was here too. I
wonder how he’d relish it.”


  “York Harding’s a very courageous man. Why, in
Korea...”


  “He wasn’t an enlisted man, was he? He had a return
ticket. With a return ticket courage becomes an intellectual
exercise, like a monk’s flagellation. How much can I stick? Those
poor devils can’t catch a plane home. Hi,” I called to them, “what
are your names?” I thought that knowledge somehow would bring them
into the circle of our conversation. They didn’t answer: just
lowered back at us behind the stumps of their cigarettes. “They
think we are French,” I said.


  “That’s just it,” Pyle said. “You shouldn’t be
against York, you should be against the French. Their
colonialism.”


  “Isms and ocracies. Give me facts. A rubber planter
beats his labourer—all right, I’m against him. He hasn’t been
instructed to do it by the Minister of the Colonies. In France I
expect he’d beat his wife. I’ve seen a priest, so poor he hasn’t a
change of trousers, working fifteen hours a day from hut to hut in
a cholera epidemic, eating nothing but rice and salt fish, saying
his Mass with an old cup—a wooden platter. I don’t believe in God
and yet I’m for that priest. Why don’t you call that
colonialism?”


  “It 
is
 colonialism. York says it’s often
the good administrators who make it hard to change a bad
system.”


  “Anyway the French are dying every day—that’s not a
mental concept. They aren’t leading these people on with half-lies
like your politicians—and ours. I’ve been in India, Pyle, and I
know the harm liberals do. We haven’t a liberal party any
more—liberalism’s infected all the other parties. We are all either
liberal conservatives or liberal socialists: we all have a good
conscience. I’d rather be an exploiter who fights for what he
exploits, and dies with it. Look at the history of Burma. We go and
invade the country: the local tribes support us: we are victorious:
but like you Americans we weren’t colonialists in those days. Oh
no, we made peace with the king and we handed him back his province
and left our allies to be crucified and sawn in two. They were
innocent. They thought we’d stay. But we were liberals and we
didn’t want a bad conscience.”


  “That was a long time ago.”


  “We shall do the same thing here. Encourage them and
leave them with a littie equipment and a toy industry.”


  “Toy industry?”


  “Your plastic.”


  “Oh yes, I see.”


  “I don’t know what I’m talking politics for. They
don’t interest me and I’m a reporter. I’m not 
engagé
.”


  “Aren’t you?” Pyle said.


  “For the sake of an argument—to pass this bloody
night, that’s all. I don’t take sides. I’ll be still reporting,
whoever wins.”


  “If they win, you’ll be reporting lies.”


  “There’s usually a way round, and I haven’t noticed
much regard for truth in our papers either.”


  I think the fact of our sitting there talking
encouraged the two soldiers: perhaps they thought the sound of our
white voices—for voices have a colour too, yellow voices sing and
black voices gargle, while ours just speak—would give an impression
of numbers and keep the Viets away. They picked up their pans and
began to eat again, scraping with their chopsticks, eyes watching
Pyle and me over the rim of the pan.


  “So you think we’ve lost?”


  “That’s not the point,” I said. “I’ve no particular
desire to see you win. I’d like those two poor buggers there to be
happy—that’s all. I wish they didn’t have to sit in the dark at
night scared.”


  “You have to fight for liberty.”


  “I haven’t seen any Americans fighting around here.
And as for liberty, I don’t know what it means. Ask them.” I called
across the floor in French to them. “
La liberté—qu”est ce que
c”est la liberté
?” They sucked in the rice and stared back and
said nothing.


  Pyle said, “Do you want everybody to be made in the
same mould? You’re arguing for the sake of arguing. You’re an
intellectual. You stand for the importance of the individual as
much as I do—or York.”


  “Why have we only just discovered it?” I said.
“Forty years ago no one talked that way.”


  “It wasn’t threatened then.”


  “Ours wasn’t threatened, oh no, but who cared about
the individuality of the man in the paddy field—and who does now?
The only man to treat him as a man is the political commissar.
He’ll sit in his hut and ask his name and listen to his complaints;
he’ll give up an hour a day to teaching him -it doesn’t matter
what, he’s being treated like a man, like someone of value. Don’t
go on in the East with that parrot cry about a threat to the
individual soul. Here you’d find yourself on the wrong side—it’s
they who stand for the individual and we just stand for Private
23987, unit in the global strategy.”


  “You don’t mean half what you are saying.” Pyle said
uneasily.


  “Probably three quarters. I’ve been here a long
time. You know, it’s lucky I’m not 
engage
, there are
things I might be tempted to do—because here in the East—well, I
don’t like Ike. I like—well, these two. This is their country.
What’s the time? My watch has stopped.”


  “It’s turned eight-thirty.”


  “Ten hours and we can move.”


  “It’s going to be quite chilly,” Pyle said and
shivered. “I never expected that.”


  “There’s water all round. I’ve got a blanket in the
car. That will be enough.”


  “Is it safe?”


  “It’s early for the Viets.”


  “Let me go.”


  “I’m more used to the dark.”


  When I stood up the soldiers stopped eating. I told
them, “
Je reviens, tout de suite
.” I dangled my legs over
the trap door, found the ladder and went down. It is odd how
reassuring conversation is, especially on abstract subjects: it
seems to normalize the strangest surroundings. I was no longer
scared: it was as though I had left a room and would be returning
there to pick up the argument—the watch tower was the rue Catinat,
the bar of the Majestic, or even a room off Gordon Square.


  I stood below the tower for a minute to get my
vision back. There was starlight, but no moonlight. Moonlight
reminds me of a mortuary and the cold wash of an unshaded globe
over a marble slab, but starlight is alive and never still, it is
almost as though someone in those vast spaces is trying to
communicate a message of good will, for even the names of the stars
are friendly. Venus is any woman we love, the Bears are the bears
of childhood, and I suppose the Southern Cross, to those, like my
wife, who believe, may be a favourite hymn or a prayer beside the
bed. Once I shivered as Pyle had done. But the night was hot
enough, only the shallow stretch of water on either side gave a
kind of icing to the warmth. I started out towards the car, and for
a moment when I stood on the road I thought it was no longer there.
That shook my confidence, even after I remembered that it had
petered out thirty yards away. I couldn’t help walking with my
shoulders bent: I felt more unobtrusive that way.


  I had to unlock the boot to get the blanket and the
click and squeak startled me in the silence. I didn’t relish being
the only noise in what must have been a night full of people. With
the blanket over my shoulder I lowered the boot more carefully than
I had raised it, and then, just as the catch caught, the sky
towards Saigon flared with light and the sound of an explosion came
rumbling down the road. A bren spat and spat and was quiet again
before the rumbling stopped. I thought, “Somebody’s had it,” and
very far away heard voices crying with pain or fear or perhaps even
triumph. I don’t know why, but I had thought all the time of an
attack coming from behind, along the road we had passed, and I had
a moment’s sense of unfairness that the Viets should be there
ahead, between us and Saigon. It was as though we had been
unconsciously driving towards danger instead of away from it, just
as I was now walking in its direction, back towards the tower. I
walked because it was less noisy than to run, but my body wanted to
run.


  At the foot of the ladder I called up to Pyle, “It’s
me -Fowler.” (Even then I couldn’t bring myself to use my Christian
name to him.) The scene inside the hut had changed. The pans of
rice were back on the floor; one man held his rifle on his hip and
sat against the wall staring at Pyle and Pyle knelt a little way
out from the opposite wall with his eyes on the sten gun which lay
between him and the second guard. It was as though he had begun to
crawl towards it but had been halted. The second guard’s arm was
extended towards the gun: no one had fought or even threatened, it
was like that child’s game when you mustn’t be seen to move or you
are sent back to base to start again.


  “What’s going on?” I said.


  The two guards looked at me and Pyle pounced,
pulling the sten to his side of the room.


  “Is it a game?” I asked.


  “I don’t trust him with the gun,” Pyle said, “if
they are coming.”


  “Ever used a sten?”


  “No.”


  “That’s fine. Nor have I. I’m glad it’s loaded—we
wouldn’t know how to reload it”


  The guards had quietly accepted the loss of the gun-
The one lowered his rifle and laid it across his thighs; the other
slumped against the wall and shut his eyes as though like a child
he believed himself invisible in the dark. Perhaps he was glad to
have no more responsibility. Somewhere far away the bren started
again—three bursts and then silence. The second guard screwed his
eyes closer shut.


  “They don’t know we can’t use it,” Pyle said.


  “They are supposed to be on our side.”


  “I thought you didn’t have a side.”


  “
Touché
,” I said. “I wish the Viets knew
it.”


  “What’s happening out there?”


  I quoted again tomorrow’s 
Extrême Orient
:
“A post fifty kilometres outside Saigon was attacked and
temporarily captured last night by Vietminh irregulars.”


  “Do you think it would be safer in the fields?”


  “It would be terribly wet.”


  “You don’t seem worried,” Pyle said.


  “I’m scared stiff—but things are better than they
might be. They don’t usually attack more than three posts in a
night. Our chances have improved.”


  “What’s that?”


  It was the sound of a heavy car coming up the road,
driving towards Saigon. I went to the rifle slit and looked down,
just as a tank went by.


  “The patrol,” I said. The gun in the turret shifted
now to this side, now to that. I wanted to call out to them, but
what was the good? They hadn’t room on board for two useless
civilians. The earth floor shook a little as they passed, and they
had gone. I looked at my watch—eight fifty-one, and waited,
straining to read when the light flapped. It was like judging the
distance of lightning by the delay before the thunder. It was
nearly four minutes before the gun opened up. Once I thought I
detected a bazooka replying, then all was quiet again.


  “When they come back,” Pyle said, “we could signal
them for a lift to the camp.”


  An explosion set the floor shaking. “If they come
back,” I said. “That sounded like a mine.” When I looked at my
watch again it had passed nine fifteen and the tank had not
returned. There had been no more firing.


  I sat down beside Pyle and stretched out my legs.
“We’d better try to sleep,” I said. “There’s nothing else we can
do.”


  “I’m not happy about the guards,” Pyle said.


  “They are all right so long as the Viets don’t turn
up. Put the sten under your leg for safety.” I closed my eyes and
tried to imagine myself somewhere else—sitting up in one of the
fourth-class compartments the German railways ran before Hitler
came to power, in the days when one was young and sat up all night
without melancholy, when waking dreams were full of hope and not of
fear. This was the hour when Phuong always set about preparing my
evening pipes. I wondered whether a letter was waiting for me—I
hoped not, for I knew what a letter would contain, and so long as
none arrived I could day-dream of the impossible.


  “Are you asleep?” Pyle asked.


  “No.”


  “Don’t you think we ought to pull up the
ladder?”


  “I begin to understand why they don’t. It’s the only
way out”


  “I wish that tank would come back.”


  “It won’t now.”


  I tried not to look at my watch except at long
intervals, and the intervals were never as long as they had seemed.
Nine forty, ten five, ten twelve, ten thirty-two, ten
forty-one.


  “You awake?” I said to Pyle.


  “Yes.”


  “What are you thinking about?”


  He hesitated. “Phuong,” he said.


  “Yes?”


  “I was just wondering what she was doing.”


  “I can tell you that. Shell have decided that I’m
spending the night at Tanyin—it won’t be the first time. She’ll be
lying on the bed with a joss stick burning to keep away the
mosquitoes and she’ll be looking at the pictures in an old

Paris-Match
. Like the French she has a passion for the
Royal Family.”


  He said wistfully, “It must be wonderful to know
exactly,”


  and I could imagine his soft dog’s eyes in the dark.
They ought to have called him Fido, not Alden.


  “I don’t really know—but it’s probably true. There’s
no good in being jealous when you can’t do anything about it. ‘No
barricado for a belly.”‘


  “Sometimes I hate the way you talk, Thomas. Do you
know how she seems to me? She seems fresh, like a flower.”


  “Poor flower,” I said. “There are a lot of weeds
around.”


  “Where did you meet her?”


  “She was dancing at the Grand Monde.”


  “Dancing,” he exclaimed, as though the idea were
painful.


  “It’s a perfectly respectable profession,” I said.
“Don’t worry.”


  “You have such an awful lot of experience,
Thomas.”


  “I have an awful lot of years. When you reach my
age...”


  “I’ve never had a girl,” he said, “not properly. Not
what you’d call a real experience.”


  “A lot of energy with your people seems to go into
whistling.”


  “I’ve never told anybody else.”


  “You’re young. It’s nothing to be ashamed of.”


  “Have you had a lot of women, Fowler?”


  “I don’t know what a lot means. Not more than four
women have had any importance to me—or me to them. The other
forty-odd—one wonders why one does it. A notion of hygiene, of
one’s social obligations, both mistaken.”


  “You think they 
are
 mistaken?”


  “I wish I could have those nights back. I’m still in
love, Pyle, and I’m a wasting asset. Oh, and there was pride, of
course. It takes a long time before we cease to feel proud of being
wanted. Though God knows why we should feel it, when we look around
and see who is wanted too.”


  “You don’t think there’s anything wrong with me, do
you, Thomas?”


  “No, Pyle.”


  “It doesn’t mean I don’t 
need
 it, Thomas,
like everybody else. I’m not—odd.”


  “Not one of us needs it as much as we say. There’s
an awful lot of self-hypnosis around. Now I know I need
nobody—except Phuong. But that’s a thing one learns with time. I
could go a year without one restless night if she wasn’t
there.”


  “But she 
is
 there,” he said in a voice I
could hardly catch.


  “One starts promiscuous and ends like one’s
grandfather, faithful to one woman.”


  “I suppose it seems pretty naïve to start that
way...”


  “No.”


  “It’s not in the Kinsey Report.”


  “That’s why it’s not naïve.”


  “You know, Thomas, it’s pretty good being here,
talking to you like this. Somehow it doesn’t seem dangerous any
more.”


  “We used to feel that in the blitz,” I said, “when a
lull came. But they always returned.”


  “If somebody asked you what your deepest sexual
experience had been, what would you say?”


  I knew the answer to that. “Lying in bed early one
morning and watching a woman in a red dressing-gown brush her
hair.”


  “Joe said it was being in bed with a Chink and a
negress at the same time.”


  “I’d have thought that one up too when I was
twenty.”


  “Joe’s fifty.”


  “I wonder what mental age they gave him in the
war.”


  “Was Phuong the girl in the red dressing-gown?”


  I wished that he hadn’t asked that question.


  “No,” I said, “that woman came earlier. When I left
my wife.”


  “What happened?”


  “I left her, too.”


  “Why?”


  Why indeed? “We are fools,” I said, “when we love. I
was terrified of losing her. I thought I saw her changing—I don’t
know if she really was, but I couldn’t bear the uncertainty any
longer. I ran towards the finish just like a coward runs towards
the enemy and wins a medal. I wanted to get death over.”


  “Death?”


  “It was a kind of death. Then I came east.”


  “And found Phuong?”


  “Yes.”


  “But don’t you find the same thing with Phuong?”


  “Not the same. You see, the other one loved me. I
was afraid of losing love. Now I’m only afraid of losing Phuong.”
Why had I said that, I wondered? He didn’t need encourage-ment from
me.


  “But she loves you, doesn’t she?”


  “Not like that. It isn’t in their nature. You’ll
find that out. It’s a cliché to call them children—but there’s one
thing which is childish. They love you in return for kindness,
security, the presents you give them—they hate you for a blow or an
injustice. They don’t know what it’s like—just walking into a room
and loving a stranger. For an aging man, Pyle, it’s very secure—she
won’t run away from home so long as the home is happy.”


  I hadn’t meant to hurt him. I only realized I had
done it when he said with muffled anger, “She might prefer greater
security or more kindness.”


  “Perhaps.”


  “Aren’t you afraid of that?”


  “Not so much as I was of the other.”


  “Do you love her at all?”


  “Oh yes, Pyle, yes. But that other way I’ve only
loved once.”


  “In spite of the forty-odd women,” he snapped at
me.


  “I’m sure it’s below the Kinsey average. You know,
Pyle, women don’t want virgins. I’m not sure 
we
 do, unless
we are a pathological type.”


  “I didn’t mean I was a virgin,” he said. All my
conversations with Pyle seemed to take grotesque directions. Was it
because of his sincerity (hat they so ran off the customary rails?
His conversation never took the corners.


  “You can have a hundred women and still be a virgin,
Pyle. Most of your G.I.S who were hanged for rape in the war were
virgins. We don’t have so many in Europe. I’m glad. They do a lot
of harm.”


  “I just don’t understand you, Thomas.”


  “It’s not worth explaining. I’m bored with the
subject any-way. I’ve reached the age when sex isn’t the problem so
much as old age and death. I wake up with these in mind and not a
woman’s body. I just don’t want to be alone in my last decade,
that’s all. I wouldn’t know what to think about all day long. I’d
sooner have a woman in the same room—even one I didn’t love. But if
Phuong left me, would I have the energy to find another? . . .”


  “If that’s all she means to you . . .”


  “All, Pyle? Wait until you’re afraid of living ten
years alone with no companion and a nursing home at the end of it.
Then you’ll start running in any direction, even away from that
girl in the red dressing-gown, to find someone, anyone, who will
last until you are through.”


  “Why don’t you go back to your wife, then?”


  “It’s not easy to live with someone you’ve
injured.”


  A sten gun fired a long burst—it couldn’t have been
more than a mile away. Perhaps a nervous sentry was shooting at
shadows: perhaps another attack had begun. I hoped it was an
attack—it increased our chances.


  “Are you scared, Thomas?”


  “Of course I am. With all my instincts. But with my
reason I know it’s better to die like this. That’s why I came east.
Death stays with you.” I looked at my watch. It had gone eleven. An
eight-hour night and then we could relax. I said, “We seem to have
talked about pretty nearly everything except God. We’d better leave
him to the small hours.”


  “You don’t believe in Him, do you?”


  “No.”


  “Things to me wouldn’t make sense without Him.”


  “They don’t make sense to me with him.”


  “I read a book once . . .”


  I never knew what book Pyle had read. (Presumably it
wasn’t York Harding or Shakespeare or the anthology of contemporary
verse or 
The Physiology of Marriage -
 perhaps it was

The Triumph of Life.)
 A voice came right into the tower
with us, it seemed to speak from the shadows by the trap—a hollow
megaphone voice saying something in Vietnamese. “We’re for it,” I
said. The two guards listened, their faces turned to the rifle
slit, their mouths hanging open.


  “What is it?” Pyle asked.


  Walking to the embrasure was like walking through
the voice. I looked quickly out: there was nothing to be seen—I
couldn’t even distinguish the road and when I looked back into the
room the rifle was pointed, I wasn’t sure whether at me or at the
slit. But when I moved round the wall the rifle wavered, hesitated,
kept me covered : the voice went on saying the same thing over
again. I sat down and the rifle was lowered.


  “What’s he saying?” Pyle asked.


  “I don’t know. I expect they’ve found the car and
are telling these chaps to hand us over or else. Better pick up
that sten before they make up their minds.”


  “He’ll shoot.”


  “He’s not sure yet. When he is hell shoot
anyway.”


  Pyle shifted his leg and the rifle came up.


  “I’ll move along the wall,” I said. “When his eyes
waver get him covered.”


  Just as I rose the voice stopped : the silence made
me jump. Pyle said sharply, “Drop your rifle.” I had just time to
wonder whether the sten was unloaded—I hadn’t bothered to look
-when the man threw his rifle down.


  I crossed the room and picked it up. Then the voice
began again—I had the impression that no syllable had changed.
Perhaps they used a record. I wondered when the ultimatum would
expire.


  “What happens next?” Pyle asked, like a schoolboy
watching a demonstration in the laboratory : he didn’t seem
personally concerned.


  “Perhaps a bazooka, perhaps a Viet.”


  Pyle examined his sten. “There doesn’t seem any
mystery about this,” he said. “Shall I fire a burst?”


  “No, let them hesitate. They’d rather take the post
without firing and it gives us time. We’d better clear out
fast.”


  “They may be waiting at the bottom.”


  “Yes.”


  The two men watched us -1 write men, but I doubt
whether they had accumulated forty years between them. “And these?”
Pyle asked, and he added with a shocking directness, “Shall I shoot
them?” Perhaps he wanted to try the sten.


  “They’ve done nothing.”


  “They were going to hand us over.”


  “Why not?” I said. “We’ve no business here. It’s
their country.”


  I unloaded the rifle and laid it on the floor.
“Surely you’re not leaving that,” he said.


  “I’m too old to run with a rifle. And this isn’t my
war. Come on.”


  It wasn’t my war, but I wished those others in the
dark knew that as well. I blew the oil-lamp out and dangled my legs
over the trap, feeling for the ladder. I could hear the guards
whispering to each other like crooners, in their language like a
song. “Make straight ahead,” I told Pyle, “aim for the rice.
Remember there’s water—I don’t know how deep. Ready?”


  “Yes.”


  “Thanks for the company.”


  “Always a pleasure,” Pyle said.


  I heard the guards moving behind us: I wondered if
they had knives. The megaphone voice spoke peremptorily as though
offering a last chance. Something shifted softly in the dark below
us, but it might have been a rat. I hesitated. “I wish to God I had
a drink,” I whispered.


  “Let’s go.”


  Something was coming up the ladder: I heard nothing,
but the ladder shook under my feet.


  “What’s keeping you?” Pyle said.


  I don’t know why I thought of it as something, that
silent stealthy approach. Only a man could climb a ladder, and yet
I couldn’t think of it as a man like myself—it was as though an
animal were moving in to kill, very quietly and certainly with the
remorselessness of another kind of creation. The ladder shook and
shook and I imagined I saw its eyes glaring upwards. Suddenly I
could bear it no longer and I jumped, and there was nothing there
at all but the spongy ground, which took my ankle and twisted it as
a hand might have done. I could hear Pyle coming down the ladder; I
realized I had been a frightened fool who could not recognize his
own trembling, and I had believed I was tough and unimaginative,
all that a truthful observer and reporter should be. I got on my
feet and nearly fell again with the pain. I started out for the
field dragging one foot after me and heard Pyle coming behind me.
Then the bazooka shell burst on the tower and I was on my face
again.


 


 


  4


 


  “Are you hurt?” Pyle said.


  “Something hit my leg. Nothing serious.”


  “Let’s get on,” Pyle urged me. I could just see him
because he seemed to be covered with a fine white dust. Then he
simply went out like a picture on the screen when the lamps of the
projector fail: only the soundtrack continued. I got gingerly up on
to my good knee and tried to rise without putting any weight on my
bad left ankle, and then I was down again breathless with pain. It
wasn’t my ankle: something had happened to my left leg. I couldn’t
worry—pain took away care. I lay very still on the ground hoping
that pain wouldn’t find me again. I even held my breath, as one
does with toothache. I didn’t think about the Viets who would soon
be searching the ruins of the tower: another shell exploded on
it—they were making quite sure before they came in. What a lot of
money it costs, I thought as the pain receded, to kill a few human
beings—you can kill horses so much cheaper. I can’t have been fully
conscious, for I began to think I had strayed into a knacker’s yard
which was the terror of my childhood in the small town where I was
born. We used to think we heard the horses whinnying with fear and
the explosion of the painless killer.


  It was some while since the pain had returned, now
that I was lying still and holding my breath—that seemed to me just
as important. I wondered quite lucidly whether perhaps I ought to
crawl towards the fields. The Viets might not have time to search
far. Another patrol would be out by now trying to contact the crew
of the first tank. But I was more afraid of the pain than of the
partisans, and I lay still. There was no sound anywhere of Pyle: he
must have reached the fields. Then I heard someone weeping. It came
from the direction of the tower, or what had been the tower. It
wasn’t like a man weeping: it was like a child who is frightened of
the dark and yet afraid to scream. I supposed it was one of the two
boys—perhaps his companion had been killed. I hoped that the Viets
wouldn’t cut his throat. One shouldn’t fight a war with children
and a little curled body in a ditch came back to mind. I shut my
eyes—that helped to keep the pain away, too, and waited. A voice
called something I didn’t understand. I almost felt I could sleep
in this darkness and loneliness and absence of pain.


  Then I heard Pyle whispering, “Thomas. Thomas.” He
had learnt footcraft quickly; I had not heard him return.


  “Go away,” I whispered back.


  He found me then and lay down flat beside me. “Why
didn’t you come? Are you hurt?”


  “My leg. I think it’s broken.”


  “A bullet?”


  “No, no. Log of wood. Stone. Something from the
tower. It’s not bleeding.”


  “You’ve got to make an effort.”


  “Go away, Pyle. 1 don’t want to, it hurts too
much.”


  “Which leg?”


  “Left.”


  He crept round to my side and hoisted my arm over
his shoulder. I wanted to whimper like the boy in the tower and
then I was angry, but it was hard to express anger in a whisper.
“God damn you, Pyle, leave me alone. I want to stay.”


  “You can’t.”


  He was pulling me half on to his shoulder and the
pain was intolerable. “Don’t be a bloody hero. I don’t want to
go.”


  “You’ve got to help,” he said, “or we are both
caught.”


  “You . . .”


  “Be quiet or they’ll hear you.” I was crying with
vexation -you couldn’t use a stronger word. I hoisted myself
against him and let my left leg dangle—we were like awkward
contestants in a three-legged race and we wouldn’t have stood a
chance if, at the moment we set off, a bren had not begun to fire
in quick short bursts somewhere down the road towards the next
tower. Perhaps a patrol was pushing up or perhaps they were
completing their score of three towers destroyed. It covered the
noise of our slow and clumsy flight.


  I’m not sure whether I was conscious all the time: I
think for the last twenty yards Pyle must have almost carried my
weight. He said, “Careful here. We are going in.” The dry rice
rustled around us and the mud squelched and rose. The water was up
to our waists when Pyle stopped. He was panting and a catch in his
breath made him sound like a bull-frog. “


  “I’m sorry,” I said.


  “Couldn’t leave you,” Pyle said.


  The first sensation was relief; the water and mud
held my leg tenderly and firmly like a bandage, but soon the cold
set us chattering. I wondered whether it had passed midnight yet;
we might have six hours of this if the Viets didn’t find us.


  “Can you shift your weight a little,” Pyle said,
“just for a moment?” And my unreasoning irritation came back—I had
no excuse for it but the pain. I hadn’t asked to be saved, or to
have death so painfully postponed. I thought with nostalgia of my
couch on the hard dry ground. I stood like a crane on one leg
trying to relieve Pyle of my weight, and when I moved, the stalks
of rice tickled and cut and crackled.


  “You saved my life there,” I said, and Pyle cleared
his throat for the conventional response, “so that I could die
here. I prefer dry land.”


  “Better not talk,” Pyle said as though to an
invalid.


  “Who the hell asked you to save my life? I came east
to be killed. It’s like your damned impertinence . . .” I staggered
in the mud and Pyle hoisted my arm around his shoulder. “Ease it
off,” he said.


  “You’ve been seeing war-films. We aren’t a couple of
marines and you can’t win a war-medal.”


  “Sh-sh.” Footsteps could be heard, coming down to
the edge of the field. The bren up the road stopped firing and
there was no sound except the footsteps and the slight rustle of
the rice when we breathed. Then the footsteps halted: they only
seemed the length of a room away. I felt Pyle’s hand on my good
side pressing me slowly down; we sank together into the mud very
slowly so as to make the least disturbance of the rice. On one
knee, by straining my head backwards, I could just keep my mouth
out of the water. The pain came back to my leg and I thought, “If I
faint here I drown”—I had always hated and feared the thought of
drowning. Why can’t one choose one’s death? There was no sound now:
perhaps twenty feet away they were waiting for a rustle, a cough, a
sneeze—”Oh God,” I thought, “I’m going to sneeze.” If only he had
left me alone, I would have been responsible only for my own
life—not his—and he wanted to live. I pressed my free fingers
against my upper lip in that trick we learn when we are children
playing at Hide and Seek, but the sneeze lingered, waiting to
burst, and silent in the darkness the others waited for the sneeze.
It was coming, coming, came . . .


  But in the very second that my sneeze broke, the
Viets opened with stens, drawing a line of fire through the rice—it
swallowed my sneeze with its sharp drilling like a machine punching
holes through steel. I took a breath and went under—so
instinctively one avoids the loved thing, coquetting with death,
like a woman who demands to be raped by her lover. The rice was
lashed down over our heads and the storm passed. We came up for air
at the same moment and heard the footsteps going away back towards
the tower.


  “We’ve made it,” Pyle said, and even in my pain I
wondered what we’d made: for me, old age, an editor’s
chair,loneliness; and as for him, I know now that he spoke
prematurely. Then in the cold we settled down to wait. Along the
road to Tanyin a bonfire burst into life: it burnt merrily like a
celebration.


  “That’s my car,” I said.


  Pyle said, “It’s a shame, Thomas. I hate to see
waste.”


  “There must have been just enough petrol in the tank
to set it going. Are you as cold as I am, Pyle?”


  “I couldn’t be colder.”


  “Suppose we get out and lie flat on the road?”


  “Let’s give them another half hour.”


  “The weight’s on you.”


  “I can stick it, I’m young.” He had meant the claim
humorously, but it struck as cold as the mud. I bad intended to
apologize for the way my pain had spoken, but now it spoke again.
“You’re young all right. You can afford to wait, can’t you.”


  “I don’t get you, Thomas.”


  We had spent what seemed to have been a week of
nights together, but he could no more understand me than he could
understand French. I said, “You’d have done better to let me
be.”


  “I couldn’t have faced Phuong,” he said, and the
name lay there like a banker’s bid. I took it up.


  “So it Was for her,” I said. What made my jealousy
more absurd and humiliating was that it had to be expressed in the
lowest of whispers—it had no tone, and jealousy likes histrionics.
“You think these heroics will get her. How wrong you are. If I were
dead you could have had her.”


  “I didn’t mean that,” Pyle said. “When you are in
love you want to play the game, that’s all.” That’s true, I
thought, but not as he innocently means it. To be in love is to see
yourself as someone else sees you, it is to be in love with the
falsified and exalted image of yourself. In love we are incapable
of honour—the courageous act is no more than playing a part to an
audience of two. Perhaps I was no longer in love but I
remembered.


  “If it had been you, I’d have left you,” I said.


  “Oh no, you wouldn’t, Thomas.” He added with
unbearable complacency, “I know you better than you do yourself.”
Angrily I tried to move away from him and take my own weight, but
the pain came roaring back like a train in a tunnel and I leant
more heavily against him, before I began to sink into the water. He
got both arms round me and held me up, and then inch by inch he
began to edge me to the bank and the roadside. When he got me there
he lowered me flat in the shallow mud below the bank at the edge of
the field, and when the pain retreated and I opened my eyes and
ceased to hold my breath, I could see only the elaborate cypher of
the constellations—a foreign cypher which I couldn’t read : they
were not the stars of home. His face wheeled over me, blotting them
out. “I’m going down the road, Thomas, to find a patrol.”


  “Don’t be a fool,” I said. “They’ll shoot you before
they know who you are. If the Viets don’t get you.”


  “It’s the only chance. You can’t lie in the water
for six hours.”


  “Then lay me in the road.”


  “It’s no good leaving you the sten?” he asked
doubtfully.


  “Of course it’s not. If you are determined to be a
hero, at least go slowly through the rice.”


  “The patrol would pass before I could signal
it.”


  “You don’t speak French.”


  “I shall call out ‘
Je suis Frongçais’
.
Don’t worry, Thomas. I’ll be very careful.” Before I could reply he
was out of a whisper’s range—he was moving as quietly as he knew
how, with frequent pauses. I could see him in the light of the
burning car, but no shot came; soon he passed beyond the flames and
very soon the silence filled the footprints. Oh yes, he was being
careful as he had been careful boating down the river into Phat
Diem, with the caution of a hero in a boy’s adventure-story, proud
of his caution like a Scout’s badge and quite unaware of the
absurdity and the improbability of his adventure.


  I lay and listened for the shots from the Viets or a
Legion patrol, but none came—it would probably take him an hour or
even more before he reached a tower, if he ever reached it. I
turned my head enough to see what remained of our tower, a heap of
mud and bamboo and struts which seemed to sink lower as the flames
of the car sank. There was peace when the pain went—a kind of
Armistice Day of the nerves: I wanted to sing. I thought how
strange it was that men of my profession would make only two
news-lines out of all this night—it was just a common-or-garden
night and I was the only strange thing about it. Then I heard a low
crying begin again from what was left of the tower. One of the
guards must still be alive.


  I thought, “Poor devil, if we hadn’t broken down
outside 
his
 post, he could have surrendered as they nearly
all surrendered, or fled, at the first call from the megaphone. But
we were there—two white men, and we had the sten and they didn’t
dare to move. When we left it was too late.” I was responsible for
that voice crying in the dark: I had prided myself on detachment,
on not belonging to this war, but those wounds had been inflicted
by me just as though I had used the sten, as Pyle had wanted to
do.


  I made an effort to get over the bank into the road.
I wanted to join him. It was the only thing I could do, to share
his pain. But my own personal pain pushed me back. I couldn’t hear
him any more. I lay still and heard nothing but my own pain beating
like a monstrous heart and held my breath and prayed to the God I
didn’t believe in, “Let me die or faint. Let me die or faint”; and
then I suppose I fainted and was aware of nothing until I dreamed
that my eyelids had frozen together and someone was inserting a
chisel to prise them apart, and I wanted to warn them not to damage
the eyeballs beneath but couldn’t speak and the chisel bit through
and a torch was shining on my face.


  “We made it, Thomas,” Pyle said. I remember that,
but I don’t remember what Pyle later described to others: that I
waved my hand in the wrong direction and told them there was a man
in the tower and they had to see to him. Anyway I couldn’t have
made the sentimental assumption that Pyle made. I know myself, and
I know the depth of my selfishness. I cannot be at ease (and to be
at ease is my chief wish) if someone else is in pain, visibly or
audibly or factually. Sometimes this is mistaken by the innocent
for unselfishness, when all I am doing is sacrificing a small
good—in this case postponement in attending to my hurt—for the sake
of a far greater good, a peace of mind when I need think only of
myself.


  They came back to tell me the boy was dead, and I
was happy—I didn’t even have to suffer much pain after the
hypodermic of morphia had bitten my leg.


 


 


 


  
Chapter 3


 


  l


 


  I CAME slowly up the stairs to the flat in the rue
Catinat, pausing and resting on the first landing. The old women
gossiped as they always had done, squatting on the floor outside
the urinoir, carrying Fate in the lines of their faces as others on
the palm. They were silent as I passed and I wondered what they
might have told me, if I had known their language, of what had
passed while I had been away in the Legion Hospital back on the
road towards Tanyin. Somewhere in the tower and the fields I had
lost my keys, but I had sent a message to Phuong which she must
have received, if she was still there. That “if was the measure of
my uncertainty. I had had no news of her in hospital, but she wrote
French with difficulty, and I couldn’t read Vietnamese. I knocked
on the door and it opened immediately and everything seemed to be
the same. I watched her closely while she asked how I was and
touched my splinted leg and gave me her shoulder to lean on, as
though one could lean with safety on so young a plant. I said, “I’m
glad to be home.”


  She told me that she had missed me, which of course
was what I wanted to hear: she always told me what I wanted to
hear, like a coolie answering questions, unless by accident. Now I
awaited the accident.


  “How have you amused yourself?” I asked.


  “Oh, I have seen my sister often. She has found a
post with the Americans.”


  “She has, has she? Did Pyle help?”


  “Not Pyle, Joe.”


  “Who’s Joe?”


  “You know him. The Economic Attache.”


  “Oh, of course, Joe.”


  He was a man one always forgot. To this day I cannot
describe him, except his fatness and his powdered clean-shaven
cheeks and his big laugh; all his identity escapes me—except that
he was called Joe. There are some men whose names are always
shortened.


  With Phuong’s help I stretched myself on the bed.
“Seen any movies?” I asked.


  “There is a very funny one at the Catinat,” and
immediately she began to tell me the plot in great detail, while I
looked around the room for the white envelope that might be a
telegram. So long as I didn’t ask, I could believe that she had
forgotten to tell me, and it might be there on the table by the
typewriter, or on the wardrobe, perhaps put for safety in the
cupboard-drawer where she kept her collection of scarves.


  “The postmaster—I think he was the postmaster, but
he may have been the mayor—followed them home, and he borrowed a
ladder from the baker and he climbed through Corinne’s window, but,
you see, she had gone into the next room with François, but he did
not hear Mme Bompierre coming and she came in and saw him at the
top of the ladder and thought . . .”


  “Who was Mme Bompierre?” I asked, turning my head to
see the wash-basin, where sometimes she propped reminders among the
lotions.


  “I told you. She was Corinne’s mother and she was
looking for a husband because she was a widow ...”


  She sat on the bed and put her hand inside my shirt.
“It was very funny,” she said.


  “Kiss me, Phuong.” She had no coquetry. She did at
once what I asked and she went on with the story of the film. Just
so she would have made love if I had asked her to, straight away,
peeling off her trousers without question, and afterwards have
taken up the thread of Mme Bompierre’s story and the postmaster’s
predicament.


  “Has a call come for me?”


  “Yes.”


  “Why didn’t you give it me?”


  “It is too soon for you to work. You must lie down
and rest.”


  “This may not be work.”


  She gave it me and I saw that it had been opened. It
read: “Four hundred words background wanted effect de Lattre’s
departure on military and political situation.”


  “Yes,” I said. “It is work. How did you know? Why
did you open it?”


  “I thought it was from your wife. I hoped that it
was good news.”


  “Who translated it for you?”


  “I took it to my sister.”


  “If it had been bad news would you have left me,
Phuong?”


  She rubbed her hand across my chest to reassure me,
not realizing that it was words this time I required, however
untrue. “Would you like a pipe? There 
is
 a letter for you.
I think perhaps it is from her.”


  “Did you open that too?”


  “I don’t open your letters. Telegrams are public.
The clerks read them.”


  This envelope was among the scarves. She took it
gingerly out and laid it on the bed. I recognized the hand-writing.
“If this is bad news what will you . . . ?” I knew well that it
could be nothing else but bad. A telegram might have meant a sudden
act of generosity: a letter could only mean explanation,
justification ... so I broke off my question, for there was no
honesty in asking for the kind of promise no one can keep.


  “What are you afraid of?” Phuong asked, and I
thought, “I’m afraid of the loneliness, of the Press Club and the
bed-sitting room, I’m afraid of Pyle.”


  “Make me a brandy-and-soda,” I said. I looked at the
beginning of the letter, “Dear Thomas,” and the end,
“Affectionately, Helen,” and waited for the brandy.


  “It is from 
herV


  “Yes.” Before I read it I began to wonder whether at
the end I should lie or tell the truth to Phuong.


 


  “Dear Thomas,


  “ I was not surprised to get your letter and to know
that you were not alone. You are not a man, are you? to remain
alone for very long. You pick up women like your coat picks up dust
Perhaps I would feel more sympathy with your case if I didn’t feel
that you would find consolation very easily when you return to
London. I don’t suppose you’ll believe me, but what gives me pause
and prevents me cabling you a simple No is the thought of the poor
girL We are apt to be more involved than you are.”


 


  I had a drink of brandy. I hadn’t realized bow open
the sexual wounds remain over the years. I had carelessly—not
choosing my words with skill—set hers bleeding again. Who could
blame her for seeking my own scars in return? When we are unhappy
we hurt.


  “Is it bad?” Phuong asked.


  “A bit hard,” I said. “But she has the right...” I
read on.


 


  “I always believed you loved Anne more than the rest
of us until you packed up and went Now you seem to be planning to
leave another woman because I can tell from your letter that you
don’t really expect a ‘favourable’ reply. ‘I’ll have done my best
‘—aren’t you thinking that? What would you do if I cabled ‘Yes ‘?
Would you actually marry her? (I have to write ‘ her ‘ -you don’t
tell me her name.) Perhaps you would. I suppose like the rest of us
you are getting old and don’t like living alone. I feel very lonely
myself sometimes. I gather Anne has found another companion. But
you left her in time.”


 


  She had found the dried scab accurately. I drank
again. An issue of blood—the phrase came into my mind.


  “Let me make you a pipe,” Phuong said.


  “Anything,” I said, “anything.”


 


  “That is one reason why I ought to say No. (We don’t
need to talk about the religious reason, because you’ve never
understood or believed in that.) Marriage doesn’t prevent you
leaving a woman, does it? It only delays the process, and it would
be all the more unfair to the girl in this case if you lived with
her as long as you lived with me. You would bring her back to
England where she would be lost and a stranger, and when you left
her, how terribly abandoned she would feel. I don’t suppose she
even uses a knife and fork, does she? I’m being harsh because I’m
thinking of her good more than I am of yours. But, Thomas dear, I
do think of yours too.”


 


  I felt physically sick. It was a long time since I
had received a letter from my wife. I had forced her to write it
and I could feel her pain in every line. Her pain struck at my
pain: we were back at the old routine of hurting each other. If
only it were possible to love without injury—fidelity isn’t enough
: I had been faithful to Anne and yet I had injured her. The hurt
is in the act of possession: we are too small in mind and body to
possesss another person without pride or to be possessed without
humiliation. In a way I was glad that my wife had struck out at me
again -1 had forgotten her pain for too long, and this was the only
kind of recompense I could give her. Unfortunately the innocent are
always involved in any conflict. Always, everywhere, there is some
voice crying from a tower.


  Phuong lit the opium lamp. “Will she let you marry
me?”


  “I don’t know yet.”


  “Doesn’t she say?”


  “If she does, she says it very slowly.”


  I thought, “How much you pride yourself on being

dégagé
, the reporter, not the leader-writer, and what a
mess you make behind the scenes. The other kind of war is more
innocent than this. One does less damage with a mortar.”


 


  “If I go against my deepest conviction and say ‘Yes
‘, would it even be good for you? You say you are being recalled to
England and I can realize how you will hate that and do anything to
make it easier. I can see you marrying after a drink too many. The
first time we really tried—you as well as me—and we failed. One
doesn’t try so hard the second time. You say it will be the end of
life to lose this girl. Once you used exactly that phrase to me—I
could show you the letter, I have it still—and I suppose you wrote
in the same way to Anne. You say that we’ve always tried to tell
the truth to each other, but, Thomas, your truth is always so
temporary. What’s the good of arguing with you, or trying to make
you see reason? It’s easier to act as my faith tells me to act—as
you think unreasonably—and simply to write: I don’t believe in
divorce: my religion forbids it, and so the answer, Thomas, is
no—no.”


 


  There was another half-page, which I didn’t read,
before “Affectionately, Helen”. I think it contained news of the
weather and an old aunt of mine I loved.


  I had no cause for complaint, and I had expected
this reply. There was a lot of truth in it. I only wished that she
had not thought aloud at quite such length, when the thoughts hurt
her as well as me.


  “She says ‘No’?”


  I said with hardly any hesitation, “She hasn’t made
up her mind. There’s still hope.”


  Phuong laughed. “-You say ‘hope’ with such a long
face.” She lay at my feet like a dog on a crusader’s tomb,
preparing the opium, and I wondered what I should say to Pyle. When
I had smoked four pipes I felt more ready for the future and I told
her the hope was a good one—my wife was consulting a lawyer. Any
day now I would get the telegram of release.


  “It would not matter so much. You could make a
settlement,” she said, and I could hear her sister’s voice speaking
through her mouth.


  “I have no savings,” I said. “I can’t outbid
Pyle.”


  “Don’t worry. Something may happen. There are always
ways,” she said. “My sister says you could take out a
life-insurance,” and I thought how realistic it was of her not to
minimize the importance of money and not to make any great and
binding declarations of love. I wondered how Pyle over the years
would stand that hard core, for Pyle was a romantic; but then of
course in his case there would be a good settlement, the hardness
might soften like an unused muscle when the need for it vanished.
The rich had it both ways.


  That evening, before the shops had closed in the rue
Catinat, Phuong bought three more silk scarves. She sat on the bed
and displayed them to me, exclaiming at the bright colours, filling
a void with her singing voice, and then folding them carefully she
laid them with a dozen others in her drawer: it was as though she
were laying the foundation of a modest settlement. And I laid the
crazy foundation of mine, writing a letter that very night to Pyle
with the unreliable clarity and foresight of opium. This was what I
wrote—I found it again the other day tucked into York Harding’s

Rôle of the West
. He must have been reading the book when
my letter arrived. Perhaps he had used it as a bookmark and then
not gone on reading.


  “Dear Pyle,” I wrote, and was tempted for the only
time to write, “Dear Alden,” for, after all, this was a
bread-and-butter letter of some importance and it differed from
other bread-and-butter letters in containing a falsehood :


  “Dear Pyle, I have been meaning to write from the
hospital to say thank you for the other night. You certainly saved
me from an uncomfortable end. I’m moving about again now with the
help of a stick—I broke apparently in just the right place and age
hasn’t yet reached my bones and made them brittle. We must have a
party together some time to celebrate.” (My pen stuck on that word,
and then, like an ant meeting an obstacle, went round it by another
route.) “I’ve got something else to celebrate and I know you will
be glad of this, too, for you’ve always said that Phuong’s
interests were what we both wanted. I found a letter from my wife
waiting when I got back, and she’s more or less agreed to divorce
me. So you don’t need to worry any more about Phuong”—it was a
cruel phrase, but I didn’t realize the cruelty until I read the
letter over and then it was too late to alter. If I were going to
scratch that out, I had better tear the whole letter up.


  “Which scarf do you like best?” Phuong asked. “I
love the yellow.”


  “Yes. The yellow. Go down to the hotel and post this
letter for me.”


  She looked at the address. “I could take it to the
Legation. It would save a stamp.”


  “I would rather you posted it.”


  Then I lay back and in the relaxation of the opium I
thought, “At least she won’t leave me now before I go, and perhaps,
somehow, tomorrow, after a few more pipes, I shall think of a way
to remain.”


 


 


  2


 


  Ordinary life goes on—that has saved many a man’s
reason. Just as in an air-raid it proved impossible to be
frightened all the time, so under the bombardment of routine jobs,
of chance encounters, of impersonal anxieties, one lost for hours
together the personal fear. The thoughts of the coming April, of
leaving Indo-China, of the hazy future without Phuong, were
affected by the day’s telegrams, the bulletins of the Vietnam
Press, and by the illness of my assistant, an Indian called
Dominguez (bis family had come from Goa by way of Bombay) who had
attended in my place the less important Press Conferences, kept a
sensitive ear open to the tones of gossip and rumour, and took my
messages to the cable-offices and the censorship. With the help of
Indian traders, particularly in the north, in Haiphong, Nam Dinh
and Hanoi, he ran his own personal Intelligence Service for my
benefit, and I think he knew more accurately than the French High
Command the location of Vietminh battalions within the Tonkin
delta.


  And because we never used our information except
when it became news, and never passed any reports to the French
intelligence, he had the trust and the friendship of several
Vietminh agents hidden in Saigon-Cholon. The fact that “he was an
Asiatic, in spite of his name, unquestionably helped.


  I was fond of Dominguez. Where other men carry their
pride like a skin-disease on the surface, sensitive to the least
touch, his pride was deeply hidden, and reduced to the smallest
proportion possible, I think, for any human being. All that you
encountered in daily contact with him was gentleness and humility
and an absolute love of truth: you would have had to be married to
him to discover the pride. Perhaps truth and humility go together;
so many lies come from our pride—in my profession a reporter’s
pride, the desire to file a better story than the other man’s, and
it was Dominguez who helped me not to care—to withstand all those
telegrams from home asking why I had not covered so and so’s story
or the report of someone else which I knew to be untrue.


  Now that he was ill I realized how much I owed
him—why, he would even see that my oar was full of petrol, and yet
never once, with a phrase or a look, had he encroached on my
private life. I believe he was a Roman Catholic, but I had no
evidence for it beyond his name and the place of his origin -for
all I knew from his conversation, he might have worshipped Krishna
or gone on annual pilgrimages, pricked by a wire frame, to the Batu
Caves. Now his illness came like a mercy, reprieving me from the
treadmill of private anxiety. It was I now who had to attend the
wearisome Press Conferences and hobble to my table at the
Continental for a gossip with my colleagues; but I was less capable
than Dominguez of telling truth from falsehood, and so I formed the
habit of calling in on him in the evenings to discuss what I had
heard. Sometimes one of his Indian friends was there, sitting
beside the narrow iron bed in the lodgings Dominguez shared in one
of the meaner streets off the Boulevard Galliéni. He would sit up
straight in his bed with his feet tucked under him so that you had
less the impression of visiting a sick man than of being received
by a rajah or a priest. Sometimes when his fever was bad his face
ran with sweat, but he never lost the clarity of his thought. It
was as though his illness were happening to another person’s body.
His landlady kept a jug of fresh lime by his side, but I never saw
him take a drink -perhaps that would have been to admit that it was
his own thirst, and his own body which suffered.


  Of all the days that I visited him I remember one in
particular. I had given up asking him how he was for fear that the
question sounded like a reproach, and it was always he who inquired
with great anxiety about my health and apologized for the stairs I
had to climb. Then he said, “I would like you to meet a friend of
mine. He has a story you should listen to.”


  “Yes.”


  “I have his name written down because I know you
find it difficult to remember Chinese names. We must not use it, of
course. He has a warehouse on the Quai Mytho for junk metal.”


  “Important?”


  “It might be.”


  “Can you give me an idea?”


  “I would rather you heard from him. There is
something strange, but I don’t understand it.” The sweat was
pouring down his face, but he just let it run as though the drops
were alive and sacred—there was that much of the Hindu in him, he
would never have endangered the life of a fly. He said, “How much
do you know of your friend Pyle?”


  “Not very much. Our tracks cross, that’s all. I
haven’t seen him since Tanyin.”


  “What job does he do?”


  “Economic Mission, but that covers a multitude of
sins. I think he’s interested in home-industries—I suppose with an
American business tie-up. I don’t like the way they keep the French
fighting and cut out their business at the same time.”


  “I heard him talking the other day at a party the
Legation was giving to visiting Congressmen. They had put him on to
brief them.”


  “God help Congress,” I said, “he hasn’t been in the
country six months.”


  “He was talking about the old colonial
powers—England and France, and how you two couldn’t expect to win
the confidence of the Asiatics. That was where America came in now
with clean hands.”


  “Hawaii, Puerto Rico,” I said, “New Mexico.”


  “Then someone asked him some stock question about
the chances of the Government here ever beating the Vietminh and he
said a Third Force could do it. There was always a Third Force to
be found free from Communism and the taint of colonialism—national
democracy he called it; you only had to find a leader and keep him
safe from the old colonial powers.”


  “It’s all in York Harding,” I said. “He had read it
before he came out here. He talked about it his first week and he’s
learned nothing.”


  “He may have found his leader,” Dominguez said.


  “Would it matter?”


  “I don’t know. I don’t know what he does. But go and
talk to my friend on the Quai Mytho.”


  I went home to leave a note for Phuong in the rue
Catinat and then drove down past the port as the sun set. The
tables and chairs were out on the 
quai
 beside the steamers
and the grey naval boats, and the little portable kitchens burned
and bubbled. In the Boulevard de la Somme the hairdressers were
busy under the trees and the fortune-tellers squatted against the
walls with their soiled packs of cards. In Cholon you were in a
different city where work seemed to be just beginning rather than
petering out with the daylight. It was like driving into a
pantomime set: the long vertical Chinese signs and the bright
lights and the crowd of extras led you into the wings, where
everything was suddenly so much darker and quieter. One such wing
took me down again to the 
quai
 and a huddle of sampans,
where the warehouses yawned in the shadow and no one was about.


  I found the place with difficulty and almost by
accident, the godown gates were open, and I could see the strange
Picasso shapes of the junk-pile by the light of an old lamp:
bedsteads, bathtubs, ashcans, the bonnets of cars, stripes of old
colour where the light hit. I walked down a narrow track carved in
the iron quarry and called out for Mr Chou, but there was no reply.
At the end of the godown a stair led up to what I supposed might be
Mr Chou’s house—I had apparently been directed to the back door,
and I supposed that Dominguez had his reasons. Even the staircase
was lined with junk, pieces of scrap-iron which might come in
useful one day in this jackdaw’s nest of a house. There was one big
room on the landing and a whole family sat and lay about in it with
the effect of a camp which might be struck at any moment. Small
tea-cups stood about everywhere and there were lots of cardboard
boxes full of unidentifiable objects and fibre suitcases ready
strapped; there was an old lady sitting on a big bed, two boys and
two girls, a baby crawling on the floor, three middle-aged women in
old brown peasant-trousers and jackets, and two old men in a corner
in blue silk mandarin coats playing man jongg. They paid no
attention to my coming; they played rapidly, identifying each piece
by touch, and the noise was like shingle turning on a beach after a
wave withdraws. No one paid any more attention than they did; only
a cat leapt on to a cardboard box and a lean dog sniffed at me and
withdrew.


  “Monsieur Chou?” I asked, and two of the women shook
their heads, and still no one regarded me, except that one of the
women rinsed out a cup and poured tea from a pot which had been
resting warm in its silk-lined box. I sat down on the end of the
bed next the old lady and a girl brought me the cup: it was as
though I had been absorbed into the community with the cat and the
dog—perhaps they had turned up the first time as fortuitously as I
had. The baby crawled across the floor and pulled at my laces and
no one reproved it: one didn’t in the East reprove children. Three
commercial calendars were hanging on the walls, each with a girl in
gay Chinese costume with bright pink cheeks. There was a big mirror
mysteriously lettered Café de la Paix—perhaps it had got caught up
accidentally in the junk: I felt caught up in it myself.


  I drank slowly the green bitter tea, shifting the
handleless cup from palm to palm as the heat scorched my fingers,
and I wondered how long I ought to stay. I tried the family once in
French, asking when they expected Monsieur Chou to return, but no
one replied : they had probably not understood. When my cup was
empty they refilled it and continued their own occupations : a
woman ironing, a girl sewing, the two boys at their lessons, the
old lady looking at her feet, the tiny crippled feet of old
China—and the dog watching the cat, which stayed on the cardboard
boxes.


  I began to realize bow hard Dominguez worked for bis
lean living.


  A Chinese of extreme emaciation came into the room.
He seemed to take up no room at all: he was like the piece of
greaseproof paper that divides the biscuits in a tin. The only
thickness he had was in “his striped flannel pyjamas. “Monsieur
Chou?” I asked.


  He looked at me with the indifferent gaze of a
smoker: the sunken cheeks, the baby wrists, the arms of a small
girl -many years and many pipes had been needed to whittle him down
to these dimensions. I said, “My friend, Monsieur Dominguez, said
that you had something to show me. You 
are
 Monsieur
Chou?”


  Oh yes, he said, he was Monsieur Chou and waved me
courteously back to my seat. I could tell that the object of my
coming had been lost somewhere within the smoky corridors of his
skull. I would have a cup of tea? he was much honoured by my visit.
Another cup was rinsed on to the floor and put like a live coal
into my hands—the ordeal by tea. I commented on the size of his
family.


  He looked round with faint surprise as though he had
never seen it in that light before. “My mother,” he said, “my wife,
my sister, my uncle, my brother, my children, my aunt’s children.”
The baby had rolled away from my feet and lay on its back kicking
and crowing. I wondered to whom it belonged. No one seemed young
enough—or old enough—to have produced that.


  I said, “Monsieur Dominguez told me it was
important.”


  “Ah, Monsieur Dominguez. I hope Monsieur Dominguez
is well?”


  “He has had a fever.”


  “It is an unhealthy time of year.” I wasn’t
convinced that he even remembered who Dominguez was. He began to
cough, and under his pyjama jacket, which had lost two buttons, the
tight skin twanged like a native drum.


  “You should see a doctor yourself,” I said. A
newcomer joined us—I hadn’t heard him enter. He was a young man
neatly dressed in European clothes. He said in English, “Mr Chou
has only one lung.”


  “I am very sorry . . .”


  “He smokes one hundred and fifty pipes every
day.”


  “That sounds a lot.”


  “The doctor says it will do him no good, but Mr Chou
feels much happier when he smokes.”


  I made an understanding grunt.


  “If I may introduce myself, I am Mr Chou’s
manager.”


  “My name is Fowler. Mr Dominguez sent me. He said
that Mr Chou had something to tell me.”


  “Mr Chou’s memory is very much impaired. Will you
have a cup of tea?”


  “Thank you, I have had three cups already.” It
sounded like a question and an answer in a phrase-book.


  Mr Chou’s manager took the cup out of my hand and
held it out to one of the girls, who after spilling the dregs on
the floor again refilled it.


  “That is not strong enough,” he said, and took it
and tasted it himself, carefully rinsed it and refilled it from a
second teapot. “That is better?” he asked.


  “Much better.”


  Mr Chou cleared his throat, but it was only for an
immense expectoration into a tin spittoon decorated with pink
blooms. The baby rolled up and down among the tea-dregs and the cat
leapt from a cardboard box on to a suitcase.


  “Perhaps it would be better if you talked to me.”
the young man said. “My name is Mr Heng.”


  “If you would tell me . . .”


  “We will go down to the warehouse,” Mr Heng said.
“It is quieter there.”


  I put out my hand to Mr Chou, who allowed it to rest
between his palms with a look of bewilderment, then gazed around
the crowded room as though he were trying to fit me in. The sound
of the turning shingle receded as we went down the stairs. Mr Heng
said, “Be careful. The last step is missing,” and he flashed a
torch to guide me.


  We were back among the bedsteads and the bathtubs
and Mr Heng led the way down a side aisle. When he had gone about
twenty paces he stopped and shone his light on to a small iron
drum. He said, “Do you see that?”


  “What about it?”


  He turned it over and showed the trade mark:
“Diolacton.”


  “It still means nothing to me.”


  He said, “I had two of those drums here. They were
picked up with other junk at the garage of Mr Phan-Van-Muoi. You
know him?”


  “No, I don’t think so.”


  “His wife is a relation of General Thé.”


  “I still don’t quite see ... ?”


  “Do you know what this is?” Mr Heng asked, stooping
and lifting a long concave object like a stick of celery which
glistened chromium in the light of his torch.


  “It might be a bath-fixture.”


  “It is a mould,” Mr Heng said. He was obviously a
man who took a tiresome pleasure in giving instruction. He paused
for me to show my ignorance again. “You understand what I mean by a
mould?”


  “Oh yes, of course, but I still don’t follow . .
.”


  “This mould was made in U.S.A. Diolacton is an
American trade name. You begin to understand?”


  “Frankly, no.”


  “There is a flaw in the mould. That was why it was
thrown away. But it should not have been thrown away with the
junk—nor the drum either. That was a mistake. Mr Muoi’s manager
came here personally. I could not und the mould, but I let him have
back the other drum. I said it was all I had, and he told me he
needed them for storing chemicals. Of course, he did not ask for
the mould—that would have given too much away—but he had a good
search. Mr Muoi himself called later at the American Legation and
asked for Mr Pyle.”


  “You seem to have quite an Intelligence Service,” I
said. I still couldn’t imagine what it was all about.


  “I asked Mr Chou to get in touch with Mr
Dominguez.”


  “You mean you’ve established a kind of connection
between Pyle and the General,” I said. “A very slender one. It’s
not news anyway. Everybody here goes in for Intelligence.”


  Mr Heng beat his heel against the black iron drum
and the sound reverberated among the bedsteads. He said, “Mr
Fowler, you are English. You are neutral. You have been fair to all
of us. You can sympathize if some of us feel strongly on whatever
side.”


  I said, “If you are hinting that you are a
Communist, or a Vietminh, don’t worry. I’m not shocked. I have no
politics.”


  “If anything unpleasant happens here in Saigon, it
will be blamed on us. My Committee would like you to take a fair
view. That is why I have shown you this and this.”


  “What is Diolacton?” I said. “It sounds like
condensed milk.”


  “It has something in common with milk.” Mr Heng
shone his torch inside the drum. A little white powder lay like
dust on the bottom. “It is one of the American plastics,” he
said.


  “I heard a rumour that Pyle was importing plastics
for toys.” I picked up the mould and looked at it. I tried in my
mind to divine its shape. This was not how the object itself would
look: this was the image in a mirror, reversed.


  “Not for toys,” Mr Heng said.


  “It is like parts of a rod.”


  ““The shape is unusual.”


  “I can’t see what it could be for.”


  Mr Heng turned away. “I only want you to remember
what you have seen,” he said, walking back in the shadows of the
junk-pile. “Perhaps one day you will have a reason for writing
about it. But you must not say you saw the drum here.”


  “Nor the mould?” I asked.


  “Particularly not the mould.”


 


 


  3


 


  It is not easy the first time to meet again one who
has saved as they put it—one’s life. I had not seen Pyle while I
was in the Legion Hospital, and his absence and silence, easily
accountable (for he was more sensitive to embarrassment than I),
sometimes worried me unreasonably, so that at night before my
sleeping drug had soothed me I would imagine him going up my
stairs, knocking at my door, sleeping in my bed. I had been unjust
to him in that, and so I had added a sense of guilt to my other
more formal obligation. And then I suppose there was also the guilt
of my letter. (What distant ancestors had given me this stupid
conscience? Surely they were free of it when they raped and killed
in their palaeolithic world.)


  Should I invite my saviour to dinner, I sometimes
wondered, or should I suggest a meeting for a drink in the bar of
the Continental? It was an unusual social problem, perhaps
depending on the value one attributed to one’s life. A meal and a
bottle of wine or a double whisky?—it had worried me for some days
until the problem was solved by Pyle himself, who came and shouted
at me through my closed door. I was sleeping through the hot
afternoon, exhausted by the morning’s effort to use my leg, and I
hadn’t heard his knock.


  “Thomas, Thomas.” The call dropped into a dream I
was having of walking down a long empty road looking for a turning
which never came. The road unwound like a tape-machine with a
uniformity that would never have altered if the voice hadn’t broken
in—first of all like a voice crying in pain from a tower and then
suddenly a voice speaking to me personally, “Thomas, Thomas.”


  Under my breath I said, “Go away, Pyle. Don’t come
near me. I don’t want to be saved.”


  “Thomas.” He was hitting at my door, but I lay
possum as though I were back in the rice-field and he was an enemy.
Suddenly I realized that the knocking had stopped, someone was
speaking in a low voice outside and someone was replying. Whispers
are dangerous. I couldn’t tell who the speakers were. I got
carefully off the bed and with the help of my stick reached the
door of the other room. Perhaps I had moved too hurriedly and they
had heard me, because a silence grew outside. Silence like a plant
put out tendrils: it seemed to grow under the door and spread its
leaves in the room where I stood. It was a silence I didn’t like,
and I tore it apart by flinging the door open. Phuong stood in the
passage and Pyle had his hands on her shoulders: from their
attitude they might have parted from a kiss.


  “Why, come in,” I said, “come in.”


  “I couldn’t make you hear,” Pyle said.


  “I was asleep at first, and then I didn’t want to be
disturbed. But I 
am
 disturbed, so come in.” I said in
French to Phuong, “Where did you pick “him up?”


  “Here. In the passage,” she said; “I heard him
knocking, so I ran upstairs to let him in.”


  “Sit down,” I said to Pyle. “Will you have some
coffee?”


  “ No, and I don’t want to sit down, Thomas.”


  “I must. This leg gets tired. You got my
letter?”


  “Yes. I wish you hadn’t written it.”


  “Why?”


  “Because it was a pack of lies. I trusted you,
Thomas.”


  “You shouldn’t trust anyone when there’s a woman in
the case.”


  “Then you needn’t trust me after this. I’ll come
sneaking up here when you go out, I’ll write letters in typewritten
envelopes. Maybe I’m growing up, Thomas.” But there were tears in
his voice, and he looked younger than he had ever done. “Couldn’t
you have won without lying?”


  “No. This is European duplicity, Pyle. We have to
make up for our lack of supplies. I must have been clumsy though.
How did you spot the lies?”


  “It was her sister,” he said. “She’s working for Joe
now. I saw her just now. She knows you’ve been called home.”


  “Oh, that,” I said with relief. “Phuong knows it
too.”


  “And the letter from your wife? Does Phuong know
about that? Her sister’s seen it.”


  “How?”


  “She came here to meet Phuong when you were out
yesterday and Phuong showed it to her. You can’t deceive her. She
reads English.”


  “I see.” There wasn’t any point in being angry with
anyone—the offender was too obviously myself, and Phuong had
probably only shown the letter as a kind of boast—it wasn’t a sign
of mistrust.


  “You knew all this last night?” I asked Phuong.


  “Yes.”


  “I noticed you were quiet.” I touched her arm. “What
a fury you might have been, but you’re Phuong—you are no fury.”


  “I had to think,” she said, and I remembered how
waking in the night I had told from the irregularity of her
breathing that she was not asleep. I’d put my arm out to her and
asked her “
Le caucheman
?” She used to suffer from
nightmares when she first came to the rue Catinat, but last night
she had shaken her head at the suggestion: her back was turned to
me and I had moved my leg against “her—the first move in the
formula of intercourse. I had noticed nothing wrong even then.


  “Can’t you explain, Thomas, why . . .”


  “Surely it’s obvious enough. I wanted to keep
her.”


  “At any cost to her?”


  “Of course.”


  “That’s not love.”


  “Perhaps it’s not your way of love, Pyle.”


  “I want to protect her.”


  “I don’t. She doesn’t need protection. I want her
around, I want her in my bed.”


  “Against her will?”


  “She wouldn’t stay against her will, Pyle.”


  “She can’t love you after this.” His ideas were as
simple as that. I turned to look for her. She had gone through to
the bedroom and was pulling the counterpane straight where I had
lain; then she took one of her picture books from a shelf and sat
on the bed as though she were quite unconcerned with our talk. I
could tell what book it was—a pictorial record of the Queen’s life.
I could see upside-down the state coach on the way to
Westminster.


  “Love’s a Western word,” I said. “We use it for
sentimental reasons or to cover up an obsession with one woman.
These people don’t suffer from obsessions. You’re going to be hurt,
Pyle, if you aren’t careful.”


  “I’d have beaten you up if it wasn’t for that
leg.”


  “You should be grateful to me—and Phuong’s sister,
of course. You can go ahead without scruples now—and you are very
scrupulous in some ways, aren’t you, when it doesn’t come to
plastics.”


  “Plastics?”


  “I hope to God you know what you are doing there.
Oh, I know your motives are good, they always are.” He looked
puzzled and suspicious. “I wish sometimes you had a few bad
motives, you might understand a little more about human beings. And
that applies to your country too, Pyle.”


  “I want to give her a decent life. This
place—smells.”


  “We keep the smell down with joss sticks. I suppose
you’ll offer her a deep freeze and a car for herself and the newest
television set and . . .”


  “And children,” he said.


  “Bright young American citizens ready to
testify.”


  “And what will you give her? You weren’t going to
take her home.”


  “No, I’m not that cruel. Unless I can afford her a
return ticket.”


  “You’ll just keep her as a comfortable lay until you
leave.”


  “She’s a human being, Pyle. She’s capable of
deciding.”


  “On faked evidence. And a child at that.”


  “She’s no child. She’s tougher than you’ll ever be.
Do you know the kind of polish that doesn’t take scratches? That’s
Phuong. She can survive a dozen of us. She’ll get old, that’s all.
She’ll suffer from childbirth and hunger and cold and rheumatism,
but shell never suffer like we do from thoughts, obsessions—she
won’t scratch, she’ll only decay.” But even while I made my speech
and watched her turn the page (a family group with Princess Anne),
I knew I was inventing a character just as much as Pyle was. One
never knows another human being; for all I could tell, she was as
scared as the rest of us: she didn’t have the gift of expression,
that was all. And I remembered that first tormenting year when I
had tried so passionately to understand her, when I had begged her
to tell me what she thought and had scared her with my unreasoning
anger at her silences. Even my desire had been a weapon, as though
when one plunged one’s sword towards the victim’s womb, she would
lose control and speak.


  “You’ve said enough,” I told Pyle. “You know all
there is to know. Please go.”


  “Phuong,” he called.


  “Monsieur Pyle?” she inquired, looking up from the
scrutiny of Windsor Castle, and her formality was comic and
reassuring at that moment.


  “He’s cheated you.”


  
”Je ne comprends pas”


  “Oh, go away,” I said. “Go to your Third Force and
York Harding and the Rôle of Democracy. Go away and play with
plastics.”


  Later I had to admit that he had carried out my
instructions to the letter.


 


 


 


 


  PART THREE


 


 


 


  
Chapter 1


 


  IT was nearly a fortnight after Pyle’s death before
I saw Vigot again. I was going up the Boulevard Charner when his
voice called to me from Le Club. It was the restaurant most
favoured in those days by members of the Sûreté, who, as a kind of
defiant gesture to those who hated them, would lunch and drink on
the ground-floor while the general public fed upstairs out of the
reach of a partisan with a hand-grenade. I joined him and he
ordered me a vermouth cassis. “Play for it?”


  “If you like,” and I took out my dice for the ritual
game of 
Quatre Cent Vingt-et-un
. How those figures and the
sight of dice bring back to mind the war-years in Indo-China.
Anywhere in the world when I see two men dicing I am back in the
streets of Hanoi or Saigon or among the blasted buildings of Phat
Diem, I see the parachutists, protected like caterpillars by their
strange markings, patrolling by the canals, I hear the sound of the
mortars closing in, and perhaps I see a dead child.


  “
Sans vaseline
,” Vigot said, throwing a
four-two-one. He pushed the last match towards me. The sexual
jargon of the game was common to all the Sûreté; perhaps it had
been invented by Vigot and taken up by his junior officers, who
hadn’t however taken up Pascal. “
Sous-lieutenant
.” Every
game you lost raised you a rank—you played till one or other became
a captain or a commandant. He won the second game as well and while
he counted out the matches, he said, “We’ve found Pyle’s dog.”


  “Yes?”


  “I suppose it had refused to leave the body. Anyway
they cut its throat. It was in the mud fifty yards away. Perhaps it
dragged itself that far.”


  “Are you still interested?”


  “The American Minister keeps bothering us. We don’t
have the same trouble, thank God, when a Frenchman is killed. But
then those cases don’t have rarity value.”


  We played for the division of matches and then the
real game started. It was uncanny how quickly Vigot threw a
four-two-one. He reduced his matches to three and I threw the
lowest score possible. “
Nanette
,” Vigot said, pushing me
over two matches. When he had got rid of his last match he said,
“
Capitaine
,” and I called the waiter for drinks. “Does
anybody ever beat you?” I asked.


  “Not often. Do you want your revenge?”


  “Another time. What a gambler you could be, Vigot.
Do you play any other game of chance?”


  He smiled miserably, and for some reason I thought
of that blonde wife of his who was said to betray him with his
junior officers.


  “Oh well,” he said, “there’s always the biggest of
all.”


  “The biggest?”


  “‘Let us weigh the gain and loss,’ he quoted, ‘in
wagering that God is, let us estimate these two chances. If you
gain, you gain all; if you lose you lose nothing.’“


  I quoted Pascal back at him—it was the only passage
I remembered. “‘Both he who chooses heads and he who chooses tails
are equally at fault. They are both in the wrong. True course is
not to wager at all.”‘


  “‘Yes; but you must wager. It is not optional. You
are embarked.’ You don’t follow your own principles, Fowler. You’re

engagé
, like the rest of us.”


  “Not in religion.”


  “I wasn’t talking about religion. As a matter of
fact,” he said, “I was thinking about Pyle’s dog.”


  “Oh.”


  “Do you remember what you said to me—about finding
clues on its paws, analysing the dirt and so on?”


  “And you said you weren’t Maigret or Lecoq.”


  “I’ve not done so badly after all,” he said. “Pyle
usually took the dog with him when he went out, didn’t he?”


  “I suppose so.”


  “It was too valuable to let it stray by itself?”


  “It wouldn’t be very safe. They eat chows, don’t
they, in this country?” He began to put the dice in his pocket. “My
dice, Vigot.”


  “Oh, I’m sorry. I was thinking . . .”


  “Why did you say I was 
engagé
?”


  “When did you last see Pyle’s dog, Fowler?”


  “God knows. I don’t keep an engagement-book for
dogs.”


  “When are you due to go home?”


  “I don’t know exactly.” I never like giving
information to the police. It saves them trouble.


  “I’d like—tonight—to drop in and see you. At ten? If
you will be alone.”


  “I’ll send Phuong to the cinema.”


  “Things all right with you again—with her?”


  “Yes.”


  “Strange. I got the impression that you
are—well—unhappy.”


  “Surely there are plenty of possible reasons for
that, Vigot.” I added bluntly, “You should know.”


  “Me?”


  “You’re not a very happy man yourself.”


  “Oh, I’ve nothing to complain about. ‘A ruined house
is not miserable.”‘


  “What’s that?”


  “Pascal again. It’s an argument for being proud of
misery. ‘A tree is not miserable. ‘ “


  “What made you into a policeman, Vigot?”


  “There were a number of factors. The need to earn a
living, a curiosity about people, and—yes, even that, a love of
Gaboriau.”


  “Perhaps you ought to have been a priest.”


  “I didn’t read the right authors for that—in those
days.”


  “You still suspect me, don’t you, of being
concerned?”


  He rose and drank what was left of his vermouth
cassis.


  “I’d like to talk to you, that’s all.”


  I thought after he had turned and gone that he had
looked at me with compassion, as he might have looked at some
prisoner, for whose capture he was responsible, undergoing his
sentence for life.


 


 


  2


 


  I 
had
 been punished. It was as though Pyle,
when he left my flat, had sentenced me to so many weeks of
uncertainty. Every time that I returned home it was with the
expectation of disaster. Sometimes Phuong would not be there, and I
found it impossible to settle to any work till she returned, for I
always wondered whether she would ever return. I would ask her
where she had been (trying to keep anxiety or suspicion out of my
voice) and sometimes she would reply the market or the shops and
produce her piece of evidence (even her readiness to confirm her
story seemed at that period unnatural), and sometimes it was the
cinema, and the stub of her ticket was there to prove it, and
sometimes it was her sister”s—that was where I believed she met
Pyle. I made love to her in those days savagely as though I hated
her, but what I hated was the future. Loneliness lay in my bed and
I took loneliness into my arms at night. She didn’t change; she
cooked for me, she made my pipes, she gently and sweetly laid out
her body for my pleasure (but it was no longer a pleasure), and
just as in those early days I wanted her mind, now I wanted to read
her thoughts, but they were hidden away in a language I couldn’t
speak. I didn’t want to question her. I didn’t want to make her lie
(as long as no lie was spoken openly I could pretend that we were
the same to each other as we had always been), but suddenly my
anxiety would speak for me, and I said, “When did you last see
Pyle?”


  She hesitated—or was it that she was really thinking
back? “When we came here,” she said.


  I began—almost unconsciously—to run down everything
that was American. My conversation was full of the poverty of
American literature, the scandals of American politics, the
beastliness of American children. It was as though she were being
taken away from me by a nation rather than by a man. Nothing that
America could do was right. I became a bore on the subject of
America, even with my French friends who were ready enough to share
my antipathies. It was as if I had been betrayed, but one is not
betrayed by an enemy.


  It was just at that time that the incident occurred
of the bicycle bombs. Coming back from the Imperial Bar to an empty
flat (was she at the cinema or with her sister?) I found that a
note had been pushed under the door. It was from Dominguez. He
apologized for being still sick and asked me to be outside the big
store at the corner of the Boulevard Charner around ten-thirty the
next morning. He was writing at the request of Mr Chou, but I
suspected that Mr Heng was the more likely to require my
presence.


  The whole affair, as it turned out, was not worth
more than a paragraph, and a humorous paragraph at that. It bore no
relation to the sad and heavy war in the north, those canals in
Phat Diem choked with the grey days-old bodies, the pounding of the
mortars, the white glare of napalm. I had been waiting for about a
quarter of an hour by a stall of flowers when a truck-load of
police drove up with a grinding of brakes and a squeal of rubber
from the direction of the Sûreté Headquarters in the rue Catinat;
the men disembarked and ran for the store, as though they were
charging a mob, but there was no mob—only a zareba of bicycles.
Every large building in Saigon is fenced in by them—no university
city in the West contains so many bicycle-owners. Before I had time
to adjust my camera the comic and inexplicable action had been
accomplished. The police had forced their way among the bicycles
and emerged with three which they carried over their heads into the
boulevard and dropped into the decorative fountain. Before I could
intercept a single policeman they were back in their truck and
driving hard down the Boulevard Bonnard.


  “
Operation Bicyclette
,” a voice said. It
was Mr Heng.


  “What is it?” I asked. “A practice? For what?”


  “Wait a while longer,” Mr Heng said.


  A few idlers began to approach the fountain, where
one wheel stuck up like a buoy as though to warn shipping away from
the wrecks below: a policeman crossed the road shouting and waving
his hands.


  “Let’s have a look,” I said.


  “Better not,” Mr Heng said, and examined his watch.
The hands stood at four minutes past eleven.


  “You’re fast,” I said.


  “It always gains.” And at that moment the fountain
exploded over the pavement. A bit of decorative coping struck a
window and the glass fell like the water in a bright shower. Nobody
was hurt. We shook the water and glass from our clothes. A bicycle
wheel hummed like a top in the road, staggered and collapsed. “It
must be just eleven,” Mr Heng said.


  “What on earth . . . ?”


  “I thought you would be interested,” Mr Heng said.
“I 
hope
 you were interested.”


  “Come and have a drink?”


  “No, I am sorry. I must go back to Mr Chou’s, but
first let me show you something.” He led me to the bicycle park and
unlocked his own machine. “Look carefully.”


  “A Raleigh,” I said.


  “No, look at the pump. Does it remind you of
anything?” He smiled patronizingly at my mystification and pushed
off. Once he turned and waved his hand, pedalling towards Cholon
and the warehouse of junk. At the Sûreté, where I went for
information, I realized what he meant. The mould I had seen in his
warehouse had been shaped like a half-section of a bicycle-pump.
That day all over Saigon innocent bicycle-pumps had proved to
contain bombs which had gone off at the stroke of eleven, except
where the police, acting on information that I suspect emanated
from Mr Heng, had been able to anticipate the explosions. It was
all quite trivial—ten explosions, six people slightly injured, and
God knows how many bicycles. My colleagues—except for the
correspondent of the 
Extrême Orient
, who called it an
“outrage”—knew they could only get space by making fun of the
affair. “Bicycle Bombs” made a good headline. All of them blamed
the Communists. I was the only one to write that the bombs were a
demonstration on the part of General Thé, and my account was
altered in the office. The General wasn’t news. You couldn’t waste
space by identifying him. I sent a message of regret through
Dominguez to Mr Heng—I had done my best. Mr Heng sent a polite
verbal reply. It seemed to me then that he—or his Vietminh
Committee—had been-unduly sensitive; no one held the affair
seriously against the Communists. Indeed, if anything could have
done so, it would have given them the reputation for a sense of
humour. “Whatll they think of next?” people said at parties, and
the whole absurd affair was symbolized for me too in the
bicycle-wheel gaily spinning like a top in the middle of the
boulevard. I never even mentioned to Pyle what I had heard of his
connection with the General. Let him play harmlessly with plastic
moulds : it might keep his mind off Phuong. All the same, because I
happened to be in the neighbourhood one evening, because I had
nothing better to do, I called in at Mr Muoi’s garage.


  It was a small, untidy place, not unlike a junk
warehouse itself, in the Boulevard de la Somme. A car was jacked up
in the middle of the floor with its bonnet open, gaping like the
cast of some pre-historic animal in a provincial museum which
nobody ever visits. I don’t believe anyone remembered it was there.
The floor was littered with scraps of iron and old boxes—the
Vietnamese don’t like throwing anything away, any more than a
Chinese cook partitioning a duck into seven courses will dispense
with so much as a claw. I wondered why anybody had so wastefully
disposed of the empty drums and the damaged mould—perhaps it was a
theft by an employee making a few piastres, perhaps somebody had
been bribed by the ingenious Mr Heng.


  Nobody seemed about, so I went in. Perhaps, I
thought, they are keeping away for a while in case the police call.
It was possible that Mr Heng had some contact in the Sûreté, but
even then it was unlikely that the police would act. It was better
from their point of view to let people assume that the bombs were
Communist.


  Apart from the car and the junk strewn over the
concrete floor there was nothing to be seen. It was difficult to
picture how the bombs could have been manufactured at Mr Muoi’s. I
was very vague about how one turned the white dust I had seen in
the drum into plastic, but surely the process was too complex to be
carried out here, where even the two petrol pumps in the street
seemed to be suffering from neglect. I stood in the entrance and
looked out into the street. Under the trees in the centre of the
boulevard the barbers were at work: a scrap of mirror nailed to a
tree-trunk caught the flash of .the sun. A girl went by at a trot
under her mollusc hat carrying two baskets slung on a pole. The
fortune-teller squatting against the wall of Simon Frères had found
a customer, an old man with a whisp of beard like Ho Chi Minb’s who
watched impassively the shuffling and turning of the ancient cards.
What possible future had he got that was worth a piastre? In the
Boulevard de la Somme you lived in the open; everybody here knew
all about Mr Muoi, but the police had no key which would unlock
their confidence. This was the level of life where everything was
known, but you couldn’t step down to that level as you could step
into the street. I remembered the old women gossiping on our
landing beside the communal lavatory: they heard everything too,
but I didn’t know what they knew.


  I went back into the garage and entered a small
office at the back. There was the usual Chinese commercial
calendar, a littered desk—price-lists and a bottle of gum and an
adding-machine, some paper-clips, a teapot and three cups and a lot
of unsharpened pencils, and for some reason an unwritten
picture-postcard of the Eiffel Tower. York Harding might write in
graphic abstractions about the Third Force, but this was what it
came down to—this was It. There was a door in the back wall; it was
locked, but the key was on the desk among the pencils. I opened the
door and went through.


  I was in a small shed about the size of the garage.
It contained one piece of machinery that at first sight seemed like
a cage of rods and wires furnished with innumerable perches to hold
some wingless adult bird—it gave the impression of being tied up
with old rags, but the rags had probably been used for cleaning
when Mr Muoi and his assistants had been called away. I found the
name of a manufacturer—somebody in Lyons and a patent
number—patenting what? I switched on the current and the old
machine came alive: the rods had a purpose—the contraption was like
an old man gathering his last vital force, pounding down his fist,
pounding down ... This thing was still a press, though in its own
sphere it must have belonged to the same era as the nickelodeon,
but I suppose that in this country where nothing was ever wasted,
and where everything might be expected to come one day to finish
its career (I remembered seeing that ancient movie 
The Great
Train Robbery
 jerking its way across a screen, giving
entertainment, in a back-street in Nam Dinh), the press was still
employable.


  I examined the press more closely; there were traces
of a white powder. Diolacton, I thought, something in common with
milk. There was no sign of a drum or a mould. I went back into the
office and into the garage. I felt like giving the old car a pat on
the mudguard; it had a long wait ahead of it, perhaps, but it too
one day ... Mr Muoi and his assistants were probably by this time
somewhere among the rice-fields on the way to the sacred mountain
where General Thé had his headquarters. When now at last I raised
my voice and called “Monsieur Muoi! “ I could imagine I was far
away from the garage and the boulevard and the barbers, back among
those fields where I had taken refuge on the road to Tanyin. “
Monsieur Muoi!” I could see a man turn his head among the stalks of
rice.


  I walked home and up on my landing the old women
burst into their twitter of the hedges which I could understand no
more than the gossip of the birds. Phuong was not in—only a note to
say that she was with her sister. I lay down on the bed—I still
tired easily—and fell asleep. When I woke I saw the illuminated
dial of my alarm pointing to one twenty-five and I turned my head
expecting to find Phuong asleep beside me. But the pillow was
undented. She must have changed the sheet that day—it carried the
coldness of the laundry. I got up and opened the drawer where she
kept her scarves, and they were not there. I went to the
bookshelf—the pictorial Life of the Royal Family had gone too. She
had taken her dowry with her.


  In the moment of shock there is little pain; pain
began about three a.m. when I began to plan the life I had still
somehow to live and to remember memories in order somehow to
eliminate them. Happy memories are the worst, and I tried to
remember the unhappy. I was practised. I had lived all this before.
I knew I could do what was necessary, but I was so much older—I
felt I had little energy left to reconstruct.


 


 


  3


 


  I went to the American Legation and asked for Pyle.
It was necessary to fill in a form at the door and give it to a
military policeman. He said, “You haven’t put the purpose of the
visit.”


  “He’ll know,” I said.


  “You’re by appointment, then?”


  “You can put it that way if you like.”


  “Seems silly to you, I guess, but we have to be very
careful. Some strange types come around here.”


  “So I’ve heard.” He shifted his chewing-gum to
another side and entered the lift. I waited. I had no idea what to
say to Pyle. This was a scene I had never played before. The
policeman returned. He said grudgingly, “I guess you can go up.
Room 12A. First floor.”


  When I entered the room I saw that Pyle wasn’t
there. Joe sat behind the desk: the Economic Attaché: I still
couldn’t remember his surname. Phuong’s sister watched me from
behind a typing desk. Was it triumph that I read in those brown
acquisitive eyes?


  “Come in, come in, Tom,” Joe called boisterously.
“Glad to see you. How’s your leg? We don’t often get a visit from
you to our little outfit. Pull up a chair. Tell me how you think
the new offensive’s going. Saw Granger last night at the
Continental. He’s for the north again. That boy’s 
keen
.
Where there’s news there’s Granger. Have a cigarette. Help
yourself. You know Miss Hei? Can’t remember all these names—too
hard for an old fellow like me. I call her ‘Hi, there!’—she likes
it. None of this stuffy colonialism. What’s the gossip of the
market, Tom? You fellows certainly do keep your ears to the ground.
Sorry to hear about your leg. Alden told me . . .”


  “Where’s Pyle?”


  “Oh, Alden’s not in the office this morning. Guess
he’s at home. Does a lot of his work at home.”


  “I know what he does at home.”


  “That boy’s keen. Eh, what’s that you said?”


  “Anyway, I know one of the things he does at
home.”


  “I don’t catch on, Tom. Slow Joe—that’s me. Always
was. Always will be.”


  “He sleeps with my girl—your typist’s sister.”


  “I don’t know what you mean.”


  “Ask her. She fixed it. Pyle’s taken my girl.”


  “Look here, Fowler, I thought you’d come here on
business. We can’t have scenes in the office, you know.”


  “I came here to see Pyle, but I suppose he’s
hiding.”


  “Now, you’re the very last man who ought to make a
remark like that. After what Alden did for you.”


  “Oh yes, yes, of course. He saved my life, didn’t
he? But I never asked him to.”


  “At great danger to himself. That boy’s got
guts.”


  “I don’t care a damn about bis guts. There are other
parts of his body that are more à propos.”


  “Now we can’t have any innuendoes like that, Fowler,
with a lady in the room.”


  “The lady and I know each other well. She failed to
get her rake-off from me, but she’s getting it from Pyle. All
right. I know I’m behaving badly, and I’m going to go on behaving
badly. This is a situation where people do behave badly.”


  “We’ve got a lot of work to do. There’s a report on
the rubber output . . .”


  “Don’t worry, I’m going. But just tell Pyle if he
phones that I called. He might think it polite to return the
visit.” I said to Phuong’s sister, “I hope you’ve had the
settlement witnessed by the notary public and the American Consul
and the Church of Christ Scientist.”


  I went into the passage. There was a door opposite
me marked Men. I went in and locked the door and sitting with my
head against the cold wall I cried. I hadn’t cried until now. Even
their lavatories were air-conditioned, and presently the temperate
tempered air dried my tears as it dries the spit in your mouth and
the seed in your body.


 


 


  4


 


  I left affairs in the hands of Dominguez and went
north. At Haiphong I had friends in the Squadron Gascogne, and I
would spend hours in the bar up at the airport, or playing bowls on
the gravel-path outside. Officially I was at the front: I could
qualify for keenness with Granger, but it was of no more value to
my paper than had been my excursion to Phat Diem. But if one writes
about war, self-respect demands that occasionally one shares the
risks.


  It wasn’t easy to share them for even the most
limited period, since orders had gone out from Hanoi that I was to
be allowed only on horizontal raids—raids in this war as safe as a
journey by bus, for we flew above the range of the heavy
machine-gun; we were safe from anything but a pilot’s error or a
fault in the engine. We went out by time-table and came home by
time-table: the cargoes of bombs sailed diagonally down and the
spiral of smoke blew up from the road-junction or the bridge, and
then we cruised back for the hour of the aperitif and drove our
iron bowls across the gravel.


  One morning in the mess in the town, as I drank
brandies-and-sodas with a young officer who had a passionate desire
to visit Southend Pier, orders for a mission came in. “Like to
come?” I said yes. Even a horizontal raid would be a way of killing
time and killing thought. Driving out to the airport he remarked,
“This is a vertical raid.”


  “I thought I was forbidden . . .”


  “So long as you write nothing about it. It will show
you a piece of country up near the Chinese border you will not have
seen before. Near Lai Chau.”


  “I thought all was quiet there—and in French
hands?”


  “It was. They captured this place two days ago. Our
parachutists are only a few hours away. We want to keep the Viets
head down in their holes until we have recaptured the post. It
means low diving and machine-gunning. We can only spare two
planes—one’s on the job now. Ever dive-bombed before?”


  “No.”


  “It is a little uncomfortable when you are not used
to it.”


  The Gascogne Squadron possessed only small B.26
bombers—the French called them prostitutes because with their short
wing-span they had no visible means of support. I was crammed on to
a little metal pad the size of a bicycle seat with my knees against
the navigator’s back. We came up the Red River, slowly climbing,
and the Red River at this hour was really red. It was as though one
had gone far back in time and saw it with the old geographer’s eyes
who had named it first, at just such an hour when the late sun
filled it from bank to bank; then we turned away at 9,000 feet
towards the Black River, really black, full of shadows, missing the
angle of the light, and the huge majestic scenery of gorge and
cliff and jungle wheeled around and stood upright below us. You
could have dropped a squadron into those fields of green and grey
and left no more trace than a few coins in a harvest-field. Far
ahead of us a small plane moved like a midge. We were taking
over.


  We circled twice above the tower and the
green-encircled village, then corkscrewed up into the dazzling air.
The pilot -who was called Trouin—turned to me and winked. On his
wheel were the studs that controlled the gun and the bomb-chamber.
I had that loosening of the bowels, as we came into position for
the dive, that accompanies any new experience -the first dance, the
first dinner-party, the first love. I was reminded of the Great
Racer at the Wembley Exhibition when it came to the top of the
rise—there was no way to get out: you were trapped with your
experience. On the dial I had just time to read 3,000 metres when
we drove down. All was feeling now, nothing was sight. I was forced
up against the navigator’s back: it was as though something of
enormous weight were pressing on my chest. I wasn’t aware of the
moment when the bombs were released; then the gun chattered and the
cockpit was full of the smell of cordite, and the weight was off my
chest as we rose, and it was the stomach that fell away, spiralling
down like a suicide to the ground we had left. For forty seconds
Pyle had not existed : even loneliness hadn’t existed. As we
climbed in a great arc I could see the smoke through the side
window pointing at me. Before the second dive I felt fear—fear of
humiliation, fear of vomiting over the navigator’s back, fear that
my ageing lungs would not stand the pressure. After the tenth dive
I was aware only of irritation—the affair had gone on too long, it
was time to go home. And again we shot steeply up out of
machine-gun range and swerved away and the smoke pointed. The
village was surrounded on all sides by mountains. Every time we had
to make the same approach, through the same gap. There was no way
to vary our attack. As we dived for the fourteenth time I thought,
now that I was free from the fear of humiliation, “They have only
to fix one machine-gun into position.” We lifted our nose again
into the safe air—perhaps they didn’t even have a gun. The forty
minutes of the patrol had seemed interminable, but it had been free
from the discomfort of personal thought. The sun was sinking as we
turned for home : the geographer’s moment had passed : the Black
River was no longer black, and the Red River was only gold.


  Down we went again, away from the gnarled and
fissured forest towards the river, flattening out over the
neglected rice-fields, aimed like a bullet at one small sampan on
the yellow stream. The cannon gave a single burst of tracer, and
the sampan blew apart in a shower of sparks : we didn’t even wait
to see our victims struggling to survive, but climbed and made for
home. I thought again as I had thought when I saw the dead child at
Phat Diem, “I hate war.” There had been something so shocking in
our sudden fortuitous choice of a prey -we had just happened to be
passing, one burst only was required, there was no one to return
our fire, we were gone again, adding our little quota to the
world’s dead.


  I put on my earphones for Captain Trouin to speak to
me. He said, “We will make a little detour. The sunset is wonderful
on the 
calcaire
. You must not miss it,” he added kindly,
like a host who is showing the beauty of his estate, and for a
hundred miles we trailed the sunset over the Baie d”Along. The
helmeted Martian face looked wistfully out, down the golden groves
among the great humps and arches of porous stone, and the wounds of
murder ceased to bleed.


 


 


  5


 


  Captain Trouin insisted that night on being my host
in the opium house, though he would not smoke himself. He liked the
smell, he said, he liked the sense of quiet at the end of the day,
but in his profession relaxation could go no further. There were
officers who smoked, but they were Army men -he had to have his
sleep. We lay in a small cubicle in a row of cubicles like a
dormitory at school, and the Chinese proprietor prepared my pipes.
I hadn’t smoked since Phuong left me. Across the way a

métisse
 with long and lovely legs lay coiled after her
smoke reading a glossy woman’s paper, and in the cubicle next to
her two middle-aged Chinese transacted business, sipping tea, their
pipes laid aside.


  I said, “That sampan—this evening—was it doing any
harm?”


  Trouin said, “Who knows? In those reaches of the
river we have orders to shoot up anything in sight.”


  I smoked my first pipe. I tried not to think of all
the pipes I had smoked at home. Trouin said, “Today’s affair—that
is not the worst for someone like myself. Over the village they
could have shot us down. Our risk was as great as theirs. What I
detest is napalm bombing. From 3,000 feet, in safety.” He made a
hopeless gesture. “You see the forest catching fire. God knows what
you would see from the ground. The poor devils are burnt alive, the
flames go over them like water. They are wet through with fire.” He
said with anger against a whole world that didn’t understand, “I’m
not fighting a colonial war. Do you think I’d do these things for
the planters of Terre Rouge? I’d rather be court-martialled. We are
fighting all of your wars, but you leave us the guilt.”


  “That sampan,” I said.


  “Yes, that sampan too.” He watched me as I stretched
out for my second pipe. “I envy you your means of escape.”


  “You don’t know what I’m escaping from. It’s not
from the war. That’s no concern of mine. I’m not involved.”


  “You will all be. One day.”


  “Not me.”


  “You are still limping.”


  “They had the right to shoot at me, but they weren’t
even doing that. They were knocking down a tower. One should always
avoid demolition squads. Even in Piccadilly.”


  “One day something will happen. You will take a
side.”


  “No, I’m going back to England.”


  “That photograph you showed me once . ..”


  “Oh, I’ve torn that one up. She left me.”


  “I’m sorry.”


  “It’s the way things happen. One leaves people
oneself and then the tide turns. It almost makes me believe in
justice.”


  “ I do. The first time I dropped napalm I thought,
this is the village where I was born. That is where M. Dubois, my
father’s old friend, lives. The baker—I was very fond of the baker
when I was a child—is running away down there in the flames I’ve
thrown. The men of Vichy did not bomb their own country. I felt
worse than them.”


  “But you still go on.”


  “Those are moods. They come only with the napalm.
The rest of the time I think that I am defending Europe. And you
know, those others—they do some monstrous things also. When they
were driven out of Hanoi in 1946 they left terrible relics among
their own people—people they thought had helped us. There was one
girl in the mortuary—they had not only cut off her breasts, they
had mutilated her lover and stuffed his...”


  “That’s why I won’t be involved.”


  “It’s not a matter of reason or justice. We all get
involved in a moment of emotion and then we cannot get out. War and
Love—they have always been compared.” He looked sadly across the
dormitory to where the 
métisse
 sprawled in her great
temporary peace. He said, “I would not have it otherwise.

There
 is a girl who was involved by her parents—what is
her future when this port falls? France is only half her home
...”


  “Will it fall?”


  “You are a journalist. You know better than I do
that we can’t win. You know the road to Hanoi is cut and mined
every night. You know we lose one class of St Cyr every year. We
were nearly beaten in “50. De Lattre has given us two years of
grace—that’s all. But we are professionals: we have to go on
fighting till the politicians tell us to stop. Probably they will
get together and agree to the same peace that we could have had at
the beginning, making nonsense of all these years.” His ugly face
which had winked at me before the dive wore a kind of professional
brutality like a Christmas mask from which a child’s eyes peer
through the holes in the paper. “You would not understand the
nonsense, Fowler. You are not one of us.”


  “There are other things in one’s life which make
nonsense of the years.”


  He put his hand on my knee with an odd protective
gesture as though he were the older man. “Take her home,” he said.
“That is better than a pipe.”


  “How do you know she would come?”


  “I have slept with her myself, and Lieutenant
Perrin. Five hundred piastres.”


  “Expensive.”


  “I expect she would go for three hundred, but under
the circumstances one does not care to bargain,”


  But bis advice did not prove sound. A man’s body is
limited in the acts which it can perform and mine was frozen by
memory. What my hands touched that night might be more beautiful
than I was used to, but we are not trapped only by beauty. She used
the same perfume, and suddenly at the moment of entry the ghost of
what I’d lost proved more powerful than the body stretched at my
disposal. I moved away and lay on my back and desire drained out of
me.


  “I am sorry,” I said, and lied, “I don’t know what
is the matter with me.”


  She said with great sweetness and misunderstanding,
“Don’t worry. It often happens that way. It is the opium.”


  “Yes,” I said, “the opium.” And I wished to heaven
that it had been.


 


 


 


  
Chapter 2


 


  1


 


  IT was strange, this first return to Saigon with
nobody to welcome me. At the airport I wished there were somewhere
else to which I could direct my taxi than the rue Catinat. I
thought to myself: “Is the pain a little less than when I went
away?” and tried to persuade myself that it was so. When I reached
the landing I saw that the door was open, and I became breathless
with an unreasonable hope. I walked very slowly towards the door.
Until I reached the door hope would remain alive. I heard a chair
creak, and when I came to the door I could see a pair of shoes, but
they were not a woman’s shoes. I went quickly in, and it was Pyle
who lifted his awkward weight from the chair Phuong used to
use.


  He said, “Hullo, Thomas.”


  “Hullo, Pyle. How did you get in?”


  “I met Dominguez. He was bringing your mail. I asked
him to let me stay.”


  “Has Phuong forgotten something?”


  “Oh no, but Joe told me you’d been to the Legation.
I thought it would be easier to talk here.”


  “What about?”


  He gave a lost gesture, like a boy put up to speak
at some school function who cannot find the grown-up words. “You’ve
been away?”


  “Yes. And you?”


  “Oh, I’ve been travelling around.”


  “Still playing with plastics?”


  He grinned unhappily. He said, “Your letters are
over there.”


  I could see at a glance there was nothing which
could interest me now: there was one from my office in London and
several that looked like bills, and one from my bank. I said,
“How’s Phuong?”


  His face lit up automatically like one of those
electric toys which respond to a particular sound. “Oh, she’s
fine,” he said, and then clamped his lips together as though he’d
gone too far.


  “Sit down, Pyle,” I said. “Excuse me while I look at
this. It’s from my office.”


  I opened it. How inopportunely the unexpected can
occur. The editor wrote that he had considered my last letter and
that in view of the confused situation in Indo-China, following the
death of General de Lattre and the retreat from Hoa Binh, he was in
agreement with my suggestion. He had appointed a temporary foreign
editor and would like me to stay on in Indo-China for at least
another year. “We shall keep the chair warm for you,” he reassured
me with complete incomprehension. He believed I cared about the
job, and the paper.


  I sat down opposite Pyle and re-read the letter
which had come too late. For a moment I had felt elation as on the
instant of waking before one remembers.


  “Bad news?” Pyle asked.


  “No.” I told myself that it wouldn’t have made any
difference anyway : a reprieve for one year couldn’t stand up
against a marriage settlement.


  “Are you married yet?” I asked.


  “No.” He blushed—he had a great facility in
blushing. “As a matter of fact I’m hoping to get special leave.
Then we could get married at home—properly.”


  “Is it more proper when it happens at home?”


  “Well, I thought—it’s difficult to say these things
to you, you are so darned cynical, Thomas, but it’s a mark of
respect. My father and mother would be there—she’d kind of enter
the family. It’s important in view of the past.”


  “The past?”


  “You know what I mean. I wouldn’t want to leave her
behind there with any stigma . ..”


  “Would you leave her behind?”


  “I guess so. My mother’s a wonderful woman—she’d
take her around, introduce her, you know, kind of fit her in. She’d
help her to get a home ready for me.”


  I didn’t know whether to feel sorry for Phuong or
not—she had looked forward so to the skyscrapers and the Statue of
Liberty, but she had so little idea of all they would involve,
Professor and Mrs Pyle, the women’s lunch clubs; would they teach
her Canasta? I thought of her that first night in the Grand Monde,
in her white dress, moving so exquisitely on her eighteen-year-old
feet, and I thought of her a month ago, bargaining over meat at the
butcher’s stores in the Boulevard de la Somme. Would she like those
bright clean little New England grocery stores where even the
celery was wrapped in cellophane? Perhaps she would. I couldn’t
tell. Strangely I found myself saying as Pyle might have done a
month ago, “Go easy with her, Pyle. Don’t force things. She can be
hurt like you or me.”


  “Of course, of course, Thomas.”


  “She looks so small and breakable and unlike our
women, but don’t think of her as—as an ornament.”


  “It’s funny, Thomas, how differently things work
out. I’d been dreading this talk. I thought you’d be tough.”


  “I’ve had time to think, up in the north. There was
a woman there ... Perhaps I saw what you saw at that whorehouse.
It’s a good thing she went away with you. I might one day have left
her behind with someone like Granger. A piece of tail.”


  “And we can remain friends, Thomas?”


  “Yes, of course. Only I’d rather not see Phuong.
There’s quite enough of her around here as it is. I must find
another flat—when I’ve got time.”


  He unwound his legs and stood up. “I’m so glad,
Thomas. I can’t tell you how glad I am. I’ve said it before, I
know, but I do really wish it hadn’t been you.”


  “I’m glad it’s you, Pyle.” The interview had not
been the way I had foreseen: under the superficial angry schemes,
at some deeper level, the genuine plan of action must have been
formed. All the time that his innocence had angered me, some judge
within myself had summed up in his favour, had compared his
idealism, his half-baked ideas founded on the works of York
Harding, with my cynicism. Oh, I was right about the facts, but
wasn’t he right too to be young and mistaken, and wasn’t he perhaps
a better man for a girl to spend her life with?


  We shook hands perfunctorily, but some
half-formulated fear made me follow him out to the head of the
stairs and call after him. Perhaps there is a prophet as well as a
judge in those interior courts where our true decisions are made.
“Pyle, don’t trust too much in York Harding.”


  “York!” He stared up at me from the first
landing.


  “We are the old colonial peoples, Pyle, but we’ve
learnt a bit of reality, we’ve learned not to play with matches.
This Third Force—it comes out of a book, that’s all. General Thé’s
only a bandit with a few thousand men: he’s not a national
democracy.”


  It was as if he had been staring at me through a
letter-box to see who was there and now, letting the flap fall, had
shut out the unwelcome intruder. His eyes were out of sight. “I
don’t know what you mean, Thomas.”


  “Those bicycle bombs. They were a good joke, even
though one man did lose a foot. But, Pyle, you can’t trust men like
Thé. They aren’t going to save the East from Communism. We know
their kind.”


  “We?”


  “The old colonialists.”


  “I thought you took no sides.”


  “I don’t, Pyle, but if someone has got to make a
mess of things in your outfit, leave it to Joe. Go home with
Phuong. Forget the Third Force.”


  “Of course I always value your advice, Thomas,” he
said formally. “Well, I’ll be seeing you.”


  “I suppose so.”


 


 


  2


 


  The weeks moved on, but somehow I hadn’t yet found
myself a new flat. It wasn’t that I hadn’t time. The annual crisis
of the war had passed again : the hot wet 
crachin
 had
settled on the north: the French were out of Hoa Binh, the
rice-campaign was over in Tonkin and the opium-campaign in Laos.
Dominguez could cover easily all that was needed in the south. At
last I did drag myself to see one apartment in a so-called modern
building (Paris Exhibition 1934?) up at the other end of the rue
Catinat beyond the Continental Hotel. It was the Saigon
pied-a-terre of a rubber planter who was going home. He wanted to
sell it lock, stock and barrel. I have always wondered what the
barrels contain: as for the stock, there were a large number of
engravings from the Paris Salon between 1880 and 1900. Their
highest common factor was a big-bosomed woman with an extraordinary
hair-do and gauzy draperies which somehow always exposed the great
cleft buttocks and hid the field of battle. In the bathroom the
planter had been rather more daring with his reproductions of
Rops.


  “You like art?” I asked and he smirked back at me
like a fellow conspirator. He was fat with a little black moustache
and insufficient hair.


  “My best pictures are in Paris,” he said.


  There was an extraordinary tall ash-tray in the
living-room made like a naked woman with a bowl in her hair, and
there were china ornaments of naked girls embracing tigers, and one
very odd one of a girl stripped to the waist riding a bicycle. In
the bedroom facing his enormous bed was a great glazed oil painting
of two girls sleeping together. I asked him the price of his
apartment without his collection, but he would not agree to
separate the two.


  “You are not a collector?” he asked.


  “Well, no.”


  “I have some books also,” he said, “which I would
throw in, though I intended to take these back to France.” He
unlocked a glass-fronted bookcase and showed me his library—there
were expensive illustrated editions of 
Aphrodite
 and

Nona
, there was 
La Garçonne
, and even several
Paul de Kocks. I was tempted to ask him whether he would sell
himself with his collection: he went with them: he was period too.
He said, “If you live alone in the tropics a collection is
company.”


  I thought of Phuong just because of her complete
absence. So it always is : when you escape to a desert the silence
shouts in your ear.


  “I don’t think my paper would allow me to buy an
art-collection.”


  He said, “It would not, of course, appear on the
receipt.”


  I was glad Pyle had not seen him : the man might
have lent his features to Pyle’s imaginary “old colonialist”, who
was repulsive enough without him. When I came out it was nearly
half past eleven and I went down as far as the Pavilion for a glass
of iced beer. The Pavilion was a coffee centre for European and
American women and I was confident that I would not see Phuong
there. Indeed I knew exactly where she would be at this time of
day—she was not a girl to break her habits, and so, coming from the
planter’s apartment, I had crossed the road to avoid the milk-bar
where at this time of day she had her chocolate malt. Two young
American girls sat at the next table, neat and clean in the heat,
scooping up ice-cream. They each had a bag slung on the left
shoulder and the bags were identical, with brass eagle badges.
Their legs were identical too, long and slender, and their noses,
just a shade tilted, and they were eating their ice-cream with
concentration as though they were making an experiment in the
college laboratory. I wondered whether they were Pyle’s colleagues:
they were charming, and I wanted to send them home, too. They
finished their ices and one looked at her watch. “We’d better be
going,” she said, “to be on the safe side.” I wondered idly what
appointment they had.


  “Warren said we mustn’t stay later than eleven
twenty-five.”


  “It’s past that now.”


  “It would be exciting to stay. I don’t know what
it’s all about, do you?”


  “Not exactly, but Warren said better not.”


  “Do you think it’s a demonstration?”


  “I’ve seen so many demonstrations,” the other said
wearily, like a tourist glutted with churches. She rose and laid on
their table the money for the ices. Before going she looked around
the café, and the mirrors caught her profile at every freckled
angle. There was only myself left and a dowdy middle-aged
Frenchwoman who was carefully and uselessly making up her face.
Those two hardly needed make-up, the quick dash of lipstick, a comb
through the hair. For a moment her glance had rested on me—it was
not like a woman’s glance, but a man’s, very straightforward,
speculating on some course of action. Then she turned quickly to
her companion. “We’d better be off.” I watched them idly as they
went out side by side into the sun-splintered street. It was
impossible to conceive either of them a prey to untidy passion:
they did not belong to rumpled sheets and the sweat of sex. Did
they take deodorants to bed with them? I found myself for a moment
envying them their sterilized world, so different from this world
that I inhabited—which suddenly inexplicably broke in pieces. Two
of the mirrors on the wall Sew at me and collapsed half-way. The
dowdy Frenchwoman was on her knees in a wreckage of chairs and
tables. Her compact lay open and unhurt in my lap and oddly enough
I sat exactly where I had sat before, although my table had joined
the wreckage around the Frenchwoman. A curious garden-sound filled
the café: the regular drip of a fountain, and looking at the bar I
saw rows of smashed bottles which let out their contents in a
multi-coloured stream—the red of porto, the orange of Cointreau,
the green of chartreuse, the cloudy yellow of pastis, across the
floor of the café. The Frenchwoman sat up and calmly looked around
for her compact. I gave it her and she thanked me formally, sitting
on the floor. I realized that I didn’t hear her very well. The
explosion had been so close that my ear-drums had still to recover
from the pressure.


  I thought rather petulantly, “Another joke with
plastics: what does Mr Heng expect me to write now?” but when I got
into the Ptece Gamier, I realized by the heavy clouds of smoke that
this was no joke. The smoke came from the cars burning in the
car-park in front of the national theatre, bits of cars were
scattered over the square, and a man without his legs lay twitching
at the edge of the ornamental gardens. People were crowding in from
the rue Catinat, from the Boulevard Bonnard. The sirens of
police-cars, the bells of the ambulances and fire-engines came at
one remove to my shocked ear-drums. For one moment I bad forgotten
that Phuong must have been in the milk-bar on the other side of the
square. The smoke lay between. I couldn’t see through.


  I stepped out into the square and a policeman
stopped me. They had formed a cordon round the edge to prevent the
crowd increasing, and already the stretchers were beginning to
emerge. I implored the policeman in front of me, “Let me across. I
have a friend . . .”


  “Stand back,” he said. “Everybody here has
friends.”


  He stood on one side to let a priest through, and I
tried to follow the priest, but he pulled me back. I said, “I am
the Press, “ and searched in vain for the wallet in which I had my
card, but I couldn’t find it: had I come out that day without it? I
said, “At least tell me what happened to the milk-bar” : the smoke
was clearing and I tried to see, but the crowd between was too
great. He said something I didn’t catch.


  “What did you say?”


  He repeated, “I don’t know. Stand back. You are
blocking the stretchers.”


  Could I have dropped my wallet in the Pavilion? I
turned to go back and there was Pyle. He exclaimed, “Thomas.”


  “Pyle,” I said, “for Christ’s sake, where’s your
Legation pass? We’ve got to get across. Phuong’s in the
milk-bar.”


  “No, no,” he said.


  “Pyle, she is. She always goes there. At eleven
thirty. We’ve got to find her.”


  “She isn’t there, Thomas.”


  “How do you know? Where’s your card?”


  “I warned her not to go.”


  I turned back to the policeman, meaning to throw him
to one side and make a run for it across the square: he might
shoot: I didn’t care—and then the word “warn” reached my
consciousness. I took Pyle by the arm. “Warn?” I said. “What do you
mean ‘warn’?”


  “I told her to keep away this morning.”


  The pieces fell together in my mind. “And Warren?” I
said. “Who’s Warren? He warned those girls too.”


  “I don’t understand.”


  “There mustn’t be any American casualties, must
there?” An ambulance forced its way up the rue Catinat into the
square and the policeman who had stopped me moved to one side to
let it through. The policeman beside him was engaged in an
argument. I pushed Pyle forward and ahead of me into the square
before we could be stopped.


  We were among a congregation of mourners. The police
could prevent others entering the square; they were powerless to
clear the square of the survivors and the first-comers. The doctors
were too busy to attend to the dead, and so the dead were left to
their owners, for one can own the dead as one owns a chair. A woman
sat on the ground with what was left of her baby in her lap; with a
kind of modesty she had covered it with her straw peasant hat. She
was still and silent, and what struck me most in the square was the
silence. It was like a church I had once visited during Mass—the
only sounds came from those who served, except where here and there
the Europeans wept and implored and fell silent again as though
shamed by the modesty, patience and propriety of the East. The
legless torso at the edge of the garden still twitched, like a
chicken which has lost its head. From the man’s shirt, he had
probably been a trishaw driver.


  Pyle said, “It’s awful.” He looked at the wet on his
shoes and said in a sick voice, “What’s that?”


  “Blood,” I said. “ Haven’t you ever seen it
before?”


  He said, “I must get them cleaned before I see the
Minister.” I don’t think he knew what he was saying. He was seeing
a real war for the first time: he had punted down into Phat Diem in
a kind of schoolboy dream, and anyway in his eyes soldiers didn’t
count.


  I forced him, with my hand on his shoulder, to look
around. I said, “This is the hour when the place is always full of
women and children—it’s the shopping hour. Why choose that of all
hours?”


  He said weakly, “There was to have been a
parade.”


  “And you hoped to catch a few colonels. But the
parade was cancelled yesterday, Pyle.” “


  “I didn’t know.”


  “Didn’t know! “ I pushed him into a patch of blood
where a stretcher had lain. “You ought to be better informed.”


  “I was out of town,” he said, looking down at his
shoes. “They should have called it off.”


  “And missed the fun?” I asked him. “Do you expect
General Thé to lose his demonstration? This is better than a
parade. Women and children are news, and soldiers aren’t, in a war.
This will hit the world’s Press. You’ve put General Thé on . the
map all right, Pyle. You’ve got the Third Force and National
Democracy all over your right shoe. Go home to Phuong and tell her
about your heroic dead—there are a few dozen less of her people to
worry about.”


  A small fat priest scampered by, carrying something
on a dish under a napkin. Pyle had been silent a long while, and I
had nothing more to say. Indeed I had said too much already. He
looked white and beaten and ready to faint, and I thought, “What’s
the good? hell always be innocent, you can’t blame the innocent,
they are always guiltless. All you can do is control them or
eliminate them. Innocence is a kind of insanity.”


  He said, “Thé wouldn’t have done this. I’m sure he
wouldn’t. Somebody deceived him. The Communists ...”


  He was impregnably armoured by his good intentions
and his ignorance. I left him standing in the square and went on up
the rue Catinat to where the hideous pink Cathedral blocked the
way. Already people were flocking in: it must have been a comfort
to them to be able to pray for the dead to the dead.


  Unlike them, I had reason for thankfulness, for
wasn’t Phuong alive? Hadn’t Phuong been “warned”? But what I
remembered was the torso in the square, the baby on its mother’s
lap. They had not been warned : they had not been sufficiently
important. And if the parade had taken place would they not have
been there just the same, out of curiosity, to see the soldiers,
and hear the speakers, and throw the flowers? A two-hundred-pound
bomb does not discriminate. How many dead colonels justify a
child’s or a trishaw driver’s death when you are building a
national democratic front? I stopped a motor-trishaw and told the
driver to take me to the Quai Mytho.


 


 


 


 


  PART FOUR


 


 


 


  
Chapter 1


 


  I HAD given Phuong money to take her sister to the
cinema so that she would be safely out of the way. I went out to
dinner myself with Dominguez and was back in my room waiting when
Vigot called sharp on ten. He apologized for not taking a drink—he
said he was too tired and a drink might send him to sleep. It had
been a very long day.


  “Murder and sudden death?”


  “No. Petty thefts. And a few suicides. These people
love to gamble and when they have lost everything they kill
themselves. Perhaps I would not have become a policeman if I had
known how much time I would have to spend in mortuaries. I do not
like the smell of ammonia. Perhaps after all I will have a
beer.”


  “I haven’t a refrigerator, I’m afraid.”


  “Unlike the mortuary. A little English whisky,
then?”


  I remembered the night I had gone down to the
mortuary with him and they had slid out Pyle’s body like a tray of
ice-cubes.


  “So you are not going home?” he asked.


  “You’ve been checking up?”


  “Yes.”


  I held the whisky out to him, so that he could see
how calm my nerves were. “Vigot, I wish you’d tell me why you think
I was concerned in Pyle’s death. Is it a question of motive? That I
wanted Phuong back? Or do you imagine it was revenge for losing
her?”


  “No. I’m not so stupid. One doesn’t take one’s
enemy’s book as a souvenir. There it is on your shelf. 
The Rôle
of the West
. Who is this York Harding?”


  “He’s the man you are looking for, Vigot. He killed
Pyle -at long range.”


  “I don’t understand.”


  “He’s a superior sort of journalist—they call them
diplomatic correspondents. He gets hold of an idea and then alters
every situation to fit the idea. Pyle came out here full of York
Harding’s idea. Harding had been here once for a week on his way
from Bangkok to Tokyo. Pyle made the mistake of putting his idea
into practice. Harding wrote about a Third Force. Pyle formed one—a
shoddy little bandit with two thousand men and a couple of tame
tigers. He got mixed up.”


  “You never do, do you?”


  “I’ve tried not to be.”


  “But you failed, Fowler.” For some reason I thought
of Captain Trouin and that night which seemed to have happened
years ago in the Haiphong opium house. What was it he had said?
something about all of us getting involved sooner or later in a
moment of emotion. I said, “You would have made a good priest,
Vigot. What is it about you that would make it so easy to
confess—if there were anything to confess?”


  “I have never wanted any confessions.”


  “But you’ve received them?”


  “From time to time.”


  “Is it because like a priest it’s your job not to be
shocked, but to be sympathetic? ‘M. Flic, I must tell you exactly
why I battered in the old lady’s skull.’ ‘Yes, Gustave, take your
time and tell me why it was.’ “


  “You have a whimsical imagination. Aren’t you
drinking, Fowler?”


  “Surely it’s unwise for a criminal to drink with a
police officer?”


  “I have never said you were a criminal.”


  “But suppose the drink unlocked even in me the
desire to confess? There are no secrets of the confessional in your
profession.”


  “Secrecy is seldom important to a man who confesses:
even “ when it’s to a priest. He has other motives.”


  “To cleanse himself?”


  “Not always. Sometimes he only wants to see himself
clearly as he is. Sometimes he is just weary of deception. You are
not a criminal, Fowler, but I would like to know why you lied to
me. You saw Pyle the night he died.”


  “What gives you that idea?”


  “I don’t for a moment think you killed him. You
would hardly have used a rusty bayonet.”


  “Rusty?”


  “Those are the kind of details we get from an
autopsy. I told you, though, that was not the cause of death. Dakow
mud.” He held out his glass for another whisky. “Let me see now.
You had a drink at the Continental at six ten?”


  “Yes.”


  “And at six forty-five you were talking to another
journalist at the door of the Majestic?”


  “Yes, Wilkins. I told you all this, Vigot, before.
That night.”


  “Yes. I’ve checked up since then. It’s wonderful how
you carry such petty details in your head.”


  “I’m a reporter, Vigot.”


  “ Perhaps the times are not quite accurate, but
nobody could blame you, could they, if you were a quarter of an
hour out here and ten minutes out there. You had no reason to think
the times important. Indeed how suspicious it would be if you had
been completely accurate.”


  “Haven’t I been?”


  “Not quite. It was at five to seven that you talked
to Wilkins.”


  “Another ten minutes.”


  “Of course. As I said. And it had only just struck
six when you arrived at the Continental.”


  “My watch is always a little fast,” I said. “What
time do you make it now?”


  “Ten eight.”


  “Ten eighteen by mine. You see.”


  He didn’t bother to look. He said, “Then the time
you said you talked to WUkins was twenty-five minutes out—by your
watch. That’s quite a mistake, isn’t it?”


  “Perhaps I readjusted the time in my mind. Perhaps
I’d corrected my watch that day. I sometimes do.”


  “What interests me,” Vigot said, “(could I have a
little more soda?—you have made this rather strong) is that you are
not at all angry with me. It is not very nice to be questioned as I
am questioning you.”


  “I find it interesting, like a detective-story. And,
after all, you know I didn’t kill Pyle—you’ve said so.”


  Vigot said, “I know you were not present at his
murder.”


  “I don’t know what you hope to prove by showing that
I was ten minutes out here and five there.”


  “It gives a little space,” Vigot said, “a little gap
in time.”


  “Space for what?”


  “For Pyle to come and see you.”


  “Why do you want so much to prove that?”


  “Because of the dog,” Vigot said.


  “And the mud between its toes?”


  “It wasn’t mud. It was cement. You see, somewhere
that night, when it was following Pyle, it stepped into wet cement.
I remembered that on the ground-floor of the apartment there are
builders at work—they are still at work. I passed them tonight as I
came in. They work long hours in this country.”


  “I wonder how many houses have builders in them—and
wet cement. Did any of them remember the dog?”


  “Of course I asked them that. But if they had they
would not have told me. I am the police.” He stopped talking and
leant back in his chair, staring at his glass. I had a sense that
some analogy had struck him and he was miles away in thought. A fly
crawled over the back of his hand and he did not brush it away—any
more than Dominguez would have done. I had the feeling of some
force immobile and profound. For all I knew, he might have been
praying.


  I rose and went through the curtains into the
bedroom. There was nothing I wanted there, except to get away for a
moment from that silence sitting in a chair. Phuong’s picture-books
were back on the shelf. She had stuck a telegram for me up among
the cosmetics—some message or other from the London office. I
wasn’t in the mood to open it. Everything was as it had been before
Pyle came. Rooms don’t change, ornaments stand where you place them
: only the heart decays.


  I returned to the sitting-room and Vigot put the
glass to his lips. I said, “I’ve got nothing to tell you. Nothing
at all.”


  “Then I’ll be going,” he said. “I don’t suppose I’ll
trouble you again.”


  At the door he turned as though he were unwilling to
abandon hope—his hope or mine. “That was a strange picture for you
to go and see that night. I wouldn’t have thought you cared for
costume drama. What was it? 
Robin Höodl “


  “
Scaramouche
, I think. I had to kill time.
And I needed distraction.”


  “Distraction?”


  “We all have our private worries, Vigot,” I
carefully explained.


  When Vigot was gone there was still an hour to wait
for Phuong and living company. It was strange how disturbed I had
been by Vigot’s visit. It was as though a poet had brought me his
work to criticize and through some careless action I had destroyed
it. I was a man without a vocation—one cannot seriously consider
journalism as a vocation, but I could recognize a vocation in
another. Now that Vigot was gone to close his uncompleted file, I
wished I had the courage to call him back and say, “You are right.
I did see Pyle the night he died.”


 


 


 


  
Chapter 2


 


  1


 


  ON the way to the Quai Mytho I passed several
ambulances driving out of Cholon heading for the Place Gamier. One
could almost reckon the pace of rumour from the expression of the
faces in the street, which at first turned on someone like myself
coming from the direction of the Place with looks of expectancy and
speculation. By the time I entered Cholon I had outstripped the
news: life was busy, normal, uninterrupted: nobody knew.


  I found Mr Chou’s godown and mounted to Mr Chou’s
house. Nothing had changed since my last visit. The cat and the dog
moved from floor to cardboard box to suitcase, like a couple of
chess knights who cannot get to grips. The baby crawled on the
floor, and the two old men were still playing mah jongg. Only the
young people were absent. As soon as I appeared in the doorway one
of the women began to pour out tea. The old lady sat on the bed and
looked at her feet.


  “Monsieur Heng,” I asked. I shook my head at the
tea: I wasn’t in the mood to begin another long course of that
trivial bitter brew. “E faut absolument que je voie Monsieur Heng.”
It seemed impossible to convey to them the urgency of my request,
but perhaps the very abruptness of my refusal of tea caused some
disquiet. Or perhaps like Pyle I had blood on my shoes. Anyway
after a short delay one of the women led me out and down the
stairs, along two bustling bannered streets and left me before what
they would have called I suppose in Pyle’s country a “funeral
parlour”, full of stone jars in which the resurrected bones of the
Chinese dead are eventually placed. “Monsieur Heng,” I said to an
old Chinese in the doorway, “Monsieur Heng.” It seemed a suitable
halting place on a day which had begun with the planter’s erotic
collection and continued with the murdered bodies in the square.
Somebody called from an inner room and the Chinese stepped aside
and let me in.


  Mr Heng himself came cordially forward and ushered
me into a little inner room lined with the black carved
uncomfortable chairs you find in every Chinese ante-room, unused,
unwelcoming. But I had the sense that on this occasion the chairs
had been employed, for there were five little tea-cups on the
table, and two were not empty. “I have interrupted a meeting,” I
said.


  “A matter of business,” Mr Heng said evasively, “of
no importance. I am always glad to see you, Mr Fowler.”


  “I’ve come from the Place Garnier,” I said.


  “I thought that was it.”


  “You’ve heard . . .”


  “Someone telephoned to me. It was thought best that
I keep away from Mr Chou’s for a while. The police will be very
active today.”


  “But you had nothing to do with it.”


  “It is the business of the police to find a
culprit.”


  “It was Pyle again,” I said.


  “Yes.”


  “It was a terrible thing to do.”


  “General Thé is not a very controlled
character.”


  “And bombs aren’t for boys from Boston. Who is
Pyle’s chief, Heng?”


  “I have the impression that Mr Pyle is very much his
own master.”


  “What is he? O.S.S.?”


  “The initial letters are not very important. I think
now they are different.”


  “What can I do, Heng? He’s got to be stopped.”


  “You can publish the truth. Or perhaps you
cannot?”


  “My paper’s not interested in General Thé. They are
only interested in your people, Heng.”


  “You really want Mr Pyle stopped, Mr Fowler?”


  “If you’d seen him, Heng. He stood there and said it
was all a sad mistake, there should have been a parade. He said
he’d have to get his shoes cleaned before he saw the Minister.”


  “Of course, you could tell what you know to the
police.”


  “They aren’t interested in Thé either. And do you
think they would dare to touch an American? He has diplomatic
privileges. He’s a graduate of Harvard. The Minister’s very fond of
Pyle. Heng, there was a woman there whose baby—she kept it covered
under her straw hat. I can’t get it out of my head. And there was
another in Phat Diem.”


  “You must try to be calm, Mr Fowler.”


  “What’ll he do next, Heng?”


  “Would you be prepared to help us, Mr Fowler?”


  “He cornes blundering in and people have to die for
his mistakes. I wish your people had got him on the river from Nam
Dinh. It would have made a lot of difference to a lot of
lives.”


  “I agree with you, Mr Fowler. He has to be
restrained. I have a suggestion to make.” Somebody coughed
delicately behind the door, then noisily spat. He said, “If you
would invite him to dinner tonight at the Vieux Moulin. Between
eight thirty and nine thirty.”


  “What good . . . ?”


  “We would talk to him on the way,” Heng said.


  “He may be engaged.”


  “Perhaps it would be better if you asked him to call
on you—at six thirty. He will be free then: he will certainly come.
If he is able to have dinner with you, take a book to your window
as though you want to catch the light.”


  “Why the Vieux Moulin?”


  “It is by the bridge to Dakow --1 think we shall be
able to find a spot and talk undisturbed.”


  “What will you do?”


  “You do not want to know that, Mr Fowler. But I
promise you we will act as gently as the situation allows.”


  The unseen friends of Heng shifted like rats behind
the wall. “Will you do this for us, Mr Fowler?”


  “I don’t know,” I said, “I don’t know.”


  “Sooner or later,” Heng said, and I was reminded of
Captain Trouin speaking in the opium house, “one has to take sides.
If one is to remain human.”


 


 


  2


 


  I left a note at the Legation asking Pyle to come
and then I went up the street to the Continental for a drink. The
wreckage was all cleared away; the fire-brigade had hosed the
square. I had no idea then how the time and the place would become
important. I even thought of sitting there throughout the evening
and breaking my appointment. Then I thought that perhaps I could
frighten Pyle into inactivity by warning him of his danger—whatever
his danger was, and so I finished my beer and went home, and when I
reached home I began to hope that Pyle would not come. I tried to
read, but there was nothing on my shelves to hold the attention.
Perhaps I should have smoked, but there was no one to prepare my
pipe. I listened unwillingly for footsteps and at last they came.
Somebody knocked. I opened the door, but it was only
Domin-guez.


  I said, “What do you want, Dominguez?”


  He looked at me with an air of surprise. “Want?” He
looked at his watch. “This is the time I always come. Have you any
cables?”


  “I’m sorry—I’d forgotten. No.”


  “But a follow-up on the bomb? Don’t you want
something filed?”


  “Oh, work one out for me, Dominguez. I don’t know
how it is—being there on the spot, perhaps I got a bit shocked. I
can’t think of the thing in terms of a cable.” I hit out at a
mosquito which came droning at my ear and saw Dominguez wince
instinctively at my blow. “It’s all right, Dominguez, I missed it.”
He grinned miserably. He could not justify this reluctance to take
life: after all he was a Christian—one of those who had learnt from
Nero how to make human bodies into candles.


  “Is there anything I can do for you?” he asked. He
didn’t drink, he didn’t eat meat, he didn’t kill—I envied him the
gentleness of his mind.


  “No, Dominguez. Just leave me alone tonight.” I
watched him from the window, going away across the rue Catinat. A
trishaw driver had parked beside the pavement opposite my window;
Dominguez tried to engage him, but the man shook his head.
Presumably he was waiting for a client in one of the shops, for
this was not a parking place for trishaws. When I looked at my
watch it was strange to see that I had been waiting for little more
than ten minutes, and, when Pyle knocked, I hadn’t even heard his
step.


  “Come in.” But as usual it was the dog that came in
first


  “I was glad to get your note, Thomas. This morning I
thought you were mad at me.”


  “Perhaps I was. It wasn’t a pretty sight.”


  “You know so much now, it won’t hurt to tell you a
bit more. I saw Thé this afternoon.”


  “Saw him? Is he in Saigon? I suppose he came to see
how his bomb worked.”


  “That’s in confidence, Thomas. I dealt with him very
severely.” He spoke like the captain of a school-team who has found
one of his boys breaking his training. All the same I asked him
with a certain hope, “Have you thrown him over?”


  “I told him that if he made another uncontrolled
demonstration we would have no more to do with him.”


  “But haven’t you finished with him already, Pyle?” I
pushed impatiently at his dog which was nosing around my
ankles.


  “I can’t. (Sit down, Duke.) In the long run he’s the
only hope we have. If he came to power with our help, we could rely
on him . . .”


  “How many people have to die before you realize
,,.?” But I could tell that it was a hopeless argument.


  “Realize what, Thomas?”


  “That there’s no such thing as gratitude in
politics.”


  “At least they won’t hate us like they hate the
French.”


  “Are you sure? Sometimes we have a kind of love for
our enemies and sometimes we feel hate for our friends.”


  “You talk like a European, Thomas. These people
aren’t complicated.”


  “Is that what you’ve learned in a few months? You’ll
be calling them childlike next.”


  “Well—in a way.”


  “Find me an uncomplicated child, Pyle. When we are
young we are a jungle of complications. We simplify as we get
older.” But what good was it to talk to him? There was an unreality
in both our arguments. I was becoming a leader-writer before my
time. I got up and went to the bookshelf.


  “What are you looking for, Thomas?”


  “Oh, just a passage I used to be fond of. Can you
have dinner with me, Pyle?”


  “I’d love to, Thomas. I’m so glad you aren’t mad any
longer. I know you disagree with me, but we can disagree, can’t we,
and be friends?”


  “I don’t know. I don’t think so.”


  “After all, Phuong was much more important than
this.”


  “Do you really believe that, Pyle?”


  “Why, she’s the most important thing there is. To
me. And to you, Thomas.”


  “Not to me any longer.”


  “It was a terrible shock today, Thomas, but in a
week, you’ll see, we’ll have forgotten it. We are looking after the
relatives too.”


  “We?”


  “We’ve wired to Washington. Well get permission to
use some of our funds.”


  I interrupted him. “The Vieux Moulin? Between nine
and nine thirty?”


  “Where you like, Thomas.” I went to the window. The
sun had sunk below the roofs. The trishaw driver still waited for
his fare. I looked down at him and he raised his face to me.


  “Are you waiting for someone, Thomas?”


  “No. There was just a piece I was looking for.” To
cover my action I read, holding the book up to the last light :


 


  “
I drive through the streets and I care not a
damn,


  
The people they stare, and they ask who I
am;


  
And if I should chance to run over a
cad,


  
I can pay for the damage if ever so
bad.


  
So pleasant it is to have money, heigh
ho!


  
So pleasant it is to have money
.”


 


  “That’s a funny kind of poem,” Pyle said with a note
of disapproval.


  “He was an adult poet in the nineteenth century.
There weren’t so many of them.” I looked down into the street
again. The trishaw driver had moved away.


  “Have you run out of drink?” Pyle asked.


  “No, but I thought you didn’t . . .”


  “Perhaps I’m beginning to loosen up,” Pyle said.
“Your influence. I guess you’re good for me, Thomas.”


  I got the bottle and glasses—I forgot one of them
the first journey and then I had to go back for water. Everything
that I did that evening took a long time. He said, “You know, I’ve
got a wonderful family, but maybe they were a little on the strict
side. We have one of those old houses in Chestnut Street, as you go
up the hill on the right-hand side. My mother collects glass, and
my father—when he’s not eroding his old cliffs—picks up all the
Darwin manuscripts and association-copies he can. You see, they
live in the past. Maybe that’s why York made such an impression on
me. He seemed kind of open to modern conditions. My father’s an
isolationist.”


  “Perhaps I would like your father,” I said. “I’m an
isolationist too.”


  For a quiet man Pyle that night was in a talking
mood. I didn’t hear all that he said, for my mind was elsewhere. I
tried to persuade myself that Mr Heng had other means at his
disposal but the crude and obvious one. But in a war like this, I
knew, there is no time to hesitate: one uses the weapon to hand—the
French the napalm bomb, Mr Heng the bullet or the knife. I told
myself too late that I wasn’t made to be a judge—I would let Pyle
talk awhile and then I would warn him. He could spend the night at
my house. They would hardly break in there. I think he was speaking
of the old nurse he had had—”She really meant more to me than my
mother, and the blueberry pies she used to make ! “ when I
interrupted him. “Do you carry a gun now—since that night?”


  “No. We have orders in the Legation . . .”


  “But you’re on special duties?”


  “It wouldn’t do any good—if they wanted to get me,
they always could. Anyway I’m as blind as a coot. At college they
called me Bat—because I could see in the dark as well as they
could. Once when we were fooling around . . .” He was off again. I
returned to the window.


  A trishaw driver waited opposite. I wasn’t sure—they
looked so much alike, but I thought he was a different one. Perhaps
he really had a client. It occurred to me that Pyle would be safest
at the Legation. They must have laid their plans, since my signal,
for later in the evening: something that involved the Dakow bridge.
I couldn’t understand why or how: surely he would not be so foolish
as to drive through Dakow after sunset and our side of the bridge
was always guarded by armed police.


  “I’m doing all the talking,” Pyle said. “I don’t
know how it is, but somehow this evening . . .”


  “Go on,” I said, “I’m in a quiet mood, that’s all.
Perhaps we’d better cancel that dinner.”


  “No, don’t do that. I’ve felt cut off from you,
since . . . well . . .”


  “Since you saved my life,” I said and couldn’t
disguise the bitterness of my self-inflicted wound.


  “No, I didn’t mean that. All the same how we talked,
didn’t we, that night? As if it was going to be our last. I learned
a lot about you, Thomas. I don’t agree with you, mind, but for you
maybe it’s right—not being involved. You kept it up all right, even
after your leg was smashed you stayed neutral.”


  “There’s always a point of change,” I said. “Some
moment of emotion ...”


  “You haven’t reached it yet. I doubt if you ever
will. And I’m not likely to change either—except with death,” he
added merrily.


  “Not even with this morning? Mightn’t that change a
man’s views?”


  “They were only war casualties,” he said. “It was a
pity, but you can’t always hit your target. Anyway they died in the
right cause.”


  “Would you have said the same if it had been your
old nurse with her blueberry pie?”


  He ignored my facile point. “In a way you could say
they died for democracy,” he said.


  “I wouldn’t know how to translate that into
Vietnamese.” I was suddenly very tired. I wanted him to go away
quickly and die. Then I could start life again—at the point before
he came in.


  “Youll never take me seriously, will you, Thomas?”
he complained, with that schoolboy gaiety which he seemed to have
kept up his sleeve for this night of all nights. “I tell you
what—Phuong’s at the cinema—what about you and me spending the
whole evening together? I’ve nothing to do now.” It was as though
someone from outside were directing him how to choose his words in
order to rob me of any possible excuse. He went on. “Why don’t we
go to the Chalet? I haven’t been there since that night. The food
is just as good as the Vieux Moulin, and there’s music.”


  I said, “I’d rather not remember that night.”


  “I’m sorry. I’m a dumb fool sometimes, Thomas. What
about a Chinese dinner in Cholon?”


  “To get a good one you have to order in advance. Are
you scared of the Vieux Moulin, Pyle? It’s well wired and there are
always police on the bridge. And you wouldn’t be such a fool, would
you, as to drive through Dakow?”


  “It wasn’t that. I just thought it would be fun
tonight to make a long evening of it.”


  He made a movement and upset his glass, which
smashed upon the floor. “Good luck,” he said mechanically. “I’m
sorry, Thomas.” I began to pick up the pieces and pack them into
the ash-tray. “What about it, Thomas?” The smashed glass reminded
me of the bottles in the Pavilion bar dripping their contents. “I
warned Phuong I might be out with you.” How badly chosen was the
word “warn”. I picked up the last piece of glass. “I have got an
engagement at the Majestic,” I said, “and I can’t manage before
nine.”


  “Well, I guess I’ll have to go back to the office.
Only I’m always afraid of getting caught.”


  There was no harm in giving him that one chance.
“Don’t mind being late,” I said. “If you do get caught, look in
here later. I’ll come back at ten, if you can’t make dinner, and
wait for you.”


  “I’ll let you know ...”


  “Don’t bother. Just come to the Vieux Moulin—or meet
me here.” I handed back the decision to that Somebody in whom I
didn’t believe: You can intervene if You want to: a telegram on his
desk : a message from the Minister. You cannot exist unless you
have the power to alter the future. “Go away now, Pyle. There are
things I have to do.” I felt a strange exhaustion, hearing him go
away and the pad of his dog’s paws.


 


 


  3


 


  There were no trishaw drivers nearer than the rue
d”Ormay when I went out. I walked down to the Majestic and stood
awhile watching the unloading of the American bombers. The sun had
gone and they worked by the light of arc-lamps. I had no idea of
creating an alibi, but I told Pyle I was going to the Majestic and
I felt an unreasoning dislike of telling more lies than were
needed.


  “Evening, Fowler.” It was Wilkins.


  “Evening.”


  “How’s the leg?”


  “No trouble now.”


  “Got a good story filed?”


  “I left it to Dominguez.”


  “Oh, they told me you were there.”


  “Yes, I was. But space is tight these days. They
won’t want much.”


  “The spice has gone out of the dish, hasn’t it?”
Wilkins said. “We ought to have lived in the days of Russell and
the old 
Times
. Dispatches by balloon. One had time to do
some fancy writing then. Why, he’d even have made a column out of

this
. The luxury hotel, the bombers, night falling. Night
never falls nowadays, does it, at so many piastres a word.” From
far up in the sky you could faintly hear the noise of laughter:
somebody broke a glass as Pyle had done. The sound fell on us like
icicles. “‘The lamps shone o”er fair women and brave men,”‘ Wilkins
malevolently quoted. “Doing anything tonight, Fowler? Care for a
spot of dinner?”


  “I’m dining as it is. At the Vieux Moulin.”


  “I wish you joy. Granger will be there. They ought
to advertise special Granger nights. For those who like background
noise.”


  I said good night to him and went into the cinema
next door—Errol Flynn, or it may have been Tyrone Power (I don’t
know how to distinguish them in tights), swung on ropes and leapt
from balconies and rode bareback into technicolour dawns. He
rescued a girl and killed his enemy and led a charmed life. It was
what they call a film for boys, but the sight of Oedipus emerging
with his bleeding eyeballs from the palace at Thebes would surely
give a better training for life today. No life is charmed. Luck had
been with Pyle at Phat Diem and on the road from Tanyin, but luck
doesn’t last, and they had two hours to see that no charm worked. A
French soldier sat beside me with his hand in a girl’s lap, and I
envied the simplicity of his happiness or his misery, whichever it
might be. I left before the film was over and took a trishaw to the
Vieux Moulin.


  The restaurant was wired in against grenades and two
armed policemen were on duty at the end of the bridge. The

patron
, who had grown fat on his own rich Burgundian
cooking, let me through the wire himself. The place smelt of capons
and melting butter in the heavy evening heat.


  “Are you joining the party of M. Granjair?” he asked
me.


  “No.”


  “A table for one?” It was then for the first time
that I thought of the future and the questions I might have to
answer. “For one,” I said, and it was almost as though I had said
aloud that Pyle was dead.


  There was only one room and Granger’s party occupied
a large table at the back; the 
patron
 gave me a small one
closest to the wire. There were no window-panes, for fear of
splintered glass. I recognized a few of the people Granger was
entertaining, and I bowed to them before I sat down: Granger
himself looked away. I hadn’t seen him for months—only once since
the night Pyle fell in love. Perhaps some offensive remark I had
made that evening had penetrated the alcoholic fog, for he sat
scowling at the head of the table while Madame Desprez, the wife of
a public-relations officer, and Captain Duparc of the Press Liaison
Service nodded and becked. There was a big man whom I think was an

hotelier
 from Pnom Penh and a French girl I’d never seen
before and two or three other faces that I had only observed in
bars. It seemed for once to be a quiet party.


  I ordered a pastis because I wanted to give Pyle
time to come—plans go awry and so long as I did not begin to eat my
dinner it was as though I still had time to hope. And then I
wondered what I hoped for. Good luck to the O.S.S. or whatever his
gang were called? Long life to plastic bombs and General Thé? Or
did I—I of all people—hope for some kind of miracle: a method of
discussion arranged by Mr Heng which wasn’t simply death? How much
easier it would have been if we had both been killed on the road
from Tanyin. I sat for twenty minutes over my pastis and then I
ordered dinner. It would soon be half past nine: he wouldn’t come
now.


  Against my will I listened: for what? a scream? a
shot? some movement by the police outside? but in any case I would
probably hear nothing, for Granger’s party was warming up. The

hotelier
, who had a pleasant untrained voice, began to
sing and as a new champagne cork popped others joined in, but not
Granger. He sat there with raw eyes glaring across the room at me.
I wondered if there would be a fight: I was no match for
Granger.


  They were singing a sentimental song, and as I sat
hunger-less over my apology for a 
Chapon duc Charles
 I
thought, for almost the first time since I had known that she was
safe, of Phuong. I remembered how Pyle, sitting on the floor
waiting for the Viets, had said, “She seems fresh like a flower,”
an”l I had flippantly replied, “Poor flower.” She would never see
New England now or learn the secrets of Canasta. Perhaps she would
never know security: what right had I to value her less than the
dead bodies in the square? Suffering is not increased by numbers :
one body can contain all the suffering the world can feel. I had
judged like a journalist in terms of quantity and I .had betrayed
my own principles; I had become as 
engagé
 as Pyle, and it
seemed to me that no decision would ever be simple again. I looked
at my watch and it was nearly a quarter to ten. Perhaps, after all,
he had been caught; perhaps that “someone” in whom he believed had
acted on his behalf and he sat now in his Legation room fretting at
a telegram to decode, and soon he would come stamping up the stairs
to my room in the rue Catinat. I thought, “If he does I shall tell
him everything.”


  Granger suddenly got up from his table and came at
me. He didn’t even see the chair in his way and he stumbled and
laid his hand on the edge of my table. “Fowler,” he said, “come
outside.” I laid enough notes down and followed him. I was in no
mood to fight with him, but at that moment I would not have minded
if he had beaten me unconscious. We have so few ways in which to
assuage the sense of guilt.


  He leant on the parapet of the bridge and the two
policemen watched him from a distance. He said, “I’ve got to talk
to you, Fowler.1


  I came within striking distance and waited. He
didn’t move. He was like an emblematic statue of all I thought I
hated in America—as ill-designed as the Statue of Liberty and as
meaningless. He said without moving, “You think I’m pissed. You’re
wrong.”


  “What’s up, Granger?”


  “I got to talk to you, Fowler. I don’t want to sit
there with those Frogs tonight. I don’t like you, Fowler, but you
talk English. A kind of English.” He leant there, bulky and
shapeless in the half-light, an unexplored continent.


  “What do you want, Granger?”


  “I don’t like Limies,” Granger said. “I don’t know
why Pyle stomachs you. Maybe it’s because he’s Boston. I’m
Pittsburgh and proud of it.”


  “Why not?”


  “There you are again.” He made a feeble attempt to
mock my accent. “You all talk like poufs. You’re so damned
superior. You think you know everything.”


  “Good night, Granger. I’ve got an appointment”


  “Don’t go, Fowler. Haven’t you got a heart? I can’t
talk to those Froggies.”


  “You’re drunk.”


  “I’ve had two glasses of champagne, that’s all, and
wouldn’t you be drunk in my place? I’ve got to go north.”


  “What’s wrong in that?”


  “Oh, I didn’t tell you, did I? I keep on thinking
everyone knows. I got a cable this morning from my wife.”


  “Yes?”


  “My son’s got polio. He’s bad.”


  “I’m sorry.”


  “You needn’t be. It’s not your kid.”


  “Can’t you fly home?”


  “I can’t. They want a story about some damned
mopping-up operations near Hanoi and Connolly’s sick.” (Connolly
was his assistant.)


  Tm sorry, Granger. I wish I could help.”


  “It’s his birthday tonight. He’s eight at half past
ten our time. That’s why I laid on a party with champagne before I
knew. I had to tell someone, Fowler, and I can’t tell these
Froggies.”


  “They can do a lot for polio nowadays.”


  “I don’t mind if he’s crippled, Fowler. Not if he
lives. Me, I’d be no good crippled,, but he’s got brains. Do you
know what I’ve been doing in there while that bastard was singing?
I was praying. I thought maybe if God wanted a life he could take
mine.”


  “Do you believe in a God, then?”


  “I wish I did,” Granger said. He passed his whole
hand across his face as though his head ached, but the motion was
meant to disguise the fact that he was wiping tears away.


  “I’d get drunk if I were you,” I said.


  “Oh, no, I’ve got to stay sober. I don’t want to
think afterwards I was stinking drunk the night my boy died. My
wife can’t drink, can she?”


  “Can’t you tell your paper . . . ?”


  “Connolly’s not really sick. He’s off aftsr a bit of
tail in Singapore. I’ve got to cover for him. He’d be sacked if
they knew.” He gathered his shapeless body together. “Sorry I kept
you, Fowler. I just had to tell someone. Got to go in now and start
the toasts. Funny it happened to be you, and you hate my guts.”


  “I’d do your story for you. I could pretend it was
Connolly.”


  “You wouldn’t get the accent right.”


  “I don’t dislike you, Granger. I’ve been blind to a
lot of things . . .”


  “Oh, you and me, we’re cat and dog. But thanks for
the sympathy.”


  Was I so different from Pyle, I wondered? Must I too
have my foot thrust in the mess of life before I saw the pain?
Granger went inside and I could hear the voices rising to greet
him. I found a trishaw and was pedalled home. There was nobody
there, and I sat and waited till midnight. Then I went down into
the street without hope and found Phuong there.


 


 


 


  
Chapter 3


 


  “HAS Monsieur Vigot been to see you?” Phuong
asked.


  “Yes. He left a quarter of an hour ago. Was the film
good?” She had already laid out the tray in the bedroom and now she
was lighting the lamp.


  “It was very sad,” she said, “but the colours were
lovely. What did Monsieur Vigot want?”


  “He wanted to ask me some questions.”


  “What about?”


  “This and that. I don’t think he will bother me
again.”


  “I like films with happy endings best,” Phuong said.
“Are you ready to smoke?”


  “Yes.” I lay down on the bed and Phuong set to work
with her needle. She said, “They cut off the girl’s head.”


  “What a strange thing to do.”


  “It was in the French Revolution.”


  “Oh. Historical. I see.”


  “It was very sad all the same.”


  “I can’t worry much about people in history.”


  “And her lover—he went back to his garret—and he was
miserable and he wrote a song—you see, he was a poet, and soon all
the people who had cut off the head of his girl were singing his
song. It was the Marseillaise.”


  “It doesn’t sound very historical,” I said.


  “He stood there at the edge of the crowd while they
were singing, and he looked very bitter and when he smiled you knew
he was even more bitter and that he was thinking of her. I cried a
lot and so did my sister.”


  “Your sister? I can’t believe it.”


  “She is very sensitive. That horrid man Granger was
there. He was drunk and he kept on laughing. But it was not funny
at all. It was sad.”


  “I don’t blame him,” I said. “He has something to
celebrate. His son’s out of danger. I heard today at the
Continental. I like happy endings too.”


  After I had smoked two pipes I lay back with my neck
on the leather pillow and rested my hand in Phuong’s lap. “Are you
happy?”


  “Of course,” she said carelessly. I hadn’t deserved
a more considered answer.


  “It’s like it used to be,” I lied, “a year ago.”


  “Yes.”


  “You haven’t bought a scarf for a long time. Why
don’t you go shopping tomorrow?”


  “It is a feast day.”


  “Oh yes, of course. I forgot.”


  “You have not opened your telegram,” Phuong
said.


  “No, I’d forgotten that too. I don’t want to think
about work tonight. And it’s too late to file anything now. Tell me
more about the film.”


  “Well, her lover tried to rescue her from prison. He
smuggled in boy’s clothes and a man’s cap like the one the gaoler
wore, but just as she was passing the gate all her hair fell down
and they called out ‘
Une aristocrate, une aristocrate’
. I
think that was a mistake in the story. They ought to have let her
escape. Then they would both have made a lot of money with his song
and they would have gone abroad to America—or England, “ she added
with what she thought was cunning.


  “I’d better read the telegram,” I said. “I hope to
God I don’t have to go north tomorrow. I want to be quiet with
you.”


  She loosed the envelope from among the pots of cream
and gave it to me. I opened it and read: “Have thought over your
letter again stop am acting irrationally as you hoped stop have
told my lawyer start divorce proceedings grounds desertion stop God
bless you affectionately Helen.”


  “Do you have to go?”


  “No,” I said, “I don’t have to go. I’ll read it to
you. Here’s your happy ending.”


  She jumped from the bed. “But it is wonderful. I
must go and tell my sister. She will be so pleased. I will say to
her, ‘Do you know who I am? I am the second Mrs Fowlair.”‘


  Opposite me in the bookcase 
The Rôle of the
West
 stood out like a cabinet portrait—of a young man with a
crew-cut and a black dog at his heels. He could harm no one any
more. I said to Phuong, “Do you miss him much?”


  “Who?”


  “Pyle.” Strange how even now, even to her, it was
impossible to use his first name.


  “Can I go, please? My sister will be so
excited.”


  “You spoke his name once in your sleep.”


  “I never remember my dreams.”


  “There was so much you could have done together. He
was young.”


  “You are not old.”


  “The skyscrapers. The Empire State Building.”


  She said with a small hesitation, “I want to see the
Cheddar Gorge.”


  “It isn’t the Grand Canyon.” I pulled her down on to
the bed. “I’m sorry, Phuong.”


  “What are you sorry for? It is a wonderful telegram.
My sister ...”


  “Yes, go and tell your sister. Kiss me first.” Her
excited mouth skated over my face, and she was gone.


  I thought of the first day and Pyle sitting beside
me at the Continental, with his eye on the soda-fountain across the
way. Everything had gone right with me since he had died, but how I
wished there existed someone to whom I could say that I was
sorry.


 


  
March 1952—June 1955




























