













OceanofPDF.com



























OceanofPDF.com

















The characters and events in this book are fictitious. Any similarity to real persons, living or dead, is coincidental and not intended by the author.


Copyright © 2026 by James Patterson


Illustrations copyright © 2026 by Hachette Book Group, Inc.


Illustrations by Brandon Dorman


Cover art by Brandon Dorman. Cover design by Sasha Illingworth.


Cover copyright © 2026 by Hachette Book Group, Inc.


Interior design by Neil Swaab.


Hachette Book Group supports the right to free expression and the value of copyright. The purpose of copyright is to encourage writers and artists to produce the creative works that enrich our culture.


The scanning, uploading, and distribution of this book without permission is a theft of the author’s intellectual property. If you would like permission to use material from the book (other than for review purposes), please contact permissions@hbgusa.com. Thank you for your support of the author’s rights.


JIMMY Patterson Books / Little, Brown and Company


Hachette Book Group


1290 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10104


JamesPatterson.com


First Edition: January 2026


JIMMY Patterson Books is an imprint of Little, Brown and Company, a division of Hachette Book Group, Inc. The Little, Brown name and logo are trademarks of Hachette Book Group, Inc. The JIMMY Patterson Books® name and logo are trademarks of JBP Business, LLC.


The publisher is not responsible for websites (or their content) that are not owned by the publisher.


Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data


Names: Patterson, James, 1947– author. | Tebbetts, Christopher, author.


Title: Dr. Zeus / by James Patterson & Chris Tebbetts.


Description: First edition. | New York : Jimmy Patterson Books/Little, Brown and Company, 2026. | Audience: Ages 8–12. | Summary: “Nick Andino is a normal twelve-year-old doing schoolwork and helping at his family’s restaurant, until the day he is visited by Zeus and Hermes, who reveal that he must complete an epic quest or his family will be erased from history.” — Provided by publisher.


Identifiers: LCCN 2022039617 | ISBN 9780316410328 (hardcover) | ISBN 9780316410526 (ebook)


Subjects: CYAC: Quests (Expeditions)—Fiction. | Prophecies—Fiction. | Zeus (Greek deity)—Fiction. | Hermes (Greek deity)—Fiction. | Fantasy. | LCGFT: Fantasy fiction. | Novels.


Classification: LCC PZ7.P27653 Dr 2024 | DDC [Fic]—dc23


LC record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2022039617


ISBNs: 978-0-316-41032-8 (hardcover), 978-0-316-41052-6 (ebook)


E3-20251215-JV-NF-ORI






OceanofPDF.com















Contents




Cover


Title Page


Copyright


1: Special Delivery from Olympus


2: New in Town


3: Earth to Nick


4: Putting the Strange in Stranger


5: Cut to the Chase


6: The Doctor Will Z You Now


7: How Did I Get Here?


8: Back Again


9: Not Telling


10: Visiting Hours


11: Un-Possible


12: True-ish


13: Back to the Beach


14: Winging It


15: Reality Check


16: On the Move


17: Just Me, Nick


18: Unmistaken Identity


19: What Are You Looking At?


20: Face Off


21: Back Again (Again)


22: All You Can Eat


23: Table Five


24: Switcheroo


25: All In


26: Text You Later


27: Sorry Not Sorry


28: Pushing the Envelope


29: Ninety-Nine Percent


30: One Girl Will Know What to Do


31: Bad News Blues


32: Not You Again


33: Let’s Make a Deal


34: Hit the Ground Running


35: Mist Connections


36: The Old Man of the Sea


37: Stadium of the Gods


38: Tower Power


39: An Apple a Day


40: Six Heads Aren’t Always Better Than One


41: Back to the Beach, Again


42: The Odd at Sea


43: Look Who’s Here


44: Let Me Get This Straight


45: Come Sail Away


46: Hello and Goodbye


47: A Day in the Sun


48: Not Another Disguise


49: I’ve Got Your Back


50: Family Outing


51: Busted!


52: Just Passing Through


53: Showdown in Andino Town


54: The Floor Is Lava


55: Big Finish


56: Home to Stay


57: In the Heights


58: Changes


59


About the Authors


Also by James Patterson


Praise for James Patterson










Cover


Table of Contents








Page List




vii


viii


ix


x


1


2


3


4


5


6


7


8


9


10


11


12


13


14


15


16


17


18


19


20


21


22


23


24


25


26


27


28


29


30


31


32


33


34


35


36


37


38


39


40


41


42


43


44


45


46


47


48


49


50


51


52


53


54


55


56


57


58


59


60


61


62


63


64


65


66


67


68


69


70


71


72


73


74


75


76


77


78


79


80


81


82


83


84


85


86


87


88


89


90


91


92


93


94


95


96


97


98


99


100


101


102


103


104


105


106


107


108


109


110


111


112


113


114


115


116


117


118


119


120


121


122


123


124


125


126


127


128


129


130


131


132


133


134


135


136


137


138


139


140


141


142


143


144


145


146


147


148


149


150


151


152


153


154


155


156


157


158


159


160


161


162


163


164


165


166


167


168


169


170


171


172


173


174


175


176


177


178


179


180


181


182


183


184


185


186


187


188


189


190


191


192


193


194


195


196


197


198


199


200


201


202


203


204


205


206


207


208


209


210


211


212


213


214


215


216


217


218


219


220


221


222


223


224


225


226


227


228


229


230


231


232


233


234


235


236


237


238


239


240


241


242


243


244


245


246


247


248


249


250


251


252


253


254


255


256


257


258


259


260


261


262


263


264


265


266


267


268


269


270


271


272


273


274


275


276


277


278


279


280


281


282


283


284


285


286


287


288


289


290


291


292


293


294


295


296


297


298


299


300


301


302


303


304


305


306


307


308


309


310


311


312


313


314


315


316


317


318


319


320


321


322


323


324


325


326


327


328


329


330


331


332


333


334


335


336


337


338


339


340


341


i


ii


iii


iv


v


342






OceanofPDF.com



























OceanofPDF.com



























OceanofPDF.com



























OceanofPDF.com































OceanofPDF.com

















1


Special Delivery from Olympus
















OceanofPDF.com































OceanofPDF.com

















2


New in Town












If I told you I had the greatest dad in the universe, would you believe me? Because I do. And I mean literally. He’s king of the Greek gods. Maybe you’ve heard of him. His name is even on the cover of this book.


As for me, I’ve got an important job, too. I’m messenger of the gods, 
but don’t let the title fool you. I may be the messenger, but that doesn’t mean I always tell the truth.


In fact, I 
invented
 lying. So consider yourself warned.


Lucky for you, I’m not the one who’s going to be telling this story. That’d be Nick, and you’ll meet him in a second. But first, I’m thinking you might have some questions about that Winnebago Sunstar motor home that just touched down to Earth on the tip of a lightning bolt.


See, when my dad told me we were taking a father-son trip to Athens, it sounded like a great idea. Athens, Greece, is one of the seats of civilization. Things like democracy, Western medicine, theater, the Olympics… they all have deep roots there.


The problem was, Dad wasn’t talking about Athens, Greece. He was taking us to Athens, Ohio, which is like trading the 
seat of civilization
 for… well, no offense, but… 
Ohio
.












“Okay, Hermy, look alive. We are a 
go
!” Dad said as we came to a stop across from Dino’s Dine-In, a Greek diner in downtown Athens (Ohio). “I want you on your toes and looking sharp.”


Dad was excited, I could tell. He 
loves
 a challenge. He also loves going undercover. That’s what we call it in my family when we take on human form to blend in among you mortals.


Same thing with the RV. On the outside, it looked like an ordinary camper. But inside, with 
a little Zeus magic, that RV was whatever Dad wanted it to be. And right now, it was his own personal surveillance vehicle.


“So, who is this kid, anyway?” I asked.


“Nick Andino,” Dad said. He waved his hand and brought up a viewing portal over the steering wheel. Now we could see right into that diner across the street.












“
That’s
 him?” I asked. “He’s our hero?”


“He will be soon,” Dad said. “With a little work.”


“More like a 
lot
 of work,” I said. “And did you say he has a love interest in this story?”


“Yep!” Dad swiped the portal to bring up another image. “This is Daisy Rhee. She has a major crush on Nick, just like he has on her. And neither of them knows it.”


“Not yet, anyway,” I said.












“And how about a villain?” I asked. “Every good story needs one of those.”


“No problem,” Dad said, swiping the portal again. “Meet Orson Mackelmore, aka the Dingus.”


“Does Orson have a crush on Daisy, too?” I asked. “That could be interesting.”


“Nope,” Dad said. “Orson’s pretty much in love with Orson.”












“And they’re all inside that diner right now,” I said. “Perfect timing.”


“Of course it is,” Dad said. “I am Zeus, after all.”


“And I’m starving,” I said. That’s another thing about being a Greek god disguised in a human body. 
You’re hungry 
all
 the time. “So let’s put this story in gear already.”


This was Dad’s operation, but I had an important job, too. As messenger of the gods, I got to make first contact with Nick. Sweet!


With another wave of Dad’s hand, a strange ringing sound filled the air. Kind of like a speakerphone without the speaker.


“Thank you for calling Dino’s Dine-In,” a voice answered. “How may I help you?”


“Hello!” Dad said. “My son and I have just arrived in this beautiful city, and I’d like to place a colossal order of your finest Greek cuisine.”


“Sure thing,” the voice said. “What’s the name on the order?”


Dad grinned like he always does before one of his famous jokes.


“The name is Dr. Zeus,” he told the guy. “How soon can that be ready for pickup?”






OceanofPDF.com

















3


Earth to Nick


“Earth to Nick! Anybody in there? Come in, Nick!”


A hand waved in front of my face. I looked up to see Pop-Pop staring at me like I’d just landed from Mars.


“Sorry,” I said, snapping out of my thoughts. “What’s up?”


Pop-Pop showed me a big to-go slip. “Twelve gyro supreme platters, six chicken souvlaki, four 
more with pork, six dolmas, six mezze platters, six Greek salads, eight Cokes, eight baklava, and a side of tzatziki!” he said. “I’m going to need your help bagging all this up in a few.”


“No problem,” I said, and pushed another rack of dirty plates into the Beast. That’s what we call the big industrial dishwasher at Dino’s Dine-In.


“Meanwhile, your mom needs some help in the dining room,” Pop-Pop said. “You’d better not let her catch you hiding out back here.”


“I wasn’t hiding out,” I said.


“Yeah, right,” he said. Pop-Pop wasn’t just my grandpa and my homeschool teacher. He was also my best friend. (Okay, my only friend.) He knew when I was avoiding something.


Or in this case, two somethings. I was hoping I could hang in the back and wash dishes until Daisy Rhee and Orson Mackelmore were gone, but no such luck. Mom needed me to clear some tables.


So I grabbed a gray bus tub, headed out to the dining room, and got to work. I wiped down table ten, cleared some dirty dishes off table eight, poured more water for the people at table six, and then stopped to clear table five.


That’s where Daisy was having lunch with her mom.


“Hi, Nick!” Mrs. Rhee said.


“Hi, Mrs. Rhee,” I said, clearing her empty plate (Greek salad) and Daisy’s soup bowl (chicken orzo, homemade).


As for Daisy, she didn’t even look up. She was reading, as usual. Today, it was 
All Thirteen
, which is an awesome book. I probably should have told her I’d read it, too, and asked her what she thought of it.


But did I? Of course not. Because some things never change.


Besides, what did I think was going to happen even if I did get up the nerve to talk to her?












So I kept moving. I cleared table four, filled water glasses at table three, wiped down table two…


And then, because I didn’t have any choice, I came to table one.


That was the big booth by the front window where Orson “the Dingus” Mackelmore liked to eat. Usually that booth was for groups of five or more, but Orson treated it like his own private property.


It didn’t help that his parents owned the building, either. Or that Mom owed them three months in back rent. She’d told me so many times to be polite to the Mackelmores, including Orson, it was practically tattooed inside my ears.


So 
very politely
, I said, “Hey, Orson? We have a lot of people waiting for tables. Do you think you could move to a seat at the counter?”


Orson just kept playing on his Switch. “I don’t know,” he said. “Do you think you could pour me some more water and get out of my face?”


I couldn’t stand this kid. Orson’s opinion of Orson was so high, he probably got nosebleeds just 
thinking about himself. To him, I was some homeschooled loser whose sole purpose on earth was to clear dirty dishes and pour water while he camped out at our best table.


But for Mom’s sake, I filled his glass and kept my thoughts to myself.












Once I was on my way back to the kitchen, Mom cornered me by the coffee machine. “How’d you like to take a piece of baklava over to Daisy?” she asked. “On the house!”


“I think she’s all set,” I said.


Mom gave me one of her 
I’m concerned about you
 looks. “I just think it might be a way to break the ice. Maybe make a new friend before you start at Athens Middle next month, you know?”


I knew, I knew. But here’s the thing I hadn’t told Mom yet. I had no intention of starting seventh grade at AMS in the fall. My life was as ordinary as a vanilla cone on a Tuesday afternoon, and that was just the way I liked it.


As far as I was concerned, I just wanted to keep on homeschooling with Pop-Pop, keep on helping out at the diner, and keep on keeping to myself like I’d been doing for a while now. End of story.


Except of course, this isn’t the end of the story.


It’s just the beginning.






OceanofPDF.com

















4


Putting the 
Strange
 in Stranger


Lucky for me I got saved by the bell before I had to come up with any more excuses for Mom.


DING!


“Order up, to go!” Pop-Pop yelled from the grill.


“I have to help with that,” I said.


“Well, at least think about what I said,” Mom told me.


“I will,” I told her. But I already knew I wouldn’t.


A few minutes later, I was coming back out of 
the kitchen with six gigantic bags of Greek food on my arms.


“To-go order for…” I stopped and looked at the slip. Pop-Pop’s handwriting was even worse than mine. “Mr. Zeus?” I tried.


“That’s 
Dr. Zeus
.” A kid my age spun around on one of the counter stools. “I’ll take that,” he said.


When he looked at me, he had this weird smile on his face, like he knew something I didn’t. And he was wearing the coolest pair of gold Nikes I’d ever seen. Something told me he wasn’t from around here.


“Here you go. Have a nice day,” I said, setting the food on the counter. Mostly, I wanted to get back into the kitchen before Orson could think of something else he needed from me.


“Hang on,” the kid said. “This is for you.”


That usually meant a tip. Maybe a few bucks if I was lucky. But when I looked, he was holding out some business card. People usually left them in a jar at the front, and Mom did a monthly drawing for a free lunch.


“You can drop that over there,” I said.


“No, it’s for you,” the kid said, and shoved it in my hand. “Take a look.”












“I think you have the wrong person,” I said.


“Turn it over,” the kid said. So I did.












“How’d you do that?” I asked. It was like a magic trick. The kind you see on 
America’s Got Talent
. “Seriously, you should take this back.”


“I can’t,” the kid said. “I’m just the messenger.”


I didn’t know what that meant, but then sure enough, a familiar voice yelled from across the diner. “CAN I GET SOME MORE WATER OVER HERE? LIKE, NOW?”


Orson. Of course.


So I pocketed the card and moved on. Hey, I tried, right? If someone named Nick missed an important appointment, it wasn’t on me.


When I got to table one, Orson was mashing the controls on his game and didn’t even look up.


“Get me some fries, too,” he demanded. “And a bigger glass for the water. I’m thirsty.”


“Of course he’s thirsty,” someone else said. “All that whining must really dry out his throat.”


Say what?
 I turned and saw the same kid from before. He was right behind me now, like he’d come out of nowhere.


Even weirder, Orson acted like he hadn’t heard a thing.


The kid kept going, too. “I guess being a world-class dingus is hard work,” he said. Whoever he was, he had some good material. I couldn’t help laughing at that one.


Now Orson looked right at me. “What’s so funny?” he asked.


“Nothing,” I said. If he didn’t hear, I wasn’t going to repeat it.


“Yeah, that’s what I thought,” he said, and went back to his game. So I just reached over and started to pour his precious glass of water.


“See you soon, Nick,” the other kid told me. “Very soon, in fact.”


And just as he pushed past me to get to the front door, he knocked that pitcher right out of my hand.


Half a gallon of water splooshed across the table and right into Orson’s lap. Orson jumped up, screaming like the pitcher was full of fire instead of ice water.


“YOU IDIOT!” he yelled.


“I’m sorry!” I said, even though it wasn’t my fault.


“You did that on purpose!” Orson said.


“It was an accident!” I said. “He bumped into me—”


“
Who
 did?” Orson demanded.


I looked around, but the kid was gone. I hadn’t even heard the bell over the diner door. He’d just 
disappeared
.


“He was here a second ago,” I said while Mom came over with a handful of towels.


“We are 
so
 sorry,” she said.


“He did that on purpose!” Orson shouted.


“I did not!” I said.


“I saw you do it!”


And just when I opened my mouth to call Orson a lying dingus, Mom put a hand on my shoulder.


“Nick? Go get the mop,” she said. “
Now
, please.”


It wasn’t like I had a choice. So I just kept my eyes down and my thoughts to myself, as usual.












Lucky for me, Orson was gone by the time I got back with the mop.


“
Nicholas?
” Mom said. “Please tell me you didn’t do that on purpose.”


“I didn’t!” I said. “Someone bumped into me. I swear.”


“Okay, but we can’t afford mistakes like that in any case. Not with the Mackelmores.” And she wasn’t done, either. “After your shift, I want you to go home and write Orson an apology,” she said.


“An apology?”
 Just saying it made me want to throw up a little in my mouth.


“Listen, hon.” Mom’s voice was different now. Softer. “I know things have been rough around here, and I know it may not be perfectly fair. But I need you to do this. Okay?”


“I understand,” I said. I really did. Mom worked super hard all day, every day. Even with Pop-Pop’s help, the diner was just barely getting by. Not to mention the eighteen thousand dollars we owed the Mackelmores in back rent. I wasn’t supposed to know about that part, but I did.


Mom didn’t need me making things harder than they already were, even if the whole water pitcher disaster wasn’t my fault. It was that kid’s fault. The 
one with the business card and the gold shoes. Not that I could do anything about it now. Chances were, I’d never even see the kid again.


At least, that’s what I thought.


But I was wrong, wrong, wrong.






OceanofPDF.com

















5


Cut to the Chase


When I left the diner about an hour later, my plan was to walk straight home and start putting this crud-tastic day behind me.


That was the plan, anyway. But as soon as I hit the sidewalk, I saw Orson. He was parked on a bench across the street, waiting for me like a trap ready to spring.


“Yo, Andino!” he said. “Come here! I want to talk to you!”


Yeah, 
sure
 he wanted to talk to me. Probably with his 
fists
.


So I turned and ran down Court Street, away from Orson. What I should have done was duck right back into the diner. But I’m not that smart. If I went back now, it was going to be like stepping into the path of a freight train. The kind with bad breath and a grudge.


So I kept moving. I figured if I could make it to the alley behind the diner, I could go in through the back door. The only question was whether or not I had enough of a head start. Orson had the world’s longest legs for a seventh grader.


But then I caught a lucky break. All at once, the sky opened up and it started to rain, big-time. It was one of those summer showers that come out of nowhere. Before I’d even reached the corner, it was pouring down in sheets, giving me some cover just when I needed it most.


Still, I could hear Orson’s extra-large feet 
slapping the pavement behind me, getting closer by the second.


“You are so dead!” he yelled.


And I thought, 
That’s probably true. But don’t stop running now!


I took a fast left on Washington Street. Then another left into the alley. I could barely see more than a few steps ahead of me through that rain, but I knew where I was going.


When I spotted a familiar red dumpster, I cut left, over to the back door of the restaurant. The entry code was 1008, for my birthday. Easy, right? Except my shaking hands punched in 1-0-0-0—


Noooo!


I couldn’t remember which was the reset button, either. Not that it mattered anymore. The next thing I felt was Orson’s paw, clamping onto my neck.


“You’re going to pay for what you did,” he said.


“It was an accident!” I said.


“
You’re
 an accident,” he said, just before—


SKA-BLAM!


A bolt of lightning streaked out of the sky. I actually saw it touch down between the buildings at the end of the alley. The thunder boomed in my chest, and I felt an electric tingle all over.


That
 was close. But Orson was closer. And he was winding up to throw his first punch when I heard another familiar voice.


“Hey, Nick!” someone shouted.


The rain had stopped enough for me to see a big RV, slow-rolling past the mouth of the alley. And there, hanging out of the RV’s open door, was the same weird kid from before.


“Come on!” he said.


Normally, I wouldn’t even think about getting into some stranger’s RV. Mom would kill me if she knew. But Orson was going to kill me even sooner if I didn’t do something.


So I twisted around, yanked myself free from Orson’s death grip, and ran for all I was worth.


“You’ve got this!” the kid yelled just before the RV rolled out of sight.


I hit the top of the alley, took a high-speed right turn, and sprinted to catch up.


“Come on, come on, come on!” the kid shouted, waving at me like a third-base coach.


“Get back here!” Orson yelled. I could feel him on my tail as I came alongside the RV.


The other kid was reaching to give me a hand. “It’s now or never!” he said.


So I dove. The kid’s fingers locked around my wrist. My feet left the ground, and he yanked me all the way inside in one clean swoop. He was definitely stronger than he looked.


The kid slammed the door closed and the RV took off, ten times faster than before. The last I saw of Orson, he was on the sidewalk, looking left and right like he didn’t even know where I’d gone. Like I’d just 
disappeared
.


“That was amazing. Thanks!” I told the kid. But I also knew I shouldn’t be there. “You can just let me out on the next block.”












“What are you talking about?” he said. “You’re right on time.”


“On time?”


When I looked around, I realized this wasn’t some ordinary RV. We must have been doing sixty through downtown Athens, but on the inside, it barely felt like we were moving at all. Which was impossible.


At the front, a man with a big beard and blue-tinted glasses was behind the wheel.


“Hi, Nick!” he said. “I’ll be right with you.”


The only other thing to see was a single door, right behind me. It had a gold plaque that said 
DR. ZEUS WELCOMES YOU!


That’s when I remembered the Dr. Zeus business card in my pocket. The one that said I had a 1:25 appointment. And as I pulled out my phone to check the time, some part of me already knew what I’d see.


Sure enough, it was 1:24. I was right on time.


But for what?






OceanofPDF.com

















6


The Doctor Will Z You Now


A second later, the RV skidded to a stop at the side of the road. The driver turned around and stood up. He was at least six-ten and wearing a red tracksuit.


“I need no introduction, of course,” he said, shaking my hand. “And you’ve already met my son Hermes. Come in, come in!”


Hermes? Zeus? Those were Greek god names. Even I knew that, from all the homeschooling with Pop-Pop.


I followed them into some kind of mobile 
doctor’s office, with white walls, a white floor, and a white desk in the middle of the room. On one side of the desk, there was a big leather chair with a white doctor’s coat draped over the back.


On my side, there was just a white folding chair, with a fluffy white towel hanging over it. In fact, everything was so 
white
, I couldn’t quite tell how big the room was. Or where it ended in any given direction.












“Have a seat,” Dr. Zeus said, putting on his coat. “Dry off, while you’re at it. Sorry about the storm.”


“It wasn’t your fault,” I said, and he laughed like I’d told some kind of joke.


“I’ve been following your case for a while now,” he said, “and we’re very excited to begin your treatment.”


Hermes handed the doctor a file folder. He opened it and took a look while I sat there drying off and feeling clueless.


“Listen,” I said. “This is all really interesting—and 
really
 weird—but can someone please tell me what the heck is going on—”


“Nick Andino!” the doctor said, so loud I flinched. He was reading from the file folder. Which I noticed was completely empty.


“Age twelve. Born and raised in Athens, Ohio. Descended from eighty-four generations of Greek Andinos, all the way back to 455 BCE.”


“Really?” I said. “How do you know that?”


Hermes and Dr. Zeus laughed again.


“And why is that file empty?” I asked.


“I find it makes this part easier if I put it in terms you can understand,” he said.


“This part… of what?” I asked. But he just kept on reading from that empty folder.


“Mother, Ruby Andino, owner of Dino’s Dine-In, which serves some very respectable Greek specialties,” he said, and looked at Hermes. “Delicious, in fact.”


Hermes nodded and burped before the doctor went on.


“Grandfather, Constantin ‘Pop-Pop’ Andino, originally from Crete, then San Diego, now lives here with you and your mother.”


It was all true. And he had more.


“As for your father, Dino Andino…” Dr. Zeus stopped and closed the folder, then looked up at me. “Fallen from Earth in April of last year. I’m so sorry, Nick.”


That one hit me in the gut. I jumped up and the 
chair tipped over behind me, but Hermes was there to catch it.


“How do you know about my dad?” I said. “What’s going on here?”


“There’s no cause for alarm,” Dr. Zeus said. “We’re here to help. No offense, my friend, but your life is a bit of a mess.”


I looked around again, like there might be some kind of explanation on those blank white walls. But of course there wasn’t.


“What kind of doctor are you, anyway?” I asked.


Dr. Zeus handed the folder to Hermes. “I suppose you could say I’m an MD,” he told me.


“Like a medical doctor?” I asked.


“Master of Destiny,” he said. “And yours is the worst case of destinitis I’ve seen in a long time.”


My head was spinning like a well-oiled office chair by now.


“Destin… what?” I asked.


“Destinitis,” he said. “Your mortal body is fine. 
It’s your future—your 
destiny
—that’s at risk, my friend.”


“It might help if you showed him the prophecy,” Hermes said. He reached over and set a big book on the desk in front of me. I don’t know where that book came from, but it looked like some kind of antique.


“Go ahead,” Dr. Zeus said. “Take a look.”


The cover was faded and peeling, like my nose after too much sun. When I opened to the first page, I saw handwritten lines there.


“Is this in Greek?” I asked. I’d seen Greek before, plenty of times. I even recognized a few letters, like 
alpha
 and 
pi.
 But I couldn’t read a single word.


“Look closer,” Dr. Zeus said, and waved a hand over the book.


When I did, the lines went blurry and seemed to float right off the page for a second. When they settled back down again, they were in focus. And in English.


Or maybe… could it be? Was I reading Greek suddenly? Because I never could before.












I still didn’t have the first clue what I was looking at. But there was nothing more to see. The next page was blank, and the one after that, and the one after that.


“Why is my name in here?” I asked.


“Because it’s your story,” Dr. Zeus told me.


“Oh-kaaaay?” I said. I was still waiting for the punch line, or for someone to step out from behind a hidden camera or something. Was this some kind of joke mixed with a magic trick?


“Why do you think the rest of those pages are empty?” Hermes asked.


“Uh—umm…,” I stammered. It was hard to think and pay attention to what they were saying at the same time.


But Dr. Zeus answered for me. “They’re blank because your destiny hasn’t been written yet,” he said. “Lucky for you, that’s my specialty.”


I looked down at the page in front of me. “So… what are you saying?” I asked. “You want me to write some kind of story here?”


“No,” he said. “I want you to 
live
 it.”


Then he reached across the desk with one finger and touched the middle of my forehead.


SKA-BLAM!


An explosion of some kind burst all around me. 
It was like lightning and thunder but inside my head. The sound rocked my brain. An impossibly bright flash erased the room around me.


And in that boom-flash, everything changed.


Everything.






OceanofPDF.com

















7


How Did I Get Here?


It took a second for my eyes to adjust. It was still super bright everywhere, but more like sun-bright, and less white-hot-core-of-the-universe bright.


In fact, I 
was
 looking at the sun. Because I was outside. That RV had disappeared, and I was all alone.


I was standing on a beach. The sand was almost pure white, with water that looked like blue Gatorade.


A wooden sailboat was ashore, and it had a big pair of eyes painted on the bow. I’d seen that kind of thing before. But 
where
?


Behind me, there was nothing but rocky cliffs, almost as white as the sand itself. The whole place looked like something out of the 
Beautiful Greece
 calendar Pop-Pop kept in his room at home.


In fact, it 
was
 beautiful. This place was amazing, like virtual reality without the 
virtual
. Because I could 
feel
 the sun. I could 
smell
 the salt air. I could 
see
 the giant one-eyed Cyclops coming around the bend in the distance—


WAIT. SAY WHAT?


Some part of me knew I might be imagining this. I mean, an actual monster heading my way? Not very likely. Maybe it was a brain glitch. Or a dream. Or an illusion.


But did I really want to take that chance? Because as far as I could tell, I was one wrong guess away from becoming a human Munchable.












So I did the only thing I could think of. I ducked behind the nearest boulder, squeezed my eyes shut, and prayed to wake up.


“Please wake up, please wake up!” I whispered. I even pinched myself, but none of it helped. When I opened my eyes again, I was still right there.


And so was that Cyclops. Right now, he was headed for the sailboat, picking up speed as he went.


This guy was the size of a T. rex, maybe twenty feet tall, with some kind of fur underwear around his middle. I was surprised at how fast he could move, and even more surprised by how much air he got when he made a flying leap onto the deck of that boat.


I heard splintering wood, and his big taloned foot broke right through the hull. He started thrashing around then, trying to get loose.


Which is when I saw something else.


A bow and a quiver of arrows flew over the side of the boat. Then a coil of rope. Then a girl. Before the Cyclops could spot her, she dropped down 
to the sand, picked up her stuff, and tore off in my direction.


Which is when I recognized her.


The girl was Daisy.


I mean, it couldn’t be.


But it was.


But it couldn’t be.


But it 
WAS
.


Behind her, the Cyclops had done even more damage pulling his foot loose. Now he was leaning onto the boat’s mast. It let out a huge 
crack
 and came down like a tree in the woods.


Daisy didn’t look back. As she got closer, I leaned around the edge of the boulder where I was hiding and waved.


“Daisy! Over here!”


She was wearing some kind of toga and sandals with straps around her ankles, like a movie costume. Other than that, it looked exactly like her.


“Daisy!” I tried again. “What are you doing? What’s going on?”


She didn’t even slow down as she went by. “I don’t know who you are,” she said, “but if you want to live, I suggest you follow me.”


Meanwhile, the Cyclops had spotted us. He was off the boat now, carrying that broken mast like a war club and heading our way.


Correction—he was headed 
my
 way. Because Daisy (or whoever she was) had already reached the cliffs and started climbing. Which put me first on the menu, if this dude was feeling hungry.


In front of me, there was nothing but ocean.


Behind me, nothing but rock wall.


I wasn’t much of a swimmer and even less of a climber. So I was just starting to think this might be the end for me, when something else unexpected happened.


SKA-BLAM!


Another explosion went off between my ears. I felt the same electric goose bumps as before, and a white-hot flash blocked everything out.


When my vision cleared, I was inside that RV 
again, sitting across from Dr. Zeus like I’d never left.


“Welcome back,” he said.


My mouth opened, but nothing came out. There were no words right now. This whole thing was 
way
 above my brain’s pay grade.


But I 
was
 starting to figure out who I might be dealing with here.






OceanofPDF.com

















8


Back Again


I jumped up. My heart was still thudding in my chest like… well, like I’d just been FACING DOWN THE UGLY MUG OF AN ACTUAL CYCLOPS.


“You’re…,” I said. “You’re… you’re…”


“I am,” he said.


“You’re 
Zeus
?” I finally asked. “But why are you… I mean how… I mean, why do you look like…”


“Like a regular person?” he asked. “The thing is, you humans tend to believe in doctors more than you believe in Greek gods. If we showed you what 
we 
actually
 looked like, in our true form, you’d likely explode from the inside out.”


“And we don’t want to make that mistake again,” Hermes said.


He and Dr. Z laughed like that was another joke. But I wasn’t so sure.


“So, was all of that 
real
?” I asked. “Was I really there? Or was it just some mind trick?”


“See for yourself,” Hermes said, and pointed at the book on the desk.


Now, where the pages had been blank, there was text. And pictures, too.












“You might say that the prophecy is your prescription,” Zeus said, “and Dr. Zeus is here to help you fill it.”


“And to do that, you need to go to the source,” Hermes said.


“The source of what?” I asked.


“Of 
you
,” he said. “Of your Andino family line. Back where it all began.”


“So then what was Daisy doing there?” I asked.


“Well, it’s your quest,” Dr. Zeus said. “But every hero needs an ally. That’s how it works.”


“And when you say ‘hero,’ you mean…”


“Again, 
you
,” Hermes said.


Me? A hero? Now it was my turn to laugh. “Yeah, you definitely have the wrong kid,” I said.


Zeus crossed his arms and raised an eyebrow in my direction. “Because you know better than Zeus?” he said. “Think about it, Nick. Every human is the hero of his own story, whether you ride off in a blaze of glory or die a pitiful death on the battlefield—”


“Okay, that’s not helping,” I said.


“My point is, your story has begun.” He tapped the book again. “The only question is whether or not you rise to the challenge.”


I looked at Hermes, who just shrugged like 
What are you gonna do? He’s Zeus, after all.


“And if I don’t?” I asked. “Rise to the challenge, I mean.”


“Your possible fates are foretold by the prophecy,” Zeus said. “If you don’t save your family line, then it won’t ever get the chance to begin in the first place.”


“Which also means your ancestors fade from history’s memory, and you’re never born to begin with,” Hermes piled on.


“But… I’m standing right here,” I said.


“Yeah, it’s kind of a brain pretzel,” Hermes said. “I mean, for tiny brains like you humans have. At some point, you just have to go with it. Or not.”


“Oh-kaaay,” I said. “Nice chat. I think I’m just going to… you know… go home and pretend this never happened.”


Call me nuts, but when the best part of your day is 
not
 getting torn in half by a twenty-foot-tall monster, I say it’s time to call it a day.


“I told you it was too much,” Hermes said to Zeus. “You should have sent me in with him.”


“Next time,” Zeus said.


“Yeah. Sure. Next time,” I said, backing up toward the door. “I’ll just let myself out.”


“No worries!” the big guy called after me. “Dr. Zeus makes house calls, too!”


I didn’t even want to know 
what
 that meant. I just stumbled out the door, down those little RV steps, and started running for home as fast as I could go.






OceanofPDF.com

















9


Not Telling


When I got home, I went straight to my room and googled everything I could about Zeus. I saw a lot about Greek mythology, and how Zeus was master of the cosmos, and how he interacted with humans sometimes. But I didn’t see a single thing about Winnebago motor homes, or doctors’ appointments, or anything like that.


There was no way all of this was real. It couldn’t be.


Except, I was pretty sure that it was.


After a while, I heard Pop-Pop come in downstairs.


“Nicky? You up there?” he called.


“Be right down, Pop-Pop!” I yelled.


In Greek, 
papou
 means grandfather, but when I was three, it came out like “Pop-Pop,” and I’ve been calling him that ever since. Pop-Pop and I always hung out after our lunch shifts. If I stayed up here, he was going to know something was going on. So I took a deep breath… and then another deep breath… and headed down to the kitchen.


As usual, he had about eight different things going on. He was sorting laundry on the kitchen table, with a pan heating on the stove and a tennis game playing on the TV.


“There you are!” he said. “You want a snack or something? I was just about to make myself a grilled PB.”


“No thanks. I’m not hungry,” I said.


“Since when?” he asked, but before I could answer, he held up a finger and looked at the tennis match. “Hang on. Demetrios is up by three.”


Anytime someone Greek makes it big doing anything, Pop-Pop is all over it. I’m only half Greek myself, since Mom’s side of the family is Irish and German. But Pop-Pop always says I’m “just Greek enough.”


Once the game went to a commercial, he got up and started to make his sandwich.


“So anyway, how are you doing?” he asked. “You seem a little off-kilter today.”


I wasn’t really sure what to say, but then we got interrupted again.


“Hello, I’m Dr. Zeus!” a familiar voice said.


I looked at the TV, and sure enough, there he was on the screen.


“Is your life feeling upside down?” he went on. “Not quite right? Or even 
off-kilter
, shall we say?”


Say 
WHAT
?


“If so, I’m here to help. Just call 1-800-DOC-ZEUS and ask for me, Dr. Zeus. I’ll get you 
and
 your destiny back on track quicker than lightning! So why wait? Call now, and let us make a 
hero”—he stopped then and pointed right at the camera—“out of 
you
.”












“Hello?” Pop-Pop waved a peanut-butter-covered knife in front of my eyes. “You’re staring at that McDonald’s commercial like you want to eat the screen. I thought you said you weren’t hungry.”


“Huh?” I looked at Pop-Pop, and when I looked back at the TV, all I saw was somebody eating a Big Mac.


“What’s with you today?” he asked. “Did something happen?”


If there was anyone I could talk to about all this, it was Pop-Pop. After Dad died at the end of fifth grade, Pop-Pop was totally there for us and moved in right away. That was when I asked if I could do sixth grade at home.


And it was great. Pop-Pop was a good teacher and an even better friend.


But right now, my brain was about as full as a fairgrounds parking lot on the Fourth of July. I just couldn’t download the whole Zeus story. Not even for Pop-Pop. He’d probably think I was imagining it, anyway. Or even worse, he’d tell Mom he was “concerned” about me, and that was the last thing any of us needed.


So I just told him I was still thinking about what happened with Orson at the diner.


“And now I have to write an apology,” I said. “To Orson himself.”


“An apology?” Pop-Pop said. “That little dingus doesn’t deserve an apology. He deserves a nice long walk off a short pier.”


“During shark season,” I said.


“Wearing hamburger-scented underwear,” Pop-Pop said, because he’s always on my side.


I still had to figure out a way to get Pop-Pop to stay for another year and homeschool me for seventh grade. Not to mention getting Mom on board with the whole thing. But that had to wait, too, since I was kind of busy having the WEIRDEST POSSIBLE DAY IN THE KNOWN UNIVERSE.


“Sorry you’re having a rough one,” Pop-Pop said. “I know that can’t be easy.”


“Thanks, Pop-Pop,” I said, and even though I hadn’t asked for it, I noticed he was making two sandwiches. One for him and one for me.


“Why don’t you go noodle on that letter, and I’ll bring this up when it’s ready?” he said. “Meanwhile, you can be alone with your thoughts.”


That sounded good to me, too. Because I don’t think I’d ever had so many 
thoughts
 in my life.






OceanofPDF.com

















10


Visiting Hours


Just before ten o’clock, Mom got home and came in to say good night. She worked double shifts most days, and she was always tired.


“Hey, Mom?” I said. “I’m really sorry about what happened today.”


Mom sat on the edge of the bed and put her hand on top of mine. “I’m sorry, too, hon,” she said. “What I really want for you is a normal summer, and a nice fresh start at Athens Middle this fall. Wouldn’t that be nice?”


There it was. Another chance to finally ask her what I’d been trying to ask since June. And now that I’d had all night to calm down, it seemed like the timing was weirdly perfect.


“Actually,” I said, “I’m glad you mentioned school, because there’s something I wanted to—AUUGHHHGGGHHH!”


Mom jumped up. “What? 
What?
”


I hadn’t meant to scream like that, but I’d just noticed a small Greek god hovering right outside my window. “Hey, bud,” Hermes said. “Sorry to scare you, but we need to talk.”


“Nick?” Mom looked over at the window where I was staring.


“Don’t worry,” he said. “She can’t see me.”


“What is it?” Mom asked.


“Or hear me,” Hermes said.


“I thought I saw a spider!” I said, even though I’m not afraid of bugs. “A really big, 
really
 annoying one.”


“Subtle,” Hermes said. I didn’t know much about 
him, but I did know that Hermes was the messenger of the gods and famous for having his own flying shoes. I could hear them buzzing like little helicopters outside.


“You scared me!” Mom said, and then laughed, and I pretended to laugh, too.


“Sorry about that,” I said, trying not to look at the window too much.


“Let’s go, let’s go,” Hermes said. “The meter’s running.”


“Anyway,” Mom said. “You were just about to ask me something?”


“Oh, that,” I said. “It’s nothing. I’m actually pretty tired. I think I’m just going to go to sleep.” I even gave a fake yawn for good measure.


“Well, you know where to find me,” Mom said. “Sleep tight, sweetie. Don’t let the bedbugs bite.”


“Or the GIANT SPIDERS!” Hermes yelled.


“Cut it out!” I said before I could help myself.


“What?” Mom asked.


“The light, I mean. Could you turn it off?” I asked.


She gave me one more weird look, then hit the switch and closed the door on her way out.


A second later, I was speed-tiptoeing over to the window.


“What are you doing here?” I whispered.


“He wants to see you,” Hermes said, floating like a hummingbird on the other side of the sill.


“See me?” I asked. “Or send me back to… wherever that place was? The land of the giants.”


“Oh, that wasn’t a giant,” Hermes said. “That was a Cyclops. They’re much easier to deal with.”


“Why doesn’t that make me feel any better?” I asked.


“Besides, Dad’s not sending you anywhere tonight,” Hermes said. “He just wants to talk. That’s a promise.”


I wasn’t so convinced, but I 
was
 pretty curious.


“What does he want to talk about?” I asked.


“If you have questions, you’ll need to bring them to the big guy,” Hermes said. “I’m just—”


“The messenger. Yeah, I know. I already 
googled you,” I said. “But I can’t sneak out. Mom’s down the hall and Pop-Pop’s room is right by the front door.”


“Not a problem. Let me see your hands,” Hermes said.


“My hands?” I asked, holding them out. “What for?”


I wasn’t even done asking before he grabbed on. Then he put those flying shoes of his in reverse and punched it.


I jerked forward. My feet left the ground, and I popped out of my window like toast from a toaster. In one fast motion, we swooped up and away from the house. I tried to yell, but all the air had already rushed out of my lungs. Which was probably just as well, so we didn’t get caught.


It was a pretty sweet move, actually. Once we were about thirty feet off the ground, Hermes reversed direction and brought me down in a wide spiral to land on both feet in the grass, like some kind of pro skydiver.












“Let’s do that again!” I said. My heart was still thumping, in a good way this time.


But Hermes just thumbed at the RV. I could see it now, parked at the curb like a big rectangular shadow.


“Come on in,” he said.


Still, I wasn’t so sure. This was all happening kind of fast.


“Zeus just wants to talk, right?” I asked.


“Like I said, he isn’t sending you anywhere tonight,” Hermes told me. “Cross my heart.”


It wasn’t like I could get back up to my room by myself. I was going to need Hermes to fly me back up there when the time came. And I couldn’t exactly ring the doorbell for Pop-Pop to let me in, either.


Not to mention, my curiosity was running in overdrive.


So I took a deep breath, tried not to think about it too much, and followed the kid with the coolest shoes in the universe back inside that magic Zeusmobile.


For better or worse.






OceanofPDF.com

















11


Un-Possible


As soon as I stepped inside the RV, I could tell it had changed.


For one thing, the sun was shining. Gold beams of light were coming through some leafy branches overhead, making patterns on the stone floor around me.


Inside the RV.


In the middle of the night.


Sure. Why not?


“There he is!” Zeus said. I looked over and he 
was coming down a big stone staircase that I was pretty sure hadn’t been there a second ago.


I’d seen RVs that could expand before, but this was ridiculous. I could have run laps in that place. On a horse.


“I’m just here to talk,” I said. “I can’t stay for long.”


“Of course,” Zeus said. “Can I get you something to drink? Are you hungry? We could order pizza.”


“I 
love
 human pizza!” Hermes said. “I mean, not humans 
on
 pizza.”


“He knows what you mean,” Zeus said.


“I’m good, thanks,” I said. “And listen, I should tell you right now. I don’t think I can do this.”


A big stone chair slid up behind Zeus and he sat down. “Do what, exactly?” he asked.


“Well, I don’t know,” I said. “Which is kind of the point. That prophecy says one boy will know what to do. And I definitely don’t. I mean, me against a Cyclops? Not possible.”


Zeus pointed at a nearby waterfall and a fluffy 
pink cloud floating overhead. “How about this place where we’re sitting right now, inside a camper, in front of your house?” he asked. “Is 
this
 possible?”


“Well…,” I said.


“Or everything that happened on that beach today,” Hermes said. “You probably didn’t think 
that
 was possible, until it happened. Know what I mean?”


And the thing was, I kind of did.


“But you guys 
made
 that happen,” I said. “You’re Greek gods. I’m just…”


A nobody
, I thought. But I didn’t say it. Instead, I started over.


“Can’t you just use your powers or whatever?” I asked. “Wave your hand around and make it like I 
did
 fulfill the prophecy?”


“You kids always want everything so easy,” Zeus said. “When I was your age, I was raised by a goat and a nymph—”


“
And look at me, I turned out fine
,” Hermes said. I guess he’d heard this one before.


“And what about that other line?” I asked. “What do an ogre, a flower, an apple, and a helm have to do with me saving my family line?”


Zeus put out a hand and Hermes gave him that big prophecy book from before. He opened it to the first page and nodded.


“Yep, yep. It’s all in there, as you say. But as to 
why
? That’s for you to find out.” He turned it around to show me the page again. “See here? 
Start this boy upon his quest, but then just Nick must do the rest.
”


“Which doesn’t mean you’ll be all alone,” Hermes reminded me.


I thought about Daisy and whatever she was doing in that place.


“So, I’ll have help?” I asked.


“It wouldn’t be much of a story if you were the only one in it,” Zeus said, and shut the book again, like that was all I needed to know. Or maybe more like all he was going to tell me.


“So let me get this straight,” I said. “If I don’t do this, my whole family history will never even 
happen. Which means I’ll never be born. Which means… what? I’ll just disappear and never have existed in the first place?”


“Something like that,” Zeus said.


“But if I try to fulfill the prophecy and fail…?”


“Then you’ll disappear and never have existed in the first place,” Hermes said.


“The trick, of course, is not to fail,” Zeus added. “So what do you think, Nick? Do you want to at least 
try
 to save your family line and be the hero I know you can be? Or do you want to go back to bed?”


I wanted to go back to bed.


It felt like there was no way I could say yes to this, and at the same time, no way I could say no. Which basically left me with nothing to say.


Then Hermes put a hand on my shoulder. “I think our boy here just needs a little time to think about it,” he said.


“Fair enough,” Zeus said. “We’ll leave it at that. But don’t take too long to decide.”


“Why not?” I asked as Hermes started to walk me out.


“You’ll see.”


I didn’t like the sound of that. But I also felt weirdly guilty, like I’d let Zeus down. I’d never disappointed a Greek god before. I guess there’s a first time for everything.


“By the way,” Hermes said once we were outside again, “I wasn’t kidding about the Cyclops. That guy’s about as bright as a broken light bulb. You just need to do something unexpected. Zig when he thinks you’re going to zag.”


“Sure,” I said, just to be polite. “If I ever see him again, I’ll keep that in mind.”


“Oh, and one other thing,” Hermes said. “Don’t be mad, okay?”


“Mad?” I asked. “About what?”


“About this,” Hermes said, just before he reached out and poked me in the forehead.


SKA-BLAM!


A crash of thunder went off in my head.


An impossibly bright flash swallowed me up in its light.


Electric goose bumps crawled across my skin.


And I landed facedown in the white sand of a very familiar beach.






OceanofPDF.com

















12


True-ish












So are you starting to get the drift here? I have to do my job, but that doesn’t mean I always have to tell the truth. Sometimes I need to get creative.


Because you know and I know that Nick wasn’t going to willingly jump back into that whole 
Cyclops-on-the-beach situation. He needed a little push, even if he didn’t realize it. And who am I to get between a kid and his destiny?


Does that make me a liar? OF COURSE IT DOES. Haven’t you been paying attention? That’s why they call me the Trickster.


But here’s the thing. I don’t lie 
all
 the time. That would make it too easy. So when I told Nick that Zeus wasn’t going to send him anywhere, that was 100 percent true. I just happened to leave off the part about doing it myself.


The real heroes—the smart ones—know how to tell the difference between what I 
seem
 to be saying and what I’m 
actually
 saying.


But don’t worry. I’m not a complete jerk. And neither is my father. Because we weren’t sending Nick in completely defenseless. Or even alone.


This time, I had his back.












OceanofPDF.com

















13


Back to the Beach


I was right back where I’d left off. I could feel the sun. I could see the ocean. And I could hear a familiar voice—the one that sounded like Daisy shouting down at me.


“GET UP AND CLIMB FOR YOUR LIFE, YOU IDIOT!”


Because the other thing that hadn’t changed was that twenty-foot-tall bruiser. He was still headed my way with a giant club in his hand and a killer look in his eyes.


I mean, 
eye
.


Meanwhile, my brain was going 
UHR… UHR… UHR…
 like some kind of car engine that wouldn’t turn over. Until another voice came from behind me.


“How do you feel about heights?”


I looked back and saw Hermes hovering two feet off the ground in his special-edition Nikes.


“You’re 
here
?” I asked.


“Technically, no,” he said. “You’re still the only one who can see or hear me. And like it says in the prophecy, we can get you started, but you have to do the rest.”


“What does that even mean?” I asked.


Hermes looked over his shoulder, to where that Cyclops was coming on like a semitruck with no brakes.


“You really want to do the Q&A right now?” he asked.


He had a point. So I sprinted for the same spot where Daisy (or whoever she was) had started climbing.


When I got there, I reached for the nearest ledge 
and scrambled up a few feet. Already my hands hurt. Those rocks were sharp and craggy. But hey, I’ll take 
sharp and craggy
 over 
big and murdery
 any day. So I just kept moving and tried not to think about what might happen next.












“You’d best hurry!” the girl yelled down.


“I 
am
 hurrying!” I answered. I’d made it up another level, but those footholds weren’t much.


“
Look out!
” the girl shouted.


I looked just in time to see the Cyclops take a swing in my direction. His club smashed into the cliff wall below me while I scrambled out of the way. The ledge where I’d been standing a second ago was just a piece of Greek history now.


“There you go!” Hermes said, hovering alongside me. “Keep climbing!”


“HOLD STILL!” the Cyclops said.


Say 
what
?


I looked at Hermes. “He talks?”


Then the Cyclops spoke again. “DINGUS CATCH YOU,” he said. “THEN DINGUS EAT YOU!”


“Did he say… 
Dingus
?” I asked. This just kept getting better. Or actually, much worse.


“What can I say?” Hermes asked. “My dad has a weird sense of humor.”


“DINGUS ROAST YOU LIKE GOAT,” Dingus growled.


So I climbed a little higher again, at least until I was out of his reach.


“There you go!” the girl said. She’d already made it to the top, so it was all on me now.


Meanwhile, when I looked down, the one called Dingus had started to walk away. Which seemed like a good sign. Maybe I was going to survive this after all. I reached up, climbed some more, and stopped to catch my breath. Then I looked back again.


Dingus had gotten as far as the waterline on the beach, but now he turned around. And if I wasn’t mistaken, he was looking right at me.


“What’s happening?” I asked.


“Not sure,” Hermes said. “But I think he’s going to make a jump for it.”


And by 
it
, I was pretty sure he meant 
me
. Because 
Dingus was already headed back my way. And I’d seen the kind of air he could get.


In other words, if I didn’t learn to climb faster in the next five seconds or so, this whole quest was going to be over before it even got started.






OceanofPDF.com

















14


Winging It


“Climb faster!” the girl yelled down. “You’re not going to make it!”


The rocks dug into my hands. My knee banged into a ledge. I was going as fast as I could, but it wasn’t fast enough.


“Remember what I told you before?” Hermes said, still hovering nearby. “About zigging when he thinks you’re going to zag?”


“What about it?” I yelled.


Dingus was picking up speed now. I could feel 
every pounding step like a drumbeat through the cliff wall.


“Well, get ready!” Hermes yelled. “Don’t freak out, okay?”


“What are you talking about?!” I said.


I took one more look back, just as Dingus left the ground. Already, he was hurtling through the air right toward me.


Hermes waved a hand in my direction. “I’m talking about… 
this
!” he said.


My stomach flip-flopped. My legs and feet shrank away from the ledge. At the same time, my arms got longer and sprouted… feathers?


It all happened in a flash. My brain thought, 
WHAT IS GOING ON HERE!
, but it came out of my mouth more like, “SKREEEEEEEEE! SKREEEEEE!”


I wasn’t me anymore. I mean, I 
was
 me, but thanks to Hermes, I was also some kind of bird, like a hawk, or an eagle, or—


HOLY MOLY, I WAS FLYING!












It was like I came preloaded with bird software. Or maybe just a bird brain. Because I’d 
already taken off from that cliff like I’d been flying all my life.


Just in time, too. When I looked down, I saw Dingus slam into the cliff wall where I’d been standing. He came in fast. And face-first. As soon as he hit the cliffside, he started to fall right back down toward the ground.


As for me, I flapped my arms—I mean, my wings—and soared even higher. This was A… MAZ… ING. I could see a world of blue water all around me. And down below, I saw Dingus land in the sand, out cold. I guess Hermes was right. That Cyclops may have been mega-large and mega-strong, but he wasn’t exactly mega-smart.


I couldn’t believe this feeling. The wind blew over me like a slipstream. I spiraled higher, then banked down again, kind of the way Hermes had flown me out of my own bedroom window back home.


I took one more look around, caught a little 
more air under my wings, and then came in for a clifftop landing, right next to the girl whose name I didn’t even know yet.


As I touched down, my claws were suddenly feet again. My wings were arms. And I felt about eighty pounds heavier, which I basically was.


“How did you do that?” the girl asked.


“I don’t exactly know,” I said, which was mostly true.


“It’s not that hard,” Hermes said, hovering into view. “But cool, right?”


“I am Margaríta of Athens,” the girl said. “Who are 
you
?”


“I’m Nick. I’m from Athens, too, but probably not the same one,” I told her.


“There is only one Athens,” Margaríta said.


“For now, anyway,” Hermes told me. “The Athens you’re talking about won’t exist for another 2,259 years.”


Which was a clue, I realized. Right out of the prophecy.












I guess that made her the old Athens and me the new Athens. But there was no time to talk.


“It’s not safe here. We have to go,” Margaríta said. She was already shouldering her bow and coiling up her rope. “Where is your ship? Because mine is ruined.”


“My 
ship
?” I asked. “I don’t exactly have one.”


“She thinks you’re from around here,” Hermes said. “Hoo boy, is she wrong!”


She’d also started walking.


“Where are you going?” I asked.


“Away from that beach,” she said. “It’s not safe.”


“What do I do?” I asked Hermes.


“Well, technically I’m just an observer,” he said, and then whispered, “But I’ll give you a hint.” He 
was pointing over the edge of the cliff, like I should take a peek.


When I looked, I thought I was going to see Dingus down there, still passed out. But instead, all I saw was a big Cyclops-shaped dent in the sand. No sign of Dingus anywhere.


“Hey! He’s gone!” I yelled.


“Yes!” Margaríta said without looking back. “Maybe you should keep shouting about it, so his family will know where to find us.”


Family?


I hadn’t thought about that.


“Wait for me!” I said, and hurried to catch up.


Margaríta was obviously used to uneven terrain. I felt like a baby giraffe chasing after a mountain goat while Hermes hovered along beside me.


“What was that, by the way?” I asked him. “I mean, what did you turn me into?”


“Oh, 
that
,” Hermes said. “Hawks are one of my specialties. But do me a favor. Let’s keep that little 
‘flying lesson’ between the two of us, okay? Don’t tell my dad.”


“How come?” I asked. But before Hermes could answer, a familiar feeling hit me out of nowhere. It was like a shot of lightning and thunder to the brain.


SKA-BLAM!


FLASH!


Goose bumps!


And just like that, I was gone again.






OceanofPDF.com

















15


Reality Check


I blinked, and blinked again. The daylight was gone. Nighttime had taken its place. I could feel the tickle of grass on my nose and realized I was facedown in my own front yard.


“Huh,” Hermes said. “That was weird.”


“What the heck?” I said. “I wasn’t supposed to go anywhere in the first place! You tricked me!”


“Well, they don’t call me the Trickster for nothing,” he said, just as Zeus came charging out of the RV.


“WHAT IS THE MEANING OF THIS?” he thundered. Literally, I heard thunder.


“
What?
” Hermes said like a kid who just got caught with a mouthful of cookies before dinner.


“Don’t play innocent with me. You know better. And I won’t have it!” Zeus told him.


“I don’t know what you’re talking about,” Hermes said.


Zeus had the big prophecy book with him and opened it up under the streetlight. Right away, I could see that the pages had updated in real time.












“How many times do I have to tell you? 
No. Inside. Magic
,” Zeus boomed, pounding the picture of me as a hawk with each word.


“What can I say?” Hermes asked. “Breaking rules is kind of my job.”


“Not when you’re working for me. You’re there to observe. Nothing more,” Zeus said. “I will not lose this on a technicality.”


“Lose?” I said. “Lose what?”


Zeus looked at me like he’d forgotten I was there.


“Dr. Zeus has never lost a patient,” Hermes answered for him.


“And I never will,” Zeus said. Then he flipped back to the prophecy on the first page and started to read. “
Start this boy upon his quest—
”


“But then just Nick must do the rest,” Hermes said. “I know, I know. I’ll be good. Promise!”


“Said the inventor of lying,” Zeus said.


“Where do you think I get it?” Hermes 
muttered, but Zeus was already looking at me again.


“I’m sorry about the interruption, Nick,” he said. “Are you ready to keep going?”


“
Keep going?
” I asked. “I’m ready for some sleep. That’s what I’m ready for. What time is it?”


“It’s the same time as when you left,” he said. “It’s like any other story. That’s the beauty of the Dr. Zeus method. When you stop reading and come back to it later, everything’s right where you left off. Which also means you’ll still have all night to sleep when you get back here again.”


“But I already 
am
 back!” I said, and Zeus laughed like I was doing stand-up comedy. Why did he always think I was joking when I wasn’t?


“Hermes? You keep an eye on our friend here, but no more than that. Understood?” Zeus asked.


“Yes, sir,” Hermes said. He even sounded like he meant it, but I saw him throw a wink my way.


“All right, then,” Zeus said. “Ready, Nick?”


“That’s not really a question, is it?” I asked.


“See that? You’re learning already.”


And before I could say HANG ON ONE SECOND, or I HAVE ABOUT TWO MILLION QUESTIONS, or CAN I AT LEAST GET A BATHROOM BREAK?… I was already gone.






OceanofPDF.com

















16


On the Move


“Hey!” Margaríta yelled. “Are you coming? Because we have to keep moving.”


I squinted at the sudden sun and tried to shake off the weird feeling from all this back-and-forth.


I was right where I’d left off, of course. Margaríta was putting some more distance between herself and Cyclops beach. And Hermes was floating alongside me while I tried to keep up without pulling a face plant on that rocky ground.


“Don’t worry about all that fuss with my dad,” Hermes said. “He cheats 
all
 the time. Where do you think I get it?”


Just then, a roll of thunder came out of the blue, completely cloudless sky. I guess Zeus really was watching.


Straight ahead was a long stretch of barren rock with steam rising up between the cracks and fissures for as far as I could see. It looked more like Mars than Greece to me, but what did I know? I’d never been to either of those places, unless right now counted.


“Where are we going, anyway?” I asked once I finally caught up.


Margaríta pointed straight ahead. “There,” she said.


In the distance, I could see a long white wall. It was the same color as those cliffs on the beach, with a big gate in the middle and a red tiled roof along the top.


“Island towns have ships,” she said. “And people who repair ships.”


“How do you know they’ll help you?” I asked.


“I don’t.”


“So then—”


“One thing at a time, Nick of New Athens,” she said.


“It’s just Nick,” I said.


“Fine. One thing at a time, Just Nick,” she said.


Something about that sounded familiar. I looked back and Hermes nodded.


“Did you catch that?” he asked.


I sure had. It was another piece of the prophecy.












Still, what was I supposed to do with that? It all felt like jigsaw puzzle pieces on a table, with no box to show me what the finished picture was supposed to look like.


“What’s all this steam, anyway?” I asked. There were vents every hundred yards or so, spitting white vapor everywhere.


“What do you think you’re walking on?” Margaríta asked.


I looked at the black rock all around me. It was rough, like the pumice stone Mom kept in the shower for scrubbing her feet.


“Is this 
volcanic
 rock?” I asked.


“Ding, ding, ding!” I heard Hermes behind me. “Most of these islands were formed by volcanoes. But don’t worry, they hardly ever go off and spew hot lava everywhere.”


“Hardly ever?” I asked. “I was kind of hoping for 
never
.”


“What?” Margaríta asked.


“Nothing,” I said. “But how about we pick up the pace?”


“I thought you’d never ask,” she said.


The sooner we got to that fishing town, the sooner we’d be done walking across that giant pressure cooker, and the sooner I could start to figure out what to do next.












So far, I’d only seen one of those four things. But what did it all mean? What did it have to do with the Andino family line?


And what did Daisy Rhee’s twin, Margaríta, have to do with any of this?


“How’d you get stuck here, anyway?” I asked her. “What happened to your boat?”


“I was sailing from Athens to visit my grandmother,” Margaríta explained, “when out of nowhere, a storm whipped up the sea.”


“I’ll bet my dad had something to do with that,” Hermes said.


“It was a beast of a squall,” Margaríta went on. “I couldn’t see more than a cubit in front of me, and by the time the weather cleared, I’d run aground.”


“Wow,” I said. “Where I’m from, kids our age don’t usually sail across the ocean by themselves.”


“Then I am glad I’m not where you are from,” she said.


“Ooh, sick burn!” Hermes said, and I gave him a look. “What? I’m just saying.”


As we came closer to the village, I could see two uniformed sentries outside the gate. They’d noticed us, too. One of them was pointing, and the other was shouting something I couldn’t hear.


“They don’t look too happy to see us,” I said.


“Wait!” Margaríta said, and grabbed my arm. “Do you feel that?”


I stopped, and froze.


Boom-BOOM!


Boom-BOOM!


Boom-BOOM!


Something was vibrating through the ground. It wasn’t an earthquake. It was more like a steady beat. And it was getting faster and stronger.


“What is that?” I asked.


“It’s about time,” Hermes said. “I thought you’d never notice.”


“Is that a 
volcano
?” I asked.


The shouting from the town had picked up, too. I could see more soldiers on the wall. They were all looking our way and still pointing.


“Why are they pointing at us?” I asked.


“They’re not,” Hermes said. “You might want to turn around.”


When I finally did, I saw one very familiar-looking Cyclops, with a giant bruise in the middle of his forehead, heading our way. 
Dingus!
 He was coming on fast, too.


And for the first time since I’d started this whole prophecy thing, I actually knew what to do.


“RUN!”






OceanofPDF.com

















17


Just Me, Nick


Suddenly, I wasn’t tired at all. And keeping up with Margaríta had never been more important.


“Those soldiers don’t look like they want us there!” I said.


“Any other suggestions?” she asked.


I turned around and looked at Hermes. “Now would be a good time to give us another… you know… flying lesson?” I said.


But Hermes just pointed at the sky and shook 
his head. I guess we never knew for sure when Zeus was watching.


“Almost there!” Margaríta said. Not that we were in the clear yet. The sentries had their spears up, ready to turn us into human souvlaki.


“What’s your business here?” one of them asked when we finally reached the gate.


“What kind of question is that?” Margaríta said. “Our 
business
 is right behind us.”


“And getting closer by the second,” I said. I could practically see the white of Dingus’s eye when I looked back. Not to mention the drool running out of his mouth. He was definitely ready for some revenge.


And by revenge, I mean lunch.


And by lunch, I mean me.


“Where’d you come from so suddenly?” the second guard asked. “Who are you?”


“I am Margaríta of Athens, and this is Just Nick,” she said.


The two guards looked at each other. Then they looked at me.


“Just Nick?” the first one asked, like that meant something to them. So I went with it.


“That’s me!” I said.


I guess that was the right answer, because they grabbed me by both arms and practically flew me inside, with Margaríta and Hermes right behind.


“CLOSE THE GATE!” someone yelled.


It took half a dozen more soldiers, but a few seconds later the gate banged closed. Then another team slid a tree-sized dead bolt into place, just before—
SLAM!
 Dingus hit the gate at full speed from the other side. I heard a lot of creaking wood and some cracking, too. The whole wall shook. But at least it held.


The question was, for how long? With all the banging out there, it didn’t sound like Dingus was giving up anytime soon.


Inside the gate, everything was chaos. People 
were yelling, and running, and slamming doors all over the place.


“Where’s Konstantinos?” one of my guards shouted.


“At the Acropolis!” someone else yelled back.


“The Acropolis?” I said to Margaríta. “I thought that was in Athens.” Back at the diner, we had a clock with a picture of the Acropolis on it, and we called it the A
clock
olis.


“Every major town has one,” Margaríta said, and pointed. “It means ‘high city.’”


I could see it now, a big building on a hill overlooking everything else. It didn’t look like the Acropolis in Athens, but that was where we had to go.


“Is that him?” someone said, and I felt a tug on my shirt. I turned around and saw a kid, maybe eight years old, looking up at me.


“It 
is
 you! Just Nick! You’re here!” he said, looking at me like I was a ghost. Or an alien. Or Tom Brady.


“Egan!” the guard said. “Make yourself useful. Take these two to see Konstantinos!”


“Who’s Konstantinos?” Margaríta asked.


I looked at Hermes for an answer. “Beats me,” he said.


“Beats me,” I told Margaríta, but I was in favor of anything that got us away from that gate. Dingus was still pounding on it like he wanted to turn the whole thing into toothpicks.


“Go!” the soldier shouted at Egan. “Fast as you can!”


“This way!” Egan said. “Through the agora!”


“What’s the agora?” I asked as we took off running.


“The marketplace,” Margaríta said. “Why don’t you know these things? Who 
are
 you to these people?”


I told her the truth. “Just Nick, I guess.”


Egan led us down a wide main road that cut right through town. I could see the harbor in the distance, crowded with boats getting out while they could. I guess word about Dingus had already spread. And something told me that gate wasn’t going to last forever.


“I can’t believe you’re here!” Egan said.


“Me neither,” I said. Even now, this was pretty weird. Did Just Nick have 
fans
?


When we got to the agora, I could tell it was the middle of town. It had a big open plaza, with houses on all sides and streets leading away in every direction like spokes on a wheel.


Some people were packing carts and shutting up their houses. Others were building big bonfires for some reason.


Pretty soon, we cut left and down a tiny alleyway. Then up some stairs and left again, along a wider street. I felt like a rat in a maze. The only thing I could tell for sure was that we were going 
up
, toward the acropolis. It sounded like this Konstantinos person was going to know what to do.


I hoped so, anyway. I could still hear Dingus pounding away at the gate. We all could.


“You hear that?” Hermes said. “That’s the sound of destiny knocking.”


“Shut up, already!” I said.


“I can’t help it. I’m like my dad, with the corny jokes,” he said.


“Well, they’re not helping!”


“Who are you talking to?” Margaríta asked me.


“Uh… no one,” I said. “I mean—”


“It’s just ahead!” Egan said, pointing up a long staircase. “This way! Faster! Please!”


“Just save your breath and run,” Hermes told me.


Easy for him to say. His feet hadn’t touched the ground since we left the beach. As for me, I was slowing down with a major cramp on 
both
 sides of my stomach. But this wasn’t PE class with Pop-Pop. I had to keep going, like it or not.


And right now, I was one big ball of 
not
.






OceanofPDF.com

















18


Unmistaken Identity


“Almost there, sir!” Egan said. “Come, sir, please!”


Sir?
 Even that was weird. I would have told Egan I was only twelve, but I was too busy gasping for air like a caught fish.


The good news was, we couldn’t go any higher. We’d come to the top of the town, where the acropolis overlooked everything else.


“Through here!” Egan said.


We went into the building and down a long hall. Then across a big courtyard, open to the sky overhead.


On the far side of that, I saw more stairs.


“This way,” Egan said. “All the way to the top.”


“You’ve got to be kidding,” I said.


“Guess again,” Hermes said. “Come on, you’ve got this!” So I sucked it up and stumbled along behind the others, all the way to the top. Forget about Dingus. All this running and climbing was going to wipe me out first.


“In here,” Egan said. “The council is already assembled.”


We followed him into some kind of meeting room with a bunch of adults standing around talking. In the middle of the floor, there was a big table with a 3D model of the island. I could see the beach where I’d first landed, the long stretch of ground Margaríta and I had covered, and a whole miniature of the town itself, from the gate down to the harbor.


Pop-Pop would have loved this stuff. I wished he was with me to see it.


“Konstantinos! He’s here!” Egan called out, and one man turned around.












“Look familiar?” Hermes asked.


And the weird thing was, Konstantinos did. He looked like an old picture of Pop-Pop from his younger days. This was the person Zeus had told me about—my great-great-great-(times eighty-four)-grandfather. The first in my family line.


He recognized me, too. “Just Nick,” he said, coming over to shake my hand. “Welcome, welcome.”


“I’m Margaríta of Athens,” Margaríta said, and he shook her hand, too.


“You’ve come right on time,” he said.


“For what?” I asked.


“To fulfill the prophecy, of course!” he said. “To save Andino.”


“Sorry?” I said. “Did you say 
Andino
?”


“Yes. This is the town of Andino, but I thought you would know that already,” he said.


“
O-kaaaay?
” I said, still not understanding. I waited for Konstantinos to go on, but then Margaríta nudged me in the side.


“I think they’re waiting for you to say something,” she said.


She was right, I realized. They were all looking at me now. And if I remembered correctly from the prophecy, which all these people seemed to know by heart, they were depending on me, too.


Sure. Great. No pressure.


“Okay, so here’s the thing, and don’t get mad,” 
I said. “I know that the prophecy says this Just Nick person will know what to do. But I don’t.”












“Of course you do,” Konstantinos said.


“Or you will,” Hermes said. “Otherwise, this might get pretty awkward.”


“I’m just saying,” I told Konstantinos, “maybe there’s been some kind of mistake. I mean, there must be a 
lot
 of Nicks out there, right?”


“But there is only one Just Nick,” he said.


“Right, but I don’t think I’m him,” I said. “I’m just… Nick.”


“Exactly,” Konstantinos said.


This was harder to explain than I thought.


“No,” I said, trying again. “I mean I’m just some kid from Ohio. I’m nobody special.”


“What you are is too modest, my friend,” Konstantinos said. “Come with me. I want to show you something.”


I looked at Hermes again, hoping for some kind of clue about what to do next.


“You heard the man,” he said, and since I couldn’t exactly stand there arguing with a Greek god that nobody else could see, I followed Konstantinos out of the room.


He led us into the hallway overlooking the courtyard in the middle of the building. Then he stood at the railing and pointed straight down.


“See for yourself,” he said.


And when I saw what was down there? Well, let’s just say it knocked the socks off my socks.


Because even I had to admit it now. It looked like they had the right kid after all.
















OceanofPDF.com

















19


What Are You Looking At?


“Dunh-dunh-DUNNNNNH!” Hermes said. “Now there’s a twist.”


“Do you see?” Konstantinos asked.


And like it or not, I did. That portrait didn’t just look like me. It 
was
 me.


But… HOW?


Not to mention… WHY?


Lucky for me, I didn’t have time to figure it out, because a soldier had just shown up, looking for Konstantinos.


“Sir?”


“Yes, Captain? What is it?” Konstantinos asked.


“I think the people might be reassured if Just Nick returned to the gate, sir. As a show of force,” he said.


A show of 
force
? That would have been hilarious if it hadn’t been so scary. Other than Egan, I was the shortest one in the room.


“It’s possible the creature will know of the prophecy,” the captain said. “In which case, having Just Nick at the gate could be useful.”


Everyone looked at me again. Usually, people did that when they wanted a glass of water or a clean fork. Not to get rid of a raging Cyclops.


“This is your decision, Just Nick,” Konstantinos said. “How shall we proceed?”


“Hey, Nick? Just for the record,” Hermes said while everyone stood there waiting on my answer. “If you say no, they’re going to want you to come up with some other plan. So you might want to choose carefully here.”


And the thing was, Hermes was right. I mean, normally I’d think it was a better idea to move 
away
 from a Cyclops. But on the other hand, what did I know?


“Sir?” the captain said. “I’m sorry, but we have to make a decision.”


And this time, he was talking to me.


“Um… yeah, okay,” I said. “Let’s do that, then.”


“To the gate?” Konstantinos asked.


Oh, man. I was going to regret this. I just knew I was.


“Sure,” I said. “Why not? Margaríta, will you—”


“I’ll come,” she said.


“I’m coming, too!” Egan said.


“Egan, no,” Konstantinos told him. “You should be home with your parents.”


“My parents are out fishing,” Egan said. “Besides, I’m not afraid. Not with Just Nick here.”


He looked at me when he said that, which was almost funny, since he seemed way less scared than me.












But I did know that Egan would listen to me.


“You need to stay here,” I told him.


“Come on, 
please
?” Egan said. “Nothing this exciting ever happens.”


For me, “exciting” was more like free cone day at Whit’s Frozen Custard back home. But I didn’t say that, either.


“Sorry, bud. You’ll be safer up here,” I said.


“We should go,” Konstantinos told us while Egan looked at me like I’d just canceled Christmas. So now I felt guilty 
and
 terrified.


Great. This day just kept getting better.


And by better, of course, I mean way, way 
worse
.






OceanofPDF.com

















20


Face Off


A minute later, we were winding back down through the town. Hermes had disappeared, but probably not for long. (Do Greek gods take coffee breaks?) And Konstantinos gave Margaríta and me a kind of briefing on the way.


“For years, the Cyclopes have kept to their shoreline and we’ve kept to ours,” he told us. “It’s unusual for one of them to stray this far.”


“That might be on me,” I said.


“And me,” Margaríta said. “It was my boat that attracted his attention in the first place.”


“In any case, that main gate won’t hold forever,” Konstantinos said. “If he gets in, we’ll spend half our resources keeping him fed, or else he’ll destroy the town.”


“Or worse,” Margaríta said.


“And if we harm him, or if he doesn’t eventually return home, others of his kind will come looking,” Konstantinos said.


“Any suggestions?” I asked.


“Just one,” Konstantinos said. “If he knows of the prophecy and we tell him who you actually are, it might be enough to scare him off.”


That sounded good, I thought. Super unlikely, but good.


When we reached the agora, I expected it to be deserted, but people were everywhere. There were soldiers carrying buckets and jugs and animal skins of water from a central well, up toward 
the gate. Other people were roasting giant slabs of meat over the bonfires I’d seen them building before.


“What’s going on?” I asked.


“Cyclopes detest the water,” Konstantinos said. “It doesn’t drive them off, but it slows them down.”


“And all the barbecues?” I asked.


“That’s our backup plan,” he said. “If Dingus gets in, the smell will bring him here. Better to let him feast on roast goat in one place than on the rest of us everywhere else.”


I was starting to have some serious doubts about this whole “show of force” plan, but I couldn’t turn back now. Maybe even Hermes had chickened out. I hadn’t seen him since the acropolis.


When we got to the gate, I saw brigades passing containers up and over the wall. Others were using some kind of slingshot to fire off animal skins filled like water balloons.


I could hear Dingus on the other side, too, 
howling and growling every time another volley hit him.


“What is that thing?” I asked, pointing at one of the slingshots.


“It’s a funda,” Margaríta said. “I’ve only seen them used for flinging stones, not water. But it seems to work.”


“This way,” the captain told us. He pointed up a rickety wooden staircase to the top of the wall. “Konstantinos, you know what to do.”


We followed Konstantinos halfway, but then he held out a hand.


“Wait for my signal,” he said, and continued on up.


“Are you all right?” Margaríta asked.


“Define ‘all right,’” I said, because I was shaking like a gummy worm in a stiff wind.


“Well, for my part, I am not afraid,” Margaríta said.


“Me neither!” someone else said.


I looked back, and Egan was right behind us on the stairs.


“Where’d you come from?” I asked.


“I know my way around,” he said.


“Then you know your way back to the acropolis,” Margaríta said. “So go. Now!”


“Don’t worry about me,” Egan said. “I’m smaller than a dolma, to a Cyclops. Not even a snack.”


“Egan—” I said.


“Besides”—he kept going—“once he sees Just Nick, he’ll be so scared, he’ll lose his appetite.”


I wasn’t so sure about that, but we were about to find out.


“Dingus!” Konstantinos shouted from the top of the wall. “I’ve come to give you a warning! Give up this nonsense and go home while you still can.”


I heard a growl, and a fart. I guess Dingus wasn’t impressed.


“Go now,” Konstantinos said, “or face the wrath of the great Just Nick.”


“JUST… NICK?” I heard Dingus say. His voice sounded different. Maybe even a little afraid. “JUST NICK FROM PROPHECY?”


“So you know of the powerful forces watching over this town,” Konstantinos said, and motioned for us to come stand next to him.


When I got to the top, I could see Dingus right below us.


And right next to him was Hermes.


“What’s up?” he called. “You didn’t think I’d checked out, did you? I just wanted a better view. And wow! This guy’s big, isn’t he?”


Dingus didn’t even know Hermes was there, of course. He was just keeping that one eye of his on me.


“
YOU?
” he said. “JUST NICK?”


I’m not sure what the next sound was, but I think he laughed.


“I don’t know about this,” I whispered to Konstantinos. Already, Dingus was starting to growl again.


“DINGUS HAVE DIFFERENT IDEA,” he said. “THROW DOWN JUST NICK. WE FIGHT. WHOEVER WIN, EAT LOSER. THEN DINGUS GO HOME.”


“We don’t want any trouble,” I said. “If you leave now, I will, too, and it will be the last you ever see of me. How does that sound?”


“There you go!” Hermes said from down below. “Way to think on your feet. And speaking of feet? Man, this guy 
stinks
!”


Dingus eyeballed me one more time, just long enough to make me nervous all over again. I had no idea what to expect. But then he turned around and started slowly walking away.


“What’s this?” Konstantinos whispered. Even he sounded surprised.


Everyone around me cheered and even started chanting.


“Just Nick! Just Nick! Just Nick!”


“You did it!” Egan shouted.


But I wasn’t so sure. Something about this was a little too familiar for me.


Sure enough, when Dingus got about fifty yards back, he stopped. Then he turned to face us again.


“Um, guys?” I said.


“Just Nick! Just Nick! Just Nick!”


“GUYS?”


The chanting fell off. I looked at Margaríta, and I could tell she was thinking the same thing.


“What is it?” Konstantinos asked.


“He’s not done with us,” Margaríta said. “We’ve seen this before.”


“Ooh, this is going to be good!” Hermes said. He was sitting off to the side now, watching like it was an episode of 
American Gladiators
. “You might want to get off the top of that wall, though.”


“He’s going to try to jump over!” I said. “We need to move down. Right now!”


Dingus was much farther back than he’d been before his last jump. And when he started running, I could tell he had plenty of room to get the air he was going to need.


“Go!” Konstantinos shouted. “Everyone, off the wall! Get back! Get back!”


We all scrambled down the stairs and ladders, and people started shouting new orders. 
Konstantinos, Margaríta, Egan, and I got caught up in the crush, and I stumbled down in the middle of a crowd.


Meanwhile, I could feel the pound of Dingus’s running footsteps, like the ground was one big, vibrating drum.


BOOM-BOOM!


And Dingus was getting closer…


BOOM-BOOM!


… and closer.


“Just Nick!” Egan yelled. “What’s happening?”


Margaríta grabbed him on one side. I grabbed him on the other, and we ran for cover.


When I looked back, I expected to see Dingus come flying over the top of the wall.


But that wasn’t his plan.


Instead, a huge sound of cracking wood filled the air. He’d hit the gate full-on and at a sprint this time. Already, the bolt was splintered nearly in half.


For a second, nothing else happened. But then we heard him again.


“UNNNNNGGHHHHHH!”


With another huge crash, the gate split open. Huge chunks of broken wood flew everywhere. And just like that, Dingus was in.












Now I’d really done it. I’d made everything worse.


“What do we do?” Egan whispered.


“Back to the acropolis!” Konstantinos said. “We need to regroup.”


“Just Nick? Just Nick?” Egan said, but I barely heard him. I was too distracted by the familiar feeling that was worming its way into my brain. Something else was about to happen. And this time, I knew what it was.


“Hello?” Margaríta waved a hand in front of my face.


“I’ll be right back!” I said, just before the Zeus express roared through my head and carried me all the way home.






OceanofPDF.com

















21


Back Again (Again)


I sat up quick on my front lawn.


“Well, that was kind of awesome,” Hermes said. “And don’t worry. It’s not over yet.”


“That’s why I have to go back,” I said. I tried to jump up, but my legs folded under me like cooked spaghetti. It felt like I’d just run a marathon in concrete sneakers.


“Relax,” Zeus said.


Easy for him to say. I guess when you’re 
immortal, “life-threatening emergency” just doesn’t pack the same punch.


“What am I supposed to do now?” I asked. “He only broke through that gate to get to me. It’s all my fault.”


“Your 
fault
?” Zeus said. “Oh, I’m sure it wasn’t—”


Hermes tapped Zeus on the shoulder and pointed at something in the prophecy book he was holding.


“Oh,” Zeus said, looking at the page. “Well, yes. I guess that 
was
 a little bit your fault. But I’m sure you can get it straightened out when you go back.”


“What if I don’t go back?” I asked. “Will that stop him? Can I just stay here and leave the whole thing, like, on pause?”


“If you don’t go back, you’ll never know,” Zeus said.


“You’ll also never be born,” Hermes said. “Or ever exist, because you won’t be there to fulfill the prophecy.”


That last part still fried my brain, but I couldn’t think about it too much. In fact, I could barely think at all, much less keep my eyes open. All that running and climbing and trying not to get eaten really took it out of me. Not to mention the two-thousand-year time difference.


“Let’s try again tomorrow,” Zeus said. “Meanwhile, you should get some rest.”


I didn’t even want to stand up, I was so tired. “Just give me a second,” I said.


“No need. I’ve got this,” Zeus said. With a wave of his hand, I felt a hard tug at the back of my shoulders. Then I lifted off, flew across the yard, and swished through my bedroom window like a human three-pointer.


Lucky for me, my room’s always a mess. I landed in a nice, soft pile of dirty clothes on the floor.


“See you later, bud!” Hermes called out, just before I heard the RV door slam closed.


And then everything went quiet.


I lay there for a minute, just trying to catch up. 
My mind was racing, but I’d also never been so tired in my life. I could feel my eyes drooping shut, and I thought about how dumb it would be to fall asleep in a pile of laundry when I had a nice comfy bed 
right there
.


A second later, I was out cold.
















OceanofPDF.com

















22


All You Can Eat


I woke up dead tired.


My arms felt like a couple of wrung-out sponges. My hands stung from climbing those rocks. My knee was throbbing. Even my brain hurt.


When Mom knocked, I jumped up and peeled the sock off my face. She was smiling when she opened the door, but not after she got a look at me.


“Good gravy, Nick, you look exhausted,” she said. “Did you sleep in your clothes?”


“I guess I just conked out,” I said. Which was 
true. I was still wearing the same thing I’d been wearing the night before.


“Why don’t you go back to bed? I’ll cover for you at the diner,” she said.


“
No!
” I said. “I mean, I’m fine.”


The truth was, I didn’t want to miss Daisy if she and her mom came in. Not that I knew what I’d say. But I wanted to see if she seemed the same, or different, or what. Was I the only one who got sent back in time by a Greek god? Or would Daisy know something about all this?


“All right, then, I’ll see you at seven,” Mom said. “Oh, and don’t forget that apology letter for Orson.”


The letter! I’d forgotten all about it. So as soon as Mom was gone, I scribbled the world’s lamest apology and stuck it in an envelope. Then I ran into the bathroom for a quick power wash. But when I saw myself in the mirror, I stopped again.


My reflection looked pale.


Actually, no.


Not pale.


More like… semitransparent.


Like half a ghost, staring back at me from the mirror.


Say WHAT?












Was this what Zeus meant when he said I’d fade away if I didn’t fulfill the prophecy? Was it already starting?


I just stood there trying to make sense out of my sudden ability to see 
right through my own hand
 
until Pop-Pop yelled for me to come have breakfast. This wasn’t the kind of thing I could shake off, but I had to at least keep moving. So I took the world’s fastest shower and hurried down to the kitchen.


“MORNING, NICODEMUS!” Pop-Pop said. He had his earbuds in, listening to some kind of music. “HOW WE DOING TODAY?”


I just pointed at the earbuds and stared at him. Because guess what? Pop-Pop was fading, the same as me.


Even if he didn’t seem to notice.


“Oh!” he said, pulling out an earbud. “I’m taking a class, learning how to salsa. You want to see some moves?”


Before I could answer, Pop-Pop put his earbud back in, grabbed my hand, and started spinning me around the kitchen. “ONE, TWO, THREE, PAUSE!” he said. “FIVE, SIX, SEVEN, PAUSE!”


In other words, today was starting out just as weird as yesterday. I noticed Mom had looked the same as always. But not me and Pop-Pop. Which 
meant the Andino family line was starting to disappear. Just like Zeus said it would.


I figured Zeus and Hermes would be waiting for me in that RV outside, but when I looked out the kitchen window to make sure, I got another surprise.


A long blue-and-white tent was set up across the lawn. And under that, in the shade, I saw the biggest breakfast buffet I’d ever seen.


Zeus was sitting in a lawn chair holding a Danish the size of my head in one hand, with a half gallon of orange juice in the other. When he saw me, he waved like a friendly neighbor.












“THAT’S SOME BREAKFAST, HUH?” Pop-Pop said.


I whipped around. “You can see that?” But then I noticed the plate of waffles and sausage he was handing me. “I mean, 
mmmm
, looks great!”


“Enjoy!” he said. “I’ll just be outside, weeding my lovelies.” He meant his flower beds, and since I knew he’d never realize Zeus and Hermes were there, I just let him dance his semitransparent self out the door.


Then I inhaled my own breakfast in record time and headed outside, too.


“Good morning!” Zeus said.


“Wha’s up?” Hermes called over with a mouthful of pancakes.


Pop-Pop was bent over one of the flower beds, shaking his behind and humming along to his music. So I stayed on the porch, talking between my teeth like a ventriloquist to keep him from noticing.


“
What’s up?
” I asked. “Can’t you see?”


“Of course,” Zeus said. “It’s a classic symptom of 
destinitis. I thought this might happen. But don’t worry. There’s still time to reverse it.”


It was hard not to freak out, but I forced myself to stay cool for Pop-Pop.


“How much time?” I asked.


Pop-Pop looked over and smiled just then. “YOU FORGET SOMETHING?” he asked, shouting over his music.


I tried to ignore the bunch of weeds I could see 
inside
 his closed hand. “I was just leaving!” I told him.


“WHAT?” he yelled, but I only waved goodbye and started walking toward downtown.


“See you later!” Hermes called out. “Or at least, see 
through
 you later. Get it?”


I ignored that, too. Everyone was a comedian these days.


Zeus walked with me, sloshing juice and dribbling Danish crumbs on the sidewalk. “I’ve got to tell you,” he said, snapping his waistband, “these tracksuits are one thing you humans really got right. I can eat as much as I want in this thing!”


“Can we focus here?” I said. “If you hadn’t noticed, I’m kind of freaking out. Why haven’t you sent me back yet?”


“Because it’s all connected, Nick,” he said.


“What does that mean?” I asked. “Just tell me what to do!”


“You’re already doing it. Go to work,” he said. “Trust the process.”


Yeah, easy for him to say. He wasn’t the one who looked like a walking piece of waxed paper. But when I turned to say something else, he was already headed back toward the house and shouting up the street. “Hey, Hermy! Save some of those coffee cakes for me!”


So I guess Zeus had his priorities, and I had mine.






OceanofPDF.com

















23


Table Five


All morning at the diner, my brain was running like a hamster on a wheel.


Why was everything in my life turning upside down?


What was I supposed to do about it?


And how much longer did I have before I faded away completely?


Then just after the breakfast rush, the phone rang and Mom picked up.


“Dino’s Dine-In!” she said. “Oh, hello, Yoonah!”


I practically dropped my bus tub when I heard that. Yoonah was Daisy’s mom. I didn’t know why she was calling, but my gut said it had something to do with me. So I moved closer to the phone and started wiping down the same stretch of counter I’d already cleaned a minute ago.


“Hang on, I’ll check,” Mom said. Then she looked at me. “Hon, do you remember where Daisy and Yoonah were sitting yesterday?”


Did I remember? 
Of course.


“Table five,” I said. That was the booth right behind me.


“Check and see if there’s a book on the floor,” Mom said. “Daisy may have left it.”


I knew there was no book. I’d already swept under all the tables twice that morning, but Mom was waiting.


So I bent down to take a look, and… Daisy’s copy of 
All Thirteen
 was lying right there under her spot at the table. I didn’t know exactly how it got there, but something told me the answer was 
sitting in that magic RV back at my house.


So I played it cool and held up the book to show Mom.


“Yep!” she said into the phone. “Would you like Nick to drop it off after his shift?”


Drop it off? With 
Daisy
? I usually got nervous just clearing her dishes at the diner. How was I supposed to talk to her about 
this
 stuff?






















Still, I knew I had to give it a shot. This was all happening for a reason, even if I didn’t know what the reason was. But it sure did feel like I was meant to see Daisy that morning.


Almost like it was… well… my destiny.






OceanofPDF.com

















24


Switcheroo












Yeah, it was me. You’re not surprised, are you?


Because I’m not just the messenger of the gods and the inventor of lying. I’m also the god of thieves. And nothing could be easier than stealing a little book and putting it where it needed to be. I didn’t even have to break the rules 
to do it. Dad didn’t want me getting too involved inside Nick’s whole ancient Greek quest, but he never said anything about being hands-off in Ohio.












Meanwhile, if you’re wondering what Daisy Rhee has to do with Nick’s destiny, good question!


The full truth is, I got the idea for this little caper from my sister Aphrodite. She’s the goddess of 
love, so in human terms, she’s the one who might spend all weekend watching a marathon of romantic Lifetime movies.


But my sister’s also very, very smart.


I mean, think about it. If you look at all the greatest stories, about all those different heroes, they almost always have someone they’re doing it for. Someone to impress, or romance, or marry, or come home to.


In other words, Aphrodite knows one very important truth: Without love, romance, and friendship, there are no heroes.


Corny? I guess. And definitely not my usual thing.


But it’s also true.






OceanofPDF.com

















25


All In


I was sweating like a cold glass of chicken by the time I got to Daisy’s house. It took most of my nerve just to ring the bell, and then the rest of my nerve not to drop that book on the porch and run.


Then the door opened, and there she was. It was like looking at Margaríta, the same way looking at Margaríta was like looking at Daisy. My brain got fizzy just thinking about it.


“Hi, Nick,” she said.


“Hey,” I said.


She didn’t seem to notice how faded I was any more than Mom had. But still, it was weird to stand there on her porch, looking like half a ghost and trying to come up with something to say.


After the world’s longest silence, Daisy pointed at the book.


“Is that for me?” she asked.


“Oh! Yeah,” I said, and handed it over.


“Thanks for bringing it,” she said.


“You’re welcome,” I said, while my heart tried to crawl out through my throat.


“Okay, well… I’ll see you later,” she said, and started to close the door.


Was that it? Was I really about to blow my chance?


“Hey, Daisy?” I said real quick. “Can I ask you something?”


She stopped then, like she wasn’t sure whether to be curious, or suspicious, or both. “Sure…?” she said.


Okay, this was it. My last chance. Here it went.


“How do you like the book?” I asked.


NOOOOOOO!


Wrong question.


Typical me.


Way to blow it, Andino.


“It’s awesome,” she said. Then she stepped outside, pulled the front door closed behind her, and in a really soft voice, said, “But that’s not what you were going to ask me, was it?”


Talk about a curveball!


“How did you know that?” I asked.


“Because I definitely didn’t leave that book at the diner yesterday,” she told me.


“That’s what I thought!” I said.


This was unbelievable.


Actually, no. It was unbelievably 
believable
.


“I can’t explain it, but I know for a fact that I left it by my bed last night. And when I woke up this morning, it was just 
gone
,” she said. “Mom thought I was imagining it, so she called the diner. And when your mom said it was there…”


Daisy did a head-exploding move with her hands.


“In that case, can I ask you something else?” I said.


“Definitely,” she said. She even sat on the porch steps and waited, like I didn’t have to hurry up. I sat down, too. On the same step. But not too close.


Here it went. All in, for real.


“So…,” I said, “you’ve heard of Zeus, right?”
















OceanofPDF.com

















26


Text You Later


Daisy was 100 percent awesome about the whole thing. She didn’t laugh, or kick me off her porch, or call the cops, or anything. Mostly, she listened while I told her about Hermes at the diner. And Zeus’s magic RV. And Dingus. And Margaríta. And Just Nick.


“I know it’s a lot,” I said when I finally ran out of things to talk about.


“So are you saying that you 
think
 this is really happening?” Daisy asked. “Or that you 
know
 it’s really happening?”


It was a good question.


“I think I know it’s really happening,” I said. “But I can’t prove it, obviously.”


She seemed like she believed me, though. Or at least wanted to.


“What are you supposed to do next?” she asked.


I shrugged. “Get rid of that Cyclops, somehow. The prophecy just says I’m supposed to ‘end their end of days,’ and save ‘Andino’s line.’ But I don’t know how.”


“Even though that prophecy says you’ll know what to do?” Daisy asked.


“Exactly,” I said.


She was a good listener. I already felt way better, like the rhino sitting on my chest had gotten up and gone for a walk. I just wished I didn’t have to be back at the diner for lunch. And I 
really
 wished I didn’t have to drop off that stupid apology for Orson on my way there.


“I actually have to go,” I said.


“Seriously?” Daisy said. “But I have about a million more questions.”


“Trust me, so do I,” I said.


Daisy promised she’d keep thinking about this, which she didn’t have to do. She even asked for my phone number so she could text me later if she thought of anything else.


I couldn’t believe Daisy Rhee wanted 
my
 phone number. That was almost as unbelievable as everything else that had happened.


And for once, I mean that in a good way.






OceanofPDF.com

















27


Sorry Not Sorry


When I got to the Mackelmores’ office to drop off my letter, Mr. and Mrs. M were sitting at their desks, tapping away on their keyboards. The good news was, no sign of Orson. Hopefully I could make this the world’s fastest drop-off.


“Hi, Nick!” Mrs. Mackelmore said. “Your mom said you’d be stopping by.”


She sounded way nicer than usual, which wasn’t hard, since Mrs. M wasn’t that nice to begin with. But it 
was
 weird.


“Yeah,” I said, and held up my slightly wrinkled letter. “I’ll just leave this here—”


“Actually, I have something for you, too,” Mrs. Mackelmore said, waving an envelope of her own. I waited for her to stand up, but she stayed in her chair, which meant I had to come to her. “Would you give this to your mom for me?”


Like I had a choice anymore.


“Sure,” I said. And the way she smiled kind of felt like the opposite of smiling. In other words, something was going on here. But what?


Then, before I could even get to Mrs. Mackelmore’s desk—
flush!
 A sound came from the back of the office. The bathroom door opened, and there was Orson.


Talk about bad timing. If he’d had another thirty seconds of business in that bathroom, I would have been gone by the time he came out. Instead, he was standing there looking at me like… well, now that I thought about it—


“What are 
you
 smiling about?” Orson asked.


“I’m not smiling,” I said, but I actually was. The similarity was impossible to miss.












“Anyway, I was just leaving,” I told Orson, and put my letter on Mrs. M’s desk.


“What is that?” Orson asked.


“Nick wrote an apology letter for what happened yesterday,” Mr. Mackelmore said. “I think it shows great maturity, don’t you, Orson?”


“
Apology letter
?” Orson said. “You think some letter’s going to change anything?”


“Orson! Be polite!” Mrs. M said. Meanwhile, she was taking forever, writing Mom’s name on the envelope I was supposed to take back and sealing it up. All I could do was stand there wishing I’d come any other time.


Which is when I heard the whistling.


It sounded like someone had just come in from the street. When I turned to look, Hermes was strolling our way, whistling a familiar tune: “Don’t Worry, Be Happy.” Mom loves that song.


Hermes didn’t say a word. He just smiled at me, whistled on by, and scooted into the bathroom behind Orson.


“Hang on a second!” Orson said. “I think I should get to read that before you go, seeing as how you soaked me 
on purpose
 yesterday.”


“It wasn’t on purpose,” I said.


“Yes it was!” Hermes shouted from the bathroom.


“Here you go, Nick,” Mrs. Mackelmore said, finally giving me her envelope. “Make sure you put it right in your mom’s hand, okay?”


And just when Orson opened his mouth to say something else—
CLANK!
 Another noise came from the bathroom behind him. It sounded like pipes banging on pipes.


“What was that?” Mr. Mackelmore said.


Then I heard another flush, followed by some kind of 
blorp
 sound, like a cat about to throw up.


“What the…?” Orson said, and turned around just in time to take a jet of water to the pants. It shot out of the bathroom door with the kind of accuracy only a Greek god could pull off. Orson was soaking wet before he could even get out of the way.


“Orson? What did you do in there?” Mrs. Mackelmore said.


“Nothing!” Orson said, dripping on the rug. “What just happened?”


As for Hermes, he strolled out of the bathroom, gave me another smile without saying a word, and whistled his way out to the street.


“Where’s the shutoff valve?” Mr. Mackelmore shouted.


“It’s in the basement!” Mrs. Mackelmore answered. “Don’t just stand there, go turn it off! And Orson, stay right there!”


That was the last I heard, because the flood was coming my way, and I’d seen enough. So I made like Hermes and quietly slipped out the door.


Sorry, Orson.


Not sorry.






OceanofPDF.com

















28


Pushing the Envelope


When I got outside, Hermes was literally rolling on the sidewalk, laughing.


“That was awesome!” he said.


“Just get up,” I said, and he floated into a standing position, hovering with his Nikes whirring. “I can’t figure you out. One minute you’re throwing me in front of a Cyclops. The next minute you’re doing something like that.”


“Why don’t you take a peek in the envelope?” Hermes said.












I looked at the letter Mrs. M had given me. “Why? What’s in it?” I asked.


“Beats me,” he said. “But something tells me it’s not a cookie recipe.”


He was probably right. But still.


“I’m supposed to give it to Mom,” I said.


“You need to loosen up, you know that?” he said. Then he reached over and tickled me in the ribs. I 
laughed and even squirmed a little. Then he did it again, and I jumped back twice.


“
Stop!
” I said.


“Why?” he said.


“Because you’re invisible, and I’m the one who looks like he’s dancing alone in the middle of downtown Athens!” I said.


“So what?” Hermes said. “The point is, how are you going to tackle a whole prophecy if all you ever do is play by the rules?”


I didn’t have an answer for that one.


“The only 
real
 question is, which rules do you break?” he asked. “You’ve got to crack a few eggs if you want to cut the cheese, am I right?”


“That’s not really how it goes,” I said. “And besides, in case you hadn’t noticed, I have a whole quest to worry about before I fade away to nothing.”


“Oh, that reminds me!” Hermes said, and he held out a familiar-looking business card.


“Two oh five?” I asked. “Why is he keeping me 
waiting like this? I have a ton of questions and I need some answers now!”












“What makes you think you aren’t getting answers?” Hermes asked. “Pay attention, man!” Then he tickled me again before I could get away.


“HA! I mean… stop!” I said. He definitely had me curious. But I also knew by now that trusting Hermes was a little like trusting a slot machine. You never knew what you were going to get.


“I’m late,” I said, and kept on walking. There was nothing to do now but get back to the diner.


“See you soon!” Hermes yelled.


And even though I didn’t answer, I think we both knew he was right.






OceanofPDF.com

















29


Ninety-Nine Percent


After the lunch rush, we had a ton of dirty dishes piled up in the back. I was about halfway through the pile when I got a text from Daisy.


Do you have a minute to talk?


Sure. I’m at the diner.


I know,
 she answered. 
I’m out back.


That surprised me. But then again, what did I know?


I pulled the bag out of the kitchen garbage in case anyone was watching and headed outside to throw it in the dumpster.


Daisy was waiting in the alley. “Hey,” she said. “Sorry to bug you. I know you’re working.”


“You’re not bugging me,” I said.


“I figured this couldn’t wait,” Daisy said. She had a folded-up piece of paper in her hand and gave it to me. “I found this online. Have you ever heard of something called Stadium of the Gods?”


“No,” I said. “Is that in Greece?”


“Only if you believe in myths and legends,” she said.


“Well…,” I said.


“Yeah, exactly,” she said. Because the truth was, I believed in them a whole lot more now than I had just a few days ago.












“They’re uninhabited now,” Daisy told me. “The legend is that they were once a single island, but the gods carved off a piece to use as a testing ground for humans.”


“I know this place!” I said, pointing at the southern island. I recognized the shape, anyway, from the map in Konstantinos’s council room.


“You notice anything else?” she asked, pointing at the little pictures spread out on the map. “Ogre? Flower? Apple? Helm? I think helm means helmet, by the way.”


Sure enough, those were the four things that the prophecy said I’d find.


“No way,” I said, and Daisy just nodded. “So, does this mean you believe me about all this? Because I still wouldn’t blame you if you didn’t.”


“Well, I was already at like ninety-six percent yes,” she said. “But then I found something else.”


“What is it?” I asked, and she pointed at the map again.


“You see that little flower?” she asked.


“Yeah?” My pulse was kicking up and up. “What about it?”


“I think that flower’s a daisy,” Daisy said. She had her phone out now and held it up to show me a translation app, English to Greek. “Check it out. Do you see what the Greek word for daisy is?”


“No… way,” I said. The surprises just kept on coming.


“Yep,” she said. “It’s 
margaríta
.”
















OceanofPDF.com

















30


One Girl Will Know What to Do


I could have stayed in that alley talking to Daisy all day. This whole prophecy thing was starting to make a little more sense. As far as I could tell, I’d already found the “ogre” and the “flower.” Also known as Dingus and Margaríta.


And it looked like the next steps were about finding some kind of “apple” and “helm” on that other island. Also known as Stadium of the Gods.


“I can’t believe you did all this,” I said.


“Are you kidding? Nothing this good ever happens around here,” Daisy told me.


“I figured you’d be busy doing stuff with your friends,” I admitted.


“Nope,” she said, “they’re both at summer camp.”


And I thought, 
Both
? As in, only two? I kind of figured Daisy had a million friends, but maybe not. All I really knew about her was that she liked books and chicken orzo soup.


“Well, I feel like I’m finally figuring some of this out,” I said. “And that’s all thanks to you—”


I stopped there, because a whole new thought had just slammed into my brain.


“What is it?” Daisy asked.


I held up the map. “You’re helping me figure out what to do,” I said.


“I wouldn’t go that far,” she said. “It’s just Google.”


“That’s not what I mean,” I said.


The more I stood there thinking about it, the more it made sense. That prophecy said “one boy 
will know what to do.” But it never said 
how
 I’d know.


And Zeus said it was all connected. But he never said 
how
 it was connected.


“Maybe you’re supposed to help me 
here
, figure out what to do 
there
,” I said.


“Wow,” Daisy said, looking me right in the eye. “That’s…”


I thought she was about to say “ridiculous” or “the dumbest thing I’ve ever heard.”


“… awesome,” she said instead.


“Really?” I asked.


“Yeah!” Daisy said. “But listen, I don’t want to get you in trouble. I know you have to go back inside.”


“I actually do,” I said. I didn’t want Mom to start wondering where I was, even though she’d probably throw a party if she knew I was hanging out with Daisy.


“Do you want to keep talking later?” Daisy asked. “My mom and I were going to go sailing at Lake Snowden this afternoon, but you could come.”


“
You sail?
” I said. “I mean… 
you sail
.” Of course she did. Just like Margaríta. It all kept adding up.


“Mom coaches the Ohio University team,” she said. “We could take our own boat out where nobody can hear us. Then we can talk about this all we want.”


I liked the way she thought.


“I won’t be much help,” I said. “I’ve never been sailing before.”


“That’s okay,” Daisy said. “I’ve got it covered. Besides, there’s a first time for everything, right?”


She could say that again.






OceanofPDF.com

















31


Bad News Blues


When I came back inside, I noticed Mom was reading something in the office. Which was weird for the middle of a lunch shift.


And when I got closer, I saw she was crying, too.


“Mom?”


I’d seen her cry before, plenty of times, all the way back to when Dad first got sick. But it had been a while.


“Come on in,” she said. “You might as well hear this now.”


When I stepped into the office, I saw the envelope from Mrs. Mackelmore on the desk. And next to that, there was some kind of official-looking letter. At the top, in a bold font, it said—


DEBT COLLECTION: FINAL NOTICE


My stomach dropped like a rock. The rock exploded. And the explosion made me want to puke up more rocks.


The Mackelmores
.


Of course.


I didn’t get to read the whole letter, but I saw enough to know what it meant. Mom had to pay all that back rent now, or give up the diner for good. And either way, she 
still owed the Mackelmores eighteen thousand dollars.












“They said they’ll knock three thousand off what we owe if we can be out by September first,” she said.


That was eleven days away. I couldn’t believe this was happening. And I couldn’t believe the Mackelmores would do this to Mom.


Actually, scratch that. Yes I could.


“The good news is, the buffet place at the mall is looking for a new manager,” Mom said. “I’m going to put in an application today.”


“Mom, no!” I said. “You love working for yourself.”


“I did,” Mom said. “But it’s not the same without your dad.”


I knew that, too. Ever since Dad died, Dino’s Dine-In hasn’t been the same. But still, if the diner closed, it was going to be like losing another piece of him all over again.


“Hey, maybe it’s good timing,” Mom said. “A 
fresh start for everyone, right? You’re going to AMS, Pop-Pop’s moving back to San Diego, and I can have a job where I’m not away from home sixty hours a week.”


I didn’t say anything, because my brain was cranking like a generator, roaring to life.


Because… of course.


DUH.


I mean, I’m not trying to brag, but I 
did
 have some pretty good connections these days. It was worth a shot, anyway.


“I have to go,” I said.


“What?” Mom said. “Just like that?”


“I have a—” I was going to say “doctor’s appointment,” but I stopped short. “I have a stomachache,” I said.


“Listen.” Mom got up and put her hands on my shoulders. “We’re going to be fine,” she said. “I mean that.”


“I know,” I said. Not because I believed it, exactly. But because Mom didn’t need to hear what I 
was thinking. Especially not the crazy plan that was starting to hatch in my head.


Because guess what? This wasn’t over yet. I still had an ace up my sleeve.


And by 
an ace
, of course, I mean 
a Zeus
.






OceanofPDF.com

















32


Not You Again


As I passed through the dining room to leave, there was only one way my day could get worse. And then it did.


Right there at table one was Orson himself. He was chowing down on a couple of burgers, double fries, onion rings, and not one but three shakes: vanilla, chocolate, and strawberry.


“What are you doing here?” I asked.


“What does it look like, shrimp?” he said. “How about you get me some water?”


I looked around for someone else who could do it, but they were ignoring Orson, too, like he wasn’t even there.


Still, did I care? No, I did not. I just kept on walking, right out the front door. Orson could get his own water, for all I cared.


But then, as soon as I left the diner, I heard someone come out behind me.


“Yo, Andino!” I heard.


Seriously? I seemed to have a nasty case of bad luck that day, and I was just plain over it by then. So I stopped and turned around.


“What do you want, Orson? Because now’s not the time,” I said.


“I still owe you a beatdown,” he told me. “With interest.”


“Oh yeah?” I said. Usually, I’d be starting to sweat, but not today. “Fine. Go ahead, you stupid dingus. Get it over with.”


“Okeydoke,” he said, and I saw his fingers curl into a fist.


Okeydoke?
 That didn’t sound like Orson at all. For that matter, why was I making this so easy for him? I could at least make him work for it, like I did the last time.


So I took off. I ran as fast as I could, straight up Court Street. I didn’t look back, either. I just kept going, around the corner, onto Washington Street, and—


BLAM! I smashed right into Orson Mackelmore.












“How did you do that?” I asked.


“The real question is, what are you going to do now?” Orson said. He already had a death grip on my arm, even stronger than the last time. I didn’t have any choice. I had to give this my best shot.


So I swung and landed a punch on the side of his head. Sort of. It was more like punching a marble statue, and my whole hand lit up.


“OWWWW!”


Orson pulled me in closer. I braced for impact, expecting the worst.


“Don’t try to fight him,” Orson said. “That’s 
his
 game, and it’s not one you can win.”


Huh?
 Either my ears were malfunctioning, or Orson had gotten some kind of brain transplant.


“What are you talking about?” I asked. “Just get away from me.”


And for some reason, he let go. Maybe it wasn’t too late to avoid a hospital visit after all.


“What I’m saying is, you can think your way 
out of a fight, but you can’t fight your way out of a thought,” Orson said. By the time he was done saying it, though, he didn’t sound like Orson anymore.


I blinked, and he didn’t look like Orson anymore, either.


He looked like Hermes.


Correction. He 
was
 Hermes.


“How’d you do 
that
?” I asked.


“It’s not hard,” Hermes said. And just to prove it, he morphed back into Orson, then back into Hermes again, like some kind of walking face-swap app. “The point is, you need to outthink your enemies. Not outfight them.”


“You could have told me that before I tried to punch you,” I said.


“Conversation isn’t always the best teacher,” he said.


“Tell that to my hand. What are you made out of, concrete?” I asked. “Actually, never mind. I’ve 
got to go. I have an ‘appointment’ with your dad.”


“Well, duh,” Hermes said. “What do you think I’m doing here? Come on. I’ll walk with you.”


And by “walk,” of course, he meant fly, while I just tried to keep up. As usual.






OceanofPDF.com

















33


Let’s Make a Deal


When we got to the RV in front of my house, it was all quiet on the outside. But that didn’t mean anything. Zeus could have been setting off fireworks in there, and you’d never know it.


“Come on in,” Hermes said.


When he opened the door, it was completely different than the last time—and the time before that. I saw ten-story-high walls of books. There was a spiral staircase spiraling out of sight, and leather 
couches, a pool table, and oh yeah, a pool, too. Olympic-sized, of course.


“Nick! Come on in!” Zeus said. “How was your lunch shift?”


“I need to talk to you,” I said. “Like right now.”


“Of course, of course.”


He gestured for us to follow him through a swinging door at the far side of the room, right next to the make-your-own-sundae bar. (And yeah, I grabbed a handful of Reese’s Pieces on my way by, because why not?)


On the other side of the door, we came into Dr. Zeus’s office. It was the same all-white setup I’d seen before.


“So, what seems to be the problem?” he asked, putting on his white coat and taking a seat behind his desk.


“We’re getting kicked out of the restaurant!” I said.


“And you think that’s because of me?”


“Well, is it?” I asked, sitting across from him.


Hermes put the big prophecy book on Zeus’s desk in front of him.


“Sometimes things just happen, Nick,” Zeus said. “Good things. Bad things. Terrible things. I can’t possibly oversee all of it.”


I thought about Dad then, and about how people liked to say that things happened for a reason. But I knew that wasn’t always true.


“How about we make a deal?” I said. “I go back and try to save Andino. And if I succeed, you get my mom the eighteen thousand dollars she needs to pay off the rent.”


“Or,” Zeus said, “how about this? You go back, try to finish what you started, and make sure you’re still around to help save the diner yourself.”


That wasn’t the answer I wanted, but it did give me another question.


“So you’re saying I 
can
 save Andino?” I asked. “Like, you really think I can do this?”


“I’m saying that I’m here to help you with anything you’re capable of getting done yourself,” Zeus told me.


“Daisy said you’re testing me,” I went on. “She said that’s what the other island is all about.”


Zeus sat back and grinned. “Daisy’s a smart girl. Why do you think we sent you off to work this morning instead of back to Andino?”


“I don’t know,” I said. “But something tells me I’m about to find out.”


Zeus waved at the prophecy book and it flipped open to a new page. Right there, I saw a picture of the map Daisy had given me. “If you hadn’t gone to work, you wouldn’t have seen Daisy,” he said. “And if you hadn’t seen Daisy—”


“I wouldn’t have gotten that map,” I said.


“It’s all connected, Nick. Save one, save the other. See?”


I didn’t, exactly, but I was starting to. And it all had way more to do with Daisy than I ever would have guessed.


“Now that you know what to do, you’re ready to go back,” Zeus said.


“Not to mention how see-through you are,” Hermes said, pointing at my chest. “You need to get a move on.”


I looked down, and I could see the chair I was sitting in more than I could see myself. Hermes was right. If I didn’t finish soon, I was going to fade away to nothing.


“Yeah, okay,” I said. Already, I was tensing up just thinking about the jolt to my brain I was about to get. “Let’s do it.”


“Good, good,” Zeus said. And as soon as he’d touched my forehead—
SKA-BLAM!
—I was gone.






OceanofPDF.com

















34


Hit the Ground Running


“Just Nick?”


“Hello?”


“I don’t think he’s listening. Is something wrong?”


I blinked, and blinked again. I was back in ancient Andino. Already, we were following Egan down a long side street that ran parallel to the agora.


“Where’s Dingus going?” I asked. I couldn’t see him, but I heard plenty of breaking wood, crumbling stone, and yelling.


I could also smell roasting meat in the air, the 
way Dino’s Dine-In smelled at dinnertime.


“The taverna is our backup plan. They’re roasting goats as fast as they can,” Konstantinos said. “He’s following the smell.”


There was no way to miss how almost-transparent Konstantinos looked. Just like me and Pop-Pop. If this whole thing was about my family line fading away, then he was the beginning of that line, and I was at the other end.


I just wished this prophecy had come with a few more instructions.












“I’m here, too,” I heard Hermes say. He was hovering overhead, high enough to see past the houses and into the market. “Looks like he’s going for the roast goat buffet.”


“Let’s just hope he doesn’t get a whiff of 
you
,” Egan said. “You’re the whole reason he broke through that gate.”


“Yeah, thanks for the reminder,” I said.


“Egan’s right,” Margaríta said. “We need to keep you out of sight.”


“And out of smell,” Egan said.


“The question is, what do we do now?” she asked.


And then it hit me. “Actually, I 
know
 what to do!”


“I thought you said you didn’t,” Margaríta said.


“That’s true,” I said. “But I do now.”


They had no idea I’d been gone and come back. Everything was exactly the way I’d left it. The only thing that had changed was me—and that map in my pocket.


“Look at this,” I said, unfolding it to show them. “Does this mean anything to you?”


“Ogre, flower, apple, helm,” Konstantinos muttered, looking at the symbols. “Where did you get this?”


“And why didn’t you mention it before?” Egan asked.


“It’s complicated,” I said, just before Dingus let out a big “UNNNNNGHHHHH!” from the marketplace.


“Of course!” Konstantinos said, pointing at something on the map. “The island with no name. Why didn’t I think of this?”


“I thought it was called Stadium of the Gods,” I said.


“Well, that name would certainly make sense,” Konstantinos said. “Very well. Stadium of the Gods it is.”


And I thought—
Did I just name an island?


“They say the goddess Achlys keeps a curtain of mist around it to protect its secrets,” Konstantinos said. “Zeus himself shields the island with winds that only blow away from its shores. Most 
don’t dare to sail toward it, and those who do, don’t return.”


“We’ll need a ship,” Margaríta said right away.


“That, I can provide,” Konstantinos said.


“Hang on,” I said. “Can we go back to the 
nobody ever returns
 part?” But for once, none of them were listening to me.


“There’s just one problem.” Konstantinos kept going. “You’ll need to leave from the harbor, and there’s no way to get there without passing through the agora.”


“Where Dingus will see us,” Margaríta said.


“Precisely,” Konstantinos answered.


“I can get us to the docks!” Egan said. “I know a way. But if I show you, then you have to bring me with you on that ship. I’ve always wanted to see a godspun island.”


“It’s too dangerous,” Konstantinos said, just before another crashing, ripping sound came from the market.


“Hey, Nick? You might want to pick up your 
pace down there,” Hermes called out. “He just took the front wall off the taverna.”


“We need to go if we’re going to do this,” I said.


“Then let me come!” Egan said.


“Do you know how to sail?” Margaríta asked.


“Yes! I come from a long line of fishermen!” he said, and everyone looked at me like it was my call.


“Fine,” I said. It wasn’t like we had a bunch of better options. So a few seconds later, we were following Egan down, around, in, and out of those side streets, heading for the waterfront.


“This way,” he said. “Over here!”


We came to the outer wall of the town and followed the curve of it until I could see boats in the harbor.


“There are the docks!” Egan said. “We just have one more little problem.”


“What is it?” Margaríta asked.


“UNNNNNGGGHHHRRR!” we all heard.


“
That
,” Egan said.


We’d come to the main road that ran down the 
middle of town, with a view straight up to the agora. And right there, looking back at us, was that monster truck of a predator, 
Dingus
.


“I thought you said you knew a way to the harbor,” I said.


“This 
is
 the harbor,” Egan said.


“That’s not what I mean.”


“Just RUN!” Margaríta said, and we took off sprinting toward the docks.


“Finally, some real action!” Hermes said, flying alongside. “
This
 is how you fulfill a prophecy!”


I knew better than to ask him for help here, but I could have done without the running commentary.


“We just need to get you out to sea,” Konstantinos told me. Already, he was signaling someone on the docks to untie a boat for us.


“You’re not coming?” I asked.


“Not with that beast inside the walls of my town,” he said. “It’s you he’s after. As long as the food supply holds up, we should be fine. Just hurry.”


I kept forgetting this was a world where kids my 
age did stuff like this. At home, we would have at least needed permission slips.


Margaríta and Egan were already sprinting across the last patch of open ground. And now I was, too.


We hit the docks just as one of the workers raised the sail on a boat they’d untied for us. Margaríta jumped on first, then put out a hand to help Egan and me. Then she started securing lines and barking orders.


“She’s good,” Hermes said, settling in at the front. “I like her.”


The wind was already catching our sail, and the boat was pulling away like it was anxious to go.


Dingus seemed anxious, too. He was bearing down on that harbor like he was trying out for the Cyclops track team. So I was surprised when he skidded to a stop right at the water’s edge.


“JUST NICK!” he yelled. “THIS NOT OVER!”


“You’re right about that!” Egan yelled. “Just 
you wait, you big piece of dragon dung! We’ll be back!”


“Shut up!” I said. “Don’t tell him that!”


“Why not?” Egan said. “He’s afraid of you.”


But I wasn’t so sure.


In the meantime, I guess Dingus really did hate the water, because he just stood there while that stiff breeze took us farther away from the shore. The last I saw, he kicked a piece of dock into splinters, then turned to head back up to the agora. For more roast goat, I guess.


Now I looked across the water. I could see that wall of mist surrounding the other island, just waiting to swallow us up. As for what was on the other side of that mist, I guess we’d find out soon enough if we were lucky.


And by lucky, I mean—HOW DID I GET MYSELF INTO THIS?






OceanofPDF.com

















35


Mist Connections


Margaríta got right to work, testing the lines that held the mast. Then she picked up two long oars at the back and started steering.


“The wind’s taking us right there,” Egan said. “Looks like we have Zeus’s favor.”


“Zeus isn’t the only one who controls the wind, you know,” Margaríta said. “This could be Hera’s favor.”


“Who?” I asked.


“Zeus’s wife,” Egan said.


I looked at Hermes, who was lying back and catching some sun.


“Don’t look at me,” he said. “Hera’s just my stepmother. But this wind is probably from Dad. I mean, he 
does
 want you to get this done.”


“Isn’t that cheating?” I asked under my breath. “Inside magic, or whatever? I thought that wasn’t allowed.”


“Yeah, well, there’s everyone else’s rules and then there’s Zeus’s rules,” Hermes said. “What are you going to do?”


Right now, I wasn’t going to do anything. That wall of mist was just starting to swallow us up, and I had other things on my mind.


“This wind feels very lucky,” Margaríta said. “Almost 
too
 lucky.”


“Maybe it isn’t lucky at all,” Egan said. “Maybe Zeus wants us to sail to that island and get eaten by a Minotaur. Or a Hydra. Or get turned into pigs by that sorceress I’ve heard of, Circe—”


“Can we talk about something else?” I said. This 
definitely wasn’t helping me feel any calmer. In fact, what I felt now was sad.


Really sad.


Weirdly sad.


“Maybe this was a mistake,” Margaríta said, just when I thought the same thing.


“Maybe it was,” I said.


I didn’t know why, but I wanted to cry. And she sounded like she wanted to, too. I didn’t even think Margaríta knew 
how
 to cry.


“What’s going on?” Egan said, wiping his eyes. “What is this?”


I looked over at Hermes, and he was the only one who seemed fine. “I know what it is,” he said. “
Achlys
, goddess of the mist. She makes things about as much fun as a trip to one of your human dentists. But she’s harmless.”


I could feel tears running down my cheeks and snot running out of my nose. I was starting to blubber, too, because I couldn’t stop thinking about my dad. And about how much Mom missed 
him. She didn’t deserve this. None of us did.


“My grandmother is going to be so worried about me!” Margaríta sobbed.


“I want my mommy!” Egan wailed.


It looked like we were all thinking about our families and all wishing we were somewhere else. I wondered what Dad would do if he was here. But the truth was, he never would have been stupid enough to land himself in this situation in the first place.


“Egan! Get the oars!” Margaríta sobbed. “I’m turning us around.”


“Don’t do it. This is just a test,” Hermes told me.


“It’s a test!” I told the others, except I was crying so hard now, it came out more like 
izzatezt
!


“What?” Margaríta said.


“
A tezt!
” I said.


“You mean 
test
,” Hermes said. “This mist is a test.”


“
The bizt izza tezt!
” I said.


“We’re almost there,” Hermes said. “Just keep going.”


“
We’re albodt dere!
” I tried to say. 
“Jut keeb goig!”


I put my hand on Margaríta’s, to keep her from adjusting the rudder, and tried to look ahead while we stood there crying like a boatful of babies.


“This better be the right island!” Margaríta wailed. Or at least, that’s what I thought she said. But it was hard to know anything, because this whole sea venture was getting off to a rocky (not to mention a weepy, sobby, snotty) start.
















OceanofPDF.com

















36


The Old Man of the Sea


We passed out of that mist as suddenly as we’d passed into it. The sun came out, and the boat skidded to a stop on the shore of another white-sand beach. It was like déjà vu.


Or… déjà view. It was easy to see what Daisy had been talking about, how this island might have broken off from the other one at some point because it looked so much the same.


I felt okay again, anyway. Not as good as I would sitting in front of an extra-large double 
pepperoni at home, but anything was better than that super-depressing fog.


“Which way from here?” Margaríta said. “According to that map, we need to go inland.”


There weren’t many options for getting off the beach. Just one, in fact. It was a single dark cave, with a river pouring out of it, down the beach, and into the ocean. The river was no joke, either. That whitewater current looked like far more than we could handle. And the rest of the beach was penned in by those white cliffs.


Meanwhile, the clock was ticking. Who knew what Dingus was getting up to back in Andino?


“Let’s take a closer look,” I said. Then, as Margaríta and Egan jumped down to the sand, I turned to Hermes.


“Any suggestions?”


“You think I know?” he asked. “This is all new to me. It’s different every time.”


“What do you mean, every time?” I asked.


“Nothing,” he said, but he looked like maybe 
he wasn’t supposed to say that. Either way, he wasn’t telling, so I went to catch up with the other two.


Margaríta and Egan were standing at the side of the river where it ran out of the cave.


“It looks like this is the only way through!” Margaríta shouted over the sound of the rapids. “The question is how we navigate it and get upstream.”


I couldn’t see much in there. Just a dark hole in the side of the cliff. But then a booming voice echoed out of that darkness.


“Helllllooooo!” someone called out.


“Who said that?” I asked.


“I did.”


While we stood there, an old man came into the light, walking downstream like that whitewater was nothing at all. He had some kind of big pitchfork for a cane, but still, that current would have knocked me right over. And this guy looked old. Really old. I had no idea how he was doing it… until I saw his green, scaly tail.












“Who are you?” I asked.


“Do you not recognize me?” he answered. “I am known as the Old Man of the Sea, but back in my day, people called me Proteus.”


“No way!” Egan said. “This guy had Poseidon’s job before Poseidon.”


“Poseidon’s a child!” the Old Man said. “I was controlling the rivers and tides before he was in waterproof diapers.”


“Whatever you say, Old Man,” Egan said, and I gave him a nudge. “I mean… Old Man of the Sea.”


“Can you help us?” Margaríta asked. “We have to get through this cave.”


“Of course, of course,” he said. “If you’re here, it means Zeus wanted you here. And any friend of Zeus’s is a friend of mine.”


That was good to hear. “So, can you tell us how to get upriver?” I asked.


“You don’t want to get upriver,” he said.


“We don’t?” Egan asked.


“That would be impossible,” Proteus said. “Not with this current. Not the way I keep it running.”


I looked at Margaríta and Egan, but neither of them seemed to get it any more than I did. Hermes seemed like he might know something, but he wasn’t talking.


“Well, if we don’t want to go that way,” I said, pointing into the cave, “which way 
do
 we want to go?”


“That way,” the Old Man said, pointing in the same direction. “Do you see any other way off this beach?”


I was starting to think maybe he was a few shrimp short of a basket. I guess he didn’t get too many visitors.


“What do you think?” I whispered to Margaríta. “Is there some kind of password or something?”


Margaríta was staring at the water and thinking, but then she looked up all of a sudden.


“He’s right,” she said. “We 
don’t
 want to go upstream.”


“Ahhh,” the Old Man said, looking at her now.


“We want to go downstream,” Margaríta said. “Don’t we?”


Proteus looked pleased. “All you had to do was ask,” he said. Then he spun his pitchfork around, 
stuck the pointy end in the water, and started stirring.


The river slowed down almost right away. Then it held perfectly still for a second while the Old Man kept on stirring, like Pop-Pop making orzo soup.


A second later, the whole thing reversed direction, flowing back into the cave and toward the middle of the island. Which I guess was what he meant by downstream. It was also going at a much slower pace. One that we could easily walk in.


“Impressive, huh?” Proteus said, and gestured for us to go ahead. “Right this way. It’s perfectly safe. Just follow the river to the tower. That’s where you’ll find the helm, which of course you’ll want before you continue on to the rest.”


“So you know about all that,” I said.


“Sonny, I know 
way
 more than you realize,” Proteus told me. “Remember, I’m here as a favor to Zeus.”


“In that case, how do a helmet and an apple help me get rid of a Cyclops?” I asked.


Proteus kept stirring the water while he talked, and it kept running into that cave, in the direction we had to go.


“You need to pay closer attention,” he told me. “Sometimes it’s about the questions you ask, not the answers you get.”


I took a breath and tried to be patient. With Dingus still back there in the agora, I didn’t really know 
how
 much time we had. I just knew we needed to hurry.


“So…,” I said. “What questions 
should
 I be asking?”


“Not that one,” Proteus said. “Why don’t you give it a think while you’re here? And just remember to say goodbye on your way out. Maybe it will be clearer then.”


What was it with all these Greek gods? It was like direct answers hadn’t been invented yet.


“We have to keep moving,” Margaríta said. Egan had already disappeared ahead of us, into the dark of the cave.


I was starting to wonder if Proteus knew as much as he said he did. Then again, the guy had just reversed a river with one stir of his trident. He obviously had some kind of skills. Maybe he had some answers for me, too.


Now I just had to figure out the right questions.






OceanofPDF.com

















37


Stadium of the Gods


Once we waded past the mouth of the cave, I could see a circle of light at the opposite end. That helped. At least we knew where to go from here.


“HELLO?” Egan shouted.


Hello… hello… hello… hello…
, the cave echoed back.


“Egan!” Margaríta said. “You need to rest your mouth. We don’t know what’s waiting for us on the other side of this tunnel.”


“He sure is a pain for a little human,” Hermes said, floating alongside me while I worked to keep up with Margaríta and not trip over any river rocks.


Luckily, it didn’t take long to get most of the way through. But as we came close to the end of the tunnel, the water around my feet slowed down. Then for a second, it went perfectly still.


“What’s going on?” Egan asked.


“Maybe Proteus got tired of stirring,” Margaríta said. And just then, the current reversed, back to the way it had been before. I figured Margaríta was right. Proteus hadn’t given us enough time to get through.


Already, the water was rising past my knees and picking up speed in the direction we 
didn’t
 want to go. We were fighting just to make it the last twenty feet or so.


Egan made it out first somehow and jumped onto the riverbank just outside the cave. “You’d 
better hurry!” he shouted, looking over his shoulder. “There’s more river on the way.”


Like I didn’t already know that. The water was up to my waist now and the current was at least as strong as I was. Any second, I was going to get washed back to that beach.


“Stay to the side,” Margaríta said. “And take my hand!”


She reached out and yanked me upstream. I’d lost track of Hermes, but he was the one person I didn’t have to worry about.


“Almost there!” Margaríta yelled over the sound of rapids echoing in the cave. The water splooshed over my head. My feet left the ground. I could feel Margaríta pulling me in one direction while the river tried to pull me in the other. It was like a tug-of-war, and I was the rope.


I couldn’t see anything. I couldn’t even hear anything besides rushing water. But I felt one more hard tug on my arm and broke the surface, 
gasping for air. Margaríta locked her arm around mine, and we both crawled and dragged ourselves the rest of the way onto the rocky bank next to Egan.


“That was close!” he said.


“Welcome to the Stadium of the Gods,” Hermes said, and I got my first real look around.


The only thing I could say was—“Wow.”


It really 
was
 a good name for this place. The whole middle of the island was like one giant bowl. And I mean 
giant
. Like the Astrodome, times ten.


“There’s the tower,” Margaríta said, pointing off to the left. “Proteus was right. The river seems to lead right to it.”


“This place is huge!” Egan said, and took a deep breath just before Margaríta clapped a hand over his mouth.


“No more echoes,” she said. “We go quietly here. Understand?”


Egan looked at her with wide eyes and nodded until she took her hand away.












“Well, now I’m scared,” he said.


“You wanted to come along,” Margaríta told him, looking at the terrain, left and right. “So come along.”


At least we knew which way to go.


For now, anyway.






OceanofPDF.com

















38


Tower Power


We worked our way across the land toward that tower. I didn’t see anything that looked like a helmet over there, but then again, I couldn’t see much. The tower was maybe seven stories high and solid stone, except for a doorway at the bottom and some kind of windows at the top.


I wondered if Zeus was watching, and if we were filling up that book of his while we did this. Hopefully, it would all be over soon. I was tired, hungry, 
and super worried about everyone we’d left back in Andino.


As we got closer, I could see someone standing in the tower’s ground-floor entrance.


“Is that…?” Hermes said, and floated on ahead.


“Hey, Hermes!” the girl called out. She looked maybe eighteen, wearing Greek-god-type clothes instead of the Earth clothes Hermes went around in.


“What are you doing here?” Hermes asked. “I’ve got this covered.”


“Buzz off, little brother,” she said. “I don’t answer to you.”


“I’m going to tell Dad.”


“Who do you think sent me?” She rolled her eyes. “You’re such a baby.”


“I’m four thousand years old!” Hermes said.


“Ehh,” she said, like that was nothing. Then she looked right at me. “Hi, Nick. Nice to meet you. I’m Athena.”


I’d heard that name before, too. She’s who Athens is named for, in Greece 
and
 in Ohio.


She’s also the goddess of wisdom. I knew that from Pop-Pop’s homeschooling. It seemed like a good sign. Maybe she was about to lay some useful wisdom on us.


“Nice to meet you,” I said. “I don’t suppose you have a helmet for me.”


“Well, yes and no,” she said.


“Who are you talking to?” Margaríta asked. So I guess they couldn’t see Athena any more than they could see Hermes.


“If I told you it was Athena, would you believe me?” I asked Margaríta.


She just shrugged. She wasn’t the type to sweat the little stuff. Or the big stuff, actually. I’d never met anyone braver than her.


“Nick, what you want is in there,” Athena said, pointing through the door of the tower. “But you’ll have to choose wisely. You’ll only have one chance to select the right helmet. Do you understand?”


“Not really,” I said. “How will I know which one?”


“Your friends can help,” Athena said, but then 
held up a hand when Hermes tried to float past her. “Not you, little brother.”


“What are you, some kind of cosmic security guard?” Hermes asked.


“Basically, yes,” Athena said. “Dad didn’t want you giving too much away. Go ahead, Nick. You and your friends are welcome inside.”


“But what am I supposed to do?” I asked. “How do I figure out which one to take?”


“By using your biggest muscle,” she said.


“Um, have you looked at me?” I asked. “I’m not exactly the muscle type.”


“She means your brain,” Hermes said before Athena elbowed him in the side. “Ouch!”


“Hermes is right,” she said. “Some battles need to be fought, but others needs to be 
thought
.”


I guess that’s why she’s the goddess of wisdom. Still, something told me it couldn’t be just that easy.


“You’ve got this!” Hermes said. “And hey, try to have some fun in there, too, if you can.”


“You’re ridiculous,” Athena told him as I 
motioned for Margaríta and Egan to follow me inside.


“
You’re
 ridiculous,” Hermes shot back. But by then I wasn’t thinking about him. I was trying to figure out this tower puzzle. Or whatever it was.


Inside, the place looked empty. There was a cobblestone floor and a long, long spiral staircase winding up toward the top. There was no railing or banister, either. One false move on that staircase and it was going to be a long (but quick and deadly) trip back to the bottom.


“I think we need to go up there,” I said. It looked like there was some kind of room at the top. I guessed that was where the helmets were.


As Margaríta and I started up, Egan lagged behind.


“Hey, hang on!” Egan said. “These stairs have letters!”


“Huh?” I looked back, and he was pointing at the bottom step in front of him.


“It’s the alphabet,” he said.


Sure enough, when I looked close, I could see them. There was one tiny Greek letter carved into each step.


“See?” Egan said. “The first one is 
alpha
…” He stepped up. “Then 
beta
…”


“Would you hurry up?” Margaríta asked. She was already way ahead of us.


“And then…” Egan stopped on the third step. “Hey! Where’s 
gamma
?”


“Where’s 
what
?” I asked.


“
Gamma!
” he said. “The third letter of the alphabet. It’s missing. It just goes 
alpha, beta
, then 
delta.
”


“Fascinating,” Margaríta said, and kept climbing. I figured it was better to keep up with her than stick with Egan, so I kept climbing, too.












Egan still took his time, but at least he was coming. And he recited the letters as he came, step by step, all the way to the end of the alphabet.


“… 
phi, chi, psi, omega!
” he said. And then, “Hey!”


“What is it now, Egan?” Margaríta asked.


“It starts over here, but there’s no 
alpha
 this time,” he said. “It just goes straight to 
beta
.”


Even I knew 
alpha
 was the first letter of the Greek alphabet. Which I guess is why it’s called the ALPHAbet.


“Is this some kind of clue?” I asked. Now I was starting to wonder if Egan was onto something. “Keep going! And keep reading!” I told him.


So I let Egan do the talking now, as he kept climbing and reciting, all the way up.


The stairs wound around and around the inside of that tower enough to get through the alphabet five times. And each time, one letter was missing: 
gamma, alpha, delta, alpha
 again, and then 
epsilon
.


“Maybe it’s some kind of code,” I said once we’d 
come to a door at the top of the stairs. “The third, first, fourth, first, and fifth letters are missing.”


“
Gamma, alpha, delta, alpha, epsilon
,” Margaríta said. “That doesn’t spell anything.”


“No, but maybe it’s more like three, one, four, one, five—hey!” I said. Because that’s when I realized what the code was. “That’s pi!” I said.


Pi
 is another letter in the Greek alphabet, but it’s also a number. And the first five digits are 3.1415. I knew that from Pop-Pop, too. (Thanks, Pop-Pop!)


So the code was for pi. But what did it mean? I wasn’t sure, but it felt like I was using my brain, anyway. Just like Athena told me to do.


At the top of that huge spiral staircase, we’d come to a big wooden door. Margaríta pushed it open and we followed her into a round room. The one with the windows I’d seen from down below.


Hanging on the wall, from the left of the door all the way around that room, were two dozen identical helmets.


Each helmet had a letter carved into the stone 
wall underneath. They were the same letters we’d seen on the way up, in Greek alphabetical order.


I walked over to the one marked with 
pi
.


“It has to be this one, right?” I asked.


“If you say it is, then it is,” Egan said, reaching for it. “You’re Just Nick, after all!”


“Egan, no!” I shouted. “We only get one chance—”


Too late. He’d already pulled it off the wall.


At the same time, some kind of fizzing sound filled the air. All the other helmets faded out of sight like a bunch of holograms. Which only left us the one in Egan’s hand. I sure hoped it was right.


When I put the helmet on my head, it wobbled around, way too big for me. Other than that, I didn’t feel a thing. It seemed like nothing happened.


But then I saw Egan’s eyes go wide, and then Margaríta’s, too.


“So it’s true!” Margaríta said. She was staring at me like I wasn’t even there. “The helm of invisibility.”


“You can’t see me?” I asked. This was weird, since 
I was already half invisible to my own eyes. But now I was completely invisible to theirs.


“Amazing,” Egan said, as if I had taken it off again and come back into view. “Can I try—”


Margaríta knocked his hand away.


“That’s not for you,” she said. “Besides, we don’t have time for child’s play.”


“So now what?” Egan said.


“Ogre, flower, apple, helm,” I said. “If we can find an apple of some kind, then we can head back to Andino.”


“Okay, but where?” Egan asked.


“There.”
 Margaríta pointed out one of the tower windows, off to the north. And when I looked, I saw exactly where she meant.


From up here in Athena’s tower, we could see all the way across the Stadium of the Gods. There was a patch of dense forest spread out in front of us, and on the far side of that, a clearing with the biggest, tallest tree of them all.


And in the branches of that tree, I could see 
the sun catching some kind of little gold balls on its branches. They all sparkled like Christmas ornaments.


“Are those…?” I said.


“Golden apples,” Egan said. “I’ve heard of these. 
Of course
.”


Maybe that was why this helmet was kept in a tower—so we could see where to go next. After all, Zeus kept saying that everything in this quest was for a reason.


Even if I didn’t know what it was yet.






OceanofPDF.com

















39


An Apple a Day


Athena and Hermes both looked happy when they saw me come down with that helmet.


“I knew you could do it,” Athena said. “And I hope you used that altitude to figure out where to go next.”


“Yep,” I said, pointing toward the woods. “One apple and then we’re good to go.”


“Well, now that you’re done here, I’ll be on my way,” she said.


“That’s it?” Hermes said. “That’s your only job?”


“I’m not a babysitter,” she said. “I’m a Greek goddess.”


“And I’m a Greek god!” Hermes said.


“And yet here you stay, while I head home to Olympus,” she said. She was definitely the older sister in this situation. “For all I care, you can throw yourself at that six-headed beast as much as you like.”


“He’ll be fine. He has the helmet,” Hermes said. “That’s the whole point of your silly tower.”


“
What six-headed beast?
” I asked.


“Ladon?” Egan asked. “Are you talking about 
Ladon
?”


That got their attention, anyway. “How does he know that?” Athena asked.


“He’s obsessed,” Hermes said. “What can I say? This prophecy has fans.”


“Who’s Ladon?” I asked. I was talking to Hermes and Athena, but since Egan couldn’t see them, he thought I was talking to him.


“Just the ugliest creature in the known world,” 
Egan said. “Six heads. That’s twelve fangs in all. Enough poison to kill an army.”


“And he’s over that way?” I asked, pointing in the direction we had to go.


“He guards the apples,” Athena said. “Hold tight to that helmet. It will serve you well.”


“Um… thanks?” I said, but she was already gone. I didn’t even see her disappear. I guess that was how the Greek gods rolled around here.


“Finally!” Hermes said. “My sister is such a pain in the butt, isn’t she?”


I wasn’t so sure, though. Getting the helm of invisibility out of Athena’s tower was the easiest thing I’d had to do so far.


“Let’s keep moving,” Margaríta said. “It shouldn’t take too long to get there.”


And I thought—
Yeah, that’s what I’m afraid of.


Sure enough, the hike through the woods went way too fast. Pretty soon, I could see little gold glints of light where those apples were growing in the tree we needed to reach.


Then suddenly, Margaríta put up a hand to stop us where we were.


She turned around slowly with a finger to her lips. “We’re in luck,” she whispered. “Ladon’s sleeping. But you’d best put that helmet on now.”


“We’ll wait here,” Egan said.


And when I looked toward the tree, I got my first view of Ladon, the six-headed serpent. His black, scaly dragon body was curled up at the base of the tree, where his six heads, on six long necks, were all snoring away. Each head had a pair of white viperlike fangs the size of my arms.


“Go carefully,” Hermes said. “I’ve heard that at least three of those six heads are light sleepers.”


In other words, for this one, I was on my own.






OceanofPDF.com

















40


Six Heads Aren’t Always Better Than One


I tiptoed toward the tree, making sure to stay as far from that pile of sleeping serpent heads as I could. The trick was not waking anyone up, because something told me if you disturbed one of those heads, you disturbed all of them. And then I was going to be six kinds of serpent snack.


Eyes on the prize, Andino
, I told myself. And 
the 
prize
 was one of those shiny gold apples hanging up in the branches. In fact, I’d already spotted the lowest-hanging fruit. Now I just had to get up to it.


Egan and Margaríta kept their distance, watching from behind some bushes. Or at least watching my footsteps make a trail in the dirt. Since I had my helmet back on, they couldn’t actually see me.


Hermes was floating just behind them, not that they knew that, either.


I made my way around the back of the tree. Working as quietly as I could, I pulled myself up to the first branch and stopped again. I even lifted off my helmet for a second, so the others could see where I was. Egan waved and smiled, like he was loving every second of this. Margaríta had her eyes on Ladon and just motioned for me to keep going. I guess the coast was still clear.


So far, so good.


From there, I moved in slow motion, up 
through the branches of that tree. I wanted to hurry, but I couldn’t risk waking Ladon up from his power nap.


Finally, I was high enough to reach the apple I had my eye on. This part was going way better than I expected. I put my fingers around that solid-gold piece of fruit and pulled it free. It was heavier than a regular apple, so I shoved it in my pocket right away for safekeeping.


I didn’t waste any time, either. I checked on Ladon real quick and then started back down the way I’d come. I reached the branch below on tiptoes, then shimmied a little lower to the next one down. And just when I was starting to think I might be home free—


“AH-CHOO!”


Someone sneezed. I looked over and saw Egan, frozen with a hand over his nose. Margaríta was looking at him like she wanted to feed him to Ladon. But the damage was done.








All six of those serpent heads sprang into action. They twisted and writhed in every possible direction, like a bowl of killer spaghetti coming to life.


I froze. Those heads were all over the tree now, looking for the invisible intruder. Could they smell me?


Before I even saw it coming, one head reared on its long neck and whipped out in my direction. 
GNASH!
 I felt the breeze on my face when those fangs snapped shut, way too close for comfort.


And I knew it was time to go to plan B. Also known as the quickest way out of that tree. Also known as 
gravity
.


So I jumped.


It felt like passing through a living net of giant snakes before I hit the ground. At least the dirt and moss gave me a soft landing, and I rolled to a quick stop.


Now it took every bit of spine I had to stay perfectly still and not run away. Ladon’s heads were all 
swerving and dodging and checking out the tree, looking for the intruder. I figured my best bet was to stay put until they went back to sleep. Which could be hours, for all I knew. But as long as they couldn’t see me, I still had a chance.


Except then, one of those six heads turned around and stopped moving. As far as I could tell, it seemed to be looking 
right at me
.


That’s when I spotted Margaríta and Egan again. Egan was waving and Margaríta was pointing at something on the ground next to me.


My helmet!
 I guess it rolled off when I hit the dirt. Too bad that thing didn’t come in a smaller size, but I couldn’t worry about that now. Because I didn’t just have 
one
 serpent head with poison dripping out of its fangs looking my way anymore. Now I had two.


And then… three.


Actually, make that four.


I didn’t wait for five and six. I took my chances 
while I still could. A second later, I was grabbing that helmet and crawling… rolling… running… and diving out of there. I’m not really sure how I covered so much ground so fast. I just know I heard a couple of giant serpent heads thudding into the earth behind me, and then a whole lot of hissing and gnashing fangs while we ran out of there as fast as humanly possible.


Maybe Zeus was looking out for me after all. Because I was still alive. And I still had the helmet 
and
 that apple in my pocket.


“You did it!” Hermes said, flying ahead of me. “Not bad for a mortal!”


“That was close!” Egan said.


“Yeah, because of 
you
!” Margaríta told him. “Did you really need to sneeze at 
that
 moment?”


“I’m sorry! It’s so dusty here!” Egan said, and looked at me. “Besides, I knew you’d be okay, Just Nick.”


“Yes, well, let’s keep moving,” Margaríta said, 
looking up through the trees. “We need to get back to the boat.”


That all sounded good to me. We’d gotten what we came for.


It was time to leave the Stadium of the Gods behind.






OceanofPDF.com

















41


Back to the Beach, Again


It was easy to see our way back to the river and, from there, back to the cave entrance. The water was even flowing in the direction we needed it to flow now.


The only problem was, it was flowing 
really
 fast. I don’t know if they did much whitewater rafting in ancient Greece, but even if they did, we were still one raft short.


“Just keep your feet out in front of you,” Margaríta said. “Hands like this.” I couldn’t help noticing 
she looked like a dead body when she crossed her hands over her chest.


“Anything else?” I asked.


“Yes,” Margaríta said. “Watch where you’re going. And whatever you do, hold on to that helmet. We don’t want to have come all this way for nothing.”


“Good point.”


Margaríta went first, and Egan went right after her. I swear, that little kid wasn’t afraid of anything. The only reason I got in as fast as I did was because I didn’t want to get left behind.


I held the helmet against my chest, like a bag of groceries. Then I waded in, up to my knees before the current took me. Suddenly, I 
was
 the raft, and I was whitewater racing through a dark tunnel, just hoping I made it out the other side without getting smashed against the rocks like a shipwreck.


Sure enough—“OUCH!”—my foot hit something hard, and my whole body spun around in the water until I was heading downstream, headfirst. Which meant I 
still
 couldn’t see where I was going.


The current rose, and fell, and washed over me. And then, sooner than I expected, it spit me back out onto the beach where we’d started. Before I knew which way was up, Proteus was plucking me out of the river like a bear catching a salmon.


He’d done the same for Margaríta and Egan, who were both panting in the sand now. Hermes was way ahead of us, of course. He was already on the deck of our boat, catching some rays.


“That was amazing!” Egan said. “Can we do it again?”


“No way!” I said.


“There was nothing to worry about,” Proteus said. “I kept the water high enough that you were perfectly safe. All you had to do was ride my current and you’d be fine.”


I started to say, “Tell that to my aching foot…” But then another thought jumped into my head. All that river current going back and forth, and the way Proteus could make it happen, had given me an idea. Maybe the best idea I’d had in a long time.


“Actually,” I said, “I think I figured out what I need to ask you now.”


“Yes?” Proteus said.


But I wasn’t so sure I wanted to say it out loud. Not in front of Egan. He was a nice-enough kid, but he also had the biggest mouth in ancient Greece. It just seemed safer to keep this part to myself.


So I whispered my question in Proteus’s ear. Well, not quite a question. More like asking a favor.


He whispered back. I nodded and whispered again. And when I did, Proteus got this huge smile on his face, like Zeus did when I figured stuff out for myself.


“What did you ask him?” Egan asked.


“Just get on the boat,” Margaríta told him. I think she knew where I was coming from right now. So while we shoved off from that beach, Proteus gave a wave, slipped down into the water, and disappeared.


“Where’s he going? What’s happening?” Egan asked. “Did you make a plan? What is it?”


“The plan is to get back to Andino,” I said.


“And then what?” he asked while Margaríta started navigating us out of there.


“Then we cross our fingers and hope for the best,” I said.






OceanofPDF.com

















42


The Odd at Sea


“I think I know what you’re up to,” Hermes said. “And I like it. I like it a lot.”


“Thanks,” I said with my back to the others.


“Who knows? It might even work,” he said.


“Might?” I said. I was kind of hoping for a little more than that. Hermes just shrugged like he had no idea what it was like to be… you know. Mortal.


Meanwhile, the rest of us all cried and blubbered our way through that wall of mist again. But at least we knew it wouldn’t last.


The only problem was, when we came out the other side, the weather had changed. Instead of blue sky, we had dark clouds moving in. Not only that, but they were blowing in from the east 
and
 the west.


“What in the world?” Margaríta looked up and side to side, taking it in. “This is going to be close.”


“Can we go any faster?” I asked once we’d hit the open water.


“Faster than the wind?” Margaríta asked.


“I guess not,” I said.


In fact, the wind was blowing in two directions, too. The temperature was dropping and the ocean was getting choppier by the second. If I’d had anything in my stomach, it would have come up.


“You should hang on,” Hermes said. He was looking at the sky like he was reading a newspaper.


“What is it?” I asked. But before he could answer, Margaríta yelled out.


“Here it comes!”


When I looked, both of those weather fronts had covered an impossible amount of distance in 
the last few seconds. Straight overhead, two lines of black clouds literally collided as we watched.


Thunder exploded from in front of us 
and
 behind us. Rain started to fall, too. 
Hard.
 The only time I’d seen it come down that hard, and that fast, was back home on the day Zeus and Hermes first came to Athens.


This was definitely Zeus’s doing.


But it wasn’t 
just
 Zeus.


“Something strange is going on here!” Hermes shouted.


“No kidding!” I yelled. Multiple branches of lightning were streaking across the sky—not down toward earth, but toward each other. I saw bright blue and white lights flashing like fireworks as they collided. All while the rain came down in Zeus-sized buckets.


The boat was rocking hard, too. Swells were hitting us from both sides, and I lost my footing on the next one. When I fell back, I cracked my head on the rail and then hit the deck.


“Both of you, tie yourself in!” Margaríta shouted.


That sounded like a good idea to me.


“I can help!” Egan yelled, and moved to the back where she was.


“Do as I say!” she shouted at him.


Mostly, I was busy tying the nearest rope around my waist and securing the other end to the mast. I didn’t know the first thing about knots, but it was better than nothing.


“WATCH OUT THERE!” Margaríta shouted.


When I looked up, she was gone. All I saw was Egan now, looking over the rail.


“MARGARÍTA!” he yelled.


I started to run that way, but—OOMPH! The rope around my waist pulled me back. My butt hit the deck again while the boat tossed over another swell.


By the time I got on my feet with my hands on the rail, I could see her. Margaríta was getting tossed in those waves, farther away from us by the second.


My heart exploded in my chest. All I could do 
was watch as that double storm pushed our boat in one direction and her in another.


The whole time, Hermes was looking back and forth, from one side of the sky to the other, like he was watching some kind of giant tennis match.


“What happened?” I yelled to Egan, pulling my way along the rail toward him.


“She fell in!” he yelled back.


“Yeah, no kidding!” I shouted. “How do we turn this around to go get her?”


“I don’t know!” Egan said.


“I thought you knew how to sail!”


“I just said that so I could come along!” he answered.


It took a second to spot Hermes, because he was hovering about ten feet above the deck now, still watching the sky.


“What do we do?” I yelled up. “Help us!”


“Something’s happening!” he said back.


“Well, 
yeah
, but what?” I screamed. When I looked over the rail again, Margaríta was nearly out 
of sight. Not to mention, life jackets were about two thousand years from being invented. Good thing she was a strong swimmer. But I felt about as powerless as I had since I got to this place.


“Here we go!” Hermes said. I didn’t know what that meant, either, but when the next explosion of lightning went off, it felt closer than ever.


Because it was. This time, it came from somewhere inside my head.


SKA-BLAM!


And by the time I’d figured out what was happening, I was already gone.






OceanofPDF.com

















43


Look Who’s Here


I was back in Zeus’s office again. But we weren’t alone.


Zeus was sitting across from me. Hermes was standing next to him. And next to Hermes was…


“Egan?” I said. “What are you doing here?”


A lady I’d never seen before was there, too. She was pacing back and forth behind us, making me even more nervous than I already was. I felt like we’d been called to the principal’s office.


“Don’t you start, Zeus,” the lady was saying. “I’ve had just about enough from you today.”


“Enough from me?” Zeus shot back. “You’re the one with the spy!”


“Not the only one!” the lady said.


I couldn’t tell if they were talking about Hermes, or Egan, or what. Egan was just staring straight ahead, like I wasn’t even there. And Hermes looked like he was loving every second of this.


“You can drop the disguise,” Zeus said to Egan. “We’ve figured you out.”


Egan rolled his eyes. “What-ev-er,” he said in a voice I didn’t recognize, just before he morphed into someone I’d never seen before. Whoever she was, she looked about Egan’s age, maybe eight.


And she looked super mad, too.


“Nick, meet Eris,” Zeus said. “Goddess of discord.”


“And my half sister,” Hermes explained. “I knew there was 
something
 about you.”












Eris stuck her tongue out at Hermes. “Buzz off, wing boy,” she snapped. “I was just helping my mother, the same way you were helping our dad.”


“Yeah, by 
cheating
,” he said.


“Takes one to know one,” she said.


“Enough!” Zeus said.


It looked like I’d gotten myself into the middle of a little family feud. And by little, I mean 
not little at all
. More like the kind of feud Greek gods have.


“Nick, this is my wife, Hera,” Zeus said. “Eris, also known as 
Egan
—”


“Cool your jets,” Eris interrupted. “The real Egan’s out on a boat with his parents. It’s not like I ate him or something.”


“—has been sabotaging you all along,” Zeus said, finishing his thought. Then he looked at Hera. “And so has her mother.”


“Is that what those two storms were?” I asked, starting to put some more pieces together.


Hermes nodded to answer my question. “I think my stepmom was trying to keep you from making it back to Andino with one storm, and my dad was trying to stop her from doing it with another,” he said under his breath. I didn’t usually see Hermes hang back like this, but after those dueling storms, I 
couldn’t blame him. Zeus and Hera were talking at the same time now, and just to each other.


“We distinctly agreed—”


“Oh, since when does that mean anything—”


“I certainly don’t hope you expect—”


“I’d say the same thing—”


So I looked over at Eris instead.


“Are you the reason Margaríta went overboard?” I asked. “You pushed her, didn’t you?”


Eris scowled and looked at her nails. Which I think was my answer. In fact, now that I thought about it, “Egan” had been trying to sabotage me all along, hadn’t he?












And now this. Egan—or I guess, Eris—had been working for Hera the whole time. Now she just sat there ignoring me while her parents kept on arguing.


“Listen, if you want to play by the rules, fine,” Hera said to Zeus. “And if not? 
Fine.
 I can match you, move for move, and the bet remains the same. This isn’t over.”


“You bet your immortal patootie it’s not,” Zeus shot back.


“What are they talking about?” I asked Hermes.


He jerked his head toward the door. “Come on. Let’s take a walk,” he said.


“See you later, 
Nick
,” Eris said, just before Hermes waved a hand and tipped her chair over, with Eris right in it. “HEY!”


This explained so much.






OceanofPDF.com

















44


Let Me Get This Straight


Outside the RV, I walked up the street right away, in case Pop-Pop looked out the window and wondered why I was talking to myself in front of the house.


“What was all that?” I asked.


“It’s kind of a bet between my dad and Hera,” Hermes said. “They pick a prophecy and then challenge each other to see if one of them can make it happen.”


“And Zeus bet on me?” I asked.


“Let’s just say he likes his challenges big,” Hermes said. “No offense.”


I was going to say 
none taken
, but that wasn’t completely true.


“What are they betting for?” I asked.


“Fun?” Hermes said. “When you’re the immortal and supreme ruler of the cosmos, it can get a little dull after a while. So we come up with ways of entertaining ourselves.”


“I can’t believe this,” I said, starting to pace. “What am I? Some kind of video game to him?”


“Well, sort of,” Hermes admitted. “But dude, you’re also incredibly lucky it happened. Otherwise, the prophecy never would have come to light, and you probably would have just faded away without even knowing it was happening.”


I couldn’t argue with that, even if I wanted to. It was too much to think about all at once. I needed to choose my battles, literally.


At least I knew I wasn’t going to miss anything inside the quest. Yes, Margaríta was in deep trouble, 
but even that was on hold until I went back. Which I definitely had to do.


“So what happens now?” I asked.


“They’re not going to let me go back.” Hermes held up the big prophecy book. I hadn’t even seen him take it out of the RV. But then again, he’s the god of thieves. “I’m pretty much finished.”


“I don’t mean what happens to 
you
!” I said. “I mean, what happens to me?”


“Oh!” he said. “You can definitely go back, if you want.”


Of course I wanted to go back. I mean, mostly, I wished this wasn’t happening. But the fact was, Margaríta never would have gotten pushed off that boat if she hadn’t been there helping me in the first place.


“So then what are we waiting for?” I asked. “I mean, I don’t know the first thing about sailing, much less how to turn that boat around. But I have to try.”


Hermes reached out, and I thought he was 
about to zap me back on the spot. Instead, he just put a hand on my shoulder.


“I know this is going to sound weird coming from me,” he said. “But you need to chill out. We know what we’re doing, even if it doesn’t look like it.”


“You’re right,” I said. “It doesn’t look like it.”


“Don’t be so sure,” he said, and pointed past me, back toward my house. “Take a look.”


When I did, I saw Daisy and her mom pulling into our driveway. I’d completely forgotten they were coming to pick me up. But now I understood.


“You ready for a little sailing lesson?” Hermes asked.






OceanofPDF.com

















45


Come Sail Away


This wasn’t just a chance to hang out with Daisy. This was happening for a reason. Just like everything else.


Zeus was right. Again.


When I got to my front porch, Daisy was reaching up to ring the bell.


“Hey,” I said, and she jumped. “Sorry!”


“You scared me,” she said, but she laughed, too. “Ready to go?”


“Give me one second,” I said. I just needed to duck inside, tell Pop-Pop where I was headed, and watch him smile from ear to ear about me going sailing with Daisy. That part was easy.


Now came the hard part—learning how to sail in record time…


… getting Margaríta back on that boat…


… sailing to Andino…


… and of course, driving a raging Cyclops out of town without getting myself or someone else turned into mulch.


Sure. That was all.


Meanwhile, Hermes was waiting in the back seat of Mrs. Rhee’s car when I got in.


“I know, I know,” he said. “I could fly, but where’s the fun in that?”


I just shrugged, since I wasn’t going to answer him with Daisy and Mrs. Rhee right there. Instead, I waited until we got to Lake Snowden. Mrs. Rhee was coaching the OU team that afternoon, so Daisy 
and I got to take the Rhees’ little sailboat out by ourselves.


And by ourselves, I mean Daisy, me, and Hermes.


Which is when I told her everything.


“So… Hermes is here right now?” she asked.


We were out on the lake by now, and I turned and looked at Hermes, airstreaming over the water alongside us.


“Can’t you just show yourself to her?” I asked him.


“I’m in enough hot water with Dad as it is,” Hermes said. “I can’t push it.”


“You’re kidding, right?” I said. “You’re the one who told me I’d never have any fun if I didn’t start breaking some rules.”


Hermes grinned. “So you have been listening,” he said. “Okay, fine.”


And even though it seemed like nothing changed, Daisy suddenly fell off her seat.


“What the…?” she said, looking right at him now.


“Surprise!” Hermes said. “Don’t tell my dad.”


And when she looked at me, her eyes got even wider. “Nick!” she said. “You’re… you’re…” She reached out like I might be made of fog. “You’re almost invisible!”


“So you can see that now, too,” I said. “This is why I need to finish what I started.”


“And we don’t have much time,” Hermes said. “So, can we get on with this?”


A few minutes later, Daisy had navigated us to the middle of Lake Snowden with lots of room to maneuver. Then she showed me something called a figure-eight rescue.


“Okay, so once you’re three or four boat lengths away from the person in the water, you want to drop the mainsail,” Daisy said.


She showed me how to turn, and then turn again, making a figure eight until the person would be at ninety degrees from the boat. It made sense as she was saying it, but there were a lot of steps.


“I’m never going to remember all this,” I said.


“Sure you will,” Daisy said, raising the mainsail back to its original position. “You just need some practice.”


“Yeah,” I said, “but—”


The next thing I heard was a splash. And when I looked, I found out that I was already alone on the boat.












“WHAT ARE YOU DOING?” I said.


“The backstroke!” Daisy yelled back while the boat kept on going. Mrs. Rhee made us wear life jackets, which was more than Margaríta had, but Daisy looked like she knew what she was doing, too.


“You got this,” Hermes said, fluttering on an air current next to me. “Give it a shot.”


I tried to concentrate on what Daisy had just taught me. It started with loosening the sail. That much I remembered.


“Now what?” I yelled, but Daisy couldn’t hear me.


“Tack to the side,” Hermes said. “Turn, and turn again. Figure eight, remember?”


It wasn’t pretty, and it wasn’t as quick as I wanted it to be, but a few minutes later, I was actually pulling Daisy back on board.


I couldn’t believe I’d just done that.


“Awesome!” she said, smiling and giving me a wet fist bump. “You want to try that again?”


“Yeah, maybe so,” I said. “Just once more.”


“Mmm, I don’t think so,” Hermes said. “We have 
to make this quick, or Dad and Hera are going to figure out what I’m up to. Let’s get you through this next part while it’s all fresh in your memory.”


He had a point. The longer I waited to do this, the more likely I’d forget what to do. I wasn’t going to argue.


“I’ll be right back,” I told Daisy. “You probably won’t even know I’m gone.”


“Wait, what?” she said. “You’re leaving?”


“Sort of,” I said. “It’s more like—”


“Yeah, yeah, yeah, see you in a second,” Hermes said. Then he hovered in, gave me one hard poke in the forehead, and off I went.






OceanofPDF.com

















46


Hello and Goodbye


I was back on the other boat. Alone. No Hermes. No Egan. No Margaríta.


But also, no storm.


There were no dueling weather fronts above my head anymore. Just a last few patches of clouds in a blue sky. I guess Zeus and Hera had put their argument on pause. That was a relief, anyway.


Meanwhile, I could see Margaríta about a hundred yards off, floating on her back and waving at 
me. I got right to it before I could forget more than I already had.


Loosen the sail? Check!


Grab the steering rudders? Check!


Try about eight times to get that boat turned in the right direction before I finally got it done? Check!


I didn’t get nearly as close to Margaríta as I’d gotten to Daisy, but Margaríta met me halfway by swimming in my direction. Good enough!


“That was the oddest storm I’ve ever seen,” she said, dripping on the deck. “But where’s Egan? I’m going to throttle him. We never should have brought that boy with us.”


“Actually, we didn’t bring Egan,” I said. “We brought Eris. And she’s gone now.”


I guess in a world where stuff like this happened all the time, that wasn’t so far-fetched for Margaríta. She just thought about it for a second, nodded, and started steering us toward Andino’s harbor again.


That’s when Proteus popped up out of the water, cruising alongside the boat.


“That storm was most strange,” he said.


“It’s a long story,” I told him.


That’s also when I told Margaríta my whole plan for what came next. Now that Egan wasn’t around, I could speak freely.


Not to mention—rolling into Andino harbor with Margaríta, a golden apple, an invisibility helmet, and a sea god escort at our side? 
That
 was a pretty cool feeling.


Konstantinos met us at the docks. What was left of them, anyway. His eyes went wide when he saw Proteus, and even wider when I gave him the extra-fast version of everything he’d missed.


“You’ve come back just in time,” Konstantinos said. “Dingus did some real damage, but now he’s back at the roasting pits, eating the last of the goat we could scrape up for him.”


The docks were a wreck, and the 
main road through town was littered with debris, all the way up to the agora. That was where the smoke from the feeding pits was still rising up, and where we had to go next.












And when I say we, I mean just me and Proteus. Even if I didn’t know that yet.


“It looks as though you have everything you need now,” Margaríta said. “Good luck with the rest of it.”


“
Good luck?
” I asked.


“I have to be on my way,” Margaríta said. She was still on the deck of the boat, I noticed, and looking at Konstantinos. “With your permission, I’ll continue on for Athens today.”


“Of course,” he said. “You’ve done a hero’s work here. This boat is the least we can give you in thanks. We’ll provision you for the trip as well.”


“Wait,” I said. “You’re 
leaving
?”


“My family will be frantic about me,” she said. “I’ve stayed long enough. Good luck, Nick of New Athens. Or Just Nick. Or whoever you are.”


“Are you sure you can’t stay?” I asked.


“I have to go,” she said. “I’m sorry.”


The fact was, she’d already saved my butt in about twelve different ways. I couldn’t ask her for more than that.


But still, it seemed like I’d barely met her and now we had to say goodbye.


“Thank you,” I said. “For… 
everything
. I guess I’ll see you around, huh?”


“Probably not,” she said.


“Well, you never know,” I said.


Already, she’d set sail and was pulling out of the harbor. But when she looked back at me, it was just like looking into Daisy’s eyes.


“Goodbye, Just Nick,” she said.


“Good—” I said. Because that’s all I got out before it happened again.


SKA-BLAM!
 Flash! Goose bumps. And I was gone.


I didn’t even get to say 
bye
.






OceanofPDF.com

















47


A Day in the Sun












That was all the time Hermes gave me. Before I knew it, I was right back there on Daisy’s boat where I’d left it.


It was weirder than ever, going from looking at Margaríta to looking at Daisy, all in one quick flash.


“Did something just happen?” Daisy asked. “Did you go somewhere?”


Hermes was looking at the prophecy book and flashed me a thumbs-up. “Looks like you got things back on track,” he said. “Nice job.”


“Thanks,” I said.


“Now comes the really hard part,” he said, and my stomach dropped.


“Don’t remind me,” I said. “The whole point of the prophecy. Getting rid of Dingus.”


“Yeah, well, one thing at a time,” Hermes said. “I have to get this book back to the RV before Dad notices it’s gone. Nice meeting you, Daisy.”


“You too,” she said. “Really weird, but nice.”


“Nick, I’ll see you tonight. We still have one 
more thing to do before you go back,” Hermes said.


“What does that mean?” I asked, just as the wings on his shoes buzzed to life.


“Well, that would spoil the surprise, wouldn’t it?” he asked. Then, in a streak of gold light, he flew off in the direction of home.


Which left me and Daisy alone.


And by alone, this time I mean actually alone. So while she sailed us around the lake a few more times, I tried to catch her up on everything that had been happening.


After a while, though, I ran out of story and it got quiet again.


That’s when Daisy said, “Hey, Nick? Can I ask you something?”


“Sure,” I said. I thought it was going to be something about the quest.


“Why don’t you go to AMS?” she asked.


“Oh. That,” I said. “I’m actually supposed to start there this fall.”


“Really?” she said, like that might be a good thing.


“But to tell you the truth, I don’t want to go,” I said. “After my dad died, I just wanted to stay home. And I still do.”


Maybe that was a little less true, now that I knew Daisy. But I still hadn’t changed my mind. For one thing, Orson went to AMS, and I didn’t need any more of him in my life than I already had.


“I’m really sorry,” Daisy told me. “I didn’t know what to say to you and your mom after your dad died.”


“You knew who my dad was?” I asked.


“Of course,” she said. “I’ve been eating at Dino’s since forever. But you probably don’t want to talk about that. I’ll just shut up.”


“No,” I said. “I’m glad you asked. You’re the first person my age who ever said anything to me about it. A lot of people act like it never happened.”


“I can understand that,” she said. “Well, if you ever need to talk…”


And for the first time, it felt like Daisy and I were friends. Like, 
actually
 friends. I sure didn’t see that coming.


But then again, there were a lot of things I didn’t see coming these days.






OceanofPDF.com

















48


Not Another Disguise


When Daisy and her mom dropped me off at home, Zeus’s RV wasn’t parked in front of the house. I didn’t know what that meant, but I also didn’t have a chance to think about it. Pop-Pop was already waiting for me.


We’d both forgotten that tonight was the new-student orientation at Athens Middle School. Pop-Pop was going to take me over there while Mom worked.


“If we hurry, we can still make it,” Pop-Pop said. 
“You can tell me about your date with Daisy on the way there.”


“It wasn’t a date,” I said.


“Whatever you say, Nicodemus,” Pop-Pop said, like he knew better. Which he usually did, but not today.


At the school, it was me, a ton of incoming sixth graders, parents, and bunch of other kids who were acting as “school ambassadors.” They broke us up into groups and gave us a tour of the gym, the cafeteria, the library, and some classrooms.


This was the last thing I needed right now. But I wasn’t going to tell Pop-Pop that in the middle of the tour.


Next, they had a meeting for all the adults, so Pop-Pop and I split up. And I was just taking a drink of water in the hall, wondering how soon we could go, when I felt this long shadow fall over me.


I turned around and there was Orson. Like out of nowhere.


“What are 
you
 doing here?” he said. “I thought you were one of those homeschool geeks.”


And I thought, 
Yeah, right. Nice try, Hermes.
 Did he really think I was going to fall for this all over again?












“Nice try,” I told him.


Orson/Hermes stepped up and looked at me like a tree I was standing under. “What’s that supposed to mean?” he asked.


“It means… watch out!” I reached out and tickled him under the ribs. “Deedle-deedle-deedle!” I said, which is what Mom always does when she tries to tickle me.


“What the—ha ha! What?” Orson said.


Just before he punched me in the stomach.


All the air in me rushed out. I was on the hall floor now, clutching my middle, just trying to breathe.


“
That’s
 for the pitcher of water in my lap,” he said. “Once the school year starts, we’ll go from there.”


So I guess I was wrong about Hermes.


“WHAT IS THIS?” someone said. It was Pop-Pop, coming up the hall looking as steamed as I’d ever seen him.


“I’m okay,” I said, even though my stomach felt like Orson had left a fist-shaped dent there.


Pop-Pop was helping me off the floor. “Hey, Orson! Come back here!” he yelled, but Orson had already run away.


“His parents are going to hear about this,” Pop-Pop said. “This isn’t over.”


“Pop-Pop, please,” I said. “Just…”


“Just what?” he asked.


I thought I was going to say 
Just leave it alone
, but that’s not what came out.


“Just please don’t move back to San Diego,” I said. “I don’t want you to go. I want you to stay here with me and Mom.”






OceanofPDF.com

















49


I’ve Got Your Back


This prophecy wasn’t over by a long shot. Not yet. The truth was, if I didn’t complete the quest, then it wouldn’t matter where Pop-Pop lived. Because he and I wouldn’t even exist anymore. We’d just fade away, and Mom would have some 
other
 family to worry about.


But I couldn’t say any of that to Pop-Pop. So once we got back out to the car, I just stuck to the parts that 
didn’t
 sound made up.


“You should stay another year,” I said.


“You don’t need me,” Pop-Pop said. “It’s time to get back to life, don’t you think? A fresh start, like your mom said.”


“Yeah,” I told him, but only because that was how I was supposed to answer. I didn’t want him worrying about me. But I sure did want him to stay.


“Besides, I thought you two had an agreement,” he said. “About going here, to AMS, this fall.”


“Not an agreement,” I said. “More like a plan. But plans can change, right?”


“That’s true, too.”


We both knew that for sure. No matter how many plans you make, sometimes things change. Sometimes in ways you never, ever saw coming.


“I know it’s been a rough year,” Pop-Pop said. “But it’ll be good for you to be around other kids again. It’s time, Nicky. Don’t you think?”


“I guess,” I said. “But what if I asked Mom and she said okay?”


“Well, I suppose even then I’d have to think about it,” Pop-Pop said. “Believe it or not, this old 
guy still has things he wants to do in the world. Besides, don’t you want to be the man of the house?”


“No!” I said, and now I wanted to cry. This was exactly the point. “I’m not ready for that. I don’t think I’ll ever be ready for that.”


Pop-Pop hugged me right there in the car, and now I was crying.


“You really are just like him,” Pop-Pop said. “You and your dad. You’re both dreamers. And tough, too.”


“I’m not tough,” I said. I only 
wished
 I was like my dad.


“Sure you are,” Pop-Pop said. “The truth is, you were your dad’s hero.”


“I was?” I asked. That seemed about 99 percent impossible. My dad was a jock, and a great cook, and everyone knew who he was. Kind of like the opposite of me.


“Just between us?” Pop-Pop said. “Your dad had a rough time before you were born. There was 
drinking and a lot of spending money he didn’t have. It got pretty dicey with your mom for a while there.”


“Seriously?” I never knew any of this.


“Yep,” Pop-Pop said. “But all that changed once you were on the the way. When your mom was pregnant with you, all she wanted to eat was your dad’s Greek cooking. That’s when we knew it was 
you
 who had an appetite for it. And that’s when your dad got the idea for Dino’s Dine-In.”












“No way,” I said. I knew Mom ate a lot of Greek food when she was pregnant, but nobody had ever told me the whole story.


I didn’t like to talk about Dad too much, but it was easier with Pop-Pop. He missed his son the same way I missed my father. Which was just one more reason I didn’t want Pop-Pop to leave.


“Listen.” Pop-Pop put his hand on my cheek, the same way Mom does sometimes. “If it feels scary to step back into the world after you lost your dad, that’s completely natural. You don’t have to be ‘ready’ on anyone’s schedule but your own.”


“I don’t?” I asked.


“No,” he said. “It’s good to get a little push once in a while, but you know your mom just wants you to be happy, right?”


I did know that. “Yeah,” I said. “I want her to be happy, too. But now the diner’s closing, and…”


“So, tell you what. I’d love to stay here in Ohio,” Pop-Pop said. “I’ve got no problem with sticking around.”


“But you just said you had to go. You said you had stuff to do back in California,” I told him.


“And you said some stuff, too,” Pop-Pop said. “I’m not afraid to change my mind. Especially not for you, Nicodemus.”


“Seriously?” It felt like about fifty pounds of weight had just floated off my shoulders. “So, you’ll stay?”


“You got it, bud,” Pop-Pop said. “I’ll stay in Ohio, but as for school? That’s still between you and your mom. Whatever you two agree on, I’m there. Fair enough?”


“Fair enough,” I said.


I’d talk to Mom about that as soon as I could, but I knew it might have to wait. She had her hands full with other problems right now. And the truth was, so did I. Big-time.


And by 
big-time
, I mean—well, you already know what I mean.






OceanofPDF.com

















50


Family Outing


Somewhere around midnight, I was staring at my bedroom ceiling with my head spinning—as usual—when I heard someone honking outside. And I was pretty sure I knew who. Especially when nobody else got up to check it out. That meant I was the only one who could hear it.


Sure enough, when I got to my window, Hermes was already there.


“Ready for your surprise?” he asked. “It’s a pretty good one.”


“If it helps me get this thing done, I’m in,” I whispered, already putting on my shoes.


About eight seconds later, he’d airlifted me down from the second floor to the front lawn. And when we boarded the RV, I was a little surprised to see that it was an actual RV tonight. Not a castle, not a library, not a doctor’s office, or whatever else Zeus could dream up. Just a regular RV with the engine running and the big guy himself behind the wheel.


“Let’s go for a ride,” Zeus said.


“Where to?” I asked. But neither of them was telling.


They made me wait in the back until we’d gotten there. Wherever “there” was. Then Hermes blindfolded me and walked me outside. I could hear cars in the distance but not much else. I had no idea where we were.


“I figured since I can’t go back into the quest, we’ll give you a little more practice,” Hermes said. “Right here in Ohio.”


“I don’t know what that means,” I said. “Practice for what?”


Hermes took off the blindfold and—


FWOOM!


The lights of Peden Stadium on the OU campus blazed to life. We were standing on the fifty-yard line, in the middle of the field. The stadium was big enough for twenty-seven thousand people, but right now it was just me, Hermes, Zeus, and one RV.


“Well, this is awesome,” I said. I’d never been in an empty stadium before. “But are we supposed to be here?”


“It’s not about supposed to,” Hermes said. “And besides, 
we
 aren’t here. You are.”


“What does that mean?” I asked, just before—


“Hey, you! Kid!” someone yelled. “What are you doing?”


When I looked over, I couldn’t see who was talking, but I definitely saw the red and blue lights spinning on top of his car.


Oh… no. This had just gotten way more real.








“So!” Hermes said. “The lesson for tonight is called Evasive Maneuvers. Because that’s exactly what you’re going to need next time you see Dingus. Let’s see how you do with one little security guard, for starters.”


“
What?
” I said. “You could have asked me first!”


“Maybe,” Hermes said, “but that would have—”


“Ruined the surprise,” I said. “I’m not sure you really understand the whole idea of surprises.”


“Who are you talking to, kid?” the guard shouted from his end of the field, and waved at me to come his way. “Let’s go. Right now!”


Hermes ignored the guy and just kept talking to me. “The question is, what do you do with all this?” he asked.


“Yeah, there’s some kid on the field,” the guard was saying into his walkie-talkie. “Still no idea how he got the lights on.” Then he waved at me again. “Hey! You! Come here. 
Now!
”


He wasn’t messing around. But neither were Hermes and Zeus.


“You can let this guard take you home, where your mom is definitely going to want to know what happened,” Hermes said. Then he pointed to Zeus and the RV at the opposite end of the field. “Or, you can go for the touchdown. Also known as your getaway car. Higher risk, higher reward.”


“Huh?” I knew I had to make a choice in the next, say, eight seconds. But that was as far as my brain had gotten.


“Don’t make me come out there and get you!” the guard said.


“He sounds mad,” I said.


“Then by all means, turn yourself in,” Hermes said. “Actually, no need. Here he comes.”


When I looked back again, the guard had started my way on foot. “Okay, fine, kid, we’ll do this the hard way,” he said.


Zeus honked a few times and called out the window of the RV.


“Come on, Nick! You’ve got this!” he said.


“He doesn’t look so sure!” Hermes called back.


“Can you guys just shut up?” I asked. The longer I took to decide, the closer I was to having the decision made for me. That guard was on the twenty-yard line and still headed my way.


“I just need a second to think,” I said.


“That’s funny,” Hermes said. “You think you’re going to have a whole lot of time to 
think
 when you’re inside that quest?”


He was right about that, too. I needed to be ready from the second I landed back in ancient Andino. Which I guess was the whole point of this “training.”


So I went for it. I turned away from the guard and ran toward that RV like… well, like Dingus was coming after me.


“YEAH!” Hermes yelled, and Zeus got on some kind of magic loudspeaker with the play-by-play.


“ANDINO IS ON THE FORTY-YARD LINE! HE’S TEARING DOWN THE FIELD…”


“
Stop!
” the guard yelled.


“You’ve got this, Nick!” Hermes said, zipping 
along backward and just ahead of me. “You made the right choice!”


“ANDINO IS ON THE THIRTY… THE TWENTY…” Zeus kept up with the play-by-play.


And just when I thought I was actually going to make it, Hera appeared out of nowhere—and right in front of me.


“Not so fast!” she said.


I stopped short, pitched forward, and hit the turf, face-first.


“OHHHH, A TACKLE ON THE TEN-YARD LINE!” Zeus kept going. Before I could even roll over, I felt that guard’s hand on my shoulder. He was huffing and puffing, but he yanked me onto my feet.


“Now I’ve got you!” he said, just before—


BLAM!
 A huge bolt of lightning streaked across the sky. I flinched. The guard ducked. The stadium lights blacked out, and everything went dark.


“What the heck?” the guard said. And when I looked around, I realized it was just the two of us 
on that field now. I didn’t need night-vision goggles to tell me what I already knew. Hermes, Zeus, and Hera were gone. Not to mention my getaway car.


Which could only mean one thing. I’d just failed my training.






OceanofPDF.com

















51


Busted!


“What’s this?” Pop-Pop asked, opening the front door. I was standing on the porch with the security guard from the stadium. At least he hadn’t called the police and made Mom come post bail.


“Nick?” She was coming down the stairs now, too. It was a whole thing.


The guard didn’t stay for long. Just enough to explain what had happened. And by 
what had happened
, I mean the parts he knew about. Because of course, there were a million other parts.


I wasn’t sure if I was more mad at Hermes for setting me up, or Hera for keeping me out of the end zone. Either way, I still had to try to explain what I was doing at Peden Stadium, alone, in the middle of the night.












“Nick, what is going on with you?” Mom asked. “You never acted out like this when your dad was sick. Why now?”


“I’m sorry!” I said. “I just had to get out for a while.”


“What does that even mean?” Mom asked, sitting on the stairs, looking tired. “Is this about the diner closing? It is, isn’t it?”


“Maybe?” I said. That was as good an excuse as any, and way more believable than the whole magic RV story. There was so much I couldn’t say.


Like about how Pop-Pop looked like half a ghost, standing there in his blue pajamas.


Or about how Zeus’s RV had just pulled up in front of the house, back to its usual parking space.


Or about how just as soon as Mom and Pop-Pop went to bed, I was going to sneak right back out there to get this thing over with. Sure it was risky, but so was waiting until morning.


It was time to finish this thing, once and for all.


Either that, or fade away trying.






OceanofPDF.com

















52


Just Passing Through


I waited in my room until everything went quiet. Then I waited just a little more. I didn’t have Hermes to fly me down, so I was going to have to sneak out the old-fashioned way. 
On foot.


I opened my door and listened. From downstairs, I could hear Pop-Pop’s snoring. That was a good sign. So I tiptoed down, right past his door, and out through the back.


As I came around the house toward the RV, I wondered if it might be all locked up. What kind 
of security system did someone like Zeus have?


But just as I reached for the door handle, the door popped open.


“Oh, it’s 
you
,” Eris said, like she was expecting someone else. Or at least, someone better. “Come on in, if you want.”


The inside looked like the same huge library I’d seen before, except the sundae bar by the pool was now a taco cart next to the bowling alley.


Hermes was there, too. And I could hear shouting from the other side of the door leading to Dr. Zeus’s office. I guess Zeus and Hera were fighting again.


“I’ll let him know you’re here,” Eris said, rolling her eyes like she was doing me some kind of Olympic-sized favor.


“Sorry about the guard,” Hermes said as I sat on the couch across from him. “Or at least, sorry about how it went down. I didn’t think my stepmom was going to show up like that.”


I pointed at the office door. “It sounds like your dad wasn’t so happy about it, either,” I said.


“Don’t worry about them,” Hermes said. “They just have big personalities. They’ll be fine.”


“I just want to get this over with,” I said.


“You know I can’t go with you, right?” Hermes said. Then he thumbed at Eris. “But the good news is, neither can she.”


Eris stuck her tongue out in Hermes’s direction as she opened the door to Zeus’s office.


“AND ANOTHER THING…,” Zeus was saying.


“IT’S ALWAYS ANOTHER THING WITH YOU!” Hera said.


“MOM! DAD!” Eris yelled. “NICK’S HERE!”


Then she turned and went off to do her own thing somewhere else. Which was fine with me.


“He should be right with you,” Hermes said. “But just so you know, it might get a little weird when you go back. Their bet is still on, and neither one of them’s backing down.”


“What does that mean for me?” I asked.


“Well, the good news is, Dad still thinks you can 
do this,” Hermes said. “But the bad news is—”


“Hera’s betting against me,” I said.


“And they both cheat to win,” Hermes said. “Which I guess you already know by now.”


Before I could even figure out what to say to that, the office door opened and Dr. Zeus leaned his head out.


“Nick, hello!” he called over. “I’m a bit indisposed right now. You ready to go?”


“Um…”


I never knew how to answer that question. Especially after what Hermes said about it getting weird in there. What exactly did “weird” mean to a Greek god?


Not that it mattered. I didn’t even see Eris coming up behind me until she’d reached around and given me an extra-hard poke in the forehead.


“Ow!” was all I said before—


SKA-BLAM!


FLASH!


Goose bumps!


Ready or not, here I went.






OceanofPDF.com

















53


Showdown in Andino Town


When I got back, everyone at the docks was waving goodbye to Margaríta. It looked like she had smooth sailing ahead. The skies off the shore of Andino were blue and clear.


But when we turned to face the town again, we got a whole different story.


The sky over the island was looking… well, weird. Just like Hermes said. Everything was dark and murky—and getting darker, and murkier, fast.


“I’ve never seen clouds like those before,” 
Konstantinos said. “Maybe we should call her back. She might run into some weather out there.”


“No, I think this is just for me,” I said as a roll of thunder boomed in the distance, followed by another from the opposite direction.


Proteus gave me a look like he was in on the joke. “Let me guess. Zeus and Hera?”


“Yep,” I said.


“Well then, let’s get on with it, shall we?” Proteus said. He spun his trident a few times in the air. With everyone watching, I think he kind of liked the attention.


“I can see you as far as the town gate,” he reminded me. “But you’ll have to take it from there. Those volcanic fields in the middle of the island are no place for an old water deity like me.”


“Fair enough,” I said. I wasn’t expecting any more than that. As long as Proteus could help me get Dingus out of town, my helmet and I could hopefully take care of the rest.


That was the idea, anyway—to lure Dingus all 
the way back to his side of the island if I could. I didn’t know if it was going to work, but I guess we were about to find out. It wasn’t like I had any better ideas right now.


Proteus gave his trident another fast spin and plunged it into the water. Then he started stirring.


Almost right away, a small stream crawled up out of the harbor and started flowing uphill, toward the agora.


“That’s your cue, my boy,” Proteus said.


When I put the helmet on, Konstantinos got the same look on his face that Margaríta had gotten when she first saw me disappear.


“Good luck, Just Nick,” he said to the space where I’d been standing a second ago. Because I was already moving. That stream of water had grown into a small river, just big enough to pick me up and start carrying me with it.


The sky was looking kind of green, too. And the wind was picking up again. Those clouds overhead looked like they meant business.


And by 
they
, of course, I mean Zeus and Hera.


Before I reached the agora, that little river had turned into something more like a ten-foot-high wall of water, rolling up the main street of Andino. I could see Dingus now, and even though he couldn’t see me, he definitely saw that mini tidal wave headed his way.


His eye went wide. He let out a scream that sounded like a mix between a lion, a velociraptor, and a human baby. Then he started running, right toward the main town gate.












Which was the whole idea.


In fact, Dingus was still running when that river dropped me off just outside town. The water level went down fast, and my feet hit the ground. Then the whole thing reversed direction behind me and started flowing back toward the sea.


That was as far as Proteus had promised to help me. But I knew what I had to do next. I followed Dingus and kept on running, out toward the open ground between Andino and his side of the island.


I knew he’d look back soon, and when he did, he stopped. It was obvious the water wasn’t after him anymore.


“NNNNNNNNGHHHH!” he growled. Then he started back my way again—and back toward Andino.


This was where part two of my plan kicked in. And where I had to be the most careful.


While he ran toward town, I kept going the way I’d been going. Thanks to that helmet, Dingus went right by me without a clue that I was there.


I waited until we were about a hundred yards apart. Then I turned back, took off the helmet, and shouted.


“HEY, DINGUS! FORGET SOMETHING?” I said.


Dingus practically skidded to a stop. I kept the helmet off and waited for him to see me.


“HOW YOU…?” he started to ask, but I don’t think he really cared. What he cared about was wiping me off the face of the earth, once and for all.


Which was what I was counting on.


So I stuck to the plan. I waited until he started coming for me again. Then I slipped the helmet on and ran some more, drawing him as far from town as I could.


So far, so good. But we still had a long way to go.






OceanofPDF.com

















54


The Floor Is Lava


The weather had gone from weird to worse. Clouds were rolling around the sky like bumper cars. Thunder was booming, and lightning was starting to flash around the edges. I could just imagine the argument that was going on back in that RV.












As for Dingus, I made sure to cut right and left while I ran onto that long stretch of open ground. Being invisible was only worth so much. I kept thinking about that lesson Hermes had given me back home. He’d called it Evasive Maneuvers for a reason.


“JUST NICK!” Dingus roared. “WE FINISH THIS! HERE! NOW!”


When I looked back again, I still had a good amount of distance on him. So I stopped and took the helmet off.


“You want to finish it?” I shouted. “Right this way, doofus!”


That did the trick. He put his head down and took off in my direction again. So I did the same thing as before—I put the helmet on, disappeared, and kept on running.


I also kept my eyes on the ground. This terrain was no joke, including the steam vents all over the place. One wrong move, and I was going to get steam-cooked like a bowl of Mom’s favorite Greek mussels.


Not to mention the storm. I mean, the 
storms
. Because we had two of them raging now, head to head in the sky.


The ground was shaking, too. More than usual. It took me a minute to realize that I wasn’t just feeling Dingus’s footsteps. This was an actual earthquake, courtesy of Zeus. Or maybe Hera. Those two 
were
 super competitive, after all.


And so was Dingus. After a few more running strides, he took one of his flying leaps in my direction. I had to scramble to get farther away, just before he hit the ground again, way too close for comfort.


The ground behind me rumbled and tilted, like piling one earthquake on top of another. Not only that, but Dingus’s size 342 feet broke right through the rocky black crust where he landed. It opened a wide fissure and even more steam poured out.


“OOH! OOH! HOT! HOT! HOT!” he said, pulling his feet free and making another run for 
it. In fact, he went right by me again. As far as I could tell, he was heading for home. Maybe he’d had enough. Now all I had to do was stay perfectly quiet and tiptoe back to Andino.


Problem solved, right?


That’s what I thought, too. Right up until I saw the lava.


It had already started bubbling up out of that fissure in big orange blobs, and now it was running across my path. I couldn’t believe it. Like I didn’t already have enough to deal with.


“Are you 
kidding
 me?” I said before I could stop myself.


Big mistake.


Dingus stopped again. He turned around and sniffed the air.


I couldn’t go back now. He’d just follow me. And even if I wanted to take that chance, there was the little problem of a RED-HOT LAVA RIVER already blocking my way.












The good news? Dingus wouldn’t be bothering Andino anytime soon, because he was trapped on this side of the lava flow.


But the bad news? So was I.






OceanofPDF.com

















55


Big Finish


Something told me that giant, lava-spewing fissure in the ground wasn’t just Dingus’s footwork. It was Hera, for sure. Which meant she’d just gotten a lot closer to winning this bet with Zeus. Because I wasn’t going anywhere now, except maybe down Dingus’s throat.


Except then came the weirdest part of all. Or maybe more like the 
Zeus-est
 part of all. A whole swarm of thunderclouds rushed together, right over our heads. I felt another deep rumble and the air filled with static electricity.


The clouds tore open then, and a lightning bolt the size of the Empire State Building shot down, exploding into the ground. Then two more to the left and right of it did the same thing. Then two more on either side of 
that
, and another two, and another two, all in a line, like some kind of giant wall made out of pure lightning.


The sound was deafening. Even Dingus stopped to cover his ears.


The ground cleaved right open then, and the whole island split down the middle.


I’d known Zeus for a while, but still. 
Wow.
 I was impressed.


The shaking didn’t stop, either. I watched while that rift in the island opened wider. And then wider again. The ocean rushed in from either side at the same time.


Pretty soon, I saw an exposed rock wall, pulling away from the piece of land it had been attached to until a minute ago. Debris the size of city buses fell and crashed into the ocean. The lava that had 
been flowing out of the ground ran down the side of the cliff now. It hit the water with a hiss that was louder than all six of Ladon’s heads put together. And the air filled with steam while the island just kept shaking.


In fact, it knocked me right off my feet. I put out both hands to break my fall, and when I hit the ground, the helm of invisibility bounced right off my head. All I could do was watch as it fell over the side of the brand-new canyon Zeus had just made. And a second later, it disappeared into the water below.


Which meant one thing for me.


Well, a couple of things.


One, I was still trapped on this side. And two, without that helmet, I was about as invisible as a fluorescent-orange target. I knew it, and even worse, Dingus knew it. Already, he was closing in for the kill.


“DINGUS GOING TO COOK YOU OVER HOT LAVA,” he said. “DINGUS GOING TO ENJOY THIS.”


That’s it
, I thought. 
I’m officially toast.


Except then—


“Just Nick!”


Someone had shouted my name, and this time, it wasn’t Dingus.


“Down here!”


It was Margaríta, sailing right into that water-filled canyon, waving up at me from the deck of her boat. I’ve never been so relieved to see anyone in my life.


“Jump!” she said.


“Are you kidding?” I said.


“No! Are you?” she yelled back.


Any other day and that jump would have been a hard pass. It looked like a hundred-foot drop to the water. But with Dingus bearing down on me, I didn’t have much choice. It was either jump or take my chances with a ten-ton version of Orson Mackelmore.


There wasn’t even time to be scared. Just as Dingus reached for me, I took the world’s shortest running start, and—


I landed in the ocean with the butt-smack to end all butt-smacks. For a second, I couldn’t see anything but water and bubbles, and my rear end felt like it was never going to recover.


But then almost right away, Margaríta was swinging around to pick me up.


“Give me your hand!” 
she shouted. She was way better than I was at sea rescues. A second later, she single-handedly hauled me onto the deck.












I was on my back now, looking straight up. From here, I could see Dingus, staring over the edge of that canyon, watching my getaway. The only way for him to reach us now was by jumping into the water. But even I knew he’d never do that. He couldn’t get back to Andino, either. The split between the two halves of the island was too wide, even for one of his flying leaps.


In fact, it wasn’t one island anymore. It was two—Andino on one side, and… well, let’s just call it Cyclops Heights on the other.


This also meant I still got to 
exist
 when I went home again. Prophecy fulfilled! Sweet! It was turning out to be a pretty good day after all. And I’d learned one incredibly valuable lesson. 
Never bet against Zeus
.


“Are you all right?” Margaríta asked, putting out a hand to help me up.


“I am now,” I said.


“I’ll sail you around to the harbor,” she told me, and went to adjust the sail.


“Actually,” I said, “you can just keep going the way you were going.”


“To Athens?” she said.


“Athens is where I’m headed, too,” I said. “Sort of.”


I wasn’t sure what to expect next, but somehow, I knew I was done here. And as we sailed out of that canyon and onto the open sea, the storm clouds behind us disappeared while everything else faded into sunset colors. I saw red and pink and orange and yellow, all swirling up from the horizon until that was all I could see.


And just like that, with no SKA-BLAM, or FLASH, or goose bumps, I was gone.






OceanofPDF.com

















56


Home to Stay


“Nick! Wake up!”


“Huh?”


“Did you sleep in your clothes again?”


I opened my eyes, and Mom was standing by my bed. I didn’t even remember going to sleep. But I also felt like I’d just gotten the best night’s rest 
ever
.


And that was before I even saw my hand. My 
whole
 hand, right there in front of my face. It was completely solid and not even a little see-through. 
Which is, trust me, one of the weirdest things it’s possible to be so happy about that you actually want to cry a little.


I was back!


“
Yes!
” I said. And when Mom gave me a look, I remembered she’d asked me a question. “I mean—yes, I slept in my clothes. I guess.”


“Well, come look at this!” she said, walking over to my window and pointing outside. “Do you know anything about this?”


She was pointing at the spot where the RV was usually parked, and already, my heart was picking up speed all over again.


When I got to the window, though, what I saw was 
kind of
 like the RV. But really more like…


“Is that a food truck?” I asked. Pop-Pop was already out there in his bathrobe, checking it out. So I guess it wasn’t invisible. But that’s about all I knew right now.


“Not just any food truck,” Mom said.


“You can see that?” I said.


“Of course I can see it,” Mom said. “What do you mean?”


“I mean… why is there a food truck outside?” I asked.


“There’s more,” she said. “Come on.”


I was already dressed from the day before, so why not? I just followed her outside, where Pop-Pop was looking over some kind of paperwork.












“I don’t understand it, Ruby,” he told Mom. “But as far as I can tell, it all looks legit to me. There’s a title, a certificate of ownership, and even a food license in here. Someone worked their magic for you, big-time.”


“But who would do something like this?” Mom said.


Pop-Pop held up a piece of paper from the packet he was holding. In perfect handwriting, it just said 
From a friend
.


“Looks like someone made an anonymous gift,” Pop-Pop said. “But hoo boy, that’s 
some
 gift. Maybe we’ll never know who it was.”


And I thought, 
Well, maybe
.


Mom had tears in her eyes now. This meant she didn’t have to find another job, and she wasn’t going to have to keep working sixty hours a week, either. This was actually kind of perfect. All thanks to you-know-who.


“I’m overwhelmed,” Mom said. “Of course, I still owe the Mackelmores all that back rent. This 
doesn’t put eighteen thousand dollars in my pocket, but it’s a big start. We’ll just take it one thing at a time. Right?”


“You bet we will,” Pop-Pop said. “Right, Nick?”


“Huh?”


“Earth to Nick!” Pop-Pop waved a hand in front of my face. “Is this amazing or what?”


But I was still thinking about something Mom had just said. 
This doesn’t put eighteen thousand dollars in my pocket…


Zeus always did say that everything in the quest was happening for a reason. And sure enough, when I slipped my hand into my own pocket, I felt something there. Something small, round, and heavy. Which really just left one question to ask.


How much was a solid-gold apple worth?






OceanofPDF.com

















57


In the Heights


I went over to Daisy’s that morning, thinking I was going to catch her up. But when she came outside to talk, she actually had news for me.


“What did you do in there?” she asked.


“Why?” I asked back.


“Check it out.” She already had her laptop open to a page. “Look familiar?”


It was the same map she’d shown me before, with Andino and Stadium of the Gods. Except now there were changes. Instead of two islands, the 
map showed three of them: Stadium of the Gods, Andino, and… yep… Cyclops Heights.












“Something changed,” Daisy said. “And something tells me 
you
 had something to do with it.”


“No,” I said, tearing my eyes away from the screen to give her the world’s biggest smile. “
We
 did.”






OceanofPDF.com

















58


Changes


Flash-forward a couple of weeks, and it was like everything changed.


The last day at the diner was super sad. But not nearly as sad as it would have been if it hadn’t been for Mom’s new business—Gyro Hero. Now she sets her own hours, and she still gets to work for herself.


That’s not all, either. I changed my mind about Athens Middle School, and I’m going to start seventh grade there this fall. I still have Orson to deal with, but something tells me I might do a little 
better with him moving forward than I thought. Not to mention, I’ll never have to pour that dingus another glass of water for the rest of my life.


Also, Pop-Pop’s sticking around, at least for another year. He’s still my best friend, even if he isn’t my 
only
 friend anymore. And he helps out with the food truck, too. It’s open to anyone in Athens who appreciates world-class Greek food.


Well… 
almost
 anyone.












As for Zeus, and Hermes, and the rest of them, I’ll never forget what they did for me. It wasn’t anything I asked for, but I sure do appreciate it. I want to say there’s zero chance I’ll ever get to thank them. I mean, how often do Greek gods come to Ohio?


But on the other hand, you just never know.


Because anything’s possible, right?






OceanofPDF.com

















59
















OceanofPDF.com

















About the Authors


For his prodigious imagination and championship of literacy in America, 
JAMES PATTERSON
 was awarded the 2019 National Humanities Medal, and he has also received the Literarian Award for Outstanding Service to the American Literary Community from the National Book Foundation. He holds the Guinness World Record for the most #1 
New York Times
 bestsellers, including 
Max Einstein
, 
Middle School
, 
I Funny
, and 
Jacky Ha-Ha
, and his books have sold more than 400 million copies worldwide. A tireless champion of the power of books and reading, Patterson created a children’s book imprint, JIMMY Patterson, whose mission is simple: “We want every kid who finishes a JIMMY Book to say, ‘PLEASE GIVE ME ANOTHER BOOK.’” He has donated more than three million books to students and soldiers and funds over four hundred Teacher and Writer Education Scholarships at twenty-one colleges and universities. He also supports 40,000 school libraries and has donated millions of dollars to independent bookstores. Patterson invests proceeds from the sales of JIMMY Patterson Books in pro-reading initiatives.


CHRIS TEBBETTS
 has collaborated with James Patterson on eight books in the 
Middle School
 series, as well as 
Public School Superhero
, and is also the author of 
The Viking
, a fantasy adventure series for young readers. He lives in Vermont.






OceanofPDF.com



























OceanofPDF.com

















Little, Brown Books for Young Readers began publishing books in 1926.


Keep reading with us.


LBYR.com


Instagram.com/LittleBrownYoungReaders


TikTok.com/@LittleBrownYoungReaders


X.com/LittleBrownYR


Facebook.com/LittleBrownYoungReaders






OceanofPDF.com



