JENNY DISKI \, ==
~

Nothing Natural
Jenny Diski was born in London in 1947, where she
still lives with her daughter. She is the author of two
other novels, Rainforest and Like Mother.

Also by Fenny Diski

Fenny Diski
NOTHING NATURAL
Minerva

For Roger, with love
A Minerva Paperback
NOTHING NATURAL
First published in Great Britain 1986
by Methuen London
This Minerva edition published 1990
by Mandarin Paperbacks
an imprint of Reed International Books Limited
Michelin House, 81 Fulham Road, London sw; 6RB
and Auckland, Melbourne, Singapore and Toronto
Reprinted 1990, 1991 (twice), 1992 (twice), 1993, 1994
1995 (twice)
Copyright © Jenny Diski 1986
The words from the musical ‘Oliver!’
by Lionel Bart © 1959
Lakeview Musical Publishing Co. Ltd.
International copyright secured
Used by permission.
A CIP catalogue record for this book
is available from the British Library
ISBN 07 493 9056 5
Printed and bound in Great Britain
by Cox & Wyman Ltd, Reading, Berkshire
This book is sold subject to the condition
that it shall not, by way of trade or otherwise,
be lent, resold, hired out, or otherwise circulated
without the publisher’s prior consent in any form
of binding or cover other than that in which
it is published and without a similar condition
including this condition being imposed
on the subsequent purchaser.

Let nothing be called natural
In an age of bloody confusion
Ordered disorder, planned caprice,
And dehumanized humanity, lest all things
Be held unalterable.
Bertolt Brecht

One
Morning. Rachel woke with the late summer sunshine breaking
through a crack in the curtains. A warm day with blue skies.
Morning seemed more hopeful in the summer; it was possible
to open her eyes and get out of bed without a struggle, without
fighting that weight lying on her chest and the powerful need to
return to oblivion. Warm days, light clothing, and a sense of
well-being went together. Perhaps if she lived in a country
where the sun was guaranteed, where, even before she opened
her eyes, she would know that the sun was streaming into her
room; perhaps then she would be certain too of her mood. But
then, perhaps, a life without shadows and dull grey skies would
become tedious. One-dimensional. Change was change, even if
it was only out there, beyond her window. |
She got out of bed and pulled a tee shirt over her head, made
for the kitchen and turned.on the electric kettle. Down to the
bathroom, had a pee, brushed her teeth and splashed water over
her face, then collected The Times from where it had been
pushed halfway through the letterbox. The air felt fresh and
warm around her naked legs as she poured the boiling water
into the teapot and then stood by the open kitchen window
inspecting the plants while she waited for the tea to brew. She
gazed out of the window. There was a hole in the road where
some gas pipes were being laid. At least they had finished
drilling; her peaceful holiday mornings had been shattered for
the past couple of days by the sound of the road being torn up,
and it had taken her some moments before she had understood
that the disruption was external. This morning had been
blissfully silent, the hole deserted and festooned with a safety
barrier of coloured ribbon; a chasm outside her front door.
Now pouring the tea and straightening out the paper she was
7

conscious of the calm, and swilled the peace and solitude
around like a meditative mouthwash, storing it in her memory
for the days when work and childcare made mornings hectic
and noisy. Sometimes she could charge herself with quiet, good
times, like a battery, for use later when things became dismal.
She scanned the front page and saw that the news was as
yesterday. Summer news: a strike, politicians on holiday, an
earthquake somewhere hot. She sipped her tea and thought of
Carrie in Italy with Michael. Carrie, eight and worried about
earthquakes in West Hampstead, was far enough away from the
epicentre in Sicily not really to concern Rachel. She hoped
Michael had the sense not to let her see the news; as far as Carrie
was concerned an earthquake in the same hemisphere was
worth trembling over. Little shoulders shaking, thrilling with
fear, wide-eyed, mouthing, ‘Nooo ... an EARTHQUAKE!
Help!’ .
Rachel smiled at the image and turned the page. Home news.
She put her cup down slowly and blinked at the picture at the
bottom of the page. Two drawings, of a man and a woman.
Artist’s impressions. The man in the top drawing was instantly
recognizable as Joshua. Her immediate reaction was pleasure at
seeing his face, and amusement that this stereotype, who would
look like any man with a three-day growth of bristles, steely
brush of cropped hair and broad, deeply lined face, should be
for her Joshua. She had time before reading the paragraph
above to imagine thousands of people recognizing friends and
lovers in this photofit image. She remained amused as she read
the headline: COUPLE SOUGHT IN SEX ATTACK. Well, that’s
appropriate, she thought as she started to read the story. A girl
aged sixteen had been lured by the couple into their car, a blue
Fiesta, and raped. Afterwards she had been ‘forced to take part
in other sexual acts with the couple. Police in Iriverness have set
up a hotline, witnesses or anyone having any information
should ring the following number. . .”
Rachel felt the heartbeat following the final sentence thud
likea jackhammer against her ribs. She looked again at the
8

picture as she reached automatically for a cigarette. The hair
and beard were exactly right, the mouth not quite, but then she
always saw him in her mind as smiling, grinning, his perfect
white teeth bared. The dark eyes were fixed and staring,
looking like a scared sixteen-year-old’s image of a mad rapist.
But they also, didn’t they, looked like Joshua’s eyes when he
fucked her: glaring, cold and angry. Didn’t they? Was she
imagining that? The more she looked the more she didn’t know
if she was seeing what was there; and at the same time she
became certain that she was staring at a remarkable likeness of
Joshua Abelman, her lover for the past three years. She felt
panic rising from deep in her abdomen, all the objective
amusement of a moment before driven away by the phrase:
‘Police in Inverness. . .’
She had last seen him three weeks ago, just before she went to
Cornwall.
‘Are you going away?’ she had asked him.
‘Yes, I’m spending a week in Scotland in late August.’
Naturally she didn’t ask where exactly, or who with.
It was now the last week in August, Rachel having returned
home three days before. Joshua would be in Scotland. Late
August; the first of September was three days from now. The
girl had been attacked the day before, Monday, near
Drumnadrochit on Loch Ness. She breathed long slow breaths
and sat quite still as she stared first at the picture and then at the
words above. He wouldn’t, she thought, he wouldn’t be so
stupid. And then she noticed that she had thought wouldn’t, not
couldn’t. Most people would be able to think couldn’t of their
lovers. Wouldn’t related to intelligence and foresight, not to
capacity or desire. She put the thought aside for the time being
and looked at the picture of the woman. An intelligent, middle-
class face, with cropped boyish hair and wide dark eyes. She
didn’t recognize anyone she knew in the drawing, but it was the
face of someone she might have known, someone she could
imagine Joshua with. She was a woman in her thirties who
looked ten years younger, who might look childlike sometimes.
9

Like Rachel could look. What had Joshua said? “You’ve got the
body of an eighteen-year-old and the mind of a wise old woman.
A perfect combination.’
Little girls with a wealth of experience, who knew how to
play the game. Rachel sipped her tea and smoked, but her eyes
kept returning to the drawing. This is silly, she thought,
absurd. You’re playing games with yourself. There is only the
coincidence of Scotland, nothing real. The photofit looks like a
million men and you just happen to know one of the type. The
car is wrong, anyway: Joshua drives a Saab not a Fiesta. And
people don’t do that; not people you know. But people do do
that, have done it, and worse. And of course somebody knows
them.
She debated for some time but there was really no conclusion
to arrive.at. The point was that she knew him to be capable of
exactly that sort of thing, that was what she had learned in the
last three years. She had come to understand that, given the
chance, people could live out their fantasies, and that, given
their head, the fantasies could grow and seep into real life until
sometimes it was hard to tell the difference. She had under-
stood, -not intellectually, but really come to know through
Joshua and her relationship with him, that the dark, passing
fantasies of rape and violence which she had once noticed and
dismissed from her mind were the overflow from a stream
within herself that was as real and as much a part of her as, say,
her love for Carrie. She knew that he was capable of anything
and she had learned from him that that was also true of her. But
the point was that, once known, one was in a position to deal
with it. What she had always felt about Joshua was that he
intelligently sublimated his more dangerous needs with willing
victims like herself. And vice versa. He was clever, he under-
stood what was going on. So did she; surely that was what their
relationship was about.
Damn, she thought, if only it hadn’t been Scotland. Without
that the passing resemblance would have meant nothing, would
have been grounds for a wry smile, a nod to the possi-
10

bilities. But Scotland plus her memory of all the conversations
they had had about finding a second woman. . . Not that he
ever called women women, they were always ‘girls’.
“You must know someone, a girl you could get to come
round, Rachel?’
‘I don’t. You don’t understand: there are some women I
know who are lesbians who might make love to me but wouldn’t
touch you with a bargepole. And there are some women I know
who might make love to you but being of a more or less feminist
persuasion wouldn’t consider a threesome for your entertain-
ment. And the other women I know just. . . wouldn’t. Anyway
I’m amazed you haven’t long since acted that one out.’
“Yes, it surprises me too,’ he smiled, ‘but none of the girls I
know would wear it. You must know someone.’
‘Well I don’t. If you care that much about it you’ll have to
organize it yourself.’
‘It’s not desperate, just something I’d like to try.’
Nothing had ever come of it beyond talk, but she was
surprised to learn that she was the only woman he had found
even to consider the proposal. What about the other things they
did together? She had always supposed that Joshua had several
women who were prepared to indulge his fantasies (and theirs)
just as she did, only more so. She felt herself to be something of
a novice in the field.
When she had mentioned the idea of a threesome to Michael
and other men friends, just to see their reaction, it turned out to
be a pet fantasy of theirs too. It seemed something of a universal
of the male psyche. They all wanted it but no one she knew had
achieved it. Which meant, getting back to the newspaper, that
it could have been anyone. She took her cup to the sink and
washed it up, then she went back to the bedroom to get dressed.
She chose another tee shirt from her wardrobe and a pair of
light, loose jeans. She stripped off the tee shirt she had on and
stood naked while she pulled out a pair of pants from the
drawer. She was brown from the Cornish sun, except for a small
triangle around her pubic hair which stood out blackly from the
II

band of pale flesh around it. Rachel liked to be naked, liked her
body, which was small, compact and effortlessly thin. She
looked at herself in the mirror as she pulled on her pants and
was consciously satisfied with what she saw. She was ing ood
shape, supple and firm, it was the body of a young woman, but
then she didn’t feel it ought to be anything else. It didn’t seem
to her that at thirty-four her flesh should be sagging or her
muscles flabby. She was lucky in her body, but somehow she
suspected that bodies lived up to the assumptions of their
owners. It hadn’t crossed her mind that she ought to be getting
middle-aged and crépey. But it did strike her as surprising that
she, whose mind felt so elderly and constantly dissatisfied with
itself, with who she was, should be so easy about herself
physically. To be psychologically consistent she ought she
supposed to loathe her body, to see it as too fat, or too thin, to
wish her breasts bigger, her nose smaller, her hair straighter. In
fact, as she got older she enjoyed how she looked more and
more. She liked her wild curly hair, and her long thin face. She ©
was pleased by the Jewishness of it, the Semitic nose, small
black eyes and full mouth. She liked the contours of her ribs
and shoulder blade which stood out as she turned sideways to
the mirror, and the jutting curve of her sharp hipbone above the
neat brown thigh. She looked pretty much the way she wanted
herself to look and didn’t hanker after straight blonde hair and
all the other things she wasn’t. Which was extraordinary;
something not to have to angst about. She looked at herself in
the mirror with relief at finding pleasure in it.
Rachel! pulled on her clothes and turned back to the mirror.
Joshua would like the tee shirt, not the baggy trousers. She
could wear the tee shirt with shorts if he came, he’d like that.
‘Christ, I wish I could stop it,’ she muttered to herself, ‘I
can’t even get dressed without thinking about him.’
There probably wasn’t an hour in a day when she didn’t think
of Joshua who, she reminded herself fiercely time and again,
almost certainly thought of her only minutes before he called.
How many times in three years can you consider the nature of
12

vour feelings for someone? Countless, countless times, it
appeared. No matter that there was never any satisfactory
conclusion, or even much point in the query. She was clearly
obsessed but that, she supposed, was what other people called
love. She couldn’t call it that; if it was then the world had got it
wrong. No one in their right mind would sing hymns of praise
for what she felt about Joshua. No one would extol it, write
songs, make misty movies. Joshua was a catastrophe that had
happened to her; a growing tumour she had most uneasily
learned to live with. Joshua was a disaster and didn’t feel like ©
anything else. She couldn’t pretend any pleasure in her need, or
any level of emotion higher than mud. She wanted him, needed
him to talk with, to fuck, to beat her, to be amused by her, but
she was damned if she loved him. And she didn’t want to wash
his socks, cook for him, or wake in the morning beside him, did
she? Did she? How could she, he really wasn’t there. He was all
hollowed out, an emptied man.
“What you see is what there is,’ he had said once, warning her
against what she had carefully expressed no need for. _
That was true. He was a shell who provided for her needs
because they were his needs too. There wasn’t anything beyond
that. But what if this cipher turned out to be a rapist, a real force
of destruction out there in the world, what did that mean for
her, about her? What did it mean that she thought it even
possible? She wasn’t sure if it made any difference if he had
really done it or not.
The phone rang. She knew it wouldn’t be Joshua.
‘Just checking to see you’re still with us, Mrs Kee. Not
pregnant or rushing off on a second honeymoon?’
It was Donald Soames, head of the local Home Tutoring
Centre. Rachel was employed by the Education Authority as a
tutor to kids who were not in school. Usually they were
adolescents who had been suspended for being disruptive,
sometimes they were waiting for places in special schools for
mental or physical disabilities. Rachel usually got the disrup-
tive ones. Donald Soames thought she was good with the
13

difficult kids and often passed on the ones that other tutors had
refused to teach. Sometimes it worked out, sometimes it didn’t.
She was, in any case, getting tired of problem kids; the energy
had gone, it was more or less a way of earning money while still
being available to pick Carrie up from school.
She felt her back teeth clamp together.
‘Hello, Donald, no, no changes.’
‘Jolly good. One never knows after the long summer break.
So you can get back to young Michelle and her ghastly prob-
lems, can you?’
‘Yes. I’ll go round in a couple of days and arrange this year’s
timetable with her.’ Rachel was always brisk with Donald who,
given half a chance, would witter on for hours about ‘the bods
up in County Hall’ knowing nothing of life down among the
‘face-workers’ of the education system. Donald actually spent
his entire working life knee-deep in files and on the phone, and
_ only rarely actually saw a real live pupil.
‘Good. Jolly good. Do come down to the Centre if you need
anything in the way of books. Bye-bye for now.’
When she put the phone down she felt something like relief.
A kind of structure loomed; Carrie would be home and back at
school in a few days and she would be back tutoring for two
hours a day. Mixed feelings. Initial commitment to anything
was a barrier she had to overcome, a sense of acute unease about
any kind of regularity, especially when it was people she had to
commit herself to. But she knew that she had to go through
that. Empty, aimless days were, in the long run, dangerous. In
Cornwali where the official title ‘holiday’ permitted it, she had
lain for long days on Laura’s unmown grass, soaking up the
sun, taking in the scent and sounds of rural life. Like a stone.
Usually she had a book with her, and even got through two
novels while she was there, but the real pleasure was just
holding still, doing absolutely nothing. Even thoughts of
Joshua faded slightly. She had had a powerful need to stay
there. A slow, easy life. Talking with Laura, feeling easy about
being there, accepted. The rhythm of lying fallow suited her.
14

But there was Carrie and also the knowledge that eventually
indolence would go sour on her. There wasn’t ever any doubt
that she would have to go back and get on with it, as much as she
dreaded it. And now, seeing how in a few days life would start to
have a pattern to it she felt, amidst the anxiety, some energy
waiting to be used and some pleasure at the forthcoming order.
But the lurking anxiety was mixed with concern about the
newspaper item. She spent the rest of the morning pottering
around the‘flat, dusting, polishing things in a haphazard way,
returning half a dozen times to the paper on the table to stare at
the picture. Finally she took some scissors from the drawer in
the kitchen table and clipped the report. She slipped it into her
diary in her bag, and turned to look vaguely out of the window.
The hole in the road remained unattended. She wondered how
to spend the rest of the day, her earlier sense of optimism having
dissipated. I could use the time productively, she thought, and
go to the Centre to sort out some books. This she rejected even
as she considered it. Or go on a spending spree in Hampstead.
Or stay at home and masturbate. Very funny. Though if I don’t
go out, she mused, that’s just what I will end up doing. Why?
Need or comfort? Both.
Joshua hovered around the edges of her thoughts like a
flashing red light just on the periphery of her vision.
‘I don’t want to think about . . . anything,’ she whispered to
the street outside. Joshua, sex, her need, the newscutting were
off limits for the afternoon. Hampstead, clothes, spending
money. No work, no brooding, she decided. And then I get the
chance to wallow in guilt about spending money. I can make
myself feel good and bad all at one go and without owing it to
anyone but me.
Go on, kid, she told herself, spend, spend, spend.

Two
Three years before, just after Michael had moved out, Rachel
met Joshua at a dinner party. They had been invited so that they
could meet. Molly Cassel, an old school friend of Rachel’s,
liked throwing people together and when she heard that Rachel
and Michael had separated was immediately on the phone.
‘Rachel,’ Molly had enthused. ‘You must come and meet my
friend Joshua.’
‘Why? T’m not really in the mood for meeting men. What’s so
“special?”
‘Well, he’s a strange blolos: Very clever, but a bit odd. Not
someone to get involved with, but interesting.’
‘So far it sounds like I could live without him. Why isn’t he
someone to get involved with? Not,’ she added hurriedly, ‘that
I’m a candidate for involvement.’
‘Oh, he screws around a lot, but never more than once with
any one woman. He really messes people up. He’s got two kids
from an ex-marriage he sees all the time, but he’s a bit weird
about women.’
‘Molly, you’re doing a lousy selling job. I don’t need a one-
night stand; I don’t need anything actually. Anyway, what’s his
problem with women?’ This wasn’t genuine curiosity, just
conversation.
‘I don’t know. He’s really a friend of Tom’s. I suppose he gets
bored easily.’
‘Very easily. This is the least enticing invitation I’ve had in
weeks. Thanks all the same but Ill skip it. He probably can’t
get it up more than once. Low sex drive type. Woman hater.’
‘Mm. . . I gather that’s pretty much it, about not getting it
up, I mean. But he’s terribly clever, you’d enjoy talking to
him.’
16

‘No!’
Three weeks later, the telephone conversation forgotten,
Molly had invited her to dinner. Rachel, having just seen off
her current lover and thereby what remained of her social life,
went with a minimum of enthusiasm. She arrived late to find
Molly, Tom and Joshua already seated at the refectory table
dipping into the houmous. She glared briefly at Molly as she
was introduced to Joshua, and sitting at the table prepared to
jolly her way through another pointless evening. She recollec-
ted what a waste of time socializing was and how much she
liked spending the evenings alone in her flat. She longed to be
there.
Joshua smiled at her. He directed a beam of gleaming white
teeth and knowing amusement straight towards her; he-shone
himself at her.
Oh shit, she thought, I’ve seen this one before. The
Charmer.
Joshua gave her his full and undivided attention, smiling all
the while. The questions came thick and fast, impudently
personal while the shining white grin rubbed the edge of
rudeness off them. The act was excellent, but it was one she had
seen before, and she found herself watching his technique with
some admiration. She answered his questions as frankly as he
put them as if she were being interviewed. So she had split up
with her husband? Yes, well they’d never found a way of
introducing each other at parties - my husband, my wife, never
slipped comfortably from their lips, so they had decided that
my ex-husband etc. came much more easily. Relations were
cordial, she added. But why had they broken up? Well, they’d
been leading separate lives sexually for some time and it had got
harder and harder to organize what with living in the same
place, so Michael had bought a flat just round the corner.
Hadn’t they been jealous of each others’ affairs? Yes and no, but
mostly no.
And so on. All the time smiling and polite. Her life history
was requested and given with some major omissions. She had
17

been adopted? And had she known Molly for long? A teacher?
And what did she enjoy doing?
‘Dancing, reading and fucking,’ Rachel replied with a Lege
social smile on her face.
Molly choked on her fruit salad while Tom, a dour
individual, examined his spoon carefully to check he had eaten
everything on it with the last mouthful. Joshua’s grin, improb-
ably, doubled. There had been all along a collusion between
himself and Rachel; they looked each other squarely in the eyes
as they spoke, each knowing that the other knew precisely what
the game was. The act was good, total attention with just a
touch of superiority; enough to flatter Rachel while at the same
time making her feel uneasy, slightly attacked. She was to be
hypnotized by his dark, intent eyes and the paradoxically
enchanting, easy smile. She was to be thrown off balance but
feel that somehow he was really interested in her, just her. A
_ fascinated rabbit dying to be gobbled up.
Except, she thought, that I see through you, sunshine.
You’re just a little too calculating, or I’m a little too smart.
At the end of the evening he stood up and offered her a lift
home. She looked at him in his tweed suit: the clothes were
good, not too smart. He was a large man, plump actually, but
tall enough not to look absurd. She liked large — fat— men; small
thin ones left her cold, literally. He looked grown up, con-
fident, his wide fleshy face made massive by the deep furrows
that outlined his mouth and ran seriously across his spacious
brow; his beard was one of those carefully contrived to seem no |
more than a reluctance to shave but was in fact a permanent
face-altering feature, his short grey hair was shot through with
its original black. He didn’t look like a sexual incompetent, but
you never could tell. More often than not the confidence was all
exterior and once the clothes were off it broke apart to reveal,
yet again, a little boy. But it might be interesting to see what was
what. She wasn’t committed one way or another and at worst
she was in for a single boring night, if Molly was right. She
didn’t feel in any way threatened by this man, on the contrary,
18

she felt that she controlled the situation. She had loaned her car
to Michael who had Carrie for the night, so she accepted the lift.
She was relieved to be back in her own territory, as she
turned on the living room lights. Joshua prowled around
reading book titles on her shelves, investigating the kitchen
which opened out from the living room. It was a good,
comfortable place; an old sofa covered with a North African
rug, an armchair, stripped wooden chests acting as surfaces for
rocks and shells gathered from various seashores, and book-
shelves filling the alcoves. Rachel’s small rural longings were
catered for by masses of plants which flourished wherever light
and available space permitted. She turned on the kitchen light
to make coffee; Joshua turned it off.
‘I don’t want anything. Put on some music.’
Oh dear, Rachel thought, and began to feel a little gloomy.
When it came to it even one boring night seemed too much. She
imagined herself, as she put on a tape of vintage Fred Astaire,
lying awake beside a sleeping post-coital man, the hours drag-
ging slowly by. He would certainly snore, and she would lie
gazing into the darkness wishing him away, wishing him never
there in the first place, wanting her bed to herself, remembering
that mediocre sex wasn’t better than none at all.
Maybe, she mused, I’d better send him home now, he’s not
even all that attractive. There certainly wasn’t that ache deep in
her abdomen that made him necessary to her. But he held her
now and moved slowly to the music with her in his arms. He
had turned off all the other lights so that the room was in
darkness and as they rocked softly together she knew it was too
late to tell him to go. She decided that she’d just have to put up
with the night ahead; she didn’t want a scene, and in any case, it
wasn’t unpleasant, swaying in the darkness. Joshua kissed her
slowly and then led her by the hand next door into the unlit
_ bedroom. He undressed her efficiently while she stood passive,
watching his face as his fingers undid the buttons of the teeshirt
she normally just pulled over her head. When she was naked he
ran his hands down her back and slowly over her buttocks, then
19

lay her on the bed while he took off his own clothes carefully,
unhurriedly. She lay watching him, and sensing his extraordi-
nary confidence began to feel what she had been supposed to
feel at dinner — impressed, excited, uncertain. Now she wanted
him.
Joshua got on to the bed beside her, on his side, resting on his
elbow. His hand moved across her belly and up to stroke each
breast, then, as his hand moved down towards her vulva he
ducked his head and sucked for a moment at each nipple.
Lifting his head he looked carefully at her face, watching; a
long, cold stare. He kept his eyes on her all the time, his face
impassive, observing, as his fingers found her vulva. He parted
the labia and began expertly to massage her clitoris, all the time
keeping his eyes on her face, observing her reactions, like a
technician working on a new model of a machine he had spent
a lifetime servicing. The long, slow strokes gave way, as she
got wetter, to a circular motion, and she began to breathe
deeper and faster as he increased the pressure and speed. Her
eyes became vague and distant, focusing on the waves rising
from her wet, excited cunt and the sudden overwhelming need
to be penetrated, filled. He slipped a finger deep inside her and
She gasped, breathing heavier, beginning to moan softly as
thumb rubbed clitoris and finger moved slowly inside. Joshua
watched unblinking as she started to move her pelvis rhythmi-
cally up and down against the movement of his hand to increase
the pressure and dropped her knees against the bed so that she
was wide open. She came with small sharp cries, lifting her hips
off the bed, arching her back and grasping the arm that still
worked on her between her thighs, pressing hard against the
heel of his hand to the rhythm of the contractions pulsing inside
her.
‘Please . . . please . . .” she sobbed, then holding her breath
for a long moment relaxed down beside him, releasing the air in
her lungs and feeling her heart pounding. Joshua pulled her on
top of him and she saw his face beneath her, the eyes still
watching, cold, but glistening icily with excitement. He put her
20

_ hand onto his penis so that she could guide it into her, and then
with his hands on her hips moved her very slowly up and down.
As she began to come again she felt and heard him slapping her,
quite gently, on the bottom, almost tentatively, and, when he
saw that she continued to move, a little harder not so that it hurt
but so that the sound of each slap rang around the room.
Christ, she thought, this is new. What is this?
Then the feeling of his penis inside her, the sound, and the
smarting on her buttocks made her come with long deep moans
and she heard and felt him coming in grunting spasms.
She lay sprawled on his chest for a long while, catching her
breath and feeling her body gradually quieten. She wondered in
the silence about the smacking. She had never been with
anyone who was into spanking — she supposed that was what it
was. She was curious and a little embarrassed, but also excited
by it.
‘Fancy a fuck?’ Joshua spoke jauntily into her ear in his rich
acquired Oxbridge tones.
“What did you say your name was? Never mind, let’s do it!’
He rolled over so that she was underneath him and this time
fucked her hard and fast, whispering, ‘Can you feel me deep
inside you? Suck me into you.’
His eyes remained open all the time still looking angrily at her
and when they had both come he pulled out of her almost
immediately so that Rachel had to catch her breath at the
suddenness of his absence. Then he lay still with one arm
around her, his eyes finally closed.
Rachel lay in the dark room next to the sleeping man who
breathed heavily.
Well, that wasn’t what I’d been led to expect, she thought. It
was, on the whole, worth a sleepless night, she decided. She
dozed off and on, waking often with sudden starts. Once Joshua
woke as she jerked awake and whispered to her, ‘It’s all right,
darling, it’s me, Joshua, don’t be frightened.’
They both woke early, she a little before him, and as he
opened his eyes and oriented himself she saw him stare sharply
2I

at her before he realized that she was awake too. He was out of
bed instantly.
‘I’ve got to go. Taking the kids to the country today. — I
don’t want tea. Thanks.’
He was dressed within seconds, glanced at her briefly and
nodded a curt, unsmiling ‘Bye’ as he left barely five minutes
after he had woken.
‘Jesus,’ Rachel whispered to the icy cloud that hung heavily
in her bedroom, ‘Jesus Christ.’
After Joshua left Rachel felt nothing. She was tired and the day
was taken up with Carrie. Michael returned her and the car and
they all had lunch out. She took Carrie to her piano lesson and
then whiled away the hours pleasantly enough before it was
time for Carrie’s bedtime story. Then Rachel sat in her living
room, soaking up thes ilence, thinking of the night before. She
didn’t actually feel nothing; she felt numb, chilled by the way
Joshua had exited. She had no expectations of seeing him again,
it was the most clear-cut one-night stand she could remember.
There was no need and no point in thinking about him.
But still, I would want more, because it was good, she
thought; why wouldn’t he want more? More didn’t have to
mean more intensity, she didn’t want that anyway, it could just
mean more. She didn’t, on last night’s showing, believe what
Molly had told her. If he didn’t see women a second time it was
more likely a fear of intimacy than technical problems. She
imagined sound waves pulsing around the planet, dissipating
into space, carrying the message from male humanity, the
inevitable male wail: ‘J can’t bear people making demands on me!”
She pictured Man, lying on a sofa, the back of his hand to his
forehead. She pictured Woman laughing helplessly at the
absurdity of it.
How many men had uttered one or other version to her long
before she had time to explain that she didn’t want commit-
ment, domesticity or a live-in companion? All of them one way
or another. And when she had explained, they had all looked at
22

her in disbelief: she’s saying it, but she doesn’t really mean it,
she’s a woman after all, they all said with their eyes.
Somewhere, she thought, there must be a man who wouldn’t
mistake me for his mother. Damn the little boys, where are the
grown-ups? It was true though that most women did seem to
want to set up home, have kids with someone; most men too
presumably, since they were marrying the women. Why didn’t
she? Well, she had of course, but not with conviction. She and
Michael had contracted for Carrie’s babyhood and left the rest
open. She had never imagined herself living long-term with
anyone, not even as an adolescent had she had fantasies of
happily-ever-after. The unhappily-ever-after of her own family
probably accounted for that, but still, all the agents of condi-
tioning, the fairy stories, books, songs, education, seemed not
to have left much mark. Was it really true? Was she lying to
herself? You couldn’t ever know finally if you were telling
yourself the truth, but she really did seem more capable of and
contented with living alone than anyone else she knew. I just
slipped through the net, she decided. She wanted sex and
friendship, they didn’t have to go together.
But still, here she was after a satisfying night of sex, feeling
wretched. She did feel miserable, low. One-night stands — she
had heard talk of women who, having bedded a stranger the
night before, never gave them another thought. It had never
been like that for her, and she hadn’t met any other women who
could do it either — only heard tell of them. Sometimes, at
worst, there was disgust, or regret; sometimes she wanted a
man to ring her, make contact; or she fantasized, recollected.
All sorts of reactions, but the experience, whatever it was like,
good or bad, never just dropped away from her as if it had never
happened once the man had walked out of the door.
She supposed men could do it. Men said they did and this
fascinated her. She couldn’t imagine not thinking about
someone she had just fucked, however casually. If it were true
that people did then she envied them enormously. Perhaps it
was just bluster. But then again perhaps she needed not to
23

believe it because otherwise she was so much more vulnerable
than them. Nothing was more humiliating than thinking about
someone you knew was not thinking of you.
She couldn’t fit the two thoughts together. She knew she
blustered, gave the impression very effectively of being tough
and independent. Did other people believe her? That was how
she wanted to be. To service a need and then forget it. She
didn’t think about lunch once she’d eaten it. Was it like that for
men? A pressing need in the testes which once relieved no
longer concerned them. She had dark thoughts about biology.
The amorphous need of women’s sexuality: how many orgasms
were enough? Men evacuate; women escalate. It was one thing
not wanting to cook some man’s dinner, another not wanting
more of the same. And more. Greedy bitch. Doomed by greed
and biology. f
What she needed was a completely unemotional (ha!) sexual
affair. Fun and fucks. She could go to the movies with friends,
she didn’t need a social relationship, just two equal, adult
people coming together (ho!) for friendly sex. Nothing heavy.
Was she telling the truth? Yes, yes, she was. But there did seem
to be a problem between body and mind. Not insuperable, she
assured herself.
But, God, she did feel miserable.
Two weeks later Joshua called.
‘Are you free this evening?”
‘Sorry, no. Why don’t you come for dinner tomorrow?
Around eight.’
She didn’t have anything on that night but she wanted time to
think about it.
‘Right. See you then.’
So. It wasn’t exactly a speedy return of service, but it was
more than once; Molly apparently had been misinformed and
she, Rachel, had assessed their night together correctly. It had
been good enough to warrant more. He wanted more of her,
had enjoyed her enough to come back for a second helping. She
was pleased with herself, though there was a small sneering
24

voice in her head which told her not to be so bloody grateful.
Don’t be so pathetic, why are you always so astonished when a
man wants to see you again?
Well, anyway, tomorrow night. She smiled to herself. Din-
ner. She pictured sitting at the living room table with him
eating — what? — sipping wine, anticipating good sex later. She
would make the Greek lamb and a fresh fruit salad. Nothing
complicated, and she would buy a really nice bottle of wine. She
feasted for the rest of the evening on the following night. Smug.
She remembered suddenly how he had smacked her and
wondered how she would feel if it happened again. She couldn’t
figure it out: it was, she had to suppose, aggressive. You smack
someone if you’re angry with them, and she recalled his eyes as
he made love to her. Well, if Joshua were a woman-hater he had
certainly made a careful study of his enemy. Her image, if she
had thought about it at all, of ‘spankers’ was of ex-public-school
Englishmen, men who were sexually inadequate, replacing the
terror of real sex with a bottom fetish. Repressed homosexuals
punishing Mummy for being a whore. Chinless wonders, thin,
pallid men who sometimes hit the headlines and made the
nation laugh. The English Disease. What went with it? Black
stockings and suspenders; little maids’ outfits. Embarrassing.
None of this fitted her impression of Joshua. What she had
picked up from him was anger and authority, he was no chinless
wonder. Her mind wandered towards De Sade, Justine, The
Story of O. That began to fit the image better; but he had, after
all, only smacked her, and quite gently at that. Unless of course
he had been checking her out, testing her reaction before . . .
Before what? She stopped thinking in that direction. The
spanking thing had been silly, a small quirk in an otherwise
excellent lover, no big deal. Forget it. They would have dinner
tomorrow and fuck, just like other times with other men. She’d
found herself a terrific lover who wasn’t going to get too
involved. Well done, Rachel!
Joshua arrived with a very good bottle of wine. The corkscrew
25

lay on the ready-laid living room table and he opened the bottle,
poured them each a glass and they sat sipping, Joshua on the
armchair, Rachel curled on the sofa, with the scent of ged oe
garlic and lamb wafting around the room.
‘We can eat in a few minutes,’ she said.
‘I’m not very hungry. It'll keep, won’t it?’
She felt cross as she turned the oven down low. Her schedule
for the evening was being disrupted; were they then going to
fuck before dinner? She supposed they were; she would have
preferred later and she was obscurely thrown off balance and
irritated. It was her flat, her dinner, he was her guest; yet he just
dismissed it all and the good smells didn’t interest him. Bloody
hell, when someone was invited to dinner they ate when they
were told to. She didn’t want to fuck him now, she wanted to eat
and drink and play games with his eyes. She wasn’t ready. She
returned to the sofa and drank some more wine. He didn’t look
_as though he were about to ravage her; he sat with his legs
crossed, holding his wine glass and looking at her with cool,
level eyes.
‘Tell me your fantasy,’ he said, smiling a little through his
wine glass.
She couldn’t, it was too difficult. If she were drunker or more
aroused perhaps, but even then she would have found it hard.
‘No. You tell me yours, perhaps it’ll inspire me.’
She was not going to play his game, at least not entirely on his
terms. She still felt anxious about the food.
‘It’s no good if you manufacture it. I want to know what you
think about in the dark in bed when you touch yourself. Well
. . . mine is that I seduce a very young girl, an innocent, an
adolescent. I’m the first man who has ever excited her and very
slowly, gradually, she begins to come.’
Rachel felt a little disappointed; it was hardly the most
inspired or original fantasy she had heard.
‘Well, that’s a bit exclusive.’
‘Exclusive of what?’ he asked, a little surprised.
‘Me,’ smiled Rachel. ‘I’m thirty-one and no virgin.’
26

Joshua laughed, a genuine laugh, his eyes narrowing with
amusement.
‘Your turn,’ he said.
“Oh, the usual rape and violence stuff.’
Joshua’s face switched immediately to impassive, his eyes
serious again.
‘That won’t do. I want detail,’ he snapped.
Rachel found it hard to remember the thoughts she had, the
scenes she invented; they seemed to drain out of her memory as
she tried to think of them. Why, anyway, was she trying to give
him her authentic fantasies, why not make something up? But
she did feel impelled to tell him something like the truth.
‘Um. . . someone, a man comes through my window while
I’m asleep in bed. He, well, he ties me to the bed, he’s very
strong, and he rapes me. Oh, I don’t know. Something like
that.’
She felt it was very lame. And why the hell, she reminded
herself, should I tell him anything, let alone worry about the
quality of it?
He looked at her quietly.
‘Has anyone ever tied you up in real life?’
She laughed.
‘Yes, actually someone did once. Only it seemed so ridicu-
lous I started to laugh. And ruined it, naturally.’
She recalled how contrived, how absurd it had been, the man
looking so serious, concentrating hard on the task of trussing
her up.
‘He obviously didn’t know what he was doing.’ Joshua didn’t
match her amusement at the memory, but looked very serious.
I know, he was saying, if I had done it you wouldn’t have
laughed.
Rachel’s smile faded and she returned his gaze for a moment
before turning her head away sharply towards the kitchen. She
blinked and stood up.
‘Shall we eat? I’ll make the dressing for the salad.’
She went into the kitchen and got out a small bowl. The
27

kitchen was separated from the living room by a half-wall which
was loaded with plants. On the kitchen side against this wall
was the table she used for preparing food and eating breakfast
with Carrie. Now she beat oil and vinegar together to make the
vinaigrette, the bowl on the table, looking at Joshua over the
wall which was just above waist level. Joshua got up and moved
towards the kitchen.
‘I’m still not hungry.’
“You mean you don’t want to eat at all? I thought you came
for dinner.’
She wondered at the stupidity of that last statement even as
she said it.
‘No, I don’t want to eat. Perhaps I’ll get peckish later. What a
conventional girl you are. I didn’t come for dinner and I
couldn’t care less about eating.’
As he came closer, his glass in his hand, Rachel felt nervous,
like a schoolgirl who had no idea how to behave. She felt so silly
standing there, bowl in one hand, fork in the other, whisking
intently; so inept and foolish as she went on beating the
mixture.
‘Well, the food will spoil. I don’t see having a meal in terms of
convention. It’s not a political act, just some food.’
She was babbling, panicking, sensing his approach, her eyes
fixed on the busyness of her hands. He stood behind her and
slipped his hand under her dress.
She was wearing what had once been an expensive and
elegant silk chiffon tea dress, circa 1940. A previous man in her
life had called it laughingly her Oxfam schmutter. It was now a
faded pale blue, worn at some of the seams, with a full, floating
skirt. On Rachel it was a witty dress, too pretty had it been new,
but an amusing contrast since it was obviously second-hand,
with her interesting but unpretty face and unkempt hair. It
clashed pointedly with her matter-of-fact toughness; a
flirtatious dress worn by an unflirtatious woman. She loved
wearing it because the fabric felt wonderful against her skin.
Joshua’s wrist lifted the weight of the skirt as his fingers
28

stroked the inside of her bare thigh and moved up to feel her
crotch. Rachel worked on at the already well-amalgamated
dressing. Nothing was happening. A man was standing close
behind her with his hand up her skirt but Rachel behaved as if
nothing was happening. She was flustered and playing possum.
Why, she wondered, am I like this? The initial stages of sex
always were like this; she never acknowledged it, always
behaved as if she and the man were there for some other
purpose. Sex? The last thing on her mind. What the hell else
were they there for? She wanted a purely sexual relationship,
didn’t she? Well then, cut the crap and behave like it. Stop
fencing it around with social nonsense. She was ambivalent?
Yes. She wanted to be taken by surprise? Yes. For God’s sake,
she told herself, you are thirty-one and by no means a virgin.
But still she didn’t react.
Joshua said, ‘Bend over the table.’
His voice was calm but firm, he was giving an order. She
turned to look at him, then slowly put the bowl and fork to one
side and leant across the table, resting on her forearms. Joshua
lifted the back of her skirt and placed it carefully onto her back
so that her naked legs and knickers were exposed. He delicately
edged her knickers down using the tips of his thumb and
forefinger, and she lifted each foot as he slipped them off and
stood for a moment looking at her. He stroked each buttock
gently then slipped his finger between her legs and stroked her
clitoris until it was wet. Suddenly he began to smack her, short,
sharp slaps, pausing for a second between each. Six, eight
smacks, hard enough to make her draw in her breath.
Rachel saw a vision of herself bent over the kitchen table,
bare-arsed, being spanked by a fully clothed man. This was
ridiculous, straight out of the pages of a smutty magazine. What
am I doing, she thought, why am I letting this happen? But the
part of her that wasn’t watching was arching her back, urine
her buttocks to receive each smack as it came.
‘That’s right. That’s a good girl,’ he told her soothingly, tak
the tone was harsh. ‘Now arch your back more. Lift your arse.
29

Yes, that’s it.’
Another series of smacks, this time very hard, Rachel crying
out a little with each one. Then he opened his zip and pushed
his erect penis against the cleavage of her buttocks.
‘Where do you want it?’ he demanded.
Panic. Where do I want it? I know where he wants it. I don’t
want to say. I don’t want to have to ask.
‘Anywhere,’ she breathed.
‘Where?’ he repeated angrily. -
‘Do what you want.’ She wanted him to just take her. She
wanted him.
‘I said where? Do you want my cock in your cunt or your
arse?’
Very angry, icy cold.
‘Oh, please . . . in my arse. . . in my arse.’
He stood behind her, holding her around the hips, pulling
her towards him and gently, carefully, began to push into her.
She cried out in pain, it hurt, really hurt as he probed deeper
and deeper. She felt a sudden urge to shit and cried against it
and then he was fully inside her and she felt her muscles relax,
allowing him to move deeply, completely into her. She groaned
from somewhere in the back of her throat and heard him sigh.
‘Is that good? Does it feel good?”
She said, ‘Yes,’ her voice low and thick, mingled with her
groans, and she pushed herself back up against him, feeling his
soft belly on her buttocks. He tightened his arms around her
and moved inside her slowly, listening to the low, purring
sounds she made. She felt everything: violated, released,
hugely and darkly excited. She wanted him inside her totally.
She was angry and rendered helpless, wanting this more than
anything. She became aware of his excitement, his immense
. pleasure and strangely great relief; it was as though he had got
home, was where, finally, he belonged. Her anger was muted
by his pleasure and by the physical excitement she felt as he
pushed further into her. As she started to breathe more heavily
he touched her clitoris and she came in long broken moans, on
30

and on until suddenly she hissed explosively through clenched
teeth,
‘Bastard!’
And again,
‘Bastard!’
He came then, as though taken by surprise, heaving and
pressing against her as everything it seemed emptied from him.
For a moment he was still, then he pulled out of her and she
felt herself close tight as she lay against the table, her head
resting on her arms, breathing fast.
Joshua straightened his clothes and Rachel stood up, her
skirt falling back into place. She didn’t know how to break the
silence, and waited for him to say something. She wanted to be
comforted and held.
‘Let’s eat,’ Joshua said, quite composed, his voice cool and
amused, a small, ironic smile playing around his mouth.
She took the lamb out of the oven, drier than it should have
been but all right, and they ate it at the kitchen table from the
roasting dish, forks and knives spearing and tearing apart the
meat and vegetables which they put directly into their mouths.
Fuck the salad, Rachel thought as she eyed the dressing on the
table morosely.
Joshua ate noisily without speaking, he was hungry, enjoying
the food. Rachel picked. She felt damp and sore — and good.
She hadn’t put her knickers back on, had stepped over them as
she took the food from the oven and they still lay on the floor.
She could feel her dress wet beneath her.
‘More wine?’ she asked.
‘Mmm. This is good. You’re a good cook, but I’m sure you
hate to be told that,’ he said, grinning between forkfuls.
‘Right.’ She poured more wine into his glass and a little for
herself. They ate the fruit salad which was delicious, just right,
fresh tasting.
‘I love grenadilla,’ Joshua cooed. ‘How did you know?”
‘I didn’t.’ Implying that had she known nothing would be
further from the salad bowl. ‘I always put them in fruit salad.’
31

He looked at her and grinned hugely, white teeth bared. She
grinned back. They were two grown-ups again.
Rachel wanted to be lying with Joshua, naked in bed. She was
slow and sensual and moved lazily to put on a record. They sat
again in their former positions, on chair and sofa.
‘When I’m fifty-five I plan to retire. [ll live in Provence,’
Joshua drawled.
‘Oh yes, dreamtime?’ Rachel smiled.
‘Not at all. It’s a ten-year plan. And my plans always work. I
will have made a lot of money from my stocks. That’s the point
of doing it, it’s not a vocation.’
Joshua had given up his job as an economist with the Home
Office when he had received a legacy decent enough to launch
himself into the stock market. At Molly’s dinner party he and
Rachel had each donned appropriate masks, he as liberal
capitalist, she as moderate Marxist.
‘There’s no such thing as a good capitalist. By definition,’ she
had intoned to irritate him.
‘Nonsense, I’m one. You modern radicals can only think in
stereotypes,’ he had responded to irritate her. The conversation
continued, tongue in cheek, neither being really convinced of
their position. Now Rachel stretched out her legs.
‘So what are you going to do with your retirement, O
Capitalist Pig?’
‘I shall have a beautiful house in sunny Provence, read
philosophy and enjoy my entourage of girls. Two exquisite
young creatures who will adore me, and you. You provide the
conversation and run the house, keep the girls in line and teach
them a thing or two. I’ll take care of the machines.’
‘T’ll take care of the machines, you can run the bloody house.
I think you’ve mistaken me for someone else, sunshine. I’m not
the domestic type and I don’t do well in groups.’
Joshua laughed.
“Well, we'll see.’
It was banter, but as Rachel looked at him she thought that he
32

wasn’t entirely joking. He really did have that fantasy in his
head and seemed to be measuring her for the part of older
woman in the ménage. She would be forty-one then, she
calculated. He does see it as a possibility, she realized, feeling
suddenly uneasy about him, as well as slightly pleased to be
included.
‘I’ve got to go. I’m expecting a call from the States at eleven,’
Joshua said suddenly, and got up. It was ten forty-five. He lived
quite nearby.
“You are quite free to go whether or not you have a phone
call,’ she replied tightly, furious at this nonsense and taken by
surprise at the abrupt termination of the evening. Now she felt,
or had been made to feel, that she had been fitted in between
appointments. There was no call coming from the States. It
insulted her that he had made such a feeble excuse for leaving
and expected her to believe it. She was not some demanding
woman who had to be managed.
‘Thanks for dinner,’ he said, unconcerned by her frostiness.
‘You’re welcome,’ she told him coldly, and got up from the
sofa.
He left, calling ‘’Bye’ at her as he let himself out of the front
door.
She sat back on the sofa in the empty room.
‘Bastard,’ she whispered softly.
She let her mind drift back over the evening and wondered first
if she would see him again; she thought that probably she
would, but wasn’t quite sure. Then she thought about the way
he had manipulated her, managed the whole evening as if in
accordance with some plan he already had on arrival, a fantasy
structured beforehand which he had set about making real. He
had directed the evening as if he had had a script in his hand.
There was about him generally a complete lack of spontaneity.
Then the sex. Buggery. She explored the notion. All the
received ideas on the subject told her it was an act of degrada-
tion. To fuck a woman in the arse was to show contempt; the
33

imagery of shit, denial of femaleness — he didn’t need what was
essentially female, her cunt, settled happily for the hole that
anyone possessed. It was male power and aggression, an
attempt to humiliate. All true, probably, certainly, but there
was more than that. There was, for instance, the fact that she
had wanted it; that it hurt her and she had liked that; and that it
had satisfied her sexually. Nobody talked about sodomy, not
even in a world where people seemed to talk about little else but
sex. Taboo. Maybe. Not many people did it? She didn’t know,
but some must. Shame. Dirty sex. It was still officially illegal
between heterosexuals. What struck her as really strange,
though, what prevented her from slapping on the obvious labels
and leaving it at that, was the almost loving way in which he had
done it. It made no sense, she knew, but there had been an
extraordinary warmth in him when he smacked her and
sodomized her which surely wasn’t what she should have
picked up from such acts of blatant aggression. She had felt
something very like gratitude in him as he entered her. Crazy.
But then if someone allows you to do something you really want
to do is that really then an act of aggression?
And from her point of view there was something extraordi-
nary about that kind of sex. It went beyond vaginal sex. She had
felt during this last encounter infinitely more known, more
penetrated, more possessed. It was the dark, secret route that
took him truly inside her, a labyrinth without a boundary
leading to the hidden place, the centre that she hardly knew
herself. It was there that she wanted to know and be known.
There was an impossible mismatch between what she had felt
and what she knew she was supposed to feel. A woman in her
thirties at the end of two decades of the women’s movement,
who assumed equality and lived equally with men, was not
supposed to admit to rape fantasies and submit herself to the
power play of perverted male sexuality, let alone like it. That
was it: she was appalled at how much she had enjoyed being
ordered about, assaulted and degraded. She thought it
wouldn’t be possible to describe this to any of her women
34

friends. Even if they could listen to it they would rage with
disapproval. At him, of course, as she would have; but also
implicitly at her. How could she have allowed him to behave
like that, how could she have enjoyed it? She was shocked at —
herself, but couldn’t forget that she had liked it. Beyond the
politics she wanted to disown that pathetic creature who had
followed instructions, obeyed orders, begged for it. She wasn’t
anyone she had ever met before — not, at any rate, in the real
world of action, away from night dreams and dark thoughts.
You are not supposed to enjoy that sort of thing, said the small
harsh voice in her head. ‘Well, I did,’ she said aloud, and went
to bed.
It was several weeks before she saw Joshua again, weeks spent
in a dark sexual dream where it seemed to Rachel that she was
wading ever deeper into territory which had previously been for ©
her only symbols on a map. It was as if a key had been turned
and she had, willy nilly, to explore the corridors and dingy
places which had been revealed. She lived the public parts of
her life, she thought, satisfactorily, but felt like a secret agent
whose real business was merely concealed by the everyday
matters that only seemed to be the substance of life. Carrie was
fed, clothed and emotionally attended to, and appeared not to
notice that her mother had her mind on other things. Rachel
shopped, cooked, ironed and smiled at the other mothers at the
school gate, where she hugged Carrie and wished her a good
day. Then she was free until picking-up time to continue her
seedy exploration. She drove home, put on the washing
machine, and blessed the fact that she was between pupils.
During that time her whole body was leaden, as if the blood had
turned to some molten metal and lurched heavily through her
veins. Sometimes her arms felt so heavy that she could hardly
lift them and her eyelids pained her with the effort of keeping
them open. She would, most mornings after dropping Carrie
off at school, run a bath, telling herself that it would make her
feel better and that afterwards she would go shopping, or cook
35

something nice for Carrie’s tea. It happened, invariably, that
after the bath she was more exhausted than ever, had just
enough energy to lie damply on the bed, the towel loosely
draped around her. Even then, she told herself that once dry,
she would get dressed and on with things.
Lying there she began to play and replay the details of her
two nights with Joshua, picking out themes. She would sum-
mon up most excitingly the confident tone of his voice, the
authority of his fingers as they manipulated her to a climax, the
sound and feel of his contempt, and she used these to go beyond
what had actually happened, to develop full-scale dramas of
violence and enforced submission. The hand that spanked her
became a whip, a leather strap, first tied her then beat her; the
voice, so sure of itself, gave orders to her to get in this or that
position, on her knees, on all fours, to touch herself, where and
how; began to pour abuse into her ear, whore, slut, filthy cow;
the penis raped and ravaged her, made her cry out for more
pain, made her beg for more, more, more.
She lay on the bed with her eyes shut allowing each drama its
full extent so that it could summon up the next and the next.
She had only to close her eyes for them to start. It seemed they
had been waiting, simmering away somewhere inside her wait-
ing for release. Now they came rushing at her, drowning her in
their need for expression, pinning her to the bed. She touched
herself and imagined everything, Joshua beating her, a woman
beating her with Joshua looking on, Joshua bringing someone
off the street to rape her while he watched. She went through all
possible combinations, even once or twice herself as aggressor,
repaying pain and humiliation, but that always ended like the
rest with herself finally overcome and doubly punished. She
would climax two, three, four times, and then lie exhausted on
the bed, sick at herself. I won’t do this again, I won’t, she told
herself. But she knew she would. She was hooked. It was a
drug, she felt drugged, literally. She was compelled to parade
the sickness and violence before her own eyes so that she should
see what she contained. What she really was.
36

She got up after these sessions miserable and ashamed. Time
was used up, nothing done. Well, she was learning something
about herself; but she knew that wasn’t true, or not true
enough. She had no control over this process, she couldn’t look
at it, say, yes, this is part of me too and then see another side of
herself, more positive, more connected to life. There was
nothing, nothing good, worthwhile, only the dreams of punish-
ment and pain.
She had, in the past, had fleeting fantasies like some of those
she had now, so fleeting that she had barely noticed them, and
they were always with a man without a face. Now Joshua’s
features had imprinted themselves on the anonymous protag-
onist and the dreams became real, tangible, part of herself
rather than seeming to float by on the air. Her evenings were
spent with Carrie asleep upstairs, on the alert, waiting for the
phone to ring. She didn’t go out; didn’t even take a bath
without ensuring that the phone was first placed where she
could hear it. If she read or watched television it was always
with one part of her listening, waiting for a call. She began to
feel that the immense power of her fantasies, of her need, were
enough to summon Joshua, that he knew her condition, was
allowing it to develop.
This has got to stop, she told herself over and over. This
doesn’t happen to me.
She had been sexually enchanted by other men, but not like
this. Not without regular contact and not for long. She usually
fed her need, saw the man often so that after the first few weeks
the excitement wore thin, and she began to perceive the details
which inevitably irritated her out of the obsession. It didn’t take
much; the way he ate, or drank, the odd remark that damned
him forever as foolish, not bright enough. Anything was
enough to make her interest flag and quickly die. Then out.
Finished. That, previously, had been the pattern in all her
affairs, so that from the first she was waiting, dreading the
moment when the wrong thing was said or done. At first she
would try not to notice, but she knew it was a losing battle, the
37

irritation would develop into disdain, then contempt and
embarrassment at his mere presence. He had to go.
Now she was terrified that this process wouldn’t happen,
or rather that Joshua’s infrequent presence would keep it at
bay.
‘Just a few days of him, that’s all I need.’ And she began to
suspect that that was precisely what she was not going to get, to
understand that Joshua was very like herseif and could play her
as she had never been played before. She thought back to the
telephone conversation with Molly and the dinner party. She
had been so in control. What had happened? How had she
become such a victim? Divine retribution was probably over-
dramatizing, but nemesis sounded right. I’m in trouble, she
thought, I’m in deep shit. Where you belong, whispered her
small-voiced co-resident, just as the phone begar to ring.
‘Hello, Mrs Kee? I’ve got a likely lad for you if you’re up to
it.’
It was Donald Soames she realized, her heart racing with
disappointed hope. She took a deep breath.
‘T think I’ve had my fill of likely lads, Donald. Couldn’t you
find me some nice, quiet, motivated lad for a change?”
‘Sorry, the schools are hanging on to those for dear life. I’m
afraid we’re left with the dregs.’
Donald’s dismal contempt for his charges fired a little
enthusiasm in Rachel, more in anger at him than from any real
crusading energy in her.
“Well, who is he?’
‘A sixteen-year-old in care. Deserted by mum at birth. He’s
been brought up, if you can call it that, in children’s homes. Got
some pretty dire problems that I’ll let you find out for yourself.
But he’s quite bright. IQ of 120. That’s not to be sneezed at in
these times. Apparently he wants to take some CSEs before he
goes out into the wide world. He hasn’t had any regular
schooling for years, but he can read and write. What do you
think? I’ve visited. He seemed a nice enough lad.’
‘If he’s so nice and so bright how come he’s not in school?
38

Never mind, what’s the address? Ill visit this afternoon.’
Thank God, she thought, work. It felt as if someone had
handed her a rope just as she was slipping into a fathomless
crack in the earth. Maybe she could haul herself out of it and get
human again. Maybe the past few weeks were just a passing
fever she could work her way through by getting on with life,
like everyone else.
Wentworth House was a small island of deprivation in a not
very large sea of well-being. Its square, local-authority
economic shape stood alone among elegant, gentrified
residences of the kind that may be seen all over London, from
Blackheath to Islington. The opposing meanings of the term
‘residential’ were standing side by side for those who cared to
ponder. Enclosed on either side by ‘homes’ was the ‘Home’,
perfectly pleasant actually, in a quiet leafy semi-suburban
street. Probably the liberal planners of the local council thought
it good for everybody to have to acknowledge the range of
possibilities that life held. Probably they were right.
Rachel rang the bell, saw through the glass door that no one
was coming and tried the handle. The door wasn’t locked so she
let herself in. A large kitchen and dining room stood empty,
equipped for cooking for and serving twenty or so people. A
huge cooker, masses of cupboards and a serving-hatch opening
out to a linoleum-floored space with six formica tables and
plastic moulded chairs. Like a small school dining room. The
glass doors leading to the garden were open, making the place
light and airy, if not comfortable. A man in his early twenties
came down the stairs and smiled at her. She introduced herself;
he was clearly not one of the kids but nonetheless looked
terribly young with longish blond hair, tight jeans and black
short-sleeved tee shirt.
‘Oh, right, Rachel Kee. We’re expecting you. Mr Soames
phoned to say you were coming. All the kids are at school at the
moment, except Pete of course. He’s up in the recreation room
waiting for you. I think it’ll be really good for him to be having
39

lessons regularly. Come and meet him.’
She followed him upstairs to the battered recreation room.
Several padded plastic chairs were upturned while others were
grouped in twos and threes around small tables. All the chairs
had gashes through which poked wads of grey foam. Draughts,
dominoes and chess pieces were scattered about, some on the
floor, others on tables as if all games there were terminated by
someone upending the board. In the centre of the room stood a
half-sized billiard table and a boy, bent to a right angle,
crouched over it, cue poised. There were no billiard balls in
sight.
‘This is Pete,’ the young man said, patting the boy gently on
the back.
Pete was a phenomenon of the time: very tall, six feet or
more, and thin as a stick, the head bullet-shaped, hair shaved to
a scant quarter of an inch, making the nose, chin and Adam’s
_apple seem to protrude excessively; the feet enclosed in enor-
mous shiny-capped black boots which laced tightly up the
ankles to emphasize the clumsy shape of the foot sticking out, it
appeared, further than any foot ergonomically could. In
between, skin-tight faded jeans with carefully placed rips were
topped by tight tee shirt and a jeans jacket so small that the cuffs
were almost at elbow level. A small swastika had been inked
onto the back of one hand. He reminded Rachel of Olive Oyl
from Popeye cartoons, all length and knobbly bits.
‘Hello. Donald Soames tells me you want to take some CSEs
next summer. I’m Rachel Kee.’
Peter’s indistinguishable skinhead face smiled a little shyly as
he grunted assent and greetings. Rachel smiled back.
“Well, look. I'd like you to come to my flat for lessons. Its
quite an easy journey. They’d be Monday to Friday for two
hours a day, unless you want to do maths, which you should if
possible. We’d have to find another tutor one day a week for
that, I’m hopeless at maths. We can arrange the times on your
first visit. What do you think?’
Pete grunted again. It seemed to mean that he didn’t com-
40

pletely disagree so far.
It was immediately clear to Rachel that beneath the
stereotype that had been worked so hard for was a sense of
humour and an intelligence which made him an interesting
prospect. She liked him and matched the friendly amusement
that lurked behind his eyes with her own. There was enough
recognition between them to make teaching him seem a possi-
bility. It had often struck her how difficult it must be for the
current subcultures to maintain themselves as they wanted to
be seen. The punks of a few years before with their glorious
multi-coloured day-glo hair betrayed themselves with their
glum, everyday, street faces. The hair, when they were just
being themselves, looked like a leftover from happier moments.
No one could live up to it all the time. In the end, in real life, the
painted feathers became a burden. And the reverse was true of
the skinheads. The shock-horror of shaven heads, swastikas,
concentration camp looks that scared old ladies to death on the
street were often, on contact, denied by the ordinary humanity
of the kids who had donned the image. There was a boy she saw
often on her street who, like Pete, was dressed to kill — literally.
His darkish face — he was of mixed race — was covered with Nazi
insignia, lightning flashes, National Front emblems. His
clothes were ripped and hung about with chains and safety pins.
He looked terrifying, like an awful portent of what was to come;
and he walked daily along the street pushing a baby-buggy
containing a bright, clean, smiling two-year-old. He came past
her window laden with the day’s shopping, sometimes with the
baby’s mother, sometimes alone, he and the child chattering
and laughing together. A thoroughly modern father, this fiend.
Rachel enjoyed the absurdity of it so much; she didn’t like his
taste, but loved his style.
She was aware, of course, of the other kids who looked just
like her local skinhead and Pete, who did indeed live up to their
reputation and roamed the streets terrorizing anyone who was
the wrong age, colour or sex. There were kids who used those
boots to kick heads and wreck lives and whose mask-like faces
4I

got that way as their brain cells gave up and died from an
overdose of glue fumes. Then again there were some very
respectable-looking people who were adept at the destruction of
others and those whose brain cells fared no better on a massive
intake of alcohol. And so on. Liberal, she sneered at herself.
It did please her, though, when she found that image didn’t
have to conform to the automatic set of prejudices that went
with it; when she had to stop and rethink the unconsidered
phrases that bubbled up — from where? She liked to be
surprised out of her laziness. Good/bad, black/white, love/hate,
funny/sad, sick/healthy. Nothing, in the actual living, was so
exclusive as its material image proclaimed. We choose to think
so crudely; things were much more confused and fluid.
I’m one of nature’s extreme relativists, she thought.
‘Right. We’ll start Wednesday. I'll pick you up for the first
day or two so you can get used to the route. Let’s make it ten
— o'clock.’
As they went downstairs Pete asked her, ‘What kind of car
you got?”
Rachel grinned at him. “It’s a 2CV.’
‘One of them Citroens? Oh yeah,’ he smiled broadly, ‘same as
my social worker’s got.’
Rachel pulled a rueful face.
‘Seen one, seen ’em all. Never mind, it gets me around and it
will get you to my flat on Wednesday. I’m looking forward to
it.’
They smiled at each other. -
‘See yer,’ said Pete, as he saw her to the car, banged the soft
top and ambled back into Wentworth House.
The next evening Joshua phoned.
‘Are you alone?’ he asked. There was no greeting; he
assumed she would recognize his voice.
‘Oh, hello. Yes, I am.’ She surprized herself with her calm,
level voice, pleasant, noncommittal.
‘Good. Ill be there in about three-quarters of an hour.’
She put the phone down and smiled. I knew he would turn up
42

again. She checked around the flat — it was tidy enough — then
stripped off the tracksuit she had on and went to the bathroom.
She took down her diaphragm from the cabinet, squeezed jelly
around its rim and inserted it into her vagina, wondering in
passing if it would be needed. Then she washed in the bidet,
brushed her teeth and fluffed up her tangled hair with her
fingers. Back in the bedroom she stood in front of the mirror
considered what to wear. Nothing special. No obvious effort to
please. She put her black tracksuit back on; she felt good in it, it
would do. She looked thin, athletic, relaxed. She looked like
she looked before Joshua had phoned.
With half an hour to go Rachel was ready and sat cross-legged
on the sofa smoking a cigarette. She put on some music,
Mozart, a string quartet, then poured herself a Scotch. She
drank very little usually, but wanted this one just to take the
edge off her. Then she sat and listened to the music, sipping her
drink and smoking. By the time the front door bell rang she was
quite calm and unexcited. All the torment of the past few
weeks, the sweaty fantasies, the hunger, had gone. She looked,
and actually felt, cool and self-possessed. She had time to
wonder that she could switch into that so easily, as she went
downstairs to answer the door. She really did feel relaxed, like a
woman about to greet a casual lover for a pleasant evening. Who
the hell, then, had been lying on her bed anguishing for all those
weeks? Where was she? She snapped on the hall light and
opened the door.
Joshua stood in the open doorway smiling good-naturedly,
plump and personable. This was not the Joshua of her dreams
and nightmares. She realized that he had become a phantom,
that in the past weeks of daydreaming she had stripped him of
his flesh-and-blood reality and set in its place a mythological
man. A creature of her imaginings, a dream-Joshua. The
Joshua standing in front of her was all surface charm, pleasing,
unthreatening, as he stood holding a Harrods bag, waiting to be
greeted. There was no way of feeling other than genial towards
him, an acquaintance, an uncomplicated lover. Two equals
43

meeting again after a reasonable gap; people who had lots of
things to do but who enjoyed each other’s company when time
and life’s commitments permitted.
This was the reality as they both stood smiling in the
doorway, the craziness of past weeks vanishing like a cloud.
Rachel was a sleeper awakening from a nightmare which she
remembered until the day’s ordinariness made it fade from
consciousness.
‘Hello. Come in,’ she grinned, and led him upstairs.
She got two wine glasses from the cupboard as he pulled a
bottle of wine from the carrier bag which he placed in a corner
of the kitchen. They sat opposite each other at the table in the
living room, sipping wine and chatting amiably. She realized
after a while that she wasn’t even feeling particularly aroused.
There was none of that stomach-churning lust she felt with
- some men as she passed the time of day while waiting for the sex
_tostart. This Joshua, this Rachel had nothing to do with the two
people who had committed sodomy over the kitchen table.
The conversation was amusing. The experience of feeling
‘right’ with someone was very rare for Rachel; now it was
tangible, she revelled in it, lapping up the sense of well-being.
she felt from the humorous, slightly teasing, slightly testing
banter that bounced back and forth across the table. They had a
normal conversation, gave each other normal information.
Rachel asked about his family, the wife, the children.
‘Carol and I were together for fifteen years. I’m very involved
with the kids, I’m usually around there in the early evenings
and they stay with me once a week. My family takes up a lot of
my time.’
It sounded familiar enough to Rachel, not unlike her rela-
tionship with Michael, which she described to Joshua.
‘What about your family?’ she asked.
‘I’ve got a Mother,’ he replied darkly, capitalizing it, ‘more
ogress than mother, who will certainly outlive me. She’s a sort
of degenerative disease — a dependent, not a parent. I seem to
have a lot of them — dependents I mean, not parents.’
44

‘Such a load. I presume you get a kick out of having people
depend on you?’ Rachel enquired sweetly.
‘I’d be happy if they all disappeared in a puff of smoke —
except the kids. I do not enjoy my burdens, just suffer them
complainingly.’
She didn’t believe him but let it pass.
‘So Pve noticed. But everyone’s mother is awful. It goes
without saying. Is yours really more awful?’
‘You’d probably like her,’ he grinned, then looked serious
again. ‘She’s hard, grasping and vicious. There is nothing,
absolutely nothing likeable about her. A mean, small-minded,
stupid woman.’
‘What about your father?’ Rachel asked, slightly thrown by
the anger.
‘Wasn’t one. Just myself, the mother, and an aunt and uncle
who lived with us while we lived on them. I left home when I
was four.’
‘Very advanced. I’d have expected no less, you’re not the
type who sticks around,’ nodded Rachel.
‘There was a family conference. By the time I was four I’d
become so good at manipulating the adults they decided to get
rid of me. I was very clever. They sent me off to prep school as a
boarder.’
‘At four?’ Rachel’s jaw dropped. She felt she didn’t really
need any more information to understand what made Joshua
tick. Banished from home at four because he was too clever.
What else could he ever be but manipulative and angry?
‘You poor thing. How awful.’ She was genuinely sad for the
child she could picture so clearly.
‘I survived,’ he replied tersely.
Yes, thought Rachel, but what was the price?
‘I have a mother too,’ she said aloud.
‘And?’ Joshua enquired.
‘She’s a socialist saint. Academic. Very Hampstead, very
worthy. Long since canonized.’
‘Ahh,’ said Joshua, ‘you have a degenerative disease too.’
45

‘Heavens no. She stamps out cancers as soon as they raise
their ugly, unreasonable little heads. Splat! they go. You can’t
exist, she cries, you are unreasonable, illogical, therefore I
abolish you. And off they go clutching their tails between their
disordered chromosomes.’
‘Sounds terrifying,’ said Joshua, grimacing.
‘Well, no, not actually, not once you’re used to it. She’s really
very nice, but difficult. She’s not my mother in fact. She
adopted me when I was twelve. It makes a difference, you don’t
have all that infant backlog stuff.’
‘That sounds all right. Will she adopt me, do you think, if
you ask her nicely?’
‘Definitely not. She’s had her fill of enfants terribles. You
would be too much of a bad thing.’
‘You never know,’ smiled Joshua, his teeth sparkling. ‘I can
be very charming.’
_ *Yes, I’ve noticed,’ Rachel smiled back, ‘sometimes you
almost creak with charm.’
He looked at her sharply, and then inclined his head as if to
acknowledge the barb. He changed the subject.
‘Where’s your little girl?’
‘Upstairs, asleep.’
‘And do you get on?”
‘Mm. Pretty well. She’s very nice, very sensible. Look, we
bought a fish today. Well, as a matter of fact we bought a fish
tank, then we had to buy a fish to put in it.’
She nodded her head towards the kitchen partition on which
stood, amid the plants, a fish tank on a mirrored plinth. Inside,
apart from the fish, were a perspex table and two chairs.
‘A high-rise fish apartment. Carrie yearned for it so we’re
splitting the cost. Half each. She says she owns the top half, I
get the plinth. The fish is called Rosemary — dignified isn’t it? I
wanted to call it Gefilte but Carrie said I don’t take things
seriously, so it’s Rosemary. Still, when it dies, as fish inevitably
do, it’ll just be one dead fish. God, there is nothing more dead
than a dead fish, is there?’
46

‘I can think of a couple of people I know who might claim the.
prize. She sounds nice. Is she clever?’
‘Enough. Who: knows? There’s more to life than being
clever, I’m told, like having an innate capacity to name fish, for
exampleO.r giving the impression of sanity when everyone else
takes it in turn to fall to pieces. Do you have a woman in your
life?’ she asked suddenly.
“There’s a woman I see occasionally, nothing serious. I don’t
go in for emotional entanglements.’
He waited for her to ask more.
‘And?’ she obliged.
‘She’s the wife of my accountant.’ He smiled gently as he
watched her coolly. ‘I go to her place and fuck her sometimes
when he’s at work. He’s a very good accountant, a nice bloke.
Likeable.’
Rachel stared at him.
‘Don’t you worry that he’ll find out? How he'll feel?’
‘No. It’s a very good marriage. There’s no problem. I keep
them both occupied. No harm done.’
‘You mean you’re in control?’ Rachel suggested levelly.
‘Quite.’
There was a short silence while Rachel took this information
in. Not a man to have like you; this character wouldbe safer as
your enemy. But what was more curious was that he had told
her this. Matter-of-factly. Perhaps with a hint of challenge: how
would she react? What impression did he think it gave her? Did
he think she would admire it? Surely not. Or did he not care one
way or another what she thought? But then why tell her about
it? She was mystified. It made him suddenly unattractive, this
story. Didn’t he realize that? She reflected that she had no idea
of how he understood the world.
Joshua broke the silence.
‘Come over here.’
An order. As if a switch had been turned his manner
changed, his voice became cold and compelling. And some-
thing switched in her too at the sound of his commanding voice.
47

Whoever it was who felt such distaste at his story faded. Rachel
did as she was told, perhaps a little reticently.
‘Go and fetch me the carrier bag Ib rought with me. Then go
into the bedroom and wait for me.’
He arrived a few moments later holding a leather strap
‘I’m going to beat you,’ he told her quietly. “Bend over.’
And there it was, the leather strap that she had thought
existed only in her imagination.
He pulled down hez tracksuit bottom and knickers and said
in a gently explanatory tone, ‘I’m going to give you six strokes
with the strap. It will hurt you and when you cry out in pain it
will give me enormous pleasure.’
Although the words detailed how she was expected to
behave, they also aroused her. The pain did make her at first
gasp, then cry out. It did hurt, but the pain was controlled, he
beat her carefully, with a precise degree of force, not so painful
as to be unbearable. When he had finished she was crying,
sobbing, as much from humiliation as from the pain itself. He
lifted her up gently and said:
“What do you want me to do to mie
‘Fuck me,’ she whispered through her sobs.
‘Ask nicely.’
‘Fuck me. . . please.’ And hold me, please, she whispered to
herself.
When they had finished they lay on her bed, close and silent.
He had made her come over and over, seeming to want her
orgasms as much as her pain. She lay exhausted and physically
satisfied, and a little scared that more of her solitary fantasies
should have come so real again with him. Being beaten, and the
way he had fucked her, had been exactly as she had imagined,
the very same words, the same cold, angry need in him, the
same disintegration of her self-possession.
After they had lain silently for a while Joshua spoke in his
conversational voice, the one he had used when they were
drinking wine at the table. Indeed he seemed to be continuing
the conversation.
48

‘Children are a wonderful lesson in telling it like it is. The
other day my daughter told a friend that she loved me too much.
When he asked why, she said because her daddy was too old and
would die soon. It wasn’t sensible to love someone who was
about to drop dead. Of course she’s quite right.’
Where was the man who had just beaten her and hissed ‘dirty
little bitch’ in her ear as she came?
‘Oh, and what are you going to die prematurely of?’
Where was the victim, the child who had cried and
whimpered?
“Of irrelevance. I’m going to die of irrelevance,’ Joshua said
into the darkness, his voice humorous, ironical.
Rachel drew in her breath, then let it out in a short, harsh
laugh.
‘Joshua, I suspect that both you and I have long since died of
irrelevance. All that’s left now is bodily corruption, and that’s a
doddle by comparison.’
Joshua gave her one of his sharp, acknowledging glances
which Rachel was coming to recognize as meaning ‘very true,
but no more’. Being dead already, being irrelevant, contained
some hard nugget of truth which hung heavily in the air. She
knew he knew it too. It was their secret, which explained and
was kept at bay by their cynicism and sexuality. Rachel began to
understand Joshua as a man who was deeply disappointed in
himself and using his life to take revenge. A kind of nihilist in a
world devoid of nineteenth-century romanticism. He was com-
mitted to destruction because he had evacuated himself at the
age of four. No love, sent away, broken — but clever. And what
can you do with clever all on its own? You can use it to hurt
other people. And you can stop them from hurting you by
feeling nothing. You can show other people that you are
someone to be reckoned with. Clever little boy, full of promise,
all empty inside. Got scholarships, went to Cambridge. Full of
promise, but nothing came of it. Perhaps not clever enough.
The prestigious jobs went elsewhere — perhaps to people less
empty at the core. Clever little boy had a good position, but not
49

brilliant, not enough to make the world (who really?) stare
amazed, to make himself feel he was anything other than
empty, irrelevant. So he chucks it in and makes money: there
are other routes to power. He’s still brighter than most people
so he can feel superior; and he uses his talent for manipulation,
learned as a child, to wreak havoc. He spins webs, this
manipulative spider, and pulls the threads to make people jerk
and trap themselves ever deeper. He oozes charm, enchants
people, then leaves them dangling for just so long, or plays
them off one against another. He has turned his intelligence and
insight to the task of perceiving people’s weaknesses, needs,
and uses his insights to give pain. Rachel saw all this clearly and
understood that he really had excised all feeling from himself.
This particular frog was going to stay a frog, there was no inner
prince waiting to be released. Neither she nor anyone else was
going to breathe life into him; his degenerative disease had
eaten away his insides.
_ She suddenly experienced an immense sorrow for him, and
concern.
But that, said the voice in her head, is just the victim’s way of
getting her own back.
Maybe. But dammit, no! She did feel concern and sadness for
him. To deny that made her identical with Joshua. She did feel
it and she would acknowledge it at least to herself, there was
that difference between them. She wanted to be tough and
unfeeling but in fact wasn’t entirely. She saw Joshua now as
herself taken to a logical conclusion. He was what she might be;
a mirror that reflected back a warning. The clearer she saw him,
the more clearly she saw herself, and she knew that whatever
else, she must not allow Joshua to stop her humanity, because
that, tenuously, was all she had, and what irretrievably he
lacked.
I am nicer than him, she thought, because I’ve hung on to my
pain and he has abolished his. That’s why I can feel pain for
him, and why others’ pain is his source of pleasure. He has
excommunicated himself from the social world, life can’t be
50

anything more than a winning or losing strategy.
So why not get this fatally wounded man out of your life? said
the voice.
I can’t, not yet, she told herself; I have to go through it,
there’s something here I have to see through.
You're pretty good at understanding other people, said the
voice, leaving the rest of the sentence in the air.
‘I must go,’ said Joshua, getting out of bed.
After he left Rachel lay awake in bed recalling the evening;
how harmless he had seemed when she opened the door; how he
had suddenly become the dark, fantasy lover; the easy, flowing
conversation in between. But now it was as if he had never
actually been there; she could remember the events but they
were no more or less real than her solitary fantasies. He left
nothing of himself: behind. She rolled onto the pillow still
dented with the impression of his head, but he had not even left
ascent. Maybe it never really happened, maybe I made it all up,
she mused as she fell asleep.
When she woke the next morning she remembered first that she
was picking up Pete for his lesson at ten. Only when she was
getting out of bed and felt the ache in her muscles did she
remember Joshua’s visit. She turned to look at her bottom in
the mirror and was shocked to see large blue bruises on her right
buttock. So he had left something. The bruises excited her, and
she stared at them for some moments until she realized that
Carrie would be up soon, and hurriedly pulled on a pair of
knickers.
So the man’s left his mark, she thought, but that’s all. Bloody
Zorro. She couldn’t make last night real in her mind. It
dissolved like candyfloss. The memory of the events was there
but not as lived experience, not as if they had actually hap-
pened, to her, last night. She might have read it, or seen a
movie. It was a recollection of a drama, of a story she had heard,
not part of the fabric of her life.
Well, so be it. If the movies were going to come to her instead
51

of her having to go to them, why complain? Some people had
videos, she had Joshua. She had a real live fantasy to play with
from time to time. What harm? Lucky girl. The lady with the
demon lover. No strings, no obligations. If you hang about
waiting for long enough you get lucky.
She felt tough and jaunty this morning and pulled on a tight
pair of jeans, a dramatically baggy sweat shirt and a pair of
pseudo-riding boots fit for striding about the world in. The feel
of the jeans close around her made her aware of her slim,
energetic shape as she moved about the flat organizing Carrie
for school, grilling bacon, pouring tea. In plenty of time they
were in the car heading for Carrie’s school. En route they
duetted Carrie’s current favourite song from Oliver:
As long as he needs me
I know where I must be
Ill cling on steadfastly
As long as he needs me
‘Why does Nancy love Bill Sykes when he’s bad and does
horrible things to people, Mum?’ Carrie asked in the middle of
the fourth reprise.
‘Well, she can’t help it. She loves him, it doesn’t make any
difference how he behaves,’ Rachel said doubtfully. It sounded
like complete nonsense even to her ears. ‘People love people
sometimes in spite of what they’re like.” Deeper and deeper in
the mire. ‘Maybe she was just used to people behaving badly.
Maybe she didn’t think there was anything better, or didn’t
think she could get anything better.’
‘Why not,’ demanded Carrie, who at five expected proper
answers to her questions and was at least as puzzled as Rachel
by what she had heard.
‘Because that’s how life had always been for her. That was
what she expected. People get into habits, even bad habits, and
then that’s what they want. Honestly Carrie, I don’t know.’
It was too early in the morning for this kind of conversation.
52

Carrie said, ‘I don’t see how you can love someone who isn’t
kind to you. I wouldn’t love you if you weren’t kind to me.
Sometimes you aren’t, when you yell at me. But then I hate you
— but I love you as well.’
‘Bloody complicated, isn’t it?’ Rachel smiled into the
rearview mirror. ;
“Yes, bloody,” Carrie grinned back.
Rachel dropped Carrie off and went to the café in the High
Street. It was a very self-conscious version of a Parisian café, the
walls having been carefully rag-rolled in pollution-coloured
paint to give the impression of decades of filth and tobacco
smoke. She sat in a battered wicker chair and ordered a
cappuccino, then got up and picked out a copy of The Times
from the rack of newspapers. She reminded herself, as she did
every morning, to cancel the paper delivery since she always
read the paper here except during the school holidays. It was a
good way to start the day, she liked the anonymity of café-
sitting, but also the familiarity of being a regular and nodding
pleasantly at the others who sat around breakfasting.
Sometimes Becky came in on her way into town. Rachel and
Becky had worked in the same East End comprehensive before
Rachel had Carrie. Becky had since left and now worked as a
freelance journalist, and they had kept in close touch over the
years. Becky was one of Rachel’s few women friends, one of her
few close friends. If she wondered why quite often, it was
because they seemed to have very little in common. It wasn’t
that they had come to different conclusions about life so much
as that they had always concluded differently about it. And if
she found she didn’t believe in Becky; in her consistently
different vision of life, she was nonetheless fascinated by her
optimism and insistence on putting herself on the emotional
line.
Becky came into the café this morning just as Rachel’s coffee
arrived, and she looked, as usual, immaculate. Her blonde
streaked hair was cut to a knife-edged bob which fell straight
53

and smooth to her jaw line, framing her startlingly pretty face.
She had a high domed forehead and great pale blue eyes like a
lady in a Flemish painting, her mouth small and delicate.
Beyond the prettiness and careful make-up lay an intelligence
which had decided to assert itself publicly after many years of
hesitation. Becky’s clothes were good; muted colours, classi-
cally well cut and evidently expensive; you knew immediately
that the seams were double sewn and everything properly lined.
Rachel’s flagging hems, on the other hand, were stuck up with
safety pins; if the effect was the same she didn’t much care how
it was achieved.
Looking at the two of them sitting together — Rachel dark,
chaotically stylish; Becky blonde, neat, very jolie madame — it
was hard not to feel one was being offered a choice, being shown
a selection; and indeed the two women were very conscious of
the contrast they presented and enjoyed the way each pointed
_up the qualities of the other, while still being perfectly at ease
with one another.
‘Hello,’ smiled Becky, ‘how’s life? You’re looking very
strident this morning.’ é
Rachel took her booted legs down from the chair opposite
and pushed it towards her friend.
‘OK. Late night last night. New pupil this morning. Busy,
busy.’
‘The demon lover again? Well? How’s it going?’ Becky’s big
eyes widened with curiosity.
‘All right. I think we’re settling in for a perfect affair. He’ll
turn up every couple of weeks and a wonderful time will be had
by all.’
‘What if you want to see him in between, though?’ Becky
queried.
‘Not allowed. It’s written into the contract that he calls and I
wait.” Rachel grimaced. ‘Well, it does go against the grain to
have no control at all, but on the other hand I hate taking the
initiative. I never call men anyway, so it suits my neurosis. This
way I don’t have to ask and no one will say no.’ Rachel heard
54

herself sounding a little less than convincing.
‘That doesn’t sound like you at all.’
‘No, it doesn’t, does it? Obviously I’ll have to find myself
another lover as well; that’ll keep the whole thing light and I’ll
get to say yes or no after all. What I’ve got here is an ideal sexual
affair. No one pretends heavy emotions, we enjoy each other’s
company, have a good time. It’s the most honest affair I’ve ever
had. It’s such a relief.’
‘I don’t believe a relationship can stay on that level. It must
get more complicated as you get to know each other. Someone
will start to want more.’
‘Or less,’ Rachel grinned.
Becky was Romantic to Rachel’s Cynic. She had never
believed Rachel’s protestations that she really didn’t want an
intense relationship with anyone.
‘I think,’ Rachel said thoughtfully as she sipped her coffee,
‘that the demon and IJ are very similar. If both of us want a
relationship that separates sex from friendship then it might
work, and we both want that. I know you’re committed to the
Great Love as the end point of relationships, but I’m not.
Truly. At any rate this is more what I want than anything else.
He’s a fantastic lover. Some woman, somewhere, must have
spent a great deal of time and energy on him. For which I thank
her,’ Rachel raised her cup in salute. ‘But it 1s a bit on the
strange side.’
Rachel offered this to Becky, if she would pick it up. She
wasn’t sure she wanted to discuss it, but she was feeling so
surprised at what she was finding in herself, at what she could
allow and enjoy,.that she wanted to bounce it off someone. To
see how it sounded in the cold light of day.
‘How — strange?’ Becky’s antennae quivered, eyes now large
as dinner plates.
‘The textbooks would call it sado-masochistic. He sado; me
masochistic. Anyone would call it sado-masochistic. He — um —
spanks me. Last night he used a leather strap.’ Rachel felt she
had just dived into an unheated swimming pool; she waited
55

breathless for the cold splash.
‘What?’ Becky mouthed. ‘You're joking. Rachel?’
‘Oh, shit. No, I’m not joking. The funny thing is it doesn’t
feel violent really. It’s very ceremonial, like a ritual. Cold anger,
not hot fury. Nobody’s going to get hurt, he’s incredibly
controlled. That’s what’s so weird — I feel absolutely safe with
him. Anyway, feminist principles or not, it turns me on and
there’s no point in pretending that it doesn’t. So why not play it
through? I may learn something. Look, we all know I’m a
psychological masochist, in search of daddy and all that. So
here’s someone I can consciously act it out with. Why not?’
Rachel was fidgeting with defensiveness. She went on: ‘Listen,
I read the other day about a sado-masochistic lesbian commune
in San Francisco. They’ve just put out a manifesto saying that
it’s all right for them to beat the shit out of each other because it
doesn’t involve the exploitation of women by men. Who, may I
ask, is crazy? I’m fully aware of what I’m doing. And if he’s
using me, I’m using him. This may be the most mutual, equal
relationship I’ve ever had. It’s honest, Becky.’
Becky shook her head slowly so that her fine curtain of hair
swayed a little. ‘Rachel, you’re mad, you can’t play around with
that kind of thing. I know you always think you’re in control of
your feelings, but how can you be sure you can control this? It’s
so dangerous. He might hurt you. And what about warmth,
kindness?’
‘Maybe allowing each other to act out our fantasies is being
kind to each other. Anyway that’s how it feels. Yes, Ik now, I’m
not sure about it. I am confused. But I know I want it and
knowing that much is rare enough. If he phones me again I
won’t say no. If I did it would be on principle, not because I
don’t want him.’
Becky finished her coffee. ‘What’s wrong with principles,’
she challenged.
Rachel was irritated. ‘There’s nothing wrong with
principles, but if you’re not readyt o give something up, you’re
not, and that’s all there is to it. To say no on principle is just
56

suppressing something I’ve discovered is part of me. Isn’t-that
as dangerous as letting it happen? Sex 1s potentially violent and
it’s certainly got a lot to do with power. At least this is overt. We
both know what’s happening. It’s very self-conscious stuff.
Anyway I’ve spent years heaving men out of my life because
they impose on me, make demands, want intensity. You’re
always telling me I don’t see things through because I’m scared
to get involved: So I’m going to see this through because I’m not
required to get involved and the demon is certainly not going to
get involved with me. I get the best of both worlds.’
‘But it can’t work long term.’
‘It doesn’t have to work long term. Of course it can’t. You
just won’t accept that I’m not looking for a long-term relation-
ship. I accept that your marriage is what you want. Just because
I don’t want it doesn’t mean it doesn’t have advantages. There’s
a price to pay either way. You opt for whatever you can afford.
I’m good at being alone, it doesn’t scare me; but that’s just
because I’ve had practice, it’s habit. You don’t want to be alone
because you never have been. There’s no big deal either way.
Most people are together to keep each other warm on a cold,
scary planet, and it makes sense if you can do it. I can’t, but I
don’t keep telling you that really, deep down you want to be
alone, or ought to be.’
Becky was fully engaged in what had become a set-piece
conversation.
“Yes, but you’ve left out love. I’m in love, and have been for
five years of being married to William. It’s been up and down
and the gloss has gone, and the sex sometimes goes off —
incidentally it’s definitely on at the moment — but you’re the
romantic. As soon as the big thrill goes you close down the
relationship. You’re the one who lives in fairytale land — and at
the moment it seems to be “‘Beauty and the Beast’’.’
Rachel smiled. Becky viewed the world from some point
quite alien to her but managed sometimes to hit a bullseye on a
target that Rachel didn’t even know existed.
‘There is truth in what you say, O Wise One, but I don’t like
57

it. Look, we’re stuck with what we are. That, at least to some
extent, is someone else’s fault, so we have to live with it. There’s
always a price to pay. You pay with periodic boredom, I pay
with a degree of isolation. What the hell? I’m not really as
sanguine about this as I seem, but what else can I do? What else,
Becky, can you do?”
Rachel looked at her watch, ass pecks replied, ‘All right, but
keep me posted. There may be an article in this for me. And
anyway I want the sordid details. But don’t get out of your
depth. You can’t live The Story of O and be Rachel Kee all at the
same time, you’ll get confused.’
‘Don’t worry, Auntie, it’s simply a question of knwine the
difference between fantasy and reality.’
-Becky pointed an emphatic finger at Rachel. “The mental
hospitals are full of poopie who thought they could do that and
were wrong.’
Rachel gathered her things together and put some money on
the table. ‘But I’m famous for looking reality hard in the eye, I
couldn’t avoid it even if I wanted to. It’s a failure of imagina-
tion, I think. Got to run. Reality right now is a sixteen-year-old
who’s spent his life in care and wants to get some pointless CSEs
so he can be half-educated as well as unemployed. I’ll ring you.
Glad to ‘hear your sex life’s going well, by the way. Bye.’
Rachel left the café and drove down the hill to Wentworth
House where she found Pete waiting in the kitchen with Dick,
the residential worker she had met on her first visit.
‘He’s all yours,’ Dick smiled, putting his arm round Pete and
pushing him forward, ‘and you’re welcome! Make sure he
works hard, he’s got too good a brain to waste, even though
you’d hardly tell from his grunts.’
“Yeah, yeah, yeah,’ muttered Pete, grinning at Dick.
“You might teach him respect for his elders too, while you’re
at it.’
‘Well, Pll try. Don’t promise anything though,’ it Rachel.
All three laughed uneasily. “What can I smell cooking?”
‘Shepherd’s pie, or it was until Pete started waging culinary
58

war on it,’ Dick answered.
‘Culi . . . what?’ Pete demanded.
‘He means cooking,’ Rachel offered. ‘Do you like to cook
then?’
“Yeah, a bit. I’d like to be a chef,’ Pete mumbled to the floor.
“‘He’s really good,’ Dick put in. ‘He helps out a lot with the
meals.’
‘Right,’ said Rachel, ‘we’ll put it on the curriculum. I can use
some help with the cooking at my place too.’
‘I thought I was supposed to be getting an education, not
becoming a servant.’
‘They call it Work Experience these days. There’s no reason
why you can’t get an education and enjoy some of it too. Come
on, let’s go.’ Rachel led him out to the car.
Pete crammed himself into the 2CV which was not designed
for long-legged six-footers, and they set off. Rachel noticed as
they were going along a stale smell in the car, a smell she half-
knew but couldn’t quite put a name to. She wondered how the
clothes got laundered at the home, then remembered that she
had seen a large washing machine in the kitchen. She wanted to
open the window to get some air into the car but thought it
would be too pointed. She made a note to remember to open the
window as soon as they got in the car for the return journey.
Shamus, the cat, greeted them on the stairs. Pete bent to
stroke him, then made to kick him, his toecap falling carefully
short of where the cat stood.
‘Don’t you dare,’ Rachel warned, half-joking.
‘Bloody cats,’ Pete said, as he stroked Shamus again.
Pete sat himself at the living room table, and Rachel went
into the kitchen. ‘Want some tea?’ she asked over the half-wall.
‘Yeah, three sugars.’ .
‘Remind me to double the sugar on my shopping list,’ Rachel
said, as she put the kettle on.
Pete looked around the room, checked out the records which
he pronounced old-fashioned and boring, looked over her
bookshelves.
59

‘Have you read all these?’ he asked.
‘Most of them. It’s taken a long time though. Do you read at
all?’
‘No, not much. I read cookery books, and I like detective
books. Ed McBain and that.’ .
‘Well, maybe we should read some Chandler. If you like
crime stories he’s the best,’ Rachel suggested.
Rachel produced the tea ‘and put a plateful of biscuits on the
_ table. When he polished off the plateful she made a mental note
to double the biscuits too. She wondered if he was still growing;
he was probably in a state of perpetual hunger however much he
ate. They sat across the table from each other and Rachel talked
about CSEs, what he could and should take if he had any plans
about further education.
‘If you’re really interested in becoming a chef, you might
think of doing a catering course at college next year. My guess is
_ you'd need at least English, Maths and probably Home
Economics. I’ll write off and find out for you.’
‘Did you mean it when you said we could do some cooking? I
was only joking when I said about being like a servant,’ Pete
asked. .
‘I know. Yes. I think it’s a good idea. Perhaps you should
make a list of dishes you’d like to make. Then we can work out
what ingredients we need, and shop for them and so on. You
can take what we make back home and share it.’
‘Share with that lot? Not bloody likely. Well, maybe I'll let
Dick have a taste. What about the money?’
‘Don’t worry about that. I'll speak to Dick; there’s probably
some money available from them, and the Home Tuition centre
might cough up.’
‘That sounds all right. Can we start tomorrow.’
‘OK,’ Rachel agreed, ‘but you also have to do the other work.
I think you ought to try for college. It’ll mean some boring slog,
a lot of effort. But it’s just something that has to be done if you
want to get anywhere. You have to decide you’re going to really
work because it’s for you, and then just get on with it. But you
60

might actually enjoy some of it. There’ll be projects you can
work on, that sort of thing.’
‘Yeah, all right.’
The energy of starting something new, Rachel thought,
wondering if it would last, if he would have the confidence and
stamina to stand the low-key dullness of working every day for
CSEs. They could only try.
‘I like your place,’ said Pete, ‘but it’s a bit small.’
It dawned on Rachel that it must seem minute to Pete. It
wasn’t large: the living room was about thirteen feet square, big
enough; but to someone of Pete’s size things probably looked
smaller than they did to her at five foot three; and having spent
his life in residential homes, which however homelike they are
made to seem, are always to some degree institutional and must
by definition cater for unfamilylike numbers, her flat, carved
out of a small terraced house, must seem a dollshouse. She
wondered if he was claustrophobic, or if the domesticity of it
brought on a psychological claustrophobia. Very likely. How
often had he been in someone’s home, in a normal domestic
scene? Maybe very little indeed; if he hadn’t been at school for
years all his friends would be in care also. It was possible he
hadn’t been a visitor to an ordinary house for years.
He asked her about her family and she told him about Carrie,
and that she didn’t live with Carrie’s father. She felt slightly
relieved at not having to give him a picture of domestic bliss.
But at the same time she found herself explaining that she and
Michael were friends, and that he would probably meet
Michael one of these days. She wanted to welcome him into a
home, make him a welcome visitor to a place where, if things
were not exactly the national average, they were amiable, and
settled enough to make him feel secure.
For God’s sake, she thought, I’m not adopting him. Careful.
She led back to the topic of work.
‘T’ll go and see Mr Soames this afternoon and get some old
CSE papers and textbooks, and we can start work tomorrow.
You can make a list of things you’d like to cook and we’ll work
61

out a shopping list tomorrow as well. OK?’
‘OK. How come your cat doesn’t eat the fish?’ he asked.
‘Because he’s not bright enough to figure out how to = it,’
she answered.
‘Bleeding stupid animal.’
They had already got an easy joking relationship going.
Teasing her with her affection for Shamus was obviously going
to become a motif. She was pleased because he could allow his
liking for animals to show itself clearly through the surface
banter. There was a warmth and gentleness about him cased in
a very thin layer of tough. It was remarkable. She wasn’t sure
about the work side of it, but she knew they were going to get on
well:

Three
The shopping spree was not a success. Rachel wandered up and
down, gazing into familiar shops, hoping that something
unmissable would catch her eye. The clothes all seemed too
ordinary. She couldn’t imagine why anyone would pick out this
or that particular garment feeling that it was exactly what she
wanted, would provide precisely the desired image. Everything
was grey — literally; shockingly so after the greenness of
Cornwall. The now cloudy afternoon was complemented by
uniformly dull shop windows selling dresses, sweat shirts,
skirts and shoes in every conceivable shade and combination of
grey. She thought, maybe it’s my imagination. But she had the
colour right. She wondered how it would be perceived by
someone whose frame of mind was different from her own.
Would the contrast between light and dark grey look vivid and
interesting if you were idling down the street with plenty of
money in your pocket, feeling at one with the world?
It was remarkable for Rachel not to be interested in clothes.
She had a wardrobe bursting with ill-gotten gains from
unnecessary shopping expeditions. The sudden urge to buy
clothes would come over her and when it did it was only a
matter of time before she set out. She felt deprived unless she
had something she felt to be exciting to put on in the morning.
It didn’t have to be new, but when new and interesting
combinations of old clothes failed to work, it was time to get
something else.
She dressed, she was convinced, for herself. How she looked
to others was secondary. Lately, in line with fashion and her
own inclination, she wore layers of loose all-encompassing
clothes. Huge baggy boiler suits, sizes too large, enclosed her
airily, while she flung strange shaped scarves and wrist warmers
ac:

about. She disappeared into her clothes like an orphan seeking
refuge. Her frizzy hair, which she brushed with her head upside
down to make it all the frizzier, hid most of her face so that she
often had to peer through the fringe to see who she was talking
to. She bought American dungarees cut for men with enormous
bellies, rolled the bottoms, pulled on her stomping boots and
strode about London like a shrunken Huckleberry Finn,
lacking only a straw to suck. Becky said to her, ‘You’re crazy. If
I had a body like yours I’d be wearing pencil skirts and tight
jumpers. I’d show it off.’
‘Too obvious,’ Rachel retorted. ‘Only someone with a body
like mine would dare walk around in clothes three sizes too big.
It’s Implicit Dressing.’
‘Which was only partly true. If she was dressing to be
attractive it was to attract someone who would see beneath the
layers. This was a challenge to which few men would rise, so in
_ addition it made her safe. She was fed up with taking her clothes
off only to find that the trouble of stripping them away was
never really worth it; not for long. So she piled on the layers; the
more trouble it was to undress the less inclined she was to do so.
It saved disappointment in the long run.
- Today, however, was a washout. There was nothing she
wanted. Nothing, even, she could imagine she wanted and be
sorry about afterwards. Things had to be pretty bad for her to
find nothing at all.
Things were pretty bad. She had to face that she was quite as
depressed as she had been before she went to Cornwall. The
holiday had been hiatus, not change. The only man in her life
was a sadist who might also be a rapist. She had a bloody great
hole outside her front door.
She.also had a voice in her head that whispered into her right
ear, ‘Why don’t you kill yourself?’
Not that that was new. The voice had uttered the toneless
question for years, for as long as she could remember. It was
like a tape loop which repeated itself over and over. Normally
she ignored it, brushed it away automatically like a cow
64

swishing its tail at the flies that perpetually buzzed around.
When she was at her most depressed, when she was
immobilized with it as she had been before Cornwall, the voice
disappeared because, she had come to understand, it became
her: the quietly malevolent thing that wanted her dead moved in
from the periphery and took over her being. She suspected, was
sure, that that was what depression was.
But the voice was back, so she was at least walking wounded.
She supposed that things could be worse. There was a fear,
though, that it would move in on her again. Having been so
recently incapacitated she didn’t think there were any resources
left to fight it.
Depression had been part of her life from way back. She
remembered as a small child sitting stuck inside herself, unable
to answer the ‘What’s the matter?’ from her mother or father,
there being no answer that she could think of. Then she had
been called ‘moody’. ‘She’s in one of her moods.’
She recognized now that she had been depressed, as real and
palpable a condition then as now, but unacceptable in a child.
‘Moody’ made it her fault somehow, part of her character; she
just was like that. Well, perhaps that was true too.
She had had every reason to be depressed. Life wasn’t good.
For the first ten years of her life her parents had conducted a
war in which there were no innocent bystanders. The devas-
‘tation was total, civilian casualties to be expected. She had been
conceived as a kind of UN peace-keeping force and had failed as
completely as the one out there in the real world. As the battles
raged she ran back and forth in the tiny flat delivering messages,
ultimata. Mummy says. . . Daddy says. . . In the very early
days she made some attempt to make peace.
‘Please don’t fight. Let’s make up. Let’s be happy.’
But that was always the cue for a stream of abuse and
recrimination.
‘J don’t want to fight. It’s him/her. Go and talk to Exes
about it if you want it to stop. How dare you blame me for his/
her behaviour. That bastard/bitch wants it to go on, wants to
65

drive me mad, wants me dead. . .’
Andon...andon...
It didn’t work, it simply drew her in. So she stopped. And
her mother, at least, never forgave her.
‘You hard, unfeeling little cow. You don’t care. You don’t
love me. I could walk out of this flat and you wouldn’t lift a
finger to stop me. You’re just like he is — no good. If I’d known
what you were going to turn out like I’d have strangled you at
birth.’
This catechism was screamed at Rachel many times,
sometimes daily. As a child Rachel had had an image of
maternity wards as long rows of beds in which sat women whose
hands encircled their babies’ necks, throttling them. She half-
imagined that it was an option open to all new mothers.
Once or twice her mother did walk out, never for long, but
long enough to prove that Rachel had not lifted a finger to stop
_ her. She sat huddled up against her father on the sofa as the
door slammed and the footsteps echoed down the corridor. She -
never did say, ‘Please don’t go,’ as her mother threatened over
and over to leave, until finally, her back to the wall, faced with
her daughter’s refusal to beg her to stay, even to cry, there was
nothing else for it but to slam her way out of the flat.
She always came back, she had nowhere to go.
By the time Rachel was five her mother had alienated all
family and friends, picking quarrels, accusing them of bad
thoughts or evil deeds towards her, sending them packing:
‘And don’t ever come back here again with your pretended
friendship, do you hear?’
They never did. When the last, bravest cousin went, so did
any kind of normal social life. There were no visitors. Sundays,
Christmas, birthdays, Passover were all grim three-person
affairs weighted with the tensions of not saying the wrong
thing, although when someone — usually Rachel — finally did, it
was almost a relief to get it over with and to end the pretence of
festivity.
Rachel had friends in the block of flats with whom she played
66

in the stairways and corridors, sometimes in their flats, but she
rarely had them in her home because they would inevitably be
quizzed on how they treated their mothers and then treated to a
list of Rachel’s shortcomings. She played alone a lot, using
every inch of the corridors and fire escapes as labyrinths and
mountains. Great heroic adventures were played out and she
recalled these times as happy, even thrilling. The landscape of
the building was rich and mysterious — front stairs, back stairs,
fire escapes, lifts, endless floors of corridors — and people got
used to seeing her engrossed in her current fantasy. Sometimes
some of them joined in and her landscape became peopled with
travellers, witches and wizards who directed her to caverns of
gold or princesses trapped in fairy castles (she was generally
both rescuing prince and maiden in distress). Some of them
invited her to visit them, and she would secretly go to their flats
and eat biscuits and learn new ways of playing patience, or just
sit and chat about their lives and what she planned for hers. She
always pretended that she had a happy family, although some of
the grown-ups she visited who lived on the same floor looked
at her quizzically, having heard the shouting and screaming
coming from her flat. Rachel always pretended she didn’t
notice.
She was never an innocent victim. If such a thing exists. She
loved one desperately, not the other. She chose sides, and was
chosen. He loved her, made her laugh, took her out, hugged her
as the footsteps receded down the corridor, or the door to the
bedroom slammed shut, leaving them alone together in the
poisoning air that hung about the flat and seeped through the
crack under the bedroom door — Rachel’s bedroom, because
that was invariably where her mother shut herself away, so that
Rachel often slept with her father in the double bed. Even when
she started out in her own bed she was many times woken in the
night by her mother telling her to get into their bed, she wasn’t
going to spend another minute next to him. Rachel would push
back the bedclothes and stumble sleepily into the other room
where her father lay on his back smoking in the dark. She would
67

climb into the big warm bed and cuddle up tight against him, iccu a
watching the glow of the cigarette and listening to the sound of
him inhalinangd the long sigh as he let the smoke out of his
lungs; and he held her, stroked her and rocked her back to
sleep.
Once she had said to her mother sleepily before she could
stop herself, ‘This isn’t like real life. It’s like a story in a book.’
This, for some reason, had been a hammer blow to her
mother who never forgot it. It figured in the catechism regularly
after that: ‘A bloody storybook! You think this rotten life is like
a bloody story? Well, it’s real, too bloody real. If you only knew
how you and he have ruined my life. One day you'll be sorry,
when I’m dead. If I’?d known how you were going to turn out I’d
have...’
Rachel was usually very careful about what she said, but
sometimes the most innocent-seeming things began the recital.
_ You could never tell, you had to tread so softly as if walking on
eggshells. Things from outside were dangerous too. If on the
television someone expressed love for their mother in words or
music, it would begin:
“You see, you see that? She loves her mother . . . Not like
you.”
You couldn’t control the outside dangers, she learned, but
you could think very carefully before you spoke. And there was
always the lurking suspicion that her mother was, after all,
right. Rachel didn’t know then about self-fulfilling prophesies,
_ but she did know, guiltily, that she didn’t love her mother. She
wasn’t actually sure what loving her mother meant, or was
supposed to feel like, but her constant failure — refusal — to be
what was wanted seemed proof enough to both of them that she
didn’t. She was pretty sure she loved her father, but that in
itself was evidence of her failure towards her mother. They
were, Rachel and her father, ‘two of a kind’, ‘no good’, both of
them, so loving him was an act of treachery. It was, too, because
he was a bastard.
‘He’s a rat,’ her mother used to say. ‘If I saw him lying dead
68

in the gutter I’d step over him. I’m no hypocrite, you know
that.’
Rachel’s father was debonair, smooth and very attractive to
women. He was a creature of his time, a crib on the suave
Englishman of the forties and fifties, a mixture of George
Sanders and Errol Flynn, whom he resembled. In the argot of
the time he was a cad; now, hustler seemed more appropriate.
He stayed out late, told lies, had many affairs, had twice left
home for several weeks and once, Rachel remembered, a
woman had arrived at their flat from Plymouth and told her
mother how he had run off with several thousand pounds of her
mother’s money, having in the terminology of the time seduced
her. The woman was about Rachel’s mother’s age, so her
mother must have been well into her sixties. He had been a
clever East End boy, her father, lots of promise and scholar-
ships, but had turned his hand in the end, thanks to his looks
and charm, to being something of a crook.
While he conducted his affairs Rachel’s mother had, as she
had many times pointed out, taken care of Rachel, sat with her
when she was ill, explained away — at least at first — his absences,
cooked, cleaned, ‘skivvied for him’ as she put it. She had been
the martyr she portrayed herself to be. There was justice in her
accusations, he was not a good man, he had truly made her life a
misery. His single virtue was that he loved Rachel. So he said
and so Rachel thought. Even her mother acknowledged that —
insisted on that. And Rachel loved him, who so patently
mistreated and did not love her mother. She understood the
injustice of this, the pain it must have given her mother. They
had an alliance, Rachel and her father, but it turned out finally
that she had no power over him. No power to make him stay, no
power to make him go on loving her.
When she was ten he left suddenly and for good. Rachel was
left alone with her mother who railed and raged against him and
her and life itself. He, Rachel, their relations, their ex-friends,
the Jews, the world had ruined her life — nobody cared about
her at all. They heard nothing from him and received no
69

money. Rachel’s mother had never had a job, was completely
uneducated, having left school at twelve to bring up her sisters
and brothers. She had lived entirely as a household servant,
first to her own motherless family and then to Rachel and her
father. She couldn’t and wouldn’t consider working; nor would
she ask for social security, she would not, she said, ‘stoop to
that’. So they had nothing, no savings, just a few pennies. They
lived on potatoes and bills went unpaid. The rent was in arrears
and finally the bailiffs were sent to repossess their furniture.
After that they walked around the flat barefoot because
Rachel’s mother feared the people downstairs would hear that
they hadn’t any carpet. Rachel was not to tell anyone at school
what had happened: her father, she was to say if anyone asked,
was dead. The keynote of the time was shame and rage. Finally
they were to be evicted.
One morning, two weeks before the eviction was due to take
place, Rachel walked into her mother’s bedroom and found her
naked in bed, rolling wildly from side to side. Saliva spilled
from the corners of her mouth as she wailed and moaned
incomprehensibly to someone whom Rachel looked for but
could not see. At first she was terrified, faced with this crazed
creature, and moved towards the bed to touch her mother,
more to take comfort than give it. She put a hand on her
shoulder and asked, ‘Mummy, what’s the matter?’
Her mother stopped rolling for a second and stared at her
without recognition. ‘Who are you?’ she demanded. ‘Go away.
I don’t know you.’ Then she jerked her shoulder away and
continued the obsessive rolling as she wailed and screamed her
stream of complaint and misery.
Rachel took a step back and looked at her for a long moment
until something strange happened to her vision, and the bed
with her mother writhing on it seemed immensely distant. Just
a moving speck, very, very far away. Then she straightened up,
like a soldier, shoulders back, head balanced perfectly over her
spine, and turned briskly on her heel to walk quietly from the
room, her face impassive. She knocked calmly on a neighbour’s
70

door and explained politely that something was wrong with her
mother, she was sorry to bother them but could they please
come and see. Feeling nothing, doing what was obviously —
necessary, quite cold. The neighbours remarked to each other
in whispers, as they watched her mother being carried off on a
stretcher, how strange the child was; quite hard, not a tear or a
question. |
They took her mother away to a hospital and Rachel was sent
— God knows where. They said it was an aunt, but it wasn’t any
aunt she had met before and the area was completely unknown
to her. Later, as an adult, she realized it must have been a foster.
home, but at the time it was simply strange and unknown. She
lived there for months, unhappily, feeling she was in the wrong
place, quite alien and alone. There were other children there,
children of the woman who looked after her, but she didn’t
know them either, though she joined in their games sometimes.
She had nothing of her own there, just some clothes, and there
was no one she felt attached to or able to talk to. She was cool
and polite and went daily to the local school. It must have been
autumn because she remembered sitting on the floor in assem-
bly singing ‘We plough the fields and scatter the good seed on
the land’. She wasn’t interested in the words, but the tune had a
strange quality which made her think of space, infinite empti-
ness, and gave her a wrenching feeling somewhere in her
diaphragm. No one seemed to notice that she walked around
frozen inside, a small, angular block of ice.
Then, after what seemed forever but was in fact a few
months, her father suddenly turned up — had presumably been
found by Social Services. When he walked into the room,
unexpected, unannounced, it was, for Rachel, like living all the
happy endings in all the fairy stories she had read. All of a
sudden everything was all right. The thaw was immediate.
They fell on each other, and held on and kissed. She cried,
‘Daddy, daddy, daddy,’ as she hung tightly to his neck and felt
for the first time in so long his rough cheek against hers. The
‘aunt’ looked on astonished at such a display of affection from
71

the tight little girl who had been in her care. Then, dreadfully,
her father was on his knees in front of her, tears streaming down eeee
his face. ‘Forgive me, darling, please forgive me. How could I
have done this to you. I swear I’ll never go away again.’ —
The tears terrified her and the apologies were worse. She
begged him to stop and there was something secret and dreadful -
inside her that hated him for doing it, but he got up finally and
they held and hugged and touched each other while the ‘aunt’
gave them tea, and the anger she had suddenly felt when he was
on his knees was forgotten. It was all right now, her daddy was
back, the one person she loved and who loved her.
But it turned out he wasn’t going to take her with him; he
would visit her weekly, he told her, and they would go together
and see her mother. She was disappointed, but the prospect of
seeing him regularly and eventually living with him again
satisfied her. There was a future to look to.
Once a week he came and took her to see her mother in the
- hospital who received them always in drugged, remote silence.
She recalled walking up the long driveway clutching her
father’s hand until they came to a courtyard, tarmac and
formal, brightly coloured flowerbeds. Her mother waited on a
wooden bench with a nurse and gave no indication that she
noticed them as they came into view. Rachel would put the
flowers her father bought outside the hospital gates on her
mother’s lap, between her limp hands where they lay unnoticed
until the nurse took them away saying how lovely and cheerful
they were and that she would put them in water. Very gradu-
ally, over a period of months, her mother began to show signs of ©
recognizing them and started to respond very wearily to their
conversation, and occasionally asked questions, though with
little enthusiasm. In spite of the visits meaning that she saw her
father, Rachel dreaded them. She hated the discomfort of
sitting with her silent, absent mother trying to make the bright |
conversation her father coached her in as they rode to the
hospital, trying to pretend she was a proper daughter. What
Rachel dreaded was seeing her mother at all, ill or well; she
72

didn’t feel any happier when her mother’s face eventually
creased into a semblance of a smile — she had merely regained
the memory of smiling, the muscles recollected how to go about
it, there was no meaning behind it. Rachel didn’t care about
her, didn’t want to see her, didn’t even want her to recognize
her. Visiting her mother was the price she had to pay to see her
father. Rachel had switched off long before on the morning she
had walked into the bedroom and found a bizarre stranger.
Then, as suddenly as he had returned, her father disappeared
again. There was no explanation; he just didn’t come one
weekend and that was that. The ‘aunt’ simply said she didn’t
know and Rachel didn’t enquire any further. Deserted again,
she became a tight, unloving, unlovable little island. She didn’t
‘want her mother and refused to think about her father — there
were no questions she could ask that had satisfactory answers,
so she simply would not allow herself to think about it. All the
while she remained polite and did what it seemed’she had to do.
Eventually she left the ‘aunt’, who apparently hadn’t taken to
her, and was put into a children’s home while her still-fragile
mother was set up in a bedsit. From time to time there were
visits -which neither of them relished. The home itself wasn’t a
terrible place, the people were kind enough, it was only that she
was alone and had nowhere to go. It was a huge Victorian
structure designed with large numbers in mind which pro-
vided, in Rachel’s time, for the care of forty or fifty children
who were permanently or temporarily unable to live in their
own homes. There was no attempt to pretend it was other than
what it was — it didn’t have the compromised domesticity of
Wentworth House. |
She was by now eleven and a half and attended a grammar
school near the home. She survived by being tough, isolated
and clever, and while she remained quite separate from her
classmates she engaged the interest of her teachers with her
precociously cynical comments on life. She questioned every-
thing from the contents of their lessons to their assumed right of
authority and used words as if they were explosive devices to
73

attack and destroy everything in sight — but carefully,
accurately, so that her logic was always infuriatingly unassail-
able. She was interesting but not likeable: a sharp, skinny
creature with a strained much-too-old face and a verbal style
like razor blades. Her teachers recognized a quality in her that
they defined as ‘remarkable’, but also sensed a dreadful,
consuming need, of which Rachel knew nothing, that kept
them at arm’s length. She saw the distance they kept but had no
idea why, and sometimes she ached to have one of them put
their arm round her, but of covrse had no notion of the pain she
would have extracted from them if they had.
What Rachel experienced from inside herself was a cosmic
sense of not belonging. She was everywhere in the wrong place
with the wrong people, though this was merely an extension of
how she had always felt. When things were bad at home in the
old days with her parents she had raged inside at the unfairness
of having been ‘placed’ with these people, having to suffer the
misery they created, because she had nothing to do with them.
They were not the right people, a mistake had been made
somewhere, she didn’t belong with them and 1t wasn’t fair. At
the children’s home she experienced homesickness and
couldn’t for the life of her understand why. Homesick for what?
For whom? She wanted to get back to. . . but she had no idea
what. Not her mother, not the old days of the three of them
living unhappily together. She wanted just to get back to
something familiar. She ached for her mother but not the flesh-
and-blood mother she had known and failed to love. She just
ached and could think of nothing real that she ached for.
So what’s changed, Rachel thought, as she sat in the café,
having given up her quest for clothes. I’m still aching, I still
don’t know what I ache for.
Joshua. I ache for Joshua. Who couldn’t give a shit about me.
Whose picture I see in a newspaper and know immediately he
could have done that, raped and assaulted and frightened a
sixteen-year-old kid. Whose deliberately infrequent calls I wait
74
eeeeee e s

for desperately. That’s what I ache for, she told herself, that’s
how far I’ve come in the last twenty-five years. It’s not exactly
travelling at the speed of light, kid!
When she got home she took the cutting from her diary and
dialled the number the police gave for anyone with information.
The electronics pinged and echoed as they connected her to the
police station at Inverness, and her heart thumped as she
wondered what it was she was intending to do. Find out. Get
information. She wanted information.
‘Hello, Drumnadrochit Police. Can I help you?’ said the
broad Scots voice.
“Yes. I don’t know. It’s about the man you want for assault
“Yes, madam. Do you have some information?’
No. She wanted information. She didn’t have any.
‘I don’t know. I mean I can’t. . . The man, was he a Scot?’
She suddenly wondered if they could trace the call, her mind
filled with images from television cop programmes, sifting the
nonsense to see if she had any knowledge about it. She didn’t
now feel safely anonymous. How long did they need? Did local
police stations have that kind of equipment?
‘I can’t say very much about the man. What is it you have to
tell us, madam?’
‘I can’t tell you anything unless I know whether the man was
local or not,’ she said. She wanted to explain that she couldn’t
give information about someone who was not the man they
wanted if they were looking for a Scot. She wanted the
policeman on the other end of the line to understand that. This
is insane, she thought.
The policeman said carefully, ‘We don’t think the man was
local. What —’
- ‘Right. Thank you. Sorry.’
She put the phone down fast. They couldn’t have traced the
call in that time. But what had she found out? Nothing. What
did local mean? Local to Drumnadrochit? To Inverness? To
Scotland? She meant did he have a Scots accent or a plummy
te

Oxbridge one? But so what? Joshua’s BBC English was an
invention anyway, he could have used a Scot’s accent well
enough to fool a frightened little girl. It was a pointless enquiry.
What did she think she was doing? Supposing the policeman
had said, ‘Well, madam, he had an Oxbridge accent.’ What
would she have done then? Put the phone down. Supposing she
knew for sure that it was Joshua, what would she do? Phone
Inverness and say, ‘Excuse me, officer, there’s this man I’ve
known for three years and I think he’s the man you’re looking
for. His name is Joshua Abelman and his address. . .”
It was unthinkable. But why was it? She didn’t think it was
all right for men who were a danger to women to be roaming
free. She could speak to Joshua, let him know she knew (clever
girl, powerful girl!) and make him promise to go and see a
shrink. A laugh burst out of her at that. Try again. Think
reality, Rachel. But how do you think reality about something
_ like this. It wasn’t real. It couldn’t be real. And if she made it
real by making her fears public what was she doing? Paying the
bastard back. Did she really care about an assaulted sixteen-
year-old more than theoretically? And if it was reality that was
being thought then what about the sixteen-year-old herself?
How did she get into the car with the two of them in the first
place? Voluntarily, eased in by Joshua’s charm. Attracted in.
Was she an innocent victim? No one’s quite that. She could
imagine her excited and cooperative — up to what point? When
exactly did she start to get scared? Rachel remembered reading
about another rape recently where the girl had described what
the newspaper called ‘her appalling experience’: ‘He explained
that he was going to tie me up,’ the girl was quoted as saying,
‘which he did, quite carefully. Then he raped me. He told me if
I did as I was told he wouldn’t hurt me. His voice was very calm
and firm. He didn’t hurt me when he raped me. He was almost
considerate. Then when he’d finished he said goodbye and left.’
If Rachel had read that before she knew Joshua it would have
been another description of another bloody rape. Made her
angry, as any rape would. But now she thought she detected
76

something almost wistful in the girl’s account. Sex will never be
the same for her again, Rachel had thought, not because she’s
been raped, but because she heard that tone in his voice. She’ll
spend her life hankering guiltily, if not consciously, after it.
The real violation is that she’s been shown that side of herself.
The really appalling experience is that she’s been turned on.
Obviously Rachel was projecting. The poor girl had probably
hated every moment. Rape is rape. It is completely unaccept-
able. But that being true there remained in Rachel’s mind at
least a question about herself. If that man had done that to her,
her emotions would not have been unmixed. Had she been
speaking those words there would have been a quality of
wistfulness, a sense that nothing would be the same again.
That, after all, exactly described what had happened to her with
Joshua. Was she unique? Obviously not. Joshua had
recognized it in her, she had given implicit permission. She was
not an innocent victim.
But Joshua did not do what he did to her against her will. She
had always felt that if she said ‘no’ at any point (in a way that
really meant it) he would stop. At some point the girl in the car
had said ‘no’ and the man had not stopped. It didn’t matter at
what point she said it. No is no. The girl was raped, forced to do
what she didn’t want. That was that. Whoever did that was
dangerous and violent and might do it again. Or worse.
There was something else, something that she identified as
‘betrayal’ in the confusion of her thoughts. Apart from a natural
disinclination to tell the police anything about anyone, she felt
vaguely that it would be an act of treachery, that she couldn’t do
that to him. But who was this man she felt so protective
towards? Someone who hurts people wilfully? There was, at the
back of it, some childlike notion of not telling tales. It was the
same prohibition that functioned in the idea of ‘professional
ethics’, that kept incompetents in their jobs in spite of their
colleagues’ knowledge that they performed badly, sometimes
even dangerously.
So what about Joshua? Well, she could justify her silence
77

because she didn’t know the truth, she could not wreak that
kind of havoc in someone’s life if they were innocent. She
wasn’t sure she could do it if she knew him to be guilty. What a
nice person you are, Rachel, she heard her scathing voice tell
her. And if you didn’t, and he did it again and really damaged
someone, what then my tender-hearted friend?
She decided that she wouldn’t do anything until she heard
from Joshua; he was due back any day and she supposed he
would get in touch. She would wait, as she’d done for three |
years, for Joshua to ring. Uncertainty, as ever, was the name of
their particular game.
aeneeeSFIaeeeeOnee ey e s e P e eE

Four
Waiting was what characterized the three years of Rachel’s
involvement with Joshua.
At different periods of her life time was divided into seg-
ments which varied according to the circumstances. At school,
and later as a teacher, term-time and holidays alternated, the
one leading unstoppably into the other; a period of activity and
routine followed by leisure, and both when their time came
were welcome. The change was welcome.
Then there was the period in the children’s home when time
had seemed endless, and she waited for something which she
knew wasn’t going to happen; there was the feeling that, by its
nature, the home was a temporary solution to an immediate
problem, yet everyone knew that there was no resolution in
sight. She had no idea what she was waiting for, only that
something had to happen because no one can live without any
kind of expectation, some notion of a future. And eventually
that time too stopped when, at twelve, quite miraculously,
Isobel, in search of a bright interesting child, had scooped her
up and given her a home.
Time. Periods of waiting for the next episode. Perhaps
change is a definition of time. And at the very best of times there
is still waiting — call it dread — that that period too will pass and
whatever it is that is good will become a memory bounded by a
beginning and an end.
The three years of Rachel’s life that were Joshua’s time were
spent in waiting; the segments bounded by his visits. Life took
on another rhythm, a counterpoint to the to and fro of Carrie’s
school and holidays, her teaching, the daily need for shopping
and cooking and cleaning the flat. Beneath all those activities,
all the three years of everydayness, Joshua’s rhythm was a
79

continuous and powerful presence. Life was a series of more or
less likelihoods. Once Joshua had been round there was a week
or ten days when she knew there was no possibility of his
phoning, although the certainty decreased as the days went by
and gradually shaded into expectation. The best times, the
quietest, were in the week after he had visited: she was released
from the tension of listening for the phone, wondering when he
would. As time went on, as it came up to the two-week mark,
she began to wonder when, and then if, he would call. Perhaps
5
this was it. Perhaps he’d never come back again, and the tension ;
became anxiety if she hadn’t heard from him for a fortnight. ;
Where other women suffered premenstrual syndrome she had
;
Joshua to provide the ebb and flow of her moods. 4
He came at about fortnightly intervals; never less than ten a
days, and usually between twelve and fifteen. Although
sometimes the spaces. were longer. Sometimes three weeks,
once or twice four. (Then that appalling gap of six months,
when she knew that reason demanded she recognize that he
wasn’t coming again but nevertheless was somehow certain that
aiiaar e
he would. Wishful thinking, she told herself over and over, but
eventually he called.)
‘Whim’, he explained, ‘nothing more complicated. I get a
whim and I call you. If you’re available and want to see me I
come round.’
So honest, so straightforward, their relationship. But what eeewyee ere
about Rachel’s whims? Not part of the contract. She had
phoned him one night when she was a little drunk.
‘Joshua, I wanted to have a chat.’
Liar, she had phoned because she wanted him to come round
and fuck her.
‘Perhaps another time. I’m extremely tired. ’Bye.’
eFSe©ea Fee
The voice so cold that she actually shivered as she put the
receiver back. He hadn’t called her for three weeks after that.
Contracts don’t have to be written, they can be etched into the
brain by small icy experiences.
But although random whim was the acknowledged rule, the
80

reality was not quite so simple. Joshua made reference from
time to time to the haphazardness of his visits, and also, when it
came up in conversation, to the fact that he saw her ‘once a
month or so’. She never queried this except for the brief amused
look that passed between them each time; she knew, and she
supposed that Joshua knew, that in fact he came with surprising
regularity. The intervals were almost always fortnightly or
thereabouts, neither random, really, nor monthly. The rules of
the game required, however, that it was ‘as if he visited her
infrequently and with no detectable pattern. In that way the
thing was kept light, she was given no excuse for thinking that
anything other than occasional lust was operating. He didn’t
need her in any way. He had no needs, only whims. The nagging
woman was kept at bay by this superstructure. She could never
think of saying with any sense of justice, ‘Why didn’t you come
last week?’ or ‘You are treating me badly, I have a right to some
consideration’, because she had no rights to anything, never
having been promised anything. So if the reality was different
from the apparent structure it was never tangible enough to be
evidence of commitment or affection. There were several
occasions when he did respond to her requests, but the requests
were oblique and his response was never officially recognized as
such. Sometimes she sent him cards when she found one funny
and appropriate enough: a fifties photo, presumably an
advertisement, of a woman in shirt and jeans holding an electric
drill on which the contemporary cardmaker had written,
‘Women need this kind of relaxation too.’ On the reverse she
had scrawled: ‘A woman’s right to do it herself. Love R.’ He
called the following day though no reference was made to the
card. Once or twice she phoned him and replaced the receiver
before the tone on the machine. Click. On both occasions he
called in the evening and came round. She was sure he knew it
had been her but nothing was said beyond a grin. And, of
course, there was what she felt to be the inordinate power of her
fantasies. This was probably delusion, she knew that, but there
were enough times when she had concocted one of her
81

scenarios, so strong that she sleepwalked through the rest of the
day, and then Joshua had turned up and uncannily proceeded
to act them out, sometimes using the very words she had
imagined to go with the action. In some way, she supposed, she
must have influenced what happened, how it happened, pushed
it somehow in the right direction, and in any case there are only
so many things two people can do with each other’s bodies and
only so many clichés appropriate to an activity. Coincidence.
It continued like this for two whole years, during which time
Carrie learned to read and tie her shoelaces and draw people
with features on their faces. While she changed from a five-
year-old, half in, half out of babyhood, to a self-possessed,
competent seven-year-old, Rachel learned how to wait. He
called, she said yes. There were no other men in her life — she
met few people, no one who interested her enough even for a
single night — so she was always available, a fact which discom-
_ fited her a little. At first she was jubilant and maintained the
story of a free and sexy affair with no strings.
‘How’s the Demon?’ Becky would ask over the phone.
‘Wonderful. He turns up late, we have great sex and then he
goes before breakfast, just like any respectable Demon Lover
should. Who could ask for anything more?’ Rachel answered
gaily.
‘Does he just arrive?’ :
‘Lord no! He always calls first to see if I’m free. He’s nothing B
if not civilized.’
‘How exciting,’ Becky would say, “but it can’t last.’
‘Idiot,’ Rachel laughed.
Rachel, in fact, was divided. What she told Becky was true as
far as it went. She didn’t want more of him, not inasmuch as
more meant going to the movies, to restaurants or for long
walks in the park together. They had created a time-out, a hole
in space where they met to do only what it was they wanted to
do. The social niceties were not necessary. It was a secure haven
away from emotional entanglements. Sometimes Rachel
imagined starting a new relationship — the traditional kind
82

where two people meet and create a misty, emotional bubble,
murmur sweetnesses to one another, walk in the rain tense with
the anticipation of a hot bath and sex, linger over long meals in
dim sympathetic restaurants aching with need for one another.
Rachel remembered it well, she had done it a time or two. She
remembered how time — and not much of it — had blown the
mist away to reveal just two needy people with nothing in
common, the moment when she woke in the morning to find
herself wondering, as she glared at the man in her bed, ‘What
am I doing with this person?’ Then the embarrassment of
extricating herself, of rescinding the whispered words of love
and promises of future. God, how do I get out of this?
Awkward, ugly business. The memory of it, the thought of it in
the future, made her shiver with distaste. The misty, sexual
excitement which was certainly fun at the time was now forever
contaminated with the knowledge of how things turn out. Not
something to yearn for, something to dread. There was, thank
God, none of that with Joshua. ‘Games for children,’ was how
he described conventional love.
So she didn’t want that. A sexual affair, not a love affair, was
what she had and wanted, but her total lack of control over the
conduct of the affair began to bother her more and more. Of
course her lack of control was the sine qua non of the sex they
had. To be consistent his dominance, her submission, should
be echoed in the way they arranged their meetings too. She
didn’t, however, feel consistent about it; she wanted, needed
his control over her body but not over her life. She concluded
that she was a part-time masochist, an amateur. The part of her
that lived from day to day did not want to be at the beck and call
of some man and began to rage against it. Quietly. She didn’t
want to lose Joshua, not yet. She knew the rules and for a while
felt that she could put up with them. She squeezed a little self-
esteem out of the notion that in acceding to his game plan she
was actually using him as much as he used her. It was a bit
theoretical, but it did for a while.
In the meantime he arrived pretty regularly and they sipped
83

wine, joked, prodded each other’s intelligence and performed
their ceremonies. Nothing changed, there was no development,
nothing residual. Each visit stood alone. Certainly they learned
more about each other, but it had no obvious effect on the tone
of their meetings. Nothing grew, they had a series of one-night
stands, there was none of the familiarity that one expects from
years of repeated meetings. She marvelled that Joshua managed
to keep the situation so cool and stable. Because it was certainly
his doing. She was inclined towards private jokes and intima-
tions, enjoyed comfortable familiarity — for as long as it lasted.
It was quite clear that Joshua’s way made for longevity. The
scales weren’t going to fall from her eyes because she didn’t see
enough of him to pick up the cues that made it happen. Clever
Joshua, the man’s a genius, she thought glumly. She might
have spent the day angry, or longing to see him, aching for him;
OeTe
but each time she opened the door he stood there so bland, the
casual acquaintance — and the fury and the longing dropped
away. If she longed for anything seeing him standing in the
doorway, she longed for anger, or lust, or rage. What she got
from herself as well as him was urbanity.
What was true of the tone of the relationship was also true of
the sex. She had, each time, to be eased into it anew. She was
always the friendly, unflirtatious cynic with anything but sex on
her mind — although perhaps it flickered around the corners of
her mouth — who needed to be touched and commanded into
sensuality. The switch had to turn first in Joshua’s voice, then
in her whole being. She had to be broken down, her self-
possession dissolved and destroyed. What Joshua revelled in
was the wreckage of a tough, clever and equal human being; a
sea-change into a child-whore who was rendered inarticulate
with wanting, overcome by her own sexuality, made to beg for
pain and satisfaction. Joshua the magician, the wizard, with the
eeenNhaeNLRTeeTgee eySN Se eO eT e Ne
magic wand and secret rituals that turned form into
formlessness.
And it was precisely what Joshua revelled in that she wanted
too. Sex, for Rachel, was a way, the only way, of slipping out of
84
pOreaeaeieet e enee

the controlled, armoured person she was. Sex was permission to
let go, to be a wanting, hungry little girl who made demands
and had them satisfied. It was safe to let go because Joshua was
in control and it was the only way she could say or feel things
that were impossible in everyday life. Rachel had never said, ‘I
love you’ to any man. Not since her father. The phrase, she
would explain if necessary, was meaningless. Had no meaning.
But that justification apart, the phrase ‘I love you’ simply would
not have come out of her mouth; she could not utter it in the
cold light of day, as if a spell prevented that particular combina-
tion of words from saying themselves. During orgasm she could
say them; not easily, but as if they finally burst out of her. They
came from the contractions in her womb and from her
tightened cunt, not from her head. Orgasm gave permission.
Afterwards, after she had gasped, ‘I love you, I love you’ over
and over and clung tightly to Joshua, she lay ashamed, embar-
rassed at the echoing words.
‘I assume that what’s said during orgasm is under special
ordinance. I take it that it’s expunged from the record,’ she said
lightly into the silence the first time it happened.
‘Absolutely,’ smiled Joshua in the half-light.
She assumed he wanted that capitulation and resisted it for a
while, but not for long. She never resisted for very long.
The fatal flaw in sado-masochism, in dominance and submis-
sion plays, lies in the willingness of the victim. The last thing a
sadist needs is a masochist; the one person who cannot rape a
masochist is the chosen sadist. They can collude in the pretence
that one is wholly dominant, the other submissive, but the
permission each gives the other denies the simplicity of their
roles. Rachel began to see that her willingness to be beaten and
overwhelmed gave her, paradoxically, a power over Joshua. If
he was to contain and act out his fantasies he needed someone
like her to permit, to understand and to react appropriately,
while at the same time her acceptance of him denied him what
he really wanted — to give real pain, to destroy. They were
acting out a pantomime and they both knew it, although it
85

wasn’t to be said. Asa pair of sophisticated post-Freudians they
were giving each other therapy. In the end, if they cared to
think about it, they were doing each other a kindness. Or so
Rachel came to understand. What Joshua chose to understand
was uncertain. She assumed he must know and made do with
ritual. That was what ritual was for: to conceal the underlying
inconsistencies with the theatre of black and white.
Then after almost two years of this seemingly endless,
unchanging relationship, Joshua suddenly stopped calling.
There was no obvious reason; the sex, the humour had been as
usual, she had made no demands. There was no reason to think
as he left on the last occasion that she wouldn’t see him in
another couple of weeks.
The problem with the kind of relationship she had with
Joshua is that there is no way of gauging when exactly it is over.
He didn’t call for a month, longer than usual; then two months,
unprecedented, but still no reason to suppose that he might not
call tonight, tomorrow night. At what point do you say, no,
that’s that, it’s finished he won’t call again — and believe it?
Especially if you don’t want to believe it. Sometimes she
allowed the thought to creep around the corner of her mind,
tried to make it real: you will never see Foshua again. She
couldn’t bear it, she was just not ready never to see him again; if
she didn’t have Joshua she had nothing. The idea of no more
Joshua from now on gripped her with terror; the rest of her life
became a void, an emptiness that was unsurvivable. Common
sense offered the comfort that other things inevitably would EPeaeeeRPEeeeOeeemaeeeeTETe eehe e ee C e eE ee
happen, other men, or just the passage of time weaken Joshua’s
hold on her. While at some level she knew this to be true, it did
nothing to allay the desperation she felt. Other men would not
be Joshua; she imagined that from now on when she fucked
other men some part of her would want him; whatever anyone
else was or did, they would always be measured against Joshua,
what he did for her. The future became a life sentence and she
dared not think about his permanent absence for very long. The
thought was stuffed back underneath the feeling that he would
86

turn up again, if not tonight, then next week, or month.
This was not like Rachel, it surprised her as much as finding
herself bending over to be smacked. A central tenet of her life
was that you looked at the hard reality whether you liked what
you saw or not. You examined first the thoughts that didn’t
want to be thought, because it was likely to be there that the
truth, if such a thing existed, was found. Seeing how things
really are may have been Rachel’s chosen way of tormenting
herself, but nevertheless she knew it was of the utmost import-
ance. Human beings told themselves stories, reshaped reality
into an acceptable form in order to survive, they beavered away
creating hope, expectation and future from everything but the
evidence of their eyes and experience.
Rachel’s rejection of institutionalized hope was an essential
part of who she was, but perhaps stemmed as much from fear as
did compulsive optimism. Becky pointed this out to her once as
she sat with her during one of Rachel’s more massive depres-
sions. Rachel, locked in and unavailable, had muttered over and
over, ‘You have to tell yourself the truth. You have to face the
cold hard ugly facts. Or you get lost in a web of sentimental lies.’
Becky had interrupted gently, ‘But you assume the truth can
only be ugly and painful. Perhaps that’s the way you lie to
yourself. You don’t allow in any truth that may be positive.
There may be pleasant truths too.’
Rachel acknowledged the logic of that with a pause, but it
had no inner reality for her then or later. She couldn’t move
beyond the fear that a belief in generosity, love — goodness —
whatever Becky was talking about, was terminally self-decep-
tive, a way of comforting oneself for the unhappiness of being
alive. It was a form of voluntary blindness that Rachel feared
above all else. Still, from time to time it occurred to her that her
stubborn commitment to bleakness may also be a truth she had
to face.
However, committed to bleak reality as she was, she could
not, try as she might, hold the permanent disappearance of
Joshua in front of her eyes for more than a few panic-stricken
87

moments. And it frightened her. It was a measure of her
obsession, and made it finally necessary to see that she was in a
condition she had never been in before. She felt devoid of
experience or guidance. She was lost in a place she had always
imagined she would never go. This does not happen to me, she
thought over and over again; this isn’t me. And I don’t know
what to do about it. Well, it didn’t matter what you called it,
impervious Rachel’s walls had been breached, and if they didn’t
exactly come tumbling down she was having the hardest time of
her life cementing the cracks.
Isobel wasn’t much help; she was as committed to
independence as Becky was to love. Rachel had told Isobel
about Joshua in the early days of the relationship although in
pretty general terms.
‘Got this new man in my life. Well, “in my life”’ is putting it a
bit strong. There’s this man around. He comes and goes.’
‘Well,’ said Isobel briskly, ‘I hope he treats you properly.’
Whoops. Not exactly.
‘It’s a sexual thing, not the Big L. We have a good time with
each other and it’s, um, interesting.’
Isobel, drinking tea on Rachel’s sofa, caught the look that
Rachel’s eyes were only half-attempting to conceal.
‘Interesting?’ she asked, sipping tea carefully.
‘A bit kinky. Nothing I can’t handle,’ Rachel reassured her
quickly, ‘really quite safe. Just a little ritual violence. Well, one
has to look at these things in oneself if they come up, doesn’t
one?’ she invited, ‘and it’s come up.’ She appealed to Isobel’s
=eeeaeOeeeTeTTARPeeeTSe ReeR S Nne eeee T I e e E
equal commitment to telling oneself the truth. It didn’t work.
The Isobel who had been her mother for much longer than her
real mother had, was engaged.
‘What, exactly, do you mean, “kinky”’?’ — her face tight with
the effort at composure, the tone over-careful. She didn’t want
to hear the answer.
etPew . D
“Well, he’s something of a sadist. Look, it’s all right. It really
is.’
Isobel looked hard at Rachel, her lips pressed firmly together
88
eeeeee
<arePee

to prevent an unconsidered response. She was a woman in her
early sixties, dressed in the careful elegance of a successful
academic, the clothes expensively designed not to draw atten-
tion away from the presence of the substantial woman who wore
them, her grey hair subtly cut to a sensible but attractive crop.
‘I'm very surprised that you, of all people, should get
involved with that. It’s not like you. Rachel, it’s dangerous!’
. ‘No, it’s not. Believe me, it’s not. It’s a kind of ceremony.
And he’s completely under control. I can’t really explain this,
but I do know. It’s not just the sex, I get on with him; I mean
when we’re not fucking and so on, we talk — as if sex hadn’t
happened, and he’s witty and funny and so am I.’ Rachel felt
idiotic. She’d let the side down. Isobel was anxious but also
disappointed in her.
‘So you’re letting this man do God knows what — tie you up
and whip you for all I know — so you can have a witty
conversation. You’re crazy.’
‘Possibly,’ Rachel said, tightening up. ‘Anyway, it. won’t
last. If someone else were doing it we’d be sitting here gossiping
and laughing about it. And you’d be shaking your head saying,
“Well, people just have to do whatever it is they have to do.”
We’d be amused and philosophical and wait for them to be
finished with it. Why is it different for me?’ .
Silly question. But then Rachel was never quite sure which
Isobel she wanted to address herself to and that was compli-
cated by her uncertainty about which one Isobel was at any
given moment: a confusion she imagined Isobel also
experienced. Rachel never really knew how to describe her to
other people — my friend Isobel, my adoptive mother. The
difference in their ages and the length and depth of their
relationship made ‘friend’ a weak, unsatisfactory description;
but then for a woman of thirty-one to speak of her ‘adoptive
mother’ was ridiculous and pedantic.
Isobel, sitting across the room in Rachel’s flat, was clearly
‘mother’, and had to say more than, ‘Because it is,’ to Rachel’s
question.
89

The topic of conversation changed at that point and Joshua
was not mentioned again. Occasionally, during those first two
years, Isobel would ask in a voice that made it clear she wanted
no more than an exact answer to her question, ‘Is that — man —
still around?’
Rachel would offer a clipped, ‘Yes, he’s around,’ and the eeeetea y ee
subject would change. Isobel never even knew Joshua’s name.
But now he wasn’t around and Rachel had to decide at what
point the answer to Isobel’s question was, ‘No, I’m not seeing
him any more.’ She was loath to see the relief which would
spread over Isobel’s face at that and loath to admit to herself, as
confessing it publicly essentially did, that it was finished. At
three months she did make a declaration, ‘No, he’s not coming
round any more,’ and Isobel, who was not given to wrapping
life in rose petals, said, ‘Good’ firmly and finally.
‘As a matter of fact it’s not good,’ Rachel responded with a
_ long, straight gaze at Isobel. ‘He’s stopped seeing me. I didn’t
stop seeing him, because I want to see him. I can’t just say
“no”, I don’t mean it.’
‘Well, I’m sure he’ll be back. I know the type,’ Isobel
answered. This wasn’t consolation, more a grim reminder to
herself how impossible human beings are, particularly when it
comes to sex. She regarded Rachel as too informed, too know-
ledgable about life to waste time getting emotionally involved.
‘You’re in the grip of a sexual obsession. There’s nothing to
be done about women in that condition,’ she said.
Oh dear, demoted to one of the ‘women’. Where was strong,
free Rachel who had survived against improbable odds, to
become more than the subject of mere physical hunger? Shame
on you Rachel, who of all people should know better!
‘Well, I hope you’re right, Isobel, because I want him back,
and I’m not suggesting that my obsession is anything more than ~ ’
low-life sexual. I’m not under the impression that I’ve found
my mystical other half. If you know of a way of getting rid of
sexual obsession I’d be pleased to hear it, because it’s bloody
uncomfortable.’
90

Rachel, fighting for her right to be an average klutz, just like
everyone else, sounded equivocal even to her ears. She wanted
out, but she wasn’t out, that was that. She was as sick at herself
as Isobel was. I don’t want to be this, she would mutter to
herself after an afternoon of masturbation and fantasy, how do I
make it stop? Strength of character, of course, but for the first
time in her life strength of character didn’t apply. She either
didn’t have any or it simply wasn’t applicable in this circum-
stance. How then had she managed to live through everything
else? Was it, after all, just luck, nothing to do with who she was?
She remembered a psychiatrist saying to her once after she did a
quick gallop through her childhood and adolescence, ‘You are
remarkably fortunate not to be psychotic. I think only your
powerful sense of reality prevented it.’
Luck or character? Where was her powerful sens¢ of reality
now, when she needed it most?
Nota day of those six months passed when she didn’t think of
Joshua. She woke in the morning with him etched on her mind,
some memory or desire already half-thought. She got through
the days, worked with Pete, was involved in things; but there
was a small compartment always that contained Joshua like a
computer, humming quietly away sorting, sifting memories,
dreams and hopes. She didn’t spent much time wondering why
Joshua stopped coming round, she assumed boredom and
found that reasonable — everything gets boring. She didn’t
actually concern herself much with Joshua’s life at all; her
fascination was with what he was, not what he did. She knew he
had other women, imagined it possible (though unlikely) that
he had fallen in love with someone, was ill, had died. But
jealousy and concern loomed small in her mind. She really
didn’t care who else he fucked, or how, or if he went to the
movies, or had a temperature; she simply wanted him, there,
fucking her, joking with her in their isolated little compart-
ment. Once or twice she screamed aloud in her empty flat, ‘I
want Joshua’ and felt only slightly foolish afterwards.
Time didn’t heal a thing. She waited for six months for the
gI

phone to ring with the same intensity throughout. She found a
couple of men to fuck but it was never satisfactory. She came all
right, but it wasn’t enough. The time when just having an
orgasm was sufficient was over. She was left in a more wretched
condition when they went and lay alone in bed feeling as
frustrated and needy as if they’d never been. More so because
she knew she could not have what she really needed. Sleeping
with other men was a travesty of what ought to be happening, a
reminder of what she didn’t have — any more. Her orgasms
became mixed with rage, they became anger, bursts of fury.
She decided she was better off without them and dealt with her
sexual needs herself: it was hardly less satisfactory.
‘He obviously isn’t coming round because he was getting too
involved with you and he’s scared of that. You got to him,’
Becky consoled.
Rachel took a deep breath. ‘That won’t do. He obviously
isn’t coming round because he doesn’t want to, and that’s that.
The Mills and Boon version of Joshua Abelman is very attrac-
tive but it just doesn’t fit. This is not some dark romantic hero
who’s struggling with a great inner need for me. And, what’s
next? Oh yes, he’s been terribly hurt by a woman and dare not .
trust himself to anyone again. Probably in some deep structural
way that’s true, but it’s not relevant, nor is it helpful. He came
round for the last two years to fuck me, because I’m a good fuck
and he likes my body. And he got bored. End of story. No big
finish.’
‘I don’t believe that,’ Becky insisted as she spooned the froth
from her cappuccino. ‘He did come round for all that time, and
you did get on. He doesn’t want to admit it, that’s all.’
‘And that’s enough,’ Rachel responded grimly. ‘He’s a
finished product. If he’s been damaged, which he has, then it’s
done. He doesn’t get involved. It doesn’t matter why. He isn’t
involved. It’s just not useful to me to evoke feelings in Joshua.
There’s nothing to be hopeful about and I’m not going to start
weaving dreams of “deep down he loves me” into the
unpleasant truth. It'll sink me.’
92

Becky looked disappointed. Rachel’s minimalist view of life
chilled her. “Well, what are you going to do?’ she asked.
‘Nothing. There’s nothing to do except shut up about it.
There’s nothing more to say. I don’t want him secretly loving
me, I just want to see him. Since I can’t I’ll settle for not being
obsessed. Why can’t I leave it alone?’
Becky didn’t dare mention love, which seemed to her to sum
up Rachel’s condition. Becky had always rather enjoyed being
in love. Rachel, she knew, regarded it as a kind of influenza, a
sickness from which one recovered more or less quickly. Becky
could say, ‘I am in love’ and it was an act of pleasure, not
something that had to be wrenched from her when she could no
longer hold out any more. Becky wasn’t at war with love, she
just enjoyed it. She had only ever been involved, in love, with
three men in her life; one she had lost to someone else, another
she had left for her current love, William, with whom she had
been living for the past five years. The rejection by the first and
rejection of the second had given her pain in different ways, and
the excitement with William was no longer bright and glossy
new. She knew that things could go sour, that feeling changes,
but she didn’t accept that this was a necessary condition of love.
She had no sense of the inevitable end as Rachel did. Because
things had gone wrong twice didn’t mean that her love with
William was doomed. Even the loss of intensity wasn’t fatal, she
saw it as a reversible process; unlike Rachel who knew in her
bones that once the glow had gone that was that, it was finished
and time to get out. Becky was convinced that her relationship
with William would continue, if differently. She never thought
about endings, only continuations, and if things finally went
wrong they were to be adjusted to as and when necessary, not
something to plan for.
The dialogue between Rachel and Becky had been ongoing
since their early twenties, their positions fixed even then. Becky
often wondered if there had ever been a starry-eyed little Rachel
who believed in fairies and the inevitable visits of Santa Claus.
Rachel wondered how it could have been that Santa visited
93

Becky so unconditionally that she should still believe in him.
But she counted herself lucky in the end that she had learned
that you couldn’t rely on the magic out there, and so avoided the
awful pain when that Christmas morning came and Santa
hadn’t made a delivery. Each woman could see the attraction or
sense of the other’s position; with a small part of themselves one
wished herself a little more armoured, the other a little less
wary, but fundamentally each knew that they were right.
Becky changed direction. ‘I’m going to the launch of Donna
Saunders’ new book next week. Want to come? It’s women
only, but I can bring a friend! Cissy phoned me and said she was
inviting lots of people but no men. It’s a third sex party.’
‘What a treat! Yes, love to. Are we going as closet heteros?’
Rachel grinned.
‘Right. They’ll be very tolerant as long as we don’t flaunt it.
PeSNeCSeeeTee i e Ree e
It’s on Tuesday. Let’s meet for a drink before. How’s the kid
you’re tutoring, by the way?’
Rachel pulled a face.
‘Maybe we should take him along to the party. That would be
very educational. Well, he’s turning up more or less regularly.
He’s a really nice kid, quite special, but I don’t think he’s going
to make it. He’s permanently teetering on the edge of himself,
and the set-up at the home is getting worse. It’s not looking very
good.’
‘Not make the exams you mean?’ Becky asked.
‘No, they’re long since out of the window. Make life, I think I
mean. He’s such a mess and he really hasn’t got anyone.’
‘He’s got you.’
Rachel answered slowly. ‘Yes, but not in the way he wants or
needs. I’m a friend, I think, but what I’ve got to offer is terribly
limited. He needs a home, to be taken on full time and cared
for. I can’t do that, it wouldn’t be fair to Carrie, and anyway
he’d act out like mad. Somebody would have to engage him in LEtPOareeeT e ePe e L
battle and I couldn’t cope on a twenty-four hour basis.’
enSS ee
‘But he’s not your responsibility for more than two hours a
day. You’re not employed to save him, just to try and teach him yoef
94

something. I don’t think you’re in any kind of shape to take on
someone else’s wreckage,’ Becky warned.
‘Oh, ta. No, I know. But he bothers me terribly. You’re
right, I can’t adopt him, it’s just not on and anything less
wouldn’t be enough.’ They were silent for a moment, then
Rachel smiled, ‘Do you remember the day we met, our first day
in the staff room?’
Becky groaned. ‘God yes, hours of staff meeting and that
dreadful woman instructing the new members of staff about the
“chain of commanda”nd discipline and order.’
‘Come to think of it,’ Rachel said, smiling wickedly, ‘I don’t
know why I objected to it so much; it sounds right up my street
when you put it like that. But then the kids arrived, remember?
And all that either of us could do was survive the chaos.
Hundreds of illiterate hopeless kids and all we had to do was
contain them.’
Becky closed her eyes at the memory.
‘I was in shock for the first half term. I was so innocent. I’d
only ever taught in that private school. I’d never met kids who
thought there was no point in learning anything.’
‘We sat in-your car at the end of the day, do you remember,
and just laughed. We sat there for ages howling with laughter. I
don’t think I would have survived that place without you.’
‘And Amanda,’ Becky recalled. “When Amanda stormed into
the staff room after a lesson with her remedial class and yelled,
‘These kids are no good to Socialism!” ’
‘The good old days.’ Rachel smiled wanly. ‘Must go, I’ve got
a lesson with Pete in half an hour.’
‘Take care,’ Becky smiled back. ‘See you Tuesday if not
before.’
Rachel waved a hand in farewell, paid the bill and left the
café. Leaving the warm, fuggy air of pseudo Paris, the cold,
clammy air of leaden London hit her like a ton of bricks.
Pete’s crisis came to a head during the period of Joshua’s.
absence. He had been coming to her for two years now and in
95

the initial stages they had attempted to work towards CSE ,
exams. He was intrigued in particular by the Social Studies
work, especially when they started to discuss group identity.
He objected at first to the idea of his appearance being a badge
of conformity to a subculture.
‘I really like what I wear.’
“Yes, but what if you’d been sixteen in 1969. Do you think
you’d be wearing that stuff?’ Rachel asked.
‘Well, Iw ouldn’t be dressed like a bleeding hippy which I bet
you were,’ he grinned.
‘Absolutely right, I was. There were other styles. to choose
from though. But there wasn’t skinhead. And what people wore
_ then looked right at the time, just as you do now. So in ’69 we
had a choice: we could be hippies, or mods, or straight. But
each style was a uniform that told people who we’d decided to
be.’ .
‘Yeah, all right,’ he conceded, “but just because I wear these
clothes don’t give people the right to think I’m just like
everyone else who wears them. I don’t go around beating people
up, or Paki-bashing or anything. I got nothing against blacks,
but when they see me walking down the street and there’s more
of them they start something.’
‘Well, what do you want people to think of you? Why wear
those clothes and shave your head? And what about that
swastika on your hand?’
Pete looked impatient with her. ‘They don’t mean nothing.
They’re just what I wear.’
‘You can’t get away with that, Pete. Look, I’m a Jew -’
*You’re not!’ Pete interrupted. ‘Are you really?” .
‘I’m a Jew,’ Rachel repeated. ‘What do you expect me to
think when I see someone with a Nazi sign on their hand? Forty
years ago people who wore those signs were killing people like
me. The sign has a meaning. If you don’t mean it why wear it?’
“Cos everyone does. And you’re not scared of me, are you?’
he asked.
‘No I’m not, but I’ve got to know you. When you come here I
96
OFTde
¥ EaePe T

talk to you, not your clothes. And now that I do know you it
helps to stop me making assumptions about other people I see
in the street dressed like you. But that still doesn’t explain why
you dress in one way and then act aggrieved when people take
you at face value.’
‘All right, yeah, I want to look like my mates, but I still think
people ought to take the trouble to find out about you.’
‘I agree, but you don’t make it easy for them. Anyway,
why do you want to look like your mates? That’s what the text-
book is talking about. We all do. We all have uniforms of some
sort.’
They began to make a list of all the things Pete saw in
Rachel’s flat, and clothes that typecast her, then looked at other
people — pop groups, politicians and so on. Then they got back
to Pete and his friends.
‘Well, I suppose,’ said Pete finally, ‘you’ve got to have a
group of friends you feel you belong to. You got to feel you’re
part of something.’
‘I think so,’ Rachel replied. ‘I think it was perhaps the way
the human race got started. People make signals to each other
that say, “Hey, I’m one of us.” ’
‘Well, what’s wrong with it?’ Pete asked.
‘Nothing, except when people don’t know why they’re doing
it and start to really believe in the signals and acting on them.
Then you get Nazism and Paki-bashing and religious wars.’
‘And all they really wanted was to be part of a group?’ Pete
offered.
‘Maybe,’ Rachel shrugged.
‘T’ll wash the swastika off if you don’t like it.’
‘I don’t. I’d appreciate it.’ Rachel smiled. “Want some tea?’
They cooked a lot too. Rachel and Pete poured over recipes
and made the ones that were most interesting and exotic, which
Pete took proudly back to Wentworth House for Dick and the
others. Pete wouldn’t eat most of what he cooked.
‘I hate foreign food,’ he explained, his hands covered in a
mysterious and pungent concoction of spices he’d mixed to
97

make an authentic curry.
They had their conversations, read through some textbooks,
Pete even began a project on the history of cooking; it was
positive up to a point. But he found it hard to write down his
thoughts and ideas and was easily bored with anything that
didn’t grab his attention. Rachel decided not to push; she
explained several times that passing the exams required he do
the boring stuff and a lot of written work but that she wasn’t
going to force him — couldn’t anyway. It became clear that he
couldn’t cope with the work and wouldn’t manage college; he
was quite bright enough but simply unable to concentrate on
the dull bits. Underlying that, it was increasingly obvious that
there were very much more important problems in his life that
made the idea of hard work and college out of the question. So
they continued with the cooking and quietly dropped the
textbooks. The daily sessions went on, Rachel made tea and
provided biscuits, and they sat at the table and played chess or
Scrabble and talked about anything and everything, but most
often about Wentworth House and what went on there. Pete
brought his anger and resentment to Rachel but was careful not
to release it. Sometimes during their chess games Pete
engineered an early exchange of queens which never failed to
irritate Rachel. A small battle would ensue.
‘Look, you can’t play chess like that. You can’t have a decent
game if you just swap pieces.’
‘That’s what I want to do. I can play how I like,’ Pete would
mutter back at her.
“Well, you can play how you like, I can’t stop you. But it
won’t be chess,’ Rachel would answer, feeling a bubbling rage.
‘I don’t care.’
Rachel would take a deep breath, remember which of them
was which and say, ‘OK, but next time why not think about
another way of getting out of the situation that doesn’t mean we -
both lose our queens? There are other ways to win.’
She avoided confrontation not because she was scared of him,
but because she didn’t want him to get into a situation where he
98

stormed out and felt he couldn’t return. It was clear also that he
didn’t want that to happen. To the degree that each was capable
they controlled their anger and maintained contact.
Pete’s anger centred initially around his social worker, Mary,
who visited him weekly at the house.
‘She doesn’t bleeding care about me. It’s just a job,’ he’d
complain.
‘Well, of course it’s a job. Teaching you is my job, it doesn’t
mean I don’t care about you,’ Rachel tried.
‘Then how come she ain’t found me a foster home all this
time? She talks a lot and does fucking nothing.’
‘But Mary’s only been your social worker for a year. You
can’t blame her for what didn’t happen before.’
‘All right, so it’s not just Mary-bloody-Jackson. It’s bloody
Social Services. It’s all of them. Why didn’t they find me a home
in all that time?’
And why don’t I give you a home, Rachel heard beneath his
complaint. Why does everyone give just so much but not
enough, not what you really want? What is stopping you,
Rachel, who’s got such a comfortable home and who says how
much you like me, from taking me on? Why don’t you love me?
‘I don’t understand why they never found you a foster home,
Pete. I don’t know the details. Organizations like Social Ser-
vices are very slow and clumsy and make mistakes. Would you
like me to meet Mary and talk about it with her? Perhaps we can
get a clearer idea of what’s going on. I won’t unless you say it’s
OK.’
‘If you like,’ Pete responded.
The next day he arrived with a piece of paper with Mary’s
work phone number written on it. Rachel called while he was
there and made an appointment to meet her.
She was sent up to Mary’s office where she was met by a
pleasant woman in her early thirties. Mary Jackson wore
dungarees and running shoes, comfortable, ill-considered
clothes covering a plump homely body. Her hair was pulled
back into an untidy bun and she wore National Health wire-
99

rimmed spectacles over her watery blue eyes. She was friendly
and harassed; her desk covered with files which spilled over
onto the metal wastepaper basket beside it.
She brought in coffee in plastic cups and handed one to
Rachel as she sat down on the green plastic chair in front of her
desk.
‘What do you make of poor Pete?’ Mary asked, crossing her
large thighs.
‘He’s extraordinarily likable. Amazing really, when you
think how little he’s had in his life. I don’t think he’s going to do 3
4
CSEs though.’ Rachel sipped her coffee and waited.
‘I never thought he would. It’s asking a bit much. But we’re
terribly worried about what’s going to become of him when he :
leaves care. You Know about his problem, of course?’ Mary
asked.
‘Well, I know he’s been in care all his life and he’s pretty
resentful that he was never found foster parents.’
|
‘No, I mean his physical problem,’ Mary said, ‘the
encopresis.’
|
‘The what?” Rachel asked, mystified. |
‘He hasn’t been too bad lately and the workers have been
making a special effort at getting him to keep his clothes clean,
but surely you’ve noticed the smell ?’ |
‘T’ve noticed a smell now and then. I assumed he wasn’t
washing much. What is encopresis?’
:
‘An inability to control bowel movements. He’s been like
that all his life.’
Rachel blinked. She remembered enuresis was the term
doctors used for bedwetting. She had noticed that Pete smelled
sometimes, often opened the window after he left to air the |
room, but it had never been really obviously a smell of shit.
“You mean he shits in his pants? Is it a muscular thing or
what?”
‘No one really knows. He’s been to endless doctors and even
spent six months having behaviourist therapy at a psychiatric
children’s unit. That was a disaster, he came out much worse
100 eeeoe See

than he went in. It seems generally agreed that there’s no
physical reason for it. As I said, it’s not happened much lately,
but his clothes do have that stale smell. When it’s bad there’s no
mistaking it.’
‘Poor kid. What happens when he’s with other kids?’ Rachel
asked, beginning to imagine the impact that would have on
someone’s life.
‘That’s why he’s not in school. The other kids gave him such
a bad time we decided it was best if he left. They called him
names and wouldn’t sit near him, that sort of thing. At the
home the workers make sure his underpants are washed,
because he doesn’t really make the effort, but the kids laugh at
him when he’s going through a bad patch. He’s the oldest one
there, and the biggest too. The younger kids tease him and then
he beats them up.’
‘Does he hurt them?’ Rachel asked.
‘No.’ Mary hesitated. ‘It’s more that he’s making them see
who’s boss. All his friends are much younger than him, as if he
can’t stand equal competition.’
‘I’m not surprised. God, what a burden. Can’t anything be
done?’
‘Well, we’ve tried everything we can think of. If only he’d
keep himself clean it would help. It’s only a matter of rinsing
the clothes out and then bunging them in the washing machine,
but he just won’t do it. Dick and Maggie have to make raids on
his room and find piles of filthy pants and jeans lying on the
floor.’
‘It’s hard enough for adolescents to keep things clean at the
best of times, but if you have to face the fact you can’t control
your own bowels it must be . . .’ Rachel was lost in the effort of
imagining what Pete must feel like. She wondered whether he
thought she knew about it and had been saying nothing out of
tact. She felt terribly unobservant.
‘Yes, it’s horrible for him.’ Mary agreed. “The kids yell “time
for a nappy change” when it happens. They won’t sit next to
him at mealtimes if it’s happened in the previous couple of days,
IOI

but as I say he doesn’t do the practical things he could do to
improve his situation.’
Rachel wondered if being practical in that situation wouldn’t
have been beyond her capabilities too. It must be so humili-
ating, and then to have to wash out the clothes — unpleasant and
difficult and constantly face to face with what you’d rather
forget. Suddenly Pete’s future looked bleaker than ever.
‘And you see why,’ Mary went on, ‘it’s been so difficult to
find him a foster home. It’s hard, in any case, to place
adolescents, but with his physical problem it’s practically
impossible to find the right family. It would be out of the
question to place him with a family where there are other kids —
he couldn’t cope with that — but couples without other children
probably wouldn’t have enough experience to deal with Pete.’
aa s
“Yes, I see that, but perhaps the shitting would come under
control if he was living in a secure set-up?” “ae re
‘Possibly,’ said Mary doubtfully. She was very much the
professional now explaining reality to a sentimental onlooker.
‘But first we have to find the family. The truth is that Social
Services really screwed up about Pete. He should have been
placed with a family when he was very young, it would have
been possible then, but there was some kind of administrative
cock-up. He was shuttled around from one residential home to
another and no one ever seemed to get round to looking into the
fostering or adoption options. Sometimes that happens in large
organizations. His Social workers kept changing, there wasn’t
enough continuity.’
Who was to blame that Pete never got a home? Them, not us.
Those in the past were responsible, the ones who had left.
Social Services was a bureaucracy, the structure remained but
the personnel changed over time. The structure — the current
personnel —- could freely admit to mistakes made in the past,
they weren’t their mistakes. There was no one to hold respon-
sible, only the results of past errors to deal with. They, the
current workers, had to clean up situations not of their own
making, and sometimes it was not possible. Too much damage
102
wSoa=eeaaaeaaeFSMaeeBaa eSleeFyee3-ee e—8CneSeTdO raeN aaCeGEeGSn:,Ty r.ee e sIedR aOEe e E n N e E e

had been done, too much time had been lost. They were
regretful about their predecessors but they were practical
people, working with what they had in the here and now.
Rachel felt vaguely helpless, like Pete. Being reasonable she
could see there was no one to blame, but felt outrage that there
was no way of pinpointing responsibility, of making someone
correct the fault that had wrecked a person’s life. She under-
stood Pete’s fury with a new clarity, and his resentment of Mary
as the representative of those who had done so badly by him and
the unreasonableness of that resentment. Almost worse was
Mary’s understanding of Pete’s anger with her.
‘Of course Pete is angry with me. It’s inevitable that he
should see me as useless and the reason why he has no home.
Part of my job is to take that flack and not get emotionally
distressed. But Pete is a bit different, he does have that
seductive quality that makes you feel guilty even when you
know you are doing your best. Sometimes I’m close to tears
after a visit because I have to take his anger and know he won’t
understand it isn’t really my fault. But, as I say, that’s my job.’
I don’t want to know what a hard life it is being a social
worker, Rachel thought irritably, I’m on Pete’s side. She saw
that she had to be careful, Mary was including her in on the
‘professional’ side, inviting her to be one of them. In fact, she
realized, she was the only person in Pete’s life who wasn’t ‘one
of them’. There was possibly Dick who he seemed to trust, but
she was the only one fully outside the ambiance of Social
Services. If she was to be a go-between it would have to be made
clear that she was Pete’s friend first and foremost, and was not
to be used to ‘explain’ Mary’s problems to Pete for Mary’s
benefit. If she did explain, and she realized that there were
explanations to be made, it would be because Pete needed to
know what was happening, why and how things worked. It was
not her role to excuse Social Services to Pete. She wasn’t going
to do it.
‘What’s going on at Wentworth House?’ she asked. ‘I’m
getting the impression that all isn’t well there. There’s some
103

trouble between the staff and the new man in charge.’
Mary looked at her sharply, assessing how much to tell.
‘I don’t think that Richard Pierce is handling things as well as
he might. It’s probably just initial settling in, he does seem to be
getting on people’s nerves a bit.’
‘I gather someone Pete rather liked has left because she didn’t
like Richard. Pete feels that maybe Dick is about to take off.’
‘Actually Dick has handed in his notice. He says he wants to
travel a bit, but unofficially he told me he can’t work with
Richard. That’s confidential, by the way.’
Oh is it, thought Rachel. Here we go — Ill tell you what’s
really going on but you mustn’t tell Pete, who really needs to
know. Professional ethics.
‘Mmm. Richard seems to be a bit rigid about regulations.
Wants to keep the rules and invent a few more of his own, is that
right?’ .
_ ‘That’s about it. He’s newly promoted and isn’t all that easy
~ about being in authority.’
‘Sounds to me that he’s scared of things getting out of hand,
but if you’re running a home for disturbed children things will
get out of hand. You can’t regulate problems away. He’s
managed to scare off the only two people Pete trusts; there’s
going to be trouble, surely? Pete’s sounding very angry.”
“Yes, Ik now. We’re keeping an eye on things at Wentworth
House. But for whatever reason, Richard was given the job and
we have to allow him to be the head of home.’
“Why was he given the job? It doesn’t sound to me as if he’s
suitable,’ Rachel queried.
Mary didn’t answer. She had gone as far as she was prepared
to go with an outsider. Why Richard Pierce got promotion was
restricted information — presumably because someone had
made a mistake which couldn’t now be rectified. Was Richard’s
job a way of getting rid of him somewhere else — the
bureaucratic solution. It seemed that the errors were not just in
the past, although the error-makers were equally obscured
from view.
104
eeeeeTaaaSeMe, e LT T N

As she left Mary’s office, Rachel had the uneasy feeling that
she was thoroughly involved in something that was going to
become increasingly dramatic. She had an urgent desire to get
out of the whole thing, find a way of sliding out of any
commitment she had to Pete. She could tell Donald Soames
that the CSE business wasn’t working, that Pete was too
disturbed to deal with-education. That was her job after all. She
didn’t want to be part of whatever was going to happen, she
didn’t want entanglements. She could phone Donald when she
got home. But she didn’t. .
The next day Pete was an hour late for his lesson, and as she
opened the door and saw him standing there she realized the
drama had started. He looked terrible, she had never seen him
like this before. His clothes, though the same ones he usually
wore, were filthy and somehow limp, and his face was several
shades darker than his normal fair colouring. It wasn’t just dirt
although there was that, it was as if the actual skin had changed
tone, as if the greyness of his face came from the inside. His
features were pinched, closed off; he glared at her through
narrowed eyes as he stood in the doorway, and the anger seemed
to come from them like a shaft of light through a crack in a door,
from deep inside himself. She immediately cut off the com-
plaint she had planned to make about him being late and
wasting her time and opened the door wide.
‘Come in, Pete.’
He strode past her and up the stairs, ignoring Shamus who
arrived, as usual, to greet him. As he passed she caught the
smell — unmistakable now. He must have soiled himself on the
way. He sat down heavily on the chair on his side of the table
and began to pick at a loose bit of paint on the windowframe.
After five minutes of silence as Rachel busied herself making tea
the stripped area had grown to the size of a matchbox.
‘Don’t do that,’ she said.
Pete pulled his hand away and looked up at her angrily. ‘If
you’re so fucking worried about your paintwork I can go.’
“Why don’t you tell me what’s wrong,’ she suggested, as Pete
105

picked up her lighter from the table and began to flick on the
flame over and over. After a moment he held the flame to a hole
in his jeans and started to burn away the threads. A smell of
burnt fabric and shit filled Rachel’s room. She took a deep
breath.
“‘What’s happened, Pete? Stop fucking about with the lighter
and tell me what’s happened.’ She sat down at the table
opposite him. He simmered with aggression, but he was
holding onto it as well as he could.
‘Dunno.’ He could hardly get the word out of his rigid lips.
‘It’s them. It’s those fucking bastards.’
‘What? Tell me what’s happened,’ Rachel insisted.
‘I had a fight. It was her fault, she fucking goaded me. That
cow, Maggie. She wants to get me in trouble. She hates me.
And I fucking hate her too. I wish the bloody vacuum cleaner
had hit her. I wish I'd fucking killed her. Fucking cow.’
‘What vacuum cleaner?’
‘She woke me up. She went on and on and I warned her to
stop, but she just went on hoovering. I was out late last night
with my mates and this morning she knocked on my door and
went on about how I had to get up and come to you. I was dead
tired, I didn’t want to get up. And then she got the hoover and.
started with it outside my door. She went on hoovering for
twenty minutes and banging the bloody thing against my door,
and I warned her to stop. She’s not even supposed to do the
hoovering, there’s a fucking cleaner to do that. She was just
getting at me.’
He stopped and began flicking the lighter again.
‘What did you do?’ Rachel asked.
‘I fucking leapt out of bed and pulled the door open and got
the hoover out of her hands. I was just getting tt away from her
i
and I sort of chucked it out of the way. Then she rushed
-
downstairs and said I’d thrown it at her and that I’d hit her with
it.” He looked at Rachel levelly.
‘Did you throw it at her?’ Rachel asked.
‘No I fucking didn’t. And it didn’t hit her, I just threw it out
106
toTee ee t

of the way, it didn’t go anywhere near her. She’s a fucking liar.
She started it. She should have left me alone.’
‘Maybe,’ Rachel said, ‘but that’s not a good enough reason
for throwing a vacuum cleaner at her.’
‘I didn’t throw it at her. Don’t you start on me.’ He was on the
edge of the seat ready to storm out.
‘What happened then?’
‘Nothing. I ran out of the house while she was still crying in
the kitchen with Dick and Richard. Dick called me and told me
to wait but I just walked out. They wanted me to come here, so I
came. Dick’s leaving. He told me last night,’ he added, as if he
was starting another conversation.
“Yes, Mary told me yesterday. You must be very sad about
that.’
‘I couldn’t give a toss. They’re all the same. I couldn’t care
less what any of them do as long as they leave me alone.’
‘That’s not true, you’re very fond of Dick, and you know he
cares about you.’
‘Yeah? Well why’s he leaving then if he cares so much?’ Pete
demanded.
‘Because he can’t get on with Richard. They don’t see eye to
eye about how to run the place. It’s got nothing to do with you.’
‘That’s what he said last night. Richard’s a prick, all he’s
interested in is rules and rotas. But I don’t see why I should
suffer.’ .
‘No, it’s not fair,’ Rachel agreed, ‘but what happens between
the staff will obviously have some effect on you. It’s like in any
home; if the grown-ups don’t get on the kids suffer too. It’s not
their fault but they’re part of the place.’
‘But if bleeding grown-ups can’t get on why should they
expect us lot to be any different. They’re always telling me I’ve
got to learn to control myself, but what about them? If they
really want me to control myself why do what Maggie did? She
should have just asked me to get up.’
‘It sounds like she did at first. Would you have?’ Rachel
asked.
107

‘No.’ Pete grinned for the first time and Rachel smiled back,
pushing the biscuits towards him.
‘Why didn’t she know that all that hoovering and crashing
against my door was going to drive me wild?’
‘Come on, Pete, you’re not stupid. You know perfectly well
that you can wind them up. That adults lose their cool and do
stupid things. If things are very tense at Wentworth House then
that’s going to affect their behaviour generally. The world’s not
peopled by saints who never make mistakes or who only think
about others, not themselves. You’re living with real people
who are going to fly off the handle sometimes, just like everyone
else. That’s the only kind of people there are. The best we can
all do is learn how to make allowances for each other.’
‘Well, they should have made allowances for me. They don’t
give a fuck about me,’ Pete muttered. He wasn’t hearing her.
He was a needy, angry six-year-old who couldn’t take the needs
of others into account. He wasn’t going to admit anything. He
was the aggressed innocent. Full stop.
‘Why don’t I drive you back home and have a word with Dick
and Maggie?’ she suggested.
‘There’s no bleeding point. They don’t care.’ But he hadn’t
said no. They finished their tea and left the flat. This time
Rachel firmly opened the window as she got into the car. The
stench was awful.
Back at Wentworth House Dick and Maggie were still sitting
in the kitchen. Pete marched past and stamped upstairs to his
bedroom, slamming the door. Rachel stood in the doorway to
the kitchen, smiling ruefully.
‘Hello . . . Trouble I hear? Can I come in and have a chat?’
Dick got up and smiled back at her.
“Yeah, things area bit grim today. I shouldn’t have told Pete I
was leaving. Want some tea?’
Rachel smiled hello at Maggie as she sat down opposite her,
and while Dick busied himself with the tea Maggie told her all
about the morning’s events. She described a huge, violent boy’s
deliberate attack on her and was clearly still shaken.
108

‘I was so scared, he could have killed me,’ she finished.
Yes, but he didn’t, Rachel thought.
‘Has it happened before?’ she asked.
‘No, not like this. Not to me. We usually get on well, but
lately Pete’s been getting more and more disturbed. He locks
himself away in his room and won’t let anyone in and he winds
up the younger kids. He’s older than them and ought to know
better. He’s really challenging our authority, it’s as if he’s
trying to establish his power over the others. He’s violent and
potentially dangerous.’
Dick turned round.
‘He’s not a bad kid. This has all started since Richard came
and there’s been a lot of tension here. Sally left and now I’m
going. He’s obviously upset by it all. He just isn’t emotionally
old enough to cope with losing people.’
Rachel, wondering who was, asked, ‘Did he really try and hit
you with the vacuum cleaner, Maggie?’
‘I don’t know. I suppose if he’d wanted to he could have. He
was trying to scare me, and he did. I’m scared of him, he’s a
very strong boy. Next time he may not miss.’
Pete came downstairs and stood slouched against the open
doorway. He glared at all of them in silence and then muttered
something inaudible.
‘What?’ Rachel and Maggie asked together.
‘I said,’ he spat out loudly, ‘I’m bleeding sorry. All right?’ he
contrived to look angry and anxious all at once.
‘That won’t do,’ Maggie said immediately. ‘You could have
really damaged me.’
‘I said I was fucking sorry. What else do you want?’ he
grumbled.
‘I want you to stop behaving like this and pull yourself
together,’ Maggie answered. ‘The next time anything like this
happens I’m going to charge you with assault and the police will
deal with it.’
Rachel tensed, and Dick moved forward.
‘Maggie. . .” hy began.
109

‘Do what you fucking like!’ Pete was animated now, shouting
and close to tears. ‘I apologized and all I get is being threatened
with the police. I’m not scared of you or them or anything. You
think being in prison is so awful? It ain’t any worse than being
in this stinkhole. None of you lot care a fuck about any of us.
It’s just a job to you, you cunts!’
Dick tried to calm him. ‘Maggie didn’t mean that. She’s
upset. But you’ve got to talk to us about how you feel, not just
throw things around.’
Pete deliberately marched over to the table. ‘What’s the point
of talking? You’re not going to be here. You just want a quiet
life.” He picked up Maggie’s empty teacup and threw it with all
his force across the room. It hit the glass door to the garden and
there was a deafening crash as the glass shattered into thousands
of pieces.
‘Pete! Stop it! Don’t!’ Rachel said, moving towards him.
‘Leave me alone! All of you. You’re all useless!’ he wept, and
ran from the kitchen. They heard the front door slam and then
the glass in that break as his boots clattered down the path.
Dick ran out after him and came back a few moments later.
‘It’s no good, I couldn’t catch him.’
“You see?’ said Maggie. ‘You see what I mean? He’s
dangerous.’
“Well, I see he’s angry. He still hasn’t hurt anyone, though,
and as you say he’s a big kid. I think maybe we could have
handled it better,’ said Rachel carefully, marvelling at her
capacity for understatement.
Maggie burst into tears. ‘Oh, Christ,’ she wept, ‘I can’t cope.
That bastard Richard has changed the rota and I’ve been on
nights half this week. I’ve got a six-month-old baby and my
husband is going crazy. He’s been putting pressure on me to
leave, and he’s so I can’t cope with the work and the baby
and everything.
Rachel got a new cup and Dick poured tea for them all,
stroking Maggie on the back as he did so.
‘This place is falling apart. It’s insane. We’ve got a house full
110

of disturbed kids and we’re all at each other’s throats. They’re
only acting out what’s happening to us.’
“‘What’s to be done about Pete?’ Rachel asked.
“We'll have to call the police if he doesn’t turn up tonight,’
Dick said.
‘But then what, in the long term?’ Rachel asked.
‘I don’t know. Richard was furious about the incident this
morning. He’s phoned Al Stevens and demanded a case con-
ference. He says that Pete is too disruptive to stay at Wentworth
House. Yes, I know, but what can I do? Why don’t you come to
the conference? Pete could use a friend at this point.’
‘OK, what do I come as — the voice of reason?’ Rachel lifted
her eyebrows quizzically.
‘That would do as a start. You’re outside the situation, you
see Pete differently. Maybe you could be useful. I’ll phone you
when the meeting’s set.’ It was decided. Deeper and deeper.
Dick added, ‘Look, I really appreciate your getting involved. I
don’t know if it will make any difference, but I know Pete likes ©
you and feels that you’re on his side.’
Rachel felt like the clergyman who walks with the con-
demned man to the gallows. When the chips were down, when
the trapdoor dropped, it would be only Pete hanging there,
whatever pious sentiments she intoned.
She left the fraught atmosphere of Wentworth House with
relief. When she got home she opened all the windows in the flat
and put the chair that Pete had sat on out into the garden to air.
It still carried the smell. Then she ran a hot bath and stepped
gratefully through the steam into the nearly scalding water,
feeling her body gradually warm through. She squeezed out the
flannel and put it over her face and then lay there for the best
part of an hour without moving. A comfort bath, not a business
bath. Rachel Equivocal Kee, they should have called me, she
mused under her flannel. She who wants and does not want.
Cares and does not care. Do I care about Pete? I’m angry and
helpless, but do I really care? And so what if I do? That’s just
my private emotion, it’s no actual good to Pete. My caring
II!

doesn’t improve his life, maybe it’s purely for my own benefit.
It makes me feel good to think I care. Do I feel good? No, I want
to run fast in the other direction. It’s when you have to put your
money where your emotions are that things get sticky for you,
Kee!
In the meantime Pete was wandering, filthy and stinking,
around London feeling — what? Hopeless, she supposed. She
knew how hopeless felt and put herself there for a few
moments. No one to go to, nowhere to go, most of all no
solutions. What could happen for Pete that would be right; that
would make things right? Being part of a family, having
someone take him on who loved and accepted him. He might
think that the fairytale ending, but Rachel knew better. You
don’t just slip into love and family without any practice. Being
taken on can be a hell of anxiety and terror: how much are you
accepted, when does ‘no’ mean ‘I love you, but no’ and when
‘get out’? How do you assess that if you’ve not had it before?
~ You never really know if they don’t regret taking you on; you
never really know how to love back and what the right line is
between gratitude and just accepting that you belong. You
never quite belong. No fairytale ending. Finally, anxiety makes
you test beyond endurance; you push yourself out because you
can’t stand the uncertainty. No saints, she had told Pete. If he
was to survive he would have to understand that there are limits
to everyone, he would have to learn how to settle for less than
the ideal parent no one has ever had. But he couldn’t know that,
never having had the ordinary flawed kind. She didn’t feel
hopeful for Pete. She knew how close he was to despair and how
few resources he had. She didn’t think she would survive in
Pete’s shoes.
The water had cooled to blood heat. She felt clammy and
uncomfortable, too cold to stay in the bath and too cold to get
out. And she’d left the bloody towel upstairs. She made a chilly
dash for it, wrapped it around her and climbed damp and cold
under the duvet. It was a couple of hours before she had to pick
up Carrie from school.
I12

There was no sign of Pete the next day, and when she phoned
Wentworth House she was told that they had had no word of
him, but that the case conference was set for the following day.
She said she would be there.
She arrived to find Pete slumped desolately against the hall
wall. She smiled at him and received in return a brief glance of
recognition from his completely impassive face. He was, of
course, filthy from sleeping rough, but what shocked her were
his eyes, which seemed devoid of any light. It was as if there was
nothing behind them. Inside Pete and outside Pete seemed to
have been severed. And his skin again had that strange dark
greyish tinge to it. He looked as if he were dying. Dick was
standing over him, looking worried.
“The meeting’s about to start. Pete came back about a quarter
of an hour ago. He’s been telling Al that he wants to leave
Wentworth and get a bedsitter.’
‘Do you think you’d manage, Pete?’ Rachel asked gently.
‘Don’t bleeding matter. I’m not staying here and that’s that.
Anyway that cunt Richard says I can’t stay here any more and I
ain’t going to another bleeding home.’ The voice was fiat, he
really didn’t care about anything.
Rachel walked into the meeting and looked around.
Everyone was there: Richard, Maggie, the two other workers at
the house, Mary and Al Stevens. Al was the Head of Social
Services for the area and chaired the meeting. He was a large
man, bearded and shaggy haired, not unlike Joshua in type, but
blond. He had the air of a reasonable man who was used to
running things and took charge easily. Rachel liked the look of
him. She took one of the spare seats in the circle as Dick arrived
and sat down also. Al began:
‘I think we should begin by introducing ourselves. I’m Al
Stevens, I’m head of the area Social Services.’ He turned to his
left and waited. Each of them in turn gave their name, position
and their relation to Pete. This was obviously the way all such
meetings started; it seemed to make everyone more comfort-
able, although the only real outsider in the group was Rachel.
113

‘I’m Rachel Kee. I was Pete’s home tutor,’ she said directly to
Al, who was the only person in the room she hadn’t met; even
so, she felt more as if she were about to participate in an
encounter group than a serious meeting about someone who
was not in the room. She was faintly anxious that they were
about to hold hands in the circle and feel each other’s energies.
However, Al clearly meant to get down to business.
‘I’ve had a word with Pete. He’s demanding that we let him
leave and live in a bedsitter,’ he explained. ‘I’ve got a couple of
thoughts about that but I’d like to hear from everyone involved
first. Richard?’
They were going to go round the circle again.
Richard sat nearest to the door. He was a slightly built man:
his greying beard counteracting the weakness of his watery blue
eyes. He wore a shapeless cord jacket, faded matching trousers
and brown suede shoes, that placed him instantly as either
teacher or social worker. His speech was peppered with
moribund coiloquialisms.
‘I’m afraid we’ve come to the crunch with Pete.’ He spoke
directly to Al. ’I won’t have him here any more and I told him
that. He’s aggressive and emotionally unstable and the bottom
line is that I’m not prepared to put the whole house at risk for
one disruptive individual.’
His voice rose several octaves as he spoke about his confron-
tations with Pete who ‘wasn’t prepared to listen to the voice of
reason’. The security of Wentworth House was breachedb y
Pete’s presence.
“He’s very dangerous, a lad that size could do a lot of damage
and we’ve got to take on board the fact that he’s a force for
destruction. He argued with the staff and walks around the
place as if he owns it.’
Al asked, ‘Has he behaved violently?’
“Well, look at his attack on Maggie. He could bloody kill
someone, a kid that size. He isn’t safe.’
Then Rachel listened astonished as Maggie outlined Pete’s
‘totally unprovoked’ attack on her. She stared at Maggie who
114

looked at the floor as she spoke. Dick met Rachel’s eyes for a
second before he looked away.
‘T’m sorry,’ Rachel said quietly, ‘but I’d understood that
you’d been trying to get him out of his room to come to my
lesson.’
‘Pete is a liar,” Richard broke in, directing himself to Al. ‘Of
course we understand that he’s very disturbed and he’s had a
bad time, but when it comes to the nitty-gritty he’s not
socialized and we can’t contain him in a normal environment.’
‘But this isn’t a normal environment,’ Rachel insisted. ‘I had
the impression that Pete was reacting to various difficulties that
were going on here.’
‘There’s nothing wrong with this place,’ Richard snapped.
‘It’s Pete who’s causing all the trouble, breaking windows and
rushing out when he ought to be apologizing for his unaccept-
able behaviour.’
‘He did apologize,’ Rachel said, looking at Maggie. ‘I was
there; but when he did he was threatened with the police. Is it
possible that things might have been handled differently?
Given that he is disturbed and we’re supposed to be pro-
fessionals with some sort of expertise.’
Richard was white with rage. ‘I want him out before he kills
someone.’
‘But he hasn’t hurt anyone, only himself. I know he’s big and
angry, but he hasn’t actually hurt anyone. The vacuum cleaner
did not hit Maggie. He smashed a window and ran away. I think
he’s desperate. Couldn’t we try to help him somehow?’
‘I believe he has a relatively good relationship with you,’ Al
said to Rachel.
She spoke very carefully; she knew she had said too much.
‘My job was to give Pete some kind of education for two
hours a day. He 1s disturbed and can’t concentrate on work as
such, but we got on well enough.’ She paused, then continued,
‘I understand Pete on a twenty-four hour basis is a very
different thing from two hours a day, but in the last two years
there haven’t been any confrontations that haven’t been reason-
115

ably resolved, and no violence. I don’t think for a moment thatI
could manage him long term any more than anyone else seems
to be able to, but what I want to say is that my experience with
him might suggest another way of dealing with him. He 1s able
to make relationships on a limited basis — he’s proved that with
me. Perhaps there’s some way of using that information to help
him. I’m not a social worker and I don’t know what resources
are available, but there’s at least something hopeful about his
ability to put himself across, at least to me, as a valuable, likable
person. Getting rid of Pete may or may not sort out the
problems in this house, but it’s Pete that worries me. What’s
going to become of him?’
Al smiled at her with studied warmth.
‘It’s excellent, of course, that he’s been able to make contact
with you and maintain it up to a point, but the reality is that he
has to go out into the real world sooner or later and be accepted
in it. At the moment he has no social skills. And there’s the
bowel problem; it puts him completely outside normal society.
He may be very charming, he seems to have charmed you, but
we have to look at the problems.’
“Yes, I see that,’ Rachel replied, ‘but isn’t an ability to be
charming a pretty advanced social skill? Being able to make
people like him is quite a lot, given his deprivation. Maybe
other people will like Pete enough to overcome their distaste for
shit, and maybe that will affect the problem itself. Isn’t there
some kind of day fostering scheme or something, so that caring
for Pete could be shared and he could be part of a family in some
way?’
Rachel realized that as an outsider she was moving too far
inside their territory. Al smiled again, clearly indicating that
she was a biased unprofessional, not to be taken seriously.
“We have to express our care for Pete in the most practical
way, and given that Pete can’t stay here for whatever reason,’ he
glanced at her, making it clear that he was not prepared to
discuss the real problems at the Home, ‘we have to decide what
to do with him. That means either we give him his wish and let
116

him stay in a hostel, or we go for some kind of treatment. It’s
very unlikely that he would survive out in the world even with
the support of Mary. We have to show we care for Pete even if it
doesn’t feel like that to him.’
Rachel knew it was true that Pete wouldn’t survive out on his
own. Dick said, ‘Treatment?’
‘There’s a very interesting hospital I’ve been hearing about
called St Stephens that uses behaviour modification with
severly disruptive adolescents. It’s a system of reward and
punishment directed at socializing kids out of unacceptable
behaviour. Pete could learn how to deal effectively with the
social world and they would also sort out his encopresis.’
Mary now looked startled.
‘But he’s been through that already. He went badly
downhill.’
“This is a more rigorous regime. As far as I can see it’s his only
chance of survival. He must learn to deal with his violence and
he cannot go on walking around stinking of shit.’
At this point Al visibly shuddered, and Rachel realized how
disturbed he was by Pete’s encopresis; it was that more than
anything else that had decided him on the hospital. The whole
meeting had gone off at a tangent. She had imagined that
something would be faced about Wentworth House. That the
problem would be pinpointed and changes made that would
allow someone like Pete to survive in a place that had been
designed for people like him. Children in homes were likely to
be disturbed but weren’t the staff supposed to be able to deal
with that? Wasn’t that what they were there for? In fact, Pete
had become scapegoat and his misdeeds used to avoid the more
basic issue. There was a blank refusal to try harder with him —
he was being rejected like poison vomited from an already
infected body. The notion of Pete as violent and dangerous was
not, to Rachel, real. What was real was that he had been badly
handled from the start and that faces were going to be saved at
all cost.
‘Iheard,’ Mary said tentatively, ‘that they use drugs as well as
117

behaviour modification at St Stephens.’
Al gave her a sharp look; she was talking out of school.
‘Only in an emergency. They do use Largactil to quieten
down the most disturbed kids, but as I said only in the most
severe cases,’ he said briskly.
‘Only Largactil?’ queried Dick.
‘Well, they’ve done electro-encephalographs and find that
many of the kids have brain disturbance so they’re all given
anti-convulsants. It’s done under medical supervision of
course.’
‘It sounds like they are really controlled by the drugs, not the
psychology. How long do they stay?”
‘Two years. Look, as far as I’m concerned this is Pete’s last
chance. It’s my job to take the final decision and I’ve decided
that he must have the opportunity St Stephens offers.’
Dick stood up white-faced.
‘Pete’s being used to cover up the mess this place is in. It’s a
disgusting way to deal with administrative incompetence, send-
ing the victims out to be brainwashed.’
‘How dare you suggest . . .” Richard began.
‘I don’t think emotive language is very useful,’ Al said
quietly. “We are all concerned with Pete’s best interests. It’s my
decision and I’ve taken it.’
Dick slammed out of the room and Richard turned a smug I-
told-you-so smile on Al, who did not return the look but got up
and said, ‘I’ll go and tell Pete what’s been decided. He must be
anxious to know what’s going to happen.’
The rest of the group sat in silence. Richard was clearly
triumphant. After a few moments they heard Pete’s voice
shouting, ‘No, I’m fucking not!’ and then the sound of the front
door slamming.
Al returned looking a little shaken.
‘He’s upset of course. He’ll be back and when he’s calmed
down we can talk about it more seriously.’
‘Sounds to me as though he took it seriously enough,’ Rachel
suggested, glaring coldly at Al.
118

‘Right,’ said Richard, standing up, ‘let’s get on with the task
in hand — running this place.’ He left the room and called
Maggie out after him. When they’d gone Rachel said, ‘Why
have you let Richard get away with this? You know perfectly
well what’s going on here.’
‘Pete is simply not emotionally equipped to deal with the
stresses here. I agree that things aren’t as good as they might be,
but that’s a separate problem. I do appreciate your concern,
Rachel, but are you prepared to take him on yourself?’
Rachel was furious. And guilty, as was intended.
‘I’m not equipped to do so. That doesn’t mean I can’t have an
opinion about how you’re handling this.’
‘If you’re prepared to give me a guarantee that you'll remain
involved with Pete indefinitely I might consider rethinking my
decision.’
Rachel went rigid with rage. She understand clearly why Pete
hit out at these reasonable blackmailers.
‘I'm not prepared to guarantee anything. I can’t make
commitments into an unforseeable future and my relationship
with Pete is not professional. If he wants to see me or talk with
me I’m around. I don’t sign bits of paper to prove friendship
and I won’t be bullied by you.’
Al shrugged. Point proved.
‘Well, in that case the decision stands. I hope you can visit
him at St Stephens.’ Dismissing her.
Rachel fought back tears. Point proved. She wasn’t prepared
to care for Pete any more than anyone else, so his future was to
be decided by the professionals. Had she allowed herself to be
pushed into taking Pete on on the most dubiously emotional
grounds they would have let her — as it was they sadly had to
take their painful decisions because it was proved no one else
would.
But Rachel, personally, was back on old territory. How
much was her refusal based on her knowledge that she wasn’t
able to deal with Pete’s needs; and how much was it Rachel once
again backing away from commitment? It was true the flat was
119

too small, Pete wouldn’t have his own room; her income was
minimal; she knew Pete needed a more sociable situation than
she could provide. It was quite inappropriate, but still, the note
of defensiveness in her voice as she replied to Al’s invitation told
her that he had hit her where it hurt. She only offered Pete
partial concern. So did they, but they were justified by the
‘objectivity’ of their professional status. Little busybody
Rachel Kee had been revealed as nothing more than a
troublemaker, someone with plenty of washy emotions and
minimal practical use.
She called Mary and Dick every day for a week to see if Pete
had returned, but there was no sign of him. The police were
looking for him officially, but Dick thought that they were
probably just waiting for him to get into trouble and could then
pick him up with ease. A couple of days later they did. He was
arrested in Woolworths in south London with 65p-worth of
stolen chocolate. He told the police he had been hungry and
apparently had seemed quite pleased to see them. The
magistrates had ordered him to be sent to a youth detention
centre while they investigated his case with Social Services.
Dick phoned Rachel that night, and gave her the address of the
place in west London.
‘T’ll phone them in the morning and tell them you are a bona
fide visitor. He’s allowed visits in the afternoons if you call first
and are OK.’
“You mean not a friend of his,’ Rachel suggested.
‘That’s about it. But Pll point out he hasn’t got any family
and that you’re sort of official. I’ve spoken to Mary and she says
that Al is adamant about the hospital. Pete has really played
right into his hands, maybe that’s what he wants. The
magistrates will probably make a court order that he has
treatment at St Stephens. Then he has no choice. My guess is he
doesn’t want a choice.’
‘Well, thanks for letting me know Dick. I’ll go and see him
tomorrow.’
‘Right. I’m off next week to France. I don’t know how long
120

Pll be gone but I'll call when I get back. Bye Rachel and
thanks.’
Rachel put back the receiver. Professionally her relationship
with Pete was over; she would have to call Donald tomorrow
and tell him that Pete was off the books. She spent the rest of the
evening switching channels on the television, finding nothing
she could be bothered to watch but determined not to do
anything else. At eleven o’clock the phone rang. She reached
for it without thinking and said hello.
‘Busy?’ said Joshua’s voice.
‘No,’ she replied, voice calm, heart leaping.
‘T’ll be round in twenty minutes.’
She put down the phone and made automatically for the
bathroom to get changed and ready, as if his six-month absence
had not occurred. The previous two years of visits had trained
her well. Halfway down the hall she stopped. The hell with it.
She went back into the living room where she sat waiting in her
old jeans and tee shirt. She was completely unsurprised at
Joshua’s return. She had known he would come back and here
he was. Good, she shrugged, wondering what the detention
centre was like and how Pete was after a week on the streets.
When Joshua arrived she greeted him with slightly raised
eyebrows and a small nod of her head. He looked tired, less
complete than usual, as he followed her up the stairs. The
clothes weren’t different but somehow dishevelled. As they sat
opposite each other in Rachel’s living room a silence began to
elongate until Rachel broke it.
*You’re looking decidedly raddled this evening.’
He inclined his head in acknowledgement. ‘Busy day. Get
some glasses.’
Rachel provided two glasses as Joshua pulled two half bottles
of Moet et Chandon from his plastic carrier bag.
‘I thought we’d sit on opposite sides of the room with a bottle
each to cuddle,’ he said, as he popped both corks. Rachel sank
into the chair as Joshua sat back on the sofa.
‘Lot of style,’ Rachel commented, smiling a little. “What are
I2I

you going to do for an encore?’ She propped her bottle against
her crotch in the gap made by her Buddha-crossed legs and
sipped from her glass.
‘You’ll have to be punished you know. Little girls who can’t
be discreet have to be punished.’
‘I’m sorry, you’ve lost me. Could you elaborate?’
‘We had a deal. You weren’t to discuss my visits with anyone.
You got sloppy, Rachel. Word got around that I was seeing you,
so I stopped coming, and I won’t come again unless you give
your word of honour that you won’t tell anyone. And I mean
anyone.’
Rachel laughed. ‘What are you talking about? We don’t have
any friends in common except for Molly and I’ve not been in
contact with her since I met you. No one else I know knows you
and anyway no one knows your name.’
‘I can’t say any more about it. I simply require your promise
‘that you won’t tell a soul — or I shan’t come again.’ Joshua
looked deadly serious, very severe. Rachel laughed again.
‘What on earth makes you think that I’d keep such a
promise? Especially since you haven’t given me a good reason,’
she inquired, wide-eyed.
“You keep your promises, surely? We are both people who
keep our word. I can’t give you reasons, you’ll just have to do as
I say. If you tell anyone at all, I'll know about it, I assure you.
You wouldn’t make a promise and not keep it, would you?’
‘Certainly I would, particularly if it made no sense. I’ve never
been much of a boy scout, but it’s interesting to see you
suddenly revealed as one. A man of honour!’ she raised her glass
to him and wondered as she downed the champagne if he were
actually stupid or just plain and simple crazy.
‘Come over here,’ he demanded, putting his glass on the table
beside the sofa. Rachel got up and walked across the room. She
stood in front of him, their knees almost touching as he sat
watching her from the sofa.
‘Take off your jeans,’ he ordered coldly. It was the tone of
voice, the command which fired her suddenly. Excitement and
122

desire shimmered inside her; she wanted more instructions and
forgot for the time being the absurd conversation they’d just
had and the contemptuous reception she had given it. She
didn’t unzip her jeans, but stood there waiting for the command
to be repeated.
‘I said take off your jeans,’ Joshua barked at her, eyes flashing
anger.
She unzipped them slowly, and stepped out of them and her
pants, keeping her eyes on his face all the time, looking every
bit as angry as he. She stood facing him where he sat on the sofa,
her tee shirt just skimming the top of her thighs.
‘Open your legs and stroke yourself.’
She did as she was told slowly, awkwardly, as she felt herself
observed, and he began to run his hands over her thighs and
buttocks.
‘Did you think about me these past six months?’ he
whispered, a small smile at the corner of his mouth. ‘Did you
imagine me fucking you when you touched yourself?’
‘Sometimes.’ Liar. Mealy-mouthed woman. All the time.
‘What did I do to you, tell me?’
She bit her teeth together and stared at him coldly.
‘Mostly you beat the shit out of me.’ She tried to look
detached, ironic, but her eyes and cunt were wet. She couldn’t
win at this game, not without losing; if she was going to play the
fantasy she had to have wanted only him for the past six
months, have found no one else to touch her and beat her the
way he did. She couldn’t retain her dignity by pretending she
had better things to do and stay inside the game — and she
wanted to go where the game was leading. Boxed in, back
against the wall — no alternative but to relinquish power; nice to
want something so badly that she couldn’t push it away. Nice to
be demolished.
‘I touched myself and thought of you touching me, stroking
my cunt, beating me,’ she said, undetached, unironic.
‘What did I beat you with? A strap or a cane?’ His voice
hoarse.
123

She thought quickly; he’d used a strap on her already.
‘A cane.’
He began to smack her and then pulled her down onto his
lap. She sat astride him and moved against him, feeling the
roughness of his trousers against her nakedness as he smacked
harder and harder.
‘This,’ he explained softly between smacks, ‘is to remind you
to behave in future.’
‘Please . . .” she murmured.
‘Please what? What do you want?’ he whispered into her ear.
‘Please, please fuck me,’ she begged.
Hé undid his trousers and lifting her, pulled them down. She
manoeuvred his penis into her and then very slowly, very gently
rose and fell on him as she tightened the muscles in her vagina
so that he was totally inside her then, as she lifted herself, he
was almost out of her with just the tip of his penis in contact. As
she rode in slow motion along the length of his cock Joshua shut
his eyes and his mouth set in a grimace somewhere between
pleasure and pain.
‘Please,’ she whispered as she began to come.
“What? Tell me what you want.’ Joshua’s eyes opened and
looked into hers.
‘Ican’t. . .I don’t know. . . please, please,’ as she trembled
into orgasm. And then there was a war on.
Joshua demanded fiercely, ‘What? What? What do you want
to say?’
She looked at him pleadingly, then angrily. ‘No. No, I won’t.
I won't!’
‘Say it,’ he snapped. He was moving now, thrusting into her,
one hand circling her throat tight enough to threaten, not too
ught. ‘Say it!’
She said. ‘I love you. Christ, I love you,’ knowing that that
wasn’t really what she couldn’t say, but hoping he would settle
for it; it came hard enough.
- Joshua started to come repeating, ‘What? What? What?’ as
he shuddered his semen into her.
124

She squatted on him, her head on his shoulder, wondering
what it was she couldn’t ask him for. She thought she had asked
for everything but knew there was something left, something
not only unsayable but unthinkable, too. Something she
couldn’t ask him for; that Joshua wanted her to ask for, not
because he wanted to give it, she was sure of that, but because it
represented a final capitulation. It was beyond giving and
receiving orgasm, beyond the defeat of telling him she loved
him — it was something so remote, so unattainable that it
couldn’t be consciously acknowledged even to herself.
‘I'd like some bread and butter,’ Joshua informed the back of
her head.
‘Why not?’ she answered, and immediately lifted herself off.
him, closing her eyes and taking a deep breath against the
abruptness of the separation.
“You know,’ Joshua said from the sofa as she sliced the bread,
‘two hundred years ago they would have burnt you alive.’
‘They only burned heretics alive,’ she replied, without
looking round. ‘Witches were strangled first. You aren’t accus-
ing me of heresy I take it?’
‘T’ll have to think about that. I’m not as up in the field as you
seem to be. What was it Cromwell said as he put his hand in the
flame. . .?”
‘Cranmer,’ Rachel interrupted briskly.
‘Such erudition.’
‘Mmm. Sometimes I think I’m wasted on the sort of people
who make no distinction between heresy and witchcraft and
don’t know their Cranmers from their Cromwells,’ she said, as
she offered him the plate of buttered bread.
‘I don’t think your real talents are being wasted,’ Joshua
grinned. ‘Tea. I want tea. Please.’
“You know where the kettle is,’ Rachel hissed before turning
on her heels and switching it on as she stage-whispered, ‘Fuck,
shit, men!’
‘Come on, that’s not worthy of a woman of your intellect. I
did say please. If we had another girl with us she could make tea
125

for both of us. As it is I’ll make it next time — assuming of course
there is a next time. You haven’t promised yet.’
Rachel came into the living room with two cups of tea.
‘God, you’re ridiculous. I’m not going to promise anything.’
‘Then there won’t be a next time. What a waste,’ Joshua said
calmly.
Rachel sat sipping her tea. ‘Perhaps you’ll conclude it’s too
good to waste over a pointless promise.’
‘Wrong. I have boundless self-control in sexual matters. It’ll
be a pity, but there it is.’
They stared at each other, rock-solid stubborn.
Joshua said, “This isn’t a power game, you know. It’s purely
practical.’
‘Balls!’ Rachel replied, although he looked as if he meant it.
She wondered for the second time that evening if he were
always conscious of the games he played, but again couldn’t
ee—eeC ei d e
believe he wasn’t quite aware of what he was up to. Was it just
that she needed him to be so very clever, so consciously
manipulative? To promise not to tell anyone at all that he had
anC ea s
come back was to isolate her; normal people told their friends
who was coming and going in their lives even if they left out the
details. If he became her secret then she was also cut off from
the outside world. There would be no chance to measure the
relationship and assess how far the two of them moved from
what anyone else considered normal. Joshua’s power would be
complete, he would come and go, she would wait by the phone,
they would act out fantasies while he continued to behave as if
nothing out of the ordinary was happening. Already she found
it hard to judge; maybe everyone carried on like this in the
privacy of their own affairs. Cool, calm, terribly normal, Joshua
managed to make leather straps and canes and sodomy seem
like the most commonplace of practices. But what confused her
most was Joshua’s apparent belief that she wouldn’t see the
implications of his demand for silence. She found it so hard to
believe that he imagined she wouldn’t see something so obvious
that she began to wonder whether it was there to be seen at all.
126

Perhaps it was a straightforward request: there was someone
who shouldn’t know about them, whom she shouldn’t know
about. Perhaps she was the only Machiavelli around, imagining
conspiracies and plots where there were none. Sweet Joshua,
just fucking around and not wanting things to get complicated.
At which point she decided that she had just followed exactly
the route that he had laid out and mined. When it comes to
power, confusion is everything. Get the woman tied up in the
knots of her own thought processes and she’ll never escape to
the clear blue light of day. For the professional manipulator the
creation of paranoia is a priority. Bastard.
Rachel sat curled up on the sofa next to Joshua, drinking tea
and pulling corners off the slices of bread on his plate. She saw
them both from a far corner of the room, a picture of post-coital
domesticity, tired and happy lovers, eating and drinking after
having eaten and drunk each other. She laughed aloud.
‘What?’ Joshua asked, smiling.
‘Nothing,’ Rachel replied.
‘Had any serious affairs while I’ve been away?’ he inquired
casually.
‘I don’t have serious affairs, you know that.’
‘One-night stands?’
‘Some.’
‘Never saw anyone more than once, hmm?’
‘Well, actually there was someone I saw twice — would that
count as more than a one-night stand?’
‘Consecutive nights?’
‘Certainly not! Twice in two nights smacks of commitment,
domestic bliss. I thought you knew me better than that.’
Joshua grinned at her. She had regained a little of the ground
lost by her earlier importuning. When the sex was over she
bounced back like a well-fleshed arm released from pressure.
Her dispossession was circumstantial, she felt a small cut above
the wimps. You can have my body, she thought, my head I keep
to myself. Except when you’re alone, the voice whispered,
waiting for the phone to ring, recollecting and reliving his
127

touch, his voice, imagining humiliations he hasn’t even come
up with. Yet. Joshua was back; there would be more.
‘Let’s go and lie down,’ said Joshua.
They got into bed, Rachel naked, Joshua with only his shirt
on. He had hardly ever stripped completely naked in the two
years she’d known him. He put his arm under her head and she
curled herself up against him, slipping her arm beneath his
open shirt, feeling his warm fleshy skin, wanting to stroke and
kiss and suck on it. Forbidden. Too gentle, too affectionate, too
sensual. He was, she had long since concluded, the least sensual
man she had ever been with. Sex was specific and genital. What
they did to each other was to arouse particular organs of desire;
there was almost no generalized touching and minimal body
contact. Sometimes she ached just to lie close and naked with
him and catch his smell and taste the sweat on his skin. It almost
never happened; tonight was a rare event and she hardly dared
breathe, let alone touch and stroke, for fear of him recoiling
suddenly from the warmth. Her arm lay over his large belly
while only her fingers pressed gently on the soft flesh of his back
and made small circles around his spine, seeming to doodle, to
act without erotic intention. Her mouth against his chest
sucked in his taste and smell in tiny surreptitious breaths as he
lay with his arm around her, seeming to sleep. Thinking him
asleep, or not thinking at all, Rachel’s tongue delicately flicked
against his nipple, then she took it into her mouth and played
her tongue around it, just toying and pleasuring herself.
Joshua’s free arm slipped from her shoulder and began gently to
stroke her thigh and buttock as she continued to suck, and her
hand moved down his spine to mirror his caress. She scarcely
breathed. It was as if she had a wild creature in her arms which
would only allow her to touch it for as long as it was hypnotized
by pleasure. At any moment it would come to itself and see the
danger it was in, that the pleasure was being given by the enemy.
Then it would leap away and stare fiercely at her, cold-eyed, fur
erect, an angry alien thing almost captivated, almost captured,
almost lost. She moved down his body, kissing and licking the
128

soft, rolling flesh like a downy pillow but smelling of man,
sharp, salt, sour, and took his penis into her mouth, sucking
and tasting and feeling it grow larger and stronger as Joshua lay
on his back breathing long, slow breaths, his exhalations
becoming sighs and then groans as he held her head between his
hands pressing tighter and tighter until finally he released her,
his hands falling: back to lay splayed on the pillow on either side
of his head, and his pelvis jerked spasms of semen into her
mouth. She had always hated the taste; this she swallowed,
ignoring its acrid flavour, took it into her like some life-giving
liquid, sucked him dry as she heard him sobbing convulsively;
loose, wet, helpless cries she had never heard from him before.
Panicking because she had never seen him lose controi so
visibly, audibly, she released his penis and lifted herself up,
holding him tightly in both arms, her cheek pressed against his.
‘Shh, shh, don’t, don’t. It’s all right,’ she whispered, holding
him, stroking his hair, calming him. She was scared, she didn’t
want him like this, and was relieved when at last his sobs died
down and he lay quiet and asleep.
An hour later he woke and looked at his watch.
‘Christ, it’s half past three. I’ve got to go. I’ve got a meeting at
seven.’ He sat up and looked at Rachel, pulled back the duvet
and kissed her briskly on the navel.
‘No one has a meeting at seven,’ she said, ‘but you’ll have to
go anyway. I never get to sleep with strangers in my bed.’ She
smiled at him. :
‘J have a meeting at seven,’ he insisted as he dressed.
‘Why bother?’ she asked. ‘I don’t need it.’
He looked at her briefly as he shrugged on his jacket. “Well,
are you going to promise?’
‘I told you. No. It’s silly.’
‘Well, you know the consequences,’ he said from the door of
the bedroom.
‘So this is goodbye forever? Well, it’s been a pleasure
knowing you,’ she responded, tough and cynical. She didn’t
think for one moment that he was bluffing, but she had reached
129

her emotional wall. She couldn’t bring herself to utter such a
nonsensical and dangerous promise. Perhaps if he had
incorporated it into the sex; there seemed, after all, very little
she wouldn’t do under those circumstances, but in the cold
light of dawn it was impossible to play out such foolishness.
‘A pleasure for me too,’ Joshua smiled. ‘I’m only sorry that it
can’t go on. Think about it. You can always let me know if you
change your mind. ’Night ’night.’
Foiled! The opportunity to change her mind was fatal; his
absence would make the promise more and more possible. She
was determined now not to make it, but she knew in a few days
she would cave in. They grinned at each other as Joshua saluted
farewell, and she settled down under the cover to breathe in his
scent on the sheets and consider the possibility that she would
never see him again by her own choice. She knew she wasn’t up
to it. She remembered all the ways she had given herself pain in
the past, all the things she had wanted but rejected because the
cost of losing independence was too high. That Rachel was still
there in essence, she could still hold out — for a time. But
Rachel, beguiled and besotted, was too manifest now, stronger,
if strength could describe it, than the person who wanted only
rational, equal relationships. There was no doubt really who
would triumph.
She woke in the morning inside a dark cloud. Hardly woke
because she had barely slept. Carrie slipped into her bed at half
past six and snuggled herself around Rachel, entwining her
limbs like a rampant creeper around Rachel’s body. Rachel
groaned, and pulled the covers over her head. Carrie followed
her into the darkness.
‘This morning, my darling, is not a good morning. Let’s take
it slowly and calmly. I feel very pad emp ” she croaked,
giving her daughter a hug.
‘Why do you get bad-tempered in the morning?’ Carrie
asked.
‘Low blood sugar. Life. Come on, let’s get it together, kid.’
Carrie dressed herself and washed while Rachel lay in bed,
130

fighting the need to sink back into sleep.
‘Come on. Up, you lazy woman,’ Carrie demanded from the
hallway.
“Yes, Iam, I will. You’re absolutely right,’ Rachel muttered,
heaving herself out of bed.
She pulled on clothes laying on the bedroom chair, discarded
the night before, and slopped down to the bathroom where she
dowsed her head under the shower. She felt wetter but unim-
proved. Tea.
Carrie ate cereal unenthusiastically. Cereals were for morn-
ings like this — eggs, bacon, porridge demanded powers of
concentration that were presently unavailable.
‘Got what you need for school?’
“Yes. Swimming stuff. Can I put on a record?’
Good timing.
‘No.’
‘Shall I practise my violin?’
‘No!’
‘No one cares about me; no one loves me.’ Margaret Sullivan
to the life. How had she learned such pathos? Wide rolling eyes,
deep sighs. Must come with the kit.
‘Yuk. You’re loved. You’re loved. But I still don’t want you
to play the violin.’
Plans for the day. She would go and visit Pete at the detention
centre, shop for food, phone Donald to see about getting
another pupil. Don’t think about Joshua. Yes, think about
Joshua — phone Becky as soon as she had dropped Carrie at
school and tell her that he was back. Lay the ghost, tell
someone, don’t let the poison even begin to work. No wonder-
ing whom he knew among her friends: was he fucking Becky, a
girlfriend of Michael’s? Don’t. Make the promise or not but
whatever, tell someone. How was it possible to be so aware of
the implications of what he was doing and yet still be locked
inside the game? Did intelligence ever stop anyone being a
victim? Not if they are intent on it, she supposed. But she
wasn’t total victim. She dropped Carrie and got home fast.
131

‘Becky? Guess who turned up last night?’
‘Dawn raider? Demon lover? Right?’
‘Right.’
‘Only part of me is pleased for you. Will he come back?”
‘I don’t know, it seems to depend on promising never to tell
anyone he’s around.’
‘Well, you’ve just told me. Does that mean you’re not going
to promise?’
‘Not necessarily. It means if I do I'll be lying.’
‘Well that’s a start. How was it?’
‘Good. Apart from the secrecy craziness he was almost
human. I think he was glad to be back.’
‘So he bloody well should be. Let’s hope he starts to treat you
better.’
‘I don’t think I'd like that at all.’
‘God, you’re such a pervert!’
‘I am! I am!’ Rachel nodded merrily into the telephone.
‘I think what you need is more inhibition. Bloody Sigmund
did us all a great disservice. What I say is “repress it!”” Everyone
should get back into their closets fast and start behaving
themselves properly. Like I do.’
‘How’s William?’ Rachel asked.
‘Boring. And there’s nothing wrong with that. It’s true he
doesn’t beat me or bugger me. If it comes to that he doesn’t do
anything at all to me at the moment, but at least he’s there and
we go out together, unlike you and your weird friend.’
“You mean you bore each other in restaurants as well as at
home?’ Rachel suggested.
‘Listen, we all have our own routes to nirvana. Mine’s
ecstatic tedium. I love it. Cosy, safe and familiar, that’s all I ask
for. Excitement’s too. . . exciting for me,’ Becky ended wanly.
“Becky, you’re so adjusted. What you need is ten years of
analysis to make you see that really you’re deeply angry and
frustrated. It’s really sick to be as contented as you are.’
“Well I’m sorry. You see I had a terribly undeprived child-
hood and I’m not gay, black or a single parent. I can’t help it.’
132

“You should try harder,’ Rachel laughed. ‘You must be a
minority of some kind.’
‘I am. I’m in the minority of perfectly happy people. We’re
the most disregarded group in the country. Want to join my
movement?”
‘Shit no. I’m deeply prejudiced against happys. They’re
liable to start marrying our men and turning them contented, to
say nothing of seeding the population with millions of sweet-
natured offspring. I won’t stand for it.’
Becky snorted, “There’s not much chance of a population
boom in my neck of the woods, I’m afraid. I may not be deeply
angry, but I am frustrated. William’s completely uninterested
in me at the moment.’
‘But that comes and goes, doesn’t it?’
‘I suppose so. I’m trying very hard not to think what you’re -
thinking.’
‘Is it likely?’ Rachel asked worriedly.
‘Don’t know. There are a lot of publishers’ parties. Don’t
want to think about it.’ Becky’s voice was clipped.
‘OK. Ill be here if you want to drop round any time, or
phone, or anything.’
“Thanks. I am glad your bloke is back.’
Rachel put the phone down, thinking that if she wasn’t all
that happy being who she was there certainly wasn’t anyone else
she would rather be. It seemed to her that Becky’s way had as
inevitable and painful an end as her own. If life was about
avoiding pain then the human race hadn’t got very far, but then
perhaps that wasn’t what life was about. Nor, she reminded
herself, was it about embracing pain. Pain was just a side effect,
a kind of tax on human relationships — or lack of them. Pleasure
then; was pleasure the centre? Joshua said once that people got
stuck on other people out of gratitude for pleasure received. She
didn’t believe in gratitude as a first principle, greed more likely.
I like that so I want more, I’ll stick with you so I can get more,
and I’ll call it love. What about those of us who stick with
people who won’t give us more? she wondered. That’s easy; if
133

we don’t get what we want we don’t have to risk not wanting it
when we’ve got it. A fail-safe security system.
Rachel pulled on her jacket and slung her bag over her
shoulder. She drove broodily to the detention centre. She was
dreading seeing Pete, imagining him dark and withdrawn,
locked up in the lock up. On the way she stopped and bought
forty cigarettes and six Mars Bars to go with the copy of The Big
Sleep she had brought for him. The detention centre was a
large, modern brick building set back from the main road. She
parked in the driveway and walked through the asphalted
exercise area to the door marked Visitors. The whole place was
surrounded by a twenty-foot wall. She rang the bell and waited
while she heard keys being turned in a lock, then a face
appeared in the six-inch window of the steel door and after a
moment’s scrutiny another key turned and the door opened. A
brisk looking woman said uninvitingly and unsmilingly, ‘Yes?’
‘I’ve come to visit. Pete Drummond. I believe his social
worker has been in touch with you to say it’s OK. My name is
Rachel Kee.’
“What are you?’ the woman asked suspiciously.
Bloody good question.
‘T’m a friend of Pete’s. I'd like to visit him. I’m a friend,’
Rachel insisted, tensely.
This was clearly a meaningless statement to the woman
whose keys hung — the archetypal jailor — from a chain at her
waist.
“What is your official capacity?’ she asked again, her question
not, as far as she was concerned, having been answered.
Don’t fight it, Rachel, she thought, give the woman some-
thing she can relate to. She took a deep breath.
‘I was his teacher.’
‘Wait a moment, please.’ The woman shut the door in
Rachel’s face, locked it, locked the inner door and disappeared
for a few moments. Then the unlocking again, and Rachel was
admitted, each door being locked once more as she passed
through into the office.
134

‘I’ve had Pete sent for. He should be down in a few moments.
Have you brought anything for him?’ the woman asked as she
sat at her desk. Rachel put the two sealed packets of cigarettes
on the table along with the Mars Bars and book.
“We'll keep the cigarettes for him,’ the woman said, handing
her the rest of the things. ‘We only allow them five a day. The
rest have to be earned with acceptable behaviour.’
‘I see. How is he?’
“Very well. He’s cooperative, but I’m afraid he’s refusing to
see his social worker. He’s angry.’
“Yes, I know. I suppose that’s why he’s here. Is St Stephen’s
still on the cards?’ Rachel asked.
“‘We’re in the middle of doing assessments for the court. I
must say that so far no one’s very enthusiastic about St
Stephens, but Social Services are pushing very hard for it.
They’re likely to be listened to by the Magistrates.’
‘What’s the objection here to the hospital?’
‘Well, Pete definitely needs some kind of structure, but on
the whole the staff here feel that boys like him are too easily
institutionalized and that St Stephens is excessively rigid. But
as I say, that’s an unofficial opinion at the moment.’ The
woman was very much more relaxed inside her office than she
had been at the door. She also needed some kind of structure,
apparently. Another door was unlocked and Pete appeared in
the reception area, accompanied by a man whose size and
musculature made even Pete seem dwarfed. :
‘Here he is,’ the man said. ‘You’re honoured. Yow’re the first
visitor he’s agreed to see.’
‘Well, Iam honoured,’Rachel smiled. ‘Hello Pete. You OK?’
If outward appearance meant anything he was more OK than
she had ever seen him. He was squeaky clean and glowing,
pink-cheeked with exercise and fleshed out with food. His hair
had grown about an inch so that he had lost his old cadaverous
look, and he was dressed in a neat red tee shirt, new clean Levis
and a pair of sporty-looking trainers. He grinned at her.
“You can talk in here,’ the man said, showing them to a small
135

room which had been partitioned off from the reception area. It
had three chairs in it and a small table; two of the three walis
were glazed so that what went on in there could be seen from
any part of the office or reception room. Rachel sat down and
handed Pete the chocolates and book.
‘I brought you some fags, but they said they’d dish ‘tele out
I’m afraid. I’ll have to smuggle them in next time.’
Pete smiled. ‘Ta,’ he said.
“You look incredible. How is it here?’
Pete shrugged. ‘It’s all right. The food’s shit, but the people
are OK. I’ve been playing a lot of football, and doing wood-
work. I made you a plant holder, but it’s being varnished so I
can’t give it to you yet.’
‘How nice. Thanks. You don’t mind it here then?’ Rachel
asked.
‘Not really. There’s too many rules and that, but it’s all right.
Better than Wentworth. The other kids are all right. You know
what? There’s a kid here being done for murder. He killed his
brother with a kitchen knife when they were having a fight.
He’s got a terrible temper, but he’s been good as gold here. If
you don’t behave they lock you in your room for a day and bring
your meals in to you. They did that to me on the second day
because I had a bit of a ruck with one of the staff. It’s all right. I
don’t mind being in my room.’
‘When are you due back in court?’
‘In a month. They’re doing an assessment. I don’t mind
being here but I’m not bleeding going to that hospital. There’s a
kid here who’s been there and he says they drug you up and lock
you in a padded cell if you don’t behave yourself. And you only
get fed Complan if you don’t score enough points for behaving
right. I ain’t going. I’d rather go to prison. I’d rather be fucking
dead.’
“Well, dead is a last resort. What do you want?’
Pete sat spruce in his chair, his long legs splayed in front of
him.
‘I want to look after myself,’ he said. ‘Live in a bedsitter and
136

get a job.’
‘Living alone is quite difficult if you haven’t had any
practice.’
“Yeah, well I’ll get practice by doing it, won’t I?’
True and not true: Kids with a family leave home but have
parents and friends around, and in any case have spent most of
their lives watching how it’s done. Pete had none of that, just
some disturbed, glue-sniffing mates who spent their lives in and
out of prison and borstals. They chatted on for a while: Rachel
told him of Carrie’s doings, things she had seen on the tele-
vision; visiting talk. When she left, after Pete had been escorted
upstairs by the giant, she stopped first at the office.
‘By the way,’ she asked the woman, ‘how has Pete’s
encopresis been?’
The woman looked up from the desk. ‘His what? Oh that —
no sign of it. Will you visit again?”
Rachel said she would come later that week, as the doors were
unlocked and clanged behind her. Driving home, she con-
sidered how well Pete responded to institutional life. He would
have been quite happy to stay there, kept out of trouble, safe
and contained. If he lived on his own it would only be a matter
of time before he did something that took him back there or to
prison. The institution could straighten him out, make him
clean, healthy and unanxious, but it couldn’t make him want to
succeed without it, it couldn’t make him want freedom and
independence. Actually did anyone? Initially it was always a
matter of taking a deep breath and jumping; the institutions,
schools, borstals, families, had a double aspect: safety and
containment but with the knowledge that the individual would
have to leave. In fact, when you thought about it, very few
people really leave; they rejoin institutions as fast as they can.
Maybe, she thought, Pete could become a residential care
worker for Social Services; but he was too delinquent, the
system would not be flexible enough to offer him that route: it
wanted him to go to St Stephen’s to ‘socialize’ him with drugs
and threats into a society he had never been a part of. Don’t ask
137

why, just do it. Although if he were going to reinvent his past
like everyone else does then trouble with the law, being in
prison, represented the only path he could take. Why shouldn’t
Pete be different, though? Maybe he wouldn’t have to do what
everyone else did; why shouldn’t he find a new way for himself?
Fairytale time again.
Back at home the thoughts about Pete extended to the others
in her life — all of them just doing what they were supposed to
do. Becky trying for marital bliss, respectable married love;
Isobel solitary, successful, living in her work, dismissing life
and messy emotions; Joshua enticing and destructive but also
alone, Mr Nice Guy to some, whipmaster to others but never
really known, so never really loved, by anyone. Everyone just
treading the path set for them; no one really beyond their
conditioning, no surprises. And Rachel? No surprises. It was
such a treadmill, everything known before anything happened,
scripts written, so dreary, so bloody predictable. How did
anyone ever get outside it? Disaster probably does it;
catastrophes that turn expectations inside out and leave you
with nothing but imagination and freedom. A painful void
where anything and, most terrifying, nothing is possible. A
painful business breaking free; who would do it voluntarily? |
Suddenly the memory of last night flashed into her mind, the
brief moment when she had loved Joshua gently and he had
responded; she felt a contraction in her uterus as she recalled it
and whispered to herself: I want to love someone. After a pause
she added: I think.
She went to the kitchen drawer where she kept a small
collection of postcards and flicked through them until she came
across one that seemed appropriate: it was a late-nineteenth-
century photograph of two rocks weathered into fifty-foot
plinths in a wilderness in Wisconsin; their flat tops were
separated by eight feet of nothing, just a deadly drop to the
ground. The photographer had caught a man frozen in mid-air
between the two rocks; you couldn’t be quite certain he was
going to make it to the other side. It was entitled ‘Leaping the
138

Chasm’; Rachel smiled with satisfaction and took the card to
her desk. On the reverse she wrote:
‘All right. You havemy word — and on paper too. Mind you,
so was the Munich Agreement. Love R.’
She addressed and stamped the card and took it to the
postbox on the corner. Nothing, she thought as she slipped it
through the slot, if not equivocal. He’ll just have to take it or
leave it. She guessed he would take it.
The following evening he called and came round, no mention
of the card. They sat for a long time, sipping the wine he
brought, talking. Not of themselves, they never discussed each
other. They talked and argued about ‘people’, not Joshua and
Rachel.
‘It’s obvious that men should be fetishistic,’ Joshua declared
apropos of nothing. ‘We see things as their component parts
and fix on this or that bit as the object of desire. Women don’t
do that, they see totalities, it fits with their need for protection,
keeps them attached to individuals.’
‘Whereas you people fix on disparate bits to achieve diver-
sity?’ Rachel continued.
‘Exactly. Women need the protection of men, the security of
a regular man to take care of their needs while they’re bringing
up babies.’
‘Oh shit! You’ve been reading too much sociobiology. Social
economics. The old cost/benefit routine. Women have a major
investment in expensive time-and-energy-consuming eggs and
child-rearing; men have vast quantities of low-cost sperm so the
more babies they make with the more people the greater the
chances of reproducing themselves effectively. Women on the
other hand are limited in their possibilities of reproducing
themselves so they must put a large investment in a few
offspring. Women have to care; men just have to make babies.’
‘Right. So women need to make families to ensure that their
babies will grow up.’
‘If you’re right that women are biologically determined to
seek security, then logically the last people they should seek it
139

from are men. It would be the worst possible strategy. Men are
biologically determined to piss off; women ought to protect
their investment by fucking men to get their babies and making
families with other women: If it’s efficiency you’re on about,
that’s the way to do it.’
‘Yes, but men stay free to go off and get food, and fight off
intruders, while women are hampered with young children,’
Joshua argued.
‘That’s true, but only useful if they can be relied on to stay.
The optimum arrangement would be groups of women of
different ages, in different stages of reproduction, protecting
each other, and receiving men to seed them. If your argument
holds then men are simply reproduction machines; women are
social beings who can rear babies, forage, farm, do anything if
they organize themselves. However we are not, you may have
noticed, in a state of nature. Most of us fuck each other most of
the time for reasons other than reproduction and these days
social groups serve more than sheer survival. If you reduce
everything to its origin you’re going to miss an awful lot of
what’s going on. Also, my fetishistic friend, if I were you I’d
think twice or twenty times before using myself as a template
for male sexuality.’
Rachel smiled charmingly at him as he flashed a sudden
gleam of white incisors.
‘Careful,’ he warned.
‘Always careful,’ she retorted, as she refilled his glass.
Afterwards, when they had finished with each other’s bodies,
Rachel said, “Tell me something, just to further my education
you understand, what happens to you once you’ve come?’
Joshua lay on the floor beside her, Rachel naked, he in shirt
and pullover. He raised himself up on one elbow, head in his
hand, and looked at her.
‘Total mind change,’ he replied. ‘No desire, no sexuality.’
Rachel rolled on to her side and looked up at him.
‘But what about the woman you’re with? Seconds after
you've fucked her?’
140

‘Depends on the woman. If it’s someone I fucked because
there was just one particular bit I fancied, I feel completely
disgusted and leave as fast as I can. If she’s small or very young I
feel protective, paternal. But never sexual.’
‘Oh.’ Rachel blinked with the effort of not wincing. ‘Well,
that’s very interesting, thank you.’
“You’re welcome,’ Joshua smiled, stroking her gently from
waist to thigh. Without desire; evidently; still, she supposed
she was thin enough, if not young enough, to warrant his
protection. She made a mental note to lay off the pasta, just in
case.
Joshua turned up twice in the following month; it was
business as usual, nothing changed. She visited Pete twice a
week and found him well and reasonably contented, although
still determined not to be sent to St Stephen’s. He had his ups
and downs with the staff, testing them, but not too far. He was
one of the more cooperative inmates, she was told, and he
stayed clean. She smuggled in cigarettes, giving in one packet to
the woman in the office, slipping the other to Pete beneath the
table in the goldfish-bow] visiting room, and brought chocolate
and Marvel Comics. Pete gave her the plant holder and made
her a wooden bowl on the lathe of which he was immensely
proud, and rightly. They talked about his future, about living
alone in London, although always with the threat of the hospital
in the background and that made it impossible for him to
acknowledge the problems he would have to face living alone in
the bedsitter. It had become a dream quite inaccessible to
reality. He had, after all, nothing else on offer. She felt
sometimes like a solution that refused to present itself. Why
didn’t she whisk him out of his impasse, like Isobel had done for
her? Why didn’t she pass her good fortune on? It wouldn’t have
been sensible to offer something that was unlikely, given the
difficulties, to work. Of course it hadn’t been sensible of Isobel
either to give her a home when she had nowhere else to go. She
knew that Isobel had been warned against the foolhardy enter-
prise of taking an unknown and disturbed girl into her home.
141

Nice thought, but could have disastrous consequences in
practice. But here she was, alive if not kicking, not institution-
alized, not a junkie, not dead. Isobel had survived too; they
were both scarred to a degree, but human relations make
wounds; they weren’t fatal necessarily.
Still, she didn’t offer Pete more than friendship and he ‘okii t
because, immature and disturbed as he was, he also had a
survivor in him that was in touch with reality and took what was
on offer if there was nothing better. Up to a point. The war in
Pete was in abeyance for the time being while the detention
centre held him firm without squeezing too tight. He was
breathing easy so long as he didn’t think too hard about the
future.
‘I’m making you a bookcase next,’ Pete told her on the last
visit. ‘You need one with all them bleeding books.’
‘Too true. It sounds like a major enterprise. Have you
thought about getting a training in carpentry? You seem pretty
good at it.’
‘Nah, they’re all right the things I make because the bloke
gives me a lot of help. He doesn’t get riled when you make a
mistake.’
“Yes, but that’s what training is. Someone to teach you how
to do it, let you practise till you get the knack.’
‘I don’t know. Maybe. I could work for myself after I’d
learned, couldn’t I?’ he asked.
“Yes. It seems like a good idea to me. Why don’t I check out
the possibilities?’ Rachel said, feeling suddenly enthusiastic: a
small chink of light, perhaps he could find a way for himself
after all.
‘All right.’
As she left the woman in the office told her that Pete’s hearing
was due the following day. Mary was coming to take him to
court.
Two days later Pete was dead.
Mary phoned to tell Rachel the news, gasping and stuttering
through her sobs. The Magistrates had made an order for him
142

to go to St Stephen’s. He was completely silent in the car as
Mary drove him back to the detention centre. She tried to get
him to talk, tried to explain, but he just sat there, dark and
glowering at the road ahead in complete silence. Mary, terrified
that he was about to explode, drove as if the road were made of
glass, waiting all the time for him to grab the wheel, hit out at
her, something. But he held on to it all, and remained mute as
they arrived and he was escorted through the locked doors to his
room. He was to be taken to St Stephen’s the following day.
During the night the fire alarm sounded; staff ran about,
unlocking the doors, yelling as they went for the boys to
assemble in the courtyard. Pete was ready as the key turned in
his lock, standing his jeans and trainers, naked from the waist
up. He pushed past the warden and raced his long legs to the
fire escape, but when he reached it ran up instead of down. He
clattered up four flights of metal stairs to the roof of the building
while the warden tried to beat out the smouldering bedsheets
that lay piled directly beneath the smoke detector in Pete’s
room. In the courtyard boys and staff milled about until
someone yelled, ‘Look!’ and pointed to the tall bleak figure
poised on the edge of the roof, colourless in the grey dawn. For
a few moments there was silence as everyone stared up at Pete,
their necks strained back, eyes narrowed with the effort of
keeping him in focus as if just holding him in sight were force
enough to prevent his fall. Pete stood half naked in the cold
morning, four storeys up, watching the paralysed figures
below, and yelled down at them, ‘You fuckers! I don’t care — I
want to be dead. I’m going to jump, cunts, none of you can stop
me!’
He pulled off one of his shoes, raised it above his head and
flung it down with all his force on to the group below which
scattered as it fell. Then the next shoe. ‘I hate you! You
bastards! I don’t care!’
Some of the staff started to call up to him, reasoning,
calming. Someone began to climb the fire escape, someone else
went to call the police. Pete stood barefoot in his jeans, sobbing
143

as male voices shouted up common sense and hope; if he came
down they could talk about it, they would sort something out.
Pete sobbed and listened, wanting to believe but too angry, too
hopeless. Someone saw him wipe his tears with the back of his
hand and shake them off as if he were throwing them down too,
like his shoes; heavy dangerous tears liable to crush anyone they
fell on. Then there was nothing else to do with his rage, nothing
else to throw, except himself. He flung himself off the edge and
hurtled towards the ground, following the shoes and the tears,
throwing himself away, launching his body as the last weapon
he had, a missile that would blow the world to pieces.
‘Bastards!’ he screamed as he jumped, and then they heard
his skull crack against the asphalt and he lay face-down,
smashed and dead in the appalled silence.
A boy began to sob and two of the warders ran forward to
check pointlessly for a pulse. For a few moments the boys and
staff stood gazing blankly at the mess that lay at their feet.
_ Mary sobbed into the telephone while Rachel listened in
silence, her fingers pressed against her lips as if to keep control
of the dangerous sounds inside her. The words poured into her
ear and she pressed the earpiece hard against her to stop those
sounds from seeping out. She took it all in, let Mary tell the .
story, and when there was silence whispered,
‘Thank you for letting me know.’
Rachel’s need now was to think. Or rather not to think but to
allow herself to float aimlessly about in the space left by Pete,
like a foetus suspended in amniotic fluid. She wanted to lie in
bed and live what she had known of Pete, to be in it or go
through it, come to some understanding of what his life and
death meant for her. It was a desire to wallow, but so strong that
she had to keep bringing herself back into the living room as she
found herself edging towards the bed.
After a while she began to recognize her state. She had
thought of it once as Joshua’s Syndrome, or as the space
reserved in her for sexual obsession and activated by Joshua,
144

when she lay hour upon hour fantasizing and recollecting. Now
it seemed it was a more generalized condition, the symptoms
were indications of obsession per se, her sexual need for Joshua
being just one form it took. There was the same dreadful
weight, the heaviness that made her body ache to be horizontal.
The desire to be in bed was so strong that she couldn’t do
anything physical with ease. Her body stubbornly demanded to
be rested while her brain longed to put all other concerns aside
and concentrate profoundly on the single theme of Pete. She
felt her mind as quite separate from her will, needing not to
analyse but determined to relive, remember all the moments
and events of her relationship with Pete. It wanted to swill
experience about like a wine-tasting, re-experiencing not think-
ing, as if this were the only way in which sense could emerge.
There wasn’t any conscious need to understand, just the feeling
that there would only be understanding through such a process.
Pete and Joshua were not to be thought out. Wherever it was in
her brain that solved problems by logic had switched off. Still,
there was something battling inside her to keep out of bed and
out of the condition she wanted so badly to be in. She pushed
her heavy limbs about the flat, hoovering carpets that had been
cleaned only a day before, scouring sinks that already shone
well enough — anything to be busy and above what she
perceived as an abyss. She forced herself not to go down into it,
knowing she was putting it off rather than winning the battle.
She became very cold, very angry, and went about the
normal business of the next day or two with her face set, her
being geared to pursue what had to be done, all icy calm and
reason. She phoned Isobel and Becky and told them what had
happened in a voice that refused them the right to gasp or say
the usual comforting words. With Isobel it was easy; they had
had such conversations before about other tragedies.
‘Oh dear, what a pity. You must be feeling terrible. Well,
that’s life. Perhaps he made the right choice,’ Isobel suggested
sensibly.
‘Yes. I don’t think he had any other choice available to him,’
145

Rachel replied, grateful for the cool tones. Pointless death,
pointless life needed Isobel’s common sense.
‘Will you go to the funeral?’
‘No. there aren’t any loving relatives to be comforted. It was
Pete I cared about and he won’t be there.’ .
‘You don’t think you’d feel better if you went? Ceremonies
are useful sometimes.’
‘I don’t think a communal weep with the powers-that-be in
Social Services is going to improve my mood much. I’m all
right, really. It’s just, as you say, a pity.’
“Well, let me know if there’s anything I can do. Not that there
is anything one can do,’ Isobel said, sighing at yet another
instance of life’s impossibility.
Rachel put the phone down feeling slightly irritated. She
hadn’t wanted an emotional response, that was why she had
phoned Isobel first, but it grated that for Isobel all individual
sorrow conflated into the Human Condition so that all private
‘pain became nothing more than a minor proof of how she knew
things were anyway. Not that it wasn’t true, only it seemed to
deny people the right to feel the hurt they had.
Becky put Rachel into reverse.
‘Oh Rachel! Oh no!’ She was immediately close to tears.
Rachel said crossly, ‘Well, it’s hardly very surprising.
Another of life’s sad stories.’
‘Stop it,’ Becky sniffed. ‘You don’t have to pretend you don’t
care.’
‘I do care but there’s nothing I can do about it. Tears won’t
help.’
‘They might help you.’
Rachel prickled with resentment. Becky’s tears angered her.
They had come so easily as if they had been gathering for days
waiting for an opportunity to overflow. They were tears, not
tears for Pete. But why not? Why shouldn’t sorrow be available
for whatever need arose? Who was Rachel to deny Becky the
right to cry over someone she didn’t know? And if tears mean
anything to the dead why shouldn’t Pete have some? Maybe
146
eae ee

Becky’s tears were more efficacious than her own. Rachel, of
course, hadn’t cried. She offered Pete’s memory her thoughts
instead. What was the difference?
‘T’m sorry. It’s just that I feel a bit grim. I don’t see much
point in wallowing in it. It’s strange but very few people in my
life have died. A lot have disappeared, but not died. It’s
different.’
‘It’s such a waste,’ Becky said.
“Not exactly a waste. Not more of a waste than Pete spending
a long life in and out of prison or drugging or drinking himself
to death. I’m not sure if there’s much to choose between them,’
Rachel suggested.
‘But if he’d lived he would have had a choice at least.’
‘I don’t know. His chances were so slim. It’s only that I’m so
sorry he’s dead. I wish he wasn’t dead.’ Rachel squeezed her
eyes tight shut against the tears that suddenly welled painfully
against her lids. She was not going to cry. There was no point in
crying. She was scared to death of crying.
Becky said, ‘You should go to the funeral. It’ll make you feel
better.’ ;
‘Going to a funeral to make myself feel better will probably
make me feel worse. I think ritual only works if you don’t know
that it’s supposed to. Anyway, why should I feel better?’
‘I don’t think I really meant feel better, I think I meant feel
anything. Feel.’ Becky, practical, perceptive and concerned,
made Rachel want to scream.
‘Oh for God’s sake, Becky.’
‘Sorry, I’m probably talking about myself. It’s not much
compared to Pete killing himself but things are really bad
between William and me. I’m so scared I can’t really think
about it.” The tears began to flow again.
‘Is there someone else?’ Rachel asked.
‘Think so. I know this is crazy, but I don’t think I can live
without William. It just hadn’t occurred to me that I wasn’t
going to have him for the rest of my life. Ik now you must think
I’m incredibly naive, it’s not that I don’t know most marriages
147

break up, don’t last forever . . . but not us.’
Rachel tried to put herself in Becky’s place and couldn’t. So
William was having an affair after five years of monogamy; it
seemed so normal, so like everyone else. She did think Becky
naive. How was it possible she could have imagined that they
would be different? How could she have thought that they
would both go on with equal intensity, wanting each other
forever? It was beyond Rachel’s powers of imagination. Habit
was the answer. Becky’s belief that they were different was
retrospective; she probably hadn’t thought about it at all. But
she had got used to living with William and now he was
irreplaceable, not because he was irreplaceable but because she
was in the habit of him. How could William be the single
perfect match for Becky? How could anyone? By chance in the
small world we each inhabit we meet a few people who suit us;
that was accident, not destiny, in a world teeming with people
who would never, by sheer numerical improbability, meet each
other. No Mr Rights, just Mr That’ll-do’s who become necess-
ity from force of habit. But Rachel and Becky had pain in
common if not belief, and Rachel could empathize with that at
least.
‘Come round this evening,’ she suggested. ‘I could use the
company.’
‘Thanks, I will. I could use your cool view of life right now.’
Rachel grunted. ‘So could I. You’re a little out of date.
Rachel the Invulnerable seems to have sunk without trace, but I
might be able to dredge her up just for you.’
She would, of course. That Rachel was still there, especially
for other people, still there for herself too when she could get
feeling to subside.
Pete and Joshua. She was in mourning for the ghosts of both
of them, for the lost potential of both corpses. One death was
not more serious than the other merely because it was more
corporeal. She was, although she didn’t acknowledge it,
primarily in mourning for herself.

Five
Becky arrived looking awful. All the usual surface effort had
been neglected so that although she looked like herself she also
didn’t, like the suddenly strange face of a friend who for a
moment takes off the glasses they habitually wear. The raw
material was there, the precisely cut hair, wide clear eyes, well-
defined bone structure, but she hadn’t washed her hair so that it
hung limp and thin around her face, and her unmade-up eyes
were bloodshot and swollen from too many tears. Both women
wore faded jeans, though their basic difference in style
remained: Becky with her neat silk shirt that outlined breasts
moulded into shape by the brassiere beneath, Rachel’s loose
unstructured tee shirt draping over her naked nipples beneath.
Rachel made coffee and they sat on stools at the kitchen table,
picking at slices of salami and breaking off bits of cheese.
‘Have you asked William what he’s up to?’ Rachel asked.
‘No. No one says anything much. It’s just that he’s so absent,
even when he’s there he isn’t. I think he might leave me,’ she
said, looking up suddenly, eyes wide and scared as if at a totally
new thought. ‘How do you manage to live alone?’
‘T’ve told you, it’s just habit. I’m not able to live with anyone.
I don’t know how people live alone when theyr’e not used to it.’
‘What about the Demon? What if he wanted to live with
you?’
‘He won’t. That’s the point, I suppose. There’s not the
slightest chance that he’s going to want any more than there is
now. That’s my security. And why I’m so trapped. If he made
himself even a little more available I’d lose interest in him like I
always do. I only want more of the bastard because I want to
stop wanting him. It’s true. Hoist, as they say, on my own
petard — whatever that is. But that’s no help to you, except to
149

say that you wouldn’t be any better off if you were like me
instead of like you.’
‘That’s a comfort.’
‘Not to me, it’s not,’ Rachel muttered gloomily.
‘Well, at least we’re in the same boat.’
‘Except that I deserve it and you don’t. Probably. I’ve been
playing games with my fantasies. Sometimes I think I’ve
invented the man. It’s as if he stepped out of my head, me taken
to a logical conclusion, and of course the one person I can’t cope
with is another me who’s even better at it than I am. He’ll
always defeat me because he knows exactly what I want.’
Rachel got up and opened a bottle of wine.
‘What do you want?’ Becky asked.
‘To be made vulnerable. Not to be allowed to be tough and
cynical. It’s only partly the sex, that’s where it’s most obvious,
but the real pleasure is being made needy and pathetic. It’s like
being released, it’s such a relief to lose and not to care that I’m
losing. Oh shit, it’s awful isn’t it?” Rachel covered her face with
her hand and gave a grim laugh. ‘And in the meantime,’ she
added, looking up, ‘Pete’s killed himself and your marriage is in
a mess. But I don’t seem to be able to think about anything
except bloody Joshua. I’m sorry. You know what really scares.
me? This thing will end sooner or later, but I don’t think I’m
ever going to want anyone else, nothing else will ever do. I feel
like I’ve been condemned.’ She cradled her wine glass in both
hands and stared into it, seeing nothing in there but a long bleak
life of aching. That, of course, was exactly how Becky was
feeling, she thought. Bleakness and forever. There was so much
time to get through. And Pete too. As he stood on the roof that
was what he must have felt beneath the anger. If you were
standing on the edge four storeys up and feeling like that, just
hopeless, it wouldn’t be hard to take a step off into space. The
alternative, going back down the stairs, would be more difficult.
There would be nothing to go down for except more nothing.
‘But you know how to be alone. Rachel I can’t. . . can’t do
it. ’
150

Becky suddenly let the last remnants of composure go and
seemed to crumple in on herself as tears flowed freely through
the fingers she clasped against her face. She sobbed, shuddering
and heaving, releasing the misery untidily as Rachel watched
and felt herself firm up from the inside, everything tightening,
organizing itself to deal with the situation. Yes, it’s good for
Becky to cry; she needs to be comforted and touched; tears are
functional, they release waste proteins; people need holding
when they lose control so that they feel safe. Rachel watched
Becky for a moment, dry-eyed and calm, permitting her to do
what was necessary, then she took a deep breath and stretched
her arm across the table.
‘Poor Becky, I’m sorry, love,’ she murmured, as she took one
of Becky’s hands from her face and held on to it tightly. The
sobbing deepened into a lamentation, a grieving. Rachel got up,
still holding Becky’s hand, still staying in touch, and moved
close, taking Becky’s head against her torso and stroking the
lank, damp hair.
‘It’s all right. It’s all right,’ she whispered over and over as
she rocked her gently, rhythmically against the tempo of the
cries.
‘I can’t bear it,’ Becky sobbed. ‘What can I do?’
Rachel, all brisk and efficient on the inside, gentled Becky
from the table onto the sofa where she held her in her arms and
stroked the smooth silk of her shirt. She felt perfectly cool,
prepared to respond in any way that was necessary. What did
Becky need now? Comfort and permission. She was like a
sensitive instrument, gauging the atmosphere and setting
appropriate reactions in motion, feeling nothing, simply alert.
She held and caressed and gradually Becky subsided, hiccup-
ping from time to ume as her body readjusted. Then she was
quiet and lay breathing slowly against Rachel’s breast, one arm
resting on Rachel’s shoulder. Rachel continued to stroke
hypnotically down Becky’s back as she whispered, “Are you all
right?’
Becky lifted her head so that her face was just a few inches
1§1

from Rachel’s and looked red-eyed and swollen up at her. She
wants me to kiss her, Rachel thought. Does she want me to
make love to her, she wondered. Will it help or make things
worse? Is it the right thing to do? She didn’t think, do I want to?
But she did want to, or at any rate was intrigued with the idea,
with this woman in her arms, of slipping from consolation to
eroticism, though her main conscious concern was to do
whatever was best and most appropriate in the circumstances of
Becky’s distress.
Becky wasn’t thinking about anything at all; she brushed her
lips gently against Rachel’s mouth and then softly probed with
her tongue between the lips already opening to receive it. They
kissed each other for a long time, familiarizing themselves with
the contours of their lips, running tongues along teeth, sipping
and pushing gently into each other’s mouths. They undressed,
still kissing, and investigating each other curiously and a little
shyly, getting to know the soft curves of breasts, unfamiliar
nipples, silky rounded thighs and damp vulvas. Rachel took
Becky’s broad dark nipple into her mouth and sucked gently on
it, feeling a shiver of pleasure run through her as she touched and
tasted the body whose owner she knew so well. Becky as friend
had had no body, or at least one that only related to others, a
body Rachel knew only through conversation. It had never
occurred to her to connect the friend and the flesh in her
affection. And as she stroked and touched and felt her own body
being caressed, she became enchanted by the confusion. She was
Alice at the moment when the looking glass dissolved, kneeling
on the mantlepiece, pressing her palms against the glass and
feeling the reflection of her own flesh, touching another, touch-
ing herself, familiar but quite different, creating a third neither
one nor the other, making love in a glass that became a liquid
refracting pool, not you, not me, strange and strangely known.
They lay naked together on the floor, sleepy and satisfied,
holding each other and kissing from time to time to keep the
throb alive between them. Rachel looked at Becky and was
thrilled at how lovely she was; her eyes feasted on the lines and
152
iaia

curves as she remembered the feel of them under her hand, how
they had become taut as Becky climaxed, climaxed because
Rachel had made her, how fluid and soft they were now in the
dim light. She was aware too of her own body as beautiful and
mobile, small and angular to Becky’s roundness, and she saw
them both as if from above, shockingly naked, shockingly
women together, female form wrapped around itself. She
touched her lips against Becky’s and stroked her hair as she
smiled sleepily.
‘Rachel,’ Becky whispered, as she kissed her back.
‘Becky,’ said Rachel, smiling too.
Rachel drifted into sleep and dreamed mysteriously of archi-
traves, intricate white mouldings delicately carved. But it’s the
door, she told herself in the dream, it’s no good concentrating
on architraves when there are doors to be dealt with. But no
matter how she tried she couldn’t tear herself away from the
forms around the door, hypnotic angles, curves and shadows
demanding her attention. She woke with an image of a solid
white door imprinted on her mind, the door she should have
attended to in her dream but couldn’t. She blinked the image
away and turned her head to look at Becky asleep beside her. She
felt chilled and saw Becky’s skin goose pimpled by the cold.
It was late and the heating had switched itself off. She sat up
feeling icy. All the sensuality, all the warmth had gone. She was
hard and tight inside, like a diamond, sharp glistening edges,
smooth cold facets. She looked coldly at Becky still sleeping and
wanted her gone, wanted only to be alone in her flat. She wanted
to shake her awake, hand her her clothes in silence and have her
go while Rachel shut herself away in the bedroom. Damn,
another mess, something else to be handled, dealt with. Why did
she let that happen when really she wanted things simple,
wanted only to be let alone? She remembered that she had
enjoyed making love with Becky, but that was then, while it was
happening; she didn’t want an aftermath. She didn’t want a
continuation, and she didn’t want to explain, she wanted only to
be left alone. Being alone was what kept Rachel safe and being
153

safe was the major guideline of her life. Her flat and a few not-
too-close friends were safety, the rest of the world different
degrees of anxiety. In the most harmless of social events there
was always a reserved area of Rachel that ached to be back in her
flat on her own. Relationships were brought toa swift conclusion
or never started because solitude was always preferable to the
unease she felt with others, with the threat they presented. Even
with Carrie sometimes there was a feeling that she was making
polite conversation while waiting for her to go to school or to bed
and allow Rachel once more to be on her own. Joshua was safe
because he was guaranteed to go away and because although he
broke her reserve sexually he would never go so far as to
endanger his own reserve. The limits on what she could want
were set by him and kept both of them secure. She told herself
now that what she had to do was learn to be even more alone than
she already was. She had to do without safety nets which turned
inexorably into traps — like Becky lying there sleeping peacefully
-on the floor. Like Pete, she was never going to get what she had
never had, but, unlike him, she knew that. It was her advantage.
She had only to come to terms with it and stop getting involved at
all.
She suddenly had the wrenched feeling she remembered
having as a child. She would lie in bed at night and find herself
floating off away into space. She tortured herself with the idea
of infinity, of infinite emptiness. Later they made movies of her
recurring waking nightmare. As she lay in bed she lost the walls
of her room, her parents sleeping or fighting, the solid structure
of the building, and drifted into black empty space, floating
completely alone up there where there was nothing; no edges,
no boundaries, not the slightest hope of rescue, just alone in the
blackness forever. Years later, when she watched the same
image on the cinema screen, she had had to fight off the empty
terror it produced in her. The astronaut drifting beside his ship
has his lifeline cut and spins off, a minute object in vastness
rolling away forever towards more and more nothing.
Becky woke smiling, still wrapped in sexuality, and put her
154
aeeeeeeee t

hand out to touch Rachel. Rachel snapped to her feet.
‘It’s cold,’ she said. “You’d better get dressed.’
Becky’s hand retreated and she looked puzzled. ‘Are you all
right?’ she asked.
‘Fine,’ Rachel replied, very short, as she pulled on her jeans
and tee shirt.
Becky got up and dressed slowly as Rachel busied about
collecting empty glasses and putting them in the sink with the
coffee cups. She clattered about in the silence for as long as she
could, holding the talk at bay until Becky said, ‘Let’s have some
coffee.’
‘It’s very late. Won’t William be wondering where you are?’
‘He knows where I am: What’s wrong?”
‘Nothing. I’m tired.’ ©
She started to make coffee, thinking the quicker it was made
the sooner Becky would leave. Becky finished dressing and sat
at the kitchen table.
‘It was wonderful. It was so good,’ she said, as Rachel put the
coffee cups on the table. Rachel could feel her aching to be
touched, reassured, and turned her back immediately to fiddle
unnecessarily with the coffee machine.
‘Rachel, what is it?’ Becky insisted.
I want you away, out of here, she thought; I want you to stop
being so pathetic, so fucking warm, so loving.
‘Look,’ she said, with immense effort, still with her back to
Becky, ‘you were upset, we were a bit drunk. It was fine. I just
don’t want . . . to get involved. It happened: that’s OK, but
that’s it.’
Tough, hard as hell. Total mind change.
Becky looked as if Rachel had thrown the coffee at her
instead of just putting it on the table as she spoke.
‘Of course. If that’s what you want. It just seemed right,
though. You were so loving and gentle to me when I was crying.
I’d never seen you like that before. . .’
‘I was just doing what was necessary,” Rachel interrupted,
correcting her.
155

—
‘I don’t care. You were loving, and you were loving when we
touched each other. You can’t pretend it didn’t happen and that
it didn’t mean anything to you.’
‘You’re in love with William, remember? I’m not pretending
anything. It was sex and I like sex, but there’s no need to
complicate it. We were just comforting each other.’
‘Rachel, I love you. You’re my friend. I loved you before
tonight; we’ve taken it further but that doesn’t change our
friendship. It’s only that I loved your body tonight as well.’
‘You love William. I can’t replace him. I don’t want to.
Friendship and sex don’t mix as far as I’m concerned.’ Rachel
poured more coffee into her cup.
‘All right, if you don’t want it to happen again we won’t do it.
But we'll go on being friends, won’t we?’ Becky searched for
Rachel’s hand resting on the table, as Rachel pulled it away and
turned her head to gaze out of the window.
“Yes, I expect so,’ she said, in a voice a million miles distant, a
voice that meant, ‘I doubt it very much.”
‘Rachel, please. We’re friends.’ Becky’s eyes filled with
tears, her hand was still outstretched on the table.
Rachel stared.ahead of her for a moment. She felt completely
hollow, as if there was nothing inside her, but empty space. She
didn’t want to lose Becky. All she wanted, impossibly, was for
tonight never to have happened. She heard herself being cold
and angry and knew exactly how much pain she was giving
Becky just by the tone of her voice. She could imagine exactly
how she would feel if she were on the receiving end. She didn’t
have to imagine, she could remember. So she was paying Becky
back, punishing her for Joshua, for everyone who hadn’t loved
her? Not consciously. She didn’t want to hurt Becky, but she
couldn’t feel or be any different. She had shut down, there
wasn’t an ounce of kindness or warmth in her. Being what she
was, she was being what she was, and couldn’t help it. She was
simply terrified of getting any further involved, and panicked as
she felt Becky’s emotions close in on her. Everything in her
screamed, leave me alone!
156
eeee

But the situation had to be handled.
“Look Becky, I’m sorry. We are friends. You know I can’t
cope with involvement. We’ve talked about it often enough —
did you think I was making it up? I’m sorry, I shouldn’t have let
it happen. It’s my fault. I want us to go on being friends, but
we'll have to leave sex out of it. In any case, we’re both hooked
on men. We’d never be able to make up to each other for what
we really want. We’d just be comforting ourselves. And I
know,’ she added before Becky could say it, ‘there’s nothing
wrong with comfort, but it wouldn’t be enough.’
‘I didn’t make love to you because I can’t have William,’
Becky protested. ‘It was because I wanted to, it was a natural
thing to do.’
‘Nothing’s a natural thing to do,’ Rachel snapped back.
‘Well, it is for me. I didn’t use you. It won’t happen again,
but please let’s stay friends.’ Becky got up from the table. ‘I’d
better get home,’ she said flatly.
Rachel followed her out to the hall.
‘Tl ring you tomorrow,’ Becky said at the door. She leaned
forward to kiss Rachel who turned her head slightly so that
Becky’s lips merely brushed her cheek.
“Bye. See you,’ Rachel said casually as she shut the door.
Left alone, Rachel ran a bath, pouring in twice as much
- scented oil as necessary, pulled off her clothes and stepped with
relief into the pungent water. She lay there, soaking in the
steam, wondering when it was all going to stop and if it did stop
what would be left. She was even more empty than before, a
vacated shell that circumstance did things to. Things happened
and she was a body in the way. Joshua, Pete and Becky.
Complications. Circumstances. Nothing to do with her, not
really. They were all pursuing their needs, reacting to their
lives; she just happened to be there. She had no sense at all that
she happened to anyone or reacted to anything. Not so — she
reacted to anything by withdrawing, disappearing. But she
didn’t feel that she was the cause of anything. Pete was dead and
she suspected that she had just lost an old friend. There was
157

only Joshua now and it couldn’t be said that she ‘had’ Joshua. A
mess. What a mess- everything was. Chaos descended like a
great dark cloud, like a mist that spoiled and dampened
everything, wrecking the order she tried to create by holding
still. She really couldn’t function out there in the real world, it
was too untidy, too disturbing. Was it really not possible to
keep still, do nothing, see no one, just potter about the flat,
teach for a couple of hours, be Carrie’s mother, keep it all
confined, stop life spilling over the edges? And what about sex?
Abolish it. Can’t. If I were a man I'd buy it, she thought and
wondered if there were any brothels for women. Now there’s a
gap in the market: a service centre for women who want fuss-
free sex.
She woke at five, losing a long struggle to remain asleep. A
massive black cast-iron vice sat on her chest, so heavy it made
her ribs ache. This mustn’t happen, she thought, knowing that
it was happening, recognizing it instantly. It’ll go away if I sleep
again, in the morning the weight will be gone. Finally she did
sleep, but dreadfully. She wept in her dream, sobs that wren-
ched and convulsed her body; there was no reason, no narra-
tive, just the weeping and the knowledge that at all cost she
mustn’t wake herself with her dream-cries, not allow them to
become real. But of course the moment this thought came to her
she was already in the process of waking, and sensing the
danger fought down consciousness as she rose inevitably to it
and to the real wet tears that she had been shedding as she slept.
She buried her face in the pillow and cried as she hadn’t done
for years — perhaps ever; not a few tears squeezing out of her
tight, defiant face, but a deluge, a tide of tears she had no power
to control, that threatened to go on without end. She sobbed for
an hour or so and then lay limp and exhausted, damp-haired in
the soaking bedclothes. God, don’t let this happen, she
whispered to whoever it was that probably wasn’t listening.
When the alarm sounded she couldn’t move. She lay on her
stomach, watching the figures change on the clock, intending
with each new number to call Carrie and make the day begin. In
158

the end Carrie came down herelf.
‘Don’t get into bed, it’s late. We’ve got to get up.’
Rachel’s voice was strangely toneless, uncharacteristically
calm. Carrie looked at her sharply. Where was her bad-
tempered morning mother? Why was she just getting dressed
and not nagging? Carrie knew trouble when she saw it and she
didn’t like this quiet, passive woman. She went on the attack in
an attempt to smoke out the real life person she was used to
living with, but ambled about the flat naked except for one sock
for a full ten minutes without provoking anything. She lay on
the living room floor, waving the socked foot in the air, and
tried harder.
‘I think boys are cleverer than girls.’
But got only ‘Please get dressed, love,’ for her pains, too
quiet, barely audible. Rachel went through the motions of
preparing breakfast without even suggesting that Carrie feed
the cat.
‘I don’t have anything to wear, Mum.’
‘T’ll go and fetch something from your room,’ Rachel said
absently. This was unthinkable; choosing her clothes and
feeding the cat were Carrie’s jobs, definitely non-negotiable.
‘Rachel, do you love me, darling?’ The word ‘darling’ was
guaranteed to get a rise, something about using words that
don’t mean anything, copied words.
‘Yes.’
Nothing.
Carrie walked into the kitchen and stood looking up at
Rachel, her hands behind her back.
‘If I wasn’t your daughter and I was someone else and you
had another child would you wish you had me?’
Rachel stopped in mid-movement, cornflake packet poised,
and stared blankly at Carrie.
‘What?’ she asked in disbelief.
‘I said, suppose I wasn’t me or your daughter, although I was
me and you had a daughter who wasn’t me, would you wish you
had me for your little girl instead of the one you had?”
159

Rachel sat down heavily on the kitchen stool. Her long
puzzled stare gave way suddenly to a burst of laughter as she
clasped her hand to her shaking head.
‘Probably. I think,’ she laughed, and then noticed the clock
on the table. ‘Caroline Kee, if you don’t get washed and dressed
immediately I’m going to start yelling.’
‘You are yelling,’ Carrie grinned happily; and as Rachel took
a deep breath in preparation for the next volley, ‘All right, all
right, I’m doing it,’ skidding on her sock across the kitchen
floor, delighted that the day had started properly after ail.
Dressed, washed and breakfasting, Carrie demanded,
“What’s the worst thing you’ve ever done in your whole life?’
Fucked Becky and then rejected her. Begged Joshua to beat
and sodomize her. Not given Pete a home. Not loved her
mother. Loved her father. Loathed everyone.
‘Something really wicked,’ Carrie insisted.
Nothing really wicked if wicked meant giving gratuitous
~ pain. She couldn’t come up with anything she’d done, any
unkindness that was completely without reason, wasn’t at some
level understandable. There were causes for her actions or lack
of them and as long as she could see causes in her own or anyone
else’s behaviour she couldn’t use the word ‘wicked’ without
qualification. Behaviour was just that: behaviour. We all dance
around each other in devious and difficult patterns, but there
are patterns, everyone responding to something. Everyone?
Was Joshua wicked? She would have loved to think so. She
wanted, above all, to feel rage against him; but if she could
forgive, or at least understand, her behaviour last night to
Becky then she couldn’t avoid understanding Joshua’s pain-
giving as a response to pain received.
‘Well?’ Carrie demanded.
‘I’m thinking about it. I don’t think I’ve done anything that
was just wicked.’
Then she remembered. Six-year-old Rachel had done the
only thing in her whole life that she could never justify, that 3
would, when the time came, cause the gates of heaven to clang
160

shut finally and forever.
“Yes, there was something I did once that I’m really ashamed
of.’
Carrie wriggled with pleasure at the prospect of a good bad
story about her mother.
“What? What? Tell me.’
‘All right, but finish your toast. I was about six at my first
school and we had this system where new kids were looked after
by someone in the class who had been there a while. They were
called Shadows and you were supposed to stick with the new
pupil and show them around and sit with them in class and at
lunch, all that sort of thing. I’d never been a Shadow until one
day a new girl arrived and the class teacher put me in charge of
her. And I really didn’t want to. I didn’t want to be in charge of
anyone. The girl arrived and I hated her.’
‘Why?’ Carrie asked, munching on her toast, wide-eyed.
‘That’s the point. For no reason at all. She was a perfectly
nice, quite ordinary girl. She was fat and ordinary and sort of
. .. happy. Well, that was why I hated her, for being fat and
ordinary and happy I suppose. Really because I didn’t want to
look after her. Anyway I hated her, and I don’t think I thought
too much about why at the time. I made her life a complete
misery. I used to drop rubbers and pencils on the floor so that I
could crawl under the desk and pinch her leg, or I bit her or
twanged her legs with a ruler. Oh God,’ Rachel covered her eyes
in shame at the memory.
Carrie was loving it. ‘Didn’t she tell on you?’
‘No, I must have frightened her so much she didn’t dare.
This is a terrible story, isn’t it?’
‘Go on,’ Carrie begged, worried she’d never hear the end of
this wonderful tale, that.it would be turned off like an unsuit-
able film on the television. ‘Go on.’
‘All right. I did get my comeuppance so I suppose it counts as
a suitable story,’ Rachel muttered half to herself.
‘But it is true, isn’t it?’
‘I’m afraid it is. Well, I don’t remember how long it went on
161

for but one day I arrived at school and was told to go into the
headmaster’s office. I’d never been in real trouble before so I
wasn’t particularly worried. He stood up and looked incredibly
serious when I went in, and he told me that the girl’s mother
had been to see him the day before and told him what had been
happening.’
“What was the girl’s name?’ Carrie interrupted.
‘I don’t remember. I remember what she looked like but not
her name.’
‘Well, can’t you just make one up?’ Carrie liked her stories to
be stories.
‘No. Do you want to hear the rest of it or not?”
Carrie nodded fiercely and held her tongue.
‘It turned out that she’d been so upset that she started having
nightmares about me and waking in the middle of the night
crying. And in the morning she cried because she didn’t want to
go to school, until finally her mother got the whole story out of
her.’
‘Rachel!’ Carrie breathed.
‘Well, you wanted something really wicked. This is it. So the
headmaster was, as you can imagine, very angry. In the corner
of his office he had this long cane. I kept looking at it out of the
corner of my eye. I was sure I was about to get caned but he said
he wouldn’t cane me because I was a girl.’
‘That’s not fair,’ Carrie protested.
‘No, I suppose not. He said I should be ashamed of myself
and that he was going to tell the whole school what a horrid little
girl I was, and marched me into assembly and suddenly lifted
me up and stood me on his desk so that everyone could see me.
Hundreds of people. All the children and the teachers, and he
told everyone what I’d done and that I was very wicked.’
‘Poor Mummy. What did you do?’
_ ‘I had a friend I called Mouse. I don’t know why she was
called that. Anyway she told me later that I’d looked really
brave and as if I didn’t care at all. I remember standing there
absolutely determined not to cry. I bit the inside of my cheeks,
162

and clamped my jaws together and dug my nails into my hands.
I was not going to cry. And I kept hearing the headmaster
behind me telling everyone how awful I was and it suddenly
occured to me that he could see up my skirt. Somehow I was
almost as bothered by him seeing my knickers as being shamed
in front of everyone.’
Carrie burst out laughing.
‘Then he told everyone that nobody was allowed to talk to me
for two weeks, not even to ask to borrow a pencil, and I was to
spend every lunch and playtime standing in acorner. And that’s
what happened. Except for my friend, Mouse, who was
wonderful and kind, which was certainly more than I deserved.
When I was sent back to my row she secretly took my hand and
squeezed it to comfort me. And she used to sneak me a sweet
when I was standing in the corner. She was very nice.’
‘Then what happened?’
‘That’s it. End of story. I don’t know what happened to the
girl. I think she stayed on at school and it blew over.’
Carrie thought for a moment. ‘But that doesn’t sound like
you. You’re not horrible like that. Why did you do it?’
‘Honestly Carrie, I don’t know. I suppose I wasn’t very
happy at home. My parents argued a lot. I suppose I felt very
thin and miserable and couldn’t stand the idea of this fat and
happy girl following me around. Perhaps I was jealous of her.
But I don’t think there’s any excuse for making anyone that
unhappy.’
‘Oh, it makes me feel so sad for you, Mum,’ Carrie said.
‘I think maybe it’s the other girl who deserves your sympathy
more. But thanks, you’re as good a pal as Mouse. Anyway,
that’s it, that’s the only very wicked thing I’ve done, the thing
I’m really sorry for.’
‘That was a good story,’ said Carrie, as she got up from the
table and put on her jacket.
In the car Carrie hummed her way through her repertoire of
Assembly songs while Rachel drove thoughtfully. It occurred
to her that the girl was a woman of her own age getting on with
163

life somewhere. Did she carry an image of little Rachel around
in her head? She saw herself enshrined forever, cruel and
vicious, something against which the girl-turned-woman
measured the unpleasantnesses of life. Someone’s first per-
secutor. The angry, hateful part of Rachel was locked away,
forever six, unable to change or understand or develop —
something the other Rachel could do nothing about, couldn’t
connect with because she belonged to someone else as a frozen
memory, used perhaps to explain and justify the confusions of
life. Perhaps when you hurt other people you give a part of
yourself away thinking all the time that you are keeping safe and
separate. And if that were true then she also had received others
as the gifts of pain. If she loved Joshua that was because she had
part of him inside her, he had made her a present of part of
himself with every act of aggression, unkindness, coldness. No
wonder, then, that she wanted more; she stole Joshua bit by bit
like a bird carrying away twigs to build itselfa nest. Or a prison.
Neither Rachel nor Joshua in the real world felt themselves to
be simply the cold, alienated creatures that were locked
irretrievably and unchangeably away in someone else’s aware-
ness. Rachel’s Joshua was irredeemably her own thing, he
could never get it back, never alter that slice of himself that she
had imprisoned.
Rachel hugged Carrie goodbye at the school gate and set off
in the direction of the café. Newspapers, hot coffee, the sense of
privacy that only public places give. She skimmed the paper,
reading only the beginnings of paragraphs, and slipped to
where she really wanted to be, in a reverie. Gazing out of the
window she saw movement and pattern but no detail. She
experienced herself as a dangerously unstable structure, a form
held together more with glue and bits of string than nuts and
bolts, that any kind of stress threatened to bend and warp,
bringing the whole edifice crashing down in a disordered, —
unrecognizable heap. Not even stress, though; merely life, —
anything that happened and impinged on her felt dangerous. ©
This vision of herself was terrifying because it seemed to have —
164

overleaped fifteen or twenty years of imagining herself strong
and capable. Adaptable. Now suddenly all that time was wiped
out and she was back to the flailing, confused adolescent as if
nothing had changed, no development had occurred, and the
last twenty years represented mere self-deception. She felt
ashamed, and the more so because she knew that there was
nothing much wrong with her life. Fed, clothed, well housed, a
charming daughter: privileged. No need to detail the misery
most of the world lived and died with. Unlikable Rachel,
moaning about — what? Nothing. Absolutely nothing was
wrong, and all the while that awful weight inside her, physically
painful, making her breathing shallow and cautious, made her
protestations that nothing was wrong a nonsense. It was, that
pain, itself an accusation. She felt so bad but nothing was wrong.
She hadn’t the right to that degree of pain. She couldn’t justify
the misery or herself. She felt tears pool behind her eyes and
hurriedly searched her purse for a coin to pay for the coffee,
hoping desperately she had one because she knew the tears
couldn’t be controlled through the process of offering a note
and waiting for change. Finding a Sop piece she set it on the
table beside her half-empty cup and made for the door.
Outside she stopped, desperate in her need to be at home, in
her flat, now. The short walk to the car, the drive, even the
pause of unlocking her front door seemed unmanageable, a
series of insuperable obstacles. She thought for a moment ‘I
can’t move,’ and then knowing there was no alternative and that
the longer she stood there the harder movement would become,
she unstuck her feet from the pavement and made them walk in
' the direction of the car, arranging her face in what she hoped
but couldn’t be certain was a normal expression. She observed,
or thought she did, people glancing at her as they passed by and
checked from time to time that she wasn’t spilling fountains of
tears or gasping in air in the effort to keep going. It seemed like
a long walk.
The car, when she got to it, was a halfway house. She sat in it
for a moment, gathering the energy to drive. It’s all right, she
165

told herself, nearly there, only a few minutes and you’ll be
home. Just drive, be calm, you will get home. On the way it
began to rain, a downpour that turned the road ahead to a
watery haze. She flicked on the windscreen wipers which
screeched dryly across the glass and did nothing to improve
visibility. She blinked and glanced up at the cloudless sky,
feeling at the same time a wetness on her cheeks. No rain; she
was crying it seemed. She sniffed back the tears and pressed
her lips together to achieve some semblance of determination.
As she got out of the car she organized herself so that once
inside the door there would be nothing else practical required
of her. Glasses off, key in the right hand, cigarettes and lighter
in the other, she had only to shrug off her coat, place the
cigarettes beside the bed and then she was free. To do what?
Never mind, free to do nothing, to be obliged to do nothing.
Except that once inside the flat Shamus bounded up, mewing
for food. No good ignoring him, it had to be done. Deep breath.
The effort of getting the tin of cat food from the fridge and
spooning some into his bowl was ridiculous. Every movement,
every second an impossible demand on her resources. Inside
her head she screamed, I’ve got to stop, I can’t do this, it’s not
tolerable, but finally done, it was an achievement, and a great
sense of relief spread over her. Nothing else. Nothing. She
pulled off her boots, closed the bedroom curtains and lay on the
bed.
Here it was again. Unmistakably It. She remembered depres-
sion through her fear of it, felt it lurking, knew it had happened
before and could happen again, but when it came, when it felt
so precisely as it felt, she was always taken by surprise. It was
like malaria, like a fever. Sometimes when you have a cold you
wonder if you don’t have flu, but when you have flu you don’t
wonder at all. Depression was as specific as that, an instantly
recognizable condition as if a switch had been turned. A
physical pain in her diaphragm, a weight as if she had been
filled with lead, the absurd difficulty of doing anything —
automatic actions having to be thought out to be achieved: how
166
eeeePe eee ee

do you get across the room, make the legs move, keep breath-
ing, think carefully about it all. An hour, two hours, all day
spent trying to get the energy and will to perform some simple
task, feed the cat, take a pee. The unreasonable difficulty of
everything made more unreasonable, more difficult knowing
that nothing physical was wrong. And the deep shocking
despair inside her head.
It was impossible to remember or describe the hopelessness,
the absolute blackness that descended: the blackness was
infinite, she was hopeless because there was nothing to hope for.
It was a shift in perspective; it wasn’t that she felt bad so that life
seemed miserable, it was the falling away of a distorting rosy
curtain that made life, most of the time, seem livable. In fact, it
was not. When she was depressed she saw what there was to see,
and knew with complete certainty that what she saw was reality.
She knew the gauzes had to be there in order to stay alive but the
times when they blew aside were when she was seeing things as
they were. Depression was an excess of reality: intolerable and
unlivable.
Rachel lay on her bed in the dark room and felt it happening.
She was still only partially inside it, still watching to some
degree. She kept trying to push away the blackness thinking,
it’s all right, I’ve done it before, it goes away. But how long
before it went, and could she survive it? What if this time it
didn’t go? And Carrie? She hadn’t been in this state for years.
Before Carrie, when the depressions were more frequent, she
had found a way of living through them. She had let go of the
fear and allowed herself to feel the whole thing, let it happen to
her while she sat alone in her flat and attempted nothing but
staying alive through it. She lay on the floor, sometimes listened
to music, but the trick was to accept it like a hurricane blowing
through her life. Isobel helped once she realized what was
happening; she came round with food that required no effort,
that could be just left around and picked at from time to time,
and she sat with Rachel sometimes without needing any talk.
Having another human being in the same room seemed in some
167

way to warm Rachel, locked away and inhuman, as if sheer
body heat could infiltrate a little. But that was years ago, and
Carrie hadn’t been born, wasn’t to be considered. Sometimes it
had taken weeks, eight, ten weeks to get through it and
gradually to realize that it had passed and it was time to get on
with being alive. There was no way of letting the fear go with
Carrie on her mind. She had to keep control, somehow stop the
process, but here she was lying on her bed, exhausted with the
effort of getting there, knowing she had no idea how to control
it.
Today was Friday. Michael would pick Carrie up the next
morning so that Rachel had a clear weekend in front of her. He
would bring her back on Sunday night; all Rachel had to do was
pick Carrie up from school and get through the evening until
Carrie went to bed and then deal with the morning. Rachel
laughed grimly, it sounded like a five-year plan; she imagined
herself alone in a vast horizonless field picking ears of corn one
by one. ‘And when you’ve finished that,’ boomed the Comman-
dant in her head, ‘there are the other fields to be harvested. And
you’d better hurry because there’s not much time.’ Panic,
terror and shame. Picking up her daughter and giving her
supper could not be counted along with the unsupportable
burdens that humanity had suffered; it was, nonetheless,
unimaginable. She looked at the clock. If she left now she could
get down to the doctor’s surgery before it closed. Why? What
could he do? Don’t think about it, someone’s got to do
something. She put on her coat and went to the car, saw her face
in the reversing mirror and went back into the flat for sunglasses
to hide her dead, swollen eyes.
The surgery was crammed with sniffing, coughing human-
ity. People who were really ill. Kids crying with pains in their
ears, old men wheezing. People suffering but waiting patiently
for their turn. There were twenty-five people crowded into the
small waiting room. Children sat uncomfortably on their
mother’s knees to make room for their elders, young men 8eooePe eee e e
stood, acknowledging that their youth gave them an edge in
168
eaeaT eh S

spite of their ailments. The air wasn’t air but a mingling of
human breath, damp and heavy with contagion. It was prob-
ably possible to contract a dozen different diseases just by
staying alive in that room. But no one complained, they were all
in the same boat, everyone felt lousy and soon, well, fairly soon,
a doctor would see them and give them sensible advice and
medicine. All these people had something wrong with them,
unlike Rachel who was quite well, no cough, no cold, no virus
to explain and excuse how she felt. She stood at the reception-
ist’s window and turned her coat collar up against the gaze of
the bored and curious.
‘Can I see Dr Stone, please?’ she asked quietly. Too quietly,
she had to repeat it. It was very difficult to talk, each word
needed so much effort and at the same time she was fighting
against the tears that pushed their way into her eyes.
‘He’s got a long list this morning. It’ll be quite a wait.’ The
receptionist didn’t look up from her list. Rachel thought, go
home, back to bed. I can’t wait. But she had to because if she
left there would be nothing else to be done.
‘T'll wait outside. How long, do you think?’
‘At least an hour.’
This was very difficult. Ridiculous to make life so difficult for
herself, to stand around in the street for an hour waiting to see a
doctor to say what? To ask for what? But since she was here she
had inertia on her side: it was now more difficult to go home
than to stand still and wait.
She sat on the wall outside the surgery for an hour and then
waited for half an hour more inside until finally her name was
called, and she walked into Dr Stone’s consulting room with no
idea what she wanted, except that she was desperate. Dr Stone
knew her mainly through Carrie’s illnesses and a couple of
bouts of flu. He glanced up from her medical notes as she
walked in.
‘What can I do for you?’ he asked, young, friendly and more
relaxed than most of the other doctors she had known.
‘I’m not feeling very good,’ Rachel muttered, embarrassed as
169

the tears immediately sprang into her eyes. ‘I get depressed, not
for a long time, but it’s bad now. I can’t cope and I have to —
Carrie...’
The tears rolled down her cheeks as the words came out tight
and controlled through her gritted teeth.
‘I’ve been looking through your notes,’ he said quietly. ‘I’m
not surprised you get depressed. Life’s been pretty complicated
for you, hasn’t it?’
‘There’s nothing wrong with my life. There’s no reason for
me to feel like this now, nothing’s happened. There are people
with three kids, full-time jobs, problems. I just can’t bear it. I
can hardly move.’
The control went and she began to weep openly.
‘I’m sorry. I don’t know what to do. I can’t go through this, I
just can’t.’
‘Are you suicidal?’ Dr Stone inquired calmly.
‘I don’t see any point in being alive. There isn’t anything
ahead.’
‘What about Carrie?’ A question she had thought about.
‘I don’t think it’s better in the long run for Carrie to have a
depressed mother than a dead mother. I wouldn’t have been
worse off if my mother had killed herself. Look, I don’t really
care — about anything or anyone. I don’t feel anything except
that I’ve got to get out.’
‘What do you want me to do for you?’ he asked.
Good question. She didn’t want anti-depressants, she had
tried them fifteen years before, they hadn’t helped, only made
her groggy for a couple of weeks until she adjusted to them. She
couldn’t look after Carrie, drive her to and from school feeling
like that. In any case, it was a hit and miss business. She had
known people who had spent years chopping and changing pills
until it seemed to her to become an activity in itself, a way of
transforming depression into busyness without really touching —
the misery. She had seen people disappear behind a pharma- —
copoeia of avoidance and seem to become mere shadows. It —
didn’t seem a viable way of staying alive, especially when —
170

staying alive didn’t count for much.
She said this to Dr Stone.
‘But your feeling that you don’t want to be alive is a function
of your depression,’ he said.
‘My feelings now are not unreal,’ she said, determined that he
should understand. ‘I feel like this most of the time, only now I
can’t dismiss it so easily. I’m a sort of empty space. A mistake.
There just isn’t any real reason for going on except sheer
survival, and I don’t see the point of that. I know you’re
committed to keeping people alive but sometimes it’s better for
everyone if they don’t. I could live for another thirty or forty
years, for nothing, just wasting space and probably damaging
people. It’s the only thing I can do. It’s. . . logical.’ She spoke
fiercely through her tears, angry that they, not her reasoning,
might influence him.
‘Well, what do you want me to do?’ he asked again, and she
was at a loss.
‘I don’t know. There’s nothing you can do. I don’t know why
I came.’
‘Yes, but you did come.’
‘I want someone to deal with it. I don’t know what to do.’
‘All right. Who can look after your daughter?’
‘No one. I can’t ask anyone to take Carrie over. Michael’s
working, and there isn’t anyone else.’
‘If you can’t cope for a while then your ex-husband will have
to cope. He’s her father. What about this woman, Isobel Raine?
She’s the woman who adopted you, isn’t she?’
‘I can’t ask her to take on Carrie. She’s busy. Anyway, I don’t
want anyone to know. Michael’s having Carrie for the weekend,
itll give me a couple of days. . .’
‘What about spending a few days in hospital? As a kind of
refuge?’
‘No. I can’t do that. I was in hospital fifteen years ago. It
would be such a defeat.’
‘Right,’ said Dr Stone briskly, ‘you will have to tell someone
and get Carrie looked after. You are not in any condition to
I7I

cope. Go home and phone Michael. Have you got any sleeping
pills?’
Rachel nodded. ‘I’ve got a dozen Temazepam left, but they
don’t seem to get me to sleep. They’re very mild.’
‘Yes, they are. Take them over the weekend, you can take
three to get some sleep, they won’t hurt, and then phone me on
Monday and let me know if you’re feeling any better. If you’re
not we’ll think about finding somewhere for you to go for a few
days, a hospital, just to relieve the pressure on you.’
Rachel left feeling worse than before for having made it so
real. Had she wanted Dr Stone to tell her there was nothing
wrong and to pull herself together? He wasn’t surprised that she
felt like this, thought she should be in hospital, acknowledged
that she was feeling as desperate as she thought. There was
some relief in that but also terror. It wasn’t a fantasy that
someone would blow away. This was how it was.
She got home and phoned Michael.
‘T’ve got flu. Can you pick Carrie up from school, please?’
Michael said he would, and that she sounded as if she had a
sore throat. It was quite impossible to tell him what was really
going on. He found it very difficult to deal with other people’s
depression. It scared him in her especially; and more than that,
she simply didn’t want to acknowledge it, make it public. He
would tell Isobel, she would come round, the whole thing
would become real, out there. Isobel was busy and she would be
disappointed. Rachel was supposed to have overcome all that.
Guilt. Keep it to herself. If she couldn’t stop feeling like this at
least she didn’t have to tell anyone, ask anyone for help. It did
occur to her to wonder why it was all right to ask Michael to help
her through flu, but it was obvious; flu wasn’t her fault,
depression was. A virus gave permission to opt out and make
demands on people.
aeeee o
She had cleared her way through to Sunday evening, the
impossible burden of Carrie was dealt with. She undressed and
took three pills, took the phone off the hook and went to bed. ee
She woke at four in the afternoon and took three more pills
172
eaeae ee en

which kept her asleep until nine that evening. Then she got up
and sat on the sofa in the living room, curled up in the dark,
wrapped in an old cotton dressing gown. She sat there till dawn
began to break, staring out at the grey room and whispering
over and over again, ‘Help me. Please help me. Somebody help
me,’ but always with the knowledge clear in one part of her
mind that there wasn’t any help she could imagine.
Then she began to think very practically about suicide. She
was calm, very sensible, there were only details to be sorted out.
She sat on the sofa chain-smoking with the look of someone
who, though quite sure of her next move, had yet to sort out the
best way of achieving it. She had always been at her best when
problem-solving. The problem was essentially Carrie. It had to
be done in the least damaging way and that excluded anything
messy or bloody. In any case, the more violent methods of
ending a life were for those who were angry and wanted to
punish. She was not angry and had no desire to punish anyone
including herself. She didn’t want pain, not hers nor anyone
else’s. Blood-letting was out, car crashes were out, other people
would be involved. A pity she didn’t have some terminal illness,
that of course would be ideal. Her death would then be
inevitable and Carrie could be helped to come to terms with
that. However, she was healthy and that was that. Which left an
overdose, efficient and clean, but a little difficult to manage
these days. Fifteen years before she had wandered around with
lethal quantities of barbiturates in her pocket, prescribed by
her doctor for sleep. At twenty, in just such a cool and logical
state of mind, she had swallowed thirty seconal and quietly put
herself to bed thinking she had forty-eight hours before anyone
could be expected to find her. In fact a boyfriend who was
supposed to be away for the weekend had turned up with his
own key. This time she had two days and a lock on her front
door. She would have to put a note on the door to her flat
stopping Michael from coming in on Sunday evening. That was
simple enough. Should she write something for Carrie? Some-
thing that might help when she was older even if she wouldn’t
173

understand it immediately? She couldn’t decide on that. Better
perhaps to leave it to the people who could better deal with it,
see what was required. She began to feel that dealing with a
future she planned not to be part of was more than she could
handle, and perhaps more than she had a right to interfere in.
She also began to feel that there was something more than a
little barmy in her sensible, down-to-earth plans for ending her
own life. You always take things so seriously, she told herself.
She imagined herself sitting very solemn on the sofa and
swallowing pills; sips of water then a few pills, very intense.
Ludicrous. Then it struck her: it doesn’t have to be so difficult,
so po-faced. Pills and booze; the booze first; get a little tight,
then take the pills. Simple and obvious. This moment of clarity
hit her; it’s not the end of the world, she chuckled to herself,
enjoy yourself. She got up and washed her face, dressed in a
comfortable pair of jeans and sweat shirt and looked at the
clock. It was ten: time to go shopping. She drove to the nearest
supermarket which was already filling up with Saturday-morn-
ing shoppers and bought a bottle of whisky and a king-size
economy bottle of aspirin. She wasn’t happy about the aspirin,
she didn’t know the effective dose and didn’t want to make a
mess of it, but anything really efficient would have to be on
prescription and that was out of the question. Surely two
hundred aspirin washed down with a bottle of whisky would do
it. She didn’t want to think about it out in the open for too long,
feeling so transparent, made of glass, as if anyone looking at her
would see her thoughts ucker-taping around her brain. Being
careful she picked a packet of chocolate biscuits from the shelf
to confuse any onlooker. People about to kill themselves didn’t —
buy chocolate biscuits. It would render the other purchases
harmless, she hoped.
At home she leaned against the door like one who had
reached sanctuary after a flight from man-eaters, and, safe
again, panting from the strain of seeming just like everyone
else, she took her brown paper bag upstairs and unloaded it on ~
the kitchen table. The aspirin tablets looked incredibly chalky.
174

Her saliva dried up as she looked at them. She prized a couple of
ice cubes from the tray in the freezer and poured a third of a
tumbler full of whisky over them. She planned to get tight in
style. No reason why she had to gulp down luke-warm alcohol
from the bottle. In any case she didn’t really like whisky and
needed the ice as anaesthetic. She planned to drink a third or so
of the bottle before she began swallowing the pills, fancying a
light-hearted exit.
But Rachel was not a drinker. The theory was fine for anyone
whose body was well-adjusted to alcohol but the bottle of wine
she shared with Joshua on his occasional visits represented her
actual intake. For a couple of glasses everything was fine. She
played a Mozart quartet and sipped at the icy liquid as she sat on
the floor and watched the tree outside her window bristle its
leaves in the light summer breeze. The music was lovely and the
sunshine pleasing; she watched the light play on the dark green
gloss of the philodendron and felt for the first time in many
weeks a sense of peace and pleasure in just being with herself
because, for the first time in what seemed now like many weeks,
she hadn’t to consider any future, any time to be ‘got through’.
What time was left was to be short and of her choosing.
Decisions were very comforting. If life could be like this she
might have made it through; no people, no requirements. But
that was just to reiterate her failure, her inability to be part of
life, to be in it. It reinforced her judgement and confirmed her
decision. There was actually no question about it in her mind.
By the end of the third glass it occurred to her that she had to
write the note for Michael and tape it to the door before she was
too drunk. She should also, she thought, attempt the letter to
Carrie. Suddenly there was life making demands again. She had
to let go of the music and sunshine in order to do the right thing.
She pulled several sheets of notepaper from her desk drawer
and an envelope.
‘DON’T COME IN. I’VE KILLED MYSELF,’ she printed on a
sheet of paper, then squinted at it.
‘Oh my God!’ she groaned as she crumpled the note into a
175

tight ball and flung it across the room. What was the
unmelodramatic way of saying it? ‘Hello Michael, just a note to
say I’ve OD’ed. See you around, maybe.’ Or, ‘Just stepped out
for the rest of my life. Love to Carrie.’ Or, ‘Don’t be upset
about this but . . .” Three more glasses of whisky later Rachel
was lying in a giggling heap on the carpet while Shamus played
feline football with the dozen or so paper balls that lay scattered
around the floor. She heaved herself up into sitting position and
eyed the half-empty bottle over on the kitchen table. Now I’ve
done it, she muttered to herself; this is a classic. Tiny drunken
Alice was too far from the bottle labelled ‘Drink Me’. Never
mind the bloody note, how was she supposed to get to the bottle
and the other bottle? Willpower, that did it every time. She
rolled on to her hands and knees and prepared for the short
impossible crawl into the kitchen through a landscape that spun
furiously. Stupid, inefficient woman, she bellowed at herself
before collapsing on the floor in a howl of laughter, you silly
cow, you can’t even reach the aspirin never mind swallow two
hundred of them. You’ve outfoxed yourself Kee. The penalty
for treachery is death or, in this case, life. And you haven’t put a
note on the door. .
She lay curled up on the floor like a hedgehog, her head
tucked into her knees, her arms covering the top of her head
protectively. Everything now was impossible, living, dying,
writing letters, opening aspirin bottles, moving; it was all out of
the question, all too complicated, too many problems, no
solutions, just complexity on complexity, like a terrible spider —
web that grew new and dreadfully intricate strands wherever —
she tried to break through. Each thought connected with a —
dozen others that led in turn to more so that it was impossible to
conclude anything, or to think at all. Ideas whizzed down —
neurons and leapt across synapses and lost themselves in
memories, language and images. Her brain was a crazy house of —
devious corridors where walls, floors and ceiling moved of their —
own accord, buffeting thought through circuitous alleyways. —
There were no straight lines, just everything trying madly to —
176

connect itself to everything else; no sense, just fleeting associa-
tions that led inexorably away from the original problem. There
were propositions and ramifications, but the ramifications had
ramifications and confused and complexified any reasonable,
simple questions such as: how do I get across the room and what
am I going to do? In a moment of stupendous concentration she
finally came to the thought: J need help, and she hung on to it
like a shipwrecked sailor finding the bit of flotsam that pro-
claimed the name of his sunken vessel. She made no attempt to
define what she meant by help, didn’t wonder whether she
needed it for the purpose of life or death; help was the thing, it
was a thing in itself. It was simple and revelatory.
She rolled onto her back and lay flat out on the carpet,
watching the ceiling spin madly as hot tears ran down the sides
of her face.
‘I need help,’ she sobbed, ‘I. . . Need. . . Help.’
She repeated this a few times, initially curious at hearing
these words coming from her mouth, and then feeling that
having made this momentous and remarkable demand some-
thing ought to happen. They were words, coming from her,
with power; she incanted them as an ‘open sesame’, waiting for
the magic to work.
Nothing.
The tears stopped as suddenly as they had started and for a
while she lay on the floor staring up at the ceiling. All right, she
thought, switching suddenly into a logical mode, there’s
nothing basically wrong with yelling for help, but you have to
do it within earshot to get results. There wasn’t anyone to hear.
Well, possibly there was God, but she suspected that God might
not consider her predicament a priority, especially since she
didn’t have a very clear idea of what exactly her predicament
was. Call it despair, futurelessness, her predicament was that
she simply did not want to be alive any more but the details of
achieving that seemed beyond her organizing abilities. She
wanted someone there who would listen to her reasoned desola-
tion and commend her cool logic. She wanted someone who
177

would assist her suicide, take over the detailed planning and
provide her with the appropriate means. What she really
wanted was for someone to hand her a bottle of pills and dictate
the note — or something like that. Still, Rachel, drunk and
desperate though she was, couldn’t help but see that this was an
unattainable goal. Neither the best of friends nor the worst of
enemies was likely to take that burden on their shoulders.
Death was the thing you did alone, the only thing apart from
being born.
Well then, what she wanted that perhaps she could have was
someone there, but it had to be someone who wouldn’t be
scared of how she was, who wouldn’t panic or take it too
seriously; she didn’t want it to matter that she felt like she did.
Even Dr Stone had given her the impression that it mattered.
There was only one person: Joshua. Joshua could handle this
because he really didn’t care, he was as objective another body
as she could imagine. She wanted Joshua to sit through it with
her and be that unemotional Watcher that she usually was for
herself but which seemed at the moment buried under the
seeping lava of her depression. It was a couple of weeks since he
had called and in the meantime Pete had died and she and
Becky had been lovers briefly, but so far as he was concerned
nothing had happened, because she knew that she only existed
for him when he was there. He didn’t care, and that, at the
moment, was precious, perhaps that was what had been pre-
cious all along. She badly wanted that cold, unresponsive man
who wouldn’t take her seriously, wouldn’t worry. Isobel would
worry and panic quietly, Becky would be loving and soft and
scared, and Michael would run for his life; none of that was
what she wanted. But Joshua would be cold and rational, would
see her sense of pointlessness as a fact, and a small fact at that,
and would not try to re-align her vision. He was the only person
eee e
with whom she could unapologetically be herself, who wouldn’t
be hurt or scared. A man who didn’t care for a woman who eae r
didn’t care.
So. Problem solved, she knew who she wanted. Next prob-
178

lem: how to get him there. Joshua was hardly biddable; if she
had never asked him to come to her it was because she knew
quite well that he wouldn’t — most especially not if requested.
But now she had nothing to lose, she wouldn’t be risking the
relationship because as far as she was concerned there wasn’t
anything beyond now. She wouldn’t be losing future visits
when Joshua heard her needy voice and ran for his life because
there wasn’t any future that she could conceive. The rules were
obsolete, having been designed for an ongoing game.
Finding Joshua’s number in the phone book and dialling it
presented enormous difficulty. After three misdials she got
through and heard him telling her that he was a machine and
not there — all true.
‘It’s me. Can you call me, please?’ her voice thick and damp
in spite of an attempt at normaiity.
No good. He wasn’t there, wouldn’t come anyway even if he
picked up the message. She wasn’t going to get what she wanted
— not very surprising really, considering who she wanted it from
— but having made the effort to know what she wanted she felt
doubly desolate. It wasn’t going to happen and she was alone.
She sat on the floor and hugged her knees tightly in some
attempt to hold herself together. Never mind Joshua, she
couldn’t go on being alone. She couldn’t face more time —
minutes, hours, years — filled with certain nothing.
She reached for the phone again and called Becky. This
number she knew by heart and didn’t have to deal with the
dancing print of the telephone directory as she had when
phoning Joshua. But she still couldn’t get the numbers right. A
French woman answered. “Allo? ’Allo?’
‘Becky?’ Rachel croaked, knowing it wasn’t.
The voice asked her what number she was calling as Rachel
put the phone down and tried again, beaming concentration
on to the dial. Again she got, ‘Allo?’ but crosser this time.
The third time she got through.
‘Becky?’
‘Rachel? Are you all right?’
179

‘No.’ The sound of Becky’s voice and her concern released a
flood of tears as she spoke. ‘Please . . . come round.’
‘T’ll be there in a few minutes.’
Rachel put the phone back on the hook and, still shaking
with her sobs, got up and lurched into the kitchen. She poured
more Scotch into a glass and gulped it down and then heaved
herself over to the sink and vomited massively. When she had
finished she sat at the kitchen table wimpering. What good was
it going to do to have Becky there? None, except that she had to
have someone. After a few moments she pulled herself up and
went shakily downstairs to open the door so that Becky could let
herself in. Back in the living room she sat on the sofa with her
knees hugged to her chest, her arms wrapped around her, —
holding on tight.
Becky arrived upstairs to see Rachel wound in her tight,
space-saving ball, shaking all over, teeth chattering, tears
running down her cheeks.
“Whatever’s the matter?’ Becky asked, horrified, from the
door.
Rachel looked up and saw only a blur of human shape
through her tears but the presence of another person in the
room ran through her like an electric current. Someone else was
there. Thank God.
Becky sat down and put her arms round Rachel. ‘What is it?
Tell me what’s wrong?’
Rachel collapsed into her embrace. Suddenly the room felt
warmer and even the colours seemed to have changed, as if a
painter had washed the misty grey background with delicate
orange and reds. |
‘I don’t know,’ she sobbed on Becky’s shoulder. ‘I need help. —
I can’t bear any more of this. . .” Rachel wept. ‘It isn’t anything —
that’s happened. I just don’t want any more.’
‘Oh Rachel, what can I do? How can I help?’ Becky asked, —
sounding frightened. Rachel’s tears and loss of control were
terrifying, quite different from other friends who cried on her
shoulder occasionally when life got to be too much. This was —
180

more serious, more final somehow.
‘Nothing. There’s nothing to do. I’m sorry,’ Rachel sobbed.
Then Becky began to cry. ‘I don’t know what to do for you,
how to help. I can’t stand to see you like this.’ In a moment
Becky was weeping unrestrainedly. Hearing her through her
own sobs Rachel stiffened and pulled away to look at her.
‘Stop it,’ she snapped. ‘Stop crying. It’s not a fucking
- tragedy. I just want someone here to sit with me. Don’t, for
Christ sake.’ She half-begged, half-ordered as she tried to get a
hold on her own tears. She didn’t want to share her misery or
weep with anyone. She needed someone solid and tough there,
not someone to commiserate and suffer with her. Becky sniffed
back her tears as Rachel put her hands over her face and
moaned, ‘I want Joshua,’ and then wailed hopelessly, ‘I want
Joshua.’
Becky got up and went to the bathroom. She came back with
a wet flannel and gently washed Rachel’s face.
‘It’s all right,’ Becky said with careful calm. ‘I’m all right
now. I’m not upset. I’m going to make some coffee. You tell me
what happened.’
‘Nothing happened. Really. It’s just that I don’t want to be
alive any more. I got some whisky and aspirin only I got too
drunk to take the aspirin and I needed someone around. I don’t
know what to do. It’s all such a mess. Forever and ever a mess.’
She sat up straight and tried to pull herself together as Becky
made coffee.
‘Was it Pete? Or me? That brought it on?’
‘No, it wasn’t. I got depressed suddenly. It’s like being in
another country. There aren’t any reasons that would explain
feeling like this. Things have been . . . difficult, but nothing
that’s actually happened seems to be of any importance now. I
don’t care about any of it. That’s the point— I simply don’t care.
That’s what’s unbearable, the fact that I couldn’t care less about
anything. I don’t want to be alive because there’s no point in
being alive. No substance.’ Rachel spoke now in a monotone,
though the tears still ran down her face.
181

‘Rachel, that’s not true. Of course you care. You care about
Carrie, and me, and Pete, and Joshua. You care about every-
thing. I know you do.’
*You’re wrong,’ Rachel said coldly, ‘I don’t. I know I should.
I should want to stay alive because I love Carrie. But I don’t, I
want to be out of it. I’m not interested in what’s going to
happen. Everything will go on well enough without me. People
would be upset, obviously, for a while but then life would just
go on. People survive other people’s deaths. It’s not important.
Only I don’t seem to be able just to get on with it and do it. I
don’t understand that. Becky, I couldn’t give a toss about the
entire human race. They are all starving and dying, all the time,
everywhere. It’s a dreadful place. Why does anyone want to
stay alive? I don’t understand. I’m appalled by this place, but I -
don’t care about it. I have no real feeling, no compassion; there
isn’t anything at all inside me. The world will go on being its
miserable self with me or without me. I don’t want any more.’
‘Rachel, you do matter,’ Becky said seriously, sitting in the
chair across the room. ‘People care about you and you care too,
whether you can see that at the moment or not. You’re in a
depression, you know that. You aren’t seeing things in the same
way you’d see them if you weren’t depressed.’
‘Rubbish. I’m seeing things completely clearly and what’s
more it’s how I always see things, only usually it’s possible to
avoid noticing it all the time. Being depressed is just seeing —
things how they really are and not being able to look away. Who ©
are you to say that this isn’t real and the other is? I don’t want to
keep myself alive by never telling myself the truth, and that’s —
the only way I can justify going on.’
Becky was at a loss against Rachel’s rationale. She couldn’t
argue against it, she simply knew it was wrong.
‘Look, J don’t want you to be dead.’
“You'll get over it,’ Rachel muttered as the phone rang and —
Becky moved towards it. “Leave it, I can’t talk to anyone.’ :
‘T’ll get it. Hello,’ she said a little shakily. ;
‘What do you want?” said a jovial voice, and then, realizing
182

that it wasn’t Rachel’s voice, continued: ‘Who is that?’
Becky’s huge eyes widened and her jaw dropped.
‘Oh, I’m a friend of Rachel. She isn’t feeling very well.’
‘She phond me, left a message for me to ring her. What’s the
matter with her?’
Becky clamped her hand over the mouthpiece and mouthed
‘Joshua’ at Rachel, who made frantic signals to Becky not to say
anything more. ‘NO! NO!’ she mouthed. This was a disaster.
She could imagine Joshua’s irritation at having to discuss her
with someone he didn’t know over the phone. At having to
discuss her at all. He would be furious at being drawn in like
this. Becky looked panic-stricken as she held the phone, then
turned firmly away from Rachel as she said in a voice bordering
on hysteria, ‘Rachel’s suffering from a severe bout of pointless-
ness. Look, if you’re a friend of hers you’d better come over,
she needs a friend.’
Rachel gasped.
‘NO! she screamed and collapsed sideways on to the sofa,
‘NO! Don’t, don’t . . .” Becky didn’t turn around.
‘Is she very bad?’ Joshua asked.
‘I think so. Yes, she is,’ Becky replied.
‘T’ll be round. I was planning to come anyway,’ Joshua said,
as he put down the phone.
“You stupid cow. How could you?’ Rachel yelled, staring in
disbelief at Becky who stood looking at her apologetically.
‘I’m sorry,’ Becky said, on the edge of tears again. ‘I didn’t
know what to say when I heard it was him. I was so worried it
just came out.’
Rachel began to laugh. She put her head in her hands and
shook with laughter.
‘Becky, if I spent the next thirty years searching for one
phrase that would be guaranteed to send Joshua heading for the
hills as fast as his legs could carry him I don’t think I could have
come up with anything better. “You're a friend and Rachel
needs you.” That’s it. You’ve just solved the Joshua problem in
one fell swoop.’
183

‘I’m sorry. But he didn’t seem upset. He said he was coming
over. He sounded really concerned.’
‘Of course he did. He doesn’t want to seem like a shit, even to
an anonymous voice over the phone. Well, he won’t come.
“Rachel needs a friend”’, ’ she muttered to herself, imagining
Joshua hearing the words. ‘You hit on the magic combination;
you’ve put the dragon to flight. One day they’ll name a public
festival after you.’
‘Oh, Rachel, I’m sorry. Are you sure he won’t come?’
‘Absolutely. Never mind, it doesn’t really matter, does it? I
can’t even care about that much. And it has given me my first
laugh for days. Congratulations. Where’s that coffee and
where’s the Scotch?’ she demanded as she got up shakily.
Becky went back into the kitchen and poured black coffee
into a large cup while Rachel stood in the doorway, leaning
against the wall.
‘You shouldn’t have any more to drink. You’ve had two-
thirds of a bottle already.’
‘Yes I should. I feel dreadfully sober and it’s not better than
being drunk.’
“You don’t look sober,’ said Becky doubtfully, eyeing Rachel
propped against the wall. She had started to shiver again and
her face was tight and pale, emphasizing the red and swollen
eyes that stared glassily with exhaustion. She looked about ten —
years old, a child woken from a nightmare but still inside it,
barefoot in skintight jeans and grubby sweat shirt, her wild hair —
awry, frizzing around the thin bleak face. Becky felt she wanted —
to hold her, wrap her up in a soft blanket and comfort her, but |
saw the wall surrounding her and knew she wouldn’t be able to —
get inside the sharp protection to the vulnerability. She poured —
a little whisky into a glass and carried it and the coffee into the —
living room. ‘Where?’ she asked.
‘There.’ Rachel pointed to the living room table.
Rachel sipped whisky and coffee and stared out of the ©
window as Becky sat opposite her at the table and wondered —
what to say. Something awful was happening for Rachel, she —
184
reeeees

could see that, but still she remained prickly and distant.
Asking Becky to come round seemed to be as far as she could go
in showing any need. Becky’s inclination to reach out and touch
Rachel, to offer warmth and comfort, was stillborn. Rachel’s
power to keep people at bay was quite as awesome when she was
depressed as in her normal condition. Becky decided that
perhaps just being there might be helpful, it was all she could do
anyway; maybe it was enough, or at least as much as Rachel
could take. They sat in silence for a while as Rachel stared
grimly through the window, at nothing. From time to time
tears spilled from her eyes but nothing else about her face
changed; she seemed not even to notice them.
‘Isn’t there anything . . .?’ Becky tried.
‘Nothing. Thank you.’
Very polite, very formal. Nothing much happening, no old
friendship to lean on. Once when she was quite small Rachel
had been taken by her parents to visit some cousins — way back
when the visiting was still possible. There had been a sudden
terrible row between her mother and father in front of the two
children of the house; they had screamed abuse at each other,
spat their loathing across the neat suburban front room of their
hosts as Rachel stood frozen with the shame of it. The other
children, older than Rachel, had giggled their embarrassment
at the filth and hatred that came from the grown-ups. Rachel
stared icily at them, her jaws clamped tight, and began a
conversation — about school, about what happened at her last
birthday. Formal teatime conversation demanding an
equivalent response from the two other children, who tried but
couldn’t help the laughter that bubbled hysterically inside them
from showing occasionally. Rachel kept up the patter as if the
shouting and violence in the room were merely a television
programme she wasn’t watching, daring the others to do less.
Nothing was happening, just polite conversation with distant
relatives. Anyway, she wouldn’t ever have to see them again.
Here was something similar: grown-up Rachel had got drunk
and yelled for help, wept and didn’t care, behaved, as Becky
185

perceived it, not very differently from the way everyone else
behaves from time to time. Rachel however was not so tolerant,
at least, not the cold-eyed other Rachel who had begun to re-
establish herself. Pretend that nothing has happened, the icy
voice told her, ignore the occasional tear, it’s only your body
doing it; ignore the pain, it’s just physical; if you can’t do
anything about it, and I’m afraid, Rachel, that that is the case
on current showing, then pretend it isn’t happening. We are
not, the voice told her severely, the sort of person that yells for
help or asks for comfort. You might try to bypass me with
alcohol or Joshua, but what for? To become abject, a wailing
neurotic, an object for sympathy? Face it, your value to your
friends is that you don’t land on their doorsteps screaming for
attention. And it was true, Rachel acknowledged, she didn’t
want to be that. Whatever depression was, it was against her
will; the body, the chemicals or something in revolt, and if she
couldn’t do anything about that she could at least contain the
pain, stop it from spilling out.
‘Tm all right. A bit drunk. Sorry, I shouldn’t have called.
Really I’m fine,’ she assured Becky, who knew better but
nonetheless felt something like relief at Rachel becoming
Rachel again. She didn’t know what to do with the other one,
had no practice and honestly felt a little disappointed at the
prospect of Rachel being needy like everyone else. Only disap-
pointed? Perhaps there was a little satisfaction too, but Becky
dismissed this thought fast, it wasn’t her way to overanalyse.
Becky left with assurances that Rachel would be all right and
would ring if she needed her and would not do anything silly,
and although she was uneasy about it, it really did seem that
Rachel wanted to be alone.
This was true, she desperately wanted Becky to leave. She -
couldn’t explain and in any case what was the point? She
wanted to feel better, not discuss her condition, and while it was
true that having someone else in the room warmed her in some _
way, it was also the case that it confused the issue. With Becky —
there she was torn between the need to behave properly and the
186

misery she felt.
Half an hour later she was back on the sofa staring at the
window when Joshua walked into the room carrying a bottle of
champagne.
‘Someone left the door open,’ he said briskly to her sur-
prised, tear-stained face. ‘Glasses. How long has this been
going on?”
Rachel shrugged, remaining where she was, cross-legged on
the sofa, as Joshua fetched two glasses from the kitchen.
“Don’t know. The sun was shining when I rang you.’
It was dusk now.
‘Sunshine will do it every time,’ said Joshua, very light,
jovial, popping the cork. ‘Here, you’re already awash with
alcohol,’ eyeing the almost empty whisky bottle on the table,
‘more won’t make much difference. Then coffee. Eaten any-
thing lately?’
“Yesterday . . . or maybe the day before. Doesn’t matter, I’m
not hungry.’ The champagne tasted disgusting and her head
revolved furiously.
She had the impression that Joshua had his sleeves rolled. He
was all efficiency, common sense, had arrived ready for action.
“Where’s your friend?’ he asked as he put the coffee machine
on and cut bread.
‘She left. I wanted to be on my own.’
‘Quite right.’
‘But now you’re here. How come you came?’
‘I was planning to come round anyway. You were on my
schedule.’
‘Yes, but drunken, desperate women aren’t your scene,’ she
slurred.
‘That’s true, but everyone’s allowed a drunken binge
occasionally. Very occasionally,’ he warned as he sat next to her
on the sofa, holding a plate of bread and butter and a cup of
strong black coffee. ‘Here, have some bread and drink this.’
She sipped the coffee from the cup which he held for her and
took a bit from the slice of bread he handed her, then spat it out.
187

‘No, I can’t eat. I don’t want it. Iw on’t. I’m not hungry,’ she
wailed.
‘You should try and eat something. It’ll soak up some of that
alcohol.’
‘No!’
The phrase ‘drunken binge’ had an almost magical effect on
her, it sounded so normal, denied the despair and the fear and
the encroaching chaos and turned what was happening into a
minor episode, a piece of ordinary human foolishness. She
knew somewhere that it wasn’t as simple as that, that the
despair was there and would be there when the alcohol had been
metabolized, but for now it lightened everything — just a
drunken binge, something everyone was entitled to from time
to time. Thank God for Joshua, she had been so right to call
him, he could manage this without taking it seriously. None of
Becky’s tears or the weight of Isobel’s disappointment or
Michael’s fear, just a temporary falling off of Rachel’s otherwise
excellent self-command. How amazing that he had turned up;
still, as he said, he’d been on his way, he would loathe a
disruption to his timetable. I don’t even have to feel guilty
about him being here, she thought. Anyway, hummed her
voice, let’s face it, this is a real sadist’s night out — a drunk,
desperate woman all needy and pathetic. What fun!
Rachel got into a party mood. She became a grim, funny,
recalcitrant five-year-old, teasing and irritating, a wicked grin
on her face. She vaguely recognized the little girl she was being,
sapping amusement and admiration and fury from the adults
for her wit and cleverness. Death and desolation were stored
away beneath the performance and Joshua played his role to the
hilt, exasperated and entertained at the fast and funny patter.
He humoured and she tested — up to a point. She wouldn’t eat,
she would drink, she wouldn’t let him watch a play on the
television without smartarse interruptions. :
‘Bloody John Mortimer, all fine prose and delicate middle- _
class perception. Bla bla bla. . .’ }
‘Shut up and go to bed. Now.’ Very severe. Daddy’s cross,
188

but still, good point.
She went off and ran the bath and lay in the bubbly water,
splashing and humming loudly. Smoke Gets In Your Eyes. I
Get No Kick From Champagne. Let’s Face the Music and
Dance. Golden oldies. Back in the living room Joshua looked
up from the television to see her dripping and naked in the
doorway, looking wet, young, head perched quizzically to one
side, a small wicked grin on her face.
‘Still trying to get a bit of culture, eh? It’s for the birds, all
that real life on the screen. It’s the fantasy of day-to-day living
that you’ve got to engage with, buster.’
‘Get a towel and dry yourself. You'll catch cold. Then go to
bed . . . Do as you’re told!’
Unmoved by her nakedness, by the firm, vulnerable, appeal-
ing little body, he was the strict father who knew her game and
wasn’t having any of her nonense. But what a pleasurable game
to play; the nakedness and the vulnerability hadn’t passed him
by, the eyes narrowed and smiled a little. Small signals from the
sexual Joshua to the sexual Rachel were sent and received at a
low enough level to avoid interference with the other game they
were playing. Rachel continued to stand where she was, her
naked body quite unconsidered by either of them.
‘I want to go for a drive. Now. Fast. Please?’ she asked
sweetly.
‘Then will you go to bed?’ he asked.
*Yeth. Will. I promise.’
‘Right. Put a coat on.’ He got up and switched off the
television. A very patient, managing man.
She went into the bedroom and pulled a trenchcoat from her
wardrobe.
‘This do?’ she asked, pulling it over her still-damp body.
‘That’ll do,’ he said calmly. ‘Shoes.’
‘Shoes? That necessary?’
‘Yes.’
Bright pink ankle boots appeared and they were off. It was
midnight now as they whizzed down the Edgware Road
189

towards the motorway.
‘Faster. You can do better than that,’ she urged.
‘Drunken hussy. I am going faster. You’re just too pissed to
notice.’
‘Oh.’
Somewhere along the journey reality started to reassert itself,
the pain began to come back. By the time they were back at her
flat she was quiet and grim-faced. She dropped her coat on the
stairs, kicked off the boots and crawled straight into bed in
silence. Joshua, also in silence, stripped off his clothes and got
carefully into bed next to her, not too near. She lay curled
foetally with her back to him as he rested his head on his arms
and stared up at the ceiling.
‘I’m scared about tomorrow,’ she whispered, half to herself,
after a long silence.
‘Why?’
‘Tomorrow won’t be funny. I don’t think this is going to go
away.’
‘Take some anti-depressants. Does this happen often?’
‘Not for a while. I won’t take anti-depressants, I won’t live in
acloud. You take the pills and start to feel that the intolerable is
tolerable. I’d rather see things as they are.’
‘And end up killing yourself?’
‘If that’s necessary. I don’t want to be alive — not only now
but fundamentally somewhere most of the time I don’t want to
be part of it. I really don’t care about anything.’
That at least he would understand.
‘I don’t believe that,’ he said surprisingly. Apparently he
thought alienation his private domain.
‘As you like, but the fact remains.’
There was a brief silence while he considered.
‘If that’s what you really feel like most of the time then you’re
right, life isn’t worth living. You should kill yourself — only —
don’t fuck about with aspirin and whisky, you’ll only turn —
yourself into a vegetable. Do it efficiently.’ ;
Rachel shrugged. As long as I don’t know about it it doesn’t —
190

matter if I do become a vegetable. I’ve enough sensible friends
who would pull the plugs if that happened.’
Two Rachels reacted to this conversation; the first, canny
and devious, understood Joshua’s agreement to her suicide as
excellent therapy, a manoeuvre designed to make her react
against what she said she wanted, a solid, hard wall he had
backed her up to, shocking her into climbing over it; the first
Rachel wanted to smile at his expertise. The other Rachel
experienced a rush of relief, the first for days. She was released
suddenly, listened to; here was someone who had heard what
she said and accepted it as plain fact. She didn’t have to soften
what she had to say to protect his feelings since he had none that
she could hurt. He heard how it was with her without shock or
embarrassment and made no attempt to dismiss it as the ‘mere’
result of depression. Joshua being Joshua took what she said at
face value, thought about it and agreed that her life was not so
precious that she shouldn’t let go of it if it was unsatisfactory.
This after all was what she loved him for, if she loved him at all —
telling the truth. No social niceties, no reassurance, no apolo-
gies to be made for saying uncomfortable things. And practical
too. The moment was to be cherished, an acknowledgement of
who she really was.
‘Thank you,’ she whispered, curled up in the dark, feeling an
extraordinary sense of peace. The frantic and guilty need to die
she had felt earlier was transformed into calm decision, a cool
calculation, a promise she had made to herself.
There wasn’t anyone else in the world who could have done
that for her. Now if he could get hold of some killing pills for
her. . . All right, so that wasn’t reasonable, even Joshua would
baulk at doing the deed for her. Complicated business, sado-
masochism; truth and pain, pleasure and then the real pleasure,
wanting and giving and not-giving, loving and punishing and
gratitude and anger: when do you get to the end of it? Share my
suicide with me, Joshua -— my present to you, yours to me. Let’s
get to the bottom of this thing: kill me, Joshua. But their
pantomime stopped short of what they really wanted, the line
191

between fantasy and reality was well drawn, the hurt and pain
had no more after-effects than the odd bruise, just enough to
feed the fantasy, not enough to put one’s real life on the line.
That was Joshua’s skill, knowing one thing from the other,
where the line-was. That was why she felt safer with him than
any other man (or woman) she’d ever known.
She rolled over to face him, still on his back, his arms behind
his head.
‘Fuck me,’ she said, as she climbed on to him and crouched
astride his substantial belly.
He glanced at her. ‘Ask nicely.’
‘Fuck me. . . please,’ she whispered, as she settled herself
over his penis and began, in fact, to fuck him.
He gave small indications of pleasure as she moved carefully
up and down.
“What do you want me to do to you?” he demanded.
‘Smack me.’
‘What?’
‘Smack me, please.’
He smacked her a half-dozen times, rhythmically and quite
gently.
‘Is that hard enough?’
‘Harder. Smack me harder. Please,’ she begged as his
hand came down with increasing force and she felt the pain on
her arse and the pleasure of his cock inside her with equal
intensity.
‘Please, please, please,’ she wept. ‘Hurt me. Please hurt me,’
repeating herself over and over as she came and wept on his
chest.
“What else do you want?’ he asked after a moment, still inside
~ her, her heart still racing.
‘Bugger me. Please.’
When they finished Joshua held her tightly in his arms and
stroked her hair until the sobbing died down, then he slept a
little.
Rachel lay awake and watched the dawn begin to. break
192

through a crack in the curtains. Tomorrow would come and the
weight would be there; there would be no Joshua, no anyone.
She had achieved a delay of the pain but it was still to be lived
through and the chaos was already beginning to seep back: what
to do about Carrie, how to appear to be functioning, how to get
through the minutes. Fear. She was grateful to Joshua for the
- time off but that was over. Joshua woke and watched her for a
moment, staring at the light, then he looked at his watch.
‘It’s four-thirty. I have to go.’
‘I know,’ she replied, without taking her eyes from the
curtains. He saw the alarm in her eyes.
‘I really have to go. Where are your sleepers? Take two, it’ll
be better in the morning.’
‘It is morning. It won’t be better. Never mind, I know you
have to go.’
He didn’t have to go. There was no one waiting for him. But
she knew he had to go, there was no question. He found the
bottle with the last two sleepers and handed them to her.
‘I’m so scared,’ she whispered, as she swallowed them;
perhaps he didn’t have to go, if he just stayed until the day had
started it might help.
‘I really have to go,’ he repeated quite softly, dressed now and
sitting on the edge of the bed as tears began to spill from
Rachel’s eyes. ‘Look, I’ll ring you in the morning, come round
maybe around midday for a coffee. We’ll have a chat. Just sleep
now — don’t drink anymore, don’t take anything. Wait for a bit.
Pll call tomorrow.’
Was this a way of making leaving more comfortable for
himself? It was so unlike him, this gentle man who made
promises about tomorrow. But the pills were beginning to work
and the idea of Joshua ringing — someone being there tomorrow
— made her feel more possible.
‘All the women I know seem to be cracking up,’ Joshua said,
as if he were beginning a bedtime story. “Women your age,
without a man there all the time. Of course the ones with a man
aren’t happy but they aren’t falling apart.’
193

Rachel felt a dull fury beneath the alcohol and the sleeping
pills.
“You can count me out of your generalizations,’ she said as
sharply as she could manage. ‘It isn’t the lack of a cohabiting
man that’s doing for me. I don’t know about the other women
you know but I suspect you underestimate my testosterone
levels.’
He glanced at her admiringly, partly impressed at her ability
to get the word ‘testosterone’ out in her condition — as indeed
she was — partly wondering if what she said wasn’t true.
‘Perhaps I do,’ he said seriously as Rachel’s rage at being
boxed in with ‘Women’ subsided beneath the sleeping drug.
Joshua left quietly as she drifted off to sleep. She dreamed
she was on a ship, cruising between islands that she took to be
the West Indies. What astonished her, even while she was
dreaming, was the extraordinary colour, the vivid pure blue of
the cloudless sky, the clean white paintwork of the cruiser, the
sparkling turquoise of the sea, and in the distance on the island
they sailed towards the rich dark tropical green of plants and
trees. Rachel was searching for somewhere to settle and clim-
bed white metal staircases from deck to deck, all of which were
full of people pleasuring themselves, lying on loungers taking in
the sun, sitting at white tables chatting and drinking, wander-
ing in elegantly dressed groups of two or three, smiling ami-
ably. Perfectly ordinary people enjoying themselves in the ways
people do on ships in the sun. She moved from one deck to
another, finding nowhere she wanted to be. She didn’t want to
be with people but there were people everywhere. She came
across a bar some three or four flights up and ordered a tequila
sunrise for its glowing orange colour, then wandered off, glass
in hand, still trying to find a place. She looked up and saw at the
very top of the ship a tiny deck enclosed by gleaming white
rails, just large enough for the two chairs that stood on it. One
chair was empty, on the other sat a man, his eyes shaded by the
brim of a white fedora, reading a book, very still and quiet,
immersed. She didn’t know him, he was no one she recognized,
194

but that was where, at last, she wanted to be. Not to disturb the
man, not talk, but to sit and sip her drink on the other chair and
watch the colours of the sea and sky and oncoming island. She
ached to be in that place, but as she craned her neck she could
see no way of getting up there, no staircase, no access.
Desperately disappointed she made her way down to the
bottom of the ship and found herself somehow beneath the
bows from which a small plank of wood extended, the size of a
surfboard, just large enough to hold her lying on her stomach.
Her face was a few inches above the rushing water and she could
see the island ahead of her and the sky too, if she twisted her
neck to one side. She tried to look up to see the man on the top
deck but he was out of her vision. She wasn’t exactly where she
wanted to be but this was good and peaceful. It was all right.
Then as the island came closer and she could clearly make out
the jetty she realized that she was unable to move, her neck was
trapped in some way between the plank and the bow of the ship.
She was caught, held rigid, her face separated from the waves
only by the thickness of the plank, and no one would hear her
call for help down there. She saw the jetty approaching fast and
knew that as the ship docked her head would be crushed
between the two; ship and jetty would smash her skull like an
egg held in a vice. She took in the still magical colours of sea,
sky and foliage as she waited — heart-thumping, terrified,
doomed, excited — for the inevitable.
Well, she thought as she woke and considered the dream, I
may not have a subtle psyche but at least it tells it like it is. She
was surprised though that the man was not Joshua; he hadn’t
looked or felt like him. It wasn’t anyone she knew although he
had had a very particular, definite sort of face. Well, no matter,
it wasn’t the point. The weight was there, bearing down on her
diaphragm, as she knew it would. She got up and dressed, a
slow, laboured process, and set herself again in the corner of the
sofa, upright, straight-backed, legs curled neatly away beneath
her. Waiting — or not waiting. Hours passed, occasionally the
tears came without disrupting her pose, once she got up and fed
195

the cat from the tin which thankfully was already open. For the
rest she sat and stared at nothing in particular and breathed
carefully.
Joshua did not ring. She thought she had known all along
that he wouldn’t but there was a dull surprise at his complete
lack of curiosity. How strange. It wasn’t his lack of caring that
perplexed her but his capacity not to want to know what, if
anything, happened next. She couldn’t begin to understand
that. Was he so sure that she wouldn’t kill herself? No one could
be that sure, entirely sure; she certainly wasn’t. Or perhaps it
simply made no difference to him if she were alive or dead? But
it made some small practical difference if he ever fancied
fucking her again. And he had said he would ring — his image of
himself was of a man who kept his word. What happened to the
boy scout? But the real point was curiosity — sheer curiosity
would have had her on the phone the next day if the roles were
reversed.
Well, what the hell, she thought, it wouldn’t have made any
difference. One phone call more or less wouldn’t have changed
anything. She didn’t have the energy to care about Joshua. His
not ringing was a kind of blow but really not so very important.
Becky called and was told quietly that Rachel was all right
and would be sure to ring if she needed anything. ‘Really, I’m
fine.’
Dusk fell and Rachel sat on in the darkening room until some
time in the evening when she heard the front door slam and
footsteps on the stairs. Isobel walked into the room carrying
several carrier bags.
‘Michael phoned me. He said you were feeling bad. Are you
depressed? Silly question,’ she said, as she inspected Rachel
who still hadn’t moved.
Rachel took a deep breath. ‘No, I’m fine,’ she croaked
through a knot in her throat.
‘Rubbish. I’ve seen you like this before. Not for a long time
though. I’ve brought some stuff. I don’t suppose you’ve eaten
anything for days, have you?’
196

She went into the kitchen and unpacked salad stuff,
wholemeal bread, butter and cat food, then washed lettuce and
sliced cucumber into a bowl before putting on the kettle and
making a cup of tea.
Isobel sat down heavily in the chair opposite the sofa in the
still unlit room.
‘How long has this been going on?’ she asked, with the
slightest suggestion of a sigh. She looked tired, had spent the
day working on her lectures. Her clothes, neat, efficient, hung
as elegantly as ever, but on a body that sagged a little with the
end of the day.
‘I don’t know. A few days,’ Rachel answered dully.
“Why didn’t you let me know?’ Isobel asked a little crossly, a
bit hurt.
‘I didn’t . . . want it to become real. I feel such a failure.’
‘Nonsense. You can’t be alone when you’re like this. Good
God, after all these years you ought to be able to let me know if
you’re feeling bad. Have you been alone all the time?’
‘No. Someone was here last night.’
‘Not that man? It was, wasn’t it?’ Rachel didn’t answer. ‘He
didn’t fuck you, did he?’ she asked, building up to outrage:
what kind of monster would take advantage of a woman in such
a condition?
‘As a matter of fact I fucked him,’ Rachel answered firmly,
trying to close the subject.
‘Oh. I suppose he’s the cause of this.’
‘No, he’s not the cause of it. There isn’t one. Since when have
I needed a reason to get depressed?”
She really didn’t want to talk, or explain. There was increas-
ingly nothing to say, the deeper inside herself she got the less
events or people seemed to have to do with it. A switch had been
switched, it had nothing to do with anything.
Isobel was clearly unconvinced. ‘Maybe, but why now? It’s
years since you were like this. There must be a reason.’
Rachel didn’t answer. She didn’t know the answer, she
didn’t think she knew anything. It was good that Isobel was
197

there, having her in the room woke her a little, but there was the
talk and Isobel’s evident tiredness and beneath that, beneath
the briskness and practicality, her feeling of helplessness.
Rachel wanted to tell her that just her presence helped, but felt
that to do so would be to criticize, to be telling her to shut up, to
stop worrying about food and reasons. Rachel remained silent,
and then after a while began to feel that her silence was itself
critical, too demanding. What was there to do between silence
and talk? And why did she have to worry about it when all she
wanted was to be left alone? Being alone seemed the only
possibility.
‘Thank you for the stuff. You look tired, why don’t you go
home? I’m all right. I just want to sit here. Don’t worry, there’s
no need for you to be here.’
Rejecting.
‘It’s perfectly all right. I’m not tired and you can’t be left
alone. Ill stay.’
Dear God, a new nightmare, we’re going to drive each other |
mad being nice to each other. Try saying exactly what she felt.
‘Isobel, lock, I’m feeling terrible but I’m going to be worse,
guilty, about making you sit here with me when you’re busy
and exhausted. Please don’t stay. It'll make me feel worse.’
Isobel sat on in the dark. ‘I’m going to stay for a while. I’m
afraid you’ll just have to put up with me,’ she said firmly, and
then closed her eyes for a second as she stifled a yawn.
Help. Help. Let me out, Rachel screamed silently. She was
over-alert, appallingly observant; she saw every movement,
every nuance, seemed to see beneath Isobel’s skin to her facial
muscles pulling themselves into the correctly bland expression
appropriate to the situation, but saw how they ached with the
effort. She observed the limp arms that lay heavily on the sides
of the chair and the depth of Isobel’s breath that stopped just
short of building into a full-blown sigh, and each thing she
noticed added another small weight to the load that already
filled her. Then she felt guilty about that too.
After a while Isobel said, ‘Becky phoned me. She said you
198

sent her away. She’s very upset and worried. You can’t reject
people like that, you must let her come and see you, you’re
being unkind.’
This was insane; suddenly the world was full of people she
had to see so that they would feel better. If you can’t behave
badly when you are feeling suicidal when can you? Never,
apparently, not Rachel, who depressed or not was supposed to
know better, to understand what was going on and therefore in
some way had an obligation to do the right thing. There was no
time off for bad behaviour.

S1x
Her mood over the next few weeks remained and deepened and
she continued to sit in a corner of the sofa. Isobel came twice a
day, brought food and sat with her for an hour or two.
~ Sometimes they talked. Rachel came to feel herself possessed,
and they discussed this when Rachel could talk at all. Rachel
had listened hour after hour to her interior monologue —
hateful, worthless, stupid, boring, dangerous, destructive — on
and on. There’s no point in you being alive, you’re a waste of
space ... It was the voice that was always there in the
background but which had now grown strong and taken
possession entirely. She had no strength, no resources to battle
with it. Only the Watcher was uninvolved and simply listened
and noted what was happening. She explained this to Isobel.
‘It’s like there’s a demon inside me, a devil, hating me,
wanting me dead. I know it’s my devil, but it doesn’t help
knowing that. It wants to kill me, and I can’t do anything about
it, it’s overwhelming. Drowning me.’
Isobel understood this but was as baffled as Rachel to know
what was to be done. Three weeks had gone by without any
change. Rachel hardly ate, slept for two or three hours a night,
hadn’t left the flat, and Isobel’s sense of helplessness grew. She
was anxious and tired. Their first conversation kept repeating
itself. Rachel begged Isobel not to come, Isobel insisted that it
was perfectly all right, necessary. It wasn’t perfectly all right,
guilt grew like a Russian vine, Rachel felt she had trapped them
both in an endless nightmare. So did Isobel but only said so
with her body language and suppressed sighs. Rachel heard the
reassurance and saw the discomfort and became confused. Was
she, wasn’t she seeing what she thought she saw, hearing what
she thought she heard? There was no way to go, no right thing
200

to do. Die, her voice told her. And that really seemed the only
move she had.
Becky arrived every couple of days and filled the uneasy
silence with talk — about William and his affair, she still hadn’t
confronted him with it, was too afraid to disrupt the relation-
ship, wasn’t sure how she felt about him now that he wasn’t, for
her, the same William; about depression, she had been reading
up on the subject, had actually gone to the Association for
Mental Health and got booklets on the subject. There were two
kinds, exogenous and endogenous, and different kinds of anti-
depressant for each type; also there was some suggestion that
large doses of vitamin B complex was effective in some cases
. . . Rachel listened in silence and felt more and more like a
therapist, a seeing eye, a hearing ear, listening to her patient
work through the chatter, the panic, to the heart of the matter.
She wanted to ask Becky to stop — stop talking, stop coming —
but couldn’t because she knew it would upset her.
Michael took care of Carrie and assured her over the phone
that everything was fine; he at least knew he couldn’t stand
Rachel’s depression but did what was the most practically
useful thing. Carrie was naturally worried but had been told
that Rachel was ill. Mothers did after all get ill, Rachel
reminded herself; she didn’t want to see Carrie, didn’t want to
worry about her — but of course had to worry and knew that
eventually, inevitably she would have to see her, have to take
back the responsibility.
The anxiety peaked. She called Dr Stone.
‘Please, can I go into hospital? Go somewhere? What you said
about asylum,’ she sobbed.
‘If that’s what you want,’ he replied carefully.
‘It’s too difficult for everyone. I have to go away.’
She was admitted to Friern Barnett hospital that afternoon.
She drove herself there shakily, clutching the steering wheel so
hard she got cramp in her fingers. She parked in the tarmac and
flower-bedded driveway and found her way to the ward she had
been allocated in the annexe for emergency admissions. As she
201

walked into the nurses’ office she saw her name chalked up on
the blackboard -— she was expected. When she announced
herself a large black staff nurse asked her, ‘Who brought you?”
looking around as if she expected someone else to walk through
the door.
‘I brought myself.’
‘You came on your own?’ The nurse glanced at the duty
doctor who sat opposite her. ‘By yourself?’
It hadn’t occurred to Rachel to ask anyone to come with her,
and even faced with their surprise now she didn’t think that
Isobel, for example, would have thought it necessary. Well, she
was here, wasn’t she?
The annexe was filled mostly with geriatric cases whose
senility made it impossible for them to live without full-time
nursing. The hospital, like its patients, was decrepit and
neglected, scheduled for closure whenever someone could work
out what to do with its able-bodied but broken-minded
inmates. Rachel’s bed was one of four in a tall square room |
painted a pallid green. The floor was covered with dark blue
cracked lino, a large washbasin stood between two curtainless
windows. She climbed on to the iron bed gratefully and sat
crosslegged on the orange cotton counterpane as a nurse took
her name, address, next of kin. The bed in the corner opposite
was the only one occupied. A small body lay curled facing the
wall; it could have been that of a child except for the mass of
iron-grey hair that spread over the pillow.
‘That’s Rose,’ the nurse told her as: she left. ‘She won’t
answer you if you speak to her. She likes to pretend she’s asleep
— but we all know better — don’t we, Rose?’
Rose remained emphatically asleep and Rachel was relieved
to know that she didn’t have to make conversation. Left to
herself she sat on the bed, taking in the dingy surroundings.
She didn’t mind at all; she had answered the questions quietly
and was now being left, at least for the time being, to her own
devices. As she sat there a weight seemed to lift from her; she
was here in a place where she could just be, people were either
202

paid to be here or too wrapped up in themselves, as she was, to
care about her. Here, she was permitted to be depressed, to sit
and be silent; they were used to people not behaving them-
selves, and she didn’t want to misbehave, just to be left alone
and not have to concern herself with anyone. They could handle
that, she didn’t have to worry about them. She had been right to
come here, should have done it sooner. She had asked the nurse
to call Isobel and tell her that she was all right.
‘Please, could you tell her not to visit? It’s very important — I
don’t want anyone to visit.’
The nurse amiably took the number and told her not to
worry, she would be sure and phone. Another weight gone,
someone else was going to deal with the world for her. Another
nurse popped her head round the door. “The duty doctor wants
to see you. Come with me, dear.’
She led Rachel into a small room where a young woman
waited at a desk looking through notes in a file. She smiled as
Rachel came in.
‘Hello, ’m Dr Newbold. I have to ask you some questions,
it’s routine I’m afraid.’
Rachel sat in an armchair beside the desk and smiled politely.
‘Could you tell me the date?’ Dr Newbold asked.
Rachel remembered this catechism from fifteen years ago —a
previous hospitalization, a previous depression — so she
answered matter-of-factly; it was just something that had to be
done.
‘Tuesday the 29th of July.’
“Yes?” Dr Newbold encouraged.
‘1983.’ Rachel offered patiently.
It was only later, lying awake in the ward that night, that she
remembered that it was actually the 30th; she had a momentary
impulse to call the night nurse and amend her answer — but
what the hell, she thought, I got two out of three.
Dr Newbold continued without comment.
‘Could you tell me the names of the Queen’s children,
Rachel?’
203

Rachel dredged her reservoir of trivia; it was a pity she hadn’t
asked who had starred in ‘It Happened One Night,’ that she
had on the tip of her tongue.
‘Um... Charles, Anne . . . Edward — there’s another one
. Andrew.’
Now what?
‘Rachel,’ the doctor asked conversationally, ‘do you think
there’s any meaning in life?’
Rachel fought back a powerful desire to scream or laughter
but then decided that it was, after all, a question she could
answer.
‘Well, yes, I do. I think that life is meaningful to other
people, I think, even, that there is a Meaning, I think it’s
probably for something. But I don’t think it needs me.
Whatever or whoever it is that has a purpose for all this can
achieve it without me. I don’t think I have a place here.’
Dr Newbold looked up sharply, clearly her answer revealed
something — although it seemed not what was expected.
‘God?’ she asked.
‘Whatever,’ Rachel replied. ‘It and I don’t care enough about
each other for it to be worth trying to define. It doesn’t matter.
It’s nothing to do with me.’
The doctor wrote something in her file.
‘Please could I go back to the ward now?’ Rachel asked.
Dr Newbold looked at her for a moment and then closed the
file.
“Yes, we'll leave it at that for now. Dr Cloudsley will see you
in the morning. Thank you, Rachel.’
When she was back on her bed a nurse popped her head
round the door,
‘Dr Newbold asked me to tell you to get into your nightie and
dressing gown, dear.’ She explained pleasantly, ‘We have to,
you see, with patients who are a bit depressed. We don’t want
you running off or anything.’
Rachel shrugged and said she would but sat on fully clothed.
She didn’t feel unhappy, just absent, empty — but this was
204

somewhere she could just be; even if it hadn’t the comfort and
warmth of her flat, it really didn’t matter. It was evening now.
In a couple of hours the other patients would return to the ward
and wait for the sedation trolley. They had had supper and were
watching television in the dayroom or sitting over cups of tea in
the small canteen, or wandering the corridor. No one bothered
Rachel, it was quiet and peaceful.
Suddenly the silence was broken by a long dramatic groan
from the bed opposite as Rose swung her legs around and got
herself upright beside her bed. Her tiny emaciated body was
covered in a huge floral cotton dress, hospital issue for patients
with no clothes of their own, which flapped about her skinny
ancient legs as she began to walk across the room towards
Rachel’s bed. There was something distressingly wild and
youthful about her loose grey hair. She moved purposefully
toward Rachel without actually looking in her direction.
‘Damn!’ thought Rachel.
Rose, her face turned away from Rachel to gaze absently at
the window, stopped six inches from the side of Rachel’s bed
and slowly, very deliberately, pulled up her skirt to the level of
her baggy, hospital-stamped knickers, set her feet well apart
and without any sign that her top half knew what her bottom
half was doing, began to urinate on the floor. The liquid fell
from her in a heavy stream like horses’ piss, steaming slightly
and splashing as it hit the cold lino. Then, her face still
impassive, never acknowledging Rachel’s existence, she started
to walk, stiff-kneed, legs apart, around the room with the urine
streaming and splashing as she went. She described the con-
tours of the beds and the walls between; a nonchalant wanderer
oblivious of the rushing waterfall between her legs. Rachel
wanted to applaud; it was a magnificent performance. She was
astounded at the quantity of liquid the minute body contained —
by the time Rose got back to her own bed and settled comfily in
her previous position the entire floor was covered in urine,
pungent puddles and riverlets that flowed together and joined
suddenly like mating amoebae. Rachel smiled silently and
205

shrugged; she couldn’t have cared less. The room filled with the
warm, damp, sour scent of urine; the floor was awash. Rachel
was trapped on her bed by a sea of piss. She didn’t mind, the
smell didn’t bother her particularly and she didn’t want to go
anywhere. She went on sitting, not having reacted at all to the
performance. That’s not kind, she thought to herself. If Iw ere a
nice, kind person I’d scream blue murder, shock, horror, look
what that disgusting old woman has done! Let me out of this
madhouse! Poor Rose, I’d do it for you if I could, I just don’t
have the energy. Eventually one of the other occupants of the
room came in and screamed satisfactorily, hurled abuse at the
apparently sleeping or possibly dead Rose and ran wailing for a
nurse to come and see what the filthy mad old cow in her room
had done. The nurse arrived with a mop and bucket and set to
work.
“What have you done Rose? You’re a very naughty girl. Did
you see what happened?’ she asked Rachel, who shrugged
lightly and smiled noncommittally. The shrug was clearly a
useful gesture here.
‘I didn’t do nothing,’ complained Rose, who had opened one
eye to check on Rachel’s response. ‘I’ve been lying here on the
bed. Why don’t you all leave me alone? I want to die; all I want
is to die and you scum won’t let me. Let me be!’ she moaned.
“You’re very bad,’ the nurse scolded as she sopped up the
wetness. “There’s nothing wrong with you, you’re not incon-
tinent and I’m busy enough without having to do this. ’
Rachel closed her eyes. Her silence was not really collusion
with Rose, it was simply absence. She had no desire to make
allies, although she knew that not letting on was as likely to
make an enemy of Rose who wanted attention more than
friends. The other patient, a middle-aged woman, was too
distressed to sleep in the ward that night and was given a side
room, so Rachel didn’t have to meet or talk to anyone else.
Rose, having made her statement, remained silent for the rest of
the night and when the sedation trolley came round Rachel
gratefully swallowed the pills she was handed and slept for a
206

couple of hours, then lay awake staring into the darkness until
the day staff came on duty at six. She was still not sorry to be
where she was; not until the nurse arrived and told her to get
dressed and go to the canteen for breakfast.
‘Td rather not,’ Rachel said politely. ‘Couldn’t I just get a cup
of tea and drink it here?’
“You have to go to the canteen. Anyway, we lock the room at
eight-thirty. It’s very bad for patients to lie on their beds all day.
You can sit in the day room and meet the other patients. Dr
Cloudsley will be making a ward round later in the morning and
he’ll want to see you, so you can’t go to occupational therapy
until this afternoon I’m afraid.’
There was very little that Rachel wanted to do less than go to
occupational therapy at any time of the day, nor did she want to
be locked out of the room. She wanted, like Rose, to be left
alone. When she was admitted the doctor she saw had spoken of
‘global depression’ and suggested that anti-depressants would
be the first line of attack; if they proved ineffective then ‘ECT
was often quite useful’. Rachel had decided not to think about
it. She wanted asylum and felt that somehow she could avoid
the drugs and electrodes. Now it was becoming obvious that she
simply hadn’t been thinking clearly. This was a hospital and as
far as they were concerned she was here for treatment, which
began with an enforced social life among the sad and desperate
characters in the canteen.
The day room was.a bleak affair: high-backed plastic chairs
encircled the room against the pale green walls and a geranium
drooped dolefully on the window sill. Apart from that there was
a small plastic table in the centre of the room and a few left-
behind books lined up on a half-empty bookcase. Rachel sat
alone in the room ona blue chair — the others were red and green
— and smoked, putting out the stubs in an ash-scarred
wastepaper bin she found in one corner. The room was empty
for most of the two hours she sat there, but intermittently the
door would be flung open and a very overweight young man
would stand wild-eyed for a moment, glare into each corner and
207

then leave, muttering crossly to himself. Each time Rachel got
up and closed the door behind him, then went back to her chair.
There was no sign of Dr Cloudsley. Having refused the canteen
she had had nothing to eat or drink and was feeling chilled and
empty. She thought about her flat, warm and comfortable,
where she could at least make herself a cup of tea if she wanted
one, where she could sit surrounded by her own things, but
then remembered why she came to the hospital — the people, the
guilt. She would have been quite content on her bed in the
ward. Eventually she got up and walked down the corridor to
her room, tried the door which was indeed locked then walked
back up the corridor, passing en route several other people who
were shuffling up and down in carpet slippers. She paced the
length of the corridor two or three times, ignoring the other
walkers as they did her, and then noticed a linen cupboard. It
was a long, walk-in cupboard about three feet wide, with
shelving covering one wall and a window at the end. The
shelves were piled with hospital dressing gowns, nighties, spare
dresses like the one Rose wore, towels and the like. Rachel
walked into it and stood at the window at the far end, looking
out — it was the only one she had found with a view. It faced on
to the main entrance of the hospital. The driveway had a neatly
planted circular flowerbed in the centre and as she stood and
watched, people came and went, cars arrived and doctors got
out, or relatives come for a visit, there was no difficulty in
telling them apart. A few patients emerged from the main
entrance and headed for the shop across the road to buy
chocolate, toothpaste, shampoo, cigarettes — small needs that
provided an excuse for a brief outing. Rachel stood with her
forehead pressed against the cold glass and watched the com-
ings and goings, until a voice behind her surprised her and she
wheeled round to see a nurse looking at her curiously.
‘What are you doing in here, Rachel?’
Rachel realized suddenly that her face was wet, that she had _
been standing at the window crying.
‘Nothing. There’s a window here, I was looking out of it.’
208

She noticed the time on the nurse’s watch pinned to her
apron: it was twelve-thirty; she had been looking out of the
window for two and a half hours. She thought, I’ve only been
here one night and I’m standing in a linen closet gazing out of
the window. This afternoon they’ll put me on drugs and by
tomorrow it will seem perfectly normal to be doing that, or
shuffling up and down the corridor. I won’t mind.
‘I think I'd like to go home,’ she said quietly to the nurse. ‘Is
there something I have to sign?’
The nurse looked surprised. ‘Why? You’d better come and
talk to Staff Nurse.’
Rachel followed her out to the office where she repeated her
request. The Staff Nurse also looked surprised.
“You can discharge yourself but you’l! have to wait to see the
doctor. He’ll be here very soon. Just go and wait in the day
room — oh no, you can’t, it’s been cleared for the ward
conference. Go and have a cup of tea in the canteen, there’s a
good girl. We’ll call you when the doctor wants to see you.’
Once you are in these places you have to do things by the
book, Rachel realized. She said she’d wait and went back to the
linen closet. An hour later a nurse came to get her: the doctor
had arrived and would see her now.
‘I really only want to discharge myself,’ she said, as she
followed the nurse to the door of the day room.
‘In there, Dr Cloudsley’s waiting for you,’ the nurse said, as
she knocked at the door for Rachel.
The first thing she saw as she walked into the day room was a
gold cardboard cake box on the centre table; she had seen a man
carry it out of his car when she was standing at the window and
had been surprized because the open-topped MG and his natty
three-piece suit had marked him as one of the doctors. She had
told herself at the time not to categorize people so rigidly, the
cake box made him a relative visiting a patient — perhaps it was
someone’s birthday. But her first guess had been right: the
glossy golden box stood open and empty amid discarded plates
and teacups on the little table. The plastic chairs had been
209

drawn into a tighter circle than when she had sat alone in the -
room, and were all, except one, occupied. There were perhaps
twenty or twenty-five people sitting in a circle watchinhger as
she stood bewildered by the door. She had been expecting to see
a doctor, maybe two. Her eyes did a quick scan but took in very
little, more men than women, some nurses, several men in natty
three-piece suits who she supposed took it in turns to bring in
the cake for the conference — they probably didn’t all have
MGs. She panicked. Her first thought was to turn and run, her
second was that she wanted to get out of here and this was
clearly the route since the ward was locked with her clothes and
car keys inside.
‘Mrs Kee. Come in, take a seat,’ said the owner of a well-
groomed hand which gestured her, ordered her, to the empty
chair beside him. ‘I’m Dr Cloudsley. I’m the consultant. These
other people are members of my team. We’d like to have a chat
with you.’ ;
Well, you’d better not all talk at once, she thought as she
walked shakily across the room, now more like an arena. Dr
Cloudsley sat comfortably in his chair, one impeccably creased
trouser leg crossed casually over the other, a benign, faintly
superior smile on his face. Rachel sat rigid with anger as she felt
twenty pairs of professional eyes examine her unhurriedly.
What were the external indications of this specimen? The hair,
dyed neon orange in parts was, of course, deliberately awry;
wild, frizzing hair made wilder, the better both to conceal and
to attract attention; beneath it, behind it, a tired pale fierce face
devoid of make-up. She wore an overall, fashionably baggy,
body-concealing, dung-brown, the legs rolled to mid-calf,
plimsols on unsocked feet - a commonplace this week in
Hampstead High Street, but in the context of an antique
nineteenth-century asylum it was institution garb, shapeless,
sloppy, a denial of body, sex and life. She saw herself as they
saw her and sat waiting bolt upright, hands clutching the
wooden arms of the chair.
“You seem angry, Mrs Kee,’ Dr Cloudsley invited.
210

lie
“Yes, Iam angry,’ she replied, icily polite, and turned to look
at him. There was another part of her though that whispered in
her ear, “Be very careful. You have to play this just right. Be
very calm; don’t do anything.’
And yet another part, quite distant from her and the others in
the room, conversing with someone outside the situation: ‘How
can they do this? How can they be so stupid? What kind of
experts are these? You don’t do this to someone who has been
depressed for weeks. You don’t sit them in a room full of
watching people and ask them questions. It will seem like an
inquisition. Any fool would know that, would manage the
situation better than that.’
The anger and the panic welled in Rachel. She wanted to run,
or throw things — she wanted very much to pick up those plates
and cups and hurl them at the cool objective faces surrounding
her, assessing, at Cloudsley’s cue, just how close she was to
violence.
‘Careful,’ the voice whispered as she tightened her grip on
the chair. She looked around trying to make contact with the
eyes, feeling certain that someone in the room must know that
this wasn’t the right. way to deal with her, but each glance she
caught shifted too fast for her to see what kind of humanity
might be behind it.
‘Perhaps you could tell us why you are angry?’ Cloudsley
asked, smooth as silk.
She stared hard at the golden box and fought to stay cool and
calm, very rational.
‘Yes. I’m angry because I don’t want to be in this room full of
people. I had understood that I was going to see a doctor, not be
the subject of a conference. I waited to see you because I was
told I had to in order to discharge myself. Could you please give
me whatever it is I have to sign and ask the nurse to unlock the
wardroom door?’
‘Why do you feel you want to discharge yourself?’
‘I don’t feel I want to discharge myself; I want to discharge
myself. I would like to go home.’
211

I want to discharge myself, you smooth bastard, because I’m
sane enough not to want to stay in this place; and at home at
least I can get a cup of tea. What better reason? .
Dr Cloudsley opened the file on his lap and read through it in
silence for several minutes, then he looked up.
‘According to the admitting doctor you are in a severely
depressed condition. He considers you suicidal and thinks that
you need treatment as an inpatient to overcome your present
feelings. I don’t think I can allow you to discharge yourself.’
Rachel stopped breathing.
‘You can’t stop me leaving. I’m a voluntary patient. I can
leave when I like.’ Her voice rose several octaves.
‘Whether you’re a voluntary patient or not is for me to say,
Mrs Kee. It’s true that you came in voluntarily, but I have to
consider the situation very carefully. I feel that you would be at
risk if I permitted you to leave.’
Rachel had experienced life-threatening terror in dreams,
but this particular reality had all the hallmarks of her worst
nightmares. Suddenly she wasn’t free to leave, they could keep
her here, put her on any treatment they thought fit: drugs,
ECT, a bloody lobotomy if they wanted. She had put herself
into another world and saw her right to choose, even her actual
freedom, slipping away. She knew herself to be in immense
danger and her body responded as it would to any threat from
outside: a rush of adrenalin, racing pulse, absolutely alert,
clear-headed, tuned for survival. Nonetheless liberal, middle-
class, western Rachel couldn’t quite believe this was happen-
ing. She was aware, however, of the rules — at least in general
terms. There was a section of the Mental Health Act that
allowed a doctor to keep her there against her will if he deemed
her a danger to herself or to others. Cloudsley was carefully
implying that he could put her on a section, that she was a
danger to herself, that it was his opinion that counted. She
thought she remembered vaguely that she had to have done
something to warrant that opinion, but she wasn’t sure. She
tried sounding informed.
212

‘I am an informal patient,’ she said carefully, concentrating
hard on the cake box. ‘You can’t put me on a section unless
there is some evidence that I might harm myself. I’ve done
nothing to suggest I will. I don’t think you have groundstokeep .
me here, and I want to leave, now.’
There was a note of irritation in Cloudsley’s voice as he
answered, “The Act requires only that I and one other doctor
believe you to be at risk. Why are you being so aggressive?’
Because you are threatening me, you self-important bastard!
He didn’t sound as if there would be too much of a problem
getting another doctor to sign and there were obviously a good
few in the room who would scrawl their names on any docu-
ment he produced. There were no heroes here. She knew that
someone was bluffing and guessed it was probably her. The
choice was to continue with the bluff or to appease the man in
authority, evidently becoming irritated. How the hell had she
got herself into this? The point was to get out at all cost and this
man, she realized, would respond better with his authority
intact.
‘I’m not suicidal,’ she explained clearly and calmly. ‘I’ve
been depressed but that’s happened before. I want to sit
through it, it will pass, and I think I’d be better if Iw ere at home
where things are more familiar.’
Cloudsley seemed to relax a little.
‘T think that you think that life is very bleak, Mrs Kee. I don’t
think you think life is worth living, do you?’ he suggested,
inviting her to share her innermost thoughts with them all, and,
if she were stupid enough, to trap herself. This man, this healer
of troubled minds wanted blood, wanted to hear about her pain,
wanted a loss of control and an end to her hard-won self-
possession. This was familiar: perhaps shrinks and sadists were
bred in the same stable. He was requesting what he would call
her cooperation: she should say, yes, I’m in trouble, I need
help, do whatever you need to do, I’m not fit to judge, just help
me please. Sir.
Fuck it.
213

‘I don’t have any opinion about Life. I assure you I am not
going to commit suicide, you can have it in writing if you like. I
want to leave,’ she stated firmly.
Dr Cloudsley re-crossed his legs and glanced impatiently
around the room at his team. ‘I’m very loath to let you leave,
Mrs Kee. I would be quite within my rights to detain you under
a Section of the Mental Health Act, indeed it is my duty todo so
if I feel you are at risk, but it would obviously be better if we
could gain your cooperation.’
Well yes, it’s a terrible bore holding down unwilling patients
while you inject them with sedatives.
Rachel said again, ‘I want to go home.’
‘Mrs Kee, do you think you are being fair to your friends? Do
you have the right to demand that they worry about you and
have to look after you? Have you thought of them?’
Got her! That was why she was here, wasn’t it? Other people,
making démands. Guilt. He was really onto something here,
much more effective than a Section: just feed the guilt that was
there already.
She couldn’t answer that, there was no argument. She just
held on tight as the panic and the memory of sitting in her flat,
desperate when people were there, desperate when they
weren't, flowed through her.
‘I must go home,’ she answered with a long, straight stare
into his untroubled eyes.
He looked at his watch.
‘It’s lunchtime now. You pop off to the canteen and have
some lunch while I consider what to do. My registrar will come
and see you later on and tell you what we have decided. Run
along now.’
She was dismissed.
Later this afternoon, or more likely this evening, the
registrar would tell her that she might as well spend the night
there and that he would come and see her the following
morning. Inertia was a powerful weapon. If she fought them
they would section her, if she cooperated they could put off her
214

requests to leave until she stopped caring. She wasn’t in any
condition to care for very long — they had time and energy on
their side. What she had was a still intact capacity to see what
was going on and, curiously, given her state of mind, a
determination not to be drugged and institutionalized.
‘It seemed to me,’ she told Laura a few days later in Cornwall,
‘a straight choice between killing myself and being drugged into
Not noticing or caring how I felt. Either way it was death. I
couldn’t see the point of staying alive just for the sake of it.’
‘Still, what you chose contained the chance of staying alive,’
Laura pointed out.
Rachel smiled. ‘Yes, I know, there’s a small, stubborn
survivor lurking inside me somewhere. I despise it, you know, I
see it as a moron, an idiot child. It doesn’t think, can’t argue
against my logic, it just sits in there quietly requiring my
survival. When the crunch comes it renders me incapable of my
own death. I hate it for its mindlessness.’
“Well, I'd nurture it if I were you, it might grow up.’
Rachel grinned again. ,
‘Trouble with you is you’ve read too many books.’
Rachel left the day room and stood for a moment outside the
door. She had no plans to run along to the canteen and headed
in the other direction to her ward. The door had been unlocked
for lunchtime, so that patients could brush their teeth or
something. She slipped into the room and pulled out her
overnight bag, stuffing her clothes into it as fast as she could,
slung the bag over her shoulder and walked as casually as she
could manage down the corridor, past the day room where the
doctors would still be discussing her case, past the nurses’
office, a slow saunter so that they wouldn’t look up from their
newspapers, and to the stairs. Then she ran, two, three steps at
a time and out into the driveway she had been watching from
the linen-closet window. The car was waiting for her, animated
by its familiarity. ‘Let’s go, let’s go,’ she whispered to it as she
reversed out of the parking space and sped through the main
gates, driving as fast as she dared through suburban north

London with flickering images of Keystone Cop chases, The
Italian Job and The French Connection running around her
head. It would surely be a while before they noticed she had
gone and anyway they would hardly give chase. Would they?
She thought not but wasn’t entirely sure and there seemed to be
an unreasonable number of police cars and ambulances rushing
past her with sirens wailing during the twenty-minute journey.
Each time one approached she studiously ignored it, feeling
more and more like a fugitive. She was obviously being
paranoid — they had better things to do than race after her — but
then only a few minutes before, a man she had never previously
met had threatened to lock her up against her will and do
whatever he thought necessary to change the state of her mind.
It was as well to know when one was being paranoid, but also as
well to be careful. |
When she got home and locked the door of her flat she made
herself a ceremonial and much-needed cup of tea and sat
clasping the warmth of it in both hands. She realized suddenly
that she was shaking uncontrollably from head to foot. She had
been very frightened.
“Well, anyway, I escaped,’ she laughed a little hysterically to
Laura over the phone, ‘I escaped. Me and Steve McQueen and
Big John Wayne. We all escaped.’
Laura, now running sheep and growing vegetables in Corn-
wall, had been a social worker and would know, Rachel
decided, the legal set-up. She didn’t think they could come and
get her, but she wanted to be sure.
‘Not once you’re out,’ Laura said uncertainly. ‘I think they
can only section you if you’re in their care. It’s a long time since
I read the Mental Health Act, though. I’m sure they won’t.
Look, come and stay. I’ve got empty rooms and meadows. I
won’t look after you, you can just lie around and relax for a —
couple of weeks. We can meet over a cup of coffee at breakfast if
you like and then we’ll both just get on with our lives. Why
not?’
Rachel agreed thankfully and arranged to meet Laura at the
216

station a couple of days later. It sounded like everything she
wanted and turned out to be so. She and Laura talked a little but
mostly she sat in her quiet wood-panelled room or lay in the
long grass, waiting for the pain to go away, and gradually the
pain turned to a kind of solitary peace, something almost
positive, and she began to feel that she was recuperating, not
dying.

Seven
Joshua turned up the night before she left for Cornwall,
chatted, fucked her and left without asking her a single ques-
tion about what had happened during the past few weeks.
There was the slightest hesitancy, a certain caution for the first
few minutes as he seemed to be checking her condition to find
out whether they could proceed as normal, and she picked up
his relief as he assessed her and apparently concluded she was
all right. He’d come to check and decided that she would do.
Not a word was mentioned about the last time he saw her, there
was no suggestion that anything out of the ordinary had
happened between then and now. A passing storm, nothing
serious; so let’s get on with it as if it never occurred.
Rachel did well enough; she beat him at Scrabble and
snapped into her old sexuality when commanded. She didn’t
tell him anything he didn’t want to know, didn’t ask him what
he didn’t want to tell.
‘I’m off to Cornwall for a couple of weeks, staying with an old
friend.’
‘Man friend or woman friend?’ he asked casually.
“Woman — and no, she wouldn’t do for a threesome. Are you
going anywhere?’
“Yes, I’m going to Scotland for a week at the end of August.’
She didn’t ask him where exactly or who with.
He fucked her carefully, more or less conventionally, as if he
didn’t want to put her under too much pressure. He was
helping her maintain composure since her act to anyone with as
keen an eye as Joshua’s was not entirely convincing. The show
was back on the road but they both silently agreed it was as well
to be careful. He left wishing her a good holiday; she returned
the thought.
218

‘See you when we’re both back in London,’ he said, as he
closed the bedroom door behind him.
On the train Rachel thought about Joshua, first with relief
that he would go on turning up, then more speculatively as the
rhythm of the train lulled her into reverie. Suppose she had met
a Joshua untransformed by violence and cold anger? Suppose
whatever life had done to him had made him gentler and more
connected as, after all, it had some people? There was a
recognition between them that she identified beyond their need
to give and receive pain. Illusion perhaps, but she believed it
was there and would have been whatever he had become. And
her? What else could she have been? Could she have recognized
Joshua without his hatred, was she responding to him because
of it or because she would have responded to him in any way he
presented himself? Perhaps after all the sadism was all there was
really. She felt certain that wasn’t so — but the ‘what-could-it-
have-been’ syndrome smacked of foolishness and romance.
The realist was not going to permit such imaginings. What was
the point? They were both what they were and that was that.
Any other Joshua and Rachel coming together were phantoms.
There was what there was, nothing else. His complete lack of
concern about what had become of her during the previous
weeks said all there was to be said on the subject of their
‘relationship’; that was the cold fact to be held in her mind, she
told herself as they pulled into the station, not some wistful
notion of a deep link between them.
Now, back home, with the newspaper cutting in front of her,
she was not exactly surprised at the possibility that Joshua was a
rapist. Disturbed, distressed, but not surprised. Their particu-
lar brand of sexuality was under Joshua’s tight control, thus far
and no further. But it was hardly a new thought that controls
snap, and that the tighter the control the greater the likelihood
of it snapping. Implicit in Joshua’s careful pantomimes of
violence was loss of control. Why then should she be surprised
if it had happened in some out of the way corner of the country?
Snap. Nothing more likely. Inevitable, the more you thought
219

about it. One was always reading about men going out into the
world assaulting, raping, killing — doing what they must for
years have only fantasized. What impelled them when it came
to it actually to go out and do it? Some button pressed, a
moment of laziness when they lowered their guard and let
fantasy slide mysteriously into reality. Joshua had gone a step
further than fantasy with her and probably others; did that
make him safer or more likely to act out there in the real world
finally? She had no idea. She didn’t feel that she could ever
really blur the boundary between the fantasy and the real.
Certainly their relationship confused her, understanding the
necessity for coldness didn’t stop her resentment of his emo-
tional absence, her anger at his denial that they actually liked
each other. But still she knew that they acted out games, roles,
and didn’t confuse them with her everydayness. And it seemed
that when women snapped the havoc was generally internal,
there wasn’t the scope apparently for women to play out their
destructiveness on the world as men could. She couldn’t
imagine how she might make her fantasies real, or more real
than Joshua had made them for her.
She realized that she was sliding into an assumption that
Joshua was guilty, and she couldn’t know that. She imagined
that she would know when she saw him and practically speak-
ing he’d be on the run, a fugitive from justice. God, the
melodrama! He couldn’t have done it, it was too absurd. Still,
he would either have left the country — Rio, Australia, she
giggled a little to herself — or at least, it suddenly struck her, he
would have to have shaved his beard: the photofit was too close
for comfort. Well, there it was; if he turned up clean-shaven
she’d know the answer. By now the silliness of her thoughts had
more or less convinced her of his innocence; she was actually
embarrassed now at ever having thought he’d done it. She
imagined him finding the newscutting and realizing her sus-
picions; she felt very foolish. Of course he wouldn’t do that. She
crumpled the newspaper cutting and threw it in the wastepaper
basket, then took it out and tore it into shreds before consigning
220

it firmly to the dustbin. She was horrified as she remembered
her call to the Inverness police — suppose she had given them his
name? Enough, that’s enough, she told herself, time to get on
with your life — mother, teacher, part-time deviant. You want
all that and excitement too?
She spent most of the next day at the Home Tuition centre,
sorting out work for her pupil and shopping in preparation for
Carrie’s return from Italy. That night she was wrenched from
sleep by the ringing of the phone. The clock by her bed said
1.00 am.
‘Hello,’ she croaked sleepily into the mouthpiece.
‘Are you alone?’ Joshua demanded.
“Yes, do you know what the time is?’ she said crossly.
‘Lie on the sofa, take all your clothes off,’ Joshua instructed.
‘I don’t have any on. Joshua, it’s very late. . .’
‘Lie on the sofa,’ he repeated.
‘All right, I’m lying on the bloody sofa.’
‘Good. Now stroke yourself very slowly until you come. I
want to hear you come.’
I don’t have to do this, she thought, what’s more he won’t
even know whether I’m doing it or not. What the hell is this?
‘Are you stroking yourself?’
‘No.’ She didn’t have to tell him that.
‘Then do it!’ his voice cross, impatient.
And she did, telling herself that this was a new game.
‘Imagine my cock inside you. Can you feel it? Can you?’
‘Mmm,’ she moaned softly into the mouthpiece. ‘Want you
‘Are you coming? Let me hear you come.’
As she came she heard him whisper, ‘That’s a good girl.’
When she had finished and was laying limp with the receiver
resting on her shoulder he said all brisk and businesslike, ‘I'll be
seeing you in the next few days,’ and put the phone down.
First of all Rachel laughed; it was quite funny, or at any rate
in the context of a normal relationship it would have been
funny. Long-distance sex — a new kind of intimacy for an
221

erotically charged couple who couldn’t be together. That
wasn’t what they were about though, and there hadn’t been an
ounce of humour in his voice. In the terms of their relationship
she thought it more an act of contempt than anything; he didn’t
even need her physical presence for what he wanted. Sexual
minimalism, post-modernist fucking, a relationship without a
narrative. She swung her legs off the sofa and made her way
back to bed, trying to ignore another thought that was strug-
gling for recognition; but it was too late, it had insinuated itself
and was sitting fully formed inside her head: it wasn’t she who
was not present but Joshua — a clean-shaven Joshua who didn’t
want to be asked questions? Absolutely not, she told herself,
nonsense. She had already decided it was all nonsense. But
what a coincidence, her voice whispered silkily, Joshua without
a beard was a rapist — you decided, remember? Why the phone
sex? Why now? It had never happened before. Rubbish, just
coincidence. How many coincidences make an event? Check
them all out. Joshua was in Scotland the week it had happened;
what had been done to the girl had been a precise copy of his
fantasies; the photofit had reminded her of Joshua before she
had even read the report; why hadn’t he turned up tonight?
The anxiety was back, full-blown. There didn’t seem much
reason not to suspect Joshua — that was the point. None of the
coincidences would have meant anything if it didn’t strike her
as so likely, and, unless he was picked up by the police, she
realized there was no way she would ever know for sure whether
her suspicions were real or not. It was the uncertainty as much
as anything that bothered her. The fact that her own rationality
was in question; she couldn’t work out whether she was
thinking straight or not, if this wasn’t just a fantasy of her own.
Right now, feeling very fragile after the past weeks, she didn’t
need this obsession, this confusion.
Carrie was coming back from Italy in two days, then she’d be
back at school and Rachel would begin teaching again. She
wished it could all happen faster, she wanted busyness in her
life but could think of nothing to do in the meantime except
222

take solitary walks, listen to music, sort out winter clothes: all
activities that permitted a maximum of brooding about Joshua.
Whenever she thought about the coincidences of his holiday in
Scotland, it seemed a real possibility that Joshua had assaulted
that girl. On the other hand it was impossible: there couldn’t be
anything in it. She couldn’t allow herself to think in one
direction without the opposite thought coming up and sneering
at her. You think him innocent? Look at the evidence, kid,
there’s no doubt that that is what he wants to do. You’ve no
reason other than sentiment and willing disbelief in someone
you know doing that to doubt his guilt. You’re convinced he’s
guilty? Vindictive bitch, you want him guilty. It excites you, it
punishes him. You love the idea of him suddenly in a panic, on
the defence, no longer in control, having to put himself outside
the safety of fantasy. You want him sweating.
She thought, hell, this is a plot to send her crazy. Joshua
arranged the whole thing, organized the newspaper report just
to drive her into a frenzy of uncertainty. Now that 1s crazy,
cooed her smarmy voice; Rachel, perhaps he has other things to
think about than you, maybe he doesn’t direct his entire
thought-capacity towards manipulating you in craziness. He
hardly needs to. Rachel, he doesn’t know you exist when he’s
not actually in your company.
Thanks, Rachel directed at the voice, you’re a pal, always to
be relied on to cut me down to size whenever I seriously
overestimate myself. What the hell would you do if I were
suddenly discovered as a rare lost talent and the world bent its
knee to me in admiration? What if some wise, witty and mature
man took one look at me and thought, that’s it, she’s the one
with all the qualities of an equal mate?
What would you do, the voice responded undaunted; you’d
run a mile Rachel, very fast. Luckily neither of us will be
presented with the problem, so we can just sit here in your head
and argue enjoyably with one another. Better the devil . . .
When are you going to accept what you are? You can be all sorts
of things — clever, funny, even interesting, but you are not
223

easily likeable and you are not lovable. That’s that. People may
admire you, they won’t love you. It’s a quality you’ve either got
or you haven’t. They’ll want to talk to you, or fuck you, but
they won’t be drawn to you, they won’t feel compelled to come
back. Joshua is lovable. Foolish word, but accurate. Charis-
matic is near but it’s only a way of avoiding the essential —
lovableness. Joshua has that quality of making people love him,
just as Pete had. It’s not something you try for, it’s there or not.
Joshua perverts it and uses it to his advantage — without it he’d
have very little going for him. He’s an excellent lover, but no
one would put up with his behaviour unless there was some
compelling quality that allowed him to get away with it. The
charmer. He smiles and you say yes or you get in his car because
you want to get closer. Even when you discover that closeness is
impossible you don’t go away. There’s something there you
want, indefinable, and it keeps you on the hook. Joshua is fat
and failed and not as clever as he thinks, but even knowing that
you want him. I don’t know, Rachel thought, I can’t get him
straight, I only know a slice of him. I don’t see the Joshua who
functions out there in the real world, who takes his kids to the
park, or buys groceries in the supermarket or chats to his
friends — God, what does he talk to his friends about? Not his
sex life, I know that’s secret. People know Joshua as a nice, |
clever man, a bit solitary, a bit reserved, but there’s something
about him that makes them care for him, and invite him to
dinner. People are concerned about Joshua, they care about
what happens to him and help him out if he’s in any kind of
trouble. Of course, he may be fucking their wives or seducing
their daughters, but they’ll never know about that. Joshua
inspired loyalty, people didn’t betray him.
Rachel brooded and questioned and analysed but succeeded
only in exhausting herself. There weren’t going to be any
answers. Once again she would have to wait for Joshua to
arrive, if he did, and if it told her anything at all. Life went on
for a few weeks. Carrie returned bronzed and full of energy,
none the worse for her exile though Rachel put a lot of effort
224

into compensating for her recent disappearance. There was a lot
of home cooking and classmates invited to tea after school.
Carrie asked Rachel if she was feeling better and Rachel said she
was and the subject seemed to be closed, and although Rachel
watched carefully for anxious glances there seemed to be none.
She began teaching her pupil, a girl who was more of a chore
than anything but at least kept her thinking about other things
for two hours a day. Three busy weeks went by without a word
from Joshua while Rachel’s anxiety went underground, merely
rumbled darkly as the nights passed and the phone didn’t ring.
Rachel didn’t call Becky, nor hear from her, and wondered
what kind of loss that represented. She would miss laughing
with Becky at the absurdity of everything and miss her
improbable optimism. She didn’t feel it or believe in it herself
but it had been good to know that it was out there somewhere.
Becky had in some way fed her, given her a sense that there »
were other options. Didn’t matter though, Becky’s feelings
didn’t save her from pain any more than Rachel’s lack of them
saved her. But still there was something to mourn in Becky’s
loss.
She brooded more often, though, on Joshua’s silence and
finally she just felt angry that he hadn’t called; cross and used-
up. Why should I, she thought, sit here waiting for the man to
call me? Who else would put up with this crap? She let the anger
work on her, a little amused at bottom at this rare rage. After
three years she was objecting to the way he treated her? Well,
enjoy it while it lasts.
One afternoon she called him, and remarkably it was the real
Joshua who answered the phone, not the machine.
‘I’m getting pissed off,’ she announced without
preliminaries. ‘It’s time to start pleasing me as well as yourself.’
‘You have a nice turn of phrase,’ he answered amiably after a
brief pause.
‘Right. Every word precisely placed. A polished, well-
formed sentence. It took me ages to get it just right.’ It wasn’t
possible to maintain serious fury with this man; the tone, if not
225

the meaning, became inevitably light.
‘Well, it was worth the effort. Now tell me, what exactly are
you accusing me of?’
‘I’m not accusing you, I’m describing my condition,’ she
answered.
Again there was silence, then, ‘When have I ever given you to
believe that I was in any way interested in your pleasure? I’m
only interested in my pleasure,’ he added pleasantly.
Rachel felt winded. The meaning of the first long sentence
only became clear as he uttered the word ‘pleasure’, right at the
end; she heard the previous words coming through the phone as
_ if they were jumbled letters that only fell into place with the
final word. When they did it was as if she had been punched.
Amazing that he could simply say that, and quite true of course.
What right had she to complain about his treatment of her, he
hadn’t promised her anything at all. Any court of law would
have given judgement to him.
“You haven’t, that’s my complaint. I’m calling to tell you that
it’s time to take my pleasure into account.’
‘But your pleasure is no concern of mine,’ he reminded her.
‘Not so,’ she replied sweetly. ‘My pleasure is a necessary
component of your own. You have to give me pleasure in order
to get your own. That’s basic sociobiology. Ain’t no such thing
as pure altruism. I see myself in relation to you as a resource.’
‘Yes,’ he agreed.
“Weil, my message is that the resource is becoming exhausted
— mined out. Through lack of attention.’
This wasn’t the simplest way to tell him she wanted to see
him but simplicity was not among the qualities they brought
out in each other.
He sounded thoughtful and amused as he answered. ‘Well,
insofar as your pleasure is also my pleasure you are welcome to
indicate what it is you want — assuming you have something
more specific in mind than mere philosophy.’
“Your presence would give me pleasure,’ she said, feeling she
was entering dangerously demanding waters. ‘Anyway, it’s a
226

practical and necessary condition for any other pleasures which
might follow.’
‘Mere presence isn’t pleasure,’ he responded.
“You take pleasure in my company,’ Rachel said bravely,
shutting her eyes against the blow that was about to come.
‘Not necessarily. It’s conditional on what we’re doing.’
Bastard.
‘So if you have some particular pleasure in mind,’ he went on,
‘and always supposing that neither of us have anything more
important to be doing, I suggest you let me know. In detail.’
‘And if it’s my pleasure not to see you again?’
“Then you just phone and tell me that. I will make sure that
that’s what happens.’ Was there a small glimmer of light there,
that he was still interested enough not to take her up on her
threat and put it in the theoretical future — a phone call she had
to make? Rachel was prepared to dig deep for very little
consolation in this miserable dialogue.
‘What about the loss of your resource?’
‘I'd have to manage without it.’ She was pushing her luck.
Nothing was going to be given away here.
‘So I send in a list of my requests, is that it?’ she enquired
briskly.
‘That’s right. Look forward to hearing from you.’
Rachel put the receiver down before he could. All she had
achieved was an invitation to make a dirty phone call, to
indicate her sexual requirements, once again to say what she
wanted. Sexually. There was really no room now for any
illusions about Joshua. But he did say it like it was and she still
couldn’t help but appreciate that, if a little grimly. He could
take her or leave her, she remained a one-night stand regardless
of the length of time they had been going on, but he was not
averse to a bit of sexual input from her side — subject to contract
of course. She had not been invited to suggest a long sensual
meal at her favourite restaurant, or a weekend by a log fire
somewhere remote; she was to submit her sexual requirements:
do this to me or that, I want. . . What did she want? Was there
227

anything — specific as he said — left to do? That she particularly
wanted to do? It was probably a failure of imagination on her
part but .. . She did begin to get intrigued by the idea of
summoning him, of offering him something that excited him
and made him respond. She began to like the idea of getting a
response from him and of making real the subterranean power
she felt she had in the relationship. Well, if he wanted fantasies
he could have them — but on paper where she could construct
them without interruption. She would write him a letter stating
her requirements and he would get cold manipulation dressed
up as desire.
Rachel took a notepad from her desk and settled herself on
the sofa, using her knees to rest the paper on. She felt clinical.
This was a project, a problem to be solved; she always enjoyed
crosswords and the like, and started to relish this enterprise.
Various situations had to be presented and organized in a way
that elicited the correct response, it was a matter of recognizing
the necessary components and then packaging them appropri-
ately. But what about the tone, the context? Atmosphere was
important, and this, after all, was a chance to play out sado-
masochism without the paradox of the willing victim. A rape.
That was it, she would invite him to a rape. Let him steal what
he had been getting for nothing for the past three years. She
started to write.
I had this dream recently. Listen. It was a Saturday and
Carrie was with Michael for the weekend. [Practical instruc-
tions as to when and where would have to be incorporated if
they were to play this out.] I spent most of the day pottering
about the flat, tidying up a little, reading, phoning friends.
[Don’t skimp on domestic detail, it’s important, this is a
picture of a woman happily alone.] In the evening I read for a
while and started to watch a movie on TV — it wasn’t very
good so I switched it off halfway through and ran a bath, hot
and very scented, then lay in it for a long time with my eyes
shut and touched myself a little, stroked my clitoris slowly,
228

imagining someone there doing it for me. A woman, perhaps,
who sucked my nipples as she touched me. Nothing really
frantic, just quiet and private and peaceful. [Oh good, that’s
good, sexy but calm. Maybe there’s a career for you in soft
porn, Rachel.] I got out of the bath, dried myself and
switched off all the lights, then got into bed naked [naturally]
and still warm, smelling good. I felt good too as I stroked my
skin, thighs and arse, silky from the bath oil. I fell asleep with
my hand between my legs. [Right that’s enough, the scene’s
set.]
Suddenly I woke feeling cold. The cover had been pulled
back. I was laying curled up on my side with my back to the
door and when I turned to pull the cover over me there was
the figure of a man standing in the doorway in the dark.
[Now, get on with it.] He held a leather strap in one hand and
stood for a moment watching. [How the hell did he get in?
This is clumsy, but Ill have to make the arrangements clear.] }
I suppose he must have found the key I keep under the mat
for emergencies. [Well never mind. Onwards.] I was — what?
— very scared, very angry. I demanded to know what the hell
he was doing in my flat, told him to get out. [Yes, reported
speech is good, it leaves more room for imagination.}] He was
quite unmoved by both my anger and my fear and told me
calmly to be quiet, that he was going to beat me and that if I
didn’t cooperate he would tie me down. [Give him some rope
to play with.] He said he was going to hurt me and would
enjoy hearing me cry out with each stroke of the strap and
that by the time he had finished doing what he planned to do I
would be begging for more. I said the hell I would, that it
didn’t matter what he did I wouldn’t respond. [It was an
interesting challenge for both of us.] He ignored me, telling
me to get out of bed and bend over. For a while I refused to
move and his voice got harsher, more commanding. It was
the tone of his voice that made me comply in the end more
than the threat of violence; he sounded so confident that it
dissolved any choice I may have had. He beat me with the
229

strap, hard, many times. At first the pain was sharp and
sudden, then there was a change and I was in a place where
pain was the condition of existence and had no more meaning
as pain. When he stopped I was weeping with humiliation
and begging him for something — I didn’t even know what,
just repeated ‘please’ over and over. [Who is this woman? I
don’t like her, why doesn’t she fight him?] Then he came into
me, into my arse. All the time he talked, told me what he was
doing. He moved further and further inside me and it hurt
terribly. It also felt incredibly good. I wanted him
everywhere, didn’t want to want him, but did. And I came
profusely, protractedly. [Of course!] He got everything he
wanted, heard everything he wanted to hear, did it all. And I
groaned and came and begged for more. [I’ve had enough of
this.]
Weird dream, huh? For a rational, thinking woman like
me?
She read it over but didn’t sign it, then addressed an envelope
and put the letter inside. A present for you Joshua, she thought
as she slipped it into her bag, a small gift from me to you. There
was a little time before she had to pick Carrie up from school but
she put her coat on and drove in that direction until she saw a
postbox. As she slipped the letter through the slot she noticed
the police station a few yards away, and instead of getting back
into the car found herself walking towards it. Up the stone steps
and through the glass doors into a lobby with a wooden counter
running along the far end. The place was empty and she stood
looking at the notices on the board. A child was missing; a man
wanted for a robbery at a sub-post office whose description
fitted almost anyone who: was black; the police wanted
neighbours to watch out for one another; there was to be an
open day, everyone was welcome to come and see their local
station and meet their police.
‘Can I help you?’
Rachel spun round to see a constable standing behind the
230

counter, smiling affably. He was a young man and seemed not
yet to have grown into his uniform; his face had a look of
guarded welcome, an expression that she felt had come with his
course on policemanship: how to look at the public before you
had ascertained the nature of their enquiry. She looked at him
for a moment without a thought in her head and wondered what
it was she was there for.
“Yes, madam?” he asked again.
She had to say something.
‘I. . .’ she started, blankly. ‘I want toreport. . . there seems
to be someone watching my house.’ It spilled out suddenly. She
was amazed, as she heard herself saying, ‘There’s an alleyway at
the back of my house. It goes up to my garden wall, then stops.
There’s been a man there, late at night, sometimes. He stands
looking at the house. Only at weekends, Friday and Saturday,
late at night, around midnight. I’m sorry, I don’t want to make
a thing of it, but it’s a bit worrying. He’s been there for the last
three weekends.’
The constable pulled a sheet of paper from under the counter
and took a pen from his jacket.
‘Does he do anything? Have you challenged him?’ His face
had settled into a look of one who was without opinions, an
information gatherer. But he spoke gently.
‘No. He doesn’t do anything. He doesn’t expose himself or
anything. He just stands looking up. I haven’t spoken to him. I
see him through the curtain as I’m going to bed. I don’t think he
knows I’ve seen him.’
‘Let me take some details,’ the policeman said, settling over
the counter, his pen poised.
She gave him her address and a description of the man: about
six foot, grey hair, unshaven, quite big. Well dressed, not a
wino or a vagrant, rather respectable looking actually.
‘Can you do anything?” she asked anxiously: the image of the
man who stared up at her window late at night was clear in her
head. Her sense of threat now quite strong. ‘It makes me very
nervous. I live alone, you see, with my small daughter — though
231

she’s usually away at weekends.’
‘Is there access to your flat from the back of the house?’
‘Yes. It’s on the first floor, but there are steps leading up from
the garden to the back door into my bathroom. It’s locked but
the top half is glass. I don’t suppose it would be hard to break
in.’
‘What about the front of the house?’ the young man asked.
‘That’s secure. There’s a good lock on the front door and the
entrance to my flat has a Yale. But at the back I don’t know.
There are often parties, music, at weekends, I doubt that
anyone would notice if someone broke the glass. Maybe it’s
nothing, just a harmless weirdo, perhaps I should ignore it.’
“You were right to report it,’ the constable reassured her. ‘We
don’t want people hanging around like that. Ill write up a
report and we’ll have a couple of constables pass by on their beat
at the weekend, just to keep an eye on things. Let us know if
you see him again, Mrs Kee, and don’t worry, the man
probably isn’t dangerous, they usually aren’t, but even so he
can’t go around frightening people.’
Rachel felt much calmer as she left the station and drove to
Carrie’s school, sensing vaguely that something had been dealt
with, a task that had been lying around was finally done. By the
time she reached the school gates the entire episode had gone
completely from her mind and she smiled sociably at the
mothers of Carrie’s classmates as they made arrangements —_
each other for their children to visit.
‘Rachel, is Carrie free on Thursday this week?’ Sandy’s mum
asked as she came through the gate.
‘That’s tomorrow, isn’t it? Wait, let me see.’ Rachel rum-
maged in her bag. ‘I only keep a diary for Carrie’s social life, I
can’t keep up with it.’ They both laughed. ‘Yes, tomorrow’s
fine. I'll pick her up from you around six. Lovely.’
Carrie wandered out into the playground looking, as always,
much older than Rachel imagined. A solid, very real little girl
after a hard day at school, trailing a plastic bag along the tarmac,
chatting to her best friend, Sandy. One sock sagged movingly
232

around her ankle, the lace of the other shoe dragged. As she
bent to tie it Carrie glanced up and saw Rachel, gave her a
friendly smile and then continued her conversation with Sandy
as they both ambled towards the gate. Rachel loved these
opportunities to watch Carrie from a distance and to be
reminded that her daughter had a separate, private existence.
What went on at school and in conversation with her friends
was Carrie’s own world, barely glimpsed at by Rachel. She
liked Carrie’s casual, acknowledging smile to her and un-
hurried pace; they had both spent the day going about their
business and over tea would talk and share whatever they chose
with each other.
In the evening Becky phoned.
‘How are you? I’m sorry I haven’t been in touch since you got
back, I’ve been having a terrible time. Are you all right?’ she
asked, concerned.
‘Yes, I’m absolutely fine; all over. What’s been happening
with you?’
‘William,’ Becky groaned. ‘It all came to a head while you
were away. He confessed. About the affair he’s been having. He
had to decide what to do.’
“What?”
‘I know. I had to decide too. All hell broke loose and I wept
and screamed. Typical wife. We’ve been fighting and crying for
days. When it came to it, Rachel, I couldn’t face losing him and
I can’t cope with the idea of being on my own. I ought to tell him
to piss off, I’m sure I should, but when it came to it I couldn’t.
And I don’t think he is really committed to this other woman.
Not particularly. Anyway, we decided to try and keep it going.
I’ve been asked to do some research for a tele-documentary — it
means six weeks floating about Europe. So I’m going to do it
and then he’ll have time to sort it all out.’
Rachel listened quietly and tried not to see the images of
Becky’s future that kept flashing into her mind. Why should it
be worse to go on living with William than to be alone when she
didn’t want to be or to start the whole business again with
233

someone else?
‘It won’t be the same between us obviously,’ Becky con-
tinued, ‘but nothing would be the same anyway. I think this is
the way marriages grow up; you have to make a commitment
whatever.’
‘I’m sure you’re right,’ Rachel agreed hurriedly. ‘It sounds
like you’re doing the right thing. It’s what you want, isn’t it?’
‘Yes, it must be,’ Becky said doubtfully. “We’ve decided to
make a baby as soon as I’m back in London. It’ll be too late
soon, and anyway. . .’ she trailed off.
And then another one, Rachel thought, next time, and had
William made a commitment whatever, I wonder? Oh well.
‘How exciting,’ she said aloud. “Babies, travel. When are you
off?’
‘In a week. Very soon. What about you, what’s going on with
you? Is your bloke still around?’
_ §No, that’s all over,’ Rachel said, noticing the leaves on the
tree outside the window were just beginning to turn; autumn
was finally here.
‘Oh dear, was it my fault — that phone call?’ Becky asked
anxiously.
‘No, absolutely not. The thing was over anyway, petering
out. It just finished. I don’t mind, it had come to its conclusion.’
‘Probably just as well as long as you don’t feel bad about it.’
‘Not at all. You know me, I don’t stay with things for long.
Pll miss you.’
‘Me too, but I’ll write.’
‘Yes, do. Look, take care and luck and all that. Love you.’
‘Me too,’ sniffed Becky.
Rachel put the phone down feeling that Europe and Becky
making babies to keep things together was pretty remote, but
that if anyone could do it Becky could. She hoped so, anyway.
She dropped Carrie off at school the next morning and went
straight home. The phone began to ring as she turned the key in
the lock. It was Joshua.
‘Thank you for your lovely letter.’
234

Rachel smiled. You see, I can make you jump, so long as you
don’t hear the sound of my fingers snapping. ‘My pleasure,
although I’m not sure “‘lovely”’ is the adjective I’d have used.’
“Leave the key under the doormat on Saturday night, then go
to bed early, before twelve.’
Rachel smiled again. Through hoops.
‘All right. By the way,” she added, before he could put the
phone down, ‘How was Scotland?’
Joshua chuckled.
‘Exhausting! The kids ran me ragged. They must have raced
up every mountain in Inverness with me panting along behind.
I’m too old for that sort of thing. I was in bed by eight o’clock
every night. Next time I take them away we go to Butlins, then I
can just lie in bed all day and read.’ Then Joshua the Family
Man switched off and the amusement left his voice. ‘Don’t
forget the key,’ he said, before he put the phone down.
Rachel blinked at the sound of the dialling tone buzzing in
her ear. The tree outside had really turned, all the leaves were
tinged now with a deep red so that the overall effect was almost
of shot silk. It was happening so fast. She put the phone back on
the hook and wondered what to give Carrie for supper that
evening. There was some shopping to do and then the lessons to
prepare for this afternoon and tomorrow. She hoped there
would be a decent movie on the television tonight. She fancied
an evening in front of the telly.
Michael picked Carrie up around midday on Saturday, and
after she had waved them goodbye Rachel ran a bath, soaked in
it for half an hour, washed her hair, then got out and shaved her
legs. When she was dressed she sat for a moment on the
bathroom stool thinking she really ought to go to the shops and
get some food in for the rest of the weekend. She got up and
unlocked the back door. Outside, the wooden steps down to the
garden were covered in a film of white syringa petals from the
tree next door. She kicked them into the semblance of a pile and
picked up a trowel that was lying on the top step. Dangerous
that, someone might trip over it, she thought, as she smashed
235

the glass in the top half of the door with the trowel’s handle,
stepped over the debris on the mat and shut but did not lock
what remained of the door behind her, leaving the key sticking
in the lock inside. She went off shopping, then pottered about
the flat, cleaning and tidying for a while.
Saturday night television presupposed that everyone was
out, as far as she could see from the programme guide. She
turned the switch and sat watching, only just aware of what she
was seeing until a half-hour variety show came on. It was
compered by a popular comedian who was immensely fat and
unprepossessing and made much of it; all his jokes, visual and
verbal, were about fat, ugly people, mostly women, wives,
mothers-in-law, fiancées, and he told them not with the usual
spitting hatred but almost despairingly, as if he were purging
himself. Rachel’s attention was caught not by the content but
the manner of the jokes, the evident necessity; they streamed
out, these tales of ageing flesh and loathsome kin. And then,
unbelievably, a chorus line of very fat, elderly ladies came on
screen, arms on each others’ shoulders, kicking their legs as
high as they could manage, shaking mounds of slack flesh,
naked thighs and upper arms dimpled and quivering with
energy and movement as they danced an inefficient but good-
humoured parody of Parisian Bluebell girls, grinning hugely
and enjoying every second. The audience screamed with
laughter as they watched the thick waists sway in spangled
leotards and gigantic bottoms in frilly skating skirts wobble and
heave. It ought to have been a disgrace, this parade of what is
normally hidden from view for fear of contempt and disgust,
but it wasn’t somehow. It was outrageous but it seemed to
Rachel finally to be a celebration. When they had finished and
puffed and panted their way off camera the fat comedian did a
sketch with a dwarf, the joke being that the fat man couldn’t see
the midget at all on account of his huge belly. Finally everyone
was on screen, fat comedian, dwarf and wobbly chorus line and
they all linked arms, kicked their legs and sang ‘When You’re
Smiling’ along with the audience. Rachel sat with her mouth
236

open, paralysed between laughter and tears. There were
moments when she felt that the human race would be forgiven
just because it was human. The news came on next and she
snapped off the television.
Rachel was in bed by eleven-thirty, having put the key under
the front doormat and turned off all the lights. She lay curled up
in bed in the dark, with a small knot of excitement somewhere
deep in her abdomen, but physically she felt exhausted, heavy
with the need to sleep. She drifted into half-sleep like someone
waiting for an alarm they knew would be going off soon. Her
eyes stayed shut as she heard the front door click quietly and
then the soft tread of careful footsteps on the stairs. She lay
immobile, wanting to be asleep, not wanting the steps to reach
her bedroom door, feeling that it was possible by doing nothing
to stop the seconds that brought the event closer, to freeze time,
to sleep for a hundred years, inhabit Never-Never land, to lie
forever in a glass casket with a piece of poisoned apple stuck in
her throat. The footsteps stopped and she heard the sound of
breathing by the bed. She jerked into a sitting position. Joshua
stood watching her, a strap and rope in one hand.
‘Don’t!’ she said terrified, meaning it. Almost completely
meaning it. ‘Don’t.’
‘Be quiet,’ Joshua said coldly. ‘Be quiet and do as you are
told.’
She sat on the bed naked, tense as a rabbit, as Joshua began to
stroke between her legs until she was wet.
‘Now,’ he said, ‘what do you want? Tell me what you want?”
‘Please,’ she whispered, ‘don’t.’
She meant don’t do this, don’t make me want, don’t make me
say, above all don’t make me say.
‘Say it,’ he ordered, still working on her.
‘Please fuck me,’ she said.
He began to fuck her.
‘I am fucking you,’ he whispered in her ear. ‘What do you
want? Say it.’
‘I don’t know,’ she whimpered.
237

‘Yes, you do. Say it, you dirty little bitch.’
‘Beat me,’ she cried, ‘tie me and beat me, please.’
That was enough, surely that was enough? He took the rope
and tied her hands behind her back and had her lie on her
stomach on the bed. He beat her hard with exact rhythmic
strokes and then as she wept in pain and confusion he buggered
her.
‘What do you want?’ he demanded as he felt her coming.
‘What?’ .
‘Please . . .’ she begged, ‘Please, please. . .’
‘What?’ he barked, pushing her beyond pain and orgasm
with his insistence.
‘Please . . . love me. Please love me. I want you to love me,’
she sobbed.
Joshua let out a single triumphant laugh as he tightened his
grip around her and juddered into orgasm. She sobbed help-
lessly beneath him but was also aware of footsteps on the
wooden stairs beyond the bedroom window.
‘Bastard,’ she choked. ‘You bastard! Damn you, you
bastard!’
‘Mrs Kee, are you all right?’
Footsteps ran from the bathroom towards the bedroom as
Joshua jerked out of Rachel and made a grab for his clothes.
Two policemen arrived at the door, flicked on the light and saw
Rachel lying face-down on the bed, her hands tied behind her
back, red wheals on her buttocks, the pillow soaked from the
tears which streamed down her face, convulsed with sobs. One
of them gently untied the rope and handed her a dressing gown
that hung from the door. As she sat up slowly and pulled it
around her she thought how strange it was that these two men
were the only people in all the time she had known him to have
seen her and Joshua together. She still shook as she tried to
swallow back the tears. Joshua looked shocked and dreadfully
undignified as he dragged his clothes on, diminished by the
scramble to get dressed and the panic on his face; smaller and
rather pathetic. She noticed beads of sweat on his forehead.
238

“This is a misunderstanding . . . this isn’t what it seems. . .’
he began hoarsely.
‘I wouldn’t say anything if I were you,’ the older of the two
policemen growled, evidently fighting down his rage, as
Rachel, clutching her cotton dressing gown around her, got up
carefully from the bed and started to walk shakily towards the
bedroom door. She stopped before she reached the two men
and turned back to look at Joshua standing helplessly by the
bed. Her dark eyes held his, locked them in a long cold stare as
she said quietly, “This zs what it seems, this is real life.’
As she turned her back on Joshua the look in her eyes
reverted to pain and distraction and the two policemen stood
aside, uncomfortable and unsure how best to comfort her in her
distress, allowing her to pass by them into the other room.
Rachel stood alone by the living room window, ignoring the
sound of men’s voices, and stared into the dark street below.
She noticed the hole outside her front door still bounded with
its orange posts and ribbon.
For God’s sake, she muttered, folding her arms more tightly
against her chest, when are they going to do something about
that? They can’t just leave it, a bloody great hole in the road.
Tomorrow, she thought, Ill phone the council and complain.
ee

A Selected List of Fiction Available from Minerva
While every effort is made to keep prices low, it is sometimes necessary to increase prices at short notice.
Mandarin Paperbacks reserves the right to show new retail prices on covers which may differ from those
previously advertised in the text or elsewhere.
The prices shown below were correct at the time of going to press.
O 749397543 Captain Corelli’s Mandolin LouisdeBerniéres £6.99
1 749399627 Senor Vivo and the Coca Lord Louis deBerniéres £5.99
O 749398574 The Troublesome Offspring of Cardinal Guzman
LouisdeBerniéres £6.99.
O 749391308 TheWarofDonEmmanuel’sNetherParts LouisdeBerniéres £4.99
O 749398167 AlmaCogan GordonBurn £5.99
0 749391243. Honour Thy Father Lesley Glaister £4.99
O 749399600 Trick or Treat Lesley Glaister £4.99
O 749398833 How late itw as, how late JamesKelman £6.99
O 74939112X Hopeful Monsters Nicholas Mosley £7.99
O 749396180 Shear Tim Parks £5.99
OO 749397047 Ulverton AdamThorpe £5.99
O 749397470 Swing Hammer Swing! JeffTorrington £5.99
0 749391340 Rebuilding Coventry SueTownsend £5.99
All these books are available at your bookshop or newsagent, or can be ordered direct from the address
below. Just tick the titles you want and fill in the form below.
Cash Sales Department, PO Box 5, Rushden, Northants NN10 6YX.
Phone: 01933 414000 : Fax: 01933 414047.
Please send cheque, payable to ‘Reed Book Services Ltd.’, or postal order for purchase price quoted and
allow the following for postage and packing:
£1.00 for the first book, 50p for the second; FREE POSTAGE AND PACKING FOR THREE BOOKS OR
MORE PER ORDER.
NAME (Block letters) ..csnsnssnssssesnsessnsensnistnnentnnenin oS se iS ee ee
ADUBESS ics ee es ae ee
0 lenclose my remittance fOr ...........ssecsseecsseee
0 Iw ish to pay by Access/Visa Card Number CREEL ETERS ee
Expiry Date hese
Signature secon ise s CRRA SAI Siercd cheasea eaasedeasateneeel metas ssmostabiastaate te DERE eee
Please quote our reference: MAND

be riba
oyYa eee; i
a monte
POS he ad wire t
ey ROWS
A eke

“NéruinG Narurav centres with
ill/minating precision on a_ sado-
amasochistic relationship. Rachel is in her
g thirties, a single parent admired by her
friends for her self-sufficiency ... But
when she meets the compelling, sinister
Joshua she discovers another side to herself
. In a sense which horrifies her, she has
found herself ... An outstandingly well-
written novel”
New Statesman
“Jenny Diski writes with an admirable lack
of sensationalism about a difficult subject
an honest and startling look at the
angry face of sex”
Cosmopolitan
/
“Its efficiency and its loathsomeness are
about equal”
: Rochon Thwaite, Observer
“Absolutely terrifying”
Margaret Drabble
“Chillingly clever. Jenny Diski is a writer
to follow” i
Robert Nye, Guardian
“Galvanizing reading”
Women’s Review
“Her combination of searching intelligence —
and remorseless, writerly precision is
_ remarkable” .
The Listener
“That rare beast, a sexual shocker written
with integrity” = ~
‘ London Magazine = =
ISBN 0-7493-9056-5 Photography: =
Housk = <
=O
=
2 . =
~ MINERVA = oO
UK £6.99 =