









OceanofPDF.com













Contents


About the Author


Title Page


Karin Slaughter – Necessary Women


Karin Slaughter – The Mean Time


Also by Karin Slaughter


Copyright


OceanofPDF.com













About the Author


Karin Slaughter was born and raised in a small Georgia town in the American South. The author of thirteen bestselling novels, Slaughter, a passionate supporter of libraries, has spearheaded the Save the Libraries campaign in America (
www.savethelibraries.com
) and advocates that everyone ‘should fight for libraries as we do for our freedom’. She has donated all income from her short story 
Thorn in My Side
 to both the American and British library systems. She has been writing since she was a child and her books have sold over thirty million copies worldwide in thirty-two languages. She lives in Atlanta.


OceanofPDF.com













NECESSARY WOMEN AND THE MEAN TIME
(Short Stories)


Karin Slaughter


OceanofPDF.com













NECESSARY WOMEN


Karin Slaughter


OceanofPDF.com













 


I was fourteen years old when I watched my mama die. Her pale skin turned pasty as she clutched her throat, blood seeping through her fingers like she was squeezing a sponge instead of trying to hold onto her life. She was barely thirty years old when she passed, but my daddy had put age on her. Streaks of silver shot through her dark hair like lines on a blackboard and there was a hardness about her eyes that made you look away fast, before you could be drawn into the sadness.


I try not to think of Mama this way now. When I close my eyes, I think of Saturday nights sitting on the floor in the living room, Mama in the chair behind me, brushing my hair so it would look good for Sunday services. Mama wasn’t particularly religious herself, but we lived in a small border town, smack on the line between Georgia and Alabama, and people would have talked. I’m glad we had nights like this, because now that she is gone, I can think back on it, sometimes even feel the bristles of the brush going through my hair and the soft touch of Mama’s hand on my shoulder. It comforts me.


We lived in a three room house made of cement block, which kept heat in like a kiln. Thankfully, pecan trees shaded the roof so most days we didn’t get the full intensity of the sun. In a county that routinely saw hundred plus temperatures, this made a difference. Come summertime, we would pick the pecans, salt them and sell them to vacationers on their way to the Florida Panhandle. Sometimes Daddy brought in peanuts, and Mama would boil them. I can still see her standing in front of the 
cauldron, stirring the peanuts with a long two-by-four, her shins bright red from the open flame beneath the pot.


Our life had a settled routine to it and while I can’t say that we were happy, we made do with what we had. At night, sometimes we would hear people beeping their horns as they crossed into Alabama and Mama would get a wistful look on her face. She never said anything, but I remember the first time I saw that look I got a pain in my gut as I realized that maybe Mama wasn’t happy, that maybe she didn’t want to be here with me and Daddy. Like most things, this passed, and soon we learned to ignore the honking vacationers. Around about the middle of summer, every supper would go something like, ‘Pass the–’ Honk-honk. Or, ‘Can I have some–’ Toot-toot.


Daddy was a long hauler, driving semis across the nation for this company or that, and he would be gone for weeks, sometimes months, at a time. Mostly when he was home I slept on the couch, but when he was gone, I would sleep with Mama in their bed. We would stay up at night, talking about him, both missing him. I think these are the happiest memories I have of my mother. At night with the lights off there was no work to do; no floors to scrub, meals to fix, shirts to iron. Mama had two jobs then, one cleaning the restrooms at the welcome center on the Alabama side, the other working nights at the laundry. When I would lay with her, I could smell an odd mixture of Clorox bleach and dry cleaning solvent. I often think if that knife had not killed her, the chemicals she used would have sent her to an early grave.


About a week before she died, Mama had a talk with me. We had turned in early, just as the sun was dipping into the horizon, because Mama was due at work 
around four the next morning. A hard rain was sweeping across the tin roof, making shushing noises to lull us to sleep. I was just about to nod off when Mama rolled over in bed, nudging me awake.


‘We need to talk,’ she said.


‘Shh-shh-shh,’ the rain warned, none too softly.


Mama spoke over the hush, her voice firm. ‘We need to have that talk.’


I knew what she meant. There was a boy at school, Rod Henry, who had started to pay attention to me. With no encouragement from me, he had gotten off the bus at my stop instead of his, which was three miles down. I had no particular interest in Rod Henry other than in the fact that he was an older boy, about sixteen. He had what could on a generous day be called a mustache along his upper lip and his hair was long enough to pull back into a ponytail. When he pulled me behind the pecan shack in our front year, I did not stop him. Out of curiosity, I let him kiss me. Out of curiosity, I let him touch me.


‘That Rod Henry,’ Mama said. ‘He’s no good.’


‘He has a tattoo,’ I told her, because I had seen it. ‘I don’t like him much.’


‘I didn’t like your daddy much when I met him, either,’ Mama said. ‘But things happen.’


I knew that I was the thing that happened to her, the thing that took her out of school at the age of fifteen, the thing that put her in the welcome center cleaning toilets instead of working at the Belk over in Mobile like she had planned to do when she got out of school. Her sister Ida worked there as a manager, and it had been lined up for 
years that Mama would go over and help Ida out as soon as she finished school. She would live in Ida’s apartment and they would save their money and one day they would meet nice, respectable boys and settle down. The plan was perfect until Daddy came along.


To hear Mama tell it, there was no romance in the way Daddy got her. It was a night of firsts that changed her life. Her first cigarette, her first beer, her first kiss, her first time having sex.


‘That’s all it takes, Baby,’ Mama said, her fingers digging into my arm, her stubby nails like slivers of hot metal. ‘Just one time is all it takes.’


I closed my eyes, crying for no reason, thinking about what it must have been like for Mama, just a few years older than me, to feel my daddy on top of her for the first time. He was not a gentle man, and he was large, six four at least with a wide chest and arms so big around he had to cut the sleeves of his tee shirts just so he could get into them. Daddy was twenty-two when he first met Mama, and he had tricked her, she said, with his worldly ways.


‘The pain,’ Mama said, mumbling. ‘He about ripped me in two.’


I nodded my understanding. She was a small woman, with delicate wrists and a thin waist. There was a look of fragility to her that had fooled more than one person. Daddy liked to say that she was skin and bones, but I thought she was more like skin and muscle. I reached out and stroked her arm, which was wiry and hard from working. A sliver of light came from the window. With the weight of the day off her, her face was relaxed, and I could see the young woman she was before Daddy got to her. I could see 
how beautiful she must have been to him, and how she was totally the opposite of me. I felt like a monster next to her.


Her head turned suddenly, the slackness gone, a furrow set into her brow. ‘You listening to me?’ she demanded, her tone low and sharp in the small room.


‘Yes, Mama,’ I mumbled, drawing my hand back as if from a snake. She kept that look on me, paralyzing me momentarily with the sudden flash of anger and fear I could see brewing inside of her. Though she had never hit me, I felt violence radiating off her, like she might lunge and throttle me any minute.


‘Don’t be me, Baby,’ she said, ‘Don’t end up in this house with your daddy like me.’


Tears came in earnest now. I whispered, ‘I won’t, Mama.’


Her look said she didn’t believe me, but that she knew nothing could be done about it. She turned her back to me and fell asleep.


Of course, Mama’s warning had come too late. Neither of us knew at the time, but I was pregnant.


After she died, Daddy sat me down at the table. He leaned his elbows on the table, his hands clasped in front of him. I noticed that together, his hands were bigger than my head. He smelled of pipe tobacco and sweat. His beard was growing in though he was a man who liked to be clean shaven. Mama’s passing had been hard on him.


‘Now that your mama’s gone,’ he said, ‘You gotta be the woman of the house.’ He paused, his broad shoulders going into a slight, almost apologetic shrug. ‘The cleaning, the cooking, the laundry. They’s just necessary things a woman’s gotta do.’


There was true regret in his voice that sent shivers of pain through me. I ran from the table and vomited into the kitchen sink. Looking back, I don’t know if it was the baby or Daddy’s words that brought such a rush of bile up from my gullet.


Daddy was on a long haul about six months later when I started to have pains. It was just me in the house and had been that way for the last three weeks. I had stopped going to school and nobody had bothered to find out why. Being big anyway, carrying my weight in the front like I did, nobody remarked upon the fact that I was showing. I had no idea that I was pregnant and had taken the stop of my monthly flow as a gift from God rather than a sign of impending childbirth. I was fifteen by then, same as Mama when she had me, and with her gone, I was still naïve to the ways of nature.


The two hundred dollars Daddy had left for food was gone by the third week of his absence. I was a child and did not know how to buy groceries. There were packs of Kool-Aid in the cabinets and sweet tea was in the fridge but no nourishment to speak of lined the shelves. We were in the middle of an unseasonably hard winter, and except for the pecan shells I was burning in the fireplace, there was no heat. Between the cold and my hunger, I think I brought on the worst for the baby. I take responsibility for it.


That morning, I had taken Daddy’s .22 rifle and shot a squirrel, but the meat had been sparse and I don’t think I cooked it long enough. The pain hit me hard around six that night. At first I thought it was cramps from the bad meat, but soon the sharp contractions took hold. I thought I might die. I thought of Mama, and that seemed okay to me.


Night passed, then another day, then another night. Pain seized me so hard at one point that I broke a chair trying to get into it. We never had a phone in the house and even if we did, I would not have known who to call. I didn’t know where Daddy was and I had no friends from school.


The baby came around one in the morning on the third day. She was a tiny little thing with only one arm and a knob where her left foot should have been. When I pried open her eyes, they were a deep blue, but that can be said of most babies. The cord was wrapped around her neck, which I suppose is what made her pass. I said a prayer over her head, begging God to accept her into His house, even though she was deformed and had no father.


The ground was too cold to bury her. I wrapped her in an old blanket and set her behind the cauldron in the pecan shack. At night sometimes I would wake, thinking I heard her crying, realizing it was only me. Two more weeks passed before the ground thawed and I buried my baby next to Mama in a tiny little grave out behind the house. I put a stone on top of the mound and I prayed on my knees for them both to forgive me. I took it as a sign that they did when Daddy came home the next day.


I made him chitterlings out of a pig he had kept off the back of his truck.


‘These’r good chitlins, Baby,’ Daddy said, scooping a forkful into his mouth. ‘Just like your Mama used to make.’


His eyes watered, and my heart ached for him at that moment more than it ever had. He had loved my mama. No matter what the drink made him do or where his temper brought him, he had loved her.


‘I remember you made these when your Mama–’ His voice cracked. He managed a smile for me. ‘Come sit on my knee, Peanut. Tell me what you been up to since I was gone.’


I did not tell him about Laura Lee, my baby girl that lay in the back field alongside Mama. I made up stories for him about classes I had not attended, friends I had not made. He laughed with me, smoking his pipe, and when I put my head on his shoulder, he comforted me.


After a while, he moved me off of him, and I sat at his knee as he spoke. ‘Listen, honey,’ he began, using the same phrase he always used when there was something difficult that he was about to say. I remembered he had used those same words with me that first time. I was laying on the couch, Mama asleep in the next room, and Daddy came in, shaking me awake. ‘Listen, honey,’ he had said then, just as he said now.


‘I met this lady,’ he said, and my heart dipped into my stomach. ‘She’s gonna be coming by some.’ He gave a low laugh. ‘Hell, she might even move in after a while if things work out. Take some of the chores off your shoulders. What do you think of that?’


I wiped my mouth with the back of my hand as I sat back on my heels. I remembered Mama in the kitchen that day, washing her hair at the sink. I remember how angry I had been, hearing them the night before. He had promised me that he wasn’t with her any more, said the only reason he needed me was because she wouldn’t let him touch her. And then I had heard them together in bed, snorting like pigs. And 
then I had walked into the room, and watched him working his mouth between her legs until her body went taut and her hand snatched his hair up in a tight fist.


I clenched my hands now, and I could feel Mama’s hair between my fingers as I jerked her head back. Daddy was due back that night, so I had acted fast, knowing even as small as she was that her hands were stronger than mine. The blade was sharp, but cutting a person’s neck is a lot like cutting up a chicken. You have to whack it good in just the right place or it won’t slice all the way through. I hacked six times before her neck separated.


By the time I had taken off her head, the knife was dull, but not at the tip, and when I used it to cut out between her legs, the flesh folded in on itself like a piece of liver. I used the cauldron to fix dinner that night, giving Daddy the same thing to eat as he had had the night before.


Daddy scratched his chin, giving me a tight smile. ‘With Mama just taking off like that,’ he said, shrugging. ‘No note, no goodbye.’ He sat back in the chair, smiling apologetically. ‘I got needs.’


‘I know, Daddy,’ I answered, buttoning my blouse with shaking fingers.


‘I mean, nothing’s gotta change with us. You know you’re still my girl.’


‘I know, Daddy,’ I mumbled back.


‘That okay with you, Baby?’ Daddy asked, zipping himself into his pants as he stood.


‘That’s fine, Daddy,’ I said, forcing some cheer into my voice. I looked up at him, giving him my best smile. ‘Why don’t you invite her over next Sunday? We can have her for dinner.’


OceanofPDF.com













THE MEAN TIME


Karin Slaughter


OceanofPDF.com













 


The thing I remember second most about that day is the way the sun blinded me as it passed by Uncle Toby’s hat. He was sitting tall at the wheel of the tractor, his Brave’s baseball cap square on his head, and the sun split around the worn brim like water in the creek bends around a rock. One hand rested easily on the bright yellow wheel of the John Deere and the other held a cigarette just as casually. This was the mark of my father’s brothers: sweat stained ballcaps and Marlboros. They were simple people who took pleasure in simple things – a lazy summer holiday, a good meal, time with family.


I was just about the age when children start to feel superior for knowing more about algebra and television shows and movie stars – all the important things – than their elders do. I had also just realized that my uncle Toby was mentally slow, what local folks politely called ‘touched in the head’. For twelve years, I’d just assumed that Toby enjoyed being around us kids, liked playing hide-and-seek and dress-up and taking us to the store on the hay wagon he hooked to his tractor. That day it had come to me that the reason he never grew tired of playing with his young nieces and nephews was because in many ways, he was on the same mental level as we were.


A blinding clear light had been turned on in my head, and I’d seen him for what he was: an old retarded man who had never been on a date in his life and who had to have his brothers pick him up on work days because he couldn’t be trusted to remember the way to the warehouse he had worked in for almost fifteen years.


The tractor was pulling the hay trailer with me and my twelve cousins in it, all itchy and hot from the summer heat. The road from the house to the store was 
graveled and rough. Occasionally, Toby would turn his head over his shoulder to note our collective discomfort. He would smile lazily, and with the sun behind him I could see the grease and sweat clouding his thick glasses. He was missing a tooth up front and his grin could be construed as sinister by anybody who didn’t know him. Toby was a big man, his back stretched wide from field work and mill work and every other kind of work poor, White Mountain people had to do back then to keep their stomachs from growling. For all his muscle and girth, he was a kind man, as gentle as any giant could be.


We were the city cousins, my sisters and I. The notions we had about hard work were limited to having to clean our room or empty the dishwasher. My cousins were all older than me, a rough lot, the sort of kids I would not be allowed to play with at home. For them, the end of school came when the fields needed to be harvested. Knowing how to kill something good to eat was much more valuable than having written a poem or read a good book. They were as different to me as night from day, yet by chance of blood, we spent every holiday together, attended the same funerals, ate too much cake at the same weddings.


My father had done well for himself, using his ability with numbers as a justification for finishing high school, then, when the time came, going to college. When he left his mountain home for a job with a large accounting firm in Atlanta, I imagine it was with a certain foreboding that he looked back at the brothers and sisters he left behind. None of his family could quite understand how he made a living adding up numbers. ‘If somebody’s dumb enough pay you for that, then all you can do is be smart 
enough to take their money,’ were the final words my grandfather had on the subject. Still, there was a feeling that my father had gotten away with something, that he was bamboozling his employers while his brothers and sisters did the honest work that kept the world turning. All his gains seemed ill-gotten, somehow tainted by the fact that he didn’t have to work for it.


Despite their differences, it was obvious that they all loved each other. There were communal memories of suffering, hard times overcome, that my father and his siblings shared. We only ever heard stories about his childhood when he was in the company of his family. We would sit quietly on the steps to the front porch as he laughed with his brothers about the time their grandfather was arrested for moonshining or when their uncle was called out in church for beating his wife. If we asked questions or interrupted, the stories would dry up, and my father would look almost ashamed, as if he had not intended for us to know that there was such a thing as struggling in the world, as if he had broken a promise made long ago that we would never know the price he had paid to get us here.


His brothers and sisters were the type of people who thought making more money than what you needed to live on was just plain foolishness. The only honor they knew came from hard work and sacrifice. The new cars and the fancy clothes my mother, my sisters and I wore failed to impress people who figured you were slow or just plain wasteful to pay more than ten dollars for a pair of shoes. Likewise, they set no store by my mama’s buying a frilly expensive dress for my sister, age eight, who just that 
morning had stepped out of my father’s Cadillac and into a puddle the size of a wading pool.


‘Ought not to be buying a child things like that,’ my aunt Anna mumbled. Aunt Becca added, ‘Cuddah fed my boys for a week on what that cost.’ Then, she’d offered my mama that tight smile of hers, the same smile she would offer somebody who showed up at church Sunday morning after missing two weeks in a row. Even as a child, it was clear to me that their disapproval of us was just as great as our disapproval of them.


My father had six brothers and two sisters who looked and acted so much alike that for a long time I was never sure which was which. Rebecca and Anna were compact women, both from the same hearty farm stock. They looked at the world with the same steely eyes and both braced themselves every time the phone rang or there was a stranger at the door as if they expected only the worst news to come – a brother in a bar fight, a husband injured at the cotton mill. The only difference between them was that Becca had two boys while Anna could not have children.


I was always uncomfortable around Anna, because she looked at me with such longing in her eyes, such certainty that she could do better with me than my mama had. I suppose now that she could have. My sisters and I were prone to talking back. We questioned everything my parents said and, like many upper middle-class children whose parents had grown up with next to nothing, we were spoiled rotten and carried about us an air of entitlement. There was nothing we wanted that Daddy did not buy for us, and Mama was so intent on not being like her own mother that we got away with 
more than any children ought to. In fact, the only time we did behave was when we were around my father’s people, because we saw first hand the consequences of unwieldy children.


Back then, with thirteen of us kids running around, any grown-up who was handy was welcome to mete out discipline, and I clearly recall a time my cousin Boyd got into trouble for harassing one of the dogs. My aunt Becca took him into Anna’s bedroom to punish him. Boyd was about three inches taller than Becca at the time, but she still took him over her butt and beat him with a paddle my granny had always used for whipping. Becca was furious and Boyd had always been more bone than meat, so when the paddle broke, Anna, who’d been brushing her hair at the mirror, tossed over her brush so that Becca could finish the job. This was all done while they planned out the next day’s meal.


Meals were important to the sisters. Where money was so short and affection was so reserved, good food cooked well was equated with love. They spent most of their time in the kitchen whenever the family got together, whipping up potatoes, gravies, collards, pinto beans, black eyed peas, green beans, cream corn, corn on the cob, ham, turkey, and biscuits that were so fluffy you weren’t sure you’d eaten them until you noticed all the sudden you couldn’t feel your legs because your stomach was so full. And then you’d eat dessert anyway, because Aunt Becca was known for her cobbler, and if you ate some of her cobbler, then you’d have to eat some of Anna’s cake just so you wouldn’t hurt her feelings.


All of this food was prepared while they shooed the kids out of the kitchen, smoked two packs of Kools between them and cast more than the occasional disdainful glance toward my mother, whose claim that she was ‘useless in the kitchen’ was met with agreeable laughs in the city but was seen as a feminine failing to the country women. They had seen their own mother send her boys into the woods for roots to boil so that the family would not go without. Gran had stretched a potato into three meals for her brood and swept the dirt floor of her house every day. It was no wonder that not a speck of food during those summer holidays went wasted. Nor was there any question that after meals, the men would be left alone to nod off in front of the television set while the women gossiped in the kitchen. This was usually the time that Uncle Toby piled us all into his tractor and promised his sisters that he was just going to take us up the road and back. We all pretended we were just along for the ride and not the candy in the store at the end of the road and, for once, Becca and Anna played along.


There was a squealing of brakes as the tractor slowed. I glanced around, noticing that I was the last one in the trailer, my cousins having spilled out into the store before Toby even cut the engine. I kept my distance from them as we tumbled into the dry coolness of the old country store.


The store was not the kind you would find in the city. There were old margarine tubs filled with nightcrawlers and pickled pigs’ feet floating in a pickle jar by the cash register. Old men sat in the back by the stove, rocking in creaky old rocking chairs, spitting into cups, discussing politics or the farm report. The floorboards creaked under 
your feet and there was a musty smell of woods and tobacco. Crickets chirped from the case by the door, a hand-lettered sign advising customers to scoop their own.


‘Peanut,’ Uncle Toby said, his voice heavy in the small store. ‘Watchu want, girl?’ He pronounced ‘want’ like ‘won’t’ and I always picked up on this when I was around him, despite the fact that Mama had once threatened Daddy that she’d never allow me to visit his family again when she heard me say, ‘you welcome’ instead of ‘you’re welcome.’


I eyed the candy as my cousins greedily snatched Gobstoppers and Big League Chew. My cousin Boyd had already opened a pack of candy cigarettes and was puffing powdered sugar into the air like a sophisticate.


All of the sudden, I felt Uncle Toby’s hand, heavy on my shoulder. He was an affectionate man, always ruffling the boys’ hair and patting us girls on the shoulder. This time, his affection was unwanted. I inched out from under him, pretending I was interested in a Milky Way a few feet beyond his touch. I moved farther down, mulling over the Little Debbies, as I tried my best to disassociate myself from his loudness, his heavy breathing, his too-close set eyes, his wild hair and meticulously pressed shirt that he kept buttoned tight around his neck.


‘Come on, gal,’ Toby prodded, patting me again on the shoulder with his awkward, heavy hand. ‘We gotta git.’


I flustered not so much at his words as his loud tone, because I could see everyone in the store looking at us. This was a time in my life when I keenly searched for disapproval or agreement in the eyes of strangers. I was halfway into my twelfth 
year, a walking box of hate and hormones. This was my mean time, and the approval of someone who did not know me mattered much more than the opinions of those who knew me best.


In the store right then, I felt hot eyes burning into me like a brand, and without thinking, the nasty side of me bristled, ‘Stop touching me, you retard.’


His hand pulled away so quickly that I felt a burn, and I caught the pain in his eyes before he looked away. He took a handkerchief from the front bib in his overalls and unfolded it. He stared at the cloth the way normal people read books, his eyes moving left to right with intense focus. I turned away, walking toward the cash register as I heard the loud report of him blowing his nose. I blindly grabbed a candy bar as I made my way to the front of the store, hearing Toby’s heavy steps behind me.


The cashier looked at me with outright anger. This was a place of manners, a store where good country folk came, greeting neighbors and strangers alike. These were the people with whom my uncle worked during the harvest, doing more than his fair share of work. They knew that he would help out anybody who asked no matter what the task, that he’d nearly had to go to the hospital when his mama died, that he had carried a neighbor’s boy three miles to the doctor when the kid had broken out from a bee sting. My humiliation sat at the back of my neck as heavy as Toby’s hand had been, and it took all of my strength to look him in the eyes.


He blinked at me behind his thick, dirty glasses. The same sloppy grin was back, the one that always identified him in a crowd, the kind of smile that showed me he’d 
been called worse in his life and that nothing I said would ever change the way he felt about me.


‘This’n’s got coconut,’ he said, trading the bar I had blindly grabbed for a Snickers, my favorite. He shuffled back to the shelves and put the coconut bar back in place, knocking some candy onto the floor in the process. I ran to his side, kneeling to help pick up the licorice and Skittles that had spilled over, but he stopped me, saying, ‘I gottum.’ There was a certain edge to his tone, a familiar pride that came from all my country cousins that said they could do fine on their own, thank you very much, and that they didn’t need my help.


I sat helpless on the floor as one by one, Toby returned the candies to their proper place. His tongue darted out as he compared the colors to make sure he put the packets back correctly, whispering under his breath as if to encourage himself in the task. The process was maddeningly slow, and everyone in the store seemed to be watching, judging. My hands itched to take over, but somewhere in my mind, I knew that was the lesson Toby was trying to teach me. He wanted to show me that he was capable of doing this simple task in his own time, and my punishment was that I had to sit there quietly and let him.


Finally finished, he stood. My face still burned red, but I took his hand as we made our way back toward the front of the store. When he looked down at me, his smile was infectious, and I returned it with such relief that we both started to laugh. That was the first thing I remember about that day, that we laughed in that small store and people stared and though I minded the stares, I put my arm around his thick waist 
as we walked to the cash register. There, he took money from his back pocket and slowly counted out the total for thirteen nieces and nephews to have candy and Cokes on a hot summer day. And I counted out the cost of my pride in the meantime.


OceanofPDF.com



















OceanofPDF.com















OceanofPDF.com













This ebook is copyright material and must not be copied, reproduced, transferred, distributed, leased, licensed or publicly performed or used in any way except as specifically permitted in writing by the publishers, as allowed under the terms and conditions under which it was purchased or as strictly permitted by applicable copyright law. Any unauthorized distribution or use of this text may be a direct infringement of the author’s and publisher’s rights and those responsible may be liable in law accordingly.


Version 1.0


Epub ISBN 9781448149193


www.randomhouse.co.uk


Copyright © Karin Slaughter 2013


Karin Slaughter has asserted her right to be identified as the author of this work under the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1998.


All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise, without the prior permission of the copyright owner.


Random House UK Limited Reg. No. 954009


www.randomhouse.co.uk


A CIP catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library


OceanofPDF.com



