.

‘A fast-moving crime thriiiex vViiu uu mrprises’ Woman
‘This is a terrific psychological thriller - and another novel
with a clever final twist to send the reader away happy’
Observer
‘Lock the door and prepare to be scared’ Woman and Home
‘A brilliant book, not to be missed under any circumstances’
Independent on Sunday
‘There is an impressive air of gathering menace in this
thriller . . . This is not a book you’d want to read alone in a
dimly lit place’ Guardian
A satisfying psychological crime thriller which builds pace
wonderfully but if you scare easily it’s best not to read it alone’
Irish News
‘With tight plotting, an ear for forensic detail and a dash of
romance, this is a truly satisfying sizzler in the tradition of
Tess Gerritsen and Tami Hoag’ Publishers Weekly
‘Lock the doors before you open this book, and hope that the
only web being woven around you is Lisa Gardner’s mes¬
merising story’ Tess Gerritsen
‘Suspense of the highest order’ Daily Mirror
‘The storytelling is sharp and there are enough plot twists
and red herrings to satisfy most readers eager for a sizzling
thriller’ Crime Time
‘A dark, powerful tale of nerve-shattering suspense’
Tami Hoag

Lisa Gardner sold her first novel when she was twenty years
old and has since been published in over a dozen countries.
Now living in the New England area with her family, she
spends her time writing, travelling and hiking. All her previous
novels are available in Orion paperback. Visit her website at
www.lisagardner.com.
By Lisa Gardner
The Perfect Husband
The Other Daughter
The Third Victim
The Next Accident
The Survivors Club
The Killing Hour
Alone
Gone
Hide
Say Goodbye
The Neighbour

The
Neighbour
LISA GARDNER

An Orion paperback
First published in Great Britain in 2009
by Orion
This paperback edition published in 2010
by Orion Books Ltd,
Orion House, 5 Upper St Martin’s Lane,
London WC2H 9EA
An Hachette UK company
3579 10 8642
Copyright © Lisa Gardner, Inc. 2009
The right of Lisa Gardner to be identified as the author
of this work has been asserted by her in accordance with
the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988.
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be
reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted,
in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical,
photocopying, recording or otherwise, without the prior
permission of the copyright owner.
All the characters in this book are fictitious, and any resemblance
to actual persons, living or dead, is purely coincidental.
A CIP catalogue record for this book is available
from the British Library.
ISBN 978-1-4091-0335-6
Printed and bound in Great Britain by Clays Ltd, St Ives pic.
The Orion Publishing Group’s policy is to use papers that
are natural, renewable and recyclable products and
made from wood grown in sustainable forests. The logging
and manufacturing processes are expected to conform to
the environmental regulations of the country of origin.
www.orionbooks.co.uk

The
Neighbour

Chapter One
I’ve always wondered what people felt in the finalfew hours of
their lives. Did they know something terrible was about to occur?
Sense imminent tragedy, hold their loved ones close? Or is it one
of those things that simply happens? The mother of four, tucking
her kids into bed, worrying about the morning car pool, the
laundry she still hasn't done, and the funny noise the furnace is
making again, only to catch an eerie creak comingfrom down the
hall. Or the teenage girl, dreaming about her Saturday shopping
date with her BFF, only to open her eyes and discover she’s no
longer alone in her room. Or the father, bolting awake, thinking,
What the fuck? right before the hammer catches him between the
eyes.
In the last six hours of the world as I know it, I feed Ree
dinner. Kraft Macaroni & Cheese, topped with pieces of turkey
dog. I slice up an apple. She eats the crisp white flesh, leaving
behind curving half-smiles of red peel. I tell her the skin holds all
the nutrients. She rolls her eyes—four going on fourteen. We
already fight over clothing—she likes short skirts, herfather and
I prefer long dresses, she wants a bikini, we insist she wear a one-
piece. Ifigure it’s only a matter of weeks before she demands the
keys to the car.
Afterward Ree wants to go “treasure hunting” in the attic. I
tell her it's bath time. Shower, actually. We share the old claw-foot
tub in the upstairs bath, as we've been doing since she was a baby.
Ree lathers up two Barbies and one princess rubber duckie. I lather
up her. By the time we're done, we both smell like lavender and

the entire black-and-white checkered bathroom is smothered with
steam.
I like the post-shower ritual. We wrap up in giant towels, then
make a beeline down the chilly hallway to the Big Bed in Jasons
and my room, where we lie down, side by side, arms cocooned, but
toes sticking out, lightly touching. Our orange tabby cat, Mr.
Smith, jumps on the bed, andpeers down at us with his big golden
eyes, long tail twitching.
“What was yourfavorite part of today?” I ask my daughter.
Ree crinkles her nose. T don’t remember. ”
Mr. Smith moves away from us, finding a nice comfy spot by
the headboard, and begins to groom. He knows what’s coming
next.
Myfavorite part was coming home from school and getting
a big hug. ” I’m a teacher. It’s Wednesday. Wednesday I get home
aroundfour, Jason departs atfive. Ree is used to the drill by now.
Daddy is daytime, Mommy is nighttime. We didn’t want
strangers raising our child and we’ve gotten our wish.
Can I watch a movie?”Ree asks. Is always asking. She’d live
with the DVD player if we let her.
“No movie, ” I answer lightly. “Tell me about school. ”
A short movie, she counters. Then offers, triumphantly,
'Veggie Tales!”
“No movie, ” I repeat, untucking an arm long enough to tickle
her under the chin. Its nearly eight o’clock and I know she’s tired
and willful. I’d like to avoid a full tantrum this close to bedtime.
“Now tell me about school. What’d you have for snack?”
She frees her own arms and tickles me under my chin. “Carrots'”
“Oh yeah?” More tickling, behind her ear. “Who brought
them ?”
“Heidi!”
She’s trying for my armpits. I deftly block the move. “Art or
music?”
2

*Musicr
“Singing or instrument?”
"Guitar!”
She’s got the towel offand pounces on me, tickling anyplace she
can find with fast, poky fingers, a last burst of energy before the
end-of-the-day collapse. I manage to fend her off, rolling laughing
off the edge of the bed. I land with a thump on the hardwoodfloor,
which makes her giggle harder and Mr. Smith yowl in protest. He
scampers out of the room, impatient now for the completion of our
evening ritual.
I find a long T-shirtfor me, and an Ariel nightgown for her.
We brush our teeth together, side by side in front of the oval mirror.
Ree likes the synchronized spit. Two stories, one song, and half a
Broadway show later, Ifinally have her tucked into bed with Lil’
Bunny clutched in her hands and Mr. Smith curled up next to her
feet.
Eight-thirty. Our little house is officially my own. I take up
roost at the kitchen counter. Sip tea, grade papers, keep my back
to the computer so I wont be tempted. The cat clock Jason got Ree
one Christmas meows on the hour. The sound echoes through the
two-story 1950s bungalow, making the space feel emptier than
it really is.
My feet are cold. It’s March in New England, the days still
chilly. I should put on socks but I don’tfeel like getting up.
Nine-fifteen, I make my rounds. Bolt lock on the back door,
check the wooden posts jammed into each windowframe. Finally,
the double bolt on the steel front door. We live in South Boston, in
a modest, middle-class neighborhood with tree-lined streets and
family-friendly parks. Lots of kids, lots of white picketfences.
I check the locks and reinforce the windows anyway. Both
Jason and I have our reasons.
Then I’m standing at the computer again, hands itching by
my side. Telling myself it’s time to go to bed. Warning myself not
3

to take a seat. Thinking I’mprobably going to do it anyway. Just
for a minute. Check a few e-mails. What can it hurt?
At the last moment, Ifind willpower I didn’t know I pos¬
sessed. I turn off the computer instead. Anotherfamily policy: The
computer must he turned off before going to bed.
A computer is a portal, you know, an entry point into your
home. Or maybe you don’t know.
Soon enough, you’ll understand.
Ten o’clock, I leave the kitchen light on for Jason. He hasn’t
called, so apparently it’s a busy night. That’s okay, I tell myself
Busy is busy. It seems we go longer in silence all the time. These
things happen. Especially when you have a small child.
I think of February vacation again. Thefamily getaway that
was either the best or the worst thing that happened to us, given
your point of view. I want to understand it. Make some sense of
my husband, of myself. There are things that once, done can’t be
undone, things that once said can’t be unsaid.
I can’tfix any of it tonight. In fact, I haven’t been able to fix
any of itfor weeks, which has been starting to fill me with more
and more dread. Once, I honestly believed love alone could heal all
wounds. Now I know better.
At the top of the stairs, I pause outside Rees door for my final
good-night check. I carefully crack open the door and peer in. Mr.
Smith’s golden eyes gaze back at me. He doesn’t get up, and I can’t
blame him: It’s a cozy scene, Ree curled in a ball under thepink-
and-green flowered covers, sucking her thumb, a tousle of dark
curls peeking upfrom above the sheets. She looks small again, like
the baby I swear I had only yesterday, yet somehow it’s four years
later and she dresses herself and feeds herself and keeps us informed
of all the opinions she has on life.
I think I love her.
I think love is not an adequate word to express the emotion I
feel in my chest.
4

I close the door very quietly, and I ease into my own bedroom,
slipping beneath the blue-and-green wedding quilt.
The door is crackedfor Ree. The hallway light on for Jason.
The evening ritual is complete. All is as it should be.
I lie on my side, pillow between my knees, hand splayed on
my hip. I am staring at everything and nothing at all. I am
thinking that I am tired, and that I’ve screwed up and that I wish
Jason was home and yet I am grateful that he is gone, and that
I’ve got to figure out something except I have no idea what.
I love my child. I love my husband.
I am an idiot.
And I remember something, something I have not thought
about for months now. The fragment is not so much a memory
as it is a scent: rose petals, crushed, decaying, simmering outside
my bedroom window in the Georgia heat. While Mama's voice
floats down the darkened hall, “I know something you don’t
know....”
“Shhh, shhh, shhh,” I whisper now. My hand curves around
my stomach and I think too much of things I have spent most of
my life trying to forget.
“Shhh, shhh, shhh, ” I try again.
And then, a sound from the base of the stairs...
In the last moments of the world as I know it, I wish I could tell
you I heard an owl hoot out in the darkness. Or saw a black cat
leap over thefence. Orfelt the hairs tingle on the nape of my neck.
I wish I could tell you I saw the danger, that Iput up one hel¬
luva fight. After all, I, of all people, should understand just how
easily love can turn to hate, desire to obsession. I, of all people,
should have seen it coming.
But I didn’t. I honestly didn’t.
And God help me, when his face materialized in the shadow
5

of my doorway, my first thought was that he was just as hand¬
some now as when we first met, and that I still wished I could
trace the line of his jaw, run my fingers through the waves of his
hair....
Then I thought, looking at what was down at his side, that I
mustn’t scream. I must protect my daughter, my precious daughter
still sleeping down the hall.
He stepped into the room. Raised both of his arms.
I swear to you I didn’t make a sound.
6

Chapter Two
Sergeant Detective D.D. Warren loved a good all-you-can-
eat buffet. It was never about the pasta—filler food to be sure,
and just plain bad strategy if there was a carving roast to be
had. No, over the years she had developed a finely honed
strategy: stage one, the salad bar. Not that she was a huge fan
of iceberg lettuce, but as a thirty-something single worka¬
holic, she never bothered with perishables in her own fridge.
So yeah, first pass generally involved some veggies, or God
knows, given her eating habits, shed probably develop scurvy.
Stage two: thinly sliced meat. Turkey was okay. Honey-
baked ham, a step up. Rare roast beef, the gold medal standard.
She liked it cherry red in the middle and bleeding profusely.
If her meat didn’t jump a little when she poked it with her
fork, someone in the kitchen had committed a crime against
beef.
Though of course she would still eat it. At an all-you-
can-eat buffet, one couldn’t have very high standards.
So a little salad, then on to some thinly sliced rare roast
beef. Now the unthinking schmuck inevitably dished up
potatoes to accompany her meat. Never! Better to chase it
with cracker-crusted broiled haddock, maybe three or four
clams casino, and of course chilled shrimp. Then one had to
consider the sauteed vegetables, or perhaps some of that green
bean casserole with the crunchy fried onions on top. Now,
that was a meal.
Dessert, of course, was a very important part of the buffet
7

process. Cheesecake fell into the same category as potatoes
and pasta—a rookie mistake, don’t do it! Better to start with
puddings or fruit crisps. And, as the saying went, there was
always room for Jell-O. Or for that matter, chocolate mousse.
And creme brulee. Topped with raspberries, dynamite.
Yeah, she could go with some creme brulee.
Which made it kind of sad that it was only seven in the
morning, and the closest thing to food she had in her North
End loft was a bag of flour.
D.D. rolled over in bed, felt her stomach rumble, and
tried to pretend that was the only part of her that was hungry.
Outside the bank of windows, the morning looked gray.
Another cold and frosty morning in March. Normally she’d
be up and heading for HQ_by now, but yesterday, she’d
wrapped up an intensive two-month investigation into a
drive-by shooting that had taken out an up-and-coming drug
dealer, as well as a mother walking her two young children.
The shooting had occurred a mere three blocks from Boston
PD’s Roxbury headquarters, adding yet more insult to injury.
The press had gone nuts. The locals had staged daily
pickets, demanding safer streets.
And the superintendent had promptly formed a massive
taskforce, headed, of course, by D.D., because somehow, a
pretty blonde white chick wouldn’t get nearly the same flack
as yet another stuffed suit.
D.D. hadn’t minded. Hell, she lived for this. Flashing
cameras, hysterical citizens, red-faced politicians. Bring it on.
She took the public flogging, then retreated behind closed
doors to whip her team into a proper investigative frenzy.
Some asshole thought he could massacre an entire family on
her watch? No fucking way.
Theyd made a list of likely suspects and started to
squeeze. And sure enough, six weeks later, they busted down
8

the doors of a condemned warehouse near the waterfront, and
dragged their man from the dark recesses into the harsh sun¬
light, cameras rolling.
She and her team would get to be heroes for twenty-four
hours or so, then the next idiot would come along and the
whole pattern would repeat. The way of the world. Shit, wipe,
flush. Shit again.
She sighed, tossed from side to side, ran her hand across
her five-hundred-thread-count sheets, and sighed again. She
should get out of bed. Shower. Invest some quality time in
doing laundry and cleaning the disaster that currently passed
as her living space.
She thought of the buffet again. And sex. Really hot,
pounding, punishing sex. She wanted her hands palming a
rock-hard ass. She wanted arms like steel bands around her
hips. She wanted whisker burn between her thighs while her
fingernails ripped these same cool white sheets to shreds.
Goddammit. She threw back the covers and stalked out
of the bedroom, wearing only a T-shirt, panties, and a fine
sheen of sexual frustration.
She’d clean her condo. Go for a run. Eat a dozen dough¬
nuts.
She made it to the kitchen, yanked the canister of
espresso beans out of the freezer, found the grinder, and got
to work.
She was thirty-eight for God’s sake. A dedicated investi¬
gator and hard-core workaholic. Feeling a little bit lonely, no
hunky husband or two-point-two rugrats running around?
Too late to change the rules now.
She poured the fresh-ground coffee into the tiny gold
filter, and flipped the switch. The Italian machine roared to
life, the scent of fresh espresso filling the air and calming her
a little. She fetched the milk and prepared to foam.
9

She’d purchased the North End loft three months ago.
Way too nice for a cop, but that was the joy of the imploding
Boston condo market. The developers built them, the market
didn’t come. So working stiffs like D.D. suddenly got a chance
at the good life. She liked the place. Open, airy, minimalist.
When she was home, it was enough to make her think she
should be home more. Not that she was, but she thought about
it.
She finished preparing her latte, and padded over to the
bank of windows overlooking the busy side street. Still resdess,
still wired. She liked her view from here. Busy street, filled
with busy people, scurrying below. Lots of little lives with litde
urgencies, none of whom could see her, worry about her, want
anything from her. See, she was off duty, and still, life went on.
Not a bad lesson for a woman like her.
She blew back a small batch of foam, took several sips,
and felt some of her tension unknot a litde more.
She never should’ve gone to the wedding. That’s what
this was about. A woman her age should boycott all weddings
and baby showers.
Damn that Bobby Dodge. He’d actually choked up when
saying his vows. And Annabelle had cried, looking impossibly
lovely in her strapless white gown. Then, the dog, Bella,
walking down the aisle with two gold bands fastened to her
collar with a giant bow.
How the hell were you not supposed to get a little emo¬
tional about something like that? Especially when the music
started and everyone was dancing to Etta James’s “At Last”
except you, of course, because you’d been working so damn
much you never got around to finding a date?
D.D. sipped more latte, gazed down at busy little lives,
and scowled.
Bobby Dodge had gotten married. That’s what this was
io

about. He’d gone and found someone better than her, and
now he was married and she was ...
Goddammit, she needed to get laid.
She’d just gotten her running shoes laced up when her cell
phone rang. She checked the number, frowned, placed the
phone to her ear.
“Sergeant Warren,” she announced crisply.
“Morning, Sergeant. Detective Brian Miller, District C-
6. Sorry to bother you.”
D.D. shrugged, waited. Then when the detective didn’t
immediately continue, “How can I help you this morning,
Detective Miller?”
“Well, I got a situation....” Again, Miller’s voice trailed
off, and again, D.D. waited.
District C-6 was the BPD field division that covered the
South Boston area. As a sergeant with the homicide unit,
D.D. didn’t work with the C-6 detectives very often. South
Boston wasn’t really known for its murders. Larceny, burglary,
robbery, yes. Homicide, not so much.
“Dispatch took a call at five A.M.,” Miller finally spoke
up. “A husband, reporting that he’d come home and discov¬
ered his wife was missing.”
D.D. arched a brow, sat back in the chair. “He came home
at five A.M.?”
“He reported her missing at five A.M. Husband’s name is
Jason Jones. Ring any bells?”
“Should it?”
“He’s a reporter for the Boston Daily. Covers the South
Boston beat, writes some larger city features. Apparently, he
works most nights, covering city council meetings, board
meetings, whatever. Wednesday it’s the water precinct, then

he got a call to cover a residential fire. Anyhow, he wrapped
up around two A.M., and returned home, where his four-year-
old daughter was sleeping in her room but his wife was
MIA.”
“Okay.”
“First responders did the standard drill,” Miller con¬
tinued. “Checked round the house. Car’s on the street,
woman’s purse and keys on the kitchen counter. No sign of
forced entry, but in the upstairs bedroom a bedside lamp is
broken and a blue-and-green quilt is missing.”
“Okay.”
“Given the circumstances, a mom leaving a kid alone, etc.,
etc., the first responders called their supervisor, who contacted
my boss in the district office. Needless to say, we’ve spent the
past few hours combing the neighborhood, checking with local
businesses, tracking down friends and families, etc., etc.To make
a long story short, I haven’t a clue.”
“Got a body?”
“No, ma’am.”
“Blood spatter? Footprints, collateral damage?”
“Just a busted-up lamp.”
“First responders check the whole house? Attic, basement,
crawl space?”
“We’re trying.”
“Trying?”
“Husband ... he’s not refusing, but he’s not exactly coop¬
erating.”
Ah crap. And suddenly D.D. got it. Why a district
detective was calling a homicide sergeant about a missing
female. And why the homicide sergeant wouldn’t be going for
her run. Mrs. Jones she s young, white, and beautiful, isn’t
she?”
Twenty-three-year-old blonde schoolteacher. Has the

kind of smile that lights up a TV screen.”
“Please tell me you haven’t talked about this over the
radio.”
“Why do you think I called you on your cell phone?”
“What’s the address? Give me ten minutes, Detective
Miller. I’ll be right there.”
D.D. left her running shoes in the family room, her running
shorts in the hall, and her running shirt in the bedroom. Jeans,
white button-down top, a killer pair of boots, and she was
ready to go. Clipped her pager to her waist, hung her creds
around her neck, slipped her cell phone into her back pocket.
Last pause for her favorite caramel-colored leather jacket,
hanging on a hook by the door.
Then Sergeant Warren hit the road, on the job and loving
it.
South Boston had a long and colorful history, even by Boston
standards. With the bustling financial district on one side,
and the bright blue ocean on the other, it functioned as a
quaint harbor town with all the perks of big-city living. The
area was originally settled by the lower end of the socioeco¬
nomic scale. Struggling immigrants, mostly Irish, cramming
thirty people to a room in vermin-ridden tenement housing,
where a slop bucket served as latrine and a straw pile became
a flea-infested mattress. Life was hard, with disease, pests, and
poverty being everyone’s closest neighbor.
Fast-forward a hundred and fifty years, and “Southie was
less of a place and more of an attitude. It gave birth to Whitey
Bulger, one of Boston’s most notorious crime lords, who spent
the seventies turning the local housing projects into his
13

personal playground, addicting one half of the population
while employing the other half. And still, the area soldiered
on, neighbor looking after neighbor, each generation of tough,
wiseass kids producing the next generation of tough, wiseass
kids. Outsiders didn’t get it, and by Southie standards, that
was just fine.
Unfortunately, all attitudes sooner or later got adjusted.
One year, a major harbor event brought droves of city dwellers
into the area. They arrived expecting squalid neighborhoods
and decrepit streets. They discovered waterfront views, an
abundance of green parks, and outstanding Catholic schools.
Here was a neighborhood, ten minutes from downtown
Boston, where your toughest choice on a Saturday morning
was whether to go right and head to the park, or go left and
hang out on the beach.
Needless to say, the yuppies found real estate agents, and
the next thing you knew, old housing projects became
million-dollar waterfront condos, and fourth-generation
triple-deckers were sold to developers for five times the
money anyone thought they’d ever bring.
The community became both more and less. Different
economics and ethnicities. Same great parks and tree-fined
streets. Added some coffee bars. Kept the Irish pubs. More
upwardly mobile professionals. Still a lot of families and kids.
Good place to five, if you’d bought in before the prices went
nuts.
D.D. followed her GPS navigator to the address provided
by Detective Miller. She found herself close to the water at a
quaint little brown-and-cream painted bungalow with a
postage-stamp lawn and a nude maple tree. She had two
thoughts at once: Someone had built a bungalow in Boston?
And two, Detective Miller was good. He was five and a half
hours into a call out, and thus far, no ribbons of crime-scene
14

tape, no parking lot of police cruisers, and better yet, no long
lines of media vans. House appeared quiet, street appeared
quiet. The proverbial calm before the storm.
D.D. drove around the block three times before finally
parking several streets down. If Miller had managed this long
without advertising, she wasn’t gonna give the game away.
Walking back, hands fisted in her front pockets, shoulders
hunched for warmth, she discovered Miller standing in the
front yard, waiting for her. He was smaller than she expected,
with thinning brown hair and a 1970s mustache. He looked
like the kind of cop who would make an excellent undercover
officer—so nondescript no one would notice him, let alone
realize he was eavesdropping on important conversations. He
also had the pale complexion of a man who spent most of his
time under fluorescent lights. Desk jockey, D.D. thought, and
immediately reserved judgment.
Miller crossed the lawn and fell in step beside her. He
kept walking, so she did, too. Sometimes, policing involved a
bit of acting. Today, apparently, they were playing the role of
a couple out for a morning stroll. Miller’s rumpled brown suit
was a bit formal for the part, but D.D., in her slim-fitted jeans
and leather jacket, looked dynamite.
“Sandra Jones works over at the middle school,” Miller
started out, speaking low and rushed as they ate up the first
block, heading toward the water. “Teaches sixth grade social
studies. We’ve got two uniforms over there now, but no one
has heard from her since she left the school yesterday at three-
thirty. We’ve canvassed the local businesses, taverns, conven¬
ience stores; nothing. Dinner dishes are in the sink. A stack
of graded papers next to her purse on the kitchen counter.
According to the husband, Sandra didnt usually start work
until after putting their daughter to bed at eight P.M. So we re
working on the assumption that she was at home with her
15

daughter until sometime after eight-thirty, nine P.M. Cell
phone shows no activity after six; we’re pulling the records for
the landline now.”
“What about family? Grandparents, aunts, uncles,
cousins?” D.D. asked. The sun had finally burned through the
gray cloud cover, but the temperature remained raw, with the
wind blowing off the water and slicing viciously through her
leather coat.
“No local family. Just an estranged father in Georgia. The
husband refused to specify, just said it was old news and had
nothing to do with this.”
“How nice of the husband to do our thinking for us. You
call the father?”
“Would if I had a name.”
“The husband won’t give you the name?” D.D. was
incredulous.
Miller shook his head, jamming his hands in his pants
pockets while his breath came out in faint clouds of steam.
“Oh, wait till you meet this guy. Ever watch that show? The
medical drama?”
ER
“ ?”
“No, the one with more sex.”
“ Greys Anatomy?”
“Yeah, that’s the one. What’s the name of that doctor?
McDuff, McDevon ... ?”
“McDreamy}”
“That’s the one. Mr. Jones could be his twin. That rum¬
pled thing going on with the hair, the five o’clock shadow ...
Hell, minute this story breaks, this guy is gonna get more fan
mail than Scott Peterson. I say we have about twenty more
hours, and then either we find Sandy Jones or we’re totally,
completely screwed.”
D.D. sighed heavily. They hit the waterfront, made a
16

right, and kept moving. “Men are stupid,” she muttered impa¬
tiently. “I mean, for heavens sake. It’s like once a week now
some good-looking, got-everything-going-for-him guy tries
to solve his marital difficulties by killing off his wife and
claiming she disappeared. And every week the media
descends—”
“We got a pool going. Five to one odds on Nancy Grace.
Four to one on Greta Van Susteren.”
D.D. shot him a look. “And every week,” she continued,
“the police assemble a taskforce, volunteers comb the woods,
the Coast Guard sweeps the harbor, and you know what?”
Miller appeared hopeful.
“The wife’s body is found, and the husband ends up
serving twenty to life in maximum security. Wouldn’t you
think that by now at least one of these guys would settle for
an old-fashioned divorce?”
Miller didn’t have anything to say.
D.D. sighed, ran a hand through her hair, sighed again.
“All right, gut reaction. Do you think the wife’s dead?”
“Yep.” Miller said it matter-of-factly. When she waited,
he offered up, “Broken lamp, missing quilt. I’d say someone
wrapped up the body and carted it off. Quilt would contain
the blood, which accounts for the lack of physical evidence.”
“All right. You think the husband did it?”
Miller pulled out a folded yellow sheet of legal pad paper
from inside his brown sports jacket, and handed it to her.
“You’ll like this. While the husband has been, shall we say,
reluctant, to answer our questions, he did provide his own
timeline for the evening, including the names and phone
numbers of people who could corroborate his whereabouts.”
“He provided a list of alibis}” D.D. unfolded the sheet,
noting the first name listed, Larry Wade, Fire Marshall\ then
James McConnagal, Massachusetts State Police, then three more

names, this time from the BPD. She kept reading, her eyes
growing wider, then her hands starting to shake with barely
suppressed rage. “Who the hell is this guy again?”
“Reporter, Boston Daily. House burned last night. He
claims he was there, covering that story, along with half of
Boston’s finest.”
“No shit. You call any of these guys yet?”
“Nah, I already know what I’m gonna get.”
“They saw him, but they didn’t see him,” D.D. filled in.
“It’s a fire, everyone’s working. Maybe he asked each one of
them for a quote, so they noticed him at that moment, then
when he slips away ...”
“Yep. As alibis go, this guy scores straight out of the gate.
He’s got half a dozen of our own people to say where he was
last night, even if some of the time he wasn’t there at all.
Meaning,” Miller wagged his finger at her, “don’t let Mr.
Jones’s good looks fool you. McDreamy is also McSmarty.
That’s so unfair.”
D.D. handed the paper back. “He lawyer up?” They hit
the corner, and by mutual consent turned around and headed
back. They were walking into the wind now, the force of the
breeze flattening their coats against their chests while car¬
rying the sting of the water into their faces.
“Not yet. He just won’t answer our questions.”
“Did you invite him down to the station house?”
“He asked to see our arrest warrant.”
D.D. arched a brow, registering that bit of news.
McDreamy was McSmarty. At least, he knew more about his
constitutional rights than the average bear. Interesting. She
tucked her chin down, turning her face away from the wind.
“No sign of forced entry?”
No, and get this, both the front and back doors are made
of steel.”
18

“Really?”
“Yep. With key in and key out bolt locks. Oh, and we
found wooden dowels jammed into most of the window
frames.”
“No shit. Whatd the husband say?”
“One of those questions he declined to answer.”
“Is there a home security system? Maybe a camera?”
“No and no. Not even a nanny cam. I asked.”
They were approaching the house now, the adorable
fifties bungalow that apparently was reinforced tighter than
Fort Knox.
“Key in and key out locks,” D.D. murmured. “No cameras.
Makes me wonder if the setup is about keeping someone out,
or keeping someone in.”
“Think the wife was abused?”
“Wouldn’t be the first time. You said there was a kid?”
“Four-year-old girl. Clarissa Jane Jones. They call her
Ree.”
“Talk to her yet?”
Miller hesitated. “Kid’s spent the morning curled up on
her father’s lap, looking pretty traumatized. Given that I don’t
see any hope of this guy letting us speak to her alone, I haven’t
pushed. Figured I’d approach them both when we had a little
more ammunition.”
D.D. nodded. Interviewing kids was messy business.
Some detectives had a knack for it, some didnt. She was
guessing, based on Miller’s reluctance, that he didn’t feel too
good about it. Which would be why D.D. made the big
bucks.
“Is the husband confined?” she asked. They climbed the
bungalow’s front steps, approaching a bright green welcome
mat, where the blue scripted word was surrounded by a sea of
bright green and yellow flowers. It looked to D.D. like the kind
i9

of welcome mat a little girl and her mother might pick out.
“Father and daughter are sitting in the family room. I left
an officer in charge. Best I can do at the moment.”
“At the moment,” she agreed, pausing in front of the
doormat. “You’ve searched the home?”
“Ninety percent of it.”
“Cars?”
“Yep.”
“Outbuildings?”
“Yep.”
“Checked with local establishments, neighbors, friends,
relatives, and coworkers?”
“Efforts are ongoing.”
“All without sign of Sandra Jones.”
Miller glanced at his watch. “Approximately six hours
from the husband’s first call, there remains no sign of twenty-
three-year-old white female Sandra Jones.”
“But you do have a potential crime scene in the master
bedroom, a potential witness in Sandra’s four-year-old
daughter, and a potential suspect in Sandra’s journalist hus¬
band. That about sums it up?”
“That about sums it up.” Miller gestured to the front door,
revealing his first hint of impatience. “How do you wanna
play it: house, husband, or kid?”
D-D. put a hand on the doorknob. She had an immediate
gut reaction, but paused to think it through. These first few
hours, when you had a call out, but not yet a crime, were
always a critical time in an investigation. They had suspicions,
but not yet probable cause; a person of interest, but not yet a
prime suspect. From a legal perspective, they had just enough
rope to hang themselves.
D.D. sighed, realized she wasn’t going home any time
soon, and made her choice.
20

ChapterThree
I’ve always been good at spotting cops. Other guys, they can
bluff with a pair of deuces in poker. Me, I’m not that lucky.
But I can spot cops.
I noticed the first plainclothes officer over breakfast. I’d
just poured myself a bowl of Rice Crispies, and was leaning
against the dull Formica counter to take a bite. I glanced
out the tiny window above the kitchen sink, and there he
was, framed neatly in Battenberg lace: white male subject;
approximately five ten, five eleven; dark hair; dark eyes,
striding south down the far sidewalk. He wore plain-front
chinos, tweedish-looking sports jacket, and button-up blue
collar shirt. Shoes were buffed dark brown with thick
black rubber soles. His right hand held a small spiralbound
notebook.
Cop.
I took a bite of cereal, chewed, swallowed, and repeated.
Second guy appeared approximately a minute and a half
after the first. Bigger—six one, six two, with short-cropped
blond hair and the kind of meaty jaw scrawny guys like me
automatically want to punch. He wore similar tan pants, dif¬
ferent sports jacket, and a white-collared shirt. Officer
Number Two was working the right side of the street, my side
of the street.
Thirty seconds later, he banged on my front door.
I took a bite of cereal, chewed, swallowed, and repeated.
My alarm goes off at 6:05 A.M. every morning, Monday

through Friday. I get up, shower, shave, and change into a pair
of old jeans and an old T-shirt. I’m a tighty-whities kind of
guy. I also prefer knee-high white athletic socks with three
navy blue bands around the top. Always have, always will.
Six thirty-five A.M., I eat a bowl of Rice Crispies, then
rinse my bowl and spoon and leave them to dry on the
faded green dish towel spread flat next to the stainless steel
sink. Six fifty A.M., I walk to work at the local garage, where
I will pull on a pair of oil-stained blue coveralls and take
my place beneath the hood of a car. I’m good with my
hands, meaning I’ll always have a job. But I’ll always be the
guy under the hood, never the guy out front with the cus¬
tomers. I’ll never have that kind of job.
I work until six P.M., with an hour off at lunch. It’s a long
day, but OT is the closest to real money I’ll ever get, and
again, I’m good with my hands and I don’t talk much,
meaning bosses don’t mind having me around. After work, I
walk home. Probably heat up ravioli for dinner. Watch Sein¬
feld on TV. Go to bed by ten.
I dont go out. I don’t visit bars, I never catch a movie
with friends. I sleep, I eat, I work. Every single day pretty
much the same as the day before. It’s not really living. More
like existing.
The shrinks have a term for it: pretend normal.
It’s the only way I know how to live.
I take another bite of cereal, chew, swallow, and repeat.
More knocking on the front door.
Lights are out. My landlord, Mrs. H., is in Florida visiting
her grandkids, and it doesn’t make sense to waste electricity
on just me.
I set down the bowl of soggy cereal and the cop chooses
that moment to turn on his heel and walk back down the
front steps. I move to the other side of the kitchen, where I
22

can monitor his progress as he moves on to my neighbor’s
and bangs on the door.
Canvassing. The cops are canvassing the street. And they
came from the north. So something happened, probably on
this street, immediately to the north.
It comes to me, what I didn’t really want to think about,
but what has been floating around in the back of my mind
since the instant the alarm went off and I went to the bath¬
room and stared at my own reflection above the sink. The
noise I heard right after I snapped off the TV last night.
What I probably know that I don’t want to know, but now
can’t get out of my head.
I give up on breakfast and sit down hard in a kitchen chair
instead.
Six forty-two A.M. Today is not going to be pretend
normal after all.
Today is going to be the real thing.
I have a hard time breathing. My heart races, I can feel
my palms start to sweat. And I think so many things at once,
my head begins to hurt and I hear someone groan and it con¬
fuses me until I realize it is myself.
Her smile, her sweet, sweet smile. The way she looks at me, as
if I'm ten feet tall, as if I can hold the world in the palm of my
hand.
And then, the tears streaming down her cheeks. “No, no, no.
Please, Aidan, stop. No...”
The cops will come for me. Sooner or later. Two of them,
three of them, an entire SWAT team, converging upon my
doorstep. That’s why guys like me exist. Because every com¬
munity has gotta have a villain, and no amount of pretend
normal is ever gonna change that.
Gotta think. Gotta plan. Gotta get the fuck out of here.
To where? For how long? I don’t have that kind of cash....
23

I try to get my breathing under control. Find some sort
of comfort. Tell myself it’s gonna be all right. I’m keeping
with the program. No drinking, no smoking, no Internet. I’m
attending my meetings, keeping my nose clean.
Live normal, be normal, right?
None of that helps me. I fall back on old habits, on the
one realization I know to be true.
I’m a damn good liar, especially when it involves the
police.
D.D. started her tour in the kitchen. If she turned her head
to the left and peered through the doorway, she could just
make out the silhouette of a man sitting on a dark green love
seat, the back of the couch covered in a rainbow-hued afghan.
Jason Jones sat very still, and tucked beneath his chin was
another curly-topped head, also not moving: his daughter,
Ree, who appeared to have fallen sleep.
D.D. made it a point not to stare too long. She didn’t
want to call attention to herself this early in the game. Millers
instinct had been correct: They were dealing with an intelli¬
gent person of interest, who seemed to know how to navigate
the legal system. Meaning they needed to get their ducks in
a row, quickly, if they were going to proceed with any kind of
meaningful questioning of the husband or the four-year-old
potential witness.
So, she focused on the kitchen.
The kitchen, like the rest of the house, retained a semblance
of period charm, while definitely showing its age. Peeling
black-and-white checked linoleum. Appliances that some
would call retro, but D.D. considered ancient. The room was
very tiny. A curved countertop bar offered enough space for
two to perch on a pair of red vinyl bar stools. A small parlor
24

table sat in front of the windows, but held a computer versus
providing any additional seating.
That struck D.D. as interesting. A family of three that
only had seating for two. Did that say something about the
family dynamics right there?
The kitchen was neat, countertops wiped down, clutter
confined to appliances lined up in a row against the checkered
tile backsplash, but not too neat—dirty dishes were stacked
in the sink, while the drying rack held clean dishes still
waiting to be returned to appropriate cupboards. An old
diner’s clock with a fork and spoon serving as the hands was
mounted cheerfully above the stove, while pale yellow cur¬
tains patterned with brighter yellow sunny-side up eggs
adorned the tops of the windows. Old, but homey. Clearly,
someone had made an effort.
D.D. spotted a red checkered dish towel hanging up on
a hook and leaned forward to give it an experimental sniff.
Miller looked at her funny, but she just shrugged.
Early in her career, she’d worked a domestic abuse case—
the Daleys, that was their name—where the domineering
husband, Pat, had forced his wife, Joyce, to scrub the house
with military precision every single day. D.D. still remem¬
bered the overwhelming scent of ammonia that had made her
eyes water as she went from room to room, until, of course,
she came to the back room and the scent of ammonia was
replaced with the cloying scent of drying blood. Apparently,
good old Joyce hadn’t made the bed properly that morning.
So Pat had punched her in the kidneys. Joyce had started
peeing blood and, deciding that she was dying, she’d retrieved
the shotgun from the back of her husband s truck, and
ensured that he joined her in the hereafter.
Joyce had survived the damage to her kidneys. The hus¬
band, Pat, who lost most of his face to the shotgun blast, hadnt.
25

So far, the kitchen struck D.D. as an average kitchen. No
manic compulsions^—or orders—to clean and sterilize. Just a
place where a mother had served dinner, with mac-n-cheese-
encrusted dishes still awaiting attendance in the sink.
D.D. turned her attention to the black leather purse
perched on the kitchen counter. Miller silently handed her a
pair of latex gloves. She nodded her thanks, and started sifting
through the purse’s contents.
She started with Sandra Jones’s cell phone. The husband
had no expectation of privacy on his wife’s cell, so they were
in the clear to study the phone to their heart’s content. She
reviewed text messages and the phone log. Only one phone
number jumped out at her, and that was labeled HOME. A
mom calling in to check on her daughter, no doubt. Second
most often called number was labeled JASON’S CELL, a wife
calling in to check on her husband, D.D. would assume.
D.D. couldn’t listen to the voice messages without the pass¬
word, but didn’t sweat it. Miller would follow up with the cell
phone company and have them freeze the messages as well as
pull their own log. A provider retained copies of even deleted
messages in its own database, handy information for inquiring
minds that wanted to know. Miller would also have the provider
trace Sandras final few phone calls, tracking the cell towers the
calls pinged off, to help establish her final movements.
The rest of the purse yielded three different tubes of lip¬
stick muted shades of pink—two pens, a nail file, a granola
bar, a black hair-scrunchy, a pair of reading glasses, and a
wallet with forty-two dollars cash, a valid MA driver’s license,
two credit cards, and three grocery store and one bookstore
member cards. Finally, D.D. pulled out a small spiral note¬
book filled with various fists: groceries to buy, errands to run,
times for appointments. D.D. left the notebook out as a pri¬
ority item, and Miller nodded.
26

Sitting next to the purse was a large set of car keys. D.D.
held them up questioningly.
“Automatic starter belongs to gray Volvo station wagon
parked in the driveway. Two keys are house keys. Four keys
we don’t know, but we’re guessing at least one is her class¬
room. I’ll get an officer on it.”
“You checked the back of the station wagon?” she asked
sharply.
Miller gave her a look, clearly wanting a little credit. “Yes,
ma’am. No surprises there.”
D.D. didn’t bother with an apology. She just set down the
keys and picked up a stack of school papers, marked neatly
in red ink. Sandra Jones had given her class a one-paragraph
writing assignment, each student needing to answer “If I were
starting my own village, the first rule for all the colonists
would be ... and why.”
Some kids managed only a sentence or two. A couple
nearly filled the page. Each paper had at least one or two
comments, then a letter grade circled at the top. The writing
was feminine, with some of the kids earning smiley faces.
D.D. decided that was the kind of detail a forger wouldn’t
think to include. So for now, she was satisfied that Sandra
Jones had sat at this counter, grading these papers, an activity
that according to her husband wouldn’t happen until little
Ree was tucked into bed.
So at approximately nine o’clock at night, Sandra Jones
had been alive and well in her own kitchen. And then ...
D.D.’s gaze went to the computer, a relatively new-
looking Dell desktop sitting on top of the little red parlor
table. She sighed.
“Turned on?” she asked with barely disguised longing.
“Haven’t wanted to tempt myself,” Miller answered.
The computer was tricky. They definitely wanted it, but
27

definitely needed the husband’s permission, as he had a right
to privacy. Something to negotiate, assuming they found
some ammunition to negotiate with.
D.D. turned to the tiny, narrow staircase ascending from
the back side of the kitchen.
“Evidence techs already up there?” she asked.
“Yep.”
“Where’d they park the van?”
“Five blocks over, by a pub. I’m feeling coy.”
“I like it. Have they processed the stairs?”
“First thing I had them do,” Miller assured her. Then
added: “Look, Sergeant, we’ve been here since six A.M. At one
point, I had ten officers swarming the house, checking base¬
ments, bedrooms, closets, and shrubbery. Only thing we have
to show for it is one broken lamp and one missing quilt in
the master bedroom. So I sent the evidence techs upstairs to
do what they gotta do, and the rest of the guys out into the
broader universe to either bring me back Sandra Jones or
some evidence of whatever the hell happened to her. We
know the basics. They’re just not getting us anywhere.”
D.D. sighed again, grabbed the handrail, and headed up
the chocolate-painted stairs.
Upstairs was as cozy as the downstairs. D.D. had to fight
the urge to duck, as a pair of old light fixtures brushed the
top of her hair. The hallway boasted hardwood floors, colored
the same dark chocolate as the stairs. Over the years, dust had
become trapped in the tight corners of the floorboards, with
a couple tumbleweeds of fine hair and dander drifting across
her footsteps. Pet, D.D. guessed, though no one had men¬
tioned one yet.
She paused long enough to look back the way she came,
a parade of footsteps mixing and mingling in an indistinct
blur against the dusty floor. Good thing the floor had already
28

been processed, she thought. Then frowned, as another
thought struck her and made her immediately, acutely con¬
cerned.
She almost opened her mouth to say something, then at
the last minute thought better of it. Better to wait. Get all the
ducks in a row. Quickly.
They passed a cramped bathroom that had been decorated
in the same fifties motif as the kitchen. Across from it was a
modest bedroom with a single-sized bed covered in a pink
comforter, tucked under the heavily slanted eaves of the room.
The ceiling and eaves had been painted a bright blue, and
dotted with various clouds, birds, and butterflies. Definitely a
little girls room, and just cute enough that D.D. felt a pang for
little Clarissa Jane Jones, who had gone to bed nestled inside
such a pretty sanctuary, only to wake up to a nightmarish
parade of dark-suited officials traipsing through her home.
D.D. didn’t Unger in the bedroom, but continued down
the hall, to the master bedroom.
Two evidence techs were in front of the windows. They’d
just pulled the shades and were now shooting the room with
blue Ught. D.D. and Miller stayed respectfully in the hallway,
as the first white-garbed figure scanned the walls, ceiling, and
floor for signs of bodily fluids. As spots emerged, the second
figure marked them with a placard, for further analysis. The
process took about ten minutes. They didn’t do the bed. No
doubt the sheets and blankets had already been rolled up to
be processed at the lab.
The first figure snapped up the blinds, turned on the sur¬
viving bedside lamp, then greeted D.D. with a cheery, Hiya,
Sergeant.”
“How goes the battle, Marge?”
“Winning as always.”
D.D. stepped forward to shake Marge’s hand, then the hand
29

of the second evidence tech, Nick Crawford. They all went way
back, spending too much time at these kinds of scenes.
“What do you think?” D.D. asked them.
Marge shrugged. “Some hits. We’ll test them, of course,
but nothing glaring. I mean, every bedroom in the United
States has bodily fluids somewhere.”
D.D. nodded. When processing a room for bodily fluids
there were two red flags: one, an obvious display such as
spatter lighting up across a wall or a giant puddle illuminating
the floor; two, the total lack of bodily fluids, which indicated
someone had used chemicals for one helluva cleanup job. Like
Marge said, every bedroom had something.
“What about the broken lamp?” D.D. asked.
“We recovered it from the floor,” Nick spoke up, “with all
the shards in the immediate vicinity. At first glance, the lamp
toppled and shattered against the floor, versus being used as
a weapon. Visual inspection, at least, didn’t reveal any sign of
blood on the lamp’s base.”
D.D. nodded. “Bedding?”
“Blue-and-green top quilt is missing, but the rest of the
bedding appears intact.”
“You process the bathroom?” D.D. asked.
“Yep.”
“Toothbrushes?”
“Two were still damp when we got here. One a pink
Barbie electric toothbrush belonging to the child. The second
a Braun Oral-B electric toothbrush, which according to the
husband belonged to his wife.”
“Pajamas?”
Per the husband, wife wore a long purple T-shirt,
sporting the graphic of a crowned baby chick on the front.
Currently unaccounted for.”
“Other clothing? Suitcase?”
30

“Husband’s initial inventory revealed nothing missing.”
“Jewelry?”
“Biggest items are her watch and wedding ring, both
gone. Also her favorite pair of gold hoops, which according
to the husband she wore habitually. All we found in the jew¬
elry box were some necklaces, and a couple of homemade
bracelets apparently gifted by the child. Husband thought
that looked about right.”
D.D. turned to Miller. “No activity on her credit card, I
assume?”
Miller went back to his I’m-not-an-idiot stare. She fig¬
ured that was answer enough.
“So,” she mused out loud, “by all accounts, Sandra Jones
came home from work yesterday afternoon, fixed dinner for
her child, put her child to bed, then proceeded with her
nightly chore of grading papers. At some point, she brushed
her teeth, put on her nightshirt, and at least made it to the
bedroom,where ...”
“Some kind of struggle broke a lamp?” Marge offered up
with a shrug. “Maybe someone was already here, ambushed
her. That would explain the lack of blood spatter.”
“The subject manually subdued her,” Miller supplied.
“Asphyxiation.”
“Test the pillow cases,” D.D. said. “Could have suffocated
her in her sleep.”
“Suffocated, strangled. Something quiet and not too
messy,” Nick agreed.
“Then wrapped the body in the comforter and dragged
it out of the house,” Miller concluded.
D.D. shook her head. “No, no dragging. This is where
things get complicated.”
“What do you mean, no dragging?” Miller asked in con¬
fusion.
3i

“Look at the dusty hallway. I can see our footprints,
which is a problem, because if someone dragged a corpse
wrapped in a giant quilt, what I should be seeing is a long,
clean smear from this bedroom to the top of the stairs. No
clean streak. Meaning, the body wasn’t dragged.”
Miller frowned. “Okay, so the subject carried her out.”
“One man carried the burritoed body of an adult female
through that narrow hallway?” D.D. arched a brow skeptically.
“First off, that would have to be one strong man. Secondly,
no way he could’ve made the corner of that staircase. We’d
see evidence everywhere.”
“Two men?” Margie ventured.
“Twice as much noise, twice as much chance of being
caught.”
“Then what the hell happened with the comforter?”
Miller demanded.
I dont know, D.D. said. “Unless .. . Unless she wasn’t
killed in this room. Maybe she made it back downstairs.
Maybe she was sitting on the sofa watching TV, then the
doorbell rang. Or maybe the husband came home_” She
thought about it, trying out various scenarios in her mind.
“He killed her elsewhere, then came up here for the com¬
forter, knocking over the lamp as he tugged it off the bed.
Quieter that way. Less chance of waking the kid.”
“Meaning we still haven’t found the primary crime scene,”
Miller muttered, but he was frowning as he said it. Because
according to him, they’d done the basics, and the basics
should’ve turned up signs of blood.
They all looked at one another.
“I vote for the basement,” D.D. said. “When bad things
happen, it always seems to be in the basement. Shall we?”
*
32

The four of them traipsed downstairs, passing by the front
room, where a uniformed officer stood in the doorway, still
keeping tabs on Jason Jones and his sleeping child. Jones
looked up as they crossed the foyer. D.D. had a brief glimpse
of shuttered brown eyes, then Miller opened the door,
revealing a flight of treacherous wooden stairs leading down
to a musty cellar dimly lit by four bare bulbs. They took it
slow and careful. Honest to God, officers fell down stairs and
hurt their backs more often than the public ever knew. It was
embarrassing for everyone concerned. You gonna get hurt on
the job, you should at least have a good story to tell.
At the bottom, D.D. made out a basement that looked
an awful lot like a basement. Stone foundation. Cracked
cement floor. An ivory-colored washer and dryer sat in front
of them, old coffee table stacked with a plastic laundry basket
and laundry detergent in front of that. Then came the
ubiquitous collection of damaged lawn chairs, old moving
boxes, and outgrown baby furniture. Directly beside the stairs
was a set of plastic shelves that appeared to hold the overflow
from the kitchen pantry. D.D. noted boxes of cereal, macaroni
and cheese, crackers, dry pasta, cans of soup, the usual kitchen
detritus.
The cellar was dusty, but not messy. Items were neatly
stacked against the wall, the center floor clear for laundry
duties, perhaps some indoor bike riding, to judge by the
purple tricycle parked next to the bulkhead stairs.
D.D. crossed to the bulkhead, investigating the collection
of cobwebs in the right-hand corner, the thick coating of dust
on the dark handle. Doors obviously hadn’t been opened for
a bit, and now that she was down here, she was already
changing her mind. If you killed someone in the basement,
would you really traipse all the way back upstairs? Why not
stick the body beneath the pile of boxes, or grab an old sheet
33

to bundle it out of the bulkhead in the dead of night?
She poked through the collection of discarded crib parts,
baby strollers, and bouncy seats. Moved on to the collection
of boxes next to the wall, the decaying lawn furniture.
Behind her Nick and Marge were surveying the floor
with spotlights while Miller remained off to the side, hands
in his pockets. Having already walked through the basement
once, he was merely waiting for the group to arrive at the
same conclusion he’d formed hours before.
After a matter of minutes, D.D. was already getting there.
The cellar reminded her of the kitchen, not too dirty, not too
clean. Just about right for a family of three.
Just for kicks she checked the washer and the dryer. Then,
her heart stopped in her throat.
“Oh crap,” she said, washer lid still open, one blue-and-
green quilt staring her in the face.
Miller came hustling over, evidence techs on his heels. “Is
that... ? You ve got to be kidding me. When I get my hands
on the two yokels who first searched this space—”
“Hey, isn’t that the quilt?” Nick said, rather stupidly.
Marge was already hunched over, pulling out the com¬
forter from the top-loading machine while being careful not
to drag it on the floor.
“He washed it?” D.D. was thinking out loud. “The hus¬
band washed the quilt, but didn’t have time to dry it before
calling the police? Or the wife had it in the wash all along
and we’ve been chasing our tails for the past few hours?”
Marge was carefully spreading the quilt out, handing
Nick one end, while holding the other. The comforter bore
the deep wrinkles of a wet item that had been left in a
washing machine for a bit. It smelled vaguely of detergent-
fresh, clean. They fluffed it once, and a wet purple ball fell
splat on the floor.
34

D.D. still had on latex gloves, so she did the honors.
“Sandra Jones’s nightshirt, I presume,” she said, unrolling the
sodden purple T-shirt, which did have a crowned chick on
the front.
They studied both items for a bit, looking for faded pink
stains, like the kind left behind by blood, or maybe jagged
tears that might indicate a struggle. Signs of something.
D.D. had that uncomfortable feeling again. As if she was
seeing something obvious but not quite getting it.
Who took the time to wash a quilt and nightshirt, but left a
broken lamp in plain sight? What kind of woman disappeared,
but left behind her child, her wallet, her car ?
And what kind of husband came home to discover his wife
missing, but waited three hours before calling the police ?
“Attic, crawl space?” D.D. asked Miller out loud. Nick and
Margie were folding up the quilt to take back to the lab. If
the subject hadn’t used bleach, the comforter might still yield
some evidence. They took the purple nightshirt from D.D.,
put it in a second bag for processing.
“No crawl space. Attic is small and mostly fdled with
Christmas decorations,” Miller reported.
“Closets, refrigerators, freezers, outbuildings, barbecue
pits?”
“Nope, nope, nope, nope, and nope.”
“Of course, there is that big, blue harbor.”
“Yep.”
D.D. sighed heavily. Tried one last theory: “Husband’s
vehicle?”
“Pickup truck. He walked out with us to peer in the back.
He refused, however, to open the doors of the front cab.
“Cautious son of a bitch.”
“Cold,” Miller corrected. “Wife’s been missing for hours
now, and he hasn’t even picked up the phone to call any family
35

or friends.” >
That decided the matter for her. “All right,” D.D. said.
“Let’s go meet Mr. Jones.”
36

Chapter Four
When I was a little girl, I believed in God. My father would take
me to church every Sunday. I would sit in Sunday school and listen
to stories of His work. Afterward, we would gather in the church¬
yardfor a potluck of fried chicken, broccoli casserole, and peach cob¬
bler.
Then we would return home, where my mother would chase
my father around the house with a meat cleaver, screaming, “I
know whatyou're up to, mister! Like those church hussies sit next
to you just to share a hymnal!”
Round and round they would go, my parents racing around
the house, myself curled up small in the front coat closet, where I
could hear every word they said without having to see what would
happen if my father ever lost his footing, missed a corner, tripped
on a stair.
When I was a little girl, I believed in God. Every morning
when I woke up and my father was still alive, I considered it a
sign of His work. It wasn't until I grew older that I started to
truly understand Sunday mornings in my parents house. My
fathers survival had nothing to do with God's will, I came to see.
It was a sign of my mama's will. She never killed my father,
because she didn't want him to die.
No, my mama's goal was to torture my father. To make every
living moment of his lifefeel like an eternity in hell.
My father lived, because in my mama's mind, death would've
been too good for him.
37

“Did you find Mr. Smith?”
“Excuse me?”
“Did you find Mr. Smith? My cat. Mommy went to look
for him this morning, but she hasn’t come back yet.”
D.D. blinked her eyes several times rapidly. She had just
opened the door at the top of the basement steps, to find her¬
self confronted by a very solemn, curly-headed four-year-old.
Apparently, Clarissa Jones was now awake and running the
investigation.
«T1 see. »
“Ree?” A male baritone broke through the silence. Ree
obediently turned around, and D.D. glanced up to find Jason
Jones standing in the foyer, studying both of them.
“I want Mr. Smith,” Ree said plaintively.
Jason held out his hand and his daughter crossed to him.
He didn’t utter a word to D.D., simply vanished back into
the family room, his daughter at his side.
D.D. and Miller followed suit, Miller giving a faint nod
of his head to excuse the uniformed officer who’d been
standing guard.
The family room was small. A tiny love seat, two wooden
chairs, a hope chest covered in lace doilies, which served
double duty as a coffee table. A modest TV was propped on
a fake-oak microwave stand in the corner. The rest of the
room was occupied by a child-sized craft table, and a row of
bins that housed everything from a hundred crayons to two
dozen Barbies. To judge by the toys, four-year-old Ree liked
the color pink.
D.D. took her time. She surveyed the room, pausing at
the grainy photos framed on the mantel, the picture of a
newborn baby girl, that same baby girl in an annual proces¬
sion of first food, first steps, first tricycle. No other family
members in the photos. No obvious signs of grandmas,
38

grandpas, aunts, uncles. Just Jason, Sandra, and Ree.
She noted a small shot of a toddler clutching a very tol¬
erant orange cat, and supposed that must be the infamous Mr.
Smith.
She worked her way to the toy cubbies, glancing at the
table-top and noting a half-finished coloring project featuring
Cinderella with two mice. Normal things, D.D. thought.
Normal toys, normal items, normal furniture for a normal
family in a normal South Boston home.
Except this family wasn’t normal, or she wouldn’t be here.
She passed by the cubbies one more time, trying to get a
bead on the father without turning to look at him. Most men
would be agitated by now. A missing wife. Law enforcement
officers encroaching on his home, intruding into his private
sanctuary, picking up and handling personal photos of his
family while his four-year-old daughter was present.
She felt nothing from him. Nothing at all.
It was almost as if he weren’t in the room.
She turned at last. Jason Jones was sitting on the love seat,
his arm around his complacent daughter, his gaze fixed upon
the empty TV screen. Up close and personal, he was every¬
thing Miller had advertised. Thick rumpled hair, masculine
five o’clock shadow, nicely toned chest accentuated by a
simple navy blue cotton shirt. He was sex and fatherhood and
mysterious boy-next-door all rolled into one. He was an
anchorwoman’s wet dream, and Miller was right if they
didn’t find Sandra Jones before the first news van found them,
they were screwed.
D.D. picked up one of the wooden chairs, placed it in
front of the sofa, and took a seat. Miller, for his part, had
faded into the backdrop. Better for approaching the kid. Two
cops could pressure a reluctant husband. For an anxious child,
however, it would be too much.
39

Jason Jones’s gaze finally flickered to her, resting upon her
face, and in spite of herself, she nearly shivered.
His eyes were empty, like staring into pools of starless
night. She had only seen such a gaze twice before. Once
when interviewing a psychopath who’d resolved an unhappy
business relationship by executing his partner and the man’s
entire family with a crossbow. Secondly when interviewing
a twenty-seven-year-old Portuguese woman who had been
held as a sex slave for fifteen years by a wealthy couple in
their elite Boston brownstone. The woman had died two
years later. She’d walked into oncoming traffic on Storrow
Drive. Never hesitated, witnesses said. Just stepped off the
curb straight into the path of a Toyota Highlander.
I want my cat,” Ree said. She had straightened on the
sofa, pushing slightly away from her father. He didn’t try to
pull her back.
“When did you last see Mr. Smith?” D.D. asked her.
Last night. When I went to bed. Mr. Smith always sleeps
with me. He likes my room best.”
D.D. smiled. I like your room, too. All the flowers and
the pretty butterflies. Did you help decorate it?”
“No. I can’t draw. My mommy and daddy did it. I’m four
and three-quarters, you know.” Ree puffed out her chest. “I’m
a big girl now, so I got a big girl’s room for my fourth
birthday.”
You re four? No way, I would’ve said you’re five, six, easy.
What have they been feeding you, ’cause you’re awfully tall
for four.”
Ree giggled. Her father said nothing.
I like macaroni and cheese. That’s my favorite food in
the whole world. Mommy lets me eat it if I have turkey
franks, too. Need protein, she says. If I have enough protein,
I can have Oreos for dessert.”
40

“Is that what you ate last night?”
“I had mac-n-cheese and apples. No Oreos. Daddy didn’t
have time to make it to the grocery store.”
She gave her father a look, and for the first time Jason
Jones fired to life. He ruffled his daughter’s hair, while his
gaze filled with a mixture of love and protectiveness. Then he
turned away from her and, as if a switch had been thrown,
resumed his dead man’s stare.
“Who fed you dinner last night, Ree?”
“Mommy feeds me dinner, Daddy feeds me lunch. I have
PB and J for lunch, but no cookies. Can’t have cookies all the
time.” Ree sounded faintly mournful.
“Does Mr. Smith like Oreos?”
Ree rolled her eyes. “Mr. Smith likes everything. That’s
why he’s so fat. He eats and eats and eats. Mommy and
Daddy say no people food for Mr. Smith, but he does not like
that.”
“Did Mr. Smith help you eat dinner last night?”
“He tried to jump on the counter. Mommy told him to
scat.”
“I see. And after dinner?”
“Bath time.”
“Mr. Smith takes a bath?”D.D. tried to sound incredulous.
Ree giggled again. “No, Mr. Smith is a cat. Cats don’t take
baths. They groom themselves.”
“Ooh. That makes much more sense. So who took a
bath?”
“Mommy and me.”
“Does your mom hog all the hot water? Use up all the
soap?
“No. But she won’t let me have the soap. Once I poured
the whole bottle into the tub. You should’ve seen the bubbles!”
“That must’ve been most impressive.”
4i

“I like bubbles.”
“So do I. And after the bath?”
“Well, we took a shower.”
“My apologies. After your shower ...”
“Went to bed. I get to pick two stories. I like Fancy Nancy
and Pinkalicious books. I also get to pick a song. Mommy
likes to sing ‘Twinkle, Twinkle Little Star,’ but I’m too old for
that, so I made her sing ‘Puff the Magic Dragon.’”
“Your mother sang ‘Puff the Magic Dragon’?” D.D. didn’t
have to fake her surprise this time.
“I like dragons,” Ree said.
“Umm, I see. And Mr. Smith, what did he think of this?”
“Mr. Smith doesn’t sing.”
“But does he like songs?”
Ree shrugged. “He likes stories. He always curls up with
me during story time.”
“Then your mother turns out the light?”
I get a nightlight. I know I’m four and three-quarters,
but I like having a nightlight. Maybe ... I don’t know. Maybe
when I’m five ... or maybe thirty, then I won’t have a night-
light.”
“Okay, so you’re in bed. Mr. Smith is with you—”
“He sleeps at my feet.”
“Okay, he’s at your feet. Nightlight is glowing. Your mom
turns off the light, closes the door, and then ...”
Ree stared at her.
Jason Jones was staring at her now, too, his gaze faintly
hostile.
“Anything happen in the middle of the night, Ree?” D.D.
asked quietly.
Ree stared at her.
“Other noises. People talking. Your door opening? When
did Mr. Smith leave you?”
42

Ree shook her head. She wasn’t looking at D.D. anymore.
After another second, she curled back into her father’s side,
her skinny arms wrapping tightly around his waist. Jason put
both arms around her shoulders and regarded D.D. flatly.
“Done,” he said.
“Mr. Jones—”
“Done,” he repeated.
D.D. took a deep breath, counted to ten, and debated her
options. “Perhaps there is a family member or neighbor who
could watch Clarissa for a bit, Mr. Jones.”
“No.”
“No, there is no one who can watch her, or no, you won’t
doit?”
“We look after our daughter, Detective ...”
“Sergeant. Sergeant D.D. Warren.”
He didn’t blink at the mention of her title. “We look after
our daughter, Sergeant Warren. No point in having a child if
you’re simply going to let others raise her.”
“Mr. Jones, surely you understand that if we’re going to
help find ... Mr. Smith ... we’re going to need more infor¬
mation, and more cooperation, from you.”
He didn’t say anything, just held his daughter close.
“We require the keys to your truck.”
He said nothing.
“Mr. Jones,” D.D. urged impatiently. “The sooner we
establish where Mr. Smith isn’t, the sooner we can establish
where she is.”
‘‘He, ” came Ree’s muffled voice from against her father’s
chest. “Mr. Smith is a boy."
D.D. didn’t respond, simply continued to study Jason
Jones.
“Mr. Smith is not in the cab of my pickup truck,”Jason
said quietly.
43

“How do you know that?”
“Because he was already gone when I came home. And
just to be safe, I checked the vehicle myself.”
“With all due respect, sir, that would be our job.”
“Mr. Smith is not in my truck,” Jason repeated quietly.
“And until you get a search warrant, you’ll get to take my
word for it.”
“There are judges who would grant us a warrant based
on your lack of cooperation alone.”
“Then I guess you’ll be back shortly, won’t you?”
“I want access to your computer,” D.D. said.
“Talk to the same judge.”
“Mr. Jones. Your .. .cat has been missing for seven hours
now. No sign of her—”
“Him,” Ree’s muffled voice.
Him, in the neighborhood or at the usual... cat haunts.
The matter is growing serious. I would think you’d want to
help.”
“I love my cat,” Jones said quietly.
Then give us access to your computer. Cooperate with
us, so we can resolve this matter safely and expediently.”
“I can’t.”
“Can’t?” D.D. pounced. “Or won’t?”
“Can’t.”
“And why can’t you, Mr. Jones?”
He looked at her. Because I love my daughter more.”
Thirty minutes later, D.D. walked with Detective Miller back
to her car. They had printed Jason Jones and Clarissa Jones
as a matter of protocol; in order to determine if there were
any strange fingerprints in the house, they had to start by
identifying the prints of the known occupants. Jones had
44

volunteered his hands, then assisted with Rees, who thought
the whole thing was a grand adventure. Most likely, Jason had
realized that one act of cooperation cost him very little—after
all, there was nothing suspicious about his prints being in his
own home.
Jason Jones had washed his hands. Jason Jones had
washed Ree’s hands. Then he’d basically kicked the police
officers out. His daughter needed to rest, he announced, and
that had been that. He escorted each and every one of them
to the door. No What are you doing to find my wife? No Please,
please please Til do whatever I can to help. No Let's organize a
search party and tackle the entire neighborhood until wefind my
beautiful, beloved spouse.
Not Mr. Jones. His daughter needed a nap. And that was
that.
“Cold?” D.D. muttered now. “Arctic is more like it.
Clearly, Mr. Jones has never heard of global warming.”
Miller let her rant.
“Kid knows something. Notice the way she shut down
the moment we got past bedtime? She heard something, saw
something, I don’t know. But we need a forensic interviewer,
someone who specializes in children. Quick, too. More time
that girl spends around dear old Dad, harder it’s going to be
for her to recall any inconvenient truths.”
Miller nodded his head.
“ ’Course, we’re also gonna need doting Dad’s permission
to interview his child, and somehow, I dont think he s gonna
grant us access. Fascinating, don’t you think? I mean, his wife
vanished in the middle of the night, leaving their daughter
all alone in the house, and far from cooperating with us, or
asking us any logical questions about what we’re doing to find
his wife, Jason Jones sits on that sofa as mute as a mime.
Where’s his shock, his disbelief, his panicked need for
45

information? He should be calling friends and relatives. He
should be digging out recent photos of his wife for us to can¬
vass the neighborhood. He should, at the very least, be
arranging for someone to watch his daughter so he can per¬
sonally assist with our efforts. This guy—it’s like a switch has
been thrown. He’s not even home.”
“Denial,” Miller offered up, trudging along beside her.
“We’re gonna have to do this the hard way,” D.D.
declared. “Get a search warrant for Jason Jones’s truck, get an
affidavit permitting us to seize the computer, as well as
requesting printouts of the wife’s cell phone records. Hell, we
should probably just have the entire house frozen as a crime
scene. That’d give Jason Jones something to think about.”
“Tough on the kid.”
Yeah, well, that s the kicker.” If the house was declared a
crime scene, Jason and his daughter would be forced to evac¬
uate. Pack a bag, move into a motel under escort from a police
cruiser kind of thing. D.D. wondered what little Ree would
think, giving up her garden oasis for a cheap hotel room with
brown carpets and the stale scent of a decade’s worth of cig¬
arettes. It didnt make D.D. feel too good about things, but
then she had another thought.
She stopped walking, pivoting toward Miller so abruptly,
he nearly ran into her.
“If we move Jason and Ree out of the house, we’ll have
to assign officers to cover them twenty-four/seven. Meaning
there’ll be fewer officers actively searching for Sandra Jones,
meaning our investigation will slow down during a time when
it s critical to ramp up. You know that. I know that. But Jason
doesn’t know that.”
Miller frowned at her, stroked his mustache.
Judge Banyan, D.D. said, resuming walking at a much
brisker pace. “We can prepare the affidavits now, and get ’em
46

to her chamber right after lunch. We’ll get warrants for the
computer, the truck, and dammit, we’ll have the house
declared a crime scene. We’ll knock Mr. Arctic right out on
his ass.”
“Wait, I thought you just said—”
“And we’ll hope,” D.D. interjected forcefully, “that when
Jason Jones is given a choice between vacating his own home,
or letting a certified forensic specialist talk to his child, he’ll
opt for the interview.”
D.D. glanced at her watch. It was just after twelve now,
and on cue, her stomach rumbled for lunch. She remembered
her early-morning fantasy of an all-you-can-eat buffet, and
felt just plain pissy.
“We’ll need more manpower to execute the warrants,” she
added.
“All right.”
“And we’re gonna have to think of a way to broaden our
search without alerting the media yet.”
“All right.”
They were at her car. D.D. paused long enough to look
Miller in the eye and sigh heavily.
“This case sucks,” she declared.
“I know,” Miller said affably. “Aren’t you glad I called?”
47

Chapter Five
At 11:59, Jason finally got the last law enforcement officer
out of the house. The sergeant retreated, then the lead detective,
the evidence technicians, and the uniformed officers. Only a
plainclothes detective remained behind, sitting obtrusively in
a brown Ford Taurus parked in front. Jason could watch him
from the kitchen window, the officer sitting with his gaze
straight ahead, alternately yawning and taking sips of Dunkin’
Donuts coffee.
After another minute, Jason moved away from the
window, realized that his house was all his again, and nearly
staggered under the weight of what to do next.
Ree was staring at him, her big brown eyes so much like
her mother’s.
Lunch, Jason said out loud, slightly startled by the
hoarse sound of his own voice. “Let’s have lunch.”
Daddy, did you buy Oreo cookies?”
“No.”
She exhaled heavily, turning toward the kitchen anyway.
“Maybe you should call Mommy. Maybe, if she’s near a gro¬
cery store looking for Mr. Smith, she can bring home some
cookies.”
Maybe, Jason said, and managed to get the refrigerator
door open even though his hand had started to shake vio-
lently.
He made it through lunch on autopilot. Found the bread,
pulled out whole wheat slices. Mixed the natural peanut
48

butter, spread the jelly. Counted out four carrots, picked out
some green grapes. Arranged it all on a flowered daisy plate
with the sandwich cut on the requisite diagonal.
Ree prattled about Mr. Smith’s great escape, how no
doubt he would be meeting up with Peter Rabbit and maybe
they’d both come home with Alice in Wonderland. Ree was
at the age where she easily blended fact and fantasy. Santa
was real, the Easter Bunny was best friends with the Tooth
Fairy, and there was no reason Clifford the Big Red Dog
couldn’t have a play date with Mr. Smith.
She was a precocious child. All energy and high hopes
and huge demands. She could throw a forty-five-minute
temper tantrum over not having the right shade of pink socks
to wear. And she had once spent an entire Saturday morning
refusing to come out of her room because she was furious that
Sandra had bought new curtains for the kitchen without con¬
sulting her first.
Yet, neither Sandra nor Jason would have it any other way.
He looked at her, Sandra looked at her, and they saw the
childhood neither one of them had ever had. They saw inno¬
cence and faith and trust. They relished their daughter’s easy
hugs. They lived for her infectious laugh. And they both, early
on, had agreed that Ree would always come first. They would
do anything for her.
Anything.
Jason glanced at the unmarked police car sitting outside
his house, felt his hand curl into an automatic fist, and
checked the reflex.
“She’s pretty.”
“Mr. Smith is a boy,” he said automatically.
“Not Mr. Smith. The police lady. I like her hair.”
Jason turned back toward his daughter. Ree’s face was
smudged with peanut butter in one corner, jelly in another.
49

And she was lookingat him again with her big brown eyes.
“You know you can tell me anything,” he said softly.
Ree set her sandwich down. “I know, Daddy,” she said,
but she wasn’t looking at him anymore. She ate two green
grapes half-heartedly, then rearranged the others on her plate,
around the white petals of the daisy. “Do you think Mr. Smith
is okay?”
“Cats have nine lives.”
“Mommys don’t.”
He didn’t know what to say. He tried to open his mouth,
tried to summon some kind of vague reassuring phrase, but
nothing would come out. He was mostly aware that his hands
were shaking convulsively again, and he had gone cold some¬
where deep down inside, where he would probably never be
warm again.
“I’m tired, Daddy,” Ree said. “I want to take a nap.”
“Okay,” he said.
They headed upstairs.
Jason watched Ree brush her teeth. He wondered if this is
what Sandy had done.
He read Ree two stories, sitting on the edge of Ree’s bed.
He wondered if this is what Sandy had done.
He sang one song, tucked the covers around his
daughter’s shoulders, and kissed her on the cheek. He won¬
dered if this is what Sandy had done.
He made it all the way to the doorway, then Ree spoke
up, forcing him to turn around. He had his arms crossed over
his chest, his fingers fisted beneath his elbows, where Ree
couldn’t see the tremors in his hands.
“Will you stay, Daddy? Until I fall asleep^”
“Okay.”
50

“Mommy sang me Tuff the Magic Dragon.’I remember
her singing Tuff the Magic Dragon.’”
“Okay.”
Ree shifted restlessly beneath the covers. “Do you think
she’s found Mr. Smith yet? Do you think she’ll come home?”
“I hope so.”
She finally lay still. “Daddy,” she whispered. “Daddy, I
have a secret.”
He took a deep breath, forced his voice to sound light.
“Really? Because remember the Daddy Clause.”
“The Daddy Clause?”
“Sure, the Daddy Clause. Whatever the secret, you’re
allowed to tell one daddy. Then he’ll help keep the secret,
too.”
“You’re my daddy.”
“Yep, and I assure you, I’m really good at keeping secrets.”
She smiled at him. Then, her mother’s daughter, she
rolled over and went to sleep without saying another word.
He waited five more minutes, then eased out of the room,
and just barely made it down the stairs.
He kept the picture in the kitchen utility drawer, next to the
pen flashlight, green screwdriver, leftover birthday candles,
and half a dozen wine charms they never used. Sandra used
to tease him about the tiny photo in its cheap gilded frame.
“For God's sake, it's like hiding away a picture of your old high
school sweetheart. Stick the frame on the mantel, Jason. She’s like
family to you. I don’t mind. ”
But the woman in the photo was not family. She was old—
eighty, ninety, he couldn’t remember anymore. She sat in a
rocking chair, birdlike frame nearly lost in a pile of voluminous
hand-me-down clothes: man’s dark blue flannel shirt, belted
5i

around brown corduroy pants, nearly covered by an old Army
jacket. The woman was smiling the large, gleeful smile of the
elderly, like she had a secret, too, and hers was better than his.
He had loved her smile. He had loved her laugh.
She was not family, but she was the only person who, for
a very long time, had made him feel safe.
He clutched her photo now. He held it to his breast like
a talisman, and then his legs gave out and he sank to the
kitchen floor. He started to shake again. First his hands, then
his arms, then his chest, the bone-deep tremors traveling
down to his thighs, his knees, his ankles, each tiny little toe.
He didn’t cry. He didn’t make a sound of protest.
But he shook so hard it felt as if his body should break
apart, his flesh flying from his bones, his bones splintering
into a thousand pieces.
“Goddammit, Sandy,” he said, resting his shaking head
upon his shaking knees.
Then he realized, quite belatedly, that he’d better do
something about the computer.
The phone rang ten minutes later. Jason didn’t feel like
talking to anyone, then thought, a little foolishly, that it might
be Sandy, calling from ... somewhere ... so he picked up.
It wasnt his wife. It was a male voice, and the man said,
“Are you home alone?”
“Who is this?”
“Is your child there?”
Jason hung up.
The phone rang again. Caller ID reported the same
number. This time Jason let the machine get it. The same
male voice boomed, “I’ll take that as a yes. Back yard, five
minutes. You’ll want to talk to me.”Then the man hung up.
52

“Fuck you,” Jason told the empty kitchen. It was a foolish
thing to say, but it made him feel better.
He went upstairs, checked on Ree. She was tucked almost
all the way under the covers, sleeping soundly. He looked
automatically for the familiar copper pile of Mr. Smith curled
up at his daughter’s feet. The spot was empty, and Jason felt
the familiar pang again.
“Goddammit, Sandy,” he muttered tiredly, then found his
coat and stepped into his back yard.
The caller was younger than he expected. Twenty-two,
twenty-three. The thin lanky build of a young man who
hadn’t filled out yet and probably wouldn’t until his early thir¬
ties. The kid had scaled the wooden fence around Jason’s yard.
Now he leapt down and sprang forward a few steps,
moving like a golden retriever puppy with floppy blond hair
and long, rangy limbs. The kid stopped the instant he spotted
Jason, then wiped his hands on his jeans. It was cold out, and
he wore only a white T-shirt with faded black print and no
coat. If the March chill bothered him, he didn’t show it.
“Umm, cop out front. Sure you know. Didn’t want to be
seen,” the kid said, as if that explained everything. Jason
noticed he wore a green elastic band around his left wrist and
was snapping it absently, like a nervous habit.
“Who are you?”
“Neighbor,” the kid said. “Live five houses down. Name’s
Aidan Brewster. We’ve never met.” Snap, snap, snap.
Jason said nothing.
“I, uh, keep to myself,” the kid offered, again as if that
explained everything.
Jason said nothing.
“Your wife has gone missing,” the kid stated. Snap, snap.
53

“Who told you?’\
Kid shrugged. “Didn’t have to be told. Cops are can¬
vassing the neighborhood, looking for a missing female. A
detective has set up camp outside your house, so obviously
this is ground zero. You’re here. Your kid is here. Ergo, your
wife is missing.” The kid started to snap the elastic again,
caught himself this time, and both hands fell to his sides.
“What do you want?”Jason asked.
“Did you kill her?”
Jason looked at the boy. “Why do you think she’s dead?”
Kid shrugged. “That’s the way these things work. Report
starts with a missing white female, mother of one, two, three
kids. Media kicks in, search teams are organized, neighbor¬
hoods are canvassed. And then, approximately one week to
three months later, the corpse is recovered from a lake, the
woods, the oversized freezer in the garage. Don’t suppose you
have any large blue plastic barrels, do you?”
Jason shook his head.
“Chain saws? Barbecue pits?”
I have a child. Even if I had such items, the presence of
a small child would curtail my activities.”
Kid shrugged. Didnt seem to stop the others from get¬
ting the job done.”
“Get out of my yard.”
“Not yet. I need to know: Did you kill your wife?”
“What makes you think I would tell you?”
Kid shrugged. “Dunno. We’ve never met, but I thought
I’d ask. It matters to me.”
Jason stared at the kid for a minute. He found himself
saying, “I didn’t kill her.”
“Okay. Neither did I.”
“You know my wife?”
“Blonde hair, big brown eyes, kind of a quirky smile?”
54

Jason stared at the kid again. “Yes.”
“Nah, I’ve never met her, but I’ve seen her out in your
yard.”The kid resumed snapping the green elastic band.
“Why are you here?” Jason asked.
“Because I didn’t kill your wife,” the kid repeated. He
glanced at his watch. “But in about one to four hours, the
police are gonna assume that I did.”
“Why would they assume that?”
“I got a prior.”
“You killed someone before?”
“Nah, but that won’t matter. I have a prior, and like I said,
that’s how these things work. A woman has gone missing.
The detectives will start with the people close to her, making
you the first ‘person of interest.’ Next, however, they’ll check
out all the neighbors. That’s when I’ll pop up, the second
person of interest.’ Now, am I more interesting than you? I
don’t have the answer to that, so I figured I’d better stop by.”
Jason frowned. “You want to know if I harmed my wife,
because then you’re off the hook?”
“It’s a logical question to ask,” the kid said neutrally.
“Now, you claim you didn’t kill her. And I know I didn’t kill
her, which leads us to the next problem.”
“Which is?”
“No one is gonna believe either of us. And the more we
claim our innocence, the more they’re gonna come down on
us like a ton of bricks. Wasting valuable time and resources
trying to get us to admit guilt, versus finding out exactly what
did happen to your wife.”
Jason couldn’t argue with that. It’s why he’d kept his
mouth shut all morning long. Because he was the husband,
and the husband started the process automatically suspect.
Meaning every time he spoke, the police would not be lis¬
tening for proof of his innocence, but rather for any gaffe
55

indicating his guilt. “You seem to know a lot about how the
system works,” he told the kid.
“Am I wrong?”
“Probably not.”
“Okay, so going with the old adage that the enemy of your
enemy is your friend, the cops are our mutual enemies, and
we re now friends.”
“I don’t even know who you are.”
“Aidan Brewster. Neighbor, auto mechanic, innocent
party. What more do you need to know?”
Jason frowned. He should be quicker than this, seeing the
obvious flaw in such a statement. But he could feel the stress
and the fatigue catching up with him now. He had not slept
in nearly thirty hours, first watching Ree, then going off to
work, then returning to the scene at home. His heart had lit¬
erally stopped beating in the space of time it had taken him
to discover the empty master bedroom and walk the twelve
feet to Ree’s room, his hand curling around the doorknob,
twisting, pushing, so deeply unsure of what he might find
inside. Then, when hed spotted his daughter’s sprawled shape,
sound asleep under the covers, he had staggered backward,
only to realize in the next instant that Ree’s presence raised
more questions than it answered. All of a sudden, after five
years of almost leading a normal life, of almost feeling like a
real person, it was over, done, finished, in the blink of an eye.
He had returned to the abyss, in a space he knew better
than anyone, even better than convicted felon Aidan Brewster.
So, the kid was saying now, snapping, “did you ever hit
your wife?”
Jason stared at him.
“Might as well answer,” his neighbor said. “If the police
didnt get to drill you this morning, they’ll get to it soon
enough.”
56

“I didn’t hit my wife,’’Jason said softly, mostly because he
needed to hear himself say the words, to remind himself that
that much, at least, was true. Forget February vacation. Forget
it ever happened.
“Marital difficulties?”
“We worked alternate schedules. We never saw each other
enough to fight.”
“Ah, so extramarital activities, then. You, her, both?”
“Not me,’’Jason said.
“But she had a little something, something going on?”
Jason shrugged. “Isn’t the husband always the last to
know?”
“Think she ran off with him?”
“She never would have left Ree.”
“So she was having an affair, and she knew you’d never
let her take her daughter with her.”
Jason blinked his eyes, feeling his exhaustion again. “Wait
a minute ...”
“Come on, pull it together, man, or you’ll be rotting in jail
by the end of the day,” the kid said impatiently.
“I wouldn’t harm my daughter, and I would’ve granted
my wife a divorce.”
“Really? Given up this house, prime real estate in
Southie?”
“Money is not an issue for us.”
“You’re loaded, then? Even more moola to have to sur¬
render.”
“Money is not an issue for us.”
“That’s crap. Money is an issue for everyone. Now you do
sound guilty.”
“My wife is the mother of my daughter,” Jason found
himself saying testily. “If we did separate, I would want her
to have the resources necessary to take care of my child.
57

“Wife, child, wife, child. You’re depersonalizing them.
Claiming to love them so much you’d never harm ’em, but on
the other hand, you can’t even bring yourself to call them by
name.”
“Stop it. I don’t want to talk anymore.”
“Did you kill your wife?”
“Get out. Leave me alone.”
“You’re right. I’m outta here. I’ve only spoken with you
eight minutes, and I already think you’re guilty as hell. But
hey, that means I got nothing to worry about. So see ya.”
Kid headed for the fence. He already had his hands curled
around the wooden slats, preparing to lift himself up and over,
when it came to Jason, the piece he’d been missing since the
very beginning.
You asked if my child was home,” he called out across
the yard. “You asked about my child.”
The kid was up now, one leg slung over the fence. Jason
started to run toward him.
“Son of a bitch! Your prior. Tell me what you did, tell me
exactly what you did!”
Kid paused at the top of the fence. He no longer looked
like a golden retriever puppy. Something about his eyes had
changed, his expression growing secretive, growing hard.
“Don’t need to; you already figured it out.”
Background check, my ass! You’re a convicted sex
offender, aren t you? Your name is in the fucking sex offender
database. They’ll be at your door by two.”
“Yep. But they’ll still be arresting you by three. I didn’t
kill your wife. She’s too old for my tastes—”
“Fucking prick!”
And I know something you dont know. I heard a car last
night. Best I can figure, I saw the vehicle that took your wife
away.”
58

Chapter Six
Ifell in love the first time when I was eight years old. The man
didn’t actually exist, but was a character on TV: Sonny Crockett,
the cop played by Ton Johnson on Miami Vice. My mama didn’t
hold with such nonsense, so I’d simply wait until she’d pass out cold
from the afternoon “ice tea, ” then pop open a Tr Pepper and watch
the reruns to my heart’s content.
Sonny Crockett was strong, world-weary. The kind of tough
guy who’d seen it all and still went out of his way to save the girl.
I wanted a Sonny Crockett. I wanted somebody to save me.
When I turned thirteen I developed breasts. Suddenly, there
were a lot of boys interested in saving me. And for a while, I
thought that might work. I dated indiscriminately, with a slight
preference for older boys with body art and really bad attitudes.
They wanted sex. I wanted somebody to load me up in the front
seat of his Mustang and drive a hundred miles an hour in the
middle of the night with no headlights. I wanted to scream my
name with the wind tattooing my face and whipping my hair. I
wanted to feel wild and reckless. I wanted to feel like anyone but
me.
I developed a reputation for really great blow jobs and for
being even crazier than my mad-as-a-hatter mother. Every small
town has a mother like mine, you know. And every small town
has a girl like me.
I got pregnant for thefirst time when I wasfourteen. I didn’t
tell anyone. I drank a lot of rum and Coke and prayed real hard
for God to take the baby away. When that didn’t get it done, I stole
59

money from, myfathers, wallet and went to a clinic where they do
those kinds of thingsfor you.
I didn’t cry. I considered my abortion an act of public service.
One less lifefor my mama to ruin.
I’m telling you, every small town has a girl like me.
Then I turned fifteen and my mother died and myfather and
I werefinally free and I...
I dreamed for so long of somebody to save me. I wanted Sonny
Crockett, the world-weary soul who still sees the true heart within
the battered exterior. I wanted a man who would hold me close
and make me feel safe and never let me go.
I never found Sonny Crockett. Instead, the day before my
eighteenth birthday, at a local bar, I met my husband. I sat on
Jason’s bar stool, downed his Coke, and then, when he started to
protest, ran my hands up the hard denim lines of his thighs. He
told me to fuck off. And I knew at that moment that I would
never let him go.
Of course, no one can save you.
But knowing now all the things I know about Jason, I under¬
stand why he felt he had to try.
By 2:02 P.M., D.D. was feeling pretty good about the investi¬
gation. They had a game plan, and were executing it well con¬
sidering they were looking for an adult female who could not
yet legally be declared missing but needed to be found ASAP.
At 2.06, she received the first piece of bad news. Judge
Banyan had denied their petition to seize the Jones family's
computer and refused to declare the house a crime scene. She
cited the lack of physical evidence of foul play as the over¬
riding factor in her consideration, plus not enough time had
passed. Missing ten hours was nothing for an adult. Maybe
Sandra Jones had ended up at a friend’s house. Maybe she’d
60

suffered some kind of injury and was at a local hospital,
unable to provide her name. Maybe she’d gone sleepwalking
and was still roaming the back streets of the city in a daze. In
other words, a lot of maybes.
However, the judge continued, if Sandra Jones was still
gone after twenty-four hours, Banyan would be willing to
reconsider things. In the meantime, she did grant them access
to Jason Jones’s truck.
One for three, D.D. thought, resigned. Discovering the
quilt and nightshirt in the washing machine had complicated
things. A missing quilt and broken lamp had seemed ominous.
A quilt and a nightshirt in the washing machine ...
D.D. still wasn’t sure what the hell a quilt and nightshirt
in the washing machine meant. That a husband had been
trying to cover his tracks, or that the wife had liked to do
laundry? Assumptions were dangerous.
At 2:15 Detective Miller reported in. D.D. gave him the
bad news from Judge Banyan. Miller provided an update from
Sandra Jones’s middle school. According to the principal,
Sandy Jones had taught social studies at the school for the
past two years—first as a student teacher for the seventh
grade class, then taking over sixth grade social studies in Sep¬
tember. Thus far, kids seemed to like her, parents seemed to
like her, fellow teachers seemed to like her. Sandra didn’t
socialize a lot with her peers, but then again, she had a small
child at home and a husband who worked nights, so that kind
of thing was to be expected. Principal had met the husband
once and thought he’d seemed nice enough. Principal had
met the daughter, Ree, many times, and thought she was
adorable.
The principal couldn’t think of any reason for Sandra not
to show up for work, and yes, it was out of character for her
not to at least phone in. He was concerned and wanted to do
61

anything he could to assist the investigation.
P.S., the principal was a fifty-year-old happily married
man, who according to the secretary was already engaged in
a torrid affair with the drama teacher. Everyone knew about
it, no one much cared, and there wasn’t enough Viagra in the
world for one fifty-year-old to juggle both the red-headed
drama coach and a twenty-three-year-old new conquest.
Odds were, the principal only had a working relationship with
Sandra Jones.
Miller had also run preliminary financial reports on the
Joneses. They had a staggering hundred and fifty thousand
sitting in savings, with another two million stashed in various
mutual funds with an investment bank. Monthly income was
modest, same with monthly expenses. It looked to him like
they had paid cash for the house, and did their best to live off
their paychecks.
Miller would guess the high net worth came from a lump
sum deposit, such as an inheritance or insurance settlement.
He had detectives working on tracing the money now.
In other news, the Joneses had been married in 2004 in a
civil ceremony in Massachusetts. Their daughter, Clarissa, had
been born two months later. There were no outstanding
tickets or warrants for either Sandra Jones or Jason Jones.
Neither had there been any indication of domestic violence
or public disturbance.
According to the neighbors, the Joneses were a quiet
couple who kept to themselves. Did not party, did not
entertain. If you saw them on the street, they would smile
and wave, but were not the kind to stop and make polite
chitchat. Except for Ree. Everyone agreed Clarissa Jones
was precocious and would talk your ear off. Apparently, she
was also hell on wheels on a tricycle. If you saw her coming
it was up to you to get off the sidewalk.
62

“Parents yell at her a lot?” D.D. asked.
“Parents doted on her. And I’m reading verbatim here,
three different accounts from three different neighbors: Par¬
ents ‘doted’ on daughter.”
“Huh. ’Course, parents are also described as quiet and
reserved, meaning, how well did any of the neighbors know
them?”
“True.”
“Life insurance policies?”
“Still inquiring.”
“Two million dollars in the bank,” D.D. mused. “Plus
cash, plus prime Boston real estate . . . what are we talking
about, nearly three-point-five million in assets? People have
killed for less.”
“Figure the standard divorce would run the husband
nearly two mil. That’s a lot of money for a starter marriage.”
“Speaking of which, what year were they married again?”
“Two thousand and four.”
“Which would make Sandra Jones, what, eighteen years
old? And already pregnant?”
“Given that Clarissa was born two months later, yep.”
“And Jason Jones is, what, thirty, thirty-one?”
“That would be my guess. Still working on rounding up
a birth certificate for him.”
“Let’s consider that for a second. You got a young, beau¬
tiful pregnant girl, an older—richer?—man ...”
“Don’t know who had the money yet. Could’ve been
Jason or Sandra.”
“Somehow, I’m willing to bet the money was his.”
“Somehow, I’m thinking you’re right.”
“So Jason snags himself a pregnant teenage bride. Has an
‘adorable’little girl, and four/five years after that...”
“Is living a quiet life in South Boston, in a house reinforced
63

tighter than Fort Knox, in a neighborhood where no one
really knows him.”
D.D. and Miller both fell silent for a bit.
“You know what struck me most when we walked
through the house?” D.D. said abruptly. “It was how ... ‘just
right’ everything felt. Not too dirty, not too clean. Not too
cluttered, not too organized. Everything was absolutely, pos¬
itively balanced. Like the principal said, Sandra Jones social¬
ized enough for people to like her, without socializing so
much that her fellow teachers might actually know her. Jason
and Sandra smiled at their neighbors, but never actually
entertained them. They wave, but don’t talk. They get out, but
never invite anyone in. Everything is carefully modulated. It’s
a balancing act. Except nature isn’t balanced.”
“You think their life is manufactured?”
She shrugged. “I think real life is messy, and these guys
aren’t messy enough.”
Miller hesitated. “We haven’t checked in with Jason’s
employer yet....”
D.D. winced. Which would be the Boston Daily, a major
media outlet. “Yeah, I understand.”
“I’m thinking of having one of my gals call in. Claim she’s
doing a background check for security clearance, something
like that. Somehow, it s less suspicious if you have a female
make the call.”
“Good idea.”
“And we’ll follow up with the daughter’s preschool. See
what the teachers and staff have to say. Don’t little girls travel
in packs, have little friends, attend sleepovers? Seems to me
there s gotta be some parents somewhere who know more
about the family.”
“Works for me.”
“Finally, I got a copy of the marriage certificate faxed over.
64

Now that I have Sandra’s maiden name, I’ll start tracking
down the father, get more info out of Georgia.”
“All right. I’m assuming there’s still no sign of Sandra nor
activity on her credit card?”
“Nope. Local establishments haven’t seen her. Local hos¬
pitals and walk-in clinics have no unidentified women.
Morgue has no unidentified females. Credit card was last
used two days ago at the grocery store. ATM card has no hits.
Closest thing we have to activity is half a dozen calls on her
cell phone. One call from the husband at two-sixteen A.M.—
probably when he figured out his wife’s phone was ringing
right behind him on the kitchen counter. Then a couple of
calls from the school principal this morning trying to track
her down, as well as three other calls from students. That’s
been it.”
“She received calls from her sixth grade students?”
“Placed from their own cell phones, of course. Welcome
to the brave new world of grown-up twelve-year-olds.”
“I’m so glad I don’t even have a plant.”
Miller grunted. “I have three boys—seven, nine, and
eleven. I plan on working overtime for the next ten years.”
She couldn’t blame him. “So you’ll track financials, cell
phones, and grown-up twelve-year-olds. I’ll go to work on
searching the truck and lining up a forensic interviewer.”
“Think he’ll let us talk to the daughter? We don’t have
anything to threaten him with anymore.”
“I think if Sandra Jones hasn’t magically been found by
tomorrow morning, he won’t have a choice.
D.D. had just risen from her chair when her desk phone rang.
She picked it up.
“Jason Jones is holding on line one,” the receptionist said.
65

D.D. sat back down. “Sergeant D.D. Warren,” she
announced into the phone.
“I’m ready to talk,” Jason said.
“Excuse me?”
“My daughter is napping. I can talk now.”
“You mean you would like to meet with us? I’ll be happy
to send two officers to pick you up.”
“By the time the officers get here, my daughter will be
awake and I will no longer be available. If you want to ask me
questions, it needs to be now, by phone. It’s the best I can do.”
D.D. highly doubted that. It wasn’t the best he could do,
it was the most convenient. Again, the man’s wife had been
missing for twelve hours, and this was his idea of coopera¬
tion?
“We have arranged for a specialist to interview Ree,” she
said.
“No.”
The woman is a trained professional, specializing in
questioning children. She will handle the conversation deli¬
cately and with the least amount of stress on your daughter.”
“My daughter doesn’t know anything.”
“Then the conversation will be short.”
He didn’t answer right away. She could feel his turmoil
in the long pause.
“Did your wife run off?” she asked abruptly, trying to
keep him off balance. “Meet a new guy, head for the border?”
“She never would’ve left Ree.”
“Meaning she could’ve met a new guy.”
“I don’t know, Sergeant. I work most nights. I don’t really
know what my wife does.”
Doesnt sound like a happy marriage.”
“Depends on your point of view. Are you married, Ser¬
geant?”
66

“Why?”
“Because if you were, you’d understand that marriage is
about phases. My wife and I are raising a small child while
juggling two careers. This isn’t the honeymoon phase. This
is work.”
D.D. grunted, let the silence drag out again. She thought
it was interesting that he used the present tense, are raising a
child together, but couldn’t decide if that was calculated or
not. He used the present tense, but not the actual names of
his wife and child. Interesting person, Jason Jones.
“You having an affair, Jason? Because we’re asking enough
questions at this point, it’s gonna come out.”
“I haven’t cheated on my wife.”
“But she cheated on you.”
“I have no evidence of that.”
“But you suspected it.”
“Sergeant, I could’ve caught her in bed with the man, and
I still wouldn’t have killed her.”
“Not that kind of guy?”
“Not that kind of marriage.”
D.D.’s turn to blink. She turned this around in her head,
still couldn’t sort it out. “What kind of marriage is it?”
“Respectful. Sandra was very young when we married. If
she needed to work some things out, I could give her space
for that.”
“Mighty understanding of you.”
He didn’t say anything.
Then D.D. got it: “Did you make her sign a prenup?
Some kind of clause, if she cheated on you, then you wouldn’t
owe her anything in the divorce?”
“There’s no prenup.”
“Really? No prenup? With all that money sitting in the
bank?”
6 7

“The money came from an inheritance. I never expected
to have it, ergo I can’t mind too much if I lose it.”
“Oh please, two million dollars—”
“Four. You need to run better reports.”
“Four million dollars—”
“Yet we live on twenty-five hundred a month. Sergeant,
you’re not asking the right question yet.”
“And what would that be?”
“Even if I had motive to harm my wife, why would I
harm Mr. Smith?”
“Excuse me?”
“Did you ever read about Ted Bundy? He murdered and
mutilated over thirty women, yet he wouldn’t steal an unin¬
sured car because he thought it was cruel. Now, a husband
who murders his wife rather than settle for a divorce is clearly
psychopathic. His needs come first. His wife is little more
than an animated object. She interferes with his needs. He
feels justified in disposing of her.”
D.D. didn’t say anything. She was still trying to figure out
if she’d just heard a confession.
“But the cat, Sergeant. Mr. Smith. Even if I had objecti¬
fied my wife to a point where I decided I would be better off
without her, what had the cat ever done to me? Maybe I could
justify taking my daughter’s mother from her. But harming
my daughter’s pet, that would be just plain cruel.”
“Then what happened to your wife, Mr. Jones?”
“I have no idea.”
“Has she ever disappeared before?”
“Never.”
Has she ever not shown up for something, without
bothering to call?”
“Sandra is very conscientious. Ask the middle school
where she works. She says what she’s going to do, she does
68

what she says.”
“Does she have a history of going to bars, drinking
heavily, doing drugs? By your own admission, she’s still very
young.”
“No. We don’t drink. We don’t do drugs.”
“She sleepwalk, use any prescription medication?”
“No.”
“Hang out socially?”
“We lead a very quiet life, Sergeant. Our first priority is
our daughter.”
“In other words, you’re just regular, everyday folks.”
“Regular as clockwork.”
“Who happen to live in a house with reinforced windows
and steel doors?”
“We live in an urban environment. Home security is
nothing to be taken lightly.”
“Didn’t realize Southie was that rough.”
“Didn’t realize the police had issues with citizens who
favor locks.”
D.D. decided to declare that interaction a draw. She
paused again, trying to find her bearings in a conversation
that should be taking place in person and not by phone.
“When you first arrived home, Mr. Jones, were the doors
locked?”
“Yes.”
“Anything out of the ordinary catch your eye? In the
kitchen, hallway, entryway, anything at all as you entered your
house?”
“I didn’t notice a thing.”
“When you first realized your wife was not home, Mr.
Jones, what did you do?”
“I called her cell. Which turned out to be in her purse on
the kitchen counter.”
69

“Then what did you do?”
“I walked outside, to see if she had stepped out back for
something, was maybe stargazing. I don’t know. She wasn’t
inside, so I checked outside.”
“Then what?”
“Then I checked her car.”
“And then?”
“Then ... what?”
“What you described takes about three minutes.
According to the first responders, you didn’t dial nine-one-
one for another three hours. Who did you call, Mr. Jones?
What did you do?”
“I called no one. I did nothing.”
“For three hours?”
“I waited, Sergeant. I sat on the sofa and I waited for my
world to right itself again. Then, when that didn’t magically
happen, I called the police.”
“I don’t believe you,” D.D. said flatly.
I know. But maybe that also proves my innocence.
Wouldn’t a guilty man manufacture a better alibi?”
She sighed heavily. “So what do you think happened to
your wife, Mr. Jones?”
She heard him pause now, also considering.
He said finally, Well, there is a registered sex offender
who lives down the street.”
70

Chapter Seven
On October 22,1989, a boy named Jacob Wetterling was kid¬
napped by a masked man at gunpoint, and never seen again.
Now, in 1989,1 was only three years old, so you can trust me
when I say I didn’t do it. But thanks to the abduction of Jacob
Wetterling nearly twenty years ago, my adult life was changed
forever. Because Jacob’s parents formed the Jacob Wetterling
Institute, which got the Jacob Wetterling Crimes Against
Children and Sexually Violent Offender Registration Act
signed into law in 1994; basically, Jacob’s parents helped
create the very first sex offender database.
I know what you’re thinking. I’m an animal, right? That’s
the conventional wisdom these days. Sex offenders are mon¬
sters. We should not only be denied all contact with children,
but we should be ostracized, banned, and otherwise forced to
live in squalid conditions under a Florida bridge. Look at
what happened to Megan Kanka, kidnapped from her own
bedroom by the sex offender living right next door. Or Jessica
Lunsford, snatched from her unlocked home by the sex
offender living with his sister in the trailer just across the
street.
What can I tell you? According to my parole officer, there
are nearly six hundred thousand registered sex offenders in
the United States. A few of them are bound to behave badly.
And when they do, we all get punished, even a guy like me.
I get up, I go to work, I attend my meetings, I keep my
71

nose clean. I’m a regular success story. Yet, here it is, five P.M.,
I’m wrapping up at work, but mostly I’m waiting to get
arrested by the police.
By five-fifteen, when half a dozen squad cars still haven’t
careened down the streets with lights flashing, I give it up
and begin the walk home. I retrace the day in my mind, trying
to control my growing anxiety. After spotting the canvassing
officers this morning, I did the sensible thing and went to
work. After all, the police will find me soon enough, and
when they do, how I’ve spent the hours since Mrs. Jones went
missing is going to be a key topic of discussion. As it stands,
I was half an hour late from lunch, given my talk with Mr.
Jones. This anomaly will stand out, but nothing I can do
about it now. I had to talk to the guy. After all, my only hope
is that they arrest him instead of me.
Now, approaching my front steps, still not seeing signs of
men in blue—or, more likely, SWAT team members in flak
vests—I realize it’s Thursday night and if I don’t hustle, I’m
gonna be late for my meeting. I can’t afford another deviation
from my schedule, so I hustle, bursting into my bedroom for
the five-minute shower-and-change, then I’m back out the
door, hailing a cab for the local mental health institute; it’s
not like eight registered sex offenders can hold their weekly
support group meetings at the neighborhood library.
I arrive at the front doors at 5:59 P.M.This is important.
The signed contract states you cannot be even one minute
late for meetings, and our group leader is a stickler on this
point. Mrs. Brenda Jane is a licensed clinical social worker
with the looks of a six-foot blonde cover girl and the person¬
ality of a prison guard. She doesn’t just run our meetings, she
controls every facet of our life from what we do or do not
drink to who we do or do not date. Half of us hate her. The
other half are extremely grateful.
72

Meetings are approximately two hours long, once a week.
One of the first things you learn as a registered sex offender
is how to do a lot of paperwork. I have an entire three-ring
binder filled with such documents as my signed “Sex
Offender Program Contract,” my customized “Safety Plan
for Future Well-Being,” as well as half a dozen “Program
Rules for Group Sessions,” “Program Rules for Dating/Rela¬
tionships,” and “Program Rules for Offenses Within the
Family Unit.” Tonight is no exception. Each of us begins by
filling out the weekly status report.
Question one: Whatfeelings have you experienced, this week?
My first thought is guilt. My second thought is that I
cant write that down. There is no confidentiality when it
comes to statements made in support group. Yet one more
piece of paper we all had to read and sign. Whatever I say
tonight, or any night, can be used against me in a court of
law. Adding to the daily paradox that is any sex offender’s life.
On the one hand, I need to work on improving my skills in
the honesty department. On the other hand, I can be pun¬
ished for doing so at any time.
I write down the second answer that comes to me: fear.
Police can’t deny me that, can they? A woman has gone
missing. I’m the registered sex offender living on her block.
Damn right I’m afraid.
Question two: Whatfive interventions did you use this week
to avoid unhealthy situations?
This question is easy. First day in group, you receive a list
of approximately one hundred and forty “interventions” or
ideas on how to break the abuse cycle. Most of us laugh at
the list first time through. One hundred and forty ways not
to re-offend? Including such winners as call the police, take
a cold shower, or my personal favorite, jump in the ocean in
the middle of winter.
73

I go with the usual: Wasn’t alone with children, stayed out
of bars, didn’t drive aimlessly, didn’t place high expectations
on myself, and snapped a rubber band.
Sometimes I include “avoided self-pity” as one of my five,
but even I know I didn’t achieve that this week. The “didn’t
place high expectations” makes a nice substitute. I haven’t had
expectations in years.
Question three: What five interventions did you use this
week to promote a healthy lifestyle?
Another rote answer: Worked full time, exercised, avoided
drugs and alcohol, got plenty of rest, and stayed on an even
keel. Well, maybe I didn’t stay on an even keel today, per se,
but that is only one day out of seven, and the form is techni¬
cally a weekly status report.
Question four: Describe all inappropriate or uncaring urges,
fantasies, or sexual thoughts you had this week.
I write: Ifantasized about having sex with a bound-and-
gagged adultfemale.
Question five: Explain why you think eachfantasy occurred.
I write: Because I’m a twenty-three-year-old celibate male
who is horny as hell.
I think about it, then erase “horny as hell” and replace it
with “in his sexual prime.” Mrs. Brenda Jane, the group leader,
has rules about proper language for the meetings. Nobody in
our group has cocks, pricks, or dicks. We have penises. Period.
For question six, I get to describe my emotional state
before masturbation, during masturbation, and after mastur¬
bation. Most guys describe feeling angry or anxious. So much
pressure out there and it builds and builds and builds until
they have to do something about it. Some guys report crying
afterward. Feeling guilty, ashamed, intensely alone, all for
whacking their willy.
I don’t have anything like that to describe. I’m an auto
74

mechanic and my masturbation these days has that same clin¬
ical feel. I’m not blowing off steam; I’m simply making sure
all the parts remain in proper working order.
Question seven: What mutual sexual activity did you expe¬
rience this week?
I have nothing to report.
Question eight: What age-appropriate relationships (non-
sexual) have you had or attempted this week ?
I have nothing to report.
Question nine: For all child contact, please list child's name
and age, child's relationship to you, kind of contact, and name of
chaperone present.
I have nothing to report.
And so it goes. Another weekly report, another support
group meeting.
You know what we really do in these meetings? We
rationalize. The father who slept with one daughter pretends
he’s better than the priest who slept with fifteen altar boys.
The guy who fondled pretends he’s better than the guy who
penetrated. The predators who entice their victims with
promises of candy, affection, or extra privileges argue they are
better than the monsters who resort to violence, and the mon¬
sters who resort to violence argue they inflict less damage
than the enticers who make their victims feel like they are an
equal party to the crime. The state has lumped us all together,
and like any organized group of people, we are desperate to
differentiate.
You know why these meetings work? Because no one can
spot a Har like another liar. And face it, in this room, we’re all
pros.
We spend the first thirty minutes of the meeting running
through the weekly status reports, then, for the first time in
months, I finally have something to say.
75

“I think I’m going to be arrested.”
That halts conversation. Mrs. Brenda Jane clears her
throat, adjusts her clipboard on her lap. “Aidan, it sounds like
you have something to discuss.”
“Yeah. A woman has gone missing on my street. I figure
if they don’t find her soon, they’re gonna blame me.” The
words come out angry. I’m a little surprised by that. Up until
now, I have considered myself resigned to my fate. But maybe
I do have some expectations after all. I find myself snapping
the rubber band on my wrist, a sure sign of agitation. I force
myself to stop.
“You kill her?” Wendell asks. Wendell is an enormously
fat white guy with neady trimmed black facial hair. He’s well
educated, quite wealthy, and has a voice that comes straight
from a helium balloon. Wendell is also the reigning master
of the rationalization game. He’s just a poor, picked-on exhi¬
bitionist, all show, no touch. For him to be grouped with the
likes of us proves just how inhumane the criminal justice
system really is.
I don’t know if Wendell is all show and no touch. In
theory, as part of the intake process for the sex offender
treatment program, he supplied a full autobiography of all
crimes he ever committed, then was polygraphed against
this history, at a cost of $150. (Which we pay ourselves, I
might add, and must keep paying until we pass the poly¬
graph test.)
Personally, I think Wendell is a freaking psychopath. Poor,
picked-on exhibitionist, my ass. Wendell always targeted a
specific victim group. For example, he liked to visit old folks’
homes and flash three hundred pounds of white ass before
the bedridden patients who barely had the strength to shield
7 6

their eyes. Then he’d motor over to the teen health clinic,
where he could wag his dingdong in front of the over¬
whelmed fourteen-year-old who’d just learned she was eight
weeks pregnant. Mostly, however, he liked to operate outside
rape crisis clinics, where he could spring a massive mountain
of flesh upon already traumatized women.
His final victim went home and hanged herself. But as
Wendell will tell you, he’s not as bad as the rest of us.
“I didn’t touch her,” I answer now, ignoring Wendell’s
knowing grin. “I didn’t even know her. But it doesn’t matter.
The police will check the database and my name will come
up. They’ll arrest me just on principle, and it’s not like I can
make bail. They get me, I’m done.” I’m snapping the band
again. I can see Mrs. Brenda Jane watching me, and once
again force myself to stop.
I can already tell what she’s thinking: And how does this
make you feel, Aidan Brewster?
Trapped, I want to scream. Very, very trapped.
“A woman disappeared? In Southie? When did this
happen?” Another group member, Gary Provost, speaks up.
Gary is a thirty-seven-year-old alcoholic investment manager,
who was caught inappropriately touching his friend’s eleven-
year-old daughter. His wife left him, taking with her their
two sons. His extended family is still not speaking to him. Yet
of all of us, he probably has the most hope. For one thing, he
still looks like a respected professional, versus a convicted per¬
vert. For another, he seems genuinely remorseful and very
dedicated to his recently achieved sobriety. Gary’s a serious
one. Quiet but intelligent. Of everyone in the room, I almost
like him.
“The woman disappeared last night.”
“I haven’t heard anything on the news.”
“Dunno.” I shrug.
77

“How old is she?” Wendell asks, cutting to the heart of
the matter.
I shrug again. “She’s a mom, so mid-twenties, something
like that.”
“That’ll cut you some slack,” Jim offers, “that she’s an
adult and all. Plus, you don’t have a history of violence.”
Jim smiles as he says this. Jim is the only Level III sex
offender in our group, meaning of all of us, he’s the one the
state fears the most. An exhibitionist such as Wendell might
have the highest rate of recidivism, but a hard-core pedophile
such as Jim is the true monster under the bed. By Jim’s own
admission, he’s attracted solely to eight-year-old boys and has
probably had inappropriate relationships with thirty-five kids
in a span of nearly forty years. He started when he was a
fourteen-year-old babysitter. Now, at the age of fifty-five, his
own flagging testosterone is finally slowing him down. Plus,
the docs got him on a heavy regimen of antidepressants, the
side effects of which repress the libido.
As we get to discuss in our weekly meetings, however, it’s
very difficult to change sexuality. You can try to teach
someone to desire adults, but it’s difficult to “remove” an
object from someone’s sexual orientation, or, in other words,
teach that same person not to desire kids.
Jim has a tendency to dress in Mister Rogers sweaters
and suck on hard butterscotches. From that alone, I’m
guessing he still fantasizes mostly about prepubescent boys.
I dont know if that will matter,” I say now. “A registered
offender is a registered offender. I think they’ll arrest first, ask
questions later.”
“No,” Gary the investment manager interjects. “They’ll
visit your parole officer first. That’s how it works.”
My parole officer. I blink in surprise. I have totally for¬
gotten about her. I ve been on parole two years now, and while
78

I am required to check in each month, my own behavior has
been so constant I’ve stopped noticing the meetings. Just
another bout of paperwork and dutifully signed forms. Guy
like me, the whole thing is over and done in about eight
minutes. I copy my pay stubs, hand over a letter from my
treatment counselor, prove I’ve paid my weekly fees for
counseling, etc., and we’re good to go for another thirty
days.
“What d’you think your PO will say?” Wendell asks now,
eyes narrowing.
“Not much to report.”
“You went to work today?” Mrs. Brenda Jane inquires.
“Yes.”
“No drinking, no drugs, no Internet?”
“I work. I walk. I’m keeping my nose clean.”
“Then you should be fine. Of course, you have the right
to a lawyer, so if you start to feel uncomfortable, you should
ask for one.”
“I think the husband did it,” I hear myself say. No good
reason. Just that whole rationalization thing again. See, I’m
not the monster. He is.
My group goes to bat for me, nodding their heads. “Yep,
yep,” several reply. “Ain’t it always the husband?”
Wendell still has that smirk on his face. “It’s not like she’s
fourteen—” he starts.
“Wendell,” Mrs. Brenda Jane interrupts.
He feigns innocence. “I’m just saying it’s not like she’s a
beautiful jail-bait blonde.”
“Mr. Harrington—”
Wendell puts up a meaty hand, finally acknowledging
defeat. But then, at the last minute, he turns back to me and
finally has something useful to say.
“Hey, kid, you’re still working at the neighborhood chop
79

shop, right? Hope for your sake the missing woman didn’t get
her car serviced there.”
In that instant, I can picture Sandra Jones perfectly,
standing in front of the industrial gray counter, long blonde
hair tucked behind her ears, smiling as she hands over her
keys to Vito: “Sure, we can pick it up at five... ”
I realize for the second time in my life that I will not be
going home again.
80

Chapter Eight
What makes a family?
It is a question I have pondered most of my life. I grew up in
the typical Southern clan. I had a stay-at-home mom, famous for
her meticulously groomed appearance and award-winning rose
garden. I had the highly respectedfather whodfounded his own law
firm and worked hard to providefor his two “lovely ladies. ” I had
two dozen cousins, a passel of aunts and uncles. Enough relatives
that the annual family reunions, hosted at my parents' sprawling
home with its acres of green lawn and its wraparoundfront porch,
were less a summer barbecue, and more a three-ring circus.
I spent the first fifteen years of my life smiling obediently as
fat aunts pinched my cheeks and told me how much I resembled
my mother. I turned in my homework on time so teachers could
pat my head and tell me how I made my father proud. I went to
church, I babysat my neighbors children, I worked after school at
the local store, and I smiled and smiled and smiled until my cheeks
hurt.
Then I went home, collected the empty gin bottles off the hard¬
wood floors, and pretended I didn't hear my mama's drunken taunt
from down the hall, “I know something you don't know. I know
something you don't know....”
When I was two years old, my mama made me eat a lightbulb
so she could take me to the doctor and tell him what a naughty girl
I was. When I was four, she made me put my thumb in a doorjamb
and hold it there while she slammed the door shut, so she could
show the doctor how reckless I was. When I was six, she fed me
81

bleach so the doctors could understand just how terrible it was to
be my mother.
My mama hurt me, time and time again, and no one ever
stopped her. Did that make us family?
My father suspected, but never asked, even as his drunken wife
chased him around the house with knives. Did that make us
family?
I knew my mama was actively hurting me and hoping to hurt
my father, but I never told. Did that make us family ?
My father loved her. Even at a young age, I got that. No
matter what Mama did, Papa stood beside her. That was mar¬
riage, he told me. And she wasnt always like this, he would add.
As if once my mama had been sane, and having been sane once,
maybe she could be sane again.
So we would go about our routine, starting each evening with
my mother laying out a properly prepared dinner, and ending each
meal with her hurling fried chicken, or heaven help us, a leaded
crystal glass, at one or both of our heads. Eventually, my father
would lead her back to the bedroom, tucking her in with another
gin-laced sweet tea.
You know how she is, ” hed tell me quietly, half excuse, half
apology. We would spend the rest of the night reading together in
the front parlor, both of us pretending not to hear Mamas drunken
warble floating down the hall: “I know something you don’t
know. I know something you don’t know....”
When my mother died, I stopped asking so many questions. I
thought the war wasfinally over. Myfather and I were free. Now
came the happily ever after.
One week after thefuneral, I tore up my mothers prized rose¬
bushes. I ran them through the wood chipper, and my father cried
harder over those damn flowers than hed ever cried over me.
I started to understand a few things then, about the true
nature of families.
82

*
Looking back now, I think it was inevitable that 1 wound up
pregnant, married to a stranger, and living in a state where
everyone dropped their R’s. I had never been alone one single day
in my life. So of course, the instant I was on my own, I immedi¬
ately re-created the one thing I knew: a family.
Going into labor scared the bejesus out of me. Nine months
later, I still wasn’t ready. The ink was barely dry on my marriage
certificate. We were still settling into our new home, a teeny tiny
little bungalow that would've fit inside my parents’ front parlor.
I couldn’t be a mom yet. I hadn’t set up the crib. I hadn’t even fin¬
ished reading the parenting book.
I didn’t know what I was doing. I was not qualifiedfor this.
1 remember thinking, struggling my way to the car, that I
could smell my mother's prized roses. I threw up in the grass. Jason
patted me on the back, and in his calm, controlled voice, told me I
was doing justfine.
He loaded up my hospital bag, then helped me into the pas¬
senger’s seat.
“Breathe, ” he said over and over again. “Breathe, Sandy. Just
breathe. ”
At the hospital, my courteous new husband held the bucket
while I vomited. He supported my weight as I moaned and panted
in the birthing shower. He lent me his arm, which I bloodied with
my fingernails as Ifought to push the world’s biggest bowling ball
out of my uterus.
The nurses watched him with open admiration and I
remember thinking vividly that my mama was right—the world
was filled with bitches and I would kill them all. If only I could
stand up. If only I could get the pain to stop.
And then ... success.
My daughter, Clarissa Jane Jones, slid into the world,
83

announcing her arrival with a throaty cry of protest. I remember
the hot, stickyfeel of her wrinkled little body being plopped down
upon my chest. I remember the sensation of her little button mouth,
rooting, rooting, rooting, until at last she latched onto my breast.
I remember the indescribablefeeling of my bodyfeeding hers, while
the tears streamed down my face.
I caught Jason watching us. He stood apart, his hands in his
pockets, his face as impossible to read as ever. And it hit me then:
I had married my husband to escape from my father. Hid that
make usfamily ?
My husband had married me because he wanted my child.
Hid that make us family?
Clarissa became our daughter because she was born into this
mess. Hid that make us family ?
Maybe you simply have to start somewhere.
I held out my hand. Jason crossed to me. And slowly, very
slowly, he reached out a finger and brushed Clarissa's cheek.
7 will keep you safe,” he murmured. “I promise nothing bad
will ever happen to you. Ipromise, I promise, I promise. ”
Then he was clutching my hand and I couldfeel the true force
of his emotions, the dark tide of all the things he would never tell
me, but that I understood, one survivor to another, lurked beneath
the surface.
He kissed me. He kissed me with Clarissa nestled between us,
a hard kiss, a powerful kiss.
I will always keep you safe, ” he whispered again, his cheek
against my cheek, his tears mingling with my tears. 7promise you,
Sandy. I will never hurt you. ”
And I believed him.
At 5.59, as Aidan Brewster was checking in for his weekly
support group meeting, Jason Jones was putting in a movie
84

for his daughter, and beginning to panic.
He’d called in sick to work. Didn’t know what else to do.
Night was falling. Still no word from Sandy. Still no sign of
the police. Ree had woken from her nap in the same quiet
mood as before. They had played Candy Land and Chutes
and Ladders and Go Fish.
Then they had sat at her teeny art table, him with his chin
on his knees, and colored oversized pictures of Cinderella
from Rees favorite coloring book. Mr. Smith did not magically
appear on the front stoop and Ree stopped asking about
either her cat or her mom. Instead, she regarded Jason with
serious brown eyes that were beginning to haunt him.
After dinner—meatballs, angel hair pasta, and sliced
cucumbers—he put in a movie. Ree had perked up in antici¬
pation of the rare treat, and was now seated on the green love
seat, holding Lil’ Bunny. Jason claimed he needed to do
laundry and beat a hasty retreat to the basement.
There, he started pacing, and once he started, he couldn’t
stop.
When he had first come home and realized Sandra was
not in the house, he had been confused, perhaps even anxious.
He’d gone through the normal steps: checked the basement,
checked the attic, checked the old shed out back. Then he’d
called her cell, only to hear it ring in her purse. That had led
him to rifling the contents halfheartedly, looking through her
little spiral notebook to see if she’d magically recorded a
middle-of-the-night meeting. When at two-thirty A.M. he
confirmed his wife hadn’t planned to go missing, he’d walked
around the neighborhood, calling her name in a low whisper,
much like how one might call a cat.
She wasn’t in her car. She wasn’t in his car. And she still
wasn’t at home.
He’d sat down on the love seat to consider the matter.
85

The house had been locked when he’d come home,
including the doorknob and two dead bolts. That had implied
Sandy had done her usual bedtime routine. He’d checked the
kitchen counter and discovered the graded papers, meaning
Sandy had done her usual post-Ree routine.
So where had the evening gone wrong?
His wife was not perfect. Jason knew that as well as
anyone. Sandy was young, she’d led a wild and reckless youth.
Now, at the relatively tender age of nearly twenty-three, she
was trying to raise a toddler while adjusting to a new job and
living in an unfamiliar state. She’d been more distant since
the school year began, first overly quiet, then since December,
almost overly friendly, in a forced sort of way. He’d started
thinking about going away for February vacation precisely
because her mood had grown so tangled, so ... different.
He was sure she got homesick, especially in the winter,
though she never said. He was sure there were times she
wished she could go out, feel at least a little bit young, though
she never said.
He himself had wondered about how long she would
remain married to him, though again, she never said.
He missed her now. That thought pained him. He had
grown accustomed to coming home and finding her curled
up in their bed, her sleeping position an uncanny mimic of
their daughter’s. He liked her Southern drawl, and her addic¬
tion to Dr Pepper, and the way she smiled with one dimple
appearing in her left cheek.
When she was quiet, there was a softness to her that
soothed him. When she was giggling with Ree, there was a
spark to her that electrified him.
He liked watching her read to their daughter. He liked
listening to her hum as she puttered in the kitchen. He liked
the way her hair fell around her face in a curly gold curtain,
86

and how when she caught him watching her, it made her
blush.
He didn’t know if she loved him. He had never figured
that out. But for a while she had needed him, and for him,
that had been enough.
She’s left me; that had been his first thought at three in the
morning as he sat in the empty shadows of the family room.
He had tried to make amends in February, and it had been a
disaster. So Sandy had finally left him.
But then, half a beat later, he dismissed that conclusion:
While Sandy may have been ambivalent about marriage, she
was not ambivalent about Ree. Meaning if Sandy had left the
house willingly, she would’ve taken Ree, and at the very least,
grabbed her own purse. The absence of such steps led to a
different conclusion: Sandy had not left willingly. Something
bad had happened, here, inside Jason’s own home, while his
daughter had slept upstairs. And he had no idea what.
Jason was a reserved man. He acknowledged that. He
preferred logic to emotion, fact to supposition. It was one of
the reasons he made a good reporter. He was excellent at
sifting through vast pools of data and coming up with the
perfect nugget of information that brought everything
together. He did not get bogged down with outrage or shock
or grief. He did not suffer any preconceived notions about
Boston’s citizens or humanity in general.
Jason believed at all times that the worst could happen.
That was a fact of life. And so, he armed himself with many
other facts, perhaps believing, rather foolishly, that if he knew
enough, this time he could be secure. His family would not
suffer. His daughter would grow up safe and sound.
Except here he was, confronted by several great big
unknowns, and he could feel his control already beginning to
unravel.
87

The police had heen gone for nearly six hours now, just
the lone officer sitting in the car outside the house, switched
out once, around five o’clock. Jason had thought having the
police in his home all morning had been long and painful.
He now realized their absence was far worse. What were the
detectives doing? What was Sergeant D. D. Warren thinking?
Had she taken the bait regarding his sex offender neighbor,
or was he still considered the prize catch?
Did they have a warrant yet for the computer? Could they
kick him out of the house, force him down to the station?
Exacdy what kind of evidence did they need?
Worse yet, if they arrested him, what would happen to
Ree?
Jason walked around the coffee table again and again,
hard tight circles that made him dizzy and still he couldn’t
stop. He didn’t have local family, didn’t have close friends.
Would the police contact Sandy’s father, ship Ree to Georgia,
or invite Max up here?
And if Max came up here, exactly how much might Max
say or do?
Jason needed a strategy, some kind of contingency plan.
Because the longer Sandy remained missing, the worse
this was going to get. The police would keep digging, asking
harder questions. And inevitably, the word would leak out,
the media would descend. Jason’s own peers would turn on
him like cannibals, beaming his image all over the free world.
Jason Jones, husband of the missing woman and person of
interest in an ongoing investigation.
Sooner or later, someone was going to recognize that
image. Someone was going to start to connect dots.
Especially if the police got their hands on his computer.
Jason careened around the table too fast, catching his
knee on the corner of the washing machine. The pain lanced
88

up his thigh and finally forced him to stop. For an instant,
the world spun, so he clung to the top of the washer, breath¬
less with pain.
When he could finally focus again, the first thing he
noticed was the spider, the tiny little brown garden spider
hanging right in front of him by a thread.
Jason jumped back, clipping the edge of the beat-up table
with his shin and nearly yelping from the pain. But that was
okay. He could take the pain. He didn’t mind the pain, just
so long as he didn’t see that spider again.
And for a moment, it was too much. For a moment, one
tiny little cellar spider had him spinning back to a place where
it was always dark except for the eyes that glowed from the
dozens of terrariums edging the room. A place where screams
started in the basement and worked their way up through the
walls. A place that smelled routinely of death and decay and
no amount of ammonia was ever going to make a difference.
A place little boys and big girls went to die.
Jason placed a fist in his mouth. He bit his own knuckle
until he tasted blood and he used that pain to ground himself
again.
“I will not lose control,” he murmured. “I will not lose
control, I will not lose control, I will not lose control.”
The phone rang upstairs. He gratefully left the basement
and went to answer it.
The caller was Phil Stewart, the principal from Sandy’s
school, and he sounded uncharacteristically flummoxed.
“Is Sandra there?” Phil started.
“She’s not available,’’Jason said automatically. “May I take
a message?”
There was a long pause. “Jason?”
89

“Yes.”
“Is she home? I mean, have the police located her yet?”
So the police had interviewed people where Sandra
worked. Of course they had. That was a logical next step.
After checking here, they might as well check there. Of
course. Jason needed something intelligent to say. A state¬
ment of fact, a party line that summed up the current state of
affairs without delving into personal territory.
He couldn’t think of a single damn word.
“Jason?”
Jason cleared his throat, glanced at the clock. It was 7:05
P.M., meaning Sandy had now been gone for what, eighteen,
twenty hours? Day one nearly done, day two nearly begin¬
ning. “Umm ... she’s ... she’s ... she’s not home, Phil.”
“She’s still missing,” the principal stated.
“Yes.”
“Do you have any ideas? Do the police have a lead?
What’s going on, Jason?”
“I went to work last night,” Jason said simply. “When I
came home, she was gone.”
“Oh my God,” Phil expelled as a long sigh. “Do you have
any idea what happened?”
“No.”
Do you think she’s coming home? I mean, maybe she
just needed to take a break or something.” This was delving
into personal territory, and Jason could practically hear Phil’s
blush over the phone lines.
“Maybe,’’Jason said quietly.
“Well.” Phil seemed to pull himself together. “Sounds like
I should arrange a sub for tomorrow.”
“I would think so.”
Will the search begin in the morning? I imagine much
of the staff would like to assist. Probably some parents of the
90

students, as well. Of course you’ll need help distributing flyers,
canvassing neighborhoods, that sort of thing. Who will be
leading the charge?”
Jason faltered again, feeling the edge of panic. He caught
it this time, stiffened his backbone, forced himself to sound
firm. “I will get that information to you.”
“We’ll need to think of what to tell the children,” Phil
stated, “preferably before they catch it on the news. Perhaps
a public statement for the parents, as well. Nothing like this
has happened around here before. We need to start preparing
the kids.”
“I will get that information to you,” Jason repeated.
“How is Clarissa holding up?” Phil asked abruptly.
“About as well as can be expected.”
“If you need any help on that front, just let us know. I’m
sure some of the teachers would be happy to assist. These
things can all be managed, of course. All it takes is a plan.”
“Absolutely,” Jason assured him. “All it takes is a plan.”
91

Chapter Nine
At 5:59 P.M. Sergeant D.D. Warren was a happy camper. She
had a warrant to search Jason Jones’s truck. She had an
appointment with a registered sex offender’s parole officer.
And better yet, it was trash night in the neighborhood.
She drove around South Boston with Detective Miller,
getting the lay of the land while they plotted next steps.
“According to Detective Rober,” Miller was reporting,
“Jones kept a low profile for the afternoon. No guests, no
errands, no activities. He seems to be hanging out at home
with his daughter, doing his thing.”
“Has he been out to the truck?” D.D. wanted to know.
“Nope, hasn’t even cracked open the front door.”
“Huh,” D.D. said. “Working on the computer? Your guy
should be able to see him sitting there in the kitchen
window.”
I asked that question, and the answer is uncertain. After¬
noon sun made the view into the kitchen window unclear.
But in the officer’s professional assessment, Jones spent most
of the day entertaining his kid.”
Interesting, D.D. said, and meant it. WRat a spouse did
after a loved one went missing was always a source of fodder
for the inquisitive detective. Did the spouse go about business
as usual? Suddenly invite over a new female friend for “com¬
fort ? Or run around purchasing accelerants and/or unusual
power tools?
In Jasons case, his behavior seemed to be mostly defined
92

by what he didn’t do. No relatives or friends coming over to
help him cope, maybe assist with childcare. No trips to the
local office supply store to blow up photos of his missing wife.
No quick visits to his neighbor’s house for standard inquiries:
Hey, have you happened to see my wife? Or maybe hear anything
unusual last night? Oh, and by the way, catch any sign of an
orange cat?
Jason Jones’s wife disappeared and he did nothing at all.
It’s almost as if he didn’t expect her to be found. D.D.
found that fascinating.
“Okay,” she said now, “given that Jason is holding tight, I
think our first stop should be with Aidan Brewster’s PO. We
got Suspicious Husband under our thumb. Now it’s time to
learn more about Felonious Neighbor.”
“Works for me,” Detective Miller said. “You know,
tomorrow morning happens to be trash day for the neigh¬
borhood.” He nodded his head toward the collection of trash
cans starting to proliferate on the curb. Trash in a house was
private property and required a warrant. Trash on the curb, on
the other hand ... “Say two or three A.M., I have an officer
swing by and pick up Jones’s garbage? Give us something to
sort through in the morning.”
“Ah, Detective, you read my mind.”
“I try,” he said modestly.
D.D. winked at him, and they swung back into the city.
Colleen Pickier agreed to meet with them in the nondescript
space that passed for her office. The floor was light gray
linoleum, the walls were covered in battleship gray paint, and
her filing cabinets sported a dull gray finish. In contrast,
Colleen was a six-foot athletically built Amazon, sporting a
head of shocking red hair and wearing a deep red blazer over
93

a kaleidoscope T-shirt of oranges, yellows, and reds. When
she first stood up from her desk, it looked like a torch had
suddenly been lit in the middle of a fog bank.
She crossed the room in three easy strides, shook their
hands vigorously, then gestured them into the two low-slung
blue chairs across from the desk.
“Forgive the office,” she announced cheerfully. “I work
mostly with sex offenders, and the state seems to feel that any
color other than gray might overstimulate them. Clearly,” she
gestured to her top, “I disagree.”
“You work mostly with sex offenders?” D.D. asked in sur¬
prise.
“Sure. Nicest group of parolees there is. The heroin
pushers and petty burglars bolt first time they smell fresh air.
Can’t track ’em down, can’t get ’em to complete a single piece
of paperwork, can’t get ’em to make a meeting. The average
sex offender, on the other hand, is eager to please.”
Miller was staring up at Pickier as if he were having a
religious experience. “Really?” he said, stroking his thin brown
mustache, checking the motion, then smoothing it again.
“Sure. Most of these guys are scared out of their minds.
Prison was the worst thing that ever happened to them and
they re desperate not to go back. They’re very compliant, even
anxious for approval. Hell, the really hard-core pedophiles
will check in almost daily. I m the only adult relationship they
have, and they want to make sure I’m happy.”
D.D. arched her brows and took a seat. “So they’re just a
bunch of regular Joes.”
Pickier shrugged. As much as anyone is. Course, you
wouldnt be here if you didnt think someone was behaving
badly. Who is it?”
D.D. checked her notes. Brewster. Aldan Brewster.”
“Aidan Brewster?” Pickier parroted. “No way!”
94

“Yes way.”
Pickier s turn to arch a brow. But then she turned to the
first gray metal filing cabinet and got busy. “B ... B ... Brew¬
ster. Aidan. Here we go. But I can tell you now, he’s a good
kid.”
“For a registered sex offender,” D.D. filled in dryly.
“Ah please. Now see, this is where the system is its own
worst enemy. First, the system has managed to vilify an entire
class of perpetrators. Second, the system has created a class
of perpetrators too big for its own good. On the one hand,
you rape thirty kids, you’re a registered sex offender. On the
other hand, a nineteen-year-old has consensual sex with a
fourteen-year-old, and he’s also a registered sex offender. It’s
like saying a serial killer is the same as the guy who gave his
wife a black eye. Sure, they’re both pieces of garbage, but
they’re not the same pieces of garbage.”
“So what kind of sex offender is Aidan Brewster?” D.D.
asked.
“The nineteen-year-old who had consensual sex with his
younger stepsister’s fourteen-year-old friend.”
“He’s on probation for that?”
“He served two years in jail for that. If she’d been a year
younger, he would’ve gotten twenty. That’ll teach a boy to
keep his pants zipped.”
“Fourteen is too young to give consent,” Miller spoke up,
having finally taken a seat. “Nineteen-year-old boy should
know better.”
Pickier didn’t argue. “A lesson that Brewster will get to
spend the rest of his life learning. You know, being a sex
offender is a one-way ticket. Brewster could be clean the
next thirty years; he’ll still be a registered sex offender.
Meaning every time he applies for a job, or looks for an
apartment, or crosses state lines, he’ll pop up in the system.
95

That’s a lot of baggage for a twenty-three-year-old.”
“How’s he taking it?” D.D. asked.
“As well as can be expected. He’s entered a treatment pro¬
gram for sex offenders and is attending his weekly meetings.
He has an apartment, a job, the semblance of a life.”
“Apartment,” D.D. stated.
Pickier rattled off an address that matched what D.D.’s
team had already found in the system. “Does the landlord
know?” D.D. inquired.
“I told her,” Pickier reported. “It’s not standard protocol
for his level of offender, but I always think it’s better to be
safe than sorry. If the landlord found out later and booted
Aidan unexpectedly, that could create stress and strain. Per¬
haps set him adrift. As Aidan’s PO, I feel my job is to help
him avoid unnecessary turmoil.”
“How’d the landlord take it?”
“She needed to hear the whole story, and wanted my
number on speed dial. Then she seemed to be okay with it.
You’d be surprised how many people are. They just want to
know up front.”
“What about the neighbors?” D.D. pressed.
“Didn’t notify the neighbors or the local PDs,” Pickier
supplied briskly. “Brewster shows up in SORD, of course, and
I considered that adequate given his risk assessment and cur¬
rent level of programming.”
“Meaning ... ?” Miller quizzed.
“Meaning Brewster’s been doing just fine. He’s lived in
the same place and held the same job and attended the same
weekly support group for nearly two years now. As parolees
go, I’d take more just like Aidan Brewster.”
“A regular success story,” Miller quipped.
Pickier shrugged. “As much as one expects to see. Look,
I ve been at this eighteen years now. Sixty percent of my
96

parolees will figure things out, maybe not the first time they’re
paroled, but eventually. The other forty percent . . She
shrugged again. “Some will return to prison. Some will drink
themselves to death. A few will commit suicide. Technically
speaking, they don’t re-offend, but I’m not sure I’d call it suc¬
cess. Then there are the Aidan Brewsters of the world. From
a PO’s perspective, he’s a good guy, and that’s the best I can
tell you.”
“Employment?” D.D. asked with a frown.
“Local garage. Vito’s. Kid’s really good with his hands.
That’s helped him mainstream more easily than some of these
guys.”
D.D. wrote that down. “You say he’s been there two
years:
“Their top mechanic,” Pickier specified. “His boss, Vito,
can’t say enough nice things about him. Employment-wise,
kid’s doing aces, which matters, given his current expenses.”
“What expenses?” Miller wanted to know.
“Programming. Sex offenders are responsible for treat¬
ment costs. So in Brewster’s case, that means he’s forking over
sixty bucks a week for his group counseling. Then there’s the
cost of his maintenance polygraph, two-fifty a pop every ten
months, to make sure he’s on track. If he had an ankle bracelet
he’d have to pay for that, too, but he got lucky and hit the
streets the year before the GPS became SOP. Plus, he’s got
Boston rent due, transportation costs, etc., etc. Not a cheap
fife for someone who’s starting the game with limited
employment options.”
“You mean because he can’t be around kids,” D.D. said.
“Exactly. So even at a local garage, Brewster can only
work on the cars, never at the front counter. After all, you
never know when a woman might walk in with two-point-
two kids.”
97

“But he’s a good employee.”
“The best.” Colleen shot them a grin. “Vito can work Brew¬
ster to the bone, and the kid’ll never complain because they both
know he can’t just quit and get a job elsewhere. People think sex
offenders can’t find employment. In fact, there are certain savvy’
employers out there who are more than happy to have them on
board.”
Miller was frowning now. “Poor little Aidan Brewster?
Couldn’t keep his hands off a fourteen-year-old, so now we
should all feel sorry for him?”
“I’m not saying that,” Colleen replied evenly. “The law is
the law. I’m just saying that for most of the judicial system,
you do your crime, you serve your time. Brewster went to jail,
but he’s still serving time, and will be for the rest of his fife.
Ironically enough, he would’ve been slightly better off had he
killed the girl instead of sleeping with her. And as a member
of the judicial system, I’m not comfortable with that analysis.”
D.D., however, was already pondering something else.
She turned to Miller. “Do you know where the Joneses got
their cars serviced?”
He shook his head, jotted down a note. “I’ll get on it.”
“Who are the Joneses?” Colleen asked.
Jason and Sandra Jones. They five on the same block as
Aidan Brewster. Except sometime in the middle of last night,
Sandra Jones disappeared.”
“Ahh,” Colleen said with a sigh. She sat back in her chair,
hooked her hands behind her fireball hair. “You think Aidan
had something to do with it?”
“Have to consider him.”
“How old is Sandra Jones?”
“Twenty-three. A sixth grade teacher at the middle
school. Has a four-year-old daughter.”
So, you re thinking Aidan abducted the mom from her
98

house in the middle of the night, with the husband there?”
“Husband was at work—he’s a local reporter.”
Colleen narrowed her eyes. “You think Brewster was after
the kid? Because Aidan’s taken four or five polygraphs where
he’s had to volunteer his entire sexual history. Pedophilia has
never come up.”
“I don’t know what I think,” D.D. said. “Except, by all
accounts, Sandra Jones is a very beautiful woman, and let’s
face it, twenty-three isn’t that old. In fact, what does that
make her? The same age as Brewster?”
Colleen nodded. “Same age.”
“So, we have a beautiful young mom and a registered sex
offender living just houses away. Any chance that Aidan is
good-looking?”
“Sure. Shaggy blond hair. Blue eyes. Kind of surfer dude,
but in a sweet sort of way.”
Miller rolled his eyes.
D.D., however, kept spinning the theory out. “So Sandy’s
husband works most nights. Meaning she’s alone a lot, isolated
with the kid. Maybe some evening she’s out in the yard with
her daughter, and Aidan comes by, strikes up a conversation.
Maybe the conversation leads to a relationship, which leads
. n
to ...
“She runs away with him?” Colleen suggested.
“Or they get into a fight. She finds out about his history,
gets mad. After all, he’s been around her kid, and according
to all reports, Sandra Jones would do anything for her kid.”
“So he kills her,” Colleen said matter-of-factly.
“Like you said, these guys are desperate not to go back to
prison.”
“So Aidan Brewster seduces the lonely housewife down
the street, then murders her to cover his tracks.”
D.D.’s turn to shrug. “Stranger things have happened.”
99

Colleen sighed. Picked up a pencil, bounced the eraser
end on her desk half a dozen times. “All right. For the record,
I think you’re off base. Aidan already entered a high-risk rela¬
tionship once before and he got nailed for it big-time. Given
that, I think if he saw a woman like Sandra Jones out in her
yard, he’d turn around and run the other way. No need to
tempt fate, right? But the fact remains, Sandra Jones is missing
and Aidan Brewster is the unlucky SOB that lives down the
street. Protocol is protocol, so we’d better check him out.”
“Glad to hear it.”
Colleen bounced the pencil twice more. “Timeline?”
“Sooner versus later. We’re trying to get as much done
under the radar as we can. We figure by seven A.M. tomorrow,
Sandra Jones will be missing more than twenty-four hours,
meaning she’ll be upgraded to an official missing persons case
and the media...”
“Will swarm you like bees on honey.”
“You got it.”
Colleen grunted. “You said she’s pretty, a young mom, a
local teacher.”
“Yep.”
“You’re screwed.”
“Totally.”
“All right. You convinced me. I’ll pay Brewster a call this
evening. Do a little walk-through of his home, ask about his
recent activities. See if I can sniff out anything that warrants
further investigation.”
“We’d like to help you pay that call.”
Colleen stopped bouncing the pencil. “No dice,” she said
firmly.
“You’re not an agent of the court,” D.D. countered. “You
walk through his house and see blood, violence, disarray, you
can’t seize it as evidence.”
ioo

“I can give you a call.”
“Which will alert Brewster that we’re coming.”
“Then I’ll sit on the sofa with him as we both wait. Look,
I’m Aidan’s PO, meaning I’ve spent two years building a rela¬
tionship with him. I ask him questions, I have two years’
worth of history pressuring him to answer. You ask him ques¬
tions, and he’ll shut down. You’ll get nowhere.”
D.D. thinned her lips, feeling stubborn and resigned all
at once.
“He’s a good kid,” Colleen argued softly. “For what it’s
worth, I really doubt he did it.”
“You been through this before?” Miller spoke up evenly.
“Has one of your sex offenders re-offended?”
Colleen nodded. “Three times.”
“You see it coming?”
Pickier sighed again. “No,” she admitted quietly. “All three
times ... never had a clue. Guys were doing okay. They dealt
with the pressure. Until one morning ... they snapped. Then
there was no going back.”
ioi

ChapterTen
I have always been fascinated by secrets. I grew up living a lie, so
of course I see subterfuge everyplace I look. That child in my class¬
room who always wears long sleeves, even on warm days—totally
being beaten by his stepdad. That elderly woman who works at
the dry cleaner with her pinchedface and bony shoulders—totally
being abused by her big brute of a son who hangs out around back.
People lie. It’s as instinctive as breathing. We lie because we
can’t help ourselves.
My husband lies. He looks me in the eye as he does it. As liars
go, Jason is a class act.
/
think I had known him six weeks before I figured out that
beneath his restrained facade there lurked a deep ocean of bad
voodoo. I noticed it in small thingsfirst. The way a drawl would
sometimes creep into his voice, particularly at night when he was
tired and not paying as much attention. Or the times he would
say he got out of bed to watch TV, except when I turned on the TV
in the morning, it would go straight to the Home & Garden
channel, which I had watched last, and which Jason has no usefor
whatsoever.
Sometimes, I tried to tease the truth out of him: “Hey, you just
said coke. ’I thought only a true Southerner asked for a coke instead
of a soda. ”
Must be hanging out with you too much, ” he’d say, but I’d see
a hint of wariness crease the corners of his eyes.
Or sometimes I tried to get straight to the point. “Tell me what
happened to your family. Where are your parents, your siblings?”
102

He’d try to hedge. “Why does it matter ? I have you now, and
Clarissa. That's the only family that matters.”
One night, when Ree was five months old, and sleeping well,
I was feeling edgy and restless, the way a nineteen-year-old girl
does when she's sitting across from a dark, handsome man and she’s
looking at his hands and thinking about how gently they can
cradle a newborn baby. Then thinking, much more importantly,
how they might feel on her naked breasts, I found myself
approaching the matter much more directly.
“Truth or dare, ” I said.
He finally looked up from the paperback he was reading.
“What?”
“Truth or dare. You know, like the game. Surely when you
were a teenager you played Truth or Dare. ”
Jason stared at me, his dark eyes as fathomless as always. T’m
not a teenager. ”
(C1T am. M
That seemed to finally get his attention. He closed the book,
set it down. “What do you want, Sandra?”
“Truth or dare. Just pick. It's not so hard. Truth or dare. "I
sidled closer to him. I had bathed after putting Ree down for the
night. Then I smoothed an orange-scented lotion all over my body.
It was a subtle scent, light, clean, but I knew he caught it, because
his nostrils flared, just a fraction, then he leaned away.
“Sandra
“Play with me, Jason. I'm your wife. It's not too much to ask. ”
He was going to do it. I could tell by the way he steeled his
spine, squared his shoulders. He had been putting me off for
months. Surely he realized at a certain point he'd have to
acknowledge me somehow. It couldn’t all be about Ree.
“Dare, ” he said at last.
“Kiss me, "I ordered. “For one minute."
He hesitated. I thought he'd renege, and I braced myself for the
103

rejection. But then he sighed, ever so softly. He leaned forward,
puckered up, and touched his mouth to mine.
He was going to be chaste about it. I knew him well enough
by then to anticipate. And I knew that if I tried to be aggressive
or demanding, he would shut down. Jason never yelled. Jason
never raised his hand in rage. He simply disappeared, someplace
deep inside him where nothing I said or did seemed to reach him,
until I could be standing right beside him, and I would still be
alone.
My husband respected me. He treated me kindly. He showered
me with compassion. He did his best to anticipate my every need.
Except when it came to sex. We had been together nearly a
year now, and he had yet to lay a single hand on me. It was
driving me crazy.
I didn’t open my mouth. I didn’t grab his shoulders, bury my
fingers in his thick dark hair. I didn’t do anything that I longed
to do. Instead, Ifisted my hands at my sides, and ever so slowly, I
kissed him back.
He gave me gentleness, so I returned his sweetness, my breath
whispering across his closed lips. He gave me compassion, so I
showered it upon the corner of his mouth, the full expanse of his
bottom lip. He gave me respect, so I never once pushed the bound¬
aries he had set. But I daresay I gave him the best damn kiss two
closed-mouth people had ever shared.
When the minute was up, he drew back. But he was breathing
harder now, and I could see something lurking in his eyes. Some¬
thing dark, intense. It made me want to leap onto his lap, flatten
him into the sofa, and fuck his brains out.
Instead, I whispered, “Truth or dare. Your turn. Ask me.
Truth or dare. ”
I could see the conflict. He wanted to say dare. He wanted me
to touch him again. Or maybe take off my nice silky shirt. Or trail
my hands across his hard chest.
104

“Truth, ”he said huskily.
“Ask.”
“Why are you doing this?”
“Because I cant help myself.”
“Sandy. ” He closed his eyes, and for a moment, 1 couldfeel his
pain.
“Truth or dare, ”I demanded.
“Truth, ” he nearly groaned.
“What is the worst thing you've ever done?”
“What do you mean?”
“What is the worst thing you've ever done? Come on. Have
you lied? Stolen? Seduced your best friend's baby sister? Killed
anyone? Tell me, Jason. I want to know who you are. We’re mar¬
ried, for God’s sake. Surely you owe me that much."
He looked at me funny. “Sandra...”
“No. No whining, no negotiating. Just answer the question.
Have you ever killed anyone?”
“Yes.”
“What?” I asked, genuinely surprised.
“Yes, I’ve killed someone, "Jason said. “But that's not the worst
thing I've ever done. ”
Then my husband got offthe sofa, took his paperback, and left
me alone in the room.
Jason didn’t think he’d fallen asleep, but he must have, because
shortly after one A.M., a sound roused him from the love seat.
He jerked upright, registering a distant banging. The noise
seemed to be coming from outside the house. He stood,
crossing to the front windows, where he parted the curtains
one inch and peered out.
Two uniformed officers had taken the lids off his trash
cans. They were now in the process of moving the white

kitchen bags from the refuse containers to the trunk of their
police cruiser.
Shit, he thought, and nearly opened the front door to yell
at them to stop. Then caught himself.
Rookie mistake. He’d taken his trash out from long habit,
and in doing so, had effectively turned it over to the police.
He searched through his mind, trying to anticipate how much
such a mistake might cost him. He couldn’t think of anything,
so he finally relaxed, shoulders coming down, expelling all his
pent-up breath in one giant sigh.
All right. So the police had seized his garbage. Now
what?
Sergeant D.D. Warren, and her sidekick, Detective
Miller, had returned to the house shortly after eight-thirty
P.M. to execute the search warrant on his truck. He’d met
them at the door, skimmed the warrant as was his right,
then dutifully handed over the keys.
Then he’d pointedly shut and locked the front door,
spending the rest of the time tucked inside with Ree. Let
them stew on that, he thought. He didn’t give a rat’s ass about
his truck. He just needed something to keep them occupied
so they didn’t focus solely on his computer.
Speaking of which ... He glanced at the clock. It
was 1:52 A.M. Now or never, he decided, and headed quietly
upstairs.
It pained him to wake Ree. She looked at him with bleary
eyes, still groggy and disoriented from sleep, let alone the
emotional toll of missing her mother and her cat. He had her
sit up in bed, slipping her arms into her winter coat, pro¬
ducing boots for her bare feet. She didn’t protest, just leaned
her head against his shoulder as he carried her downstairs,
her blankie and Lil’ Bunny clutched in both hands.
He stopped by the door to grab a dark green duffel bag,
106

tucking it over his shoulder. He positioned Ree and her blanket
to shield the bag from prying eyes. Then he opened the door
and carried both the bag and his daughter out to Sandy’s Volvo
station wagon.
He could feel the eyes of the patrolman upon his back. No
doubt the officer was now picking up a notebook and writing
urgent notes: 1:56 A.M., subject appears in front yard carrying
sleeping child. 1:57 A.M., subject approaches wife’s car...
Jason latched Ree into her booster seat, sliding the duffel
bag unobtrusively onto the floor by her feet. Then he closed
the back passenger door and headed straight for the
unmarked police car.
He tapped on the driver’s-side window. The cop lowered
the glass a notch. “I have to go to work,” Jason stated briskly.
“Wrap up a few things before I take time off. You want the
address or are you gonna stay here?”
He saw the officer debate his options. Watch the subject
or watch the house? What were the officer’s orders?
“Late to be out with a child,” the officer observed, obvi¬
ously stalling for time.
“Got kids, Officer? This won’t be the first time I’ve had
to drag my daughter to the office. Good news is, she can sleep
through anything.”
Minute Jason said those words, he wished he could call
them back. ’Course, it was too late, as he observed in the
officer’s responding smirk. “Good to know,” the officer said,
and proceeded to make a very long entry into his logbook.
Jason gave up, returning to the station wagon and firing it
to life. As he drove down the street, he didn’t see the officer
pulling out behind him. But then, around six blocks later, a
police cruiser suddenly nosed out from a side street. His next
handler, he supposed, and gave a silent salute to Boston’s finest.
The offices of the Boston Daily were like any other news

media, which was to say it was a crazy, hectic bull pen of
activity during the day, and still warranted a few dedicated
souls even late at night. Stories were written, copy was edited,
and pages were laid out even in the odd hours of the morning,
perhaps even more so, because it was only after midnight that
the place grew quiet enough for anyone to think.
Jason entered the building with a dozing child cradled
against his chest, the duffel bag slung over his shoulder and
now effectively covered by Ree’s giant fleecy bear blanket. He
looked like a man carrying a heavy load, but then, one glance
at the fairly large four-year-old collapsed like dead weight in
his arms, and no one thought to question it. He swiped his
reporter’s ID across the various door pads, and made his way
into the inner sanctum.
Most of the reporters worked both at home and in the
office, so guys like Jason shared space with more than one
person, in a system called “hoteling.” Basically, there were
desks and computers everywhere. You found an available
space and used it. Tonight was no exception.
Jason took refuge in a corner cubicle, kicking the dark
green duffel bag under the desk, while sliding Ree onto the
floor and making a little nest for her with her blankie and her
bunny. She was awake now, staring at him somberly.
“It’s okay,” he whispered to her. “Daddy’s just gotta do a
little work, then we’ll go home.”
“Where’s Mommy?” Ree asked. “I want Mommy.”
“Go to sleep, honey. We’ll be home shortly.” Ree obedi¬
ently closed her eyes, drifting back into slumber.
Jason watched her for a moment longer. The smudge of
her dark lashes against her pale cheeks. The purple stain of
exhaustion rimming her closed eyelids. She looked small to
him. Delicate. An impossible burden that was also the most
important purpose of his life.
108

He was not surprised by how well she was holding up.
Kids did not externalize their bone-deep terrors. A kid could
scream for ten minutes over a small bump received on the
playground. The same child would clam up tight when con¬
fronted by an armed stranger. Kids understood instinctively
that they were small and vulnerable. Thus, in crisis the
majority of children simply shut down, focusing on becoming
even smaller, because maybe if they disappeared completely,
the bad man would leave them alone.
Or maybe, if a four-year-old girl slept enough, when she
woke up, her mommy and her cat would have returned and
life would magically be back to normal.
Jason turned his attention to the desk. The newsroom was
quiet at this hour, the neighboring workspaces unoccupied.
He decided this was as good as it was going to get, and slowly
unzipped the dark green duffel bag to reveal the desktop
computer from the kitchen table.
Technically speaking, Jason owned three computers: his
laptop, which he used for work; the family desktop, which sat
in the kitchen and was shared by all; and finally, an older
desktop, once the primary family computer, but relegated to
the basement last year when he’d upgraded to a newer Dell.
Jason was not worried about his laptop. He used it solely for
reporting, understanding the risks inherent in a portable com¬
puter that could be lost or stolen at any time. He was slightly
more concerned about the old computer in the basement.
True, he’d used an official Department of Defense program
to overwrite the hard drive with meaningless strings of ones
and zeros, but not even the DoD trusted such specs anymore.
For the really classified stuff, they incinerated the hard drives,
turning the internal workings to powder. He didn’t have an
incinerator handy, so he’d done the basics. Ninety-five percent
of the time, that should get the job done.
109

Unfortunately, the family computer, the relatively new
500-gigabyte Dell desktop used by him in the early hours of
the morning while Sandra slept, scared the crap out of him.
He could not afford for the police to seize this computer;
hence he had sicced them on his truck. Now, glancing at his
watch, he estimated he had approximately three hours to run
damage control.
He began by inserting a memory stick into the E drive.
Then, he started moving files after files. Program files,
Internet files, document files, jpeg files, pdf files. There were
lots of them, more than could be transferred in three hours,
so he was strategic in his focus.
While those files started to copy, he logged on to the
Internet and did some basic research. He started with regis¬
tered sex offender Aidan Brewster. Always good to know the
neighbors, right? He found some basics and lots of jargon,
such as “sealed files.” But he was a reporter, not one who
stalled out every time he hit a shut door. He jotted down
some phone numbers, did a little more digging, and got some
happy results.
First mission accomplished, he then opened up AOL and
logged in as his wife. He had figured out her password years
ago; she’d gone with LilBunl, the name of Ree’s favorite
plush toy. But if he hadnt cracked the code with good guesses,
he would’ve used a computer forensic program such as
AccessDatas Forensic Toolkit or Technology Pathways’
ProDiscover to do the same. These were the kinds of things
he did. This was the kind of husband he was.
Had Sandy figured that out? Was that why she had left?
He didn’t know, so he started scrolling through her e-
mail, looking for clues regarding his wife’s final hours.
Her account registered sixty-four e-mails, the majority of
which offered penile implants or urgent requests to transfer
no

funds from third world countries. According to Sandra’s e-
mail folder, she was either obsessed with male genitalia or
about to become rich assisting some faraway colonel with a
financial transfer.
He worked his way through the spam, then through the
phishing, then finally hit six e-mails that seemed actually
intended for his wife. One was from the preschool Ree
attended reminding parents to save the date for an upcoming
fundraiser. Another was from the school principal, reminding
teachers of an upcoming workshop. The final four were
replies from an original mass e-mail from one teacher asking
other teachers if they’d be interested in forming a group to
walk together after school.
Jason frowned at this. Last time he’d checked, several
months ago, she’d had at least twenty-five personal e-mails,
ranging from notes from students to information from various
mom e-mail loops.
He checked his wife’s old e-mail folder. All he found was
the spam he’d just deleted. He tried the sent e-mail folder.
Also empty. And then, with a growing feeling of dread, he
began to search in earnest. Her address book: cleared. Favorite
places: cleared. AOL buddies: cleared. Browser history of
most recent Internet searches: cleared.
Holy crap, he thought, and for a moment, he couldn’t
breathe. He was the deer caught in the headlights, feeling the
panic in him grow and grow until it threatened to spiral out
of control.
Date and time, he thought frantically. Nail down date and
time. It all boiled down to date and time.
He clicked back on her old e-mail folder, scrolling to the
oldest dated spam with a hand that was starting to tremble
again. Sixty-four clicks and there it was: Oldest e-mail sent
had been delivered Tuesday at 4:42 in the afternoon, over
hi

twenty-four hours before Sandra had disappeared.
Jason sat back, hands clutched against his knotted
stomach while he sought to make sense of this.
Someone had systematically purged Sandra’s AOL
account. If it had happened Wednesday night, the same night
as her disappearance, one logical conclusion would be that
whoever had taken Sandra had also cleared the account, pos¬
sibly as a way of covering his tracks.
But the purging had come first, by nearly twenty-four
hours. What did that imply?
Occam’s razor, right? The simplest explanation is gener¬
ally the correct explanation. Meaning Sandra herself had
probably purged her account. Most likely because she had
been doing something online she now felt a need to hide. An
Internet flirtation? A genuine physical relationship? Some¬
thing she didn’t want him or anyone else to find.
That explanation was less ominous than the image of a
shadowy man, first attacking Sandra, then sitting smugly at
the kitchen table and covering his computer tracks while Ree
presumably slept overhead.
And yet that explanation hurt him more. It implied pre¬
meditation. It implied that Sandra knew she was leaving, and
had wanted to ensure that he wouldn’t be able to find her.
Jason lifted a weary hand. He shielded his eyes, and for a
moment, the flood of emotion that choked his throat sur¬
prised him.
He had not married Sandra for love. He was not a man
who had that kind of expectation out of life. And yet, for a
while ... For a while, it had been very nice to feel like part of
a family. It had been nice to feel normal.
He had screwed up in February. The hotel room, the
dinner, the champagne ... He never should’ve done what he’d
done in February.
11 2

Jason cleared his throat, rubbed his eyes. He pushed his
own exhaustion away, and gazing down at his sleeping child,
forced himself back to the matters at hand.
Sandra was not as technologically gifted as he was. He
assumed that if she had been the one to purge the account,
she’d done it through purging the cache file, meaning the
information was all still on the hard drive, just the directory
identifying the location of each data point had been removed.
And, by utilizing any number of simple forensic programs, he
could restore most of the deleted information.
Time was the issue. It would take at least an hour to run
such a program, and then hours more to comb through the
re-created data until he found what he was looking for. He
didn’t have hours. Jason glanced at his watch. He had thirty
minutes. Crap.
He rubbed his face again with tired hands, and took a
deep breath.
All right, time for plan B.
His memory stick had reached capacity. He disengaged
it, returned to the system menu, and perused the contents
menu. He had removed both too much and too little. He
selected half a dozen more files to delete, glancing at his
watch again and feeling the urgency.
Originally, he had hoped to capture what he could, then
run an official purge program. Now, however, he couldn’t
bring himself to trash the hard drive, not when it might con¬
tain clues regarding Sandra’s final hours. Which created an
interesting dilemma. The computer potentially held the
power both to find his wife and to put him in jail forever.
He thought about it. Then he knew what to do.
He would return the old family computer from the base¬
ment to the kitchen table, uploading it with all the current
software programs from the new computer. He could transfer

over basic files from his memory stick, enough garbage to give
the old computer the appearance of an active one.
A good evidence tech would figure it out, eventually. That
there were date gaps in the computer’s memory. Perhaps even
Sergeant D.D. and Detective Miller would catch the switch.-
He didn’t think so, however. Most people noticed a person’s
monitor, and maybe a person’s keyboard, but they didn’t notice
the computer itself, the functional tower that was generally
propped under a desk or kitchen table. If anything, perhaps
they’d noted that he owned a Dell, in which case his brand
loyalty was about to be rewarded.
So the old computer would become his current computer,
buying him some precious time.
Which left him with the issue of what to do with his cur¬
rent computer. Couldn’t put it in his house, which was prob¬
ably destined to be searched a few more times. Equally risky
to stash it in his vehicle, for the same reason. Which left him
one option. To leave the computer right here, set up just as it
was, a computer on a desk, in a room full of computers on
desks. He would even connect it to the network, making it a
fully functional, completely indistinguishable Boston Daily
computer. Hide in plain sight, as it were.
Even if the police thought to search the Boston Daily
offices, he sincerely doubted they could obtain a warrant to
seize computers from a major news outlet. Why, the breach
in confidentiality alone . .. Besides, in the modern world of
“hoteling,’’Jason didn’t have an official work space. Meaning
there wasn’t a single computer or office space the police could
definitively list in a warrant as being his. Technically speaking,
all the computers were used by him, and no judge in this day
and age was going to let the police carry away every single
computer belonging to the Boston Daily. That just wasn’t
going to happen.

At least he hoped not.
Jason pushed away from the desk. He crumpled up the
duffel bag and stuffed it in the back of a metal filing cabinet.
Then he picked up his sleeping daughter and, very gently, car¬
ried her back out to the car. x
Five forty-five A.M. Sun would be coming up soon, he
thought. He wondered if Sandra could see it.

Chapter Eleven
I’m working on a letter. In order to graduate from my treat¬
ment program, I need to write a letter to the victim, in which
I take responsibility for my actions and express my remorse.
This letter is never sent; wouldn’t be fair to the victim, we’re
told. Dredging up bad business and all that. But we have to
write it.
So far, I have two words: Dear Rachel.
Rachel is an alias, of course—no confidentiality in group
therapy, remember? So basically, after six weeks of work, I
have two words, one of which is a he.
Tonight, however, I think I can make some progress on
my Dear Rachel letter. Tonight, I’m learning what it feels like
to be a victim.
I wanted to run. Thought about it. Tried it out in my
head. Couldnt see how it could be done. Running away
involves some serious logistics in this post-9/11 world where
Big Brother is always watching. Can’t catch a plane or train
without a license, and I dont have a car. What am I supposed
to do, walk my way across Massachusetts state lines?
Truth is, I don’t have the cash or the wheels for a hard¬
core disappearing act. I’ve been paying for polygraphs and
support group, not to mention the hundred a week I send
straight to Jerry. He calls it restitution. I call it insurance that
he doesnt track me to South Boston and break every god¬
damn bone in my miserable body.
So the bank account is a little low on exit funds.
116

What can I do? After support group, I headed home.
Colleen knocked on my door just thirty minutes later.
“Can I come in?” my parole officer asks, very polite, very
firm. Her red hair is spiked tonight, but it doesn’t distract
from the serious look on her face.
“Sure,” I say, and hold the door wide open. Colleen has
visited once before, in the very beginning when she was con¬
firming my address. It’s been two years now, but not much
has changed. I’m not exactly big on interior decorating.
She walks down the cramped hallway to the back of the
house, where my thrifty landlord, Mrs. Houlihan, has con¬
verted a sitting room and screened-in porch into a five-
hundred-square-foot one-bedroom apartment. I pay eight
hundred bucks a month for use of this magnificent space. In
return, Mrs. H. can make the property tax payments on the
home she’s owned for fifty-odd years, and doesn’t want to lose
just because some yuppies finally discovered the neighbor¬
hood and sent property values sky high.
Truth is, I kind of like Mrs. H., even if she did hang lace
over every damn window, as well as place crocheted doilies
on all pieces of upholstered furniture (which she pins into
place, as I know because I get pricked by the pins at least
every other day). For starters, Mrs. H. knows I’m a registered
sex offender, and she still lets me stay, even though her own
kids yelled at her for it (I heard them from my apartment; it’s
not like the house is that big). For another, I catch her in my
room all the time.
“Forgot something,” she barks at me, playing to her age.
Mrs. H. is eighty years old and built like a garden gnome.
There is nothing fragile, absentminded, or remotely forgetful
about her. She’s checking up on me, of course, and we both
know it. But we don’t talk about it, and I like that, too.
Just for her, I half tuck my porn magazines underneath

my mattress, where she’s sure to find them. I figure it makes
her feel better to know that her “young man” renter is
catching up on adult titty magazines. Otherwise, she might
worry about me, and I don’t want that.
Maybe I could’ve used a mother growing up. Maybe that
would’ve helped me. I don’t know.
Now, I lead Colleen into my little slice of paradise. She
peruses the tiny kitchenette, the sparse sitting area with a pink
floral love seat graciously supplied by Mrs. H. Colleen spends
about sixty seconds in the main room, then moves on to the
bedroom. I watch her crinkle her nose as she enters the room,
and it reminds me that it’s been a while since I washed the
sheets.
Well shit, I think. Can’t do anything about that now. Fresh
laundering of bedding will be interpreted as a sign of guilt
for sure.
Colleen wanders back into the family room, takes a seat
on the pink sofa. A doily scratches her behind the neck. She
straightens for a minute, stares at the crocheted Kleenex, then
shrugs and leans back.
“Whatch’ya been up to, Aidan?”
“Work, walking, support group.” I shrug, remain standing.
I cant help myself. I m too antsy to sit. I snap the green rubber
band on my wrist. Colleen watches me do it, but doesn’t say
anything.
“How’s the job?”
“Can’t complain.”
“Got any new friends, new hobbies?”
“Nope.”
“Catch any movies lately?”
“Nope.”
“Check any books out at the library?”
“Nope.”
118

She cocks her head to the side. “How about attending any
neighborhood barbecues?”
“In March?”
She grins at me. “Sounds like your life is quieter than a
church mouse’s.”
“Oh, it is,” I assure her. “It really, really is.”
She finally cuts to the chase, leaning forward, away from
the doily, and planting her elbows on her knees. “I heard there
was some excitement in the neighborhood.”
“I saw the cops,” I tell her. “Going door to door this
morning.”
“You talk to them, Aidan?”
I shake my head. “Had to get to work. Vito tans my hide
if I’m late.’Sides,” I throw in defensively, “I don’t know nothin’
’bout nothin’.”
She smiles, and I can almost hear her thinking, Oh, if only
I had a nickel for every time I’ve heard that one.
I start pacing, quick, agitated steps. “I’m writing a letter,”
I say abrupdy, because she’s staring at me with that knowing
PO sort of way, and you just have to say something when an
authority figure stares at you that way.
“Yeah?”
“To Rachel,” I say. She won’t know who Rachel is, since
it’s an alias and all, but that doesn’t stop her from nodding
understandingly. “Gotta put into words how it feels to be
helpless. Been tough to do, you know. Nobody likes to feel
helpless. But I think I’m getting pretty good at it now. Think
I’m gonna get a lot of quality time to know just what helpless
feels like.”
“Talk to me, Aidan.”
“I didn’t do it! Okay? I didn’t do it. But this woman is
gone, and I five five houses away, and I’m in the friggin’ sex
offenders database, and that’s just it. Game over. Got pervert,

will make arrest. Not like anyone’s gonna believe anything I
say.
“Did you know the woman, Aidan?”
“Not really. Just saw her around and all. But they got a
kid. Saw that, too. And I’m following the rules. Don’t need
no more trouble, not me. They have kids, I stay away.”
“I understand she’s very pretty.”
“Got a kid,” I say firmly, almost like a mantra, which hell,
maybe it is.
“You’re nice-looking.” Colleen tilts her head as she says
this, almost as if she’s appraising me, but I’m not fooled.
“Living a quiet life, not getting out much. I can imagine how
frustrating that must be for you.”
“Trust me, I whack off every day. Just ask my support
counselor. She makes us tell her all about it.”
Colleen doesn’t flinch at my vulgarity. “What’s her name?”
she asks abruptly.
“Whose name?”
“The woman.”
“Jones, I think. Something Jones.”
She’s watching me shrewdly, trying to figure out how
much I know, or how much she can trick me into giving away.
For example, will I confess that I met with the husband of
the missing woman, even though the child was at home? I
figure this is a detail I should keep to myself. Rule of thumb
once you’re a felon—volunteer nothing, make the law
enforcement officer do all the work.
“I believe it’s Sandra Jones,” she muses at last. “She
teaches over at the middle school. Husband works nights.
Tough gig, that. Her working days, the hubby working nights.
I imagine she might have been feeling frustrated, too.”
I snap the elastic at my wrist. She hasn’t asked a question,
so I’ll be damned if I answer.
120

“Kid’s pretty cute.”
I don’t say a word.
“Precocious, I understand. Loves to ride her trike all over
the neighborhood. Maybe you’ve seen her a time or two?”
“See child, cross street,” I report. Snap, snap, snap.
“What were you doing last night, Aidan?”
“Already told you: nothin’.”
“Got an alibi for the nothing you were doing?”
“Sure, call Jerry Seinfeld. I hang out with him every night,
seven P.M.”
“And after that?”
“Went to bed. Mechanics have an early start.”
“You went to bed alone?”
“Believe I already answered that, too.”
Now she arches a brow. “Really, Aidan, don’t dazzle me
with your charm. Keep up this attitude, police are gonna toss
you behind bars for sure.”
“I didn't do anything.!”
“Then convince me of it. Talk to me. Tell me all about
this nothing you’ve been doing, because you’re right, Aidan—
you’re a registered sex offender living five houses from where
a woman has gone missing, and so far you’re looking pretty
good for this.”
I lick my lips. Snap my band. Lick my lips. Snap my band.
I want to tell her about the car, but I don’t. Volunteering
the car tidbit will bring the police to my house for sure. Better
to wait, use the information as barter once they’ve hauled in
my sorry ass for questioning and have me locked up in a
holding cell. Better to talk when I can trade the information
for freedom. Never give somethin’ for nothin’, another rule of
thumb for the convicted felon.
“If I had done something,” I say at last, “then I damn well
woulda put together a better story, don’t you think?”
121

“The lack of alibi is your alibi,” Colleen states drolly.
“Yeah, something like that.”
She rises off the sofa, and I have one second where I hon¬
estly feel relieved. I’m gonna survive after all.
Then she asks: “Can we walk outside?”
And I feel my good mood disappear just like that.
“Why?”
“Nice night. I want to get some fresh air.”
I can’t think of a thing to say, so we walk outside, her, six
feet high in some crazy platform boots, me, all hunched up
in jeans and a white T-shirt. I’ve stopped snapping the rubber
band at least. My wrist has gone numb and turned bright red.
I look like a suicide victim. It’s something to consider.
She walks around the house, to the back yard. I can see
her, intently checking the grounds. Any bloody power tools
lying around? Perhaps some fresh-turned earth?
I want to say Fuck you. Of course, I say nothing at all. I
keep my head down. I don’t want to look up. I don’t want to
give anything away.
Later, she will tell me she’s doing this for my own good.
She is looking out for me, trying to protect me. She only
wants to help me.
And I can suddenly picture myself, sitting down on my
stupid pink floral sofa, writing full force:
Dear Rachel:
I am sorry for what I did. Sorry for all the times I told you I only
wanted to talk, when we both knew I just wanted to get you naked.
Sorry for all the times I got you in bed, then said I only wanted what
was best for you.
I m sorry I fucked you, then told you it was all your fault. You
wanted it. You needed it. I did it for you.
And I m sorry that I still think about you every single goddamn
122

day. How much I want you. How much I need you. How you did it
just for me.
Then, just as I’m really on a roll, writing away in my head,
Colleen’s voice suddenly cuts through the gloom.
“Hey, Aidan,” she calls out. “Is that your cat?”
123

\
Chapter Twelve
The meeting started at six A.M. sharp. They began with the
board. They had Person of Interest A: Mr. Jason Jones,
relation—spouse. They had Person of Interest B: Aidan
Brewster, relation—registered sex offender living on same
block. From there, they outlined means, motives, and oppor¬
tunity.
Means was left blank, as they lacked information on what
exactly had happened to Sandra Jones. Killed, kidnapped?
Ran away? Never good to make assumptions at such an early
stage in an investigation, so they moved on.
Motives. Jones stood to gain millions of dollars he might
otherwise lose in divorce, plus custody of his daughter. Brew¬
ster was a known sexual predator, perhaps acting out long-
festering impulses.
Opportunity. Jones had an alibi for the night and time in
question, but the alibi was hardly airtight. Brewster—no alibi,
but could they connect Brewster to Sandra Jones? At this
time, they had no phone messages, e-mails, or text messages
linking the two. But geography remained in their favor. Sus¬
pect and victim lived only five houses apart. A jury could rea¬
sonably assume that Brewster and the victim had known each
other in some capacity. Plus, there was the matter of the
garage where Brewster worked. Perhaps Sandra Jones had
serviced her car there—they planned on asking first thing this
morning.
They moved on to background. Jones was a freelance
124

reporter and “devoted” father, who’d married a very young
pregnant bride and transplanted her to South Boston from
Atlanta, Georgia. He had millions of dollars in assets from
sources unknown. He was deemed “uncooperative” by both
Detective Miller and Sergeant Warren, which was not in his
favor. He also appeared to have a fetish for bolt locks and steel
doors.
Brewster, on the other hand, was a registered sex offender,
having engaged in sexual relations with a fourteen-year-old.
Worked the same job for the past two years, lived at the same
address. His PO liked him and had called in at nine P.M. to
report she’d found nothing suspicious at his apartment. So a
plus in his favor.
Victim herself was not considered high-risk. A devoted
mom and new schoolteacher, she had no history of drugs,
alcohol, or sexual wantonness. Principal of the middle school
described her as punctual, reliable, and conscientious. Hus¬
band claimed she’d never willingly leave her daughter. On the
flip side, victim was young, living in a relatively strange city,
and seemed to lack a support network of close friends and/or
relatives. So they had early-twenties, socially isolated beautiful
mom who spent most nights alone with her small child.
Crime scene: no sign of forced entry. No blood spatter or
overt signs of violence. They had one broken lamp in the
master bedroom, but no evidence it had been used as a
weapon or destroyed as part of a larger struggle. They had a
blue-and-green quilt that used to be on the master bed, but
someone had stuffed it in the washing machine along with a
purple nightshirt. They had the wife’s purse, cell phone, car
keys, and vehicle all accounted for at the scene. No missing
clothes, jewelry, or luggage. Husband’s truck was searched,
but came up clean. Crime lab was currently searching the
family’s trash. BRIC—Boston Regional Intelligence
125

Center—would really like to search family’s computer.
At the last minute, D.D. added: 1 missing orange cat.
She stepped back from the white board. They all studied
it.
When no one had anything new to add, she capped her
pen and turned to the deputy superintendent of homicide.
“Sandra Jones has now been missing over twenty-four
hours,” D.D. concluded. “She has not turned up at any local
hospital or morgue. Nor has there been any activity on her
credit cards or bank accounts during this time period. We
have searched her house, her yard, the two vehicles, and her
neighborhood. As of this time, we do not have a single lead
on her whereabouts.”
“Cell phone?” the deputy superintendent barked.
“We are working with her cellular provider to procure a
complete log of all deleted voice messages and text messages,
as well as a list of all incoming and outgoing calls. In the past
twenty-four hours, the activity on her cell phone has mostly
been limited to her teaching position, with various staff mem¬
bers and students trying to track her down.”
“E-mail?” Clemente prodded.
“We tried unsuccessfully yesterday to get a warrant to
seize the family computer. The judge argued Sandra Jones
had not been missing for a sufficient length of time. We. will
resubmit our affidavit this morning, now that we have passed
the twenty-four-hour benchmark for missing persons.”
“Strategy?”
D.D. took a deep breath, eyed Detective Miller. They’d
been at this since five this morning, having regrouped after
only a few hours of desperately needed sleep. Passing the
twenty-four-hour mark was both the best and worst thing to
have happened for them. On the one hand, they could offi¬
cially open a case file for Sandra Jones. On the other hand,
126

the odds of finding said female had just dropped in half.
Before, they’d had a window of opportunity. Now, they had an
hourly race against time, as each additional minute Sandra
Jones remained missing spelled only further doom and gloom.
They needed to find her. Within the next twelve hours,
or chances were, they’d be digging up a body.
“We believe we have two logical courses of action,” D.D.
reported. “One, we believe the child, Clarissa Jones, may have
information on what happened in her home that night. We
need to force Jason Jones "to consent to a forensic interview
so that we can determine what details Clarissa may have to
offer.”
“How you gonna do that?”
“We’re going to tell him he either allows us to interview
Clarissa, or we will declare the house a crime scene and have
him and Clarissa booted from the premises. We believe that
in the interest of maintaining a stable environment for his
child, he’ll consent to the interview.”
Clemente looked at her. “Not if he believes his daughter
may offer details that incriminate him.”
D.D. shrugged. “Either way, we’ll have information we
didn’t have before.”
Clemente considered this. “Agreed. Second course of
action?”
She took another deep breath. “Given the current lack of
leads, we need to make a public appeal for help. It’s been
twenty-four hours. We don’t know what happened to Sandra
Jones. Our best bet is to get the public involved. To accom¬
plish this mission, we’d like to form an official taskforce to
handle the multitude of inquiries that would come our way.
We would also need to partner with other law enforcement
agencies to identify local search team leaders, as well as other
avenues of investigation. Finally, we would hold a press
127

conference by nine A.M. this morning, where we would post
pictures of Sandra Jones along with a hotline number for
caller information. Of course, a case of this nature could
potentially leap straight to national attention, but then again,
maybe that will be useful to our efforts.”
Clemente stared at her doubtfully.
D.D. relaxed her formal pose enough to shrug. “Hell,
Chuck, media’s gonna catch wind of this sooner or later.
Might as well make it on our terms.”
Clemente sighed, picked up the manila file folder in front
him, tapped it a few times on the table. “Cable shows are
gonna love this one.”
“We’ll need a dedicated public affairs officer,” D.D. com¬
mented.
“Ninety-five percent of ‘tips and inquiries’ are gonna be
from lonely men with tinfoil hats and tales of alien abduc¬
tions.”
“It’s been a while since we’ve gotten to hear from them,”
D.D. said, straight-faced. “Maybe we can assign a second
officer just to update their addresses.”
Clemente snorted. “Like I got the budget and they’re ever
moving out of their mothers’basements.” He clutched the file
in two hands. “Press is gonna ask you about the husband.
What do you plan on saying?”
“We are pursuing all leads at this time.”
“They’ll ask if he’s cooperating with the investigation.”
“Meaning I’m gonna call him at eight-thirty A.M. and
suggest he let us interview his daughter, just so I can answer
yes to that question and save him some grief.”
“And the registered sex offender?”
D.D. hesitated. “We’re pursuing all leads at this time.”
Clemente nodded sagely. That’s my girl. I don’t want to
hear any deviation from that party fine. Last thing we need
128 •

leaked is that we have two equally viable persons of interest.
Next thing you know, they’ll point the finger at each other,
providing instant reasonable doubt to the defense attorney of
choice.”
D.D. nodded, without feeling the need to volunteer that
Jason Jones was already going down that path. That was the
problem with profiling two suspects, and why they had
written everything on an erasable white board instead of in
an official police report. Because once an arrest was made, all
police reports became subject to disclosure to the defense
attorney, who could then take suspect B and dangle him in
front of the jury as the real mastermind. Ta-da, one dose of
reasonable doubt, delivered by the earnest detective’s own
thorough investigation. Sometimes you were the windshield.
Sometimes you were the bug.
“Nine A.M. press conference, you say?” Clemente glanced
at his watch, stood from the table. “Better get cracking.”
He tapped the file one last time, like a judge adjourning
the trial. Then, he was out the door, while D.D. and Miller,
finally officially empowered to assemble a taskforce and pres¬
sure a suspect, scrambled to get to work.
The phone rang shortly after 8 A.M. Jason turned his head
slightly, eyed it ringing across the room on the little table by
the window. He should get up, answer it. He couldnt find the
energy to move.
Ree sat on the carpet in front of him, half-eaten bowl of
Cheerios sitting in front of her, her eyes glued to the TV. She
was watching Dragon Tales, which had followed Clifford the
Big Red Dog, which had followed Curious George. She had
never been allowed to watch as much TV as she had watched
in the past twenty-four hours. Last night, the promise of a
129

movie had excited her. This morning, she simply appeared as
glassy-eyed as he.
She had not come skipping down the hall at six-thirty
A.M. to pounce on top of his prone form and shriek with four-
year-old glee, “ Wake up! Wake up, wake up, wake up! Daaaaa-
dddeeeee. Wake. Up!"
Instead, he had appeared in her room at seven, to find her
lying wide-eyed in bed, staring up at her ceiling as if mem¬
orizing the pattern of birds and butterflies floating across the
painted eaves. He had opened her blinds to another chilly
March day. Got out her fleecy pink bathrobe.
She climbed out of bed without a word, took the bathrobe,
found her slippers, and followed him downstairs. The cereal
sounded uncommonly loud pouring from the box. The milk
made a positive racket, sloshing into the daisy-patterned bowl.
He hadn’t been sure they’d be able to survive the sound of the
silverware, but somehow, they had made it through.
She had carried her bowl into the family room and
snapped on the TV without even asking. As if she’d known
he wouldn’t deny her this. And he hadn’t. He couldn’t find
the heart to say, Sit at the counter, young lady. TV will rot your
brain, child. Come on, let's have a real meal.
Somehow, brain rot seemed a minor inconvenience com¬
pared to what they were facing this morning—the second day
without Sandra. The second day without Ree’s mom, and his
wife, a woman who thirty-six hours ago had intentionally
purged her own Internet account. A woman who had possibly
left them.
Phone rang again. This time, Ree turned to stare at him.
Her gaze was slightly accusing. Like, as the adult, he should
know better.
So he finally slung himself off the sofa and crossed to the
phone.
130

It was Sergeant Warren, of course. “Good morning, Mr.
Jones.”
“Not really,” he replied.
“I trust you had a productive night at work.”
“Did what I had to do.” He shrugged.
“How is your daughter this morning?”
“Have you found my wife, Sergeant?”
“Well, no—”
“Then let’s cut to the chase.”
He heard her take a deep breath. “Well, as it has been
more than twenty-four hours, you should know that your
wife’s status has been upgraded to an official missing person.”
“How lucky for her,” he murmured.
“In a way, it is. Now we can open an active case file, and
bring more resources to bear. Including which, we will be
holding a press conference at nine A.M. to announce your
wife’s disappearance.”
He stiffened. Felt her words hit him between the eyes, a
sharp, stinging blow. He opened his mouth to protest, then
caught himself. He clutched the bridge of his nose and pre¬
tended the stinging in his eyes was something other than
tears. “All right,” he said quietly. He needed to start making
phone calls, he realized. Get a lawyer. Start planning for Ree.
He tucked the cordless phone more tightly between his
shoulder and ear and headed into the kitchen, away from his
child’s acute hearing.
He opened the refrigerator door, found himself staring at
Sandra’s precious Dr Pepper, and closed the door again.
“Of course,” Sergeant Warren was saying, “it would be
excellent if you were available to make your own appeal to
the public. Personalize the case and all that. We could hold
the conference in your front yard. You and Ree could both be
present,” she concluded pleasantly.

“No thank you.”
“No thank you^” She sounded stunned, but they both
knew she was faking it.
“My primary concern is for my daughter. I don’t think
involving her in a media circus is to her benefit. I also think
having reporters traipse across our yard and intrude in our
private lives would be very traumatizing for her. Therefore, I
think it’s best if I stay home, preparing her for what will come
next,”
“And what do you think will come next?” Sergeant
Warren asked, clearly baiting him.
“You will broadcast my wife’s photo on the TV and the
newspaper. Copies will be made. It will be distributed and
stapled up all over the city. Search parties will be organized.
People from Sandy’s school will volunteer. The neighbors will
stop by with offers of casseroles and hopes for the inside
scoop. You will request clothing for canine teams. You will
request hair for DNA tests, should you discover human
remains. You will request a family photo, because the media
will like that better than a lone shot of Sandy. Then the media
vans will park outside my house with klieg lights that will
power on every morning at four A.M. And you will have to
assign uniforms simply to hold the hordes at the perimeter
of my property line, where they will stand eighteen out of
every twenty-four hours, screaming questions they hope I will
magically appear to answer. If I serve as my own spokesman,
everything I say can and will be used against me in a court of
law. On the other hand, if I hire an attorney to serve as a
spokesperson, I will look like I’m hiding something.
“A memorial will start to form on my front yard. People
dropping off flowers, notes, teddy bears, all intended for
Sandy. Then there will be the candlelight vigils, where good-
intentioned souls will pray for Sandra’s safe return. More
132

likely than not, a few psychics will also volunteer their services.
Then there will be the young ladies who will start sending
me condolence notes because they find the allure of a single
father to be strangely seductive, particularly if I may or may
not have harmed my wife. Of course, I will decline their offers
of free babysitting.”
There was a long pause. “You seem to know the process
very well,” D. D. said.
“I’m a member of the media. Of course I know this
process well.”
Were dancing, he thought idly. It made him picture Ser¬
geant D.D. Warren, whirling around him in some hot pink
flamenco dress, while he stood there in solid black, trying to
look strong and stoic, when really, he just didn’t know the
moves.
“Of course, now that the investigation is ramping up,” the
detective was saying, “it’s important that we get as much
information to the taskforce team as fast as possible. You
understand that with every hour that passes, the odds of suc¬
cessfully finding your wife diminish significantly.”
“I understand that not finding her yesterday means that
most likely we won’t find her at all.”
“Got anything you want to add to that?” Sergeant Warren
asked it quietly.
“No ma’am,” he said, then immediately wished he hadn’t.
He caught the Southern drawl that crept into the words, as
it always did when he used phrases from home.
Sergeant Warren was quiet for a bit. He wondered if that
meant she caught the Southern-fried inflection, as well.
“I’m going to be honest,” she said abruptly.
He doubted that very much, but didn’t feel the need to
say so.
“It’s extremely important that we interview Ree. The
i33

clock is ticking, Jason, and it’s possible that your daughter is
the only witness to what happened to your wife.”
“I know.”
“Then of course you’ll agree to a ten A.M. appointment
with a forensic interviewer. Her name is Marianne Jackson
and she is excellent.”
“All right.”
Now there was dead silence. “You agree?”
“Yes.”
He heard a long sigh, then, almost as if the sergeant
couldn’t help herself: “Jason, we asked you this yesterday, and
you refused. Why the change of heart?”
“Because I’m worried about her.”
“Your wife?”
“No. My daughter. I don’t think she’s doing very well. Per¬
haps talking to a professional will help her. I’m not really a
monster, Sergeant. And I do have my daughter’s best interests
at heart.”
‘Then ten A.M. it is. At our offices. Neutral territory is
better.”
“Daddy?”
“You don’t have to convince me,” he said into the phone,
then turned to find Ree standing in the entryway, staring at
him with that unerring instinct children had when they knew
you were talking about them.
“We’re going to talk to a nice lady this morning,” he said,
holding the receiver away from his mouth. “Don’t worry,
sweetheart, it’ll be okay.”
“There’s a sound at the door, Daddy.”
“What?”
“There’s a sound. At the door. Can’t you hear it?”
Then he did. The sound of shuffling, scratching, as if
someone were trying to get in.
134

“I have to go,” he told the detective. Then, without
waiting for D.D.’s response, he slammed down the receiver.
“Into the family room. Now, sweetheart. I mean it.”
He motioned Ree down onto the floor by the love seat,
while placing his body between hers and the massive steel
weight of the front door. He heard more scratching, and flat¬
tened himself against the wall next to the window, trying not
to look alarmed when every nerve in his body was jangling
with panic. First thing he noticed when he peered outside
was that the unmarked police car remained at the curb; the
watch officer appeared to be sitting placidly, still sipping his
morning coffee. Next thing Jason noticed was that he didn’t
see any sign of a human being outside the window at all.
But he heard the sound again. Shuffling, scratching, and
then ...
“Meow.”
Ree sprang to her feet.
“Meow...”
Ree raced to the door. She moved faster than he could
imagine, grabbing at the doorknob with frantic little fingers,
and tugging, tugging, tugging while he belatedly worked the
locks. Together they got it undone.
Ree threw open the door, and Mr. Smith came sailing
into the house. “Mrrrow!”
“Mr. Smith, Mr. Smith, Mr. Smith!” Ree flung her arms
around the copper-orange beast, squeezing so hard, Mr.
Smith howled in protest.
Then, just as quickly, she let him go, threw herself to the
floor and burst into tears. “But I want Mommy!” she wailed
plaintively. “I want Mamal”
Jason lowered himself to the floor. He pulled his daughter
onto his lap. He stroked her dark curly hair and held her
while she wept.
135

Chapter Thirteen
I cheated on Jason for thefirst time when Ree was eleven months
old. I couldn’t take it anymore. The sleepless nights, the exhausting
ritual of feeding, tending, diapering, feeding, tending, diapering.
I’d already registered for online college courses and it seemed any
minute I wasn’t tending a baby, I was writing a paper, researching
a subject, trying to recall high school math.
I felt both incredibly drained and unbelievably tense. Edgy,
like my skin was on too tight, or my scalp was squeezing my brain.
I found myself noticing everythingfrom the silkyfeel ofRee’s pink
baby blanket to the needle-sharp pain of hot shower spray stinging
my breasts.
Worse, I could feel the darkness growing inside my head. Until
I could smell the cloying scent of decaying roses in every corner of
my own home, and I dreaded falling asleep because I knew I’d only
bolt awake to the sound of my mother’s voice warbling down the
hall, “I know something you don’t know. I know something
you don’t know....”
One day, I caught myself at the kitchen sink, scrubbing my
hands with a wire-bristled brush. I was trying to erase my own
fingerprints, trying to scour the DNA right out of my skin. And
it occurred to me that s what the darkness was—my mother, my
own mother, taking root inside my head.
There are some people that just killing once will never be
enough.
I told Jason I needed to get away. Twenty-four hours. Maybe
a hotel where I could crash for a bit, order room service, catch my

breath. I produced a brochure for a downtown spa by the Four
Seasons and its menu of treatments. Everything was ridiculously
expensive, but I knew Jason wouldn't deny me, and he didn't.
He took a Friday and Saturday off, to be with Clarissa.
“'Don't rush home, ” he told me. “Take your time. Relax. I
understand, Sandy. I do. ”
So I went off to a four-hundred- a-night hotel room, where I
used my spa money to hit Newbury Street and buy one micro mini
suede skirt, black Kate Spade stiletto heels, and a silver sequined
halter top that did not permit one to wear a bra. Then I hit the
Armani Bar, and worked my way from there.
Remember, I was still only nineteen years old. I recalled all
the tricks, and believe me, I know a lot of tricks. Girl like me, in
a halter top and stiletto heels. I started the night popular and
stayed that way until two in the morning, tossing back shots of
Grey Goose in between lap dancing dirty old men and fresh-faced
boys from BU.
My skin itched. I couldfeel it starting to catch fire, the more
I drank, the more I danced, the more I wiggled my hips with some
stranger's hands palming my ass, pressing his groin into my
strategically spread legs. I wanted to drink all night. I wanted to
dance all night.
I wanted to fuck until I couldn't remember my own name,
until I screamed with rage and need. I wanted to fuck until my
own head exploded and the darkness finally went away.
I took my time making my final choice for the evening. Not
one of the old guys. They were goodfor buying drinks, but would
probably drop dead of a heart attack trying to keep up with a girl
like me. I went with one ofthe young college studs. All hard muscle
and raging testosterone and silly, I-can't-believe-shes-really-
leaving-with-me grin.
I let him take me back to his dorm, where I showed him things
you could do while hanging from the underside of a bunk bed.
137

When I was done with him, I fucked his roommate, too. Bachelor
number one was too far gone to complain, and his roommate, a
geeky nerd with no muscle tone at all, was extremely grateful and
useful in his own way.
I left shortly after dawn. I hung my hot pink thong on the
doorknob as a little souvenir, then walked to the Tstop and caught
the subway back to my hotel. Doorman ’,bout had a fit when he
saw me. Probably thought I was a hooker—or, excuse me, a high-
class call girl, which now that I think about it, would’ve been a
decent line of work for me. But I already had my room key, so he
had no choice but to let me in.
I went up to my room, brushed my teeth, showered, brushed
my teeth again, andfell onto the bed. I sleptforfive hours without
moving a muscle. I slept like the dead. And when I woke up, I felt
sanefor the first time in months.
So I did the sensible thing. I balled up the skirt, the heels, the
halter top, and threw them away. I showered yet again, scrubbing
at my hands, which smelled of semen and sweat and lime-twisted
vodka. Then I smoothed orange-scented lotion over my bruised
ribs, my whisker-burned thighs, my bite-marked shoulder. And I
dressed back into my gray cords and lavender turtleneck and
headed home to my husband.
I’ll be good, I told myself, all the way back to Southie. I’ll be
good from now on.
But I already knew that I’d do it again.
The truth is, it’s not so hard to live a lie.
I greeted my husband with a kiss on the cheek. Jason returned
the peck and inquired politely about my weekend.
A feel much better now, ” I told him honestly.
“I’m glad, ” he said, and I understood, just by looking into his
dark eyes, that he knew exactly what I had done. But I didn’t say
138

another word, and neither did he. That is all part of how you live
a lie—you don’t acknowledge it. You let it remain like an elephant,
standing in the middle of the room.
I went upstairs. Unpacked my bag. Picked up my daughter
and rocked with her tucked against my chest. And I discovered,
whore or no whore, adulteress or not an adulteress, my daughter
felt exactly the same, smelled exactly the same, loved me exactly
the same, as I sat there, reading her Runaway Bunny and kissing
her softly on top of the head.
I spent the next week dressing and undressing only when I
was alone, as a form ofcourtesy. Jason spent the next week hunched
over the computer until the odd hours of the morning, obviously
avoiding me.
Sometime around the seventh or eighth night, once the bite
marks had healed and I was still waking up to an empty bed, I
decided this had gone on long enough. I loved Jason. I really did.
And I believed he loved me. He really did. He was just never going
to have sex with me. The irony of all ironies. The one man who
finally showed me respect, compassion, and understanding was
the one man who didn’t want my body at all. But love is still love,
right? And according to The Beatles, isn’t that all well ever need?
Iput on my bathrobe and crept downstairs to ask my husband
to come back to bed. I found him, as usual, hunched over the family
computer.
I noticed that his cheeks were flushed, his eyes overbright. He
had, spread out in front of him, all kinds offinancial papers,
including an online application for a credit card.
“Get the fuck out of here, ” he told me sharply, and given his
tone of voice, I did exactly as he asked.
Four hours later, we sat side by side at the kitchen bar, both
eating bowls of cereal, Ree cooing away in the automatic swing,
and neither of us saying a word.
He chewed. I chewed. Then he reached over and, very slowly,
139

took my hand. We were okay again, just like that. Until the next
time I had to disappear into a hotel room, I supposed. Until the
next time he needed to disappear into the computer.
I wonder if the darkness grew inside his head. I wonder ifhe
ever smelled decaying roses and cursed the color of his eyes or the
feel of his own skin. But I didn’t ask him. I would never ask him.
First rule of lying, remember? You never acknowledge it.
And it occurred to me, over a bowl of soggy cereal, that I could
live like this. Compartmentalized. There, but separate. Together,
but alone. Loving, but isolated. This is how I had been living most
of my life, after all. In a household where my mother might appear
in the middle of the night to do unspeakable things with a hair¬
brush. Then hours later, wed sit across from one another sharing
a platter of buttermilk biscuitsfor breakfast.
My mother had prepared me wellfor this life.
I glanced over at my husband, crunching away on Cheerios. I
wondered who had prepared him.
The Boston Police Department’s press conference started at
9:03 A.M. And Jason knew the second it ended, because his
cell phone rang.
He hadn’t watched the briefing. Once he’d wiped his
daughter’s tears and fed one very demanding Mr. Smith, he’d
loaded both his daughter and the cat into Sandy’s Volvo. Mr.
Smith had sprawled out in a sunny spot and gone immedi¬
ately to sleep, the rare cat who actually liked car rides. Ree, in
turn, sat in her booster seat, clutching Lil Bunny to her chest
while she stared at Mr. Smith as if she were willing him to
stay put.
Jason drove. Mostly because he needed to move. He felt
as if he were on the open plains of Kansas, watching a twister
touch down and helpless to get out of its path. He could only
140

watch the sky darken, feel the first whip of hurricane-force
winds against his face.
The cops had held a press conference. The media
machine was now slowly but surely roaring to life. There was
nothing he could do about it. There was nothing anyone
could do.
His phone rang again. He eyed his screen, feeling his
sense of fatalism swell.
Using the rearview mirror, he glanced at his daughter
again, the serious look on her face as she tried to find happi¬
ness in watching her cat sleep when what she wanted most
in the world was to hug her mother.
He flipped the phone open and held it to his ear.
“Hello, Greg.”
“Holy shit,” the senior news editor of the Boston Daily
exploded in his ear. “Why didn’t you tell us, Jason? Hell, were
like family. We woulda understood.”
“It’s been a trying time,” Jason said automatically, feeling
the words come out by rote as they had before, so long ago.
Wanna be on thefrontpage? All it will cost you is your life. Or
maybe your child’s. Or maybe your wife’s.
“What’s the deal here, Jason? And I’m not talking editor
to reporter. You know I wouldn’t do that to you.” Another lie.
There would be many lies in the days to come. “I’m talking
as a member of your journalistic family, the guy who’s seen
the photos of your family and knows how much you love
them. Are you doin’ all right?”
“I’m taking it one day at a time,” Jason recited evenly.
“Any word? Gotta say, the police were pretty damn vague.”
“We are hoping the public can provide clues,’’Jason filled
in dutifully.
“And your daughter? Clarissa? How’s she holding up?
Need any help, buddy?”

“Thank you for your offer. We are taking it one day at a
t, i• me. n \
“Jason .. .Jason, my man.”
“I won’t be able to work tonight, Greg.”
“Of course not! Holy crap, of course we understand. You
need to take a week off, maybe a leave of absence. You name
it, we’re there for you, manJust don’t forget about us, right,
buddy? Front-page scoop, the inside skinny straightfrom the hus¬
band’s mouth to our front page, right, buddy?
“Thank you for your understanding.”
“We’re there for you, Jason. You name it, you got it. We
believe in you, man. Why, the thought of you doing anything
to harm Sandra ...”
“Thank you for your understanding.” Jason hung up the
phone.
“Who’s that?” Ree demanded from the back seat.
“Daddy’s former boss,” Jason said, and meant it.
The BPD’s headquarters was a glass-and-granite monstrosity
that had been plopped down in the middle of the housing
projects of Roxbury. The hope had been that the over¬
whelming police presence would help jumpstart the gentrifi-
cation process of this particular inner-city. Mostly, it made
both workers and visitors to the building fear for their lives.
Jason eyed his parking options with much trepidation. He
did not expect to come out to find his Volvo intact. And hon¬
estly, he worried for the cat. Mr. Smith had obviously spent
the past thirty-six hours using up at least one of his nine lives.
Who knew how many the cat had left?
“We shouldn’t be here, Daddy,” Ree said when she
climbed out of the back of the car, clutching her bunny. The
parking lot featured a lot of broken asphalt, framed by
142

concrete barriers. Interior decorating by way of Beirut.
Jason thought about it, then reached inside the car for his
notebook and Rees red Crayola marker. He tore out two
sheets of paper and wrote in big block letters: QUARANT¬
INED: Rabid Cat. Warning. Do Not Touch.
He placed one sheet of paper on the front of the car and
one on the back. Then he looked in at Mr. Smith, who
opened one lazy golden eye, yawned, and went back to sleep.
“Be a good rabid cat,” Jason murmured, then took Ree
firmly by the hand and headed for the crosswalk.
As they neared the giant glass building, his footsteps
slowed. He couldn’t help himself. He looked down at Ree’s
hand, tucked securely in his own, and it seemed like the past
five years had been both too fast and too slow. He wanted to
call it all back. He wanted to pull every single moment and
hold them close because the tornado was coming. The twister
was coming, and he couldn’t get out of the way.
He remembered the very first time his daughter had
grabbed his finger, only one hour old, her impossibly tiny
hand wrapping with determination around his ridiculously
large index finger. He remembered those same fingers a year
later, receiving their first burn when she grabbed the candle
on her birthday cupcake before he or Sandy could warn her
that it was hot. And he remembered one afternoon, when he’d
thought she was napping, he’d gone online and read too many
sad stories about sad children, and he had started to cry,
hunched over at the kitchen table. Suddenly, there had been
Ree, her little two-year-old hands upon his face, wiping away
his tears.
“No sad, Daddy,” she’d whispered to him calmly. “No
sad.”
And the sight of his tears on his daughter’s little fingers
had almost made him weep all over again.
i43

He wanted to speak to her now. He wanted to tell her he
loved her. He wanted’to tell her to trust him, he would keep
her safe. He would figure this out. Somehow, he would make
the world be right again.
He wanted to thank her for four beautiful years, for being
the best little girl in the world. For being the sun on his face
and the glow in his smile and the love of his life.
They hit the glass doors, her fingers twitching nervously
in his hand as the police headquarters loomed.
Jason looked down at his daughter.
In the end he told her none of those things. Instead, he
gave her the best advice he could.
“Be brave,” he said, and opened the door.
144

Chapter Fourteen
After consulting with Marianne Jackson, the forensic inter¬
viewer, D.D. had commandeered a room from white-collar
crimes. The space was nicer than anything the homicide unit
had to offer, and hopefully less likely to scare the kid. Mari¬
anne brought with her two child-sized folding chairs, a
bright, flower-shaped rug, and a basket crammed with a col¬
lection of trucks, dolls, and art supplies. In ten minutes or less,
the child specialist had the place looking like a cool kids’
hangout, versus the fraud squad’s interrogation room of
choice. D.D. was impressed.
She’d been happy with the morning’s press conference.
She had intentionally kept it brief. Less was more at this
point. Fewer innuendos to come back to haunt them later,
should they decide the registered sex offender was their sus¬
pect of choice, versus the husband, or heaven help them, an
unknown subject yet to be identified. Besides, their biggest
goal was to increase the number of eyes and ears actively
seeking Sandra Jones. Find the wife alive, save them all a
headache. Thirty-seven hours into the investigation, D.D. still
had hope. Not a lot of it. But some hope.
Now she busily arranged her notepad and two pens on
the table of the observation room. Miller was already present,
sitting in the chair closest to the door, where he seemed to
be lost in thought, given his rhythmic stroking of his mus¬
tache. She thought he should shave the mustache. A mus¬
tache like that practically cried out for a powder blue leisure
145

suit and she really did not want to see Detective Brian Miller
in a powder blue leisurfe suit. She didn’t say anything, though.
Men could be very touchy when it came to facial hair.
D.D. fiddled with her pens again, clicking and unclicking
the ballpoints into place. The speakers were already turned
on, allowing them to hear what was said in the interrogation
room. In turn, Marianne was fitted with a tiny earpiece so she
could receive any follow-up questions or additional inquiries
they made into a cordless mic. Marianne had already warned
them to be tight and focused. The rule of thumb for inter¬
viewing children was five minutes per year of child, meaning
they had roughly twenty minutes to learn everything there
was to know from four-year-old potential witness Clarissa
Jones.
They had formulated their strategy in advance: key ques¬
tions to determine Clarissa’s credibility and capability as a
witness, followed by ever more specific questions regarding
Sandra Jones’s last known moments on Wednesday night. It
was a lot of ground to cover in the time they had, but Mari¬
anne had emphasized the need to be thorough—follow-up
interviews with a child witness were risky. Next thing you
know, a defense attorney was arguing the half a dozen inter¬
views you required for specificity were actually a half a dozen
times you badgered, cajoled, and otherwise corrupted your
young, impressionable subject. Marianne gave them two shots
at talking to the child, max, and for better or worse, D.D. had
already used up one, questioning Clarissa at her house on
Thursday morning. So this was it.
The downstairs sergeant notified them that Jason and his
daughter had arrived. Marianne headed down immediately
to hustle them upstairs before Ree became too overwhelmed
by the full police headquarters experience. Some kids were
enthralled by men and women in uniform. A lot, however,
146

were just plain intimidated. Talking to a stranger was tough
enough without Ree starting the process scared witless.
D.D. and Miller heard footsteps in the hall. Both turned
expectantly toward the door and, despite her best intentions,
D.D. felt nervous. Questioning a kid was twenty times worse
than facing the news media or a new deputy superintendent,
any day of the week. She didn’t care about reporters or, most
of the time, a new supervisor. On the other hand, she always
felt bad for the kids.
First time she’d ever interrogated a child, the eleven-year-
old girl had asked them if they wanted to see her menu; then
she’d proceeded to pull from her back pocket a tiny scrap of
paper, folded into an impossibly small square. It was a menu
of sex acts, prepared by the girl’s stepfather: Hand Job quarter,
Oral Sex fifty cents, Fucking one dollar. The girl had taken
twenty bucks from her stepdad’s wallet. This was his way of
letting her repay the loan. Except last time she’d performed a
“service,” he had refused to pay, and that had made her mad
enough to come to the police. Oh, the sad stories that had
been told in this room ...
The footsteps stopped outside the door. D.D. heard Mari¬
anne talking.
“Clarissa, have you ever been in a magic room before?”
No answer, so D.D. assumed that Ree was shaking her
head.
“Well, I’m going to take you into a special room now. It
has a pretty rug, two chairs, maybe some toys you’d like to
check out. But it’s also a very special room with special rules.
I’ll tell you all about it, okay, but first, you gotta say goodbye
to your daddy. He’s going to wait for you in this room right
here, so he’ll be close by if you need him, but this magic room,
it’s just for you and me.”
Still no answer.
r4 7

“Say, what’s the name of this fellow right here? Oh, I’m
sorry, this gal. Lil’ Burfny? I should’ve guessed she was a girl,
look at that pink dress. Well, Lil’ Bunny, do you like big pink
flowers, because you look to me like the kind of rabbit that
might enjoy a really large pink flower. I’m talking huge. Kind
of flower you have to see to believe. Really? Well, come on,
I’ll show you. And I’ll explain to you a little bit about magic.”
The door opened. Jason Jones entered the room. Clarissa’s
father walked stiffly, as if he was moving on autopilot. The
shuttered expression was back on his face, that one where
D.D. couldn’t decide if he was a complete psychopath or the
most stoic man she’d ever met. He closed the heavy door
behind him, then looked at D.D. and Miller a bit warily. D.D.
twisted around the permission slip she’d already printed out,
and slid it across the table toward him, producing a black ink
pen.
This forms shows you’ve given consent for a certified
forensic interviewer to question your child on behalf of the
BPD.”
Jason gave her a look as if he was surprised his permission
really mattered. But he signed the form without a word,
returning it to her before taking up position on the wall far¬
thest from the observation window. He leaned back with his
arms crossed over his chest. His gaze went to the window,
through which they could now see Marianne and Ree
entering the interrogation room. Ree was clutching a tattered-
looking brown bunny for dear life, its long floppy ears
obscuring her hands.
Marianne closed the door. She moved to the middle of
the room, but rather than taking a seat in one of the little red
folding chairs, she sat cross-legged on the edge of the pink
rug. She ran her hand over it a few times, as if inviting the
girl to take a seat.
148

D.D. picked up the mic, and stated for Marianne’s sake,
“Consent form has been signed. You may begin.”
Marianne nodded slightly, her fingers brushing over the
receiver nestled inside her ear. “What do you think?” she
stated out loud to Clarissa Jones, gesturing to the pink rug.
“Is this a pretty flower? It looks like a sunflower to me, except
I don’t think sunflowers come in pink.”
“It’s a daisy,” Ree said in a small voice. “My mommy
grows them.”
“A daisy? Of course! You know a lot about flowers.”
Ree remained standing, clutching her well-worn rabbit.
Her fingers had found one of its ears and were rubbing it
rhythmically. The unconscious movement pained D.D. She
used to do that as a kid. Had a stuffed dog. Wore its ears right
off its threadbare head.
“So, as I told you downstairs, my name is Marianne
Jackson,” the specialist was saying brightly. “My job is to talk
to children. That’s what I do. I talk to little boys and little
girls. And just so you know, Ree, it’s not as easy as you think.”
For the first time, Ree responded, her forehead crinkling
into a tiny frown. “Why not?”
“For one thing, there are special rules for talking to boys
and girls. Did you know that?”
Ree edged closer, shook her head. Her toe touched the
pink flower. She seemed to study the rug.
“Well, as I mentioned outside, this is a magic room, and
there are four rules for talking in a magic room.” Marianne
held up four fingers, ticking off. “One, we only talk about
what really happened. Not what might have happened, but
what really happened.”
Ree frowned again, moved a tiny bit closer.
“Do you understand the difference between the truth and
a lie, Clarissa?” Marianne reached into the toy basket, came
149

up with a stuffed dog. “If I say this is a cat, is that a truth or
a He?” '
“A lie,” Ree said automatically. “That’s a dog.”
“Very good! So that’s rule number one. We only talk
about the truth, okay?”
Ree nodded. She seemed to get tired of standing, taking
a seat just beyond the flower rug, her bunny now on her lap.
“The second rule,” Marianne was saying, “is that if I ask
you a question and you don’t know the answer, you just say
you don’t know. Does that make sense?”
Ree nodded.
“How old am I, Clarissa?”
“Ninety-five,” Ree said.
Marianne smiled, a bit ruefully. “Now, Clarissa, do you
know how old I am? Have you asked or has anyone told you?”
Ree shook her head.
So really, you don’t know how old I am. And what are
you supposed to say if you don’t know something?”
“I don’t know,” Ree filled in obediently.
“Good girl. Where do I five?”
Ree opened her mouth, then seemed to catch herself. “I
dont know!” she exclaimed, a trace of triumph this time.
Marianne grinned. “I can tell you’re very good in school.
Are you an excellent student?”
I m very pre-pre-cushush,” Ree said proudly. “Everyone
says so.”
Precocious? I fully agree and I’m very proud of you.
Okay, rule number three. If you don’t remember something,
it’s okay to say you don’t remember. So how old were you
when you first walked?”
“I’ve been walking since I was born,” Ree started, then
caught herself as she remembered rule number three. She let
go of her stuffed bunny and clapped her hands gleefully. “I

DON’T REMEMBER!” she shrieked with delight. “I. Don’t.
Remember.”
“You are the best pupil I’ve ever had,”Marianne said, still
sitting cross-legged on the rug. She held up her four fingers.
“All right, star student—last rule. Do you know what rule four
is?”
“I DON’T KNOW!” Ree shouted happily.
“You are so good. So, rule four, if you don’t understand
something I say or ask, it’s okay to say you don’t understand.
Capiscef
“Capisce/” Ree yelled right back. “That means ‘I under¬
stand’ in Italian! I know Italian. Mrs. Suzie’s been teaching
us Italian.”
For a moment, Marianne blinked her eyes. Apparently,
even in a forensic interviewer’s world, there was precocious,
and then there was precocious. Frankly, D.D. was having a
hard time keeping a straight face. She slid a glance in Jason’s
direction, but he had the same blank look on his face. Light
switch, she thought again. He was in the room, but shut off.
That made her think of a thing or two, and she found
herself scrawling a quick question on her notepad.
In the interrogation room, Marianne Jackson seemed to
recover herself. “All right, then. You know the rules. So, tell
me, Clarissa—”
“Ree. Everyone calls me Ree.”
“Why do they call you Ree?”
“ ’Cause when I was a baby, I couldn’t say Clarissa. I said
Ree. And Mommy and Daddy liked that, so they call me Ree,
too. Unless I’m in trouble. Then Mommy says, ‘Clarissa Jane
Jones, ’ and I have until the count of three or I get the timeout
stair.”
“The timeout stair?”
“Yeah. I gotta sit on the bottom step of the staircase for

four minutes. I don’t like the timeout stair.”
“What about the little gal you’re holding? Lil’ Bunny. She
ever get into trouble?”
Clarissa looked at Marianne. “Lil’ Bunny is a toy. Toys
can’t get in trouble. Only people can.”
“Very good, Clarissa. You are a smart cookie.”
The child beamed.
“I like Lil’Bunny,” Marianne continued conversationally.
“I had Winnie the Pooh when I was your age. He had a music
box inside that when you wound it up, played ‘Twinkle,
Twinkle, Little Star.’”
“I like Pooh, too,” Ree said earnestly. She had moved
closer now, onto the rug, peering around Marianne to the
wicker basket. “Where is your Pooh bear? Is he in the basket?”
Actually, he’s at home, on my bookshelf. He was a special
toy for me, and I don’t think we ever outgrow our special
toys.” But Marianne moved the basket onto the rug, closer to
Ree, who was clearly engaged now and very curious about the
rest of the contents of the magic room.
D.D. sneaked a second glance at Jason Jones. Still no
response. Happy, sad, worried, anxious. Nada. She made a
second note on her pad.
“Ree, do you know why you are here today?”
Some of the spark went out of the child. She hunched a
little, her hands rubbing her rabbit as she sat back. “Daddy
said you are a nice lady. He said if I spoke to you, it would be
all right.”
Now D.D. could feel Jason tense. He didn’t move, didn’t
speak, but the veins suddenly stood out on his neck.
“What would be all right, sweetheart?”
“Will you bring my mommy back?” Ree asked in a
muffled voice. “Mr. Smith came back. Just this morning.
He scratched on the door and we let him in and I love
152

him, but ... Will you bring my mommy back? I miss my
mommy.”
Marianne didn’t speak right away. She seemed to be
studying the child sympathetically while letting the silence
stretch on. Through the observation window, D.D. contem¬
plated the pink rug, the folding chairs, the basket of toys, any¬
thing but the pained look on the little girl’s face. Beside her,
Miller shifted uncomfortably in his chair. But Jason Jones still
didn’t move a muscle or say a word.
“Tell me about your family,” Marianne said. D.D. recog¬
nized the interview technique. Back away from the sensitive
topic. Define the child’s broader world. Then circle back to
the wound. “Who’s in your family?”
“There is me and Mommy and Daddy,” Ree began. She
was rubbing Lil’Bunny’s ear again. “And Mr. Smith, of course.
Two girls and two boys.”
D.D. made more notes, the family genealogy as seen
through the eyes of the four-year-old child.
“What about other relatives?” Marianne was asking.
“Aunts, uncles, cousins, grandparents, or anyone else?”
Ree shook her head.
D.D. wrote down, Extended Family??? The child appar¬
ently didn’t know about her own grandfather, perhaps con¬
firming Jason’s assertion that Sandra and her father were
estranged, or perhaps confirming that Jason Jones had done
an excellent job of isolating his much younger wife.
“What about babysitters? Does anyone else help take care
of you, Ree?”
Ree regarded Marianne blankly. “Mommy and Daddy
take care of me.”
“Of course. But what if they’re working, or maybe they
need to go somewhere?”
“Daddy works, Mommy watches me,” Ree said. “Then
i53

Daddy comes home, and Mommy goes to work, but Daddy
has to sleep, so I go tos school. Then Daddy picks me up and
we have Daddy-Daughter time.”
“I see. Where do you go to school, Ree?”
“I go to preschool. In the brick building with the big kids.
I’m in the Little Flowers room. Next year, though, when I am
five, I will go to the big classroom with the kinnygardeners.”
“Who are your teachers?”
“Miss Emily and Mrs. Suzie.”
“Best friends?”
“I play with Mimi and Olivia. We like to play fairies. I’m
a Garden Fairy.”
“So you have best friends. What about your mommy and
daddy, who are their best friends?”
It was another routine question, generally used in
CSAs, or Child Sexual Assaults, when the person of
interest might not be a relative, but a suspected neighbor
or friend of the family. It was important that the child
define her own world, so later, should the interviewer bring
up a name, it did not appear as if the interviewer were
leading the witness.
Ree, however, shook her head. “Daddy says I’m his best
friend. ‘Sides, he works a lot, so I don’t think he gets to have
friends. Daddies are very busy.”
This time Miller looked at Jason. Ree’s father, however,
remained immobile against the wall, staring resolutely
through the window as if he were watching a TV show and
not a trained specialist interviewing his only child. After
another moment, Miller turned back around.
“I like Mrs. Lizbet,” Ree was volunteering. “But she and
Mommy don’t play together. They’re teachers.”
“What do you mean?” Marianne asked.
Mrs. Lizbet teaches seventh grade. Last year, she helped
T54

teach Mommy how to be a teacher. Now Mommy teaches
sixth grade. But we still get to see Mrs. Lizbet at the basket¬
ball games.”
“Oh really?”
“Yes, I like basketball. Mommy takes me to watch. Daddy
works, you know. So it’s Mommy-Daughter night, every
night. Yeah!” For a moment, Ree seemed to forget why she
was in the room. Then, in the next instant, D.D. could see
the realization crash down onto the child, the little girl’s eyes
widening, then her whole body collapsing back into itself,
until she was hunched once more over her stuffed rabbit, rub¬
bing the poor bunny’s ears.
Behind D.D., Jason Jones finally flinched.
“When did you last see your mommy?” Marianne asked
softly.
A muffled reply: “She put me to bed.”
“Do you know the days of the week, Ree?”
“Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,” Ree sang in a
little voice. “Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday.”
“Very good. So do you know what day it was when your
mommy put you to bed?”
Ree looked blank. Then she began to sing again, “Sunday,
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday ...”
Marianne nodded her head and moved on; it was obvious
the child knew a song about the days of the week, but not the
days themselves. Fortunately, there were other tricks for
establishing date and time when dealing with a young wit¬
ness. Marianne would start asking about shows on TV, songs
on the radio, that sort of thing. Children may not know a lot
from an adult’s perspective, but they had a tendency to observe
a lot, making it possible to fill in the necessary information,
often with more credible results than a witness simply saying,
“Wednesday night at eight P.M.”
155

“So tell me about your night with your mother, Ree. Who
was home?” '
“Me and Mommy.”
“What about Mr. Smith, or LiT Bunny or your daddy or
anyone else?”
The anyone else was another standard interview tech¬
nique. When presenting a child with a list of options, the last
item always had to be “anyone else” or “something else” or
“somewhere else”; otherwise, you were leading the witness.
“Mr. Smith,” Ree said. “And LiT Bunny. But not Daddy.
I see Daddy during the day, Mommy at night.”
“Anyone else?”
Ree frowned at her. “Nighttime is Mommy and me time.
We have ladies’ night.”
D.D. made a note.
So what did you do for ladies’ night?” Marianne asked.
“Puzzles. I like puzzles.”
“What kind of puzzles?”
“Um, we did the butterfly puzzle, then the princess puzzle
that takes up the whole rug. Except it got hard, ’cause Mr.
Smith kept walking on the puzzle and I got mad, so Mommy
said, maybe we should move on”
“Do you like music, Ree?”
The girl blinked. “I like music.”
“Did you and your mommy listen to music while doing
the puzzles, or maybe have the TV on, or the radio on, or
something else?”
Ree shook her head. “I like to rock out to Tom Petty,” she
said matter-of-factly, “but puzzles are quiet time.” She made
a face, perhaps like her mother, embarking on a lecture with
one wagging finger: “ ‘Children need quiet time. That’s what
makes brains grow!”’
“I see.” Marianne sounded suitably impressed. “So you
156

and your mother had quiet time with puzzles. Then what did
you do?”
“Dinner.”
“Dinner? Oh, I like dinner. What is your favorite dinner?”
“Mac-n-cheese. And gummy worms. I love gummy
worms, but you can’t have them for dinner, just for dessert.”
“True,” Marianne said sympathetically. “My mother never
let me eat gummy worms for dinner. What did you and your
mommy eat for dinner?”
“Mac-n-cheese,” Ree supplied without hesitation, “with
little bits of turkey dog and some apples. I don’t really like
turkey dogs, but Mommy says I need protein to grow muscle,
so if I want mac-n-cheese, I have to eat turkey dogs.” The
girl sounded mournful.
D.D. jotted down the menu, impressed not only by Ree’s
level of detail, but the consistency with her first statement
given Thursday morning. A consistent witness always made
a detective happy. And the level of detail meant they could
corroborate Ree’s account of the first half of the evening,
making it harder for a jury to discount what the child might
say about events in the second half of the night. All in all,
four-year-old Clarissa Jones was a better witness than eighty
percent of the adults D.D. encountered.
“What did you do after dinner?” Marianne asked.
“Bath time!” Ree sang.
“Bath time?”
“Yep. Me and Mommy shower together. Do you need to
know who was in the shower?” Ree apparently recognized the
pattern by now.
“Okay.”
“Well, not Mr. Smith, ’cause he hates water, and not Lil’
Bunny, because she takes a bath in the washing machine. But
Princess Duckie and Mariposa Barbie and Island Princess
I57

Barbie all needed baths, so they came in with us. Mommy
says I can only wash three things, otherwise I use up all the
hot water.”
“I see. What did your mommy do?”
“She washes her hair, then she washes my hair, then she
yells at me I’m using too much soap.”
Marianne blinked her eyes again.
“I like bubbles,” Ree explained. “But Mommy says soap
costs money and I use too much, so she puts soap in this little
cup for me, but it’s never enough. Barbies have a lot of hair.”
“Ree, if I tell you I have blue hair, is that the truth or is
that a lie?”
Ree grinned, recognizing the game again. She held up
her first finger. “That’s a He, and in the magic room, we only
tell the truth.”
Very good, Ree. Excellent. So you and your mommy are
in the shower, and you have used a lot of soap. How do you
feel in the shower, Ree?”
Ree frowned at Marianne, then something seemed to click.
She held up four fingers. “I don’t understand,” she said proudly.
Marianne smiled. “Excellent again. I will try to explain.
When you and your mommy shower ... do you like it or do
you not like it? How do you feel?”
“I like showers,” Ree said earnestly. “I just don’t like
having my hair washed.”
D.D. could sense Marianne’s hesitation again. On the one
hand, a mother and her four-year-old girl showering together
was hardly inappropriate. On the other hand, Marianne
Jackson wouldn’t have a job if all parents were appropriate.
Something had gone wrong in this family. Their job was to
help Ree find a way to tell them what.
Why don’t you like your hair being washed?” Marianne
asked.
158

“ ’Cause my hair snarls. My hair’s not really short, you
know. Nope, when it’s wet, it goes halfway down my back! It
takes forever for Mommy to get all the shampoo out, and
then she has to condition it or it gets all snarly and I don’t
much like my hair at all. I wish I had straight hair like my
best friend, Mimi.” Ree sighed heavily.
Marianne smiled, moved on. “So what did you do after
your shower?”
“We got dry,” the girl reported, “then we go to the Big
Bed, where Mommy wants me to talk about my day, but
mostly I tickle her.”
“Where is the Big Bed?”
“Mommy and Daddy’s room. That’s where we go after
bath time. And Mr. Smith hops up, but I like to wrestle and
he does not like that.”
“You like to wresde?”
“Yeah,” Ree said proudly. “I’m strong! I rolled Mommy
onto the floor and that made me laugh.” She held up her
arms, apparently in imitation of flexing. “It made Mommy
laugh, too. I like my mommy’s laugh.” Her voice trailed off
wistfully. “Do you think my mommy’s mad because I pushed
her off the bed? She didn’t sound mad, but maybe ... Once,
at school, Olivia tore the picture I drew and I told her it was
okay, but it wasn’t really okay and I got madder and madder
and madder. I was mad all day! Do you think that’s what hap¬
pened? Did my mommy get mad all day?”
“I don’t know, sweetheart,” Marianne said honesdy. “After
you and your mommy wrestled, then what happened?”
The girl shrugged. She looked tired now, wrung out. D.D.
glanced at her watch. The interview had been going on for
forty-four minutes, well beyond their twenty-minute target
time.
“Bedtime,” Ree mumbled. “We got on PJs—”
159

“What did you wear, Ree?”
“My green Ariel rtightgown.”
“And your mother?”
“She wears a purple shirt. It’s very long, almost to her
knees.”
D.D. made a note, another detail that could be corrob¬
orated, given the presence of the purple nightshirt in the
washing machine.
“So after pajamas?”
“Brush teeth, go potty, climb into bed. Two stories. A
song. Mommy sang ‘Puff the Magic Dragon.’ I’m tired,” the
girl declared abruptly, a trace petulant. “I want to be done
now. Are we done?”
“We’re almost done, honey. You’ve been doing a really
good job. Just a few more questions, okay, and then you can
ask me anything you want. Would you like that? To ask me a
question?”
Ree regarded Marianne for a bit. Then, with a sudden,
impatient exhalation, she nodded. The girl had the stuffed
bunny on her lap again. She was rubbing both ears.
“After your mother tucked you in, what did she do?”
“I don’t understand.”
“Did she turn out the light, close the door, something
else? How do you sleep at night, Ree? Can you describe your
room for me?”
“I have a nightlight,” the girl said softly. “I’m not five yet.
I think when you are four, you can have a nightlight. Maybe,
when I ride the school bus ... But I’m not on the school bus
yet, so I have a nightlight. But the door is closed. Mommy
always closes the door. She says I am a light sleeper.”
“So the door is closed, you have a nightlight. What else
is in your room?”
Lil Bunny, of course. And Mr. Smith. He always sleeps
160

on my bed cause I go to bed first and cats really like to sleep.”
“Is there anything else that helps you sleep? Music, a
sound machine, a humidifier, anything else?”
Ree shook her head. “Nope.”
“What is the name of my cat, Ree?”
Ree grinned at her. “I don’t know.”
“Very good. If I told you those chairs were blue, would I
be telling the truth or would I be telling a He?”
“Nooo! The chairs are red!”
“That’s right. And we only tell the truth in the magic
room, don’t we?”
Ree nodded, but D.D. could read the tension in the
child’s body again. Marianne was circling around. Circling,
circling, circling.
“Did you stay in bed, Ree? Or did you maybe get up to
check on your mommy or go potty or do anything else?”
The girl shook her head, but she did not look at Mari¬
anne anymore.
“What does your mom do after you go to bed, Ree?”
Marianne asked softly.
“She has to do her schoolwork. Grade papers.” The girl’s
gaze slid up. “At least, I think so.”
“Do you ever hear noises downstairs, maybe the TV, or
the radio, or the sound of your mother’s footsteps, or some¬
thing else?”
“I heard the tea kettle,” Ree whispered.
“You heard the tea kettle?”
“It whistled. On the stove. Mommy likes tea. Some¬
times we have tea parties and she makes me real apple tea.
I like apple tea.”The girl was still talking, but her voice had
changed. She sounded subdued, a shadow of her former
self.
D.D. eyed Jason Jones, still standing against the far wall.
161

He had not moved, but there was a starkness to his expression
now. Oh yeah, they wfere homing in.
“Ree, after the tea kettle, what did you hear?”
“Footsteps.”
“Footsteps?”
“Yeah. But they didn’t sound right. They were loud.
Angry. Angry feet on the stairs. Uh-oh,” the girl singsonged.
“Uh-oh, Daddy’s mad.”
Behind D.D., Jason flinched for the second time. She saw
him close his eyes, swallow, but he still didn’t say a word.
In the interrogation room, Marianne was equally quiet.
She let the silence draw out until abruptly, Ree began
speaking again, her body rocking back and forth, her hands
rubbing, rubbing her stuffed toy’s ears:
“Something crashed. Broke. I heard it, but I didn’t get out
of bed. I didn’t want to get out of bed. Mr. Smith did. He
jumped off the bed. He stood by the door but I didn’t want
to get out of bed. I held Lil’ Bunny. I told her to be very quiet.
We must be quiet.”
The girl paused for an instant, then spoke suddenly in a
soft, higher-pitched voice: “Please don't do this. ” She sounded
mournful. ‘Please don't do this. I won't tell. You can believe me.
I'll never tell. I love you. I still love you...”
Ree’s gaze went up. D.D. swore to God the child looked
right through the one-way mirror to her father’s face.
“Mommy said, ‘I still love you.’Mommy said, ‘Don’t do this.’
Then everything went crash, and I didn’t listen anymore. I
covered Lil’Bunny’s ears, and I swear I didn’t listen anymore,
and I never, ever, ever got out of bed. Please, you can believe
me. I didn’t get out of bed.”
“Am I done?” the child asked ten seconds later, when Mari-
162

anne still hadn’t said anything. “Where’s my daddy? I don’t
want to be in the magic room anymore. I want to go home.”
“You’re all done,” Marianne said kindly, touching the
child softly on the arm. “You’ve been a very brave little girl,
Ree. Thank you for talking to me.”
Ree merely nodded. She appeared glassy-eyed, her fifty
minutes of talking having left her spent. When she tried to
rise to her feet, she staggered a step. Marianne steadied her.
In the observation room, Jason Jones had already pushed
away from the wall. Miller made it to the door just ahead of
him, opening up the room to the brilliant fluorescent wash
of hallway light.
“Miss Marianne?” Ree’s voice came from the interroga¬
tion room.
“Yes, honey.”
“You said I could ask you a question ...”
“That’s right. I did. Would you like to ask me a question?
Ask me anything.” Marianne had risen, too. Now D.D. saw
the interviewer pause, squat down in front of the child, so she
would be at eye level. The interviewer had already unclipped
her tiny mic, the receiver dangling down low, in her hands.
“When you were four years old, did your mommy go
away?
Marianne brushed back a lock of curly brown hair from
the girl’s cheek, her voice sounding tinny, far away. “No, honey,
when I was four years old, my mommy didn’t go away.”
Ree nodded. “You were lucky when you were four years
old.”
Ree left the interrogation room. She spotted her father
waiting for her just outside the door, and hurled herself into
his arms.
D.D. watched them embrace for a long time, a four-year-
old’s rail-thin arms wrapped tautly around her father’s solid
163

presence. She heard Jason murmur something low and
soothing to his child.'She saw him lightiy stroke Ree’s trem¬
bling back.
She thought she understood just how much Clarissa
Jones loved both of her parents. And she wondered, as she
often wondered in her line of work, why for more parents,
their child’s unconditional love couldn’t be enough.
They debriefed ten minutes later, after Marianne had
escorted Jason and Ree out of the building. Miller had his
opinion. Marianne and D.D. had theirs.
“Someone entered the home Wednesday night,” Miller
started out. “Obviously had a confrontation with Sandra, and
little Ree believes that someone is her father. ’Course, that
could be an assumption on her part. She heard footsteps,
assumed they had to be from her dad, returning home from
work.”
D.D. was already shaking her head. “She didn’t tell us
everything.”
“No,” Marianne agreed.
Miller glared at the two of them.
“Ree totally got out of bed Wednesday night,” D.D. sup¬
plied. “As is exhibited by the fact she went out of her way to
tell us she didn’t.”
“She got out of bed,’’Marianne seconded, “and saw some¬
thing she’s not ready to talk about yet.”
“Her father,” Miller stated, sounding dubious. “But at the
end, the way she hugged him ...”
“He’s still her father,” Marianne supplied softly. “And she’s
vulnerable and terribly frightened by everything going on in
her world.”
“Why’d he let her come in, then?” Miller challenged. “If
164

she came into the bedroom Wednesday night and saw her
father fighting with her mom, he wouldn’t want her to
testify.”
“Maybe he didn’t see her appear in the doorway,” D.D.
suggested with a shrug.
“Or he trusted her not to tell,” Marianne added. “From a
very early age, children get a feel for family secrets. They
watch their parents lie to neighbors, officials, other loved
ones—I fell down the stairs, of course everything is fine—
and they internalize those lies until it becomes as second
nature to them as breathing. It’s very difficult to get children
to disclose against their own parents. It’s like asking them to
dive into a very deep pool and never take a breath.”
D.D. sighed, eyed her notes. “Not enough for a warrant,”
she concluded, already moving on to next steps.
“No,” Miller agreed. “We need a smoking gun. Or, at the
very least, Sandra Jones’s dead body.”
“Well, start pushing,” Marianne informed them both.
“Because I can tell you now, that child knows more. But she’s
also working very hard at not knowing what she knows.
Another few days, a week, you’ll never get the story out of
her, particularly if she continues to spend all her time with
dear old dad.”
Marianne started picking up the toys in the interrogation
room. Miller and D.D. turned away, just as the buzzer
sounded at the pager clipped to D.D.’s waist. She eyed the
display screen, frowning. Some detective from the state police
trying to summon her. Figures. Throw a little party with the
media, and all of a sudden everyone wants in on the action.
She did the sensible thing and ignored it, as she and Miller
headed back up to homicide.
“I want to know where Jason Jones comes from,” D.D.
stated, working her way up the stairs. “Guy as cool and collected

as that. Working as a small-time reporter, sitting on four million,
and according to his own child doesn’t even have a best friend.
What the hell makes this guy tick?”
Miller shrugged.
“Let’s get two detectives digging into some deep back¬
ground,” D.D. continued. “Cradle to grave, I want to know
everything about Jason Jones, Sandra Jones, and their respective
families. I can tell you now, something there is gonna click.”
“I want his computer,” Miller murmured.
“Hey, at least we have his garbage. Any news?”
“Got a crew on it now. Give them a couple of hours,
they’ll have a report.”
“Miller?” she asked with a troubled look on her face.
“What?”
“I know Ree saw something that night. You know Ree
saw something that night. What if the perpetrator knows it,
too?”
“You mean Jason Jones?”
“Or Aidan Brewster. Or the unidentified subject 367.”
Miller didn’t answer right away, but started to look con¬
cerned, as well. Marianne Jackson had been right: Ree was
very, very vulnerable right now.
“Guess we’d better hurry up,” Miller said grimly.
“Yeah, guess so.”
166

Chapter Fifteen
I dreamed of Rachel last night. She was saying, “No, no, no,”
and I was finding all the right spots to change her “no, no, no”
to “yes, yes, yes.”
“It’s not my fault,” I was saying in my dream, “you have
such perfect breasts. God wouldn’t have given you such per¬
fect breasts if He’d really meant for me to leave you alone.”
Then I was pinching her nipples between my fingers and
she was leaning back and breathing heavy and I knew I was
winning. Of course I was winning. I was bigger, stronger,
smarter. So I rubbed and stroked and cajoled until that magic
moment when I was sinking deep inside her and maybe she
was crying a little but what did it matter? She was also
gasping and writhing and I made it good for her. I swear I
made it good.
In my dream world I could feel it all building. Her legs
wrapping around my waist. Her breasts rubbing against my
chest. And I wanted. Oh God, I wanted. And then ...
Then I woke up. Alone. Hard as a rock. Mad as hell.
I rolled out of bed still breathing hard. Made it to the
shower, cranked it on as hot as it would go. Barreled into the
steam and finished my business, because when you’re a
twenty-three-year-old registered pervert, this is as good as it
gets.
Except it’s not. In my mind I can still touch and taste the
girl I want. The girl I have always wanted. The girl I can never
have.
167

So I whack off, and I hate every minute of it. Touching
Rachel was purity. This is an aberration. Pure transactional
lust, nothing more, nothing less.
But I get it over with, clean up, towel off.
I get dressed without turning on a light or looking into a
mirror and I know before I ever leave the house that it’s gonna
be a bad day. A real shitkicker. My quiet little existence is over.
I’m just waiting to see who delivers the death blow.
Colleen ended our little session last night by recommending
that I continue with my usual routine. Sure, the police will
pay me a visit. Can’t blame them for asking. And of course
it’s my constitutional right to ask for counsel the moment I
feel the need. But hey, I’m doing well. I’m a regular freaking
success story. Don’t give up ground too easily, that’s what she
tells me.
What she means is, running will be worse than staying.
Something I’d already figured out for myself, thank you very
much.
So hey, I walk to work. Seven-thirty A.M., I’m garbed in
blue coveralls, my head under the hood of an old Chevy,
pulling spark plugs. Look at me, Joe Schmoe, fighting the
good fight. Yes sirree, Bob.
I’m tending, fixing, tightening, pretending that my
grease-covered hands aren’t shaking a hundred miles per hour,
or that my body isn’t still hard as a rock, or that I haven’t
worked myself into such an agitated state that for the first
time in my life, I’m honesdy praying no female walks through
the door because I can’t be held responsible for what I’ll do.
I m fucked up. I m just plain fucked up, and it’s not even nine
A.M.
Vito’s got the radio on in the shop area. Local station.
168

Plays a mix of eighties and nineties music. Lotta Britney
Spears and Justin Timberlake. Nine-fifteen, the news comes
on, and for the first time I hear the official announcement
that a woman has gone missing in South Boston. Young wife,
beloved sixth grade teacher, vanished in the middle of the
night, leaving behind a young child. Some female detective
is laying it on thick.
I finish the Chevy, move on to a big Suburban that needs
new rear brakes. The other guys are muttering now, making
conversation.
“In Southie? No way.”
“It’s drugs, gotta be drugs. It’s always drugs. ”
“Nah. It’s the husband. Twelve to one he’s got a little project
on the side, and doesn’t feel like paying alimony. Prick. ”
“Hope they get him this time. Who was that last year, two of
his wives disappeared, but they still couldn’t build a case... f”
On and on they go. I don’t say a word. Just attack the lug
nuts with the impact wrench, then wrestle off the two rear
tires. The old Suburban has drum brakes. What a bitch.
Only vaguely do I become aware of the whispering, of the
pointing. My face reddens automatically, I find myself sput¬
tering to speak. Then realize no one is pointing at me. They’re
pointing at the front office, where Vito is currently standing
with two cops.
I want to crawl inside the huge Suburban. I want to dis¬
appear into a pile of metal and plastic and chrome. Instead, I
work my way around the vehicle, taking off the front tires
now, like I’m gonna inspect the front disk brakes as well, even
though nothing’s written on the order sheet.
“You’re a success story,” I mutter to myself, “a regular
freaking success story.” But I’m not even buying it anymore.
I finish the Suburban. Cops are gone. I eye the clock,
decide it’s close enough to the mid-morning break. I go to
169

fetch my lunch pail and discover Vito standing in front of my
locker, arms crossed dver his chest.
“My office. Now,” he orders.
I don’t fight Vito. I unpeel my blue coveralls, cause I can
tell from the look on his face I won’t be needing them any¬
more. He doesn’t say a word, just stares at me the entire time,
making sure buddy boy doesn’t get out of his line of sight.
Nothing bad is gonna happen on Vito’s watch.
When I’m cleaned up, lunch box in hand, sweatshirt
slung over my arm, Vito finally grunts and leads the way to
his office. Vito knows what I’ve done. He’s one of those
employers who doesn’t mind hiring sex offenders. He’s got
work that doesn’t involve mixing with the public, and being
a big, burly guy, he probably believes he can keep a kid like
me in line. To be fair, he has moments where he’s actually
kind. Hell, maybe employing a felon is his idea of public
service. He’s taking in untouchables and turning them into
productive members of society and all that. I don’t know.
I just find myself thinking that Vito has never made me
feel as low as he does now, his arms crossed over his chest, his
expression a mix of disappointment and disgust. We arrive in
his cramped office. He sits behind his dust-covered desk. I
stand because there isn’t another chair. He gets out the check¬
book and starts writing.
“Police were here,” he says crisply.
I nod, then realize he’s not looking up, and force myself
to say out loud: “I saw.”
“Woman’s gone missing. Sure you heard it on the news.”
He skewers me with a glance.
“I heard it.”
“Police wanted to know if she got her car serviced here.
Wanted to know if either she, or her cute four-year-old kid,
had ever met you.”

I don’t say a word.
“How ya doin, Aidan?” Vito barks abruptly.
“Good,” I whisper.
“Been attending your meetings, sticking with your pro-
gram:
“Yes.”
“Drinking? Even a sip? Tell me the truth, meat, ’cause
I’ll know if you’re lying. This is my town. All of Southie is
my business. You hurt anyone in my town, you hurt me.”
“I’m clean.”
“Really? Police don’t think so.”
I wring my hands. I don’t want to. The gesture shames
me. Here I am, twenty-three years old and reduced to hunch¬
shouldered groveling in front of a man who can take me out
with one swat of his platter-sized hand. He sits. I stand. He
wields the power. I pray for pity.
At that moment, I hate my life. Then I hate Rachel,
because if she hadn’t been so pretty, so ripe, so there, maybe
this never would’ve happened. Maybe I could’ve found myself
in love with one of those slutty cheerleaders on the football
field, or even the slightly bucktoothed girl who worked in the
local deli. I don’t know. Someone more appropriate. Someone
polite society would’ve thought was okay for a nineteen-year-
old boy to fuck. And then I wouldn’t be in this mess. Instead,
I would’ve gotten a chance to become a real man.
“I didn’t do it,” I hear myself say.
Vito just grunts, stares at me with his beady little eyes.
His arrogance finally pisses me off. I’ve passed half a dozen
lie detector tests with no one being the wiser. Like hell I’m
gonna break for some thick-necked grease monkey.
I meet his gaze. I hold steady. And I can tell he can tell
I’m angry, but that mosdy it amuses him, and that sets me off
all over again. My hands fist at my sides and I think for a

second if something doesn’t give soon, I’m gonna plant my
fist into his face. Oil maybe not his face. Maybe the wall.
Except maybe not the wall. Maybe the glass window. That
will shatter my hand, and wake me up with a symphony of
broken bones and sliced-up flesh. And that’s what I need: a
good wake-up call to get me out of this nightmare.
Vito squints his eyes at me, then grunts and tears out the
check.
“Final week’s pay,” he announces. “Take it. You’re done.”
I keep my hands fisted at my sides.
“I didn’t do it,” I say again.
Vito merely shakes his head. “Doesn’t matter. You work
here, the woman had her car serviced here. This is a business,
meat, not a freakshow. I don’t have time for the morning wash
of your dirty laundry.”
He places the check on the desk, and with one finger
pushes it toward me. “Take it, don’t take it. Either way, you’re
done.”
So of course I take it. I leave, hearing Vito roar at the
other mechanics to get back to work, then hearing each of
them start to whisper.
It’s not over, I realize then. Vito’s gonna tell them the
truth, three manly men hearing for the first time they worked
day in, day out with a pervert. And now a woman is missing
and they’re gonna start doing some math in their heads, the
kind where two plus two suddenly equals five.
They’re gonna come for me. Soon. Very soon.
I try doing some math of my own in my frantic, pulse¬
pounding head.
Running equals being arrested by the police, locked away
for life.
Staying equals being beaten by the goon squad, probably
castrated for life.
172

I vote for running, then realize it doesn’t matter, ’cause -
even with Vito’s measly check, I still don’t have the cash. Then
I feel the agitation build, build, build again, until I’m nearly
running down the street, crashing by some chick with floral-
scented perfume, and I’m running faster with her perfume in
my nose and a dozen unholy fantasies in my head and I’m
not gonna make it. I’m not gonna make it.
The system’s biggest success story is about to break. Yes
sirree, Bob. The kid’s gonna blow.
173

\
Chapter Sixteen
You know what people want more than anything else in the
worldf More than love, more than money, more than peace on
earth? People want to feel normal. They want to feel like their
emotions, their lives, their experiences, are just like everyone else’s.
It’s what drives us all. The Type-A workaholic corporate
lawyer who hits the bars at eleven PM. to bolt back Cosmos and
pick up a nameless fuck, only to rise at six A.M., rinse all evidence
of the night away, and garb herself in a sensible Brooks Brothers
suit. The respected soccer mom, famous for her homemade brownies
and Martha Stewart decor, who is secretly popping her sons
Ritalin just so she can keep up. Or, of course, the highly esteemed
community leader, who is secretly banging his male secretary, but
still appears in front of the eleven o’clock news to tell the rest of us
how we need to take more responsibility for our lives.
We don't want to feelfreakish or different or isolated. We want
to feel normal. We want to be just like everyone else, or at the very
least, just like what some TV commercial for Viagra or Botox or
debt consolidation tells us our lives should be. In our mission for
normalcy, we will ignore what we must ignore. We will cover up
what we must cover up. And we will disregard anything we need
to disregard, just so we can hold on to our illusion of perfectly regu¬
lated bliss.
And maybe, in wanting so badly to be normal, in our own
way, normal Jason and I became.
So I took off for a night or two every six to nine months.
Working moms need a break, right? How kind and considerate of
174

my husband to allow me occasional “spa” breaks. So he stayed up
late, hunched over the computer; typing furiously. Writers often
have long and irregular hours, right? How kind and under¬
standing of me to never complain of my husband's demanding job.
We gave each other space. We disregarded what we needed to
disregard. And in the process, we stood side by side and watched
Ree careen down the sidewalk on her first tricycle. We cheered her
first jump into a swimming pool. We laughed the first time she
tiptoed into thefreezing Atlantic Ocean and came screamingfull
speed back up the beach. We celebrated our daughter. We wor¬
shipped every giggle, laugh, burp, and chattering word that tum¬
bled from her mouth. We adored her innocence, her free spirit, her
spunk. And maybe in loving her, we learned also to love each other.
At least that's how itfelt to me.
One night, toward the end of summer, when Ree was due to
start preschool in September and I would start my first gig as a
student teacher, Jason and I stayed up late. He had a George
Winston CD playing. Something soft and melodic. Ree and I were
constantly torturing him with rock-n-roll, but he always gravitated
toward classical music. He would close his eyes, and enter some
Zen state where I was certain he was sound asleep, only to realize
he was humming softly under his breath.
Tonight, we sat on the little love seat. His left arm was
thrown across the back, his fingers touching the nape of my neck
and rubbing gently. He did this more and more. Tight, little
touches, caressing me almost absently. In the beginning, I had
startled at the contact. I had learned since to sit still, not say a
word. The longer I relaxed, the longer he touched me, and I enjoyed
my husband's touch. Heaven help me, I liked the feel of his cal¬
lousedfingertips grazing the back of my shoulders, sifting through
my hair. Sometimes, he rubbed my scalp and I arched and shifted
under his hand like a kitten.
Once I had tried to reciprocate, to scratch his back. The second
175

my fingers went to lift his shirt, however; he got up and left the
room. I never tried again.
A husband stroking his wife’s neck while they cuddled on the love
seat, on the other hand... Welcome to our little slice of normalcy.
“Do you believe in heaven?” I asked him casually. We’d
watched some Harrison Ford movie that night, where the
vengeful ghost of the husband’s first wife had wreaked havoc on
the household.
“Maybe.”
“1 don’t”
Hisfingers tugged gently on my earlobe, firm, erotic pressure.
I nestled closer to him, trying not to startle him, but having a
harder and harder time sitting still. Who knew ears could be such
an erogenous zone? But mine were, mine were.
“Why not?” he asked me, fingers moving from my earlobe,
down the side of my neck, then back up again. A husband touching
his wife. A wife snuggling with her husband. Normal. All per¬
fectly normal.
So normal that some nights when I woke up alone in my mar¬
riage bed, my heart shattered into a thousand pieces. Yeti got up
the next morning and did it all over again. Sometimes, I even
heard my mother’s voice in my mind, “I know something you
don’t know. I know something you don’t know....”
She was right, in the end. At the ripe old age of twenty-one,
I wasfinally seeing all oflife’s great truths: You can be in love and
still feel incredibly lonely. You can have everything you ever
wanted, only to realize that you wanted all the wrong things. You
can have a husband as smart and sexy and compassionate as mine,
and yet not really have him at all. And you can look at your own
beautiful, precious daughter some days, and be genuinely jealous
of how much he loves her, instead of you.
“Just don’t,” I said now. “Nobody wants to die, that’s all. So
they make up pretty stories of an eternal afterlife, to take away the
176

fear. If you think about it, however, it doesn’t make any sense.
Without sadness, there can be no happiness, which means a state
of eternal bliss really wouldn’t be that blissful. In fact, at a certain
point, it would be mostly annoying. Nothing to strive for, nothing
to look forward to, nothing to do. ”1 slid him a look. “You wouldn’t
last a minute. ”
He smiled, a lazy look on his dark features. He hadn’t shaved
today. I liked the days he skipped the razor, his unkempt beard a
nice compliment to his deep brown eyes and perpetually rumpled
hair. I’d always appreciated the bad boy look.
I wished I couldfeel his beard, trace the line of his jaw until
I couldfind his pulse point at the base of his throat. I wished I
could know if his heart was beating as hard as mine.
“I saw a ghost once, ” he said.
“You did? Where?”I didn’t believe him and he could tell.
He smiled again, unconcerned. “An old house near where I
used to live. Everyone said it was haunted. ”
“So you just stopped by to check it out? Test out your male
prowess?”
“I was visiting the owner. Unfortunately, she had died the night
before. I found her body on the sofa, with her brother sitting beside
her, which was interesting since he had diedfifty years earlier. ”
I was still dubious. “What did you do?”
“I said thank you. ”
“Why?”
“Because once upon a time, her brother saved my life. ”
I scowled, agitated by the coyness of his reply, and worse, the
ten thousand nerve endings he had now stroked to life.
“Is it always going to be like this between us?” I asked
abruptly.
“Like what?” But his hand was retreating, his face shuttering
up.
“Half answers. Semi-truths. I ask a simple question, you dole
177

out one tidbit of information while hoarding the rest. ”
“I don’t know, ” he said quietly. “Will it always be like this
between us?”
“Were married!” I said impatiently. “It’s been three years, for
God’s sake. We should be able to trust each other. Tell each other
our deepest darkest secrets, or at least the basics of where we come
from. Isn’t marriage supposed to be a conversation that lasts a life¬
time? Aren't we supposed to take care of each other, trust one
another to keep each other safe?”
bays who?
I startled, shook my head. “What do you mean, says who?”
“I mean, says who? Who makes up these rules, sets these expecta¬
tions? A husband and wife should keep each other safe. A parent
should take care of a child. A neighbor should look after a neighbor.
Who sets these rules and what have they donefor you lately?”
His voice was gentle, but I knew what he meant and the
starkness of his words made me flinch.
He said softly, “Tell me about your mother, Sandy. ”
“Stop it.”
“You claim to want to know all my secrets, but you keep your
own. ”
“My mother died when I was fifteen. End of story. ”
“Heart attack, ” he stated, repeating my previous assertions.
“It happens. "I turned away.
After a moment, Jason’s fingertips brushed my cheek, whis¬
pering across my lowered eyelashes.
“It will always be like this between us, ” he said quietly. “But
it won’t be this way for Ree. ”
“There are things you lose you can't get back, ” I whispered.
“I know. ”
“Even if you want them. Even if you search and pray and start
completely over. It doesn’t matter. There are things you lose you can’t
get back again. Things that once you know, you can never unknow. ”
178

“I understand. ”
I got off the sofa. Agitated now. I swear I could smell roses
and I hated that smell. Why wouldn’t it leave me alone? I had
fled my parents’ house, I had fled my parents’ town. The damn
roses ought to leave me alone.
“She was mentally ill, ” I blurted out. “A raging alcoholic. She
did. . . crazy, crazy things and we coveredfor her. That’s what
my father and I did. We let her torture us every single day and we
never said a word. Life in a small town, right? Gotta keep up
appearances. ”
“She beat you. ”
I laughed but it wasn’t a pleasant sound. “She fed me rat
poison so she could watch the doctors pump my stomach. I was a
tool for her. A beautiful little doll she could break every time she
wanted attention. ”
“Munchhausen. ”
“Probably. I’ve never sought an expert opinion. ”
“Why not?”
“She’s dead. What’s the point?”
He gave me a look, but I refused to take the bait.
“Your father?” he asked at last.
“Successful lawyer with a reputation to uphold. Can’t really
be admitting that his wife bashes gin bottles over his head every
other night. Wouldn’t be good for business. ”
“He put up with it?”
“Isn’t that how these things work?”
“Sadly, yes. Tell me again, Sandy, how did she die?”
I thinned my lips, refused him.
“Carbon monoxide poisoning, ” he said at last, a statement,
not a question. “Found in her car in the garage. Suicide, I
would guess. Or maybe she drank too much and passed out
behind the wheel? What I don’t understand is why the author¬
ities let it go. Especially given that it was a small town, and
179

someone, somewhere, had. to know how she treated you. ”
I stared at him. I couldn’t help myself. I stared and I stared
and I stared. “You knew?”
“Of course. I wouldn’t have married you otherwise. ”
“You investigated me?”
“It’s a prudent thing to do, before asking a girl to become your
wife. "He touched my hand. This time, I jerked away. “You think I
married you for Ree. You have always believed I married you for
Ree. But I didn’t. Or at least, notfor her alone. I married you because
of your mother, Sandy. Because you and I are alike that way. We
know monsters are real, and they don’t all live under the bed. ”
“It wasn’t my fault, ” I heard myself say.
He was silent.
“She was mentally unstable. Suicide was probably only a
matter of time. Last way to screw with us and all that. ” I was
babbling. Couldn’t shut up. Couldn’t stop myself. “I was getting a
little too big to keep dragging to the emergency room, so she upped
and killed herself instead. After planning the biggest funeral the
town had ever seen, of course. Oh, the roses she demandedfor the
event. The mounds and mounds of fucking roses...”
My hands fisted at my sides. I stared at my husband. Dared
him to call me afreak, an ungrateful daughter, a white trash piece
of shit. Look at me, I wanted to cry. My mother lived and I
hated her. She died and I hated her more. I am not normal.
“I understand, ” he said.
“Afterward, I thought I would be happy. I thought, finally,
my father and I could live in peace. ”
Jason was studying me intently now. “When you first met me,
you said you wanted to get away, never look back. You weren’t kid¬
ding, were you? All these years later, you’ve never called your father,
never told him where we live, never let him know about Ree. ”
“No.”
“You hate him that much?”
180

“All that and more. ”
“You think he loved your mother more than you, ”Jason stated.
“He didn’t protect you. Instead, he covered for her. And you’ve
neverforgiven him for it. ”
I didn’t answer right away. Because at that moment, I was
picturing my father again, his charming smile, the crinkle lines
that appeared at the corners of his bright blue eyes, the way he
could make you feel as if you were the center of the universe just
by touching your shoulder. And I was so filled with rage, I could
barely speak.
I know something you don’t know. I know something you
don’t know....
She had been right. She had been so fucking right.
“You said we’re different, ”I whispered hoarsely. “You said we
know better, that the monsters aren’t all under the bed. ”
Jason nodded.
“Promise me, then: If you ever see myfather, ifhe should ever
show up at our front door, you’ll kill him first, and ask questions
later. He'll never touch Ree. Promise me that, Jason. ”
My husband looked me in the eye. He said, “Consider it done. ”
Ree fell asleep in her booster seat before Jason even pulled
out of the parking lot. Mr. Smith was curled up in the pas¬
senger’s seat now, licking his paw, rubbing his cheek, licking
his paw, rubbing his cheek. Jason drove aimlessly toward the
interstate, not sure what to do.
He was tired. Exhausted. What he wanted most in the
world was to curl up in the sanctuary of his own home, and
let the world disappear. He would sleep like the dead, and
when he woke up again, Sandra would be standing beside the
bed, smiling down at him.
“Wake up, sleepyhead,” she would say, and he’d take her
181

in his arms, and hold her as he should’ve been holding her
the past five years. He would hug his wife, and he and Ree
could be happy again. They would be a family.
He couldn’t go home. News vans would be there, staked
out across the street. Lights would flash, reporters shouting
out questions Ree was too young to understand. They would
scare her, and after the morning she’d had, he couldn’t bear
for her to be traumatized again.
The police believed he was guilty. He had seen it in their
eyes, the minute the interview had concluded. His own
daughter had implicated him, but he didn’t blame her. Ree
had done what they’d asked of her, she had told the truth the
best she understood it to be. He’d spent four years preaching
to his daughter not to he. He couldn’t be angry at her now
for following the values he and Sandra had so carefully
instilled in her.
He was proud of Ree, and that saddened him, because
the more he turned the matter around in his mind, the more
he arrived at the same inescapable conclusion: He would be
arrested. Any day now, he supposed. The police were putting
it all together now, building their case, buttoning it up tight.
They’d taken his trash. They’d interrogated his child. Next
would come a fresh sweep of his house, followed by a search
warrant for his computer.
They would dig deeper into his background, trying to
contact associates and friends; that would stall them for a bit.
He never socialized with his associates and he never bothered
to make friends. Plus, he checked his “firewalls” from time to
time; they were holding tight. But nothing was impenetrable,
especially once the right expert was brought to bear, and the
Boston police had those kinds of resources. It wasn’t like he
was dealing with backwoods yokels here.
Of course, they would have to tend to the registered sex
182

offender. That would demand additional time and resources.
Maybe the guy would confess, but having met the pervert in
question, Jason didn’t see that happening. Aidan had seemed
pretty cool, the kind of customer who’d been around. He’d
make the police sweat for it.
So the police still had plenty of legwork to do, particularly
with two viable suspects. Maybe that bought him more like
three days, or five. Except that with every passing hour, the
chances of Sandy being discovered alive dramatically
decreased. Yesterday, there’d been a chance at a happy ending.
Or maybe this morning.
If it became nightfall and Sandy still hadn’t appeared .'..
The instant they discovered Sandy’s body, that would be
that. They’d come for him at his home. They would take Ree
away from him. She would become a ward of the state. His
daughter. The little girl he loved more than his very own life
would be stuck in foster care.
He could hear Ree again, in the interrogation room, her
singsong voice, reciting: “1Please don't do this. I wont tell. You
can believe me. I'll never tell. I love you. I still love you.
His hands trembled lightly on the steering wheel. He
caught the tremor, forced himself to steady. Now was not the
time. Had to keep thinking. Had to keep moving. He had the
media in front of him, the police behind him, and his
daughter to consider. Push it away, lock it up tight. That’s
what he did best.
Keep thinking, keep moving. Figure out what happened
to Sandy, quick, before the police took his daughter from him.
Then, in the next second, he thought of what his
daughter had said again, all of what she’d said, and it came to
him, his first glimmer of hope. Grieving husband, he
reminded himself. Grieving husband.
He headed for Sandy’s middle school.
183

Chapter Seventeen
When Jason was fourteen years old, he had heard his parents
talking late one night, when they thought he was asleep.
“Have you noticed his eyes?” his mother was saying. “Whether
he’s playing with Janie, or saying thank youfor a bowl of ice cream,
or asking permission to turn on the TV, his eyes are exactly the
same. Flat. Empty. Like he doesn’t feel a thing. I’m worried,
Stephen. I mean, I’m really, really worried about him. ”
You should be, Jason had thought at the time. You really,
really should be.
Now, adult Jason pulled into the middle school parking
lot, found a space, and killed the engine. Ree stirred in the
back, blinking awake with that internal monitor kids had that
registered vehicles stopping. She’d need a moment or two, so
he flipped down the Volvo’s sun visor and contemplated his
expression in the vanity mirror.
His sunken eyes were rimmed with dark shadows. He’d
forgotten about shaving, and his thick beard was rapidly over¬
taking his gaunt face. He looked weary, worn around the
edges. But he also looked rough, perhaps even dangerous, the
kind of man who might have a hot temper and secretly beat
his wife and kid.
He tried various positions with his lips, screwing up his
features this way and that. Grieving husband, he reminded
himself. Grieving husband.
His mother was right—he could rearrange his entire face,
and his eyes still gave him away. He looked like a man with
184

a thousand-yard stare.
He’d keep his head down, he decided. Bowed with grief.
It was the best he could do.
In the back, Ree finally yawned, stretching out her arms
and legs. She looked at him, then looked at Mr. Smith, then
at the scene outside her window.
She recognized the building and perked up immediately.
“Is Mommy here? Are we picking up Mommy?”
He winced, choosing his words carefully. “Do you
remember how the police sent out officers to help us find Mr.
Smith?”
“Uh-huh.”
“Well, we’re going to do the same thing for Mommy. The
police are sending officers to look for her, but also, our friends
want to help. So we’re going to talk to Mommy’s friends and
see if they can help us find her. Just like we did with Mr.
Smith.”
“Mr. Smith came home,” Ree said.
“Exactly. And with any luck, Mommy will come home, too.”
Ree nodded, seemed content. It was the first real discus¬
sion they’d had regarding Sandy’s disappearance, and it went
about as well as he could expect. Of course, children cycled
in and out of strong emotions. At the moment, Ree was still
exhausted from the morning’s ordeal and eager to be pacified.
Later, when the grief and rage returned ...
He got out of the car, unloaded Ree. They left Mr. Smith
behind with the same Rabid Cat signs posted on the front
and back windows. Jason didn’t trust middle school students
any more than the gangs of Roxbury.
They hit the front admin office, Jason with his head
bowed, Ree clutching Lil’ Bunny.
“Mr. Jones!” Adele, the school secretary, greeted them
immediately. The rush of sympathy in her voice, the pitying
185

look she bestowed uj5on Ree hit him in the solar plexus, and
for a moment, he stood there, honestly stunned, blinking at
the rush of moisture in his eyes. He didn’t have to pretend
anything, because at that precise moment, for the first time,
Sandy’s disappearance became real. She was gone, and he was
the grieving husband, alone with his bewildered kid.
His knees wobbled. He almost went down, in the middle
of his wife’s school, looking at the linoleum she trod upon
five days a week, the walls she gazed at five days a week, the
front desk she passed by five days a week.
No one had offered him any sympathy. Up until this
point, it had all been about gamesmanship with the police,
his own employer, the pervert down the street. Now, here was
Adele, coming around the counter to give him a quick pat on
the back while wrapping his daughter in a great big hug. And
he decided at that moment, in his typical way, that he hated
Adele the school secretary. Her sympathy burned. He’d take
gamesmanship any day of the week.
“I’m sure Phil would love to speak with you.” Adele was
chattering away, referring to the school principal. “He’s in a
meeting at the moment—why, the phone has been ringing
off the hook since this morning’s announcement. We’ve hired
a grief counselor, of course, and you know all of the staff wants
to help. We’re having a special meeting at four to discuss
organizing search efforts for tomorrow. Phil thought we could
stage everything out of the gymnasium, get other locals
coming in to assist—”
Adele broke off abruptly, seeming to realize she might be
saying too much in front of the child. She had the good grace
to blush, then gave Ree another bolstering hug.
“Would you like to wait?” the secretary asked him kindly.
“I can get you some coffee or water. Maybe some crayons for
Ree?”
186

“Actually, I was wondering if I could swing by Mrs. Lizbet s
classroom first. Just for a minute, if you don’t mind ...”
“Of course, of course. Second period lunch break will be
starting in about three minutes. I’m sure she’d be willing to
take time for you.”
Jason managed a quick smile of gratitude, then held out
his hand for Ree. She went with him down the hall. Sure
enough, a bell rang and the space began to fill with students,
pouring out from various classrooms. The sudden commotion
distracted Ree, saving him from all the questions he was sure
she now had.
They took a right turn down past a row of blue-painted
lockers, then a left down a bright orange row. Elizabeth
Reyes, aka Mrs. Lizbet, taught seventh grade social studies,
her classroom at the very end of the hall. Early fifties, grace¬
fully thin, with long silver-streaked hair generally wound into
a thick knot, she was still erasing the chalkboard when he and
Ree walked in.
“Mrs. Lizbet!” Ree cried, and ran over immediately for a
hug.
Mrs. Lizbet returned the embrace, kneeling down so she
and Ree would be at eye level. “Ree-Ree! How are you, sweet¬
heart?”
“Good,” Ree replied shyly, because even at the age of four,
she already understood that was the only answer one gave in
polite society.
“Hey, who is this?”
“LiT Bunny.”
“Hi, Lil’ Bunny. Nice dress!”
Ree giggled and leaned into Mrs. Lizbet again, wrapping
her arms around the woman’s waist. It wasn’t like Ree to be
so affectionate with other adults, and Jason could see in his
daughter’s eyes her longing for her mother, for the familiar
187

comfort of a female embrace. Mrs. Lizbet met his gaze above
Ree’s head, and he tried not to flinch at her steady appraisal.
She was granting him neutral status, it appeared, a step above
the police’s immediate distrust, a step below Adele’s sympa¬
thetic rush.
“Sweetheart,” Mrs. Lizbet said now, pulling back from
Ree, “do you remember Jenna Hill, from the basketball team?
Well, I happen to know this is Jenna’s lunch period, and she’s
been dying for someone to practice with. What do you think?
Can you shoot some hoops?”
Ree’s eyes lit up. She nodded her head vigorously.
Mrs. Lizbet held out her hand. “All right, come with me,
child. I’ll take you to Jenna and you can practice together.
Your father and I need just a minute, then we’ll join you
there.”
It was a gracious way of buying time for frank conversa¬
tion, and Jason was impressed.
His daughter followed Mrs. Lizbet toward the door,
balking only at the last moment. He watched the emotions
play out over her face. Her need to be with him, her only
anchor in a rapidly disintegrating world, warring with her
desire to play with Jenna, a bona fide basketball player, which
ranked up there with rock star in a four-year-old’s universe.
Then Ree squared her little shoulders and headed with
Mrs. Lizbet down the hall. Jason was left alone in the class¬
room, already missing Ree ten times more than she could ever
miss him, and wondering why he had to be so miswired that
hatred fortified him, while love cut him to the bone.
Elizabeth Reyes had served as Sandy’s instructor last year and
her mentor this year. Over that time frame, Jason supposed
that he had met her at least a dozen times. Him bringing Ree
18 8

to join Sandy for the occasional lunch. Drop-offs or pickups
after school. He would wave, Elizabeth would wave. So many
meetings and yet he was certain she would agree that neither
of them knew the other well.
Upon returning to the classroom, she closed the door
behind her. He watched her glance at the clock, then smooth
her skirt nervously. The woman had survived twenty years
teaching seventh-graders, however. She stiffened her spine
and got on with it.
“So,” she said briskly, moving to the front of the class¬
room, where he imagined she felt most comfortable. “Phil
announced this morning that Sandy has been missing since
Wednesday night. He said the police aren’t sure what hap¬
pened. No one has any leads.”
“I was covering a fire Wednesday night,” Jason supplied.
“When I returned home around two, Ree was sleeping in her
room, but the rest of the house was empty. Sandy’s purse and
cell phone were in the kitchen. Her car was still in the
driveway. But there was no sign of my wife.”
“My God.” Elizabeth staggered back a step, then braced
herself against the side of her desk, her hands trembling
noticeably. “When Phil announced it this morning, it was
hard to take seriously. I mean, Sandy, of all people. I figured
it was some kind of mistake. A miscommunication, maybe
even a fight between the two of you.” She eyed him boldly.
“You’re a young couple. Sometimes young couples need time
to cool off.”
“She wouldn’t have left Ree,” he said simply.
The woman sagged again. “No,” she murmured. “Quite
right. She would never have left Ree.” She sighed again,
seemed to pull herself together. “Phil arranged for grief coun¬
selors for the kids and staff. There are protocols for these
kinds of things, you know. We held a small assembly, got the
189

news out. Better for ^he kids to hear it from us than from the
rumor mill.”
“What did he say?”
“Just that Mrs. Jones was missing, that everyone was
working really hard to find her, and if the kids had any ques¬
tions, they should feel free to talk to their teachers. The police
are doing everything in their power, and he hoped to have
good news shortly, etc., etc.”
“I understand they are organizing a search party for
tomorrow, meeting in the gymnasium.”
She gave him a look. “Are you going to help?”
“I’m not sure the police would welcome my efforts. I’m
the husband, you know, the default person of interest.”
Elizabeth continued to regard him evenly, which he took
as a hint.
Grieving husband, grieving husband. He spread his hands,
looked down at them.
“I don’t know what happened,” he murmured. “I went to
work as a husband and father, and I returned to a nightmare.
Did someone abduct my wife? There is no sign of breaking
and entering. Did she run off with some other guy? I can’t
imagine her leaving Ree. Did she just need some time away
to think? I hope and I pray, Elizabeth. I hope and I pray.”
“Then I will do the same.”
He took a shaky breath, into it now, needing to complete
his mission. “We are a young couple,” he stated. “It’s not easy,
juggling two jobs and a small child. I would understand if
Sandy was unhappy. I could see that maybe she would be
drawn to someone else.”
Elizabeth didn’t say anything, merely continued to regard
him coolly.
“It doesn’t matter to me,” he said hastily. “If she needs
time to breathe, hell, even if she’s found someone else ... I
190

can deal with that, Elizabeth. I will have to deal with that. I
just want her back. If not for me, then at least for Ree.”
“You think she met someone,” Elizabeth said bluntly.
“And you think she told me about it.”
He went with the helpless shrug. “Women talk.”
“Not your wife,” she informed him sharply. “And not with
me.
“Then with whom? Last I knew, you were her closest
friend.”
Elizabeth sighed again, breaking off eye contact to glance
instead at the clock. He found himself clenching his stomach,
as if steeling for a blow. She would only look away for one
reason—because she had something to say.
“Look, I respected Sandy a great deal,” Elizabeth began.
“She’s an excellent teacher. Patient with the children, but also
... steady. You don’t see a lot of that in young teachers these
days. Especially the females.They bring their personal dramas
to work, and maybe that gives them a certain cachet with the
students, but it doesn’t buy them brownie points with the staff.
Sandy was different. She was always composed, always reliable.
I can’t picture her sitting around and gossiping with anyone,
including me. Besides, when would she have the time?”
Jason nodded, dealing with that stumbling block himself.
The simplest explanation for Sandy’s disappearance, of
course, was another man. She’d run off with a lover, or she’d
taken a lover who’d suffered a change of heart.
“Don't do this. I still love you. Please...”
But Jason didn’t know how such a thing could’ve hap¬
pened. So his wife took a “spa” break every six to nine
months? He understood he did not meet all of her needs
as a husband. But it was only a couple of nights a year.
Surely, even a woman as attractive as Sandy couldn’t forge
a relationship out of two nights a year.

“After school?” he murmured.
Elizabeth shook her head. “Sandy lingered only for staff
meetings. Then she was out the door to pick up Ree, with
whom I presume she spent most of her nights.”
Jason nodded. Aside from Sandy’s spa breaks, her after¬
noons and evenings were dominated by caring for Ree. And
as he could attest from the past forty-eight hours, a four-year-
old made an excellent chaperone.
“Lunch?” he tried.
“It would only work if the other man was a fellow teacher,
and they found a broom closet,” Elizabeth said dubiously.
“What about the male teachers?”
“I never noticed her fraternizing with anyone in particular,
male or female. When Sandy was here, she was about her stu¬
dents.”
“Free period, open period, what do they call it these
days?”
“Every teacher has one free period,” she explained for
him. “Most of us spend it grading papers, or preparing our¬
selves for later classes, though there’s nothing that says Sandy
couldn’t have left the grounds. Though, now that I think
about it...”
She hesitated, eyed him again.
“Starting in September, Sandy took on a special project.
She was working with one of the eighth-graders, Ethan
Hastings, on a teaching module.”
“A teaching module?”
“For his computer science class, Ethan was supposed to
design a beginner’s guide to the Internet, which would be
tested out on the sixth grade social studies class. Hence,
Sandy’s involvement. The project ended months ago, but I
still see the two of them huddled together in the computer
lab. I had the impression from Sandy that Ethan is now
192

working on something bigger and she was continuing to help
him out.”
“Sandy ... and a student?” Jason couldn’t wrap his brain
around it. It was inconceivable.
Elizabeth arched a brow. “No,” she said firmly. “One,
because young and pretty or not, I would never assume such
a lack of professionalism from Sandy Jones. And two, well, if
you saw Ethan Hastings, you’d understand point two. What
I’m trying to tell you is that Sandy had only one free period
each day, and hers was occupied.”
Jason nodded slowly, looking down at the floor, scuffing
his toe. There was something here, though. He had to believe
there was something here, if only because it was better than
his other options.
“What about Thursday nights?” he asked abruptly.
“When Sandy and Ree came to see the basketball games?”
“What about them?”
“Did she sit in the same place? Maybe beside the same
guy? Perhaps she met someone during those nights, a fellow
parent.”
Elizabeth shrugged. “I don’t know, Jason. I never noticed.
But then, I haven’t made it to many of the games this season.”
She gestured to her silvered hair. “I’m a grandma now, can
you believe it? My daughter had her first child in November.
I’ve spent most of my Thursday nights rocking my grandson,
not sitting courtside. Though I can tell you who would know
about Thursday nights. The basketball team picked up a new
statistician for the season: Ethan Hastings.”
193

\
Chapter Eighteen
Sergeant D.D. Warren didn’t give a flying fig what Colleen
Pickier had said about sex offenders being model parolees,
full of repentance and eager to please their court-appointed
babysitters. D.D. had served eight years in uniform, and as a
first responder to too many scenes of hysterical mothers and
glassy-eyed children, she was firmly of the opinion that when
it came to sex offenders, hell was not big enough.
Homicides in her world came and went. The CSAs, on
the other hand, always left their mark. She could still recall
the time she was called out to a preschool after a five-year-
old boy disclosed to his teacher that he had been assaulted in
the bathroom. The alleged perpetrator—the kid’s classmate,
another five-year-old boy. Upon further investigation, D.D.
and her partner had determined that the suspect lived with
not one, but two registered sex offenders. The first being his
father, the second being his older brother. D.D. and her
partner had dutifully reported the incident to DCF, naive
enough to believe that would make a difference.
No. DCF had determined it was not in the boy’s best
interest to break up the family. Instead, the kid was kicked
out of the preschool for inappropriate contact with another
classmate and absolutely nothing else happened until six
months later when D.D. encountered the same kid yet again.
This time, he was a witness to a triple homicide, perpetrated
by his older brother.
D.D. still dreamed of the kid’s empty gray eyes sometimes.
194

The learned hopelessness as he flatly recounted his sixteen-
year-old brother pulling into the mini-mart, how he fol¬
lowed his older brother into the store, thinking he was
gonna get a Twinkie. Instead, his brother had pulled a gun,
and then, when the nineteen-year-old store clerk hesitated,
the brother had opened fire on the clerk, as well as two other
kids, who happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong
time.
D.D. had taken the boy’s testimony. Then she’d sent him
home to his sex offender father. Nothing else the system
would allow her to do.
That had been twelve years ago. Every now and then,
D.D. was tempted to run the boy’s name, see what had hap¬
pened to him. But she didn’t really need to. A kid like that,
who by the age of five had been a repeated victim of sexual
assault, a perpetrator of sexual assault, and then a witness to
a triple homicide ... Well, it’s not like he was gonna grow up
to be President, now, was he?
There were other stories, of course. The time she’d arrived
at a dilapidated triple-decker to discover the wife standing
over her husband’s dead body, still holding the butcher knife,
just in case after being stabbed two dozen times, he managed
to get back up. Turned out, the wife had discovered her hus¬
band’s secret file on the computer, where he stored home
videos he’d been shooting every night of himself having sex
with their two daughters.
Interestingly enough, the daughters had disclosed for the
first time when they were seven and nine, but when the police
followed up, they’d found no evidence of abuse. The girls tried
again when they were twelve and fourteen, but by then, given
their penchant for micro minis and tube tops, not even their
own mother had found them credible.
The video, on the other hand, had done the trick. So the
195

mother had filleted t,he husband, then promptly sunk deep
into depression after her court-appointed attorney got her
off. As for the two girls, victims of incest from the time they
were four and six, with full video footage of the repeated
attacks so broadly disseminated on the Internet it could never
be called back . . . Once again, it wasn’t like either girl was
gonna grow up to be President, now, was she?
D.D. and Miller pulled up to the address Colleen Pickier
had provided for Aidan Brewster. D.D. was already practicing
deep breathing exercises and trying to keep her fingers from
forming an automatic fist. The PO had advised them to play
nice.
“Most sex offenders are inherendy spineless, with low self¬
esteem—that’s why they prey on children, or, as a nineteen-
year-old, feel most comfortable with a fourteen-year-old
girlfriend,” she’d counseled. “You come down on Aidan like a
ton of bricks, and he won’t be able to take it. He’ll shut down
and you’ll be left spinning your wheels on the road to
nowhere. Become his friend first. Then screw him over.”
The whole friend thing was never gonna work for D.D.,
so by tacit agreement, Miller would be taking the lead. He
got out of the car first, and she followed him up the walk to
the modest, 1950s home. Miller knocked. No answer.
They’d expected as much. They’d already learned from
the two uniformed officers that Sandra Jones had her car
serviced at the same garage where Aidan Brewster worked.
Colleen Pickier had called them just an hour later to say she’d
been informed by the garage owner, Vito Marcello, that he’d
terminated Aidan Brewster’s employment.
Mutual feeling was that Aidan was feeling spooked.
Better to grab him now, before the guy bolted into the wind.
Miller knocked again, then pressed his shield against the
side window.
196

“Aidan Brewster,” he called out. “Boston PD. Open up,
buddy. We just want to talk.”
D.D. raised a brow, and huffed impatiently. Breaking
down the door would feel so much better, in her opinion, even
if judges frowned on that sort of thing.
Just when she was thinking she might get her wish, there
came the sound of a bolt lock drawing back. Then the creak
of the front door cracking open.
“I want police protection,” Aidan Brewster stated. He
stood with his body hidden behind the door, a wild look in
his eyes. “Guys in the shop are gonna kill me. I just know it.”
Miller didn’t step forward. Like D.D., he moved just
slightly, onto the balls of his feet, his right hand hovering
inside his jacket, close to his holstered weapon. “Why don’t
you step out from behind the door,” Miller said calmly, “where
we can talk face to face?”
“I’m looking at your face,” the sex offender said in bewil¬
derment. “And I’m trying to talk. I’m telling you, Vito ratted
me out—told the guys I was a registered pervert. And they’re
mad, you know. Guys like them aren’t supposed to hang out
with pussies like me. I’m dead for sure.”
“Did someone say something explicit?” D.D. spoke up,
her voice striving for the same measured calm of Miller’s tone,
even as she stood one step behind the detective, her fingers
dancing across the butt of her Glock .40.
“Say it?” The kid sounded even more agitated. “It’s not
something you have to say. I heard them whispering. I know
what’s going down. Everyone thinks I killed that woman,
thanks to your lackeys.” The kid finally came out from behind
the door, to reveal disheveled clothing and two empty hands.
' He stabbed a finger at Miller. “It’s your fault I’m in this mess,”
he told the older detective. “You gotta help me out. You owe
me that much.”
197

“Why don’t we Ntalk about it?” Miller finally stepped
forward, pushing open the door with his foot, then gently
pressing Aidan back into the hallway. The kid seemed
oblivious to the anxiety he’d raised in the cops. Instead, he
was already turning around and heading to the back of the
house, where they understood he had a one-bedroom
apartment.
The space was small. Kitchenette, floral love seat, ancient
TV. D.D. figured that the landlord, a Mrs. April Houlihan,
was responsible for the decor, because she couldn’t imagine a
twenty-something male being quite so into crocheted doilies.
Aidan didn’t take a seat, but stood next to the kitchen counter.
He wore a green elastic band around his left wrist, and was
snapping it compulsively.
“Who are these guys, and what did they say to you?” she
asked now, watching the skin on his wrist turn red and won¬
dering why the stinging sensation didn’t make him flinch.
“I’m not saying anything more,” Aidan declared in a rush.
“More I tell you, the more I’m dead. Just... assign me pro¬
tection. A police cruiser, a local motel. Something. You gotta
do something.”
D.D. decided Colleen Pickier had been right—Aidan
Brewster was a first-class whiner.
As the bad cop, she felt entitled to say, “If at some point
you’d like to file a formal complaint against one of your
coworkers, we’d be happy to look into the matter. Until then,
however, there’s nothing we can do.”
She thought Aidan’s eyes might roll back in his head from
sheer panic. Miller shot her a warning glance.
“Why don’t we start from the beginning,” Good Cop said
in a soothing manner, taking out the mini-recorder, turning
it on. “We’ll have a chat, get the matter resolved here and now.
A little cooperation from you, Aidan, and maybe we can
198

reciprocate by getting the word out that you’re in the clear on
this. ’Kay?”
’Kay,” the kid whispered. Snap, snap, snap with the
elastic.
“So.” Miller pushed the mini-recorder closer to Aidan,
got down to business. He held the kid’s attention, so D.D.
seized the opportunity to roam the apartment. Without a
warrant, she was restricted to only things in plain sight, but
it never hurt to recon. She hit the bedroom, wrinkling her
nose at the smell.
“Have you ever met Sandra Jones?” Miller was asking in
the front room.
D.D. spied rumpled bedding, a pile of dirty clothes—
mosdy blue jeans and white T-shirts—a trash can that held
used Kleenex. A corner of a magazine peeked out from
underneath the mattress. Porn, she guessed, because what else
would you hide under the mattress?
“Yeah, I mean, I met her. But I didn’t know her, know her,”
Aidan was saying. “I saw her sometimes on the street, playing
with her kid. But I always crossed to the other side of the
street. Swear it! And yeah, okay, I remember her coming into
the garage, now that you mention it. But I don’t work the
counter. I’m in the back and only the back. Vito knows the
terms of my parole.”
“What color is her hair?” Miller asked.
Kid shrugged. “Blonde.”
“Eyes?”
“Dunno.”
“She’s young. Close to your age.”
“Now, see, I don’t even know that much.”
D.D. wanted to gag. She used the tip of her pen to ease
out a bit more of the magazine. Penthouse, it looked to her.
No big deal. She let it go, but already wondered what else
199

Aidan Brewster might have under his mattress.
“Talk to me about Wednesday night,” Miller was saying.
“Did you go out, meet with your friends? Do anything in par¬
ticular?”
D.D. eased over to what appeared to be a closet. She saw
more clothes poking out, some white socks, dirty underwear.
Door was open four inches. She decided to make it six. She
saw a chain dangling down from the ceiling, and used it to
click on the overhead light.
“I don’t have friends,” Aidan protested. “I don’t go to bars,
I don’t hang out with buddies. I watch TV, mostly reruns. I
like Seinfeld\ maybe a little Law & Order."
“Tell me what you saw Wednesday night.”
“Seinfield was master of his domain,” Aidan said dryly.
“And McCoy prosecuted some cult leader guy who thought
he was God.”
D.D. saw more piles of clothes. She frowned, withdrew,
then paused. She glanced again at the piles of dirty laundry
on the bedroom floor, then the pile of clothing in the closet.
How many pairs of blue jeans and white T-shirts could one
guy own?
Plain sight, plain sight, plain sight.
She kicked her foot into the closet pile, pressing down.
And sure enough, hit something hard. Metal, she thought.
Rectangular. Decent-sized. Computer? Lockbox? House
safe? A computer would violate the terms of the kid’s parole.
Interesting.
She drew back again, chewing her lower lip, debating her
options.
“Don’t be yanking my chain,” Miller was saying now.
“Because I can look up what aired Wednesday night. You get
this wrong, we’re gonna be calling you down to the station,
and this time, we won’t be friends.”
200

“I didn’t do anything!” Aidan exploded.
“Woman vanishing on your block is entirely coinci¬
dental?”
“She’s a grown woman. Come on, you’ve seen my record.
What the hell would I want with a mom?”
“Ah, but she’s a young, pretty mom. Same age as yourself.
Lonely, too. Husband that works nights. Maybe she just
wanted to talk. Maybe it started out with you two as friends.
Did she learn what you had done, Aidan? Find out about your
first love and freak out?”
“I never spoke to her! Ask anyone. If that woman was
outside, she was with her kid. And I stay clear of kids!”
“You lost your job, Aidan. Must make you mad.”
“Hell yeah!”
“Everyone thinks you’re good for this. Got a garage full
of guys who want to make an example of you. I don’t blame
you for being agitated.”
“Hell yeah!”
“Wrist hurt?” Miller asked abruptly.
“What?”
“Wrist hurt? You’ve been snapping away for ten minutes
now. Tell me about the elastic, Aidan. Is that part of your pro¬
gram? Snap the elastic every time you’re thinking impure
thoughts involving little kids? My, my, you’re having an
impure day.”
“Hey, knock it off! You don’t know nothin’ about nothin’.
I’m not into kids. I was never into kids.”
“So a twenty-three-year-old mom isn’t out of the ques¬
tion?”
“Stop it! You’re putting words into my mouth. I fell in
love with the wrong girl, okay? That’s all I did wrong. I fell
in love with the wrong girl, and now my life’s shit. Nothing
more, nothing less.”
201

D.D. came out of the bedroom. Her sudden reappearance
startled Aidan, and she could tell that for the first time he
realized shed left the room and where she must have gone.
His gaze dropped immediately to the floor. She liked it when
liars were predictable.
“Hey, Aidan. How ’bout giving me a tour of your room?”
He gave her a bitter smile. “Looks to me like you already
got one.”
“Yeah, but I’m curious about something. How ’bout we
look together?”
“No.”
“No?” She feigned surprise. “Now, Aidan, you were doing
such a nice job of cooperating. Like Miller said, sooner we
clear you on this, sooner we can pass the word along in the
community. I’m sure Vito’d love to hear his favorite mechanic
can return to work.”
Aidan didn’t reply. He’d stopped snapping the band. His
gaze was zipping around the room instead, around and
around and around. He was looking for the out. Not physi¬
cally. But the lie, the excuse. The magic words that would
make his problem go away.
He couldn’t come up with any, and she watched his shoul¬
ders hunch as if steeling for the blow.
“I want you to go now,” he said.
“Aidan—” Miller began.
“You’re not going to help me,” the kid interjected bluntly.
“We all know you won’t, so cut the bullshit. I’m a pervert to
you, too. And it doesn’t really matter that I’ve served my time
or that I’ve stuck with the program and the terms of my
parole. Once a pervert, always a pervert, isn’t that how it goes?
I didn’t touch the woman. I told Vito that, I told the husband
that—”
“You told the husband that?” D.D. interjected.
202

“Yeah.” Aidan raised his head belligerently. “I had a little
chat with the husband. He seemed mighty interested that a
registered sex offender lived down the street. In fact,” now the
kid’s gaze was calculating, “I bet he told you all about me.”
D.D. didn’t answer.
“It’s pretty convenient for him, don’t you think? Why, you
being here, questioning me, means you can’t be there, ques¬
tioning him. Yeah, I’d say my presence is the best thing that
ever happened to Mr. Jones. Wonder how long before he tells
the press about me, hmmm? That’ll get them good and
excited.
“So, come to think about it, it’s not just in my best interest
to be cleared of these ugly accusations, it’s inyoz/rbest interest
as well, isn’t it? ’Cause as long as you’re looking at me, you can
never move against him. And I bet he knows that. Cool cat,
Mr. Jones. I bet he knows an awful lot of things.”
D.D. didn’t say a word. She kept her features smooth,
composed. Just her hand fisted behind her back.
“Show me your closet, Aidan.”
“No thank you.”
“Help me now, or be arrested by me later.”
The trapped look was gone. Now the kid was downright
cocky. “I’ll take my chances.”
“You know, Aidan, I’m not partial to my predators. You,
Mr. Jones, hell, the Boogey Man in the closet. I’ll arrest you
all, let the court sort it out. That works for me.”
“Can’t. Multiple suspects would lead to reasonable
doubt.”
“Yeah, but it can take months to go to trial. Months of
you sitting in jail, unable to make bail, while word travels
round that a known sex offender lives in cell eleven.”
He blanched. Sex offenders didn’t do well in prison.
Inmates had their own code of ethics, and according to the
203

jailhouse value systerp, shanking a pervert was a great way to
move up in the world. Build a rep and add a teardrop to your
cheek, while making the world a better place.
Aidan had been right the first time—his life was shit, and
so were his options.
But the kid surprised her. Showed some of the backbone
he’d been missing earlier.
“I didn’t hurt the woman,” he said stiffly. “But I did see
something.”
That caught D.D.’s attention. Miller jolted as well.
Seemed a little late for such a disclosure, which made them
both automatically suspicious.
“I heard a noise Wednesday night. Something woke me
up. I had to pee. So I got out of bed. I was looking out the
window—”
“Which window?” D.D. interrupted.
“Kitchen window. Above the-sink.” Aidan gestured, and
she crossed to the kitchenette. Most houses in Southie were
stacked side by side. The house next to Aidan’s, however, was
set way back, allowing him a decent enough view of the street.
“Saw a car go by, moving slow, as if it had just pulled out
of a driveway. Wouldn’t normally think much of such a thing,
but one A.M. is a crazy time for someone to be coming or
going on this block.”
D.D. didn’t say anything, though, in fact, Aidan’s
neighbor Jason Jones routinely came and went in the small
hours of the morning.
Car looked peculiar, Aidan offered. “Lots of antennas
sticking up from the top. Like a limo, one of those car service
vehicles.”
“What color?” Miller asked.
Kid shrugged. “Dark.”
“License plate?”
204

“At one A.M.? Hell, I don’t have X-ray vision.”
“Where did the car come from?”
“Same direction as Sandy Jones’s house.”
“You know her name,” D.D. spoke up sharply.
Aidan shot her a look. “Everyone knows her name. You
announced it on the freaking news.”
“You playing us, Aidan? Seems convenient, suddenly
offering an eyewitness account.”
“I was saving it up. Can’t give something for nothing,
right? Well, you want to arrest me, so consider this the con¬
solation prize. I didn’t hurt the woman, but maybe, you find
that car, you’ll find the guy who did. I think I’ve already men¬
tioned that would be in our mutual best interests.”
D.D. had to hand it to the kid. She did want to deck him,
and he’d totally shut her down from searching his closet.
She glanced at Miller, saw the same assessment in his
eyes. Interview was done. Real or not, a vague description of
a mystery vehicle was as good as they were gonna get.
“We’ll be in touch with your PO,” she informed Aidan.
Kid nodded.
“Of course you’ll let us know if you have any change of
address.”
“Of course you’ll provide police protection once I’m
beaten to a pulp,” he countered.
“Then we agree.”
She and Miller headed for the door. Aidan followed in
their wake, pointedly locking the door behind them.
“Well, that was a barrel of laughs,” Miller said as they
headed down the walk.
“He totally has something stashed in his closet. A com¬
puter, safe, something.”
“So many search warrants, so little probable cause.”Miller
sighed.
205

“No shit.”
\
They hit the car, D.D. turning around for a last look at
the house. She took in the long narrow lot, the trees in the
back that offered some privacy between the modest little
home and its sprawling neighbor. “Wait a sec,” she called out.
“Gotta check something.”
She jogged around the house, leaving Miller to stare after
her in confusion. It only took her a minute or two. She’d
always been a champ tree climber as a girl, and the old oak
offered the perfect ladder of limbs. She went up, looked out,
then scrambled back down and around before anyone could
be the wiser.
“Get this,” she called out, huffing it back to the car. She
opened the door, slid in as Miller started the engine. “From
the tree in the backyard—perfect view into Sandy and Jasons
bedroom.”
“Lying sack of shit,” Miller muttered.
“Yeah. But is he our lying sack of shit?”
“I’m not getting warm fiizzies.”
D.D. nodded thoughtfully as Miller pulled away from the
curb. They’d no sooner hit the bridge, when Miller’s radio
fired to life. He took the call, then hit the switch for his lights
and swung into a crazy U-turn that had them roaring back
into South Boston.
D.D. grabbed the dash. “What the hell—”
“You’re gonna love this,” Miller reported excitedly.
“Report of an incident—at Sandra Jones’s middle school.”
206

\
Chapter Nineteen
Jason and Elizabeth Reyes had just exited her classroom
when something hard hit Jason from behind. Jason stumbled,
almost caught himself, then got nailed a second time behind
his left knee.
He went down flat on his face, feeling the breath swoosh
out of his chest. Then a small, furious form was upon him,
pummeling the back of his neck, the side of his face, the top
of his head. Jason’s hands were trapped beneath his stomach,
hard knots against his kidneys. He struggled to get his arms
beneath him, to heave himself up and over, while a sharp-
cornered textbook connected with the side of his face.
“You killed her,; you killed her, you killed her! You bastard, you
big stupid son of a bitch. She warned me about you. She warned
me!! »
“Ethan! For heaven’s sake, Ethan Hastings, stop it!”
Ethan Hastings was not interested in Mrs. Lizbet’s com¬
mand. From what Jason could tell in his shocked state, the
computer nerd had a schoolbook and knew how to use it. The
corner of the primer had cut his eye; Jason could feel the
blood trickling down his temple even as the kid walloped him
again.
Running footsteps now. Other people drawn by the com¬
motion.
“Ethan, Ethan,” a male voice was shouting down the hall.
“You get off him. Right now!”
Get up, get up, get up, get up, Jason was thinking. For
207

heavens sake, get your hands beneath you and GET UP.
T loved her. I loved her.; I loved her. How dare you? How dare
The third blow caught Jason beneath the ear and he saw
stars. His vision blurred. He could tell his eyes wanted to roll
up inside his head. His chest was too tight, he couldn’t draw
a breath, making his lungs burn. He was going to pass out.
He couldn’t afford to pass out.
T fucking hate you!"
Then as quickly as it had started, it was done. Footsteps
arrived, strong male arms grabbing the eighth-grader’s furious
body and dragging him, kicking, off of Jason’s back. Jason
seized the opportunity to flip over, struggling like a beached
whale to draw breath. His chest hurt. His head, his back,
behind his knee, where apparently he’d been slugged with the
complete set of Encyclopedia Britannica. Holy crap.
Mrs. Lizbet was looking down at him, worry creasing her
brow. “Are you okay? Don’t move. We’ll call an ambulance.”
No, he tried to say, but the word didn’t come out. He
finally managed to inhale, his chest expanding with a grateful
rush. He managed the word better on the exhale, low and
pitiful as it sounded: “No.”
“Don’t be stupid—”
“No!” He rolled back over onto his hands and knees, his
head hanging down, his skull still ringing. Leg hurt. Face
hurt. Chest was better. See, real progress.
He got himself to his feet and became aware of approxi¬
mately eight dozen wide-eyed teenagers and half a dozen very
concerned adults standing around him. Ethan Hastings was
being pinned in place by a man who appeared to be the gym
teacher. The kid, all hundred and thirty pounds of him, was
still struggling furiously, his carrot-topped, freckle-covered
face staring at Jason with unadulterated hatred.
208

Jason put a hand to his face and wiped away the first
streak of blood. Then the second. Kid had cut him pretty
good, next to his left eye, but it was nothing that wouldn’t
heal.
“What in the world .. .’’The principal finally arrived at
the scene. Phil Stewart took one look at Jason’s bruised and
bleeding face, then Ethan’s rage-filled features, and started
snapping commands. “You,” finger at Ethan, “in my office.
And the rest of you,” finger at gawking kids, “back to class.”
The principal had spoken. Kids dispersed as swiftly as
they had gathered, and Jason found himself following Ethan
Hastings down the hallway, Mrs. Lizbet’s concerned hand on
his elbow. He was trying to understand what had just hap¬
pened to him, and doing a lousy job of it.
“Ree?” he asked in a low voice.
“Still in the gym. I’ll have Jenna walk her to the home ec
class. They spend half their time baking cookies. That should
keep her busy.”
“Thank you.” They came to the nurse’s office. Elizabeth
steered him inside, where he met the shocked gaze of a
matronly woman wearing cat-patterned surgical scrubs.
“Playing dodgeball at your age?” she asked.
“You know, for a small guy, a computer geek can be
awfully quick.”
The nurse stared at Elizabeth. “There was an altercation,”
the social studies teacher explained. “Unfortunately, Mr. Jones
was attacked by a student.”
The nurse’s gaze widened more. For some reason, this
affronted Jason’s masculinity and he felt compelled to add,
“He had a textbook!”
That seemed to break the spell and the nurse got busy,
fussing over his cut eye, giving him ice for the rapidly growing
knot on his head. “You need to take two aspirin,” she
209

informed him, “then sleep for eight hours.”
He wanted to laugh. Eight hours? He needed to sleep for
eight days. But it wasn’t going to happen. Wasn’t going to
happen.
He staggered his way out of the nurse’s office, back to
admin, where he was sure the adventures were just beginning.
Jason found Phil Stewart sitting behind a massive oak
desk, the kind of furniture meant to inspire awe in students
and adults alike. A small flat-screen monitor occupied the
left-hand corner of the desk, accompanied by a complicated-
looking phone. The rest of the desk contained nothing but a
desk blotter, and Phil’s clasped hands.
Ethan Hastings was sitting in a chair in the proverbial
corner. He looked up when Jason entered, and for a moment,
it appeared as if he might launch a fresh attack.
Jason decided to remain standing.
“I have called Ethan’s parents,” the principal announced
crisply. “As well as the police. An assault by a student is a very
serious matter. I have already informed Ethan’s parents that
he will be suspended for the next five days, while an expulsion
hearing is scheduled in front of the superintendent. Naturally,
Mr. Jones may pursue criminal charges with the police.”
Ethan blanched, then fisted his hands mutinously and
stared down at the carpet.
“I don’t think that will be necessary,” Jason said.
“Have you looked in a mirror?” Phil asked dryly.
Jason shrugged. I understand how high emotions might
be running at a time like this. For Ethan and for myself.”
If he was hoping for a relationship with the red-headed
boy, it wasn’t happening. Ethan shot him another threatening
look, then the office door opened and Adele stuck her head
in.
“Police are here.”
210

“Send them in.”
The door opened wider, and Jason had the unpleasant
shock of seeing Sergeant D.D. Warren and her sidekick,
Detective Miller, enter. Wouldn’t uniformed officers normally
respond to this kind of petty incident? Unless, of course, the
detectives heard about it on the radio and connected their
own dots.
Jason glanced ruefully at Ethan Hastings, understanding
now that the pummeling had been nothing compared to the
damage the boy was about to inflict.
“Sergeant D.D. Warren,” the female detective introduced
herself, then Miller. They shook Phil’s hand, nodded at Ethan,
then regarded Jason with the kind of flinty stares most cops
reserved for gangbangers or serial killers.
Grieving husband, he reminded himself, but didn’t really
feel like playing anymore today.
“Heard you had an incident,” Warren stated.
Phil gestured to Ethan, whose head was ducked between
his bony shoulders. “Ethan?” he asked quietly.
“It’s his fault,” the boy exploded, head coming up, finger
stabbing at Jason. “Mrs. Sandra warned me about him. She
warned me.”
D.D. gave Jason a look, still cool, but with an element of
smug. “What did Mrs. Sandra say, Ethan?”
“She married young,” the boy said earnestly. “She was
eighteen. That’s not that much older than me, you know.”
The adults didn’t say anything.
“But she didn’t love him anymore.” The boy sneered,
staring boldly at Jason. “She told me she didn’t love you any¬
more.”
Did the words hurt? Jason didn’t know. He was in his
zone, and when he was in his zone, nothing could hurt him.
That was the point of the zone. The whole reason he had
2 11

developed it when he had been too young and too weak to
do anything else to stop the pain.
“Sandy told me she was working with you on a project,”
Jason said softly. “She said you are an excellent student, Ethan,
and she enjoyed working with you very much.”
Ethan flushed, ducked his head again.
“How long have you loved her?” Jason pressed, aware of
D.D. stiffening beside him as Phil Stewart’s eyes widened in
shock.
“No—” the principal started.
“You don’t deserve her!” Ethan burst out. “You work all
the time. You leave her alone. I would treat her better. I’d
spend every second of every day with her if I could. I’m
helping her with her teaching module, you know. I go to the
basketball games, just for her. Because that’s what you’re sup¬
posed to do if you love someone. You’re supposed to stay with
them, talk to them. You’re supposed to be with them.”
“How often were you with Mrs. Sandra?” Sergeant
Warren asked now.
“Every day. Free period. I was teaching her all about nav¬
igating the Internet, how to explain it to the sixth-graders.
I’m very good with computers, you know.”
Crap, Jason thought. Holy crap.
“Ethan, did you and Mrs. Sandra ever go out together?”
Warren asked.
“I saw her every Thursday at the basketball games.
Thursday nights are my favorite night of the whole week.”
“Did you go to her house or maybe someplace else?”
Principal Stewart looked like he was going to have a heart
attack.
But Ethan shook his head. “No,” he said mournfully, then
spun his overexcited gaze back to Jason. “She said I couldn’t
come over. She said it would be too dangerous."
212

“What else did Mrs. Jones say about her husband?”
Warren asked.
The boy shrugged. “Just things. Stuff. But she didn’t have
to say everything. I colild see it for myself. She was so lonely.
Sad. One day, she even started to cry. She wanted away from
him, I could tell. But she was scared. I mean, look at him. I’d
be scared, too.”
Everyone dutifully turned to Jason, his shadowed eyes,
his heavily bearded face. He looked back down at the floor.
Grieving husband\ grieving husband.
“Ethan, it sounds like you and Mrs. Sandra talked a lot.
Did you maybe e-mail her, or call her on her cell phone, or
contact her some other way?” the sergeant asked.
“Yeah. Sure. I guess. But she told me not to call or write
too often. She didn’t want her husband to get suspicious.”
Another furious glare.
“So you and Mrs. Sandra would meet outside of school,”
Principal Stewart asked now, looking gravely concerned.
But Ethan shook his head. “I already told you, we met
during her free period. And Thursday nights. At the basket¬
ball games.”
“What else would you do during the basketball games?”
Warren asked.
“What do you mean?”
The sergeant shrugged. “Did you go for walks together,
maybe around the school, or sit and talk in a classroom, or
anything else?”
The boy frowned at her. “Of course not. She had her
daughter with her. She couldn’t just wander off and leave Ree
all alone. Mrs. Sandra is a very good mom!”
Warren slid Jason a glance. “I work Thursday nights,” he
supplied quietly. “So yes, she would have Ree with her.
The sergeant nodded slightly and he could see her
213

debating the same questions he was debating. Ethan Hast¬
ings clearly thought he had a relationship of some type with
Sandy. Just how far had this relationship progressed? A
genuine physical relationship between teacher and student?
Or just wishful thinking on the part of one socially awkward
kid?
In retrospect, Sandy’s bright blonde hair and youthful fea¬
tures appeared not so dissimilar to other young, pretty blonde
teachers recently arrested for their inappropriate relationships
with teenage students. And Ethan probably hadn’t missed the
mark—no doubt Sandra felt lonely, neglected, overextended
by the demands of juggling work and motherhood. Obviously
Ethan was an adoring audience, quick to shower her with
praise and attention.
But he was still a boy. Jason would like to believe that if
his wife had betrayed him, it wasn’t with a thirteen-year-old
boy. Then again, the other husbands had probably thought
the same.
There was a discreet knock on the office door again. It
cracked open enough for Adele to appear. “Ethan Hastings’s
parents are here,” she said.
Principal Stewart nodded and the door opened wide
enough to reveal two very shocked and distressed parents.
“Ethan,” the mom cried, pushing her way past the
standing adults to her son. Ethan flung his arms around his
mother’s waist, instantly converting from budding Don Juan
to frightened little boy. They had the same hair, Jason thought
idly. The mother’s short, reddish blonde bob blending in with
her son’s disheveled carrot top. They were two peas in a pod.
A perfect fit.
He forced himself back into the zone, that magic place
where nothing could hurt.
“I don’t understand,” the father started, then noticed the
214

bandage on Jasons face. “He assaulted you? My son assaulted
a grown man?”
“He has a promising right hook,”Jason offered, and then,
when the man blanched, “Don’t worry, I’m not going to press
charges.”
Sergeant Warren regarded him with fresh interest.
“Ethan was upset,” Jason continued. “I can understand
that. I’m not having a very good week myself.”
The father appeared even more confused, but Jason didn’t
feel like explaining anymore. He’d hit the wall. That was it.
He was going home.
He didn’t bother with goodbyes, just exited the office
while behind him Principal Stewart started explaining the
“alleged incident” and the discipline ramification to two par¬
ents who probably never imagined their computer-nerd son
so much as swatting a fly.
Sergeant Warren caught up with him in the school
entryway. Jason wasn’t surprised. He was tired and ragged, so
of course she was going to press her advantage.
“Leaving so soon?” she called behind him.
“I need to get my daughter.”
“You finally found someone worthy of babysitting?”
He turned, keeping his face composed, refusing to rise to
the bait. “She is with the home ec class. I understand they’re
baking cookies.”
“She misses her mother, doesn’t she?”
He didn’t say anything.
“Gotta be tough. Being only four years old, and the last
one who saw her mother alive.”
He didn’t say anything.
D.D. crossed her arms, moved closer to him now. She had
an aggressive walk, with her lbng, denim-clad legs. An alpha,
sizing up game. “How’s your cat?”
215

“Very cat-like.”
“Mr. Smith’s reappearance must’ve made your daughter
very happy.”
“Actually, she cried for her mother.”
“And there goes your one line of defense—that a warm,
loving father such as yourself would never harm his child’s
pet.
Jason didn’t say anything.
D.D. moved two steps closer, jerking her head back
toward the principal’s office. “So what do you think of your
competition? He might be young, but apparently Ethan
Hastings spends more time with your wife than you do.”
“You should talk to Mrs. Lizbet,” Jason said.
“Oh yeah? She knows about Sandy and Ethan’s relation¬
ship?”
“The true nature, yes.”
“And what is that, Jason?”
“Student crushes are an occupational hazard. Ask any
teacher.”
“Sounds like more than a crush to me.”
“Maybe for Ethan Hastings it is.”
“You find out, Jason? Get jealous? Feel a need to put
Sandy in her place?”
“I can honestly say I am not the jealous type.”
D.D. arched a brow, openly skeptical. “Everyone’s the
jealous type. Even thirteen-year-old Ethan Hastings, to judge
by the lump on your head.”
“He had a textbook,’’Jason said automatically. “He caught
me from behind.”
D.D. smiled at him now, the very picture of friendliness.
“Come on, Jason. This has gone on long enough. Tell us what
happened Wednesday night. Couples fight, we all understand
that. Especially a young couple, juggling work, parenthood.
216

And of course Sandy, being young, beautiful, and very alone
most nights ... So you got mad. Maybe said some things you
shouldn’t have said. Maybe did some things you shouldn’t
have done. Sooner you tell us, sooner we can put an end to
all this. Get some closure for you and your child. Imagine
how scared Ree must be feeling right now. Imagine what it
must be like, waking up each morning with her mother’s last
words running through her head....”
He didn’t say anything.
D.D. stepped closer, until he could smell the scent of the
soap she had used for her morning shower. She had blonde
curly hair, not unlike Sandy’s. Beautiful hair, Ree had said, no
doubt already missing her mother.
“Tell me where she is,” D.D. whispered next to his ear.
“Just tell me where Sandy is, Jason, and I’ll bring her home
to Ree.”
He leaned closer, so close his Ups might have brushed the
curve of her cheek, and he could feel the slight involuntary
quiver of her body. “Ask Ethan Hastings,” he whispered.
D.D. recoiled. “You’re blaming a thirteen-year-old boy?”
she asked incredulously.
“Never underestimate youth,” he said, stony-faced. “Why,
the things I did at that age ...”
D.D.’s features had shuttered closed. “Jason,” she said
tersely, “for a smart man, you’re being very stupid.”
“Because I won’t let you arrest me?”
“No, because you’re not connecting the dots. Let me put
it this way: By your own admission, you’re not the one who
harmed your wife—”
“True.”
“Yet by your daughter’s admission, someone entered your
home Wednesday night and harmed Sandy.”
His voice was rougher this time. “True.”
217

“Your daughter knows something, Jason. More than she’s
willing to say. Marianne Jackson is convinced of it. So am I.
And I’m telling you now, that girl gets so much as an unex¬
plained freckle and I will pursue you to hell and back.”
He didn’t answer anymore. Mostly because he was too
shocked to speak. “You mean ... you mean ...”
“We’re watching you. Every minute of every hour of every
day. You keep that girl safe.”
He got it then, not just the threat, but more subtly, the
detective’s warning. Ree was the last person to see Sandy alive.
Ree knew more than she was currently willing or able to say.
Ree held the key to the puzzle.
Meaning whoever harmed Sandy had one helluva incen¬
tive. ...
Jason couldn’t finish the thought. His chest had grown
too tight. Fear or rage? It was too hard to tell. Maybe, for a
man like him, those emotions were one and the same.
“No one will harm my child,” he heard himself say. “I will
keep my daughter safe.”
D.D. just looked at him. “Yeah? And how many times did
you think the same thing about your wife?”
Jason Jones stalked off. D.D. didn’t follow. She returned to
the principal’s office, where she and Miller had another go at
Ethan, with pretty much the same results. Ethan Hastings
was convinced that Jason Jones was pure evil, yet could not
offer a single compelling reason why Sandra Jones might
claim her husband was dangerous. The boy had found his
heroine, and in Jason Jones, the dragon guarding the keep.
His parents were distraught, the father going so far as to
pull D.D. aside to mention his wife’s brother, Ethan’s uncle,
worked for the state police....
218

D.D. didn’t have the heart to tell the man that a family
connection with the state police hardly bought you brownie
points with the BPD.
She and Miller jotted down Ethan’s statement, seized his
cell phone to search for incriminating messages between him
and his twenty-three-year-old teacher, then hunted down
Elizabeth Reyes, aka Mrs. Lizbet, who had a more even-
handed assessment of things.
By the time they finished up at the school, it was five
o’clock and D.D. was in the mood for lasagna.
“You’re awfully perky,” Miller informed her.
“Good day,” she agreed.
“We still haven’t found Sandra Jones, and now we have a
third suspect to consider—a thirteen-year-old Romeo.”
“I don’t think Sandra Jones was sleeping with Ethan
Hastings. Though it’ll be fun to search his cell phone.”
Miller slanted her a look. “How can you be so sure? You
been watching the same national news I have? Seems like all
the pretty teachers have eighth grade boyfriends these days.”
“True.” D.D. wrinkled her nose. “And no, it doesn’t make
any sense to me. I mean, hell, it’s not like a woman who looks
like Sandra Jones would have a problem attracting male
interest.”
“It’s a dominance thing,” Miller assured her. “These
women don’t want an equal relationship. They want a rela¬
tionship with a male who will do whatever they say. And since
those of us with testosterone aren’t known for our coopera¬
tion, they skew to the younger crowd.”
“So the testosterone is to blame?” D.D. arched a brow.
“Huh, maybe I should spend more time at the local middle
school.” She blew out a puff of air. “I still don’t think Sandy
was sleeping with Ethan Hastings. How could she? By all
accounts, she always had her child with her.”
219

Miller considered the matter. “Maybe it was one of those,
what do they call it, ‘emotional affairs.’ Sandy basically
seduced Ethan via cell phone, e-mail, etc. Then her husband
stumbled across some of the messages, and killed her in a fit
of jealous rage.”
“Or she mentioned it to the local pervert, Aidan Brewster,
and he killed her in a fit of jealous rage. You’re right, we do
have too many suspects. But look on the bright side.”
“The bright side?”
“Sandra Jones’s alleged relationship with a student gives
us probable cause to seize her computer.”
Miller perked up. “Good day,” he agreed.
220

ChapterTwenty
People go through their lives gearing up for the big moments. We
plan blowout celebrationsfor key benchmarks—the twenty-first-
birthday bash, the engagement party, the wedding celebration, the
baby shower. We celebrate and hoot and holler and try to honor
the big stuff, because, well, it’s the big stuff.
Likewise, we steel ourselves for the major blows. The commu¬
nity that rallies behind the survivors of a deadly house fire. The
family that comes together for the funeral of the cancer-stricken
young father. The best friend who sticks around for your first
weekend as a newly divorced mom. We see the big things coming
and we prepare ourselves for the lead roles in our own personal
dramas. It makes us feel better about things. Stronger. Look at
me, I made it.
Of course, we’re totally missing all the moments in between.
The day-to-day life that is what it is. Nothing to celebrate.
Nothing to mourn. Just tasks to perform.
I’m convinced these are the moments that ultimately make us
or break us. Like a wave lapping against the same boulder day
after day, eroding the stone, shaping the line of the shore, the ordinary
minutia of our lives holds the real power, and thus all the hidden
danger. The daily things we do, or don’t do, without ever under¬
standing the long-term ramifications of such minor acts.
For example, I ended the world as I knew it on Saturday,
August 30, the day I bought Jason an iPodfor his birthday.
Pee and I were shopping together. She needed school clothes, I
■■ wanted some supplies to finish setting up my first classroom. We
221

walked into Target, saw the iPods, and I thought immediately of
Jason. He loved listening to music, and lately hed taken up run¬
ning. With an iPod he could combine two of hisfavorite activities.
We smuggled the credit card-sized musical masterpiece home
by hiding it in my school supplies. Later, when he and Ree were
wrestling together in the family room, I stashed the iPod in a
kitchen drawer, beneath the stack of oven mitts, where it would
be closer to the computer.
Ree and I had already plotted the whole thing out in the car.
How wed secretly set up the iPod for him, downloading tons of
rock-n-roll, in lieu of Jasons beloved classical music. Thanks to the
movie Flushed Away, Ree was familiar with the works of Billy
Idol and Fatboy Slim. On Sunday mornings, when Jasons
insomnia sometimes caught up with him and he slept past nine,
Rees newfavorite way of waking herfather was to blast Dancing
with Myself throughout the entire house. Because nothing gets a
George Winston lover out of bedfaster than a British rock star.
We were very pleased with ourselves.
Saturday night was family night, so we held tight. Sunday,
aroundfive, Jason announced he needed to headfor the office. He
had to review some sources, get a first draft of a feature piece of
Southie’s Irish pub scene together, etc., etc. Ree and I practically
ushered him out the door. His birthday was on Tuesday. We
wanted to be prepared.
I started by booting up the family computer. Mr. Smith leapt
up to supervise, taking a position next to the warm monitor, where
he could watch me smugly through the golden slits of his eyes.
Like most things electronic, the iPod required special software
that had to be installed. I hardly have Jasons skills with a com¬
puter, but most uploads are pretty idiot-proof even for me. Sure
enough, the installation wizard appeared and I was off and run¬
ning, clicking I Agree, Yes, and Next in every dialogue box that
appeared.
222

“See, I’m smarter than you think, ”I informed Mr. Smith. He
yawned at me.
Ree was already sorting through her CD collection. The more
she thought about it, the more she was certain Jason needed some
Disney music to accompany Billy Idol. Perhaps he’d run faster lis¬
tening to Elton John from The Lion King. Or, let’s not forget
Phil Collins’s industrious work on Tarzan.
The computer announced that the iTunes software was up
and running. Ree scurried over with a fistful of CDs. I read a
few instructions, then showed her how we could insert her CDs
into the computer’s drive, and all the music would be copied onto
Daddy’s iPod. She found this magical beyond words. Then of course
we had to visit the online music store, and download some classics
from Led Zeppelin and the Rolling Stones. “Sympathy for the
Devil” has always been a personal favorite of mine.
Next thing I knew, it was already eight o’clock and time to
get Ree to bed. I returned the iPod to its hiding place beneath the
oven mitts. Ree quickly gathered up her scattered CDs and stuck
them back on the shelf. Then it was upstairs for a quick bath, teeth
brushing, potty, two stories, one song, a parting scratch to the cat’s
ears, and at long last, quiet.
I returned to the kitchen, brewed a cup of tea. Tomorrow was
Labor Day, essentially the last day ofsummer vacation for myself
and Ree. After this would begin the weekly grind of shuttling Ree
off to preschool, then getting myself to the middle school. Jason
would pick her up by one P.M., then I’d need to be home by five so
he could get to work. Lots of hustle and bustle. My husband and
me becoming two ships that passed in the night.
I was nervous. I was excited. I was scared. I’d wanted a job.
Something of my own. It had surprised me as much as anyone
when I’d picked teaching, but I had enjoyed last year. The kids
looked up to me, soaking in knowledge, but also kind words. I liked
.that moment when something I did made a roomful of tweens
223

smile happily. Hiked, twenty-five kids calling, “Mrs. Jones, Mrs.
Jones, ”probably because it wasn’t my mother’s name, therefore
Mrs. Jones sounded like someone highly competent and respectable.
When I was in front of a classroom, Ifelt smart, in control.
My own childhood fell away, and in the kids’ eyes, I saw the adult
I wanted to be. Patient, knowledgeable, resourceful. My daughter
loved me. My students liked me.
And my husband... I was never sure with Jason. He needed
me. He respected my desire to get a job, though I knew he would’ve
preferred it if I’d stayed home with Ree. He had encouraged me to
return to school, even though that had been hard on the whole
family. I had told him I needed something of my own, and he had
immediately written a check to the online college of my choice.
He gave me space. He trusted my decisions. He showed me
kindness.
He was a good man, I reminded myself yet again, as I often
did on these nights when the shadows grew long and it felt once
again like I was all alone.
So our marriage didn’t involve sex. No marriage was perfect,
right? This was adulthood. Understanding that the rosy dreams
you had as a kid really weren't meant to come true. You made
trade-offs. You sacrificedfor your family.
You did what was right, even if it wasn’t perfect, and you
were gratefulfor all the nights you went to sleep without smelling
the cloying scent of dying roses.
Thinking of Jason reminded me that Ree and I needed to bake
his birthday cake in the morning. Perhaps I should wrap the iPod
now, while he was still out. Then my gaze fell upon the computer
and I realized the flaw in our plan.
Jason used the computer every night. Meaning tonight, when
he returned from work and booted it up, the first thing he was
bound to notice was the brand-new iTunes icon in the middle of
the menu bar.
224

So much for our surprise.
I sat down at the computer; trying to figure out my options. I
could uninstall the program. Wed already downloaded ourfavorite
songs onto the actual iPod, so temporarily deleting the iTunes soft¬
ware shouldn't change anything. Or...
I had this vague memory that you could delete things on the
desktop by moving them into the recycle bin. However, the item
would remain tucked in the recycle bin until you gave the official
commandfor the bin to empty. Given that, maybe 1 could drag
the iTunes icon into the recycle bin, out ofJasons sight, and just
leave it tucked there. Voila.
Before I got ahead of myself, I decided to test out my theory on
an old teaching document. Ifound the file name, highlighted it,
and dragged it to the trash. Then, I double clicked on the recycle
bin icon to see what had happened.
The bin opened, and sure enough, there sat my teaching doc.
As well as one other item, labeled Photo 1.
So I clicked on it.
The grainy black-and-white imagefilled the screen.
And I stuffed myfist into my mouth so my sleeping daughter
wouldn't hear me scream.
The distance from South Boston Middle School to Jason and
Sandra’s home was approximately four and a half miles long,
or an eight-minute drive. The short commute was perfect for
the daily scramble, when Ree needed to be dropped off or
picked up from location A while Sandra or Jason were scram¬
bling to reach location B.
Now Jason ticked off each block in his mind, while
clutching the steering wheel with both hands and thinking
that eight minutes was too short. He could not get composed
in eight minutes. He could not understand the impact of
225

Ethan Hastings in fight minutes. He could not recover from
Sergeant D.D. Warren’s grim warning about his child in eight
minutes. He couldn’t prepare himself for what was about to
happen next, in only eight minutes.
Ree was the last person to see her mother alive on
Wednesday night. The cops knew it. He knew it. And by def¬
inition, one other person probably knew it.
The person who had harmed his wife. The person who
might return to harm Ree.
“I’m tired, Daddy,” Ree was whining in the back, rubbing
her eyes. “I want to go home.”
Even Mr. Smith had abandoned his lounging to sit and
stare at Jason expectantly. The cat wanted dinner, no doubt,
not to mention fresh water and a Utter box.
“Are we going home, Daddy? I want to go home, Daddy.”
“I know, I know.”
He didn’t want to. He thought of taking them to a
restaurant for dinner, a cheap motel for nighttime. Or hell,
filling up with gas and heading to Canada. But in this day
and age of Amber Alerts, running wasn’t an impromptu act,
especially with a four-year-old girl and an orange cat.
Canada? he thought darkly. He’d be lucky if they made it to
the Massachusetts border.
Ree wanted home, and home was probably still the safest
bet. He had steel doors, reinforced windows. Forewarned was
forearmed. Maybe he hadn’t known everything going on in
his wife’s world, hadn’t sensed the threat. Well, he was paying
attention now. No way in hell anyone was touching his
daughter.
Or so he told himself.
Of course, going home also meant facing an empty house
without Sandy’s cheerful welcome. Or worse yet, confronting
the media that were no doubt camped out in his front yard.
226

“Howdyou kill your wife, Jason? Knife, gun, garrote? Bet it
was easyfor you, given all your experience....”
He should have a spokesperson, he thought idly. Isn’t that
how it worked in this day and age? Become a victim of a crime,
hire an entourage. A lawyer to represent your interests, a
spokesperson to speak on behalf of your family, and, of course,
an entertainment agent to handle the pending book and movie
deals. Right to privacy? Solitude for shock and mourning?
No one gave a rat’s ass anymore. Your pregnant daughter
was kidnapped and killed. Your beloved wife was murdered
on the subway. Your girlfriend’s body had just been found cut
up in a suitcase. Your life suddenly belonged to the cable
news. Forget planning a funeral, you needed to appear on
Larry King. Forget trying to explain to your child that
Mommy wasn’t coming home anymore, you needed to share
a couch with Oprah.
Crime equaled celebrity, whether you liked it or not.
He was angry. Suddenly, viciously. His knuckles had
whitened on the steering wheel, and he was driving too fast,
way over the speed limit.
He didn’t want this life. He didn’t want to miss his wife.
And he didn’t want to be so.terrified for his only daughter.
He forced himself to inhale deeply, then exhale slowly,
easing off the gas pedal, working out his shoulders. Push it
away. Lock it up tight. Let it go. Then smile, because you’re
on Candid Camera.
He turned onto his street. Sure enough, four news vans
were stacked bumper to bumper on his block. The police were
out, too. The cruiser parked right in front of his house, two
uniformed officers standing on the sidewalk, hands on their
hips as they surveyed the small huddle of smartly suited
reporters and shabbily dressed cameramen. Local stations;
story hadn’t launched into national headlines yet.
22 7

Wait till they heard about Ethan Hastings. That would
do it.
Ree’s eyes had widened in the back seat. “Is there a party,
Daddy?” she asked excitedly.
“Maybe they’re happy we found Mr. Smith.”
He slowed for the driveway, and the first surge of flashes
exploded outside his window. He pulled into the driveway,
parked the station wagon. The media couldn’t trespass onto
private property, so he had plenty of time to unfasten his seat-
belt, tend to his child, figure out Mr. Smith.
Grieving husband\ grieving husband. Cameras came with
telephoto lenses.
He would carry Mr. Smith to the house, while holding
Ree’s hand. There was a photo op for you—bruised and band¬
aged husband clutching a pretty orange kitty with .one hand
and a beautiful little girl with the other. Yep, he’d get fan mail
for sure.
He felt empty again. Not mad, not sad, not angry, not
anything. He had found the zone.
Mr. Smith stood on Jason’s lap, peering out the window
at the commotion. The cat’s ears were straight up, its tail
twitching nervously. In the back, Ree already had the seatbelt
unfastened and was staring at him expectantly.
“Can you get out of this side of the car, love?” he asked
quietly.
She nodded, staring at the throng of strangers on the
sidewalk. “Daddy?”
“It’s okay, honey. Those are reporters. It’s their job to ask
questions, kind of like it’s Daddy’s job to ask questions.
Except I write up stuff in the paper, while these reporters talk
about it on TV.”
She looked at him again, the anxiety building in her
drawn features.
228

He twisted in the driver’s seat, touching her hand. “They
have to stay on the sidewalk, honey. It’s the law. So, they can’t
come inside our home. However, when we get out of the car,
it’s gonna be loud. They’re gonna start asking all sorts of crazy
questions all at once, and get this—they don’t raise their
hands.”
This caught her attention. “They don’t raise their hands?”
“No. They talk right over the top of one another. No
taking turns, no saying excuse me, nothing.”
Ree blinked at him. “Mrs. Suzie would not like that,” she
said firmly.
“I totally agree. And when we get out of the car, you’re
going to see why it’s so important to raise your hand in
school, because when you don’t..
He gestured toward the noisy mob on the sidewalk, and
Ree sighed in exasperation. The nervousness was gone. She
was prepared to get out of the car now, if only to shake her
head at a bunch of poorly mannered adults.
Jason felt better, too. Truth was, his four-year-old knew
more than the jackals outside, and that was something to hold
on to.
He tucked Mr. Smith beneath his left arm, and popped
open the driver’s-side door. The first question ripped across
the yard, and the reporters were off and running:
“Jason, Jason, where is Sandy? Do you have any updates on
her whereabouts?”
“Is it true that police interviewed yourfour-year-old daughter
this morning? How is little Ree doing? Is she asking for her
mother?”
‘Are you the last person to have seen Sandy alive?"
“What do you have to say to reports that you are considered a
person of interest in this case?"
Jason closed his door, opened Ree’s door. Head down, cat
229

tucked against his body, hand out for Ree. His daughter
stepped boldly out the back. She stared at the reporters head-
on, and Jason heard half a dozen cameras click and flash as
one. The money shot, he realized in a distant sort of way. His
little daughter, his beautiful, brave daughter, had just saved
him from having his face aired on the five o’clock news.
“You’re right, Daddy.” Ree looked up at him. “They would
never earn a good-manners medal.”
He smiled then. And felt his chest swell with pride as he
took his daughter’s hand and turned away from the screaming
press, toward the sanctuary of their front porch.
They made it across the yard, Mr. Smith squirming, Ree
walking with steady feet. They made it up the stairs, Jason
having to let go of Ree’s hand now and focus on the panicking
cat.
“Jason, Jason, you organized search partiesfor Sandy?”
“Will there be a candlelight vigilfor your wife?”
“What about reports that Sandra's purse was found on the
kitchen counter?”
“Is it true Alan Dershowitz is going to represent you, Jason?”
The keys dangled between his fingers. Jason juggled Mr.
Smith awkwardly, searching for the right one. Get inside, get
inside. Calm and controlled.
“What were Sandy's last words?”
Then, right beside him, the unexpected creak of a floor¬
board.
Jason jerked his head up. The man stepped out of the
shadows at the end of the porch. Immediately, Jason stepped
in front of his daughter, armed with a cat in one hand and a
set of house keys in the other.
The man walked three steps toward them, wearing a
rumpled mint green linen suit and clutching a battered tan
hat. Shockingly white hair capped a deeply weathered face.
230

The man grinned broadly, and Jason almost dropped the
damn cat.
The white-haired man threw open his arms, beamed
down at Ree, and exclaimed jovially, “Hello there, buttercup.
Come to Papa!”
231

Chapter Twenty-one
Jason swiftly unlocked the front door and thrust Mr. Smith
inside. He put his hand on Ree’s shoulder. “Inside.”
“But Daddy—”
“Inside. Now. The cat needs dinner.”
Ree’s eyes widened, but she recognized his tone, and did
as she was told. As she stepped into the house, Jason shut the
door behind her, locked it again, and turned to the white-
haired man.
“Get off my property.”
The newcomer tilted his head to the side, appearing puz¬
zled. Jason had met Sandy’s father only once before, and he
was struck now, as he was struck then, by the man’s crinkling
blue eyes and bright, flashing smile. “Now, Jason, is that any
way to greet your father-in-law?”
Max extended a friendly hand. Jason ignored it, stating
firmly: “Get off my property, or I will have you arrested.”
Max didn’t move. His expression fell, however. He twisted
his hat in his hands, seeming to debate his options. “Where’s
your wife, son?” the judge asked at last, his tone appropriately
somber.
“I will count to five,”Jason said. “One—”
“Heard she’s been missing for over a day. Saw it on the
news and skedaddled straight for the airport.”
Iwo.
“That my granddaughter? She’s got her grandmother’s
eyes, she does. Beautiful little girl. Shame no one thought to

call me about her birth. I know Sandra and I have had our
differences, but I can’t think of anything I did that deserves
not knowing about such a sweet child.”
“pi »
1 hree.
“I’m here to help, son. Truly. I may be an old man, but I
have some fight in me left.”
“Four.”
Max’s gaze grew narrower, more appraising. “You kill my
only daughter, Jason Jones? Because if it turns out you harmed
my Sandra, hurt one little hair on her head—”
“Five.”
Jason stepped off the porch. Max didn’t follow him right
away. Jason was not surprised. According to Sandra, her father
lived as the proverbial big fish in a little pond. He was a highly
respected judge, an affable Southern gentleman. People
instinctively trusted him, which is why no one had ever inter¬
vened to help his only daughter even as her mother poured
bleach down her throat.
The reporters saw his approach, and optimistically stuck
their microphones into the air, screaming louder.
“Where is Ree?”
“Who’s the man on your porch?”
“Do you have any words for the person who may have
abducted Sandy?”
Jason stopped next to the uniformed officer farthest from
the press and gestured him over with his finger. The officer’s
nameplate read “Hawkes.” Excellent, Jason could use a hawk.
The officer dutifully huddled close, having no more desire
to share their conversation with the greater free world than
Jason did.
“Old guy on the porch,’’Jason murmured. “He’s not wel¬
come on my property. I have asked him to leave. He has
refused.”
233

Officer arched a brow. Looked from Jason to the reporters
to Jason again as a wordless question.
"If he wants to make a scene, that’s his choice,” Jason
answered in a low undertone. “I consider him a threat to my
daughter, and I want him gone.”
The officer nodded, pulled out a spiral notebook. “What’s
his name?”
“Maxwell Black from Atlanta, Georgia.”
“Relation?”
“Technically speaking, he’s my wife’s father.”
The uniformed officer starded. Jason shrugged. “My wife
did not wish for her father to be part of our daughter’s life.
Just because Sandy’s . . . gone is no reason to disregard her
instructions.”
“He make a statement? Threaten you or your daughter in
any way?”
“I consider his presence to be a threat.”
“You mean you have a restraining order?” the officer asked
in confusion.
“First thing tomorrow, I promise.” Which was a lie,
because Jason would need proof of threatening behavior, and
the courts would probably require something stronger than
Sandy’s belief that Max had loved his psycho wife more than
his battered daughter.
“I can’t arrest him,” the officer began.
Jason cut him off. “I consider him to be trespassing. Please
remove him from my property lines. That’s all I ask.”
The uniformed officer didn’t argue, just shrugged, as if to
say, It’s yourfront-page funeral, and prepared to stroll over to
the front porch. Max, however, could see the writing on the
wall. He descended the steps on his own, his jovial smile still
firmly in place though his motions were jerky, a man doing
what he had to do, not what he wanted to do.
234

“Guess I’ll check into my hotel now,” Max consented
grandly, nodding once in Jason’s direction.
The reporters had quieted. They appeared to be con¬
necting the presence of the uniformed officer to the actions
of the white-haired man and were now keenly watching the
show.
“ ’Course,” Max said to Jason, “I look forward to visiting
with my granddaughter first thing in the morning.”
“Not gonna happen,” Jason replied evenly, heading back
toward the house, where Ree waited for him.
“Now, son, I wouldn’t say that if I were you,” Max called
after him.
Despite his better intention, Jason found himself pausing,
turning, regarding his father-in-law.
“I know something,” the old man said quietly, soft enough
that only Jason and the uniformed officer could hear. “For
example: I know the date you first met my daughter, and I
know the date my granddaughter was born.”
“No you don’t. Sandy never called you when she had
Ree.”
“Public record, Jason Jones. Public record. Now, don’t you
think it’s time to let bygones be bygones?”
“Not gonna happen,” Jason repeated firmly, though his
heart was pounding hard. For the third time in one day, he
was discovering danger where there hadn’t been danger
before.
He gave Maxwell his back, climbing the front steps,
working the lock on the door. He got it open, to find Ree
standing in the middle of the entryway, her lower lip trem¬
bling, her eyes glazed over with tears.
He shut the door and she threw herself into his arms.
“Daddy, I’m scared. Daddy, I’m scared!”
“Shhh, shhh, shhh.” He held her close. He stroked his
235

daughter’s hair, inhaled the comforting scent of Johnson’s No
More Tears shampoo.
“I love you,” he whispered against the top of Ree’s head,
even as he wondered if Max would take her from him.
Jason made waffles for dinner. Breakfast for supper was a
time-honored treat, and the familiar ritual of beating
water and waffle mix calmed him. Jason poured the batter
over the steaming griddle. Ree sat on the edge of the
counter, steadfastly watching the red griddle light. When
it went off, it would be time to eat. She took her timer
duties seriously.
Jason got out the syrup. Poured them glasses of orange
juice, then scrambled the last two eggs in the fridge so his
child would have something besides bread dipped in sugar as
a meal. He could almost hear Sandy saying now, “Waffles
with maple syrup are little better than doughnuts. Honestly,
Jason, at least throw in a hard-boiled egg, something.”
She had never complained too much, though. Her
favorite meal was angel hair pasta with pink vodka sauce,
which she ate anytime they went to the North End. Pinkali-
cious pasta, Ree called it, and the two of them would slurp
away, sharing the same bowl with gastronomic glee.
Jason’s hand shook slightly. He overshot stirring the egg,
sending a yellow chunk onto the floor. He tapped by it with
his toe, and Mr. Smith came over to investigate.
“The light’s off,” Ree singsonged.
“All righty, then. Let’s eat!” He used his best Jim Carrey
voice, and Ree giggled. The sound of her laugh soothed him.
He did not have all the answers. He was deeply troubled
about what had happened today, let alone what might happen
next. But he had this moment. Ree had this moment.
236

Moments mattered. Other people didn’t always get that.
But Jason did.
They sat side by side at the counter. They ate their waffles.
They drank their juice. Ree chased scrambled-egg bits around
her plate, putting each bite through a maple-syrup obstacle
course before finally popping it in her mouth.
Jason helped himself to another waffle. He wondered
when the police would arrive to seize the family laptop. He
cut his waffle into bite-sized pieces. He wondered how
much Ethan Hastings had taught Sandy about computers,
and why she’d never confronted Jason with her suspicions.
He added half a dozen waffle bits onto Ree’s daisy plate. He
wondered which would be the hardest way to lose his
daughter—to the police, sticking her in foster care when
they came to arrest him for Sandy’s murder, or to Sandy’s
father, stating in family court that Jason Jones was not
Clarissa Jane Jones’s biological father and thus should no
longer be part of her life.
Ree put down her fork. “I’m full, Daddy.”
He glanced at her plate. “Four more bites of waffle, as
you’re four years old.”
“No.” She hopped down from the bar stool. He caught
her arm, frowning.
“Four bites, then you may be excused from the table.”
“You’re not the boss of me.”
Jason blinked, set down his fork. “I’m your father, so yes,
I am the boss of you.”
“No, Mommy is.”
“We both are.”
“No, only Mommy.”
“Clarissa Jane Jones, you may eat four bites of waffle, or
you may sit on the timeout stair.”
Ree thrust her chin out at him. “I want Mommy.”
2 37

“Four bites.”
“Why did you yell at her? Why did you make her mad?”
“Back to your chair, Ree.”
She stomped her foot. “I want Mommy! She told me
she’d come home. Mommy told me she wouldn’t leave me.”
“Ree ..
“Mommy goes to work, she comes home. She goes to the
grocery store, she comes home. Mommy told me, she prom¬
ised me, she’d always come horned
Jason felt his chest tighten. Ree had gone through an
attachment phase where she’d cried and carried on every time
Sandy left. So Sandy had started a little game she’d read in
some parenting book, always notifying Ree when she was
leaving, and always hugging Ree first thing when she got
home. “See, look at me, Ree. I’m home. I always come home. Id
never leave you. Never. ”
“Mommy’s going to put me to bed,” Ree said now, chin
still sticking out obstinately. “It’s her job. You go to work, she
puts me to bed. Go to work, Daddy. Go on. Leave!”
“Ree ...”
“I don’t want you here anymore. You have to leave. If you
leave, Mommy will come home. Go to work. You have to.”
“Ree ..
“Get out, get out. I don’t want to see you anymore. You’re
a big meanie.”
“Clarissa Jane Jones.”
“Stop it, stop it!” She clapped her hands over her ears.
“Stop yelling, I don’t want to hear you yelling.”
“I’m not yelling.” But his voice was rising.
His daughter continued as if she’d never heard him.
“Angry feet, angry feet. I hear your mean feet on the stairs.
Get out, get out, get out. I want Mommy! It’s not fair, it’s not
fair. I want my mommy!"
238

Then his daughter twisted away from him and ran sobbing
up the stairs.
Jason let her go. He listened as Ree stormed down the
hall. He caught the distant boom as she slammed her door
shut. Then he was left alone at the kitchen counter, with a
half-eaten waffle and a heart full of regrets.
Day two of his wife’s disappearance and his daughter was
falling to pieces.
He thought, in a spurt of ironic bitterness, that Sandy had
better be dead or he’d kill her for this.
The police returned at exactly 8:45 P.M. Jason was standing
in the middle of the kitchen, staring at the family computer,
which was no longer the family computer, when they
pounded up the front steps.
He opened the door. Sergeant Warren led the charge.
She thrust the search warrant in front of his face, rattling
off in rapid legalese where they were allowed to go and what
they were allowed to seize. As he’d suspected, they would be
taking the computer, as well as miscellaneous electronic
devices, including but not limited to gaming devices, iPods,
BlackBerries, and Palm Pilots.
“What are gaming devices?” he asked her, as uniformed
officers and forensic techs poured into his house. Across the
street, klieg lights were firing up as reporters caught the action
and geared up for a fresh round of photo ops.
“Xbox, Gameboys, PlayStation 2, Wii system, etc., etc.”
“Ree has a Leapster,” he offered. “If you want my
advice, the Cars game is better than the Disney Princess
cartridge, but, of course, the evidence techs can judge for
themselves.”
D.D. regarded him coolly. “The warrant gives us permis-
239

sion to seize all electronics we deem necessary, sir. So yes, we
will judge for ourselves.”
The “sir”rankled him, but he let it go. “Rees asleep,”he
found himself saying. “She’s had a very long day. If you could
ask the officers to please keep things quiet...”
He strove for politeness, though maybe his voice hitched
a little at the end. He’d had a long day, too, which was about
to become a long night.
“We’re professionals,” the sergeant informed him stiffly.
“We’re not gonna ransack your house. We’re going to take it
apart piece by piece very politely.”
D.D. motioned a uniformed officer over. Officer Anzaldi,
it appeared, had drawn the short straw and would be serving
as Jason’s babysitter for the evening. The officer led him to
the family room, where Jason took a seat on the love seat,
much as he had done the day before. Except no Ree this time.
No tiny warm body snuggled against him, needing him,
grounding him, keeping him from screaming from the frus¬
tration of it all.
So Jason closed his eyes, put his hands behind his head,
and went to sleep.
When he opened his eyes, forty-five minutes had passed
and Sergeant D.D. Warren was staring down at him in quiet
fury.
“What the hell are you doing?”
“Resting.”
“Resting? Just like that? Your wife is missing, so you’re
taking a nap}"
“It’s not like I’m going to find her while I’m being con¬
fined to a love seat, is it?”
D.D. appeared disgusted. “There is something seriously
wrong with you.”
He shrugged. “Ask a SWAT guy sometime. What do you
240

do once you’ve been activated but not yet deployed? You sleep.
So when the time comes, you’re ready to go.”
“That’s how you view this? You’re some elite warrior
who’s been activated, but not deployed?” She sounded
dubious.
“My family is in crisis, and all I can do is stay with my
daughter. Activated, but not deployed.”
“You could leave her with Grandpa.” The sergeant said
the words neutrally, but there was a gleam in her eye. So she’d
heard. Of course she’d heard. Apparently, all uniformed offi¬
cers did these days was blab every detail of his life to Sergeant
Warren.
“No thank you,” he said.
“Why not?”
“I don’t like linen suits.”
But D.D. wasn’t going to be put off that easily. She took
a seat directly across from him, resting her elbows on her
knees, all casual curiosity. While from the kitchen came the
sound of cupboard doors being opened, closed, drawers being
pulled out and pushed in. He suspected the computer was
already gone. The iPod seized from his nightstand drawer.
Maybe they’d taken his clock radio, too. Everything came
with data chips these days, and any data chip could be rigged
to store any kind of data. There’d been a major case just last
year where a business exec had stored tons of incriminating
financial docs on his son’s Xbox.
Jason had understood the terms of the search warrant just
fine. He’d simply liked making the pretty blonde sergeant
work for it.
“You said Sandy and her father were estranged,” D.D.
stated now.
“True.”
“Why?”
241

“That would be Sandy’s story to tell.”
“Well, she doesn’t currently seem to be available, so per¬
haps you could help me out.”
He had to think about it. “I think if you asked the old
man, he’d say his daughter was young, headstrong, and reck¬
less when she met me.”
“Oh yeah?”
“And I think, as a seasoned investigator, you might
wonder what had happened to make her so reckless and
wild.”
“He beat her?”
«-1p m not. sure. y>
“Call her bad names?” D.D. arched a brow.
“I think it’s more like the mom beat the living shit out of
her, and he never raised a hand to stop her. The mom died,
so Sandy doesn’t have to hate her anymore. The old man, on
the other hand ...”
“She’s never forgiven him?”
He shrugged. “Again, you’d have to ask her.”
“Why do you have jams in your windows, Jason?”
He looked at her. “Because the world is filled with mon¬
sters, and we don’t want them getting our daughter.”
“Seems extreme.”
“Just because you’re paranoid doesn’t mean they’re not out
to get you.”
She smiled a little. It added crinkles to the corners of her
eyes, revealing her age, but also making her seem suddenly
softer. More approachable. She was a skilled interrogator, he
realized. And he was tired, making it seem like a better and
better idea to tell her everything. Lay all his problems at the feet
of smart, beautiful Sergeant Warren. Let her sort out the mess.
“When was the last time Sandy talked to her father?”
D.D. asked.
242

“Day she left town with me.”
“She never called him? Not once since moving to
Boston?”
“Nope.”
“Not your wedding, not the birth of your daughter.”
“Nope.”
D.D. narrowed her eyes. “So why is he here now?”
“Claims he saw word of Sandy’s disappearance on the
news and skedaddled for the airport.”
“I see. His estranged daughter has gone missing, so now
he pays a visit?”
“You’d have to ask him.”
D.D. cocked her head to the side. “You’re lying to me,
Jason. And you know how I know?”
He refused to answer.
“You look down and to the left. When people are trying
to remember something, they look up and to the left. When
they’re avoiding the truth, however, they look down and to
the left. Interesting bit of trivia they teach us in detective
school.”
“And it took you how many weeks to graduate?”
Her Ups curved in that little half-smile again. “The way
Officer Hawkes understood it,” the sergeant continued,
“Maxwell Black has some opinions regarding his grand¬
daughter. Including that you’re not her real father.”
Jason didn’t answer. He wanted to. He wanted to scream
that of course Ree was his daughter, would always be his
daughter, could never be anything but his daughter, but the
good sergeant had not asked a question, and the first rule of
interrogation was never answer questions you didn’t have to.
“When was Ree born?” D.D. pressed.
“On the date listed on her birth certificate,” he said
crisply. “Which I’m sure you’ve already read.”
243

She smiled at him again. “June twentieth, two thousand
and four, I believe.”
He said nothing.
“And the day you first met Sandy?”
“Spring two thousand and three.” He made sure he
looked her in the eye and absolutely, positively didn’t look
down.
D.D. arched that skeptical brow again. “Sandy would’ve
been only seventeen.”
“Never said the old man didn’t have reason to hate me.”
“So why does Maxwell believe you’re not Ree’s father?”
“You’d have to ask him.”
“Humor me. Obviously you know him better than I do.”
“Can’t say that I know him at all. Sandy and I didn’t
exacdy have a meet-the-parents courtship.”
“You never met Sandy’s father before today?”
“Only in passing.”
She studied him.“What about your family?”
“Don’t have any.”
“You’re the product of immaculate conception?”
“Miracles happen every day.”
She rolled her eyes at him. “All right, Sandy’s father, then.
Grandpa Black. You took his daughter from him,” she stated.
“Moved to a godforsaken Yankee state and then never noti¬
fied him when his granddaughter was born.”
Jason shrugged.
“I think Judge Black has good reason to be angry with
both you and Sandy. Maybe that’s why he returned now. His
daughter’s gone, and his son-in-law is the prime suspect. One
family’s tragedy is another man’s opportunity.”
“I will not grant him access to Ree.”
“Got a restraining order?”
“I will not grant him access to Ree.”
244

“What if he demands a paternity test?”
“Can’t. You read the birth certificate.”
“You’re listed as the father, ergo he has no probable cause.
The Howard K. Stem defense.”
Another shrug.
D.D. smiled at him. “As I recall, the other guy won that
argument.”
“Ask me who put the jams in the windows.”
“What?”
“Ask me who put the jams in the windows. You keep
circling around to it. You keep digging at it like it tells you
something about me.”
“All right. Who put the jams in your windows?”
“Sandy did. Day after we moved in. She was nine months
pregnant, we had an entire house to set up, and first thing she
did was secure all the windows.”
D.D. thought about it. “All these years later, she’s still
locking Daddy out?”
“You said it, not me.”
D.D. finally rose from the chair. “Well, it didn’t work,
because Daddy’s back and he has more clout than you think.”
“How so?”
“Turns out he went to law school with one of our district
court judges.” She flashed her paper. “Who do you think
signed our warrant?”
Jason managed not to say a word, but it probably didn’t
matter, as the color draining from his face gave him away.
“Still don’t know where your wife is?” D.D. asked from
the doorway.
He shook his head.
“Too bad. Really would be best for everyone if we found
her. Particularly considering her condition and all.”
“Her condition?”
245

D.D. arched a brpw yet again. This time, there was no
mistaking the flash of triumph in her eyes. “It’s another thing
they teach you in detective school. How to seize a persons
trash and how to read a pregnancy test strip.”
“What? You mean ...”
“That’s right, Jason. Sandy’s pregnant.”
246

Chapter Twenty-two
Fucking strangers isn’t an easy proposition for a woman. Men
have it easier. They pull out, wipe off, move along. For women,
the entire process is different. By nature, we are receptacles,
meant to take a man inside of us, to receive him, to accept him,
to keep him. It’s harder to wipe off. It’s more difficult to move
along.
I think this often on my spa nights, generally when I’m
checking out of the hotel, making my way home, trying to transi¬
tion from wanton floozy to respectable mom.
Have I given too much of myself away? Is that why Ifeel so
transparent, as if a gust of wind will blow me away1? I shower. I
lather, scrub, rinse, repeat. I try to wipe the fingerprints of too
many men from my body, just as I try to purge the imprint oftheir
lust-filledfaces from my mind.
I’m not bad at it. Honestly, the two kids from thefirst night
... couldn’t even pick them out of a lineup. And the episode after
that and the episode after that. I can forget them easily enough.
But I cantforgive them, and that doesn’t even make sense.
I’ve started a new tradition on spa nights. After I return to
my hotel room, I curl up in a ball and sob hysterically. I don’t know
who I'm crying for. Myself and the dreams of the future I once
had? For my husband, and the hopes he probably hadfor us? For
my child, who looks up at me so sweetly, without any idea what
Mommy really does when she goes away?
Maybe I’m crying for my childhood, for the moments of ten¬
derness and security I never had, so that some depravedpart of me
247

must continuously punish myself, as if picking up where my mother
#
lefi
One day, standing in front of the hotel mirror, looking at the
huge bruises slowly darkening my ribs, it occurs to me that 1 don t
want to do this anymore. That somehow I have fallen in love with
my husband. That by virtue of never touching me, he has in fact
become the most special man in my life.
I want to stay home. I want to feel safe.
It's a good vow, don’t you think?
Unfortunately, I’m no good at clean, healthy living. I have to
hurt. I have to be punished.
If not by myself, then at least by someone else.
When I first saw the picture on the computer screen, that single
black-and-white image of unspeakable violence being committed
against such a small, vulnerable young boy, I should've packed up
Ree and left. That would’ve been the smart, sensible thing to do.
No wasting time with denial. So Jason was kind, considerate,
and, the best I could tell, a remarkable father. It wasn't like
respectable family men couldn’t have dirty little secrets, right? Of
all people, I should know that.
Was it the cycle of violence? In my calculating attempt to run
away from my family, to pick the one man I thought was the
antithesis of everything my father had been, had I run right into
the arms of another monster? Maybe darkness speaks to darkness.
I didn't marry my husband because I thought he would save me; I
married him to stay with the devil I knew.
I know the moment I saw that photo, I felt a stirring deep
inside the ugly part of myself. A bitter sense of recognition. All of
a sudden, my perfect husband was no better than me, and heaven
help me, I liked that. I really, really liked that.
I told myself I needed more information. I told myself my hus-
248

band deserved the benefit of the doubt. One explicit photo in the
trash bin did not a predator make. Maybe he’d received it by acci¬
dent and immediately deleted it. Maybe it popped up on some
website and he was getting rid of it. There could be a rational
explanation. Right?
Truth is, Jason came home that night, and I could still look
him in the eye. Truth is, he asked me how my night was, and I
told him Just fine. ”
I am an expert on lying. I excel at pretend normal.
And some terrible, angry part of me was happy to once again
be in charge.
I took Ree to school. I started teaching sixth grade social
studies. I considered my options.
Four weeks later, I made my move. I’d been doing some
research on the student population, and my dear friend, Mrs.
Lizbet, was helpful as always.
I found Ethan Hastings in the computer lab. He looked up
when I entered the room. Immediately, he flushed bright red, and
I knew this was going to be even easier than I’d thought.
“Ethan,” I said, the pretty, respectable Mrs. Jones. “Ethan, I
have a projectfor you. I want you to teach me every thing you know
about the Internet. ”
D.D. was pissed off. She exited the Jones residence, slid into
her car, and started punching buttons on her cell phone. It
was nearly eleven P.M., well after the hour for polite conver¬
sation, but then again, she was dialing a state detective and
he was used to such things.
“What?” Massachusetts State Detective Bobby Dodge
answered the phone. He sounded sleepy and annoyed, Avhich
fit her mood nicely.
“Did I wake you, honey?”
249

“Yes.” He hung up on her.
D.D. hit Redial; she and Bobby went way back, had even
been lovers once upon a time. She liked calling him at odd
hours of the night. He liked hanging up on her. The system
worked for them.
“D.D.,” he groaned this time, “I’ve been on call for the
past four nights. Gimme a break.”
“Married life is making you soft,” she informed him.
“I believe the politically correct phrase is ‘balanced
lifestyle.’”
“Please, in a cop’s world, balanced lifestyle is a beer in
each hand.”
He finally laughed. She could hear the rustle of sheets,
him stretching out. She found herself straining her ears, lis¬
tening for the low murmur of his wife’s voice. It made her
flush, feel like a voyeur, and she was grateful she wasn’t on
video conference.
She had a weakness for Bobby Dodge not even she could
explain. She’d given him up, but couldn’t let him go. Just went
to show you that smart, ambitious women were their own
worst enemies.
“All right, D.D., obviously you have something on your
mind.”
“When you were a sniper with the state’s STOP team,
did you sleep?”
“You mean more than I do now?”
“Nah, I mean, when you deployed, did you take a nap?”
“D.D., what the hell are you talking about?”
“You been watching the news? Missing woman in
Southie?”
“Slept through the morning press conference, but
Annabelle told me you had great hair.”
D.D. felt mollified by that, which was just plain stupid.
250

“Yeah, well, I’m at the house tonight, seizing the computer,
yada, yada, yada, and get this, in the middle of the forensics
foreplay, the husband took a nap on the love seat.”
“Really?”
“Yep. Just closed his eyes, put his head back, and went to
sleep. You tell me, when was the last time you saw a family
member of a missing person take a nap in the middle of the
investigation?”
“I’d consider that odd.”
“Exactly. So I call him on it, and get this: He gives me
some SWAT team song and dance that when you’ve been
activated, but not deployed, the sensible thing is to sleep, so
you’re ready for action.”
There was silence. Then, “What’s this guy do for a living
agai• n Vr ?
“He’s a journalist. Works freelance for Boston Daily.”
“Huh.”
“Huh what? I didn’t call you for grunting, I called you for
expertise.”
She could practically see him rolling his eyes in bed.
“Well, here’s the thing: For most tactical unit situations in
policing, you are activated and deployed pretty much simul¬
taneously. But I know what he means—couple of guys on my
team were former military special forces. Navy SEALs,
Marine Force Recon, that kind of thing. And yeah, I’ve
watched those guys fall asleep in the middle of cow fields,
school gymnasiums, and flatbed trucks. There does seem to
be some kind of rule for military types—if you’re not doing,
you’d better be sleeping, so you can do later.”
“Shit,” D.D. said, and chewed her bottom lip.
“You think he’s former military?”
“I think he could play poker with the devil himself. Son
of a bitch.”
251

A yawn now. “Want me to take a run at him?” Bobby
offered.
“Hey, I don’t need no state suit nosing into my investiga¬
tion,” D.D. bristled.
“Easy, blondie. You called me.”
“Here’s the kicker,” she continued as if she hadn’t heard
him. “The wife is AWOL, and of course we suspect him, so
we seized his trash. We found a pregnancy test. Marked pos¬
itive.”
“Really?”
“Really. So I decide to ambush him with it tonight. See
how he responds. Because he’s never mentioned this, and
you’d think a husband would tell you if his missing wife was
pregnant.”
“Speaking of which ...”
She paused. Blinked. Felt her stomach drop away. “Holey
moley,” she said at last. “I mean, when, how, where?”
He laughed. “How and where probably aren’t necessary,
but Annabelle’s due August first. She’s nervous, but doing
well.”
“Well, crap. I mean, congratulations. To both of you.
That s . . . awesome.” And it was. And she did mean it. Or
would mean it. Goddamn, she needed to get laid.
“So okay,” she cleared her throat, did her best to sound
brisk. This is Sergeant D.D. Warren, all business all the time.
“Regarding my person of interest. Tonight, I ambush him
with the news—”
“You told him his wife was pregnant.”
“Exactly.”
“But how do you know that the test strip belonged to the
wife?”
“I don’t. But she’s the only adult female in the house, and
they don’t entertain, I mean never, so it’s a safe assumption.
252

The lab geeks are gonna run DNA on the test strip to be
definitive, but I gotta wait three months for those reports, and
let’s be honest, Sandra Jones doesn’t have three months.”
“Just asking,” Bobby said.
“So, being strategic, I drop that little bomb into our con¬
versation.”
“And?”
“He doesn’t react. Nothing. Nada. His face was so blank
I could’ve told him it was raining outside.”
“Huh.”
“Yeah. You gotta figure if he’s surprised, well then, he
should choke up, because now both his wife and unborn child
might be in danger. He should jump off the couch, start asking
more questions, hell, start demanding more answers. Do any¬
thing but sit there like we’re talking about the weather.”
“In other words, he probably did know,” Bobby filled in.
“His wife got pregnant by another man, he kills her, now he’s
covering his tracks. That’s not rocket science, D.D. Hell, that’s
a national trend.”
“And if we were talking about a normal person, I’d agree
with you.”
“Define normal,’” Bobby said.
She sighed heavily. This is where things got murky. “Okay,
so I’ve been dealing with this guy for two days now. And he’s
cool. Arctic cold. Miswired in some deep fundamental way
that probably should involve a lifetime of therapy, six kinds
of pharmaceuticals, and a total personality transplant. But he
is who he is, and I’ve noticed a pattern to his deep freeze.”
“Which is?” Bobby was starting to sound impatient.
Okay, so it was almost midnight.
“The more personal something is, the more he shuts
down. Like this morning. We’re interrogating his four-year-
old daughter in front of him. She’s recounting her mother’s
253

last words, which don’t sound promising, let me tell you. And
this guy is leaning against the back wall as if a switch has been
disconnected. He’s there, but he’s not there. That’s what I
thought tonight when I told him his wife was pregnant. He
disappeared. Just like that. We were both in the room
together, but he’s gone.”
“Sure I can’t take a crack at him?”
“Fuck you,” D.D. informed him.
“Love you, too, babe.” She heard him yawn again, then
rub his face on the other end of the phone. “Okay, so you have
one really cool customer who seems to have some kind of tac¬
tical background and knows how to hold up under extreme
duress. You think he’s former special ops?”
“We ran his prints through the system, but didn’t get any
hits. I mean, even if he did top secret, deeply classified James
Bond crap, the missions would be off the radar, but military
service would put him in the system, right? We’d see that
piece of the puzzle.”
“True. What does he look like?”
D.D. shrugged. “Kind of like Patrick Dempsey. Thick
wavy hair, deep dark eyes—”
“Oh for heaven’s sake. I’m looking for a suspect, not a
blind date.”
She blushed. Definitely, definitely needed to get laid.
“Five foot eleven, hundred and seventy pounds, early thirties,
dark hair and eyes, no distinguishing marks or facial hair.”
“Build?”
“Fit.”
“Now, see, that does sound like special ops. Big guys can’t
make it through the endurance training, which is why you
should always look out for the small guy in the room.” Bobby
sounded smug as he said this. A former sniper, he fit the
small, dangerous model perfectly.
254

“But he’d have a record,” she singsonged.
“Shit.” Bobby was starting to sound tired. “All right, what
kinds of things did light up?”
“Marriage certificate, driver’s license, Social Security
number, and bank accounts. Basic stuff/’
“Birth certificate?”
“Still digging.”
“Speeding tickets, traffic citations?”
“Nada.”
“Credit cards?”
“One.”
“When was it opened?”
“Ummm ...” D.D. had to think about it, trying to recall
what she’d read in the report. “Within the past five years.”
“Let me guess, around the same time as the bank
accounts,” Bobby said.
“Now that you mention it, most of the financial activity
fell around the same time Jason and his wife moved to
Boston.”
“Sure, but where’d the money come from?”
“Again, we’re still digging.”
Longer pause now. “In summary,” Bobby said slowly, “you
got a name, a driver’s license, and a Social Security number,
with no activity before the past five years.”
D.D. jolted. She hadn’t quite thought of it that way, but
now that he mentioned it . . . “Yeah. Okay. Only activity is
from the past five years.”
“Come on, D.D., you tell me. What’s wrong with that
picture?”
“Crap,” D.D. exclaimed. She whacked her steering wheel.
“ ‘Jones’ is an alias, isn’t it? I knew it. I just knew it. I’ve been
saying that all along. More we learn about the family, the
,. more everything feels . . .just right. Not too busy, not too
255

boring. Not too social, not too antisocial. Everything is just
right. Goddammit, if they’re with WitSec, I will slit my
wrists.”
“Can’t be,” Bobby assured her.
“Why not?” She really didn’t want her case to be part of
the witness protection program.
“Because if so, you’d have federal marshals already
crawling all over your ass. It’s been forty-eight hours, and the
wife’s disappearance is public info. No way they wouldn’t have
found you.”
That made her feel better. Except: “What’s left?”
“He did it. Or she did it. But one of them has a new iden¬
tity. Figure out which one.”
Coming from Bobby, D.D. took news of a probable alias
as expert advice. After all, he’d married a woman who’d had
at least twelve names, possibly more. Then it hit her. “Mr.
Smith. Fuck. Mr. Smith!”
“Lucky Mr. Smith,” Bobby drawled.
“He’s a cat. Their cat. I never connected the dots. But
think about it. The family is Mr. and Mrs. Jones, with their
cat, Mr. Smith. It’s an inside joke, dammit! You’re right,
they’re mocking us.”
“I vote for Mr. Arctic.”
“Ah shit,” D.D. moaned. “Just my luck. I got a prime sus¬
pect who by all appearances is a mild-mannered reporter, with
a secret identity. You know who that sounds like, right?”
“I don’t know. Who?”
“Fucking Superman.”
256

Chapter Twenty-three
When Jason was fourteen years old, his family had gone to
the zoo. He’d been too old and cynical for these kinds of out¬
ings, but his little sister, Janie, had been madly in love with
anything furry, so for Janie’s sake, he’d agreed to the zoo.
He’d do most things for Janie’s sake, a fact his mother
exploited zealously.
They’d made the rounds. Eyed sleeping lions, sleeping
polar bears, sleeping elephants. Really, Jason thought, how
many sleeping animals did one guy need to see? They
bypassed the insect exhibit without a word, but ducked into
Reptile World. At ten years of age, Janie didn’t really like
snakes, but still liked to squeal while looking at snakes, so it
made a crazy kind of sense.
Unfortunately, the key exhibit item—the albino Burmese
python—was covered up, with a sign saying, Out to Lunch.
Deepest Apologies, Polly the Python.
Janie had giggled, thinking that was pretty funny. Jason
had shrugged, because it seemed to him that a python would
be yet one more sleeping creature, so he fell into step behind
his sister as their father led them toward the door. At the
last moment, however, Jason had glanced over and realized
the cardboard wasn’t fully covering the glass. From this
angle, he could peer right in, and Polly wasn’t out to lunch,
Polly was eating lunch, a very cute-looking lunch, too,
quivering on the floor while the giant snake unhinged her
jaws and began the slow, laborious process of drawing the
257

jackrabbit into her massive yellow coils.
His legs had stopped moving on their own. He’d stood
there frozen for a full minute, maybe two, unable to look away,
as inch by fluffy brown inch, the freshly asphyxiated body dis¬
appeared into the snake’s glistening gullet.
He thought at that moment, staring at the dead bunny: I
know exactly how you feel.
Then his father had touched his arm, and he’d followed his
dad out the exit into the white-hot blast of Georgia summer.
His father had watched him carefully for the rest of the
day. Looking for signs of what? Psychosis? Impending
nervous breakdown? Violent outbursts?
It didn’t happen. It never happened. Jason got through
each day as he got through the day before, step by painful
step, moment by painful moment, a physically scrawny,
painfully undersized boy, armed only with his thousand-yard
stare.
Until the day he turned eighteen and came into Rita’s
inheritance. Had his parents planned him a party? Had Janie
bought him a gift?
He’d never know. Because on the morning of Jason’s
eighteenth birthday, he’d gone straight to the bank, cashed
out two-point-three million dollars, and vanished.
He’d returned from the dead once before. He never
planned on hurting his family that badly again.
Sandy was pregnant.
He should do something.
As thoughts went, Sandy’s pregnancy was a curious one.
It floated right above him. Something he could state, some¬
thing he could repeat, and yet the three words refused to
sound like English.
258

Sandy was pregnant.
He should do something.
The police were gone. They had wrapped up their party
a little after one A.M. The computer was gone. His iPod, Ree’s
Leapster. Some boxes had disappeared from the basement as
well, probably cartons of old software. He didn’t know. He
didn’t care. He’d signed the evidence logs where they had told
him to sign, and none of it had made a bit of difference to
him.
He wondered if the baby was his.
He would take Ree and run, he thought idly. There was
a thin metal box up in the attic, tucked behind a thick piece
of insulation, which contained two pieces of fake ID and
approximately twenty-five thousand dollars in large bills. The
pile of cash was surprisingly small, the metal lockbox no
bigger than a hardcover novel. He knew the police couldn’t
have discovered it during their search, because it was the kind
of find that would have immediately engendered conversa¬
tion.
He would climb the stairs to the attic, retrieve the box,
slip it into his computer case. He would rouse Ree from her
bed, shear her long brown curls, and top them with a red
baseball cap. Throw on a pair of denim overalls and a blue
polo shirt and she would make an excellent Charlie, traveling
alone with her freshly shaved father.
They’d have to sneak out the back to avoid, the press.
Climb over the fence. He’d find a car a few blocks away and
hotwire a ride. The police would expect them to hit South
Station, so instead he’d drive them to the Amtrak station on
128. There, he’d park the first stolen car, and help himself to
a second. The police would eye all trains going south, because
that’s what people did, right? They headed south, maybe into
New York, where it was easy for anyone to get lost.
259

Ergo, he’d drive N the second stolen vehicle due north, all
the way to Canada. He’d stick “Charlie” in the trunk and don
a sports jacket and thick, black-rimmed glasses. Just another
businessman crossing the border for Lasik.The border patrol
was used to such things.
Then, once he and Ree hit Canada, they would disappear.
It was a huge country, lots of land and deep green woods.
They could find a small town and start over again. Far away
from Max. Far away from the suspicions of the Boston police.
Ree could pick a new name. He’d get a job, maybe at the
general store.
They could make it for years. As long as he never got back
on a computer.
Sandy was pregnant.
He should do something.
He didn’t know what.
Upon further contemplation, he couldn’t run. Not yet. He
needed to save Ree. It would always come down to Ree. But
he wanted, he needed, to know what had happened to Sandy.
And he wanted, he needed, to know about the baby. He felt
that in the past forty-eight hours, fate had taken his legs right
out from under him. And now, perversely, it was dangling a
carrot.
He might be a father.
Or Sandy really did hate him after all.
If he couldn’t run, then he needed a computer. Actually,
he needed his computer and he needed to understand just
what Sandy had done. How much had thirteen-year-old
Ethan taught her?
Best he knew, the family computer was still safely stashed
at the offices of the Boston Daily. But how to retrieve it? He
260

could drag Ree with him over to the offices. Police would
shadow him this time, and probably two or three reporters as
well. His mere presence would make them suspicious. What
kind of grieving husband woke his kid in the middle of the
night to go to work two nights in a row?
If the police grew suspicious enough, they might check
out the computers at the Boston Daily. Particularly if Ethan
Hastings kept talking to them. How much had Sandy found?
What pieces had she put together without ever confronting
him on the subject? She should’ve been angry. Furious.
Frightened.
But she had never said a word.
Had she taken a lover by then? Is that what this came
down to? She’d found a lover, and then, once she’d stumbled
upon the computer files, made her decision to leave Jason.
Except then she’d discovered she was pregnant. His? The
other man’s? Maybe she’d tried to break it off with her lover.
Maybe that had made the other man angry, and he’d taken
steps.
Or maybe, on Wednesday night, armed with her new¬
found training from Ethan Hastings, Sandy had discovered
Jason’s computer files. At that moment, she’d realized she was
carrying a monster’s child. So she’d . . . what? Fled into the
night without even her wallet or a change of clothes? Decided
to save one child by abandoning the other?
It didn’t make any sense.
Which brought him back to the only other new man he
knew of in Sandy’s life—Ethan Hastings. Perhaps the boy
had assumed a more intimate relationship with Sandy. Per¬
haps she’d tried to tell him he was mistaken. Given all the
hours he’d spent with her, trying to help her outwit her own
husband, Ethan had taken this personally. So he’d come to
the house in the middle of the night and ...
261

The youngest killer in America had been sentenced for a
double homicide at the tender age of twelve, so as far as Jason
was concerned, Ethan Hastings met the age requirement for
possible homicidal maniac. The logistics of murder, however,
seemed complicated. How would a thirteen-year-old boy get
to Jasons house? Ride his bike? Walk? And how would a kid
as scrawny as Ethan Hastings dispose of a grown woman’s
body? Drag her out by her hair? Fling her over his handle¬
bars?
Jason sat down at the kitchen counter, his head spinning.
He was tired. Bone-deep weary. These were the moments he
had to be careful. Because his thoughts might wander, and
he’d suddenly find himself in a room that always smelled like
fresh-turned earth and decaying fall leaves. He would feel the
whisper of hundreds of spiderwebs brushing across his cheeks
and hair. Then he would see the quick scrabble of one fat
hairy body, or two or three, dashing across his tennis shoe, or
down his pant leg, or across his shoulder, frantically looking
for escape.
Because you had to escape. There were things in the dark
much worse than shy, panic-stricken spiders.
He wanted to think of Janie. The way she and she alone
had welcomed him home with a huge hug. He wanted to
remember how it had been sitting on the floor beside her,
dutifully drawing unicorns while she prattled away on the
importance of the color purple, or why she wanted to live in
a castle when she grew up.
He wanted to remember the look on her twelfth birthday,
when he had saved all his money to take her horseback riding
for the day, because they weren’t the kind of family that could
ever afford a pony.
And he wanted to believe that the morning of his eight¬
eenth birthday, when she had woken up and discovered his
262

room once again empty, that she hadn’t cried, that she hadn’t
missed him. That he hadn’t broken his little sister’s heart all
over again.
Because he was getting an education these days. He was
learning that to be the family of the missing person was in
its own way just as terrible as being the missing person. He
was learning that living with so many questions was harder
than being the person who had all the answers.
And he was learning that deep in his heart, he was terri¬
fied that the Burgerman was still alive and well. Somehow,
some way, the monster from Jason’s youth had returned to
take his family from him.
Jason paced for another ten minutes. Or maybe it was twenty
or thirty. Clock was ticking, each minute inching toward
another morning without his wife.
Max would return.
The police as well.
And more press. Cable news shows now. The likes of
Greta Van Susteren and Nancy Grace. They would apply
their own kind of pressure. A beautiful wife missing for days.
The dark mysterious husband with a shady past. They’d crack
open his life for the world to see. And somewhere in Georgia,
some people would connect some dots and place phone calls
of their own....
Then both Max and the police would have real ammu¬
nition to take his daughter from him. How long did he have?
Noon? Two o’clock? Maybe they’d break the story just in time
to headline the five o’clock cycle. That would score them rat¬
ings. Some news anchorman would see his star soar.
And Jason . . . How in the world would he ever say
goodbye to his daughter?
263

Worse, what would happen to her? Her mother gone,
now dragged away from the only father she had ever known
... Daddy, Daddy, Daddy...
He had to think. He had to move.
Sandy was pregnant.
He needed to do something.
Couldn’t access his computer. Couldn’t confront Ethan
Hastings. Couldn’t run. What to do? What to do?
It came to him, shortly after two A.M.: his last course of
action.
It would involve leaving his daughter, sleeping alone
upstairs. In four years, he’d never done such a thing. What if
she woke up? Found the house once again empty and started
screaming hysterically?
Or what if there was someone else out there, someone
lurking in the shadows, waiting for Jason to make his first
mistake so he could swoop in and grab Ree? She knew some¬
thing more about Wednesday night. D.D. believed it; he did,
too. If someone had abducted Sandy, and if that same
someone knew Ree had been a witness ...
D.D. had sworn the cops were watching his house. A
promise or a threat. He had to hope it was a little of both.
Jason went upstairs, changing into black jeans and a black
sweatshirt. He paused outside Ree’s door, straining his ears
for any sound of movement. Then, when the silence unnerved
him, he had to crack the door open to reassure himself that
his four-year-old daughter was still alive.
She slept in a rounded huddle, one arm thrown over her
face, Mr. Smith tucked into the curve of her knees.
And Jason remembered clearly then, vividly, the moment
he’d first watched her slide into the world. How wrinkly and
small and blue. The flail of her fists. The tight, screwed-up
pucker of her wailing mouth. The way he instantaneously,
264

absolutely fell in love with every square inch of her. His
daughter. His lone miracle.
“You’re mine,” he whispered.
Sandy was pregnant.
“I will keep you safe.”
Sandy was pregnant.
“I will keep you all safe.”
He left his daughter and jogged down the street.
265

Chapter Twenty-four
You know the thing that takes you the longest to get used to
in prison? The sound. The sheer, unrelenting noise of men,
24/7. Men grunting, men farting, men snoring, men fucking,
men screaming. Inmates muttering away in their own delu¬
sional world. Convicted felons, talking, talking, talking even
as they’re sitting on the john, as if shitting in plain sight is
somehow easier if they talk through the entire freaking event.
First month in the system, I didn’t sleep a wink. I was too
overwhelmed by the smells, the sights, but mostly the unre¬
lenting sound that never shuts up, never gives you even thirty
seconds to escape to some far corner of your mind where you
can pretend you aren’t nineteen years old and this didn’t just
happen to you.
I got jumped week three. Knew that by the sound of soft-
soled shoes suddenly rushing up behind me. Then came other
time-honored prison sounds—the wet thump of one man’s
fist connecting against another man’s kidney, the crack of a
skull against the cinder-block wall, the excited cries of the
other zoo animals as I lay in a stunned heap, my orange suit
somewhere around my ankles as one, two, three—hell, maybe
half a dozen guys went at it.
No one goes to prison and comes home a virgin. No
sirree, Bob.
Jerry visited me week four. Only visitor I ever had. My
stepdad sat across from me, took in my bruised face, shell¬
shocked eyes, and started to laugh.
266

“Toldya you wouldn’t last a fucking month, you prissy
little piece of shit.”
Then my stepfather left.
He’s the one who turned me in. He found my stash of
letters, the ones I’d written to “Rachel.” So he called the cops,
but not before ambushing me the instant I walked in from
school. He caught me above the eye with the metal locker I’d
used to store my few personal possessions. Then he’d gone
after me with his fists.
Jerry was six two and two hundred and twenty pounds.
Used to be a star high school football player, back in the day,
then worked the lobster boats before he lost two fingers and
figured out he liked sponging off women instead. My mom
had been act one. But after she died when I was seven, he’d
found several replacements. I was just along for the ride after
that, no more family, just the little blond-haired kid Jerry used
to pick up chicks. Wasn’t even his kid, I tried to tell them, but
the women didn’t care. Apparently, widowers are sexy, even
ones with enormous beer guts and only eight remaining
digits.
Jerry hit like a Mack truck, and I was done after the first
blow. He landed twenty more, just to be thorough about
things. Then, when I was curled up, coughing up blood, he
called the cops to come take out the trash.
Cops didn’t say boo when they walked through the door.
Just nodded at Jerry, gazed down at my sorry ass.
“He’s the one?”
“Yes suh. And she’s only fourteen. I’m telling you, he’s one
sick sonuvabitch.”
Cops dragged me to my feet. I was still coughing blood,
swaying in the wind, eye swelling shut.
Then Rachel appeared. Came up the walkway, fresh off
the bus from junior high, lost in her own thoughts. Then
267

slowly but surely, she realized the front door was already open,
that a whole cluster of blue suits were standing there. We all
watched the comprehension wash over her face.
Then, gazing at my smashed-in nose and rapidly swelling
eye, she started to scream and scream and scream.
I wanted to tell her I’d be okay.
I wanted to tell her I was sorry.
I wanted to tell her I loved her and it had been worth it.
The pain, everything. I loved her that much.
But I never got to say anything. I blacked out. By the time
I regained consciousness, I was in county lockup and I never
saw Rachel again.
I pled guilty for her, spared her the trauma of the trial just
like the DA asked me to. I gave up my freedom. I gave up my
future.
But the courts will tell you it wasn’t true love.
I know what I gotta do tonight, and it has me all pissed off.
The pretty cop lady is gonna come back. She has that look
about her. A dog with a bone. And the guys at the garage are
gonna come over, too. Except they’re gonna bring baseball
bats, and rolls of quarters in their fists. They got that look
about them, too—you know, the overexcited drool of muscle
heads armed with pitchforks.
Even Wendell called me this afternoon, the fucking
flasher from group therapy. None of us is supposed to have
each other’s personal info, but Wendell no doubt bribed some
flunky just so he could grill me for the inside skinny. He’d
watched the press conference on the missing woman and
wanted to hear all about it. Not that he thought I was inno¬
cent, mind you. Not that he was calling to offer support. No,
he wanted details. Exactly what Sandra Jones looked like,
268

exactly what she sounded like, exactly what she felt like when
I squeezed out her last breath. Wendell has no doubt that I
killed her. And he doesn’t care. He just wants me to share the
glory so he has something fresh to fantasize about while
whacking off.
Everyone’s got an opinion about me, and I’m just plain
fucking sick of it.
So I hit the liquor store. Screw my probation. I’m already
gonna get arrested and I haven’t done anything wrong. So fol¬
lowing the time-honored tradition that I might as well
commit the crime, since apparently I’m serving the time, I’m
getting liquored up. No beer for me. I’m gonna do this the
right way.
Maker’s Mark whiskey. That’s what my stepdad always
bought. I used it the first night I seduced Rachel. Poured us
giant shots mixed with lemonade. What are a couple bored
kids gonna do after school but steal from the liquor cabinet?
I buy two bottles, practically jogging all the way home,
because now that I’ve decided to be bad, I don’t want to waste
a moment of it. I crack open the first liter, drinking straight
from the bottle. One sip down, I nearly cough up a lung. I’ve
never been a big drinker, not even as a teenage slacker. I’ve
forgotten just how badly whiskey can burn.
“Jesus Christ!” I gasp. But I keep at it. Oh, I keep at it.
Half a dozen swigs later, my belly is nice and warm and
I already feel calmer, loose even. Perfect for what I gotta do
next.
I go into my closet. Cast off all my clothes, and there it
is. A giant metal locker. The object I’m pretty sure Officer
Blondie found earlier and now wants to ask me lots of ques¬
tions about. Let her. Just let her.
I pick up the locker, last piece of my old life, and stagger
with it out to the back yard. Night’s cold. I should put on a
269

sweatshirt. Something other than my usual ugly white tee. I
drink more Maker’s Mark instead. That’ll warm you to your
toes, yes sirree, Bob.
I crack open the locker. It’s filled with notes. I don’t know
why Jerry didn’t toss them. My best guess is that Rachel
grabbed the box, maybe that very afternoon. She carried it
away. She saved it for me.
And somehow, some way, one afternoon while I was out
working at Vito’s garage, she left it on the front step of my
apartment for me. I came home, and boom, there it was. No
packaging. No note. Not even a follow-up phone call. I guess
it had to be her, right, because who else would do such a
thing? And it made me consider that she would be seventeen
now, old enough to drive, fearless enough to brave the trip
from Portland, Maine, into the big city of Boston.
Maybe she’d discovered my address on the checks I sent
to Jerry. Maybe once she realized where I lived, she had to
pay me a visit. See how I was doing.
Did she read the letters? Did it help her understand why
I did what I did?
I went through the contents often the first few weeks.
Best I could tell, every single letter I ever wrote was there,
including the rough drafts of bad poetry, the get-well card I
made when she had mono, the bits of verse I tried to write
when really I oughtta stick to tuning engines. I searched for
responses she might have scribbled in the margins, maybe
hints of lipstick, a greasy print from the palm of her hand.
One night, in a fit of inspiration, I sprayed the letters with
lemon juice, because I’d just watched a MythBusters episode
where they used citric acid to uncover disappearing ink.
Nothing.
So I waited for her to return, day after day after day.
Because she knew where I lived, and God, I hoped, I prayed
270

to see her again. Just to have five minutes to tell her some¬
thing, to tell her everything. Just to ... see her.
The waiting game has proved to be a lot like the
searching-for-scribbles-in-the-margin game. All these
months later, I got nothing to show for it.
And I wonder now, as I wondered every single fucking
night in prison, did she ever love me at all?
I toss back another hit of Maker’s Mark, and then, before
the burn can leave my throat, I flick the match and watch the
world’s most expensive collection of love letters start to burn.
I sprinkle them with whiskey for good measure, and the fire
roars its approval.
Except, at the last moment, I can’t do it. I just can’t do it.
I’m reaching in with my bare hands. I’m grabbing what¬
ever little scraps I can even as the fire licks my wrists and
melts the hair on the back of my hands. The pieces of paper
are curling up, disintegrating to the touch, floating away as
burning embers.
“No,” I cry stupidly. “No, no, come back. No.”
Then I’m chasing floating pieces of fire around the back
yard, as my forearms burn and my legs wobble unsteadily, and
suddenly for the first time, it comes back to me: sound.
You never forget the sounds of prison.
And I hear prison sounds right now, coming from the
other side of the yard.
My hair is on fire. I don’t notice it at the time, and that’s prob¬
ably what saves my neighbor’s life: me, tearing around to the
front of the house, my arms waving wildly while my hair
begins to spark bright orange flames.
I come careening around the corner and three guys look
up at once.
271

“Aidan,”the first one says stupidly. His name is Carlos; I
recognize his voice immediately: he works at the garage.
Then they simultaneously glance down at the black heap
on the sidewalk. “Oh shit,” the second guy says.
“But if he’s Aidan,” the third guy starts, clearly not the
sharpest tool in the box. He has his booted foot on the
downed man’s back, and he’s bent over with his right arm
drawn back, captured mid-punch.
I realize at that moment that I’m still holding the Maker’s
Mark bottle, so I do the sensible thing and smash the bottom
on the corner of Mrs. H.’s vinyl-sided house. Then I hold the
jagged remains above my head, and hyped up on cheap
whiskey and unrequited love, I launch into the fray, screaming
like a banshee.
Three black-clad figures scatter, Carlos leaping out to an
early lead, his arms pumping. Bachelor number three proves
once again to be slow and stupid. I catch him across the upper
arm with my impromptu weapon, and he screeches like a cat
as I draw blood.
“Shit, shit, shit,” guy number two keeps saying. I jab him
in the side. He jumps clear. I slash down and catch part of his
thigh. “Carlos,” he’s screaming now. “Carlos, Carlos, what the
fuck?”
I’m wild. I’m drunk and pissed off and tired of being a
doormat in the game of life. I’m swinging at Stupid Slow
Guy, I’m slashing at Screeching, Oh Shit Guy. I’m going nuts
and the only thing that saves them is that I’m the world’s
worst brawler when I’m sober, let alone when I’m drunk. I’m
all fire and no focus.
Soon enough, the two dudes manage to pull free from my
windmilling madness and bolt down the darkened street in
Carlos’s long-gone wake. That just leaves me, lunging at
shadows and roaring obscene death threats until finally I
272

realize my skull is screaming in agony and I smell something
terrible.
Next thing I know, I’ve dropped the shattered whiskey
bottle and I’m hopping up and down in the middle of the
street, trying to suffocate the embers smoldering in my
melted hair.
“Shit. Oh shit, shit, shit.” My turn to be the doofus. I pat
frantically at my head until it feels like the worst of the heat
has subsided. Then, breathing ragged, as moment passes into
moment, I realize the full extent of my crime spree. I’m drunk.
I’ve singed off most of my hair. My arms are riddled with
black soot and fresh burn blisters. My whole body hurts like
hell.
The black heap on the sidewalk is finally groaning his
way back to life.
I cross to the man, roll him over onto his back.
And meet my neighbor, Jason Jones.
“What the fuck are you doing out this time of night?” I
demand to know ten minutes later. I’ve managed to drag
Jones inside my apartment, where I got him propped up on
Mrs. H.’s floral love seat with one ice pack on his head and
another against his left ribs.
Guy’s left eye is already half-swollen and there’s a
bandage that suggests tonight hasn’t been his first beating of
the day.
“Are you a fucking idiot?” I want to know. I’m coming
down off my adrenaline high. I pace back and forth in front
of the tiny kitchenette, snapping at the green elastic and
wishing I could crawl out of my own skin.
“What the hell did you do to your hair?”Jones croaks out.
“Forget my fucking hair. What the hell are you doing
273

skulking around the neighborhood dressed like a suburban
ninja? Isn’t the freak show at your house enough for you?”
“You mean the media?”
“Cannibals.”
“Given that I’m one of them, and they’re clearly feeding
off me, an apt analogy.”
I scowl harder. In my current mood, I don’t give a rat’s ass
for apt analogies. “What the hell are you doing?” I try again.
“Looking for you.”
“Why?”
“You said you saw something the night my wife disap¬
peared. I want to know what you saw.”
“Like you couldn’t just pick up a damn phone and give
me a call?”
“Like I couldn’t read your face to see if you were lying
while you answered.”
“Please, you can stare me in the eye all you want; you still
won’t know if I’m lying.”
“Try me,” he says softly, and there is something in his
half-swollen eye then that worries me more than the three
bruisers who’d jumped him on the sidewalk.
“Oh yeah?” I try to sound macho. “If you’re so big and
tough, why was I the one chasing away the goon squad, then
scraping your sorry ass off the pavement?”
“Jumped me from behind,” he says ruefully, adjusting the
ice packet. “Who were they, friends of yours?”
“Oh, just a couple of locals who found out there was a
registered sex offender in the neighborhood. Come back
tomorrow night. Same time, same place, you can probably
catch the same show.”
“Feeling sorry for yourself?” he asks quietly.
“Absolutely.”
“That explains the whiskey.”
274

“I got a whole ’nother bottle. Want some?”
“I don’t drink.”
For some reason, that pisses me off. “Don't drink, don't
smoke, what do you do?. . . Goody two, goody two, goody goody
two shoes. ”
Jones stares at me funny.
“Jesus,” I explode, “it’s Adam Ant. From the eighties?
Where’d you grow up, under a rock?”
“In a basement, technically. And you’re too young to
remember the eighties.”
Now I shrug uncomfortably, realizing too late how much
I’ve given away. “I knew this girl,” I mumble. “Big Adam Ant
fan.”
“This the one you raped?” he asks levelly.
“Oh shut up! Just shut the fuck up. I’m so sick and tired
of everyone pretending to know all about me and my god¬
damn sex life. It wasn’t like that. It. Was not. Like. That."
“I looked you up,” he continues, monotone man. “You had
sex with a fourteen-year-old girl. That’s statutory rape. So yes,
it was like that.”
“I loved her!” I explode.
He stares at me.
“We had something special. It wasn’t all sex. I needed her.
She needed me. We were the only two people who cared
about each other. That’s special, dammit. That’s loved
He stares at me.
“Well, it is! You can’t help who you fall in love with. Plain
and simple.”
He finally speaks. “Do you know that among hard-core
pedophiles, the single largest common denominator is having
had their first sexual experience be with an adult while they
were under the age of fifteen?”
I close my eyes. “Oh fuck you, too!” I say tiredly. I find
275

the surviving Maker’s Mark on the counter and go to work
on the cap, though I’m starting to feel so nauseous that my
heart isn’t in it.
“You shouldn’t have touched her,” he continues. “Restraint
would’ve been love. Letting her grow up would’ve been love.
Not taking advantage of a lonely and vulnerable junior high
student would’ve been love. Being friends would’ve been
love.”
“You know, you’re welcome to go lay back down on that
sidewalk,” I tell him. “I’m sure someone else will come along
to rescue you shortly.” But apparently, he isn’t done yet.
“You seduced her. How’d you do it? Drugs, alcohol, pretty
words? You thought about it, you planned it. Because you
were older, you had maturity and patience on your side.
Maybe you waited, picked the right moment. She was sad
and lonely about something, and there you were. You offered
to rub her back. Maybe you poured her a drink. ‘Just a little
drink,’you told her. ‘It’ll help you relax.’And maybe she was
uncomfortable, maybe she tried to tell you to stop—”
“Shut up,” I tell him, words hard, warning.
He merely nods. “Yep, she definitely asked you to stop.
She absolutely asked you to stop, and you didn’t listen. You
kept touching and petting, pressing the advantage. What can
she do? She’s only fourteen, she doesn’t understand every¬
thing she’s feeling, that she wants you to stop, that she wants
you to continue, that this isn’t right, that she’s awkward and
embarrassed—”
I cross the room in three strides and backhand him across
the face. The crack is surprisingly loud. His head snaps to the
side. The ice pack falls on top of a doily. He turns back slowly,
rubs his chin almost thoughtfully, then picks up the ice pack
and returns it to his forehead.
He looks me right in the eye, and I shiver at what I see
276

there. He doesn’t move a muscle. Neither do I.
“Tell me what you saw Wednesday night,” he states qui¬
etly.
“A car, driving down the street.”
“What kind of car?”
“The kind with a lot of antennas. Maybe a limo service;
it looked like a dark sedan.”
“What did you tell the police?”
“That you’re a homicidal motherfucker,” I spit out.
“Trying to offer me up on a serving platter to save your sorry
hide.”
He glances at my head, my hands, my forearms. “What
did you burn this evening?”
“Anything I wanted to.”
“Do you collect porn, Aidan Brewster?”
“None of your business!”
Jones sets down the ice pack. He stands up in front of me.
I fall back. I can’t help it. Those deep dark eyes, rimmed in
blood and bruises and God knows what. I have a sense of deja
vu, that I have seen eyes like that before. Maybe in prison.
Maybe the first guy who "dropped me in a bloody heap and
banged the hell out of me. I realize for the first time that
something about my neighbor isn’t quite human.
Jones steps forward.
“No,” I hear myself gasp. “I burned love letters, dammit.
My own personal notes. I’m telling you, I’m not a pervert!”
His gaze sweeps the room. “Got a computer, Aidan?”
“No, dammit. I’m not allowed. Terms of my parole!”
“Stay off the Internet,” he says. “I’m telling you: One visit
to one chat room to say one word to one teenage girl, and I
will break you. You will swallow your own tongue just to get
away from me.”
“Who the fuck are you?”
2 77

He leans down over me. “I’m the one who knows you
raped your own stepsister, Aidan. I’m the one who knows
exactly why you pay your stepfather a hundred bucks a week.
And I’m the one who knows just how much your love will
cost your now anorexic victim, for the rest of her sorry life.”
“But you can’t know,” I say stupidly. “Nobody knows. I
passed the lie detector test. I tell you, I passed the He detector
test!”
He smiles now, but something about that look, combined
with his flat eyes, sends shivers down my spine. He turns,
walks down the hall.
“She loved me,” I call out weakly behind him.
“If she loved you, she would’ve returned to you by now,
don’t you think?”
Jones shuts the door behind himself. I stand alone in my
apartment, burned hands fisted by my sides, and think how
much I hate his guts. Then I uncap the second bottle of
Maker’s Mark and get down to business.
278

Chapter Twenty-five
In the beginning, I worried about two things: how to ask my ques¬
tions of Ethan Hastings without giving away too much and how
to plot against my husband given my extremely limitedfree time.
The solution to both problems turned out to be surprisingly simple.
I met with Ethan every day during my free period. I told him
I was creating a sixth grade teaching module for Internet navi¬
gation. Under the guise ofcrafting a class project, Ethan answered
all of my questions and more.
I started with online security. We couldn’t have sixth-graders
visiting porn sites, rightf Ethan demonstrated for me how to
manage account and browser permissions to limit where users
could go.
That night after Ree went to bed, I booted up the family com¬
puter and went to work. I opened the security window in AOL
and busily “permissioned” away. Of course, after I went to bed, it
occurred to me that Jason might not use AOL to surf the web.
Maybe he used Internet Explorer or another browser.
I returned to Ethan the next day.
“Is there any way to see exactly which websites have been vis¬
ited by each computer? You know, that way I can check and see if
each student is going where he or she is supposed to be going and
that our network security protocols are working. ”
Ethan explained to me that each time a user clicks on a web¬
site, a cookie is created by that website and temporary copies of the
web pages are saved in the computer’s cachefile. The computer also
stores a browser history, so that by glancing at the rightfiles, I could
279

\
tell exactly where that computer had been on the World Wide Web.
I had to waitfive more nights, until Ree was asleep and Jason
was at work. Ethan had showed me how I could click on the pull¬
down menu of the Internet search bar; and it would show me the
websites most recently visited by the computer. I selected the search
bar, got the pull-down menu, and saw three options, www.
drudgereport.com, www.usatoday.com, andwww.nytimes.com.
Right away, this struck me as not enough options, because
when Ethan had done it in the computer lab, wed easily gotten
twelve to fifteen sites. So I booted up Internet Explorer, and tried
its browser history, which gave me the exact same results.
I was stumped.
I monitored the browser history for a bit after that. Every few
days, random times, when I thought I could quickly call it up
without Jason noticing. Always Ifound the same three sites, which
didnt make any sense to me. Jason spent hours at a time hunched
over the computer. No way he was simply reading the news.
Three weeks later, inspiration hit. I constructed a civics ques¬
tion to research for my social studies class regarding the five free¬
doms guaranteed under the First Amendment. Then I merrily
Google-searched away. I found history sites, I found government
sites, Wikipedia, all sorts of good stuff. I hit them all, and by the
time I was done that evening, the pull-down menu showed a nice
robust list of recently visited websites.
I went to school the next day and gave my class an impromptu
lecture on freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom of the
press, freedom to peacefully assemble, and freedom to petition.
Then I raced home, barely able to contain myself until Ree
went to bed and I could check the browser history of Internet
Explorer once more.
You know what I found? Three websites: Drudge Report,
USA Today, New York Times. Every site I had visited just
twenty-four hours before was gone. Wiped out.
280

Somehow, some way, my husband was covering his online
tracks.
The following day, I hit Ethan with my question the second
he walked into the computer lab.
*I was talking to another teacher after school yesterday, and
she implied that checking the computers browser history isnt
enough. That there are ways of tampering with the browser his¬
tory, or something like that?”
I shrugged helplessly and Ethan immediately sat down at the
nearest computer and fired it to life.
“Oh sure, Mrs. Jones. You can purge the cachefile after going
online. That will make it appear like that web visit never hap¬
pened. Here, Til show you. ”
Ethan logged on to the National Geographic website, then
exited and showed me the options for clearing the cache on the
computer. I was cres fallen.
“So I cant really track what the kids are doing at all, can I? I
mean, if any of them figure out how to clear the cache—which is
just a click away—then they can visit all sorts of places when Tm
not looking and Til never figure it out. ”
“Well, you have the basic security functions, ” Ethan tried to
assure me.
“But they re not foolproof either. You demonstrated that the
first time we set them up. It seems to me I cant really control where
the students go or what they do. Maybe a teaching module on
Internet navigation isnt such a good idea. ”
Ethan was though fulfor a bit. He is a bright kid. Earnest,
but lonely. I had thefeeling his parents loved him but had no idea
what to do with him. He is too smart, intimidating even for
adults. The kind ofkid who is meant to sufferfor the first twenty
years or so, but then would take his software company public at
age twenty-one and wind up married to a supermodel and
driving a Ferrari.
281

\
He wasn’t there yet, however, and I felt bad for his painful
shyness, the way he regarded the whole world through this highly
analytical lens the rest of us could never see.
“You understand that when you delete something on a com¬
puter, it never actually goes aw ay ?” he said presently.
I shook my head. “No, I don’t understand that at all. ”
He brightened. “Oh, absolutely. See, computers are inherently
lazy. ”
“They are?”
“Sure. A computer’s primary function is to store data. If you
think about it, the hard drive is nothing but a giant library lined
with empty shelves. Then you, the user, come along and start
inputting documents, or downloading information, or surfing the
Internet, whatever. You’re creating 'books’ of data, which the com¬
puter then stashes on the shelves. ”
“Okay.”
“Like any library, the computer needs to be able to retrieve the
books at a moment’s notice. So it creates a directory, its own version
ofa card catalogue system, which it can use to find each particular
piece of data on the bookshelves. Got it?”
“Got it, ” I assured him.
Ethan beamed at me. Apparently, in addition to being a good
teacher, I was an excellent student. He continued his lecture: “Now
this is where the computer gets lazy: When you delete a document,
the computer doesn’t take the time to track down the actual data
on the bookshelf and trash it. That would be too much work.
Instead, it simply deletes the reference to the document in the direc¬
tory. The book’s still there; the card catalogue, however, no longer
shows its location. ”
I stared at my red-headed partnerfor a bit. “You mean to tell
me, even if the cache is cleared, those particular Internet files are
still on the computer somewhere?”
I got a second smile for that one. “Great job!”
282

I couldn’t help it. I smiled back. This made Ethan blush, and
reminded me I had to be careful. Just because I was using Ethan
Hastings didn’t mean I wanted to hurt him.
“So, if the card catalogue has been cleared, ” I asked, “how do I
find the data?”
“Ifyou really want to know what’s in the computer’s browser
history, I recommend Pasco. ”
“Pasco?”
“It’s a computer forensic software you can download from
online. Here’s the deal: When someone 'clears the cache, ’ the com¬
puter rarely clears all the cache. At least a few index.datfiles get
left behind. So you open the history files, run Pasco, and it’ll spit
out a CSV—”
“CSV?”
“Comma Separated Values, which opens an Excel spreadsheet
that will show every URL that was visited by the computer with
a date-time stamp. You can cut and paste one of the URLs
straight into the computer’s search engine and it’ll take you to that
website for inspection. Voila, you’ll know everyplace the computer
has visited. ”
“How do you know so much?”I had to ask.
Ethan blushedfuriously. “My um .. .family. ”
“Yourfamily?”
“My mother runs Pasco on my computer each week. Not that
she doesn’t trust me!” He flushed brighter. “It’s just, um, due dili¬
gence, ’ she calls it. She knows I’m smarter than her, so she’s gotta
have something on her side. ”
“Your mother’s right, Ethan. You are a genius, and I can’t
thank you enough for assisting me with this teaching module. ”
Ethan smiled, but he appeared more thoughtful this time.
At home that night, I got serious. Two stories, one song, and
half a Broadway show later, Ree was down, Jason was out, and I
was all alone with my newfound computer skills and a whole host
283

\
ofsuspicions. First order of business: downloading and installing
the Pasco forensic toolfrom Foundstone.
Next up, I started working the menu system, identifying pos¬
sible history files and running Pasco on the contents. Shoulders
hunched, head down, I pecked away at the computer with eyes
glued to microscopic type on the screen and ears perkedfor thefirst
sound of Jasons car in the driveway.
I didn’t know what I was doing, and everything took longer
than I thought. Next thing I knew, it was after midnight and
Jason was due home any minute. I was still running reports and
hadn’t figured out yet how to uninstall Pasco, whose mere presence
on the desktop would alert Jason that 1 knew something was going
on.
I was hopped up and jumpy when Ifinally got the dialogue
box asking if I wanted to open or save the CSV I didn't know
what I should do, but I was running out of time, so I hit Open
and watched an Excel spreadsheet fill the screen before me.
I figured I would discover dozens of URLs. Porn sites? Chat
rooms? More terrible photos of terrified little boys? Evidence that
the man Pd chosen to raise my child was a hard-core pedophile, or
one of those sick men who trolled MySpace, preying on twelve-
year-olds? I wasn’t sure yet what I hoped, or what I feared. My
eyes were screwed shut. I could barely bring myself to look.
What, oh what, was my husband doing all those long nights?
Three values filled the screen. I already knew what they were
before I ever entered the URLs into the web browser: Drudge
Report, USA Today, and the New York Times.
My husband held his secrets well.
The next day during free period, Ethan was already waiting for
me in the computer lab.
“Did it work?” he asked me.
284

I didn’t know what to say.
“Well?” he said impatiently. “Didyou find out what your hus¬
band is doing online or not?”
I stared at my star pupil.
He remained matter-of-fact. “Sixth-graders aren’t that
Internet savvy,” he said. “I mean, I was, but you don’t have a
single me in your class, meaning you have nothing to worry about.
That leaves your job, but I hack into the school’s computer all the
time, and there’s nothing interesting going on here—”
“Ethan!”
He shrugged. “So the last possibility is that you’re worried
about something at home. Ree is only four, so it can’t be her. That
leaves your husband. ”
I sat down. It seemed better than standing.
“Is it porn?” Ethan asked with his guileless blue eyes. “Or is
he gambling away your life savings?”
“I don’t know, ” I said at last.
“You didn’t run Pasco?”
“I did. It returned only three URLs, the same three I’ve seen
before. ”
Ethan sat upright. “Really?”
“Really.”
“Wow, gotta be a shredder. I’ve only ever heard about them.
That’s cool!”
“A shredder is a good thing?”
“It is if you’re trying to cover your tracks. A shredder, or
scrubber software, is like a rake, clearing all the cachefilefootprints
left behind you. ”
“It’s deleting things the lazy computer wouldn’t otherwise
delete?”
“Nope. Shredders are lazy, too. They’re automatically clearing
the cache file so you don't have to remember to do it manually. So
a user can go all sorts of places, then 'shred’ the evidence. But since
285

\
a lack of browser history is also a red flag, your husband is
attempting to be clever by rebuilding a fake Internet trail. Fortu¬
nately for us, he's not that good at faking it. ”
I didn't say a word.
“Here's the cool part, though—shredders aren't foolproof."
“Okay, "I managed.
“Every time you click on an Internet page, a computer is cre¬
ating so many tempfiles there's no way the shredder can get them
all. Plus, the shredder is still only messing with the directory. So
the files are still there, we just have to find them. ”
“How?”
“Better tool. Pasco is over-the-counter. Now you want prescription-
strength meds."
“I don't know any pharmacists, ” I said blankly.
Ethan Hastings grinned at me. “I do."
286

Chapter Twenty-six
D.D. was dreaming about roast beef again. She was at her
favorite buffet, trying to decide between the eggplant
Parmesan and a blood-red carving roast. She opted for both,
sinking her right hand straight into the tray of eggplant Parm
while plucking up thin, juicy slivers of beef with her left. She
had strings of melted cheese trailing down one arm and drib¬
bles of jus on her chin.
No bother. She climbed straight onto the white-covered
table, planting her ass between the green Jell-O fruit ring and
the collection of cherry-topped puddings. She scooped up
handfuls of squishy Jell-O, while licking creamy tapioca
straight from the chilled parfait glass.
She was hungry. Starving even. Then the food was gone,
and she was on top of a giant, satin-covered mattress. She was
on her belly, face down, nude body stretched out in a cat-like
purr while unknown hands worked magic down the curve of
her spine, over her writhing hips, finding the inside of her
thighs. She knew where she wanted those hands. Knew where
she needed to be touched, needed to be taken. She raised her
hips accommodatingly, and suddenly she was flipped over,
legs spreading wide to receive urgent thrusts while she stared
into Brian Miller’s heavily mustached face.
D.D. jerked awake in her bedroom. Her hands were
fisting her covers, her body covered in a light sheen of sweat
as she worked to slow her breathing. For the longest time,
she simply stared at her gray-washed walls, morning coming
287

hard in the rainy gloom.
She released the sheets. Pushed back the covers. Stabilized
her legs enough to walk to the bathroom, where she regarded
herself in the mirror above the sink.
“That,” she told her reflection firmly, “never happened.”
Five-thirty A.M., she brushed her teeth and got ready for
the day ahead.
D.D. was a realist. You didn’t last twenty years in the biz
without realizing some hard truths about human nature. First
twenty-four hours of a missing person’s case, she gave them
even odds of finding the person alive. Adults did take off.
Couples argued. Some individuals could stick it out, others
needed to bolt for a day or two. So first twenty-four hours,
maybe even the first thirty-six, she’d been willing to believe
that Sandra Jones was alive and they, the fine detectives of
the BPD, might bring her home again.
Fifty-two hours later, D.D. was not thinking of locating
a missing mother. She was thinking of recovering a body, and
even with that in mind, she understood that time remained
of the essence.
Crime, and investigations, had a certain rhythm. First
twenty-four hours, not only was there hope of the victim sur¬
viving, but also of the criminal screwing up. Abduction,
assault, homicide, all involved high emotion. Individuals held
in the sway of high emotion had a tendency to make mistakes.
Flushed on adrenaline, overloaded by anxiety or even remorse,
the perpetrator was in panic mode. Did something bad. How
to get away, get away, get away ?
Unfortunately, as each day went by without the cops
closing in, the subject had time to calm down, settle in. Start
thinking more rationally about next steps, form a more concrete
288

plan for cover up. The criminal became entrenched, disposing
of evidence, polishing his story, even perhaps swaying key wit¬
nesses, such as his four-year-old daughter. In other words, the
perpetrator transitioned from bungling amateur to criminal
mastermind.
D.D. didn’t want to be dealing with any criminal master¬
minds. She wanted a body and an arrest, all in time for the
five o’clock news. Close in, apply the thumb screws, and crack
the case wide open. That was the kind of thing that made her
day.
Unfortunately, she had a few too many people to pressure.
Take Ethan Hastings. Thirteen years old, frighteningly bril¬
liant, and hopelessly in love with his missing teacher. Budding
Lothario? Or freaky teenmonster?
Then came Aidan Brewster. Bona fide felon with a his¬
tory of choosing inappropriate sexual relationships. Claimed
not to know Sandra Jones, but lived just down the street from
the crime. Reformed sex offender or escalating perpetrator
with a fresh appetite for violence?
Sandy’s father, the honorable Maxwell Black, had to be
included in the mix. Estranged father, who magically showed
up when his daughter disappeared. According to Officer
Hawkes, Black seemed to be threatening Jones, and clearly
planned to see his granddaughter one way or the other.
Grieving father, or opportunistic grandfather who’d do any¬
thing to get his hands on Ree?
Finally, she returned to Jason Jones, the cold-blooded
husband who had yet to engage in a single activity to find his
missing wife. The guy claimed not to be the jealous type.
Then again, he had no paper trail prior to marrying Sandy
five years ago. A definite assumed identity.
D.D. went round and round, and she still came back to
Jones. His daughter’s own assessment of Wednesday night,
289

Jones’s disengaged behavior since his wife vanished, the
obvious use of an alias. Jones was hiding something ergo,
he was the most likely suspect in his pregnant wife’s disap¬
pearance.
That was it. D.D. was bringing little Ree in for more
questioning as soon as possible. She would arrange for two
officers to track each of their other subjects, building history
and establishing alibis. Better yet, she was assigning two of
her best white-collar investigators to trace Jones’s bank
accounts. Follow the money, find Jones’s real name, real his¬
tory, real past.
Break the alias. Break the man.
Satisfied, D.D. pulled out her notepad and jotted down
one major to-do for the day: Squeeze Jason Jones.
D.D.’s cell rang ten minutes later. It was barely seven, but she
didn’t lead one of those lives where people called during
normal operating hours. She took another sip of coffee,
flipped open her phone, and announced, “Talk to me.”
“Sergeant D. D. Warren?”
“Last I checked.”
The caller paused. She took another sip of cappuccino.
“This, uh, is Wayne Reynolds. I work for the Massachu¬
setts State Police. I’m also Ethan Hastings’s uncle.”
D.D. thought about it. The number on her display screen
looked familiar. Then it came to her: “Didn’t you buzz me
yesterday morning?”
“I tried your pager. I saw the press conference and figured
we’d better talk.”
“Because of Ethan?”
Another pause. “I think it would be best if we could meet
in person. What do you say? I could buy you breakfast.”
290

“You think we’re gonna arrest Ethan?”
“I think if you did, it would be a huge mistake.”
“So, you’re gonna throw your state weight around, ask me
to back off? ’Cause you should know up front, I don’t take
those kinds of conversations well, and buying me a bagel with
cream cheese isn’t gonna make a difference.”
“How about we meet first, and you can be hostile and
indifferent second?”
“It’s your funeral,” D.D. said. She rattled off the name of
a coffee shop just around the corner, then went to fetch an
umbrella.
Mario’s was a locals’ establishment. Tiny, with the original
Formica countertop from 1949 and an enormous glass jar of
fresh biscotti next to the ancient cash register. Mario II, the
son, currendy ran the joint. He served up eggs, toast, pancetta,
and the best coffee you could buy outside of Italy.
D.D. had to wrestle for a tiny round corner table next to
the front window. She got there early, mostly so she could
enjoy a second cup of coffee in peace, while working her cell
phone. She found the uncle’s outreach to be fascinating. Here
she was thinking she needed to push harder on the husband,
and the family of the teenage wannabe lover entered the fray.
Were they feeling overprotective, or guilt-stricken? Inter¬
esting.
D.D. hit speed dial, holding the tiny phone to her ear. Just
because she had a sex dream last night was not the reason she
was calling Bobby Dodge.
“Hello,” a female voice answered.
“Morning, Annabelle,” D.D. said, without a trace of the
anxiety she immediately felt. Other women didn’t intimidate
her. It was a hard-and-fast rule she’d developed years ago
291

when she’d realized she was prettier than ninety percent of
the female population, and a hundred percent better with a
loaded handgun. Annabelle, of course, would be the exception
to that rule, and Annabelle had snagged Bobby Dodge. That
made her D.D.’s personal nemesis, even if they were both
properly civil to each other. “Is Bobby awake?’
“Didn’t you call him in the middle of the night?”
Annabelle asked.
“Yep. Hey, I understand congratulations are in order.
Congratulations.”
“Thanks.”
“You, um, feeling okay?”
“Yes, thank you.”
“When are you due?”
“August.”
“Boy or girl?”
“Waiting to be surprised.”
“Nice. So is Bobby around?”
“He’s only going to hang up on you again.”
“I know. It’s part of my charm.”
There was a distant shuffle as Annabelle handed the ,
phone over to her husband, then some male grunting as
Bobby was no doubt prodded awake.
“Tell me I’m dreaming,” Bobby groaned into the phone.
“I don’t know. Am I naked and covered in whipped
cream?”
“D.D., I just talked to you eight hours ago.”
“Well, that’s the thing about crime. It never sleeps.”
“But detectives do.”
“Really? Must’ve missed that class at the Academy. So, I
have a question for you about another statie. Name of Wayne
Reynolds. Ring any bells?”
There was a long pause, which was better than the usual
292

click of Bobby hanging up. “Wayne Reynolds?” he repeated
at last. “No, can’t think of any detective by that name.”
D.D. nodded, remaining quiet. Both the BPD and Mas¬
sachusetts State Police were sizable organizations, but they
still retained a family-enterprise sort of feel. Even if you didn’t
work directly with every officer, chances were you’d caught a
name in the hall, read it on top of a report, even heard a juicy
bit of gossip in the latest rumor mill.
“Wait a minute,” Bobby said shortly. “I do know that
name, but he’s not with the detectives unit. He’s at the Com¬
puter Lab. He handled the forensic analysis of some cell
phones for last year’s bank robbery.”
“He’s an electronics geek?”
“I think they prefer the term ‘forensic specialist.’”
“Huh,” D.D. said.
“You seize some computers and ask for state assistance?”
“I seized some computers and asked for BRIC assistance,
thank you very much.” BRIC was the Boston Regional Intel¬
ligence Center at BPD headquarters, basically BPD’s geek
squad, because like all good bureaucracies, the Boston police
believed they needed to have all their own toys and specialists.
It went without saying.
“Well, call someone in BRIC, then,” Bobby grumbled.
“They’ve probably worked with Wayne. I haven’t.”
“Okay. Good night, Bobby.”
“Crap, it’s already morning. Now I’ll have to get up.”
“Then good morning, Bobby.” D.D. hung up before he
could swear at her again. She clipped her cell to her waist and
contemplated her empty mug. Wayne Reynolds was a pro¬
fessional nerd with an amateur nerd nephew. She refilled her
cup. Interesting.
*
293

Wayne Reynolds walked through the door of Mario’s at
precisely eight A.M. D.D. knew it was him by his burnished
red hair, not so unlike his nephew’s. All resemblance to a
thirteen-year-old boy, however, began and ended with the
coppertop.
Wayne Reynolds was tall, six one, six two. He moved
easily and athletically. Definitely a guy who worked in a daily
run, despite the pressing demands of ripping apart various
hard drives. He wore a camel-colored fight wool blazer that
set off a forest green shirt and dark-colored slacks. More than
one head turned when he walked in, and D.D. felt a slight
bit of thrill when he headed for her, and only for her. If this
is what Ethan Hastings was going to grow into one day, then
maybe Sandy Jones had been onto something.
“Sergeant Warren,” Wayne greeted her, extending his
hand.
D.D. nodded, accepting the handshake. He had calloused
palms. Short buffed nails. Positively beautiful fingers that
didn’t wear a wedding ring.
Honest to God, she was going to need some bacon.
“Want food?” she asked.
He blinked his eyes. “Okay.”
“Great. I’ll get enough for both of us.”
D.D. used her time at the order counter to control her
breathing and remind herself that she was a trained profes¬
sional who absolutely, positively was not affected by having
breakfast with a David Caruso look-alike. Unfortunately, she
didn’t believe herself; she’d always had a weakness for David
Caruso.
She returned to the tiny table with napkins and silverware
for both of them, as well as a cup of black coffee for him.
Wayne accepted the oversized white ceramic mug with his
beautiful fingers, and she bit the inside of her lips.
294

“So,” she began tersely, “you work for the state?”
“Computer Forensic Unit in New Braintree. We handle
the majority of the electronic analysis, as you can guess by the
title.”
“How long you been there?”
He shrugged, sipped his black coffee, eyes widening
briefly at the dark roast. “Five or six years. I was a detective
before that, but being a geek at heart, had a tendency to focus
on the technology aspects of the cases. Given that everyone
from a drug dealer to a crime lord is using computers, cell
phones, or PDAs these days, demand for my technical skills
grew. So I completed the eighty-hour course to become a
CFCE—Certified Forensic Computer Examiner—and
switched over to the Computer Lab.”
“You like it?”
“I do. Hard drives are like pinatas. Every treasure you ever
wanted is stored in there somewhere. You just gotta know
how to break it open.”
The food had arrived. Scrambled eggs with a side of
grilled pancetta for both of them. The smells were rich and
savory. D.D. dug in.
“How do you investigate hardware?” she asked, her mouth
full.
Wayne had forked up a pile of eggs; he regarded her
thoughtfully, as if trying to gauge the seriousness of her
interest. He had deep hazel eyes with specks of green, so she
made sure she looked interested.
“Take the rule of five-twelve. That’s the magic number
in forensic computer analysis. See, inside a hard drive are
round platters that spin around to read and write data. These
platters contain chunks of five hundred and twelve bytes of
data, and they’re constantly whirling under the seeker head.
The seeker head, then, must divide all information into five
295

hundred and twelve byte chunks in order to store the data
onto the platters.”
“Okay.” D.D. went to work slicing up her pancetta.
“Now, say you’re saving a file to your hard drive that
doesn’t divide neatly into five hundred and twelve byte
chunks. It’s not one thousand and twenty-four bytes of data,
it’s eight hundred bytes. The computer will fill one whole data
chunk, then half of another available chunk. Then what? The
computer doesn’t pick up where it left off, mid-data chunk.
Instead, a new file will start with a fresh five-twelve byte
space, meaning the previous file has excess storage capacity,
or what we call ‘slack space,’ in the existing data chunk. Often,
old data gets left in that slack space. Say you called up that
file, made some changes, then resaved it. The overwrite might
not go exactly on top of the old data the way most people
assume. Instead it might be tucked somewhere else inside the
same data chunk. Then a guy like me can search that five-
twelve chunk. In the slack space I might find the old docu¬
ment where you wrote the original letter asking your lover to
murder your spouse, as well as the revised doc, where you
deleted that particular paragraph. And voila, one guilty con¬
viction is born.”
“I don’t have a spouse,” D.D. volunteered, having another
bite of eggs, “though I’m now deeply suspicious of my computer.”
Wayne Reynolds grinned at her. “You probably should be.
People have no idea how much information is retained
unknowingly on their hard drives. I like to say a computer is
like a guilty conscience. It remembers everything and you
never know when it might start to speak.”
“You been teaching your skills to Ethan?” D.D. asked.
“Haven’t had to. Kid absorbs it on his own. If I can corral
his skills for good versus evil, he’ll be a hell of an investigator
one day.”
296

“What constitutes the dark side for computer tech¬
nology?”
Wayne shrugged. “Hacking, code breaking, illicit data-
mining. Ethan is a good kid, but he’s also thirteen, so fol¬
lowing in his uncle’s footsteps doesn’t sound as exciting as it
once did. Join the state police or join the Internet under¬
ground. You be the judge.”
“He seems to have valued Sandy Jones’s opinions.” D.D.
had finished her food; she pushed back the white ceramic
plate.
Wayne was thoughtful for a moment. “Ethan believes he
is in love with his teacher,” he conceded at last.
“Did he have sex with her?”
“I doubt it.”
“Why?”
“She didn’t view him that way.”
“And how would you know?”
“Because I was seeing Sandra myself, every Thursday
night. At the basketball games.”
“Ethan contacted me regarding Sandra,” Wayne explained a
few moments later. They had paid the bill, left the coffee
shop. Walking and talking seemed a better idea, given the
subject matter. They headed aimlessly toward the waterfront,
following the red line mapping the route once ridden by Paul
Revere.
“My understanding,” Wayne continued now, “was that
Sandra had approached Ethan about developing a teaching
module for the Internet. It didn’t take Ethan long, however;
to determine that her interest in online security ran deeper
than mere classroom application. He believed her husband
was up to something, perhaps involving child porn, and that
297

Sandra was desperate to get to the bottom of it.”
“You didn’t open a case file?”
Wayne shook his head. “Couldn’t. First time I met with
Sandra, she made it clear that she would only accept my
involvement as a personal favor. Until she learned exactly
what was going on, she didn’t want the police involved. She
had to think of her daughter; Ree would be traumatized if
her father was jailed unnecessarily.”
D.D. arched a brow. “If Sandra suspected child porn, she
should’ve been worried about her daughter being traumatized
by a lot more than dear old Dad’s arrest.”
Wayne shrugged. “You know how families work. You can
confront a mom with her seven-year-old daughter’s semen-
stained underwear, and she’ll still insist there’s a logical
explanation.”
D.D. sighed heavily. He was right and they both knew it.
De Nile wasn’t just a river when it came to child sexual
assaults.
“Okay, so Ethan gives you a call. Then what?”
“As a favor to Ethan, who seemed very worried about his
teacher, I agreed to attend one of the Thursday night basket¬
ball games and talk to Sandra myself. I confess, I figured I’d
have a brief chat, give her a detective’s contact information
for follow up, that kind of thing. But . . His voice faded
away.
“But?” D.D. prodded.
Wayne shrugged, looking almost chagrined. “Then I saw
Sandra Jones.”
“Not your typical social studies teacher,” D.D. observed.
“No. Not at all. I figured out immediately why Ethan had
taken a shine to her. I mean, she was younger than I expected.
Prettier than I expected. And sitting there on those wooden
bleachers, this cute little girl tucked up against her knees ...
298

I don’t know. I took one look and I wanted to help her. It felt
like I had to help her. That she needed me.”
“Oh yeah. Mary Kay Letourneau, Debra Lafave, Sandra
Beth Geisel. All beautiful women. Doesn’t it seem strange to
you that only the pretty ones want to sleep with thirteen-
year-old boys? What’s up with that?”
“I’m telling you, she didn’t have that kind of relationship
with Ethan.”
“Did she have that kind of relationship with you?”
Wayne gazed at her flatly. “Look, do you want to hear
what I have to say or not?”
D.D. gestured with her hands. “Speak away. This is your
party.”
“That first night, Ethan sat with Ree while Sandra and I
took a short walk around the school to chat. She told me she
had found a disturbing photo in the recycle bin of the family
computer. Only that one image and only that one time; she
hadn’t discovered anything since. However, she’d been
learning about Internet browser histories and data storage
since then, and it was clear to her that her husband was tam¬
pering with the computer, which made her wonder what else
he had to hide.”
“Tampering with it in what way?”
“Ethan had taught Sandra how to track which websites
are visited by a computer. That information is stored in the
history file of the computer’s hard drive, and should be
retrievable. She had made a number of attempts at pulling up
the family computer’s Internet browser, using various online
tools Ethan had told her about. Every time she did it, how¬
ever, she could only retrieve the URLs for three websites—
the Drudge Report, USA Today, and New York Times''
D.D. was already lost. “Why is that suspicious?”
“Because Sandra herself had visited lots of different web-
299

sites preparing assignments for her class. All of those sites
should have shown up in the browser history, but none of
them did. That meant someone was clearing the cache fde,
then purposefully building a false history by clicking on the
same three websites when he was done. That was sheer lazi¬
ness,” Wayne murmured now, probably more to himself than
her. “Like all criminals, even the techies sooner or later do
something stupid to give themselves away.”
“Wait a minute, back up: Why would someone create a
false browser history?”
They’d reached the waterfront, walking along the docks
toward the aquarium. It was still drizzling out, making the
docks much less crowded than usual. Wayne made his way
toward the railing, then turned to face her. “Exactly. Why
would someone create a false browser history? That’s the
million-dollar question. Ethan had already recommended a
downloadable forensic computer tool, but that hadn’t been
powerful enough. He suspected that Sandra’s husband was
employing something called a shredder, or scrubber software,
to cover his tracks. So Ethan gave me a call, bringing in the
big guns, so to speak.”
D.D. blinked at him. “Could you help her?”
“I was trying to. This was December, mind you, so only a
few months ago, and given that she suspected her husband,
we had to proceed carefully. She and Ethan had already run
Pasco on her computer, but Pasco can only find what you tell
it to find. It’s not nearly as powerful as, say, EnCase, the soft¬
ware we employ in the lab. EnCase can mine deep into a
hard drive, inventorying the slack space, analyzing unallo¬
cated clusters, all sorts of good stuff. Better yet, given
Sandra’s concerns, EnCase has an image carver tool that will
dig out any images on the hard drive, spitting out literally
hundreds of thousands of photos. Finally, EnCase also has
300

the ability to pull out Internet browser histories—”
“So you ran EnCase on Sandra’s computer?”
“Don’t I wish.” He rolled his hazel eyes. “First off, you
never work on the source. Bad forensic protocol. Secondly,
Sandra needed to be discreet, and running EnCase on the
family desktop for three to four days was bound to be noticed.
Searching and seizing a computer is easy. Ripping one apart
on the sly, however ...”
“So what did you do?”
“I was working with Sandra to make a forensically sound
copy of the family hard drive. I gave her instructions on what
kind of blank hard drive to purchase, then how to attach it to
the family computer and transfer over the data. Unfortunately,
Jason had recently purchased a new five-hundred-gigabyte
hard drive, and the copying time alone was over six hours.
She’d made several attempts at it, but couldn’t get the job
done before he returned from work.”
“Sandra Jones has spent the past three months basically
plotting against her husband?” D.D. asked.
Wayne shrugged. “Sandra Jones has spent the past three
months trying to outmaneuver her husband. As she has yet to
get the hard drive copied, I have yet to run EnCase on it. So
I can’t tell you if she has genuine reason to be afraid of him.”
D.D. smiled. “Wouldn’t you know it, as of last night, BPD
became proud owners of the Jones family computer.”
Wayne’s eyes widened. “I would love to—”
“Please, your nephew is connected to the case. You touch
any piece of evidence and it’ll be tossed out of court faster
than you can say ‘conflict of interest.’”
“Can I get a copy of the reports?”
“I’ll have someone from BRIC get back to you.”
“Assign Keith Morgan. You want to rip apart a hard drive,
he’s your boy.”
3°i

“I’ll take that under advisement.” D.D. considered Wayne
Reynolds for a minute. “Did Sandra believe her husband had
figured out what was going on? She’d been at this for months.
Long time to be living with someone she thought might be
a closet pedophile. She had to be getting more and more
nervous ...”
Wayne hesitated, the first glimmer of discomfort crossing
his features. “Last time I saw Sandra was two weeks ago, at
the basketball game. She seemed withdrawn, didn’t want to
talk. She said she wasn’t feeling well, then she and Ree left. I
figured she really was sick. She had that look about her.”
“You know Sandra was pregnant?”
“What?” Wayne seemed to pale slightly, genuinely star¬
tled. “I didn’t... Well, no wonder she was nervous. Nothing
like having a second child with a man you’re already worried
might be a pervert.”
“She ever talk about her husband’s past? Where he grew
up, how they met?”
Wayne shook his head.
“Ever mention that ‘Jones’ might be an alias?”
“Are you kidding— ? No, no, she never mentioned that.”
D.D. considered the matter. “Sounds like Jason Jones is
pretty computer savvy.”
“Very.”
“Savvy enough to use the computer to either hide a pre¬
vious identity or build a new one?”
“All of the above,” Wayne concurred. “You can open bank
accounts, sign up for utilities, build credit histories, all online.
A sophisticated computer user could both create and disguise
multiple identities using the computer.”
D.D. nodded, turning it over in her mind. “What would
he need besides the computer?”
“Ummm, a mailing address, or RO. box. Sooner or later,
302

you have to provide a mailing address. Say, something he
rented from a UPS store. And a phone number connected to
that name, though in this day and age, he could buy a dispos¬
able cell phone for that. So he would need some tangible
items to support the identity, but nothing too hard to
manage.”
Post office box. D.D. hadn’t thought of that. Either in
Jones’s name or Sandy’s maiden name. She’d do some dig-
ging....
“Sandy ever mention the name Aidan Brewster’?”
Wayne shook his head.
“And can you swear to me, as an investigator and law
enforcement officer, that to the best of your knowledge,
Sandra Jones was never alone with your nephew?”
“All Ethan ever talked about was meeting with Sandra in
the computer lab during free period. Yeah, they were alone
for a lot of those sessions, but we’re talking in the middle of
the day, in the middle of a public school.”
“She ever talk to you about running away from her hus¬
band?”
“She would never leave her daughter.”
“Not even for you, Wayne?”
He shot her that look again, but D.D. didn’t withdraw
her question. Wayne Reynolds was a handsome man, and
Sandra Jones one very lonely young woman....
“I think Jason Jones killed her,” Wayne said flatly. “He
came home Wednesday night, discovered her trying to copy
the hard drive, and blew his top. He was up to something, his
wife figured it out, so he killed her. I’ve been thinking that
since the second I saw the press conference yesterday, so if
you’re asking if I’m personally involved in this case, yeah, I’m
personally invested in this case. I was trying to help a young,
frightened mother, and in doing that, I may have gotten her
303

\
murdered. I’m angry about that. Hell, I’m pissed off beyond
belief.”
“Okay.”D.D. nodded. “You understand I’m going to need
you to come in, give an official statement?”
“Absolutely.”
“This afternoon, three o’clock? BPD headquarters?”
“I’ll be there.”
D.D. nodded, started to break away, then one last ques¬
tion came to her. “Hey, Wayne, how many times did you and
Sandy meet?”
He shrugged. “I dunno. Eight, ten times maybe. Always
at the basketball games.”
D.D. nodded. She thought that was a lot of times to meet,
given that Sandra had never had a copy of the computer’s
hard drive to share.
304

Chapter Twenty-seven
Jason woke up to a slow building hum, then a slash of bright
lights across his eyes. He peered groggily at his watch, saw
that it was five A.M., then peered at his backlit blinds with
fresh confusion. Sun didn’t rise at five A.M. in March.
Then he got it. Klieg lights. From across the street. The
news vans had returned and were powering up for their
morning visuals, everyone filming a fresh report from the
crime scene, aka his front yard.
He let his head fall back against the pillow, wondering if
there was any breaking news he should know about from the
past three hours when he’d actually slept. He should turn on
the TV. Watch an update of his life. He’d always had an
overdeveloped sense of irony. He waited for it to kick in,
appreciate this moment. But mostly, he felt tired, stretched in
too many directions as he sought to protect his daughter, find
his wife, and keep out of prison.
Jason extended his arms and legs, taking inventory after
last night’s pounding. He discovered that all four limbs
appeared to be working, though some hurt more than others.
He tucked his hands behind his head, peered up at the ceiling
with his one working eye, and attempted to plan for the day
ahead.
Max would return. Sandra’s father hadn’t come all the way
to Massachusetts just to sit quietly in his hotel room. He
would continue to demand access to Ree, threatening ... legal
action, exposure of Jason’s past? Jason wasn’t sure how much
305

Max even knew of Jason’s previous life. It wasn’t like he and
the old man had ever sat down. Jason had met Sandra in a
bar, and she’d kept to that routine as much as possible. Only
good girls take boys home to meet their fathers, she’d told
him that first night, clearly wanting to establish that she
wasn’t a good girl. Jason would take her back to his little
rental, where he would cook her dinner and they would watch
movies together, or maybe play board games. They did every¬
thing but what she clearly expected them to do, and that kept
her returning, night after night after night.
Until Jason began to notice her growing stomach. Until
he started asking more questions. Until the night she broke
down in tears and it became clear to him the solution to both
of their problems. Sandy wanted away from her father for
whatever reason. He just wanted away. So they’d taken off
together. Fresh city, new last name, clean start. Right up until
Wednesday night, Jason would’ve said neither one of them
had ever harbored regrets.
Now Max was back in the picture. A man with money,
brains, and local legal connections. Max could hurt Jason. Yet
Jason still couldn’t grant the man access to Ree. He’d prom¬
ised Sandy that her father would never touch Ree. He wasn’t
going back on that now, not when his daughter needed him
more than ever.
So Max would stir the pot, while the police continued to
dog his heels. They were tearing apart his computer. Probably
digging into his financial records. Interviewing his editor, per¬
haps even touring the Boston Daily offices. Would they spot
the computer he’d left there, put two and two together?
How long could this game of high stakes poker go on?
Jason had taken basic steps when he’d become a family
man. His “other” activities existed under a different iden¬
tity, with a separate bank account, credit card, and P.O. box.
306

Payment confirmations and the single credit card statement
went to a suburban post office out in Lexington. He visited
once a month, retrieving the paperwork, sorting through it,
then shredding the evidence.
All good plans, however, had at least one central flaw. In
this case, the family computer contained enough damning
evidence to send him to prison for twenty to life. Sure, he
employed a decent scrubber software, but any web visit gen¬
erated far more temp files than one scrubber could cover.
Three, four days tops, he decided. Then the forensic special¬
ists would realize that something was wrong with the com¬
puter they had seized, and the police would return in earnest.
Assuming they hadn’t already discovered Sandy’s body
and were even now standing on his front porch, waiting to
arrest him.
Jason got out of bed, too keyed up to return to sleep. His
ribs protested when he moved. He couldn’t see out of his left
eye. His injuries didn’t matter to him, however. Nothing mat¬
tered, except one thing.
He needed to make sure Ree was still sleeping safely in
her room, a tiny, curl-topped form with a bright orange cat
at her feet.
He padded quietly down the hall, senses alert. The house
smelled the same, felt the same. He cracked open the door to
Ree’s room, and discovered his daughter lying straight as an
arrow in her bed, hands clutching the top of her comforter,
big brown eyes staring up at him. She was awake, and, he real¬
ized belatedly, she had been crying. Damp lines of moisture
smeared her cheeks.
“Hey, sweetheart,” he said quietly, coming into the room.
“You all right?”
Mr. Smith looked up at him, yawned, stretched out one
long orange paw. Ree just stared at him.
307

He took a seat on the edge of the bed, where he could
brush tangles of brown hair off her damp forehead.
“I want Mommy,” she said in a small voice.
“I know.”
“She’s supposed to come home to me.”
“I know.”
“Why doesn’t she come home, Daddy? Why doesn’t she?”
He didn’t have an answer. So he crawled in bed beside his
daughter and pulled her into his arms. He smoothed her hair
while she cried against his shoulder. He memorized the smell
of her Johnson 8c Johnson skin, the feel of her head pressed
against his shoulder, the sound of her tired little sobs.
Ree cried until she could cry no more. Then she spread
her hand on top of his, aligning each of her short stubby fin¬
gers against his own larger, longer digits.
“We will get through this,” Jason whispered to his
daughter.
Slowly, she nodded against his shoulder.
“Would you like some breakfast?”
Another short nod.
“I love you, Ree.”
Breakfast turned out to be more complicated than he’d
planned. Eggs were gone. Same with the loaf of bread, the
majority of fresh fruit. Milk was low, but he thought he could
eke out two bowls of cereal. The Cheerios box was suspi¬
ciously light, so he went with Rice Crispies. Ree liked the
talking cereal and he always made a big show of deciphering
what the crackling crisps said:
“What, you want me to buy my daughter a pony? Oh no,
you want me to buy myself a Corvette. Ooooh, that makes
much more sense.”
308

Jason got Ree to smile, then got her to giggle, and felt
both of them relax.
He finished his bowl of cereal. Ree ate half of hers, then
began creating floating patterns in the milk with the
remaining rice puffs. It kept her amused and gave him time
to think.
His body hurt. When he sat, when he walked, when he
stood up. He wondered how the other guys looked. Then
again, they’d jumped him from behind—he’d never seen them
coming—so chances were, they looked pretty good.
He was getting sloppy in his old age, he decided. First
getting taken out by a thirteen-year-old kid, then this. Hell,
with these kinds of fighting skills, he wasn’t gonna last a week
in prison. A cheerful thought for the day.
“Daddy, what happened to your face?” Ree asked, as he
pushed away from the countertop, standing up to clear dishes.
“I fell down.”
“Ow, Daddy.”
“No kidding.” He set the dishes in the sink, then opened
the refrigerator to eye their lunch options. No milk, leaving
them with a six-pack of Sandy’s prized Dr Pepper, four light
yogurts, and some wilted lettuce. Second cheerful thought
of the day: Just because you were public enemy number one
didn’t mean you got out of grocery shopping. If they planned
on eating again today, they were going to have to hit the
store.
He wondered if he should wear a bandana over his face.
Or wear a T-shirt with the word “Innocent” scrawled on the
front, and the word “Guilty” scrawled on the back. That could
be fun.
“Hey, Ree,” he asked casually, closing the refrigerator and
eyeing his daughter. “What do you say to some quality time
at the grocery store?”
309

Ree brightened immediately. She loved grocery shopping.
It was an official Daddy-daughter chore, done at least one
afternoon a week while they waited for Sandy to come home.
He would strive to stick with the official wife-prepared gro¬
cery list. Ree would work to convince him to stray for such
urgent purchases as Barbie Island Princess Pop-Tarts, or
maple frosted doughnuts.
He generally shaved for the outing, while Ree preferred
donning a full ball gown and a rhinestone tiara. There was
no point in touring twenty aisles of food if you couldn’t make
a production out of it.
This morning, she bolted upstairs to brush her teeth, then
returned to the kitchen wearing a blue-flowered dress with
rainbow fairy wings and pink sequined shoes. She handed
him some pink gauzy hair thing, and requested a ponytail.
He did his best.
Jason wrote the grocery list, then made an attempt at gen¬
eral hygiene. Shaving his beard revealed an ugly bruise.
Combing back his hair emphasized the shiner on his eye. No
doubt about it, he looked like hell. Or more precisely, like an
ax murderer. Third cheerful thought for the day.
He gave up on grooming and returned downstairs, where
Ree was waiting eagerly by the front door, yellow daffodil
purse in hand.
“You remember the reporters?” he asked her. “The people
with cameras and microphones gathered across the street?”
Ree nodded solemnly.
“Well, they’re still there, honey. And when we open that
door, they’re probably going to start shouting a ton of ques¬
tions and taking pictures. They’re just trying to do their job,
okay? They’re gonna be all crazy-like. And you and I are
going to calmly walk to our car, and drive to the grocery store.
Okay?”
310

“It’s okay, Daddy. I saw them when I went upstairs. That’s
why I put on my fairy wings. So if they yell too much, I can
fly right over them.”
“You are a very smart girl,” he told her, and then, because
there was no time like the present, he opened the front door.
The screaming started with the first glimpse of his shoe.
“Jason, Jason, any news of Sandy?”
“Will you be talking to the police today?”
“When can we expect a formal briefing?”
He ushered Ree out, keeping her close to his side as he
closed the door behind them, locking it. His hands were
shaking. He tried to keep his movements slow and measured.
No rush, no guilty sprints. Grieving husband, taking his little
girl to purchase badly needed milk and bread.
“Willyou be assisting with the search efforts, Jason? How
many volunteers have turned out to find Sandy?”
“Love your wings, honey! Are you an angel?”
That comment caught his attention, made him look up
sharply. He was resigned to them shouting at him, but he
didn’t want the pack of vultures going after Ree.
“Daddy?” his daughter whispered beside him, and he
looked down to see the anxiety scribbled across her face.
“We’re going to the car, we’re driving to the grocery
store,” he repeated levelly. “We’re okay, Ree. They’re the ones
behaving badly, not us.”
She took his hand, keeping her body pressed tightly
against his legs as they walked down the front steps, made
their way across the lawn, headed toward the car parked on
the driveway. He counted six vans today, up from four yes¬
terday. From this distance, he couldn’t make out the station
call letters. He’d have to check it out later, see if they’d broken
onto the national stage.
“What happened to your face, Jason ?”

\
“Did the police give you a black eye?”
“Have you been in a fight?”
He kept himself and Ree moving, slow and steady, across
the yard, homing in on the Volvo. Then he had the keys out,
the doors clicking open.
Police brutality, he thought idly, as more questions fol¬
lowed about his face and his ribs protested as he swung open
the heavy car door.
Then Ree was inside, the back passenger door closed.
And he was inside, the driver’s door closed. He started the
engine, and immediately the reporters’ shrill questions disap¬
peared.
“Good job,” he told Ree.
“I don’t like reporters,” she informed him.
“I know. Next time, I’m getting my own pair of fairy
wings.”
He cracked at the grocery store. Couldn’t seem to find the
parental fortitude to deny his traumatized daughter Oreos,
Pop-Tarts, bags of bakery-fresh chocolate chip cookies. Ree
figured out his weakness early on, and by the end of the trip
they had a grocery cart half-filled with junk food. He thought
he’d managed milk, bread, pasta, and fruit, but to tell the
truth, his heart wasn’t in it.
He was killing time with his daughter, desperate to give
them a slice of normalcy in a world that had tilted crazily.
Sandy was gone. Max was back. The police would continue
asking questions, he’d been an idiot to have ever used the
family computer....
Jason didn’t want this life. He wanted to turn the clock
back sixty hours, maybe seventy hours, and say whatever it
was he should’ve said, do whatever it was he should’ve done,
312

so this never would have happened. Hell, he’d even take back
the February vacation.
The woman manning the cash register smiled down at
Ree’s glamorous getup. Then her gaze went to him and she
did a double-take. He shrugged self-consciously, following
the cashier’s line of sight to the newsstand, where he saw his
own black-and-white picture staring out from the front page
of the Boston Daily. “Mild-mannered reporter may have
hidden dark side,” the banner headline declared.
They had used the photo from his official press pass, a
closely cropped image that was barely one step above a mug
shot. He looked flat, even vaguely menacing, staring out above
the fold.
“Daddy, that’s you!” Ree declared loudly. She pranced over
to the newspaper, staring at it more closely. Other shoppers
had noticed now, were watching this cute little girl gaze upon
a disturbing photo of a grown man. “Why are you in the
paper?”
“That’s the paper I work for,” he said lightly, wishing they
didn’t have so many groceries, wishing they could just bolt
out of the store.
“What does it say?”
“It says I’m mild-mannered.”
The cashier lady went bug-eyed. He shot her a look, no
longer caring if he appeared menacing or not. For God’s sake,
this was his daughter.
“We should take it home,” Ree declared. “Mommy will
want to see it.” She fished the newspaper out of the rack,
tossed it onto the conveyor belt. He noted the byline read
“Greg Barr,” his boss and the head news editor. He had no
doubt now which quotes had been included in the story,
basically anything Jason had said by phone yesterday.
He reached into his back pocket, working on his wallet

before he grew so angry he could no longer function. Buy the
food, get in the car. Buy the food, get in the car.
Drive to your house, where you can be harassed all over again.
He got out his credit card, handed it to the cashier. Her
fingers were trembling so hard it took her three tries to take
the plastic. Was she that afraid of him? Certain she was com¬
pleting a transaction with a psycho killer who’d most likely
strangled his wife, then dismembered her body and tossed it
into the harbor?
He wanted to laugh at the absurdity of it, but the sound
would come out all wrong. Too chilling, too disaffected. His
life had gone cockeyed, and he didn’t know how to get it back.
“Can I have Pop-Tarts in the car?” Ree was saying. “Can
I, can I, can I?”
The woman finally had the card back to him, as well as
his receipt. “Yes, yes, yes,” he murmured, signing the slip,
pocketing his credit card, desperate to make his getaway.
“I love you, Daddy!” Ree sang out in triumph.
He hoped the whole damn store heard that.
3i4

Chapter Twenty-eight
By the time Jason and Ree made it home and he’d run the
major news gauntlet half a dozen times to bring in the gro¬
ceries, Jason was beat. He stuck in a movie for Ree, ignoring
the guilty twinge that so much TV couldn’t be good for her,
that he should be making more of an effort to engage his
daughter during this challenging time, yada, yada, yada.
They had food to eat. The cat was back. He hadn’t been
arrested yet.
It was the most he could manage at the moment.
Jason was unloading the eggs when the phone rang. He
picked it up absently, without checking caller ID.
“What happened to your face, son?” Maxwell Black’s
Southern drawl stretched out the sentence and sent Jason
back to a place he didn’t want to go.
“Think you’re the boss, boy ? I own you, boy. Lock, stock, and
barrel. You belong to me. ”
“I fell down the stairs,” Jason replied lightly, forcing the
images back into a small box in the corner of his mind. He
pictured himself shutting the lid, inserting the key in the lock,
turning it just so.
Max laughed. It was a low, warm chuckle, the kind he
probably used when making jokes from the bench, or holding
court at neighborhood cocktail parties. Maybe he’d even used
it the first time a schoolteacher had hesitantly approached
him about Sandy. You know, sir, I’ve been worried about how...
accident prone . . . your daughter Sandy seems to be. And Max
3i5

had laughed that charming little laugh. Oh, no need to worry
about my little girl. Don't even bother your pretty self. My girl is
justfine.
Jason disliked Sandra’s father all over again.
“Well, son, we seem to have gotten off on the wrong foot
yesterday afternoon,” Max drawled.
Jason didn’t answer. The silence dragged on. After
another moment, Max moved to fill the gap, adding lightly,
“So I called to make amends.”
“No need,” Jason assured him. “Returning to Georgia is
good enough for me.”
“Now, Jason, seems to me if anyone should be bearing a
grudge, I would have the right. You swept my only daughter
off her feet, spirited her away to the God-awful North, then
didn’t even invite me to the wedding, let alone the birth of
my grandbaby. That’s no way to treat family, son.”
“You’re right. If I were you, I’d never speak to us again.”
That warm molasses chuckle again. “Fortunately for you,
son,” Max continued expansively, “I have determined to take
the high ground. This is my only daughter and grandchild
we’re talking about here. It would be foolish to let the past
stand in the way of our future.”
“I’ll tell you what: When Sandra returns, I’ll give her the
message.”
“When?” Max’s voice sharpened. “Don’t you mean if"
“I mean when" Jason said firmly.
“Your wife run off with another man, son?”
“That seems to be a popular theory.”
“You couldn’t keep her happy? I’m not pointing fingers,
mind you. I raised the girl, single-handedly, after her dear
mama passed away. I know how demanding she can be.”
“Sandra is a wonderful wife and devoted mother.”
“I have to say, I was surprised to hear that my daughter
316

had become a teacher. But I was talking to that nice principal
just this morning. What is his name ... Phil, Phil Stewart?
He raved about how wonderful Sandy is with her pupils.
When all is said and done, it sounds as if you’ve done right
by my daughter. I appreciate that, son, I truly do.”
“I am not your son.”
“All right, Jason Jones”
Jason caught the edge again, the implied threat. He fisted
his hand at his side, refusing to say another word.
“You don’t like me much, do you, Jason?”
Again Jason didn’t answer. The judge, however, seemed
to be talking mostly to himself. “What I can’t understand is,
why? We’ve never really spoken. You wanted my daughter,
you got her. You wanted to get out of Georgia, you took my
daughter and left. Seems to me, I have plenty of reason to be
sore with you. Why, a father’s list of grievances against the
boy who runs away with his only daughter ... But what have
I ever done to you, son? What have I ever done to you?”
“You failed your daughter,” Jason heard himself say. “She
needed you, and you failed her.”
“ What in heaven’s name are you talking about?”
“I’m talking about your wife! I’m talking about your
crazed, boozed-up wife who beat Sandy each and every day
while you did nothing to stop it. What kind of father aban¬
dons his child like that? What kind of father lets her be tor¬
tured on a daily basis and does nothing to stop it?”
There was a pause. “My wife beat Sandy? That’s what
Sandy told you?”
Jason didn’t answer right away. The silence stretched out.
This time, he broke first: “Yes.”
“Now, see here.” The judge sounded offended. “Sandy’s
mom was hardly a perfect parent. It’s true she probably drank
more than she should. I worked so many hours back in those
3i7

days, leaving Missy alone with Sandra much too often. I’m
sure that tried Missy’s nerves, made her maybe more short-
tempered than a mother should be. But beating . . . tor¬
menting ... I think that’s a trifle melodramatic. I do.”
“Your wife never harmed Sandy?”
“Spare the rod, spoil the child. I saw her whack Sandy’s
behind a time or two, but no more than any exasperated
parent.”
“Missy never drank to excess?”
“Well, it’s true she had a weakness for gin. Maybe a
couple of nights a week ... But Missy wasn’t a violent drunk.
If she had a few too many, then she carried herself off to bed.
She wouldn’t have hurt a fly, let alone our daughter.”
“What about chasing you around the house with knives?”
“Excuse judge sounded shocked.
“She hurt Sandy. Slammed her fingers into doorframes,
forced her to drink bleach, fed her household objects just so
she could take Sandy to the hospital. Your wife was a very,
very sick woman.”
The silence lasted longer this time. When the judge
finally spoke, he sounded genuinely flummoxed. “This is what
Sandy told you? This is what Sandra said about her own
mother? Well then, no wonder you have been so curt with
me. I take it back, I do. I can see your position entirely. Of all
the crazy... Well. Well.” The judge didn’t seem to know what
else to say.
Jason found himself shifting from foot to foot, no longer
feeling so certain about things. The first trickle of unease
crept up his spine.
“Am I allowed to speak in my defense?” the judge asked.
«T1 suppose. yy
“One, I swear to you, son, this is the first I have heard of
such dreadful acts. It is possible, I suppose, that things transpired
3i8

between Sandy and my poor wife that I never knew of. To be
truthful, however, I don’t believe that to be the case. I love my
daughter, Jason. I always have. But I’m also one of the few men
out there that can say I truly, completely head-over-heels loved
my wife. Saw Missy the first time when I was nineteen years
old, and knew at that moment I’d marry her, make her my own.
It wasn’t just that she was beautiful—though she was. And not
because she was kind and well mannered—though she was. But
she was Missy, and I loved her for that alone.
“Maybe you think I’m going on. This has nothing to do
with anything. But by the time Sandy was twelve, I fear it had
everything to do with everything. See, Sandy grew jealous.
Of my deference to Missy, or maybe the flowers I brought
home for no good reason, or the pretty baubles I liked to
bestow on my lovely bride. Girls get to a certain age, and they
start, consciously or unconsciously, competing with their
mamas. I think Sandy thought she couldn’t win. It started to
make her angry, hostile to her own mother.
“Except then her mama died, before Sandy and her had
a chance to work things out. Sandy took it hard. My sweet
little girl... She changed overnight. Developed a wild streak,
started to run around. She wanted to do what she wanted to
do and wouldn’t take no for an answer. She had an abortion,
Jason. You know that? Ree wasn’t her first pregnancy, maybe
not even her second. Bet she never told you that, did she? I’m
not even supposed to know, except the clinic recognized her
name and called me. I gave my permission. What else could
I do? She was still just a child herself—she was far too young
and unstable to be a mother. I prayed, Jason, I prayed for my
girl like you wouldn’t believe, right up until the moment you
took her out of my life.”
The judge sighed. “I guess what I’m trying to say is that
I had always hoped Sandy would grow out of her recklessness.
3i9

And talking to that principal this morning, I thought maybe
she’d finally grown up, shown some maturity. But now, to hear
what you are saying ... I think my daughter may have some
serious issues, Jason. First she ran away from me. Now maybe
it’s time to recognize that she’s run away from you, too.”
Jason opened his mouth to object, but the words wouldn’t
come out. Uncertainty took root in his gut. What did he really
know of Sandy or her family? He’d always accepted what she
said at face value. What reason would she have to he to him?
Then again, what reason did he have to He to her? About
four million and one.
“Perhaps it’s time to meet,” Maxwell was saying now. “We
can sit down, man to man, sort this all out. I have no ill will
toward you, son. I just want what’s best for my daughter and
grandbaby.”
“How did Missy die?” Jason asked abruptly.
“Excuse me?”
“Your wife. How did she die?”
“Heart attack,” the judge replied promptly. “Dropped
dead. Terrible tragedy in a woman so young. We were shat¬
tered.”
Jason held the phone tighter. “Where did she die?”
“Ummm, at home. Why do you ask?”
“Was it in the garage? Behind the wheel of her car?”
“Why yes, now that you mention it. I suppose Sandy told
you that, too.”
“But it was a heart attack? You’re certain it was a heart
attack?”
“Absolutely. Terrible, terrible time. I don’t think my little
Sandy ever quite got over it.”
“I read the autopsy report,’’Jason persisted. “My memory
is that Mrs. Black was found with a cherry red face. That’s a
clear indicator of carbon monoxide poisoning.”
320

There was a long silence on the other end of the line; it
went on for thirty seconds, perhaps even a minute. Jason felt
his stomach settle, his shoulders square. Sandy had been
right—her father was a very, very good liar.
“Don’t know what you’re talking about, Mr. Jones,” Max
said at last. He didn’t sound so congenial anymore. More like
pissed off. A wealthy, powerful man who wasn’t getting his
way.
“Really? Because I’d think in this day and age of comput¬
erized records, you’d understand that all information is even¬
tually accessible, especially for a guy who knows where to
look.”
“Cuts both ways, Jason. You dig around looking at me, I
dig around looking at you.”
“Knock yourself out. When’d you arrive in town?”
“What day did you first meet my daughter?” Max coun¬
tered evenly.
“Rent a car, or use a car service?”
“Gonna volunteer a DNA sample for the paternity test,
or wait for family court to order it?”
“Doesn’t matter. This is Massachusetts, where gay mar¬
riages are legal and in loco parentis matters more than biology
for determining who should have custody of a child.”
“You think just because you know a little Latin, you
understand the law better than I do, boy?”
“I think I recently wrote an article about a grandfather
who tried to gain custody of his grandson because he disap¬
proved of the child’s lesbian parents. The court ruled that the
child should stay with the only parents he had ever known,
even if they were not his biological mothers.”
“Interesting. Well, here’s another bit of Latin for you.
Maybe you heard of this phrase, too, working on your little
story and all: ex parte.”
321

Jason froze in the middle of the kitchen, his gaze going
belatedly out the window. He saw the uniformed officer
approaching his walkway, heading for his front door.
“Means ‘in an emergency,’’’Max continued smoothly, low
chuckle back in his throat. “As in, a grandfather can seek an
ex parte motion in front of family court, and the court could
grant an ex parte order regarding visitation, without you even
being aware that such a hearing is going on. After all, you are
the prime suspect in a missing person investigation. Surely
staying with the prime suspect in her mother’s disappearance
is not in the best interest of the child?”
“Son of a—’’Jason hissed.
Front doorbell rang.
“Might as well answer it,” Max said. “I can see you, son.
So can most of the free world.”
That’s when Jason spotted Max, too, standing over by the
cluster of white news vans, cell phone held to his ear. The
older man waved his hand, looking chipper in a fresh blue
suit that set off his shock of silver hair. The phone call, why
Max had chatted away so readily, keeping Jason in one place,
all under the guise of making amends .. .Jason’s doorbell rang
again.
“Got it, Daddy,” Ree sang out.
It didn’t matter. None of it mattered. Jason had died once,
nearly twenty-five years ago. This was worse than that. This
was his entire world shattering. As Ree stood on tiptoe to
undo the first lock, then the second.
As she pulled the door fully open to reveal the uniformed
officer.
The man carried a folded piece of white paper. His gaze
went over Ree’s head and found Jason standing in the
entryway of the kitchen, still clutching the phone to his ear.
“Jason F. Jones.”
322

Jason finally set down the receiver. He moved on
autopilot, stepping forward, holding out his hand.
“Consider yourself served,” the county officer said. Then,
his mission complete, he pivoted sharply and returned back
down the front steps. While across the street, the photog¬
raphers began to snap away.
Jason unfolded the piece of paper. He read the official
court order demanding that he produce his child tomorrow
morning at eleven A.M. at the local playground, where she
would have a one-hour visitation with her grandfather, the
honorable Maxwell M. Black. A full hearing on visitation
rights would follow in four weeks. Until then, Maxwell Black
was permitted one hour every day with his granddaughter,
Clarissa Jane Jones. So ordered the court.
Each day. Every single day. Max and Ree together. Max
seeing Ree, talking to Ree, touching Ree. Jason, not allowed
to supervise. Jason, forced to leave his daughter all alone with
a man who’d participated in the abuse of his only child.
“What is it, Daddy?” Ree asked him anxiously. “Did you
win something? What did that man bring you?”
Jason pulled himself together, folding up the paper,
tucking it into his back pocket.
“It’s nothing,” he assured his daughter. “Nothing at all.
Hey, lets play some Candy Land.”
Ree won three times in a row. She kept producing the
Princess Frostine card in four turns or less, a sure sign she was
cheating. Jason was too distracted to call her on it, and she
became even more disgruntled. She was looking for bound¬
aries. The world had rules, those rules kept it safe.
Jason gave up on board games, and made them grilled
cheese and tomato soup for lunch. Ree sulked at the kitchen
323

counter, dipping her sandwich into the soup. He mostly
stirred his soup around and around, watched the croutons
turn bloodred.
Court order was still folded up, tucked in his back pocket.
As if reducing it down to a small scrap of paper could reduce
the power it held over his and his daughter’s lives. He finally
understood why Sandra had walked away so easily from her
home and her father, and why she’d never been tempted to
call, not even once, for the past five years.
Maxwell Black played for keeps. And the judge knew how
to twist the law to get exacdy what he wanted. Son of a bitch.
“I want to look for Mommy,” Ree announced.
“What?”
She stopped dipping her grilled cheese long enough to
glare at him stubbornly. “You said police officers and friends
were gonna meet at the school to help find Mommy. Well, I
want to go to the school. I want to find Mommy.”
Jason stared at his daughter. He wondered what parenting
book might have a chapter on this.
The doorbell rang. Jason got up immediately to answer it.
Sergeant D.D. Warren and Detective Miller stood on his
front porch. Instinctively Jason looked behind them for more
officers. Seeing only the two investigators, he guessed he
wasn’t being arrested. He opened the door a little wider.
“Have you found my wife yet?” he inquired.
“Have you started looking for her yet?” D.D. replied
evenly.
He still liked her better than Max.
He let the two detectives in, telling Ree that she could
choose a second movie, as Daddy needed a moment to talk
to the nice police officers. In response, she scowled at him,
then bawled, “I’m gonna find Mommy and you cant stop meV'
She stormed into the front room, clicking on the TV and
324

powering up a DVD now that she’d had the last word.
“It’s been a long day,” Jason informed D.D. and Miller.
“It’s only eleven-thirty,” D.D. pointed out.
“Oh goody, I have ten more hours to look forward to.”
He moved BPD’s finest into the kitchen, as his child
finally settled down to watch her favorite dinosaurs in The
Land Before Time.
“Water? Coffee? Cold tomato soup?” he offered half¬
heartedly.
D.D. and Miller shook their heads.They each took a seat
at the kitchen counter. He leaned against the refrigerator,
arms folded over his chest. Grieving husband. Homicidalfather.
Grieving fucking husband.
“What happened to you?” D.D. asked.
“Walked into a wall.”
“With both sides of your face?”
“I hit it twice.”
She arched a brow at him. He remained steadfast. What
were they gonna do, throw him in jail for being bruised and
battered?
“I want it on the record we didn’t do that,” Miller said.
“Define we.”
“Boston PD. We haven’t even called your sorry ass down
to the station yet, so definitely, whatever wall smacked your
face, it wasn’t us.”
“I believe your wall prefers Tasers, so no, it wasn’t you.”
That retort didn’t win him any friendship with Miller, but
then again, Jason was pretty sure Miller already thought he
was the guilty party.
11 When did it happen?” D.D. pressed, obviously the
smarter of the two. “We saw you after Hastings s attack. No
way Ethan did that kind of damage.”
“Maybe I just take a while to bruise.”

She arched a brow again. He remained steadfast. He
could do this dance all day long. Come to think of it, she
probably could, too. They were soul mates that way. Destined
to piss each other off.
He missed Sandy. He wanted to ask his wife if she was
really pregnant with his child. He wanted to tell her he’d do
whatever she asked, if only she’d give him a second chance to
make her happy. He wanted to tell her he was sorry, especially
for February. He had a lot to be sorry about in February.
“Sandra knew what you were doing,” D.D. stated.
He sighed, took the bait. “What was I doing?”
“You know, on the computer.”
Jason wasn’t impressed. He’d already guessed that much
from Ethan Hastings. They were gonna have to hit him with
something bigger to get his attention.
“Fm a reporter. Of course I work on the computer.”
“Okay, let me rephrase that: Sandy found out what you
were doing on the Internet.”
Slightly more interesting. “And what exactly did Ethan
tell you I was doing on the Internet?”
“Oh, it wasn’t Ethan.”
“Excuse me?”
“No, we haven’t spent the morning with Ethan. We talked
to him last night, and the boy told us a couple of interesting
things, including that he introduced Sandra to his uncle, who
is a certified forensic computer examiner with the Massachu¬
setts State Police.”
“We’ve been analyzing your bank records,” Miller volun¬
teered now, “so we know it wasn’t gambling. That leaves
kiddie porn and/or adult cybersex. Why don’t you just do
yourself a big favor and set the record straight? Maybe, if you
cooperate with us, we can help you.”
“I didn’t do anything wrong.” Jason said it automatically,
326

his mind racing ahead, trying to see the angles. Sandra had
somehow zeroed in on his middle-of-the-night activities.
When? How much had she figured out? Not everything, or
she wouldn’t have needed Ethan Hastings. But a trained
forensic computer examiner. Shit. A state police expert with
access to a genuine computer crime lab ...
“We have your computer,” D.D. spoke up, continuing the
full court press. “Being computer savvy yourself, you know we
can find everything. And I mean everything.”
He nodded vaguely, because she was right. With the
forensic tools that existed these days, he should’ve run
over the family hard drive with his truck, ground the com¬
ponents into smithereens, then tossed the plastic bits into a
commercial-grade furnace, then blown up the entire furnace
room. Only way to be safe.
He wanted to bolt to the Boston Daily offices. Grab his
old computer and desperately run his own forensic diagnos¬
tics. How much had Sandra discovered? How many layers of
his safeguards had she managed to unpeel? The chat room
blogs? Financial transcripts? The MySpace page? Or maybe
the photos? God, the photos.
He couldn’t go back to the Boston Daily offices. He
couldn’t risk touching that computer ever again. It was over,
done. Best bet, grab the lockbox from the attic and get himself
and Ree over the border into Canada.
D.D. and Miller were staring at him. He forced himself
to exhale loudly, to appear deeply disappointed.
“I wish my wife had mentioned this to me,” he told them.
D.D. gave him a look, clearly skeptical.
“I mean it,” he insisted, going with the role of injured
party. “If she’d only mentioned her fears, her concerns, I
would’ve been happy to explain everything to her.”
“Define everything,’ ” Miller stated.
327

Jason went with another sigh. “All right. All right. I have
an avatar.”
“Say what?” Miller asked, glancing at his partner, stroking
his mustache.
“An avatar. A computer-generated identity on a website
called Second Life.”
“Oh, give me a fucking break,” D.D. muttered.
“Hey, four-year-olds have ears,” Jason admonished,
pointing toward the front room, where no doubt Ree
remained in full TV coma.
“You don’t have an avatar,” D.D. said darkly.
“Sure I do. I, uh, logged on to the website as part of a
story I was working on. Just wanted to check things out. But
... I don’t know. It’s a cool place. Much more intricate than
I ever imagined. Social. Has its own rules, customs, every¬
thing. For example, when you first log on, you begin with a
basic body, basic wardrobe. Well, hell, I didn’t know anything
so I just started going into various bars and stores, checking
things out. I noticed right away that none of the women
would talk to me. Because I was still in the basic wardrobe. I
had newbie’ written all over me, like the transfer student in
high school. Nobody likes the new kid, you know. You gotta
earn your stripes.”
D.D. gave him that skeptical look again. Miller, on the
other hand, appeared interested. “You stay up all night pre¬
tending to be some other person on a computer-generated
social site?”
Jason shrugged, stuck his hands in his pockets. “Well, it’s
not the kind of thing a grown man wants to admit, especially
to his wife.”
“What are you in this Second Life place?” Miller asked.
“Rich, handsome, successful? Or maybe you’re a busty blonde
with a thing for bikers?”
328

“Actually, I’m a writer. Working on an adventure novel
that may or may not be autobiographical. You know, a man
of mystery. Women like that.”
“Sounds like who you are here,” D.D. said dryly. “Don’t
need to log on to the web for that.”
“Which would be exactly why I didn’t tell Sandra. Are
you kidding? She works all day, then watches Ree every
evening while I cover local events for Boston Daily. Last thing
she wants to hear is that her husband returns home at night
to mess around with a computer game. Trust me, not the kind
of spousal conversation that’s gonna go over well.”
“So, you felt a need to keep it secret,” D.D. stated.
“I didn’t mention it,”Jason hedged.
“Oh yeah? So secret you purged the browser history every
time you went online?”
Damn, Ethan and the computer guy had taught Sandra
well. “I do that as a reporter,” Jason answered smoothly. It
occurred to him that he lied just as easily as Maxwell Black.
Is that why Sandra had married him? Because he reminded
her of her father?
“Excuse me?”
“I purge the browser history to protect my sources,’’Jason
said again. “It’s something I learned in journalism school, class
on ethics in the computer age. In theory, I’m supposed to
work only on my laptop, but the family desktop is more com¬
fortable. So I have a tendency to do my online research there,
then transfer over the information. ’Course, my family com¬
puter isn’t protected from search and seizure”—he gave them
a look—“so I purge the history files as standard operating
protocol.”
“You’re lying.” D.D. was scowling, looking deeply frus¬
trated and about five seconds away from hitting something.
Probably him.
329

He shrugged, as if to say there was nothing else he could
do for her.
“What journalism school?” she asked abruptly.
“What school?”
“Where’d you take this ethics class?” She made “ethics”
sound like a dirty word.
“Oh, that was years ago. Online course.”
“Give me the name,” she pressed. “Even online colleges
keep records.”
“I’ll look it up for you.”
She was already shaking her head. “There was no course.
Or maybe there was once, but you weren’t Jason Jones back
then, were you? From what we can tell, the Jones name only
reaches back about five years. Who were you before then?
Smith? Brown? And tell me, when you get a new name, does
the cat get one, too?”
“Don’t know,” Jason said. “Cat’s only three years old.”
“You’re lying to us, Jason.” D.D. was out of the chair,
walking closer, as if proximity would rattle him, make him
blurt out answers he didn’t have. “Avatar, my ass. Only second
life you have is right here and now. You’re running away from
something. Someone. And you’ve gone to a lot of trouble to
cover your tracks, haven’t you? But Sandra started to figure it
out. Something tipped her off. So she brought in Ethan, and
Ethan brought in the big guns. Suddenly, you have the state
police very interested in your online activities. How badly did
that frighten you, Jason? What the hell is so terrible, it’s worth
killing your wife and unborn child?”
“Is she really pregnant?” Jason whispered. He didn’t mean
to ask that. But he waited for the answer anyway, because he
wanted to hear it again. Wanted to feel it again. It was an
exquisite pain, like someone filleting his skin with a boning
knife.
330

“You really didn’t know?”
“How long? I mean, she seemed a little under the weather.
I thought she had the flu_She never said anything.”
D.D. seemed to be contemplating him. “Can’t tell how
long from a pregnancy test, Jason. Though you can be sure
we’ll be DNA testing it. I’m curious if you’re the actual
father.”
He didn’t answer. He couldn’t. Because for the first time,
he was connecting another dot. “The computer expert—” he
began.
D.D. looked at him.
“—did he come to the school?”
“That’s what he says.”
“During school hours?”
“Nah, Thursday night basketball games.”
And he could tell from the look in D.D.’s eyes, she was
thinking the very same thing—all along, he’d argued Sandra
was too busy with Ree to have a lover. But Sandra had found
a way to have a rendezvous after all. Thursday nights. Every
Thursday night. His wife had gone to the school and met
with another man.
“What’s his name?” Jason’s voice ticked up a notch.
Another weakness he was helpless to call back.
D.D. shook her head.
Then, out of nowhere, his next random thought for the
day: “What kind of car does the computer expert drive? Is it
state-issued?”
“Tell me your name, Jason Jones. Your real name.”
“Have you spoken with Aidan Brewster? Asked him what
he saw Wednesday night? You need to talk to him about the
car. Ask him for more details about the car.”
“Tell us what you were doing on the computer, Jason. Tell
us what you’re so desperate to hide.”
33i

“I’m not!” he insisted, feeling anxious now, feeling trapped
and frantic. He was down to a matter of days, maybe even
hours. They needed to listen, they needed to consider. His
daughter was at stake. “Look, according to you, a state com¬
puter expert has been working with Sandra to examine the
family hard drive. Obviously, he didn’t find anything, or you
wouldn’t be here pestering me. Ergo, I don’t have anything to
hide.”
“What happened to your secret life as an avatar?”
“It’s the state computer guy,” he tried again. “You need to
look at the state computer guy. Maybe his relationship with
Sandra was more than professional. Maybe he wanted her,
and he’s the one who grew jealous when she wouldn’t leave
Ree.”
“Don’t you mean when she wouldn’t leave you?”
“I didn’t harm my wife! I wouldn’t take Ree’s mother from
her. But this state guy, what would he care? Or Sandra’s father,
Maxwell Black. Did you know he just won an ex parte motion
to have visitation with Ree? Basically, Max has come all the
way up here not to assist with the search efforts for his own
daughter, but to begin a custody battle for his granddaughter.
He couldn’t do that if Sandra was around. He wouldn’t have
grounds. But with Sandy missing, with me as the primary
suspect... Don’t you think that’s pretty damn convenient for
him? As in maybe too convenient to be purely coincidence?”
D.D. just stared at him. “This is your defense? The one-
armed man did it? I thought you had your sights on the local
pervert.”
“I’m not sure Sandra knew him.”
“I see. So her own father and the computer expert she
enlisted to investigate your online activities make much more
sense.”
“And don’t forget Ethan Hastings.” He knew he was dig-
332

ging a hole, but couldn’t seem to help himself. “Thirteen-
year-old boys have done worse.”
“Oh really? So which is it, Jason? Aidan Brewster, Ethan
Hastings, Wayne Reynolds, Maxwell Black? Or maybe the
Tooth Fairy’s guilty.”
“Wayne Reynolds?” he repeated.
D.D. flushed, realizing too late that she’d given away the
state computer technician. She clipped out, “You’re lying to
us, Jason. You’re lying about your identity, you’re lying about
your computer activities, you’re lying about your whole damn
life. Then you turn around and claim to love your wife and
only want her back. Well, if you really love the woman so
badly, start leveling with us. Tell us what’s going on here,
Jason. Tell us what the hell happened with your wife.”
Jason gave the only answer he could. “Honestly, Sergeant,
I have no idea.”
333

Chapter Twenty-nine
It began with a single meeting at the basketball game. Ethan had
an uncle who was a certifiedforensic computer examiner; Ethan
brought him to the game to meet with me.
Wayne Reynolds was not what I expected. In my head', com¬
puter technicians looked more like Revenge of the Nerds and less
like crime show TV stars. Waynes burnished red hair was slightly
untidy, his tie askew. The rumpledness only added to his appeal,
gave him a disheveled charm that made you want to smooth his
collar, brush away the loose strands of hairfrom his forehead. He
was tall and athletic while at the same time touchable. Highly
touchable.
I spent the entireforty-five minutes of ourfirst conversation
with my hands fisted by my sides so I didn’t do anything that
would embarrass me.
He talked about computers. How to copy hard drives. How to
analyze unused data chunks for hidden content. The importance
of using the properforensic tool.
I watched his long legs eat up the school corridor. I wondered
if beneath his tan slacks, his thighs and calves were as elegantly
muscled as they appeared. Did he have light reddish hair all over
his body, or only on the top of his head? Would itfeel as silky as it
looked?
By the time we returned to the gym for the end of the basket¬
ball game, I was slightly out of breath and Ethan regarded me
suspiciously. I kept my gaze away from his uncle. Ethan was a
frighteningly perceptive boy, as I’d already learned the hard way.
334

Wayne left me with the name of a hard drive to purchase. I
tucked it, along with his business card, in my purse, then took Ree
home.
Later that night, after putting Ree to bed, I memorized
Waynes e-mail address and phone number. Then I ripped his busi¬
ness card into tiny little pieces andfushed them down the toilet. I
did the same with the hard-drive information. At this stage, I
couldn't afford to be careless.
Jason came home after two A.M. I heard his footsteps in the
family room, the creak of the old wooden chair as he pulled it out
from the kitchen table and took his customary seat at the family
desktop.
I woke again at four A.M., just as he was coming into the bed¬
room. He didn't turn on any lights, but undressed in a corner of
darkness. I wondered about my own husband this time. What rip¬
ples of lean muscle might lurk beneath the long pants and plain,
button-down shirts he always wore? Did he have waves of thick
black hair on his chest? Did itform a silky line down to his groin?
After Brokeback Mountain, I used to pretend that Jason was
gay, that's why he wouldn't touch me. It wasn’t me, I told myself.
He simply preferred men. But from time to time, I’d catch him
watching me with a dark, hooded gleam in his eyes. Some part of
him responded to me, I was certain of it. Unfortunately, it was
only enough to keep me, not enough to love me.
I closed my eyes as my husband crawled into bed. Ifeigned
Later, four-thirty, five A.M., I rolled over and touched my
husband’s shoulder. I spread my fingers upon the warm T-shirt
covering his back. I felt the muscles ripple at contact, and I thought
he owed me at least that much.
Then his fingers closed around my wrist. He removed my
handfrom his shoulder.
“Don’t, ” he said.
335

“Why not?”
“Go to sleep, Sandy. ”
“I want a second baby, ” I said. Which was partly true. I did
yearn for another child\ or at least someone else who would love
me.
“We could adopt, ” he said.
“God, Jason. Do you hate me that much?”
He didn’t answer. I stormed out of bed, stomped downstairs,
sat at the computer. Then, just to be childish about things, I checked
the empty recycle bin, and the three URLs left in the computers
web history: New York Times, USA Today, and the Drudge
Report.
At that moment, I despised my husband. I hated him for
taking me away, butfor never really saving me. I hated him for
showing me respect, butfor never letting me feel wanted. I hated
him for his silences and for his secrets and for a lone black-and-
white image of a terrified little boy who still haunted me.
“Just what kind of monster are you?” I demanded out loud.
But the computer had no answers for me.
So I logged on to my AOL account. Then, working from
memory, I wrote: Dear Wayne, thanks for meeting with me. I
am working on our project now. I hope to see you again, at
the next Thursday basketball game....
336

Chapter Thirty
“What do you mean you can’t find the money? It’s four mil¬
lion dollars, for God’s sake. It takes a little more than a piggy
bank to cart that much around.” D.D. was ranting into her
cell phone, held tight against her ear. They were exiting the
Jones residence and half a dozen photographers were snap¬
ping away at them. The class they should have at detective
school and don’t: How to Always Have Photo-Ready Hair.
“No, I don’t want the Feds involved. We’ve traced money
before; we can do it again. . .. Okay, okay, so it’s not a one-
day project. I’ll give you two more hours. ... I know, so get
cracking.”
D.D. flipped the phone shut, scowling.
“Bad news?” Miller asked. He was stroking his mustache
self-consciously, obviously not liking the glare of the media
spotlight any more than she did. They paused at the base of
the porch stairs, not wanting to have this conversation in
earshot of the press, who were already banging out questions.
“Cooper hit a wall chasing Jones’s assets,” D.D. reported.
“Something about the money was wired into Jones’s current
bank from an offshore account, and offshore banks are a little
uptight about disclosing information. According to Cooper,
we need to charge Jones with a crime first, then they might
see things our way. Of course, we need to trace the money in
order to expose Jones’s real identity, so we can charge him
with a crime. At this point, it’s heads he wins, tails we lose.”
“Bummer, dude,” Miller said.
337

She rolled her eyes at him, chewed her lower Up. “I feel
like we’re stuck in a bad episode of Law & Order."
“How so?”
“Look at our pool of suspects: We have the mysterious
husband who’s probably engaged in online porn, the down-
the-street neighbor who’s a registered sex offender, a thirteen-
year-old student who’s in love with his missing teacher, a state
computer technician who seems to have a very personal stake
in the investigation, and, last but not least, the victim’s
estranged father who may or may not have known she was
abused as a child and has lots of incentive to keep that quiet.
It’s all ‘In a case that's been rippedfrom the headlines... ’Except
I have no idea which fucking headline we ripped off.”
“Maybe it’s like that old movie. Murder on the Orient
Express. They all did it. That would be cool.”
She gave him a look. “You have a strange sense of humor,
Miller.”
“Hey, this job will do that to you.”
When in doubt, keep everyone talking. D.D. wanted to ques¬
tion Ree again, but the expert, Marianne Jackson, waved her
off. Three interviews in three consecutive days would not only
be too much for the child, but would appear like badgering.
Even if Ree did tell them something useful, a good defense
attorney would argue they’d harassed her into disclosing.'
They needed to give the girl one more day; better yet, turn
over some new piece of evidence that warranted a third inter¬
view. Then they’d be on safer ground.
So D.D. and Miller turned to their cast of suspects. In
the past forty-eight hours, they’d hit Jason Jones, Ethan Hast¬
ings, Aidan Brewster, and Wayne Reynolds, which left the
honorable Maxwell Black. Currently, the judge stood right
338

across the street, working the crowd of reporters much the
way a politician might work a room of high-net-worth
donors.
Already, D.D. felt uneasy. Guy hasn’t seen his daughter
in five years, learns she’s gone missing, so he catches a flight
to Boston to smile for the cameras and press flesh with the
local news personalities?
Judge seemed pretty relaxed about it, too. Wearing a
dapper fight blue suit with a pastel pink tie and coordinating
pink silk kerchief, very Southern gentleman. Then, of course,
there was that drawl that sounded so honey smooth in the
land of dropped Rs and guttural As.
As they neared the news vans, Miller hung back, giving
her the lead. D.D. waded into the fray.
“Detective, detective, ” the hordes began.
“Sergeant,” D.D. snapped back, because they could at
least grant her that much.
Any news on Sandy's whereabouts?”
Are you going to arrest Jason?”
“How is little Ree holding up? Her preschool teacher says she
hasn't been to school since Wednesday. ”
“Is it true Jason wouldn't let Sandy talk to her own father?”
D.D. shot Maxwell Black a look. Clearly, they had the
good judge to thank for that tidbit. She ignored the reporters,
placing her hand firmly on Maxwell’s shoulder and leading
him away from the sudden forest of microphones and camera
lenses.
“Sergeant D.D. Warren, with Detective Brian Miller. If
you don’t mind, sir, we’d like a word.”
The judge didn’t protest. Merely nodded his head elegantly
while waving goodbye to his newfound media playmates. Man
must be a lot of fun in his own courtroom, D.D. thought with
irritation. Like the grand master of a three-ring circus.
339

She got him over to Miller and they walked him to their
car, the reporters trailing behind greedily in a last-ditch
attempt to catch a snippet of conversation, a juicy revelation.
That Sandra was dead. That they were arresting the husband.
Or perhaps the police wanted to question Sandy’s father as a
fresh person of interest. Either way, the reporters’ wheels
would be spinning for a bit, the attention ramping up expo¬
nentially.
Maxwell ducked into the back seat of D.D.’s car and they
pulled away, D.D. laying on the horn and doing her best
Britney Spears imitation as she aimed for the nearest photog¬
rapher’s foot. The cameramen immediately cleared, and she
managed to drive down the street without incident. She felt
vaguely disappointed.
“You’re the detectives in charge of my daughter’s case,”
Maxwell drawled from the back seat.
“Yes, sir.”
“Excellent. I’ve been looking forward to speaking with
you. I have some information on my son-in-law. Starting with
the fact that his name is not Jason Jones.”
They took the judge down to the station. It was the kosher
way of questioning someone, and Jason Jones had been giving
them such a runaround on the matter, D.D. was pleased to
get protocol right for at least one person. The detectives’inter¬
rogation room was small, and the coffee terrible, but Maxwell
Black maintained his charming smile even as he sat down in
the hard metal folding chair wedged between the table and
bone white wall. They might as well have invited him back
to their country estate.
The judge bothered D.D. He was too sure of himself, too
easygoing. His daughter was missing. He was at a major
340

police station in an airless room. He should sweat a little.
That’s what normal people did, even the innocent ones.
D.D. took her time sitting down, getting out a yellow
legal pad, then setting up the mini-recorder in the middle of
the table. Miller leaned back in his metal chair, arms folded
over his chest. He looked bored. Always a nice strategy when
dealing with a man who obviously liked attention as much as
Judge Black did.
“So when did you get into town?” D.D. kept her voice
neutral. Just making polite chitchat.
“Early yesterday afternoon. I always watch the news while
taking my morning coffee. Imagine my surprise when I saw
Sandy’s picture flash across the screen. I knew right then her
husband had gone and done something horrible. I bolted out
of my office and headed straight for the airport. Left my
coffee sitting on my desk and everything.”
D.D. made a show of setting out her pens. “You mean
that’s the same suit you were in yesterday?” she asked, because
that didn’t jibe with what she remembered from the news
clips.
“I grabbed a few items from my home,” the judge
amended. “I already anticipated this would not be a short
trip.
“I see. So you saw your daughter’s image on the screen,
then returned home to pack, maybe tidy up a few things—”
“I have a housekeeper who tends to all that, ma’am. I
called her from the road, she put everything together for me,
and here I am.”
“Where are you staying?”
“Ritz-Carlton, of course. I do so love their tea.”
D.D. blinked. Maybe she wasn’t Southern enough,
because as criteria for picking a hotel, she’d never considered
tea before. “What airline did you fly?”
34i

\
“Delta.”
“Flight number? When did it land?”
Maxwell gave her a look, but provided the specifics. “Why
do you ask?”
“Basic protocol,” she assured him. “Remember from that
old TV show Dragnet: ‘Just the facts, ma’am’?”
He beamed at her. “I loved that show.”
“Well, there you go. Boston PD aims to please.”
“Are we gonna talk about my son-in-law now? Because
I’m telling you, there are some things you ought to know—”
“All in good time,”D.D. assured him, polite, but remaining
in control. Down the table from her, Miller started twirling
his pen around his finger, drawing Maxwell’s attention.
“When was the last time you spoke with your daughter,
Sandra Jones?” D.D. asked.
Maxwell blinked at her, looking momentarily distracted.
“Um, oh, years. Sandra wasn’t the kind to pick up the phone.”
“You didn’t call her in all that time?”
“Well, if you must know, we had a falling-out right before
she left town. My daughter was only eighteen years old, much
too young for hanging out with the likes of Jason, and I told
her so.” Black sighed heavily. “Unfortunately, Sandy always
was a headstrong girl. She ran out in the middle of the night.
Eloped, I imagined. I’ve been waiting for a phone call or at
least a postcard ever since.”
“You file a missing persons report after your daughter
left?”
“No, ma’am. I didn’t consider her missing. I knew she’d
run off with that boy. That’s the kind of thing Sandy would
do.”
“Really? She ran off before?”
Black flushed. “It is a parent’s job to know his child’s
weaknesses,” he stated primly. “My daughter—well, Sandy
342

took the death of her mother hard. Went through a rebellious
spell, and all that. Drinking, staying out all night. Being ...
well, an active teenage girl.”
“You mean sexually active,” D.D. clarified.
“Yes, ma’am.”
“How’d you know?”
“Child made no bones about it. Would come in at the
crack of dawn reeking of cigarettes and booze and sex. I was
a teenager once myself, Sergeant. I know what kids do.”
“How long did this go on?”
“Her mother died when she was fifteen.”
“How’d she die?”
“Heart attack,” Black said, then seemed to catch himself.
He looked at her, then at Miller, who was still twirling his
pen, then switched his attention back to D.D. again. “Actually,
it was not a heart attack. That’s a story we’ve been telling for
so long it seems to have become the truth in the way lies
sometimes do. But you might as well know: My wife, Sandra’s
mom, she committed suicide. Carbon monoxide poisoning.
Sandra was the one who found the body in our garage.”
“Your wife killed herself at home?”
“In her own Cadillac.”
“Did your wife have a history of depression?”
That almost imperceptible hesitation again. “My wife
probably drank more than what would be considered medicinal,
Sergeant. I have a very demanding job, you understand. I
guess the loneliness took its toll on her.”
“Your wife have a good relationship with Sandra?”
“My wife may not have been a perfect mother, but she
tried hard.”
“And you?”
“As I said, I was probably gone more than I should have
been, but I love my daughter, too.”
343

“So much so that you never once tried to find her in the
past five years?” v
“Oh, I tried. I definitely tried.”
“How so?”
“I hired a private investigator. One of the best in the
county. Here’s the kicker, though. The man Sandra intro¬
duced to me as her future husband was Jason Johnson, not
Jason Jones.”
D.D. excused herself to get a glass of water. While she was
out, she swung by Detective Cooper’s desk and gave him the
heads-up—start running background checks on Jason
Johnson as well as Jason Jones.
Cooper just gave her a look. He was the best in the unit
at this kind of stuff, and without at least a middle initial or
any other additional detail, sorting through the reams of Jason
Johnsons in the world wasn’t going to be any easier than
sorting through the lists of Jason Jones.
“I know,” she assured him. “You love your job and each
day is more satisfying than the last. Have fun.”
D.D. returned to the interrogation room, but rather than
go inside, she opted to watch the show from the other side of
the observation glass. Judge Black was entirely too comfort¬
able with women. He would ooze Southern charm and spin
easy tales until the cows came home. Given that, she thought
it might be more productive to let Miller take a run at him.
So far, Miller had made no attempt to rouse himself from
his slouch, and the detective’s continued disinterest was
already starting to make Maxwell fidget. The judge played
with his tie, smoothed his pocket kerchief, then took several
sips of coffee. His hand shook lightly when he raised his cup.
From this angle, D.D. could see the dark age spots on the
344

back of his hand. But his face was relatively unlined and
attractive.
He was a nice-looking man. Wealthy, charming, powerful.
It made her wonder why there wasn’t a second Mrs. Black
yet.
“Did you know Sandra had gotten knocked up?” Miller
asked suddenly. “Before she eloped?”
The judge blinked several times, seemed to belatedly fix
his attention on the detective. “Excuse me?”
“Did Sandy tell you that this Jason Johnson or Jones or
whomever had gotten her pregnant?”
“I... I knew she was pregnant.”
“That’d piss me off,” Miller said conversationally. “Some
thirty-year-old guy impregnating my eighteen-year-old
daughter. I’d be ripshit if that were me.”
“I, um . . . well, as I said, you have to know your child.
Sandra was on a reckless path. It was only a matter of time
before she got pregnant—or worse. Besides, I don’t believe
Jason is the one who got her pregnant.”
Miller stopped twirling his pen. “You don’t?”
“No, sir. I remember how Sandy’s mom was when she was
expecting. First three months, Missy could barely crawl out
of bed, she was so tired and nauseous. Same thing happened
to Sandra. Suddenly, she was ill, sick enough to stay home
and sleep all the time. I thought she’d come down with some
bug, but then it went on long enough I began to suspect the
truth. Shortly thereafter, she seemed to recover. She even
started going out again. It was after that period that she first
mentioned this new man she’d met, Jason Johnson.”
“Wait a minute. You’re saying Sandy got knocked up, then
latched onto some wealthy older guy and got him to marry her?”
“I suppose that’s one way of looking at it.”
“Hey, pardon me, but wouldn’t that be cause for celebration?
345

Your daughter goes from unwed teen mom to wealthy trophy
bride in six months or less. Can’t hate Jason for that.”
“Jason Johnson took my daughter from me.”
“You told her she couldn’t get married. Come on, know
your child, right? Minute you told her no, course she was
gonna run off.”
“She was too young to be married!”
“Tell that to the guy who knocked her up. Seems to me
she’s lucky she got Jason to clean up some other guy’s mess.”
“Johnson took advantage of her vulnerable state. If she
hadn’t been so scared, she never would’ve left me for a
stranger.”
“Left you?”
“Left the security of her home,” Maxwell amended.
“Think about it, Detective. This thirty-year-old man appears
out of nowhere, sweeps my vulnerable young daughter off her
feet, and carries her away without so much as asking my per¬
mission.”
“You’re mad he didn’t ask you for your daughter’s hand in
marriage?”
“Where we live, these things matter, Detective. It’s pro¬
tocol. More than that... it’s good manners.”
“You ever meet Jason?”
“Once. I was still awake when my daughter came home
one night. I came out when I heard the vehicle in the drive.
Jason got out of the car and walked her up the steps.”
“Doesn’t sound like such bad manners to me.”
“He was gripping her arm, Detective, tightly, right above
the elbow. It struck me at the time, the way he was touching
her. Possessive. Like she belonged to him.”
“What did you say?”
“I asked him if he was aware of the fact that my daughter
was only eighteen.”
346

“Was he?”
“He said, and I quote, ‘Good evening, sir.’Never answered
my question. Never even acknowledged it. He walked right
past me, escorted my daughter to the front door, then walked
calmly back down the steps and got in his car. Last moment,
he nodded once, said, ‘Night, sir,’ and that was that. Arrogant
son of a bitch drove off like he had every right to be parading
around town with a high school girl.” Maxwell shifted in his
seat. “And I’ll tell you something else, Detective. Back then,
when Jason spoke, he sounded just as much like a good old
boy as I do. Maybe he’s gone Yankee now, but he used to be
Southern, no doubt in my mind. You want to have some fun
with him, take him out for some grits. Bet you he butters ’em
up with the best of them.”
On the other side of the glass, D.D. made a mental note.
Jason Johnson, perhaps born in Georgia or a neighboring state.
Interesting. Because now that the good judge mentioned it,
she’d caught an inflection in Jason’s voice from time to time.
He always checked it, flattening his tone. But something lin¬
gered in the background. Apparently, their prime suspect
could drawl.
“Wasn’t but two weeks later Sandy disappeared,” the
judge was saying now. “Found her bed neatly made and half
of her closet cleaned out. That was it, she was gone.”
“She leave you a note?”
“Nothing,” the judge stated emphatically, but he didn’t
look at Miller when he said this. Maxwell’s first obvious lie.
“Now, you tell me, sir,” the judge moved on quickly, “what
kind of man spirits a young girl away to a completely new life
under a completely new name? Who’d do such a thing? Why
would he do that kind of thing?”
Miller shrugged. “You tell me. Why do you think Jason
Johnson became Jason Jones?”
347

“To isolate my daughter!’’Maxwell said immediately. “To
cut her off from her home, her town, her family. To make sure
there’d be no one Sandy could call for help, once he started
doing what he really wanted to do.”
“And what did Jason really want to do?”
“As you so eloquently put it, Detective, what possible
reason would one man have to ‘clean up’ another man’s mess?
Unless he wanted the baby. Or rather, access to a child whose
mother was too young, too overwhelmed, too troubled to
attempt to protect it. I’ve served on the bench over twenty
years, long enough to have seen this sorry story more times
than I can count. Jason Johnson is nothing but a pervert. He
targeted my daughter. No doubt, he’s already grooming little
Clarissa for what’s gonna happen next. He just needed to get
Sandy out of the way once and for all.”
Holy crap, D.D. thought. She leaned closer to the glass.
Was the good judge saying what she thought he was saying?
“Jason Jones is a pedophile?” Miller asked for the record.
“Absolutely. You know the profile as well as I do, Detective.
The exhausted young wife, with a history of depression,
sexual activity, drinking, drug abuse. Isolated by the older,
dominant male, who slowly but surely makes her more and
more dependent upon him. Jason and little Clarissa are alone
together every single afternoon. That doesn’t raise any hairs
on the back of your neck?”
Miller appeared to be considering the matter, without
commenting. D.D., in the meantime, felt like half a dozen
lightbulbs were exploding inside her head. The profile the
judge gave was dead-on. And it would fill in a lot of pieces of
the puzzle—Jason’s affinity for abases, the tight rein on his
daughter and wife’s social circle, his clear panic that Sandy
had started digging into the family computer.
D.D. needed to get Jason’s picture faxed over to the
348

National Center for Missing & Exploited Children imme¬
diately. They would run it through their database of images
culled from various exploitive images recovered from the
Internet and other sex abuse cases. If they found a match,
she’d have her grounds for an arrest, let alone for a fresh inter¬
view of Clarissa Jones. Suddenly, they were getting some¬
where.
Except then she felt uneasy again. She remembered the
way Ree had flung herself into her father’s arms following her
interview, the naked tenderness on his face. At that moment,
D.D. had believed their love was genuine, but maybe it was
only because Ree hadn’t given their secret away?
Sometimes, this job sucked a little, and sometimes, this
job sucked a lot.
Miller was still grilling the honorable Maxwell Black.
“You think your daughter is dead?”
Maxwell gave the detective a pitying glance. “Have they
ever found one of these women alive? Please, Jason Jones
murdered my daughter; there is no doubt in my mind. Now
I want justice.”
“That why you’re moving for visitation rights with your
granddaughter?”
“Absolutely! I’ve been doing the same asking around
you’ve been doing, Detective, and the picture I get is not
pretty. My granddaughter has no close friends, no extended
family, no other primary caregiver. Chances are, her father has
murdered her mother. If there was ever a time when a little
girl needs her grandfather, this is it.”
“You gonna push for custody?”
“I’m willing to fight.”
“Jason Jones tells us Sandy wouldn’t approve.”
“Please, Detective .. .Jason Jones is a liar. Look up Jason
Johnson. At least know who you are dealing with.”
349

“You rent a car, Judge Black?”
“Excuse me?” N
“From the airport. Did you rent a car, or maybe use a car
service?”
“I, uh, rented a car, of course. I figured I’d need to move
about the city.”
“I’m gonna need the name of the rental agency. What
time you picked the car up, when it’s due to be returned.”
“Fine, fine, fine. Why are you pestering me so? I’m not
the suspect here. Jason Johnson is.”
“Jason Jones, aka Jason Johnson. Got it. So why haven’t
you been out looking for your daughter?”
“I already told you: The only way we’ll ever find Sandy is
to expose her husband.”
“Sad to lose your daughter and your wife, both so young.”
“I’m focusing on my granddaughter. I can’t pity myself
for my own tragedies. My grandbaby’s all who matters now.”
“And obliterating Jason Jones.”
“He took my daughter from me.”
“Did it surprise you to find out that your daughter was
doing well up here? Devoted mom, respected teacher, good
neighbor. We certainly haven’t found any stories involving
depression, alcohol abuse, or general self-destructiveness.
Maybe, since the birth of her daughter, Sandra finally pulled
it all together.”
Maxwell merely smiled. “Obviously, Detective, you don’t
know my Sandy at all.”
350

Chapter Thirty-one
Do you remember the moment you firstfell in love? The way your
body would tremble if you stood too close? Or how you would have
to stare at a spot just beyond his shoulder; because if you actually
looked him in the eyes, his beautiful, green-flecked hazel eyes, you
would blush foolishly?
Thursday became my favorite night of the week. The cul¬
mination of a slow build of e-mail messages Wayne and I would
exchange during the days in between. Nothing torrid. Nothing
flagrant. I would relate stories of Ree, how shed just mastered
using a butter knife and now would only eat food she could cut in
half, whether that was chicken fingers or green grapes. He would
tell me of his latest assignment, maybe the cellphone he was ana¬
lyzing from a bank robber, or an ongoing initiative to help the
public secure their open wireless networks. Id describe a funny
episode that happened during the sixth grade’s attempt to locate
Bulgaria on a map. He'd tell me about dinner at his sister’s house,
where Ethan hijacked his father’s BlackBerry and spent most of
the meal hacking into a major bank’s website.
By Wednesday, I’dfind myself humming under my breath in
anticipation. Only one more night. Twenty-four hours. Ree and
I would put on fancy dresses, blast Loreena McKennitt, and
prance around the house as two fairies attending a party at the
Home Tree. Then we’d eat dinner served on bright flowered plates,
with our milk poured into small crystal juice glasses, which we
would toast with our pinkies in the air.
I felt younger, falling in love with Wayne Reynolds. I felt
351

lighter; happier in my own skin. I wore more skirts and fewer
pants. I painted my tobnails bright pink. I bought all new under¬
wear, including a leopard print WonderBrafrom Victoria’s Secret.
I became a better mother. More patient with the endless rou¬
tine of feeding, bathing, and tending a small child. More willing
to laugh at Rees precocious demandsfor exactly thisfork positioned
exactly this way on exactly this color plate.
Ironically enough, I even became a better wife. On the one
hand, I managed to purchase a blank hard drive on which I was _
supposed to copy the contents of thefamily computer. On the other
hand, I attempted the deed less and less, because once I had the
forensically sound” copy, I wouldn’t have a reason to meet with
Wayne again.
So I made excuses for my husband. One random photo over a
few months' stretch of time did not a porn-addict make. Most
likely, the image was downloaded to his computer by mistake. He’d
stumbled upon the wrong website, copied the wrong file. My hus¬
band could not be a pedophile. Look at the way he smiled at his
daughter or his endless patiencefor her attempts to braid his thick
wavy hair or the way he spent the first snow day of the season
pulling her around the neighborhood on her little purple sled. That
photo was simply some odd, vaguely terrifying anomaly.
Ifixed my husband's favorite meals. I praised his articles in
the newspaper. And I shooed him out the door to work, because the
sooner he left, the sooner I could go online and talk to Wayne.
Jason didn’t question my new and improved mood. I knew he
still remembered my middle-of-th e-night request for a second
child, and was grateful I’d let him off the hook.
I didn't try to touch my husband anymore, and he was happy.
Ree and I developed a new routine for Thursdays. I would
pick her up at home and we would go to the little bistro around
the corner for an early ladies’ dinner. Afterward, it was back to
the school for the basketball game, where Ree would take a seat
352

next to Ethan, and, once the game got going, I would disappear
with Wayne.
“Werejust going for a little walk, ”Fd tell Ree, and she would
nod placidly, already too engrossed in pestering Ethan to care.
We always started out talking about computers. Wayne would
ask if Ed copied the hard drive yet. Ed report on my various failed
attempts. Jasons schedule was highly unreliable, Ed explain. He
would arrive home anytime after eleven P.M., and first I had to
put Ree to bed and then grade papers, and by the time that was
all done, I was already nervous Jason would return home at any
second. I tried, I aborted. I had a hard time concentrating....
“It’s all very nerve-wracking, ”I’d say.
Wayne would squeeze my hand in support and Ed feel the con¬
tact of hisfingers as a tingle all the way up my arm.
We didn’t hold hands. We didn’t find dark corners. We didn’t
retreat to the back seat of his car and neck like teenagers. I was too
aware that we were still in my place of work, where there were
eyes and ears everywhere. And I was even more aware of my
young daughter, never far away, who might need me at a
moment’s notice.
So we walked the halls. We talked—innocently really. And
the more Wayne didn’t touch me, the more his hands didn’t graze
across my breasts and his lips didn’t brush along my collarbone,
the more I wanted him. Crazily, insanely, until every time I
looked at him I thought my body might spontaneously combust.
He wanted me, too. I could tell by the way his palm lingered
on the small of my back as he helped me climb onto the bleachers.
Or the way he paused at the end of an empty hallway, never
saying a word, but his eyes burning into mine, before finally,
reluctantly, we both turned around and headed back to more pop¬
ulated areas.
“Do you love him?” he asked me one night. No reason to define
«h7 i•m . »
353

“He’s my daughter’s father, ” I said.
“That doesn’t answer my question. ”
“I think it does. ”
I didn’t tell him about my sex life, or the lack thereof. That felt
too much like a violation of the family code. I couldflirt with a
stranger. I could tell him I suspected my husband was engaged in
unlawful Internet activities. But I could not tell him my husband
had never physically touched me. That would cross the line.
And I didn’t want to hurt Jason. Ijust... I wanted Wayne.
I wanted to feel the way I felt when I was around him. Young.
Pretty. Desirable. -
Powerful.
Wayne wanted me, and yet, he couldn't have me, and that
made him want me more.
By the end of January, the e-mails were replaced by text mes¬
sages. Only during school hours; Wayne was not stupid. He would
send me a smileyface. Maybe a picture ofaflower he’d taken with
his cell phone at the grocery store. Then the questions began.
Maybe I could get a babysitterfor Ree, or tell my husband I'd
joined a book club. How long were my lunch breaks?
He never asked to have sex with me. Never commented on my
body or made any overly suggestive comments. Instead, he began
to actively campaign for a private rendezvous. It went without
saying what we would be doing during this time.
I vetoed lunchtime. Too short, too unpredictable. What if Jason
stopped by with Ree, or a student tried tofind me? What if Ethan
saw us leaving school grounds together? Ethan would definitely
ask questions.
A babysitter was out of the question. All these years later, I
didn’t know anyone in the neighborhood. Furthermore, Ree was
at the age where she would talk, andJason would want to know
immediately what I had to do that was more important than
watching our child.
354

As for joining a book club . . . These things were easier said
than done. Who would be hosting this book club? What contact
information would I give Jason and what if he actually called
during the appointed hours? He would do that, at least once, I
predicted. He had a tendency to check up on me.
I could've arranged for a "spa" night. But again, Id never told
Wayne of my unusual marital arrangement, nor did I mention it
now. Spa nights were for strangers. And this wouldn't be with a
stranger. This would be different.
So we went round and round. E-mailing and texting, but
mostly anticipating our chaste Thursday night walks around the
South Boston Middle School, where this one man gazed at me
with unrelenting hunger, wanting, needing, demanding...
And I let him.
The second week in February, Jason surprised me. School vacation
week was coming up and he announced it was time for the family
to go on vacation. I was standing at the stove at the time,
browning hamburger. I was probably thinking about Wayne,
because I had a smile on my face. Jason's announcement, however,
jarred me back to reality.
“Yippee!" Ree squealed, sitting at the kitchen counter. “Family
vacation!”
I shot Ree a dry look, because we’d never gone on family vaca¬
tion, so how would she know it was such a good thing?
Jason wasn't looking at our daughter, however. He was
regarding me, his expression contemplative, waiting. He was up
to something.
“Where would we go?” I asked lightly, returning to thefrying
pan.
“Boston. ”
“We live in Boston. ”
355

“I know. I thought we'd start small. I got us a hotel room
downtown. A swimrhingpool, atrium, all sorts of fun stuff. We
can be tourists in our own town for a few days. ”
“You already booked it? Chose a hotel and everything?”
He nodded, still staring at me. “I thought we could use some
time together, "he said, hisface inscrutable. “I thought it would be
good for us. ”
I poured in the Hamburger Helper seasoning packet. Afamily
vacation. What could I say?
I gave Wayne the news by e-mail. He didn't reply for two
days. When he did, he wrote one line: Do you think it’s safe?
That jarred me. Why wouldn't I be safe with Jason? Then I
remembered the photo again, and the research I was supposed to
be doing with thefamily computer, except I'd gotten so caught up
in flirting with Ethan's uncle, I’dforgotten Wayne was supposed
to be offering me expertise instead.
We have a four-year-old chaperone, I wrote back at last.
What could go wrong?
But I could tell Wayne didn’t approve, because the text mes¬
sages dropped off. He was jealous, I realized, and was naive
enough to be flattered.
Sunday night, I sent him a cell phone photo ofRee, dressed in
a hot pink bathing suit with a purple snorkel, blueface mask, and
two oversized blue flippers. Chaperone prepares for duty, I
wrote, and included a second photo of Rees suitcase overflowing
with the approximately five hundred things she believed she
neededfor a four-night hotel stay.
Wayne didn't write back. So I cleared the inboxes of my cell
phone, purged my AOL account, and preparedfor four days of
family vacation.
My husband will never hurt me, I thought. I guess right up
until that moment, I didn’t realize how much both of us were
living a lie.
356

Chapter Thirty-two
D.D. was on a roll. She could feel it. First the conversation
with Wayne Reynolds, then the interview with Maxwell
Black. The investigation was coming together, key pieces of
the puzzle starting to fall into place.
The moment they were done talking to Sandy’s father,
D.D. had blasted Jason Jones’s photo over to the National
Center for Missing 6c Exploited Children, as well as the
Georgia Bureau of Investigation. She was getting a solid pro¬
file in place now—known abases, possible geographic con¬
nections, key financial information, and relevant dates. Jason
had left a heavy paper trail from the past five years, after he
disappeared from the radar screen. Now they were getting the
sbver of insights necessary to crack his full identity wide open,
including tracing his offshore funds.
At this point, D.D. was willing to bet that some other law
enforcement agency in some other jurisdiction had the exact
same file she did, except under a different alias. When she
connected with that agency, Jason Jones/Johnson would
finally be exposed, and she’d have her arrest. Preferably in
time for the eleven o’clock news.
In the meantime, of course, they continued to work the
basics. Currently, D.D. was reviewing several evidence reports,
including preHminary findings of a trace amount of blood on
the quilt they had removed from the Jones family washing
machine. Unfortunately, “trace amounts of blood” hardly
played web on a warrant. Trace amounts because the rest had
357

been successfully washed away? Trace amounts because
Sandra Jones had ha'd a nosebleed sometime in the past few
weeks? Blood type matched Sandra’s, but not having the
blood type of Jason and Clarissa on file meant that, theoret¬
ically, the blood could be theirs as well.
In other words, the evidence report alone didn’t do much
for their case, but perhaps later, when combined with other
relevant data, it would become one more bar in the prison
slowly but surely being constructed around Jason Jones.
D.D. touched base with the BRIC team in charge of ana¬
lyzing the Jones family computer. Given the current level of
urgency, the team was working round the clock. It had taken
most of the night to create a forensically sound copy of the
computer’s hard drive. Now they were running report after
report, focusing on e-mails and Internet activity. They
expected to have their first update bright and early in the
morning. Which made D.D. optimistic enough to assume
that if she missed the eleven o’clock news, maybe she could
make the morning cycle.
This was the type of momentum that made a homicide
sergeant happy, and provided the whole team with enough
incentive to work another long night after two previous mid¬
night grinds. It didn’t necessarily explain, however, D.D.’s
sudden interest in the honorable Maxwell Black or her need
to look up the death of Missy Black eight years prior. The
local sheriff’s office informed her that they’d never opened a
case file on the matter, but gave her the contact information
for the county ME, who would be available in the morning.
The official ruling had been suicide, but the sheriff had hes¬
itated just enough for D.D. to remain curious.
Maxwell Black bothered her. His drawl, his charm, his
matter-of-fact assessment of his only child as a reckless young
woman, capable of habitual lying and sexual promiscuity. It
358

struck D.D. that Sandy spent the first two-thirds of her
young life with an outgoing father who said too much, and
the last third of her life with a highly compartmentalized hus¬
band who said too little. The father claimed the husband was
a pedophile. The husband implied the father had been party
to child abuse.
D.D. wondered if Sandy Jones had loved her husband. If
she had viewed him as her white knight, her valiant savior,
right up until Wednesday night when the last of her illusions
had been violently, and sadly, stripped away.
Sandra Jones had now been missing three days.
D.D. didn’t believe they’d find the young mother alive.
Mostly what she hoped for at this stage of the game was
to save Ree.
Ethan Hastings was having a crisis of conscience. This had
never happened to him before. Being smarter than any adult
he’d ever met, the teenager was naturally disparaging of them.
What they couldn’t figure out, they didn’t need to know.
But now, sitting on the floor with his mother’s iPhone—
yesterday’s incident at school had resulted in a total loss of
computer privileges for the next month, but technically
speaking, no one had said he couldn’t rifle his mother’s
purse—he was reviewing e-mail and trying to figure out if he
should call the police.
Ethan was worried about Mrs. Sandra. He had been ever
since November, when it became clear to him that her interest
in online security extended way beyond what one might need
to know to teach a sixth grade social studies class.
She’d never told him she suspected her husband, which
meant, of course, that he was the most likely culprit. Likewise,
she’d never used the words “Internet porn,” but then again,
359

what else would drive a pretty teacher to spend all of her free
periods working with a kid like him?
Oh, she was kind about it. She knew that he worshipped
her, because he wasn’t so good about hiding these things. But
he got the message, loud and clear, that she was not in love
with him the way he was with her. She needed him, however.
She respected his skills. She appreciated his help. That was
good enough for him.
Mrs. Sandra talked to him, person to person. Not many
adults did that. They either tried to talk over his head, or they
were so terrified of his staggering genius they avoided
engaging him in conversation altogether. Or maybe they were
more like his parents. They both tried to talk to him, but
sounded like they were grinding their teeth the entire time.
Not Mrs. Sandra. She spoke warmly, with this pretty hit
he could listen to again and again. And she smelled of
oranges. He never told anyone, but he got her to mention the
name of the lotion she used. Then he bought an entire case
of it online, just so he could smell her when she wasn’t around.
He had the case of lotion stashed in his father’s closet, behind
all the suits his father never wore, because he’d long ago fig¬
ured out that his mother searched his room on a daily basis.
She tried very hard, his mother. Having a kid as bright as
him couldn’t be easy. Then again, it wasn’t his fault he was so
smart. He’d been born this way.
In November, after deducing that Mrs. Sandra was wor¬
ried about her husband’s online activities, then determining
that Mrs. Sandra’s husband was surprisingly computer savvy,
Ethan had decided he needed to take further action to protect
his favorite teacher.
First, he’d thought of his uncle, the only adult Ethan con¬
sidered intelligent. When it came to computers, Uncle Wayne
was a pro. And, better yet, he worked for the state police,
360

meaning that if Mrs. Sandra’s husband was doing something
illegal, Uncle Wayne could arrest him for it, and Sandra’s hus¬
band would go away This had been a very good idea, in
Ethan’s mind. One of his better plans.
Except Sandra’s husband hadn’t gone away. Neither, for
that matter, had Uncle Wayne. Suddenly, his uncle had devel¬
oped an enduring interest in JV basketball. Every Thursday
night, Uncle Wayne would appear at the school, and off he
and Mrs. Sandra would go, leaving Ethan all alone with pesky
Ree.
Ethan had started to be annoyed by Thursday nights. It
didn’t take three months of weekly meetings to hack into
someone’s computer. Heck, he could’ve done it in five minutes
or less.
Then it had occurred to him: Maybe he didn’t need his
uncle or state police involvement after all. Maybe all he
needed to do was write some code. It was called a Trojan
Horse. He could tuck it into an e-mail. He could send it to
Mrs. Sandra. And the Trojan Horse would open up a gateway
on her computer just for him.
He would have access.
He could see what Sandra’s husband was really up to.
He could save the day.
Except that Ethan had never actually written the code
before. So first he had to study it. Then he had to test it. Then
he had to revise it.
Three weeks ago, he’d been ready to launch. He wrote an
innocent little e-mail to Mrs. Sandra containing some links
he thought she might find helpful for her social studies class.
Then he’d embedded the code and sat back to wait.
It took her two days to open the e-mail, which annoyed
him a little. Weren’t teachers supposed to be more responsive
than that?
361

But the Trojan Horse passed the gates, the computer virus
embedding itself instantly into Mrs. Sandras hard drive.
Ethan tested it on day three, and yeah, he had access to the
Jones family computer. Now he could sit back and catch Mr.
Jones in the act—literally.
Ethan had been very excited. He was gonna be on 48
Hours Investigates. A whole episode on the boy genius who
nabbed a notorious child predator. Leslie Stahl would inter¬
view him, social websites would want to hire him. He’d
become a one-man Internet security alpha team. A modern-
day website Marine.
The first three nights, Ethan had definitely learned some
things about Mr. Jones. He’d learned, in fact, quite a lot about
Mr. Jones. More than he really wanted to know.
What Ethan hadn’t counted on, however, was how much
he’d also learn about Mrs. Sandra.
Now he was stuck. To rat out Mr. Jones, he’d have to also
rat out Mrs. Sandra, and Uncle Wayne, too.
He knew too little, he knew too much.
And Ethan Hastings was a bright enough boy to know
that was a very dangerous place to be.
He picked up his mother’s iPhone, checked messages
again. Told himself to call 911, set down the phone again.
Maybe he could call that sergeant, the one with the blonde
hair. She seemed nice enough. Then again, as his mother
always told him, lies of omission were still lies, and he was
pretty sure lying to the police would get him in even more
trouble than school suspension and a four-week loss of com¬
puter privileges.
Ethan didn’t want to go to jail.
But he was terribly worried about Mrs. Sandra.
He picked up the iPhone again, checked messages, sighed
heavily. Finally, he did the only thing he could bring himself
362

to do. He opened a fresh e-mail box and started, Dear Uncle
Wayne...
Wayne Reynolds was not a patient man. Sandra Jones had
been missing for multiple days, and as far as the forensics
expert could tell, the lead detectives were taking a slow boat
from China to find her. Hell, he’d practically had to hand
them Jason Jones on a silver platter, and still, judging from
the five o’clock news, no arrests had been made.
Instead, reporters had picked up the scent of a registered
sex offender living just down the street from Sandra. Some
pale, freaky-looking kid with a blistered scalp they’d caught
walking down the street, then literally chased all the way to
an old 1950s ranch. “I didn’t do it!” the kid had cried over his
shoulder. “Talk to my PO. My girlfriend was underage, that’s all,
that’s all, that’s all. ”
Pervert had bolted into the house, and the erstwhile
reporters had documented half a dozen shots of a closed door
and blinds-covered windows. Really scintillating stuff.
At least Sandra’s father had entered the fray, deriding
Jason Jones as a highly dangerous, manipulative man who’d
isolated the beautiful young woman from her own family. The
grandfather was demanding custody of Ree and had already
won visitation rights to begin shortly. The old man wanted
justice for his daughter and protection for his granddaughter.
The media were eating it up. And still no arrests had been
made!
Wayne didn’t get it. The husband was always the primary
person of interest, and as suspects went, Jason Jones was per¬
fect. Conspicuously lacking in credible background informa¬
tion. Suspected by his own wife of dubious online activities.
Known to disappear for long periods of time after midnight,
363

in a job that didn’t really provide a concrete alibi. What the
hell was Sergeant Warren waiting for, a pretty package with
a bow on top?
Jason needed to be arrested. Because then Wayne
Reynolds could finally sleep at night. God knows in the past
few days he’d been frantically purging his personal computer
as well as his Treo. Which was ironic, because he of all people
knew he’d never get the electronic devices one hundred per¬
cent clear. He should buy a new hard drive for his computer,
and “lose” his Treo, preferably while running over it with his
lawn mower. Or maybe he could flatten it with his car? Toss
it into the harbor?
It was funny, outsiders always assumed law enforcement
officers had an advantage—they worked in the system,
meaning they knew exactly what sort of misstep might trip a
guy up. Except that was the problem. Wayne of all people
knew how hard it was to cover one’s electronic tracks, and,
being fully aware of such things, he understood just how hard
his own actions would be scrutinized under a microscope.
He’d spent three months going on walks with Sandra
Jones, nothing less, nothing more, but if he wasn’t careful, he’d
find himself labeled as her lover and placed on administrative
leave, a subject of internal investigation. Especially if the
forensic computer expert “lost” his Treo, or “replaced” his home
computer. That sort of thing simply wasn’t going to play.
Which made him wonder why the BPD hadn’t cracked
open the Jones computer yet. They’d had it nearly twenty-
four hours. Figure five to six hours to make a forensically
sound copy, then getting EnCase up and running ...
One to two more days, he figured, and sighed. He didn’t
think his nerves could take one to two more days.
Let alone what such a long period of time might mean
for Sandy.
364

He tried not to think about it. The cases he’d worked on
before, the crime-scene photos he often viewed in his line of
work. Suffocation? Stabbing? Single gunshot wound to the
head?
He had tried to warn Sandy: She never should have gone
away on the February vacation.
Wayne sighed heavily. Consulted the clock again.
Decided to stay a little later at the crime lab, do a bit more
work. Except then his Treo buzzed. He looked down, to find
a message from his sister’s e-mail address.
He frowned, clicked open the message.
Five forty-five P.M. Wayne read his nephew’s startling
confession.
And started to sweat in earnest.
Six P.M. Maxwell Black was sitting at a white linen-covered
table in the corner of the dining room at the Ritz. His duck
had just arrived, prepared with wild berry compote, and he
was savoring a particularly fine Oregon Pinot Noir. Good
food, fine wine, excellent service. He should be a happy
camper.
Except he wasn’t. After his conversation with the detec¬
tives, the judge had returned to his hotel and immediately
called his law clerk to have him do some legal research on
Max’s behalf. Unfortunately, the case law unearthed by his
clerk did not sound promising.
Most family courts—and Massachusetts was no excep¬
tion—deferred to the birth parents as the primary caretakers
in a child custody dispute. Naturally, grandparents did not
start the process with any guaranteed rights, with the courts
accepting the parents’ decision in the matter.
Max had assumed, however, that Sandra’s disappearance—
365

and Jasons resulting position as a viable suspect in his wife’s
disappearance—might sway the court in his favor. Further¬
more, Max was confident that Jason was not Clarissa’s bio¬
logical father. Hence, with Sandra gone, Max himself was
now Clarissa’s closest living relative. And surely that would
count for something.
But no. Leave it to the state that had legalized gay mar¬
riage to accept in loco parentis, or the person that had served
in the place of the parent, as the proper legal guardian. Which
put Max back in the position of having to prove that Jason
posed an immediate threat to Clarissa in order to successfully
challenge the current custodial arrangement. Take it from a
judge, those standards were nearly impossible to prove.
Max needed Sandy’s body to be found. He needed Jason
to be arrested. Then the state would take Clarissa into cus¬
tody, and he could argue that as her biological grandfather it
would be in the child’s best interest to live with him. That
should work.
Except he had no idea how long it might take to find
Sandra’s body. Frankly, he’d driven by that harbor four times
already, and as far as he could tell, Jason Jones could’ve
dumped Sandy’s body just about anywhere. It could take
weeks, if not months, if not years.
It was enough to make him consider fding a case against
Jason in civil court, where the burden of proof was lower.
Except even in civil court, it was hard to proceed without a
dead body. No corpse meant Sandra Jones might really have
run off with the gardener, which meant she might really be
alive and well in Mexico.
It all came back to dead bodies.
Max needed one.
Then it occurred to him. Yes, he needed a dead body. But
did it necessarily have to be Sandra’s?
366

*
Seven forty-five P.M. Aidan Brewster stood at the Laun¬
dromat, folding the last load of laundry. In front of him were
four stacks of white T-shirts, two stacks of blue jeans, and
half a dozen smaller piles of white briefs and blue-banded
athletic socks. He’d started at six P.M., after his PO had gra¬
ciously picked him up from his reporter-infested property
and spirited him away. Colleen had offered to take him to a
hotel for the night, to let things calm down. Instead, he’d
asked her to drop him off at a suburban Laundromat, some¬
place far away from South Boston, where the reporters would
have no reason to look for him and a man could bleach his
tighty whities in peace.
He could tell Colleen had been uncomfortable with the
request. Or maybe it had been the trash bag after trash bag
of dirty laundry he’d loaded into the trunk of her car, while
three cameramen had clicked away from across the street. At
least when Colleen had pulled away, the photographers had
abandoned their posts, as well. No use staking out a house
when you knew the target wasn’t there.
“What happened to your head?” Colleen had asked as she
drove down the street.
“Kitchen fire. Left a paper plate too near a burner.
Embers floated up and caught my hair on fire, but I was too
busy dumping flour on the stove to notice.”
She didn’t look convinced. “You doing okay, Aidan?”
“I lost my job. I burned my head. I got my face on the
evening news. No fucking way, but thanks for asking.”
“Aidan ..
He stared at her, daring her to say it. She was sorry. What
a shame. Things’ll get better. Hold tight.
Pick a platitude, any platitude. The sayings were all
367

bullshit. And he and Colleen both knew it.
She drove him thfe rest of the way in silence, biggest favor
she ever did him.
Now he finished folding his towels, sheets, various cov¬
erlets, even three doilies. If it was a textile and it had been in
his apartment, he’d washed it with Clorox color-safe bleach.
Let the police hash over that one. Let them hate him.
After this, he planned on returning to his apartment and
packing up everything he owned. He was placing his entire
collection of worldly possessions into four black trash bags,
and he was bolting into the wind. That was it. Show over. He
was done. Let his PO chase him. Let the police go apeshit
looking for another registered sex offender.
He’d followed the rules, and look where it got him: The
police were screwing him; his former coworkers had tried to
jump him; and his neighbor, Jason Jones, just plain scared
him. Then there were the reporters ... Aidan wanted out. So
long. See you. Bye-bye.
Which didn’t explain why he remained here, sitting on
the floor of a grungy Laundromat, snapping his green elastic
band and clutching a blue ballpoint pen. He’d been staring at
the blank piece of notebook paper for three minutes already.
He finally wrote:
Dear Rachel:
I’m an ass. It’s all my fault. You should hate me.
He paused. Chewed on the end of the pen again. Snapped
the band.
Thanks for sending me the letters. Maybe you hate them. Maybe
you couldn’t stand to see them anymore. Guess 1 ean't blame you.
He crossed out words. Tried again. Crossed out more.
368

44ove you.
I loved you. I was wrong. I’m sorry.
I won’t bother you again.
Unless, he thought. But he didn’t write it. He forcefully
kept himself from writing it. If she’d wanted to see him, she
could’ve done it by now. So take the hint, Aidan, old boy. She
didn’t love you. She doesn’t love you. You went to prison for
nothing, you pathetic, stupid, miserable sack of shit....
He picked up the pen again.
Please don’t hurt yourself.
Then, almost as an afterthought:
And don’t let Jerry hurt you either. You deserve better. You really,
really do.
Sorry I fucked everything up. Have a nice life.
Aidan
He set down the pen. Reread the letter. Debated tearing
it to shreds and attempting another bonfire. Held it instead.
He wouldn’t send the letter. In group, the exercise was simply
to write the note. Teach him empathy and remorse. Which
he guess he felt, because his chest was tight, and it was hard
to breathe, and he didn’t want to be sitting in the middle of a
seedy Laundromat anymore. He wanted to be back in his
apartment, curled up with blankets over his head. Someplace
he could get lost in the dark and not think about that winter
and how good her skin had felt against his, or how much of
both of their lives he had destroyed.
God help him, he still loved her. He did. She was the only
good thing that had ever happened to him, and she had been
his stepsister and he was the worst kind of monster in the
world and maybe the guys at the shop should beat the snot
369

out of him. Maybe that was the only solution for a jerkoff like
him. He was a pervert. No better than Wendell the psychotic
flasher. He should be destroyed.
Except, like any pervert, he didn’t really want to die. He
just wanted to get through the night and maybe the next day.
So he gathered up his laundry and hailed a cab.
“Home, James,” he told the driver.
Then, sitting in the back seat of the taxi, he tore the letter
into tiny, tiny bits, and flung them out the window, watching
the night wind carry them away.
Nine-oh-five P.M., Jason finally had Ree down for the night.
It hadn’t been easy. The growing media camp had kept them
housebound for most of the day, and Ree was punchy from
lack of fresh air and exercise. Then, after dinner, the first of
the klieg lights had powered on, their entire house now lit up
bright enough to be viewed from outer space.
Ree had complained about the spotlights. She had
whined about the noise. She had demanded that he make the
reporters go away, and then, when that hadn’t done the trick,
she had stomped her foot and demanded that he take her to
find her mother right now.
In response, he offered to color with her. Or maybe they
could work on origami. Perhaps a stimulating game of checkers.
He didn’t blame her for scowling at him and storming
around the house. He wanted the reporters to go away, too.
He’d like their old life to resume anytime now, thank you very
much.
He’d read an entire fairy novel to his daughter, all one
hundred pages from beginning to end. His throat hurt, he’d
lost command of the English language, but his daughter was
finally asleep.
37°

Which left him alone in the family room, blinds and cur¬
tains tightly drawn, trying to figure out what to do next.
Sandra remained missing. Maxwell had a court-ordered visit
with Ree. And Jason was still the primary suspect in his preg¬
nant wife’s disappearance.
He had hoped, in his own way, that his wife had run off
with a lover. He hadn’t really believed it, but he had hoped,
because given all the options, that one kept Sandy safe and
sound. And maybe one day she’d change her mind and return
to him. He’d take her back. For Ree’s sake, for his own. He
knew he was not a perfect husband, he knew he had made a
terrible mistake during the family vacation. If she’d needed
to punish him for that, he could take it.
But now, as day three closed and the hours dragged by,
he was forced to contemplate other options. That his wife
hadn’t run off. That something terrible had happened, right
here, in his own home, and by some miracle, Ree had survived
it. Maybe Ethan Hastings had grown frustrated with his
unrequited love. Maybe Maxwell had finally found them and
abducted Sandy as a ploy to gain his granddaughter. Or
maybe Sandra had another lover, this mysterious computer
expert, who’d grown tired of waiting for her to leave Jason.
She’d been pregnant. His baby? Someone else’s? Had that
been what triggered this whole thing? Maybe, with Ethan
Hastings’s help, she had figured out exactly who he was, and
she had recoiled at the prospect of bearing a monster’s child.
He couldn’t really blame her. He should be terrified at the
thought of reproducing as well.
Except he wasn’t. He had wanted ... He had hoped ...
If they had ever had that moment, the one where Sandy
nervously confessed they were expecting a baby together, he
would’ve been touched, awed, humbled. He would have been
eternally grateful.
3 71

But they never got that moment. His wife was gone, and
he was left with the ghost of what might have been.
As well as the specter of impending criminal arrest.
He would take his daughter and run. Only thing that
could be done, because sooner or later, Sergeant Warren was
going to appear on his front porch with an arrest warrant, and
a family court officer. He’d go to prison. Worse, Ree would
go to foster care.
He could not let that happen. Not for his sake and not
for his daughter’s.
He headed for the attic.
The access panel was in the closet of the master bedroom.
He grabbed the handle in the ceiling, and pulled down the
rickety folding stairs. Then he clicked on a flashlight and
headed up into the pitch black gloom.
The attic space was only three feet tall, meant for storage,
not comfort. He crawled along the plywood floor, shuffling
around boxes of Christmas decorations until he reached the
far corner. He counted two rafters over to the left, then
shoved aside the exposed insulation and reached in for the
flat metal box.
He pulled it out, thinking it felt lighter than he remem¬
bered. He set the flashlight down on the floor, raised the
lid....
The metal box was empty. Cash, IDs, all gone. Cleared
out.
Police? Sandy? Someone else? He couldn’t understand it.
He’d never told anyone about his emergency escape kit. It was
his little secret, one that kept him from having to bolt awake
screaming every night. He was not trapped. He had an escape
plan. He always had an escape plan.
And then, while his mind was still frantically trying to
process what had happened to him, how it could have
372

possibly happened to him, he became aware of something
else. A noise, not far below him.
The creak of a floorboard.
Coming from his daughter’s room.
t-
373

\
Chapter Thirty-three
As family vacations go, Jasons choice of hotel shocked me. I had
expected some moderately priced\ kid-friendly establishment.
Instead, we arrived at a five-star getaway resort, complete with
afull-service spa and yawning indoor pool. A bellhop in a fed coat
with gold-braid trim led us up to the very top floor, which could
only be accessed by inserting the room key into the elevator keypad.
Then, he escorted us to a two-bedroom corner suite.
The first room contained a king-sized bed with sumptuous
white bedding and enough richly brocaded pillows to furnish a
harem. Our view overlooked Boston Harbor. The bathroom fea¬
tured wall-to-wall rose-colored marble.
In the adjacent sitting area, we discovered a sleeper sofa, two
low-slung camel-colored chairs, and the world's largestflat-screen
TV. When Jason announced that this would be Rees room, her eyes
nearly bugged out of her head. So did mine.
“I love it!" Ree squealed, and immediately went to work dis¬
gorging her overstuffed suitcase into her deluxe chamber. In five
seconds or less, the room was covered in bright pink princess blan¬
kets, half a dozen Barbies, and, of course, LiT Bunny, given the
perch of honor in the middle ofthe sofa. “Can we watch a movieV'
“Later.: First, I thought wed put on fancy clothes and I would
escort my two favorite ladies to dinner. ”
Rees scream of delight threatened to shatter the bank of win¬
dows. I continued to regard my husband with shell-shocked surprise.
“But I didn’t bring anythingfancy... I wasn't expecting...”
“I took the liberty of throwing in a dress and your boots. ”
374

My eyes went wider, but Jason maintained his inscrutable
features. He was up to something. I just knew it. And for a
moment, Wayne’s warning came back to me. Maybe Jason knew
what Id been doing. He'd guessed that I’d been tracking his online
activities and he was . . . wining and dining me to death ? Spa¬
ing me into submission at a sumptuous resort?
I retreated to our half of the suite, where I put on the shim¬
mering blue dress Jason had packedfor me, as well as knee-high
black leather boots. I hadn’t worn this dressfor Wayne yet. I won¬
dered if Jason had known that, and I felt uneasy all over again.
Then Ree came barreling into the room, spinning around in
a cranberry-colored dress sprinkled with embroideredflowers and
finished with a giant looping bow in the back. Mommy, do my
hair. Hair time, Mommy. I want to look fabulous!”
So Ifashioned Ree’s hair into a bun on top of her head, with
curly wisps springing around her face. And I spritzed and styled
my own golden curls, even finding some makeup packed away by
my clever husband for our family getaway. I did eyes, cheeks, and
lip gloss for me. Lip gloss only for Ree, who then pouted because
she personally believed the more makeup you wore, the more fab¬
ulous” you were bound to be.
Jason appeared in the doorway of the bathroom. He was
wearing dark slacks I’d never seen before, with a deep plum-
colored shirt and a dark flecked sports jacket. No tie. The top two
buttons of his sharply pressed shirt were undone, showing off the
strong column of his throat. And Ifelt a stirring then, low in my
belly, that I had not felt in the past four months.
My husband is a handsome man. A very, very handsome man.
My gaze came up. Our eyes met, and I felt it then, genuine,
spine-tingling, bone deep.
I was afraid of him.
*
375

Jason wanted to walk. While the evening held a bracing, February
chill, it was not raining dnd the sidewalks were clear. Ree loved this
idea, as she loved everything about family vacation thus far. She
walked between us, her left hand tucked in Jasons, her right hand
tucked in mine. She would count to ten, then it would be our job to
hoist her into the air so she could squeal at passing pedestrians.
They would smile at us, a well-dressed family out and about
in the big city.
We followed the red line tracing Paul Revere’s ride toward
the Old State House, then took a left and continued past Boston
Commons, toward the theater district. I recognized the Four Sea¬
sons, where I passed my spa nights, and walking toward it,
holding my daughter's hand, I couldn't bear to glance at the glass
doors. It was too much like looking at a crime scene.
Fortunately, Jason veered away, and soon we arrived at a
charming bistro, where the air smelled like fresh-pressed olive oil
and ruby red Chianti. A tuxedoed maitre d’ led us to a table, and
another black-vested young man wanted to know if we wanted
still or sparkling water. I was about to say tap, when Jason replied
smoothly that we would like a bottle of Perrier, and of course, the
wine list.
I blinked at my husband of five years, struck speechless yet
again, while Ree squirmed around in her wooden seat, then dis¬
covered the bread basket. She stuck her hand beneath the linen cov¬
ering, producing a long thin breadstick. She snapped it in half,
obviously liking the noise it made, andproceeded to munch away.
“You shouldput your napkin in your lap, "Jason told her, dike
this."
He demonstrated with his napkin and Ree was impressed
enough to follow suit. Then Jason helped scoot her chair closer to
the table, and explained the various pieces of silverware.
The waiter appeared. He poured elegant pools ofolive oil onto
our bread plates, a routine Ree recognizedfrom our usual North
376

End haunts. Shefell to work soaking each piece of bread from the
bread basket, while Jason turned to the waiter and very calmly
ordered a bottle ofDom Perignon.
“Butyou don't drink, ” Iprotested, as the waiter nodded effi¬
ciently and once more disappeared.
“Would you like a glass of champagne, Sandra?"
“Maybe. ”
“Then I would like to share some with you. ”
“Why?"
He merely smiled and returned to studying his menu. Finally,
I did the same, though my mind was racing. Maybe he was going
to get me drunk. Then, when Ree wasn’t looking, he’d push me into
the harbor. No walking near the water on the way back to the
hotel, I thought with a vague sense of rising hysteria. Must stick
to the opposite side of the street.
Ree decided she would like angel hair pasta with butter and
cheese. She did her parents proud by ordering in a nice clear voice
and remembering to say both please and thank you. I, on the other
hand, stuttered like an idiot, but managed to order scallops with
wild mushroom risotto.
Jason had the veal.
The champagne arrived. The waiter made a discreet show of
uncorking it with a delicate little burp. He poured two glasses in
paper-thin flutes that showed off the sparkling bubbles. Ree
declared it the prettiest drink she’d ever seen and wanted some.
Jason told her she could when she turned twenty-one.
She pouted at him, then returned to drowning bread in olive
oil.
Jason lifted the firstflute. I took the second.
“To us, ’’ he said, “and our future happiness. ’’
I nodded and took an obedient sip. The bubbles tickled my nose
and I thought, quite absurdly, that I was going to cry.
377

How well do you know the person you have married? You
exchange vows, gold rings, build a home, raise a family. You sleep
side by side every night, gazing upon your spouses naked body so
often it becomes as mundane as your own. Maybe you have sex.
Maybe you havefelt your husband's fingers digging into your ass,
urging you closer, guiding youfaster, asking you in a low guttural
tone, How do you like that? Is it goodfor you?” Yet this is the same
man who will slip out ofbed six hoursfrom now andprepare waf¬
fles with your daughter's favorite ruffled apron tied around his
waist and perhaps even a butterfly barrette, graciously supplied
by the four-year-old, clipped into his hair.
If you can marvel at his sweetness, your husband's ability to
be both your carnal lover and your daughter's indulgentfather, is
it not so much of a stretch then to wonder what other roles he could
play? What other parts of his personality are just waiting to be
dialed into place?
All through dinner, Ree giggled and Jason smiled and I sipped
champagne. I thought of my husband and his lack of family and
friends. And I sipped more champagne. I remembered how easily
he’d convinced me to adopt a new name when we’d moved to
Boston—all to help protect mefrom myfather, he’d claimed at the
time. And I sipped more champagne. I recalled his late nights
hunched over the computer. The websites he frequented that he had
gone to great lengths to hide. And I thought ofthat photo. Ifinally,
six months later, fixated on that lone black-and-white photo of a
terrified young boy, the hairy black spider clearly visible as it
crawled across the boy's naked chest.
And I sipped more champagne.
My husband was going to kill me.
It was so clear to me now I didn’t know why I hadn’t real¬
ized it sooner. Jason was a monster. Maybe not a pedophile,
maybe something worse. A predator ofsuch miswired proportions
that he remained indifferent to his beautiful young wife, while
378

lasciviously cultivating terrible images of frightened young
children.
1 should've listened to Wayne. I should've told him where we
were going, except I had never thought to ask. No, I trusted my
husband, let him lead me straight to slaughter without pressing
for a single detail. Me, the very person who spent her entire child¬
hood learning you can’t trust anyone.
I sipped more champagne, moved the seared scallops around
on my plate. I wondered what he would tell Ree when it was all
over. There had been an accident, Mommy won’t be coming home
anymore. So sorry, baby, so sorry.
I poured Jason a second glass of champagne. He wasn't a big
drinker. Maybe if I could get him drunk enough, he'd miss me and
fall into the harbor himself. Wouldn't that be fitting justice1?
Jason finished eating. Ree, too. The black-vested waiter
appeared, ready to whisk our plates away. He gazed down at me
with great consternation.
“Was it not to your satisfaction? May I present you with
another choice?”
I waved him off with vague excuses of having eaten a big
lunch. Jason was watching me, but he didn't comment on the lie.
His dark hair had fallen across his forehead. He looked rakish, the
open collar of his dress shirt, the rumpled waves of his thick hair,
the deep impenetrable pools of his eyes. Other women were prob¬
ably admiring him when they thought I wasn’t looking. Perhaps
everyone was admiring us. Look at that beautifulfamily with
that gorgeous little girl who is so well behaved.
Didn’t we make a pretty picture? A perfect little family, if
only we survived the night.
Ree wanted ice cream for dessert. The waiter took her to the
gelato case to pick out a flavor. I topped offJason's glass with the
last of the champagne. He had barely touched his second glass. I
thought that was grossly unfair of him.
379

“Ipropose a toast, ”1 declared, definitely tipsy now andfeeling
reckless. v
He nodded, picked up his glass.
“To us, ”1 said. “For better orfor worse, for richer orfor poorer,
in sickness and in health. ”
I tossed back a quick hit. Watched my husband take a more
conservative sip.
“So what else are we going to do on family vacation ?” I
wanted to know.
“I thought wed visit the aquarium, maybe take the trolleys
around town, check out Newbury Street. Or, if you’dprefer, we
could do the museums, book a spa appointment or two. ”
“Why are you doing this?”
“What do you mean?”
“Why are you doing this?”/ waved my hand around the
restaurant, sloshing champagne. “The extravagant hotel, the fancy
restaurant. Family vacation. We’ve nrver done anything like this
before. ”
He didn’t answer right away, but twirled his own champagne
flute between his fingers.
“Maybe we should’ve been doing this before, ” he said at last.
“Maybe you and I spend too much time surviving life, and not
enough time enjoying it. ”
Ree returned, clutching the waiter’s arm with one hand and
the world’s largest bowl of gelato with the other. Apparently,
picking one flavor had been too hard, so she had settled on three.
The waiter gave us a wink, distributed three spoons, and quietly
disappeared.
Jason and Ree went at it. I just watched them, my stomach
churning, feeling like a condemned woman stepping up to the
chopping block and waiting for the ax to fall.
*
380

Jason called for a cab to take us back to the hotel. Ree had hit the
point where the gelato sugar rush was colliding with the late hour
to form one hypercranky child. I wasn’t moving so steadily on my
feet by then. The three glasses of champagne had gone straight to
my head.
I thought Jason seemed less than razor-sharp as he opened the
cab door and attempted to load Ree in, but I couldn’t be sure. He
was the most self-possessed man I’d ever met, and even two glasses
of alcohol barely seemed to affect him.
We made it to the hotel, managed to find our room. I got Ree
out of her fancy dress and into her Ariel nightie. A maid had
magically transformed the sofa into a bed, topping it with thick
blankets, four pillows, and two gold-foiled chocolates. Ree ate the
chocolates when I went in search of her toothbrush, then tried to
hide the wrappers by sticking them under the pillow. Her deception
would’ve worked better if not for the smear of chocolate ringing
her lips.
I herded her to the bathroom forface washing, tooth brushing,
and hair combing. She squealed, whined, and complained for most
of it. Then I corralled her back to her sleeping quarters, tucking
her into the bed with Lil’Bunny snug inker arms. Ree had packed
twelve books. I read two of them, and her eyes were already heavy-
lidded before I finished the last sentence.
I dimmed the desk lamp, then crept out of the room, closing
the door to a small crack behind me. She didn’t complain, a sure
sign of success.
In the master bedroom, I found Jason lounging on the bed. His
shoes were off, his jacket tossed over a chair. He had been watching
TV, but turned it off when I came in.
“How is she?” he asked.
1 ired.
“She did very well tonight. ”
“She did. Thank you. ”
381

“Didyou have a nice night?” he asked.
“Yes. I did. ” I moved closer to the bed', feeling awkward,
unsure of what to do, of what was expected of me. The champagne
had made me tired. But then I looked at my husband, his long,
lean body sprawled out on the expansive white comforter, and the
emotion I felt wasn’t exhaustion at all. I didn't know what to do
with myself, so mostly I stood there, twisting my hands over and
over again.
“Sit, ” he said presently. “Til help you with your boots. ”
I sat on the edge of the bed. He got up, kneeling before me and
taking the first boot between his hands. His fingers worked the
zipper, sliding it down the inside of my calfslowly, careful not to
snag the skin. He eased the right boot off, went to work on the left.
Ifound myselfleaning back, feeling his fingers whisper down
my calves, cup the heel of my nakedfoot as he stripped off my sheer
stockings. Had he ever touched my legs? Maybe when I was nine
months pregnant and couldn’t see my own feet. I swore it hadn’t
felt like this back then, however. I would’ve remembered this.
My stockings were off, and yet his fingers remained on my
skin. His thumb brushed down the inside arch of myfoot. I almost
jerked away, but his other hand held my foot in place. Then, both
his thumbs were moving, doing positively delicious things and I
found my back arching, my breath expelling in a little groan at
the decadence of a foot massage after a long night in tight leather
boots.
He movedfrom my rightfoot to my leftfoot, then hisfingers
were working their way up my calves, finding small knots,
kneading. Ifelt his breath behind my knee cap, the whisper of his
mouth brushing the inside of my thigh. The sensations kept me
transfixed, unable to move, reluctant to break the spell.
If I opened my eyes, he would disappear and I would once
again be alone. If I said his name, it would bring him back to con¬
sciousness and he would bolt downstairs to the goddamn computer.
382

I mustn’t move, I mustn’t react.
Yet, my hips were beginning to writhe on their own and I
was keenly aware of each touch of his rough-padded fingers, the
tickling sensation of his wavy hair, the silky smoothness of his
fresh-shaved cheeks. The champagne warmed my belly. His hands
warmed my skin.
Then he got up and walked away.
I bit my cheeks to stop the moan. Tears pricked the corners of
my eyes, and in that moment, Ifelt my loneliness more acutely
than I had during all of those nights he’d left our bed. It isn’t fair,
I wanted to scream. How could you?
Except then I heard the click of the door shutting between our
room and Ree’s sleeping area. Another rasp as he tended the chain
lock on the main door.
Then the bed sagged as he returned to me, stretching out beside
me. I opened my eyes to discover my husband of five years looking
down at me. His dark eyes were no longer so calm, no longer
inscrutable. He appeared nervous, maybe even shy.
Rut he said, in that calm voice I knew so well, “May I kiss
you, Sandra?”
I nodded yes.
My husband kissed me, slowly, carefully, sweetly.
I finally figured out that my husband had heard me the other
night. He wasn’t trying to kill me. He was granting me a second
child instead.
There are things you always wished you had'known sooner versus
later. If you had spoken up earlier, before the lie grew too big. Or
if you had braved the conversation in the beginning, before by its
very omission it became too much to handle.
I had sex with my husband. Or rather, we had sex with each
other. And it was slow, delicate, careful. Five years later, we still
383

had to learn thefeel of each others bodies, the way one gasp meant
I had done something well, and another gasp meant it was time
to ease back.
I had the impression that of the two of us, I was the one with
more experience. Yet it was important for him to take the lead. If
I pushed too hard, moved toofast, it would be over. A switch would
be thrown and wed be right back where we had started, strangers
who shared a bed.
So I let hisfingers dance across my skin, while discovering the
lean outline of his ribs beneath myfingers, the ripple of muscle on
his sides, the taut feel of his butt. There were indentations across
his back, markings of some kind. But if I tried to touch them, he
drew back, so I contented myself with threading my fingers
through the light whorls of hair on his chest, the broad, solidfeel
of his shoulders.
I reveled in the feel of his body, and hoped he found some kind
of satisfaction in mine. Then he loomed between my legs and I
parted them gratefully, arching my hips, taking him into me. At
the first moment ofpenetration, maybe I cried out, maybe I had
wanted him that much.
Then he was moving, and I was moving, and we didn't have
to be careful anymore and we didn't have to be awkward anymore.
Everything was as it should be and it all felt right.
I held him afterward. Pressed his head against my shoulder
and stroked his hair. He didn't speak, and there was moisture on
his cheeks which could've been sweat or maybe something else. I
liked lying with him like this, our legs entwined, our breaths co¬
mingled.
I may have had sex with a lot of men, but I have slept with very
few of them, and itfelt like I should grant my husband that much.
Ifell asleep thinking that family vacation was a positively
brilliant idea.
And woke up to the sound of a guttural cry.
384

*
My husband was rocking beside me. In the dark, I could feel his
movements more than I could see them. He seemed to be rolled into
a tight ball\ caught in the throes of a nightmare. I reached out a
hand to his shoulder. He jerked back.
“Jason?”I whispered.
He moaned lower, rolling away from me.
“Jason?”I tried again, voice louder now, but not too loud, as
I didn't want to wake Ree. Jason, wake up. ”
He rocked and rocked and rocked.
I placed two hands on his back and shook him hard. He went
shooting out of bed, scrambling across the room, crashing against
a wingback chair, tripping over a standing light.
“Don’t you fucking touch me!” he screamed, careening into a
corner. “Ifucking killed you! You're dead, you're dead, you're dead. ”
I was up out of the bed, hands out as if to brace myself. “Shhh,
shhh, shhh. Jason, it’s only a dream. Wake up, sweetheart, please.
It’s only a dream. ”
I reached for the bedside lamp, clicking it on, hoping the
sudden infusion of light would snap him back to his senses.
He turned his face away, grabbing the curtain and holding it
across his body as if to shield his nakedness.
“Go away, ” he whimpered. “Please, please, please just go
away. ”
But I didn't. I took one step closer to him. Then another.
Willing my husband to wake up, even as I willed my daughter to
remain asleep.
Finally, very slowly, he turned his face toward mine.
I sucked in my breath as I gazed at his oversized dark eyes,
still dilated by fear, wild with terror. Something clicked in the back
of my mind and all the pieces of the puzzlefinallyfell into place.
“Oh Jason, "I whispered.
385

And I realized at that moment that I had made a terrible,
terrible mistake. '
.
'
-
386

Chapter Thirty-four
The taxi pulled up in front of Aidan’s house slightly after ten
P.M. Aidan didn’t step out right away. He took his time
counting out a wad of wrinkled bills, while covertly studying
the surrounding bushes for signs of trouble. Was that hulking
shadow Mrs. H.’s rhododendron or another goon from Vito’s
garage? What about that dark spot over to the right? More
photogs hidden in the trees? What about the entire darkened
block, yawning behind him. Maybe somewhere, out there,
Jason Jones was ready to finish him off.
Screw it. Just move.
Aidan tossed twelve bucks at the driver, grabbed his
laundry, and scrambled from the cab, house keys clutched in
hand. He made it up the walkway while the taxi was still
idling in place. Aidan dropped the trash bags, jammed the
key in the lock, and managed to twist the door open the first
time, though his hands were trembling now, and he was so
overloaded on adrenaline and fear he could barely function.
He could hear the taxicab revving up, pulling away. Gotta
move, gotta move, gotta move.
He forced the door open, swinging the laundry bags
inside, then using his leg to kick the door shut behind him,
leaning against it for good measure while he struggled to
work the lock, finally firing it home.
He sagged then, sliding down the door, overcome with
relief. He was still alive. No goons had jumped him, no neigh¬
bors were picketing his front door, and no photogs were
38 7

peeking into his windows. The lynch mob had yet to arrive.
He started to laugh, hoarsely, maybe a tad hysterically,
because, honest to God, he hadn’t felt this strung out since
prison. Except he was a free man now—meaning, what was
there to look forward to? When would he ever complete his
time served?
He forced himself to stand, picking up his laundry,
schlepping the bags down the hall. He needed to pack. He
needed to sleep. He needed to get away from here. Become a
new person. Preferably a better person. The kind of stand-up
guy who could actually sleep at night.
He made it to the family room, dropping the trash bags
on the floral love seat. He was just turning toward the bath¬
room, when he became aware of the wind on his face. He
could feel a draft, floating into the tiny sitting area.
The sliding glass door was open.
Aidan realized for the first time that he was not alone.
D.D. was finishing up paperwork when her cell chimed at
her waist. She recognized Wayne Reynolds’s mobile number,
placing the phone to her ear.
“Sergeant Warren.”
“You have the wrong computer,” Wayne said. He sounded
slightly breathless, as if he were running.
“Excuse me?”
“Got an e-mail from Ethan. Kid’s smarter than we
thought. He sent Sandy an e-mail infected with a Trojan
Horse—”
“What?”
It s a kind of virus that allows you access to someone
else’s hard drive. You know, a friendly little e-mail that allows
the sender to be accepted inside the gates ...”
388
\

“Holy crap,” D.D. said.
“That’s my nephew. Apparently, he didn’t think I was
moving fast enough to protect Sandy from her husband, so
he took steps to expose Jason’s online activities himself.”
D.D. heard the rat-a-tat of feet on a stairwell. “Where
the hell are you, Wayne?”
“At the lab. Just got off the phone with Ethan, however,
and am bolting out to the car. Told him I’d pick him up, we’d
meet you there.”
“Where?” she asked in bewilderment.
“Here’s the thing: Ethan still has access to Sandy’s com¬
puter, and according to him, in the past forty-eight hours,
over a dozen users have utilized the computer to conduct var¬
ious online searches.”
“Is that part of the forensic evaluation? The computer
techs tracing Jason’s online tracks?”
“Absolutely not. You never work on the source. If your guys
had Jason’s computer, we should be seeing no activity at all.”
“I don’t get it.”
“You don’t have his hard drive. He switched it on you.
Replaced either the guts of the computer, or maybe the whole
damn thing. Don’t know; have to see it to believe it. In the
meantime, he hid the real computer in a flipping brilliant
location.”
“Where? Dammit, I’ll have a warrant in the next twenty
minutes!”
“Boston Daily. Ethan can read the e-mail addies of the
users, all of whom are Boston Daily accounts. Best guess: Jason
stuck his computer in the newsroom offices, probably at some
random desk. I’ll grant him this much—the son of a bitch is
clever.” From the background came the groan of a steel fire
door being forced open, then the corresponding slam as
, Wayne exited the building.
389

D.D. heard the jangle of keys, the longer thump of
Wayne’s stride hitting the parking lot. She closed her eyes,
trying to process this news, foresee the legal implications.
“Crap,” she said at last. “I can’t think of a single judge who’d
let me seize every single computer at a major media outiet.”
“Don’t have to.”
“Don’t have to?”
“Ethan’s currently tracking the computer’s activity on his
mother’s iPhone. Minute a user logs on, he can see the e-mail
address. Meaning, all we have to do is be at the office, locate
the user with that e-mail address, and wherever that person
is sitting, there’s your computer.”There was another muffled
sound, then a curt, “Hold on a sec, getting the door.”
From the background came the creak of a car door
opening, then slamming shut. D.D. was out of her chair, grab¬
bing her jacket. She’d need to prep a quick warrant, find a
succinct way of defining such avant-garde search perimeters,
then decide which judge to call this time of night....
“So,” Wayne’s voice returned. “I’ll grab Ethan. You grab
the warrant. We’ll meet you there.”
“I’ll grab Ethan,” she corrected him, exiting her office.
“Miller will get the warrant. You can’t be there.”
“But—”
“You can’t be alone with a witness, or at a scene with the
suspect’s computer. Conflict of interest, tampering with evi¬
dence, witness coercion. Need I go on?”
“Goddammit,” Wayne exploded. “I did not hurt Sandra!
I’m the one who called you, remember? Furthermore, this is
my nephew we’re talking about. The kid’s scared out of his
mind!”
• “Tell me you never slept with Sandra Jones,” D.D. replied
evenly.
“Come on, I’m in my car already. At the very least let me
39°

be at Ethan’s side. He’s only thirteen, for Christ’s sake. He’s
just a kid.”
“Can’t.”
“Won’t.”
Cant.
“Tough. My sister’s house is still fair game.”
“Don’t you dare!” D.D. started. Except she never got to
finish. She heard the roar of the car engine firing to life as
Wayne turned the key. Then she heard a curious little click.
He heard it, too.
“Dammit, no!” the forensic tech screamed.
Then his car exploded in the middle of the crime lab
parking lot.
D.D. dropped her phone to the ground. She remained
rooted in place, clutching her ringing ear and screaming for
Wayne to get out, get out, though of course it was much too
late.
Detectives were running. Someone told her to take a seat.
Then the first of their pagers started to sound. Officer down,
officer down.
Ethan, she thought.
They had to get to Ethan. Before Jason Jones did.
Aidan Brewster did not beg.
Maybe once, he would have. He would’ve fought to live,
he would’ve argued he still had value, he was a young guy with
plenty of potential. Hell, if he could just get beneath the hood
of a car, his hands on the engine ...
But he was tired. Tired of being afraid, tired of feeling
hunted. But mostly tired of missing a girl he never should’ve
fallen in love with in the first place.
So he stood in the middle of the family room. Right next
39i

to the floral love seat, his hand on Mrs. H.’s favorite crocheted
doily.
As the gun appeared in front of him, took aim at his gut.
No more worries, Aidan figured.
He thought of Rachel. She was smiling in his mind. She
was holding out her arms to him, and this time, when he took
her hands, she didn’t cry.
The gun fired.
Aidan fell to the floor.
Dying took longer than he thought. That made him mad,
so at the last moment, he flipped onto his belly, tried to crawl
to the phone.
Second shot took him in the back, between the shoulder
blades.
Well\ fuck me, Aidan thought. He didn’t move again.
Jason turned off his flashlight. He clutched the heavy metal
object as a weapon and eased himself carefully toward the
rickety attic stairs. The lit hallway provided a pool of illumina¬
tion spilling across the bedroom floor. He used it as his target,
placing his left foot on the top rung of the ladder, then his
right. The top step creaked, the attic ladder trembling
unsteadily beneath his weight.
Screw it. He slid down in a rush, landing with a solid
thud and rolling low into the darkened master bedroom.
Then he was up on his feet, preparing to dash into his
daughter’s bedroom and fight for her life.
He discovered his wife standing in front of him instead.
392

Chapter Thirty-five
“I don’t understand,” he faltered.
“I know.”
“Are you alive? Is this for real? Where have you been?”
She took the flashlight from him. Belatedly, Jason real¬
ized that he’d been brandishing it before him, threatening his
wife, who, apparently, had just returned from the dead.
She wore all black. Black trousers, black shirt. It wasn’t
an outfit he recognized, cheap, ill-fitting. He saw now that
there was also a dark baseball cap on the bed. The perfect
outfit for stealth. Was she stealing in, or stealing away? Why
couldn’t he understand what was going on?
“I saw the news,” she said quietly.
Jason stared at her.
“My father made the five o’clock broadcast, claiming he
deserves custody of Ree. I realized then that I had to come
back.”
“He claims you’re a liar,’’Jason murmured. “Your mother
was a fine, upstanding woman, and your father’s only sin was
loving his wife more than his daughter.”
“He said what}” Sandy asked sharply.
“You’re troubled, have a history of drinking, promiscuity,
perhaps multiple abortions.”
She colored, didn’t say a word.
“But your parents were solid. You were just jealous of your
mother, then furious about her untimely death. So you ran
away from your father, and then . . . you ran away from me.
393

You left us.” He was surprised, now that he was saying the
words out loud, how'much they hurt him. “You left me, and
you left Ree.”
“I didn’t want to go,” Sandy said immediately. “You have
to believe me. Something bad happened. And maybe he didn’t
kill me Wednesday night, but it was only a matter of time. If
I stayed, if he could find me. I ... I didn’t know what to do.
It seemed better if I disappeared for a bit. If I was gone, he
couldn’t want me anymore. It would make things all right.”
“Who? How? What the hell are you talking about?”
“Shhh.” She took his hands, and the first touch jolted
him. He didn’t know if the feel of her fingers against his skin
was the best or the worst thing that had ever happened to
him. He had wanted her. Prayed for her to come home.
Despaired over her return. And now, heaven help him, he
wanted to wrap his fingers around the white column of her
throat and hurt her as badly as her leaving had hurt him....
She must have seen some of it in his eyes, because her
grip on his hands tightened, becoming painful. She urged him
closer to the bed, and after a moment, he followed her. They
sat on the edge of the mattress, a couple returning to their
marriage bed, and still none of it made sense to him.
“Jason, I screwed up.”
“Are you pregnant?” he asked.
“Yes.”
“Is it mine?”
“Yes.”
“From ... from family vacation?”
“Yes.”
The breath finally left him. His shoulders sagged. He felt
bewildered, but less pained. He shrugged off her hands because
he had to touch her. This is what he had dreamed of doing,
what he had wanted to do, since he’d first heard the news.
394

He splayed his fingers across the slender expanse of her
stomach, seeking some sign of growth. That a little miracle
existed here. A real life. One they had .made together and—
at least on his part—with love.
“You’re still flat,” he murmured.
“Honey, it’s only been four weeks.”
His gaze finally came up. He stared at her, taking in her
shadowed blue eyes, gaunt cheekbones. He could see the
remains of a bruise above her right temple. A swollen cut on
her upper lip. His hands moved on their own, across her
stomach to her waist, her shoulders, her arms, her legs. He
had to feel each piece of her, to assure himself she was all here,
whole, intact, okay. That she was safe.
“I had to learn that you were pregnant from the police.
From some sergeant who’s one step away from hanging me.”
ut1> m sorry. n
He turned the screws a little tighter. “If they’d arrested
me, Ree would’ve become a ward of the state. They would’ve
placed her in foster care.”
“I never would’ve let that happen. Jason, please believe
me. I knew when I disappeared it might be risky. But I also
knew you’d take good care of Ree. You’re the strongest person
I know. I never would’ve done this otherwise.”
“Let me be accused of killing my pregnant wife?”
She smiled wanly. “Something like that.”
“Do you hate me?” he whispered.
“No.”
“Is our little family that intolerable?”
“No.”
“Do you love the other man more?”
She hesitated, and he felt that, too, another bruise to
nurse in the days and nights to come.
“I thought I did,” she said at last. “But then, I thought my
395

husband was Jason Jones. So I guess we re both very good at
wanting what we carft have.”
He winced, then forced himself to nod. This is what it
came down to in the end. He had started their marriage with
a lie, so if she chose to end it with a lie, well, who was he to
judge?
He removed his hands from her body. Sat upright,
squared his shoulders, steeled himself for what had to come
next. “You came back for Ree,”he stated. “So your father can’t
have her.”
But Sandra shook her head. She lifted her hand, brushing
the moisture from his cheek.
“No, Jason. You still don’t understand. I came back for
both of you. I love you, Joshua Ferris.”
D.D. made it out of Roxbury in record time. She had sirens
blasting, lights twirling, the whole nine yards. She was simul¬
taneously working her radio, demanding that officers be
immediately deployed to the Hastings residence. She wanted
Ethan Hastings safely in police custody and she wanted it
right now.
In addition, she wanted BPD detectives dispatched to the
state police crime lab crime scene, even if that pissed the state
off. Wayne Reynolds might be their man, but he was BPD’s
witness and whatever he’d known about Sandra Jones had no
doubt gotten him killed.
Furthermore, she wanted officers dispatched to the Boston
Daily offices. Not a single computer was to be touched until
they had further word from Ethan Hastings.
Finally, she had explicit instructions for the two officers
watching the Jones residence. If Jason Jones so much as
cracked open his front door, he was to be arrested. Pick him
396

up for loitering, late parking tickets, she didn’t care. But he
was not to leave the confines of his house unless he was
wearing a pair of BPD bracelets.
They had just lost a man, and she was furious.
So it definitely didn’t help when Dispatch returned to tell
her that two officers had arrived at the Hastings residence.
Unfortunately, the thirteen-year-old boy was not in his room
and his parents had no idea where he might have gone.
Three minutes past eleven, Ethan Hastings had vanished.
“How did you finally figure it out?”Jason was asking his wife.
“Your birthday. I was installing the iPod software on the
computer and I found a photograph in the recycle bin.”
“Which one?”
“You were naked, badly beaten. There was a tarantula
crawling across your chest.”
Jason nodded. His gaze was on the floor. “That’s the
hardest part,” he said, softly. “On the one hand, it’s been over
twenty years. I got away. The past is the past. On the other
hand, the man took so many photos ... and movies. He sold
them. That’s how he earned money. Selling child porn to
other pedophiles, who of course are still reselling the pictures,
over and over again. There are so many images out there, hun¬
dreds of countries, ten of thousands of servers. I don’t know
how to get them back. I can never get them all back.”
“You were abducted,” she said quietly.
“Nineteen eighty-five. Not a good year to be me.”
“When did you get away?”
“Three or four years later. I made friends with an elderly
neighbor woman, Rita. She let me stay at her place.”
“And the man just let you go?”
“Oh no. He came looking for me. Tied Rita up, handed
397

me the gun, and ordered me to kill her. That was my punish¬
ment for disobeying him.”
“But you didn’t.”
“No.” He finally looked at her. “I shot him. Then, when
he went down, I kept plugging him with bullets, just for good
measure.”
«T1> m sorry. »
He shrugged. “It’s been a long time. I killed the man.The
police returned me to my family. The case records were sealed,
and I was told to get on with my life.”
“Was your family mean to you? Did they resent what had
happened, what you’d been forced to do?”
“No. But they were normal. And I . . . wasn’t.” He
regarded her thoughtfully. Inside, the bedroom was dark and
gloomy. Outside, the media mob blasted the front of their
home with a thousand watts of klieg fights. To him, it seemed
somehow fitting. They were like two kids, hunkered under
the blankets, exchanging scary ghost stories long after the
adults had gone to bed. They should have done this the first
night, he realized now. Other couples went on honeymoons.
They should have done exactly this.
He could feel Sandy’s leg against his leg, her fingers inter¬
twined with his fingers. His wife, sitting beside him. He
wanted to keep her here.
He said, “You once told me, what’s done can’t be undone.
What’s known can’t be unknown. You were right. We’re
marked, you and I. Even in the middle of a crowded room,
we will always feel alone. Because we know things other
people don’t know, because once we did things, or had to do
things, that other people have never had to do.
“The police sent me home, but not even for my parents
could I magically become a real boy. It distressed them. So
on the morning of my eighteenth birthday, when I came into
398

the stock Rita had left for me, I took off. Being Joshua Ferris
didn’t feel right. So I took another name. Then another, and
another. I became something of an expert on inventing new
identities. It soothed me.”
Sandra rubbed the back of his hand. “Joshua—”
“Jason, please. If I had wanted to be Joshua, I would’ve
stayed in Georgia. I moved here, we both moved here, for a
reason.”
“But that’s what I don’t understand,” she blurted out. “By
your own words, you and I have so much in common. So why
didn’t you tell me these things before? Especially once you
knew about my mother. Surely you could’ve shared then.”
He hesitated. “Because I don’t just retrieve pornographic
photos off the web. I, uh ... Well, let’s just say I tried therapy,
but it didn’t work for me. Then, one night, I got onto my par¬
ents’ computer and I started visiting the chat rooms. I . . .
made the rounds, found the kind of guys who liked to prey
on a kid like me. And I developed a system: I entice them to
hand over their credit card numbers and other personal infor¬
mation in return for my old pornographic photos. Then I nail
them to the wall. I liquidate their accounts, max out their
credit cards, open home equity lines of credit in their names,
transferring all of their assets to the National Center for
Missing & Exploited Children. I wrap them up and drain
them. Like a spider. I have become, I suppose, just as good a
predator as the one who once trapped me.
“It’s all highly illegal,” he finished. “And it’s the only thing
that keeps me sane.”
“That’s what you’re doing at night? Why you spend all
your time on the Internet?”
Jason shrugged. “I don’t sleep well. Probably never will.
Might as well do something useful with the time.”
“What about your family?”
399

“My family wanted Joshua, and Joshua doesn’t exist any¬
more. On the other hind, Jason Jones has a beautiful wife and
a gorgeous little girl. He couldn’t ask for a better family.”
“I don’t understand,” she said. “Why did you marry me?
If you just wanted a child, surely there are easier ways than
saddling yourself with a wife—”
He placed two fingers over her lips, silencing her. “It’s you,
Sandy,” he whispered softly. “It’s always been about you. Since
the first moment I saw you, you were the woman I wanted.
I’m a terrible husband. I can’t... do ... everything a husband
should do. I can’t say everything a husband should say. I’m
sorry for that. If I could turn back time, so maybe I wasn’t out
on my bike that day, heading down the road, when this guy
turned right in front of me and my bike went down and I fell
to the ground and then there he was, looming above me ...”
He shook his head. “I know I’m not perfect. But when
I’m with you, when I’m with Ree, I want to try. Maybe I can
never be Joshua Ferris again. But I’ve worked real hard at
being Jason Jones.”
She was crying now. He could feel her tears on his fingers.
He lifted his other hand to her face, using his thumbs to
brush the moisture from her cheeks. He was gentle, unbear¬
ably conscious of the cut on her lip, the bruise on her temple,
the rest of the story he had yet to hear but would no doubt
break his heart.
His wife had been beaten, and he hadn’t been there for
her. His wife had been hurt and he had not protected her.
“I love you,” she whispered against his fingertips. “I fell
in love with you the day Ree was born, and I’ve been waiting
for you to love me ever since.”
He studied her in bewilderment. “Then why did you leave
me? Was it because of Aidan Brewster?”
Her turn to look confused. “Aidan Brewster? Who’s that?”
400

D.D. was just hitting Southie when Dispatch returned.
Reports of gunfire, nearest units please respond. Dispatch rat¬
tled off the address, and D.D. immediately connected the
dots.
She was on her radio in an instant. “Does that address
belong to a Mrs. Margaret Houlihan? Please confirm.”
A moments delay, then the muffled reply.
“Dammit!” D.D. hit the wheel. “That’s Brewster’s address.
Who the hell is on the scene?”
“Officers Davis and Jezakawicz are at the residence. There
has been no response to their repeated knocks on the door.”
“Break it down. I’ll be right there.”
Then D.D. pulled a hard left and was racing for Aidan
Brewster’s apartment. An explosion. A missing teenager.
Shots fired. What the hell was going on tonight?
“Ever since September,” Sandra was saying, “I’ve been worried
that you were some kind of predator, doing terrible things
online. So I started learning more about computers, and in
the course of doing that, I met Wayne Reynolds.” .
“You fell in love with the state computer guy,” Jason
stated. He withdrew his hands, fisted them on his lap. Maybe
that wasn’t fair of him, but he could only give as much as he
could give.
“I became infatuated.”
“You slept with him.”
She immediately shook her head, then hesitated. “But
sometimes, on the spa nights ...”
“I know about the spa nights,” Jason said curtly.
“Then why did you let me go?”
401

He inhaled, exhaled. “I didn’t think it was fair to punish
you for my failings.
“You can’t have sex.”
“We did have sex.”
“Did you like it?” she asked curiously.
He managed a crooked grin. “I’d be willing to try it
again.”
That made her smile, eased some of the tension. But then
her expression grew somber again, and he leaned closer, so he
could study her eyes in the dark.
“After our family vacation,” she said, “when I realized that
the photo I saw wasn’t something you’d done, but something
that had been done to you, I tried to break it off with Wayne.
Except he didn’t take it so well. He thought you were coercing
me, that I didn’t know what I was doing. He threatened to
turn you in to the police if I didn’t keep seeing him.”
“He wanted you for himself.”
“I found out I was pregnant,” Sandra whispered. “I took
the test last Friday. And I realized then that I really did
need to end things with Wayne. I’d been stupid, reckless.
But ... I wanted you, Jason. I swear, I just wanted to be
with you and Ree and whatever little life we’ve made
together. So I e-mailed Wayne again, told him that I’d
made a mistake, and that I was sorry, but I’d decided to save
my marriage.
“He called me immediately. Agitated, angry. He kept
trying to tell me that I wasn’t thinking straight. He seemed
to think that you had some kind of hold over me, maybe you
were beating me into submission, I don’t know. But the more
I tried to tell him everything was okay, the more he became
convinced he had to save me.
“I broke off all contact. Stopped answering his calls, his
text messages, his e-mails. I purged accounts. I did everything
402

I could think of. I just wanted him to go away. And then,
Wednesday night...”
She looked away. Jason caught her chin in his hand and
brought her gaze back to him. “Just tell me, Sandy. Let’s just
get it all out, then we can determine where to go from here.”
“Wayne appeared. Right here. In our bedroom. Appar¬
ently, he’d made an impression of my house key the last time
I’d met with him. His face was red, angry. He was holding a
baseball bat.”
She broke off. Her gaze was out of focus, seeing some¬
thing only she could see. Jason didn’t interrupt. Just waited.
“I tried to stop him,” she whispered. “Tried to calm him
down, tell him everything would be okay. I’d resume talking
to him, go to the basketball games, whatever. Just, he needed
to leave. He needed to go home.
“He hit me. With his hand. He struck me, here. Here.”
Her fingers idly brushed the bruises on her face. “I fell on the
bed and he came after me. I stopped fighting. There didn’t
seem to be any point, and I thought, maybe if I just submitted,
he wouldn’t be so angry. He’d finish and go away, before
something worse happened. I was terrified about the baby,
and Ree, of course. And you, too. What if you came home
and found us, and he grabbed the bat....
“So many terrible things were going around in my head.
Then . . . Ree appeared. She’d heard the noise and come to
our bedroom. She was standing in the doorway, half-asleep.
She said, ‘Mommy.’
“The second he heard her voice, he stilled. I thought that
was it. He’d kill her, kill me. It was over. So I pushed him off.
Told him not to move. Then I pulled my nightgown down,
walked over to our daughter, and escorted her back to her
room. I told her that Mommy and Daddy had been wrestling.
Everything was okay. I’d see her in the morning.
403

“She didn’t want to let go of my hand at first. I got anx¬
ious. I thought if I didn’t get out of the room fast enough,
maybe he’d come in. Bring the Louisville Slugger. So I swore
to her that I had to go away for a moment, but that I’d be
back. Everything was okay. I wouldn’t be gone long.”
“She let you go.”
Sandra nodded. “And when I returned to the room,
Wayne was gone. I think Ree scared him. Maybe she shamed
him back to his senses; I’m not sure. I went downstairs, redid
the locks, not that they would do much good against a man
with a key. Then I started to clean up. The bloody comforter,
the broken lamp. Except...”
He rubbed the back of her hand. “Except...”
She looked at him, “Except I started to realize that
nothing I did would be enough. Wayne works for the state
police. He has a key to our house. Maybe he didn’t kill me
that night, but what about the next, or the next? It’s not like
a guy shows up with a baseball bat when all he wants to do is
talk. He might press charges against you for the computer
image, putting my husband in jail. Or heaven help us, he
might go after Ree. She thinks he’s a friend. She’d get in a car
with him. I started to realize ... I started to realize that I’d
made a huge mess of things.”
“So you ran away.”
She smiled thinly, catching the edge in his voice even as
he tried to flatten it out. “I thought the only way to be safe
from a man like Wayne was to have public knowledge of our
relationship. If it was known that he was involved with me,
then he couldn’t hurt me or my family, right? He’d be an auto¬
matic person of interest.”
Jason couldn’t follow her train of thought. “I guess.”
“So, I decided to disappear. Because if I disappeared, then
the police would investigate, right? They’d learn about Wayne,
404

then when I reappeared, I’d be safe. He wouldn’t dare do any¬
thing; it would cost him his career. Sol retrieved your lockbox
from the attic—”
“I never told you about the lockbox.”
“Ree did. She saw you after Christmas, when you were
putting away the ornaments. She spent most of January chat¬
tering away that you had a treasure chest in the attic and now
constantly demands to go ‘treasure hunting.’ I thought she
meant that you had a box of mementos or something, but
then, in the past few months, given everything that’s been
going on, I’ve been reconsidering you. How easily you
changed your name from Johnson to Jones. Our considerable
cash reserves, which you never talk about, but I know are
there from reading the bank statements. I decided to do a
little digging around in the attic. It took me a couple of tries,
but I finally discovered the metal box. The cash was very
useful, the fake IDs ... troubling.”
“Escape plans are important to me,” he said.
“There’s only ID for you. Not for a family.”
“I can change that.”
She smiled, more warmly now, and he found himself
taking her hand again, tucking her fingers inside his.
“I threw on your old clothes, all in black,” she said. “I
stuck the cash and IDs in my pocket—cash for me to use,
IDs for me to hold so you didn’t disappear while I was gone.
I used one of our spare keys to lock the door behind me, then
I hid behind the bushes until you returned.”
“You hid in the bushes?”
“I couldn’t leave Ree alone,” she said earnestly. “In case
Wayne returned. I couldn’t just leave her. It was hard—” Her
voice broke. “It was very hard to walk away. You have no idea.
Leaving the two of you ... I kept telling myself it would only
be for a few days. I’d lay low, stay at some cheap hotel, paying
405

cash. Then, when the police started questioning Wayne, I’d
reappear, say I’d gotten overwhelmed, some sort of Mom
excuse, and after a few embarrassing days, the dust would
settle and we’d continue on with our lives.
“I never expected my father would show up. Or they’d put
Ethan through the wringer. Or ... I don’t know. Everything
grew bigger than I expected. The media attention, the police
scrutiny. It’s all gotten out of hand.”
“You have no idea.”
“I had to cut through four back yards just to sneak into
my own home tonight. It’s crazy out there.”
“So how are you going to do this?”
She shrugged. “Throw open the front door and declare,
‘I’m back....’ Let the photographers click away.”
“The reporters will eat you alive.”
“I have to pay for my mistakes sooner or later.”
He didn’t like it. And pieces of the story nagged at him.
Sandy’s lover hadn’t taken no for an answer, so she’d thought
to expose the relationship by disappearing? Why not just go
public with the affair? Tell him, notify the state police. Her
vanishing act seemed extreme to him. Then again, she’d just
been assaulted, had been terrified for Ree. Her level of phys¬
ical duress, mental exhaustion ...
He wished again he had been home Wednesday night.
He wished he had kept his family safe.
“Fine,” he said. “We’ll do this together. Walk out together,
hand in hand. I’m already the menacing husband. You can be
the ditzy wife. Tomorrow they’ll crucify us; by end of week,
we’ll have our own reality TV show and be sharing a couch
with Oprah.”
“Can we do it in the morning?” Sandy asked. “I want to
wake up with Ree. I want her to know I’m all right. Every¬
thing’s good again.”
406

“Cant argue with that.”
They stood together. They had just taken the first step,
when they heard a sudden dull roar from outside. Curious,
Jason crossed to the bedroom window, cracking the blind and
peering out.
One by one, all the news vans with their enormous klieg
lights, camera crews, and news reporters were suddenly
packing up and pulling away. He watched the first one do a
U-turn, then another, then another.
“What the hell?” he murmured. Sandra had come up
behind him.
“Something bigger must’ve happened.”
“Bigger than your return from the dead?”
“They don’t know about that yet.”
“True,” he said. But the sudden darkness outside discom¬
fited him after two nights of blazing lights. Then, suddenly,
he was aware of something else. A high-pitched scrape, like
tree branches against a bare window, except their property
didn’t have any trees that close to the house. From the back
yard, he realized, and it was already moving away from the
window, toward the hall.
“Stay here,” he ordered.
But he was too late. They both heard it at the same time:
the tinkling of shattering glass, someone breaking through a
back window.
407

\
Chapter Thirty-six
“Shot twice,” D.D. was reporting to Miller, who’d just arrived
at the Brewster scene after being called out of bed. D.D. had
been at the house for nearly twenty minutes already, so she
was bringing him up to speed. “First time in the stomach,
second time in the back, between the shoulder blades, appar¬
ently as he tried to crawl away.”
“Messy,” Miller observed.
“Certainly not professional. This was personal business,
through and through.”
Miller straightened, wiping at the Vicks he’d smeared on
his mustache. Gut shots weren’t just messy, they were smelly.
Feces and blood and bile, all churned up and soaked into the
carpet.
“But Wayne Reynolds was taken out with a car bomb,”
Miller countered. “That’s a professional-grade hit.”
D.D. shrugged. “Guy can’t be in two places at once. So
he rigs a bomb for bachelor number one, and pays a visit to
bachelor number two. Either way, in one night, his competi¬
tion is eliminated.”
“You think Jason Jones did it.”
“Who else had links to both men?”
“So Jones kills his wife first, in a fit of jealousy, then sets
out to get revenge against the men he believes were her lovers.”
“Hey, crazier things have happened.”
Miller arched his brows, just to show his doubt. “Ethan
Hastings?”
408

“Bolted. Maybe he heard what happened to his uncle and
is scared it might be him next. Hell, maybe it could be him
next.”
Miller sighed. “Crap, I hate this case. Okay, so where’s
Jason Jones?”
“Sitting in his house, contained by two of Bostons finest
and most of the major news outlets.”
“Not the news outlets,” Miller corrected. “This made the
airwaves. By the time I pulled up, they were already lining the
street. Might want to fix your hair before you exit, because
we’re tomorrow’s news lead.”
“Ah shit. Can’t anything stay quiet anymore?” D.D. self¬
consciously touched her hair. It’d been nearly twenty hours
since she’d last showered or tended to personal hygiene. Not
the look any woman wanted to present to the world. She
shook her head. “One last thing,” she informed Miller. “Out
here.”
He obediently followed her to the glass sliders leading
outside. The back yard was dark compared to the lights
blazing around front. But Southie had small yards, mostly
fenced in, which kept the media at bay.
D.D. led Miller over to the tree she had checked out
during their first visit. The one with limbs perfect for
climbing up to see into the Jones residence. It occurred to
Miller now that those same tree branches made a nice ladder
over the neighbor’s fence. And sure enough, he saw exactly
what D.D. had meant.
-Up on the second branch, a smudge of black, which upon
closer inspection with their flashlights turned out to be a dark
brown leather glove.
“Think that glove fits Jason Jones?” D.D. asked.
“I think there’s only one way to find out.”
*
409

“Hide,” Jason whispered urgently. “In the closet. Now. You’re
missing, remember?NNo one will think to look for you.”
Sandy remained rooted in place, so he pushed her toward
the open closet, getting her inside and partially closing the door.
The footsteps were on the stairs now. Slow, stealthy. Jason
grabbed two pillows and shoved them under the sheets, a
poor attempt at fashioning a sleeping body. Next, he pressed
his back against the wall next to the door and waited. He was
very aware of his four-year-old daughter, sleeping just twenty
feet away. He was very aware of his pregnant wife, standing
in a closet only ten feet away. It made him feel icy, preternat-
urally calm. Deep inside a zone, where if he had a gun, he’d
be emptying a clip into the intruder by now.
The footsteps paused in the hallway, probably outside
Ree’s closed door. Jason found himself holding his breath,
because if the intruder opened that door, woke up Ree, tried
to grab her ...
A soft shuffling sound as the intruder eased forward one
step, then another.
Another pause. Jason could see a shadow in the doorway,
hear the sound of low, even breathing.
“Might as well come out now, son,” Maxwell Black
drawled. “I heard you moving when I was coming up the
stairs, so I know you’re awake. Keep this simple, and your
daughter won’t get hurt.”
Jason didn’t move. He held the heavy metal flashlight by
his hip, debating his options. Maxwell hadn’t stepped far
enough into the room for Jason to ambush him. The crafty
old man stayed a foot back from the open doorway, enough
in the hallway so he could see into the room while keeping
his sides protected.
The hall floor creaked slightly, a man moving backward,
one step, then two, then three.
410

“I’m at her door now, son. All I gotta do is turn the knob,
flick on her light. She’ll wake up. Ask for Daddy. What do
you want me to tell her? How much do you want your little
girl to know about you?”
Jason finally eased away from the wall. He moved out just
slightly, enough that Maxwell could see his profile, without
exposing all of his body to the hallway. He kept the flashlight
behind his back.
“Little late for a social call,” Jason said evenly.
The old man chuckled. He stood in the middle of the lit
hallway, outside of Ree’s room. He hadn’t been bluffing; the
man had one gloved hand on Ree’s doorknob. In the other
black-gloved hand, he held a gun.
“You’ve had a busy night,” Maxwell said, gun coming up,
aiming somewhere around Jason’s left shoulder. “Shame you
had to kill young Brewster like that. Then again, most people
think death is too good for those perverts.”
“I don’t know what you’re talking about.”
“That’s not what the police are thinking. Bet they’re
tossing his place right now. Finding some old love letters
Sandy wrote years and years ago stuffed under his mattress.
Then there’s the discarded glove here, broken branch there. I
give them twenty, thirty minutes, and they’ll be here to arrest
you. Means we’d better keep this quick.”
“Keep what quick?”
“Your suicide, boy. Christ almighty, you killed your wife,
shot her lover. You’re wracked with guilt, consumed with
remorse. No way a man like you can be a fitting father. So, of
course, you came home and shot yourself. The fine detectives
will find your body, read your note.They can dot the is and
cross the /s. Then I’ll take Ree away from all this sadness to
a whole new life in Georgia. Don’t worry: I’ll do right by her.”
Jason heard a sharp hiss of indrawn breath from the

closet. He took a step closer to the doorway, trying to keep
Max’s focus on him.'
“I see. Well, it sounds like quite a plan, Max. But I see
one flaw in it already.”
“What’s that?”
“You can’t shoot me from the hallway. Surely, you’ve
learned from enough criminal cases by now. First thing that
gives away a fake suicide is the lack of gunshot residue. No
GSR on the contact wound means the gunshot was not self-
inflicted. I’m afraid if you want this to be suicide, you’re gonna
have to be up close and personal.”
Maxwell contemplated him from the hallway. “The
thought had occurred to me,” the old man said. “All right, step
into the light.”
“Or what, you’ll shoot me? I don’t think so.”
“No. I’ll shoot Ree.”
Jason shivered. But he forced himself to call the bluff. “No
dice. According to you, this whole game is precisely so you
can have Ree. Killing her would be like cutting off your nose
to spite your face.”
“Then I’ll wake her up.”
“No you wbn’t. Come on, Maxwell. You want me. Well,
here you go. I’m armed only with my wits and charming dis¬
position. Come and get me.”
Jason dissipated into a dark corner of the room. He was
grateful now for the tightly drawn blinds, the lack of revealing
shadows. The room was not large, and he could not outrun a
speeding bullet, but this was his bedroom, one he’d wandered
at all hours of the night. Plus, he had a secret: He had Sandra,
tucked safely inside the closet.
There was a moment’s pause, then Jason knew Maxwell
was coming because the hall light winked out. Another half
a dozen beats of time, the old man letting his vision adjust to
412

the gloom, then came the first cautious footsteps into the
bedroom.
Banging, directly below. “Police. Open up. Police!”
Max cursed under his breath. He turned toward the
sound and Jason pounced. He crossed the room in three
strides, catching the older man around the waist and sending
them both crashing to the floor. Jason hoped for the skittering
sound of Maxwell’s gun sliding across the hardwood floor. No
dice.
Jason had half his weight on the man’s legs, trying to pin
Maxwell to the floor while he grappled for possession of the
handgun. Maxwell surprised him with his wiry strength. The
old man twisted around, nearly breaking free.
The gun, the gun. Dammit, where was the gun?
“Police. Open up! Jason Jones, we have a warrant for your
arrest. ”
He was grunting. Trying not to make too much noise but
aware now that youth was no match for a bullet and if he
didn’t get his hands on that damn weapon . . . He felt the
barrel dig into his thigh. Jerked his hips left, trying to roll his
lower body clear while his hands followed the line of
Maxwell’s arms. The gun, now between them, both of them
heaving on the floor. Maxwell, getting his arms half up ...
The closet door, flying open, Sandra standing there.
“Stop, Daddy, stop! What are you doing? For heaven’s sake,
let him go.”
Maxwell spotting his daughter. His stunned expression
as the gun exploded.
Jason felt the first searing pain in his side, lightly at first.
A scratch, he thought vaguely. Just a scratch. Then his rib cage
exploding with agony. Holy Mother of God...
And somewhere in his mind, he was seeing the Burgerman
again, the man’s shocked expression as Jason’s first bullet
4i3

caught him in the shoulder. The man’s legs starting to
crumple, his body sliding to the floor. As Jason lined up the
heavy Colt .45 for the next shot, and the next...
So this is what dying feels like.
“Daddy, oh my God, what have you done?”
“Sandy? Sandy, you’re all right? Oh baby. Baby, it’s so
good to see you.”
“You get away from him, Daddy. You hear me? You get
away from him.”
Jason was rolling away. Had to. Hurt, hurt, hurt. Trying
so hard to escape from the agony. His side was on fire. He
could feel his insides burn, which was funny, given the wet,
wet blood.
Crashing, downstairs. The police trying to break into his
home through a steel reinforced door.
Oops, he wanted to tell them. Too late.
He stumbled onto his knees, raised his head.
Maxwell was still on his ass. He was looking up at his
daughter, who now had the handgun and was staring down
at her father. Sandra’s arms were trembling violently. She had
both hands wrapped around the pistol grip.
“Baby, it was self-defense. We’ll explain it to the police.
He hurt you. I can see the bruises on your face. So you had to
get away and I was trying to help you. We came back ... for
Ree. Yes, for Ree, except this time he had a gun and he went
crazy on us and I shot him. I saved you.”
“Tell me why you killed her.”
“We’ll go home, baby. You, me, and little Clarissa. Back
to the big white house with the wraparound porch. You
always loved that porch. Clarissa will, too. We can set up a
porch swing. She’ll be so happy there.”
“You murdered her, Daddy. You killed my mother and I
watched you do it. Getting her drunk. Dragging her passed-
414

out body to the car. Attaching the hose to the exhaust pipe,
curling it around to the cracked window. Then starting the
engine, before bolting out and locking the car doors behind
you. I watched her wake up, Daddy. I stood in the doorway
of the garage, seeing the look on her face when she realized
that you were still standing right there, but that you had no
intention of helping her.
“I remember her screams. For so long, I fell asleep
smelling dying roses, and woke up hearing her goddamn
pitiful wails. But you never broke. Never lifted a hand. Not
as she tore off her own fingernails on the door latch or
bloodied her knuckles against the front windshield. She
screamed your name, Daddy. She screamed for you, and you
stood there and watched her die.”
“Baby, listen to me. Put down the gun. Sandy, sugar plum,
everything’s gonna be all right.”
But Sandy only tightened her grip on the weapon. “I want
answers, Daddy. After all these years, I deserve the truth. Tell
me. Look me in the eye and tell me: Did you kill Mama
because she hurt me? Or did you kill her because I was finally
old enough to serve as her replacement?”
Maxwell didn’t reply. But through the haze of pain, Jason
could read the expression on the man’s face. So could Sandy.
The steel doors and reinforced windows; all these years later,
she was still trying to lock Daddy out. Except now she had
something better than bolt locks. Now she had a gun.
Jason reached out his hand for his wife. Don’t, he wanted
to tell her. What’s done can’t be undone. What’s known can’t be
unknown.
But she had already done and known too much. So
Sandra leaned forward, pressed the barrel of the gun to her
father’s sternum, and pulled the trigger.
Downstairs, the front window finally crashed in.
4i5

While in the room next door, Ree started to scream.
“Jason—” Sandy'started.
“Go to her. Get our daughter. Go to Ree.”
Sandy dropped the gun. She raced out of the room as
Jason picked up the pistol, rubbed the grip clean against his
pant leg, then wrapped his own fingers around it.
Best he could do, he thought, and watched the ceiling
fade to black.
416

Chapter Thirty-seven
“You’re telling us you caught a taxi to the Boston Daily offices.
All by yourself? Entered the offices with no ID and nobody
tried to stop you?”
“Asked and answered,” Ethan Hastings’s lawyer inter¬
jected, before his thirteen-year-old client could speak up.
“Move along, Sergeant.”
D.D. sat in BPD’s conference room. She had Miller on
her right-hand side, and the deputy superintendent of homi¬
cide on her left. Across from them sat Ethan Hastings, his
parents, and a top Boston shark, Sarah Joss. Two weeks after
Wayne Reynolds’s untimely murder in the parking lot of the
state police crime lab, the Hastingses had finally allowed the
BPD access to their son. Given their choice of lawyers, how¬
ever, they weren’t taking any chances.
“Come on, Ethan,” D.D. persisted. “Your uncle told me
by phone that you had located the Joneses’ computer at the
Boston Daily offices. Then, all of a sudden, after wandering
the offices for three hours, you changed your mind?”
“Someone changed the security protocols,” Ethan
declared flatly. “I already told you that. I’d sent a virus. A
newer virus-protection software eradicated it. At least that’s
my best guess.”
“But the computer is still there. Has to be one of them.”
The boy shrugged. “That’s your problem, not mine.
Maybe you should hire better people.”
D.D. fisted her hands under the table. Better people, her
4i7

ass. They had security cameras showing Ethan entering the
Boston Daily offices shortly before eleven-thirty, apparently
driven there by a taxi he’d called using his mother’s iPhone.
While D.D. and the rest of the BPD had been running to
the state crime lab, the Aidan Brewster shooting, and then,
ultimately, the discovery of both Sandra Jones and her
wounded father and husband at the Jones residence, Ethan
had been working in the Boston Daily offices. Several late-
night reporters remembered seeing him there. But all had
been too busy with deadlines to pay attention to a kid.
They assumed he belonged to someone else who was
working late, and that had been that. They’d tended to their
stories and Ethan Hastings had ...
Definitely done something to the Jones computer, which
by all accounts no longer existed.
“We know your uncle was pursuing a relationship with
Mrs. Sandra,” D.D. tried now. “There’s nothing illegal about
two adults having a relationship, Ethan. You don’t need to
protect him.”
Ethan said nothing.
“On the other hand, your uncle implied that Jason Jones
might have been using the computer to engage in various
illegal activities.That, were very concerned about. So we need
to find the computer. And I’m pretty sure you can help us.”
Ethan stared at her.
“Remember what you said, Ethan,” D.D. tried again.
“Jason’s not a good husband. He made Mrs. Sandra unhappy.
Let us do our jobs, and maybe we can help with that.”
It was an underhanded ploy, but then, D.D. was feeling
desperate these days. Two weeks after on« of the bloodiest
nights in BPD’s history, she had three corpses and nobody to
arrest. It went against her DNA.
Sandra Jones was claiming she’d disappeared to get away
418

from an affair gone bad with Wayne Reynolds. Unfortunately
the publicity had drawn her estranged father back into the
picture. He had killed her mother eight years ago, then sexu¬
ally abused Sandra until she became pregnant at the age of
sixteen. She’d terminated that pregnancy with an abortion.
After that, she’d stopped staying home at night.
The police had found evidence in Maxwell Black’s hotel
room that tied him to Aidan Brewster’s shooting, plus bomb¬
making materials consistent with what was used in Wayne’s
car. According to Sandra, her father had confessed to killing
both men in an attempt to frame Jason. Maxwell had hoped
this would finally motivate the police to arrest Jason, paving
the way for him to seize sole custody of his granddaughter,
who would no doubt have become his next target.
Instead, when he broke into the Jones residence to frame
his son-in-law, he’d discovered his daughter alive and well.
He’d attacked Jason before Sandra had managed to wrestle
the gun from him and, according to Sandra, shoot her own
father in self-defense.
Maxwell Black was dead. Jason Jones had recently been
upgraded to serious condition at Boston Medical.
According to Sandra Jones, she deeply regretted the
damage caused by her impulsive disappearing act. She had
returned, however; her husband had never harmed a hair on
her head; and they could all move on with their lives now.
The whole thing rubbed D.D. the wrong way. Sandra was
sorry? Tell that to Aidan Brewster, who’d basically been exe¬
cuted as a convenient fall guy. Tell that to Wayne Reynolds,
who may have shown bad personal judgment, but up until the
moment of his death, remained professionally adamant that
Jason Jones was engaged in improper online activities.
Then there was Ethan Hastings, who’d disappeared for
nearly four hours on the night in question, but claimed he
419

had no idea what had happened to the Jones family computer.
For the record, D.D. had managed to get a warrant to
search every computer in the Boston Daily offices to identify
whether it belonged to the newspaper or to a private indi¬
vidual. They had used serial numbers retained by the news¬
paper and they had been very thorough. The Jones family
computer was not in the offices. It had vanished. Just like that.
Ethan Hastings had done something. No doubt in her
mind.
Unfortunately, the teenage whiz kid was proving a tough
nut to crack.
“Are we done?” his father was asking now. “Because we’re
here in good faith, and it seems to me that there’s nothing
more my son can tell you. If you can’t find the computer you
need for your investigation, that’s your problem, not ours.”
“Not if your son tampered with evidence—”D.D. started
to growl.
Her superintendent held up a quieting hand. He looked
at her, and she knew that expression. It was the investigative
equivalent of “Time to piss or get off the pot.” She had no
evidence to piss. Dammit.
“We’re done,” she announced in clipped tones. “Thank
you for your cooperation. We’ll be in touch if we need any¬
thing more.”
Subtext being, it’ll be a cold day in hell....
The Hastings entourage exited, Ethan staring at her bale-
fully as he walked out the door.
“He did something,” she muttered to her boss.
“Most likely. But he’s also still in love with his teacher. As
long as he feels like he’s protecting poor Mrs. Sandra ...”
“Who got his uncle killed.”
“Who was attacked by said uncle, at least according to
what she says.”
420

D.D. sighed. They had seized Wayne’s computer, with the
forensic techs recovering a fair number of e-mails between
the state geek and the beautiful social studies teacher. No
smoking gun, per se, but more e-mail volume than one would
expect in a strictly platonic relationship. And true to Sandra’s
assertion, all e-mails from her ceased five days before her dis¬
appearance, while Wayne’s computer showed dozens and
dozens of IMs sent by him to her, trying to get her attention.
“I want to arrest someone,” D.D. muttered. “Preferably
Jason Jones.”
“Why?”
“I don’t know. But a guy that cool and collected has skeletons
buried somewhere.”
“You thought the same thing of Aidan Brewster,” her
supervisor reminded her mildly, “and in the end, he had
nothing to do with anything.”
D.D. expelled her breath. “I know. Just makes you wonder
how the hell we’re supposed to know who the real monsters
are anymore.”
My husband came home from the hospital today.
Reeprepared a huge banner for him. It took her three days to
make it, covering the white butcher paper with pictures of rain¬
bows and butterflies and three smiling stick figures. Shed even
included an orange cat with six gigantic whiskers. Welcum
Home Daddy! the banner read.
We hung it in the living room, above the green love seat,
where Jason would get to recuperatefor the nextfew weeks.
Ree positioned her sleeping bag next to the sofa. I set up my
own nest of pillows and blankets. We camped out the first four
days, a haggard little trio needing to wake up each morning and
see one another'sfaces. Dayfive, Ree declared shed had enough of
421

camping and returned to her bedroom.
Just like that, we "moved on with our lives. Ree returned to
preschool. I finished out the school year. Jason picked up several
freelance gigsfor various magazines, while his ribs finished knit¬
ting together and his insides healed.
The press had to get in its digs. I was cast as Bostons very own
Helen of Troy, a woman whose beauty led to great tragedy. I don't
agree. Helen started a war. I ended one.
The police continued to sniffaround. The loss of our computer
bothered them and I could tell from the look on the sergeant'sface
that she didn't consider the matter closed.
I got to take a polygraph where 1 told the absolute truth: I had
no idea what had happened to our hard drive. The Boston Daily
offices? Ethan's possible involvement? It was a mystery to me. I
hadn't moved the computer and I certainly hadn't coached Ethan
in the matter.
I could tell that Jason expected to be arrested the moment he
returned home. The doorbell would ring and he would tense on
the love seat, steeling himself for what he thought would happen
next. It took him weeks before he finally seemed to relax. Then I
would catch him regarding me thoughtfully instead.
He didn't ask the obvious questions. I didn't volunteer the
answers. Even with our newfound closeness, we are a couple who
can appreciate the value of silence.
My husband is a very smart man. I’m sure he has connected
the dots by now. For example, I hadfed on Wednesday night from
Wayne Reynolds, who was rather conveniently blown to
smithereens the same night I returned to my family. Or that my
father confessed to killing Aidan Brewster, but never mentioned
Wayne. Interesting, if you consider that all the bomb-making
materials were discovered in my father’s hotel room.
Of course, anyone can figure out how to make a car bomb in
this day and age. All you have to do is search the Internet.
422

No doubt, this led my husband to connect a few more dots. For
example, what would lead Ethan to suddenly track down our
computer? Furthermore, why would he risk tampering with said
computer in a public area ? He certainly wouldn’t care that the
hard drive contained enough damning evidence to send Jason to
prison for life.
On the other hand, the true significance of several online visits
probably became clear in the moments after Ethan learned that
his uncle’s car had exploded. His Trojan Horse had shadowed my
activities as much as Jasons, and let’s just say that the full scope of
my Wednesday night Internet activities is best not to mention.
I have never spoken to Ethan on the subject. Nor will I. His
parents have banned all contact between us, transferring Ethan
to a private school. Out of respectfor Ethan, 1 have honored their
wishes. He gave me my family back, and for that, I will owe him
always.
I know Jason worries about me. I wonder if he gets the
irony—that my father murdered bachelor number one to frame
my husband, even as I murdered bachelor number two to frame
my father. Like father, like daughter? Great minds think alike?
Maybe I have simply learned a valuable lesson from my hus¬
band: You can be the hunted or you can be the hunter. Wayne
Reynolds threatened my family. After that, hisfate was sealed.
I will tell you the truth:
I don’t dream anymore of blood or decaying roses or my
mother’s high-pitched giggle. I don’t wake up with the sound of
my father’s last words in my ears, or the image of my almost lover
disintegrating in a giantfireball. I don’t dream of my parents, or
Wayne, or faceless men pounding into my body.
It is summer. My daughter is running through sprinklers in
her favorite pink swimsuit. My husband is smiling as he watches
her. And I laze in the back hammock, my hand on the gentle curve
of my rounded stomach, feeling our newestfamily member grow.
423

Once, I was my mother’s daughter. Now, I am my daughter’s
mother.
So I sleep well at night, tucked inside my husband’s solid
embrace, sound in the knowledge that my daughter is safe in the
room next door, with Mr. Smith curled up at her feet. I dream of
Ree’sfirst day ofkindergarten. I dream of my newborn baby’s first
smile. I dream of dancing with my husband at our fiftieth wed¬
ding anniversary.
I am a wife and a mother.
I dream of myfamily.
424

Acknowledgments
AND DEDICATION
As always, I’m indebted to the countless experts who patientiy
answered my pestering questions, as well as numerous family
and friends who patiently tolerated my writer-like (cranky)
ways. These are kind and brilliant people. I just type very fast
for a living. Oh yeah, and they are very smart. I, on the other
hand, have been known to make mistakes with the informa¬
tion they have tried so hard to drill into me.
First up, Rob Joss, Forensic Evaluator, who educated me
on the ways and means of assessing risk factors for sexual
predators. He also added the interesting insight that he’d
rather evaluate sex offenders for criminal courts than evaluate
parents for family court. After all, sex offenders are bad people
on their best behavior, while divorcing parents are good
people on their worst behavior.
Also, Katie Watkins, Executive Director, and Liz Kelley,
Forensic Interviewer, of the Child Advocacy Center of Car-
roll County. These two women spend 24/7 working the kind
of child sexual assault cases that would break mere mortals.
The rest of us would like the world to be a better place. They
are actively making it so.
To Carolyn Lucet, a licensed independent clinical social
worker who specializes in the treatment of sex offenders.
Thank you for opening my eyes to both sides of the story. As
a parent, I started this novel echoing Sergeant D.D. Warren’s
sentiments regarding sex offenders (not enough room in hell
for all of them). I’ll confess, Carolyn helped me appreciate
425

the value of rehabilitation, and that complex problems prob¬
ably deserve a more complex answer than, Hang them all and
let God sort it out.
To Theresa Meyers, Probation Officer, for offering
insight into the role of one of the least understood law
enforcement officers. A PO for more than eighteen years,
who now has second-generation parolees, Theresa astutely
observed that if we spent more on kids in the beginning, per¬
haps we wouldn’t have to spend so much on law enforcement
later on. I couldn’t agree more.
To Wayne Rock, of the Boston Police Department, who
previously assisted me with Alone, and kindly consented to
another round of questions so I could be current for this latest
D.D. Warren adventure. I appreciated the overview of proper
search-and-seizure, rules for questioning suspects, and, of
course, the nice tidbit on strategic use of trash night in the
neighborhood. Thanks, Wayne!
To Keith Morgan, Computer Forensic Technician, whose
insights into a hard drive’s lazy nature and guilty conscience
were fascinating, if a bit troubling, to a non-techie such as
myself. Keith wins the patience award, as it took me a few
tries to get all of the material right. At least I hope I got it all
right. Hey, all mistakes are mine, remember? That’s the joy
of being a writer.
Rounding out the pros are: Jack McCabe, Principal; Jen¬
nifer Sawyer Norvell, Esquire, of Moss Shapiro; Liz
Boardman, Laura Kelly, Tara Apperson, Mark Schieldrop,
and Betty Cotter with the South County Independent; and
finally, the Divas, who approved all Barbies, games, books,
and movies enjoyed by four-year-old Ree in this novel. Never
have I received so much advice from such adorable consult¬
ants, who were compensated entirely in Cheddar Bunnies.
In the fun but dangerous category: Congratulations to
426

Alicia Accardi, winner of the fifth annual Kill a Friend, Maim
a Buddy. Alicia Accardi nominated Brenda J. Jones, “Brennie,”
as the Lucky Stiff. According to Alicia, “Brenda’s had to fight
for what she’s got, has overcome a lot, and still struggles every
day, but has a heart as big as the whole outdoors, and would
give you the shirt off her back ... She deserves to be immor¬
talized.”
Also, Kelly Firth was our first-time winner of the Kill a
Friend, Maim a Mate Sweepstakes, the international compe¬
tition for literary immortality. Kelly nominated Joyce Daley,
her mother, who just turned sixty-eight and loves reading
crime thrillers. “She’s my mum and I wanted to show her how
much I love her.... I have told her, I couldn’t contain myself,
and she was absolutely thrilled.”
For those of you still hoping to get in on the action, never
fear. Both contests run every year at www.LisaGardner.com.
Check it out, and maybe you can nominate someone you love
to die in my next novel.
In closing, my deepest appreciation to my husband,
whose skills with his new ice cream maker made revisions to
this book much more fun and fattening than they otherwise
would’ve been; to my adorable daughter, who, yes, helped
inspire Ree, while always being a True Original; to Sarah, for
your constant care; to Mimi, who we still miss and wish the
best; to my brilliant editor, Kate Miciak, who definitely
improved this novel, even if I was very writer-like (cranky)
about it at the time; and finally to my fabulous agent, Meg
Ruley, and the rest of the team of the Jane Rotrosen Agency,
for having just the right way with writer-like (cranky) authors.
427

If you’ve enjoyed
The Neighbour
Don’t miss Lisa Gardner’s
thrilling new novel
Live to Tell
Coming soon from Orion
Price: £14.99
ISBN: 978-1-4091-0104-8

'
.

Prologue
Danielle
I don’t remember that night much anymore. In the beginning,
it seems like you’ll never forget. But time is a nebulous thing,
especially for a child. And year by year, bit by bit, details
started to fade from my memory. Coping skills, Dr. Frank
assured me. The natural evolution of my psyche starting to
heal. Nothing to feel guilty about.
But of course, I do.
I remember waking up to a scream. Maybe my mother’s,
but according to the police report, most likely my sister’s. It
was dark in my room. I was disoriented, couldn’t see. And
there was a smell in the air. That’s what I remember most
clearly after all these years. A smoky odor I thought might
be from a fire, but was actually cordite, drifting down the hall.
More noises. Things I could hear but not see: pounding
footsteps, the thud of a body falling down the stairs. Then my
father’s voice, booming from outside my bedroom door.
“Oh Danny girl. My pretty, pretty Danny girl. ”
My door opened. A bright glowing rectangle amidst a
field of black. My father’s shadow, looming in the doorway.
“Danny girl,” he sang more brightly. “My pretty, pretty
Danny girl.”
Then he tapped the gun against his forehead and pulled
the trigger.
*
3

I’m not sure what happened immediately after that. Did I get
out of bed? Did I dial 911? Did I try to revive my mother, or
maybe stop the blood pouring from my sister’s shattered head
or my brother’s broken body?
I remember another man walking into my room. He
spoke in a soothing voice, told me everything was okay now,
I was safe. He picked me up in his arms, though I was nine-
years-old and too big to be treated like a baby. He told me to
close my eyes. He told me not to look.
I nodded against his shoulder, but of course I kept my
eyes open.
I had to see. I had to record. I had to remember. It is the
duty of the lone survivor.
According to the police report, my father was drunk that
night. He’d consumed at least a fifth of whiskey before
loading his service revolver. He’d lost his job with the sheriff’s
department the week before—after being reprimanded twice
for showing up for work in a less than sober state. Sheriff
Wayne, the man who carried me out of the house, had hoped
the termination would force my father to clean up his act,
maybe join AA. I guess my father had other ideas.
He started in the bedroom, catching my mother next to
her bed. Then he moved on to my thirteen-year-old sister,
who’d stuck her head out of her room, probably to see what
was going on. My eleven-year-old brother also appeared in
the hallway. He tried to run for it. My father shot him in the
back, and Johnny fell down the stairs. It wasn’t a clean shot
and it took Johnny a while to die.
I don’t remember this, of course. But I read the official
report on my eighteenth birthday.
I was looking for an answer that I’ve never found.
4

My father killed my entire family except me. Did that
mean he loved me the most, or hated me the most?
“What do you think?” Dr. Frank always replied.
I think this is the story of my life.
I wish I could tell you the color of my mother’s eyes. I know
logically they were blue, because after my family died, I went
to live with Aunt Helen, my mother’s sister. Aunt Helen’s eyes
are blue, and judging by the photos I have left, she and my
mother were spitting images of each other.
Except that’s the problem. Aunt Helen looks so much like
my mother, that over the years, she’s become my mother. I see
Aunt Helen’s eyes in my mind. I hear her voice, feel her hands
tucking me in at night. And I ache because I want my mother
back. But she’s gone from me, my traitorous memory killing
her more effectively than my father did, so that I was driven
to look up police reports and crime scene photos, and now the
only image I have of my mom is a curiously slack face staring
up at the camera with a hole in the middle of her forehead.
I have photos of Natalie and Johnny and me sitting on a
porch, our arms around one another. We look very happy, but
I can’t remember anymore if my siblings teased me or toler¬
ated me. Did they ever guess that one night they would die,
while I would get to live? Did they ever imagine, on that
sunny afternoon, that none of their dreams would come true?
“Survivors’ guilt,” Dr. Frank would remind me gently.
“None of this is your fault.”
The story of my life.
Aunt Helen did right by me. She was over forty and childless,
a corporate lawyer married to her job, when I came to live
5

with her. She had a one-bedroom condo in downtown
Boston, so for the first year, I slept on the couch. That was
okay, because for the first year, I didn’t sleep anyway, so she
and I would stay up all night, watching reruns of I Love Lucy,
and trying not to think of what had happened one week ago,
then one month ago, then one year ago.
It’s a kind of countdown, except you never get any closer
to a destination. Each day sucks as much as the one before.
You simply start to accept the general suckiness.
Aunt Helen found Dr. Frank for me. She enrolled me in
a private school where the small class size meant I got con¬
stant supervision and lots of one-on-one care. I couldn’t read
the first two years. I couldn’t process letters, couldn’t
remember how to count. I got out of bed each day, and that
took so much energy, I couldn’t do much else. I didn’t make
friends. I didn’t look teachers in the eye.
I sat, day after day, trying so hard to remember each detail,
my mother’s eyes, my sister’s scream, my brother’s goofy grin,
I had no room in my head for anything else.
Then one day, when I was walking down the street, I saw
a man lean over and kiss his little girl on top of the head. A
random moment of fatherly tenderness. His daughter looked
back up at him, and her round little face lit into a million-
watt smile.
And my heart broke, just like that.
I started to cry, sobbing incoherently through the streets
of Boston as I stumbled my way back to my aunt’s condo.
When she came home four hours later, I was still weeping on
the leather sofa. So she joined me. We spent an entire week
crying together on the couch, with Gilligans Island playing in
the backdrop.
“The rat bastard,” she said when we’d finally finished
weeping. “That fucking, fucking rat bastard.”
6

And I wondered if she hated my father for slaughtering
her sister, or for saddling her with an unwanted child.
The story of my life.
I survived. And even if I don’t always remember, I do live, the
survivor’s ultimate responsibility.
I grew up. I went to college. I became a pediatric psych
nurse. Now I spend my days at a locked-down pediatric psych
ward in Cambridge, working with the six-year-old boy who’s
already hearing voices, the eight-year-old girl who self-
mutilates, the twelve-year-old big brother who absolutely,
positively can’t be left alone with his younger siblings.
We’re an acute care facility. We don’t fix these kids. We
stabilize them, using proper medications, a nurturing envir¬
onment, and whatever other tricks we can pull out of our
sleeves. Then we observe. We try to figure out what makes
each child tick, and we write up recommendations for the
next set of experts who will ultimately deal with these kids,
either at a residential program, or a long-term care institution,
or a supervised return to the home environment.
Some of our kids make progress. They become the best
person they can be, a triumph by anyone’s definition. Some of
our children commit suicide. Others commit murder. They
become that headline you’ve read in the paper: “Troubled Youth
Opens Fire”; “Older Brother Slaughters Entire Family”. And
people die, whether they had anything to do with it or not.
I know what you’re thinking. You’re thinking I took this
job to save lost children like myself. Or perhaps, even more
heroically, I took this job to avert tragedies like the one that
happened to my family.
I understand what you’re thinking.
But you don’t know me yet.
7

\
Thursday
Chapter One
Victoria
“I’m thirsty,” he says.
“What would you like?” I offer.
“Woman, bring me a drink, or I’ll break your fucking face.”
He doesn’t sound angry. That’s how these things often
go. Sometimes, the storm arrives quickly. One moment he’s
watching TV, the next he’s tearing apart the living room.
Other times, he lingers on the precipice. Say or do the right
thing, and calm will be restored. Say or do the wrong thing,
on the other hand ...
I get off the couch. It’s Thursday afternoon, an ungodly
hot and humid August day in Boston. The kind of day best
spent at a beach or at a giant swimming pool. Of course, nei¬
ther one is an option for us. We’ve spent the afternoon inside,
watching the History Channel while basking in air condi¬
tioning. I’d hoped a quiet day might be soothing for him.
Now I don’t know.
Inside the kitchen, I debate my options. A drink order
involves a vast array of land mines: First, guess the proper
8

beverage. Then select the right glass/mug/cup. Not to men¬
tion ice or no ice, straw or no straw, cocktail napkin or
coaster.
Once, I would’ve refused such a belligerent demand. I
would’ve demanded nice words, nice voice. I’m not your ser¬
vant, I would’ve reminded him. You will treat me with
respect.
These things happen, though. Not all at once. But bit by
bit, moment by moment, choice by choice. There are pieces of
yourself that once you give away, you can never get back again.
I go with the blue mug, a recent favorite, and tap water—
less mess when he inevitably tosses the contents into my face.
My hands are already shaking. I take several calming breaths.
He hasn’t gone over the edge yet. Remember; he hasn’t gone over
the edge. Not yet.
I carry the mug into the living room, where I set it on the
glass coffee table while watching him beneath my lowered
eyelids. If his feet remain flat on the floor, I will continue with
appeasement. If he’s already twitching, perhaps tapping a foot,
or rolling his shoulder in the way that often precedes a
sudden, hard-thrown punch, then I will bolt. Get down the
hall, grab the Ativan, and dope him up.
I’m telling you, there are pieces of yourself that once you
give away, you can never get back again.
He picks up the mug, feet stable, shoulders loose. He
takes an experimental sip, pauses ...
Sets it down again.
I have just resumed breathing, when he grabs the plastic
mug and slams it against the side of my head.
I reel back, not so much from the force of the plastic cup
as from the shock of the blow.
“What the fuck is this?” he screams, two inches from my
water-drenched face. “What the fuck is this?”
9

“Water,” I reply, stupidly.
He tries to club me again, more water spraying the couch,
then we’re off and running, me dashing for the medicine cab¬
inet in the downstairs lavette, him determined to wrestle me
to the ground so he can beat my head against the hardwood
floor, or wrap his fingers around my throat and squeeze.
He catches my ankle at the edge of the family room. I go
down hard on my right knee. Reflexively, I kick back. I hear
him roar in frustration as I break free and bolt four more steps.
He catches me in the side, crashing me against the wain¬
scoting. The chair rail slams into my ribs with bruising force.
“BITCH! Bitch, bitch, bitch.”
“Please,” I whisper. No good reason. Maybe because you
have to say something. “Please, please, please.”
He grabs my wrist, squeezing so hard I can almost feel
small bones grinding together.
“Please, sweetheart,” I whisper again, desperately trying
to remain calm, to sound soothing. “Please let go, honey.
You’re hurting me.”
But he doesn’t let go. I’ve read him wrong, missed the
signs, and now he’s gone to the dark place. I can say anything,
do anything —it doesn’t matter. He’s a feral animal, needing
someone to hurt.
And I think, as I often think during these times, that I
still love him. Love him so much my heart breaks more than
any bones, and now, even now, I have to be careful. I don’t
want to hurt him.
Then, in the next instant, I lash out with my foot, con¬
necting behind his kneecap. He goes down just as I wrench
my hand free. I race for the bathroom, crashing open the
medicine cabinet and scrambling for the orange prescription
bottle.
“I’m going to kill you!” he roars in the hallway. “I’m going
io

to stab you a million times. I’m gonna fucking rip off your
head. I’ll eat your heart, I’ll drain your blood. I’ll kill you, I’ll
kill you, I’ll kill you.”
Then, the sound I don’t want to hear—the whap whap
of his bare feet slapping down the hall as he reels around and
runs for the kitchen.
Ativan, Ativan, Ativan. Dammit, where's the Ativan1?
I hit the bottle with the side of my hand. It falls to the
floor, rolls across the tiles.
I hear another scream, pure unadulterated rage now, and
know he’s just discovered that I locked up the kitchen knives.
I did it two weeks ago, in the middle of the night, when he
was sleeping. You have to keep one step ahead. You have to.
The Ativan has rolled behind the toilet. My fingers are
shaking too hard. I can’t reach it, can’t roll it out. I hear
crashing now. Cherry cabinet doors being flung open, cups,
plates, serving platters being tossed onto imported Italian tile.
I changed everything over to Melamine and plastic years ago,
which only pisses him off more. He has to trash the kitchen,
does it every time, even as the lack of shattering damage
drives him further over the edge.
Another loud crash, then silence. I find myself holding
my breath, then bend over the toilet, scrabbling for the damn
prescription bottle. The quiet stretches on, unnerving me
more than the destruction.
What’s he doing? What has he discovered? What have I
missed?
Dammit, I need the Ativan now.
I force myself to breathe, to steady my strung-out
nerves. Towel, that’s the trick. Roll up the towel, poke it
behind the toilet, push the prescription bottle out the other
side. Got it.
Tranquilizer tablets firmly in hand, I creep into the

hallway of my now silent house, already terrified of what I
might find.
One step. Two, three, four ...
I approach the end of the hallway. Expansive family room
on the left, followed by formal dining room, leading to the
gourmet kitchen to the right, then circling around into the
vaulted foyer. I peer behind the dying ficus tree in the corner,
then tiptoe into the family room, mindful of the ambush
spots behind the L-shaped sofa, beside the battered enter¬
tainment unit, and underneath the tattered silk drapes.
What have I missed? What have I failed to consider and
what will it cost me?
Other images crowd my brain. The time he bolted out of
the pantry with a wooden meat tenderizer and cracked two
of my ribs before I managed to get away. Or the first time he
picked up a meat cleaver, going after my arm, but in his
enraged state, slicing open his own thigh. I was afraid hed
severed an artery and would bleed out if I ran away, so I stood
my ground, eventually wrestling the knife from his grasp.
Then I comforted him while he sobbed in pain and the blood
from both of our wounds soaked into the Persian rug in our
beautiful, vaulted entryway.
Can’t think of these things now. Must remain focused.
Find him. Calm him. Drug him.
I creep through the family room, approaching the dining
room, taking in all shadowed corners, trying to listen for sounds
from behind. The kitchen opens back into the foyer. That
makes it easy for him to circle around, attack from the rear.
One foot in front of the other. Inch by inch, prescription
bottle clutched like pepper spray in my fist.
I discover him in the kitchen. He has pulled down his jeans
and is now defecating on the rug. He looks up as I approach,
an expression of malevolent triumph crossing his face.
12

“What do you think of your precious rug now,” he sneers.
“Whaf s so fucking special about it now?”
I approach him steadily, holding out the bottle of Ativan.
“Please, baby. You know I love you. Please.”
For his response, he scoops up a pile of excrement and
smears it across his bare belly.
“I’m gonna kill you,” he says, calmer now, conversational.
I don’t say a word, just hold out the bottle of tablets.
“I’m gonna do it in the middle of the night. But I’ll wake
you up first. I want you to know”
I hold out the tablets.
“You locked up the knives,” he chants. “You locked up the
knives. But did you lock up all the knives? Did you, did you,
did you?”
He smiles, gleefully, and my gaze goes instinctively to the
drying rack, contents now strewn across the kitchen floor.
Had there been a knife in that rack? Had I washed one just
this morning? l eant remember, and that’s going to cost me.
Something is always going to cost me.
I twist off the lid of the prescription bottle. “It’s time to
rest, sweetheart. You know you’ll feel better after you’ve had
a little rest.”
I pour a couple of tablets into the palm of my hand, step¬
ping close enough that the heat and stench of his body floods
my nostrils. Slowly, I open his mouth with one finger and
poke the first quick-dissolving tablet into the pouch of his
cheek.
In turn, he cups his stained fingers around my neck and,
almost tenderly, rubs the hollow at the base of my neck.
“I will kill you quickly,” he promises me. “With a knife.
I’ll slide the blade in. Right here.”
His thumb brushes over the pulse beating wildly in my
throat, as if he’s mentally rehearsing the death blow.
i3

Then I can see his facial muscles start to relax as the drug
takes effect. His hand falls away, and he smiles again. Sweetly
now. A ray of sunshine through the storm, and I want to cry
but I don’t. I don’t.
There are pieces of yourself, so many pieces of yourself that
once you give away, you cannot get back again.
Ten minutes later, I have him in bed. I strip off what
remains of his clothes. Wipe down his body with a soapy
washcloth, though I know from previous experience that the
smell of excrement will Unger on his skin. Later, he will ask
me questions about that, and I will lie to him with my
answers, because that’s what I’ve learned to do.
I clean him up. I clean me up. The dishes will go through
the dishwasher, then be replaced in the cupboards. The rug
will be left on the curb on trash day. But all that can wait.
Now, in the silence of the aftermath, I return to his bed¬
room. I admire the quiet, still lines of his face. The way his
hair curves into one golden cowlick right above his left
temple, the way his lips always purse slightly in his sleep, like
a baby’s. I stroke my fingers across the softness of his cheek.
I take his hand, lax now, not hurting, not destroying, and hold
it in my own.
And I wonder if tonight will be the night he will finally
kill me.
Meet Evan, my son.
He is eight years old.
14

Sandra and Jason Jones seem like any
other couple raising a child. But then
Sandra disappears, leaving behind
her four-year-old daughter as the only
witness - and her handsome, secretive
husband is the prime suspect.
When Detective Sergeant D.D. Warren
arrives at the Jones’s bungalow, she
senses something off about the picture
of wholesome normality the couple
worked so hard to create. With the clock
ticking on the life of a missing woman,
and the media firestorm building, Jason
Jones seems more intent on destroying
evidence and isolating his daughter
than searching for his 'beloved’ wife.
Is the perfect husband trying to hide his
guilt - or just trying to hide?
Exclusive: includes the first chapter of
Lisa’s next book: LIVE TO TELL