









Contents




Cover


Title Page


Copyright


Dedication


Chapter 1


Chapter 2


Chapter 3


Chapter 4


Chapter 5


Chapter 6


Chapter 7


Chapter 8


Chapter 9


Chapter 10


Chapter 11


Chapter 12


Chapter 13


Chapter 14


Chapter 15


Chapter 16


Chapter 17


Chapter 18


Chapter 19


Chapter 20


Chapter 21


Chapter 22


Chapter 23


Chapter 24


Chapter 25


Chapter 26


Chapter 27


Chapter 28


Chapter 29


Chapter 30


Chapter 31


Chapter 32


Chapter 33


Chapter 34


Chapter 35


Chapter 36


Chapter 37


Chapter 38


Chapter 39


Chapter 40


Chapter 41


Chapter 42


Chapter 43


Chapter 44


Chapter 45


Chapter 46


Chapter 47


Chapter 48


Chapter 49


Chapter 50


Chapter 51


Chapter 52


Chapter 53


Chapter 54


Chapter 55


Chapter 56


Chapter 57


Chapter 58


Chapter 59


Chapter 60


Chapter 61


Chapter 62


Chapter 63


Chapter 64


Chapter 65


Chapter 66


Chapter 67


Chapter 68


Chapter 69


Chapter 70


Chapter 71


Chapter 72


Chapter 73


Chapter 74


Chapter 75


Chapter 76


Chapter 77


Chapter 78


Chapter 79


Chapter 80


Chapter 81


Chapter 82


Chapter 83


Chapter 84


Chapter 85


Chapter 86


Chapter 87


Chapter 88


Chapter 89


Acknowledgments


About the Author








Guide




Cover


Title Page


Copyright


Dedication


Acknowledgments


Start of Content








Pagebreaks of the Print Version




Cover Page


i


iv


v


vi


vii


1


2


3


4


5


6


7


8


9


10


11


12


13


14


15


16


17


18


19


20


21


22


23


24


25


26


27


28


29


30


31


32


33


34


35


36


37


38


39


40


41


42


43


44


45


46


47


48


49


50


51


52


53


54


55


56


57


58


59


60


61


62


63


64


65


66


67


68


69


70


71


72


73


74


75


76


77


78


79


80


81


82


83


84


85


86


87


88


89


90


91


92


93


94


95


96


97


98


99


100


101


102


103


104


105


106


107


108


109


110


111


112


113


114


115


116


117


118


119


120


121


122


123


124


125


126


127


128


129


130


131


132


133


134


135


136


137


138


139


140


141


142


143


144


145


146


147


148


149


150


151


152


153


154


155


156


157


158


159


160


161


162


163


164


165


166


167


168


169


170


171


172


173


174


175


176


177


178


179


180


181


182


183


184


185


186


187


188


189


190


191


192


193


194


195


196


197


198


199


200


201


202


203


204


205


206


207


208


209


210


211


212


213


214


215


216


217


218


219


220


221


222


223


224


225


226


227


228


229


230


231


232


233


234


235


236


237


238


239


240


241


242


243


244


245


246


247


248


249


250


251


252


253


254


255


256


257


258


259


260


261


262


263


264


265


266


267


268


269


270


271


272


273


274


275


276


277


278


279


280


281


282


283


284


285


286


287


288


289


290


291


292


293


294


295


296


297


298


299


300


301


302


303


304


305


306


307


308


309


310


311


312


313


314


315


316


317


318


319


320


321


322


323


324


325


326


327


328


329


330


331


332


333


334


335


336


337


338


339


340


341


343






OceanofPDF.com





















OceanofPDF.com















PRAISE FOR
 
Luke Kennard


“Extremely smart and extremely funny, Luke Kennard’s first novel is a brilliant dismantling of our corporatized century … In a world where everything real has been outsourced if it can’t be demolished, a book like
 
The Transition
 
is not just a ray of light—it’s utterly vital.”


—Paul Murray, author of
 
The Bee Sting


“[A] sharp, witty debut … Kennard calibrates satire and sentiment, puncturing glib diagnoses of a generation’s shortcomings while producing a nuanced portrait of a marriage.”


—
Publishers Weekly


“
The Circle
 
meets
 
Get Out
 
in this dangerously addictive paranoid thriller. [Kennard] smoothly combines a dark comedy about millennial marriages with a lacerating dissection of our corporatized era.”


—
Chicago Review of Books
 
“Most Anticipated Fiction Book of 2018”


“[A] biting debut … An intelligent satire about our collective future … Kennard’s gift for dialogue and fluent imagination are surely signs of promising things to come.”


—
Booklist


“Kennard, like so many poets reinvigorating the expectations of what a work of prose can do, makes a case for resisting narrative conventions as a way to infuse a book with a feverish vitality.”


—
Los Angeles Times


“Kennard is a natural narrative talent, a master of compulsive readability and lip-nibbling suspense … [He writes] the sort of book that cuts you off from your family and has you walking blindly through seven lanes of traffic with your face pressed obliviously to the page.”


—
The Times


“A tremendous novel—funny, shrewd, poignantly destabilising—and charged with Luke Kennard’s laconic wit and his gimlet eye for the foibles and nuances of human behavior. A huge success.”


—William Boyd, author of
 
Any Human Heart




OceanofPDF.com















Also by Luke Kennard


Novels


The Answer to Everything


The Transition


Holophin


Poetry


The Book of Jonah


Notes on the Sonnets


Cain


A Lost Expression


The Migraine Hotel


The Harbour Beyond the Movie


The Solex Brothers




OceanofPDF.com



















BLACK
 
BAG




Luke Kennard








OceanofPDF.com





















This book is a work of fiction. Any references to historical events, real people, or real places are used fictitiously. Other names, characters, places, and events are products of the author’s imagination, and any resemblance to actual events or places or persons, living or dead, is entirely coincidental.


Copyright © 2026 by Luke Kennard


Zando supports the right to free expression and the value of copyright. The purpose of copyright is to encourage writers and artists to produce the creative works that enrich our culture. Thank you for buying an authorized edition of this book and for complying with copyright laws by not reproducing, scanning, uploading, or distributing this book or any part of it without permission. If you would like permission to use material from the book (other than for brief quotations embodied in reviews), please contact 
connect@zandoprojects.com
.


zandoprojects.com


First Edition: March 2026


Text design by Neuwirth & Associates, Inc.


Cover design by Ash Tsai


The publisher does not have control over and is not responsible for author or other third-party websites (or their content).


Library of Congress Control Number: 2025946293


978-1-63893-338-0 (Hardcover)


978-1-63893-339-7 (ebook)


10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1


Manufactured in the United States of America


LBK




OceanofPDF.com















For Jacob




OceanofPDF.com

















1




IF YOU MET ANYONE AS WHINY,
 
as disobliging and egocentric as the average narrator of a novel in real life you’d find them unbearable. You’d give them about five minutes before you excused yourself to get another drink, or moved to a different carriage, or asked to be transferred to an alternative department so you didn’t have to work with them anymore.


I’m not like that.


I love life. I love being alive.


Sometimes I don’t. That’s not unusual. You don’t always love being alive. Nobody does.


I’m an actor.


That’s just something I wanted to get out of the way at the beginning.


It is also why I will speak to you in present tense. The silliest tense. And also the closest we come to talking directly to God.


I will have little choice over what I choose to include or omit.


I will be completely known.


At the moment, for instance, I am waiting to cross the road to meet my friend Claudio at a Middle Eastern restaurant called Indigo Mood. I am unable to cross because a double-decker bus has stopped directly in front of me, and I am anxious in case, by the time I have negotiated the length of the bus to slip between it and a black SUV, the traffic will start moving and I will have to hold my hands up in apology as I dash across, possibly into the path of an oncoming van in the next lane. The more I hesitate the more likely this becomes.


To skirt over my present reduced circumstances: I have not had a paid job in three months, and that was a murder-mystery dinner show (jazz age champagne-factory owner). I am a month behind on my rent and while I have found a way to pay this month’s, the month in arrears squats
 
on my shoulder and grins like a gatepost dragon. I am behind on most utility bills. I have measured out my life in coffees I cannot technically afford.


So when Claudio offers to buy me a falafel in Indigo Mood, a restaurant selected for its proximity to his flat, I accept.


He runs a hand through his curly black hair and tells me it’s good to see me. It’s been too long.


I tell him I know what his schedule is like.


Nah, fuck off, says Claudio. That’s no excuse. I don’t want to lose touch like that again. I need you to keep me human.


I’m not sure I’m the best person to do that.


Yeah yeah, he says. You’re the most human guy I know.


Claudio and I get on well because we have known each other since the age of seven, which is to say thirty years, and we have, at some base level, no respect for one another: We do not fall for one another’s hasty renovations of character or revisionist sophistications; we are not convinced by one another’s adult selves. Before he found his place in the world, Claudio was, for me, a point of endlessly reassuring comparison: I may not have made much of my potential, but then there’s Claudio. I may be useless with money, but then there’s Claudio. I may have an addictive personality, but Claudio has literal, bona fide addictions. I imagine he still sees me in exactly the same way: as a seven-year-old. And, being financially if not culturally very secure, he likely sees the very same flaws in me that I do in him. Claudio. The Cloud. His mother was Portuguese.


How much do you think one of those costs? I say.


What?


I point to the chilled counter, dressed salads and swords of raw meat under glass, glistening bottles of fizzy drinks.


How much does a
 
commercial chiller cabinet
 
cost? says Claudio. I don’t know? A couple of grand? Why?


I have found myself obsessed with how much things cost. I have become obsessed with money, I tell him.


Oh man, says Claudio. That’s rough. That’s not for you. You should be focusing on the life of the mind.


How long would it take me to even make the down payment on a chilled sandwich counter? I say. And then several years to pay it off, by which time it would have become obsolete and leaky and wouldn’t keep things at the correct temperature and I’d have to find the deposit to buy another.


The thing is you don’t
 
need
 
to worry about that, says Claudio. You are
 
never
 
going to be in a position to need a commercial chiller cabinet.


That’s probably true.


I take a bite of my wrap. The tahini, the fresh mint leaves, the granular, yielding texture. The wrap has been assembled with such pride it almost brings me to tears.


Look, homes, these random fixations sound to me like generalized anxiety disorder, says Claudio, caused by the conditions inherent to late capitalism. If you’d let me loan you some money—


No.


I could get you through this patch and you could concentrate on your work.


Ha, I say. You’d be like my patron.


I
 
could
 
be your patron, says Claudio. Think about it.


Claudio, at the beginning, had many patrons, but now he makes enough through ad revenue that he’d probably be okay if they abandoned him.


I could be your patron, baby
, he sings.


I am not too proud to accept Claudio’s generosity. I have never turned down a drink. But I do not borrow money from friends; it messes things up. Especially when you think it won’t.


Actually, though, I say, I am on my way somewhere.


Work?


Yes.


You got a part?


An audition.


That’s great! Stage?


More site specific. About climate change.


This is really good news, says Claudio, and he means it, god bless him, and takes a bite of his wrap. Things are looking, how you say, up?


Things are looking, how you say, up.




OceanofPDF.com

















2




THERE WAS A TIME WHEN
 
a genuinely bohemian lifestyle was possible, by which I mean economically feasible. Where it persists now, it is only as cosplay for bored kids with private incomes.


My belly is full of falafel and wet, well-seasoned salads. The traffic parts for me like the Red Sea.


I have a small hoop earring. I keep my hair short because I have strong features. I try to have the utmost contempt for money, but the fact is that I must find £1,400 per month to cover my basic expenses: rent, utility bills, council tax. I could reduce this, negligibly, by taking a room in a shared house, but I am not the type and value my solitude. Anything I make on top of £1,400 (an amount, I should add, that in my youth seemed an unimaginably large sum, an impossible fortune, but that now I must somehow come up with every four weeks) is for food, and I have cultivated an obsession for eating simply and frugally. Dense rye breads, dried fruits, porridge. I currently have a bowl of borlotti beans soaking in the kitchenette.


Clothes I receive twice annually: for my birthday (an end of summer baby, naturally, condemned to spend my entire education
 
small for my age
 
because I was almost a year younger than my immediate peers) and for Christmas (when the dominant are born) from my parents. I favor two pairs of immensely durable black jeans (which take over three years to fade and fray and require replacement) white button-down shirts and the occasional jumper. I have had the same overcoat since 2002. I’m wearing it now. I have learned how to repair pockets and sew on buttons on YouTube.


Holding a needle between my teeth and squinting at a faux-silk lining under lamplight is when I feel closest to some notion of the bohemian ideal.


I never go on holiday and have no interest in doing so, but early in my vocation I had the chance to travel, expenses only, to South America and East Asia, with a street-theater group, long disbanded. In this sense I am very much a man of the world, a seasoned traveler, someone with a broadened mind who has been exposed to other cultures, who knows and is true to himself because he now sees himself with absolute clarity.


An
 
Englishman
.


LMFAO, as they say.


You met that
 
Englishman
? He’s so
 
English
.


What else do people spend money on? I like to drink, I ought to admit that, and cannot imagine any other way of transporting myself from the day into the night. I’m picky. A blended Scotch is perfectly acceptable as long as it’s the right blended Scotch. I buy alcohol on a credit card and it is the only thing I use the credit card for. I pay off my tab whenever I land a part that nets me sufficient funds.


My résumé is in innumerable piles on innumerable desks as we speak.


Little applications for indefinite leave to remain at the gates of heaven.


I stop to pick up a twenty-pence piece at the side of a drain. I flick off a fragment of something black and slip it into my pocket.


I am past caring but I am not past the vision of a future self, as real as any memory, a glass of wine on my veranda, reflecting on this, this now, as the low point of my career; giving an interview, on my veranda, to a quietly anxious journalist about how this was the low point of my career and how close I came to giving up. I’m not over that yet.




All of this is important.
 
I am not important, but what I have to tell you is very important. Something is badly wrong. All hell is about to break loose. I see visions. We all do. I am not a pessimist, but something is very badly wrong and that which we held to be foundational is beginning to liquefy. The bien-pensant opinion is that we have never been more divided; how sad it is that we are more divided than we’ve ever been,
 
so sad. But that’s not it. It’s neither true
 
nor
 
sad and at the very least the things we commit to language ought to be one or the other.


Depending on your perspective I am probably, objectively, quite poorly educated. I sat in silent consternation while my teachers lost their composure with my more boisterous contemporaries, hour after hour, term after term. I developed an elaborate inner world I’ve never really left. You’ll forgive me if I occasionally mispronounce a word. You won’t be able to tell.




I check the walking route
 
on my phone at the pelican crossing. Thirty-three minutes. I will reach the audition with sufficient time to stop sweating but not so much as to start fussing and doubting my worth. Good.


Something I love: plays. I love it when someone—a writer—has written a really good play, with characters and dialogue and a story that may be interpreted and realized by a director and a cast of actors in a theater. Love it. I love all of it: the drawing room farce and the discombobulating three-hour monologue with no fixed speaker. Good plays are probably my favorite thing in all the world.


I have nothing but disdain for the alternative.


Unfortunately the alternative is the most readily available work—my, as it were, bread and butter—and the more time I spend in exploratory movement and stillness, hot seat improv, “researching a stimulus as a team,” collaborative enterprise, reflective logbooks, space / time / weight / flow, “creating a unified vision as an ensemble,” the more I say yes to such joyless and culturally moribund opportunities, the more such opportunities open up to me, like a giant origami flower made of tax returns.


The subject matter is always worthy: modern slavery; the long-term effects of early exposure to extreme pornography; zero-hours contracts. Who among the theater-going public
 
doesn’t
 
want their awareness of these horrors raised? Pried open, if necessary?


I feign enthusiasm, I give it everything, all the while feeling like someone is constantly slapping me in the stomach with an old brown shoe. All the while participating directly in the desecration of the one true art I live for. For subsistence wages.


I’m very cooperative and a good liar. Forty-five days of concerted effort, glorified trust exercises, listening and listening to each other, especially listening when someone says something demonstrably stupid or just plain wrong lest any of us be thought undemocratic; pages and pages that resemble less a play than a module-evaluation form or minutes of a local council meeting, drills and rehearsals, rehearsals and drills. Eventually, and with great collective dedication, to produce, time and time again, a show of such suffocating mediocrity, I could cry thinking about it.


I balance these jobs with murder-mystery dinner theater, which I find slightly less degrading.




OceanofPDF.com

















3




I AM IN A LOW ROOM
 
of whitewashed brick walls, spider plants in little alcoves, halogens in the ceiling. A man with a big face and a beard sits behind a gray school table between a smart young woman in a voluminous green jumper and a man who has the face of a child, worn out at the crevices; a child who lives on a mountain. The usual plunging feeling that every human being is real, substantial and well-defined except for me. I dismiss this. Inverted vanity. Get over it.


Well, hello, I must be myself, they’re grateful to me for coming in, my experience is impressive, just relax, they’re going to do something a bit different.


When the director talks to his associates I cannot hear it—it dissolves into a mime. It seems important.


They’d like me to improvise.


They’d like me to—


The director seems suddenly perturbed.


I’m sorry.


I look at his ears to see if he is receiving messages from somewhere else. This doesn’t appear to be the case unless his earpiece is very small.


As I know, the theme we’ll be exploring is the climate disaster, the climate catastrophe. This is coming whether we like it or not, you know? What do I think about the links between the communal effort required to face the disaster, the catastrophe, and the communal effort of staging a play?


Central, I say.


Central.


I think the parallels cannot be exaggerated. I think it would be impossible to exaggerate them.


Could I try?


Could I try to
 
exaggerate
 
them?


They laugh. Could I try to describe them?


We need to move as one mechanical arm, I offer. We need to operate like an artificial intelligence trying out several hundred permutations a second until we happen upon the right one.


He takes a note.


That’s just brilliant, thank you.


They’re going to try something new.


The director comes across not so much as a nice man as, for all the world, a man obsessed with how he’ll be described in his obituary. I’ll miss his twinkling wit. He even made coffee for the assistants. The world is a sadder place without him in it. That’s the kind of shit he wants in his obituary. Who wouldn’t? It doesn’t make him special.


They’d like me to break the news of a flood.


A flood?


Right now.


Like Noah?


Whatever flood I like. Try to convince us.


I go completely blank. I stare at the single brown frond of the third spider plant from the left. I’m not sure how one tends spider plants—prunes the leaves or not.


In my own time.


Whenever I’m ready.


I open my mouth. I open it wide. I release a single, undulating note. I alternate between my chest voice and my head voice. I increase the volume in inverse proportion to my uncertainty until I am singing, really singing.


The director and his associates stare at me; maybe they are trying not to laugh, maybe they are trying very hard to take me seriously. The director looks as though he has tasted something sour but wants to like it.


Then the woman brushes something from the shoulder of her green jumper, opens her mouth and begins to sing the same note. Then the child-faced man. And then the director. I look him directly in the eye. I go between the three of them, holding their gaze for several seconds
 
each. We are not harmonizing. We sing the same note—an E, is I think what I have arrived at—and we hold the note.


Then we all stop at exactly the same time.


Thank you.


And now …


Yes?


And now if I could announce the flood.


Ah.


I liked to think I had already done so, organisms vibrating at the same frequency, a nonverbal call to action.


If I could, nonetheless, provide some dialogue.


After such a gamble I’m not sure I have anything left. I have mere seconds to decide between Old Testament prophet and operations manager. I’m not sure whom I’m even supposed to be announcing the flood to. My community? The
 
acting
 
community?


I take a breath to give the impression that I have been composing myself.


Oh god I just can’t be bothered.


I think most of the people who choose to spend their free time seeing a play about climate change are probably already on board with the whole message, I say. And the idea that a
 
devised theater piece
 
could reach anyone outside the customary audience for devised theater pieces is clearly nonsense. So I suppose the real question is: If a theater was gradually filling with water, soon to drown us all, would you rather see this piece of shit or
 
Hedda Gabler
?


The assistants both look at the director, one smiling, the other with his lips pursed.


No, this is good, the director says, writing something on his tablet with a little white stick. This is actually the kind of honesty we’re looking for.


Oh, I say, great. Because this, if it isn’t altogether beneath contempt, is a capitulation to the utter impoverishment of our own discourse to the point where we might as well not have developed the capacity for language in the first place. I hope we
 
do
 
all get washed away in a flood.


The director’s stick clicks against the tablet.


We can use that, he says, then smiles.


All of that said, I would still also really like to be in the play, I say.




So how was it?


You don’t need to check in on me, Claudio.


I pause at the entrance to a corner shop. I need a bottle of cooking oil, but I don’t want to carry it.


Concerned about you, honey. I’m taking an interest.


I turn the volume up on my phone. Claudio is always quiet on the phone. I hit the button at the pelican crossing and wait.


I think I gave a good account of myself, I say.


What else can we do?


Right?


Well you let me know when you hear back, okay?


Yeah, I say. Look, Claudio, even if this comes through, it’s not a big thing, it’s not the big time, it’s a small thing, it’s the same old small thing.


Don’t be like that, says Claudio. You’re beautiful and I believe in you.


I’m saying this is a waste of your attention.


You keep that chin up.


I will.


Do it right now. Raise your chin.


I’m doing it.


And hold it.


Holding it.


Everyone else can go to hell.


Okay.


Okay, he says. I’m gonna get back on it.


You do that.




Claudio has a strict schedule
 
of four hours live streaming video games every weekday from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. or 3 p.m. to 7 p.m. The stream is open to anyone, but subscribers pay two pounds a month. There are
 
roughly 20,000 subscribers and counting, meaning that Claudio is a higher-rate taxpayer. They drop in and out. Many of them are at work, or working from home, and they use Claudio as a kind of background entertainment to compensate for the intolerable tedium of their jobs and life administration. He is their siesta and their carnivalesque, their call to prayer and their break room.


You may think this a charmed life, paid—and handsomely—to play video games and talk about them. But prop your phone up on your desk and try to record yourself for even ten minutes. Do it now. Talk about whatever’s on your mind.


Now play it back.


You suck. You’re not funny and you look like a murderer. What you have just recorded has all the grace and wit of a ransom video. Your voice is awful. You sound like a complete stranger’s most boring in-law. Now imagine doing that for four hours at a time. I don’t think this is for you.


You don’t want to hear it, but doing this
 
well
 
is as rare a gift as being a concert-grade violinist.


As you play and narrate, the messages from your community arrive faster than you can read them, largely dross, always faintly self-absorbed and disrespectful, rarely contributing anything, tens of thousands of words a day. And you have to pick out the least worst to respond to, at a millisecond’s notice, and turn that into relatable content. Let us be quite clear that what we have monetized, what we have rendered a career for a select few—strip away the layers of irony, of brazenness and boredom, just for a moment—is charm, and charm alone. Weaponized charm.


I get back to my ground-floor flat and take off my trainers—the right one has been chafing my heel. I check the bowl of dried borlotti beans soaking on the counter. I hold a single bean between my thumb and finger. I test it with my teeth. Still a little hard.




OceanofPDF.com

















4




MY INSPECTION OF THE BEANS
 
is interrupted by an incoming video call. A video call means it is Howard.


Howard is one of two men who sometimes call me with offers of murder-mystery dinner roles: spiteful little half-brother, embittered failed actor, semicompetent confidence trickster. His company is called Half a Mind to Kill, catering for audiences from six to two hundred and sixty. These are largely corporate functions, sideshows for cultural sleepwalkers, in which we ply our trade for the people responsible for its degradation.


I take my supper in the kitchen between acts, a piled-up version of the paying guests’ repast. I eat it with my hands and wipe them on a dishcloth then I cram my lines for the next scene. A little ad-libbing is acceptable, within reason.


Howard is a man with a fairly unpleasant temperament and a plain, flat face, but he seems not to know this about himself, hence his penchant for video calls. Just now he is outside and for all the world looks to be in a minimum security prison, standing by a thick chicken wire fence.


Howard.


He wears his hair long, which does nothing for him whatsoever.


All right? Howard says. I’ll cut to the chase ’cause I’m working down a list. My detective has gastric flu, looking for a last-minute filler.


When?


Tonight?


I suck in air like a car mechanic surveying a minor dent. It is important that Howard, of all people, never takes me for granted.


I’d have to move some things around.


Important that he doesn’t know I’d literally be facing eviction without his weird video calls and bullshit dinner shows.


You can do it?


What’s it called?


The Salumist of Avila
.


Gosh, that’s bad.


What do you reckon?


Whereabouts is this tour de weakness to be staged?


Tour de … fuck off! Brown’s Hotel. I can’t send a cab, but there’s a bus stop nearby. Four-fifty quid. You’ll do it?


Yeah, okay, Howballs.


Lifesaver, mate, thank you.


His hair dangles over the camera as he hangs up.




Dinner theater had a storied history
 
throughout the twentieth century and you’d likely be surprised how many celebrated names took it as a side hustle. You’d look down the list and be like, Lana Turner?
 
Really?
 
Roddy McDowall? It more or less dried up in the 1980s, but has now reemerged as an option alongside paintball, Laser Quest, team-building CBT.


When they’re not being forced to by their employers, who is it, I wonder, who goes to these things? The same people who go to shopping center art galleries, who own paintings by Bob Dylan, as if that’s what Bob Dylan is for.


I’m being mean.


Everyone needs to have fun and of course I give it my all. They barely register it between mouthfuls of duck three ways, but they get the full Stanislavsky.


Whose fault is this? How have we preserved only the worst things about the end of pier
 
and
 
the opera house?




On my way to the bus
 
I look at my reflection in the smeary-mirrored window of a closed-down model-railway shop. What do those big, gentle, foul-smelling men even do now? I can say, objectively and I hope without vanity, that I look young for my age. At thirty-seven I could probably
 
pass for a man in his mid-twenties. This is a significant genetic advantage for an actor, for all the good it’s done me.


Where are my examples? Whom do I envy?


There was a boy in my year at drama school who went to LA to read for a part on a science fiction pilot and was never heard from again.


Many are called, but few are chosen.




The bus stop is by another
 
abandoned building. Red window frames, iron staircases. It looks like the studio on the record cover of the kids from
 
Fame
. I don’t know what it was; a small fire station, maybe, waiting for a better economy and a landlord to carve it into HMOs. I should like to walk past an abandoned theater, all rotten velvet seats, debris from the half-collapsed ceiling, a nuclear-winter dust on racks of moth-eaten Tudor costumes; that would make for pleasing symbolism. But theaters don’t close, they just lapse into total mediocrity and take the audience with them.




When I arrive at Brown’s Hotel
 
I enter a white side door pinned open with a coal scuttle and find myself picking my way through a steaming kitchen,
 
sans
 
chefs.


Sorry, I say to the potwash, who ignores me. I feel a great affinity for the orderly and their repetitive tasks.


In the restaurant I see Howard rearranging pages on his clipboard. He looks up.


Man of the hour, he says.


He hands me a script fastened with brass pins.


We’re just through there.


I have come to hate the sight of these ninety-page scripts fastened with brass pins.


In a wide room with tables on their sides, pacing and muttering inaudibly, or leaning against a pilaster, script in hand, the eight-strong cast are running lines.


At first I don’t recognize anyone—high turnover keeps Howard’s overheads low—but then I see Samantha—oh god—doing her makeup at a vanity table on wheels.


We’ve been doing this for years, comrades in vacuity, while increasingly younger talents passed us on their way up.


Sweetheart, stop, I say. You’re too beautiful already.


Samantha is a broad, attractive woman who sees herself, in any situation, as the mother of the group because she always has ibuprofen and tissues. As a matter of fact that’s
 
all
 
she has, but as long as you let her look after you she’s easy to get on with.


Oh babe, she says, I’ve not seen you in ages!


I must be out of favor, I say.


With Howard? Nah. Especially not now you’ve saved the day. You read your part?


I’ve read nothing.


Quite a lot of jokes about salami.


She caps her pencil and stands. You like my Spanish dress?


She curtsies.


Divine. We’re not expected to do accents, are we?


Oh, no, I don’t think so.


Small mercies.


I’m the murderer
, she whispers.


No, I say.


Mmhmm. So what’s new with you? Any leads? she says.


Waiting for the right vehicle. Why?


I give her an exaggerated frown. You?


She mouths the word
 
FILM
.


I mouth the word
 
WOW
.


It’s not anything but it could be, you know?


Well if anyone deserves it, I say. I should … I tap my script against my head.


You should, she says. Hop to it.


She takes my shoulders and gives me a quick, hard kiss on the lips.


I’m so glad it’s you.




To listen to us you’d think
 
we were ex-lovers who’d separated so maturely we might as well still be together, but I must impress on you that this is the only way Samantha and I can communicate. It’s this or tear each other to shreds. One day we’ll die and God will tell us what we said behind each other’s backs and it will be sufficient to consign us both to the eighth ring of hell, where we’ll say, Gorgeous! Fancy meeting
 
you
 
here!


I watch her talking to a young man with a fake mustache, her head cocked to the left in concern.


On balance, it would be better for both of us if we
 
had
 
slept together, but I don’t know. I’m weird about sex. I’d probably cry and then propose and then take it back while we were putting our clothes on.


I take a sip from my water bottle and skim read the first five pages of
 
The Salumist of Avila
. I am a
 
bumbling
 
detective, easily seduced by Samantha, rigid in protocol, essentially incompetent; I am to have rings run around me. Good. I could do this in my sleep.


Over the next hour the car park hums with Audis and BMWs and the occasional gentle robotic chant of an EV. The building fills with an off-kilter wedding ambience as the dinner patrons take their seats.


They may have salmon mousse or pear and pea-sprout salad followed by chicken marsala or a sweet potato curry.


We gather in the wings during Howard’s preamble. Despite my disdain for the medium, I still have a racing heart, still want to show everyone a good time, still want them to love me.


He
 
was
 
good
, though, wasn’t he? I want them to say to each other later.


Things begin well. I deliver my first line—
As a matter of fact, Esme, it was a complete disaster
—with such a withering tone that it gets a laugh, and this buoys my mood more than I care to admit. Still got it.


In the second scene Samantha and I bounce off each other so naturally—trying, I suppose, to outdo each other in the name of lifting the other’s performance—that I start to feel bad for my earlier thoughts and think maybe I should call her before the end of the week. Maybe
 
she fancies a drink; maybe I could ask her, could say I was just calling to see if she fancied a drink.


I wait for the incidental music to die down and am just marching into the middle of the dining room when a fire alarm, the loudest and most belligerent I have ever heard, a pneumatic drill made of church bells, begins to peal.


Some of the diners cover their ears as they pick their way between the tables.


Oh, I say, still in role, and stand there with my mouth open.


Howard runs toward me, gesticulating.




Outside we gather by the
 
fire-assembly point, exchanging eye rolls with the prettier guests, who are shivering without their cardigans. Of all the times for a drill, eh?


I am not sure who is the first to notice that the hotel is
 
actually on fire
, but an audible gasp goes up from the people gathered by the lichen-spattered fountain, sufficiently far out to see the top of the building.


I step backward.


Oh, holy shit, I say.


It really is burning, the third floor, as if it had been purpose-designed to go up in terrific dark orange flames and stay that way.


Staff in black slacks and pressed white shirts do the rounds, taking names.


For a while we just stare at Brown’s Hotel as the fire spreads and a black pillar of smoke climbs into the sky. When the wind changes it smells like an exploded tomb. Those whose formal attire includes a handkerchief hold it to their mouths.


It takes a while for it to sink in—for me and perhaps for the three hundred or so guests—that the performance and meal will likely have to be canceled, and tickets refunded.


Not to be cynical but it’s usually an insurance scam, isn’t it? says Samantha.


We turn our heads at the sound of encroaching sirens.


God, maybe that’s the answer, I say. We could go into scams, couldn’t we?


You and me, running some scams, says Samantha. I could see that.


The world disappointed them, so they disappointed the world.
 
Have you got your phone?


Fuck!


Oh, babe, I’m so sorry, I say.


Fucking hell.


I’m just in my normal trousers so mine’s still in my pocket. That’s male privilege for you, I suppose.


Samantha looks at me to make sure I’m not smiling.


The current company of Half a Mind to Kill gathers by a rotting picnic bench. Howard, looking blanker than usual, comes to speak to the cast, ostensibly to make sure we’re okay, but principally to inform us that we unfortunately won’t be getting paid. He hopes we understand and that we’ll still work for the company in future.


He looks sorrowfully at the ground as we express our disappointment, largely nonverbal.


Could you at least refund my bus fare? I ask.


Sure, he says. Sure, I’ll just pop back into a burning building and get my wallet.




OceanofPDF.com

















5




THAT WAS FOUR HUNDRED
 
and fifty pounds I could really have used. At least there’s the chance of landing the climate change gig. Please God.


I sleep badly. My throat hurts. Perhaps I inhaled too much hotel. An actor’s throat is very important. If I made any money my accountant would probably recommend I take out throat insurance. I do not, I hasten to add, have an accountant.


Do not envy the successful. They probably have panic buttons in their houses. You have been spared all such horrors.


The right to be forgotten.


This, Article 17 of the UK’s GDPR legislation, is one of the most poetic phrases ever composed.




In the morning I peel
 
and de-pith a ruby grapefruit. A ruby grapefruit is a great luxury, dense as meat and the color of a winter sunrise, and costs only fifty-five pence. For I tell you that many prophets and kings have desired to see those things which ye see, and have not seen them.


Over the next two hours I refresh my inbox a lot, on my phone and on my chubby, wheezing laptop—a hand-me-down from Claudio, overdue an upgrade to the next hand-me-down from Claudio. I should make a note to ask him, casually, drop it in.


Waiting for a response can drive you to distraction. Too much depends on the outcome. It is always best to already be working on the next thing, so as to affect an insouciance that might distract God. Oh,
 
that
 
audition, you’ll say, I’d forgotten all about it!


You had, my child, and that is why I shall reward you.


But the “next thing” is a vexed issue for me. I am known to all the experimental theater groups of the city; to those forced to spend more
 
time on funding applications than perfecting their nascent craft. It’s a very competitive field. It is they, if anyone, who will call on me—and indeed it looks like they have this pale and sludgy morning. Stefan, a poor little boy who lives on Greggs vegan sausage rolls, and looks it, invites me to join the company for his new play. It would be pro bono in the first instance.


Sine stipendio.


Nam amor.


Pro bono in aeternum, I mutter. I am an amateur student of Latin. People think I’m posh anyway so I might as well.


Such works are rehearsed and developed in secondary school drama studios, out of hours, script in hand. They are often absurdly overambitious, or written in verse, or depend ideally on special effects very much beyond their own budgets and a predilection for the most intense human suffering.


In Stefan’s latest effort I would be portraying three characters: a father who has lost his infant son to a rare blood cancer; a paralegal cheating on his wife; and a “fury.”


Sounds a hoot, Stefan, I reply. And yes, November is good for me. Pro bono, though, is not good for me.


I refresh my inbox a few more times. Nothing. I make a slice of wholemeal toast then I take a constitutional around the dog shit theme park of my neighborhood. Fucked pavements, semidetached dentists,
 
baleful
 
expressions at the bus stop. I like it. Ego hic pertinent.




As always—by the time
 
I have used up many hours like cans of silly string and given up on hearing back from my audition today—I see the email I’ve been waiting for.


I open it and it tells me they met with many people for the part, naturally climate change is a very important issue, a crowded market, etc., etc., but unfortunately I have not been successful on this occasion. It was very close and decisions must be made not only on individual merit but
 
with the construction of a unified group in mind. They hope I will not be disappointed but rather take it as an opportunity to reflect.


Reflect!


They are sorry they cannot provide specific feedback to the unsuccessful due to the sheer number of the unsuccessful. They wish me all the best in my future endeavors and hope I will consider applying again. They will keep me apprised of future openings and productions. I will be made
 
comprehensively
 
aware of the slightest prospect of a future opportunity.


Oh, the insult of not receiving something you were too good for but were relying on anyway.


To my surprise I find that I have started to cry.


Tedious, bien-pensant wankers. I must get better at hiding my disdain.


I reply. I congratulate them on seeing through me. I tell them I only attended out of desperation for money and that I would rather eat glass than work with them in any capacity. Maybe once they have finished their play about incipient ecological collapse they could take, as a theme for their next production, the plight of the contemporary actor reduced to scrabbling around in half-arsed issues-based community theater masquerading as high art. I would happily volunteer as a consultant.


I delete the email and close my reconditioned laptop, which groans and activates its fan.


I stop crying as suddenly and involuntarily as I started. Come on. Nobody cares. It happens without my will to action, as if I’d been fitted with an emotional catheter.




God I needed that money.
 
What am I going to do? I will not borrow. My parents don’t have anything anyway. If you borrow money you’re already ruined. It’s worse than gambling. Just until you get back on your feet, you tell yourself, as you cut your own feet off with a handsaw. Yes, if it came to it they’d take me back in and I’d lie in my childhood bedroom reading old Asterix comics and getting fat on shepherd’s pie until—after
 
two years of gently being asked if I shouldn’t perhaps at least apply for jobseeker’s allowance—I’d gas myself in their Honda Civic.


Claudio would help if I asked him but I cannot become dependent on Claudio, cannot become Claudio’s one-man entourage, cannot ask Claudio to fund this delusion.


Item.
 
Claudio could give me £1,500 a month and it would still barely cover my basic expenses; so that I would still live, much to his inevitable and mounting consternation following his obscene generosity, like a pauper, with a pauper’s gratitude.
 
Item.
 
I shudder to think of Claudio’s tax situation and await some very bad news in that regard.
 
Item.
 
I love Claudio and will not have him tarnish his love for me with pity.


I have some pride. Who doesn’t?


I look to the future. I cross my legs on my veranda, gaze at my sea view, sip my wine. I am thinking about the past, the low point. I am a little camp in my affect; I treat everyone I encounter like an indulgent relative. The journalist asks what advice I have for aspiring actors. Oh, I say, you know. It’s always darkest when you’ve got your eyes closed.




Lately, I have realized that
 
if I am to improve my odds, I must dig deeper, be open to odder. I subscribe to several more lists, including the admirably candid strange-acting-jobs.org.


A lot of this is sandwich board level, sign twirling, end-of-the- world-is-nigh stuff. Last month I turned up for what I’d been told was an audition but realized, five minutes in, was a recruitment drive for door-to-door sales. I’d be the first to admit there are parallels but nonetheless I stood up, blew a resounding raspberry and slammed the convention center’s door behind me.


Just once in a while, though, you find a rich weirdo who wants you to impersonate their late, beloved Great Dane for a week. I’m very open to something along those lines.


I scroll through the bulletin.


That’s shit.


That’s shit.


That’s shit.


That’s shit.


I pause over the fifth.




Male actor required for psychological inquiry. Nonspeaking, but discretion and devotion to restrictive performance requirements obligatory. Duration 3–4 months, start ASAP, pref immediate. No experience in discipline (Psychology) necessary. Short / slight stature preferred certainly no more than 5'8" but shorter if possible (Legs). Fee to be discussed. Contact Dr. Paul Blend &c.




Well, I am 5'6" and a model of discretion. I say as much in my email. I am sure he has had many applications, but I am available immediately and attach my CV, including a full-length photograph as requested. In any event I wish Dr. Blend a
 
lovely
 
start to the term.


I go to make a cup of tea in the kitchenette, but no sooner is the kettle back in its cradle than I receive his reply.




Can you come in tomorrow? 10 a.m. Office 327.






OceanofPDF.com

















6




THE HETERODOX ARCHITECTURE
 
of the university campus represents many different eras of hope, progress, despair, practicality and defiance. A theme park of uneasy truces between high court and departure lounge, tenement and winter palace. Ideas in direct conflict over decades as to what, for the love of god, this even
 
is
. A waiting room or a cathedral. There I might have loved, and there I did. One could wear a tracksuit and a crown, a puffer jacket over a suit of armor. It has developed in such a bricolage that a series of runways and iron staircases have been installed to negotiate the cracked and obsolete pavements that no longer convey you to active entrances or exits. The psychology building looks like half a red eighteenth-century apostolic church bolted onto a job center. There is the fresh stump of what must have been a vast, majestic oak tree in the middle of a little windswept quad.


I sweat my way to the third floor and have only just sat down on a black cushioned chair outside office 327 when I hear a rattle of keys behind it and Dr. Blend opens his door, nods and ushers me in.




Have I done this kind of
 
work before?


No, I suppose not, unless you count—


Dr. Blend talks over me: In a sense that must be irrelevant for an actor, mustn’t it?


I am not unaccustomed to being talked over.


In a sense, whether you have undertaken a certain role before ought to be immaterial; your job is to find the path of least resistance to its imitation.


Well, quite.


I find myself emulating his clipped and outmoded English, his paternalisms, code-switching the way I’d call a man enlisted to fix my sink
 
mate
. You are Big Father, I am Little Father. We are on the same page and you’ll have no trouble from me.


I was selected primarily for my stature and slight build. He hopes I won’t mind him saying.


No, I rather thought that was the case. Nonetheless I’m confident I can—


So shall we?


Of course.


He stands and clears his throat then crouches to open the bottom drawer of his filing cabinet. He unfolds and lays out what looks like a large, black leather suit bag on the little bed in the corner. It is about my size, a reversible gray metal double zip all the way up the side. There are two hemmed holes for legs at the bottom.


Should I undress?


If you would.


Completely?


To your underpants.


Ah.


I have not done any laundry in a while and it has become my habit to wear nothing but jeans on the lower half of my body.


I’m glad you told me.


I’ll keep my jeans on, I offer.


I take off my jacket, unbutton my shirt and he unzips the bag. I lie down on the padded bench, gather the bag around me and poke my feet through the holes, then I straighten out. The bag finishes just below my knees and the holes are tight around my upper calves. My jeans have ridden up inside the bag, creating what I assume to be the desired effect. Two bare chicken legs just protruding.


Perfect, he says.


Am I to be barefoot?


Yes. Shoes would communicate.


I actually rather like being barefoot; inside or outside, I tell him. When I was in Argentina I didn’t wear shoes or socks for four days, and people don’t realize quite how an intense a connection it gives you to the—


He zips the bag up in one motion and the leather presses against my nose.


There are hidden vents.


Yes, it’s quite all right. I can breathe very—


Breathing shouldn’t be an issue.


I can’t
 
see
, I say.


No. You will not be able to see.


It’s possible I might walk into things.


Very much so.


Very well.


In the lectures you will simply lie on a desk at the back of the room. In the seminars you will sit in a chair. Again at the back of the room.


Ah yes, I say.




You should not appear
 
to be dead. You should, as much as possible, relax. We do not want the students to think you a corpse.


Should I wiggle my toes occasionally?


He thinks about this.


On no account should I wiggle my toes. Or circle my feet. Or perform
 
any
 
gesture with my feet or lower legs that might be interpreted as reactive to or derisive of the lecture. Bag is to be characterless. The occasional involuntary movement will be allowed.


May I ask, I say, exactly what we—I mean you—are investigating?


Blend sighs. We like what we’re familiar with, he says. Even something we initially find off-putting or repulsive; should we be repeatedly exposed to it, we come to accept and enjoy it.


That has all kinds of implications! I say, gamely.


Yes, says Dr. Blend, testily. Even love. We even come to love it.


Wow. And I am to be the … that which is off-putting and repulsive?


Well, in a sense, Blend says.


From within the total darkness of the bag I hear him sniff and then, presumably, take out a tissue to blow his nose.


Can I get out of it now?


Yes, of course, he says. It seems a good fit.


It’s lovely, I say, unzipping the bag from inside and poking my already sweaty head out like a hatchling.


The experiment was first conducted in 1967, Blend tells me. I am replicating it with subtle variations, not least the era. He chuckles.


The era. I grin and nod, aware that I am coming off slightly too enthusiastic. God, what an era it is. And we’re testing, just to be clear, we’re testing if the experiment’s conclusions are still the case, some fifty years later?


Blend has turned to his desk and I sense that he is done with me for now, or, with this admin task accomplished, needs to put his mind to higher things.


We are testing life itself, he mutters. We are testing God’s thoughts.


I am overcome with love for Dr. Blend.


I promise, I tell him, that I will give this my absolute all. My absolute all.


He grimaces. About half should be sufficient, he says.




The office opposite Dr. Blend’s
 
has no nameplate, but a black-and-white photograph of a children’s tricycle has been taped over the number. I do not like the image for some reason—it strikes me as sinister—but as soon as I am down the first flight of stairs and far enough away from Dr. Blend’s office I begin to gibber audibly with excitement. I cannot believe my luck.


I forgot to ask about the fee.


Never mind.


Oh my god. I whoop. I have not whooped in some time and my falsetto could use work. The building feels still and empty—term hasn’t started—so I chance performatively punching the air. It feels very odd to
 
do that. To punch the air. I leap up and raise my fist into the air a little out of sync with the jump. If I were required to punch the air on stage I would have to practice the gesture repeatedly in my own time.


I message Claudio, Booked it.


Booked it?


I auditioned for a part and I got it.


This is great!


I think this could be it, I text him. I think this could be my breakthrough role.


That’s what I’m talking about, says Claudio. That’s what I meant about your chin! It’s manifesting!


I kept my chin up.


Like a fucking beast! Where is it? What theater?


Theater is dead, I tell him.


Le théâtre est mort.


Vive le théâtre.




OceanofPDF.com

















7




I SEEK, IN ALL THINGS,
 
a director. I have never been happier, never felt more like I am “at work,” than in the eleventh run-through of the same short scene because I’m not quite getting it right, the rest of the cast lounging at the sidelines, starting to lose their patience. I’m not even sure
 
how
 
I’m not quite getting it right, but the director knows, and they’re going to make me do it over and over again until I do. And actually it’s quite possible I
 
am
 
getting it right, but they just want to fuck with me for reasons I do not yet understand. But which will ultimately improve my performance, or some future performance, or my general conduct as a human being. That is how you profitably subcontract a genuine sense of meaning in your life: deference to a higher authority. Don’t you forget it.


Such mentors are increasingly hard to come by, not because we’ve become in toto kinder but because we’ve lost our sense of conviction. A lot of this can be traced back to the dissolution of the monasteries.


I am in black bag and I am lying on a desk at the back of the lecture theater. From the feel of it, I imagine it to be a desk with metal legs painted a glossy gray and the surface to be a pine-colored fake-wood veneer. I imagine the room to be … But why shouldn’t I imagine the room to be far nicer than it may, in fact, be? A Harvard conference room with mahogany panels and a portrait of someone stern and racist and dead. A glass cabinet of baroque salad plates. An ice palace with hysterical cornices. Depicted on the plates, but also the room itself. The room the plates had been commissioned to depict, and, over centuries, found their way back to from various private collections.


The students enter the room. I do not know if Dr. Blend has a reputation for severity, but their voices, which were raucous in the corridor, fall quiet as they enter.


I do not know how many people walk past me. A lot. More than a hundred.


I hear a girl say, Is that a dead body?


No, look: it moved.


It’s horrible.


Embarrassing to say this gives me a pang of displeasure as if I’d been stuck with a needle.


Which is maybe inevitable. I’m human. All
 
any
 
human ever wants is to be in a room and feel loved. To be found lovely and un-horrible.


What is it doing here?


Touch it.


No!


I will try to remember to report this back to Dr. Blend, which won’t be difficult as I have never forgotten a slight or a compliment, however undeserved.


Of course this isn’t about me.


I’m not an idiot.


I’m not going to report it to Dr. Blend as if my feelings on the subject make a difference one way or the other. I’m aware, though, that the students’ responses are probably relevant, including the ones Dr. Blend may not have overheard himself.


He may even ask me.


It strikes me that I could make up anything I liked. Work out what he wants to hear and either give him that in abundance or the exact opposite. But this same thing often strikes me: a perverse desire, and one I have never acted, nor have any intention of ever acting, upon. Plunge my face right into the cake. Unzip the helpful policeman’s fly.


A change in the air temperature and the dissipation of the scent of herbal shampoo tells me that the two young women are no longer standing over me.


How you start something is important. How you get people’s attention or announce that whatever-it-is is about to begin. Some people say Okay. Some people say Right. Usually people have to make a joke out of
 
the fact that everyone is ignoring them so they have to raise their voice. Right.
 
Okay
. Okay.
 
Right
.


Dr. Blend barely has to wait for a natural silence to fall after the creaking of the fold-down chairs and then says,


Very well.


I am not able to take any notes, so I repeat the things Dr. Blend says in his talk back to myself in my head. This means that sometimes I take them in and sometimes they are just sounds. If I want to think about any of the things that he says, or test them against my own reason and lived experience, I am required to cease repeating the thing he is currently saying back to myself, so I miss it.


Say you’re developing an unpickable lock, he is saying.


The least pickable lock ever made.


The thing is, you don’t want to
 
advertise
 
it as the World’s First Unpickable Lock. You don’t even want to advertise it as a remarkably
 
difficult
 
lock to pick.


Because that would draw the attention of the entire lock-picking community. It’s a red rag to a bull. The best damn lock pickers in the world, professionals, ex-convicts, infosec hobbyists; everyone would want to be the first person to pick your unpickable lock.


But … You still need people to know how good it is. The entire success of the product hinges on its unpickability, therefore the unpickability of the lock, and people’s awareness of its unpickability, is synonymous with the success or failure of the entire enterprise …


But if so much as a
 
rumor
 
gets out that you’ve developed an unpickable lock, the jig is up. Vast factions of lock pickers, once bitter rivals, will collaborate on unpicking it. They will go “open source” and share approaches and notes.


They
 
will
 
pick your lock.


They will nullify the entire project.


All of this, the details of which could fill thousands of pages, will probably unfold in a matter of days, from the announcement of the unpickable lock to the triumphant unpicking of the unpickable lock.


So what do you do?


You’re fucked.


[my paraphrase.]


At this point I start drifting a bit.


I will eat the reduced-fat smoked mackerel mousse tonight.


I will squeeze the puckered quarter of a lemon over it.


When I check back in, Dr. Blend is talking about “Odic force.”


There is no reliable or replicable data for Odic force.


I close my eyes and find myself wiggling my toes. Then I stop, very suddenly.


Dr. Blend has lost his train of thought and he sounds irritable, as if he had been staring over the heads of his students directly at the foot I chose to wiggle the toes of at the very moment I chose, arbitrarily, to wiggle them.


Odic force, he says … Odic force …


I hope he does not assume the wiggling of my toes was in any way reactive to the subject or style of delivery, both of which I am largely enjoying and am impressed by.


I bob my big toe in what I hope is a suitably subtle gesture of apology.


He continues, sounding quite annoyed.


The Odic force could only be seen after an extended period in total darkness. Von Reichenbach himself could not see it, but proposed that up to a third of the population could.


He called them “sensitives.”


But today we would call them neurotic, unreliable, delusional …


I feel a slight but persistent pain in my shoulder and try to rearrange myself in a way that won’t draw attention.


Dr. Blend is now talking about the Counter-Reformation for some reason.


I am hunching one of my shoulders in a manner that I hope does not alter the outward appearance of black bag. This is a delicate operation and takes up most of my attention.


You are probably very comfortable, he says.


I am momentarily affronted by this as I am not very comfortable, having lain on the hard surface of the desk in my black bag for upward of an hour. Of course he is not talking about me. It is likely he is talking about assumptions.


Then he says, very slowly, as if it is the concluding flourish of the lecture:


It is only quackery which creates a space for the noumenal.


Something like that anyway. Only through quackery do we … The noumenal is only opened via … I am the truth and the light … only by quackery …




OceanofPDF.com

















8




AFTER THE LECTURE BLEND
 
leads me to a discreet cupboard in the Psychology building. A photocopier the size of a small car, broken. I sit on the photocopier in my jeans, still rolled up to my knees. My hair is matted and sweaty.


You’ll not be paid until the end of term and, given the way universities work, probably not for some time after that. Take this.


He proffers a wad of twenty-pound notes.


Are you sure?


It is more paper money than I have ever seen in real life; dealer money.


He snorts impatiently and I take the cash and stuff it into the pocket of my jeans.


You did very well and the hourly rate for laboratory assistant, which I’m obliged to put you through as, is not adequate.


I like to think this is the beginning of what might become Dr. Blend’s habit of making me little gifts. Supermarket vouchers, a bottle of brandy, sometimes tickets to the symphony orchestra. Toward the end of the study a nice watch, perhaps, which he’d know very well I would pawn immediately, but neither of us would acknowledge that.


I’m sorry about the toes.


The toes?


Oh.


We’ll see you on Thursday for the seminar then.


Eleven a.m.! I say.


If you could be in the room by twenty minutes to the hour. One last thing, when you’re on campus I should like you to wear the black bag as much as possible. That is to say you are to arrive wearing it.


Oh, I say, but my feeling was I kind of blend in here.


I didn’t mean to say “blend” and hope he doesn’t notice.


I don’t look my age. Nobody will know who I am and they’ll just assume I’m another student if I … sit in a café … browse in the library. I’m quite an anonymous-looking man.


I thought about that, Dr. Blend says. But on balance I think it would be better if you were seen outside of class occasionally. As black bag.


I’m happy to do whatever the experiment requires, I tell him. My only worry would be—


Yes, of course.


Dr. Blend takes out a pair of nail scissors and stabs two small eyeholes in black bag.




OceanofPDF.com

















9




ALL I WANT—ALL I HAVE
 
ever wanted—is a level of success that I can be disingenuously modest about. Bah, it’s nothing, I’d say, and people would reflect that, despite my talents and achievements, I was still so “down to earth.” God, when I really think about that, it’s completely disgusting. More noble in the end to forego it all and cut straight to a debilitating addiction to painkillers—that would be my choice, something floaty—and go under completely, the off-scouring of the world. When we were younger, when I still mixed more frequently with my peers, we had a running joke where we’d greet each other with a solemn shake of the head and say,
 
It never really happened for you, did it?


What I have come to hate, in the only roles that seem available to me in contemporary theater, is their certainty and fixed signification; their insistence on convincing us of something we vaguely believed anyway—we should recycle, we shouldn’t stab anyone, we should seek to understand the people who don’t and do, respectively. This feels like the first role in over a decade that I can really get my teeth into. Site
 
un
specific.




The next time I climb
 
into black bag I realize that I have already bonded with it on some level. It feels right and fitting as I do up the reversible zip from the inside. Perfect for my height leaving only my calves protruding—from which I have Veeted all leg hair up to two inches above the cuffs of black bag.


Black bag, soft to the touch but hard-wearing black leather like the binding of a King James Bible sans the embossed gold letters.


I stand in front of the full-length mirror my landlord has lacquered directly onto the hallway wall.


The shape is robust enough to allow no discernible features of face or body to come through, but yielding enough that it hangs attractively, albeit anonymously: a somehow poignantly anonymous oblong. My arms I can fold across my chest or dangle at my sides—I will not be able to use them either way.


Black bag speaks as objects speak to us—they console or commiserate or seem lost. Perfect insofar as it is not really reminiscent of anything. The usual stories. Neither religious modesty nor self-abnegation, nor obscure military uniform, nor masochistic fetish wear. A traditional leather body bag for the safe transportation of a corpse, perhaps, but even then, not really—smaller, more deliberate and designed for everyday wear.


It looks, more than anything else, like a bespoke black bag tailored for someone to step into when they want to
 
be
 
black bag, which, I now realize, I do.




OceanofPDF.com

















10




DO YOU MIND IF I ASK
 
what’s with the getup?


The barista is a tall young man with curly hair. A confidence that can’t solely be put down to youth. He’s not really here. Whatever he is—physicist, economist, art dealer—time is not linear, and a year is like a lunch break for such boys. He’s going to go far.


Actually I’m contractually obliged not to share.


Oh right. It’s like a promotion or something?


No.


All will become clear?


It won’t. I just can’t talk about it, I tell him. But listen, I understand if it’s not appropriate for Costa. I don’t want to make people uncomfortable.


The whole point, from what I can gather, is that I make people uncomfortable, but I would like to see if there is some way of working within those parameters. We all make
 
someone
 
uncomfortable. Many people have to live with much worse. What we must do, always, is take people on their own terms. The duty, in this case, is not mine.


It’s never really come up before, he says. Fine as far as I’m concerned.


I have duct-taped my bank card to the inside of black bag at chest height. I bow over the card reader and it makes a twinkly sound.


The corner table is occupied so I take a seat on a low padded bench by the far wall under a canvas photograph of a sack of coffee beans and I hunch over a dark oval-shaped table. Through my crude, crow-like eyeholes I can only see the person opposite me in the room, a woman with very straight blonde hair and an iced coffee in a clear plastic cup with a black straw, determined to focus on her phone and not give me the pleasure—if that is what I want—of noticing me. I respect that.


If other people are staring I can’t see them.


Following the customary laryngopharyngeal noises of the espresso machine the barista brings me my flat white and it only occurs to me once he places it on the table that 1. Table service isn’t standard within the franchise—


Thank you. That’s very kind.


—and 2. That my arms are not free and neither is my mouth.


I think of flour babies, blindfolded trust exercises, the numerous crass initiatives designed to force the abled to be grateful for our privilege, to create a sympathy nobody asked for. You’re welcome.


From within the bag I work the zip up to my knees and pull the coffee cup in from under the table, like a giant slug absorbing its nourishment. Within the bag it is uncomfortably warm with my arms up like a meerkat, both hands around the cup, sipping from the coffee right next to my face. Within black bag I am wearing only a pair of maroon boxer shorts that—I don’t know why—have the words
 
dare to wear
 
written on the elastic in capital letters. This is the twenty-first century. Get on board or your pants will. I look down to slurp from my coffee cup. My nipples look like the snouts of shrews or voles; I get them mixed up.


I feel, and this is saying something for me, about as awkward as I have ever felt. I am in the process of thinking
 
I do not think that I will do this again
 
when I feel a great flash of impact across my back and pour most of the coffee onto my thinly veiled crotch.


Mercifully a flat white is served at a cooler temperature than other coffees, but the feeling is so unpleasant and the incident so unexpected that it takes a moment for me to say Hello? And look to my left. I have dropped the cup, which is now caught between the shin of my right leg and the side of black bag.


There is nobody there, so I say, Hmm, out loud.


I look both ways. There is no expectant or guilty face, no sign of whoever slapped me on the back. A student from Dr. Blend’s class?


Hmm, that wasn’t very nice. Hmm, I must let you know that this is not a good way to treat someone in a black bag.


I say this out loud.


I am not sure if this contravenes my arrangement with Dr. Blend; I was given to understand that I should remain more or less without a personality, and hope that my statements were neutral enough. With no coffee and no further reason to be in Costa I get to my feet and a surprising amount of coffee runs down my leg.


Nobody says anything, nobody laughs and I feel momentarily liberated. After all, nobody knows who I am. They probably never will. This is actually a fantastic opportunity and one I should be grateful for.


I should sing a little.


I begin to sing “I Had the Craziest Dream” by Harry Warren and Mack Gordon, muffled only by black bag, and I walk to the revolving door. It takes some negotiation to get it moving but I manage by pushing against the glass panel with my forehead until somebody enters another quarter and whirls me into the cool October morning.




OceanofPDF.com

















11




PERHAPS IT IS BETTER THAT
 
rather than drawing attention to myself by attempting to do things I’d otherwise take for granted, I am just seen ambling around the campus. Certainly there are enough challenges to keep me occupied: broad stairways, unnecessary elevations, busy little interchanges. The agony of self-consciousness and the thrill of anonymity. At ten minutes to every hour the campus flows with pedestrians, seven ply, like a circuit switched on. In between it falls almost silent, backstage, lone scurrying technicians, before the migration from theater to theater begins again.


People who stare, people who look away, people who seem to be about to say something to me and then think better of it.


What I take from this is that I am
 
almost
 
worth remarking on; I am out of place, and the out-of-place always feels like a matter of physical or spiritual hygiene. Should we do something about this? Is it our problem? But the good liberal must assume I have my reasons and furthermore that my privacy must be respected.


It’s what I’d do if I were them.


The university’s science departments look like scaled-down factories with arrayed complex vents and chimneys, mirrored glass or tinted windows that magnify ominous laboratories. This is where students learn how to build bridges, or refine the accuracy of the homing missile, or make people’s natural lifespans longer. I walk among the accidental channels and back entrances, skirt the beds of gray perennial shrubs.


As I round the corner between Mechanical Engineering and Resistant Materials I notice that a woman with long dark hair is staring at me. She is sitting on a precast concrete bench drinking from a white cardboard coffee cup, and, as I get closer, I realize that she is scowling, her eyes tracking me as I amble down the path. She is dressed sharply in a black skirt and a gray shrug cardigan. As I reach the road she stands, hurriedly
 
grabs her messenger bag and speed walks toward a copse of silver birches, leaving her coffee cup on the bench.


I sit on the bench. I nudge the coffee cup with my thigh, knocking it over so that it rolls to the edge and comes to a stop, a steady drip of black coffee onto the tarmac. On the side, in black felt tip:
 
Justine
.


Justine, I say out loud.




OceanofPDF.com

















12




I AM REQUIRED TO BE
 
on campus twice a week, for the lecture and for one of the seminar groups, meeting at 11 a.m. This group is lucky enough to be led by Dr. Blend himself. Little do they know this arrangement is more than likely to be for the sole purpose of observing black bag and their interactions with black bag.


In a small room without windows I sit in a gray chair made of lacquered metal bars in U and L shapes screwed together and padded with a gray, gauzy material stretched tight over sponge, which I can tell is yellow, because there is a tiny pockmark in the seat that reveals it. The chair is like a utilitarian typeface, like Arial.


The walls are made of the same gray gauzy material as covers the seats and backs of the chairs, but stretched taut over plasterboards, perhaps with a thin layer of the same yellow sponge, noticeboards without notices. In the ceiling six of the panels have been replaced with semi-opaque plastic, a yellow light that is at once too bright and too dim.


I hold my breath as the students begin to enter. Dr. Blend has been at the front of the room, taking some notes in a soft notebook with no cover and has given no indication that he has noticed my presence.


A vulgar narrator might try to describe the students or even express some incredulity at the dress sense of people fifteen years younger than him, as if he doesn’t live in the same world where it’s hard to find trainers that aren’t fascist or a shirt not stitched by exploited children. The fashion among psychology students strikes me as East Asian; smart, drab, expensive—black trousers, white shirt or blouse, floor-sweeping gray cardigan, a KeepCup. The class comprises twelve girls and three boys. The boys wear luxury hoodies, white or a bright primary color, with an embroidered logo of something interesting: an Icelandic sunset
 
or a DeLorean. One student, who I suspect is American, wears a big racing-green sweatshirt with the university logo.


The last student to enter the room (she leaves the door open) elects to sit at the far end, right next to Dr. Blend’s similar but larger and more robust chair, rather than next to me.


I feel the familiar backstage anticipation.


This is my big chance to do absolutely nothing, as thoroughly as possible.


I am worried that I smell of stale coffee but perhaps this isn’t something to worry about in academia.


Now, says Dr. Blend, I asked you each to come to the seminar with two contradictory definitions of the noumenon so we could begin by hearing those and then it can frame a broader discussion. Sophie?


Things that are really
 
real
. Look, are we supposed to talk about
 
that
?


If you wish to, Sophie.


She points at me.


Are we supposed not to notice? I’m finding it a bit off-putting, to be honest.


I appreciate your honesty. Anyone else? Sophie?


Dr. Blend is either calling everyone Sophie or there are two or more students named Sophie.


Should we say “it”?


I keep very still. My limbs tingle. This must be how it feels to hide in a cake waiting to burst out into the party while everyone comments on the oversized cake, only I will not, will never, burst out.


Should you
 
say
 
it?


Should we call it “it”?


In the spirit of honesty introduced by Sophie, would anyone else like to comment?


It makes me uncomfortable.


Could you say more, Thomas?


I don’t know why. I can’t articulate why it makes me uncomfortable. Is this part of the class?


It is a member of the class.


Does it say anything?


I shift a little in my chair.


For the sake of simplicity I think we might call it “it,” yes. Amy?


Okay, I basically just googled this.


That’s quite all right.


I’m fine with it, by the way.


Good.


She looks at her notes and reads.


A posited object or event that exists independently of human senses
.


What did you make of that?


She shrugs.


Like a religion?


Good.




OceanofPDF.com

















13




HEY, YOU’RE GOOD, MAN!


The moment this leaves my mouth I realize it is something you might say to your bassist or a new tennis partner rather than a professor.


He begs my pardon.


The way you get them talking, break things down, it’s … it’s good teaching.


Dr. Blend does not need compliments from a jobbing actor nor does he need to enter into the reciprocal backslapping that characterizes my profession and I must—really I already know this—keep very quiet about the whole thing if I am to expect any feedback from him whatsoever.


I have broken an unspoken rule, irritated him by my presumption and put the kibosh on hearing how he thought
 
I
 
was. Was I good? Man?


I like to think so.


I like to think I was stoical and that the way I stayed in my seat until even Dr. Blend had left the room, turning off the lights on his way out, and waited a full minute before heading off to our reunion in the photocopy cupboard was exactly what he wanted out of me.


He tells me he has rethought the lying down of black bag in the lecture theater: too much of a novelty, draws too much attention, or attention to the wrong things. People register that someone is laid out on a table before they notice the black bag. He ought to have considered that in advance. Besides which, fifteen of the students have now seen me in the seminar. He now thinks it better that I sit normally in the back row for the next lecture.


The back row? Is that wise? Is that not where the apex predators of the social hierarchy have always sat?


Toward
 
the back row, then.


Very well.


I don’t share my opinion that black bag would most likely sit in the
 
front
 
row as this probably says more about me than black bag.


Do you think this is to work, then? he says, finally. Tuesdays and Thursdays. Attend the lecture and the small group seminar, be present on campus in the hours either side so as to be occasionally witnessed?


Yeah, yeah, for sure, I say, quickly. I love it. And then can’t help but add, That was okay, right?


He inhales a breath he doesn’t expel, gives me another pile of twenty-pound notes and I thank him.




OceanofPDF.com

















14




THAT I AM TO ARRIVE
 
on campus and leave campus as black bag initially causes some difficulties. I am not being paid to ride the bus as black bag or, in desperation, to take an exploitatively cheap Uber I still can’t really afford as black bag and deal with the driver’s questions about black bag. This is not my job. But neither can I wear a rucksack with a change of clothes or carry anything whatsoever as black bag as I have no shoulders, so even if I were to find a coin-operated public toilet at the edge of the campus I still wouldn’t have anything to change into.


This is not Dr. Blend’s concern.


Complacent, maybe, but I have worked with far worse directors. I won’t go into that. I could. There are at least two careers I could probably … I remember one of their faces, a little too close to mine, his breath smelling of Brussels pâté, asking if I was okay and I said
 
I … respect … the … process …
 
between stifled sobs.


It was, even at the time, already a bad flashback in a film.


And you might call it my duty to come forward so people can say I’m so sorry this happened to you and everyone knew he was like that; it was an open secret in the industry and isn’t it time the industry did some proper soul-searching? And I would want every last one of them to die instantly.


Dude, says Claudio, just stay at mine. I’m like minutes from campus.


I don’t want to freeload.


Oh, piss off, “freeload.” I’ll be glad of the company. You can leave your stuff here. It’ll be your green room and your changing room.


If you’re
 
sure
.


No, I’m not sure, says Claudio. I’ve changed my mind, you can’t stay. Fuck off.


It is true that Claudio’s luxury apartment block is a mere five minutes’ walk down the towpath, saving me two bus journeys and a significant walk in bare feet.


On the canal path black bag reveals other advantages: when a cyclist passes I can press myself right into a holly hedge and feel nothing. Cheers.


I am barefoot. My feet will soon toughen up. It will add to the look.


The towpath gives out onto a rough staircase then a bridge and then a barely frequented high-end shopping center and then onto a main street with many awful bars where I am afraid that I will be given some “grief” by the kind of people who are not good liberals, who do not assume I probably have my reasons and who do not believe, above all, that my privacy should be respected. You know the type.


For them, black bag would be an affront and possibly somehow unpatriotic.


Today though—I step off the curb to avoid a scattering of glass crumbs—nothing but a snort of derision from a group of smokers under a purple canopy. One of them calls after me and I ignore it.


I am in just the sort of mood to give anyone who starts on me a piece of my mind and I believe people can sense that and know to leave well enough alone. I arrive at Claudio’s opulent tower block, a cruise ship standing vertically on its nose, stretched into the sky. This enchanted castle holds my keys, my jeans, my phone, my blue sweater, my raincoat and my shoes. I press the buzzer for his flat and I hear a crackly Claudio voice:


Beep beep, motherfucker.


A curious way to greet someone but not out of character.




OceanofPDF.com

















15




CLAUDIO’S PENTHOUSE,
 
marker of his worldly success, is bereft of aesthetic sensibility to the point of aesthetic sensibility. Imagine a hotel room without the hotel room art. Now stretch it like a mouse pointer dragging a pale blue boundary to include open-plan kitchen, shower bathroom, six little round spotlights in every ceiling to pick out the nothing. The walls are white, the floorboards are immaculate oak veneer with the occasional pubic hair.


I will be staying here Tuesday to Thursday every week for the duration of the job.


The main living space is dominated by a vast desk from which Claudio streams and narrates, records and edits. What is
 
up
, guys? There are various consoles on a custom-made shelving unit and a large high-spec PC with three monitors, two impressive-looking cameras on tripods and three microphones with pop shields. Some expensive white floor-standing speakers. A ring light.


Even these accoutrements are arranged with no regard to the shape of the room or the position of the walls; not quite diagonal, not quite parallel, linked to daisy-chained four-bars and thick black wires upon thin black wires cinched with cable ties.


There is a flat gray sofa with no arms, which I will sleep on when I stay with Claudio.


There is a square black wooden coffee table on which there is usually a can of craft IPA or a bottle of decent white wine next to a large glass bowl that came with the apartment. The place smells like birdseed.


It’s interesting that despite this apparent indifference to interior design, Claudio’s island domicile on
 
Animal Crossing: New Horizons
, a video game he has streamed for upward of a thousand hours, is ravishingly beautiful.


Well, don’t you look nice?


I’ll get changed.


You do whatever you need to do, man.


My holdall—on which I have semineatly arranged my shoes, jeans, shirt and hoodie—is in its own spotlight in an otherwise empty corner of the room. I crouch to the floor and, as I rise, I unzip black bag up to my forehead and emerge, sweaty and sniffing, like a giant wet moth. I take a deep breath.


God, I say, it’s nice to be out of there.


Claudio regards me admiringly as I hobble into my jeans.


So how was your first week, love?


It was fine, thank you.


My man out making a name for himself, whole new role, bringing home the bacon.


Not really, I say. I do have a wad of cash, though.


I show him.


Woah, says Claudio. Money. Do shops even take that anymore?


I suppose I should pay it into my bank.


How do you do that? Do you have to drop it down a chute and a little guy at the bottom counts it then throws it in a fire?


I think so.


You wanna get fucked up?


I do up my shirt. Claudio keeps his smart thermostat set to twenty-three degrees. Sometimes, if we’re out, he dials it up to twenty-eight on his phone so he can return to a sweltering bath house. I leave my hoodie on my holdall and fold black bag in three and place it on top.


I got a crate of this sparkling sake drink from one of my sponsors. It’s pretty bad.


Sounds great.


And Stutters is coming over.


Oh.


He heard you were staying.


Stutters.


I’ve got some video editing to do, but I can leave it to the night. When did we last have a proper session?


We went out in August.


Yeah, and you disappeared.


Now, Claudio, I put my hands on his shoulders. You know I like Stutters even if we’ve had our differences.


Stutters fucking loves you, man.


That’s none of my concern.


You should hear the way he talks about you: That guy’s the one, he says, That guy’s the one with real talent. I could tell even when we were kids.


So this is not,


(I ignore Stutters’s reported praise)


to be clear, me saying I’m tired and I don’t want to socialize. I’m fine.


You’re fine, says Claudio.


It’s more a case of past precedent.


Claudio wanders into the kitchenette and takes two large champagne bottles out of a cardboard box and dumps them on the counter.


It’s more a case of what Stutters’s arrival heralds. Your dealer is never your friend.


We’ve known him for years!


Your dealer may have a vested interest in keeping you alive, but only so he can shift more of his product your way.


Claudio takes out two white mugs and begins unwinding the wire cages on the sparkling sake.


Yeah, I mean, fair. You got me. Gonna try a little DMT. Second time. Gonna try to break through.


DMT?


Dude, there is
 
nothing
 
else like it.


You’ve done it before?


The first time I did DMT, says Claudio, I thought I was a book. I mean an actual
 
book
. I wasn’t human anymore. But it’s all over in like … I don’t know, five minutes. Although to you it feels like days.


You thought you were a book?


Yeah, with like pages and shit. So what I’m saying is I wouldn’t need you to be my sitter for very long.


I’m good for that. When did you do DMT, Claudio?


First time last month, he says. It was terrifying and I haven’t stopped … you know when you just can’t stop thinking about something?


You haven’t stopped thinking about it since.


Yeah. So you have to go back, you know.


I
 
don’t
 
know.


There were entities. Just like people say there are. It’s a realm, and there are entities who live there, all the time. But they’re not really creatures, they’re more like … structures. And they love us!


They do?


They were really happy to meet me—it was like, Finally, Claudio, you’re here! Like they’d been waiting for me for thirty-five years. But they weren’t like creatures, like I said, they were endless. I mean I was a book, too, so.


And you want to see them again.


I promised them.


Oh, Claudio.


Mate, if I get too fucked up—


You always do.


I’ll like, I don’t even know. I’ll buy you a car.




Stutters, whom we’d known
 
since secondary school, now traded in rare and hard-to-come-by hallucinogens. I do not know how people become dealers, whether they fall into it, transition from avid punter to supplier, increment by increment, or whether there are covert evening classes they have to attend to learn the ropes. Criminality precedes bureaucracy—it invented it. It strikes me as silly, a pitiable role. But then I meet a dealer and usually find them intimidating. Quick-witted, funny and mean, just like they were at school.


Stutters didn’t stand out; he looked like an aspiring literature professor, peacoat, round-necked jumpers over collared shirts. He didn’t deal in anything other than hallucinogens, wouldn’t countenance it, was quite offended at the suggestion that he supply you anything that
 
might be described as recreational. Why are you asking, though? Do you want something? Nobody knew exactly what Stutters’s deal was; some suspected he was a clinical researcher of some description, others that he was working undercover and would one day shop them all. But, by whatever methods, he had evaded detection or capture for some eight years, turned a reasonable living wage and didn’t need to get up in the morning; a tolerable happiness. He has, it’s worth adding, been resolutely clean since adolescence and doesn’t even take a drink.


Two years ago, with Stutters’s help, Claudio tried salvia divinorum and I had to watch him lie on the floor, temporarily lose his sight, then stand with the palms of his hands flat against the fridge door for an hour, speak in a panicked, incomprehensible whisper to things only he could see, and hold him while he wept from three to five in the morning. I held his physical body while his soul was in some kind of metaphysical hell. After that night he entered a state of PTSD for upward of half a year. Sometimes he’d tell me about the things he’d seen and the things that had been done to him, but mostly he said he didn’t want me to know. I wasn’t sure what to do; I shared his paranoia about consulting a GP, which, in retrospect, was negligent of me. When I was available I made him a lot of stuffed pasta.


I’m getting bored, man.


That’s never good.


I need to get out of my reality again.


I lean back on the sofa and drain my glass.


Now, Claudio, what exactly is it about your reality that makes you so eager to escape it?


We pause, like two dogs. We make eye contact. Claudio’s lips twitch. He starts laughing first and I join him.




Claudio is like the scion of
 
a great arable farmer who lets the family business disintegrate while he plays a farming simulator in the room above the tithe barn. But then it turns out that arable farming is
 
falling apart anyway and the future is in watching people play farming simulators.


We drink a bottle each of the very sweet carbonated sake while he waits for the buzzer and Stutters to arrive with his DMT. We talk about school.


At school Stutters was known as Jerry because of the army-surplus coat he wore with a little German flag on the sleeve. Jerry! they’d shout from across the playground or canteen. You fucking traitor, they’d say to him, at closer quarters. Jerry, you Nazi.


It’s possible such coats have attained a kind of retro chic in the twenty-first century, pockets stuffed with Fruit Salad and Black Jacks, modeled on Pinterest by puzzled-looking Zoomers, but in the nineties they were very much a budget choice, had an aura of poverty and a suspicion that you might be into
 
other
 
products carried by the army-surplus store, that you might get expelled for bringing a stubby vicious dagger or a replica grenade to school. A throwing star. A little cardboard box of bullets. The sorry personal effects of the most irredeemable losers in the tri-county area. This wasn’t the case with Jerry/Stutters—one got the impression he’d chosen the coat deliberately over, say, the army-surplus jacket with the Netherlands flag on the shoulder. To draw negative attention in a way that was at least predictable and manageable and deflected from more permanent eccentricities and defects.


We found it a little cruel, might occasionally, absentmindedly call him Jer, but on the whole didn’t participate. We called him Stutters because his surname was Stutty, and because he spoke in noticeably slow, measured sentences and never stammered. Instead he would pause, sometimes for a full minute, as if recharging a slack inner dynamo or astrally projecting to a happier time in his future.


Who knows what forms us? Stutters was perfectly intelligent, could have sat his A levels and any mid-ranking university would have taken him for a globally accredited BSc in Finance and he could, now, be working for a private investment firm on Canary Wharf, looking forward
 
to early retirement or the consultancy circuit to keep his hand in. That was the aura of the man. His choices felt incongruous.


I could go on. I won’t.


Oh. Claudio looks up from his phone. He’s not coming.


Good.


Something came up.


I’m glad not to see him.


Hey there.


Don’t like him one bit.


Claudio looks down and to the right, the direction we look in when we are disappointed.


But I’m sorry you can’t get your stuff.


Just gonna have to get very drunk, says Claudio, returning to the fridge.




OceanofPDF.com

















16




THE QUESTION OF WHAT TO
 
do with my weekends now that I am gainfully employed as black bag is a tricky one. Despite the fact it rarely came to anything, the rhythm of the constant hustle has syncopated my time into a long, uninterrupted contract with no annual leave. I will put away my practice monologues and grow accustomed to downtime, hours off, cigarette breaks. For three to four months I will live with a level of fiscal security I have never experienced in adult life. Maybe this will lead to more psychology work. If I do a good job. And I will do a good job if I throw myself into the weekdays and rest on Saturday and Sunday.


I am about to set off for a walk through the park, reaching for the Yale handle of my flat door, in fact, when my eye catches black bag folded in the corner.


Maybe I can do both. I can undertake weekend leisure activities while also getting deeper into character.


I drop my keys, remove my outer clothes and climb in, zipping black bag up from the inside.




I do not have children
 
and I do not drive and I do not own a house; as a result I am prone to excessive admiration of anyone who does, although I would not change places with any of them. They may think it the other way around, but they are the foil, I am the jewel.


I arrive at the park having met only one dog walker, a big man in a taupe baseball cap who averted his gaze as I passed. His dog, a Jack Russell, did not remark on me at all. I will take the path around the park clockwise.


The point of any human life is to be found acceptable by as many people as possible. We die for the lack of it. It is equally important to be
 
absolutely yourself. This is something they say about any artist at the top of their game: the thing that’s good about them is that they are absolutely themselves. But as an actor I must be absolutely not myself. A whirling void.


I stop to consult the bulletin board by the recycling bins. The park will soon be hosting a community Halloween parade. I could completely blend in with that as black bag. Maybe people will assume I am currently promoting the Halloween parade.


I learned quickly that this lack of an essential self was no way to live, that I would have to find something to animate my chillingly blank expression, to move the puppet somehow.


For a while I got into the habit of borrowing an anecdote or a figure of speech. Once I pretended to dislike sheep, because they were stupid. I was walking with my friend Vicky, whose father owned a farm. Although I didn’t really feel this way at all, I said, when we passed some sheep, that they were stupid, and that one particular sheep who had separated itself from the flock and got stuck in a ditch beyond the barbed wire where it cried plaintively had done so because it was stupid. Vicky didn’t berate me or even comment on how it seemed out of character for me, a known animal lover who often spoke only in order to
 
do the voices of animals
, any animal in the vicinity, in a variety of comical timbres, so that this outburst, this declaration of hatred toward a species kindly and docile, seemed puzzling or disingenuous. Vicky, I remember, said nothing at all, so that my comments about sheep hung in the air for a little while until we started talking about something else. A kindness; she simply waited for me to reset. But in that silence I realized that I had said something I didn’t mean, that I had
 
not
 
been absolutely myself or even partly myself; I had borrowed it from a bad stand-up in my head, was trying on an ill-fitting leather jacket, and that nothing good would ever come of that.


In fact whenever I’ve stolen a phrase, mannerism or anecdote from somebody else and tried to pass it off as my own it has been directly incipient to disaster.




As a student journalist—by which I mean a first-year student writing for the university newspaper—I was given an assignment to interview a certain senior and august actor, by whom I was quite intimidated. From reading previous interviews with the actor I had picked up the fact that the man intensely admired traditional journalistic technique, bemoaned its passing in fact and would be more likely to tolerate me if I recorded the notes of our interview in shorthand.


I did not, as it happened, know a solitary squiggle of shorthand, and had to hope that he didn’t either as he watched my random screed of loops and dashes fill five pages of my notebook as we talked (
when did he decide that he wanted to become an actor?
) with a sequence of endless nonsense hieroglyphs. At the end he said
 
could he just say
 
how encouraging it was to see an aspiring journalist who has taken the trouble to learn the tools of the trade, as it were, and wished me all the best in my career. I was so pleased with this result that I went straight to a basement bar and drank three pints of Extra Cold Guinness and it didn’t occur to me until I tried to write up the interview the next day that I had no record of his answers and more or less had to improvise what I vaguely remembered him as having said. The actor, who I don’t imagine made a habit of reading student newspapers, chanced, on this occasion, to look up the interview, perhaps because I’d made such a good impression. Following his complaint I was “fired” from the student newspaper.


These memories put me in an ill temper so, back in my flat and before retiring for a nap, I mix half a glass of blended Scotch with ginger wine and take a belt.




OceanofPDF.com

















17




THIS TURNS INTO SOMETHING
 
of a session: I finish the half bottle of Scotch and the whole bottle of ginger wine, which leaves me sluggish and foul-smelling by Monday morning. My eyelashes hurt, as if each had been snapped at the root.


My preparations for work on Tuesday complete (I
 
am
 
black bag, I say
 
nothing
, I react to
 
nothing
, I have many thoughts but they are merely the lubricating oil that sustains the furious motion of
 
nothing
), I have decided to visit my parents as soon as the painkillers kick in.


I go by three trains. I do this once a month when I’m not working, which is more often than not. Now that I have a steady job I ought to be able to greet them with a newfound confidence.


I would not, could not, subject my parents to the brutality of description. Who among us would come off well? Narrators are awful and they damage everyone they touch. So my parents will be represented by two pillars of rough-hewn stone, and that will have to do. I hang a garland of flowers around my mother and top up my father’s “eye well” (during the plague, coins were placed in a little hollow of water for sanitary reasons).




I walk Elliott,
 
my parents’ very badly behaved border collie puppy, who requires strenuous exercise of over six miles a day lest he become psychotic.


Come on, Elliott, I say. We’ll go and visit Bess’s grave.


What’s that to me?
 
says Elliott.
 
I acknowledge no predecessor. I piss on her grave and claim it as my own
.


Elliott, you brazen savage, you insolent mutt.


He gnaws on his lead as we leave by the kitchen door.


We do not routinely capitalize the names of dog breeds, I tell him, unless the name of the breed happens to be the name of a place. So when I write about you I will identify you as a border collie, small b, small c.


The Border is a place.


It’s a
 
notional
 
place. You’re neither Scottish nor English.


Damn sight more of both than you are
, he mutters, and pelts through a hedge.


I have to climb over the nearest gate and spend half an hour striding up and down the fields bellowing his name. I find him snapping at butterflies by the oxbow lake.




OceanofPDF.com

















18




WHEN I REACH CAMPUS ON
 
the Tuesday of week two it is raining heavily and, even though I am dressed head to shin in an obelisk of reasonable-quality black leather, my feet are cold and the water is beginning to seep in through my eyeholes and trickle down the inside of black bag. I am willing to put up with this for the next hour and a half for the sake of the role, but I worry that I will be wet and squelchy in the lecture, and that the leather will smell potently, and that overall I will be more of a distraction than intended. The additional factors may even tarnish the experiment in some way.


Besides, I didn’t sleep well. I was anxious.


It seems best to find a quiet building where I can stand by a radiator and slowly dry off.


At the end of a path lined with silver birches a mildewed sign reads
 
DEPARTMENT OF MODERN LANGUAGES AND LITERATURE
 
and the oblong building ahead is engulfed in third-generation ivy. I bow before the silver disabled-access panel and press it with my forehead.


There is nobody at reception. A bright Patrick Heron abstract covers an entire wall; this was once an operation with a considerable art budget. There is a large beige heater against the left wall but it is surrounded by stacks of seminar chairs with miniature desk attachments on one arm. I climb two flights of stairs to the first floor. Here, where rain lashes the windows of the shallow balconies, I find an unencumbered radiator, billowing gouts of heat toward an open vent. I lean against a laminated sign that says
 
DO NOT MOVE
, which refers either to itself or to something that, nonetheless, has been moved. I close my eyes. A salaryman in Taipei might find that this reminded him of his restful commute, packed against other sorrowing bodies in a state of weightlessness. It might be
 
the closest he comes to genuine relaxation. I try to channel his gratitude as I drink the hot air.


I am drifting into a state of semiconsciousness when I feel the bag around the small of my back gather, as if caught in a mechanism, and I try to shake myself free, but the grip tightens and begins to pull me away from the radiator.


I am about to apologize to whom I imagine might be a warden or security guard when a woman’s voice says, Hey, it’s okay, and continues to drag me into the middle of the room, past the empty water cooler.


Oh.


Shhh.


I go limp and stop struggling, then turn to face her.


I recognize her as the woman who was glaring at me from the concrete bench last week. Justine. She smiles and lowers her gaze.


There is, I think, it being rare enough, something that passes between you, or emanates from you, when you are more than usually attracted to someone. Justine has high cheekbones, a slightly querulous turn to her lips, black and gray hair and the darkest blue eyes I have ever seen. She is wearing a black top with black trousers and a small black velvet jacket. She grabs a bunch of black bag at my waist and leads me through a pair of double doors, then halfway down a dimly lit hallway. She takes out a bunch of keys and flicks through them. A sign on her door reads
 
PROFESSOR JUSTINE PEARCE
.


Just … quiet, she says.


I realize I have been murmuring involuntarily.


She opens her door and pulls me in.


In her office she has an orange coffee machine with a jug, a large framed print of Hieronymus Bosch’s
 
The Garden of Earthly Delights
 
and a poster of a robot removing its face. The other three walls are floor-to-ceiling bookshelves but I can’t make out names or titles through my eyeholes. The room smells very strongly of nail varnish although as far as I can tell, Professor Pearce is not wearing nail varnish.


Do you want to sit?


I look at a row of three mismatched school chairs.


Do you speak?


Sometimes.


She seems relieved. Will you take a seat?


She sits down in an Eames office chair and turns it away from her desk. I take the middle seat, molded brown plastic with black rubber scratch caps on the end of the legs.


I hope you’ll forgive me for kidnapping you.


I think I saw you, I say, the other day.


Oh?


On a bench.


Ah yes.


I’m free until eleven, I tell her.


Professor Justine Pearce switches on her laptop and taps a few keys.


Several times over the last week I’ve seen you … faltering around campus. Makes a girl curious. And then, there you were, right on my landing. I’ll make some coffee?


She stands and flicks a red light on the machine.


I wouldn’t usually be this forward, she says.


I say nothing.


I was supposed to be giving a lecture on convergence but they changed the day and now it’s tomorrow. I’m used to giving it on Tuesdays; it’s confused the whole week for me. Do you know about convergence?


No.


It occurs somewhere between the fourth industrial revolution and total human extinction, she says. What are you, exactly?


I’m not supposed to talk about it, I say.


A student? Staff?


Staff.


Oh. She seems both reassured and disappointed, as if the mystery has been cheapened, as if this makes me both less and more of a problem. Or less short-term, more long-term.


I mean I’m sort of staff.


Yes, well.


Lab assistant. Temporary.


But you’re not supposed to talk about it?


It’s in my contract.


The thing about contracts, says Justine, is that you can break them with impunity as long as nobody involved in the contract finds out—they’re closed systems.


Hmm.


You can trust me, she says, wheeling over on her chair and putting a hand on black bag’s knee.


I don’t know you.


She smiles. I like travel, eating out and long walks in the rain. There. Now you know me. If you just tell me what you’re doing … I promise I have nothing to gain in telling anyone else. And they’re pretty lax on surveillance here. Although sometimes I realize I’m being monitored—that probably sounds rather paranoid, but it isn’t. Three years ago I had a fake student called Michaels.


Michaels.


I confronted him after class one day and never saw him again.


How did you know he was fake?


People can be terribly incurious, she says. I do not make a habit of picking up waifs and strays, but sometimes I see someone and I get a little signal, almost a physical feeling, an electric charge in the synapses: This person needs my help. And if I neglect that signal things tend to go badly. For me. Can’t ignore the signal.


Oh, I’m doing this of my own free will, don’t worry about that, I tell her.


Do you have a staff ID card?


They’re still printing it.


I’m interested in you, she says.


I’m flattered.


You’re hanging around my corridor in a bag. I get a little disconcerted, she says, regardless of the signal, by things that feel
 
off
. It really throws me, which is odd, because I generally have great self-possession.


I do not say anything, but Professor Justine Pearce
 
does
 
strike me as someone who has great self-possession.


There are certain things, and I won’t go into details, but there are some things that have happened to me that have given me a propensity for suspicion.


I sit forward in the chair. I’m not sure what it looks like.


My instructions are that I’m not supposed to say anything when I’m on campus, or at least that I’m to say as little as possible, I tell her.


She touches one of her ears nervously, then brushes her hair behind it. She looks directly at my eyeholes while I speak and I have the sensation of two other beings deep within each of us, saying hello to one another.


And who gave you these instructions?


Dr. Blend.


If she recognizes Dr. Blend’s name she doesn’t react.


Psychology, I add.


Oh, she says, smiling. Well I wouldn’t have heard of him. And this is some sort of study?


An experiment.


What kind of experiment?


I’m not entirely sure, I say. I’m an actor.


You don’t know what the experiment is?


I think it’s about how people react to me.


How
 
do
 
people react to you?


I tell her about the first lectures and seminars black bag has attended and that today will be the third, and that I have to sit still and not interact with anyone. I tell her about my journeys to and from campus.


She listens to me, curled up on the Eames chair with her hands braced around one of her knees. Sometimes she smiles grimly but doesn’t say anything.


Okay, she says. Okay. All of that sounds plausible. Maybe you’d like to come to my office on Tuesday mornings when the weather is this bad? Save you getting so bedraggled.


I’d like that, I say. Thank you.




OceanofPDF.com

















19




I HAVE TO TAKE BLACK BAG
 
most of the way off to get to my keys and open my front door. I do this hurriedly so as not to be caught by my neighbors, and as I enter my narrow hall I’m met by a familiar potato-like smell.


The reasons for disliking a ground-floor flat are manifold and we needn’t go into them: the damp; the security issues; the disconcertingly irregular room shapes; the sense that this is what remained once the rest of the building was complete and carved up and they stuck a door with a Yale lock on the leftovers, an offcut, a cutaway; the proximity to the front door of the overall building; the traffic noise; the pedestrian noise; the staircase noise; the block’s many other denizens coming home drunk between 10 p.m. and 3 a.m. or leaving for work at 4 a.m. and making sure you know about it; the pantomime whispers and shushing meters away from your sleepless head; the fact that your bedroom, instead of a window, has disintegrating French double doors with a tarnished key rusted into the lock on the inside; the vaguely fungal smell; the almost total absence of natural light; the weedy little external square yard entirely choked with brambles for which you are responsible despite its utter lack of utility not to mention implements or anywhere to keep them; the fact that you are by far the most likely to be murdered; the hallway with plasterboard walls you bang your elbows on; the long, freezing kitchen with the tiny yellow bathroom at the other end of it so that all human functions merge into one somehow very saddening galley; the weird hum; the fact that you and you alone among dozens have to answer the front door to whatever nuisance chooses to assault the building’s serenity on any given evening; the way you are forced to care disproportionately and frequently about the wheelie bins—not for the lords and ladies in their sky castles, their lake dwellings, their stilt houses who discard such cares
 
like sins falling away from saints as they ascend above you—no, only for you, who live among bins; the pokiness; the dinginess; the honking taps; the trick or treats; the mornings, nights and afternoons; the chill draft and the lack of meaningful differentiation; that feeling of
 
lurking
; but I actually rather like it. Returning from Claudio’s penthouse still feels like coming home from a day at the office.




I sit in my chair
 
and count the pile of twenties I have accumulated so far. Three hundred and forty pounds for a few hours of sitting in a chair! That I am suddenly and unexpectedly wealthy ought to produce in me a sense of fiscal responsibility—I should squirrel it away, put it under my mattress like Francis Bacon in the hope it proliferates beyond any practical use.


Instead I wish to rebel against my erstwhile poverty and improve my environment.


I will remove the dreary, beige monstrosities from my disintegrating front bay windows and go to buy curtains I actually like. Me! Buying curtains! Imagine!


In a flash I understand why a newly successful musician might get fitted for golden, sparkling grillz, a personalized numberplate: to exercise some agency over the world that so insulted them.


I glare at the curtains I have endured for the last three years, mildewed death shrouds. I draw them and open them with a rasp, run my hand over their rough surfaces. A billowy patch of damp on the left, as if a former tenant pissed on it.


Fuck you, I whisper.


I pull my chair to the window, balance on it and tear the curtains from the eyelets, bundle them up and leave them by the door to shove in the wheelie bin. I give the sorry parcel a little kick for good measure.


I take measurements from ceiling to floor.


I dress smart-casually, put on my good shoes and visit the small, dark Curtain Emporium around the corner on the most nondescript
 
residential road in my neighborhood. An establishment that has never been relevant to me before and that I passed every day as if it were abandoned.


The stiff door activates an actual bell. The shop smells resinous, like a museum. It is dimly lit, but impeccably clean.


Their first customer in perhaps this century, I am treated like a king. After being shown many samples by a delightful little bald man in pince-nez, I choose some cotton herringbone weave pleats in “marshmallow” with blue embroidered details for £150. I pay in cash, naturally, which delights him.


Will sir need some help with installation?


No. Thank you, but I will take great pride and care in installing them myself, I tell him.




As I am hanging my beautiful
 
new curtains I feel as though I have seen them somewhere before. I shake it off. I replace each nasty plastic hook with a gleaming brass fastener. This accomplished, I step off my chair, move it back to its place, draw the curtains smoothly closed and admire my work.


The midday light filters through as if a team of technicians had perfected it. The entire room seems to sigh with satisfaction. I love them.


This is what I should have said in my audition. Before we start worrying about the environment we ought to get our soft furnishings sorted. Seek ye first the Kingdom of God.


They remind me of something good.


Off-white in just the right way. Trimmed with dark blue brocade of fleur-de-lis and vines … Ah: Samantha’s Spanish dress from the
 
Salumist of Avila
.


I run my hands down and around the curtains to smooth them and admire the weave, but it is as if my hand might alight accidentally on Samantha’s thigh.


Samantha, in that moment, strikes me as the pinnacle of femininity.


A man such as myself who can afford to choose and buy his own curtains must be in want of a woman to admire them.


Dearest, I text her, did you get your phone back?


I walk to the kitchenette to put the kettle on. I hum a few bars of “Master of the House.” The curtains look even better from the other side of the room and I can imagine Samantha standing by them, contemplating something.


Angel, so sweet of you to care! she replies. No. Insurance. I don’t like my new case very much.


But thank goodness you got to keep your number, I write, else I might have lost touch with you forever.


Don’t even say such things, she replies.


Shall we have dinner?


A few seconds elapse before Samantha replies, Are you serious?


I’m working! I tell her. And we could probably both use a square meal.


Samantha pauses again before replying.


Jam today.


Jam all day, every day! I text.




It is very important,
 
now that I am in love with Samantha, now that we will live in a riverside duplex and have three daughters named Calliope, Phoenix and Artemis who will all go to a Steiner school once I have retired from acting to consult on movies with psychological content so as to support Samantha as she auditions for a hard-hitting sex drama set in the ’70s, that I do not appear overeager.


I pull out her chair and then push it in again.


I sit down on the maroon velvet sofa side. Le Coucou is a traditional French restaurant recommended in the papers a couple of years ago, probably not what it was, but still basking in the afterglow. When I suggested it Samantha sent an embarrassed face emoji and then said
 
If you’re sure
?


Should a man take the chair side? To ward off potential aggressors? I’m not sure. I’d prefer to see her arrive, and in any case this side gives me a better view of the whole restaurant from which to ward off potential aggressors.


Samantha is wearing a bottle-green V-neck jersey dress that accentuates her broad and lovely shoulders. She has a large black leather handbag with a silver buckle on the strap.


Darling, you look a million dollars, I say, standing and almost knocking over my tall empty wine glass. I ordered you a negroni.


She raises her eyebrows, then leans in for me to kiss her on both cheeks.


Do you have any idea the last time I went out for dinner? she says.


I would expect you to be rebuffing suitors with a stick, I say.


I’ve forgotten how to do it. Babe, this isn’t a date, is it?


We sit down and she puts her handbag next to her like a pet.


A
 
date
? I say, adopting an American accent. You’re way out of my league.


Oh please, says Samantha.


This is just two old pros shooting the breeze, talking shop. We have to support each other, right?


In that case, darling. Samantha drinks half her negroni. She looks around. Remind me how this works?


They come to you and say,
 
Have you dined with us before?
 
And you say, no, but I’m assuming I tell you what I want to eat, you bring it to me and then I give you all my money. This is on me, by the way—it’s lovely of you to come at short notice.


I feel a little off, somehow, as if neither of us can quite function when we’re not backstage.


I finish my negroni.


As if we can only give each other what we require in short, pressured gasps. I ought to have suggested a quick hookup in a props cupboard. This is too deliberate, too stagey, a
 
date—
ha! How is anyone supposed to feel natural on a date?


I’m so tired, Samantha says, stretching. Split shifts in the café. And today this old man was
 
sick
—actually sick. Have you ever seen an old man throw up before? It was awful! I felt so bad for him. He wouldn’t stop apologizing.


Oh god, I say. You work in a café?


Well what do you do, babe? she says.


Between roles? Disintegrate.


I know you’re not the type to get your hands dirty.


It’s not so much that …


She reaches over and takes one of my hands, runs her fingers over it.


So soft, she says, like a prince.


Haha, shut up.


The waiter has cropped gray hair and a tight waistcoat over his white shirt.


Are we ready?


I wait until Samantha chooses the beef bourguignon and I order a bottle of red from the middle of the list.


I’ll have the same.


Minus the curtains I have one hundred and ninety pounds in cash remaining. If this overshoots I can just put this on my credit card and pay it off with next week’s wages.


So are you going to tell me about your big break? she says, gesturing at the restaurant. Do I have to guess?


It’s a bit weird, I say.


You’ve
 
not
 
become an escort? Her eyes widen as if she’s convinced this must be the case. She puts her hand to her mouth.


No. I don’t think I’m tall enough.


Honestly, she says, like that matters with your jawline and your big sad eyes.


I make the saddest expression I can.


Angelique said you must have become an escort.


Angelique?
 
I say, feeling a little dizzy.


I told her you were taking me out. She told me to watch myself. She laughs. I told her it was just two old pros shooting the breeze. She said,
 
God, if he can afford the Coucou all of a sudden, he must have become a sex worker.


I clear my throat.


Not that I judge, you know me. Her words.


Yes, I mean if I’d describe anyone as judgmental, I say.


Perhaps it is good that Samantha feels comfortable enough to drop Angelique’s name into conversation so casually, perhaps it indicates Angelique—my girlfriend for almost a year at the age of thirty-three—has ceased and desisted her character assassination of me, or that, as far as Samantha is concerned, all’s fair in love and war. But it is still the case that I have more or less excised Angelique from my memory and do not like to be reminded that she still exists or has any bearing on me whatsoever. I forgot they knew each other, but of course they do.


Oh angel, you look upset—I’m sorry.


God, no, it’s fine, I say.


I thought that was all such a long time ago, you know? Sweetheart.


It was, I say. It was. I’m totally fine—I haven’t thought about her in so long it’s just thrown me a little.


I briefly consider giving Samantha several twenty-pound notes toward the meal, striking the set and walking out.


I should change the subject.


Do you see her often, Angelique? I ask.


Here and there, says Samantha. She’s doing circus stuff again.


I make a mental note to avoid the circus and anything circus-adjacent at all costs.


That’s great! That’s so good that she’s doing that again.


Well, she’s very agile. Babe—genuinely, I didn’t mean to upset you; forget I mentioned her—let me just pop to the little girls’ room and we can start again.


Another take, I say.


Another take!


As she stands, Samantha gives my shoulder a conciliatory squeeze—an apology, a warning, a tacit agreement?—and goes in search of the bathroom.


For God’s sake. She looks so good.


A few more dates that I’m pretending aren’t dates and we could really have been something. But I cannot be part of any web that Angelique has had even an
 
auxiliary
 
role in spinning. I try to imagine what else she might have said about me. That Samantha should watch herself! Around me!


My heart is tapping out a distress signal; my face is hot and itchy. I’m sweating, but by the time it trickles down my neck, it is cold as the condensation on my negroni glass.


I reach under the table for Samantha’s handbag, drag it to my side and pop the clasp. You could fit a pumpkin in it. It’s perfect.


Once you overcome the initial feeling of transgression you can really do anything. I upend the handbag and pour its contents over the seat next to me, a little avalanche of pill packets, makeup, used train tickets, a turquoise paperback.


As if grappling with an oxygen mask I lift the handbag and pull it over my head.


The familiar smell of leather, right against my nostrils. I inhale deeply. I can’t see a thing, of course, but already I can feel my pulse stabilizing.


A presence approaches.


I forgot my— Oh.


I say nothing.


Darling, what are you doing? My stuff!


I shake my enclosed head.


Are you …?


Soon I will have to remove Samantha’s handbag from my head and help her put her possessions back into it.


Sweetheart, do you need me to call a doctor?


Soon. But for now her voice is distant and muffled, which makes me feel that I needn’t respond to anything at all.




OceanofPDF.com

















20




I RETURN TO MY FLAT
 
vibrating with humiliation and pour myself half a tumbler of Whyte and Mackay. Sometimes I have vivid and detailed fantasies of putting a shotgun in my mouth, taking care to aim it right at the center of my brain, but this only applies to awful things I said or did years ago. Tonight’s wounds are too fresh for the thought experiment to have any effect.


Instead I take my drink into black bag, zip it up and sit on my chair in pleasant oblivion.


I was twenty-nine when I met Angelique in the cast of an experimental movement piece about Armenia. I wasn’t the strongest dancer and she took it upon herself to instruct me outside of official rehearsals.


Put your hands there. There. Stop being shy.


We got together after the opening night. Small attic theater above a pub. Somehow it drew a respectable crowd.


I mostly stayed at her place because mine was a dump.


I went through an unusual phase of getting a lot of auditions after that and I noticed that Angelique’s reaction to any work coming my way was to go quiet and barely acknowledge it.


Over the next six months it dawned on me that Angelique was possibly planning to kill me. Small signs I won’t go into. Nobody believed me at the time and I don’t expect you to either. But think about it: when you see a gloomy murderer’s mugshot in the newspapers, defiant, dead-eyed expression. The true face? The mask finally abandoned? No. Ultimately they’re as puzzled as you are.


It was an odd time. Angelique was publicly very affectionate if increasingly cool when we were alone in her flat. I was, of course, passive and accommodating, but I sensed a subterranean ocean of loathing, a sense that she wanted to punish me for something. Possibly for being passive and accommodating.


Anyway, it was so well hidden I could never even bring it up with her. I just anticipated. A wok to the back of the head while I read the LRB at the kitchen island. Poisonous mushrooms in a casserole. A setup with a deranged dealer.


What disturbed me the most—what did the most damage to my sense of self—is probably the fact that Angelique found me murderable at all; that there was something murderable about me. I hate that there’s something murderable about me.


That I’d probably help you plan the disposal of my body in advance if you asked nicely. I’d run to the shops.


You could say that’s just one person’s opinion, but it’s certainly one too many.


But thanks.


Eventually, in desperation, I’d take to openly saying
 
I think she’s planning to kill me
, and people would laugh.


Even Claudio maintains, to this day, that it’s possible I imagined it. You were smoking a
 
lot
 
of weed at the time, he’ll say, which wasn’t even true, which was in fact a rumor put about by Angelique.


Sudden bread knife frenzy, gently encouraged overdose.


I had to leave her no less than seven times, change my phone number and email address and cut several people out of my life before it stuck. Angelique took the breakup badly and started telling mutual acquaintances that I’d been very controlling, that I’d stopped her seeing her friends, that there were so many red flags she could see in retrospect, and that she was probably lucky to have escaped my clutches, although it would take some time for her broken heart to heal and to truly trust anyone again.


The thought of stopping anyone doing anything, let alone seeing their friends, is anathema to me. I said this to Claudio at the time, in desperation.


Claudio said that men do some pretty fucked-up things in relationships, so they’ve kind of poisoned the well, vis-à-vis trusting them and their accounts of things.


Yes, but I’m not like that. You’re not like that. You have to believe me.


Claudio sighed, probably calculating what this would cost him, socially, but knowing that ultimately he was going to take my side.


I don’t want you to take my
 
side
! I wailed. I don’t want there to
 
be
 
sides! I just want to be left alone!




Angelique did not, as it turns out,
 
have much to envy. For several months I was part of a five-strong, specifically non-comedic improv troupe. That was our whole thing: that it was improv, but not funny, preferably quite morose. We performed in a popular pub attic theater on Tuesday nights and developed a medium-sized loyal following. Therein I got scouted, which led to the highlights of my résumé: Gratiano in
 
The Merchant of Venice
 
(RSC, but an admittedly auxiliary part that didn’t lead to anything. “He talks a good deal of nothing”—a mot juste); Eric Birling in
 
An Inspector Calls
 
(regional, coastal, did not tour, possibly fell in the sea); Peter in
 
The Zoo Story
 
(university, studio theater) and an anonymous hectoring voice in something untitled (Royal Court). Or I’ve forgotten the title, I don’t know; it doesn’t seem plausible for a play not to have a title … During this time, I decided that I’d made it, but that was more or less the end of my run. I did land a role as Buttons in a regional pantomime last year. The star was a retired athletics commentator. I stayed in a very cheap B&B, the single occupant of a seven-bed room that felt oddly frightening to sleep in. The proprietor brought me a bowl of rice crispies on a tray every morning. With a spoon and a fork.


Times are hard.


The government hates us. The next will too.


I’m not complaining.


I can live within my means like a mollusk if I have to.


I know how lucky I am.


And I know I’m good.


Eventually you know you’re good.


Eventually you know you can be the one about whom they’ll say the material wasn’t great but the cast made it work.


You know you can make it work.


That’s all you’ve got. So you’d better know it.




I text Samantha.


Samantha, I’m so sorry. I don’t know what came over me.


I will pace up and down my living room and hallway until she replies, and if she doesn’t I will simply not go to bed and destroy myself with sleep deprivation.


My phone vibrates.


Already forgotten, sweetheart! she replies. I wish I could put my own head in my handbag sometimes.




OceanofPDF.com

















21




DR. BLEND HAS WRITTEN
 
the word
 
Propinquity
 
on the whiteboard with a black marker.


You’ve read the Festinger, I hope, he says, in a voice that implies he suspects nobody has. Essentially, people who encounter one another more frequently tend to develop stronger relationships, he summarizes.


It feels so good to be in black bag. I nuzzle the inside of the leather a little. I would hate to be here as myself.


Who are you attracted to? says Dr. Blend. You, individually. Spend a moment thinking about that.
 
What’s your type
 
might be the crude way of putting it. Write it down.


I can see that the girl in the row in front of me writes
 
Tall men with mental health issues
 
in her jotter.


Dr. Blend talks a little about fan fiction and fan communities.


You make a space in your brain which other people can believe in.


They walk through the wet leaves thinking about it, he continues.


He says something about a study in an isolated Swedish town and for a while I think only about an isolated Swedish town, what I would do there and the life I would build for myself.


Swedish towns tend to feel bigger than they really are because they are very spread out. The population might be under a thousand and they’d be quietly interested in me. I’d walk in the forests, save up for a good coat with extraordinary insulation. I’d work in the sawmill, maybe. I’d be a bit wobbly at first, but my superiors would be supportive and gently amused as I learned the ropes. Good neighbors, welcoming the outsider, I’d get very drunk on oily spirits with them. It’s possible I’d get complacent in my work after a couple of months and sustain a life-changing injury—


But let’s refocus.


When Dr. Blend says this I realize I am at the point of falling asleep. I am growing accustomed to black bag—my aching legs, my self-consciousness, they mean nothing to me this morning. There are at least two hundred students in the room, gathered in clusters of four or five, with rows filled toward the back. Some of them glanced at me and conferred with each other at the beginning of the lecture. Since then I have been left alone. I am in a semi-comfortable seat at the end of the third row from the back. There are two empty seats beside me and then a girl with black hair who smells like shoe polish.


Dr. Blend writes down the lyrics to the Monkees song “Propinquity (I’ve Just Begun to Care)” on the whiteboard.


Birds who just happen, by chance, to be near each other. By an array of coincidences uncontrollable even by the most determined or manipulative methodologies. The problem here is that subliminal presentation confounds the presence of unconscious memory with the absence of conscious memory.


I cannot parse Blend’s sentence at all. I take myself back to the Swedish village. Since losing my right hand I have befriended an elderly woman named Birgitta. Someone once told me that nobody remembers anything other than the first and the last ten minutes of a lecture. It is not my job to listen anyway. Exactly, says Birgitta, boiling a pan for coffee. Ingen ko på isen.


There’s no cow on the ice.


At this point Dr. Blend has written:




C = p(‘old’{inclusion)—p(‘old’{exclusion)




next to the Monkees lyrics.


In the diffuse Swedish town I look out of Birgitta’s window, which, despite the cold, is just a wiry gauze giving out onto the pines.


Birgitta hums to herself in the kitchen—a traditional Swedish tune, lilting and melancholy. I am not sure why she has taken a liking to me. Perhaps only that I seem to need looking after.


Ultimately, we’re talking about avoiding the potential problems of previous research, says Blend.


I remain still as Dr. Blend plays a recording of a light faux-country song with a descending chord sequence that doesn’t quite work with the vocals, perhaps intentionally.


The students rise, gather their laptops or notebooks into their satchels and filter out, exchanging quiet observations.


Who’s your friend?


Haha. He’s in my seminar too, did I say?


No way?


Inside black bag I close my eyes.


You cannot try to see yourself the way others do, Birgitta says, putting a slab of marzipan on my tin plate. Isn’t that all we ever do? No, she says. Doing that will make you nuts. Worry gives a small thing a big shadow.




OceanofPDF.com

















22




THE SECOND SOPHIE IS THE
 
first person to enter the seminar room after me. Dr. Blend is not here. I am sitting in my chosen space. She groans when she sees me and I make no sound or movement in response.


Sophie walks around the table and pulls out a chair. There are simply not enough points of reference within the room to tell you where she has chosen. No, wait, if I number the chairs clockwise with Dr. Blend’s slightly better chair at twelve, she takes a seat at four o’clock. This is on the opposite side of the room to the chair she sat in last week.


Sophie takes off her jacket, unwraps her gray scarf and takes a notebook and pen out of her shoulder bag.


She glares in my direction twice, then at her phone. Then she looks at me again.


Not a one-off, then?


I say nothing.


Not a little joke for the first class?


I try not to move or make any gesture that could be taken for a yes or a no.


I obviously don’t know who you are or anything about you, she says.


I tense my fingers and my toes.


I watch the second hand moving around the face of the clock.


Inside black bag I focus on very slightly tensing one finger at a time.


I’m not trying to be a bitch, she says. You probably think so. It’s just we pay a lot of money for this and you’re distracting and you’re unsettling, and you make some people really uncomfortable, so that’s obviously not acceptable, but even if that wasn’t the case— Oh hi, Briony.


Oh for fuck’s sake, says Briony, looking at me like I’m a spilled drink.


Right? says Sophie.


Briony snorts derisively.


We’ve drafted an email to Blend, says Sophie. I know you were busy.


Oh yeah, sorry.


You doing okay?


Yeah yeah.


The hubbub in the Blendless room increases as students enter, some saying, Oh, some not seeming to notice me or pretending not to care.


Dr. Blend does not appear until the entire class is present and seated, at four minutes past eleven. He is flustered and out of breath, his hair is fluffier than usual and his gray herringbone suit is crumpled. The air of a man who has just arrived from a protest or minor natural disaster. He picks his way through to the back of the room and slaps himself on the thighs.


I am terribly sorry to keep you all waiting.


Someone says, No biggie.


Dr. Blend pats himself down and takes out a pen.




OceanofPDF.com

















23




HOW WAS YOUR DAY, BRO?


I don’t know, I say, unzipping and blinking in the harsh light. I don’t think anyone likes me.


On his main screen Claudio is playing a video game where you have to carry a baby through a war-torn city. The graphics are of a distressingly high specification. I watch as a dry explosion causes a dust cloud on the next block and Claudio’s protagonist crouches behind a burnt-out car, shielding the baby’s head.


You heard of this? he says. It’s
 
fucked
 
up.


He shuts it down, spins in his chair and points at me.


What you’re doing? That’s artistic integrity, that is, he says. Nobody likes what you’re doing but you’re totally committed to it.


He whistles in admiration.


You’re like the bizarro Claudio. After you die they’ll recognize you as the most innovative actor of your generation.


That’s a myth, I say, and a pernicious one.


There should be some way of getting you paid for it.


I
 
am
 
getting paid, I say, sitting down heavily on his sofa.


No, but I mean, says Claudio. You’re doing something cutting-edge here—taking this whole performance to the public. You’re giving it your all. I think you deserve more recognition.


I just want to do a good job, I say.


Exactly, says Claudio. I’m going to give this some thought.


Please don’t.


I’m already giving it some thought. Nothing you can do about it.


He turns in his chair again and writes something down on the notepad on his desk.


Okay, I’m knackered, he says. And I’ve got to file a piece on the war baby and umpire a tournament tomorrow. You okay just chilling? You can play anything you want.


I’m good, I say.


He smokes a joint, which I refuse, and then goes to bed.


I walk over to his desk to check the notepad and find that Claudio has simply written
 
black bag
 
against a single bullet point.




Next morning I watch the fiery
 
sunrise from Claudio’s giant window. I think of something blooming in a petri dish.


I check to make sure Claudio is breathing and then I collect my toothbrush and quietly close the door of his bedroom by pulling the matte chrome door handle down very slowly and then keeping my hand on it as it rises again. I go to his fridge and I take a can of iced coffee and an individually packaged custard tart. I consume this quickly at the black marble counter and then I blow my nose on a piece of kitchen towel.


I watch the lights blinking on several of Claudio’s consoles and suppose that he is downloading or uploading something. When it uploads it will be subject to thousands of comments from obsequious followers, irrepressible pedants, juvenile psychopaths. What is
 
up
, guys. Hit the like button, ring that bell, let’s try to get to 500,000. Sometimes I worry that the whole thing is causing Claudio non-superficial and lasting soul damage.


But god, whose job isn’t?


We start to resemble what is asked of us, I imagine Dr. Blend saying. The trouble is none of us can truly say what that is.


I try to cram black bag into my rucksack but it’s too big.


I unfold and look at black bag. I hold it at arm’s length in front of me.


I climb into it and crouch to do up the zip.




I arrive back at my place
 
with chafed feet, eager to get out of black bag, or to assume the larger black bag of my apartment. I will spend three
 
days here, dedicated to research, reading for pleasure, doing calisthenics and maybe drinking a bottle of wine, and then return to Claudio’s flat on Monday night for the working week to begin again. I can feel a cold coming on so I should take it easy. Acting is a dictatorship of the healthy. If you’re going to land a part in a long-running musical you’d better be preternaturally
 
well
.


I admire my new curtains. As I acquire more wealth I will set about making this room my own: an old wooden globe, a dark and pretty drinks cabinet with a complicated mosaic inlay. A mahogany bookcase. A tall, thriving bird-of-paradise houseplant.


All of these will go with my record player. I put on Keith Jarrett’s
 
The Köln Concert
. I turn on the standard lamp with the William Morris shade. If there’s one thing worth spending on, one thing that can truly make or break your quality of life, it’s lighting. I pour myself a brandy. I sit in my green leather armchair and I pick up
 
The Collected Poems of Frank O’Hara
. I have a television. Sometimes I like to tell people that, in the way other people like to tell people they don’t have a television.




OceanofPDF.com

















24




THE KIND OF RAIN
 
that only happens on a Tuesday, heavy like preordained rain, rain augured and written about by prophets eons ago. This will be a wet place.


I think if we’d focused our warnings about climate change on the fact that, for the United Kingdom alone, it would result not in the country becoming even
 
half a degree warmer
 
than a cold day in November, but rather a slow and relentless year-round icy drizzle into oblivion, we’d have got a lot more people on our side.


That’s what I should have said in that audition.




The moment I get to campus
 
I head directly to the Department of Modern Languages and Literature. It looks as though someone has polished the sign, although nobody has gardened and the building is still smothered in ivy.


I climb the stairs to the first floor and I go through the double doors marked
 
ENGLISH
 
and I walk down the long corridor until I come to 112, Professor Justine Pearce’s office.


I knock.


Nothing.


I bow my head. Perhaps I will find a chair in a communal area.


I feel a firm but gentle hand on my shoulder.


I already have strange expectations of Professor Justine Pearce so I am disappointed when she says something as functional as
 
I’m so sorry—I’m double-booking everything this morning.


She unlocks her door.


Please come in.


Hi.


I’m
 
really
 
glad you came, she says, taking off her coat and hanging it on a peg mounted on the back of her door. I saw the rain this morning and I thought, I wonder. And I’m so sorry I was late. Do sit. I thought, I wonder if he’s someone who takes people at their word.


I was grateful for the offer.


Which is a rarer quality than you think. How is your work?


I tell her that students have complained.


I suppose they would. But I suppose that’s data.


It’s all data, I agree.


But are you happy?


Am I
 
happy
?


You’re being looked after?


I feel … I shuffle inside black bag. I feel a great sense of tranquility.


By being made invisible?


I don’t know.


Not that you’re particularly invisible.


She looks at my feet.


I can infer that you’re Caucasian and possibly male.


That’s usually enough to get a fair idea of someone.


Ha.


We’re quite generic.


You contain multitudes, I’m sure. Something that interests me—Justine unzips one of her boots and adjusts her black tights—is whether it might be possible to undertake a relationship with someone who has foregone much of their identity.


A friendship?


No, not really.


Professor—


Christ, she says, that’s adorable, but you can call me Justine.


Justine.


Yes. Are you straight?


Bi.


Well that’s a coincidence, she says. I’m not making you uncomfortable, am I?


Not at all.


Good. And you’re okay with me? Doesn’t feel like breaking character?


I think about this. It hadn’t occurred to me not to, I say. The rules only apply when I’m in class. But I’m not supposed to talk at all. I haven’t talked to anyone else.


So this is just for
 
me
? she says, pleased.


I love when women seem to be happy with me. It makes me feel like the entire world is in balance.


Private show, I say.


Good, says Justine. Let’s keep it that way. A little about me: BA Oxon, PhD Stanford, although I don’t like to go on about it; my thesis was on instrumentality—you can look it up.


I will.


I’ve been here for ten years and part of me absolutely fucking hates it, but they treat me adequately and my modules are popular. Sometimes—she gestures at the window—the evening light comes through that tree
 
just so
 
and I feel lucky to be here.


I am quickly developing a crush on Professor Justine Pearce.


I love that, I say.


It’s not unusual for a professor’s work to have an impact outside of academia, she says. In fact it’s something institutions are very much in favor of. Play that right and they barely ask you to do anything else. Now with my discipline there are some clear crossovers with the tech industry, which happens to be obscenely affluent as well as prone to suggestion. At a certain point you start to ask yourself why you work in a literature department,
 
English
 
literature, of all things, but we can circle back to that.


Right.


Naturally you can find your research drifting toward … answering the demands of the industry to which you’re adjacent.


Oh, I know all about that, I say.


There are some very damaged men in technology, of all ages, says Justine, and, I know, it’s hard to picture a smaller violin—but when damaged men have money and influence, that’s a problem for the whole world. It can also be a problem for their companies and stakeholders,
 
which seems to be the more urgent concern if the commissions are anything to go by.


You work with them? You’re like a kind of therapist?


I observe them.


She looks out the window.


They’re
 
men
, she says. Caught between thousands of years of abusing their power and a reckoning they bitterly resent and at the same time feel they fully deserve. Makes them a bit fucked up.


It does make us a bit fucked up, I say.


In the experimental method we remove certain variables and observe the results, Justine says.


She looks at me again.


Maybe it’s not about your lack of identity, she says. Maybe it’s actually quite the opposite. Maybe it’s something about
 
you
.


Me?


Something about the kind of person who would … even be capable of … what you’re doing.


Professor Justine Pearce places her black boots by the door and walks barefoot to her desk, where she picks up a wooden toy snake painted orange and white, made of triangular segments that can be bent and rearranged into a variety of patterns. This she does.


Will you have a coffee?


For sure.


What I’m suggesting is a little side hustle, if you have time.


I’ve got nothing but time.


An experimental relationship.


Relationship?


With me, she says. It wouldn’t impinge on your obligations with doctor whatever his name is.


Blend.


She snorts. Psychology. Ha! What a discipline. What is there left to understand about us? We’re done. Done!


What would I have to—


Well, what do you usually do?


I’m sorry?


If you’re asking someone out.


I adjust my eyeholes so I can see Justine properly. Maybe this is the answer. I’ve spent so long dating in the same gene pool of frustrated would-be performers, artists with the same neuroses, the same dubious talents and resentments, the same poverty and insecurity and bloody-minded self-belief, the same martyrdom to a craft that does not seem to love us back. Maybe a striking older woman with an established position in the world and a refined area of expertise, a woman for whom I am already and always will be black bag—and therefore have nothing to hide, nor anything to reveal—can open me up to a completely different way of life!


Are you free Friday? I ask.


Friday’s no good, sorry.


Saturday?


Actually now that I think of it I’m absurdly busy at the moment, Justine says. Sorry. We might need to postpone for a couple of weeks. Do you have anywhere in mind?


No …


Of course you don’t. It would need to be somewhere fairly dark where you wouldn’t draw too much attention or feel self-conscious.


That’s what I tend to look for anyway.


Yes.


Black bag or no.


So what this means is somewhere very expensive, she says.


Right.


She tries to hand me a cup of coffee.


How do you—


If you could put it on the floor.


Of course.


I step over the beige coffee cup and undo the zip all the way down. The steam rises up the side of my body. Trying not to show Justine my arms, I take the coffee cup, pass it from my left to my right hand and very carefully do up the zip again. I sit down carefully.


Excellent, she says. Could you give me your phone and unlock it?


Why?


I need to be able to contact you, but a woman in my position can’t just go around handing out her contact details.


Sure.


As I’ve learned to my cost many times.


I shake my phone loose and drop it on the floor.


Thank you. She picks it up. I’m downloading One-Way.


What’s One-Way?


It’s just a messaging app. I can text or call you, and you can reply, once, to the previous message, but you can never instigate communication.


Sounds like my—


So it only works one way. I’m sorry—it’s nothing personal, but I have to have strict boundaries.


No, it’s fine, you don’t even know me.


And I hope I never will! she says, beaming, as if she’s been waiting for someone she will never know her whole life.


Justine finishes with my phone and places it on the floor beside me.


We sit in silence for a moment.


Justine?


Yes.


Dr. Blend is a doctor, but I think he’s quite old.


Oh?


And he’s not a professor.


Hmm. No, he’s probably quite bitter about it. Maybe you’re his ticket to a professorship.


Are you quite young for a professor?


Oh, bless you, she says. No, I’m forty-seven. I’m just attractive and very good at my job.




OceanofPDF.com

















25




MONDAY NIGHT I RUB OINTMENT
 
onto my feet in the merciless glare of Claudio’s spotlights.


You’ve got to look after those, dude.


I want them to toughen up.


Yeah, tenderfoot life.


So maybe I need to find the opposite of a moisturizer.


Claudio works on his phone for thirty seconds.


Ten percent tannic acid tea soak, he says.
 
But
 
you still want to moisturize. Especially if there are cracks.


Noted.


I’ll order some foot tea.


You don’t have to.


For you, man, anything. It’ll be here next week. Hoo-eee. I’m still a bit scattered. Still a bit scattered from two days ago.


Why, Claudio?


Don’t worry so.


You
 
are
 
a worry.


Just some complimentary shit from Stutters. These, like, little pips. Nasty experience. I told him so. It was worse than Monkey LSD.


Monkey LSD?


Not “Monkey”: 1P-LSD,
 
one-p
. An analog and functional derivative of LSD.


You need to enunciate, Claudio.


We didn’t all go to public school.


We went to the same school!


Yeah, but you carry yourself differently. Anyway, those little pips. I felt like I was swinging in a hammock made of beams of light, but the lights were horrible to look at. Like pain, but not.


You didn’t call me.


I couldn’t work out how to charge my phone.


Ah.


It turns out that the complimentary shit Claudio was given by Stutters was Hawaiian baby woodrose seeds. He gives one to me. A little nib. It looks, in all honesty, exactly what I would expect something named “Monkey LSD” to look like, mishearing notwithstanding. The sort of thing monkeys might chew a few of to escape the agony of monkey selfhood.


You have to take at least a dozen. So that won’t do nothin. So go ahead.


I put the little Hawaiian baby woodrose seed in my mouth.


Monkey LSD.


As I chew it tastes of varnish and vinegar and peat and imitation sugar, and then, the way a fine wine suddenly reveals its depth and detail, it tastes like shit; like actual shit; it tastes categorically demonic, the way I’ve always imagined a poison to taste when I’ve had to perform the part of someone who’s been poisoned. I start to gag.


Oh man, says Claudio.


Water.


Yeah yeah, coming right up, man.


Fucking Stutters.


I go to Claudio’s extremely bright bathroom and vomit up what feels like a thick woolen glove.


Sorry.


I brush myself down.


Don’t apologize.


You’ve never really told me why you won’t partake. Aside from your evidently weak constitution.


I haven’t?


You won’t even share a joint. I mean I can admire that. But why not?


Out of respect for God.


Ah.


At the age of twenty-two, and in aid of my career, I prayed and I asked God to allow me to experience a fraction … a thousandth—He
 
said no—a ten-thousandth—still He demurred—a millionth—here He acceded—of human suffering. And in a second, a fraction of a second, a millionth of a second, the walls of my mind were razed to their foundations and I’ve never fully recovered.


So you don’t fuck with the doors of perception.


I don’t.


Too much respect for God.


Do you have a beer?


This is all relevant to black bag, says Claudio, writing on his notepad again. All of this is usable.


Claudio fetches me a rhubarb sour from a brewery called Honest Engine.




OceanofPDF.com

















26




ALL OKAY?


Just great, I say, brightly.


At this point, whenever he requires to see me, I have taken to presenting myself to Dr. Blend as black bag. Already—this is perhaps quite funny—I have come to see my body and my face as internal organs. There is no reason to show Dr. Blend my internal organs.


Are
 
you
 
okay though?


Why do you ask?


I decide not to mention Dr. Blend’s harassed appearance in the previous week’s seminar. He looks composed this morning.


They mentioned a complaint.


A complaint?


The students. A group email.


Oh yes, well, that’s to be expected.


It’s possible that Dr. Blend does not mean to discuss the experiment with me. It’s possible that my trying to enter into dialogue about the experiment with him is an irritation. I have been employed to perform a specific role and my personality is irrelevant, a distraction, or something I should keep to myself along with my internal organs. I ought to bear this in mind.


I also feel a little guilty for telling Professor Justine Pearce about the experiment. Maybe it was avoidable. Even if it is unlikely that she would in some way try to sabotage the experiment. I mean what do I know? Maybe academics can be as bad as actors.


It was, in any case, a breach of contract.


Maybe Dr. Blend knows Professor Justine Pearce and engaged her to test me. Maybe Dr. Blend already knows everything and he’s toying with me and then he’ll fire me before the lecture and he’ll take black
 
bag away and I’ll walk past a man of similar age and stature as I go down the corridor; we’ll make eye contact and he’ll give me a superior look.


Unexpectedly, the thought of black bag being taken away from me makes me feel like I could burst into tears.


I must make a note to ask Dr. Blend if I can keep black bag after the experiment is over.


Dr. Blend smiles and frowns at the same time—grimaces, I suppose that’s a grimace—and doesn’t seem to know what to say. But Dr. Blend is, I have learned, at times an awkward man.


Until we can get the official channels sorted, I have this—


He holds out an envelope.


Oh.


But I’m not sure you’ve anywhere to put it.


Yes—I have developed an inner pocket.


That’s wise.


I thought so.


Dr. Blend retracts the envelope and holds it out again, then he frowns and places it on the beige Formica floor. I crouch to absorb it.


Thank you.


I pass the envelope up my body and put it in the larger pocket I made out of gaffer tape next to my direct debit card. I’ll open it later.


Was there anything …?


Yes?


It’s going okay, is your feeling? No notes from last week.


Dr. Blend sighs.


I don’t mean to be needy or insecure, I say. It’s just we changed the lying on the table thing, and that seemed to go well, and I was wondering if there’s anything we needed to think about for this week or if it’s basically okay.


Dr. Blend looks at his watch, then out of the window for a moment and then he looks at me.


It’s perfect, he says.




OceanofPDF.com

















27




OH, YOUR HEAD IS JUST
 
filled with places to go.


I am sitting in the third-to-last row of the lecture theater, but this week it is fully occupied. This week the girl who smells like shoe polish is sitting right next to me so that I feel self-conscious about my own smell. I am yet to either clean or inquire about cleaning black bag. I worry that whatever cleaning product I choose might corrode or discolor the leather, and while some wear and tear is inevitable over a three-month period, this is enough to relegate it to an act I will never get around to.


For one thing it would involve dismantling my
 
array
, which I have grown quite attached to. So it is that I smell quite strongly of sweat and leather and parts of the body that are usually more tightly swaddled. But then so does a fan of heavy metal music, and people accept that. It’s a legitimate choice. More often than not we are pleasantly surprised by their other qualities.


On the array: I have started to arrange a variety of internal features along with my contactless debit card, my contactless credit card, a storage pouch made of gaffer tape and a swatch of the old curtains. I have a photograph of Vancouver as seen from the top of Grouse Mountain; I have a bag of mixed, protein-rich crunchy nuts and kernels that I have been only slightly put off by Claudio’s Hawaiian baby woodrose seeds; I have a small, thin pencil holder; I have copied Donne’s “Spring (Love’s Growth)” onto a three-by-five-inch card: To my right I have assembled, again with careful use of gaffer tape and folds, a frame into which amusing pastimes such as crosswords or sudoku might be slid.


Expect nobody to mind and at some point they won’t.


By this point the lecture has been going on for over fifteen minutes. I glance at my neighbor’s jotter on which she has written the date and the word
 
Lecture
 
and what looks like




embalmed ferns




in the middle of the page.


Dr. Blend has just said: Humans routinely do amazing things without ever appreciating how extraordinary they are.


My mind wanders back to my Swedish village. Birgitta would have had a sister, I think. A real sister. A sister who spoke little but went about her duties with implacable watchfulness. Implacable. Clapperboard. Slinky clattering down the staircase. She dearly misses her.


Dr. Blend talks about patterns of behavior among stockbrokers.


I switch off. For better or worse, I find it difficult to identify with stockbrokers. Which is not unusual for an actor. Notorious for our disapproval. If little different on the level of hubris. But they have always struck me as a priestly caste in the later days of a once great civilization, guardians of arcane spell books, fat on their banquets and delirious on their own perfumes, bereft of any sense of duty or responsibility.


No love.


No love for the people.


When that was surely the whole point of having an economy in the first place.


Now that I think of it, I have friends who went into the financial sector, and I’m happy for them. As far as out-of-work actors go, I’m pretty open-minded.


Big wheels turning.


I think about Professor Justine Pearce’s research on tech bros and their toxic personalities. Imagine being
 
so
 
good at discerning exactly what the world rewards at the exact moment it’s required. It would go to your head too, wouldn’t it? I am assuming you’re not one of them because you’re reading a novel.


I go to visit Birgitta again. She is cutting up cubes of reindeer fat.


Now I will tell you something important, she tells me, slowly.
 
Those who wish to sing always find a song.


Thank you, Birgitta.


The rusty noon light glances off the skillet hanging from the rafters.


Birgitta seems to care deeply that I am looked after, perhaps only to soften my experience of the harsh men in the sawmill who only yesterday placed my lunch pail out of my reach on top of the lockers. Who make no secret of their drinking on the job, have increased it, if anything, for my benefit. Perhaps it is even a displaced form of patriotism on her part; we have our flaws like any nation, but if you can accept them, you also get me.


You needn’t understand all of these things. You must only keep them in motion until you find your niche. No, not niche. Forget I even said that, says Dr. Blend.


Niche. Dear god.


You see how even I am prone to vulgar platitudes.


All of this is in constant motion, moving constantly.


Find a niche and you’ll be crushed between the gears or, worse, stop the whole mechanism.




OceanofPDF.com

















28




MY BELOVED PARENTS,
 
to whom I owe my existence, are looking a little worn down. I will, you recall, not be describing them whatsoever. A disgusting business to describe anyone, really, and if I can protect anyone from it, it should be them. Thus they remain two stone pillars. No, loose stones, but I carefully brush away some moss and dirt, a good conservator.




By the base of the first field—
it’s supposed to be a public footpath, but nobody tends to it—Elliott goes missing for five minutes in the long grass.


I go around bellowing until he emerges, blithely, and jumps up at my crotch.


Jesus, shut up!
 
he says.


Don’t run off like that!


I was doing my job. You’d have us lost and killed for our skins.


I brandish the leash.


Don’t even think about it
, he says.


Stay in my sight, then.


We walk on in silence for a few minutes, Elliott going ahead to protect me.


So what’s new with you, you little fucker?
 
he says, after we negotiate a barbwire fence.


I might ask you the same question.


Establishing the ways
, he says.
 
Preparing for the future.


I’ve been wondering if my parents are really cut out for puppy ownership at this point in their lives, I tell him.


Oh
?


If they mightn’t be better off with a rat or an axolotl.


Haha, you can boil your nuts
, says Elliott.


He goes rigid, pounces forward a few meters, rolls onto his back and begins to grind the back of his neck and head into the earth.


Stop that! What are you doing?


The stink of death so good so good
, he sings.


I grab him by the collar and glance through the grass. There is no trace of a body, but Elliott reeks of something unwell and dead.


I’m going to have to shampoo you to within an inch of your life when we get back to the house! I tell him.


You just try it
.




I don’t like falling out with anyone,
 
even a dog. I worry, as dusk falls and we descend the color-saturated hill, that I have offended Elliott.


I’m sorry if I was rough, I tell him.


You don’t understand
, he says.
 
The only way I got to know my father was by becoming him
.


What on earth are you talking about?


After he died, I met him, and I became him
, says Elliott.


This is just some dog nonsense, I mutter.


And that was how I came to be. So whenever I pass a corpse I must anoint myself.


Oh, Elliott.




It is dark by the time
 
I get home to my flat.


I have been wondering whether I ought to be naked within black bag, whether that would be more “honest” and in character: a snail, a hermit crab, soft, vulnerable and irregular. Invisibly it would aid the performance. The aura. The way I played it.




OceanofPDF.com

















29




ON MY WAY TO CAMPUS
 
I call in on a newsagent.


My good man, I say, ostentatiously, before the clerk has had a chance to perceive any incongruity. As you can see I am incapacitated. Would you be so kind as to fetch and scan a copy of the
 
Guardian
, which I will then pay for contactlessly with an internal bank card? And then if you would nudge it off the counter and onto the floor. Thank you. Much obliged.


This is either an act I can get away with once, or I can establish a pattern and eventually I wouldn’t even need to say anything; just nudge my way into the shop and the proprietor, familiar with me by this point, would do the rest.


Within black bag I carefully double fold and tear around the day’s cryptic crossword and slide it into the gaffer tape frame I have made to size.


I am not sure what to do with the rest of the newspaper. Due to my decision to trial being naked inside black bag I cannot take it off to put it in a bin. And I do not like to litter.


I tuck the paper under my arm where I feel it begin to absorb my own sweat.


Two women laugh at me as I pass the cinema, as if aware of my predicament.


Good morning, I say, and they laugh again as they walk past.


Once I am on campus I will not speak at all. The only exceptions are Dr. Blend’s office and Professor Justine Pearce’s office. But it occurs to me that maybe I should never speak, as long as I am black bag. It feels, on some critical level, disrespectful. There ought to be some solution to this.




A quirk of the ancient monastic calendar
 
followed by academia and education more broadly is that the vast majority of an institution’s
 
activities must take place in cold, in wet, in darkness: we begin in October and plunge into a winter that never really ends until the final seminar in March, last of the late gray slush melting; tentative buds, go revise and we’ll see you next October when you’re dead again.


I have always disliked the awkward way academic years must be recorded, ’22/’23, ’23/’24, ’24/’25, ’25/’26, ’26/’27, ’27/’28, ’28/’29, the years edging and overlapping each other like lumpy starfish in tide pools, in grotesque colors, in time-lapse. It unsettles me.


I took one term in English literature at the University of Durham, wrote a single 4,000-word paper on chivalry, then dropped out. I went into a bit of a funk. Stage school was
 
forbiddingly
 
expensive in the ’90s, not like today when
 
absolutely everything
 
is forbiddingly expensive, thus bringing about a kind of negative equality. It doesn’t seem worth being parsimonious in one arena only for another—a new fan belt, a winter utility bill—to fuck you into the sky.
 
Bring on the big tellies, the fine dining, the personal trainers, for tomorrow we die.
 
It was a big deal then, for my parents—being two pillars of rock and understanding little outside of stones, stillness and vistas—to support me. I must have been convincingly depressed. They remortgaged their house—such is the privilege of the only child—and, with a monologue from
 
Top Girls
, I was offered a place at East 15 and started the following autumn.




OceanofPDF.com

















30




ON HER INSTRUCTION I AM
 
now to visit Justine’s office on Thursdays before the seminar as well as on Tuesdays. I am pleased about this as being in Justine’s presence makes me happy. This is exactly the kind of person I should have been dating all along—someone headstrong and beautiful who understands the world and dresses well and has ideas about things. I look forward to seeing her like a child waiting for the last day of school.


The willow trees on the quad sway their tassels in the wind. An overdue drip from Justine’s coffee machine hits the hot plate and sizzles.


I’m going to be upfront about this, says Justine. I’m interested in you, but primarily I’m interested in how this might open up something new in my research.


How
 
I
 
might?


How we might. We’re going to have a relationship and it is going to be inherently sexual as well as nurturing. Is that okay?


It sounds great.


You agree to the terms?


Yes.


Stand there. No, there. Against the wall. Keep still.


I’m good at that, I say.


We’ll see.


Justine unzips her boots and stands them by the door.


Within my discipline, one school of thought presents sex as a low impulse, she says. Distracting at best and, in any case, something private we oughtn’t talk about. Another offers that sex and sexuality must be satisfied as basic needs, as if they were a medical necessity, a literal appetite. Wittingly or otherwise these people are agents of Big Boredom.


What’s big boredom?


The suburbanization of the soul, she says, in a melodramatic voice.


Ah.


Justine hangs her houndstooth jacket on the chrome hook on the back of her office door. She unbuttons her white shirt and takes off her black bra.


Peering out of my eyeholes, I stare at the points of her nipples with the shock, gratitude and trepidation with which I customarily welcome a potential sexual encounter.


I have not moved from my spot against the wall, my bare heels against the skirting board. Justine stands naked in front of me, upright, her arms by her sides, and stares into my eyeholes. She looks neither defiant nor nonchalant. I let my eyes move over the curve of her hips, her dark, trimmed pubic hair. I find I am thinking about the dated terms of erotic fiction. My mound. My sex. I would like to touch her and cannot, so the energy seems to swirl around the room.


She smiles.


Do you like me?


I can’t speak, so I don’t answer.


She laughs. Oh that’s good. Not enough men ever really appreciate the gravity of the situation.


I do, I mutter.


You do. I told you to keep still.


Sorry.


This is exactly what I want. To be comprehensively desired, with a key factor missing. I am a person. You are an absence. Ultimately, I would like to fuck nothing. I don’t mean to fuck nothing, I mean to fuck
 
nothing
. Do you understand the difference?


She approaches me and puts her arms around black bag.


Although I can feel your body through it. I like that.


Uh-huh, I say.


And I like the leather surface. It’s like being nuzzled by some kind of beast. Lie down. On the floor.


I …


I have a committee at twelve.


Okay.


I do as I’m told. Justine sits on my stomach and I tense.


Context is so important, she says. Context and invitation. Knowing when to take the right liberty. No context means no sex. The surrealists said,
 
I see therefore I imagine
.


She reaches back and closes her hand around my hard-on, makes a brief, satisfied sound, and then moves up the surface of black bag until her vagina is exactly over where my mouth should be, her thighs clasped against my ears.


I look up but my head has sunk lower into black bag and I can barely see anything out of my eyeholes, her hair hanging down, one shoulder, her collarbone, the odd angles of accidental photographs.


This is how I’d kill you and I think you’d let me, she says.


Through black bag she grinds against my mouth, my nose, my chin.


I respond by undulating my face in time to her movements, trying to catch her in the right place each time.


Oh God, she says. Yes. Like that.


Sometimes, when she tightens her legs, I can neither see nor hear; a sub-electronic whine, geometric shapes. But from my temporary cocoon of sensory deprivation I feel more connected to Justine than I have to anyone in my life. I love how she buffs and circles against me, as perfectly rhythmically as someone sharpening a knife, and I love that she seemingly has no regard for my comfort—it is a great relief, it turns out, not to be patronized, not to be asked if I’m okay. She could accidentally break my nose and would, I think, still finish.


I don’t know how long this goes on for—it feels outside of time.


Without warning I sense Justine stiffen and freeze and, for a moment, I imagine someone must have burst into the office. Then I feel a rapid motion above my mouth, the tips of her fingers hitting my upper lip through the leather. Thirty seconds. I taste blood a little. I don’t care.


Her legs relax and she breathes heavily.


God.


I feel her full weight against my face.


Fuck. Okay. Okay.


I feel Justine climbing off me.


Stand up, she says. When you’re ready.


When I get to my feet and rearrange black bag from within and restore my sight, Justine is sitting cross-legged in her office chair.


That was perfect, she says. See you next week?




OceanofPDF.com

















31




DUDE. WHAT HAPPENED?
 
says Claudio. Your lip’s all busted.


I hit a corner of something.


A corner of
 
something
?


It affects my coordination, I say, being black bag.


God, says Claudio. We need to get you some kind of, like, boxer’s headgear.


Maybe, I say. I’d worry it might misshape me.


I got you these.


Claudio opens a matte-black box, tears into a layer of white crepe paper printed with a repeating logo that reads
 
SWMH
 
and reveals a pair of black rubber flip-flops.


They’re recycled. Ethical. The factory workers are well remunerated. I was looking at some old leather ones, but then these seemed less distracting. I thought they’d go with the bag.


Oh. That’s thoughtful of you.


You’ll wear them?


I’ll think about it.


Come on, man, your feet are fucked. I’m tired of watching you tweeze glass out of your heels.


I do appreciate it, Claudio.


It’s gross, and I respect your methods but you’re not getting paid enough to destroy your body. Not yet.


A lot of people one could say that to.


I glance at his bank of cameras and monitors.


That’s my perspective, anyway, he says.


I slap the flip-flops on the pine veneer. I slip my raw feet into them and my big toes pinch the rubber thongs. I flap over to the full-length mirror in Claudio’s corridor. Despite my reservations it is not a bad look
 
at all. I can fashion some kind of hook or pouch system inside black bag for storing them when I reach campus.


Fabulous, says Claudio.


You think?


Now listen, he says. There’s something else. And you’re probably going to get weird about it, but I’ve been thinking about monetization.


No, I say. No, no, no, no, no.




OceanofPDF.com

















32




BEFORE CLAUDIO HAD FULLY
 
established a lucrative online following he was often on the lookout to find new money-making schemes.


I was between roles, on jobseeker’s and eager to make anything extra I could.


Our first idea was to set up a fake takeaway called Claudio’s, put it up on a food-delivery app called MeHungy with some generic photographs and run the operation out of Claudio’s bedsit, which was in the middle of a thriving fast-food district.


It’s like subletting, he said. We have high prices so people assume it’s better quality. Like, fourteen pounds a dish. Fourteen eighty-five. That’s the price.


Claudio bought a bag of fresh herbs. We intended to fulfill the orders by buying the cheapest possible food from the worst takeaways in the area, gussying them up a bit and transferring them to smarter-looking paper containers and jacking up the price 70 percent.


We started receiving orders eight minutes after going live.


One daal, one pilau rice, a prawn biryani and one chips.


Chips?


Just get them from anywhere, said Claudio. Get them from What a Fried Chicken. Quickly!


I picked up the food, brought it back to the flat and Claudio scissored some fresh coriander over everything. Then we packed it up again and his girlfriend, Aaliyah, did the deliveries in her Fiat 500.


See? This is easy, said Claudio.


We had more orders than we could deal with and had to ignore some potentially angry phone calls, but by the end of the night we had turned a profit of seventy-two pounds (Which isn’t bad given basically zero
 
overheads, Claudio said) and received a rating of four stars out of six on MeHungy.


We split the money three ways.


We gonna do this again? said Aaliyah.


No, said Claudio. That was boring and I’m tired. That was just proof of concept.


Okay.


You don’t need to
 
know
 
anything or be able to
 
do
 
anything, said Claudio. That’s what it tells us. Let me think for a while.




The next week Claudio suggested
 
that we go into organ-donor transportation. Set up a private company, undercut the competition.


I’ve been DMing a surgeon.


Yeah?


She said it’s an absolute state. Sector is a mess.


Every sector is a mess.


I don’t know the first thing about organs, said Aaliyah.


We just run the show, said Claudio. We need a fleet of motorbike couriers, say ten? Someone who knows what kind of cool box you put a liver in. Lots of ice. Then it’s just … get the organs to A&E on time, nee-naw nee-naw. Which will be up to the operations manager.


Where do we find an operations manager?


I’ll just take out an ad. Give it a year and we could be delivering every organ in the country.


This idea collapsed in light of upfront liability insurance costs, but Claudio maintained a dialogue with the surgeon and is still in touch with her today, as far as I know.




Claudio’s final project was
 
Handsome Grandsons Incorporated.


We’re caring, he said. We’re caring guys. That should be where the margins are.


I’ve always said as much, said Aaliyah.


There are, what, what’s the percentage? It has to be at least half of everyone in a care home who doesn’t get visitors, right?


Possibly, said Aaliyah.


So we
 
become
 
the grandsons. We go in, we talk to them, read to them, let them reminisce. For however long they want. First we do it ourselves and then we just audition for some like-minded humanitarian boys. Eventually we won’t need to do the visits at all, we’ll just oversee it.


Who pays?


I feel like this is something people would volunteer for, you know?


Claudio thought for a while.


Okay, he said. Forget the ones who don’t have family. We need to visit the people who
 
have
 
families but they’re too busy to visit them. They pay. The families. They outsource their visits. Cash rich, time poor.


Hmm.


Do you have any idea how much people pay for childcare? This is just the other side of the same coin.




OceanofPDF.com

















33




NO, SAYS CLAUDIO.
 
This is different. I’ve learned a lot, man, you know that.


That’s true, I say.


I drove a lot of traffic to your pantomime last year, right?


Claudio, I say, reproachfully, pantomimes sell out
 
anyway
. And it wasn’t mine, I was just Buttons.


Yeah, says Claudio, but they don’t sell to
 
my
 
audience; I created a whole new market. Panto bros. I was always dropping it in. Halfway through a mission. You know what’s a really underrated form? The pantomime. Maybe you should go to one this year—need to get away from the screen occasionally. And you get to see some people who used to
 
be
 
someone, used to present game shows or whatever, and now they’re Widow Twankey—it’s fascinating. I sowed the seed. Next time they saw a poster it seemed just that little bit more appealing. I psy-oped the hell out of them.


I do, as it happens, recall some confused adolescent men in the stalls for
 
Cinderella
.


Panto bros. Claudio nods.


I don’t think I need any help with this, I say. This isn’t a show.


But, I’m looking at you, says Claudio, and I see the work you’re putting into this. I always see how much it means to you, and for what? Minimum wage?


A little higher.


But for what recognition? This is your role, says Claudio. This should be your star vehicle. You’re knocking it out of the park and nobody even knows about it.


It’s an experiment.


For who? My sense is that you’re going around in the bag even when you’re not on call, you know?


To practice. To get into it. So I can really deliver when the lights go up.


That’s how dedicated you are. So what if …?


What if what? What if I stand on a street corner in silence with a cap on the pavement?


Do you have any idea, says Claudio, what I have access to? If I wanted, I could get them to spend £30,000 on a crude digitized drawing of an elephant. I could make up a currency and drive people to it, then cash out before it crashes. I don’t because I’m a good fucking person. But what we’re talking about is return on investment. This is live art. What you’re doing is live art. You know it.


I’m just trying to give the role what it requires.


But people can still own it. The way people own a Picasso—they own it but the public gets to see it. Unless it gets locked in a vault like a trading card for rich idiots.


The public
 
does
 
get to see me, I concede.


The front end and the back end—you leave that to me. You just have to do your thing. I want you to be completely free to take this wherever you want to.


…


You’re not saying anything, says Claudio. Good. We retain twenty percent of the shares each, that leaves sixty percent to sell.


Shares in
 
what
?


In black bag.


What would people even be
 
buying
?


Total theater, says Claudio. An event.


Ugh.


Hear me out. Nobody’s saying this is the future.


Nobody’s saying anything—this is just you talking.


Nobody’s saying this is going to rescue a dying medium. But these people don’t know
 
anything
 
about art anyway. They’d be stakeholders in a new form. They’d own a little bit of the performance.


And how do they make money out of that?


Come on, man. They sell their stake. If they want to. Or they keep hold of the asset. Let it appreciate.


How does it appreciate?


Because there’s a finite amount of it, and more and more people will get to hear about how it’s appreciating, because I’ll tell them.


Don’t people go to jail for things like that?


For being patrons of the arts? says Claudio. No, of course not.


It feels dodgy. But that’s a moot point, because I don’t think it’s a good idea anyway, I tell him.


Nobody even knows you
 
know
 
me, says Claudio. At first I’ll just trail it as a weird mystery—who’s this going around in a bag? What’s going on here? You leave all of it to me.


And I just carry on?


You do whatever you have to do. If it fails … He shrugs. So what? But this is giving people a chance to get in on something on the ground floor. If it takes off, you could be black bag for years.


I don’t even have to hear about it?


Eventually we just outsource it and other people play black bag. You and I retire with our twenty percent stakes.


But I like being black bag.


Sure, for now you’re still developing it. Give it a year or two.


To reiterate, I say, I don’t have to hear anything about this?


I’ll tell you everything or nothing. Whenever you ask. So I’ve got your permission?


Claudio produces a thick, stapled wad of A4 covered in point-eight text. He flips to the final page.


Jesus, Claudio.


Sign and date twice, here.




OceanofPDF.com

















34




MY SELF, SUCH AS IT IS—
Caucasian and possibly male, as Justine surmised—has come to feel arbitrary, which is not to say optional. Only that I would just as soon be black bag than whatever my self is. As black bag I move carefully, I notice everything, welcome the consternation and enmity of others and feel alive. Cars honk, cyclists wobble, people get out of my way. If I do nothing other than walk in a straight line for half an hour, double back on myself and go home, I feel a profound sense of purpose, I question nothing, my mind is set. What am I without black bag? Without black bag I am some pitiful and unremarkable man
 
going around
,
 
doing things
. Shameful. The thought of rewriting the last few weeks or months of my life
 
without
 
black bag fills me with a wincing, vertiginous horror.




An hour before the lecture,
 
I knock on Justine’s office door by bumping it with my head.


One moment.


She opens the door. She looks very serious.


Floor, she says. Now.


I get onto the floor of Justine’s office again and I catch sight of her undoing a clip at the side of her skirt before I am flat on my back and all I can see, my face a couple of inches from the inside of black bag, is two small irregular circles of white ceiling.


Justine gets on top of me. She is wearing a white shirt and black tights.


She laughs.


It’s interesting not being able to kiss, isn’t it?


Yes.


You seem quite happy though.


She begins to move steadily and firmly against me.


Oh my god.


Justine unbuttons her shirt. She throws it into the corner of her office.


Listen, she says. This is how I will convey information to you, while you’re in a truly receptive state.


I do feel receptive, I admit.


I need you to embrace an instrumental understanding of the body, she says.


At this point we fall into a rhythm, or Justine sets a rhythm that I need only gently encourage with a slight motion of the hips, my erection chafing slightly on the softer-lined inside of the leather of black bag in a way I do not mind, or at least am willing to overlook; if it hurts later it will be a pleasant reminder.


Because that’s what you’ve become, she says. An instrument.


I’m your instrument, I say.


The transhumanists have a contempt for the human body, she says, altering the motion of her hips. I do not. But it can be resolved.


What can? I gasp.


The transformation of the sexual partner into a masturbatory device, says Justine, by mutual agreement.


That sounds kind of lonely, I say, between breaths.


Good. That feels really good.


But isn’t it the very abandon and disinhibition, I say, that level of absolute trust, which makes sex one of the only times we ever really connect with one another?


Fuck.


I mean I’m just brainstorming, really, but isn’t that why we’re so fixated on sex? Why we wither in its absence?


Stop talking.


My eyes are not currently well aligned with black bag’s tiny eyeholes and I have to very subtly maneuver my neck in a way that is, at first, very uncomfortable but maximizes visibility and, then, more tolerable but affords only the occasional glimpse of Justine, whom I would like to see more clearly.


That men are more readily visually stimulated than women has been categorically debunked in a 2008 study that found that men are only more readily visually stimulated than women because they have been told repeatedly and from a formative age that they are more readily visually stimulated than women.


I move again, attempting to find the perfect balance between discomfort and sight.


Such accommodations and adjustments are, I think, not unusual during sex. A good lover is honest and subjugates any synthetic or idealistic sense of “the moment” in order to communicate clearly about what feels right, but also knows when it is best to shut up and not draw attention to said adjustments. The moment is, after all, mutually important.


Like eating a crisp in a theater during what you realize, too late, is a quiet and pivotal scene.


You need to just hold it in your mouth and let it soften.


Justine says, Oh my God, and straightens and pushes her shoulders back.


Is it not the case that for most of my life I have felt like I have just put a large crisp in my mouth during what turns out to be a quiet and pivotal scene in a play? Do I not always have a crisp in my mouth—ah, the mouth, our most considerable and lavish home, sovereign of the sensory cortical homunculus, second only to our giant and plaintive hands—a crisp that I am very eager that nobody else is aware of?


After Justine comes, she sighs, drawn out and loud, as if she is alone in an empty building. Then she climbs off me and I roll to the side of the room before getting unsteadily to my feet.


In a decade or so we’ll be able to do or be whatever we like, she says.


Really? I say. What, like in a video game? Wearing VR goggles? I think all that’s sort of overrated—we’ll just be ourselves wearing goggles.


Justine slips her skirt back on, pulls her black and gray hair back and fixes it with a silver grip.


You don’t know what’s coming, she says. But that’s good. That’s why I like you.




OceanofPDF.com

















35




OH DEAR, I HAVE NOT BEEN
 
paying the slightest attention to the lecture.


There have been some upsetting images of monkeys’ brains with inflicted lesions. I am not sure what they prove or disprove.


Dr. Blend says, This is important because it exists in most areas of human decision-making.


Cognitive illusions.


Effects of labeling.


The names on the board dance around for me.
 
Goetzinger. Zajonc
.
 
Bornstein
.


They become the ornery and monosyllabic men whom I am tasked to supervise at the sawmill in Sweden, what remains of my right arm lashed to my side. At first they had a grudging respect for my wounding in action, but this has begun to wear off. Was it not, after all, my own clumsiness and inattention that caused my accident? Some people just aren’t cut out for this job and might have known that before they took it on. As a supervisor I have little to no authority. Birgitta sympathizes. She is baking a cake with twelve eggs in it.


I do not know how to convince them that I am not of the managerial caste. That I have no desire to lord it over them.


At the rough wooden table in her shack Birgitta places a gooey, yellow, oversized slice of cake before me. Take it from one who has lived a life, she says. You can’t know everything. The polymaths you hear of in history were only polymaths because we didn’t
 
know
 
anything back then. So now you must choose one discipline and stick to it, and in like manner we each require different kinds of love.




I arrive at Claudio’s and I do not step out of black bag. I sit on his sofa and say nothing and I watch him work on editing a video.


Oh hey, he says.


I don’t reply.


Nice, Claudio says, pointing briefly in my direction.


He works and I watch him. Sometimes I stare at a little ball of fluff in the corner.


After ten minutes he looks over his shoulder, smiles at me.


Yeah, he says. That’s what I’m talking about.


It takes him just over an hour to finish editing. Then he gets up from his workstation and comes to sit next to me on the sofa. He is about to pat me on the back but decides not to and just nods sagely.


Fuck yeah, man, he says. I get it. I really get it now.




OceanofPDF.com

















36




I AM FOLLOWING PROFESSOR
 
Justine Pearce past a long road of vape shops and the kinds of newsagents that don’t sell newspapers. A case of pale watermelons the size of beach balls. I imagine stuffing one up black bag and trying to continue.


We walk in silence and it strikes me, as long as I keep my mouth shut, that this is Justine’s first experience of black bag proper—the affectless, the monolithic. Unlike others I interact with on campus, Justine has my voice and the things that I choose to say with my voice.


I’ve been wondering, I say to her, now that we’re past introductions, if it wouldn’t be better for me to stop talking. For your experiment. So that I’m actually black bag.


No, Justine says. You
 
are
 
black bag and everything you say is in the context of being black bag.


But that’s just your perspective.


A very black bag thing to say, says Justine, and pinches my side. So, I thought maybe a cavernous Wetherspoons, she continues, because at least it’s
 
big
, you know? We’d find a corner. But Wetherspoons makes me so sad.


It’s not a sadness I especially mind, I tell her. But yes.


I have to walk quite fast to keep up with her—an effort with my legs restricted by black bag—and we are walking beyond the parts of town I usually frequent, to the post-industrial wastes, domain of the low-rent artisans who don’t need the foot traffic. I am glad of the flip-flops.


So then I wondered maybe if we just go to a very expensive restaurant, somewhere so expensive they can’t really say anything. I mean rich people are nuts anyway—they probably let their trauma animals run around on the tables.


Justine is wearing a black top and a black skirt, both with large, bright silver zips at the front, affixed with ornamental ring pulls, zip as feature, outfit as conveyance for the zip.


Professor Justine Pearce could maybe pass me off as her trauma animal.


But then there’s the whole farrago of how you’d eat, she says. You’d be convulsing in your chair trying to work a piece of sashimi up your bag—awful. I want you to be comfortable, is the thing.


That’s kind.


And then it hit me that if we went to a BDSM club we’d just blend right in. So I thought I’d check if you were comfortable with that, because I used to love it, oh, about ten years ago and if anything it’s probably much tamer than you imagine. And people would just assume I was insisting on you wearing the bag.


Yes, I say.


So you’re comfortable with that?


I’m actually quite prudish, I tell her. But I love everyone.




The club is called Cater²
 
and I’m not sure if that’s
 
cater to
 
or
 
cater squared
. Black bars on its sealed windows, a camouflaged fire door for an entrance.


It has rooms, but it’s more of a socializing space for like-minded people, says Justine.


Inside the club is matte black and cube shaped. It feels a little cheap and worn, like a small ’90s music venue. There are rough edges of chipboard, also painted black, but they spent on a shiny black marble bar picked out by bronze lights. The barman’s T-shirt is torn to reveal a silver chain between his nipples.


A drink? Justine asks.


I’ll have a vodka and lemonade.


What?


A vodka and lemonade, I say.


Baby, I can’t hear you through the bag. You’ll have to speak up.


A vodka and lemonade
, I shout.




When we are seated in a booth
 
and I have drawn the tall glass of vodka and lemonade into black bag Justine smiles very warmly at me, as if proud or relieved or both.


You’ve got flip-flops, she says. Thank goodness. I’d hate for your feet to touch the floor here.


Claudio got them for me.


Claudio, she says. Is that your friend?


I tell her about Claudio’s career, his hours of broadcasting to a dedicated fanbase, the pressure to entertain while keeping sponsors and subscribers happy. Imagine having to keep that many people happy.


Oh wow, she says. I need to introduce you to my colleague—all of his research is on streamers. I mean he’s a mediocre academic but he has an encyclopedic knowledge of streamers.


Is he a streamer himself?


God, no.


I tell her that I worry about Claudio, that no human being should be beholden to so many other flawed and complex and unstable brains at the same time.


You care about him, she says. That’s adorable.


Once he told me that he was gradually toning down his personality with every episode, that that was the only way to really upscale the operation.


You must understand that, as an actor.


When I leave the stage all of them can go to hell. Don’t you think it’s sad?


I think it’s good business sense, says Justine. What do you think of this place?


It is just gone seven. We are currently the only drinkers but for two older men in leather with many lip and eyebrow piercings. They are drinking pints of dark beer. Music is playing: echoey heartbeat drums, a
 
metallic
 
udz-udz-udz-udz
; melodically it is relentless and morose, like a villain’s theme song in a superhero movie, or the backdrop for a montage of several devastating things happening simultaneously in a hard-hitting drama.


Personally I find sex exuberant and joyful, but I try to appreciate how others might find lachrymose industrial techno a pleasing soundtrack to get off to.


I like it fine, I say. My sense is, whenever you take off your clothes …


When you’re down to fuck?


When you’re down to fuck, yes, there’s this sense of relief, you’re saying,
 
This is all I really am. This is all I really want
, and you can disappear into that together.


Isn’t that what people are doing here? Disappearing together? We talk endlessly about sexual identity but isn’t sex more an escape from the self?


I don’t know.


Of course, for that to be the case one needs to have a discernible personality to escape
 
from
, says Justine. And many don’t, which is why they’re so bad at sex. Are you comfortable?


Within black bag I drink a little vodka and lemonade through my metal straw.


I’ve never felt comfortable anywhere.


Oh, bb.


Name a place: a church, a classroom, a hospital waiting room, an airport, a university, a supermarket, a friend’s house, a big tent, a train station, the bedroom of a lover, a festival, a crematorium, a bus stop. I have been uncomfortable in all of those places, and every other kind of place. And everyone can tell. Whereas other people always seem to belong exactly where they are.


That’s all okay, says Justine. Living in these times
 
should
 
make you deeply uncomfortable. If you’re not uncomfortable you’re probably doing something very wrong.


Nobody invited me somewhere like this before and I’ve never really wanted to explore it by myself. I don’t see how I fit into it.


What
 
would
 
you be into, though, do you think?


I’m naturally quite submissive.


Is that so? What about when you have to play a very different part?


Like what?


What about when you’re cast as a big, bad, angry, powerful man? says Justine.


Work has been pretty slow recently, I say.


She runs her hand up the part of black bag where my thigh is.


But if you were to …


She runs her hand up to the crotch of black bag.


If you were to, say, tie my hands behind my back in the middle of this bar and unzip my top and spit on me?


Justine.


Oh, she says. Hello. I think we’re getting warmer.


I …


Unzip my top. In front of everyone. Spit on my tits.


Justine!


Hahahaha.


She lets go of me.


Good to know, she says, and pats my knee. You know in Lacanian therapy the model is that the session just ends when it ends. Sometimes you’ve been talking to the therapist for all of about six minutes and they say, Well, I think that’s enough for this week; I’ll leave you chewing that over.


You still have to pay for the full hour?


I always thought dates should work the same way—I should just walk out.


You’re not, though?


Justine looks into my eyeholes and I try to connect our eyes, try to bring out the secret creatures within us again, hope that she can see a glimmer within the interior.




OceanofPDF.com

















37




WHEN I ARRIVE CLAUDIO
 
apologizes and goes back to his screen. I recognize the brightly colored dice and backdrop from his stream as
 
Dados Mania
, a currently popular trick-taking dice game. Claudio must keep abreast of these trends, master the tactics, record beginners’ tutorials, become sufficiently adept to give expert tips, play live for an audience. This involves a lot of backstage practice. In
 
Dados Mania
 
you collect dice, roll them in varying combinations and then earn in-game money to buy special dice: wooden, metal, holographic, cursed, all of which have different properties and multipliers.


I watch him play for a minute.


It’s horrendously addictive, he says. You know in the East they say “addicting” instead of “addictive”? Including in, like, New Zealand.


You have a global reach.


That’s something you only correct once, I can tell you. Then people in the West start saying “addicting”
 
deliberately
 
because it’s become a thing to object to being corrected. I’ll be a few minutes—I’m tilting, just need to see it through.


Claudio, please don’t alter your schedule on my account.


Help yourself to anything in the kitchen.


I wander down the hall. In the kitchen there is a clear plastic carton of actual-size gummy cheeseburgers.


I’m fine, I call.


I pour a glass of water from a filter jug in the shape of a friendly robot. I listen to the twinkly sounds from Claudio’s game.


Okay, done, he says, presently. Come join me in the boardroom.


Claudio drags over his second wheelie chair. He rubs his eyes and massages his temples.


I had to play that stupid thing all night, he says. It’s a deck builder, essentially, so … variables. He groans and stretches in his chair. You try to be businesslike about it, but you get just as hooked as they do. I can see dice when I close my eyes.


Like Jesus, I say, who had to become fully human to understand humanity.


Like Jesus, right, says Claudio. So I’ve been doing some R&D for black bag and here’s the thing: People
 
hate
 
interventional, situationist, site-specific art.


I could have told you that, I say. It’s unbearable.


Whole thing is like being pied in the face, he says, or force-fed a pie.


Right.


We like things if we’ve signed up for them, otherwise we just want to be left alone.


No secret, I’d have thought.


And this has its analogs online. Pranks. Setups. What does it prove if you pretend you’re having a seizure in the street but really you’re doing a candid-camera thing to expose how many people walk by and ignore you?


Testing the parable of the Good Samaritan?


Does it prove that people are callous? says Claudio. I think it just proves you’re a cunt. The best thing that could happen is you have an actual seizure and die because people assume you’re doing a bit.


Did you know there are still some Samaritans? I tell him. About a thousand in total. Most people don’t realize that they split from mainstream Judaism over a disagreement on where the Binding of Isaac took place, and that schism was a
 
thousand years
 
before Christ.


I’m not interested in that, says Claudio.


Most people have no idea what Samaritans are. The first high priest was the Hebrew prophet Aaron.


Focus, will you? says Claudio.


On what?


On our project.


Of course, I say.


Do you need me to make you a coffee?


I take a sip of water and some of it goes down the wrong way. I try to clear my throat.


What we want to avoid is the base presumption of art, I say.


Yes.


The preening superiority, the faux-profundity and impertinent belief in its own relevance.


All those things, says Claudio. Yeah.


Because this has to be for the people.


Black bag, says Claudio, is for the people. Has to be.


It shouldn’t be ostensibly political, because it is art, I say. And art’s only duty is aesthetic. First and foremost it should be beautiful.


Claudio writes down the word
 
beautiful
 
on a slip of paper.


Okay, this is good, we’re getting somewhere, he says. We should do this more often. Say more.


I lie down on Claudio’s gray rectangular sofa and close my eyes.


Given that nobody in their right mind wants to participate in a work of art without their consent, black bag must be unobtrusive; noticeable but optional, I tell him. As black bag is essentially silent and unreactive, this is already an inherent virtue of the project.


It’s baked in, says Claudio. Yes, yes.


We would like people to be curious, entertained, vaguely troubled, perhaps. That’s all the engagement we’re asking.


The entities—


The entities.


They’re very much in favor of art, says Claudio. They only really understand us through our artistic production.


Well how nice for them, I say.


I think it’s a statement about being a man. A rejection of the current options. There’s a whole contingent of men who are lost and dissatisfied, who weren’t popular at school and never got over it, says Claudio.


Say what you like about you and me, I say, we got over
 
that
. I see it in my followers, says Claudio. They’re mostly young men. They’re confused about what that should mean. They’ve lost their identities. So they while
 
away their hours in mindless nostalgia and distraction watching people like
 
me
 
play video games and talking about it. It’s infantilizing—might as well be sitting there sucking on dummies.


Have men
 
really
 
lost their identities? I say.


There’s been a shift in energy, says Claudio. You know it, I know it.


They don’t just do really bad things and then they say it’s because they’ve lost their identities?


This is about the true self, says Claudio.


Right.


The true self is something pretty scary, says Claudio. The fact is, even if we deplore these men, we mostly use their example to feel better about ourselves. But black bag is different. Most of us believe we deserve praise for not indulging our worst impulses. Black bag is a return to the older virtues of self-denial, self-abnegation and self-knowledge via the harder path of true and lasting humility.


This is sounding a little TradCath.


Ugh. It has nothing to do with that, says Claudio. It’s not affiliated.


The Ladder of Divine Ascent, I say.


I mean it has to be worth a try, right? says Claudio.




OceanofPDF.com

















38




DR. BLEND IS IN FULL
 
force today. It’s like it’s three years later and the lecture has already been winnowed down to the edited highlights and posted on YouTube. He paces like a charismatic preacher, makes hand gestures as if he is channeling the words from elsewhere. He ranges like a sleek epistemological puma through the history of animated feature films, classical mythology, affect theory.


Hephaestus was the only ugly god, he declares.


The only source identifying Crepitus as “the god of farts” comes from an early Christian satire, so go figure.


We should maybe view everything with such circumspection.


That is, after all, the scientific method.


How often were we misdirected by a satire?


Burton in
 
The Anatomy of Melancholy
: “All affections of the mind were heretofore accounted gods …”


Lefebvre: “Nothing disappears completely.”


Whatebvre.


This affect, Dr. Blend’s, has produced a strong energy in the room.


But the change concerns me. One worries about a man when he behaves like this, like a flare gun.


I recognize the boy next to me as Daniel, from the seminar. Fluffy-haired and unselfconscious, rarely speaks but read a good poem about being scared when Dr. Blend asked people to write their fears in the form of a poem.


He offers me, from a damaged foil, a tablet of Wrigley’s Airwaves gum, then shrugs when I am unable to accept it.


I am so touched by this that I give him a little nudge with my shoulder. Or I maneuver black bag to give him a little nudge. It is not me.


The contract of adulthood is manufacturing enthusiasm, says Dr. Blend, and if you won’t, others will, so look sharp.


I return to the rural Swedish sawmill where I have begun to win the respect of my team, just by still turning up, bearing their gruff and understated slights. I must, after all, be okay. Later I go for a hike to catch the midnight sun with Birgitta. Andra tider, andra seder, she says. When you have lived as long as I have … she says, but doesn’t finish the sentence. We look at the mountain.


Don’t pull everybody over the same comb, she tells me.




OceanofPDF.com

















39




I PRESS THE BUZZER FOR
 
Claudio’s flat. After five seconds I press it again. I leave it for half a minute. It is not like Claudio to be out, but neither have I formalized our arrangement, neither do I have a right to expect him to be present at my convenience. Sometimes he likes to go to a forest or a wood and walk around in it. For some time Claudio has generally been without attachments other than his 1.2 million viewers.


Two years ago, a woman named Shayna lived with Claudio in his flat, his placid computer desktop of a living space. Shayna lived with Claudio for three months and I generally felt that this was very good for him. Shayna was in software development and they bought a big black rabbit called Trinity, which lived in a run that took up half the room and ate hard cereals and sticks of bramble. She would tease me that Claudio was far more into me than he was into her.


She insisted on Claudio playing board games as a break from constant streaming and we’d do this together and drink wine. I found myself in the role of benign witness, a crucial part of any relationship. She accepted his fondness for hallucinogens. Looked out for him. Nobody really understands the pressure he’s under like we do.


This struck me as a permanent arrangement, so it surprised me to call round one evening in the spring and find the big cage—and Trinity with it—had vanished, a single lacquered orange cornflake under the sofa the only evidence that I hadn’t imagined the whole episode. Something had happened and Claudio wouldn’t tell me what, but Shayna was in Ankara and probably not coming back to the UK, Trinity had been adopted by an organization called Save a Fluff and Claudio’d got rid of the cage on Gumtree. About Shayna he would only say that she was an
 
eye pencil in the fruit bowl
 
kind of a girl, collected empty cardboard packaging and jars for no reason and couldn’t keep a single surface clear, and that he
 
was relieved to return to absolute order. And you’re okay? I asked him, and he laughed.




My stuff is in his flat,
 
including the keys to my own flat, so I have no choice but to wait for him. I lean against the wall and shift to the left when a woman and a small boy approach the door.


What is that man doing?


I don’t know.


Why does he look like that?


It’s okay, I say.


The child screams as the woman ushers him through the door.


A very quiet small gray car pulls into the double yellow lines.


Justine leans out of the window.


It’s you, she says. I almost didn’t recognize you. What are you doing?


I explain that I am supposed to be seeing my friend but he isn’t there, and she says, Oh for goodness’ sake, get in.


I don’t have my keys.


So come back to mine, dumdum.


I hesitate and glance up at the twelfth story and then I get into Justine’s car and she does up my seat belt over black bag.


Good, she says.


She doesn’t always drive this way but there are roadworks. She lives about half an hour out of town.


This is really kind of you.


Shhh. I saw you from the queue about five minutes ago and I thought, God, what is he doing?




Justine lives in a small stone cottage
 
with three windows, shrouded in hanging leaves. In contrast to her discipline it feels like a fairy-tale house. There is a rough-hewn stone pig, its ears folded over its eyes to the right of the doorstep, a lean-to full of logs. She clears her throat and opens the blue door with a jangling bunch of keys. She has a rotary
 
telephone on an occasional table in the little hallway, a record player in the living room. She is breezy and irritable as she watches me take this in. Tired from staying up late marking essays and teaching seminars all day. Would I like to just go to bed? Would I be okay with just going to bed? She gives me an orange. Would I like an orange? It’s just upstairs.


Justine’s bedroom is small, painted golden yellow. A double bed and a curvy chest of drawers. A pile of books with titles like
 
A Non-Anthropocentric Reconceptualisation of Agency
 
comes up to my shoulder.


I do not know how any human being, with broadly the same optical setup as me, can possibly read so much.


Justine starts to undress.


Do you mind?


My hands are shaking.


Of course not.


You sound terrified!


I’m …


Lie down.


I climb under the bedspread. The house is cool and over the weeks I have grown accustomed to the temperature of black bag.


On your side, she says. No, face this way.


Justine takes off her underwear, climbs into bed and nestles into me. I can feel her body against the leather exterior of black bag and can imagine the sensation as if it is my own, where it sticks and yields. She writhes her body into the most comfortable position. I put my hand on her hip through black bag and it is strange to half feel her, to sense the softness but not the smoothness of her skin.


Keep still. Like that. Yes.


She sighs.


Tell me something.


What?


Why did you become an actor?


I’m good at it.


It’s what you want to do with your life?


It’s all I want.


You’re so afraid, of so much. Aren’t you?


Yes.


I can take all of that away from you. Tell me something you hate.


I think for a while. I think that someone telling you that they know you’re in pain is the same as someone telling you that you’re special. I think it’s the same as love, which has worrying implications. Everyone is in pain.


There are two things I can’t bear to hear, I tell Justine. A traditional music box and classical music for solo piano.


What does it feel like? When you hear it?


It feels sad. Deep sadness in the stomach, like everything inside me sinking. Winding the handle of a music box—it’s like something tightening around my neck.


I believe it is the role of women to cover up the truth of mortality.


Wow.


And that’s a lot of work, says Justine. A lot. Think about it.


I think about trying, very hard, to cover up the truth of mortality. The lengths one would have to go to; the vigilance, the permanent starting position, primed to spring into action whenever a man seems about to cotton on to the reality of death and its permanence. Hush now, baby.


Is it any wonder we might want to outsource that?


Justine gets out of bed and I watch her put on a short blue cotton robe.


Do you want a glass of wine?


When can I see you again?


She sniffs. I’m traveling next week, baby.


Do you travel often?


Meh. Conferences. I give one twenty-minute paper over a long weekend and then find people with whom I can drink to excess.


Oh.


That wasn’t meant to sound like self-pity. I enjoy it.


It does sound fun.


But then the week after I’m seeing my husband.


Oh right, I say, dispassionately. Right. Where’s he?


The Lake District.


It’s very beautiful there.


There are some interesting disadvantages to living in an area of outstanding natural beauty, says Justine. The West has protected its landscape and, to a certain extent, its people to the detriment of almost everyone else in the world. But yes. I’ll probably stay about five days.


I can see you after that?


Of course.


I really like you.


Aw.


It is getting dark outside and I would usually remove black bag the moment I get through either my or Claudio’s door.


I sometimes get a little high round about now, she says. Stay with me tonight?




OceanofPDF.com

















40




I AM NOT ACCUSTOMED TO
 
sleeping in black bag, but it appears that doing so suits me as I wake from a stupor, an out-of-body state of oblivion I do not even remember, to find myself alone in Justine’s room, light breathing through the orange curtain. Justine has left a page torn out of a notebook on top of me.




Gone to work, bb, you looked so peaceful


help yourself to anything and I’ll drive you home when I’m back




When left alone in someone else’s house you must obey a strict code: observe but don’t snoop, leave little trace but not
 
no
 
trace; a book on the occasional table, do the washing-up slightly wrong.


I climb out of black bag and leave it gaping open by the front door. The bathroom window looks out onto a small, square-walled garden, a single pear tree in the center, twigs gnarled and budding. The window has no blind but neither is it overlooked by any other house and I like the fact that Justine embraces this freedom from oversight.


Despite having written what is widely regarded to be “an indispensable guide to the coming technocracy,” and finding that Justine is atavistic when it comes to personal hygiene products. Despite, or perhaps in anticipation of, the coming technocracy.


Her soap appears to have been carved raw from the side of a cliff; shampoo and conditioner in two enormous apothecary bottles I cannot imagine transporting for refills. Perhaps they are left outside the front door and refilled by an attendant with a horse-drawn vat. I pick up a wooden toothbrush and scan around for toothpaste until I notice a little black glass caviar jar marked
 
Oral Care
. The unguent inside is jet-black
 
and is applied to the brush with a small wooden teardrop attached to the side of the jar on a length of twine.


It tastes like the sea at night.


My preference is for personal grooming products that look and smell like powerful toilet cleaners, but I am willing to concede, as I pick a literal piece of
 
heather
 
out of my eye after washing my face, that I have been following the wrong metaphors. Or that I could learn to love such things as Justine’s ethical, sustainable, cruelty-free and almost completely ineffective washing-up liquid, toilet sands, laundry pebbles, because she does.




OceanofPDF.com

















41




CLAUDIO, WHERE HAVE YOU BEEN?


Ah, says Claudio. Sorry, yeah. Some business in town and I forgot what day it was.


The room is dominated by a giant electric-pink space hopper with an unpleasant gurning face printed on it in black. It must have a diameter of at least six feet—would be impossible to mount, and must have been inflated after delivery—and is very ugly. I vaguely recognize the face from a meme.


I do not ask where it came from or who sent it because Claudio is constantly sent all manner of things.


I look at Claudio’s arms.


Have you been working out? I ask him.


Pshaw, he says.


I sit on the floor next to the outsized space hopper and inhale the rich, sweet smell of the glossy rubber.


You seem sad, bro.


It’s the crushing.


This again, says Claudio. The crushing again. You’ve got a project, you’ve got a focus.


That’s something, I say, sadly. Did you know that women cover up the truth about mortality?


Why would they do that?


They have to. Men could do it, if they really put their minds to it, but it doesn’t come naturally. I don’t know if it’s mostly cultural. My worry is there’s no culture at all.


Oh, darling, says Claudio.


That we’ll talk and talk to nobody, that we’ll take our art very seriously but nobody else will.


Is it the space hopper? Do you want me to move it? Do you want to throw it off the balcony?


No, I want to stare at it.


There’s always been trash, says Claudio. You can either ignore it or become an expert in trash.


You’re not going to tell me where you were?


He goes to his kitchen counter, draws a glass of water and stirs two fizzing tablets into it.


I’m building something, he says. And you said you didn’t want to know.


No, I say, okay.


All you have to do is keep being black bag.


He takes a sip of his concoction and starts to giggle.


What is it?


We’re going to be rich, he says.


You’ve been selling the … stakes?


Oh, they went within the week, he says. Black bag is currently worth one hundred and fifty grand.


Oh my god.


And that’s with an introductory offer. Our shares are probably going to double within a month.


But how? I say. How do you even … For what?


I don’t know what you’re doing, he says.


I don’t know what
 
you’re
 
doing.


But keep doing it, says Claudio.




OceanofPDF.com

















42




TODAY NOT ONE OF THE STUDENTS
 
reacts when they see me in the seminar room. Their engagement is still a little hostile, but more curious.


Would you say anything, Sophie asks me, if your life depended on it?


Or what if you could save someone else’s life by speaking? says Thomas.


The three of us are several minutes early for class and Thomas and Sophie have chosen to spend that time interrogating me.


Would you still just sit there?


Once you break through your initial resistance to silence it’s actually very natural, like floating on your back in the middle of an immense, still lake.


If someone was crying? Sophie says. If someone you loved was in floods of tears and you were the only one with them? Would you say anything at all?


I think about an evening after Shayna moved out of Claudio’s flat. He’d seemed fine for a couple of weeks, so I was surprised to call round to find him sitting in the middle of the room in tears. I initially thought he was joking and had to correct my smirk when I realized he was in genuine distress. I said, Hey, what’s wrong? And he kept repeating, I’m just no good. I’m no good. Not for anyone. I can’t be. I can’t love anyone.


But now I must be about my father’s business.




In an irregular corner of the
 
teaching building’s café I finger the roll of notes within black bag. I must pay some of this money into my account. If I call my landlord and ask him to come around and be paid in cash he could assume all manner of things, and his good opinion of
 
me must be fragile enough as it is. Also if I give him all of my money I won’t have any money. I’ll be back to being poor again.


I look up the strange acting database on my phone.


A company named Louder Hippo are casting for corporate training videos about cognitive bias, inclusion, information security, safeguarding and fire safety. Dramaticules and talking heads. I send them my CV.




OceanofPDF.com

















43




DO WE GET TO HAVE
 
THIS MONEY?
 
Can I go and buy my lunch with it now?


No, says Claudio. It’s not like that.


He closes his laptop: the contemporary moment’s gesture of generosity nonpareil.


So what even is it? I say, stepping out of black bag and shielding my eyes from his halogens. Is it like the “idea” of money?


Well I’m not going to cash out
 
now
! Claudio says. That would be completely insane.


I suppose what I’m asking, I say, is do we
 
ever
 
get to cash out?


Of course we do, says Claudio. We find some investors, we drive engagement, we make it as good as it possibly can be and then someone else buys it all and runs it into the ground. Claudio performs a dive with his hand and whistles a descending note.


He pulls his laptop open again and clicks on a file. He shows me five MS Paint drawings of a black rectangle with googly eyes.


These are the first NFTs, he says.


You know I don’t understand anything about that, I say.


We’ve been through this so many times! says Claudio, exasperated. When you—you personally—buy a book you’re not buying a small quantity of paper and ink, right?


Sure.


Well it’s the same thing. You’re buying the aura of something, you’re investing in someone’s ideas and expression, whatever the hell that means. You’re buying something
 
intangible
. The cost price of a canvas and some paint is a few quid.


The cost price of a doodle you did on your computer is zero.


The former is
 
negligible enough to be zero
, says Claudio. Don’t be obtuse.


The idea is people buy the doodles because they’re interested in the
 
idea
 
of black bag?


They’ve seen you wandering around, or they’ve seen footage of it, or they’ve heard other people talking about it, says Claudio. They don’t know what it is but they want in. I fit you with a little tracking device and then the routes you take around the city—like if you just walk anywhere and change direction whenever you want—that generates … codes.


What for?


I’m working on that, says Claudio. But it has limitless possibilities.


A flaneur, I say.


Whatever.


Exactly. My only concern is this cheapens the whole affair.


It does the exact opposite!


Cheapens the artistic statement, I mean.


And what is that? What’s the objet d’art?


That’s not what objet d’art means.


What’s the objet d’art for
 
you
?


I don’t think it’s for me to say, I say.


Do you not
 
like
 
money? says Claudio. Do you not want to make enough money so that you can relax and make the work you really want to make?


Is that what you want, Claudio? Two days ago you were saying black bag signified some kind of spiritual awakening, and now you’re trying to turn it into an exploitative self-help scheme.


I’m a pragmatist, says Claudio.


Right.


I don’t want to do this forever, he says, waving a dismissive hand at his arrangement of consoles and cameras. Too many people feel like they
 
own
 
a little bit of me—it’s like I’ve accidentally sold five hundred percent of the shares in my soul. And I’m getting deeply sick of people and their bullshit. It’s not a good feeling.


You’re good at it, though.


Yeah, yeah.


But you’d rather be something else? What? A poet?


A
 
poet
? says Claudio. No. I just need an exit strategy for when I want to get out.


Well if this helps
 
you
, I say, fine.


Claudio rustles through a jiffy bag and pulls out a tiny button-sized silver disc.


I’ll attach the tracker now, then? he says.




OceanofPDF.com

















44




I AM WEARING A RED,
 
white and black plaid shirt tucked into faded blue jeans. My one good brown belt. In the past few days I have not taken black bag off at all, even to sleep, so it feels strange going out into the world in this ensemble: I have a febrile vibration in my chest, as if the prelude to a bad cold. I duck back into my ground-floor flat assuming I’ve forgotten something, but I haven’t.


In the lobby I sort out the other residents’ mail into neat piles on the Formica sideboard and emerge from the front door, blinking as if leaving a matinee.


On the street I find that I expect people to stare at me, and feel unsettled when they don’t. I expect hesitation and subtle double takes, the energy of weighing up whether to engage, to fear and avoid or to mock. In its place, nothing. A glance as long as a microscopic calculation, whatever we ask of a fairly harmless-looking stranger.


I mess up my hair a little bit.


In taking time out from black bag I feel as though I am cheating on myself, lying about who and what I really am. In going to see my parents while playing the part of an ordinary young white man in a plaid shirt, I feel disingenuous.


A pigeon is pecking a piece of pastry on the pavement and doesn’t move as I approach. I step into the gutter to pass it.


But is this not the way it always is, seeing one’s parents? We do not really want them to know or see how we go about in the world, what strange compromises and strategies we have developed, our laziness and vigor, charm and petulance. We’d be embarrassed, so would they. Better for all concerned for them to think whatever they want, and to receive us intermittently as a little child who worries precociously for them.


They do, by the way, give me cause for worry.


On the other hand I am very relaxed with my parents and feel no pressure to be interesting at all. Once my mother asked me how I was doing and I told her that I had, that day, received a new debit card, just in time for the impending expiry date on my current card; but that I hadn’t signed the back of it yet, so technically it wasn’t valid.
 
That’s good
, she said.
 
Better sign it before the old one runs out
. Oh, I will, I said.


That was a little too close to characterization. From now on they will be two stone pillars again and that’s all you’re getting.


Furthermore, my parents ought to be protected, I think, from black bag as much as from narrative description.


A prophet is not without honor save in his own country. We tend to pity the prophet in that equation.


But think of their
 
families
.


I experiment by smiling at a woman in a bomber jacket pushing a beige pram with impressive suspension. She ignores me.


Having a face that can convey things. Wow.


Do we not so often get caught with a sour look that we didn’t even mean, something non-topical, not so much a slip of the mask as a universal pity?


Perhaps I owe myself a little time out of black bag. I need to remember that it is a job.


I have always had this problem when I feel particularly well suited to a part.


I have always taken parts to which I feel particularly well suited.




At the station I realize that
 
I can get a coffee, maybe even a leathery croissant, without any encumbrance and sit on a bench and simply consume them. My first paycheck from the university is yet to clear, but perhaps Claudio will wire me some money from my 20 percent of his franchising scheme. Perhaps I ought to be more parsimonious; goodness knows how long his efforts will carry on, and a responsible man would open a savings account.


But why should I deny myself the simple pleasure of a coffee and a pastry? Enjoy having limbs and space.


Something happens when I get to the coffee concession in the waiting room on platform 3.


I hear a low, close mosquito whine behind my shoulder again and I turn to see a little black
 
X
-shaped craft, no bigger than a tennis ball, pivot to the left and lift into the sky.


I realize that I am at the front of the queue.


Yes?


I’d like a …


The barista smiles patiently.


I’m sorry. I’d like a …


I massage my jaw.


A coffee? she suggests.


Yes. I’m sorry.


A normal coffee?


I’d …


It is as though something has sealed my throat, as if it had never been a throat at all. We are made of such tiny, delicate parts—why should they ever work?


I cough and try again.


I …


It occurs to me that I am no longer fully myself. That I have lost the knack of performing myself. A snail without a shell, a sucked lozenge. I lack the selfhood to even say what I want.


A cappuccino?


I nod vigorously.


Although who ever really says what they want?


Anything else?


Yes.


Something to eat?


She picks up a pair of tongs and hovers over the glass plates on the counter.


I’d like a …


A cake?


I shake my head.


A croissant?


I nod.


There you go, she says, pleasantly, folds the croissant into a brown paper bag and turns to work the coffee machine.


Thank you, I say, the gift of speech miraculously returning to me the moment I no longer need it. Thank you so much.




God, what a pig’s ear
 
I’ve always made of even the simplest interactions, how false my smile and weak my voice. On the train I have to walk through two busy carriages to find one that is almost empty. I take a seat and fold down the tray, which creaks like a pterodactyl and stops at a downward slope on which my coffee won’t balance. I sit down with my rucksack still on my back and I twist my neck trying to remove it with one hand while I hold my coffee in the other, my croissant on the seat next to me where at any moment a stranger might sit on it and squash it flat.


Would I still eat it, if that happened?


I scowl at the busted tray and flap it up and down, once.


We’re really supposed to
 
achieve things
 
in our lives when doing literally anything is this much of a ball-ache?


Just as I have freed both shoulders with no little discomfort, the train begins to move and I involuntarily pour a sluice of coffee onto my shoe.


The coffee is too hot but I drink it quickly and then put the almost empty cup on the floor where I hold it in place with my foot.


I text Claudio to ask if he’s okay. Hope you’re okay, I write.


It’s kicking off! he replies. Come round asap.


A very young child twists in his mother’s arms, inconsolable,
 
I want daddy. I want my daddy. I want to go back to daddy.


This, I think, is difficult for all of us to hear in different ways.


I eat the croissant, which I had temporarily forgotten about. It is an effort to swallow.


Then I start to play a round of solitaire on my phone. Solitaire is one of a small category of games that is far superior in its digital form than it is in real life. The last time I tried to play it with an actual deck of cards, it took up most of a table and I couldn’t even reach the farthest stack of cards without getting up from my chair.


I finish a hand in 146 moves then look up and see a woman cramming a suitcase into the overhead luggage storage, taking off a long houndstooth coat and then putting it back on again. When she turns to face me I realize that it is Justine and I grin at her before realizing there is no way she could possibly recognize me. I look back at my phone and grin again, as if to myself, to make clear that I am just someone who grins apropos of nothing and not to be paid any mind, then I scowl, to make it clear that I do not grin constantly and was not grinning at her, then a little grin again, then neutral.


I have not had to think about facial expressions in public for some time and it is, frankly, rather demanding.


The woman I have no right to know as Justine frowns, pulls her checkered wheelie suitcase out of the luggage storage. It looks heavy and she makes a small sound of exasperation as she lowers it a little too fast to the floor. I could offer to help. No. That feels inappropriate.


I’d know who she was, she wouldn’t know who I was.


Having the upper hand in any situation is morally reprehensible.


Justine unzips the suitcase and takes out a book called
 
The Tetrapharmakos
 
and a pencil. Then she puts the suitcase directly onto a chair at a seat with a table and sits down next to it. She glances around irritably.


There is something childlike to her essentially unobserved and private petulance, which only serves to emphasize, for me, her poise and sophistication. I want to take her feet in my lap and unfasten her shoes and rub her feet.


Justine sighs and opens the book and puts the pencil in her mouth.


It is quite possible that she is on her way to the Lake District.


I would like to speak to her, but it seems inappropriate. More than that I would like to go and sit next to her and lay my head on her shoulder.


Instead I occasionally glance at her reading, during which she looks angry and beautiful. Occasionally she looks out the window and I pretend that I am looking out of the same window rather than at her face in profile and the reflection of her face in profile. My breath feels weighted and almost tearful.


It is a great pleasure, close to anguish, to see your lover as someone else sees them. For your lover to be admired by someone else is perhaps the greatest pleasure.


I do not know why that is … Whether it comes from something shameful and primitive. I possess something you want. Therefore I am superior to you.


If Justine were to look longingly at me, at
 
this
, would that be disloyal to black bag?


I move the two of clubs onto the three of hearts.


I can itemize my significant past relationships (of course Angelique, most recent and catastrophic) alongside my previous roles, only in this case it was always the same role.


At some point it doesn’t seem to matter whether one embraces the traditional precepts of masculinity or not; it’s more what I call the Compensatory Model, which is itself not unlike a game of solitaire. So, (a) I may not be physically strong or visibly muscular; (b) I don’t have any money to speak of, am, in fact, flat broke; (c) given the above I often lack self-esteem and the necessary level of confidence required to function in society; (d) I may also, in fact, be terminally indecisive and so worried about upsetting anyone—given the lowliness of my station—that I cannot even commit to or venture an opinion on the choice of pub on an evening out; what if we went there and it was bad? Therefore (a) I could never realistically protect you or our offspring if push came to shove; (b) I can neither provide for you nor buy you thoughtful gifts nor take you on holiday nor project forward into a stable future together; (c) I will often be quite fretful and insecure; (d) so that’s annoying, isn’t it?


For inadequacies (a) through (d) there must be some form of reimbursement; supposedly I would bring in their place (a) intelligence, (b) kindness, (c) good humor and (d) compassion. But dear lord, what lofty qualities—not to mention transitory and ambiguous. What even
 
are
 
they and who among us can manifest them constantly? This is really asking one’s personality to do a lot of the heavy lifting, and a personality is somewhat like the weather. What it came down to is that I was offering, in place of the traditional qualities of masculinity, precisely nothing. A vortex that could consume the two of us. Eventually, sometimes after months or years of unhappiness, my girlfriend would begin to feel that I was
 
not a real man
; but this would be as painful for her to admit to herself as for me to infer it from her gradual withdrawal of affection.


The truth is nobody wants a sensitive man at all. A sensitive man may be very kind and obliging, largely because he has a delicate psyche to protect and has learned that the best way to do this is to avoid conflict altogether. A sensitive man, contra the First Epistle to the Corinthians, keeps a
 
comprehensive
 
record of wrongs, remembers every moment you hurt his feelings in intricate detail so as to avoid taking similar damage in future. The only cure for this is vigorous, mutually ecstatic sex—the only context in which a sensitive man truly escapes or transfigures himself—but by this point you’ve become so weary of the sensitive man’s complex feelings and mopey evasions you’d just as soon have vigorous, mutually ecstatic sex with a boiled potato.


I move the ten of spades onto the jack of diamonds.


Whenever she stops reading, Justine looks preoccupied and troubled by something.


But don’t we all.


From the age of seventeen to thirty-two all of my relationships ended the same way. We’d be so disappointed in each other it was difficult to be in the same room; she’d be generally so displeased to see me I’d go into paroxysms of intelligence, kindness, good humor and compassion in an attempt to prove my worth; but the intelligence would seem fussy, the kindness submissive, the good humor obsequious and the compassion feeble. Eventually, at her behest, we’d need to talk and, like an employee
 
before a severe line manager, I would present myself, quaking a little. Then, like Balaam’s donkey, I would be momentarily gifted the ability to assert myself. How dare she want to change me, how dare she not accept me for who I essentially was: a sensitive man who, (a), (b), (c) and (d) notwithstanding, more than made up for that with (a), (b), (c) and (d). I was tired of it.


Well in that case, she’d say, I fancy you again, so we’re not breaking up.


Oh, really? That’s great! I’d throw myself at her feet. Shall we go out for a drink? Where would you like to go?


In that case, she’d say, I find your devotion to me nauseating and we’re breaking up again.


The only woman who ever really accepted me for who I was was Angelique. And she wanted to
 
kill
 
me.


I move the five of hearts onto the six of spades.


I look up to see Justine reaching into her coat. She removes her ringing phone from an inside pocket. Frowns as if deciding whether to ignore it or not. Answers it. Listens.


Yes I am, she says.


She laughs.


I can’t stand talking on a train, she says. I’ll call you back.


She sits with her hand still in her book and looks out the window, a little calmer, a very faint smile.


Item.
 
Professor Justine Pearce is objectively desirable and impressive.
 
Item
. I need feel neither proud of her having chosen me nor the frisson of insecurity that she might leave me; there is nothing to have chosen and nothing to leave.
 
Item
. What I get from Justine, and what I never got from any of the sad, stubby psychodramas to which I subjected too many women of my generation, is security and validation.
 
Item.
 
I need never question the purpose of our relationship because I have delegated that to her. So that even if she is toying with me for reasons I may not yet understand, I can trust that it will ultimately improve my performance, or some future performance; it is simply not my problem.
 
Item.
 
Thus, in Justine, I find an escape from the whole question of the self and how she could possibly love me because that question is already answered:
 
She couldn’t.
 
Item.
 
Therefore now that we’re already in the realm of the impossible maybe we can all just relax for a change. Perversely, and to borrow a contemporary platitude, Justine is the first person to really make me feel
 
seen
.


I move the ace of clubs to the foundation.


I start thinking about the word “chihuahua,” a word that abstracts very quickly. Chihuahua chihuahua chihuahua. From one of Dr. Blend’s lectures I know that this is called semantic satiation. To combat this I start thinking about chihuahuas themselves, perhaps because they are very undignified, and that is how I feel. I imagine a film called
 
Last Train to Chihuahuaville
, which would either prominently feature many chihuahuas or not feature a single chihuahua at all, but still have a little chihuahua on the poster.


The train draws into the station and Justine stands, zips
 
The Tetrapharmakos
 
back into the suitcase, puts the pencil behind her ear, fastens a single button on her coat and carries the case to the vestibule.


Plenty of things are not your problem: constructing or demolishing a building, convening a music festival, working in HR. These are not things you should ever worry about.


I must change trains after another three stops. Justine must be traveling for the rest of the day.


Seeing her like this—although I cannot currently see her waiting in the vestibule at the train doors—does not so much makes me miss Justine as it makes me miss black bag, being black bag, being someone she would recognize and be pleased to see.


I wish that I had stuffed black bag into my rucksack so that I could have gone and changed in the train toilet and then nonchalantly walked back into the carriage and waited for her to notice me.


The doors hiss open. She turns when she reaches the platform and this time, with nothing to lose, I stare at her directly, longingly, I make eye contact and she notices and stares back at me. Her lip curls slightly, in a manner that I suppose anyone might affect when they realize a creepy guy is staring at them.


I mouth
 
Justine
, although I have no idea what that looks like to her, aside from more weird and unwanted attention, and I feel momentarily disgusted with myself as the train pulls away and I whip around in my seat and then stand up so that I don’t lose a second, not a possible split second of her presence.


I press myself to the glass.


Maybe I am adding to her worries, the fake student, Michaels, the sense that she is under surveillance.


I can’t help it.


I’m in here, I say. Out loud this time. I’m in here. It’s me.




OceanofPDF.com

















45




MY, HOW HIS LEGS HAVE GROWN.
 
Not so cute anymore, are you?


I rub Elliott’s head and he bites my hand.


Little fucker. I’ll take him for a long one.


I finish my second cup of tea, brush a little moss off my parents.




It is not far before the road
 
turns into a path, which turns into a track of mulch, a corridor of trees leaning to console each other, mottled sunlight through the offcuts, then a stile and then fields and fields and fields, grazing land out of season, a dozen stitched-together landscape paintings, as if designed solely for a single ambler’s daydreams, my childhood kingdom.


I mean literally
 
nobody
 
seems to live here except for my parents.


Makes me reflective, puts me in a reflective …
 
mien
.


For fifteen years I have dedicated myself to becoming a character actor. It is a little humiliating to admit that I sought success. That it mattered to me. That I am wounded by its absence.


On some level I must see it as my
 
right
, must be that genre of man who downplays his achievements, not so much out of humility or even false modesty as because they really
 
did
 
come easily to him. Oh pshaw.


Only sans the achievements
, says Elliott.
 
Thus bitter
.


At some point you must make peace with your failure.


No
, says Elliott.
 
You must rage and gnash and cry big, snotty tears. If you feel you haven’t been given your due you must never shut up about it
. He begins to chase his tail but gets bored after two snaps and trots along ahead of me.


That’s a bad look for anyone, Elliott. Grace, above all else.


Nobody is watching you to see if you’ll be graceful or not
, avers Elliott.
 
And what paltry work to concern yourself, first and foremost, with how you come across. What a poor, thin gruel!


Elliott, we are constantly on trial. Even a child is known by his doings.


And a dog by his leavings
.


And a dog by his leavings, yes.


What meager consolation
.


This is where the river cuts through the fields, like an afterthought, the river, scrawled in hurriedly. I swat at a crane fly and turn to look for Elliott.


Don’t bother the duck.


Elliott has frozen in his tracks, mesmerized, as if he cannot believe his luck.


One day
, he growls in falsetto,
 
snap their necks and drink their blood
.


So yes at some point the work becomes the work of
 
failure
, short selling your hope against your disappointment, planning to buy it back later for less money.


What would Justine say?


If you knew that you wouldn’t be missing her
.


I’m not angry about the lack of funding for real art. I’m not even angry with the compromised and well-intentioned who wouldn’t know real art if they saw it. I’m angry with
 
you
 
(yes, you; look up from the page for a moment and frown about it) for not wanting it anymore.


Maybe I am bitter, I say. But I’m surrounded by Philistines.


The Philistines are much maligned
, says Elliott.
 
Good citizens who loved their dogs
.


And what am I left with? Civic theater. Creative partnerships. A multidisciplinary collaboration. A publicly funded project that incorporates several institutions, whimsically overreaches and, in so doing, inadvertently sets astronomy
 
and
 
literature
 
and
 
dance back by several decades. Audience-evaluation questionnaires, patronizing supportive bromides, Biro-ed platitudes from relatives of stakeholders. Everyone gets paid. A bad-tempered man who is wrong about everything—but
 
right about this—might compose a takedown on his blog. Nobody else would bother.


Oh I just can’t, you know?


Better, I think, to audition for Extremely Ordinary Looking and Clumsy Male Strippers of Various Ages.


And if that doesn’t exist, establish it.


That could really take off
, Elliott concedes.
 
People are desperate for a little authenticity.


Desperate for a little flapping penis under an untoned paunch.


For anything real
, says Elliott,
 
however flappy
.




It is possible to be too boring
 
and too interesting at the same time. A French press into which you’ve poured two and a half inches of ground coffee but then only allowed it to brew for thirty seconds.


Glug glug glug
, says Elliott, and disappears through a hedge.


Do I contradict myself?


I decide to let him roam and return to me.


I sit down under a tree and try to enjoy the cold wind nullifying the sunlight, which you can, if you catch the feeling in time.


How beautiful it all is.


Who are you to
 
accept
? It sounds awfully close to toleration.


It is not so much about who gets a seat at the table.


It’s that there shouldn’t be a table. Should never have been a table.


Destroy all tables.




OceanofPDF.com

















46




I SLEEP BADLY FOR TWO NIGHTS.


Justine refers to her husband so casually and takes it as read that I needn’t know the first thing about him in order to affect a similar level of indifference. I will put any questions or thoughts of Justine’s husband in a corner of my mind and erect a force field around it made of thoughts of Justine and how wonderful she is and how urgently I want to talk to her or put my hand on her waist. Naturally this solar-powered force field only holds up during daylight hours—it has no battery or means of power storage—and at night I think about little else.


Each night Justine’s husband appears at the side of my bed, looking sorrowful, holding an empty white side plate with some crumbs on it, in hallucinatory clarity.


Sometimes I would see Justine’s husband as a former Olympic rower, his fair hair cropped short, handsome but unappealing face, gherkin-shaped penis and ample balls sculpturally discernible beneath his black and yellow Lycra shorts. A glass of barley water of a man, but still physically imposing, chiseled arms, still rowed, still talked predominantly about rowing,
 
was
 
still rowing, in any given situation was literally rowing, had earned that right. This husband was almost entirely without personality but for a steely irritation that would rise like a valve without warning. A human pair of chinos with a pin somewhere in them. It would be pride or disappointment or he’d catch himself being kind or pleasant company and suspect it wasn’t very masculine so he’d lash out verbally at another man for no reason and spoil their beer because they’d either have to laugh it off or confront him, the latter unwise. Such men are obsessed with status in a way that is quite pitiful, a prestige coffin, but they have a way of corralling you into approving of their shallow dreams
 
and disparaging your own in front of them. And they ask this of you with such childlike insistence, such pathetic trust in life as a competition they can dedicate themselves to and win through discipline, through grit, through a spirited attitude, that it’s tempting just to give it to them—
yes, small parts, really, a minor character actor, but it makes me happy, why yes thank you, if you’re having another—
but it does cost you something. You dwell on it for months afterward and wonder if you could have just told them to go fuck themselves. For the most part I say nothing to them and they consider me beneath contempt. Justine wouldn’t have anything in common with such a man, but might admire the machine of his body and mind, his brain a new and more efficient battery. Justine making a joke that goes over his head; Justine enjoying efficient and pneumatic sex but frustrated by the lack of emotional connection.


Have you finished your toast already, darling? I’d say to this phantom. Do you want another piece?


Sometimes I would see Justine’s husband as a poor old white bear of a professor with sclerosis and a smoking habit she’d roll her eyes at but never draw attention to. A Dryden scholar with a favorite crystal whiskey tumbler, mild mannered and a little bewildered but get him started on the state of academia in the twenty-first century and he’d start rattling like a pressure cooker. He’d drive her for pub lunches in a racing green MG and sometimes at night he’d just stroke her cheek and cry softly. When he fell asleep she’d creep out of the room to write. Stepping over a big white dog who slept twenty-three hours a day. I preferred this husband, but there was an uncomfortable, waxy odor of paternalism to the whole thing; he didn’t really appreciate Justine as a human being: She was some unexpected windfall, some object of worship installed in his ramshackle but beautiful converted farmhouse on the outskirts of the city; someone who could be placed
 
just so
 
on a deck chair in the grounds in a tasteful, flattering summer dress with an indulgently strong negroni he’d mixed her, and observed from an upstairs window, his every breath charged. Justine tentatively placing a foot in the stream. Justine taking a sip of her drink and tilting her head to the sun. Justine adjusting a purple
 
strap under her dress. All of this left me feeling a little nauseated, as if his relationship with her could only be voyeuristic, or was founded upon or reached its full consummation in distance and longing, which I couldn’t imagine being especially fulfilling for her.


Go and put your plate in the sink, will you, there’s a dear, I’d tell him.


Sometimes I would see Justine’s husband as a gifted oncologist, a handsome, charming creep she’d grown tired of and hardly saw anyway because he worked such long hours. Silver fox sleeping through luxury city breaks with Justine, asking precisely quarterly how her work was going, repeatedly sexting a junior colleague then claiming he was a sex addict before the industrial tribunal and going into an extremely well-funded study run by a recovering sex addict because research into sex addiction is never out of fashion. This husband was her age, but played golf. Golf! A museum of himself, so virtuous in his occupation it gave him carte blanche to behave without any consideration for others outside of the clinical setting; in fact his behavior would verge on the abusive. A philanderer who was nonetheless insanely jealous of the attention Justine received from their male friends; who would accuse her of “humiliating him” after dinner parties once they were alone and the mask could slip. Justine fully aware that she was minimizing some very problematic behavior; Justine quietly divesting from their joint bank account.


Don’t hold it like that or you’ll get crumbs everywhere, I’d say to him.


I’d wonder what Justine could possibly see in him that I didn’t, before remembering that they were separated—or something—so she obviously didn’t see much in him any longer, and also that I’d made him up.


Sometimes I would see Justine’s husband as a goaty little fellow with a curly beard. This husband was very funny and a little cruel, and tolerated their arrangement, an arrangement that, for the time being, included
 
me
, with resignation and contempt. This husband was a concert violinist and if anyone talked about anything other than music, or was studying anything other than music, or expressed an interest in anything other than music, he’d say, “Oh
 
dear
” theatrically and look at them with sympathy, with concern. I liked this husband most of all and
 
felt bad for him and wanted, if anything, to get to know him and explain things, if that were even possible, if things could be said to have a satisfactory explanation. Except before I could speak this husband would raise his crumby side plate toward the ceiling and seem about ready to stave my head in with it.




OceanofPDF.com

















47




CHECK THIS OUT.


Claudio throws something at me and it bounces off my shoulder.


Sorry.


I kneel to the floorboards to retrieve an enamel pin badge, one inch square. It is dark green and gold and bears an abstract squiggly line that forms the vague shape of a country on a map.


What’s this?


Your movements over three days.


What?


It’s a map, says Claudio, in the form of a fashionable lapel brooch, of your movements over three days.


Cool, I say.


It
 
is
 
cool.


He comes to my side and points at part of the shape.


That’s my place … That’s probably the campus—you can see the line’s a bit thicker where you walk over the same paths over and over again. I’m using you to generate the codes—you know there’s no such thing as a random number? They have to use all kinds of crazy stuff like lightning strikes and bird migration patterns. You—or black bag—is our private random number generator.


And what’s the badge for?


Ah, says Claudio, it’s just a little free gift for early investors.


Are people really investing?


People are so into it! They’re all like, What’s his deal?


Is that really enough?


I’ve had to do a bit of work on the story.


Like what?


You said you didn’t want to know anything, says Claudio. And I don’t want to say anything that might make you self-conscious and affect your performance.


I think about this for a moment.


What are you telling them about me?


I sow little suggestions, says Claudio. Are you a mathematician who went insane trying to solve a theorem?


Hmm.


A disgraced former television actor who fell foul of the MeToo movement?


“Fell foul of”!


So you’re doing penance. Did a conceptual artist buy you for £400,000 and now you have to go around like this for the rest of your life? None of it matters! says Claudio. It’s just speculation.


Jesus, I say.


I need to study probabilities in
 
Dados Mania
 
for several hours tonight, says Claudio. But why don’t you grab an instant margarita and we can spitball a bit more.


Spitball what? More disgrace?


Spitball where the project’s going, says Claudio. We need to think about upscaling, and we need to make sure it doesn’t just fizzle out.


Should I lie down like an analysand again?


Yeah, says Claudio, lie down like a salamander; that seemed to work last time.


I take a pocket-size yellow can from the table and I lie on Claudio’s couch.


Let’s talk about you, he says. What is black bag about for you?


I walk around and nobody can see who I really am.


And how does that feel?


Liberating … Lonely, I say. I mean everybody notices you, but it’s not really
 
you
 
they’re noticing.


And how does that feel to you, personally?


I have to let go of my desire for recognition.


Your desire for recognition as an artist?


My desire, like that of all artists, is that I should be sui generis.


So generous?


Entirely and absolutely myself. Self-created, without parents or place of birth. I want prestige, attention and love and I want to be comforted and looked after, like a god baby.


The God Baby.


But what terrifies me, Claudio, is that, in my heart of hearts, I am nothing more than an English suburbanite. Unus multorum.


Can you stop with the fucking
 
X-Men
 
shit?


In fact, what could be
 
more
 
English suburbanite than wanting to be a successful artist?


I don’t know, says Claudio. I think you sound a bit down on yourself.


And I hate that, I say. I hate belonging to a type. I hate being archetypal.


Nothing archetypal about you, baby, says Claudio. You’re working at the cutting edge of site-specific theater. And the site is the world.


What I fear, I say, is mediocrity and delusion. I fear that I’ve been kidding myself as long as I could articulate it. And this is the first time I’ve ever felt that a role truly uses all of my specific gifts, such as they are. And maybe that’s
 
because
 
the performance is dependent on nobody even knowing it’s me.


If you really know you’re good, you don’t need the praise or the flattery, says Claudio. That’s what I’m hearing.


Nobody knows if they’re good, I say.


But you are, says Claudio. You remember
 
A View from the Bridge
. You remember
 
Arcadia
. You were brilliant. People went crazy!


At
 
school
? I say. Claudio, that’s like putting my pasta collage on the fridge, come on. We had a very lovely and somewhat overambitious drama teacher.


I’m just saying you’re good.


I’m touched you remember.


Okay, says Claudio, closing his notebook. I’m not sure how to use any of that, but it’s good stuff. Maybe one of the potential stories is that you’re
 
you
.




OceanofPDF.com

















48




THERE ARE DAYS,
 
you know them too, when you have to remind yourself to be grateful. Maybe you have a little headache, cannot concentrate on a sentence, cannot choose an action to perform with any elegance. On these days I remember a child named Brian my mother cared for once a week. Brian had severe cerebral palsy and if it was a Saturday I’d go along for the planned activity. We’d go to the swimming pool and I’d swim with Brian—he’d lie on his back and I’d hold him underneath the shoulders and pull him up and down the pool turning when the water was too deep for my feet to reach the bottom. He’d laugh and I’d feel profoundly useful. Or we’d go to the coast, where Brian hated the seagulls and I’d run around the chair like a character in a computer game, hollering at the seagulls and waving my arms if they got too close.


Defending Brian from the seagulls was a pure form of purpose, and one that I miss.


On such days you need the little pink skull embroidered on your undershirt. You are already dead. You already know how this ends. On such days it would be very good to be given a large brass or silver bowl to polish. A clattering detachable drawer of cutlery the size of a coffin. Fish knives, soup spoons. A scouring pad, a thick and odorous salve. It would be good to be put to work. Or take to your bed.


I try to make porridge but I do it wrong and it reduces into a knot that I chew on with a black instant coffee. I try to read the paper but get lost between the byline and the verbiage; what do these people want from me?


I sit in my leather chair and stare at the wall. I doze off.


When I wake up I go to the shops and buy a bag of King Edward potatoes, a bottle of Italian red wine and some salted butter.


I go back to my flat and cut an
 
X
 
in the biggest potato and put it directly onto the oven shelf, which I set to 150 degrees. I return to my
 
chair. It is now half past four in the afternoon. The potato will be perfect by half past six.


My phone rings against my breast and I take a video call from Howard at Half a Mind to Kill.


I’m working, Howard.


Mate, he says. I’m sorry it’s been a while since the clusterfuck at Brown’s.


No, no, that’s fine, I say. I’ve been busy with a little long-term thing.


You still want me to call? This is a good one, is all. Detective, conman, art-world thing.


Right.


Two weeks’ time. One night only. A grand.


Now, part of me hoped I had left all of this behind. Pouring my energy into overwrought farces with a murder bolted on and a mystery less satisfying than a cracker puzzle. Catering to an audience I despise and who, if they have any sense at all of the tragedy of human life, probably pity me. The better my performance, the greater their pity. The last few weeks have proved I am meant for better things.


All of that notwithstanding, I have very little to do in the evenings at the moment and I have spent most of Blend’s handouts, generous as they are, paying off some outstanding bills and topping up my cupboards.


I hesitate. I’m in, I say.


That’s great, says Howard. Twenty-eighth. Rehearsal at five for a seven-thirty sitting.


Yeah yeah. I can’t make the rehearsal.


Can you try?


My life depends on this and that’s fucking hilarious.


I’ll try. How are things with you, Howard?


Me
?


Howard, a good functionary, hates to be asked about himself.


My phone starts murmuring
 
boop-boop boop-boop
, and I can see that Justine is calling. I sit up very straight.


I have to take this.


You’re a star, mate, says Howard.




Justine?


Oh, hi!


Are you okay?


I don’t usually call, she says.


You don’t.


But I’m at a
 
wedding
, of all places, she says.


With your husband?


Yes, with my husband.


You’re at a wedding in the Lake District with your husband.


It’s quite fancy, if also the most normcore thing you ever saw, hotel and spa, right on a lake, naturally, little ornamental jetty for sunset photos.


Her voice is muffled and I can hear the
 
chk
 
of a cigarette lighter and Justine exhaling.


I love to smoke at weddings. Yes, so lanterns as the dusk falls, a wooden bridge. I’m champagne drunk. I just want to go for a swim.


Could you?


I’d ruin my hair and my makeup and possibly drown.


These are friends of yours? The wedding?


His, really, she says. But yes, I guess. People I’d maybe expect a little more originality from, in all honesty, but they have some interesting associates. Something funny happened.


I am controlling my breathing, but it is sharp and I feel charged, charged to hear Justine’s voice, which is both glassy and warm, charged that she chose to call me.


What happened?


Something funny happened and I can’t tell anyone so I thought I’d tell you.


I mean I need to be good for something, I say.


Oh you are, she says.


Someone upset you?


No. Well, yes. You know when you realize someone’s checking you out?


You have no idea what I look like, I say.


You’ve been checked out.


On occasion, yes.


Nobody likes being stared at, but it’s okay when it’s a little furtive, she says. It’s nice to be admired. This was … while we were waiting, after the ceremony, when we were queuing for a taxi to take us to the reception.


You and your husband?


Me and my husband and two of his colleagues. This man kept looking back at me. I mean actually this wasn’t furtive at all—he was trying to catch my eye. This man, she says. I don’t know if you ever followed international rugby?


Not especially. I’ll watch it if it’s on.


Do you remember that French player Chabal? From the early 2000s.


Oh, I say. Actually, yes.


For some reason Chabal stands out in my memories of the early twenty-first century just as he did on the field, a marble statue, a third again above the human scale, made flesh. Somebody who was doing exactly what he’d been born to do—it shone in his every violent, balletic movement, a formal poem, a trobar clus, an act of worship in space and time. He made you feel ashamed of yourself, not for anything so crass as your comparative lack of stature or vitality, but for not having found your place in the world as absolutely, for not having committed, with your full throat, your heart, your spirit, so completely to who and what you were.


I’m generally a little indifferent to sport, I say, but yes, I remember him.


Sébastien Chabal, says Justine. Ferocious. They called him the caveman, which I thought was rather unfair because he was actually very beautiful. Someone has long hair and a huge beard and people react to that as if it’s the only thing about him. When actually a man like that wouldn’t look out of place invading Attica or … metamorphosing into a swan.


He was, I concede, very striking.


The thing is, my first thought, when I see a man like that, is how gentle he’d be. He’d be so worried about just breaking someone in two that he’d have got used to being very gentle.


Yes.


So this guy looks like Chabal, which is one thing, but he also has eyes … like these golden yellow amber-colored eyes, like an animal—like he’s …


It’s a very rare eye color.


It is—it’s almost horrifying. He’s in a dark gray suit with a red flower pinned to the lapel. I’m wearing a long black dress with a big slit in both sides.


Mm.


And after the reception he was collecting the glasses and the programs and when he took my glass, he looked at me again and gave my hand a squeeze and I said, I’m Justine, and he said, Yes, and I said, Do you know Therese?—that’s who’s getting married—and he said he was Therese’s half-brother, and I said, Wow, for some reason.


I giggle.


Right? she says. I’m glad I can share this with you.


I get comfortable in my leather chair.


So then we get to the reception and my husband takes my hand to help me out of the taxi and we take glasses of Pimm’s from big silver trays in the lobby and my husband asks if I want a proper drink and I say, Yes, of course, so he goes to the bar and I can see him glad-handing a bunch of people, in his element, you know. And I feel sort of happy and sort of resentful at the same time. And almost
 
immediately
 
Jonathan wants to feel me out about a bioethics symposium in Brock, and I down my Pimm’s and eat a little square of cucumber. Like, Jesus, Jonathan, take an afternoon off? Classic wedding stuff. I mean we’re all here but we’re not here, you know? We’re all like, This is nice isn’t it? With a slightly raised eyebrow, So how
 
are
 
you? Oh
 
no
, I’m so
 
sorry
. I’m at that stage in my life, says Justine, where all the news starts getting a little worse, you know?


I don’t, I say.


But you can imagine.


Oh, I can imagine.


That’s something you’re good at, I’ve noticed. But the thing is, I can’t see this man anywhere. Like where the fuck has he gone?


And I’m bored and he basically nonverbally promised me something so I’m a little disappointed—I keep scanning the clusters of guests hoping to see him towering over someone, being nice. There are, what, three or four rooms? One with white tables for the dinner, one with the bar and a big square open space, a terrace with heat lamps, a room with stacked chairs where lots of people have spilled over even though it doesn’t feel like it’s been specially prepared. Everyone drinking, nervously, trying to strike the right balance between cynicism and wit. And he’s just nowhere to be seen, so I keep circulating, pretending that I’m doing the rounds, but I’m not: I’m looking for him. My husband occasionally appears and gives me a gin and tonic.


And maybe almost two hours has passed by this point. And I’m a little drunk now, and I’m laughing with Daniella—sorry, I’m not going to bore you by introducing everyone.


No, that’s fine.


About work stuff, some meaningless amendment they’ve made to assessment criteria, and I’m saying something completely inane like
 
It’s just nice to have a change of scene, isn’t it?
 
when I feel a
 
giant
 
hand on my back.


Uh-oh.


And I turn and I look up at him, way up, and he says, Justine, so I say, Oh, hi! Like he’s a long-lost friend, see you later Dani, and get this, he practically
 
marches
 
me out of the room, takes my elbow and just steers me ahead of him, which makes me laugh. He leads me down a corridor and I’m all, um, it’s a little presumptuous just to take me to your room, but instead we go through a big wooden door and we’re in a … I don’t know, lounge, bar, saloon, mothballed. There’s a curved bar in the corner with taps and optics. Big oil painting of a stormy seascape. Dark wooden tables. You know these venues—they have about seventeen different function rooms and he’s found a disused one.


I say, What exactly do you think you’re doing? And he
 
picks me up
 
and sits me on a table.


Wow.


Right? And he says, You are very beautiful, Justine, and nobody here seems to me to be even
 
half
 
as alive as you are. I’m like, Have you even been here? Where were you?


I’m sitting on the edge of the table, with my palms bracing the side of it and my legs over the edge. I kick my legs, nonchalantly.


Seems wise.


Yes, I mean I’m screaming inside, but it’s good to maintain an air of insouciance. And my dress is sort of draped between my legs.


Because of the slits.


Yes. And he runs his hand up my leg and gathers my dress to the side. And something I like to do is wear quite plain clothes but very brightly colored underwear.


Right.


So I like wearing a simple black dress with red knickers, which is what I was wearing today. I lower my gaze at him. And without so much as another word, he very gently and quickly takes my knickers off. All the way off, over my heels.


…


My hand instinctively shoots down to cover myself. A man like that likes you to be a little demure. You need to give him something to do, you know?


I think so.


Very goal oriented. I watch him stand up. He carefully folds up my red knickers and puts them into his breast pocket. So that this little red triangle is sticking out of the top of his pocket.


Oh.


(I listen to Justine lighting another cigarette.)


And he smiles, brushes his shoulders and says, Everyone will assume it’s a handkerchief. You’re the only one who’ll know it’s your knickers.


I pause.


The temerity, I say.


The gall! My mouth is open, he looks into my eyes. And then. He
 
walks out
. He just walks out of the lounge bar. Leaves me sitting on the table with my hand clamped over my crotch. I wait for almost a full minute, and then I get up and walk back to the party and my husband hands me an old-fashioned with a cherry on a stick.


And that was just over an hour ago. So now I’m standing on the ornamental jetty with no knickers on, because this brute of a man is wearing them like a pocket handkerchief. And I thought I’d call you. That’s okay, isn’t it?


I’d like it if you always called me when something like this happens.


Good, says Justine. I’m not sure what my next move is. Maybe I should just triumphantly pull them out of his pocket when we say goodbye, shake them out and put them back on in front of everyone. Look him right in the eye the whole time.


Or just, you know, relax, have a good night.


Hmm.


Play it like it didn’t even happen.


That’s what you’d do?


I don’t know.


I don’t know if I’m angry or aroused. Bb, I should go before someone starts looking for me.


Oh, yes of course.


But thank you. I feel fine now.


I’m so into you.


Hey!


I am.


Let’s not completely forget ourselves, she says, and hangs up.




I check on my potato
 
and turn the oven up to 180.




OceanofPDF.com

















49




IN THE LECTURE I SIT
 
in my usual aisle seat behind the young woman who smells like shoe polish and Tom from the seminar group. The lecture theater is cooler and brighter than usual, which may be down to a flaw or a power surge in both the air-conditioning and lighting units. Nonetheless, everyone is alert, and an atmosphere of heightened concentration pervades the room.


The raw data I am asking you to read for this week’s seminars comprises one hundred and forty-four brief accounts of “falling in love,” says Blend, and I would like you to identify your top three and be prepared to explain why.


Yes?


One hundred and forty-four, yes.


I know this may feel like a lot of reading, but it is the best preparation for the kind of datasets you will be dealing with professionally.


You will be able to download the PDF from the virtual learning environment.


Today we’re going to be talking about initial attraction and the maintenance of—or
 
current
 
of—attraction. Which, like an electrical current, fluctuates, yes?


Back in Sweden, alongside my job in the sawmill, I have started taking Swedish lessons and volunteering as a reader for people in comas. This delights Birgitta and confirms the good nature she had already projected onto me. Or I have done it in order not to disappoint her. Or I was bored and worried that I was becoming an alcoholic. Sluta oroa dig. She pours me a tin cup of akvavit.


I wonder why Birgitta has taken such an interest in me. Whether I remind her of a relative from the distant past … Her favorite cousin, Lennart, who died of pneumonia at the age of thirteen.


We all remind each other of someone.


A relative from her distant past invisibly escorted back to her. Molded just so in another culture, unaware that each inconsequential experience, every silly thing that happened to me and that I therefore chose, made me more and more like Lennart. Lennart, she felt, was often misunderstood. Not quick, and often quiet, but more perceptive than most, in his way.


And had I not moved to Sweden, I never would have known.


This is why Birgitta looks at me fondly at unpredictable moments. When I struggle to take off my boots or scald myself by doing the washing up in very hot water. When I laugh too frequently or agreeably.


She is thinking, How like Lennart he is.


Given our nature, even the ways in which I am not at all like Lennart will somehow remind her of Lennart or serve to make the ways in which I
 
am
 
like Lennart more compelling. A third helping of kalops. But no fat on me at all.


Oh, Birgitta. During moments like these I have to remind myself that you don’t exist.




OceanofPDF.com

















50




CLAUDIO BUZZES ME IN AND
 
meets me in his overlit pine hallway. I remove my shoes. I drop my bus copy of Henry James’s
 
The Europeans
 
on his coffee table. What I love, in James, is the way people fancy each other. He wrote that better than almost anyone. Also wickedness. The way people embrace wickedness because after a certain point why bother trying to be good?


You been away again? I couldn’t get through.


I was doing some black bag stuff—this is an important moment, Claudio says. We’re starting to get some outside interest.


In the clip art drawings you showed me?


Among other stuff, says Claudio. But it’s hard to make time with my schedule.


A million pharaohs with whips and one poor Claudio.


He is currently broadcasting a game called
 
Another Fine Mess
, where you alternate between playing Laurel or Hardy in a series of escalating adventures.


Claudio picks up
 
The Europeans
, flicks through it, sniggers and throws it back on the table.


Male novelists, he says.


James? I say. The Master? He’s hardly representative.


Well, there’s plenty of them, says Claudio. Thing is, homes, men aren’t even
 
reading
 
novels anymore. To be honest I’d respect them less if they did.


Why’s that?


Dude reading a novel. C’mon. I spit on him.


No, Claudio, I do not agree with this at all.


Dude all sitting there in his chinos frowning in concentration, turning pages.


I’m horrified by this side of you.


Scribbling a little annotation in the margin with a specially sharpened pencil. All like, Ooh, how piquant.


Claudio pushes an imaginary pair of spectacles up his nose.


Men read novels, Claudio. I read novels.


You’re different, says Claudio. You’re a scholar.


Scholars are people too. And I’m not a scholar.


Aside from you, a teenage boy might—a depressed teenage boy might read some doomer sci-fi. After the pupal stage, it’s gonna be … Once a year, maybe. Biography of Napoleon,
 
Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fuck
, a book about how great trees are … The men who read novels are the same men who bewail the lost art of dressing for dinner.


I look out Claudio’s windows. A red light blinks on the nose of a crane. It is building a sixteen-story block of flats for the men of the future to not read novels in.


Well, shit, I say. I guess you’re right.


And they’re
 
much
 
more likely to just collect vinyl, he says. If they had to pick one. Or bake sourdough. Vis-à-vis men, it’s a dead hobby. You’d have a bigger audience if you made … bow ties.


This philistinism doesn’t become you.


Harris tweed with a copy of
 
Candide
 
sewn into the left pocket.


Gah.


Protruding just so.


What I want to suggest, I say, is that we ought to resist this downhill slide into total barbarism.


Resist how?


And if there’s nothing material we might do, we must at least resist it via
 
hope
.


Hope for what?


Hope that better things are coming. And that when they come, it would be a shame if we’d given up.


This is exactly what I’ve been trying to tell you about black bag, says Claudio.


What exactly?


Black bag is the better thing coming.


What can black bag do for anyone?


Men are very lost, says Claudio. This is the great reset.


I thought you were selling it as performance art?


Does art not have the power to effect change? says Claudio.




OceanofPDF.com

















51




MY PARENTS ARE STANDING IN
 
the shade of their living room. Given that I will not be describing anything they do or say, this is a rare instance where “stood” might be used correctly. They are—have been—stood in the shade of their living room. I turn them both so that they catch the light. That’s better.


I worry about them in this soulless village that once boasted a Christadelphian church and now, the hall converted into a rarely used second home, boasts absolutely nothing. The Christadelphians do not believe in the immortality of the soul and must have had a following here at some point; they may be the only reason the village exists—a place where nonconformists could practice their slightly finicky faith unmolested outside the city limits.


My parents are not terribly interested in the Christadelphians, but I find all minor sects fascinating and like to imagine really committing myself to them, any of them, the more the merrier.


It is likely that my parents worry even more about
 
me
, but I cannot concern myself with that.


Elliott absolutely shreds the corner of the sofa.


Come on then, I say.




I wonder if they strike you
 
as lonely, Elliott?


He chases his own tail then runs alongside me with his head cocked in case I have snacks.


Not a bit of it
, he says.
 
They have each other. They’re avid readers. They might be happier if their son and heir wasn’t such a disappointment. But I do what I can to lift their spirits.


What do they read?


Oh, you know
, he says.
 
Whatever’s going
.
 
Books of note. On the grand themes.


It’s funny that you’ve gone from baby to teenager in the short time I’ve known you, I tell him.


I’m entering my long prime
, says Elliott.
 
Someone should write about that. A dog who goes from strength to strength and just keeps on getting better. I think it could improve your outlook.


I dare say.


You need to rediscover your sense of competition—you think being nice is going to get you anywhere in the arts whereas actually you need to be a real brute.


A brute, I say.


In writing on hypermasculine themes the male writer seeks first and foremost to make other male writers feel bad
, says Elliott, trotting with his head held high.
 
Motorcycles, boxing, bullfights, sex with little emotional investment, guns, drinking to excess, masochistic athleticism, a baseline lack of compassion, war, pub or bar brawls, slights against honor, extremes of climate and temperature endured, feats of engineering and technology, rustic foods, mountaineering, romantic conquests indulged or obsessively cataloged, ultimately dismissed as sentimental, emotional restraint to the point of ascesis, music insofar as its pursuit leads to physical ruination, travel as long as it isn’t enjoyable. He may, we are to infer, be a writer, and a good one, and one very much aware of his talent, which he cannot for the life of him hide or suppress, but really he is very weary of his gift and would rather be wrestling a bear or lifting a big rusty kettle weight or pouring a very large bourbon. The writing, it says, is involuntary, or an afterthought, the way a pine tree produces pine cones. How he would rather be left alone by his editor, his publicist, his fans, how he resents the public appearances he is forced to make to “promote” his goadingly slim novel about a long-distance runner who murdered his own sister based, it goes without saying, on a true story. How he loves true stories! Other male writers are to feel intimidated and inadequate for caring, first and foremost, about fiction. Which, they’d be forced to admit, is its own form of masculinity,
 
hyper-focus, neurosis. At best! Even if to really get into that would require a nuance that is frowned upon or likely to be misconstrued.


Where are you getting this from?


I have eyes and ears like you
, says Elliott.
 
To my mind, these men are okay. They’re just fine. We oughtn’t worry about them.




OceanofPDF.com

















52




IT IS HALF TERM,
 
or reading week, or academic support week, and my services are not required and Justine, returned from the Lake District and her husband, has a teaching break. She invites me over and says to bring wine or drugs or whatever.


When I arrive she opens the door, holds up a finger. She is talking on an old-fashioned telephone in the hall.


I have to go, she says into the mouthpiece, and hangs it on its hook.


She takes black bag in her arms.


It’s good to see you.


It’s an unseasonably sunny spell for November, and we sit in her garden under the gnarled pear tree. Justine pours me a glass of white wine and carefully inserts it up the leg of black bag so that I can take it.


She lights a joint, draws on it.


Hold still, she says.


She turns the joint around, holds it between her teeth and cups her hands over my eyehole. She exhales and fills black bag with smoke.


I breathe in and hold it and then start spluttering.


Oh, sorry, says Justine. We used to do that when we were kids. But nobody was in a bag.


It’s fine, I say, and cough. I appreciate it.


I take a big sip of my wine.


It is a beautiful evening and Justine suggests we take a drive. You only ever have to drive an hour from anywhere.


We park on a grass verge in a village I’ve never heard of. We get a picnic of vintage crisps from the newsagents and walk.


After we’ve climbed over the stile, Justine turns away from me and stares at the tall hedgerow.


You all right?


I’m a little fucked up.


Me too.


I could get more fucked up. She lights one of the joints she prerolled.


Do you want it in your eye again?


I’m good.


We lie in silence in the shade while she smokes for a couple of minutes and then she rolls onto her side to look at me.


This is where I died, she says. Where I die, I mean.


Do you want a Space Raider? I ask her. Some Square Crisps?


I open the bag of Frazzles and the bag of salt-and-vinegar Square Crisps within black bag and pull the zip a little way. She takes a single Square Crisp, closes her eyes and raises her chin as if it were a communion wafer.


How do you die in a field? I ask her.


Brain aneurysm, she says. Sixty-eight. No age, really. I’m dog-sitting. Badly behaved spaniel. I keel over just over there. She points at a tree. By that tree.


I look at the oak tree.


So this is my second run-through and it’s exactly the same as the first time, Justine says. To the last thought.


Everything’s the same? I say. Even me?


She laughs.


What would make
 
you
 
the exception? she says.


I’m pretty special, I say.


Have you ever had déjà vu?


Sure. Not in a while, now that you mention it.


The fact is, there’s not a single theory that adequately explains déjà vu, says Justine.


What happens to
 
me
?


No, she says. I don’t tell anyone else what happens to them.


That’s your code.


It’s hard sometimes.


When you could save someone?


Would you be surprised if I told you that’s never come up? Not once? I’ve never had the opportunity to save anyone.


I’m flying to Tenerife in a flight you know is going to crash; do you say something? Do you say this is going to sound crazy but don’t get on that plane?


How many people do you know who died in a plane crash?


None, I admit.


Yes, me neither. In almost every instance I have about as much agency and influence as I would if this was my first time.


And we had this conversation last time?


Yes.


But that doesn’t make sense, I say. If last time was your first life and you had no reason to think otherwise.


We got high in this field and I freaked out and told you I thought that I was living the same life for the second time. But I was just high.


Ah.


This exact conversation.


Only this time it’s true.


This time it’s true. We said that last time, too, but this time it’s true.


What happens to us? I ask her.


No, she says. No, no. Tomorrow I’ll apologize and say that I should steer clear of weed because it always does this to me.




OceanofPDF.com

















53




I COULDN’T BELIEVE IT,
 
I am saying into a camera.


You hear about these things, but I never thought I’d be responsible for a data breach.


I take my head in my hands.


I am in a box room, painted black, but behind me there is a backdrop of a high-definition photograph of a suburban living room. The magic of cinema.


I’ve never left anything on the bus before, and if I’d just kept up with our security policies I’d have made sure it was encrypted, but …


I try to look like I’m about to cry.


Now I’m directly responsible for costing the company five hundred and fifty thousand pounds in fines, I say. Let alone all the setbacks to our work … the clients we’ve lost. I don’t know if we’ll even survive as an organization. That’s all on me. I’ve not been fired yet, but I think that’s just because they want to keep me around to make sure I feel as bad as possible—


Stop, stop, cut, the director says.


The light changes subtly.


He is a thin man with long whitish yellow hair and a camel jacket. I imagine his work probably funds his true vocation as a blues musician. He was in a duo, but his friend has emphysema and their regular venue is about to close down. To keep it open, he’s working on a crowdfunder, which so far has six backers.


Could you stick precisely to the script, please? he says.


Sorry, I say. I got carried away by the pathos.




OceanofPDF.com

















54




I GO TO BED GRATEFUL
 
for the return of time- tabled weeks, but aware that I shouldn’t get too used to it. Lecture day, and I have set my alarm for 6 a.m. as I have taken to having a brisk walk around the block in my civilian clothes before I get into character. My ground-floor room, for all its shabbiness, has thick, floor-to-ceiling red velvet curtains to cover the French windows. These, when drawn, keep the room in perpetual darkness, which I require to sleep, but which make waking feel unnatural. My natural state is, I think, unconsciousness—it is when I am my truest self, and if the curtains’ invisible mildew aggravates my rhinitis, it is a small price to pay.


I know that something is wrong the moment I open my eyes and reach for my phone—they do not open very wide. My usual congestion feels like a solid wall behind my eyes, nose and mouth. My joints seem to flow with a nasty kind of electricity, as if I am to be very slowly put to death by electrocution over many years. I feel like I’ve sprained my brain stem. But worse than that I feel a kind of sadness that I realize will never leave me: The present moment will last the rest of my life and I will have to learn to carry it rather than hope it one day passes.


I sit up in bed and a hot, caustic drip starts from my left nostril. I put a finger to it but it’s like a busted tap. Despite the liquidity of the mucus I still cannot breathe at all.


How often I have fantasized about a medical process that would replace my sinuses, the back of my throat, the whole middle of my face and head, with a porcelain structure in the shape of a tiny urinal. This would be my nose, and I could sluice it through with a little switch implanted behind my ear. People could call me Piss Face or whatever and I wouldn’t care a bit; I’d go about in ecstasy, breathing clearly for the first time and flushing my nose whenever I fancied.


I get up and stagger about the room. I rub my itchy eyes like an illustration of a sleepy man.


The French windows report with a crack when I force them open, a little wood dust. I leave the bedroom for the waste yard. Six-foot thistles growing through the orange flint gravel. I weep openly.


I have a piece of crumpled kitchen roll in the pocket of my towel gown. I take it out and try to blow my nose.


How woeful to feel like this for the rest of my life and then, afterward, in hell.


I cannot possibly go to work in this state. But I have never missed a day’s work.


Not that my collective days of work amount to an awful lot, all told.


But nonetheless.


I have never had a part significant enough to require an understudy. So must be reliable above all else.


In this case, missing a day of work could potentially sabotage the whole experiment.


I cannot allow this to happen.


I try to blow my nose again and then I sit on the bed and I call Claudio.


Hey there.


Claudio? I croak.


Hey, man. You sound rough, what’s up?


I’m feeling really poorly.


Oh no, says Claudio. I
 
knew
 
this would happen. You been wearing the flip-flops?


Every day.


You been eating right?


You’re a fine one to talk.


Lol, says Claudio, who eats whatever promotional samples he gets sent.


Listen, I say, I wonder if you could do me a massive favor.


For you, man, whatever, you know that.


A big one.


You need groceries?


No. We’re roughly the same height.


I’ve always thought so.


We have quite a similar skin tone these days.


You reckon?


At least around the ankles. I need you to cover for me today.


Cover you for what?


I need you to be black bag.


…


I know this is a big … ask.


…


And obviously whenever I can … pay you back with some equivalent … thing …


You want me to wear your black bag.


Yes.


All day?


It’s an hour. I mean it’s more including the journey but you really don’t have to hang around.


An hour.


The lecture is an hour. Twelve noon. You sit through it.


In the black bag?


That’s basically it. You say nothing. Absolutely nothing to anyone. You sit in a lecture theater with the other students for an hour and you don’t move and you don’t interact with anyone at all. You listen to the lecture and then you leave.


…


I’m really sorry to have to ask this. I’m desperate.


Okay, says Claudio.


Okay?


No, sure, it sounds like a laugh. And it’s probably just as well for me to get some firsthand experience.


Really?


Only ’cause you sound so miserable.


Claudio.


I have to take care of some correspondence, he says. And then I’ll come pick it up. Okay? I’ll be an hour.


I can’t thank you enough for this.


Save it, says Claudio. Happy to help.


I mean it—thank you.


See you soon.


Claudio hangs up and I sniffle in gratitude for a minute or so and then I grab a J-cloth and a spray bottle of Dettol and I set about cleansing black bag for my understudy.


You’re going to be okay, I whisper to black bag. You’re going to be just fine.




I cannot help but worry
 
that this was a terrible mistake. I am pacing myself thin in my little corridor; I walk to the kitchen, look at the red digital clock on the oven and pace back to my bedroom, walk around my bed to the French windows, walk to the living room and circle my chair and then I go back to the kitchenette and look at the red digital clock on the oven again, which somehow hasn’t moved on by a single minute.


Claudio came round an hour ago, whistled and told me I looked like shit. I had black bag ready for him, draped over the armchair. He took off his clothes and stepped into it and I zipped it up. Oh, hey, he said. It’s hot in here. Smells like bleach.


Can you see? I asked him.


Well enough.


Good, I said. You look great.


Ha.


You look just like me. I’ve texted you the lecture theater—you’ll find it?


Dude, will you stop worrying?


I’m not used to sending someone into the world to be me for half a day.


You’re not used to
 
trusting
 
anyone, Claudio said. This will be a useful experience for when we start expanding. Anyone can be black bag but nobody can own black bag.


I need you to just not say anything at all, to anyone, I tell him. Just go along with whatever happens and don’t say a word.


Sure.


Say it back to me.


Really?


Please?


I won’t say anything to anyone and I’ll go along with whatever happens.


I breathe. Okay. Thank you. Thank you so much.


Relax.


Come straight back, I told him. Straight back, straight away, I’ll expect you before two.


He said, You just get some sleep.




Oh god, oh thank god.


Will you relax?


Why are you so late? What happened? Did it go okay?


Yes, says Claudio, it was completely fine—Jesus, what did you think I was going to do?


It’s almost
 
four
! Did you talk to anyone?


In the lecture? No.


Claudio, sit down and tell me everything. I have to know so I can pick up where you left off, okay? I’ll make tea.


I go to the kitchenette and start filling the kettle.


Do you mind if I get changed first?


Oh god, no of course. And thank you. I didn’t even say thank you. I can’t even tell you how grateful I am.


I hear Claudio unzip black bag.


Ohhhh, it feels so fucking good to be out of there, he says.


How was it? Did anyone suspect anything?


What exactly do you have going on over there? says Claudio. Some weird shit. Oh. He enters the kitchen and hands me six twenty-pound notes. From your boss. Don’t worry—I didn’t say thank you.


This is good, I say. How was the lecture?


The
 
lecture
, says Claudio, was fine.


Yeah?


Took me back to computer science, what little I remember of those years. So yeah, the lecture—all fine, usual graybeard holding forth about god knows what, trying to land a few anecdotes, I almost took a nap.


And you didn’t talk to the person next to you? Or anyone?


I, says Claudio, have not spoken a word from the moment I left your flat this morning until this conversation.


I sigh. That’s brilliant. Claudio, thank you so much. I’m sorry—I just need to know everything that happened.


Oh yeah, says Claudio, widening his eyes. I’m telling you, aren’t I?


You are.


So
 
then
, says Claudio, I’m leaving with the rest of the students, who, by the way, don’t seem to bat an eyelid about me being the way I am. I mean you.


No, I say, that’s great, isn’t it?


And so I kind of feel like I should let most of them leave first, then I can just make my way to the bus stop in peace.


Good plan.


You like my thinking, right? I told you you could trust me. But then the prof leaps up the steps and puts a hand on my shoulder. I don’t really like that, you know that, I don’t really like unsolicited physical contact.


I know. I’m sorry.


But I’m thinking, what would
 
you
 
do, naturally, what would you do in this situation, and I assume you’d be fine with it, so, seeing as I’m you, I’m fine with it too.


What did he say? Dr. Blend. That’s his name.


I mean he’s very happy with you—I’m sorry you didn’t get to experience that.


He’s usually not very demonstrative.


No, he was excited. He said it was going “superbly” and he couldn’t be happier with your performance.


Wow.


And he wanted to apologize, I mean he apologized, because he knew I—you—hadn’t received your first payslip yet because that’s just the way universities are, but he wanted you—us—to know how pleased he was. Hence the wad.


Thank you for the wad. For conveying the wad.


And I took in the money—he rolled it up and poked it through the eye—and sort of bobbed my head a little bit because you’d told me not to talk to anyone and obviously they’d be able to tell it wasn’t your voice, so I was extra careful not to even … cough or like whatever. And he said, Very good, and smiled and said, Thursday then. So I bobbed my head again. I don’t have to cover you on Thursday too, do I?


No, oh god no, I say. I’ll be fine by then.


Rest and plenty of fluids, says Claudio. So by the time I get out of the lecture theater it’s past the hour and the foyer’s pretty quiet and I figure I’ll just get the hell out of there and go straight back to you to reassure you that you’ve still got your job and everything’s fine. I’m a little thirsty and hungry but I don’t know how to order anything or eat it or drink it in the bag.


I’m sorry, I should have thought of that, it’s complicated, I say.


No, it’s fine. So I’m walking down the hill and I’ve got your bank card in the pouch to pay for my bus ride and all’s fine when someone grabs me.


What?


Grabs me by the arm. And I gotta say I’m getting pretty tired of the unsolicited physical contact by this point.


Blend?


What? No—this is a woman, good-looking, quite intense.


Oh shit.


And she says, I thought I’d surprise you.


No no no.


No?


Just tell me what happened, I mutter. I have an urge to climb into black bag and zip it up.


I didn’t say anything, just like you told me, like you got me to repeat back to you.


Yes, I remember.


And she says, Oh I’m so sorry of course you can’t talk when you’re working. She walks me—you—over to another building, tower covered in ivy.


Uh-huh.


We go up three flights of stairs. It’s quite hard going up stairs in that thing. She’s patient with me. And she has this giant bunch of keys, like a jailer.


She lives in a few different places.


And she opens her office and pulls me in and she sits at her desk and smiles at me and says, Better? Now man, listen, I don’t know what’s going on—you haven’t told me anything. All I know is you told me not to say anything, not to anyone.


Fuck.


She said that she’d been thinking about how to make it work for both of us.


How to make what work?


She said, I think I’m being selfish and that this should be fun for you too.


Oh god.


And she said, So something that occurred to me is that I could touch myself in front of you and you could just do whatever you want inside the bag while I tell you a story. You could even just stare at me if that’s what you wanted.


No.


She said that she’d find it quite a turn-on if I—you, I mean—masturbated at the same time while you watched her and that we could try to come at the same time, but she wouldn’t necessarily even know, you could just be going through the motions, but that was fine.


I get up and start pacing, temporarily forgetting my cold.


And I don’t really know what to think, man—I’m thinking if this happening was the remotest possibility you’d have told me something about it, but whatever, I agreed and you made it all sound very important, that the most important thing is that I just say nothing, don’t interact with anyone and go along with whatever—those were your exact words. And she said, Do you want me to take all of my clothes off? I just sat there, dude, I didn’t know what the fuck to do, I just did what you told me—I just sat there, as still as I possibly could, I didn’t even nod. And she said, Oh I really like this. You’re not going to give me
 
anything
, are you?


Oh god, Claudio.


I mean seriously, man, who
 
is
 
this woman? And how do you get a woman like
 
that
 
interested in you when you look like a walking body bag that doesn’t say anything?


I don’t know. Justine. We talk.


Oh you talk to
 
her
?


Yes.


And you didn’t think that was worth mentioning to me?


I didn’t think she was in today.


She must have thought I was very—I mean
 
you
 
were being—very rude, but yeah, she seemed into that. Now I’m not made of stone.


You’re not made of stone.


One thing I am definitely not made of, says Claudio, and that’s stone. Hot woman offers to take her clothes off in front of me, that’s great as far as I’m concerned, but also I’m not a monster; this is wrong, it’s not consensual, she doesn’t know I’m not you, and whatever fucked-up thing you’ve got going on with her is none of my business and I feel bad for even knowing about it.


You’re not a monster.


I’ve never been a monster! And maybe I’m a little torn because you distinctly told me not to say anything to anyone and to go along with whatever happens, but also the right thing to do is clearly to just say, in my own voice, Hey, I’m not who you think I am and then … I don’t know, run out of the office? If I can even work the door handle.


Oh fuck.


But at this point I’m not even sure if that’s
 
worse
, you know? Obviously it’s worse for
 
you
, in the sense that it probably fucks up
 
whatever
 
it is you two’ve got going on and also I’m worried that it would be humiliating for
 
her
 
if I call time
 
now
, if that makes sense? And maybe this is all part of it, of the experiment, you know? Maybe I feel a little conflicted because you told me to go along with anything. I’m weighing all of this up and she’s starting to unbutton her shirt and my heart is just
 
racing
—I don’t know if I feel aroused or like I’m about to start crying—maybe that’s the best thing to do, just audibly start crying—has she heard you cry before?


I think about it. I don’t think so.


So that could have worked. I shift in my seat a little and she says, Are you getting hard for me? And in all honesty, yes, but mainly I’m thinking how do I get out of here?


Oh no, oh no.


And then
 
just
 
as she’s about to take her top off, there’s a knock on her door and we both freeze, and her eyes are wide and she stares at me and starts doing up the buttons of her top again and there’s a little pause and she calls, Just one minute, and she stands me up and guides me into the far corner, next to a plant and puts a finger to her lips, which isn’t really necessary and she realizes that at the same time as I do. She opens her door just a crack and I hear her say, Charles? Oh my god, I’m so sorry. I forgot we were booked in for today. And she looks back at me and then back to the door and she says, I need to make a really quick call and the office is in an absolute state—can we take it to the lounge?


And Charles laughs and says, A field trip, sure.


Thank god for Charles, I say.


Charles saves the fucking day. She closes the door and she puts her arms around me—you—and squeezes and she says, Mmm. I’m so, so sorry—I have to go. Can you just wait one minute and see yourself out after me? And I nod. And she says, I’m so sorry about this—I promise we can just pick up where we left off. Okay? Tomorrow? And that’s that. I waited exactly a minute—I watched the clock on her wall, and then I left her office and went down the stairs as fast as I could in the stupid bag,
 
cursing, I don’t mind telling you, your name and everyone who comes after you. Then I carried on down the hill to the bus and then I got off and walked here and on the way some guy started laughing at me and I shouted, FUCK OFF! as loud as I possibly could, which got rid of him. So I was lying when I said I hadn’t said a word since leaving your flat this morning. I hope that’s okay.


That’s okay.


Don’t know how you put up with it, to be honest.


I don’t know what to say, Claudio. I owe you.


You owe me?


Do you want a glass of wine?


Yeah, says Claudio. A glass of wine should just about cover it. And, to be clear, I’m not doing that again, okay?




OceanofPDF.com

















55




WE LIE IN THE DARK
 
in Justine’s bedroom.


I’m sorry about the other day, I say.


When you wouldn’t speak? I loved it! I wish we hadn’t been interrupted. You want to try it now?


Try what?


Tell me a little more about what really gets you going and we can both … You need to define it, she says, for us both to understand it. You look for the real, the authentic. You’re uncomfortable with the voyeuristic implications of that, but really everyone is voyeuristic.


Justine, I say, I don’t know why we have to keep coming back to sex all the time.


It’s the unpickable lock, she says.


Ah.


So tell me, and try to tell yourself. You’re in an office, you’re at your desk and you see a woman in a little skirt leaning right over a nearby table to collect some forms, too far away from her, so she really has to lean right over. Just accidentally she’s letting you look right up her skirt. You like that?


Yes.


Yes, exactly, says Justine. Just accidentally. What color are her knickers?


Blue.


More precisely.


Light blue.


Good, says Justine. And they’re kind of gathered right up her ass. Something unintentional. Maybe she realizes—she didn’t think she’d have to reach that far over—and she quickly stands up and tugs her skirt down, and you have to look very studiously at your computer screen and pretend you didn’t see anything.


Uh-huh.


She’s retrieved the forms now. She gives you a look over her shoulder. A reproachful look. You like that.


Yes.


I’d really like to see your dick, says Justine, but I can’t because that’s not part of our agreement.


Agreements are always subject to amendment, I say.


No, she says. It’s more of a turn-on if I just know that I
 
can’t
. If we just both know that that’s off the table.


Okay. If we’re both driven mad with lust.


That’s more of a pleasure, I think, the eternal deferral. That’s part of what I’m working on. It’s big, isn’t it?


The research?


No. You. You’re big.


I’m quite average.


No, I think you’re being modest, says Justine. Come for me.




OceanofPDF.com

















56




I SHAKE OFF THE RAINDROPS
 
on the landing, then I sit on Claudio’s sofa and begin to unzip black bag.


How important is it to have a big dick? I ask him.


Claudio looks away from his screen and ponders this for a while.


I’m sorry to say that it’s very important, he says. We must not say so, but it is.


It is important, isn’t it?


Oh more than we’d care to admit, homes. For certain. To have, and to be quietly known for, having a big, beautiful dick. Men go to war over less. Commit great white-collar crimes.


Right, I say, literally. Ponzi himself had an embarrassingly tiny dick, “a button mushroom,” they called it. People would see it and he’d say, “So now you know.” That’s all there was to say about it.


Yeah, hence the schemes.


The Ponzi schemes.


The schemes of Ponzi, says Claudio. I should do a video on it. All of those
 
schemes
 
just to get one over on everyone who mocked his little dick.


Vengeance on God for cursing him with the little dick.


Vengeance on the world that judged the little dick, says Claudio.


Direct line from that little dick all the way to the 2008 subprime crisis.


I mean this goes right back to the beginning. Think of Noah, says Claudio.


The
 
Noah?


Noah with the ark, yeah, he gets drunk in his tent and falls asleep with his little dick out and … What, does he kill everyone or something?


He curses Ham’s youngest son, Canaan, I say. I don’t think there’s any direct biblical implication that he had a little dick, per se.


It
 
is
 
a little dick move, to curse your grandson.


We’d have to consult a theologian.


You know what haunts me, though?


No.


Because I’m a grower not a shower, says Claudio, you understand?


Oh, the best men are. The ancient Greeks thought as much. Little dicks in marble, big dicks in the privacy of your oikos.


Right. And I’m very at peace with my dick. But when it’s flaccid it’s like a puny raisin, you know? Causes all kinds of insecurity at the urinal.


Tell me about it, I say.


Men catch a glimpse, they think they understand you, have you down as another Ponzi. So what haunts me, says Claudio, is that one day: I’m a very old man not even fit to wash or dress myself anymore, and all the nurses, all the carers, the medical professionals, everyone who has to
 
tend
 
to me, they’ll see it and they’ll think, ah, I see. That explains it. They’ll think it’s the truth. They’ll never see what it’s capable of. They’ll be like, poor Claudio, living his entire life with that little … barnacle. Must have made him a real piece of work. Nothing I can do about it: Those are the final thoughts the living will have about me.


The ignominy.


Exactly, dude, the ignominy.


Is there anything to be done?


Well, I’m working on it, says Claudio. Because my sense is I’m not alone in worrying about this, so there’s probably a market.


Some kind of prosthetic?


No, impractical.


A certificate, maybe. A subtle groin tattoo of the relevant measurements?


Oh, that’s good, says Claudio. That’s actually very good, the tattoo idea. But I see this as having more to do with public perception; it’s more a PR thing. Which could be some useful R&D for black bag too.


In what way?


Shame, says Claudio. The shame that runs under masculinity like a great and powerful river. Ever it roars, and we dip into it at the least provocation.


That’s quite poetic, I say.


If we can do something about the Great River of Shame, we’re halfway to sorting things, says Claudio. That moment where you see a man for who he is—a comment, a gesture reveals it—and you realize you’re both just tossing around in the Great River of Shame.


Drowning in shame, I say.


And black bag is the life raft.




OceanofPDF.com

















57




BLEND STRIDES FROM ONE SIDE
 
of the narrow stage to the other, talking about shared fictions, love as shared fiction. The copying of cues indoctrinated into us via a common culture. Comedies that end in a wedding and then you’re on your own.


But it is less a fiction and more a powerful incantation, he says. And all of us are too terrified to really look at it for what it is.


In the Swedish town I find Birgitta shoveling snow with a wide spade outside the cabin and I scold her. With your joints! You leave that to me!


Sluta tjafsa! she grumbles. Oroa dig inte!


I make fresh herbal tea while she sits with a blanket on her knees.


Birgitta, I think, knows a lot about love, but might pretend not to out of humility.


We accept the love we think we deserve, she might tell me, in Swedish.




OceanofPDF.com

















58




DR. BLEND HAS REQUESTED A WORD.
 
The first in a couple of weeks, during which I have settled into feeling that I have mastered the role, so this is a little destabilizing.


Nothing to worry about, Blend says. Don’t worry. I’ll ask Jenny to unlock my office so you can wait for me in there.


Dr. Blend’s office is unlocked, as promised. I sit in his lumbar-support office chair. I kick my legs and perform one complete circle and then there is a knock on the door and I freeze. I cannot say come in or I’m busy. I just have to hope that they go away.


Instead they try the door handle. There are people who try the door after nobody responds to their knock and people who walk away.


The door opens and I see that it is Sophie, from the seminar group. She is wearing slightly oversized blue jeans and a white vest top. She has a complex, elegant tattoo of falling leaves that runs from her shoulder to her elbow. An effortlessly casual look, but this too takes effort and choice. Her makeup is subtle but thorough, her hair blow-dried. She has made multiple choices and I have climbed into black bag and zipped myself in.


Oh my god, seriously? she says.


I say nothing.


You’re taking his
 
tutorials
 
now?


I am careful to do nothing that might be interpreted as a nod or a shake of the head.


Fine, she says, and sits down on the second, slightly less-impressive office chair and draws it closer to the desk.


This is ridiculous, she says. I booked in to talk about my essay title.


I shuffle as imperceptibly as possible in the chair.


What do you want to do, stamp your hoof once for yes?


I remain still and silent.


Or whatever, just don’t do anything.


We wait a moment for Dr. Blend. He doesn’t come.


So anyway, I thought I’d focus on reciprocity, because that’s what really resonated with me from the reading. I mean
 
whatever
 
with proximity and convenience and similarity, you know? If you’re not getting it back, there’s nothing there. Right?


I say nothing.


But what struck me, says Sophie, and what I don’t find in
 
any
 
of the theorists, is how easy it is to game that system. If that makes sense?


I sit very still.


The “predictive window,” they go on about, says Sophie. But what if you’re … or what if your partner is always second-guessing that? What if they’ve worked out what you want to hear before you do and they say it? What if we all do that? Like some kind of artificial intelligence designed to keep us dependent on each other. So, like, we’re reciprocal but it’s all fake.


I move my foot, which is starting to go numb, from under my thigh.


I know we’re not trying to make an original contribution to the field or anything here, she says.


I neither confirm nor deny this.


I know this isn’t a doctoral thesis. But it’s interesting, isn’t it? That that’s never come up. Because people are obsessed with narcissism and empathy at the moment, right? It’s like
 
the
 
topic. Sometimes it’s like relationships have replaced religion.


Sophie takes a hairband off her wrist and puts her hair up in a bun. I am always touched whenever someone feels comfortable enough in my presence to adjust their appearance.


I mean, full disclosure here, Sophie says. Carys, my “best friend,” big fucking scare quotes there, told
 
me
 
that
 
I
 
was a narcissist, which … you’d laugh if you knew Carys. Narcissists
 
love
 
accusing other people of being narcissists—where’s the theory on
 
that
? I feel like most of this shit was written in the seventies and it doesn’t really apply to any of us anymore.


My nose is a little congested and I try to clear it by sniffing as quietly as possible.


Maybe we actually need the complete
 
opposite
 
of reciprocity to even work out who we are or what we want? So as a title I was going to go for “The Problem of Reciprocity in Attraction Theory.” Does that sound okay?


I say nothing and hold still.


I mean do you think that’s a good starting point?


I lose my nerve.


I lift my flip-flop from the floor and stamp once, in a manner that could be taken as deliberate or not.


Sophie says, Okay, that’s great—thanks. See you in class.


She gathers her things and leaves the room.




OceanofPDF.com

















59




FAVOR TO ASK YOU, SAYS CLAUDIO.


Of course.


I don’t like to call in favors, but.


I owe you for the other day, I say.


I need you to go to a boat party.


What’s that?


A party on a boat, says Claudio. Tonight. Moravec. Convention. Don’t know when they’ll be in the country again. They work on natural language processing in AI.


You want me to go to it?


As black bag, yeah, says Claudio.


What am I doing? I ask him. Is this, like, corporate espionage?


No, no, no, says Claudio. This is more of a soft launch. I just want you to be seen.


So I go to the boat party …


I’m texting you the address of the jetty and the e-ticket, says Claudio. Just get there and get into black bag and up the gangway. Stay till the end. We can pay you a grand.


We?


Us.


That’s too generous.


No, it’s about time you started seeing some returns.


You want me to talk to anyone?


Yeah, talk to anyone, it’s fine, says Claudio. Just make sure people see you.




The night boat circles the harbor,
 
softly lit by gig lamps. I inhale the soupy smell of the water and the oily resin of the fuel. I watch the
 
breakwater and the lights of the towers. I’ve counted around fifty guests; there is an open bar and a single waiter with a tray of negronis the color of healing potions in a video game. The atmosphere is somber. People gather in little pockets by the railings and talk quietly.


I can see the scene as a guilelessly naturalistic painting, acrylic on canvas, the kind they used to sell in shopping center galleries and camera shops: people gathered at night, on the deck of a ship next to a small creature resembling a black leather sack. In the painting I have two little white blobs for eyes. I put Justine into the painting to complete it.


Those present, dressed as if for a funeral, must be movers and shakers in the tech industry. I’m not entirely sure what Claudio wants from my intervention. People look at me occasionally but seem unfazed.


A string quartet plays instrumental arrangements of popular eighties songs. “Livin’ on a Prayer.” “What a Feeling.”


I sip from a glass of champagne I have worked up my leg.


I lean on the railing and I close my eyes until I hear a man with an American accent say, Are you English?


I turn to see a tall bald guy in a dark gray suit at my side. He has a broad, stubbly jaw, like a handsome cartoon dog.


Me?


The one in the bag, yeah you.


I’m English.


Jesus, is everyone here English?


Sorry to disappoint you.


Nah, you’re all right, mate, he says in an American approximation of an English accent. Mason Long.


He holds out his hand and immediately withdraws it.


I’m with Future Indefinite.


That’s a Noël Coward book, I say.


Oh, you
 
know
 
it? Ha. Usually I get a free ride on my plagiarism because none of these assholes has read anything other than
 
The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People
. How refreshing.


I’m an actor, I tell him.


That’s fantastic!


I redden with approval within black bag.


They get me to name
 
everything
, he says. In the kingdom of dumb fucks the guy with an English major is king. I say “with.” I mean it’s my project. What I’m selling is really a kind of life insurance. A life
 
assurance
. We’re working on Paterfamilias. That’s a working title—it hasn’t tested well. Neither did Puerifamilias, even though it’s more accurate. God.


He leans on the railing and looks across the black water.


What does it do?


The app? Well I can tell you because it’s all pretty much patented at this point. And I don’t get to talk to anyone smart very often, just people who think they are. It’s an app for fathers.


To do what? I ask him. To be better fathers?


More than that, says Mason. Fundamentally, to realize that they
 
are
 
fathers. Most fathers are in total denial about that. The child has a journal, that’s the only part of the app that appears on their device. They write two hundred words in it every night about exactly what they did with their father that day and how they felt about it. Some days maybe it’s not much, maybe he’s just been at work, maybe he ignored them when they tried to tell him something—they can be completely honest, but everything they write has to be about the father.


Mason takes out a cigarette, examines it and puts it behind his ear.


How do you—


Yeah, man, I know: No child is going to do that without powerful incentive, so it gives them gems, fifty gems per one hundred words as long as the journal is complete by 2100 hours. And they can’t just write
 
suck my butt suck my butt suck my butt
 
either—the app can tell if they do that.


What are the gems for?


Universal gaming tokens. We’re currently in conversation with several franchises to lock down some exclusivity deals—skins, weapons …


Skins, weapons, I say, nodding.


Right. And a hundred gems is a lot.


Skins, weapons, gems.


Take it down to brass tacks, the father would have to spend $19.99 a day of actual money to buy his kid a hundred gems on pretty much any microtransactional game—this is nothing to do with the program, but the incentives need to be compelling and watertight, you know?


Of course, I say. As above, so below.


Yeah, as above, so below. So we’ve locked down the child’s two hundred words a night, that’s ample material. Now the
 
father’s
 
app, which he can access a minute after the child has posted their journal, gives them access to a little room.


A little room?


A little room with some plants, sure, we’re still working on that. A room that could conceivably be someone’s living room. But it’s sixty-five years later. It took us a long time to decide on sixty-five years, but that’s what we’ve gone for. The father is
 
long
 
dead and his kid is now an old man, an old woman. That’s who the father sees, in the little room. An old man or an old woman who is an aged-up version of their kid. It’s fucking insane how accurate … I mean I can’t say accurate, but it
 
feels
 
… You feed in enough visual data about the kid and it makes an old version of them which … It’s just uncanny; it’s
 
them
, you know. Naturally it’s a little idealized—I mean it’s completely idealized: It assumes nothing’s gone wrong, no mental or physical disasters or road traffic accidents or addictions or chronically bad diet, and they haven’t
 
died
.


No.


No, because obviously—we just have to assume that’s not going to happen, against the statistical inevitability. In reality the vast majority of these kids will be dead or uggos—we’re already dealing with an artificially optimized sitch.


I suppose we have to assume the best.


Yeah, or we’d go nuts! So—this is what the app does: They’re being interviewed—the kid, the father’s kid, the old, old kid—they’re being interviewed or they’re writing their autobiography—or whatever we have in place of autobiographies at that point, in sixty-five years’ time—
about their relationship with their father
. And it’s based on what the kid wrote in their journal that night. Combined with everything they’ve written in
 
their journal so far. Based on—I mean it kind of riffs on that material, makes some likely assumptions, which we’re working on. At first it’s a little like a fairground spiritualist, you know, this kind of thing, but you deepen it and deepen it with more and more examples—eventually it’s right every time. You know it’s true: the hard thing is going down the stairs, millions of tiny equations, it’s a miracle it doesn’t kill us. When it comes to reason, emotion, repercussions we’re talking a relatively tiny amount of data. Moravec has been instrumental in this kind of thing.


So they talk to the father, the old children? In the little room?


Yeah! You get it.
 
I remember once he surprised me by taking me out for waffles. It wasn’t a special occasion. He just wanted to do something he knew I’d like, apropos of nothing. He was a quiet man and he struggled to express himself sometimes, but I knew that he loved me.
 
Or, like …
 
There were days when my father was completely wrapped up in his work. It was hard to reach him on days like that. He wouldn’t be dismissive, per se, but I knew when he wasn’t listening to me.
 
The test groups, so far …


He whistles.


It sounds quite intense, I say.


Brother, he says, have you ever seen a room full of a hundred men crying their eyes out? Like just weeping openly;
 
keening
, making sounds I’ve never heard from an adult human being.


I can’t say that I have, I say.


Well it stays with you, he says. That’s when I realized we were really on to something.


Do you have children? I ask.


He frowns. Yes, he says.


He takes out his phone and shows me a photograph of a very old man and a very old woman.


They look happy.


You have no idea, he says, what
 
that
’s cost me. They have grandchildren of their own now, of course.


Then? I say.


Then?


Then rather than now.


Oh, yes, I see. So this looks interesting, he says, pointing at the top of my bag and then my bare feet and back again.


I wish I could be as forthcoming, I say. I’m afraid we’re still in … beta.


Oh, you don’t need to explain that to me, he says. I’m intrigued, is all. This is some kind of sensory-deprivation thing?


Partly, I say. Maybe.


I mean even just
 
physically
 
this has numerous ramifications. Who are you with?


Black Bag.


Black Bag, Mason repeats, and takes a note on his phone.


I think it’s more about masculinity, I say.


Oh, hell yeah, he says. Now we’re in my wheelhouse. Pretty much everything I’ve done for the last twenty years has been about masculinity. On some level. Well listen, you can look me up, okay? When you’re allowed to talk about it.


Of course, I say.


You promise?


I promise.


Future Indefinite. Because I like you, man.


I like you too.


I think you’ve got something.


He takes the cigarette from behind his ear.


You don’t have a … No. Well, a pleasure.


Having learned not to extend his hand, he bows. I do the same.




OceanofPDF.com

















60




I POUR MYSELF A BRANDY
 
and check the weird-acting-jobs forum. Professional mourner. Toilet paper hand model. Dungeon scarer. Two years ago, having noticed how much time I had to spend at my desk trawling for roles, Claudio built me a rudimentary program that automatically sends my CV, resume and a facsimile of a handwritten Post-it saying,
 
We think he’s perfect for this!
 
to any upcoming production it judges relevant. I was grateful to him, if somewhat relieved when the automated supplicant didn’t seem to work and I was not inundated with am-dram casting calls.


I have nothing but respect for amateur dramatics, have always sought a level of success that would render me plausibly magnanimous about it. When I am not, that is only because it’s too close for comfort.


Every few months, though, Claudio’s robot fisherman catches me something—a sprat or a pilchard.


An email informs me, via my fake agent, that I have been invited to audition for the role of Boy in a new play,
 
Grand
, opening in a not- un-well-thought-of basement theater. I scan the blurbs.


Eviscerating … Urgent …


I read the list of past works and synopsis.


A bitter irony that when someone finally makes something up, using their imagination to come up with a fictional scenario and thus a script for an actual play (and thank god the human imagination hasn’t atrophied completely, that the Archangel Metatron has not wholly abandoned us), the resulting work is as depressing as an autobiographical story from a weekly horror rag. We get what we want only when we realize that we don’t want it.


Attune your ear to God’s laughter.


Grand
, the work of a feted and putatively “challenging” playwright ten years my junior, is a two-hander about a boy and his extraordinarily
 
abusive grandmother. Physical, psychological, religious, sexual, emotional. The works! Quite what it’s about aside from that is anyone’s guess; whether the writer intends us to feel sorry for the characters, the human race or merely the cast he’s subjecting to the material night after night.


Casting older, for Boy, as the material is quite disturbing.




It is thus that I find myself
 
in a room not unlike a secondary school gym, inhaling floor wax and batter grease, sitting at one end of a low bench—the kind with tusks to link it—with a group of five youngish, diminutive men. We are opposite a parallel, identical bench of tall, stern older women.


I don’t feel like talking to any of the other boys—it’s not really the done thing in this setup. One of them is particularly good-looking with really nice hair, so I suppose it’s his for the taking if they decide to go with a “nice hair” vibe for Boy. We stare directly forward, imagining which grandmother we might work best on our sustained and gruesome abuse. The woman second from the left winks at me and I beam at her, raise my fist threateningly,
 
Why I oughtta
.


Straight white hair in a bob, far too glamorous to be conceivable as an evil grandmother. She seems like someone with whom it would be fun to insult people at a party.


This, I believe, would make a much better play.


They call our names over a PA when it’s our turn.


When I’m the last Boy I have a swig from my water bottle, take black bag out of my rucksack, quickly step in and zip up, narrowly avoiding snagging a chest hair in my haste. I follow some printed arrows to the casting room.


I open the door with my forehead.


The director, a man who looks like he has lost a lot of weight and still has the aura of his former body, sits between a woman with a pencil in her updo and a young man with a very thick silver bracelet.


Um, the director says. We can’t see your face.


No, I say, I know. This is how I interpret the role.


The role of Boy.


The role of Boy.


As black bag I perform Treplev’s she-loves-me-she-loves-me-not monologue from
 
The Seagull
. I do it well, naturally, and they seem pleasantly surprised.


Well, that was different, I’ll give you that, the director says. We’ll be in touch.




I am doing up my shirt
 
in the waiting room when the woman who winked at me walks by and sits back down on the bench to adjust her shoe. She looks up at me.


You had a change of costume?


I was trying something out.


She nods and stands, leans back a little to look at me properly.


I don’t think either of us is going to book this, she says.


But thank goodness, really, I say. It looks horrible.


She tilts her head.


We’d have brought something to it, she says.


She has the slightest hint of an American accent.


Gillian, she says. Gill.


I shake her hand.


Well, keep the faith, she says, turning to leave.


My phone starts ringing and I silence it.


Wait. I call after Gill. How do you do it? How do you keep the faith?


She turns back to me and shakes her head. You try not to become a full-blown alcoholic, she says. Fetishize small pleasures. A good water bottle. A first edition of a novel you like. A really good cup of coffee. The crackle as the needle hits the record.


Is that really it?


I mean what else is there? says Gill. Trees, birds. Sex, movies, good conversation.


But what if—


Oh, you wanted some advice from a veteran, she says. It’s somewhere between a school playground and a casino. You know that. Don’t ransom the present to the future. You may not be the undiscovered genius you think you are, but you certainly deserve better than
 
this
. And you did choose it. And it
 
is
 
too late. So now you don’t have a choice. Try something else and see how quickly whatever’s in you devours your spirit and spits out the husk. If you’re going to fail, and we’re all going to fail, do it with your head held high.


Okay, I say. Thanks, Gill.




OceanofPDF.com

















61




DR. BLEND SHOWS US SEVERAL
 
slides of decorated bones, some encrusted with jewels, some converted into rudimentary weapons.


He says something about Spinoza and “the sad passions.” Whenever our power to act is diminished. Fear, hate, envy, shame. He likens this to jouissance in Lacan.


Birgitta has always wanted to visit her bedbound sister in the next town. I would like to make this possible but have no means of transport. I have been keeping savings from my salary at the sawmill, dull little silver coins decorated with stags, in a tin can in my locker to pay for her train fare. Mine too, so as to chaperone her.


But when I leave work I notice that someone has stolen my can. I suspect Fredrik, who always sniggers at me when he thinks I’m out of earshot.


I tell Birgitta what has happened and start to cry.


And so, even in my attempt to do something thoughtful and purposeful, Birgitta must once again comfort me.


Strong bones will carry good days, she says, stroking my hair.


Justine messages.


I need to see you. Tomorrow night.


I hold back from replying so that I can message her later if I want to.


I have to retain some agency.




OceanofPDF.com

















62




JUSTINE SLEEPS WITH ONE LEG
 
thrown over me, which I like. She is, I have learned, a good sleeper, an expert sleeper. Enters the room in that dreamlike state of having worked too hard, gets in beside me, kicks her right leg over me in a way that traps my balls so I whimper like an Alsatian. She apologizes, adjusts her leg and then she says, Goodnight, bb, closes her eyes and within seconds her breathing softens and regulates.


She wakes after an hour and tells me a story within a story about trying to entertain men in online forums for specific fetishes—accidental nudity, spanking, restraint, whatever—you try to get it just right, try to hit all their buttons in a one-thousand-and-one-word account that purportedly happened to you. There’s a distinctive pleasure to giving them exactly what they want.


You can tell when you’ve done that?


You can tell. They disappear.


It’s very public spirited.


It’s potentially very lucrative, says Justine, but I mostly did it recreationally or just … tried to figure people out. It’s like writing a perfect piece of code.
 
Once
 
I got into real trouble, though.


Oh?


I didn’t get doxed but I had a long-running thing with a guy into cake-sitting, and I suppose I really did too good a job of giving him what he wanted and he got obsessed. Ideally the cake-sitting or the situation in which I am sat naked on a cake had to be sort of accidental or at least plausible and against my will, and then I could really go to town on the details. Napoleon cakes—those seemed to get him going.


Yes.


And although I’d been super careful, he somehow figured out my identity and then, would you believe, got onto the MA I was convening on Desire in the Digital Age.


Dear God.


Gave me a new sympathy for anyone who does that kind of work. I’ll tell you about it sometime. You’re very accepting, she says.


I don’t see it as my place to accept anything or not, I say.


But I also think you’ve been taught to be ashamed of your desires.


If not my desires, what would I have left to be ashamed of?


You’re funny, which helps.


Justine climbs on top of me and takes off her top, then moves her hips up to my neck.


Do you want this?


Yes. Yes.


She rides my face as if she is an eraser trying to rub me out like a wrong answer.


After finishing she gently climbs off and rolls away from me.


You’re so good, she says. So good.


As usual, whenever anyone tells me I have done something well, I don’t believe I have done anything at all, but perhaps that is inherent to having done it well.


I close my eyes.




Have you ever noticed,
 
a teenage Claudio once said to me, apropos of nothing, cutting home across the scrubby recreation ground, that when you wank with porn there’s a different smell?


I’m not sure that I have.


If you’re just lying in bed, using your imagination, there’s a kind of purity to that, Claudio insisted. Like God’s saying it’s okay. But if you’re watching porn …


This was, I should add, in the fairly early days of the internet when it could take hours to download a virus-infested, grainy fifty-four-second clip that you’d watch on a loop.


It’s like you release this kind of evil pheromone.


Oh wow.


Check it out next time.


This is pretty messed up, Claudio, I told him. This is pretty Catholic.


I was, I should add, Protestant by upbringing and choice. But I did check it out the next time and it turned out that Claudio had a point: it was a grim, piglike smell, close to corporeal decay, like a toilet in the middle of a museum, but worse, very much alive and pungent, a bad truffle with sour high notes, altogether absent when I hid under my duvet and thought about Vicki Lawson’s top being half open in geography. And it was as if God was saying the latter was okay but that looking at pornography caused your soul to instantaneously deliquesce.


Holy shit, you’re right! I’d have texted Claudio if mobile phones had existed.


As it was, we both forgot to ever bring it up again.


But whatever the specific hormonal compounds involved—certain very expensive cheeses remind me of it—it is the smell, I believe to this day, that a murderer secretes when they take a life, in the act and ever after.


What are you thinking about? Justine murmurs.


Nothing.


Her breathing steadies.


I can’t sleep, quelle surprise, so I read up about instrumentality and eroticism on my phone. It is inevitable that I have started to question what I represent for Justine. I am worried that I am, for her, some manner of sentient sex toy. This in itself is not a problem. I think that I could make a good sentient sex toy. But what if your sentient sex toy admires and has feelings for you? What if it begins, despite itself and its programming, to fall in love with you?




OceanofPDF.com

















63




YOU’RE HERE! CLAUDIO SAYS.


You buzzed me in.


There is a giant cardboard box in the middle of Claudio’s living space.


What’s in there?


Just stuff, says Claudio. Try this.


He throws me a bright blue bottle.
 
APOGEE
 
is printed in block capitals on the side in a slightly lighter shade of blue.


I unscrew the cap and take a sip. It tastes like carbonated, sweetened toilet cleaner.


Horrible.


New energy drink, says Claudio.


Well, the world was crying out for one.


Right? I’m running ads for it, for a colleague. Once someone has a following—you know what it’s like. Mostly their way of really monetizing it … their product … it’s like eighteenth-century county fair stuff: nerve tonics, miracle cures. You know what the USP of Apogee is?


What?


Prizes. So it’s like energy drink meets scratch card.


I examine the side of the bottle and scratch off the silver panel with my thumbnail.


I’ve won another bottle, I say.


Claudio throws me another bottle, which I do not catch.


I’ll pass.


Yeah, you will. But at the moment Apogee is limited edition so people are even selling the empty bottles on eBay.


This is just awful.


It doesn’t bear to think about it too much, says Claudio.


I’m sure this comes up somewhere in Revelation.


All of us super wired, but for what? How’d it go on the boat?


Oh, I had fun, I say.


Yeah? Claudio looks very pleased. People noticed you?


I had some chats, drank some champagne. A good time was had by all.


That’s great.


Claudio makes a note on his pad.


If I needed to, say, pass on your number to interested parties, Claudio says, is that okay?


I suppose, I say. Is that why I was there?


It’s like trawler fishing, he says, venture capital. You just see what you get, you know?


Is that what trawler fishing is? I say. Is it that happy-go-lucky?


Claudio gets up from his desk, walks to his cupboard and puts on a black baseball cap with two white dots on the brim.


Oh! I forgot—Stutters called by, he says, so I finally got the keys to the kingdom again.


The what?


My third dose of DMT, says Claudio.


I thought you looked tired.


Now I’m not asking you to accept the chapter and verse here, says Claudio, but you need to know that there’s broad consensus on this: It’s generally agreed that what you experience on DMT isn’t hallucination, but an entrance to a different dimension, one that’s all around us all the time, but we can’t see it.


It’s the noumenon.


Ba-baaa ba da-da.


That’s the consensus?


Yeah—people’s reports are too similar for it not to be.


And it’s not just that people have brains? Brains made of the same stuff that reacts in a similar way to the chemical and thus produce similar effects? Because I think it’s just that people have brains.


The
 
consensus
 
is that you enter another dimension,
 
the
 
other dimension, and you encounter interdimensional beings, says Claudio. And
 
this time I was just, whoosh, straight into the inner sanctum. And they remembered me, the entities.


By name?


They don’t really use language the way we do—I don’t think they understand the concept of a name.


But they remembered you? What do they look like?


For me, beautiful machinery, says Claudio. The most beautiful machine you ever saw. It’s hard to separate them. They can put on faces, but they kind of do that as a joke. It’s like, one of their jokes, to have a face for us,
 
Because you love faces, don’t you, bless
. They told me some things and I think it has to do with black bag.


How do they know about black bag?


It was like I brought it to them. They have very different priorities to humanity, says Claudio, but yeah. The entities helped me to draw way back, to zoom way out, and look at men from a distance—it was like some kind of boney … museum.


A boney museum?


Made of bones. But moving. Like an insect. I’m not describing it right.


It’s okay.


It was scary. To see it all at once. To see what we’re like. I haven’t recovered from it yet. It’s rotten to the core, you know, homes?


What is?


It’s like we’ve gone so far down, the best we can hope for is trying to make ourselves look better, try to get away with it, our worst impulses. So all it does, this vast, pulsating, clicking thing, is maintain the illusion that we’re not essentially evil.


Men, this is? I say.


I believed in black bag before, Claudio says, but now I see the urgency. Now I realize it’s the only way to completely reformat things.


Do you need me to modulate my performance in any way?


Nah, you’re already doing it, he says. No notes.


Claudio goes to his desk and makes a few adjustments. A long video is compressing. He is like an alchemist, without the cracked black scars in his hands and increasing mania.


Oh, about the dicks, he says.


Yes?


You know on some character-design screens now you can make your character a completely personalized dick?


I didn’t.


Surprising level of detail, says Claudio, in a voice of no little wonder.




OceanofPDF.com

















64




ON THE WAY TO LECTURE THEATER 3
 
I get waylaid by a group of students in the foyer who call me “mate.” I wonder if intimidating people know that they are intimidating; that their affect is one of intimidation; that they became intimidating as children and have been so ever since, from the cradle to a place prepared for them in a sports bar; if they wake up in the morning and crack their knuckles and look forward to a good day of being vaguely menacing to everyone they meet, a day of unilateral disparagement and implied violence. Or if it’s just a whim that seizes them every now and then.


The boys tell me that they’ve noticed me around and they want to know what the deal is. And while this is a perfectly reasonable request and one I should, if I’m honest, expect, I find their tone off-putting and feel disinclined to answer.


We should remember that the saints, in their extreme forbearance, their love for all humanity, their embracing of mockery and scourges, would still avoid a conversation if they sensed that the vibes were off. I do not know if I believe in any of this, the whole metaphysical host, but I know which side I’d choose.


One of them is holding a large chicken-and-sweet-corn baguette, obscenely open to the world.


Is it a protest?


Were I to paint him as an icon he would brandish that baguette beneath his gurning face.


I don’t say anything.


Or some nonbinary thing—new gender just dropped?


I stand with the three boys and say nothing.


Do you even talk? Is that part of it?


Can we just say whatever we want to you?


I try not to shrug. I don’t want to lay claim to anything. If I could be black bag by myself in a room forever I would do that, but what would be the point? It’s inherently relational.


How hollow and foul is the heart of man, I say to them, and turn on my flippered heel.




An ill English light,
 
puce skies and fluorescents. Something is wrong with me today; I’m not feeling it. I doubt my own commitment, doubt my abilities regardless of my commitment. In the lecture room I am so grateful to sit next to the young woman who smells of shoe polish that I would like to say hi and hug her. Instead I bow to her and she nods back.


Dr. Blend enters the room two minutes late.


I am so sorry.


He sounds a little defeated, as if someone has turned down his volume.


He puts his worn brown satchel on a stool and flicks on the projector, then changes his mind and flicks it off again.


Misery, he begins, is the norm. We must accept this. With this in mind, we must understand exactly how sensitive we are. Embarrassingly sensitive, to the last one of us. And petty and vain and vindictive. We like to accuse one another of being oversensitive because all of us are. “A trifle consoles us because a trifle upsets us,” says Pascal.


Think of the moment, following the 2008 subprime crisis, when cupcakes proliferated like a cancer. Think of the way the icing became more elaborate and eventually larger than the cakes themselves, beehive hairdos of icing.


In such a symbol, what are the bees?


We are the bees, I think.


Vi lever som bin. Birgitta nods, pouring water into a pan to boil. One of the walls of her cabin rattles in the wind and I fear for us come midwinter.




At the end of the lecture
 
Dr. Blend removes a round hat box from his bag and opens it to reveal a bright, iced-pink cake.


Made with several eggs, he tells us.


I count nine students out of two hundred who go and take a slice before leaving the lecture theater. Maybe they are moved to take a piece of cake as a sign, an unspoken commitment to Dr. Blend and his unorthodox vocal style. I watch them laugh and briefly, casually chat with him.


Do this in remembrance of me.




I hope that Dr. Blend is okay.
 
Perhaps it is normal, when somebody is talking to you, that after a while you start to think, I wonder if this person is okay. Usually they turn it around and, with some gesture, some formula of words or phrases, some incremental change in their tone of which they are perhaps not even aware, they reassure you that they are, after all, okay, and that you are not witnessing the live disintegration of a human spirit. Perhaps this is also what a cake is for.




OceanofPDF.com

















65




I AM EARLY FOR THE SEMINAR
 
so I run to Justine’s office and knock on it with my head. No answer. God, maybe she’s bored of me. I think about what I can do to keep her interested. Pretend to be aloof, maybe.


I sit in the common area inhaling the smell of burnt coffee beans from the closed concession and I message Claudio.


I want to be honest with you, Claudio, I write. I don’t know if this is really working. I’m still myself in here. I’m still absolutely a man. I’m still proud, and obsessed with my status, I’m still tangled up in the wires of my dissembling and falsehoods. I’ve not even begun to feel any of my personality sloughing off. If anything my personality is amplified. I’m more myself than ever.




What more to say about the classroom.
 
Every week I notice something else, an unremarkable blemish. The way the ceiling tiles look like tons of congealed spaghetti frozen in time. As if we were underneath a frightening depth of spaghetti. Unremarked-upon spaces with unremarkable blemishes. Elliott is right. The spiritual challenge of our age is to detect divine intervention in all of these things.




I am stumbling down the hill
 
to the campus bus stop when my phone rings—an unknown number, which I would customarily ignore and permanently block, but Claudio mentioned he’d be giving out my number to interested parties, so I feel compelled to answer.


This a good time? says an American voice.


Who is this?


Mason! From the boat, you remember me, right?


Oh hi, Mason, I say. Yes.


Okay, good, he says. You in the bag?


Yes.


That’s what I like to hear, says Mason. You know, for me, what you’re doing is like an allegory.


For what?


No, I mean it’s
 
like
 
an allegory. You’re doing it, is what matters.


I’m not sure I follow.


My industry is getting a lot of bad press at the moment, Mason says. And I
 
get
 
it—people want AI to do the boring parts, but it disturbs them that it could also take over the parts they like, write their poems and paint their pictures, take away their livelihoods.


You can see why people wouldn’t like that.


I’m using it right now, for this conversation, says Mason. It’s suggesting talking points you might be interested in.


It doesn’t even know me!


But I think we’ve come to rather overvalue art, says Mason. I have a broad portfolio, but there’s one thing I won’t invest in, and that’s art. I’m getting ahead of myself here, and I don’t expect you to be on board yet, but art is only ever a symptom of suffering. Or healing. It’s a kind of pus.


You said you were an English major.


So I know whereof I speak. Now, canonical wounds, historical pus, that’s interesting, that’s thesis worthy. But you want me to read your poems about how sad you are?
 
Now?
 
In the twenty-first century?


People are still very sad, Mason, I say.


I get sad too, says Mason. Everyone’s so fucking down on us. And, you know, I don’t expect any
 
gratitude
—for me the pleasure of my work is in people taking it for granted. Mostly they don’t even realize how good they’ve got it until something goes wrong. And then who do they go to to sort it out? Right? The more naturally it blends in with their lives, the better.


For sure.


But people need to understand that
 
we
 
are the artists now, says Mason. We’re the poets, the painters, the playwrights. Let me ask you something:
 
Think of your favorites, think of the greats. What would Dostoevsky be doing if he was alive now?


Become a monk? I say. Drink himself to death?


He wouldn’t be writing fucking
 
novels
, I’ll tell you that for nothing, says Mason.


He’d be—


One of us, says Mason. Now, my core skill is I see potential before anyone else does. That’s the only reason I’m still doing this. I have a lot of capital at my disposal, I mentor a lot of strange and disconsolate young men, I try to get them to grow up and take some responsibility for their place in the world. That’s the only reason why.
 
You
, your core skill is that you’ve found a way to get my attention.


That wasn’t what I set out to do.


No, says Mason. Exactly. Art without the artist, art without art. You’ve given me a lot to think about.


I’ve been having doubts, I say.


Well, I would say the more doubts the better, Mason says. This is more a faith than a science. What if I told you we could see some actual, substantive, meaningful changes in typical male behaviors within as little as two years?


I mean …


I’ve got some folks in Austin working on the interface. We’ll keep talking, okay?




OceanofPDF.com

















66




I AM HALFWAY TO MY FLAT
 
when Justine calls on One-Way.


Hey, she says.


Hey
. Can I see you?


You can, says Justine. What’s more, you can take me to the pictures.


The movies.


The moving pictures. There’s a preview screening of
 
The Orb of Homuncules
.


Ho-munc-you-lees, I repeat. What’s that?


You didn’t hear? It’s the first film to be completely written, animated, produced and directed by artificial intelligence.


God, I say, this has completely passed me by.


Well, says Justine, you wouldn’t really be
 
you
 
if you kept abreast of current affairs.


Entirely created by a computer?


Nobody knows if there was human input at
 
any stage
, says Justine. The rumors are there wasn’t. Nobody even knows if a human being
 
commissioned
 
it or if it’s just emerged fully formed without anyone having so much as pushed a button to start the process.


Scary.


I mean it has a distributor, but nobody’s come forward to say they ordered it or set up the infrastructure to develop it in the first place. No backers, no funding. Like a natural growth from a plant. The computers made a film! Everyone’s asking where did it come from? It’s like getting the first message from an alien civilization!


You’re excited.


It’s fascinating, right? Apparently it’s awful, the film.


But it’s what it thinks we want, the AI?


Hard to say what it thinks. But we have to see it. You free? You zipped up?




Justine collects me from outside
 
my flat and drives very fast, undercutting prestige cars and, at one point, holding up her middle finger at a lorry driver with ravishing intensity until he leans on his horn like a child.


God it’s good to see you again. I feel like it’s been weeks.


We walk across the lot to the multiplex. The building is lined with posters.


The screening has already started—fifteen minutes in—and we have to insist, twice, that we don’t mind before the guy will sell us tickets.


Justine takes a pick-and-mix bag and shovels in pink shrimp, yellow bananas and fizzy cola bottles.


The Orb of Homuncules
 
is a very sexual, very violent film in the “blockbuster” genre with a running time of two hours and thirty-four minutes.


We are one of three couples catching the preview matinee. Justine guides me into the third row and I collapse into the soft chair, leather on leather, enfolded.


The Orb of Homuncules
 
is set in an amalgamation of medieval England and a future technocratic dystopia. And it is a world wherein every single time you masturbate to climax a very noticeable, permanent and unsightly blemish appears on your neck, a series of marks that gradually climbs to your face, with the result that most people are covered in innumerable disfiguring sores on their neck and face.


A small elite, the Clean, is apparently able to resist self-pleasure and they naturally find themselves in a position of authority over the general population. This they exercise with a seeming magnanimity whilst making no secret of the fact that they quietly view their citizens as little better than beasts enslaved to their vulgar appetites. It turns out that the Clean, who number forty-seven members, are simply having their pustules and blemishes surgically removed or cosmetically hidden. Also they are involved in human trafficking and kidnapping, and they sexually
 
assault members of the public under the guise of a “lottery” whereby people enter and the winners are selected for purification and to join the lower orders of the Clean, to live with them in the citadel and, if not rule, then at least administrate as part of their equivalent of the civil service. But really, when someone is selected in the “lottery,” the Clean are just imprisoning them in rooms in the citadel, taking turns to sexually assault them, which, oddly, doesn’t cause spots to appear on your neck or face and is seen, even among the Clean themselves, who despite all this cannot seem to forego masturbation altogether and require secret underground hospitals full of surgeons to remove and disguise their blemishes, to be the superior act.


Anyway, that’s just the backdrop and little is done to explain it. The point is, some people are starting to cotton on to what’s really happening and there’s a growing resistance movement, so the bulk of the story is a quest narrative to rescue an enchanted glowing blue orb from the deepest cave in the ten kingdoms. Homuncules is a former monk who still wears a tattered black habit and who is overweight, disastrously uncoordinated and experiences frequent breathing difficulties, an unlikely hero to say the least, but the only one in possession of the arcane knowledge and spiritual “powers” to locate and access the cave and advise on the perils within. Homuncules is joined by a “crew” of five, selected for their physical beauty—albeit covered in weeping sores—dexterity and strength, and portrayed by vaguely familiar approximations of famous actors. None identical, but crossed with one another to produce the aura of recognizable celebrity.


The orb will restore the natural order, heal everyone’s plague of masturbatory boils, and bring an end to the tyranny of the Clean once and for all. Its cold blue light will reveal the Clean for who they really are. And a new age will dawn.


In the final scene they reach the sacred inner chamber, but Homuncules drops the orb and it shatters into a thousand shimmering pieces on the cavern floor.


It was the barbarian who threw it, casually, and before he did he said, Hey, Homuncules? Catch!


Justine insists on staying for the credits out of respect, which I admire. The credits are strings of numbers and copyright symbols. Also just in case there’s a post-credit sequence, which, it transpires, there is not. I eat the last pink shrimp as the lights go up, although now that the film is over, neither its taste nor texture is as satisfying.




We are sitting in motorway
 
rush hour traffic. Justine sometimes switches the car off altogether and restarts it when the car in front inches forward.


For a first attempt I thought that was actually pretty good, she says. It made sense—it was remarkably consistent. It had lines like,
 
So are we, like, doing this now?
 
Just like a human film.


I thought the ending was good, I say. Endings are really hard, and I thought the ending was good.


And it all looked quite real, didn’t it?


Impressively so.


I mean we don’t know what the AI trained itself on, says Justine. Tradition and the Individual Talent. It’s presumably absorbed the complete history of human cinema and this is what it’s … distilled it down to. Give it two or three years and I think it could be making actual masterpieces. As an artist, though, what did you think?


Do you think the AI takes quite a dim view of us, generally?


Maybe it’s making up its mind.


I think it possibly sees us as beyond redemption.


But you’re saying that as a punter, says Justine. What’s your view as an artist?


What’s the general opinion? Are we to feel threatened and obsolete, or are we to embrace the possibilities?


What’s
 
your
 
opinion?


Will human-made works get a special little stamp or logo? Will some people say they’re
 
proud to support human-made art
?


Maybe, says Justine. God, that already sounds kind of lame.


Will some
 
robots
 
say they’re proud to support human-made art?


Oh, that’s a certainty, says Justine. There are already some very pro-human AIs. I’ve spoken to one. I guess it depends whether you think of “the human” as a special or exceptional characteristic.


I think I really
 
do
 
think of it as that, I say. If I’m honest.


Bless you, says Justine and smiles at me warmly. You do, don’t you?




OceanofPDF.com

















67




I PAY MY RENT AND
 
my outstanding gas and electricity bills with Claudio’s boat-party money. I count the remaining twenties from my last pay packet from Blend. One, two. This is no good. I need to start hustling properly again while I still have what’s left of my looks.


In the spirit of their preservation I put the bottle of brandy as far back in the cupboard as it will go and boil the kettle for an echinacea tea.


I crack my knuckles and wind up the laptop.


I look for short-notice roles on a site run and maintained in service of the poorly organized.


Someone is looking for actors who can portray characters between the age of twelve and fifteen to offer, within secondary schools, a creative and engaging perspective on the theme of
 
consent
. Must be comfortable with, or have an interest in, elements of physical theater and movement. Fee commensurate with experience and role.


Oh lord. I can see it now. “Engaging creatively with the director to bring the script to life” means that there isn’t a script. “Movement and physical theater” means we’re going to collaboratively write one that absolutely sucks ass. “Chance to tour” means funding for development but no actual school has signed up to host a performance yet and, if they know what’s good for them, they never will.


I can picture myself raising my arms slowly into the air in parallel with my castmates as we slowly hang our heads in deference to the gravity of the subject matter.


Argh.


Online advert for breath mints. Seeking male and female supporting actors for social-content piece. Video to feature half-empty lecture theater and a droning professor, off-camera. Given my wealth of experience this feels worth a punt.


I put Blend down as a reference.


Open-top-bus music video.


Hahaha. Might as well throw my hat in the ring along with the six thousand models and influencers who’ve already applied.


The next is interesting. Neural Plural specialize in generating quality datasets on a heretofore unprecedented scale.


Datasets. I assume the ad must have found its way onto the wrong list, but when I expand it I see that Neural Plural are looking for actors of various ages to walk on treadmills, perform a series of natural movements and gestures and read text from an Autocue while being filmed in 360 degrees by top-of-the-range cameras. Maximum four hours. In a “hip, cool tech studio space.”


Given that there are—let’s be honest—plenty of us, I wonder what we really need AI for at all. Surely it would be easier to put someone in a metal suit and call it a robot and marvel at how human it is.


It occurs to me that Neural Plural could well be in the business of making actors obsolete altogether, that my very body, mannerisms and gestures would be harvested for the next
 
Orb of Homuncules
. And that Neural Plural could themselves be entirely run and operated by machines. It is, however, hard to say no to £250 an hour.




Yes, yes, we all have
 
a price.
 
You’re not special
, says Elliott, stopping to piss on a patch of dandelions.


I’m conflicted, though, I tell him. In however small a way I’d be contributing to the utter destruction of my field. For a grand.


Not like there’s much work anyway
, says Elliott.
 
And you could do it very badly—screw up every motion, walk like a cowboy, speak in a maddening falsetto, sabotage their algorithms.


Would you do it?


He snaps at a bee.


I would do whatever was asked of me in the moment in order to survive
, he says.


Yes.


Something I want you to learn
, says Elliott,
 
if you want the dog perspective, is that if you’re a selfish, money-grubbing piece of shit, you’re always going to be fine. You’ll always come out on top. So what if you desecrate your profession? Nobody cares! This hand-wringing and moralizing is undignified and disingenuous. The next time you get the opportunity to fuck everyone else over for money, you’ll take it and you’ll carry on being fine. Repeat as required.




OceanofPDF.com

















68




IT IS LUNCHTIME AND
 
I am sitting around in my flat. I have not heard from Claudio or Justine and feel quite lost. Perhaps this is a feeling I should cultivate, lean in to black bag’s specific sorrows and patterns of behavior without trying to impose my own.


I have my diet, but what, given free rein, would black bag eat?


A pouch of dried olives. Olive raisins. A single cat hair that will not be flicked away.


Splinters of desiccated goat’s cheese. They would look like pieces of flint, would last for decades at the bottom of your hessian knapsack and gradually rehydrate in your mouth, becoming chewy.


I make myself a single piece of toast under the grill. I blacken one side a little. In the top freezer shelf of my fridge there is an ice tray that I have not used since I moved in, but it is full, so I run it under the tap and crack out five, six, seven little pebbles of ice. I place them on the toast, admire it briefly and then take a bite.


Interesting.


I stand by my beautiful curtains while I eat.


The One-Way app on my phone rings.


Justine?


Hi, bb.


You’re outside, I say.


Uh-huh.


And the car horns sound different.


I’m in Paris!


Paris?


My friend’s book launch. I had some research money to use up and yesterday I got to the end of a committee meeting and I thought, You know what?


I like the thought of you in Paris.


I’m just going to get on a train. Oh me too—especially when I’m actually there.


I’ll bet.


That’s when the thought of me in Paris really comes into its own.


People get so down on Paris.


Some people, says Justine, simply cannot be happy anywhere. My hotel room is the size of a wardrobe. I love it. So listen, are you sitting comfortably?


I can do.


Are you in the bag?


No, I’m just at home.


Put it on. When you’re talking to me, put it on.


Okay.


I’ll stay on the line.


Not wanting to waste Justine’s credit I very quickly disrobe and step into black bag. I feed the phone past my legs.


Okay?


Yes.


Good.


What’s your friend’s book about? I ask.


You’re sweet. You don’t need to ask me that.


I’m interested.


The biopolitics of eroticism.


Right.


You asked. But really … I’m here because I wanted to see the giant again, from the wedding.


Ohhh.


So on the way to the bookshop I message him, Hi we met at the wedding and this is weird but I’m in Paris and Therese gave me your number if you want a drink? And, just nothing. No response. So, fine. I have a nice night with my friend and her publisher and all of their gang; the bookshop is in this cute little alleyway opposite a wine shop and the proprietor comes to the reading even though I can’t really imagine her
 
being interested in the biopolitics of eroticism, even if she
 
is
 
French. And then we get some food.


What do you eat?


The bouillabaisse.


Nice.


And then we go out drinking, and it’s just so lovely the way everyone’s still out so late, a whole cross section, twenty-year-olds on mopeds, old men with cups of wine and for some reason a little boy just wandering around the bar.


It’s civilized.


It is! And then in the middle of the night when I’m about to get ready for bed—I’m super drunk by this point—he messages and tells me he’s very sorry he didn’t reply earlier, he’s at work. And I’m like, You’re at work? It’s 4 a.m.! And he gives me an address, and I look it up on the map on my phone and it’s only a couple of miles from the hotel, so I put on my flats and I walk.


I love to walk in cities at night.


Yes, as a woman I don’t get quite the same walking privileges, but I decide to chance it. And it’s four, so everywhere’s pretty much deserted. Halfway, I pass some apartments and one of the first-floor windows is open and I can hear laughing and trumpet music, but it fades as I round the corner and I’m following the little blue dots all the way to the right street and after another twenty minutes it turns out the address is this little patisserie called Gilda’s.


Gilda’s.


Yes, can you believe that? Of all the jobs I might have assigned him; no. He owns his own patisserie. Glorious little wedge-shaped place with a beveled display window. It’s like a cake shop from a storybook. And the pastries. I’m not even really into desserts, but they’re beautiful. All, like, mille-feuille and macarons. The colors and the glazes. I don’t think I’ve ever seen anything
 
so
 
pink or
 
so
 
green. Honestly, the colors, bb. And the gloss. Can you picture it?


I think so.


Like if you imagine a bank vault full of gold bars in a heist movie.


Right.


But they’re cakes.


Got it.


Opulent, is how I’d describe it. And really not priced for the casual consumer—it’s probably a money-laundering front or something. Because who knows how much luxury cakes cost, really? Rich people will pay anything for anything. And there’s one little low light burning inside, like the light in an oil painting, and then I realize that he’s standing there, in the near dark in the patisserie, watching me admire the cakes. And I must have startled, because he grins at me and then he opens the door and the bell rings.


I hear Justine’s voice, slightly more distant, saying, Hey. No, I’m fine, thank you. And then she says, Sorry, bb, where was I?


He’d just opened the patisserie door.


Yes! Right. And he says, You.


He just says you?


And I want to say something acerbic, but I just end up saying, This place is so lovely.


And he smiles and frowns at the same time, and he’s just as magnificent as he was at the wedding. He’s got a sort of reddish handkerchief around his neck like a cravat, which looks so good with his black beard and he’s wearing a sort of dark suit.


This is his bakery uniform?


Flour on the lapels. Little icing stain.


Wow.


I take his hand and I put it between my legs and I say, You’ve still got my underwear. And he laughs and says, Not on me.


And I say, Hmm.


Then he leans down and kisses me. I don’t know if you’ve kissed someone with a beard before.


Once. Bristly.


But his beard is soft, like a bearskin rug or something. It’s nice.


That does sound nice. How does he kiss you?


Forcefully.


Mm.


And his hand is still between my legs, but that’s not what I want, so I grab his arm and I pull it away, and he holds his hand up, like, I yield! And he leaves his hand up when I let go of his wrist. Then I go for his belt and undo it and then I just unbutton his fly with one tug.


Commanding.


I can be. Before he can make the next move I sort of slide around him and I push him toward the window display. It’s like steering a bull. And I put my arms around him and squeeze him from behind. And he chuckles.


He chuckles?


And I’ve got him sort of looming over the lavish display of cakes. The ones I guess he’s been making for the last however many hours.


Yes.


And I take out his dick.


Big?


Embarrassingly big. I mean I don’t want to be crass, but can you imagine the disappointment if it wasn’t?


No, that’s true.


So I have one arm around his thick waist and my face pressed against his back and with my other hand I just start very slowly working his dick, facing the window, right over the window display and the obscene array of brightly colored cakes. And he’s hard, but it’s still sort of … soft and rubbery, like a stress toy.


A stress toy.


Like a cucumber stress toy. And I say, Someone could just walk past at any moment but you don’t even care, do you? And I can feel him getting harder and harder, I’m touching him so slowly, and gently. And I mean then he gets hard like a … picture frame or a door handle, like absurdly hard, but I don’t speed up at all.


Yes.


I can hear his breathing get heavier and I think he’s probably got his eyes closed and I can feel him lean against the glass barrier, I can feel his weight shift as I gently work his dick over the display, right in front of
 
the window. And I’m whispering to him, It must get lonely. It’s almost an
 
impediment
 
being so big. I don’t know how you’d ever be able to fuck anyone.


Justine.


I’m still going so slowly, just working it up and down, softly, because I want to feel it, it’s beautiful, I want to really appreciate it, you know? I speed up just the tiniest amount. I tell him he’s beautiful and I can feel his whole body tense, and I whisper, Oh dear, you’re going to come for me, aren’t you?


…


Oh god, I’m going to cost you thousands of euros in spoiled goods.


…


Because you just can’t bring yourself to stop me. Can you?


What did he say?


He groaned, quietly.


Oof.


And I whisper to him, If you wanted to you could just grab my arm. Twist me around, pin me to the counter. But you won’t, will you? Because it feels too good. He sort of murmurs in assent.


Oh.


Like that, yes. I whisper, You must have worked so hard on all of these gorgeous cakes and I’m just going to make you come all over them. You’ll have to throw them all out. In a skip. You’ll have to close the shop for the day. Your customers will be so disappointed.


I imagine the rows of intricate cakes, glistening with semen.


I’ve really sped up by this point, says Justine, and he’s just completely at my mercy. And I can feel he’s there, and I know I could—right at the last moment—I could point his dick at the glass protective screen, but on the other hand, I could just … I’ve not completely made up my mind. I know I’ve probably only got a couple of seconds to—


My phone goes
 
boop-boop-boop
 
and the line goes dead. I sit in my armchair and stare at my phone.


A minute passes and it rings again.


Hey, I’m so sorry, I don’t know what happened—it just cut out.


That’s fine.


I actually have to get on the Metro.


You’re not going to tell me what happened?


Mm, says Justine, I’ll tell you next time.


What?


Haha.


You’re impossible.


I know.


I’d really like to see you.


Bb, says Justine. Yeah, I’ll be back in two days.




OceanofPDF.com

















69




CLAUDIO BUZZES ME IN
 
and from the lobby, I carry up three cardboard boxes that may or may not contain more black bag souvenirs for investors.


Oh, thanks, he says. T-shirts and water bottles. Where’ve you been at, dog? Missed you yesterday.


Seeing Justine, I say, insouciantly.


Oh that, says Claudio. Your girlfriend. What’s going on there?


I don’t think she’s my girlfriend, I say. She’s a professor.


Yeah, we met, says Claudio.


She’s great. I don’t know what we are, exactly. It’s a parallel experiment.


She just knows you as black bag?


Yeah. She tells me about these weird sexual escapades. I’m not sure if they’re real or not. When we see each other we either just talk or lie there getting each other very worked up. I like her a lot. Then she goes to see her husband every couple of weeks.


Her husband?


Yeah.


She’s married?


Yes.


Claudio expels air through his mouth like a horse, then shrugs.


You go to her place?


She has a cottage.


That’ll explain the new route, says Claudio, showing me a slightly different squiggle on his screen. Which generated some code chains that got the notice of our first overseas investors!


Oh yeah?


We’re breaking America, baby, says Claudio. Things are about to go
 
insaaaaaane
.


Insane meaning actual money? I say. Actual spending money that we can spend?


Patience. Claudio wags his finger at me. Get into some more interactions with people around town, yeah? People like that.


Which people?


Just go and get involved in shit. Or don’t—hang out in the background, but be visible.


Okay.


In the meantime I’m working on a new concept I think is gonna go big, he says.


Oh?


Claudio types on a new glowing-yellow mechanical keyboard as he speaks.


I’ve been very concerned about blackmail recently—blackmail has become a real epidemic. People are posing as teenagers and getting real teenagers to send explicit selfies and then extorting them, threatening to send it to everyone unless they pay up.


God.


Evil. Financial ruination, long-term mental health issues, suicides, the works. It’s awful.


That is awful.


We lay claim to a form of sexual liberation, says Claudio, but the attendant humiliation literally kills people.


Sex is really weird, I say, that’s for sure.


Now, traditional detective methods aren’t going to work here. These people are expert criminals. And we, as digital elders, we have a responsibility here, right?


Digital elders.


We have to make the world a safer place for those who come after us. It’s a solemn duty.


This is very noble of you, Claudio.


So, seeing as we can’t prosecute individuals, much as we’d like to, we flip it.


Flip what?


What I’m talking about is mass destigmatization, says Claudio. A world where nobody gives a fuck if you jack off into a webcam. A giant, worldwide public archive.
 
Everyone
 
sends nudes. Every day. We make it so it’s just
 
not a big deal
 
to have someone threaten to leak your private photos because there’s just no such thing as privacy anymore.


Hmm.


We make it so that it’s just—
so what?
 
That’s how we fuck the blackmailers.


You getting much take up on this?


I’m in some conversations, says Claudio.


I hear the One-Way alert on my phone.


Who’s that?


Justine.


Ah, says Claudio. Dude, listen, tell me if I’m out of line, but you gotta end that.


You, who is working on a mass archive of people jacking off to camera, worry that I’m out of line.


She’s married. It’s like … the second
 
commandment
.


Don’t get pious.


No, sure, but you’d tell me not to kill, right?


I’d tell you not to kill, I concede. I think they have some kind of arrangement—


You don’t
 
know
?


—and what’s it to me anyway?


Because you’re
 
sensitive
. You lose sleep for days if you think you offended a waiter and suddenly you’re happy
 
cuckolding
 
some guy?


No—


Because that’s not you, says Claudio. And if you’re not torturing yourself about it yet it’s through some wicked mental jujitsu you’ll only be able to keep up for so long.


Well, I say.


Yeah, says Claudio. I’m telling you what you already know.


You should try to monetize
 
that
.


What’s in it for you anyway?


She’s intelligent, she’s funny, she’s a posthumanist.


Okay, says Claudio.


She understands me. I love her, I say. I think I’m in love with her.


Gah! says Claudio. You’re going to have your heart handed to you in a jar. And then you’ll feel like shit for a year. A year!


People always talk about brains in jars, I say.


You think you can afford to waste a year?


But what of the heart?


At your age?


My age, come on.


It’s damage limitation at this point, says Claudio. You want to hit your forties at that kind of trajectory, fine. With anyone else I wouldn’t intervene, but you. I think there’s a very real risk you’ll go crazy and hurt yourself.


I’m not going to—


You don’t see it right now, because none of your visions of the future involve yourself. But you’ll think about this conversation in six months’ time, when you’re standing on top of a multistory car park.


Claudio.


You’ll think, Why didn’t I listen to Claudio? Look, on some level this is selfish, he says. I’m protecting my asset and I want you to focus on the matter at hand.


Right.


But I’d also rather not see you get hurt.


Noted.


So if you never do anything else I tell you again, he says, just tell her you want to cool things off, bring it to a respectful and respectable end.




OceanofPDF.com

















70




I ARRIVE DELIBERATELY LATE
 
on campus and avoid Justine’s building altogether. From across the quad I can see it has been fitted with scaffolding. A man winches a bucket up a long chain. A bucket containing my heart, my brain and my disembodied penis.


I go directly to the lecture. A couple of Blend’s students greet me casually. Hey, good to see you.


Blend talks about the sunk cost fallacy and whether it can truly be called a fallacy or not. If you buy a theater ticket and then stay at home on the night of the play and watch television, and miss it, you would feel aggrieved, yes?


I drift into a bland, two-dimensional sadness. I know that Claudio is right and that it is probably best to “call things off,” to “call time,” to “get out while the going’s good,” to tell Justine, whom I am falling in love with, that I can’t see her anymore, lest it become even more painful to do that in the near or middle distance.


If it’s this bad after eight weeks.


The dead soldiers will be no less dead, says Blend.


In Sweden, Birgitta’s house is full of people. A party? There are children in white gowns, stars on sticks. A buzz of activity, people clapping one another on the back. I feel possessive as they mill around bumping into Birgitta’s modest furniture and using her plates. This must be a traditional Swedish festival.


Happy Lucia.


It feels a little much to expect Birgitta to host it given her age and circumstances, but she seems content.


Beautiful, she says to me, proudly. You know that I was once chosen as Lucia, as a little girl. I was very proud. Nowadays we choose our Lucia with a
 
lotta
, a raffle. It is more fair.


Lucia is either named after a Saint or, alternatively, Adam’s first wife who consorted with the Devil and gave birth to invisible demons. Nobody is sure.


Birgitta, I say, how do you do something you don’t want to do?


She ladles some soup into a bowl for me.


If you are asking that, she says, you have already done it.


Two young women take her by the arms and spirit her into the middle of the room. They sing a song that begins
 
The night treads heavily
.




Two male students cross my path
 
as they leave the library, carrying three hardback books each. I love to see such sentimental scenes.


What
 
is
 
that? I overhear them saying.


I sit on a low wall by a water feature. What am I?


Black bag, the crucible, the container in which even self-consciousness melts.


I cannot even begin to enumerate my own cruelties and complacencies; the good analyst knows you are always lying, from the moment you enter their softly lit room, from the first to the last session, lying, so that they can only read the shapes left between the lies.


There are many things about myself I’d like to disown.


Justine would call sadism a kind of homeopathic cure for maleness. That when men are whipped, spanked, have their dicks locked in a little plastic cage, get led around on a leash or have their balls trodden on with a high heel it’s not that they
 
enjoy
 
it per se; it’s more a plaintive and heartfelt supplication:


I just want something; I just want
 
one thing
 
that isn’t my fault.




Hey, Justine’s message comes through
 
on One-Way. Where were you at eleven? Is everything all right?


I text back, Yeah.


After a pause, Justine replies.


Yeah?! You do realize that Yeah with a full stop is about the most passive-aggressive thing you can possibly text someone?


Sorry.


Come to my office at once.




I wander across the quad,
 
feeling, for the first time, completely ridiculous as a naked man within black bag, as if the pressure of having to make a decision has revealed to me the foolishness of the whole endeavor.


A group of four students smoking disposable vapes on a concrete bench giggle as I pass.


It’s an experiment, I say, in a loud, clear voice. Get over it.


The building is still thick with ivy, like a monkey temple in a children’s fact book. I make my way through reception and begin my shuffle up the three flights of stairs. Justine’s office door is open. She closes it behind me.


Sit down, she says.


I stand in the corner by the yucca plant and face her.


Justine frowns.


Bb, she says, what’s wrong? Did I do something?


I swallow an overwhelming buildup of saliva.


I don’t think I want to do this anymore, I say.


I’m sorry?


I think I’m out. I mean I’m out.


You’re breaking
 
up
 
with me? she says.


I take a deep breath.


Yes.


God, says Justine. Why the sudden—


It’s not sudden, I say. I don’t think this is healthy for either of us.


“Healthy,” says Justine, a tad scornfully. She appears to be grinding her teeth as she looks out the window across the quad.


Okay, she says. No. My response is no.


No, I’m not breaking up with you?


No, she says. You can’t. I’m surprised and I feel a little bit like I’m going to cry—


I feel sad too.


I mean it’s natural that
 
you’d
 
feel sad, says Justine. No offense.


None taken.


And also a little bit turned on, she says. It’s a novelty to see you asserting yourself. But the fact is you can’t break up with me.


I don’t think that’s how relationships work, I say. If one person isn’t in the relationship anymore, I think it’s technically over.


In what way?


You’ll message me and I won’t reply


Mmhmm.


You’ll summon me and I won’t come.


Sure, says Justine. We can see how that goes for you.


I am … grateful to you, I say, for whatever this was. And if I’ve been any help whatsoever toward your research. It’s nearly the end of term anyway, right? I suppose I assumed you’d be telling me it was over and thanking me and that you hoped I was okay with that.


This is just starting, says Justine, and it’s bigger than you. It’s bigger than a question of what you want—although I’m happy to see you expressing that for the first time. But it’s fine—you can leave this room believing that you’ve broken up with me.


That is what I’m doing.


You can leave any room believing anything—it’s most of what we do in life.


You’re angry.


Justine laughs. Sometimes you sound like an android in a space opera, she says, did you know that?


I like to be precise.


Do you love me?


This produces a quiver across my body that is close to erotic. I want, more than anything, to leap to Justine’s chair and take her in my nonexistent arms. But this, I am learning, is another characteristic of black bag;
 
its capacity to give comfort is limited. It asks you to look within yourself for comfort.


So much, I say. So much that soon there won’t be anything left of me to love you.


I’m not angry, she says. You’ve come to me with a proposal, which I have considered and rejected.


I don’t accept the terms of the rejection.


You don’t have a controlling stake in the terms.


So what do I do?


I have to go to a steering committee, says Justine. So you can do whatever you want. I love you too, by the way.


I’m saying goodbye, I say.


Say it.


Goodbye, Justine.




OceanofPDF.com

















71




I FIND A BASEMENT PUB
 
called Clara’s. Low vaulted ceilings like a crypt, the brickwork picked out by magenta lights. I lean against the bar and my finger hovers over the One-Way icon on my phone. I press and hold the app until a little
 
x
 
appears in the corner. I feel as if I am about to vomit up my own heart.


Can I help you?


The barman, a stocky man of around my age with a beard, looks as if he could weep at the sight of me, as if black bag appearing so early in a quiet shift is the last straw. I’m not sure how to put him at ease.


Are you Clara?


Yes, he says, wearily. I’m Clara.


What do you think of, I ask him, when you look at me?


I don’t know, Clara says. Is this being filmed?


No. Are your feelings broadly positive or negative?


I make it my business, he says, not to feel positive or negative toward anyone. It was difficult at first, but gradually, through a process of constant, gentle renunciation, I have come to greet everyone I encounter with a grim neutrality.


That’s very much to your credit, I tell him.


I order a pint of Extra Cold Guinness and a double Jameson chaser.


And perhaps you’d like one for yourself?


I’m fine, he says.


I sit alone in a dark alcove and stare at my drinks, and then I unzip black bag halfway and draw the Guinness in.


I hate myself for ending things with Justine. I could have left it a little longer. Even one more day of deferral. I do not like the prospect of going about my days without Justine as an internal copilot.


I need some reassurance.


I message Claudio.


I did what you said, I tell him. Feel like pure trash. Know you were right.


I drink most of my pint and down the shot.


Claudio doesn’t reply.


This isn’t his streaming schedule. Maybe he’s in a meeting.


I order the same again.


Then again.


He still hasn’t replied.


I know it was the right thing to do, I text him again.


I stare at my phone. Nothing. This is odd because usually when I text Claudio about a funny name of a hairdresser I saw he usually starts replying while I’m still typing.


Oh dear.


I will allow myself to get sufficiently drunk and then I will wallow in self-pity for a single night.


This is something that men do in the wake of heartbreak. They make the pub their field hospital, drink ostentatiously, confide in transitory comrades who will tolerate them because they see themselves, mate, I know it’s hard, and might one day have done the same—drink more, marvel at how little anything means to them: the bronze behind the bar, the design of labels on the pumps, the paltry thoughts of other men. Drink until they’re sick, laugh hollowly about being sick, then back the next afternoon, a cigarette burn on their sleeve. All the while trying to get someone’s attention: sending out a distress call, firing off a flare gun in the middle of an ocean that only exists in their own head; trying quite hard to put themselves in danger, imagining the one they’ve altogether lost access to might finally notice them and say,
 
Well in that case, if you’re down that bad, I love you again!
 
A love inspired by your pathetic rage and emotional instability! Who, after all, can resist a self-destructive drunk? Not I, queen of your imaginary seas. Men are like this and we see it as sort of funny when it’s really sort of dangerous. Melodramatic, childlike, pitiful when it isn’t also a threat; an act of ownership litigated after the fact. It could end far, far worse and sometimes does.


I will allow myself one night of it. Then I will commit to my performance wholesale.


Anyway, it is altogether more plausible for black bag to be alone.


On the way home I will buy two bottles of red wine on my credit card.


A true sloughing off. Of that which I had mistaken for a self. Maleness. The River of Shame. A thousand squalid social equations pertaining to what I expect or imagine some entitlement to. Love the only life preserver, but look how we use it. Dead snakeskin. A lizard tail. This is what black bag is for. The same thing any black bag is for. Fill it up and throw it away.




OceanofPDF.com

















72




I AM SO HUNGOVER THAT
 
every single one of my arm hairs hurts in its own singular way, each hair sick with a specific untreatable malady.


I sit at a tall table in the drinks concession by the lecture hall and watch the student population flow around me. Claudio does not respond when I write to him about staying over. He still has not read my previous messages. This gives me cause for concern, not because I desperately need to stay over, which affects only my commute, but because I am very sad and need his support. It is just as well I am literally unable to message Justine on One-Way or I’d take it all back.


I do worry about Claudio, too.


We should worry about everyone, and would if we had the bandwidth.


I try to suppress the image of him falling from his balcony.


I once asked Claudio about his commitment to hallucinogens.


You know that feeling, he said, when you’re on a long journey and there’s still hours to go and you get so bored that you can’t even distract yourself? You’re so bored of your phone but you can’t stop looking at it. You just joylessly scroll, you watch something, you read other people’s arguments. You can’t stop even though the boredom is like a physical force weighing your limbs down, like the boredom is a substance you have to consume, spoon by spoon. But then eventually you get home and you’re calm, you take off your shoes and you lie in bed and what do you do? You have a nice relaxing scroll on your phone. You watch something, you scroll endlessly, you read other people’s arguments and everything feels just fine. It’s fun.


Sure.


Well I feel like I’m stuck on the long, delayed journey, permanently, he said. At some point I got stuck in that whole way of being and the drugs are the only way I get to go home.




I’m being called by a withheld number.
 
Against custom I answer rather than decline because it could be Mason or Claudio or someone with news of Claudio.


An amused male voice says Hello before I have a chance.


Hi? I say.


You don’t know me.


I don’t. Who is this?


But we have something in common.


Are you black bag?


Goodness me, no.


His voice is sonorous and clear like an off-duty newsreader passing you dinner: And now, potatoes; with me, Jonathan Whatever.


I’ve looked into you a little, he says. You’re not atypical for the times, but nonetheless interesting. At
 
your
 
age you ought to be fretting over a promotion, a kitchen extension, the right school for your children. But you’ve chosen something else.


I’ve not chosen anything, I tell him.


Oh, he says, you have. Don’t be taken in by your own compliant nature, which is, in itself a choice. It would be almost funny if you believed that.


Listen, I say, I don’t know if you’ve paid much attention to the last couple of decades but a life of quiet desperation is an impossible dream for my generation. We look at your struggles and laugh.


Now now, he says. You don’t know anything about me.


We’d love nothing more than affordable accommodation to fail in. Do you work with Mason?


No. Let me tell you about another frustrated artist, he says, who railed against modernity and the debasement of his medium, who blamed society for his own mediocrity and failings …


What?


Who, despite his contemptible nature, rose to power on a—


All right, all right, I say.


Successful
 
male artists are bad enough, he says. I have been given a message to convey to you, and the message is this: You have an obligation to see this through.


Right, I say. I’m looking for my friend Claudio. He’s disappeared. Do you have any idea where he is?


That’s none of my business, he says. What
 
is
, what concerns me directly, is Professor Justine Pearce’s research. As her husband, I’m invested in her work, if not directly—


Oh, I say. Sorry.


—then as a stakeholder, emotionally and otherwise. You don’t need to apologize.


His voice changes between words, as sudden as a cough—it now sounds uncertain and tinny, the voice of a child plucking up the courage to speak in class.


I’m not some vengeful husband tracking you down to warn you off.


You sound like a little boy.


It’s the voice modulator, the child says, it’s malfunctioning.


It makes it difficult to take you seriously.


You might try anyway, he says. I’ve looked into you a little, the child’s voice says. You’re not atypical for the times, but interesting.


Is this a recording? I say.


As a large language model I cannot tell you what you should or shouldn’t do. You have to take responsibility for that yourself.


Is this really Justine’s husband?


Yes.


I’m not clear on what you want from me.


There are things, he says, that are worth losing yourself over. Does that make sense?


No, I say.


The line goes dead.




OceanofPDF.com

















73




I BRUSH OFF MY WHEELIE SUITCASE,
 
which I have not used for overseas travel in some years. I must work out what to do about Claudio, but it is also important that I look after myself and my living space. I need some new cleaning products and some vegetables and maybe a large bag of pasta. I will spend as little money as possible on these products and I will take pride in that. I am in a necessary period of adjustment as I get used to being without Justine and all the possibilities Justine entails, the grooves in multiple synapses we wore in, albeit over a short period of time. It is quite possible to feel utterly bereft in such a circumstance and as though life will never have any meaning again, but you don’t need to check the open wound constantly.


It is an unremarkable evening, overcast and a little damp. This is what the weather would be like in the English version of heaven.


I try Claudio’s phone again, but it goes directly to voicemail.


I text him:


Getting a little concerned, pal. Call me when you get this, yeah?


In order to appreciate the contrast and perhaps to reflect critically on my time as black bag so far, I will go to the supermarket as myself. I will set off for the supermarket wearing black jeans and a bright yellow T-shirt bearing the Happy Eater logo, a tomato boy pointing happily at his mouth.


Or just a text, I text Claudio, just let me know you’re okay.




In the supermarket I pause
 
to look at the batteries. I like to look at batteries. There is some residual childhood excitement, Christmases and birthdays, a remote control dragon that breathed smoke, eight double-As. Something chosen with love, imagining my face when I opened it. How
 
I love everyone and their smallest acts of sentimentality, then especially. My heart could burst open like a popcorn kernel.


I round the aisle for cereals, nutrient bars, instant porridges. At the far end, standing before an empty basket on the floor I see … what?


My extremities go cold.


The black bag is roughly five feet six, Bible black leather, identical. Black bag stands quite still, an empty basket at their bare white feet.


It is like seeing myself. In the wild, unobserved.


I approach slowly. I realize that I am moving my lips, silently gibbering.


Judging by the empty basket and the fact that they are standing, helplessly, staring at a high shelf of cereal they cannot reach, and couldn’t take anything from if they could, maybe black bag could use some assistance.


I stare at it.


Is this how it feels to look at me?


I feel an actual sense of revulsion.


It embarrasses me to admit that throughout my entire performance, and despite my all-pervading obsession with how I might be coming across, I have failed to really think about my audience and
 
their
 
needs. As ever I have been mercilessly self-involved; this is the way I have sabotaged every meaningful relationship I ever had. I should really call Angelique—even though she wanted to kill me—and apologize, give her another chance.


A failure to see myself through the eyes of the other. Which, if essentially impossible, is still a necessary aspiration.


Looking at this little gremlin unable to reach the healthy cereals I feel the sense of loathing that comes only when someone reminds you of yourself at your worst. The desire to punish them for it.


Hey!


Black bag turns, clocks me and kicks their basket around the corner, as if in a great hurry.


I push my trolley toward them.


They kick their basket around the corner of the cereal aisle and follow the basket out of my sight.


Hey, I say again. Hey, just wondered if you need some help?


When I round the corner there is no sign of black bag. I frown and push my trolley to the next aisle—teas, coffees, hot chocolates, herbs and spices. Black bag is not here either.


I keep walking and eventually I double back on myself and revisit the bakery section, and when black bag isn’t there I am forced to admit that I made the wrong call—they could be anywhere in the supermarket by now.


Baby. Detergents. Nothing.


Perhaps I can cut them off at the exit.


I abandon my trolley by the special-offer crisps.


There is nobody by the automatic doors.


Claudio, hey, I text. I saw another black bag. Call me.


I wait by the toy dispensers. Slimy little kittens in an egg. Bejeweled Mario keychains.


At five minutes past four I see black bag traveling down the trolley escalator toward me. I sidle behind the machines and watch him leave by the automatic doors. I let a mother and child go first then pop my head out. To my right, black bag is ambling out of the car park and back toward the main street.


Oi!


Black bag gathers pace and hustles down a side lane.


I give chase. I can move when I need to.


Black bag is surprisingly quick given their bare feet.


I emerge onto the main road and look left, then right. Picking their way between pedestrians, aware of their inability to blend in, black bag is maintaining a steady pace, clearly in a hurry but eager—insofar as that is possible—not to look as though they are running away.


You! The bag! I’m not trying to scare you I just want to talk!


I run, sometimes on the pavement, sometimes in the road when it’s clear. I feel powerful and unrestricted, playing the part of an ordinary thirty-something.


I pursue black bag into a cobbled alleyway. Dim yellow lights. Each shop has a matching painted cream sign with its name and logo. A vinyl record store, a luxury coffee roaster, vintage clothes boutique.


I watch black bag disappear into one of the last shops on the right, which, as I draw level, I can see is called Chance’s Perfumery.


A bell rings as I push the door. Enormous glass jars full of amber liquid. Too many scents to pick out, like trying to listen to someone else’s dream.


I am out of breath and probably look quite awful.


Did someone in a black bag come in here?


The woman behind the counter shakes her head.


Okay, I say. Sorry.


A black bag? she says.


It must have been another shop, I tell her. I head back outside.


I am opposite a store that sells small glass ornamental animals. I briefly consider the brain feel of giving one’s life entirely to the design, craft and sale of small glass ornamental animals. Last on the left is a dark and dusty bottle shop, which is closed.


Fuck.


Then with a tinkle of bells, black bag emerges tentatively from the glass-animal shop, freezes when they see me.


You! I say, by now with a little spite.


Black bag hobbles then takes off across the street and down the next alley, less salubrious, the backs of restaurants and cafés, their steaming vents.


I run after them despite my burning lungs.


Will you just
 
stop
?


I am unsure why I feel such antipathy toward the other black bag. Either I see them as an imposter or competition for my performance as black bag, or it is purely that they are running away and I am trying to catch them: This relationship alone is bound to produce frustration.


It’s possible they know something about Claudio.


Black bag hops across the next road, and a white van, careening through the narrow lane, temporarily obscures my view. When it passes I can see that black bag has stopped and is leaning against a red skip. I fast-walk toward the skip, brace myself with one hand on the brick wall and try to get my breath back.


For goodness’ sake, I say to black bag. Why are you running away from me?


Why are you
 
chasing
 
me?


Black bag has a reedy, male voice.


Who are you?


Black bag says nothing.


Why are you doing this?


Black bag says nothing but crumples slightly.


I try to think of how I’ve felt when people question me impertinently, how badly it reflects on them.


Why does everyone hate me? he says, quietly.


Listen, I say, I’m sorry for chasing you. I’m not trying to hurt you. I don’t want to upset you and I didn’t mean to come across as threatening by chasing you. I just want you to answer some questions.


I’m not supposed to talk, he says.


I know, I say. You’re not supposed to talk or do anything expressive or interact with anyone or anything in any significant way.


Do you work for them? he says.


Do I work for whom? I say. Who are they? Who do
 
you
 
work for? Who’s making you do this? Dr. Blend? Are you at the university?


I don’t know who that is. I study archeology, he says, weakly.


You’re a student?


Second year.


I
 
am black bag, I say. I. I created black bag and I
 
am
 
black bag. That’s why I was chasing you. Who gave you this?


I take the top left corner of black bag between my thumb and finger and he flinches.


Please just let me go, he says.


I don’t understand why you’re intimidated by me! I tell him. I’m a nice person! I just want to know why you’re going around like this.


I can’t tell you. I’m sorry. I can’t tell anyone.


You do stand out, rather, I tell him. You have to expect a
 
little
 
attention. Do you mean to say your intention is to tell me nothing at all?


I
 
can’t
.


I’m not very comfortable with this. I am black bag. I
 
am
 
you. I’m not very comfortable with someone else running around being me. You could do anything. This is a very delicate time.


Black bag does not respond.


I happen to work at the university, I say. I could come and find you in the Archeology Department if I wanted to. I don’t suppose it would take me long to find you.


What is it you
 
want
 
from me?


Do you work for Dr. Blend?


I don’t know who that is.


Do you know where Claudio is?


I don’t know who any of these people are!


Then where did you … why are you being black bag?


A light rain begins to fall.


We meet in a hall. On Saturday evenings, black bag says, so softly and regretfully that I have to lean right up to him and smell the leather. It’s …


Saturdays. We? There’s more of you? Where is this hall?


I can’t tell you. You have to be invited. I’ll get kicked out. It’s hard to get to it.


And how do you get an invitation?


They have to come to you. It’s very strict. Please don’t …


He whimpers and sounds so broken that I take pity on him.


Go on, I say. Get out of the rain. Go home.


Black bag bobs at me and I watch as he hobbles disconsolately around the corner.


I begin the surprisingly long walk back to the supermarket. I walk like a rooster. What a wretched little understudy. I feel angry with him for making me feel superior. I do not like to feel superior to anyone. I am determined that the next time I encounter the black bag, I will
 
also
 
be black bag and we will feel a true sense of solidarity as the offscourings of the world.




I unpack my shopping and then I look up “black bag meeting,” “where do the black bags meet” and “church of black bag.” I am shown a Saint James leather tote bag for £2,500. I learn that a “brown bag meeting” is an informal workplace meeting, usually over lunchtime. I learn about the bin collection dates in Carmarthenshire.


I should have threatened him more.


I drink two-thirds of a bottle of red wine until I feel sedated enough to go to bed.


I dream that I am trying to vomit up a man, a red and skinless man. He is smaller than me and hollering; an oral horse birth, my mouth spread impossibly wide. When I have brought him up, the man stands before me, three feet tall, raw and slimy, his thin arms long enough to reach the ground. I rub my jaw. He gives me a pointed look and leaves the room.


He is probably going out to pick up stationery supplies for his recordkeeping.




OceanofPDF.com

















74




THE LATE AND CROWDED BUS,
 
the stumble as I climb the steps, the kids that stare at me and laugh. All of it is targeted on a specific point, a large hadron collider of resolve. Every space I must move through.


I will disembark close to campus and try Claudio’s apartment.


I have an image of him overdosing, insofar as that’s possible on rare hallucinogens, and lying dead in there, unbeknownst to even his closest friend.


Curses.


I force my index finger to the front of black bag and press the button.


Silence.


With very little hope I do so again. Then with some trepidation I press the button above Claudio’s, 1215, and after a few seconds a well-spoken elderly male voice says:


One-two-one-five?


Hi, I’m sorry, I’m a friend of Claudio’s—


You’re a what?


I know your neighbor.


You know what?


I haven’t heard from my friend in a while—


Who on earth
 
is
 
this?


I’m really sorry, I say. I was just wondering if you could check on flat 1214.


For what possible reason?


Or just if there’s been anything suspicious.


Aside from a complete stranger activating
 
my
 
intercom and asking me inscrutable questions?
 
That
 
I might classify as suspicious, says the voice.


Sorry.


That intercom, the voice continues, is a part of my
 
home
. You have no right to press this button and summon me from my chair just because such a button exists. Nobody does.


I understand, I say.


And yet every other day …


People ring your bell a lot?


People what?


Does this happen a lot?


Once would be too much. It’s one thing to be constantly receiving oversized packages for complete strangers but quite another to be terrorized by loiterers when you want simply to live out your last days in peace, rereading Céline.


I didn’t know, I say. I sincerely apologize.


Good. Run along, then.


Sorry again.


I stand there for a bit, feeling stupid, then I press the buzzer for 1216 but nobody answers.




OceanofPDF.com

















75




I AM SHOCKED TO SEE
 
a young man at the front of the lecture theater. He is wearing some expensive- looking wire-framed spectacles, a pressed white shirt and blue chinos. The young man is quite stout, but, I think, healthy. He would be in better shape, but he has to work so hard and it keeps him at his desk. But for that he would have a rower’s physique. He puts his messenger bag on the lectern and takes out a pile of photocopied handouts. He is visibly shaking, but keeping it under control.


The students in the audience exchange concerned whispers and glances.


Thomas, in the next row but one, looks over his shoulder at me and touches his eyebrow twice. I do not know what this means.


Everyone, hey, I’m Dr. Mazower, the young lecturer says. Oliver. Ollie. I realize it can be quite disconcerting when a tutor changes even halfway through a course let alone a week from the end. But we’ll cope, won’t we?


He smiles nervously.


Today I thought we’d just talk over the exam questions and we can go through some model answers. Does that sound okay?


Nobody says anything, but some people nod.


Dr. Mazower projects five sample exam questions on the board.


There are some murmurs of concern.


Just try to narrow it down, says Dr. Mazower. If any of them leave you cold, ignore them. Find one that you have some interest in and we’re probably talking a couple of long days in the library revising, no more than that. I’ll talk you through doing a literature review, compiling your own crib sheet. Okay? You’ve looked at Frenning, presumably?


Silence.


Not looked at Frenning, he says, puzzled. Are you quite sure?


Some of the students obligingly turn back through their notes. One of them looks up and shakes his head.


Well, stop me if this is going over old ground, says Dr. Mazower. Attraction theory was established by Samuel Frenning. The psychologist. Does that ring any bells?


Nobody says anything so he carries on elucidating the basics of attraction theory.


It is as if Dr. Blend had split open like a chrysalis and a younger, more coherent, more student-focused lecturer stepped out. Everyone around me takes notes in a frenzy as if making up for lost time and it does, to be fair, seem as though Blend rather neglected his own syllabus and basic learning outcomes.


Given that I am not submitting an assignment for this module—and that I no longer know quite what my purpose is in the room or on the campus without Dr. Blend to observe me or the results of my presence—I strive to blot out Dr. Mazower’s words.


My thoughts turn to Claudio.


Once I have thought something through in detail it is impossible for it to happen, so I try not to imagine anything good.


This is difficult. You have to start by imagining something good.


A quiet Californian skate park surrounded by palm trees in the evening light, a dark blue that lightens to merge with the orange clouds on the horizon. Five birds fly west.


And then ruin it.


Claudio falls horribly from his skateboard and breaks his wrist.


And then move on to worse.


Claudio: terrified on salvia divinorum in a distant squat, a woman with no teeth approaches saying, It’s alllllll right, numpty. Claudio: handcuffed to a basement radiator. Claudio: buried in an unmarked grave.


I dedicate five minutes’ meditation to each scenario to make sure they can’t happen.


Please be okay.


Please.


God, please.


Something is jamming my signal, and I think it might be the insistent clarity of Dr. Mazower’s lecturing style.


He is talking about the “weak constraint.”


I try to go back to Birgitta in the notional Swedish town.


There is an otherworldly stillness to the cabin—it looks like a photograph.


I call her name, but I can tell nobody is there—it’s as if my voice disturbs the dust. The kitchen has been cleaned meticulously. I rap my knuckles on the silver skillet.


I tie tennis rackets to the bottom of my boots and hike down Birgitta’s snowy hill, then I walk through the streets, my empty sleeve lashed to my shoulder. People look away when they see me.


Say what you like about the death of community values; at least there’s nothing to be
 
cast out of
 
anymore.


I am approaching the bar where I might check in with a couple of colleagues when a man with a droopy gray mustache puts his hand on my shoulder.


Lennart? he says.


I nod. Why not?


He says something in Swedish. He looks perplexed when I don’t understand.


Ah, he says. Birgitta, he says, and looks at me solemnly. He slowly closes his eyes.


I understand that between now and the last time I thought about her, Birgitta has died.


Months have passed, in fact.


I look at the paving stones and he gives my shoulder a squeeze, says something conciliatory in Swedish and carries on down the road.


I wipe a tear.


Själv och ensam.


I know what you’re thinking: You made her up! Just imagine her alive again!


But you know that’s not how it works, you know this is as real as you or me, the great irreversible.


I stand at Birgitta’s grave, holding a bundle of forget-me-nots.


What did she always say? Death is God’s broom. Death is the last door.


I wonder if I should contact the police. About Claudio, I mean.


Mazower wraps up his talk asking students to contact him if they have any questions. I feel a presence over me as the students leave. I look up to see Sophie. Not other Sophie. The original.


I got a First! she says. In my assignment! I know the exam’s sixty percent of the marks, but still. I thought you should know, because you helped me so much with it. I didn’t know what I was doing.


I look at Sophie. She seems very happy. She smells of vanilla essence.


I know you can’t speak, she says.


I stamp my foot once.


Some of us have been talking about getting a drink after the final session, she says. I don’t know if you’re into that sort of thing.


I stamp my foot again.


Well, we’ll let you know, she says. Thanks again. I just wanted to … She takes off her shoulder bag and puts it on her other shoulder. Thanks, she says.




OceanofPDF.com

















76




DR. BLEND’S OFFICE DOOR IS LOCKED
 
and, furthermore, his nameplate has been unscrewed and there is a lighter patch of wood where it used to be, like grass under a tent. On top of this, a Blu-Tacked piece of card reading:
 
Dr. Mazower
.


A voice from inside the office says, One minute.


At first I assume I must have taken a wrong turn or that I should be in an identical hallway on the floor above or below, but then I notice the door opposite bears the familiar black-and-white photograph of a tricycle I hated the first time I saw it. So it’s definitely the right place.


Dr. Mazower opens the door. He is holding a pile of hardback books, which he places on the floor. He looks me up and down and frowns.


Dr. Mazower? I say.


That’s me. Can I help?


Dr. Mazower does not flinch or react to black bag’s appearance, which endears him to me.


I’m here for Dr. Blend.


Oh? Dr. Blend? he says. I’m sorry I just started here on Friday and I’m terrible with names. Is he in this department?


I work for him. Has he moved?


This was his office?


Yes.


Actually, says Dr. Mazower, they didn’t tell me anything about who I was replacing, not even his name. Dr. Blend, did you say?


Replacing?


I started a teaching fellowship on Friday—really fortunate timing, actually; I was about to move halfway up the country for some sessional hours across three different institutions and it barely would have paid my rent. Landed on my feet with this.


Will you be taking over his modules?


Are you a student?


Sort of, I say.


Postgrad?


I’m part of an experiment.


Oh.


Are you taking over his projects too? His research?


Oh
 
no
, says Dr. Mazower, hahaha, not at all. Oh dear, somebody really ought to have contacted his research students to explain the situation. But this is fairly typical, I’m afraid. Welcome to higher ed!


He holds out his palms.


I’m not exactly chuffed at taking over someone’s modules a few weeks from the end, he says. It’s like trying to leap onto a galloping horse. What’s worse, the VLE is an absolute mess and nobody’s uploaded the handouts. That’s not unusual, of course.


Did he leave anything behind? I ask. In his office?


It was spotless, says Dr. Mazower.


Any notes?


Gosh, I am sorry, he says. This is obviously a bit of a shock. I’ll email the head of department if you like. What did you say your name was?


It’s fine, I say.


Fionn, he says, is that Irish?


I mean it’s okay—you don’t need to email anyone.


Well, if you’re sure, he says. I should get on—I’m teaching in half an hour and I’m pretty much going to have to wing it.


They told you nothing?


I’m sorry?


About who you were replacing?


Short-term contract to the end of the academic year to include assessment and exam boards, says Dr. Mazower, then I’m out on my ear again. I had a half-hour interview. I assumed someone must have died suddenly, but perhaps not if you were expecting him today.


He was expecting
 
me
, I say.


He looks me up and down again.


I dare say, he says. Well, it was nice to meet you, Fionn, and I’m sorry for the unwelcome surprise. Perhaps if you just email the faculty, they’ll explain everything. They should do, anyway. I do hope there’s been
 
some
 
communication to his students. God.


He looks suddenly quite pained and I step back from the door. He says, Cheers then, nods and closes it.


I stand in the empty hallway for a moment. I frown at the tricycle.




OceanofPDF.com

















77




I LIE ON MY LIVING ROOM FLOOR
 
and look up Claudio’s most recent broadcast, two weeks ago. I watch for three hours in the hope that he might say something about taking a holiday or going to an expo. Instead he spends a whole hour designing his character’s penis then plays a multiplayer game where you make military bases and kill people, takes a Google Earth tour of the lowest-rated burger joints in America, makes fun of some nineties game shows. He has one interaction with the chat.


You think I seem pretty low energy? … Maybe I’m questioning the point of all this … Aw, I know … I’ll tell you what you need to do—I haven’t changed at
 
all
 
… In four years … an unbroken run of excellence … I’ll tell you … You need to vary your media diet. If you’re watching four hours of
 
me
 
every day of course you’re going to get sick of it. Find some other interests. Do that for me—find
 
one
 
other thing you like.


Days later, people in the comments, patrons and backers, are starting to lose it.


Hey. Hey. It’s Monday. Where’s the upload?


Are you done? Have you quit? Statement?




I feel fortunate for the distance
 
I have always enjoyed between myself and my audience. I am never required to cater to them, they never ask anything of me outside of the moment of performance.


I would really like to see Justine.




Dude, says one of Claudio’s followers,
 
I don’t mean to be melodramatic but a lot of us in this community depend on you for our mental health.


Ooh, me mental health! another replies.


Our mental helth is yr mental helth


yes look at it that way and this is a *dereliction of duty*


like if you’re just going to quit you need to do it RESPONSIBLT otherwise its ghosting which is as bad as gaslighting


its abuse clausdio is an abuser


it’s not us it’s you


You want us to go crazy and start stockpiling arms and ammunition?


This is your DUTY OF CARE


Seriously though dude hope you’re okay. A little note ? a little reply just to let us kmow




I go into a trance reading
 
endless comments and replies to comments under Claudio’s stream. I’m not taking it in anymore as by this point I have probably read as much as a short novel in semiliterate annotations and am deeply involved in the social microtransactions of people with names like TempleOfSyrinx and LilGranpa:


Is this connected to the thing with Persephone’s statement? Do you think


i’ve invested five grand ISTG if he’s done a bankman-fried


Wait wait Claudio fucked Persephone???


I don’t think Claudio has anything to do with.


Claudio doesn’t have anything to do with *any* other streamers you know he keeps himself out of all that


yeah stop spreading shit for no reason


It just feels like weird timing.


Oh god shut up—touch grass


“touch grass” thank you to our 2017 correspondent. Squad goals! Spoiler alert! Too soon? Dumpster fire! Awesome sauce! I want my money


Fuck, and I cannot stress this enough,


#AccidentalWhedon


I know we’re just shooting the shit here but this man is the closest thing I have to a friend


same


same same same


you see what happens when you leave us alone claudio


and I just hope he’s okau




My phone hits my lower lip
 
and I realize I have been reading the same loop of commenters over and over again, the words abstracting before me. I let the phone rest in the middle of my chest, pausing, before I lose consciousness altogether, to wonder if the waves will interfere with the natural electromagnetic rhythm of my heart in a way that could cause long-term damage.




OceanofPDF.com

















78




I AM DOWN TO THE
 
last twenty-pound note from Blend’s envelope and really need to think about making some money if I want to keep a roof over my head. I check for replies from my three applications.


I can’t dislodge the thought that Claudio might be dead. He’s dead and the last conversation we had was about computerized dicks.


I send him a pointless string of question marks. Nothing. I would like to call his mother, but I haven’t spoken to her since I was a kid. Or Shayna, but I have no idea where she went. We have no numbers for next of kin or emergencies. He is my closest friend in the world, but he is a dead end.


I can’t sleep.


The oily visions.


Bubbling feathers.


Everyone gets those.


The
 
faces
.


I will try to harness the involuntary power of maladaptive daydreaming to create a functional mirage of Justine.


Right now she would scratch the back of black bag’s head affectionately.


Nobody really understands, do they? she’d say.


Nobody gets how hard you’re working.


Nobody appreciates how much this takes out of you. It’s a very draining job.


Nobody fully comprehends that.


But I do.


I have forgotten to pour any water on my tea bag. I walk from the kitchen to the bedroom and back again.


My phone rings and a flat, long-haired face appears.


Howard?


Hey, courtesy call, checking in on this evening, he says.


Oh God. Today, sure, I say.


Five-thirty, all right? You can get to Gunver House okay?


I’ll get there.


Good, good, says Howard. Big crowd, so bring your A game.


When have I not?


I hang up and pace around the flat. Kick a shoe.


I do not want to do a murder-mystery dinner. I want very urgently to look for Claudio.


But next month’s rent is due.




Half an hour’s walk from
 
the nearest bus stop, Gunver House looks like a mock plantation mansion, wings spread menacingly, open shutters, columns before a covered porch. An upmarket hotel and convention center. I’ve not bothered to look up its history. I’d disown all British history if it was mine to disown and perhaps a tiny carpaccio of it is. Not so much a long line as a gossamer-thin slice of tailors and skivvies and undertakers. (Did you bury anyone important?) Soldiers, naturally. Don’t we all come from that? In the service of. A scattering of frustrated artists across the centuries, largely insolvent if not altogether debauched.


Therefore, what is mine, I disown it.


This has always been an upmarket hotel and convention center, whatever the conventions, and my people have always visited it to pretend to be part of a murder mystery.


It’s that or grab a shovel and a sympathetic bearing.


Which I’d be good at, actually.


I’d be a great undertaker.


It should probably be my plan B.


Howard is unloading a rack of costumes from a white Luton van.


Howard.


Hello?


It’s me.


What the fuck do you look like?


This is how I’ve taken to going about, I tell him.


Why? Howard undoes his ponytail and shakes out his hair.


I’m not completely sure yet.


It looks ridiculous.


That’s part of it, yes.




At the dressing table on wheels
 
I apply, to my face, a nontoxic Venetian ceruse called Spirits of Saturn. It is odd to look at my face for an extended period of time. I flick through the script while I wait for the first layer to dry.


It is called
 
The Heel
. In 1920s New York a man hires a private detective in an attempt to win back his girlfriend who, he suspects, has run off with another man, an art dealer. Gradually, though, the detective uncovers dark secrets from his client’s past and begins to wonder exactly why he’s been engaged …


I’m playing the detective again. I glance around the defunct reception room. A heavy boy with a mustache is sitting in a gilded chair and doing up a pair of patent leather shoes, probably the disgruntled boyfriend.


I feel a hand on my shoulder.


Babe, are you nearly done?


One more coat—sorry, Samantha.


No, don’t rush. How you doing, anyway? Haven’t seen you since …


She adjusts her hair.


I’m good, thank you, sweetness, I say. Doing some site-specific stuff.


Ooh, artsy.


Very.


Well that’s you, isn’t it?


And you? What happened with the film?


Don’t
 
ask.


I won’t.


Fucking nightmare. I mean I’m back here, aren’t I? I do love a bit of Brooklyn dialogue, though. What was that old
 
Viz
 
comic?
 
Hey buddy, have you soiled your pants?


Soiled them?
 
I say,
 
Why I only just boight them!


Hahaha.


Bit intense, isn’t it, hiring a private detective to get your girlfriend to notice you?


Men do some pretty crazy things when they’re sad, I say.


That’s usually their defense, isn’t it? says Samantha. I was sad.


I think my friend’s gone missing, I tell her. Maybe I should hire a private detective to look for him.


Do they still exist, PIs?


Oh, for sure, I say. I guess they mostly do internet stuff now.


You clocked the rubes?


Clocked
 
the
 
rubes
?


It’s not the usual crowd, she says. They look a bit fancy.


I crane my neck and try to glimpse the dining hall in the top corner of the vanity mirror. I can see a bare arm and a white tablecloth.




Dinner theater is a curiously
 
condensed form, and the bulk of the action takes place between the main course (pork belly) and dessert (deconstructed trifle). Before coffee there is a final scene and then tables must confer and vote for a suspect. The winning tables get an impractically large bottle of sparkling wine, which they usually open there and then and cannot finish.


After my monologue at the end of act one, I pop out of the French windows, where Samantha, the girlfriend, and Matilda, the femme fatale, are smoking cigarettes. Matilda is wearing a gold ball gown.


God, she says, throwing her cigarette into a planter. I think I’m getting an ocular migraine.


Close your eyes, darling, says Samantha. Breathe.


Matilda leans back in Samantha’s lap and puts her hand over her eyes.


Oh, she says.


Massage your temples, says Samantha.


Matilda is young and will probably not have to do this for much longer. She’ll get a job with an improv-comedy group as the pretty one and do a couple of Fringes. Eventually I can see her working in something arts adjacent, marrying sensibly rich. I give her the same daughters I imagined having with Samantha, why not? PTA meetings, badminton, second home in the Gower Peninsula.


Summarize any good life and you sound like a judgmental prick. I don’t really resent her any of it.


How are you feeling now, gorgeous? Samantha asks her.


Like shit, says Matilda, sitting up. Let’s get this over with.


Come
 
on
. Howard appears at the door and ushers us back in. I don’t know what’s got into you all tonight.


It’s a perigean full moon, says Samantha.




I am in the “wings,”
 
waiting for my cue in the final act, when I receive a text telling me that my package has been delivered.


Your package was delivered at 19:07 to 7 Metro Oasis
.


Claudio’s address. This is odd.


Please follow the link to rate your experience
.


Claudio has asked me to look after parcels for him before, sometimes had drugs delivered to my address for safekeeping until I asked him to knock it off, but has never, in my experience, given my phone number as a point of reference, so this feels like an unignorable sign.


There are still several pages of script to go once I have delivered my final line—
Well, toots, maybe some things mean even
 
less
 
than others—
succumbed to a gunshot wound and been dragged off stage. Duty demands that I wait for the curtain call, but instead I quickly get out of my costume and hang it neatly on the empty rack. I climb back into black bag, slide on my flip-flops and leave through the French windows, cracking my knee against the planter ashtray.




OceanofPDF.com

















79




THIS IS NOT THE USUAL
 
bus driver for this route and this time of day. Curly facial hair. He raises his eyebrows and seems about to comment but thinks better of it as I bow over the card reader and it approves my safe passage.


I hang around the glass entrance to Claudio’s apartment block. A middle-aged man wearing an overcoat and a hoodie approaches, takes a card out of his wallet and swipes it. The door buzzes and clicks.


Hi, excuse me, I say, but would you mind letting me in behind you?


Do you live here?


No.


Then I’m sorry but I can’t.


My friend asked me to check his post.


I just can’t, I’m afraid.


No, that’s fine, I understand, I tell him. Is it the bag? It’s just a bag.


He makes very certain to close the lobby door behind him and gives me a final, suspicious glance before heading to the lifts.


I walk down the road looking for some debris. In the gutter outside a Turkish barber I find a small length of pale wood. It looks like the snapped edge of a cheap picture frame, a little corrugated-metal ridge on one end. I adjust my feet in my flip-flops then I start to kick it up the street, back toward Claudio’s tower.


Once there, I position myself to the side of the door and wait for another resident to arrive.


This I take as an opportunity to practice. Ideally black bag should be not only speechless but thoughtless. If I have to stand for two hours or more, I should count it as sorely needed training.


I will stand perfectly still.


In fact it is less than twenty minutes before a woman with a pram and a howling baby stops by the door, sighs and scans her card.


Excuse me.


I’m sorry.


As she enters the building I slide the piece of picture frame into the doorway with the back of my heel. It catches the door from closing completely. I wait until she disappears into the lift with her pram and then I push the door open with my body.




In Claudio’s mailbox
 
I can see a white envelope, a brown envelope, a flier for a garden center and a small brown jiffy bag, tightly wrapped in Sellotape. It only occurs to me at this point that I cannot pick them up. But if ever there was a time to break character, regardless of CCTV, it is this. Without hesitating to look around I unzip myself and step naked out of black bag. I stare defiantly at the security camera, and then I grab Claudio’s post, step back into black bag, zip up again and force the mail into my pouch.




In my flat I emerge from
 
black bag and place the mail on my black lacquered table. It’s warm, so I put on a pair of swimming shorts and a white T-shirt. I open the wooden Chinese box on my desk and take out an American Spirit cigarette. I smoke one cigarette a month.


The brown letter is from HMRC, so I don’t open it. I place it on my desk to give to Claudio when he returns. The white letter is hand addressed so, feeling a little guilty, I open it and find a card depicting a photograph of a Jack Russell dog with sad, cartoon eyes. A tenner falls out and flutters onto the rug. The card is filled with small, cursive handwriting, written across the fold. I skim read it as if that makes my prying any more acceptable.


… reminded us how important it is to slow down and take stock sometimes … just wanted you to know I was thinking of you … looking forward to the season turning … although I know how busy you are.
 
It’s signed off
 
Lxxx
, which is not the initial of anyone I recognize from Claudio’s past, although the ten-pound note suggests a relative.


The parcel I was texted about bears Claudio’s address, but in place of his name are the words
 
BLACK BAG
.


I take a deep breath.


I get my bread knife and saw through the layers of Sellotape until the package unfurls. I tear the jiffy bag open but accidentally rip into the layers and it releases a cloud of gray fluffy asbestos that I will have to sweep up later. Inside the bag there is a piece of paper and a red cylindrical plastic pot, the sort that 35mm film used to come in.


I pop the lid off. A fine, dark brown powder that smells like a urine-soaked yard. I unfold the paper: an invoice for £178.00 from a company called Neural Plane.


Fucking Stutters, I say out loud. Of course.


Neural Plane’s logo is offensively bad in a manner I can only assume to be deliberate. A purple font with a ’90s word processor 3D effect. Underneath the invoice reads
 
Lot 519
, but aside from that there’s no address or contact number.


Without thinking, I lick my finger and take a dab of the powder from the plastic pot. It tastes like a nine-volt battery. I take a little more, whatever it is.


On some stupid level I feel like it might bring me closer to Claudio.


Or to understanding where he might have gone.


Or to passing through a metaphysical portal where I can find him and drag him back from the entities.


I scoop a little more onto my finger and swallow it.


I search “Neural Plane” on my phone and learn that there are three major neural planes, the axial, the coronal and the sagittal. I read about them for a few minutes until I forget what I’m doing and my hands feel fuzzy.


I search for “Neural Plane Complaints Department” and find nothing of any relevance.


I sit down against the wall.


I close my eyes and go into a doze, which might be five minutes or an hour.


Painting of a beach ball.


I can feel some other consciousness pressing against my own.


Like two sides of a pane of glass.


You are a part of this too.


You don’t get to opt out.


I open my eyes.


It’s like tuning a radio.


For an hour I trawl message boards where people trade stories about their escapades on unusual hallucinogens. The most popular trip reports are written in an unbearably florid, Lovecraftian voice, resorting to abstractions that convey little of the experience: For nothing could have prepared me for what I next endured. Despite my research on ego control, such was my delirium that my thoughts became blurred; reality had switched. So grim was my state of mind that I can scarcely put it into words, but I was utterly convinced that I had ruined my life forever. I felt that I was trapped in an eternal loop …


These people are idiots.


Barely a mind worth ruining between them.


On 
page 5
 of the message board I find a tab marked
 
Suppliers
. I search for “Neural Plane Complaints Department” again.


On 
page 113
 of the thread I find a comment about Neural Plane. No complaints unless you count my brain melting out of my ear and my life never being the same again!!! Three comments down, an account named NP519 has replied, Glad to hear it man.


Props to C for putting me onto u.




Props to C.
 
When I wake up, I realize I’m two hours into a video essay about the fall of Carthage selected for me by the algorithm. After a two-year siege the Romans systematically destroyed the city and everyone in it in less than a week. I go back to Claudio’s last uploaded video and the plaintive cries of his followers:


claudio seriously you always tell us if you’re going on holiday


dude never *goes* on holiday so wher r uuuuuu!


Silent treatment


What have we DONE TO DESERVE THIS?!


I was joking but actuall this *is* abusive and I’m losing all respect for you


channels been going downhill for months anyhow


Narcissists do like to go for the silent treatment I was in a narcissistic relationship for two years so I know


Well this must be triggering for you


I know right? claudio has triggered me of all people


I skip to the end of the four hours and three minutes. A good hour of the dice game. A quick art tutorial. I stop when I’ve scrubbed through to a crude pencil image of a black rectangle with two muscular calves protruding like one of Leonard Baskin’s crows, white dots for eyes.


The Claudio of a fortnight ago looks tired in his little square in the bottom right corner.


Okay, finally a black bag update, he says. We’ve had some good sightings, some good leads. I’m currently in the process of buying back the first cryptographic asset for 2.3 Bag Coin.


Cryptographic asset? Bag Coin?


The one with the stats from the very first dérive.


I do not recall discussing the concept of the dérive with Claudio, but I suppose it describes what I’ve been doing on some level, and Claudio is capable of looking something like that up for himself.


Then I’m gonna raffle it—to you—because I’m not like the other guys, he says. I’m not gonna sit here on my pile of gold, and I want it to stay in the community. I know, I know, I’m a mensch. This is for all of us. It’s for the people, you know? So that’s all going through and then something weird happened.


The tiny Claudio on the screen frowns. I don’t know if this is you guys. I don’t know if this is a joke or if you’re taking matters into your own hands. I just had time to take this.


Claudio brings up a digital photo of a low narrow boat, painted gray, blinds drawn behind its smeary windows. Standing at the tiller is a black
 
bag, looking wistfully across the water. He switches to another photo: Two black bags are getting onto the boat through an open portal in the middle.


I followed the boat at a distance because, you know, they don’t move very fast, says Claudio. Then the path ran out and the boat kept going so I had to climb up the bank to watch it. And it pulls into this, I don’t know, derelict place. I had to zoom way in so this is a bad photo.


Claudio brings up a pixelated image of a large corrugated-metal warehouse in the middle of some scrubland off the canal, taken at an angle with an out-of-focus branch obscuring half the image. It has tall dark red doors, which are ajar. Small, but clearly discernible, two black bags appear to be walking toward the warehouse.


So who knows! says Claudio. Not me. I was pretty certain I had exclusivity rights. But I’ll look into it and report back tomorrow and whatever happens, your money is safe—if anything, this only makes it better. And I’ll post details of the raffle end of the week. Okay. Tell your friends, call your mother, stay hydrated.


He holds up a hand.


The video ends with Claudio’s theme song, the kind of incongruous romantic ballad that often plays over the end credits of an ultraviolent anime, but at three-time speed and vaguely hysterical. I remember him commissioning it two years ago. You
 
have
 
to hear this, he said, delighted.




I start to look up Bag Coin,
 
but then something occurs to me. I rewind and pause Claudio’s stream on the still, grainy shot of the warehouse and the black bags walking toward it.


I take a screen grab and I google similar or matching images.


I am taken to an obsolete online photo-storage bank called Flickz. The peculiarly lonesome feeling of an abandoned website. It was posted in 2014 by an account called Manzal2. In Manzal2’s file there is a photograph of a tortoiseshell cat with one ear. A slightly blurred photo of a woman using a Hula-Hoop. Two photos of different hot dogs. And finally
 
a photograph of the same corrugated-metal warehouse from Claudio’s stream.


The warehouse on Flickz is identical to the one in the blurry photo on Claudio’s stream—same proportions, same red doors—but clearer and in higher resolution.


Generally speaking, I am not good with computers, but Claudio once taught me how to do this when we couldn’t find our friend’s car after a night out. Claudio had taken a photo of some interesting graffiti on the street where he’d parked it. We matched the image and put the coordinates into the map and found the car minutes later.


I save the photo and under Properties, I am given information about the file size, the file type and a geo position marker in the form of a long string of coordinates.


I cut and paste these into my map and a red drop pin appears on an industrial estate called Longman Point, 7.2 miles away. The latter part of the route appears to trace the canal for several miles, with no roads or tracks, as if the derelict complex has been cut off from civilization and might only be accessible by narrow boat. It is 2 a.m., so I can’t very well set off now.




I pace around my flat,
 
pick up an anthology of twentieth-century American poetry and put it down again. I take a little more of the dark powder, then I pour the rest of it into a cigarette paper from my miscellaneous drawer. This I light on my gas hob and smoke, efficiently, spluttering. The smoke is caramel colored and thick and tastes like a permanent marker. I get into black bag, zip it up, sit in my chair and wait.


At first, lacking anyone with whom I can compare notes, I do not feel affected in the slightest. I think I will get myself a glass of water, but then find I cannot get out of the chair. What feels like great physical effort produces, in my limbs, no movement whatsoever.


Claudio, for fuck’s sake, I say.


The feeling is one I have had before, dissociative, the place part of you floats off to when you faint. The same reluctance to return. A little
 
synesthesia. A honk from a chair leg in the apartment above produces a rhombus. A passing car, a conical snakeskin. We ought not be too disappointed if a hallucination resembles cheap head shop artwork when the cheap head shop artwork is, after all, a clumsy attempt to accurately illustrate a hallucination. Perhaps it is more like visiting America for the first time as an English person and feeling like you are in a film. That kind of familiarity. False home. Real home. When I close my eyes I am rushing through something vast and templelike, the inside of a piano the size of a city. The mechanical sounds are probably just a distortion of my own breathing or my own blood. But when I open my eyes I am still rushing through its endless chambers, toothlike and perfect, metallic ziggurats crumbling into natural formations. It’s fine as long as I don’t start thinking I can control it.


Snake knots. Snake knots constricting every time I think I can control it. They feel like an urgent warning.


I am vigilant for any message from the entities or for the room to transform into a library with the great book of Claudio somewhere on its shelves.


The arches and windows and protuberances feel like part of a built environment, metal and enamel, finely sanded and scrubbed to an impossible sheen, although to build anywhere so immense would take thousands of civilizations and a planet too big to exist without collapsing in on itself. The holes are patterned and regular, like fine lace, and then sickeningly erratic like tripe or lung tissue. But then, within them, clean white hall after clean white hall. Sometimes I rush into what appeared to be a scab of mold on an immaculate white surface, but that turns out to be the entrance to the next network of cathedrals.


I feel as though this has been going on long before I was born and long after my death.


Now you see.


Now I see what?


The way the entities speak to me is neither audible nor written, but comes to me like a memory, in the form of the structures they transform into.


You see the great sadness of man and how to express it.


No, I don’t think I do.


Go and find your friend.


Is he okay? I say. Is Claudio okay?


I sweep right into a jagged, barren plane teeming with what at first appear to be horses but then seem more like giant insects clambering over each other at high speed, stepping on one another, using one another as landscape, consuming each other.


Before I can utter a word I have disappeared within one of the folds of a single insect’s exoskeleton and am back flying through crenelated natural steeples and layers of metallic, gauzy tripe.


Maybe once I would have been disturbed by such an incident, but not now.


I am a lid. Or a cork. Or a thumb stuffed into a fissure in the world, in the air of the world. I am the only thing keeping the … I must keep very still. You will not come to a final room where you have to face yourself; this is already yourself. It is already talking to you and this is the only language it knows, a language you used to know.




OceanofPDF.com

















80




I WAKE UP TO WHAT
 
my phone tells me is Saturday lunchtime. I feel fine, really, as if I’ve left a play during the interval because it was no good, but then realized that I was
 
in
 
the play and shouldn’t have left, but then remembered that my character was
 
supposed
 
to leave during the interval and that this was in the script. I’m supposed to just go and live my life.


I step into my flip-flops and repaste the coordinates into my map. It predicts a three-hour walk and a two-hour swim. The place is seemingly inaccessible by public transport or bicycle.




The city side of the canal
 
was redeveloped some years ago into a joyless arcade of chain restaurants and oversized bars. It is a nice afternoon and people are getting shit-faced on outside tables. I pass an expensive burger restaurant where the burgers are too thick to eat. Bottomless brunch. Downsized platters and infinite drinks for thirty quid. The last bone late capitalism intends to throw us.


Some men have arranged two tables outside the Pitcher & Piano so that the second table juts into the towpath and I have to cleave very close to it as I pass, almost upsetting a pint, which laps over its edges and spills a little onto the chair of a muscular brute.


Ohhhh.


One spends so long on the peripheries of traditional masculinity it’s easy to forget people like this still exist.


All right?


It is never easy to capture the tone of an aggressor: the background TV whine it sets off in your brain, synapses firing. I see myself reflected in the canal, a square of white sky and a black parallelogram.


Do you know what, though? he says.


Do you know what, some people don’t have any say in people like me starting on them. They can’t help it. But you’re
 
choosing
 
this.


Two of the men sing, If you’re gonna get battered, clap your hands.


If you’re gonna get battered, clap your hands.


If you’re gonna get battered, if you’re gonna get battered,


If you’re gonna get battered, clap your hands.


He squares up to me.


I mean what are you playing at?


Going around like that?


Despite my heart beating and wishing I was elsewhere or walking on, I feel a curious detachment. As if paused, as if this is already a memory and I can walk around in it, taking measurements; I can already decide how I will narrate it later, and differently for different audiences; I could be self-piteous or impressively unruffled by the experience, depending. Judgmental or magnanimous toward my persecutor, who knows not what he does.


It is only when I think of Justine, and then of my mother, or of anyone who might wish me a better afternoon, that I feel upset.


I can see that he isn’t entirely sure where to hit me. Instead he puts an arm around the middle of black bag, lifts me off the ground and tosses me into the canal.


The sound of the other men laughing subsides as I sink below the surface.


I try to move my arms but the wet leather of black bag keeps them pinned to my chest. I kick my legs but succeed in only turning over under the water so that I can’t detect which way is up.


It occurs to me that I could drown.


I urinate involuntarily, billows of warmth that rush up black bag and reach my face. A sweet taste.


If I could unzip or crawl out of black bag, emerge naked then jump back in to retrieve black bag … My arms are pinned to my sides.


Maybe this is how it ends.


I thrash to the surface and take as much of a breath as I can with black bag tight to my face. I try to move my mouth parallel with one of my eyeholes but succeed only in sucking in the leather.


Goodnight, sleep tight, et cetera.


I can hear raised voices.


I go under again.


I remember at school sometimes people would say, No, it’s tight, if someone was tormenting you.


“Tight” meant “cruel” in nineties slang. Perhaps it was local. Possibly derived from “tight” meaning tight-fisted, miserly, misinterpreted to refer to unkind or unnecessary behavior. Funny thing, language.


But “tight” was used in very specific circumstances, when the victim was considered beneath contempt, too easy a target, clearly incapable of standing up for themselves and already humiliated by their very being.


Don’t do that to him—it’s tight.


I remember it would be said with a certain affection for the antagonist—we hate victims. We
 
could
 
hurt them more and maybe, given all the above, we should!


Anyway—do you know, I think I may actually be drowning? However will I convey this message to you then?—the easiest thing you can take from anyone is their peace of mind. You can do it with one text message. Doesn’t take much to get any of us on the hook; decades of film noir teach us that; all of us femmes fatales and hopeless rubes in our own forgettable way, waiting for the right conditions.


I feel a pinch then a wrench in the center of black bag and something drags my back across a hard surface.


I blink several times and through a corner of my eyehole I can see a woman with shaved blonde hair kneeling over me. She puts her hands on my chest and is about to start doing compressions but I manage to sit up.


I should call the police! she shouts over the canal.


Yeah, whatever, sweetheart.


We should call you an ambulance, she says to me.


She pats my sides looking for some way to remove black bag.


I think … I’m fine, I say, and cough.


I vomit some canal water into black bag.


Thank you, I say, for pulling me out.


Look at you—what are you doing? Are those your friends? Did they put you in that?


No. And no. This is just me.


Can you stand?


She helps me to my feet.


I am, overall, unperturbed. This is not something that happened to me, but to black bag. This is the sort of thing black bag would have to deal with frequently. All of this is instructive.


The sense of restriction, as if some kind of invisible or circumstantial barrier prevents me from reaching it, makes me all the more certain that this is what I must do. That this is the only way I can track down Claudio.


Black bag is goal oriented. To a fault, perhaps. But that is one of their qualities.


No, I do not need to go to a faux Italian restaurant, but I really am grateful.


No, I really am fine.


I would quite like to stop talking.


I’ll walk with you. Where are you going?


This concern for a stranger, this absence of querying my appearance, swells my heart.


No. I’ll be fine. But you’re a saint, I tell her.


I could, of course, write the day off and head home, get washed and dry and go to bed, but black bag will soon dry in the sun during the remaining six-mile walk.




An hour out of town,
 
a single narrow boat called
 
Calliope
 
passes me. There is a man at the tiller with a wide face and a short gray beard. He is wearing a straw hat and sunglasses. He waves at me and I bow.


I feel fine now, really. Can barely taste the canal anymore.


On the waterside the fences bulge with tall purple flowers and dog daisies. The backs of buildings; behind the scenes of a Potemkin village.
 
Then, for over a mile, a postindustrial wasteland of obscure abandoned machines and terrain in sudden deserts.


With two miles to go, the towpath comes to an abrupt end. The canal forks in two and an old white sign points in three directions but, presumably, only for people in boats.


I take an overgrown set of concrete steps to a dirt footpath, but I cannot see a bridge anywhere and, in any case, there is no path on the other side of the canal either. Farther along, a tall, flowerless weed has broken through some old tarmac and sways obscenely. A worn wooden sign reads
 
BOATHOUSE
 
and points to a big corrugated-iron shack to my left.


The boathouse’s reinforced chicken-wire door is bolted with a combination padlock, but the side of the warehouse is warped, leaving a significant gap between the sheet metal side wall and the corner joist. It is just big enough for me to squeeze through with a little discomfort. I hold my breath and try to make myself as slight as possible. Black bag insulates me from the rough edges of the metal. I am, nonetheless, afraid of damaging black bag. I wriggle and get my legs then my shoulders, sideways, through the gap. My head won’t quite fit and after two painful attempts I lower myself to the ground, my neck held in the pincer of the wall and the joist, where the opening is widest. This does the trick. I stand up and hop from foot to foot in relief.


Light breaks through a large crude double door at the back, which opens directly onto the water. I like the image of a little rowboat, Charon-like, but a Charon who has given up on the crossing and propels himself downstream, god knows where. But black bag cannot row. In the boathouse dozens of blue, red and green canoes hang vertically from tall racks. There is a modest inflatable speedboat, deflated, with its motor pointing upward. Crates of plastic oars in neon orange and neon green. Two racks of cracked wetsuits in various sizes. In the corner, supporting a bale of barbed wire, there is an old, dirty swan pedal boat.




OceanofPDF.com

















81




AS BLACK BAG MY MOVEMENTS ARE,
 
by necessity, a series of nudges. This is how I impose my will on the material world, and it changes the way it looks. I have to use my body like a kind of vertical snake. Insert myself between the roll of barbed wire—grateful for its frayed layers of insulating plastic—and the pedal boat, wriggle under it and then thrust until I am standing again and it topples over. The crash is a musical chord, but atonal or natural, like the drone of a Byzantine chant.


The pedal boat itself is on its side and leaning against the wall of the warehouse. The Formica is stained gray and mildewed, the hollows are festooned with cobwebs, but it appears to be largely intact. There is a crack in the swan, and a piece missing from its neck, but nothing that renders it unseaworthy. Its beak is still bright orange and its face, like any swan’s face, real or plastic, resembles that of a man who doesn’t really want to be at the masquerade ball. I maneuver myself between the swan boat and the wall, which scratches my back. I slide down the wall and the pedal boat rights itself with my body half underneath. I writhe out from under it.


The swan pedal boat is heavy but, using my full force, I am able to push it with my feet and my knees around six inches at a time, pausing to catch my breath after every third push. It is a two-person vessel, but the pedals are only on the driver’s side. These are dirty and rusty. There is a corroded black rubber steering handle, which I will not be able to use.


The great doors of the boathouse open directly onto the water so I need only shove the boat, inch by inch, to the lip of the exit and then, with my remaining strength, force it up to the fulcrum so that it overbalances. The swan pedal boat hits the surface, bobs, takes on a little water
 
then stabilizes. I watch for spirals of bubbles in the ship floor, half expect to see it gurgle and sink to the bottom. It does not.


I step tentatively into the boat. It bucks and rolls and takes on a little more water as I find my feet and then sit, as if this is where I always ought to have been, in the soggy molded-plastic chair. It is hard to pedal in flip-flops so I kick them off. The pedals are rusty and sharp, but the soles of my feet have toughened sufficiently and after a creaking start I am able to get the mechanism moving, and the pedal boat lurches forward quicker than I had expected. I stop pedaling and turn around to see a tiny wake of foam from its manual propeller. We have already drifted a couple of yards from the boathouse.


The sun is low in the sky and enchants the grim, largely functionless buildings, the finger-wagging weeds and pyramidal flowers. Streams of pink cloud. The swan’s great neck, its implacable expression, are picked out in golden light.


I find a rhythm and the swan settles into its natural pace of exactly two-thirds of the average walking speed. This ought to make my total journey less than two hours. I cannot steer the swan so sometimes it connects with the left bank of the canal, but pedaling produces sufficient pressure to turn it a little so that it gradually drifts across and connects with the right bank.


Uncurated plants, the ones we don’t want or barely categorize, grown high as a forest, leaves shaped like symbols from dead religions, dark and dusty. Parts of the shoreline are like this. Other parts are compacted dirt and bits of broken machine from a 1950s sci-fi film, functionless bollards garlanded with murder bouquets. Murder bouquets, fresh and antique, for the poor souls who make this their habitat. Rheumy cellophane and dried brown flowers. A man who swipes his fiancée some murder bouquets.


I am, of course, gambling on the assumption that the warehouse, my destination, will reveal anything at all to me about Claudio’s whereabouts.


This is not something I can think about too much while maintaining the effort required to keep pedaling.


Nonetheless, the scene is one of such tranquility I might console myself that people could
 
choose
 
to do this for recreation or exercise, physical and mental. I stop pedaling for a moment and the swan boat drifts with its own momentum. We all have energies and we have to decide where to direct them. We make these decisions constantly and build whatever acceptable fictions around ourselves we can. We look to each other for reassurance that our decisions have not been, after all, completely arbitrary or predetermined. Capricious cell divisions on the way to reabsorption.


This, in the given moment, which is all we have and all we ever know, is exactly where black bag is supposed to be, and where they are. This is the day God wants me to live. I hope that doesn’t come across as sentimental.




The Longman Industrial Estate looks abandoned,
 
letters flaking off its billboard and list of Lots from 400 to 600. Brambles grow through the perimeter fence that encircles the entire complex. There is a thin wooden promontory where a gray, undecorated narrow boat with dark glass windows is moored. By pedaling furiously I am able to ground the swan craft on a small gravel beach that the gates open onto. I clamber out of the swan, sit on the gravel and close my eyes.


My phone has 6 percent battery remaining. I look at the map, which shows no roads or tracks leading to or from the estate. I suppose there was a road once, but aside from the city, the nearest town is seventeen miles away and probably isn’t much to write home about either. It would have a Wimpy, where you could get a burger on a plate with a knife and fork, and outside the Wimpy a man with a tracheotomy hole, smoking a king-size Mayfair through his tracheotomy hole. I could be him or his little dog whose fur is worn down like pigskin.


Tomorrow you will be with me in paradise.


My legs shake as I stand and I have to lean against the gate.


Within the complex I walk between squat gray buildings with sheet metal nailed over their windows, blasted wooden sheds and a barnlike structure covered in electric-green lichen. Halfway down the lot, I recognize the brick house with the garage door, and next to this, dominating the center of the wasteland, a large corrugated-metal warehouse with double doors slightly ajar.




OceanofPDF.com

















82




I WATCH AS ANOTHER BLACK BAG
 
crunches through the gravel. My instinct is to hide behind a nearby shed, but then I realize that I look just like him and, if he’s noticed me, he is unfazed. He stumbles on an uneven concrete slab then calmly enters the building.


I follow him in.


From an unlit antechamber I can see through a flimsy glass-paneled door to a sort of hall with chairs arranged in rows and an aisle between, like a church.


I count the black bags. Nineteen … twenty. Most are sitting on padded wooden Low Church chairs. They face the front of the hall. The room is dimly lit with orange light, a moment of prayer in an empty art gallery. The smell of wood polish, sawdust and damp—a purposeful and comforting smell.


At the front is a slightly raised dais, a simple wooden podium with a mic stand but no microphone. There are twenty-seven black bags in total. They are identical. Similar in stature, and I can detect no difference in the design, tailoring, quality of leather or fit of black bag. There is no label in my black bag so I have no idea where they were designed or manufactured.


The ones who aren’t sitting stand around in twos and threes, as if in conversation, but not one of them is saying anything, I can detect not so much as a whisper, as if they have taken the vow of silence intrinsic to black bag and have gathered to honor it. There is something quite poignant about the sight of three black bags standing close together as if in conference, but in actuality only looking at one another and seeing only another black bag. Perhaps the glimmer of an eye through the little punched holes.


Everyone is barefoot. In the antechamber I quietly remove my flip-flops and kick them behind a cardboard box of fliers under a dark wooden table.


I feel self-conscious, hesitant as an interloper, and have to remind myself that here, more than anywhere else, I do not stand out at all. None of these black bags could possibly realize that I, black bag, am not supposed to be here. I enter the main room and take a seat by myself on the third row.


If someone is in charge and does a head count I could be in trouble, I suppose. But:


	1.	In a group of twenty-seven people on a given weekday evening, it is statistically inevitable that at least one might be sick, or held up in traffic, or has suffered some minor or major catastrophe that prevents their attendance. So it is likely that I, as black bag 28, will be taken as 28
 
of
 
28, or even 28 of 29, as opposed to a surplus black bag who has no right to be present.


	2.	That is if anyone
 
is
 
in charge and if, as the black bag in charge, one of their duties includes taking a silent anonymous head count, which, when I think it through, seems less and less likely, they might easily miscount anyway.


	3.	Nonetheless, should someone take a head count how would they identify an imposter out of twenty-eight identical black bags?


	4.	For all I know, and depending on what this meeting even is, it could well be that evangelism and eventual conversion is actively encouraged and therefore the presence of a new black bag would be cause for silent, heartfelt celebration.


I scan the black bags present. I wonder if the poor waif I accosted outside the supermarket is among them. I wonder if Claudio is among
 
them. I want to shout, Claudio? Is that you? But I’m worried that might constitute immediate grounds for my expulsion. I should remain silent until I get a feel for the place.


After some minutes the black bags who were standing in little groups move toward the rows until all twenty-eight of us are seated, facing silently forward. I feel my heart rate increase as if I am about to see my favorite band or hear the verdict from a jury of my peers. But nothing happens. I try not to draw attention to myself by moving, but I turn my head very slowly to check out the others. The black bags sit perfectly still and face the front. So I do the same. Five minutes.


I am not sure if the black bag who walks carefully down the aisle and takes the stage was one of our party all along or if he has entered the building only after the rest of us had assembled.


He climbs the dais.


He turns to face us.


He stands in front of us.


He stands before the podium and we look at him.


So much of life seems to come down to sitting in rows while another human being tells us something.




Brethren, he says.
 
We gather once more in a spirit of renunciation.


He has a slightly Scottish accent, his voice is not low or authoritative, but natural and unhurried. I am not sure if he is the leader of the black bags present or if it is simply his turn to speak.


Much has been said about atonement in the last few weeks, he says. But I want us not to be in any hurry. Atonement will take two, perhaps three generations. We seek, humbly, to start a process that will only bear fruit when we are gone. We’ll start with the recitation.


The other black bags have seemingly committed the creed to memory, but I find that I can just about keep up by finishing a syllable behind them and occasionally predicting the next word, like a charlatan in a choir, which is, I suppose, what I am.




I saw what I had become.


I 
saw what I had been.


I 
turned in shame.


I 
turned again.


I 
saw that everything I had was stolen.


I 
saw what I had done to distract myself.


I sat among my broken toys and wept.




This goes on for some time and I concentrate more on keeping up the charade than the content of the phrases themselves. Despite this, I think over my past acts of callousness or presumption. I think of Angelique and whether I have treated her fairly in my memory. I think of Justine, and wonder what she’s doing right now and what she’d make of a self-flagellating men’s group. I feel a little hungry and wish I’d thought to pack my pouch with almonds.


Thank you, says black bag. Now, as penitents, we may feel, we
 
must
 
feel, that there is no atonement. No savior is coming to reconcile us with the world.


I stand up.


I do not know why I do this.


It was involuntary, as if I’d suffered a small electric shock.


No savior is coming
, the black bag leader repeats, a little more steely this time.


I hear seagulls outside complaining of the sunset.


I sit down again.


Many are already lost, he continues. Many are demolished. We cannot concern ourselves with them anymore. There’s not enough time. We’ve started far too late.


The black bags begin to emit a low, bass drone. The more musically proficient black bags choose a note to harmonize. A couple of higher, undulating tones.


One day our sons, our friends’ sons, or the sons of our friends’ sons, will be well enough to step out of the bags. They will emerge healed, and whole, to take up their rightful place in society.


I do not like this at all.


But I am nothing if not obliging.


I join in with the drone.




It is almost nine when
 
we fall silent.


Someone clears their throat. Excuse me, he says, in a wispy RP. The boat will leave in five minutes. Please have your cards facing outward for scanning.


Cards?


I begin to sweat.


I could, at this point, shout for Claudio, just in case he’s one of the black bags. But I feel like that could get us both in trouble.


In the antechamber I find my flip-flops under the table and shuffle behind a long, tall cardboard box, where I sit down, hidden from the entrance. I must wait until every black bag has vacated the premises.


A smaller box is to my side. I turn and lift its flap: covered in polythene, a large folded leather black bag. A pile of them. I close my eyes.


I wait until I hear the low chug of the narrow boat’s engine.




Outside in the dark
 
I make my way across the compound to the cove, using my phone as a torch. This is not a public place. I kick the little jagged stones out of my flip-flops as I walk to the beached swan pedal boat. I feel the cold and the damp and I celebrate it.


The swan pedal boat rasps on the gravel as I nudge it back toward the water. I shiver, step in up to my ankles and push myself against its thick neck until it turns to face the opposite direction.




OceanofPDF.com

















83




I AM EXHAUSTED AND BAD TEMPERED,
 
but my legs seem to have become conditioned to the constant pedaling.


I feel a little gross, the way a comedian might feel when people start shouting their catchphrase at them.


How like men to turn black bag into a secret society! Membership cards! Clandestine assemblies! This empty self-recrimination … it absolves you of nothing. God, they’ve got it all wrong from start to finish. They’ve found a way of making black bag about
 
them
, when the very point was to … Where to even start?


I lean to steer the swan away from the berm and pedal gently. I smell soil, the dank water, the tall weeds that have a kind of green and unnecessary stink just to let you know for sure they’re weeds.


The black bags went too far, did not go far enough. Do I want to be the only black bag?


I do if nobody else is doing it right.


It’s natural to feel a bit melancholy toward the end of a protracted run; wondering if your performance is still engaging or if it’s stagnated; natural also to realize that you may not have explored the full arc of your character and now it’s nearly too late.


The barge of self-loathing has cut so far ahead of me, I cannot even detect its wake—I am the only thing to disturb the waters.


What would Justine make of all this?


What would they make of Justine?


Those who take a vow of poverty or obedience or silence don’t do it because they
 
enjoy
 
it, per se.


Some things, however important, are almost too difficult to put into words—just as you can only fold a piece of paper, however large, in half
 
seven times before the radius of the curve becomes longer than the fold. It is a problem inherent to character; someone you made up can only make seven people up. Let’s paint a scene: a walled garden on a mild and sunny day. The warblers trill, the squirrels shake their fists … Here is our character. They might sit in a deck chair and read
 
The Trouble with Being Born
. This is a punch line—wherein both the ideas expressed by
 
The Trouble with Being Born
 
and the character themselves for reading it are mocked—and on such a beautiful day too. Outside this scene is a sensibility, an invisible adjudicator who genially invites us to stand in judgment with them. And thereby, as there is no place more comfortable than to stand in judgment, allows us to return, completely unperturbed by love or death, to the routines of everyday life. Our professional or recreational pursuits are really a form of displacement activity, up to seven layers deep, such that we have forgotten what we were originally trying to displace.




I have been pedaling for
 
almost ninety minutes when I see a car on an adjacent railway bridge that leads up from the towpath, its full beam headlights flashing, honking repeatedly.


Hey!


A man gets out of the car and stands on the bridge, waving his arms at me.


At first I want to get away from him as quickly as possible, but a swan pedal boat, as I have had ample chance to ascertain, can travel at a maximum of just-below-walking speed.


I try to steer into the bank, but the swan veers in the opposite direction.


Hey, over here!


Yes, I call, I can see you, I’m trying to—


He starts climbing down the stairs to the towpath.


When he gets closer I recognize him as Mason, still dressed in his sockless deck shoes and black linen trousers that don’t reach his ankles.


Mason! I say.


Yeah, hi, buddy. Jesus. Try to get a little closer—


I’m trying!


I pedal and lean hard and the swan arbitrarily drifts toward the right, where Mason is able to grab it by the neck and wrench it close to the crumbling brickwork at the murky water’s edge.


I haul myself out of the swan onto dry land and he helps me to my feet.


I double over, wheezing.


Are you okay? The fuck were you
 
doing
? he says.


The travails of the day are catching up with me and it takes me a while to get my breath.


Come on, bud. He takes black bag by the shoulder and guides me toward the steps. Let’s get you home.




Mason’s car is low, black and shapely,
 
without logos. I stand and shiver as the passenger door opens automatically. It feels like stepping into a lacquered jewelry box.


I’ll get the seat all wet.


The seat, says Mason, will dry you and warm you up.


The car makes a gentle orchestral sound as he starts it.


I feel as though I could fall asleep.


Oxford Road, right? he says.


Why did you come to get me? I murmur. What are you doing here?


You’re our most valuable asset, says Mason. You’re
 
the
 
black bag!


There are others, I say. I just saw them. How did you know where to—


Well, like, the map of course, he says, frowning. Like anyone can tell where you are all the time. You know that, right? I noticed you were throwing out some weird numbers into the chain and then I checked and I was all, Woah! Where in the hell is he? Is he in trouble?


I was getting pretty tired, I admit.


So I follow the line and I get to the bridge and it’s like the trail’s gone cold and I’m all, Ohhhhh, shit, he’s drowned.


I did almost drown earlier.


But then I see you in that fucking busted-up fairground boat and that’s when I started trying to get your attention. I mean don’t let me interfere with your process, but you
 
do
 
need to take care of yourself. I could have been in … Austin or somewhere.


Mason, I say, what is your involvement in black bag?


Huh? I figured Claudio would have told you.


He shoots me a querulous look.


You know this—I’m like your angel investor or whatever. You made a big impression on me so I looked it up and there you
 
were
, you dark horse. I got in touch with Claudio and he sent me the specs. I booked a little more time in the good ol’ US of K; spent days going around collecting bag tokens in AR, getting used to your scenes, your haunts; it’s good work—


I wasn’t involved in any of that, I say.


Naturally then I’m thinking,
 
What’s the application?
 
And then it hits me—


I haven’t seen Claudio in weeks, I interrupt. I was looking for him. That’s why I was … the swan.


That this is really about
 
love
, says Mason. Love and symbolism. We need some new symbols.


Mason, do you know where he is? His phone’s dead. He hasn’t posted any new videos, even.


I look at Mason’s profile. He looks to be chewing something.


The car is so quiet I keep feeling surprised to be in motion.


I’ll look into it. I’ll look into it. I think he’s fine, he says. This is kind of a make-or-break moment and he’s probably tied up with meetings. That’s something we should be dispensing with altogether pretty soon: meetings. Fuck meetings!


Has he been in touch with you?


Hey, seriously, if anything was wrong, says Mason, I’d have heard about it.


He turns and smiles at me.


You leave it with me. I’ll get hold of him and I’ll tell him to contact you as a matter of urgency, okay?


Okay, I say. Thanks, Mason.


I watch the nicer streets of the city blend into the low-rent district, the cash converters, the phone-case emporium. I think of telling Mason about the black bag meeting, but something holds my tongue. Instead I ask him about the app.


How’s your stuff going? How’s Future Indefinite?


Ah, says Mason, looking away. Paterfamilias? I don’t know whether to … Ah, fuck it. We got a dead dad. Dead dad on our hands.


Oh—oh no.


Statistically inevitable. Mason shrugs. And naturally some bad faith motherfuckers are trying to spin it as a suicide but it’s not a suicide—it looks to me like an accident, and the guy had substance abuse issues anyway.


Right.


Not to be callous.


No.


So now behind several layers of security there’s an imaginary adult-aged kid who can’t stop monologuing about the day their father died and how it screwed up their life.


Can you not pull the plug on that?


I’d
 
like to, says Mason. I’m all for that, but it’s important data.


Wow, I say. So that’s it? For the project?


Yeah, but overall what do I care? Paterfamilias was just a proof of concept. I’ve already moved on. I mean it’s hideous, isn’t it? When you’re given the pandect.


The pandect?


When you got that
 
aerial view
, when you already know how someone’s life is going to play out with a teeny-tiny margin of error. It could make you cold-hearted. It does. Whenever you zoom in, you realize you’re watching a little shrew, just a half-crazy little shrew trying to make its way across a big open field with all the owls and falcons and shit. Makes you pity God.




We drive in silence until we reach my road. The car sounds like a mournful saxophone line as it slows down to idle at the curb, as if it’s my theme song.


Mason peers out the window at the shabby Victorian terrace, its retinue of jumbled wheelie bins.


Jesus, he says. Well hopefully not for much longer, huh, buddy?


What do you mean?


What do you Brits say?
 
You’re playing a blinder.


The latter in his terrible approximation of a cockney accent.


I’m what? I don’t know what I’m doing.


That’s it, says Mason, it’s pure. Now you keep yourself out of trouble, you hear?


Americans have a peculiar talent for sounding consoling and threatening at the same time. I quite enjoy it.


I mean it, he says. Get yourself a nice drink and a good night’s sleep and no more … whatever that fucking swan thing was. I’ll find the C-bomb.




OceanofPDF.com

















84




I WAKE UP WITH ALL
 
of my limbs on fire, having repeatedly used muscles I have never so much as flexed before in piloting the swan. I check my phone. It’s gone ten. Ugh. I stagger to my feet.


Justine has messaged me on One-Way during the night:


I am texting you because we haven’t broken up and I expect you’ll have realized this by the morning.


Justine, I write back, I’m sorry to ask a favor but could you possibly find Dr. Blend’s home address for me?


A pause.


You think because of my discipline I can just instantly access people’s personal data?! she replies.


This is followed, in less than ten seconds and before I can apologize, by an image of Dr. Blend’s home address, telephone number, personal and work emails, date of birth and religion (None).


Very presumptuous, Justine adds.


I look at black bag, draped dejectedly over the end of my bed.


Come on then, I say.




You never know what to expect
 
of someone’s home, a sight more intimate than the naked body as it includes our every thought and necessity made visible. Most of our instincts derive from trying, preemptively, to avoid disappointment.


Sometimes people with a rich inner life live in pristine nineties new builds with no art and bright lights because they simply do not see the point in anything other than their discipline, but lack the conviction of a Corbusier—which would be too close to an aesthetic—they are, after all, a product of their time and nationality by accident of birth.
 
Suburban wastelands that required a new kind of antidepressant, pale orange houses with blank expressions and consistent plastic windows. In such a home a single flower stem in a thin glass tube could make you scream. At its hideous reminder of life.


On the other hand, sometimes intellectuals live in a state of
 
actual decay
 
in damp cottages surrounded by snails, grates overflowing with ashes, something more permanent than them growing between their teeth, swaying heaps of books to the ceiling, spines inward, for some reason, even on the shelves. Their system of order exclusively whimsical; implements mixed on every surface—bellows, used cooking spatula, inkwell—because they had to stir a stew before dribbling it down their shirt, and tending the fire, and then had an idea. They sit in the middle like a great, dusty mushroom, thinking deep thoughts. Holy fools, homeowners, with the right to choose exactly how revoltingly they live in pursuit of higher things.


In the event, Blend’s house, 44 Pilgrim’s Moorings, is a postwar semidetached with a long garden for growing vegetables and black currants during rationing. I have to duck the branches of a cooking-apple tree to reach the front door.


I feel like a small boy who has clambered through a gap in the park fence to emerge into a complete stranger’s life for no reason.


I press the sing-song, English Protestant kind of doorbell.


I can hear the vague histrionics of a minor opera on a radio.


Blend appears, at first a peach-colored form behind the frosted glass, then he opens the door and sees me. I bob up and down a bit.


Oh, he says, too surprised to sound worried by my presence.


He looks tired, peering out from the folds around his eyes, which seem to have grown more pronounced and heavy, sloping down to the itchy white hairs of his beard. Perhaps he’s been drinking. He wears a blue fisherman’s jumper and gray corduroy trousers.


I hope this is okay.


Yes. He puts his hands to the bones above his eyes and massages them. I suppose you might as well come in.


The foyer of Dr. Blend’s house is tidy and well kept—a bureau desk, a standing lamp. There is a framed block print of Dionysus drinking from a bowl of wine.


I can see no evidence of a current or former partner, photos of grown-up children, suggestions of combined preference or compromise, but even the formulation that runs through my head—
I can see no evidence—
annoys me. I also see no dog chews or scratching posts. Isn’t it, in fact, the height of rudeness—and isn’t rudeness just the dull, persistent, everyday manifestation of cruelty—to be curious about anyone else’s personal arrangements that they’ve not actively volunteered to you? To be always trying to
 
work people out
 
like a dismal magazine journalist. Lord spare us all from such barbarism. There is a good and a bad curiosity to entertain about the lives of others, and time and again it feels like we’ve chosen the bad. Black bag will draw a close to this entire way of life.


There is a canvas director’s chair in the alcove by the staircase and a slim-legged table with a cordless landline phone in its charging cradle. Next to the phone, a black square plate holds several white fingernail crescents and a shiny pair of clippers.


Dr. Blend moves a floppy phone directory over the plate.


I feel embarrassed, but this kind of thing happens when you turn up unannounced, and I take it as a good sign that a jobless Blend is still making an effort about his personal appearance and hygiene.


I have always found clipping my fingernails deeply unpleasant, he says. It feels like my flesh being cut. Either, in timidity, I don’t go far enough and might as well not have bothered, or I cut to the quick and it stings for days. But … one must cut one’s fingernails.


It’s true, I agree.


He picks up some letters, shuffles them and puts them on the bureau.


I don’t often have visitors, he mutters.


It’s a lovely house! I say, senselessly.




Blend arranges us in armchairs
 
on either side of a tea table, facing the mantelpiece of an immaculate open fireplace, the window to our
 
left overlooking the back garden. He has poured two cups of Earl Grey with lemon.


I hope this doesn’t seem forward, I say. Coming to your house.


No, I ought to have contacted you, he says. Remiss of me. Then he frowns. For goodness’ sake, you
 
do
 
realize you don’t have to wear that anymore?


Do you want me to return it? I ask, trying not to sound panicked.


No … No, you may dispose of it as you wish.


I’ve become quite attached to it.


Dr. Blend grimaces.


Is this how you tend to behave when a play finishes its run?


Oh, haha, no of course not, I say, can you imagine?


And how is this different?


It is natural that Blend might use the same Socratic method on me as he would on one of his students, so I take the opportunity to consider his question. I look out the window. The back garden is something of a disaster: an excessive incline to the rear fence that might once have been grass but is now mostly mud, flints, tentative stalks of bramble from the wasteland beyond, scouting the area and finding it much to their satisfaction.


Has
 
the play finished its run? I say.


Blend picks up his cup of tea, blows on it and puts it down.


Wait there, he says.


He rises and leaves the room and I hear him crashing around in the next room. Presently he comes back with a pile of documents. He puts the stack on his chair, takes the first page and holds it up.


A black-and-white photograph of a fairly good-looking young man in the top right corner. His name, address, phone number and email, and details of his qualifications and past roles on stage and screen.


Dr. Blend drops the actor’s CV and shows me the next.


A black-and-white photograph of a fairly good-looking young man in the top right corner. His name, address, phone number and email, and details of his qualifications and past roles on stage and screen.


What are these?


Your forerunners, he says. I’ve been replicating the black bag experiment on this module for the last … thirty years. It was a practical exercise, a real-world experience for the class—the classes, I should add, were at one point quite small … But something always went wrong. The men would talk to the other students after class, break character, one of them couldn’t stop laughing—that was extremely annoying. One told the students everything about the experiment after the first session—can you believe that?


The lack of professionalism astounds me, I say.


Another, in the late nineties, ended up having sexual relationships with half the cohort. Each time pretending it was his first.
 
You’re the only person who’s ever got me out of the bag.
 
You understand?


God, I say.


That took a lot of unpacking.


A different era, the nineties.


But then I noticed something else, later, say around 2009 onward.


After the financial crash! I say.


I’m not sure what that has to do with anything, says Dr. Blend.


I was pretty good? I say. In comparison?


From 2009 the black bags began to disappear in the final week of the experiment, Blend says. They didn’t show for the last session. The students were rather saddened by their absence.


Thus proving the … hypothesis? I offer.


Once, says Blend, I thought I saw one of them, still as black bag, mooching around outside the Physics Department, but it’s possible I imagined it.


No, I tell him, I don’t think you imagined it. I think many of them are living as black bag permanently.


Why on
 
earth
 
would they do that? says Blend.


I think they’ve set up some kind of movement.


In any case, you were my last roll of the dice. I’ve been resisting my impending retirement for several years now because I still felt like I could make a difference. A university can make it very clear when it wants to get rid of you and replace you with someone more efficient for
 
half your salary. If I seemed distracted this term it was because I’d likely just come from shouting at my younger superiors in “tribunal” meetings.




A wall-mounted black-and-white flip clock
 
displays the correct time of 12:02, but Dr. Blend’s sun-damaged calendar, April’s image a print of William Morris’s
 
Kelmscott Chaucer
, is from 2013. I get an uneasy, prickly feeling from this—have I fallen through some kind of temporal anomaly so that all of my interactions with Dr. Blend are taking place over a decade in the past? Is anyone so parsimonious as to keep the same paper calendar for ten years or more?


Nobody knows what to make of the twenty-first century. On the mantelpiece, next to a dusty white candle: a porcelain swan, a small matchbox double-decker bus, a wooden narrow boat.


Poor Dr. Blend.


You held out because you felt you could make a difference, I say, to what?


This is a strange job, he says. We’re supposedly the finest minds in our respective disciplines, but we’re required to spend most of our time boring hungover teenagers to sleep.


I don’t know.


You meet people, by and large, at a formative time in their lives, a very
 
impressionable
 
age. That’s a responsibility in itself.


Has there ever been an era more malign in its ideologies? says Blend. More absent a coherent antithesis?


The Crusades?


Oblivious hedonism, fundamentalist religion, evolutionary psychology, says Blend. A dunderheaded and unexamined combination of them all until it becomes the natural element.


Yes! I say.


I want them to look beyond the case studies and embrace the fact that
 
we
 
are the experiment. You know … well, you don’t, that’s why I’m telling you: Retirement feels rather similar to being expelled from a cult, Blend says. Everything you measured your life by is proved to be utterly
 
senseless and haphazard. You went along with a set of precepts because you had little choice in the matter once you’d signed up, and then it’s suddenly over and the prevailing feeling is Well what was all that in aid of? It’s curious.


But you can still write? I say. You can still do your research, even if nobody’s making you do it. We can get used to anything—isn’t that what the black bag experiment teaches us?


Blend stares at the empty fireplace.


Isn’t it?


I thought I could help people find meaning in their lives, he says, softly.


I’m sure your students remember you very fondly, I gush.


But I think that meaning … I think instead, I presided over the last ebbing away of enchantment, pointing out the occasional shiny thing as it flowed into the drain. I wonder if I wasn’t just tricking them into feeling more comfortable with the coming meaninglessness. Plumping the coffin pillows.


This is when I usually open a bottle of wine, I say. When I start thinking like that.


All the while dedicating my entire life to a system that was doing the same thing to me.


There’s a reason booze is popular. I appreciate you seeing me again, I say. I do. It’s nice to debrief. Could you tell me one last thing?


Blend raises his eyebrows in assent.


Why the obsession? Why did you rerun the same experiment over and over again?


We listen to his wall clock ticking.


In general, we live by comparison and competition, says Blend, after a pause. You’d be depressed to learn how many findings from psychological research are applied to concepts in business school to manipulate consumer habits. Brand awareness, marketing, models of leadership, the constant slurry of consumer economics. The original experiment probably contributed to the making of several fortunes in adhesives, detergents, vacuum cleaners … But black bag isn’t trying to sell you anything.


Ah, I say.


Black bag isn’t trying to convince you of anything, or influence you in any way. With black bag there is no comparison, no competition. It is a confrontation with something …


With what?


…


Dr. Blend?




OceanofPDF.com

















85




I ARRANGE SOME DRIED FLOWERS
 
in a red apothecary vase on my parents’ windowsill.


There.


I smile at my father, still handsome in a rugged, stony menhir sort of a way. I place my hand on my mother’s shoulder.


That’s better, isn’t it?




In the half room on
 
the way to the toilet, which is used, first and foremost, to house the vacuum cleaner in the manner to which it has grown accustomed, there is a large gold-framed photograph on the wall.


I am not used to seeing much on my parents’ walls—they tend to value a clean, uninterrupted wall.


The photograph is of
 
me
 
as Ariel in my school’s production of
 
The Tempest
.


I was sixteen. In the photograph I am wearing a pair of pants made out of white leaves and my hair has been waxed into fine tapered tendrils, reaching to infinity. My false eyebrows are long antennae. My body is painted with patches of silver glitter and I am posed against a black background, knees bent and one hand spread across my chest—I gaze up and to the right as if in appreciation of some wonder just out of shot.


I look androgynous and otherworldly.


God, I really was good. Not that it makes me special. Plenty of people are good. Hardly anyone gets what they deserve, for better
 
or
 
worse.


I look at the photo a little longer.


No, that’s not true. I
 
am
 
special. No sense being modest about it. If we overvalue art and abuse the power it vests in us, it’s because it’s special.


In that moment I realized
, I tell the future journalist in my head,
 
that this was ultimately the only reason I’m on the planet. It was a turning point.


Ariel, it is worth remembering, does not actually have many lines in
 
The Tempest
. One of them is “No.” One of them is “No, sir.” Another is “I do not, sir.”


Oh, you
 
guys
, I say out loud.


I take a finger to my misty eyes.


At my age I would like to be something of a reassurance to them, my parents, would like to make it clear that I have, come what may, things under control for them. The means and the ways.


Fuck’s sake.


You’ll start to get ill and I’ll be completely useless. I could pay for about … half an hour of basic care.


I would like to be able to look after you, but I can’t because I have stubbornly committed myself to an art and vocation with no future and precious little present, rather than training as an accountant or a stockbroker or maybe a lawyer. And out of what? Sheer perversity of spirit, encouragement at an impressionable moment (the nineties), and, by this point, sunk cost fallacy.


Isn’t it time someone rescued me from the cult of myself for deprogramming?


To trust in the arts is an act of hubris so self-destructive the gods don’t even bother to punish you for it. It is to become a monstrous politician of an insecure republic, an estate agent of your own soul, a demon of lubricity.


There is just a chance, though, the width of a crack in a martini glass, that we need it more than ever.




I glance to the hallway
 
and can see that the two pillars of rock are now casting a shadow in their bedroom, preparing for a nap.


What I want to say is thank you. English people have such a deep-seated suspicion of disingenuousness that we often forego gratitude
 
altogether. It is feasible to go your entire life without ever expressing a single emotion just in case you didn’t mean it.


I forget who people are, just as I forget who or what myself is. I forget, when I talk to you, that you are my mother, I forget, when I talk to you, that you are my father. To remember it would feel like looking directly at the sun. We have to forget, almost constantly, that we love
 
anyone
 
or life would be intolerable.


I just desperately want you all to be okay.


You included.


If God would countenance so vague a prayer.


I ask that sometimes the voice in your head—the one that weaves and pulls and frays without ceasing—runs out of threads to tangle together and says,


You know what? Go and amuse yourself for a while.


And you look around, bemused for a moment, not sure whether to take it seriously, whether you can trust it at all after everything it’s put you through … And then you run off in a black bag like a child and never look back.




OceanofPDF.com

















86




WELL, SLAY THE FATTED CALF,
 
says Elliott, when he sees me coming down the stairs, still sniffling a little.


This has nothing to do with our conversation last time, I tell him. I’m still black bag. I just needed a little break.


I walk heavily, staring at the ground. When we reach the stile by the twisted tree I stop and can barely summon the energy to climb it.


What is it?
 
says Elliott.
 
You seem more than usually put upon
.


Claudio, I say.


Claudio
?


I don’t know where he is. I think he’s got involved with some weird movement.


There’s a lesson there, isn’t there
? growls Elliott.
 
That you are quite happy abasing your
self
, but the moment someone else does it, you object.


We’re probably all a bit like that, I tell him.


My own heart let me more have pity on
, he says
.


I didn’t know you liked poetry, Elliott.


Only Hopkins
, he snarls.


I think you’re going a little soft, aren’t you?


Thyself thy foe, to thy sweet self too cruel.


All right, all right.


Elliott pounces into a pile of goosegrass and emerges seconds later, returns to my side.


Thought I saw something
, he says.
 
Would you ever kill a man
?


That’s more like it, I say. No.


What if he was trying to kill someone you loved
?


In that case, I suppose yes, certainly.


Good
, says Elliott.
 
For love is bloody and needs must be. And if he was trying to kill
 
you?


I pause.


So you see that this is a failure of love
, says Elliott.
 
You are lacking in love. Now give me a gravy bone.


I left them behind.


Elliott stares at me, dismayed.


Wait, there’s a strip of jerky in my pocket.


I toss it to him and he catches it in midair.


Good boy.


We keep walking through the light mist.


If it horrifies you that your friend would reduce himself to a silent, anonymous blob
, he says,
 
you might extend the same grace to yourself, that’s all.




OceanofPDF.com

















87




I AM EATING MY LAST
 
square of dark chocolate, watching a video essay about self-actualization and waiting for word from Mason. I don’t know if I would describe Mason as trustworthy, exactly, but has he not been quite direct and candid with me during our brief acquaintance? If he is untrustworthy he is openly so, and would probably tell me if he’d pushed Claudio in front of a train after share prices collapsed. That’s something people do, when there’s money involved, isn’t it? Very little is off the table. If we hate the rich we should also feel very sorry for them. In their humiliation, because as a flower of the field they will pass away.


Instead I receive an email from strange-acting-jobs. I have landed neither the breath mints, nor the open-top-bus music video, nor the theater-in-education play about consent, which I applied for but was too embarrassed to tell you about. I have, however, been chosen by Neural Plural for their continuing mission to understand and fully capture in gross, gross detail how human beings walk, speak, move and think. Good for me.


The doorbell rings. I am not accustomed to receiving visitors at this hour.


I finish my square of chocolate, wedge the door to my flat open with its cardboard packet and head for the porch.


Leaning in the doorway, worn out and unshaven, his hair more unkempt than usual, is Claudio. I do not know whether to kiss him or take him by the shoulders and shake him.


All right? he says.




Okay, says Claudio, seated next to me
 
with a pint glass of port. Some crazy shit. I start seeing these other black bags—


Yes, I watched your stream. I’ve seen them too!


Yeah—just wandering around, like what the hell—I don’t know if my followers are just getting really into it or
 
what
 
it is, but I stake one of them out and eventually he leads me—


The hall, the meeting, I’ve been there, I say. I traced it from your video.


You “traced” it, says Claudio, listen to him! No that’s great, so you’ve seen it.


I went to a service.


Wild, right? says Claudio. It’s been going for years, it turns out. So I’m at the meeting.


How did you get there?


On a barge.


How did you get your own bag?


Claudio looks at the floor.


I’m not proud of this, he says. I stole it.


You stole it from where?


Ugh, says Claudio. I followed one of the black bags, cornered him in an alleyway and overpowered him.


This he reports with some distaste.


I got him in a headlock and I stole his black bag and left him in his pants in the middle of the street.


Claudio! Have we, after all this, learned
 
nothing
?


He was really upset and I felt bad. I apologized. I threw him my jumper.


Terrible.


Yeah, I know.


Just terrible.


But I’m at the meeting, says Claudio, blah blah blah, chant chant chant, and afterward I collar the guy, the head of the chapter.


The Scottish guy?


Scottish black bag who seems to be the ringleader and I say, Hey. I unzip my bag and stick my head out so he can see my face—he’s all like, NO! covering his eyeholes. I’m like, Hey, what is this? I’ve got exclusive
 
rights to black bag including points on merchandising and you’re all in breach of copyright. And then it’s like he recognizes me.
 
You
, he says. I’m like, Yeah, it’s me, Claudio, “Don’t forget to like and subscribe.” He says, We’ve been looking for you. Oh. yeah? I say. You can’t have been trying very hard if I found you first. Now, at this point a bunch of the other black bags have gathered around me. I mean it’s not necessarily threatening, but, you know. I’m a little nervous.


I point out to Claudio that they may have heard that he beat one of them up.


Right. Though then the Scottish bag says I’m free to go, right now, they’ll even give me a lift back, but I have to give up my projects, I have to relinquish any ownership of black bag as a concept, to which I do
 
not
 
have any rights, exclusive or otherwise, and I’m like, um, no.
 
Or
, he says, he can bring me in.


Bring you in?


Bring me in and we can work things out. Saco a saco.


Okay. Saco a saco.


I have to give up my phone. They assign me a chaperone. Once I’m off the boat, they bundle me into a car and they get me on the next flight to Copenhagen—


Copenhagen?


Yeah, to the Center for Advanced Studies in Masculinity. This place is insane, dude. It’s like a cathedral, but a new-build cathedral. They live in simple little rooms; they eat olives and bread from a little pouch in the bags. Men in black bags are milling around not saying anything to each other, not judging each other, just humbly getting on with maintaining the Center for Advanced Studies in Masculinity.


No River of Shame.


No River of Shame! I get kind of into the lifestyle in all honesty; it’s a real detox. I have to have these meetings every day with the superior black bags—I don’t know how they can tell who’s superior, who’s an elder, maybe its random. Maybe it’s leg hair. But these black bags, they take me to a little room, all knowing like, Oh, of course, Number 278—that’s my number—we have
 
much
 
to discuss. But really they didn’t have
 
very much to discuss, they just wanted to know what I was doing, what my interest was in the movement. And when I’m not being questioned they pretty much left me to my own devices.


You couldn’t have got word to me?


Every day I thought I was on my way back, says Claudio. Then they’d keep me for another night. I’m sorry.


I was getting really worried.


An oversight, says Claudio. Shouldn’t have happened.


What exactly are they working on at the Center for Advanced Studies in Masculinity?


Well this is it, says Claudio. After a few days away from my phone, I had an epiphany: Men are mostly frightened and crazy and very easily misled. They just want someone to be nice to them, but they don’t know how to ask for that.


Hmm.


The thing with privilege, says Claudio, is not to take it personally. If you have something other people don’t … It’s probably something other people
 
should
 
have—a safe and stable place to live, smaller class sizes, access to potable water, an opportunity to succeed in your vocation, love, art … It’s not that you’re
 
bad
 
for having those things; anyone other than a monster would want those things to be universal. I think you can acknowledge that without getting defensive.


Right. So you’re just—


When you get defensive you start making an implausible case for why you deserve it. You worked harder, you suffered more. Bullshit. It’s evil. Yeah, so I’m just living that bag life for days on end. Ultimately, in exchange for a four-point-five percent cut of profits, we’re allowed to carry on.


What?


They felt it could be mutually beneficial, Bag Coin, all that shit, earn some losers a little travel money, attract some more men to their cause. Mason’s dealing with the legal side, but you know, he owns a controlling stake now, anyway.


You didn’t tell me anything about Mason.


Look, one: You told me you didn’t want to know what I was doing, and two: This was all happening at pretty much the same time, says Claudio. That’s how this stuff goes.


I scowl into the corner and then take a long sip of my port.


Isn’t it quite exploitative, Claudio, I say, to use your platform, by which I mean some hundreds of thousands of people with whom you have built up a level of trust over many years, in order to sell a … hokey new digital currency? And I mean quite as in completely.


Babe. Those guys aren’t as witless and vulnerable as they pretend to be, says Claudio. Something I learned over the last couple of weeks is that on some level we
 
want
 
to be conned.


No we don’t.


Like you with what’s her name … Angelique.


I bristle.


What about her?


On some level you sought out a dystopian relationship—


Dysfunctional
 
relationship.


Completely dysfunctional, agrees Claudio. Same with that Justine. You look for relationships like that because … I mean I’m not a shrink. But you’re trying to work something out.


What am I trying to work out?


You let people walk all over you!


They shouldn’t want to!


But they do! You get someone to treat you quite badly and then you’re all,
 
Why does this keep happening to me?


I punch him in the shoulder, which is quite solid.


I don’t think that’s how I sound at all. Have you been lifting?


Yeah, I want nice arms. But the point is, says Claudio, with something like Bag Coin, the exploitation is collaborative. Like in your pantomime. We all have to close our eyes very tight and say that we believe in fairies so that the whole operation doesn’t die. Create a deep faith in the assets. Ultimately, you and me …


You and me what?


We’re looking at several hundred grand each, says Claudio, which I know isn’t insane, but I trust Mason and there’ll probably be a regular monthly income on top of that. You’re probably not going to have to work anymore, that’s all.


I think about this while Claudio drinks his port. Don’t lottery winners mostly go batshit and kill themselves?


I mean that’s great, I say. I don’t know if it …


You can do whatever you want! says Claudio, Open a theater!


Claudio, opening a theater could bankrupt a small country. There’s a reason the whole patron of the arts thing kind of died out. Overheads!


A theater company, then. You’re always saying you want actual plays, written by actual writers, for actual actors to act in. You can make a space for that.


Oh.


You’re always saying our entire country has committed cultural suicide by mutual agreement.


I do say that.


So now you can do something about it! I just want you to be free to pursue what you really love, says Claudio. All of the issues with elitism in the arts we hear so much about—I want you to have some of that elitism.


That’s really sweet, I tell him.


And I’ll get back to keeping my people happy. I need to put a few more days into
 
Dados Mania
.


They’re going
 
nuts
, I say. Conspiracy theories out the wazoo.


Yeah, yeah, says Claudio. I’ve already announced I’m dropping a video tonight. Told them I got kidnapped. Released a new series of NFTs I drew on the plane. They’re fine. Mason says the whole kidnapping angle is actually the best thing that could have happened for the brand.


I get up and pace from one end of the room to the other, pausing to adjust my curtains.


What’s wrong? says Claudio. You seem worried.


It’s just … I say. I don’t really understand why you’d do this for me.


Because, says Claudio, I love you.


Oh, I say.


I walk back to the sofa and sit down.


I love you too, I guess.


You’d better. This place smells very strongly of damp, says Claudio. You ever get that checked out?


It’s vintage.


Claudio leans into me and I relax against him.


You free for lunch tomorrow?




OceanofPDF.com

















88




I STAND IN LINE FOR
 
a coffee at a campus concession, black bag folded into a shopping bag at my side. Soon I will find a quiet bathroom and change.


The queue is long and slow, but I turned up early and spent some time in the library, as myself, and I read, on a whim, some Strindberg. This is something I will have to get used to.


I am going to be, by my own standards, very rich.


I’m not quite sure what this will do to me or my motivation.


I suppose I worry that there will be nothing left of my personality at all.


Have you ever met a man who got exactly what he wanted? They always seem a little confused, even shell-shocked. They speak at one remove, as if delivering their own eulogy.


I wish to be alive, to continue to live, even should that mean a state of constant deferral. How much do you want to appear in other people’s thoughts at all? As little as possible, I think. If I could, I would take everything I have ever thought about anyone else and delete it forever.


I shuffle forward.


Our only obligation to each other should be a vast, oceanic affection. Our only assumption must be that everybody else’s life is more meaningful than our own. That is the only way to encounter the other. The rest is window dressing.


I hear the barista call the name Justine.


I watch Professor Justine Pearce collect her flat white from the service counter as I step forward in the queue. It takes me a moment to recognize her because Justine has changed her hair to a short bob, which she has dyed blonde. She is wearing a small black blazer with a two-inch strip of hessian pinned to the lapel.


Our eyes meet. She narrows hers a little.


Can I help you? she says.


No, I’m sorry, I say. I’m a big fan of your work, that’s all.


Oh, Justine says. Well, thank you.




OceanofPDF.com

















89




WEEK TEN IN THE ACADEMIC CALENDAR.
 
The number of completion.


I am back in the regular lecture theater for
 
Attraction Theory—Principles of Social Psychology
. I sit four rows from the back, three seats in from the left. The lights flash fifteen times a second, the standard sad kitchen fluorescent that torments houseflies, but each is encased in a sculpted plastic scabbard that curves handsomely. Good luck, they seem to say, like a cat darting out between two walls, looking at you, then darting back again, Good luck trying to be a human being.


Everyone is here. The Sophies, the Toms, the Daniels, the girl who smells of shoe polish. Many others I wish I could tell you about. But my time is short.


Dr. Mazower is already at the front as the students file in.


He looks up, takes off his spectacles to rub them, puts them back on again.


The hypothesis was offered that repeated exposure of the individual to a stimulus object, he says, increases positive feelings toward said object. The best way to understand this is to experience it for ourselves. We might want to think about
 
why
 
this is the case. Firstly the reduction of uncertainty: we dislike uncertainty and we become less uncertain about something if we’re familiar with it.


The students either scratch down a note or clack on their laptops.


Secondly, says Mazower, ease of interpretation. Think of a film with a very complicated plot. Think of the second time you watch it and how much more you understand and appreciate it. We could also think of the repetitions in religious services and rituals, the way they make familiar shapes out of life, the way we develop habits and then define ourselves through them. There are several repercussions of this experience,
 
the mere-exposure effect—it could be used against us, for example. It would be sad, wouldn’t it, if the greatest breakthroughs in psychology of the twentieth century had largely been turned toward advertising and population control? In fact, I’d like to conclude the module with some thoughts about what the effect we’ve been studying exposes—no pun intended—and how we might learn from it.


Mazower pauses.


But before that I would like to introduce our visiting lecturer for the final week.


The fire escape at stage right opens and in walks Dr. Blend, wearing full academic robes. A black gown and hood with embroidered green trimming.


This excites the room into a collective whisper.


I sit up very straight. I remember my directions. I will not make any movements that denote an emotional response.


I’m happy to invite Dr. Blend, says Mazower, before his retirement commences at the end of this session, to share some concluding statements.


Please, hush, Blend says as he takes the lectern. Thank you.


I would like … Dr. Blend stops. He seems a little choked up. There are no seminars this week. Maybe he is always like this when it comes time to say goodbye.


I would like, before we sadly wrap up for the semester, to invite someone else to the stage. I feel it might be appropriate, at long last, to show our appreciation for his hard work over the last few months.


After a pause I realize that Dr. Blend is staring at
 
me
 
with a warm smile, his eyebrows raised.


Oh dear god, no, I mutter.


The boy next to me gives me a friendly nudge on the shoulder.


I get to my feet, pulling black bag straight, and the faces in the room swivel to follow Dr. Blend’s gaze. Without exception they look at me with expressions of such joy and adulation that I would not feel worthy of it had I sacrificed my life for them. Had I barricaded the door to prevent
 
an active shooter from taking anyone’s life but mine, and this a little treat from God in the afterlife. Even then I would cringe. Ach, it was nothing really.


Three students get out of my way so that I can exit the row, and their standing provokes a wave of other students to stand, and to break into applause. They clap with such intensity—somebody whoops, which inspires further whooping and cheering—and I stumble, my feet too close together due to the hem of black bag, awkwardly down the broad steps to the front of the lecture theater. I feel as though I am walking down an escalator running upward.


I scan the crowd. They’re really going for it. I can see the second Sophie, in row H, surrounded by her friends, clapping with her arms over her head, her smile a little indulgent but all the more sincere for that. As I clamber onto the stage and approach the podium a beaming Dr. Blend steps back to let me … bask, I suppose. I suppose I ought to bask. Is this not everything you ever wanted? Then why, I wonder, does it feel so—




OceanofPDF.com



















ACKNOWLEDGMENTS




The original black bag experiment was conducted by Charles Goetzinger in 1967 at Oregon State University in order to test Robert Zajonc’s mere-exposure effect. He observed that, over the course of the semester, “the students’ attitude changed from hostility toward the Black Bag to curiosity and finally to friendship” (Goetzinger, quoted in Zajonc’s paper, “Attitudinal Effects of Mere Exposure”). In happening across this while researching a poem, I was immediately (which is to say obsessively and exclusively) concerned with black bag himself.


I am very grateful to Holly Pester for constant support, discussion, and a keener intelligence than my own. To Ruth Gilligan for the handbag. To Ben Pester for generously exchanging manuscripts at a critical moment. To Luke Brown for his customary precision and insight. Thank you, so much, to Georgia Garrett and Ivy Pottinger-Glass at RCW; to Nicholas Pearson at John Murray; and Caolinn Douglas at Zando. The kind of editors one dreams of.


The legalistic convention of beginning each element in a list paragraph with the word
 
Item
 
in italics followed by a full stop comes from somewhere, I think a nineteenth-century novel in translation, but I’ve been looking for it for the last year and have completely failed to track it down. I was reading a lot of Strindberg’s diaries and notebooks at the time of writing, and it’s possible it came from there (although I can’t find it).




OceanofPDF.com



















ABOUT THE AUTHOR




Luke Kennard
 
is an award-winning poet and novelist from the United Kingdom. His collection
 
Cain
 
was shortlisted for the International Dylan Thomas Prize in 2016, and
 
Notes on the Sonnets
 
won the Forward Prize for Best Poetry Collection in 2021.
 
The Transition
, his first novel, was a BBC Radio 4 Book at Bedtime and longlisted for the Desmond Elliott Prize.
 
The Book of Jonah
, his seventh poetry collection, was published in 2025. He lives in the West Midlands, where he teaches creative writing at the University of Birmingham.




OceanofPDF.com



