aUUIGIU YY
0 101 495

THE TRAIN NOW
DEPARTING
Martha Grimes
“Grimes is gifted at explaining the
private, sometimes horrifying yet
utterly mundane thoughts of ordi-
nary people.”
— San Francisco Chronicle
Subtle and perceptive, atmospheric
and lyrical, these two beautifully
accomplished novellas are decep-
tively profound in their exploration
of emotional isolation and identity
within human relationships. Each of
the two thematically linked stories
centers on a single woman living a
quiet, well-ordered, seemingly con-
tented life. In each, those lives are
gradually altered by meals shared
with male acquaintances. Though
distinct in characterization and
mood, both tales are passionately
told in Grimes’s inimitable voice.
They combine the singular charac-
ters and richly textured narrative that
readers have come to expect from
this internationally bestselling story-
teller.

rv)
LARGE PRINT GRI 5| P d
Grimes, Martha.
The train now departing
two novellas
Middletown Library Service Center
786 South Main St.
Middletown, CT 06457
AUG OQ 1
DEMCO

THE TRAIN NOW
DEPARTING

Also by Martha Grimes
in Large Print:
RICHARD JURY NOVELS
The Man with a Load of Mischief
The Old Fox Deceived
The Anodyne Necklace
The Dirty Duck
Jerusalem Inn
Help the Poor Struggler
The Deen Meap
I Am the Only Running Footman
The Five Bells and Bladebone
The Old Silent
‘The Stargazey
The Lamorna Wink

MARTHA GRIMES
THE TRAIN NOW
DEPARTING
TWO NOVELLAS
iddletown Library Service Center
AUG 00
G.K. Hall & Co. * Thorndike, Maine

Copyright © Martha Grimes, 1997
All rights reserved.
This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places and incidents either
are the product of the author’s imagination or are used fictitiously, and
any resemblance to actual persons, living or dead, events, or locales is
entirely coincidental.
Published in 2000 by arrangement with Viking Penguin,
a division of Penguin Putnam, Inc.
G.K. Hall Large Print Core Series.
The text of this Large Print edition is unabridged.
Other aspects of the book may vary from the original edition.
Set in 16 pt. Plantin by Susan Guthrie.
Printed in the United States on permanent paper.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Grimes, Martha.
The train now departing : two novellas / Martha Grimes.
joy eben
Contents: The train now departing — When the mousetrap closes.
ISBN 0-7838-9071-0 (lg. print : he : alk. paper)
1. Single women — Fiction. 2.-Large type books. I. Title.
PS3557.R48998 T73 2000b
813’.54—dc21 00-036982

CONTENTS
THE TRAIN NOW DEPARTING
2
WHEN THE MOUSETRAP CLOSES
145

Digitized by the Internet Archive
in 2022 with funding from
Kahle/Austin Foundation
https://archive.org/details/trainnowdepartin0O00O0grim_11p1

THE TRAIN
NOW
DEPARTING

ONE
She had been speaking of the railway station, and
he, as usual, had abandoned any pretense of lis-
tening, his attention solidly fixed upon his food,
his fork aimed as if he were waging war on his
lamb chops. The concentration with which he
attacked his plate left no room for “banter” (as
he referred to most of her conversation). But
were she to accuse him of not listening, he would
claim he certainly had been, to every word, and
would then go into one of his elaborately
mocking displays by setting down his knife and
fork and fixing her with a wide-eyed stare, as if to
say, There, is that what you want? thus making
her appear demanding and contentious.
It was one of their long late-afternoon lunches,
and she wondered why they continued to have
them, since they annoyed each other so much.
He was as usual eating something heavy, ex-
plaining that it would also serve as dinner. That
way, he would not have to bother going out again
later on. The main reason he liked late lunches,
he told her, was because of his writing schedule;
he liked to start around nine and continue on
2)

through the early afternoon. He could never
write after a meal, he said, so he put off the meal
until three or four.
She had ordered a salad of mixed greens. The
restaurant was French and so the menu didn’t
call it that; its description of the salad was com-
plicated and euphemistic. She wondered how
they managed to catch greens at the “baby”
stage; did greens also have an adolescence, an
adulthood? But howevetrh e menu tried to en-
rich it, the salad was still mixed greens.
As an appetizer, he had ordered mussels to
which a number of things had been done, in-
cluding sautéing and saucing up. She didn’t
know one did such things to mussels. She had or-
dered tomato juice. Without looking up from his
dish of mussels, he had asked her how her to-
mato juice was, as if anything really interesting
could be done with tomato juice. The question
How 1s this? or How was that? — repeated at every
lunch — was one of his few ready contributions
to the conversation. It was for him an obligatory
question, one which demonstrated his interest in
her enjoyment. He always asked it of one dish or
another, often several times during the course of
a meal, thereby discharging his conversational
debt. 3
‘The waiter came with the wine, and he and the
waiter discussed the year and the vineyard,
speaking in rapid-fire French. After the waiter
poured a thimbleful for tasting, it was pro-
nounced good or very good ( “Bon, bon”). The
10

label told her it was a Hermitage, one of the reds
he was so fond of. He always chose well and, in
choosing well, spent a great amount of money.
This was his favorite restaurant because of its
wine list. He had spent months in Burgundy, in
Meursault, Chablis, and Puligny-Montrachet,
but he did not talk about the trip as such: the
customs, the people, the lie of the land. Or, to be
more precise, he did speak of the lie of the land
insofar as it involved the slopes of the vineyards,
how a few feet might separate a good wine from a
great.
But he approached such subjects as if she
knew all about them, yet she knew nothing at all
about them. Why he assumed she was conver-
sant with such topics as that particular vineyard
which produced a grand cru, its exposure to sun
and cold, its particular soil — this she simply
couldn’t imagine, since he so often accused her
of bantering and foolishness. But there he had
been, at a previous lunch and another table,
going on about Puligny, the source of his beloved
Montrachet, going on as if she’d lived in the vil-
lage herself. He had talked about Chablis —
“You know those vineyards that produce the best
Chardonnay grapes?” —- and she had inter-
rupted to assure him she had never been any-
where near Chablis, never been to Burgundy,
never to France; didn’t he know that? She knew
he knew it; still, he paid no attention. And when
she thought surely she could lead him around to
describing the villages and the countryside he
11

would just shrug and say something about his
rental car breaking down or the poor condition
of the roads.
It was not that he did not talk, it was that he
went through bouts of talking, words like gusts of
wind, blowing in, stirring up currents, and trou-
bling the air around them for a few moments.
The brief exchange with the waiter about the
Crozes-Hermitage was like this. In the course of
lunching with him at many different restaurants,
she had discovered that he was fluent in French,
Italian, Spanish, and probably German, as he’d
spent a good deal of time in Cologne, too. But
she would not find out until they went to a
German restaurant. When she had expressed
surprise at his astonishing fluency in these lan-
guages, he had shrugged and said, “Well, one
picks them up.”
‘Their main course came and another swift ex-
change in French (the waiter happy he could
“banter” in his own language). Now that their
entrees had come, she could expect all conversa-
tion to be suspended while they ate. In place of
conversation, after a certain amount of time and
silence pressed upon them, he would ask her the
obligatory question. Since she was having salad,
he would ask about that.
Her main course — the salad — did not charm
her;sthe greens were greens, even if they had
been plucked in their infancy, and the dressing
was too sharp, too vinegary. It made no differ-
ence to her; she hadn’t been hungry. She would
12

have preferred to be in the station café, eating
the grilled-cheese sandwich she usually ordered.
The station was one of those handsome nine-
teenth-century railway stations, and unusual in
that it had been one of those in which the agents
and their families had lived at the turn of the
century. It fascinated her to think that part of it
had been occupied by a family once. It was near
her own large house, of that same Victorian pe-
riod. She had lived all her life in this house. Her
family had been small, very small, and were now
all dead; not only her father and her mother, all
of them — the few aunts and uncles, the tiny
sprinkling of cousins. She wondered how that
could be. It was almost as if a passenger car ona
train carrying everyone together had disap-
peared. Where be your gibes now? your gambols?
your songs? your flashes of merriment? She caught
her breath. Such fragments often overtook her,
coming so swiftly they made her wince.
“How’s your salad?”
She was not prepared for the question this
time, and she felt tears well in the corners of her
eyes. Tears of sadness and also of frustration.
She wanted to slap him. At the very least, she
would like to say, Awful, it’s awful, but this
would only have cued him to disregard her or
contradict her: Looks perfectly all right to me.
Something like that. “Fine” is what she said, and
he continued eating his chops, probably without
hearing the answer, certainly without caring
about it.
13

Over cocktails, she had been trying to get him
to talk about Zimbabwe. But he had, as she knew
he would, answered in monosyllables. She had
realized soon after they met that to try and draw
him out about his trips was bound to end in
failure, for he would not be drawn. He would
drop hints only of the exoticism of what he had
seen. As today, between the end of his first
course of mussels and the beginning of his lamb,
he had slipped into the silence the information
that there were fish in the Amazon capable of
swallowing cows. She waited for him to explain
this brilliant fact, perfectly aware that he
wouldn’t. He went on eating his lamb.
He managed to travel to these places without
affect (except, perhaps, for Burgundy), dropping
astounding bits of information into the silences
that made up the large part of their meals to-
gether, as if he were reporting on the weather out-
side. It was so peculiar. Had he been a charming
person, this might have been the charmingly in-
nocent act of a schoolboy. Only he wasn’t
charming. And he hadn’t a sense of what they
called “childlike wonder.” He seemed to assume
that everyone knew, for instance, about
Quetzalcoatl, the plumed serpent; or Silbaco, the
nightjar that haunts the forests of the Amazon. :
And he would speak of these things without en-
larging upon them. That was what, above all, ex-
asperated her beyond saying. Well, what good did
it do to say? He merely grunted or shrugged or
suggested she was being trying or overly literal.
14

It was not that he was keeping these trips se-
cret, quite the contrary: he talked like a man with
no secrets to hide. When she really got irritated
with him, she could question him quite merci-
lessly and take a perverse pleasure in his side-
stepping, evading, and shooting down her
questions, dropping them like dead birds on the
table.
They had had to build a raft to take them up
the Yata River.
“Of what? How did you build it?”
“Balsa and vines.” He shrugged. Anyone could
do it.
“Is — was — the river pretty?”
“No. Where’s the damned waiter?”
So the river she would have to picture on her
own. Brown and sinuous, islands of floating
greenery, pink wading birds, luxuriant trees
growing from the water. Eyes flashing through
the dark vegetation. ... She sighed. All she knew
about jungles she supposed she’d got from Jo-
seph Conrad.
“What’s wrong? Why are you glooming away?”
he asked.
“I’m not glooming. I’m merely trying to pic-
feresthe tivers
“What river?”
She dropped her head, sipped her coffee, re-
calling that he had taken a train, but from where
to where she couldn’t remember. He had said
only that it was hot, crowded, dreadful. He
would not expand upon that, though to her it
15

sounded as if it must surely have been colorful,
in spite of the discomfort. “Wasn’t it colorful?”
“Not particularly.” He had found the waiter.
More bread, more wine.
It was his mention of the train that made her
think of their own railway station — how unin-
habited it always seemed, how deserted.
As a child she remembered going to meet the
train with her mother, standing on the platform
in a cloud of steam, watching the conductor drop
down the yellow step for passengers descending,
and assisting the ladies with an old-world courtly
manner. The steam settling like fog or ground
mist, the snow a bright unbroken crust that lay
around the station, reflecting back the gold light
inside, and a frill of snow along each window
ledge like the whipped-cream piping on a cake or
a flourish of lace on a dress.
She mentioned it to him — not the memory of
her childhood but the train station itself, how de-
serted it had always seemed. “It’s like a ghost sta-
tion. Ghost trains steaming through a ghost
station.”
“Diesel-ing through, you mean.” He smiled
slyly. He knew she liked the image of the ghost
train and so decided to demolish it. Still smiling,
he continued eating.
“You accuse me of being literal, but it’s you
who are. I’ve never known a writer to be so lit-
eral.” She flushed with both anger and embar-
rassment, as if caught out in the middle of a
childish fantasy.
16

“You’ve never known a writer at all, other than
myself.”
“Me,” she said. “Other than me.” That was a
weak refutation, merely correcting his grammar.
She hurried on. “Didn’t you have fun watching
the steam trains when you were young? They
seemed to have so much more... authority than
the ones we have now.” There was no point in
bringing up his childhood, she knew, for he never
reminisced. Whereas, that was what she did
mostly and well.
“If you like them so much, you should go to
Zimbabwe,” he said.
She blinked at this astonishing irrelevancy.
“Why in heaven’s name Zimbabwe?”
fel ieatrainsealleruneonesteam there: ltsithe
coal, you see. Country’s loaded with coal.”
Missing the point completely. He usually did.
She wondered if missing it weren’t deliberate.
He had returned from Zimbabwe, and it was
as if he’d taken a walk around the corner for a
newspaper. He traveled a good six months out of
the year, and though he avoided talking about his
travels (that is, beyond the startling comment or
two), he wrote about them, and that, he must
have supposed, was enough. He was a travel
writer. She had read bits and pieces of his books
because of their lunches together and because
she knew him. She felt she must. She did not dis-
like his books; she was quite astounded that
events were so colorfully reported. But she’d
rather not read about travel. Travel writing made
7

her uncomfortable; she did not know why. Per-
haps because she felt she should travel herself
but grew anxious merely thinking about it. Still,
she had to give him credit for not answering her
questions with Read my book, it’s all in my
book. He did not refer to his books as sources.
Indeed, he did not refer to his books at all. At
first she thought this might stem from sheer in-
difference. He did not seem to care about the
books, except by way of complaining about the
publishing business, how inept “those people”
were.
She sipped her wine and thought it tasted
flinty. It was extremely dry. “It’s the anonymity
of a train ride I like.”
“You never go anywhere, so how do you
know?” He was separating the meat from the
bone of his third chop, careful as a surgeon. They
were quite small, the chops. But “baby lamb”
was obviously redundant.
She went on. “It’s eerie. As if the self were in
some kind of limbo.”
He was chewing and looking at her, but she
doubted he was listening. Or, if listening, com-
prehending. Often, when he looked up from his
food, he would fix her with the glazed look of a
child confronted with an irritated parent, :
seeming to hear but not hearing. Tuning out.
There but not there.
‘The waiter came to replenish their water and
wine. “Our station — why is it so empty nearly all
of the time?” This was not what she meant. She
18

meant, Why does it make me feel empty, as if I
were as devoid of experience as one of the wait-
ing-room benches or one of the loosened panes
rattling in the wind? She would sit on one of
these benches, against a wall painted a dull
cream, woodwork a varnished brown, colors she
would have liked to think were chosen because
they wouldn’t agitate one’s mind. The station
and the platform were always spotlessly clean.
There was a dog, too, a Labrador mixed with
other breeds, its coat brown and slightly shiny
like the woodwork. She supposed it belonged to
the stationmaster. The dog was well fed and
friendly and sometimes came to sit beside her.
And there was, of course, the lunchroom, the
cafe. It was the area that once must have served
as the living quarters for the family. The mother
might even have cooked in the café’s tiny
kitchen. She was at a loss to understand how it
took in enough business to keep going. Many
times she had been the only customer. The sta-
tion had the) air of a place deserted, fled irom.
The vacant waiting room, the lost property
counter with its double door shut and locked,
the abandoned ticket window, its tan blind
pulled down: CLOSED. All of this was a land-
scape of sorts that she could relate to.
During these reflections, she had barely no-
ticed the waiter had been and gone, removing
the plates, taking her half-eaten salad away. She
hadn’t wanted it, had found it dull. Now the
waiter had returned with the dessert: sorbet for
19

her and, for him, a complicated confection of
ivory-colored mousse in a sauce cassis, crowned
with nuts and other adornments.
“Well,” he said, “you’ve certainly been sitting
there glooming away.” There was the sly smile
again.
Silence on his part was meant to indicate he
was not interested in idle chatter; on her part, si-
lence meant moodiness, an uneven, quixotic
temperament. It made her smile to think this, for
she considered her temperament to be quite
bland, smooth and white like the mousse. “I was
just picturing our station. Just wondering if
anyone buys tickets anymore. The window’s al-
ways closed, it seems.”
Having forced her into saying something, he
now ignored what she said and spooned into a
rather unappetizing puddle of purple sauce.
What was the name of it in French? La mousse en
cassis? Something involved, like the dessert itself.
“La salle des pas perdus.”
She was startled. “What?” Occasionally he
would produce a comment of eerie relevance,
even though she had been so sure he hadn’t been
listening.
“Tt’s how the French used to refer to the hall of
ticket windows. The booking hall, I suppose they °
called it. La salle des pas perdus. Vhe place of lost
footsteps.”
Her spoon hung in midair, frozen in time.
“How’s your sorbet?” he asked.
20

TWO
The place of lost footsteps.
She thought of that now, sitting in the station
café eating a wedge of berry pie, forgetting
whether she’d asked the waitress for blueberry or
boysenberry. Steam rose from the café’s sur-
faces, from the grill and the Pyrex coffeemakers,
and condensed on the windows. The café was
empty except for her and the waitress and, back
in the small kitchen, the cook. The waitress
stood smoking and looking out of the window
that faced the platform and the tracks. Occa-
sionally she rubbed away a circle of steam with
her forearm, pulling down the sleeve of her
sweater to do it. There was nothing to see except
the difference between inside and outside.
She went on eating the pie, which was not very
appealing because it was cold and the crust a
little clammy. The waitress had offered to heat it
up for her in the microwave oven, but she had
said, No, it was fine the way it was. It tasted more
like the kind of pie you would expect to get in a
railway café — and that was what it was called:
RAILWAY CAFE was written on the glass of the door
aN

that opened onto the platform. She preferred
eating something that gave her a sense of where
she was, a sense of place. One would not expect
to get a piece of hot pie in such a place. Not that
it wasn’t good; it was, despite the crust.
When she finished the pie, she too reached
over to the window by her table and wiped a
circle of mist away to look out. It was raining
again, not hard, just a steady drizzle. When it was
raining, she especially enjoyed being inside the
café. Nicer yet if this café had been that railway
café or pub in the film — what was it? — Brief
Encounter, that was it. The doctor took a cinder
out of the woman’s eye in the café of a railway
station. It was in Britain, where they were called
station-buffets. Sometimes caffs. No, a caff was
more general; it didn’t have to be part of a sta-
tion. But that station-buffet must have seemed a
haven to them right after they met, and a hell of
memories when they knew they couldn’t meet
again.
She studied the crumbs on her plate and
looked around the empty café, thinking how for-
tunate they were to have one in their station and
how unusual this was. For a while she sat and
fantasized about the families that used to live
here, here in the room that was now the café. It :
was large enough to have been at least three
smaller rooms, and the present kitchen and bath
could have been just where they were now. What
would it have been like to live this close to the
trains? She could almost feel the floorboards
pipe

shudder under her feet.
Was the café (she wondered) subsidized by the
town, paid for out of town taxes as a public ame-
nity? Was that how it managed? If that was the
case, she was glad her tax dollar was going to-
ward something useful.
Her cup was drained now and she thought she
would like more coffee but didn’t want to disturb
the waitress, still standing at the end of the
counter, now with a fresh cigarette. And, be-
sides, she knew she would want to come back
later for coffee. Right now she would walk up
and down the platform, look at the mail sacks,
and later watch them being loaded. (She had no
idea that the people around here were such letter
writers!) She could look at the posters in the
waiting room, which never changed, and the no-
tices posted on the bulletin board outside by the
door. Train schedules were posted there, along
with notifications of changes or delays. Then,
back here for another cup of coffee.
Her stomach felt uncomfortable, heavy from
the cold pie. But that was all right; she had
known it would. It was part of its café identity.
“You spend too much time there,” her writer
friend had gone on to say when she had men-
tioned the sadness trains aroused in her. He was
talking about the station while eating a salad
whose complex arrangement seemed more a
problem in geometry than a plate of food. This
had been another week after his return from the
29

Amazon, and it took place in a restaurant he fre-
quently patronized. She did not like it, all of its
glass and greenery. Potted palms, spider plants
with low-hanging tendrils that sometimes
brushed her cheek. She had asked him if the res-
taurant reminded him somehow of the Amazon
rain forest.
“Jungle,” he said, irritably.
She was always irritating him, so that made her
snulew Jungler<
“Rain forest is a euphemism the conservation-
ists made up. Something to save. Would you
want to save a jungle?”
She thought a moment. “I might.” Knowing it
would irritate him more.
The room had the appearance of frigid cleanli-
ness. She guessed that the kitchen was dirty. The
restaurant was also pretentious and had a fancy
menu with the offerings in cursive, as though
written as freshly as the radicchio had been
picked.
His comment about her spending too much
time at the station had been made without con-
viction, without really caring, and without ex-
pecting an answer.
So she hadn’t answered. She studied his large
plate of salad. He was eating the cold duck salad:
with radicchio and endive and a few other things,
including a sprinkle of pine nuts. The salad was
fancy, composed. She wished restaurateurs and
their chefs would give up looking at salads as if
they were paintings or mathematical problems.
24

The duck breasts had been arranged in a pyr-
amid around the radicchio core and all of it
dressed in one of those hard-to-grasp dressings
with four or five main ingredients. How could
she consider “garlic-apple-Dijon—mustard” as a
separate entity? How could she taste it in her
mind?
When she looked at the slices of duck breast
she thought of the mallards in the pond in the
park. When the sun shone down, their colors
were neon-bright. To be brought to such igno-
miny as this, arranged on a salad plate. She
looked up at the shadowed ceiling, thinking she
had seen a flash of blue-green wing.
The Railway Café would serve a salad of pale
green iceberg lettuce, quarters of tomatoes,
onion rings. She had never ordered one, but she
could visualize it.
He mentioned a recent film that had received
good reviews. “Have you seen it?”
“No.” She hadn’t wanted to.
“Kyveryone’s seen it. Why not?”
“Well, it?s meant to be deep. To make you
think.”
“Yes. What’s wrong with that?”
“That sort of film seems — artificial.” She
wanted to say pompous or pretentious, but since he
had apparently liked it, he would be insulted.
Even so, he felt her refusing to see the film re-
flected on his own taste.
“You can’t criticize what you haven’t seen.”
“Yes, that’s true.” It wasn’t. She simply wanted
25

to bring this difference of opinion to a swift close
before it escalated into argument. She did not
mind argument; it could be stimulating. But not
with him. His arguments were boring. She
smiled again, wondering why they put up with
each other.
The place of lost footsteps.
She was standing in the waiting room by the
ticket window. The blind was pulled down with
closed coldly printed in large letters. But it was
always CLOSED; at least it was whenever she
looked inside the station. It must be open some-
times; otherwise, where did people buy their
tickets?
For a few moments she sat on one of the
benches against the wall and imagined huge,
busy stations with booking halls. Les salles. Salons,
she supposed. She pictured the Gare du Nord,
Victoria, and Waterloo — stations she’d never
seen and so had to imagine their block-long rows
of ticket windows, the booking halls. Les salles.
Wasn’t travel supposed to offer promise? Hope
for the future? The going forth, the undertaking
of change? Finally letting go the breath you’d
been holding? Freedom? Stacks of luggage, hur-
rying porters. Promise. Purpose. Why then the:
lost footsteps?
She felt there was something here she should
be able to grasp immediately, but she couldn’t
see it. Instead, she saw herself in one of those
enormous vaulted stations, moving slowly, like
26

an elderly person, stopping off in one of its cafés,
drinking coffee. Looking through a window. The
place of lost footsteps.
How was it he was able to tell her such things,
he who seemed to place so little value on them?
How did he know them? It did not seem fitting
he should know them.
It did not seem fair.
4S

THREE
He was a writer of travel narratives, and she had,
at the beginning of their acquaintance, reason-
ably expected his conversation would be filled
with details of what he had seen and heard and
felimin the’ placesuheds been ttosmlheses places
sounded exotic and romantic: Jaipur, Aix-en-
Provence, Beijing, Patmos. The names glowed,
throbbed with color. She saw in her mind’s eye
sunrises in Tahiti, sunsets in the Peloponnese.
Dazzling colors.
One of their lunches took place after he’d just
got back from Russia. She’d asked, “How was St.
Petersburg?” and been astonished that there
were really people of whom one could ask such
questions. How was Marrakesh? Did you like Sor-
rento? That he was one of these people amazed
her
“Cold,” he said. “Cold as marble.” He spoke:
between bites of radicchio, eating a salad with
one of those involved dressings. He was exca-
vating for pine nuts. He did not like them. They
tasted like grit, like gravel, he said. Like something
the hens go scratching in. “So was Brussels.” He
28

found another pine nut, discarded it on his bread
plate.
She waited for him to go on about St. Peters-
burg or even Brussels, but instead he asked her
why she was only having coffee. Why hadn’t she
ordered any lunch?
“I’m not hungry.” Which was not true; she
simply disliked the food served in this restau-
rant. It looked like it wasn’t meant to be eaten,
but merely gazed at and appreciated. Artfully de-
signed, a palette of colors. Jade pea pods, garnet
beets. A plate of vegetables like a neon sign.
What she wanted was her grilled-cheese sand-
wich with a slice of tomato inside at the station
cafe. All she knew now of St. Petersburg and
Brussels was that they were cold. She tried to
imagine them. Snow and ermine in St. Peters-
burg. That made her sigh. The image was prob-
ably suggested by some film she’d seen, possibly
Doctor Zhivago. And she also pictured that cen-
tral square called the Grand’Place in Brussels.
Flickers of light all around the square like stars
in the dark night. She knew this because van
Gogh had painted it: the brilliant stars, the
lamps saturated with light. Van Gogh had no-
ticed something more than the cold.
“You should eat,” he said, as his salad was re-
placed by a plate of quail and crystal-green as-
paragus.
The quail were so small and delicate-looking,
each wearing those little paper ruffs at the ends
of the legs, the plate made her want to weep. And
29

because of that, she smiled instead. A tight
smile.
“What’s so amusing?” he asked.
“Oh. I was just thinking about St. Petersburg.”
“You wouldn’t like it.” He stabbed his fork
into the tiny bird.
She turned away. Then she said, “That large
square in Brussels — it must be beautiful.”
“You should travel, if travel is so attractive to
you.”
Of course, he had turned it into a veiled criti-
cism of her sedentary life. She said, “It isn’t.”
He dropped the travel and said, “You should
Ceuoutl mores:
He was always saying this. It was because he
didn’t care if she did or didn’t that he kept saying
the same thing. She ignored the remark as she al-
ways did and turned her head to look out of the
bay window. At its top was a jungle of fern and
tangled vines. She noticed the leaves were dusty.
“I saw you in that coffee shop at the station.
Why do you go there? It’s awful.”
“No it isn’t.” She had told herself many times
not to be defensive around him, for it only
whetted his appetite for confrontation. Still, she
went on. “They make marvelous omelets, the
best I’ve ever eaten.” It was true. When she’d :
tasted the first one, she could hardly believe that
such a simple little place, a common café, could
make such an omelet. “It’s very high and light
because the whites are beaten stiff, like a
souffle.”
30

He was shaking and shaking his head.
“You’ve never eaten there, so how do you
know it’s awful?” She tried to keep the irritation
out of her voice, but couldn’t.
He rolled his eyes in a heaven-help-us manner
(clearly feeling that the question didn’t deserve
an answer) and buttered the last of the bread.
She found it irritating that he simply dismissed
her question. He could criticize what he hadn’t
experienced, but she could not criticize what she
was sure was the underlying falseness of the film
he had liked. He would never admit the truth of
this, though.
He studied his bread and finally answered her.
“Because of what it looks like — a greasy spoon.”
She hadn’t heard that hackneyed description
in years. She persisted, knowing it was fruitless
to try to make him concede any point of hers.
“Well, you should go there and try an omelet.
Then you’d see how good it is.” Immediately, she
was sorry she’d said this, for she did not want
him to go to the Railway Café and find fresh
subject for criticism, all the more because he
knew it was something she enjoyed. Worse, he
might spoil the place. He would leave behind a
trail of dust, a spirit dust, perhaps, that would re-
main after he’d gone. And some of him would
then be forever seated at one of the tables, and
even if she couldn’t see the shape of him, she
would be aware that he’d been there, had
touched the sugar bowl, had lifted the salt and
pepper, plucked out napkins. There would be
31

spiritual fingerprints everywhere.
“T wouldn’t be caught dead,” he said.
For the hundredth time, she had to ask herself
why she kept the friendship alive. Well, she could
not cut out everyone, and she had in the last few
years allowed other relationships to wither and
die. Better ones than this, too. Thus, she told
herself she must be extremely careful, that she
should hold on to these few people even if they
were incapable of really having a conversation —
for she always assumed that this occurred only
on some level of intimacy. This did not mean
confessing or revealing hidden things. That was
another level of intimacy.
So she kept on with him, despite his ill humor,
his carping, his buried rage. She felt it must be
that — genuine rage at some object he had no ac-
cess to. Dead parents, perhaps. His indifference
to her was scarcely more than his indifference to
himself. This was perhaps the most peculiar
thing — not his indifference to her but to him-
self. He was not proud or egotistical about what
he had done, and he had done some rather dan-
gerous things (she had learned from reading his
books). But it was as if he were speaking of some-
body else, someone he didn’t much care for.
Understanding this didn’t matter much,
strangely. It was still painful, his disregard of
her. Now the Railway Café would offer a sub-
ject for fresh criticism, even though he hadn’t
been in it. He had worn thin the usual topics.
How many times had she heard him tell her she
32

should “get out more”?
He used it now to question her conduct. “You
spend too much time there.”
She sighed. “But why were you there? Where
were you buying a ticket to?”
He mentioned the city, unhappy with it even
though it was merely a point of departure for the
greater trip. “It’s where I get the ship for Poly-
nesia.” His frown deepened. He never appeared
to enjoy the prospect of his destinations.
Polynesia. Her mind seemed to float on a
purple sea, wash up in warm breakers onto black
sand. She had no idea if there were beaches of
black sand in Polynesia. She asked him.
He shook his head, holding one of the quail
between two index fingers, biting. “You’re
thinking of Pago Pago.”
She threw her head back and laughed, knowing
he did not see the humor. “I’m not thinking of
anywhere. I’ve not been anywhere. I don’t know
anything.” He knew it all but didn’t seem to take
credit for his knowledge. He treated it with the
same indifference he treated her food or her so-
cial life.
Now he was sitting back in his chair, leaning
back and craning his neck, looking for their wait-
ress. He couldn’t find her. He sighed. “Of
course, I have to finish the St. Petersburg section
before I leave.” He fiddled with his spoon,
wanting coffee and dessert.
The section was part of the book he was cur-
rently working on. She thought it was amazing.
33

“The most amazing thing.”
“What?”
“To write a book. And you’ve written five or
SIG
He shrugged and said, “You should try it,
then.” He leaned back again, tilting the chair
and, seeing the waitress, energetically waving his
arm.
“Why do you always tell me that? As if one
merely had to snap one’s fingers and there it
would be?”
“What would be?”
He had already forgotten. Not only what she
had said about his writing, but what he himself
had said in response.
She felt invisible. As if he were speaking, when
he spoke, only to empty air. She felt desolate.
And once more she told herself she would not
meet hint again: ‘for-one of these slunehes:
knowing that she would.
He had mistaken her for someone else.
‘That was how they’d met: he had walked over
to her table, studied her face, and told her she
was the zmage of Mary-Beth, a friend of his.
This had seemed to be important to him, as if
the woman and he had been close, yet she had.
never heard him speak of Mary-Beth again.
She had been eating lunch quite late, around
three —- something she never did, she rarely ate
lunch at all — but this time she’d had no break-
fast and had come from her attorney’s office.
34

The attorney had talked at length about her af-
fairs; they were more complex than she had be-
lieved. She found it difficult to think of her
affairs, or of any other part of her uneventful life,
as needing the watchful eye of a lawyer.
At first, she had not liked these midafternoon
lunches; she would have preferred meeting
later, for dinner. It would have helped to fill the
evening hours that always stretched out before
her.
It was after the third lunch that she had real-
ized that they had settled into a ritual. But she
never understood why. Had they actually en-
joyed one another’s company so much during
that first meal that they had agreed to meet again
the following week? And had the following
week’s lunch been such a success that lunches
three, four, five, and so on had settled into this
semblance of a ritual? It was not that they found
themselves in sympathy with one another, that
was clear. She would have said, had there been
more consciousness at work, that they set about
deliberately to annoy each other. His complicity
in this she judged to be less than hers because
she saw him as less conscious of it. She felt she
maneuvered him into positions that would
permit her rook to check his king. Yet she never
did because he managed to knock it off the
board with some comment that spoke of the im-
possibility of retrieval. She would stare at him,
openmouthed. She was intrigued by her atten-
dance at these meals, especially given the sad re-
35

alization that for him she could have been
anybody. He wanted only a luncheon com-
panion, someone to break bread with, a witness
to his selection of meat and wine, an argument to
reiute:
She did not realize this at first, of course not.
The awareness came slowly over many weeks
and months of their lunching together. And
when it did become clear that he might not even
like her, she felt pained and disappointed, but
she very soon outgrew the stings of humiliation
and became, simply, an observer, an ear to take
in their often incoherent conversations, a third
party at their table.
36

TOU
The waitress never questioned her presence in
the Railway Café. If the waitress wondered why
she came so often, she kept it to herself. Prob-
ably, she even liked it; it meant another person to
share the burden of silence, and that was always
good. Their talk never rose above comments
about the food and sometimes the weather, but
that was all right too. There was a sufficiency in
these narrow exchanges — “Your cook makes
the best grilled cheese”; “Well, Pll tell him you
said that” — that she didn’t get from listening to
even the most intricately styled talks or lectures
or conversations. The brief transactions with the
waitress were satisfying, just as the grilled-
cheese sandwiches and slices of pie were more
filling than one of those four-course lunches.
She wondered about the life of the waitress but
never asked. She wondered whether she found
her job here awfully dull and if she had children,
a husband, a home. Or did the waitress live in
rooms somewhere? Thinking of her own house,
SO spacious and empty, she had at times consid-
ered turning it into a rooming house. It appealed
om

to her, this picture of herself as a landlady in one
of those shapeless brown cardigans, watching
her roomers come and go, no one staying for
very long, which permitted a flow of fixed ar-
rivals and departures but also allowed for entire
lives lived in secret. She did not mean to pene-
trate those secrets, just as she did not want to
discover things about the waitress. She did not
look for clues, like a wedding ring or a snapshot
stuck in the corner of the mirror that ran the
length of the counter. (There were a few snap-
shots there, but she had no idea to whom they
belonged.) She was not eager to discover the
waitress had a flourishing life away from the
cafe; she did not want a door to open on a larger
world, one in which she would have to include
the waitress’s family: how they looked and what
they did and how they felt.
Or, she thought, it might be simple jealousy of
the rich and flowing lives of other people, lives
which would flow toward her and around her in
the form of strangers leaving work, coming out
of their cramped offices, free of their jobs,
women in the summer dusk in their bright
dresses, whole gardens of them.
She was certain (but did not know why) that
the waitress was not one of those and was much.
more like she herself. Had she had to go to work
again, she thought she would prefer a very
simple job such as waiting on tables. But only in
such a place as the Railway Cafe.
She had said this to her friend as they lunched
38

in a rather bohemian brasserie that seemed to
work hard at keeping its Hungarian ambience.
The waitresses wore bright scarves and long
multicolored skirts. What she had said to him
was that she would hate to wait on tables dressed
in costume; she would prefer a plain uniform,
light blue or white. She had talked about this at
some length, describing the various waitresses
and waiters (who wore long scarves around their
middles instead of belts, and suspenders), but
she knew he wasn’t listening. Probably he would
consider all of her comments mere badinage and
not worth listening to.
She was surprised when he actually com-
mented on what she had said. “Why in God’s
name would you want to do something as dull as
waiting tables? I can’t imagine anything duller.”
“Really? But you seem to find certain waiters
fascinating, I mean, like the sommelier at that
French place —”
He barked out a laugh. “A sommelier 1s not a
waiter!”
“No, but you enjoy the waiters in that place,
too.”
He continued to eat his gulyas, saying, “Your
trouble is you don’t have enough to do. What you
should do is go back to work.”
“But why? I didn’t like my work. And I don’t
need the money.”
“You were unlucky in that inheritance.”
She frowned. What could he possibly mean?
“You make it sound like some bad Victorian
39

novel. The heroine is undone because the man
wants only her money. I would hardly call it an
inheritance in that sense. It’s not a great deal of
money.” Her father and then her mother had
died, and both had left her a substantial amount.
Enough to get by on, was what her mother had
always said. “That’s all,” she said to him now,
although it was far more than just enough to get
by on.
‘To this he said nothing. He had stopped lis-
tening again and was signaling the waiter.
“Not everyone can have a fascinating job like
yours.”
When he’d finally brought the waiter bearing
down on them, he looked at her blankly and
asked, “Fascinating how?”
40

TIVE
Another time they lunched in what he said was a
restaurant that served good Basque food. But he
settled once again for duck. He couldn’t seem to
get enough of it. On his plate were smoked duck,
duck foie gras, and a duck confit.
“You’re about as sociable as a hermit.” He was
craning his neck, leaning back in his chair, trying
to locate their waiter.
He enjoyed criticizing her reclusiveness, saying
how she might as well be a hermit and live on a
mountaintop. Especially as his own life stood in
such sharp contrast to hers. Yet, he did not like his
life, she was sure of that. But that apparently was
beside the point. His life was (he admitted) but
one model of how life should be lived.
“I’m not saying everyone should go jumping
about the globe the way I do, God forbid. But we
have to be out and about.”
“I’m very often out and about. I’m right now
out and about with you. You accused me of being
out and about too much.” She meant to the café.
“Youre twisting my words. You’re being ironic,
as usual. You know what I mean.”
41

No, she didn’t. Out and about did not mean
anything.
Finally, he saw the waiter and motioned him to
their table with the remonstrating arm of a state
trooper waving over a speeding automobile.
“Your life,” he said, “is too narrow. No man is an
island, remeniber thats
“But Donne wasn’t talking about being so-
ciable, he was talking about charity. Or empathy.
We must be more charitable, give something of
our lives over to it. He was talking about identi-
fying with others, not about throwing a party.”
He grunted. “For whom the bell tolls, you
mean? We’re all in it together, that’s what. We all
have to pull together.”
“T don’t think Donne would mind me going to
the Railway Café.”
‘The waiter had come and he ordered creme
caramel (which didn’t sound very Basque to
her). When the waiter went away, he leaned
across the table. “You’ve become a recluse, that’s
alee
It was the recluse monologue, and she tuned it
out as best she could. It was not really his
carping on the way she lived her life that both-
ered her. This niggling and picking amused
more than angered her. What bothered her was.
that she could have been anyone. He did not care
if the person seated across from him now were
she or another; he could have as easily adjusted
his criticism to someone, anyone, else. He did
not care if she was a recluse, just as he did not
42

care if she enjoyed her lunch. He had simply
shifted into talking gear. He did not really care
what he said. Of course, he would have denied
this with a vengeance.
As he rattled on about the way she spent her
life, she fantasized that the gods had appor-
tioned a certain handful of words to each person.
Fifty, say. Fifty words for each occasion. If one
ran over the fifty words, one would not be al-
lowed to repeat that occasion. She would not be
permitted to lunch with him again. She frowned.
But what about the other person? What if he did
not go over the fifty? Should he not be able to re-
peat the occasion either? This was a problem.
“.. the point is, we must have social encoun-
ters.” The blade of his butter knife carved a line
in the white tablecloth.
“T’m having one right now. With you.”
Seven words. Or should she count “I’m” as two
and make it eight? Probably she should.
Wicook@here-4 lin onlymtrying=tomheips your
Trying to be your friend. You mustn’t keep
cooping yourself up the way you do. Oh, yes, you
have a meal with me sometimes, but —”
Her figuring could not move as swiftly as his
mouth, so she had to guess: “Twenty-five to
thirty,” she said.
“What? What?”
“Words. I’m playing a game.”
“What game? What are you talking about?”
“Tf each of us were allowed only fifty words to
say and no more, could we keep within the
43

bounds of those fifty?”
He stared at her for a moment and then shook
his head, feigning pity. “You really live in a no-
man’s-land, don’t you?”
44

Perhaps I do, she thought, counting out change
for her grilled-cheese sandwich and coffee. Only
it wasn’t clear just what this particular no-man’s-
land was.
Yet it might have been the one true thing he’d
spoken during that whole long lunch. She had
come to realize that having lunch with him
meant giving over one’s entire afternoon. That
would certainly not bankrupt her afternoons,
though, as she had few ways of filling them.
They seldom entered the restaurant before
three or even four. He always went through four
courses. This particular lunch had begun with
mussels cooked in some queer way coming be-
fore the salad and described in cursive and dis-
cursive French, making it near impossible to
assimilate the overdesigned mussels. And des-
sert was not even the end of things, for there
were liqueurs to follow, and coffee and a plate of
tiny chocolates. These meals would take all af-
ternoon, running up against the dinnertime of
most people, or at least their cocktail hour.
She could never have begun to eat all of those
45

courses. It was not that she was indifferent to
food, for she could have put away two or even
three of the Railway Café’s grilled-cheese sand-
wiches. Sitting there now, she thought she might
even have one later, when she came back for an-
other cup of coffee.
When she went up to the register, the waitress
came over and took the check and her money. As
she punched down the cash-register keys, she
smiled a genuine smile. She did not appear to be
bored by her job at all. This was strange, for all
she did after her little bit of serving was to posi-
tion herself at the end of the counter and smoke
and look out at the platform.
It had been simple, when she’d first started
coming here, to figure out a tip. But it became in-
creasingly difficult because she had come to
think of the waitress as — well, perhaps not a
friend but a very good acquaintance. She had de-
cided never to leave less than a dollar, even when
the check was no more than two or three dollars,
which was what it had been today.
She walked the platform now. Even before she
heard it, she felt the vibration of the distant train.
This would be the train to that city from which
one could board a freighter. In another minute, |
the station manager announced it over the
public address system that boomed out indeci-
pherable destinations. No one depended on the
station manager’s voice for information. Still,
these loud muddied announcements served to
46

give the station itself a sense of direction, a
raison d’étre.
The station manager appeared then with his
dolly full of heavy-looking boxes that would be
loaded onto the freight cars along with the mail.
‘The boxes on the dolly shivered as the train drew
closer. She could see the engine down the line.
The station manager would have read off the
stops over the loudspeaker, but of course she
hadn’t understood.
It was a behemoth, nearly screaming when it
stopped, spitting up sparks, wheels shrieking
with the lurch of the brakes. Peering out from
one of the windows were two children, a boy and
a girl, their faces pressed against the glass, which
had flattened their noses to the shape of snouts.
‘They were staring at her, making her feel vaguely
uncomfortable. She changed her position,
walked a few feet along, noticing how tired many
of the passengers seemed to be, tired or bored.
Yet they conveyed the sense of living in a secret
world remote from her world’s troubles, un-
reachable. Some of them were oblivious — to the
stop and the station and to her, of course. She
wondered if the ones who looked out thought the
same as she did, that she inhabited a world from
which they were excluded. No, for they were the
ones who had stormed the citadel, taken over the
castle, found sanctuary.
47

SEVEN
While he ate his dessert, he said something about
the difficulties of writing, how he had run into
trouble with a certain section of his book.
At first she thought he was being ironic.
Naively, she had asked him how, honestly, he
could expect to write about a subject he disliked
so much and not run into trouble.
“T can’t think what you’re talking about. You
simply don’t understand the pitfalls of writing,
the uncertainty, all of that.”
She smiled as she said, “But you’re like the
guidebook writer in that novel by Anne Tyler.”
He was incensed. “I am not a writer of guide-
books.”
“Of course not! I only meant —” She gave up.
She understood that he was unaware of his
true feelings, unaware that everything he said —
or didn’t say, since he disliked talking about his
trips — was more evidence that he hated to
travel. And hated writing about it. He did ac-
knowledge a kind of hatred of writing, but he put
that down to the troubles that afflict all writers:
the blocks, the terror of the empty white page,
48

words like lead and inert sentences into which it
sometimes seemed impossible to breathe any
life. He had more or less manufactured a mon-
ster to account for his writing problems: some
untamable, unchainable beast who was fierce
but stupid, slavering but toothless, so that one
could not even own it as the “beast of the uncon-
scious.” It was simply too damned dumb for that
(he had said, laughing). After all, the uncon-
scious had a design; it had its methods, its logic.
So his writing troubles were never atiributed
to his hatred of travel. They were put at the door
of the beast. His succulent ideas ended up as
picked bones, strewn about a Cyclops’ cave.
“And I am not as clever as Odysseus.” His pale
blue eyes grew more intense, as if someone had
plugged in an electrical cord and charged them.
It was clear that this was just how he saw himself
— as clever as Odysseus. He tricked the beast; he
had escaped with a decent day’s writing.
“Meaning,” she said, “you tricked yourself.”
“Nov
He was unwilling to concede even this obvious
point.
“You don’t understand, that’s all,” he said.
“But then, you’re not a writer.”
She sighed and agreed with him. She wasn’t a
writer. Then she said perhaps he should have be-
come a food writer rather than a travel writer.
No, he enjoyed travel too much, he’d replied.
She felt again that she could not connect with
him, could not make contact. It was a charade.
49

She studied the plate of little chocolates the
waiter had brought with the coffee, picked one
up, put it down, and felt even lonelier.
50

L1G
On the other side of the café wall behind the
grille and the counter was a small kitchen. The
cook would pass plates through a hatch, banging
up the wooden door as if he had so many orders
he had to hurry, when hers was the only order to
fill.
In the beginning, the cook had seemed myste-
rious. She liked to think of him as a fugitive from
the world who had chosen the kitchen as his per-
manent hideout where he could create, undis-
turbed, a menuful of omelets.
He would emerge, of course, from time to time
to pour himself a cup of coffee from one of the
Pyrex coffeepots. He would have a cigarette with
his coffee. Now there would be two of them
standing at the end of the counter, smoking and
looking out of the window at the tracks. ‘They did
this, both of them, in such concert and with such
intensity that at first she had thought surely
there must be something happening on the plat-
form. When she turned in her chair to see,
nothing was happening. Nothing ever happened,
except for the trains arriving and departing, and
51

even then it was a rare occurrence for anyone to
get off or on.
While the cook and the waitress leaned side by
side against the counter, their talk was minimal,
body movements substituting for some of it,
taking the place of words. A shrug, a headshake,
a hand drawing in air. She was struck by the inti-
macy of their shared silence, but at the same
time she was sure that their relationship was con-
fined to the café. The café gave it meaning. She
wondered how the cook felt about his job, given
so few customers. What did he do all day in the
kitchen when she herself was the only one in the
café? She wondered if he was proud of his om-
elets. She had told the waitress in the beginning
how marvelously prepared the omelets were, and
the waitress had said she would be sure to tell the
cook. Could he keep going on the force of a
single compliment? Would he think it was worth
the trouble to go on separating the yolks from the
whites? Only her mother had made omelets in
this way, beating the whites to stiff meringue.
Now her mother was dead.
She thought of her mother more, not less, over
the years and felt increasingly bereft. The years
faded behind her, details slipping away. She felt
she too was fading into the background, her out-:
line becoming less clear, like a figure in a tap-
estry, uncertain and underwrought. It was as
much as a person could do to keep the dim
colors of self from fading altogether.
She had the chilly feeling that beyond these
52

walls, lives could unravel if one weren’t exceed-
ingly watchful, careful about retracing the pat-
tern, like children mindful of stepping into the
outlines of their own footprints. Like those two,
she thought, looking at the waitress and cook:
once they left at the end of the day, they would
go home to sleep until the next day, when they
would wake and come back again. It was the
only safe way.
It had been snowing that day, snow mixing
with rain, an iridescent pattern. The restaurant
was Ukrainian and was down in a cellar which
darkened an already darkening afternoon. But
she liked it, the interior; it suited her mood.
She had chosen it because he had recently re-
turned from Odessa and she thought it fitting.
With a bit of contempt, he called it one of her
finds, adding, “where we can rub elbows with
the help.” The staff of her chosen restaurants
were always the help. But he seemed satisfied
when he saw the menu and could proclaim it a
pretty authentic-looking selection of dishes. She
knew the food would be heavy, even the
brothlike soup weighed down by noodles. But
she did not mind, for the restaurant fit her mood,
if not her appetite.
As were the other places where they ate, this
one was nearly empty at this hour. She pointed
out that the only elbow rubbing they could do
was with the group of men sitting across the
room, far enough away that their words could be
DS

heard only in snatches — when one of them
laughed and raised his voice. Otherwise, their
talk was a mere murmur, which she found
pleasant, a sound that reminded her of the dis-
course beneath a running stream.
After he set aside the menu and was picking up
the wine list, he made a comment about the
weather here where they were and how different
it was in the Ukraine. What he said was that in
Odessa the temperature had fallen to the point
where the crosses were so encased in ice they
looked like mirror spindles and he thought his
hands would crack, as if he were wearing glass
gloves.
She was astonished, for he scarcely ever spoke
in metaphor; she told him he had just conjured
up a perfect picture and wanted him to go on,
but he wouldn’t. Instead, he gave a short bark of
laughter and asked what was there, after all, to
say about a place like Odessa or Constanta?
“But if you just said — ?” she persisted.
He didn’t comment; he gave her one of his an-
noying little shrugs and examined the wine list.
She knew it was hopeless trying to get more
out of him. So her interest was drawn back to the
far table where the three men sat — busi-
nessmen, she judged, from the way they were.
dressed. All three were smoking cigars and had
globes of brandy in front of them. She was irra-
tionally glad the restaurant permitted cigar-
smoking, for they seemed to be enjoying them so
much. When she turned back to their own table,
54

he was still poring over the wine list, and she
wondered if this gave him the sort of comfort
smoking a cigar would. She resumed her study of
the businessmen who seemed so thoroughly to
be enjoying themselves. She would have liked to
sit with them; she envied them their easy friend-
ship and relaxed posture. She would have liked
to be not the entertainer so much as the enter-
tained.
And then she thought of an old photograph
she had of her father, long dead, and whom she
had known hardly at all. Whom she could barely
remember. The photograph was of him and
three other men — young men — all gathered on
a riverbank. Yet there seemed no reason at all for
that setting, for they weren’t dressed for swim-
ming or fishing, as all of them were dressed in
business suits. All smiled broadly, all with their
trousers rolled above their ankles and their feet
in the water. She kept this snapshot stuck into a
mirror frame, often wondering what had
brought these four young men to this river,
dressed this way. Had they been on their way to
work or to some social gathering? Had they, on a
lark, decided to stop and go to the bank of the
river? Wherever they had come from or were
going, they all had the same childlike look of
freedom from constraint — much like the busi-
nessmen at the far table. If her father had lived,
would there have been the jokes and easy talk she
heard at that table? She thought, yes, there
would have been. But she had no reason to think
55

so, except for the snapshot and the way he was
smiling.
The waiter had come to take their orders, and
she carelessly asked for a meat salad. He, of
course, ordered far more extensively, choosing
for his main course a heavily marinated meat,
which he told her was like sauerbraten, which he
really would have preferred; he could go for a
nice plate of sauerbraten and could have had it,
too, if they’d gone to his German restaurant. He
sighed heavily, dramatically. He had ordered a
red wine, another one of those “village appella-
tions” because there wasn’t much to choose
from here. He sighed again, turning crosswise in
his chair to look at empty air.
He was not placed, as she was, so that he could
easily see the businessmen. She could watch
them without being seen to watch. It was un-
likely that they would care, anyway. The weight
of their talk had shifted from the one in the
middle to the one on his right, who then ap-
peared to entertain the others with equal ease.
They were perfect strangers to her, and yet it
made her anxious to see the first fluttering signs
of their departure: napkins being tossed onto the
table, the last of the brandy drunk, the searching
looks for the waiter, the checking of watches and:
laughing. She looked away down at her glass of
simple village wine. Her throat felt tight and she
raised it to take a sip.
Then she returned to the subject of the
Ukraine cold, knowing he had said all he cared
56

to. “I’ve never been to Odessa, and I’ve never
even heard of Constanta.”
He nodded, as if this were a reasonable obser-
vation. “You might like that part of the world.
You should go.” He drank his wine.
In dismay she shut her eyes tightly. For he
knew perfectly well she wouldn’t go. She said so.
“Why not? You have the money for it.”
She started to say, You know that’s not the
point, but caught herself. For that would permit
him to involve her in an argument. Any further
talk about Russian winters would be lost. He
loved to sidetrack her, to derail her so that she’d
never get where she was headed. She tried to
imagine Odessa and its icy crosses. “Is it on the
Black Sea?”
“Is what?” He was examining a hunk of black
bread the waiter had dropped on the table.
“O-des-sa.” She translated her irritation into
three distinct syllables.
He ignored the emphasis on the name and
buttered his bread.
In her mind’s eye she pictured the crosses in
the sun as sharply bright as glass. And snow, the
level unbroken crust of it, the black trees, a park
unpeopled. But she gave it up; she hadn’t the
imagination.
Across the room, the businessmen had risen
and were searching their pockets and wallets for
money, which they tossed on the table for the tip
and then walked toward the door. All of this was
accomplished without a break in their talk or a
Du

missed beat in their laughter.
She watched them openly now, and at the door
one of them glanced back at her and smiled as if
to say, Jake heart.
58

NIN
Several months ago, when he had returned from
his Polynesian jaunt (which is what he called
them, jaunts, as if to deny them any status and
thus to demean them), they had lunched again,
this time in a restaurant with an arctic feel to it,
full of glass and chrome, granite, and white
marble. Yet the menu was surprisingly familiar.
Did every restaurant in the world do something
odd with mussels? she had asked him.
“Why? Don’t you like them?” His tone was
suspicious, as if every question she put to him
could be a trap, might have a bomb hidden in it.
“That’s not the —” Point was what she’d been
going to say. But he would take that as an attack
upon his reasoning and get defensive, and they
would end up arguing over mussels. Rather, he
would end up arguing. It was easier to answer
simply, but even there the answer had better be
yes, for if she said no, they would end up arguing
anyway. “Yes,” she answered.
“Then why,” he slyly asked, “didn’t you order
them? Since you like them?”
He always won.
59

“T wanted the asparagus today. It’s awfully
good.” She pointed her fork at the thin spears,
their middle bathed in hollandaise. “Tell me
about your trip.” He wouldn’t, of course, but the
question served to distract him from the mussel
argument.
He shrugged. “Same old stuff.” He broke off a
piece of a baguette and dipped it in the winy
mussel liquor. “Unseasonably hot. And a lot of
rain. So much you wake up and all your clothes
are moldy.” He emphasized this, as if it were the
most interesting detail he could toss out. He had
got a sliver of something caught in a tooth and
set about applying his gold toothpick to it.
“T didn’t know Tahiti had seasons.”
“Of course it does. Everywhere has seasons.
You just have to know how to look for them.”
Delightful images formed in her mind and she
smiled. She saw the seasons hiding: spring be-
hind a tree, winter in the attic, summer in the
shrubbery. “I suppose I always thought of places
like that as temperate. In the temperate zone.”
She smiled at him, but he didn’t notice. He was
still working on his tooth, politely covering this
little operation behind his other hand. Then he
added, “Winter is dry.” He plied the toothpick.
The asparagus was quite good, but she rarely
had an appetizer at lunch. To take care of the
next two courses, she had ordered a seafood
salad that would serve as both. It was a sensible
selection, but he still found something to criti-
cize in it. She should eat something hot. He com-
60

plained about this cold dish for a moment or
two; then, finding it a dull subject for an argu-
ment, let it go, even though dullness ordinarily
didn’t stop him.
As their salads were set before them, she re-
turned to the seasons of the islands. “Perhaps it’s
more like a monsoon season.” Had he heard her?
He was fixing his attention on his fruit salad: pa-
paya and orange segments and arugula and
poppy-seed dressing. She said, “But it must be
beautiful — I mean, those islands — whatever
the season.”
He had heard her this time and might seriously
have been considering her comment, for he
threw back his head and looked at the ceiling.
This was evidence of concentration. But she
considered her comment about beauty, when ap-
plied to a place such as Tahiti, to be utterly banal
and surely unarguable. Yet he seemed to be
about to argue, given the energetic attention he
was now paying the room. After a few more mo-
ments of wall-and-ceiling study, he shook his
head and said, “Not as beautiful as Maui.”
This surprised her. “But I thought Maui
didn’t impress you at all!”
“T don’t think I said that, precisely. Oh, it 2m-
pressed me, all right. But not overly much.” He
tapped his mouth with his napkin several times,
looking beyond her to the shadeless glare of the
window. “The point is, you see, not some Pla-
tonic notion of what you call beauty but an inef-
fable, indefinable, and, I would say, fleeting
61

quality. Those ubiquitous blues and greens,
which you’re associating with Tahiti, are indeed
relatively faded but nonetheless pure. It’s that
purity that attracts and transcends its own at-
traction. ‘Beauty is momentary in the mind, the
fitful’ ” — he paused, searching the air for the
word — “ ‘the fitful’. . . something of a some-
thing, as Wallace Stevens would say. You know
the poem.” He speared an orange segment.
She blinked, utterly astonished by the length
of this answer, to say nothing of its substance —
the lines of Wallace Stevens that he had bran-
dished about with as little concern as he had for
the orange segment. Yet he seemed quite satis-
fied with his meaning and went on eating his
salad, now and then pausing to rid it of a dried
cranberry. For a moment or two she attempted
to tidy up his little speech, as he did his salad, but
could gain no mental foothold. Either she was
extremely dense or he had said absolutely
nothing.
His airy language SES ae to sustain him as
much as his fruit salad did. She would rather
have thought he was laughing at her by means of
his verbose and meaningless definition; this
would at least have implied a deeper thinking on
his part than she had ever found him capable of.
She would prefer to think he was being ironic,
calling her bluff, perhaps, for persisting in her
bourgeois notion of beauty. And calling on
Wallace Stevens on top of it! It was the only time
he had ever quoted poetry. He wasn’t an ironist;
62

he was a literalist to the core. He would leave her
to flounder and flail. He himself had no depths;
he could not go down. He lived, in a manner of
speaking, horizontally, like a man floating on a
boundless sea whose ballooning garments kept
him from sinking.
She pressed her temples. She was getting as
bad as he; it was as if her interior voices had de-
cided to speak in tongues. “Oh, my! —” She gave
a weak laugh.
“What’s wrong?”
“Nothing more than a mild headache.”
“T take it you disagree.”
“Disagree?” She was immediately wary.
“With what I said about the idea of beauty.”
He glanced at her crossly.
Oh, dear. She could not say, simply, no. He
would worry it like a little dog. She could add
something to it. “I was thinking of that Stevens
poem. It’s quite interesting.”
“Opaque,” he announced.
Now she was altogether puzzled. Why, then,
had he quoted from it?
Opaque; ome isaide again: «“ I ~sometimes
wonder if Stevens” — he paused to rid his salad
of another cranberry bit — “was really talking
about anything at all.”
63

TEN
In the library she had found a small book of
Wallace Stevens’s poetry and now took it out of
her bag in the Railway Café. She was lingering
over her midafternoon cup of coffee and had de-
cided to have a grilled-cheese sandwich with it.
Beauty 1s momentary in the mind —
The fitful tracing of a portal;
But 1n the flesh it 1s immortal.
This was wonderful, she thought, but difficult.
She was surprised, more than anything, by his
having referred to it. She would have thought
Wallace Stevens would be irrelevant to him. And
there were the words he hadn’t remembered. It
had not occurred to him, apparently, that one
could hardly leave out even one word and still
have the poem mean the same thing.
She sighed and closed the book and returned
it to her bag. She picked up the last quarter of
her sandwich and thought about that lunch.
What she thought was: You continue lunching
64

with him because you feel superior. That made
her feel rather hopeless, for if she felt superior,
there was no possibility of communication, be-
cause one would already have given up. This
worried her, and she looked around for the wait-
ress.
The waitress and the cook were standing side
by side at the end of the counter looking out at
the freight train that was sparking and clanging,
as if it were in full motion even though it had
stopped. The stationmaster was standing by the
track with a luggage carrier on which sacks of
mail had sat before they were conveyed to one
eiiie cars, Inside the freight:car,;one: man; his
‘T-shirt sleeves rolled to his shoulder, was lifting
up and handing down one of the cartons into the
arms of another worker on the platform. He in
turn set the carton on the carrier.
She admired this act; it was simple, and the
role of each was clearly assigned. She watched
(together with the cook and the waitress) while
they heaved each carton up and down and over,
treating them with great care, as if the contents
were fragile. When they were done, the train
gathered up power and moved creakily on the
track, as if now it was reluctant to go and would
sit here and test its own strength.
Then the café door was thrown open, admit-
ting a group of young people, high schoolers or
perhaps college students; it was hard to tell their
ages. For a period of her life she had taught in the
local high school until she could no longer stand
65

it. She had seen a few of them before in the cafe.
Either these or others would burst in sometimes
at the weekend, noisily, like inmates out of
prison working off their energy. They were bois-
terous and proprietorial, immediately dragging
chairs around, shoving tables together. She
could not imagine what attracted them to this
café. It served no alcohol, not even beer, and
these young people were clearly fueled by it. Did
they like it precisely because it was so quiet and
uninteresting that they felt they could more
easily master it? They were clamorous, unassail-
able, and could not be still even when sitting.
What they said or yelled to one another might
have been spoken in a foreign tongue. As if by
fiat, their actions declared they could do any-
thing they wanted. They tossed things about,
pitched packs of cigarettes and matches through
the air; they hauled over still more chairs to
clamp their feet upon. The girl at the end of the
table, the loudest of all, was probably their unof-
ficial leader. All packs had one. She was dressed
completely in black: boots, jeans, satin shirt, and
a wide-brimmed hat. It was she who called out to
the waitress.
She would never have been able to stand up to
this crew, undoubtedly high schoolers. They
looked older, but over the years all children
seemed to her to look increasingly older. If she
had had this crowd to deal with in a classroom,
she knew she would have simply run from the
school. The inheritance left her by her parents
66

she now thanked God for. It made her ashamed,
this admission, even to herself, and she turned
her hot face to the Stevens book.
The waitress moved to their table with her
characteristic languor and took out her pad,
completely unruffled by their appearance or by
their demands or their comments. Clearly, they
were baiting her by making disparaging com-
ments about the café. The group seemed to see
itself in the light of ancient Greek troops, sackers
of cities. But the waitress neither scowled nor
smiled. Her self-possession was exquisite.
Finally, expressionless, she tucked her pencil be-
hind her ear and walked away, but paused frac-
tionally as she looked across the room and
winked.
It was as if they shared a secret, their assess-
ment of the raucous teenagers, but more than
that: a secret of survival.
67

ELLVEN
“Ta Paz? The Amazon? I wasn’t even sure the
Amazon was in Bolivia!” She said this, looking
up from her menu.
The restaurant was a small and simple one,
Italian. The round tables were covered with red-
and-white checked cloths, and on each was a
water glass full of thin dry breadsticks. The
green plants were plastic and a little dusty.
Only rarely did they lunch at a restaurant she
herself had chosen, and this was one of them.
She realized that whatever comfort she could
draw from eating in a restaurant that was
small, warm, and familiar would be extin-
guished during the course of the meal by his crit-
icizing the place.
Now he heaved a sigh and said, “I can’t think
why you like it here. Here’s pasta with fifteen dif-
ferent sauces and that’s about all.”
Her own sigh was one of comfort rather cian
of distress. “Remember when we called it all spa-
ghetti?”
Frowning over the top of his menu, he said,
“It’s pasta. Spaghetti’s only one kind.”
68

He was so literal. “I know, but there was a time
when we — surely I’m not the only one! — care-
lessly called all of it plain spaghetti, and that in-
cluded the sauce too. Meat sauce or meatballs.
I’m going to ask for that, tomato sauce and meat-
balis::
With a snort and a smile that was more of a
sneer, he said, “Going to be disappointed, then.
It’s not on here.” He waved the menu at her.
Scoring a tiny victory. Recompense for having to
eat in this undistinguished place.
Spaghetti and meatballs. That provoked in her a
dreaminess, and she closed her eyes. When she
opened them he was still scouring the menu.
The waiter came, and she asked him if it was
possible to get spaghetti and meatballs, instead
of meat sauce. Politely he told her, in heavily ac-
cented English, that he thought the chef could
see tout.
Her friend slapped down the menu and said,
“T’ll start with the antipasto — there’s no cala-
mari in it, is there? I hate it.” The waiter assured
him there was none. “Then [ll have linguine
with mussels.” The waiter smiled and left.
Was that really on the menu? She peeked inside
hers again to see. Yes, it was. But she made no
comment.
He was busy munching a breadstick, which he
declared not only stingy but tasteless; he was
craning his neck to stare around the room. He fi-
nally settled on listening to the conversation at
the table near theirs. But the man and woman
69

were speaking in tones too low for him, lean back
as he would, pressing his ear against air.
“When are you leaving?”
His eyebrows shot up as if he didn’t under-
stand the question, then he did, and said, “Next
week.”
“Bolivia. The Amazon. It sounds wonderful.”
“Yes, well, you can say so. You don’t have to go
theres’
Surprised, she sat back. “Have to? But they
don’t order you to visit a certain place, do they?”
They were an uncertain entity; they might com-
prise editors or publishers or public relations
peoples or sall Rofathese™ -Aitersallmyoumennot
writing magazine pieces!”
“Thank God!” His laugh was raspy.
“You’re writing whole books.” It astonished her
that he had published six of these — or was it
seven? And that they were considered to be quite
solid and informative and had a healthy reader-
ship. She herself had a hard time getting into
them, but she considered that to be her fault, not
his. She was dismayed by travel writing. She fan-
tasized about exotic places, yes, as did everyone.
But the notion of actually packing one’s bags and
setting off for these places was beyond her capa-
bility. Her senses would be bombarded; she
would be confused by directional signs; she
would be looking only for a place to sit down.
“They can’t order you to this place or that.”
“No, not precisely.” He was holding a
breadstick in each hand, inspecting first one,
70

then the other. “There were places they sug-
gested. Egypt was one; Austria was one. You
know, the Nile, the Danube. They want a piece
about a river this time. Too much screwing
around on land, so they want a river.”
“But —” She was baffled that they appeared
to be as vague in their wishes as he was in ful-
filling them. And yet the books got written, the
books got edited, the books got published. And
sold. She could not say why, but she felt she
must raise some objection to this hit-or-miss
way of writing and publishing. Yet she certainly
did not wish to get into any discussion of the
writing process. So she would stick simply with
him and his next destination. Wasn’t there a
rain forest in Bolivia? And did the Amazon
River flow through it? Pictures floated into her
mind, floated because she imagined herself in a
long bark canoe, moving along the river, be-
tween banks lush with green fronds and thick
hanging vines, birds with feathers of blinding
brightness, and she would see all of this in the
blue shadows.... Then she imagined a call that
rent the air, a splash of water, a scream. She
shivered. She watched him using the hard, thin
bread like drumsticks, rat-ta-tat-tat, beating on
the table’s edge.
Although she had no reason to think he was a
coward, neither did she think he was a coura-
geous man. Thus, this possibly unaccompanied
trip on the Amazon River struck her as totally at
odds with his nature. He did not like taking
al

chances. Even her choice of restaurant made
him nervous. He was always edgy on the short
trip from entrance to table, following a maitre d’
or, as in this day’s unpretentious restaurant, one
of the waiters. He would whisper things like,
“whey rallsdookjvalikesdonitmtheye Eheyne a
family, it’s family run, so you know the type of
food we'll get.” Right behind her he walked, al-
most stepping on her heels, as if they’d got lost
on safari and found themselves at the mercy of
an untrustworthy guide. He seemed, on these
excursions into her restaurants or cafés, abso-
lutely to depend on her to get them out alive.
“Do you go alone, then, on this trip?” she
asked, while he went on rat-a-tat-ing with the
breadsticks, and ping-ing on the edge of his water
glass. The cymbal, apparently. She put her hand
on his, annoyed. “I wish you’d pay attention.”
“What? Where in hell’s our food? How long
does it take to get stuff out of jars and slide it ona
plate? Bet you. Nothing’s homemade. That’s
where these family-run places fool you. So? Pay
attention to what? Were you talking? No.”
She was getting a headache. “I asked you a
question. Are there others going on this jaunt
with you? Surely, you’ll have a guide?”
But he seemed uninterested. He had pulled
over the wine list in its deep red cover. “We
forgot the wine. What were you saying?”
“A guide. Will you have a guide?”
“Probably.”
“Because you can hardly make such a trip as
eZ

that alone. Not even Marlowe did that!”
“Who”
“Marlowe. Heart of Darkness.”
“Ah, yes. Kurtz and so forth. What do you say
to a bottle of Pouilly-Fuissé>?”
She thought he was being just a little cavalier
about Kurtz, with his and so forth. In her own
mind she could see dark shapes come alive in the
dimness and move toward his fragile boat so
noiselessly that they barely parted the water,
then the gleam of ivory teeth. Wasn’t that what
Conrad meant? The savage light of civilization?
They pressed toward her, quietly, inexorably.
She tried to rid her skin of the chill by wiping her
hands up and down her upper arms. “The thing
issitisidancerous.
But he was calling the waiter over to take his
wine order. The Pouilly-Fuissé after all. He did
not really need her acquiescence.
She repeated her comment. “I said, isn’t it
dangerous?”
He shrugged, dismissively. “Parts of it may be.
I should have ordered the Burgundy. Damn.” He
had the wine list open again.
“Yes, but which parts? And which parts will
you be traveling?”
His eyes now were on the waiter approaching
with their wine. “I hope this bottle has enough
body to stand up to the pasta.” After the waiter
poured, he went through his ritual of gazing,
twirling, and tasting. It took him a long time to
determine its acceptability. Finally, he nodded
TE)

and gestured for the waiter to pour.
It was a subject — wine — about which he
could speak not only authoritatively but con-
cretely. He always studied the wine list with a
good deal of concentration before he chose. The
wine was perfectly good, although, knowing so
little about it and having drunk so few out-
standing wines, she was not at all sure she could
trust her palate. Several times she had pro-
nounced a wine especially good that he had de-
nounced as being too vinegary, or from a chancy
year, or from a suspect vineyard.
All of this he claimed he had learned during
his time in Burgundy. He had known little about
the subject before he’d gone there. And he had
suggested that she go there too. She should keep
her eye on a certain slope near Puligny-
Montrachet.
She could not help looking at him in disbelief.
A certain slope? Not only would she never see
that certain slope, she would not see Burgundy;
she would not even see France. When she said
this, he pretended astonishment, a great lifting
of his eyebrows. Why not? She was solvent,
wasn’t she? She had her inheritance, hadn’t she?
But she could not leave places so readily as he,
kick the earth off her shoes, as it were. To this he.
had made his usual gesture of dismissal and said
he doubted that was so at all. His was the atti-
tude adults take with children, assuring them the
bogey-man was not under the bed, but finding
themselves unable to prove it, since bogey-men
74

were capable of vanishing in an instant. Well,
she might be a child, but he was certainly not an
adult. It astonished her, his assumption that
anyone could do what he was doing. It showed a
lack of vanity, true, but also a callous disregard
for others’ limitations. Probably, he would make
the point again, if he lingered over his first taste
of wine. She hoped not.
Impossible now to pursue the Amazon trip.
She changed the subject. “So you must have fin-
ished your chapter on Tahiti?”
“Tahiti.” He nodded, apparently finding the
breadsticks irresistible. He was drumming again,
but quietly.
“Well, did you scratch up a... theme for it?”
She did not know how else to put it. The anti-
pasto had arrived, anyway, and saved him from
answering. She waited a few moments while he
collected eggplant and salami on his plate. She
herself took a black olive. She didn’t care for an-
tipasto. Then she asked, “What is it?”
“What’s what?” He was fussily tucking a
napkin under his chin.
“Whatever the theme is you found.”
“Oh, that. Beauty. Surprising, but you were a
bre of helpithere.
She stared at him. Beauty? This astounded her
even more than his saying she’d been a help.
Beauty? Surely not. Surely not inspired by that
incomprehensible little speech he’d made in
which he mauled the Wallace Stevens poem? Ap-
parently, yes. For he was doing it again.
1S

Wielding another breadstick, he recited:
“Beauty is momentary in the mind — The fitful
something, something, something.” He stroked
the breadstick down on each “something.”
“That’s what started me off. You brought up
Maui. You said I wasn’t impressed by it.”
That he remembered the conversation sur-
prised her as much as his acting on it, finding
something “writable” in it.
He went on: “It got me thinking about beauty
being relative.”
“Tahiti and Maui, you mean? I don’t see
how —”
“No, no, not exactly.”
The waiter interrupted with two plates of
steaming pasta and then sailed off again. She
said nothing until he’d had time to get oriented
around his linguine.
She asked him. “What did you say about
beauty?”
Dexterously, he was rolling linguine around
his fork into a perfect knob with no loose ends.
“What did I say? Pretty much what I told you be-
forem
She sighed. “Oh. That.” Hopeless.
76

TWELWE
Sometimes she tried to imagine the world of
“they:
She was sitting on one of the platform’s
benches, looking across the tracks to the bench
on the other side where a middle-aged couple
Sat, not speaking.
The world of “they.” “They” occupied elabo-
rate offices in a glass and concrete building. High
up, with views of parks and rivers. They appeared
in her mind as youngish, energetic men forever
snatching up parts of manuscripts and putting
them down. They rarely sat at their desks; they
were usually on the move, always in a hurry.
She did not know how it worked, his relation-
ship with “they.” She had tried to get him to par-
ticularize “them.” He must (she had said) have a
specific editor he reported to. Was his editor
male or female? (She couldn’t picture him
dealing with a woman.) He managed to evade
the question. He rarely talked about the me-
chanics of publishing, except in his usual vague
terms. They say they might want to bring this one
out in the spring.
77

She found it interesting that there were pub-
lishing seasons. Spring, summer, fall, winter.
She would sit on one of the benches that lined
the platform and make whimsical guesses at
what each “season” produced. Would autumn be
ushered in with leaves of books drifting down to
carpet the ground? Would winter produce snow-
balled books lying forgotten in high drifts, or
bestsellers that readers could throw at each other
and watch them splatter and disintegrate? Would
spring come in with tiny new books sprouting
from bookshelves like rows of beans?
So she would sometimes entertain herself
there on the railway platform, thinking about the
mysterious “they” with their indefinite plans and
strange agendas.
She liked the platform. It was uncluttered
empty space, stretching, like the tracks, as far as
the eye could see. Nothing on it except a few
benches and the cart sometimes stacked with
mail and cartons, but often empty even of these.
Once in a while a passenger got on and another
passenger got off. It was as if there must be an
even distribution of weight if balance were to be
maintained.
How odd that a railway station, usually the
picture of rush and bustle and anxious waiting, :
would be a better place for thinking than one’s
own room or the library. In the library, people
seemed to want to make their presence felt and
sO were continuously coughing, scraping their
chairs, walking about, clearing their throats,
78

whispering. As if, lacking the opportunity for
normal discourse, they had to check on them-
selves to see if they still existed.
On the platform, they withdrew. Too late now
to change things; the plan is made, the ticket
bought, the bags packed, the die cast, no looking
back. Like the middle-aged couple on this par-
ticular day, sitting on the other side of the tracks.
Still as statues, they neither spoke nor looked at
each other. Once in a while they turned their
heads to see down the track, he to the right and
she to the left, as if even the direction of the
train’s approach were in question.
Then the air was shattered, abraded by the
loudspeaker. The microphone rent the air,
crackled as if it were being torn, and then gave
way to the voice of the stationmaster and his an-
nouncement, “Train arriving on ‘Track Two
from —” Here, the words broke, faded, were in-
decipherable. Always at this important juncture,
one understood nothing. It fascinated her, the
way the voice became less distinct and fulsome
and grew more nasal until it faded away com-
pletely.
Down the track the train charged. The man
and woman across the tracks looked at each
other and spoke to each other for the first time.
Of course, she couldn’t hear them, but she knew
they were asking whether this was their train.
He shrugged, she rose halfway, he pulled her
down. Did he say if it’s ours? Did you understand
that? Where — ? I don’t know, couldn’t make 1t out.
Ve)

Why can’t these people speak clearly?
The train stopped, stayed, but impatiently.
The couple boarded. The train made enormous
noises, clattered and moaned, spit out sparks, and
began to gather its power for a further assault on
the tracks. “hemloudspeaker “crackled @again:
“Train now departing on Track Two for —” The
voice faded and the words broke into pieces. It
entertained her to imagine that the station-
master, having forgotten the towns and cities this
train had gone through, was now making up
other names, hoping no one would realize. ‘The
train arriving, though, did not present so much
of a problem as the one departing. At least on the
arriving train, one was there and meant to stay.
Presumably, the conductor spoke more clearly
than the stationmaster. But for the departing
train, it was a different story, for they had only
the stationmaster to depend on. She had seen
departing passengers look at each other in puz-
zlement. Is this ours? Is this train going to — ? Per-
haps we should goin....
It amused her to fabricate destinations. The
train now departing for Tahit ... Maui... Aix-en-
Provence... La Paz.... And she would imagine
her friend dashing up to the ticket window to ask
the stationmaster to repeat all of the destina-
tions.
80

THIRTEEN
Their empty pasta plates were removed by a
busboy. They had been handed dessert menus,
and coffee had replaced the plates.
She had been thinking again that she had to
admire him for never telling her, in answer to her
questions, “Read the book.” Of course, her ques-
tions about his trip were often asked before he’d
written the book. As often, though, she ques-
tioned him about past trips. Most writers, even
the modest ones, must surely be egocentric
enough to say, “It’s right there in the book.
Didn’t you read the book?”
Perhaps — it was a strange explanation — he
didn’t want to remember the books any more
than he wanted to remember the places. Yet, in
writing about his destinations, he appropriated
them; in some small way, he made them his own.
But she shouldn’t have voiced this opinion, for
he saw it as still another thing to argue about.
“That’s just ridiculous,” he had said, when the
waiter padded off. He was looking at the menu.
“Trouble with you is, you’re one of those people
who thinks trips are parables. Metaphors of dis-
81

covery, Well) they arent. « bleyput downeile
menu.
She flushed. “I don’t think that.” Did she?
“At the very least, you think trips should be in-
structive.” He would force her to admit to some
kind of wrong thinking.
“But wouldn’t anyone think that? That trips
should be instructive?”
He sighed and picked up the menu again.
“Forgive me for not being Kurtz for you.”
Was that an answer? She was baffled. But this
was always his way in discourse. He steered to
his own line, apparently uncomprehending of
what anyone else meant, and he could steer into
any fresh stream or inlet he chose.
“No, I don’t see you coming back with a neck-
lace of shrunken heads.” She gazed down at her
espresso, black and thick, and dropped the
shaving of lemon into it.
In his throat he made a dismissive sound.
She went on. “Or Marlowe, either. I don’t ex-
pect you to be Marlowe.” She stirred sugar into
the coffee and wondered if that was exactly true.
“The problem is, you’ve some stereotype in
your mind —”
“Of what? I’ve never even remotely come in
contact with places like that little village in Bur-
gundy —”
“Tahiti. Polynesia. The Tuamotus. Don’t tell
me you have no pictures in your head about that
part of the world!”
It was as if she’d been trying to deceive him
82

about her lack of knowledge. “I’ve never even
heard of the Tuamotus.”
But he kept on talking. “The trouble is, you
want these places to be more than they are.”
Her question rang out: “More than they are
what? ‘That’s my point. What are they? You
don’t —” She stopped, realizing how foolish it
would be to say, You don’t describe them. The man
wrote books about these places, after all. So what
did she mean? Fingers laced tight around her
little cup, she stared at the candle inside its red
globe.
“T ‘don’t’ what? What were you about to say?”
“Nothing. Nothing.” Why had she started
this? It was ridiculous. She had read bits and
pieces of his books, dipped into them, not out of
loyalty but out of curiosity. She had been sur-
prised that the voice in these books was so utterly
different from the voice across the table. The
writing voice was enthusiastic, curious, at times
almost sunny, totally preoccupied with the de-
tails of his journey. Waterlogged, almost. Heavy
with detail. The temperature of the seawater at
the edge of a black sand beach; the pattern of a
shawl worn by an old native woman in Mauri-
tius. Her hat, its color, blood orange.
He himself saw no discrepancy between his
writing self and his dining self, his social self.
She finished her statement. “You don’t think
these destinations are more than what you write
them up to be?” That sounded too much like
criticism. An invitation to an argument.
83

Yet he missed it. “My Lord, no! If anything,
they’re less. I’m having dessert. You?”
She breathed more easily. Back on safe
ground. “What are you having?” She didn’t re-
ally feel like dessert, but she’d order nonetheless.
Food was very often a fine defense against quar-
reling.
“T can tell you what I’m not having! Tiramisu.
A year ago it was chocolate mousse on every
menu. Now it’s tiramisu.”
Feeling quite puffed up that she was able to re-
cite chapter and verse from one of his books, she
said, “Aha! But you loved it in that little village in
the north of Italy.”
His eyes did not leave the menu as he asked,
“What little village?”
84

SOUDTELN
One day the waitress spoke to her. She spoke
with a little sigh, as if the conversation which had
been interrupted could now continue. When the
waitress noticed the book of poetry, she spoke of
an old high school teacher, one who had given
very dramatic readings of a poet whose name she
couldn’t recollect.
Beauty is momentary in the mind: that’s what
she had been thinking when the waitress came as
usual to take her order. The waitress liked poetry
too but had never read anything by Wallace
Stevens.
‘Beaty ismmomentary inthe mind. 7 ihe
waitress’s brow furrowed. Both of them looked
at the line in the book. The waitress rubbed the
lain around Yheroieare with? ther spencilytstill
frowning. No, it was too deep.
Once again, she ordered the omelet. The wait-
ress simply nodded and wrote on her pad as if it
hadn’t been requested two or three times a week.
“T think perhaps Ill take the herb omelet today.”
The waitress nodded and wrote again on her
pad. It was clear she wrote herb because of the
85

way she pursed up her mouth, silently saying it.
Then she gathered up the menu and trod off on
quiet rubber-soled feet.
Beauty is momentary in the mind —
The fitful tracing of a portal;
But in the flesh it 1s immortal.
She frowned slightly, rested her chin on her
fist, and looked out the steamed-up window by
heritable: Whatedoes itinean.* ane portala-a.
lighted window, literally, but what else?
She always sat at the same table. When there
were others in the café — today two more tables
were occupied — they were never shown to this
table, “her” table. Rain glazed the window. It was
quite chilly on the platform, but the warmth in
the café had steamed the window over, halfway
up, where she could see the word café in a half-
moon of white letters. This setting reminded her
again of Brief Encounter. It would never happen
to her, such an encounter, she knew. Don’t go
about expecting too much, not 1f you’re wise. The
abrasive inner voice was probably her mother’s,
sad-eyed and certain. Her mother had been
downcast about life, had viewed it as a long
downward slide. Still, her mother had only
wanted to save her daughter from disappoint-
ment, not understanding that disappointed
hopes would be a certainty if one expected such
disappointments. It was not her mother’s fault if
86

her own life had been so utterly without inci-
dent.
Her uneventful life made her close her eyes
tightly and flush, momentarily filled with a sense
of shame. It was as if she had wronged herself in
some way and was being punished for it. Her fin-
gers pleated the tablecloth, and she was cheered
by its starched whiteness. It was so unexpected
to see tablecloths in such a café. Of course, the
cloth was covered over by a clear vinyl that went
at an angle to the white cloth. They couldn’t al-
ways be changing these tablecloths. They were
spotlessly clean. It must be that the waitress and
the cook took a lot of pride in the place, even
though they were not the owners. At least she
didn’t think they were. The things that sat in the
middle of each table were wiped clean too: salt
and pepper shakers, sugar bowl, catsup bottle.
The sugar bowl was one of the old-fashioned
kind with a hinged chrome lid. She especially
liked that. And the whole scene was heightened
by the waitress’s crisp, clean uniform and the
cook’s apron. How did they do this? she won-
dered. More to the point, why did they do it?
Why did they care so much?
She inspected, in a series of artful glances, the
couples at the other two tables, to see if they
would be candidates for Brief Encounter. Not the
couple in the corner who were reading newspa-
pers, bored with whatever news they might
convey to each other.
The man and woman in the film had been so
87

pleasantly ordinary, so overwhelmed by what
was happening to them. That couldn’t happen
today, could it? Men and women feeling such
guilt and grief over the hurt they were inflicting
on their own mates? It was hard to imagine a
woman today fleeing blindly from a house be-
cause the lover’s friend had returned without
warning. Hard to imagine anyone today would
care. The couple near the door in their too-
heavy clothes, tweed suit and gray wool? An
anachronism, surely. Yes, that couple might fit
the roles.
She felt a sharp prick of loss and then the wait-
ress was there, setting the omelet in front of her.
Beauty is momentary in the mind.
88

FIFTEEN
She asked him again about the tzanta, the
shrunken head.
Without raising his eyes from the menu — In-
dian, this time — he said, “Most people don’t
have a clue about shrunken heads. I think I’1] try
the shrimp in coconut sauce.”
She stared at him. “J certainly haven’t. A clue,
I mean.”
Slapping open the wine list, he said, “The ones
you’re used to seeing? The ones in the stalls in
the bazaars? Fakes, all of them.”
nijheones nie useditoisecinyg2 ”
“Monkey heads. Either that or they’re made
out of some old bit of canvas. So don’t let your-
self be taken in.” He was running his finger down
the list and making either pleasurable sounds or
giving grunts of displeasure.
“It’s highly unlikely.”
“Hmm? What is?”
“How could I be taken in?” She slid the fussily
tasseled menu out of her way. “By a fake
shrunken head?” Whatever on earth made him
say things like that? As if the minute she’d left
89

home, she might have run into a stall where
shrunken heads were bartered?
He gave her a level look. “No, I guess not.”
The implication in his tone was that she wasn’t
sufficiently interesting to be bargaining for
shrunken heads. And once again she was baffled
by his assumption that she must surely at one
time have been where he’d been, seen what he’d
seen. She asked him, “How do you tell, then?”
“Hmme” Now he was twisted around in his
seat, looking over his shoulder, trying to engage
the waiter’s eyes.
“How do you tell the difference? Between the
real and the fake shrunken head?” What an ab-
surd topic it sounded now. And she didn’t really
want to know the infernal process; this was only
to keep him talking.
He was again bringing the weight of his knowl-
edge to bear on the wine list. “Takes a week to do
one. Well, five days at least.”
‘The waiter appeared, diffident, with his poor
English. The poor fellow had to recite the long
list of specials, and his syllables were lost in the
jungle of so many choices. She made out a fish
dish somewhere in his spoken list, a curry, but was
afraid it might be vindaloo and too hot. Not un-
derstanding most of what the waiter said, she or-
dered from the menu: the vegetarian platter. She
did not want him to think she hadn’t understood,
for he might also have a small speech problem.
Yet, he made the waiter repeat the entire list,
his hand cocking his ear and frowning, as if the
90

poor accent and stumbling syllables made
choice impossible. He must hear each dish dis-
tinctly. It took a good five minutes (she was cu-
rious, and looked at her watch) for him to decide
upon the shrimp with coconut, which he had
long ago settled on anyway. He ordered the
wine, a Burgundy. A village wine, he told her,
shaking his head, as if some shame were on it.
That done, they sat in silence. Having made
the effort, having navigated the difficult waters
of the menu, steered through its rocky shallows,
he’d come up on some escarpment and could
rest. His arms were crossed on the table, his face
turned down and his thumbs pressing together.
Then he turned sideways, as he often did,
erossed his legs to the side’ of the table, and
looked through narrowed eyes into the room’s
smoky distance, as if calculating some danger in
the doorway. He was looking in that determined
way that made others look too, wondering what
he could be staring at so intently. No more
should be expected of him. When he looked ab-
sorbed in this way, she wondered if his mind’s
eye were fixed on one of those foreign landscapes
or if he were testing out how he would say this or
that in his book. She thought not. Those destina-
tions he wrote about, even though carefully de-
scribed, seemed accidental discoveries, as if he
had never given more than a moment’s reflection
to them.
It was not (it never was) a “companionable” si-
lence. Such silences were, she supposed, rare for
91

anybody. But it would have been nice to sit there
in one. She sighed and looked around the restau-
rant, whose basic color was shell pink. The walls
were painted in this pale pink and the woodwork
was a cocoa brown. It was a restful color scheme.
The napkins were pink, folded intricately into
tulip shapes. Music, a flute and piano, floated
through the speaker system. Everything was very
soothing. It was hard to imagine raising one’s
voice in such an atmosphere. Green fronds of
palms moved slightly when the door opened and
shut and cast thin shadows on the pale walls. She
felt sleepy; she would have loved to close her eyes.
It would be futile to ask him any more ques-
tions about the tzanta. Anyway, the subject was
awfully morbid. She had pursued it first out of
interest, then simply to make him talk. To con-
verse. How could someone so disinclined toward
using the language write? The simple explana-
tion would be that his disinclination was toward
her and not language. Then why was he so per-
sistent in the matter of these lunches?
The wine arrived and then the appetizers.
Often she didn’t have one but she’d ordered one
today because the pleasant waiter seemed to
have so much faith in the onion fritter. Beside it
on the small pink plate was a cool, milky-looking
mint sauce. It was delicious. He had his mussels,
and his absorption in them increased with every
mouthful. The act of chewing was for him sopo-
rific. His mind was full of mussels.
“How’s your fritter?”
92

SIXTEEN
There was a tree, he’d told her, so poisonous that
its very shadow could kill.
The tree fascinated her. She’d wanted more
details, but as usual he evaded her questions.
That evening, through her bedroom window
overlooking the backyard, she had stared down
at the tree near her garage. It was a big maple and
dominated the property. It was far enough from
the house proper to make a child feel she had es-
caped and was free of parents and siblings, free
of everyone. It was the sort of tree one would
climb, hang a swing from, build a tree house in.
Had she done these things as a child? She did
not remember.
She had played too long in its shadow, and
now that part of her was dead.
It was in the Railway Café the next morning
that she thought of this. The waitress was
pouring coffee into her cup. The cook had sug-
gested she might like a bacon and egg sandwich
instead of an omelet. It was too early for lunch, a
little after ten-thirty.
93

The waitress had returned the Pyrex pot to the
burner and was washing glasses behind the
counter. She ate her sandwich and wondered
who had been using all of this glassware and
silver the waitress was washing up. The sandwich
was delicious; she could have eaten two. She
wondered if it would seem greedy if she told the
waitress she wanted another.
As she ate, the ten-thirty-seven pulled in and
sat throbbing on the tracks. Through the cafe
window she could make out some of the faces in
the passenger car, heavily shadowed. This was
also a mail train, so the stationmaster (who al-
ways appeared out of nowhere, like a genie) was
busy with the mailbags, pushing them some-
where down the platform that she could not see.
The train finally chugged out with no an-
nouncement of its arrival or departure, but that
happened sometimes when the mail had to be
gathered aboard. Now it was quiet enough to
hear the tick of the regulator clock on the café’s
wall.
‘The door opened then and a father walked in,
carrying his child. The little boy was easily old
enough to walk alone, but he didn’t want to. He
wanted to be carried. When the father tried to
loosen the grip of the boy’s arms from around his
neck, the child whimpered and clung more
tightly. The father pulled his face back as much
as he could to look in the child’s face. It was bent
down and avoiding the father’s eyes. The father
talked to him for a moment and the boy nodded
94

reluctantly, released his grip, and slipped down
to the floor. With his fingers in his mouth and his
head still disconsolately turned downward, the
boy permitted the father to sit him in a chair.
She turned from watching the father and child
to see that the waitress was putting a dip of choc-
olate ice cream into a glass and then filling it with
soda water. She took this over to the little boy,
along with a spoon and a straw. It was clear that
the child, even though he didn’t speak, even
though he kept his head tilted down, was pleased
by this. She could see his sly little eyes sliding to
the soda, assessing it. But he was not about to
give up So easily.
The father pulled his own chair close, put his
arm around the back of the boy’s chair, and
talked to him softly. His voice was so low it was
no more than a humming, the vibration of a
stringed instrument. The boy would at one point
nod, at another shove his face against the father’s
shoulder. But as he did this, his fingers were
moving cunningly toward the soda.
She wondered if the child’s mother had de-
parted on the train that had just pulled out, had
left them. Temporarily, of course, but to a child it
could seem permanent. She was sorry she hadn’t
got up to see someone actually board the train.
For it made the train seem more real, and the sta-
tion and the café, instead of a story she was
telling herself.
The child must have felt betrayed by the world
and everyone in it, so he wasn’t going to give up
95

easily, chocolate soda or no chocolate soda. She
imagined the father had long ago convinced him
that his mother was coming back, but the child
needed to let it be known how he felt about her
leaving. For who knew but what the father would
capriciously take it into his head to leave too?
The waitress returned to the table with her
order pad. The child hid his face from her, even
as he put his fingertips on the glass, as if staking
his claim to it, in case she’d come to take the soda
away. The father and the waitress smiled over the
top of the boy’s head, and the man asked for
coffee and asked the child what he would like.
With his face buried in the wool of his father’s
jacket he shook his head violently. He could not
eat food, not at such a time. And then the father
seemed to be making suggestions and the boy fi-
nally said something. It sounded like “French
fries.” ‘The boy did and did not want to look at
the waitress. What he really wanted was to look
but not to be looked at. Being looked at would
draw him into behavior he would much rather
avoid. Besides, it would not get him the attention
he deserved. It was the same with the soda: he
wanted it but could not be seen to want it. This
way, neither the soda nor the waitress had any
power over him. Neither, in this circumstance,
did his father, although he permitted his father
to touch him.
But his mother had left him and the world
would have to pay. He would drown it in tears, he
would punch it and kick it, kick any part of it that
96

he could reach. He would not be consoled. Even
though he believed his father when he told the
boy his mother would come back, even so that
did not give her the right to go off in the first
place, leaving him behind. He would not be won
over by an ice-cream soda.
Stilerse
He picked up the straw and hit his father’s
nose with it, a harmless gesture that allowed him
to attack his father — who must be deeply at
fault, somehow, in the question of the mother’s
departure — while at the same time he could
draw attention to the straw. The straw was inter-
ested in the soda, even if the child was not.
The father stripped the straw of its white
tissuelike cover and put it in the glass, saying
something to the child as he moved the glass
closer. But the boy made quite a show of de-
clining, his head scrubbing back and forth, back
and forth against the father’s shoulder. No, no,
no. No, the child would not reach out his hand,
he couldn’t be expected to, bad as he felt with
the pain of the mother’s leaving.
The waitress had brought the father’s coffee,
but when he started to lift the cup, the child said,
“No!” and shoved it back. If the child was too in-
consolable to drink his soda, then the father
must be too and could hardly drink his coffee.
The suspense finally ended when the child
(having extracted every morsel of suffering he
possibly could from his mother’s leaving) finally
started drinking his soda — cheerfully, happily
97

— as if nothing at all had ever happened to make
him sad.
She did not know if all or any of this went
through the child’s mind, but it amused her to
make it up and charmed her to think it might be
so. What was even more charming was the mag-
nificent patience of the father. He must have un-
derstood quite well what the son was feeling and
could actually get inside the boy’s skin. To have
such a parent!
Had she? Her own father had died when she
was so small she couldn’t remember. And her
mother? No. Such a performance would have
tried her mother’s patience to the breaking
point. Sitting here now, looking at the crust of
her sandwich, she thought, sadly, that such a per-
formance would never have been undertaken by
her five-year-old self, either. For her mother
would have reacted coldly, not because she was
cruel but because she would have been deeply
embarrassed that her child could behave so
badly in public. It was a reflection, you see, upon
her upbringing, a point against the parent. Her
mother believed in appearances — one could
say, almost religiously; reality would have meant
little or nothing to her mother. She wondered,
could that be why she feit unreal so much of the
time? Amorphous, formless, a ghost, not there?
Either she or the world was. It was as if the world
had shrunk to a single dimension. A thing to be
watched rather than entered. Was she a patch-
work person, made up of odd bits and pieces of
98

others’ needs and wants, stitched together in
haste?
The child drank his soda, totally immersed in
it. She looked out of the window at the edge of
the roof, still slowly raining although the rain
had stopped, and she could see herself walking
through one of those great, empty, windy railway
stations — Waterloo, the Gare du Nord — in the
early morning or late at night. She could hear her
footsteps echo in the booking hall, reverberate
up to the enormous vaulted roof. She saw it all as
in a Magritte painting: the row of ticket win-
dows, all the same; the faces behind them, all the
same; arrivals and departures, all the same.
It was a kind of hell, the place of lost footsteps,
and yet she breathed a sigh almost of relief, for it
allowed her to abandon such false hopes as she
had (and they were few enough) and to give up
asking herself the question of why she didn’t
leave this place. It would make no difference if
she did.
When the waitress came to her with the Pyrex
pot, she asked, “May I have an ice-cream soda,
please? Chocolate.”
The waitress nodded and carefully wrote the
order down.
It always pleased her, the way the waitress
wrote down every request. It lent an air of im-
portance to each order, too important to chance
to one’s tricky memory, and so she wrote each
one down.
At the other table the father was reading the
99

newspaper. The child, though, must have heard
her order the chocolate soda, for he turned
around in his chair. He leaned his chin on the
back of it, looked to see if he had her attention,
and smiled a chocolate smile.
She smiled back. Something in common.
100

SEVENTEEN
That afternoon they met at the Spanish restau-
rant, where he said he’d been famished for some
paella. Probably because it has mussels in it, she
sald.
But he would never agree to that, no.
He seldom agreed with anything she said, only
conceding a point or two if she were being espe-
cially astute, which to his way of thinking she
seldom was. He said his hunger for the paella
was probably because he wanted to go back to
Spain.
She was completely thrown by this. She
laughed abruptly and used a bullfighting term to
describe him. He was, she said, “cleverly eva-
sive.”
This earned her a rare point. Had she not said
“cleverly” and said it in Spanish, he would have
hotly denied it. But he actually asked her what
she meant.
It was indeed as close to outright criticism as
she ever got, and even here it was heavily modi-
fied. She laughed and said to him, “You field all
questions beautifully.” She was fully aware that
101

he did not do this beautifully, but stubbornly.
“Questions about what?”
“Traveling, for one thing.”
His frown deepened. “Why on earth would I
do that?”
She said she didn’t know. Anyway, he did do it.
He poured from the pitcher of sangria and told
her she was being ridiculous.
She told him that after his trip to Spain he had
said next to nothing. He wouldn’t talk about it.
And he had even seen the running of the bulls.
Again, he told her it was absurd. Travel was
what he did, for God’s sake! He was a travel
writer.
Yes, and if he wrote about it, why didn’t he talk
about it?
This had only prompted him into his usual de-
fensive sarcasm. Oh, he was sorry if he didn’t live
up to her concept of a good conversationalist. And
he had made that sideways turn in his chair, in-
specting the room and cutting her out as if she
had sat down at his table by accident. Then the
food arrived and absolved him (that was really
the only way she could put it) from further con-
versation. He was like a monk taking refuge in a
priory, walled in and invulnerable.
Her thoughts returned to the café, to the fa-
ther and child, as she fiddled with her fork,
taking up and putting down a forkful of saffron
rice. (She had ordered a mélange of some sort of
fish and vegetables.) Only nervousness made her
eat at all, at least she told herself it was nerves. It
102

wasn’t at all; it was a feeling closer to despair, to
emptiness. So the simple movement of fork to
mouth assuaged this emptiness for a short while.
She thought of the little boy in the café. She
smiled.
What would happen, she wondered, if she
reached over with a breadstick and tapped him
on the nose?
103

LIGUTEEN
It was at lunch a couple of weeks after his queer
little speech about beauty when they were eating
in his favorite restaurant, the French one with
the sommelier, that she was thinking about that
other conversation.
For the moment she had set beauty aside; she
had not forgotten it. She would bring it up in an
oblique way, surprise him into answering sen-
sibly, or at least authentically. She did not know
what to be oblique about. Something would
come to mind. She closed her eyes. But in the
flesh it 1s immortal. She wished she knew what it
meant.
“You’re leaving — when? In two weeks?”
They had spoken little during the consump-
tion of their main courses; he had replied only to
the ministrations of waiter and sommelier. He
had ordered a Meursault after a good deal of
back-and-forth bantering — or at least it
sounded so to her unpracticed ear — with the
sommelier. ‘The wine had been very good and so
had her fish. He had pronounced the mussel
salad excellent. She had never heard of such a
104

thing, except for this place, but made no com-
ment. Chicken with garlic cloves had followed
the salad.
The waiters, having nothing to do now, did
less. They stood about with their hands folded,
occasionally dusting a table with a napkin, ad-
justing the silver and goblets, commenting about
something. The diners, possibly. There ap-
peared to be little to gossip about in this restau-
rant, empty as it was. It was a little before six
o’clock and no one had as yet appeared for
dinner, which started, officially, at five-thirty.
hes couplevat the nearby table: had departed
some time ago. They were the only diners now.
He was in no hurry to finish his oeufs a la neige,
which she was also eating. The chef could not
make the dish for just one person. It was deli-
cious. Rarely did she feel the need to finish up
with a sweet; it tended to overpower the mingled
tastes, the subtle flavors in her mouth. But this
was a dessert her mother used to make when she
was a child. She had always thought she could
see a blue tint at the bottom of the meringues
floating on the custard. Then it was called
Floating Island.
“Next week,” he replied, to her question about
the time of his leaving. “End of the week. Friday,
probably.”
She felt a small secret shock, and “Oh” was all
she could manage; she seemed to have breath
just for the indrawn syllable. Why this flutter of
anxiety? “That soon? Well.” She fiddled with her
105

dessert spoon. “Will you have time for lunch,
then, next week?”
“Oh, I expect so.” He was expansive, having
finished the excellent custard. He lighted a cigar
and now blew a smoke ring. He seemed almost
indifferent to the dangers of such a trip.
“Bolivia. Imagine.”
But wasn’t imagine just what he could not do?
Was he actually fearless, or did he simply lack
imagination? All of these places he went to, or
would be going to. Exotic, romantic, or dan-
gerous to ordinary people, for whom they were
not so much actual places as rumors of places.
“You take it all so calmly. You’re so sanguine.
How can you be? Don’t you feel at all anxious?”
She leaned toward him in her intense desire to
know.
He frowned and studied the lighted end of his
cigar. He did not respond; she was used to that,
but this failure to reply seemed different. She
had set her foot over some fine line, tripped over
it, really, into territory where she had no busi-
ness to be. At least, she imagined this to be true.
Why are you asking this wasn’t part of the bargain
my feelings are not part of the bargain. What bar-
gain? He spread his hands as if to take in the
lunch, the restaurant, themselves. The whole un-
explored terrain. Savages, the humid dark, the
wading birds, the impenetrable green jungle, morning
mist rising from the river like a god. She saw this.
But his hand moved only to pluck up the
globe enclosing the candle and blow out the
106

flame. He signaled the waiter.
It was as if, in slipping, she had crossed the
border to some other country in which irony and
mockery were no longer sanctioned.
He smoked his cigar and watched one of the
waiters smoothing a tablecloth, reshaping a
napkin into one of those intricate shapes that she
had always thought indicated more attention
paid to the trappings of a meal than to the meal
itself, a showy ambience that masked a kind of
failure.
‘Their own waiter had brought the check and
collected the credit card and gone off.
“T only mean,” she said, recasting the question
as a statement, “you’re so easy about it all.”
»Um> I mused to it, that’s all-* He rolled the
cigar in his mouth and looked over her shoulder,
out the window.
Was this detachment a kind of punishment for
her getting personal? But what in God’s name
was personal about asking why he took the up-
coming trip so calmly? He had, after all, stepped
into herencampment by telling her she spent too
much time in the café. And what was so different
between a trip to Bolivia and her station café?
She laughed.
“What’s so funny?” He looked up from the
voucher he’d been signing.
“Oh, nothing. I was just thinking, when it
comes down to it, how alike we are.”
“No,” he said, ripping the receipt from the
voucher. = We arch te
107

NINETEEN
This went through her mind the following week
as the waitress crossed the room and spoke to
her. What the waitress said was, “Cook’s out this
morning. So it’s me who’ll have to do the omelet,
I mean if that’s what you’re planning on having,”
she added, as if not wanting to seem too familiar.
“IT know how he does it, ’ve watched. But that
doesn’t mean I’d do it right. Maybe you’d rather
have something else?”
It was jarring to her. Had she been supersti-
tious or a believer in prophecy, this interruption
of normal routine following on the heels of last
week’s lunch would have made her apprehen-
sive. Lunch had caused a tremor, a quake, hardly
noticeable except for the fissure at the bottom of
the structure. A wall beginning to crumble.
“Will he be back?” The question came, un-
bidden. |
“Pretty soon, he will.” The waitress looked at
her small wristwatch as if to confirm this. “He
only just went down to the courthouse.” Here
she rolled her eyes. “And you know how long that
takes!”
108

She smiled at the waitress and nodded, though
she had never once been to the courthouse.
But the waitress was treating all this with a sort
of gravity, as if the loss of the cook for the
morning were not to be taken lightly. She stood
calmly before the table, her pencil poised over
her tablet of checks. “What I can make is French
toastee lhe, bestait I doisay it.”
“Yes. That sounds good. I love French toast.”
French toast was written down on her pad.
‘Then the waitress said, “How about some sau-
sage with that? We get it from Seabold’s, that
farm out on One-eleven.”
She knew nothing about Seabold’s farm but
smiled and nodded, as if the sausage must be
guaranteed if it came from Seabold’s. “Yes.”
The waitress wrote that down, too, and also
coffee. “Okay. It'll be fifteen, maybe twenty min-
utes.” She put the tablet in her uniform pocket
and went off.
She sat there and looked at the door to the
kitchen the waitress had just gone through. It
was still swinging gently.
With the disappearance of the waitress, she
was now alone in the room. Only once or twice
before had she noticed the light ticking of the
regulator clock. If she were alone where she
hadn’t been alone before, were noises then going
to take on this knife-edged clarity?
She took out her book, the one she carried
around for waiting reading. Waiting in a line at
the supermarket or in the post office. Waiting for
109

a meal to be served. Sometimes during the meal.
She loved to read while she ate, but supposed it
was bad both for the mind and the body. One
should not need to be distracted to this degree.
At least, she didn’t turn on the television, as
some people did, for company. The book was a
mystery, and already after only thirty or forty
pages she was bored with it. It had a cadaverous
feel to it — bloodless, the prose stale and lifeless,
no hearts in these characters to pump blood
through their veins and out onto the sheet of
paper. How strange, she thought. By page forty,
three people had been murdered in an especially
gory fashion, and the characters reacted as if
someone had simply been swatting flies. Back
went the book into her bag. She pulled over the
little bottle that held flowers and wondered
about mystery writers. Were they all, in part, de-
spicable? Probably. She touched the delicate
petals of the blue acanthus. Yes, probably. Per-
fectly nice people in the main, but there was that
one cringing place in their souls that provoked
them toward this sort of writing, writing that
hated to show its hand and would only go in di-
rections where the rules were firmly established
and could, in some ironic sense, serve as wild
cards that could be played any which way. In the
beginning of such books, events appeared acci-
dental and confused, but as the story lumbered
on, solutions started occurring, and by the end
everything was the opposite of accidental and
confused; it was all neatly tied up.
110

Somehow comforted and refreshed by these
observations about mysteries and those who
wrote them (although she bore these people no
malice), she sat back.
She had thought her life accidental; now she
saw it was arranged: the same things done at the
same times with scarcely any room for accident.
She closed her eyes and dreamed a ballet. Her
life as a series of carefully executed steps. But it
was probably more like a chessboard, where
queen and king and rooks and pawns moved by
stringent rules. Perhaps like the chessboard in
Alice in Wonderland. Except those pieces kept
changing the rules to suit themselves, didn’t
they? The Red Queen certainly had.
Unconsoled, she felt as thin as vapor. Her rou-
tine — café, lunch with her friend, afternoon at
the library twice a week — had gone on for many
months and she: had been content in it-Or; at
least, accepting of it. To others, her life would
appear mean, meager.
Only now there was this feeling of alarm. Was
it caused simply by the cook’s not being there?
Why not? Why must she regard the cook’s ab-
sence as of no importance? Great events, govern-
ments toppling, the heroine’s flight into madness
— weren’t they all occasioned by the cook’s not
being there? Wasn’t it only in books like those
mystery stories that cause and effect were dis-
cernible and, after having been discovered, were
obvious? The cook, in such stories, was always
ineres
111

So she could not compare her life to a story,
and not to a ballet. It wasn’t like gracefully exe-
cuted steps but a jumble of trembling move-
ments, unchoreographed and _ unrehearsed.
Anything could happen within the boundaries of
these repeated events. Or was it possible that the
cook’s absence was caused by the fumbling ques-
tion put to her friend: Why? Was this what scien-
tists called the butterfly effect? The butterfly in
China moved its wings and caused an earth-
quake in California?
The waitress was back now, placing the French
toast before her and the small oval dish of sau-
sage patties. She was surprised that she was
starving hungry. But she did not want to eat too
much, for she was meeting her friend at three
o’clock. Well, it was only ten now; she would be
hungry again in five hours. But if the cook had
been here, this French toast and sausage would
not have happened and the waitress would not
be speaking to her again.
“Thing 1s, once you start, it just becomes
habit, doesn’t it?” The waitress said this as if
picking up the threads of an old conversation, in-
terrupted. “And habits you get into are hard to
break. You know what I mean?” She said this
thoughtfully while setting the little schooner of
maple syrup onto a saucer. A ribbon of thick
syrup was already running down the side. “Like
this waiting tables —”
Afraid the waitress was about to launch into an
accounting of some part of her life, she asked
bi

quickly, “What happened to the cook? Why did
he go to the courthouse?” And then she remem-
bered, too late, it might be dangerous to ask
why. Still, this was the cook, and she was only
asking to be told a fact.
“Ticket,” said the waitress cheerfully, appar-
ently not bothered by having her own opinions
cut off. “Speeding ticket, and he’s going to con-
test it. He claims he was within the speed limit,
that the trooper was wrong. I know he’s a careful
driver, I’ve driven with him. He’s going to con-
test it,” she repeated. The waitress was obviously
pleased by this. “Of course, he doesn’t stand a
chance, going up against the law.”
And she seemed even more pleased by this —
that the cook would have the courage to go up
against the weight of the police force in a losing
battle. Which is what she said: “A losing battle, I
suppose.” Then turning toward the window, she
added, “We should fight more of them.” With
that rather opaque comment, the waitress
walked away.
As she ate her French toast, which was exceed-
ingly tasty, she wondered: if it were the waitress
who’d got the speeding ticket, would the cook
have shown the same concern for her? Yes, she
thought, he would. Would the cook have said
that she, the waitress, had courage? That she
wouldn’t lie down and let the authorities walk all
over her?
But if one wasn’t aware of the danger (as the
cook clearly had been), could one call it
BES

courage? She thought not.
The waitress was back at her post at the end of
the counter, looking out of the window, smoking.
A flare of sunlight opened like a fan across the
glass and lit her apron as if it were white flame.
She chewed her sausage and wondered if
people could perform courageous acts without
realizing it. She frowned. But wouldn’t that be
the same as not realizing the danger involved?
She drank her coffee and wondered if she herself
had courage. Looking back even to her child-
hood she searched for anything she had done
that might be called courageous and could re-
member nothing. No, but there was one instance
when she was a child of eight or nine and had
taken the blame for a friend named Sissy. She
could not actually recall what Sissy had done,
only that Sissy had been frightened for having
done it. Her mother would smack her. Had Sissy
broken something? Ruined something? For the
litexvofsherishe couldn/tiremember. Atrany tate
she did remember the hard and angry face of
Sissy’s mother. So she had said that she alone
had done it, that Sissy wasn’t to blame, and, of
course, Sissy’s mother did not feel free to smack
her; mothers could not go around smacking
other people’s children. .
Then why could she call her act courageous?
For she wasn’t in any danger of being smacked.
Yet there must be courage of another kind,
surely. Courage that had little to do with threats
of violence against one. And then she thought
114

that no particular act was in itself courageous. A
glide down the snowy hill behind the courthouse
building would hardly be courageous for an
Olympic skier. But for a novice, it might well
take courage. Then it was relative, like beauty.
An eight-year-old could not analyze the danger
as an adult could. A child could look into a face
blazing with anger and know the anger was
there, and meant for the child, whether or not
the child was struck. So, yes, it had taken
courage. She felt somewhat relieved. But now
she wondered about that lunch last week and
whether she had known on some level that her
question (and how innocent a question!) would
come dangerously close to upsetting the bal-
ance. Of what, she did not know.
She was frightened that she had turned the
screw a notch too far and disturbed an equilib-
rium. That she hadn’t realized how carefully the
scales were balanced. From sanity to madness
was a hair’s-breadth turn. Because (she imag-
ined) there was very little difference between the
end of one and the beginning of the other.
Beneath her feet the faint tremor of the floor
told her the ten-thirty-seven was coming in. An-
other of those portents in advance of an earth-
quake. It was a passenger train and she
ordinarily was on the platform at this time, if she
was at the station, for she enjoyed looking into
the train windows at the faces of the passengers,
sleepy, bored, bent over books and newspapers.
But she hadn’t finished her breakfast, so she
115

merely observed what she could through the
window of the café. It wasn’t much, just the
loading of a few large crates. No one got off, no
one got on, from what she could see.
She finished her breakfast and sat awhile
watching the waitress, who had moved closer to
the window and stood looking out at the plat-
form. The train lurched forward once, and then
again, trying to gather speed, and finally moved
off. The waitress went back to the counter and
stood there, hands in pockets, still looking out at
the tracks, empty again. The waitress often
looked pensive, she thought. Pensive was a word
she had never used to describe anyone before,
but it fit the waitress.
Then the café door opened and a tall, hand-
some woman dressed in black came in. Without
looking around, she sat down at a table for four
in the corners Her air‘of assurance; hermimanner,
her clothes spoke of someone used to money and,
being used to it, someone who did not have to
ask for service or wait for it. She had been car-
rying one of those small bags referred to as a
train case, a boxlike affair of rich brown alligator
skin with a handle on top, which she now posi-
tioned on the chair beside her. Then she sat and
plucked the menu from between the sugar bowl
and the napkin holder. Her plain black suit had a
long skirt, nearly to the ankle, with a kick pleat. A
beautiful cut made up for whatever the suit
lacked by way of ornament. She wore no jewelry,
which was surprising, dressed up as she was in
116

this suit and a small black hat. Yet, the lack of
jewelry further suggested an aplomb, a self-
possession that did not need to be set off by gold
or diamonds.
The waitress moved over to the table as soon
as the woman sat down; she was giving an order
for something, probably coffee, for she had
barely looked at the menu before wedging it
back.
It was good to see another woman eating
alone, traveling alone. To know she wasn’t the
only one. She felt a kinship with the woman in
black, despite the latter’s elegance. But perhaps
the woman in black was no more intelligent than
she herself. She would have liked to pose the
question about beauty to this woman, whose
eyes, as she looked around the room, seemed ru-
minative, speculative. A time or two she looked
back over her shoulder, toward the door.
And in another few moments, a man walked
through and put an end to any notion of this
woman’s being alone. The waitress was carrying
coffee and some sort of pastry to the table and
the man was calling for coffee too.
Of course, it had been ridiculous of her to
think that this woman would be on her own. A
woman who looked and acted like that.
The man was equally well dressed. The coat he
had tossed over the back of the chair was cash-
mere, the color of hot sand.
She wondered where they were going. Or,
rather, where the woman was going, for the man
rele

struck her, for some reason, as the person
staying behind. Perhaps that was only because
he carried no bag.
The waitress returned almost immediately
with his coffee and the Pyrex pot to refill the
woman’s cup. After she left the table, they settled
into a comfortable intimacy, drinking their
coffee and eating pastry.
The cook came back.
He nodded to the man and woman in the
corner, who didn’t see him or didn’t care.
He nodded and also smiled at her, giving the
impression that she was one of the stable fixtures
inv thevcates Shevappreciated that and sretinned
his smile. His face was flushed and his eyes were
bright, as if he’d been drinking champagne. In-
deed, he was so elated that he hugged the wait-
ress, who laughed. He must have won his case
over the speeding ticket and now he was re-
counting it to the waitress.
At the corner table the man and woman were
gathering themselves together, their coats and
her bag, preparatory to leaving. The man turned
in his chair and signaled the waitress. But the
waitress paid no attention; the hand waving in air
probably hadn’t even registered on her con-
sciousness, for she was attending only to the
cook’s return and his story.
The cook was gesticulating, throwing his arms
about, but keeping his voice low enough that all
she heard was a murmur. She was glad that he’d
118

won; it seemed important to her that he should,
although she was not sure why.
Now the man and woman were standing at the
corner table. He was clearly irritated because he
could not get the waitress to attend to him. She
was laughing at the cook’s story. Finally, the man
walked over to them, his face set in hard lines. In-
censed, he announced that the waitress was
keeping them waiting. Then his voice dropped
and she could hear only words here and there.
But she could see the waitress’s mouth tighten.
The cook shoved his expressive hands in his
trouser pockets and turned away, toward the
kitchen: he stopped at the door, though, to look
back.
He was wondering, perhaps, what he should
do. There was of course no threat implied by the
man’s words, only bad temper. The man spread
his arms and looked around him, and at her, sit-
ting alone, as if including the entire café in his
sense of the waitress’s disregard for the cus-
tomers. It was inexcusable since there was but
one other table occupied. He pointed as he said,
“Only her,” incorporating her in his argument,
making her an ally. This made her angry, his
sweeping her into his complaint, almost making
hema party to It:
The woman in black had stood and continued
to stand at their table, her smooth pale face re-
vealing nothing, her thoughts a mystery. Perhaps
she too was irritated with the waitress, her rich
life having been peopled with servants who came
LY

swiftly at her beck and call. Or perhaps she
thought he was being a boor. She was unread-
able.
Now the man was silent and stiff as a statue,
waiting for his change. The old cash register, an
antique, had a cash drawer that slapped open
with a shring! The waitress started making
change but was having trouble. The cook was
still at the door to the kitchen and walked over
behind the counter. She said something to the
cook; he nodded and took the money and walked
out of the cafe.
What she understood from their discussion
was that the man had given the waitress a hun-
dred-dollar bill. For a check that had probably
been three dollars at most. She thought this man
often created scenes like this one, doing himself
no good in the process. For she bet he had a few
loose dollars in his money clip and was using the
hundred-dollar bill to be difficult and ostenta-
tious. The result was that now he would have to
wait again until the cook could go somewhere
outside the station, over to the bank, perhaps.
She thought about the cook. She wondered what
inner resources he had that would permit him to
stand up to the police, the judge, the system. She
was quite sure she could not have done this her-
self. She would simply have paid the ticket. Yet,
that did not disturb her, for she was sure most
people would have done the same thing.
‘The man remained at the counter, sighing his
disapproval, glaring at the door through which
120

the cook had left, paying no attention at all to the
woman in black, still standing beside their table,
her hand on the train case.
It was infuriating that one person could thrust
his bad temper onto the entire room, plaguing
them all, infecting them with his anger. She de-
spised the man and his transaction, for he had
ruined the cook’s moment of victory.
Pl

TWENTY
This was the last lunch they would eat until he
came back from La Paz and the river. Not the
Amazon, the other one. She couldn’t remember
themramier
The restaurant he had picked this time was
German, cramped and a little dingy but full of
rich and redolent odors.
She was having soup as a first course; he was
eating steamed mussels. She was surprised to see
mussels on the menu of a German restaurant.
Probably the chief reason he’d chosen the place.
The soup was a heavy concoction that in-
cluded dumplings, a whole meal in itself. After
her late French-toast breakfast, she was going to
have a hard time getting all of her lunch down.
She wouldn’t have ordered soup, except the
waiter had described this one as a broth and she
had assumed it would be no heavier than a
consomme. The Germans must have an odd no-
tion of what a broth is, she thought. For her main
course, she had ordered herring salad, hoping
that would be a light dish.
He had ordered something elaborate, half a
2

paragraph on the menu listing its contents, of
which she could make out several kinds of sau-
sage — bratwurst among others — potato salad,
or possibly pancakes, spatzle, red cabbage... .
When he ordered in German, she was not sur-
prised. She supposed he spoke the languages of
most of the countries he’d been to. Fluently, too,
for he had discussed the wine with the waiter. So
delighted was the waiter to have a patron who
not only knew something about wine but who
also spoke the language, he led him on a tour of
the wine list. They laughed several times, joking
in German. They settled on a Chardonnay. The
language she found solid and heavy, like the
food, blunt and lacking grace — lacking the trill
of Spanish, the lovely sliding sounds of French.
German, French, Spanish. He talked as little
about languages as he did about his travels.
“That’s the third language, outside of English,
ive heard*youspeak:’ She smiled:
His head was, of course, bent over his bowl of
mussels. He shrugged her comment off. “You
pick it up when you do all of the traveling I do.”
“No, it’s not just picked up. Your fluency is
much greater than you’d get from standing
around the water pump with a couple of natives.”
When he simply grunted and poked at another
shell, she decided not to ask him what other lan-
guages he knew. She wondered if a truly stupid
question would prise his eyes up from the mus-
sels. “What do they speak in La Paz? Bolivian?”
She had meant to make a joke.
L253

The head stayed down. In all seriousness he
answered, “No. Spanish.”
They continued to eat in silence; he in his
“bolting” posture, the chair pushed back so that
he could turn his legs to the side and cross them,
his torso also turned slightly, one shoulder in.
Head down. Had she imagined it all — his dis-
comfort, his hidden anger at her questions? For
he seemed exactly the same. She wasn’t sure
whether she was relieved or only further irritated
by his obtuseness. Perhaps she was assigning him
levels of selfhood that he had no awareness of,
even levels he didn’t truly have. Or perhaps she
was projecting her own uncertainties onto him.
Her own fears.
She tried to imagine herself walking into such
a situation as the one he was soon to face.
Packing up, locking her door. Waiting on the sta-
tion platform for a train now her train. Hearing
the announcement: The train now departing on
Track One for La Paz — a winged train, a train
like a hovercraft riding inches above the water.
She would be one of the faces on the other side of
the windows, staring out at the platform and the
empty air she: hadirecently occupiedaw ouchsa
maneuver to her would be apocalyptic. Dian. t he
see that?
She looked at the spoonful of soup, trembling
in the bowl, an odd brownish-yellow. She
thought of his river. Mud-bottomed, a thick,
slow movement of brown. Not the steely gray
clarity of crystal that we attach to rivers, sliding
124

and percolating around gray rock... .
“How’s your soup?”
Her eyes snapped open. She hadn’t realized
they'd been partly shut until this, the inevitable
question. She looked across at the neat stack of
mussel shells. He was plying the tiny fork at one
still in its shell.
“All right.” She paused. “I was thinking of the
Rivers:
He did not answer.
She was sure he had not heard. So she said it
agvaine “Lhe river!’
His eyes jerked upward, eyebrows raised, sur-
prised at this intrusion of thought into his mus-
sels.
“T was thinking that if it were me, I’d be afraid.
Afraid,” she said again.
Herclearedehis: throate “Oh, Iv den-teknow-’
Taking refuge in the group of waiters talking to-
gether at the back of the room, he signaled theirs.
Her smile was a bit shaky as she said, “You
don’t know. I do.”
“Finished your soup, haven’t your” He was in-
specting the condiments, the horseradish, the
mustard pot.
“Yes.” Determined, she went on. “Jd be afraid
to go down that river. Through that jungle.”
“Oh? Why’s tha— ? Blast it!” The mustard pot
slipped from his fingers, knocking on the table
edge on its way to the floor, where it spun, un-
broken. He was under the table in a flash,
scooping it up. He laughed shortly, replaced the
25

pot on the table. “Tough jar. Germans know
how to make things. In Essen, I remember this
restaurant where there was mustard... .”
He was off on some obscure tale about mus-
tard and Essen that wouldn’t have interested
anyone even if it had been the last printed page
in the world. She felt hopeless, then angry, which
was more productive. He carried on this painful
longueur until the waiter came with herring and
bratwurst, providing respite from Essen and
mustard.
She decided she would have to race him to the
next interruption, which was the wine’s being
poured, and referred to the book, making her
reading of it seem accidental. “I came across a
reference to this river in the library. Apparently,
it runs through one of the wildest terrains in the
world, and traveling down it is like reentering the
Pleistocene Age.”
He wasn’t looking at her, of course. He was
cutting his bratwurst into neat thick coins.
“The natives have no commerce with the civi-
lized world. Savages is what the book called
them, and all along its length are some of the
most dangerous reptiles that exist.” She had not
read this but had begun now to make things up.
“Crocodiles, copperheads, water moccasins. To
say nothing of the savages.” Could she scare him
into a meaningful response? Must it be torn,
ripped from him? He would have to be des-
perate. Nothing short of his clawing at air,
screaming for help, watching the wet blade
126

drawn from his entrails would do it.
Eyes on his plate, he said, “How’s your herring?”
Her face hot, feeling the drumbeat of her own
blood, she thought of wreaking havoc as she qui-
etly ate her dinner. She thought of the woman in
black, cold and smooth as an ivory moon far
from a source of heat, and she felt a kinship with
her. One becomes that way; one has to. What had
driven that woman to retreat behind that mask
was probably the man and his impossible de-
mands.
“That passage is from ‘Peter Quince at the
Clavier, ” she said.
He looked up, innocently puzzled. “What’s
that? What passage?”
“ “Beauty is momentary in the mind.’ The one
yourquoted) Its irom PeteriOuince?
His brow furrowed, and he looked off into the
shadowy darkness of the restaurant.
It might have been bright light outside, but in
here it became harder to see beyond the crescent
rim of candlelight on their table. Or so it affected
her.
Piihaed quoted?”
Oh, he was surely not this cheap; he was not
simply going to deny he’d done so? “Yes, you’d
forgotten the second line, though. Or part of it.”
“Ah!” He breathed this out as if the point, long
contested, were now settled.
“ «The fitful tracing of a portal.’ ’ve been won-
dering about the meaning of that line. And the
otner.
Lear

He tried on his contemplative look for the few
moments he could tear his eyes away from his
plate. “Um-hm.” Now he was eating red cab-
bage. He pointed his fork at it. “Delicious. This
place is a real find. Yes, quite a find.”
She wasn’t going to stop. “It was the idea of
relative beauty that you brought up. You brought
it up.” She wanted to add all by yourself, I was
amazed. “You said Tahiti was ‘relatively beau-
tiful.’ In relation to, relative to Maui, it wasn’t all
that beautiful, and you quoted Wallace Stevens.
‘Beauty is momentary —’ ”
Now he was chuckling. “You’re really ob-
sessed with Maui and Tahiti.” He shook his head
in wonder at her obsession. “You should go
there, you know.”
“IT don’t want to go there. They’re merely ex-
amples.”
“Umm.” He spooned sour cream over a pan-
cake.
“Examples of your notion of relative beauty.”
When he made no response, not even a grunt,
she asked (too desperately), “Are you even I1s-
tening?” This was the wrong approach; this
would allow him to derail any semblance of rea-
sonable conversation.
“Every word. I’m sorry if you think I’m paying
no attention, but I was merely trying to enjoy my
dinner. I wasn’t aware that we’d come out to
lunch together so that we could have a running
conversation — now let’s see... what would you
like to talk about?” He looked at her with se-
128

verity, as if she were indeed showing signs of ob-
session, of a craziness that would bring the
waiters running.
But she was not going to let him get out of this
by mocking her. It was one of his favorite ruses.
“ “Beauty is momentary in the mind’ — that’s
what we’ll talk about.”
It was as if she hadn’t spoken. But then she
knew she was invisible, didn’t she?
Buttering another slice of thick black bread, he
said, “Did you know that crocodiles can’t look
back?”
So alarming was this question in its irrele-
vance, it left her speechless.
“It’s true. Did you ever see one looking over its
shoulder?” he asked, with his astonishing
sanguineness, and as if she’d denied the truth of
it. “Crocodiles can’t turn their heads to look
back. I suppose the best thing to do is to make
sure you’re standing behind them.”
She abandoned Wallace Stevens to say, “Back-
ward or forward, crocodiles are dangerous.”
Then she asked, point-blank, “Don’t you ever
feel in danger?”
idimm-iOb-woccasionally.4|, expects we all do;
don’t we?” He speared a sausage and popped it into
this mouth, chewed, let his eyes rove the shadowy
room, refuse to rest on her, even for a moment.
“No. Not all. ’'m talking about dangers you’ve
met in your travels. Have you ever felt in danger
anywhere?”
He was finishing off his bratwurst and the cab-
129

bage. Probably he wouldn’t answer. But he did.
“T think I must have in Tibet. Climbing. Moun-
tain climbing, I mean.”
She had no idea he’d been to Tibet. That
pulled her, an involuntary movement, forward in
Nemehaie le oc tre
“They didn’t want to take me, of course — the
crew didn’t. No experience. Can hardly blame
them.” The last of the potato pancake disap-
peared into his mouth.
He talked of it as if it had been a walk around
the block. It was she who stopped listening, this
time. She visualized mountains, cliffs, canyons
with sheer faces. Red rocks rising out of a deso-
late landscape. Unpeopled places, lonely beyond
imagining.
“.. the cortege dragging the polizia in their
wake.” He chuckled again.
“What? What police?”
He waggled his knife at her. “Aren’t you even
listening?”
“Was this in Venice?” She remembered he had
spent a couple of months there.
“This funeral. Well, of course they go to the
cemetery in boats, don’t they? Gondolas painted
black .. . it’s quite impressive to watch them. My
friend — it was his motorboat, not mine — dared
me to join the funeral cortege. Which I promptly
did. Having drunk two bottles of rather ex-
cruciating wine. So there I was in the middle of
the mourners’ black boats —” He had to stop to
laugh.
130

She stared. That was like him, wasn’t it?
Making a mockery of the funeral procession.
Rutting the waves in his toy boat, probably with
flags flying. Gondolas like black swans drifting.
She wondered who had died. “ ‘Death in
Venice,’ ” she said, suddenly and sadly.
“Ah, yes. What was his name? Aren— ?”
“Aschenbach.” She said it sadly. “There was
the plague, then. He couldn’t leave, he was
under a spell, mesmerized.”
Beauty 1s momentary in the mind.
“Was the family ... immune?” She frowned
over the word. “Was he immune, the boy who
was so beautiful? Like one of those mythological
figures, or the sort of person the Pre-Raphaelites
liked to paint. He was untouched by the plague.
Aschenbach died of it. Did the boy’s beauty
make him immune?”
“You read too many books.”
She started. He was not so stupid that he
would make such a foolish statement; he did it
because he enjoyed mouthing absurdities at her.
“T read too few.”
Now he was looking over his shoulder for the
waiter, who had disappeared. “Where in hell do
they get to? Why is one never around when you
want him?”
“Like the polizia,’ she said, smiling. She was
going along with him.
“Yes.” He laughed. “Polizia.”
She was going along and in some part of his
mind he knew it, though he wouldn’t or couldn’t
131

verbalize it. After all, this was the last lunch until
he came back from Bolivia. And, really, why did
she think she was the one to be setting the tone?
Establishing where the border of intimacy
began? Deciding the exchange rate of conversa-
tion? They did not even share the same currency;
she was from another country and possibly an
even poorer one.
When the waiter finally turned up with their
coffee, she was thinking that when he came back
from his trip she might be more tolerant.
132

TWENTY-ONE
But he did not come back.
At three or four o’clock every day she would
visit one or the other of the restaurants and
search the room, take in the faces of the few
diners there, and sometimes sit down to eat, al-
though she was never hungry. It was supersti-
tious eating, almost, as if the routine of lunching
at a late hour would bring him back.
After two weeks she started questioning the
maitre d’s, the waiters. Did they remember him?
Had they seen him? In a few cases, the waiter
would recall both of them and tell her no, her
friend hadn’t been around lately. In the French
restaurant, the sommelier remembered him
clearly because he had been knowledgeable
about wines and even knew certain vineyards in
Burgundy, such as Montrachet. Oh, yes, the
waiter remembered him well.
In the process of this search, she felt again and
again the awful poverty of a friendship of which,
despite its having gone on for over a year — all of
those lunches! — no proof existed except for a
telephone number and a few inscribed books.
135

They had no mutual friend or acquaintance, and
she had no mental image of the place where he’d
lived (she had never been there), or the room in
which he wrote all morning and part of the after-
noon. There was only the telephone number and
the ghostly voice on the answering machine. A
month passed in this way, and she still had no
clue as to his whereabouts.
Finally, she called his publisher.
She should have thought of it before, as much
of their conversation had been about the vicissi-
tudes of the publishing business, about his editor
or copy editor. Yet, he had spoken no names, so
she did not know whom to ask for.
She told the receptionist who answered (and
who was impatient because she’d have to search
for the person) that she had no idea of the name
of the editor, or anyone there, but they must
surely have certain ones who deal with travel.
When she was put through to the second
person, she felt she was making progress, for this
one said, Yes, she certainly knew the name and
would put her through to the editor. It wasn’t the
editor she got, but his assistant. This young
woman seemed hesitant to answer questions
about their writers. But she convinced the girl
that she was a very good friend and made up
some little tale to explain why she had to call the
publisher.
“But if you’re such a good friend? ... You
don’t know?” said the assistant editor. “You
134

hadn’t heard he’s dead?”
She shut her eyes. She could hardly breathe.
Her chest felt tight, as if a fist had clamped her
and squeezed, the sort of pain associated with a
coronary. But she knew that wasn’t its source.
She could say nothing into the phone except,
“What? What did you say?”
“It happened in — he was killed in the Am-
azon.”
She had to hang up; she couldn’t stand to
listen to any details right now. She had the re-
ceiver halfway to the cradle before she remem-
bered to ask, “When?”
“A month ago. It was the day before he was to
come back... -pBut lcm’ surprised youddidnt
hear.’ The girl’s voice seemed to be accusing her
of a dereliction of friendship. “It was in all the
papers.”
“T’ve been — out of the country.” She kept
feeling she must apologize for her ignorance.
“Well, it was on the news just about every-
where. You must not have known him all that
well.”
The words were little blows, tiny punishing
hammers. She could have died from the shame
of not having known.
“What happened was —”
Hurriedly, she thanked the editor’s assistant.
“T’ll call his — family.” She had very nearly said
“mother” before she realized his mother might
be dead.
It was horrible for her that this rather rude girl
135

was in possession of these details, that she knew
if his mother was alive, knew if he had a brother
or a sister, knew when and where he was born.
She lowered her forehead to the cool surface of
the receiver. Her face felt hot. To think she had
been such a peripheral person in his life she had
had to hear from a perfect stranger that he was
dead one whole month after it had happened.
Certainly, she wanted to know how he’d died
(killed, hadn’t the girl said?) and the details of
where and how this had happened, but it would
be less painful to read it in a newspaper than to
hear it from that swaggering girl, so full of her
own importance, working in the reflected light of
all of those writers.
She raised her head and wiped her eyes, sur-
prised to find she had been weeping. It was in all
the papers. Theirs was not a very big town, yet,
since he had lived here, the notice should be in
the local paper. She would find back issues at the
library and, since it had been a month ago, she
would not have to look through many of them.
‘The write-up surprised her, at first by its very
length, then by the discovery that he was well
known for these travel books, if not absolutely fa-
mous for them. She discovered too that his par-
ents were dead and that he had a sister living out
west. But none of this had surprised her as much
as the circumstances of his death. At first she
thought it surely must be a joke, some sort of
black humor. In the jungle, he had been mauled
136

by a jaguar. This was hard enough to grasp and
made her draw in her breath so quickly she felt
the return of the choking pain. But the rest of it
was unbelievable. She remembered his talking
about a kind of cactus that if cut and the pulp re-
moved and eaten would cause the sort of halluci-
nations Castaneda had written about. It wasn’t
peyote; it was something else.
ae bute norrible, aseitemustuhavesbeensmne
might have been dead by the time the jaguar
leapt, for the pathologist found traces of
strychnine in his bloodstream. Police de-
duced that he had been eating the flesh of the
San Pedro cactus, which causes hallucina-
tions, and had not realized that part of this
cactus contains strychnine.
She looked up and out over waves of shelved
books, watching them tilt, feeling seasick. Strych-
nine. Hallucinations. Jaguar.
To him?
Nes8

TWENTY-TWO
But what they didn’t know — the reporters, the
editor’s assistant, the editor himself; very pos-
sibly, what no one knew except she herself — was
the awful irony of it.
Had she not felt so sunk, she would have
laughed, laughed herself sick, really. It was the
whole drama of his death. The horrific Holly-
wood-style melodrama of it. The fitting final
scene of his meeting his destiny: that’s how the
movies would have handled it. Well, really, that’s
how the people at his publishing house were han-
dling it, wasn’t it? An interview with his editor
had that man saying, A fitting death for a man who,
in a sense, lived to travel.
He who had despised travel! But wouldn’t admit
it, or couldn’t see it. He who had made trips to
those lone and lost places on the globe, so remote
from such people as herself that she couldn’t even
dream of it, such stories he could have told as
would have made a Scheherazade of him (and per-
haps he had been to his readers). Yet he had re-
mained untouched by these places. He had
returned, virginal, from such trips, unseduced and
138

left unconsummated. Travel bored him. Had he
been able to report to her his own manner of
dying he would probably have called it some-
thing like an “odd little circumstance.”
Travel bored him, and yet the boredom did not
break the gait of his writing. It was as if another
part of himself gathered in the reins at that point
and wrote about what he’d seen, as if he’d had
beside him all that trip a traveling muse who’d
found things astounding and delightful and gor-
geous. But to im, the true him, it was all rather
an evening’s stroll. Zimbabwe. Puligny-
Montrachet. Odessa. Aix-en-Provence. The
Amazon. Little to choose between them, except,
perhaps, for the wine.
It had not been as interesting to him as the
lunches with her had been. She was astonished
by her certainty of this. This knowledge
somehow redeemed her from the awful igno-
rance of his death.
Late afternoon. She had come to the station
café after leaving the library to have coffee. To
sit, really. She could not eat, not even one of the
cook’s omelets. Unusual for her to be here at this
time of day. The stationmaster was announcing
the four-fifty, soon to arrive. The waitress and
the cook stood together, as usual, at the end of
the counter, smoking.
It is perhaps fitting that his death was as dra-
matic as his life had been.
139

That had been written about him, in a lengthy
obituary, saying again what his editor had said.
She held a paper napkin to her mouth. Her
shoulders heaved, mixing a laugh and a sob. The
sound tore the silence of the café as if it were
smashing a windowpane.
The waitress’s head turned quickly to look to-
ward ‘her; “thecook’s. cigarette” stoppedy1n
midair. As of a single mind, they both moved,
she toward the coffeepots, he toward the
kitchen. He went in and was out in a moment,
holding a glass and a bottle. It was brandy, and
he was pouring out a small amount and placing
it before her while the waitress refilled her
empty cup.
Aheirconcern= prompted her tousay, My
friend died.” And this of course was true, but
only the truth’s bare bones.
Yet, there must be simple statements such as
this so that all of them could survive, mustn’t
there? There had to be some universal code that
anyone could crack, that anyone could under-
stand, no matter how much it left out of the com-
plexity of the feelings, the nuances that would be
lost on them, the sense of the shadowy, cob-
webbed atmosphere in which the friendship had
taken place. |
She said, “I thought I was — immune.” And
wept again.
The cook put his hand on her shoulder. The
waitress bent to offer a napkin as handkerchief.
Immune. Like the beautiful boy in “Death in
140

Venice” who had remained untouched by the
plague, while Aschenbach sat dying his awful
death by the sunstruck sea.
141

a
=
Tas Ga suche bsainsnws shunting urea
de: ¥ yithedsr oe Seu ataweipetlped, tha laa g oathhaeh
al HAT qado nan ei ad
a ’
= shirlaers aded, Wilalwe ain wh Bid 2n0b
aMiiiccior’ Ma sienee Of the vata’ ae he
Tp men iwnar 7 -
ca. Per wie Lar Cs Ge MS enna
vould tart. theese QQ ereaete -iiepeeee
pieaey she Ai] ‘imuse thin, Cet Oelh moa
il (TFL InS Scottienieg kh ware es
en Flis at ib Ceet| ee bar) *E HAV? BLS rr 7
) PINKS ORS a phe, Te wal brani, al
Wee (Aree wi wr ft PLO wre Tat? | (uae
i oc ‘ or whe ® the 2 ‘yaa rind pet aed =ar?
" *™* ¥ e-
nae 7, ©. bi weet ot - rsahyse et by - 5 é y _ —4 _
ak aL vi - Friis “ie ul ivi ~~ rs (Tua,
it et ae e iay - 18 ‘ oe : - ;
Sei, hers Lids be sitiple tistoneireeED
a Le' e an Cooma se"a 7 CO’ TA= Ora C7 R > Fee : G ss fir+ th
x eio? > “>t ere, hiy, 9 i DES war VTi! wr nl <a =
—— nenaiee., » al hsi n ; ¥ Giz ; “ais OPA, nus “
i plwces irielsye 0ro4 Mtett e ie Peiniy ? yast i h e i r “r t e i pnpa 4 s wi G p u o a R t e a a n ne s
wig rr, De’, iene olA o’ Renee=
Babe: wsinpbeye ly bik ihe ie
R = et ie. eC. a
. : eal :
: ; , rt vae _ a on
Segiii pie che 5 : Pe oe
ein. . 7 7 ~~ 5 1
: p in 2 we or ; — ¢ aL?
, 7

WHEN
THE MOUSETRAP
ULOSES

: VaRW os
GAATa2UOM Sut.=
aus
23c0J0..

ONE
|
Edith looked across Mrs. Dawson’s Tearoom at
the youngish man sitting by himself, reading the
newspaper. She looked away, frowned, looked
back again. It couldn’t be he, surely .. . ? Still, if
he took off the glasses —
As if he’d read her mind like a stage direction,
he did just that, removed the unflattering horn-
rims, held them out to the light, and examined
them for smudges.
It was Archie Marchbanks. Edith could scarcely
believe it. It was Marchbanks, or his twin, sitting
at the table by the window, polishing his glasses
with his napkin. He was not looking up or around
in the manner of a person impressed by his own
celebrity.
Edith saw this with only the quickest of
glances. Even so, she thought she could have
stared at him right over the pastry trolley and he
would not have noticed. The gesture of raising
the glasses was uncannily like the gesture of the
character he’d played with such stunning success
in one of the West End theaters last year. Only
145

there the object being examined — it was in the
second act — was a diamond-and-ruby neck-
lace. Just that reach of the arm, just that slight
squint, that inclination of the head. It was that
character to the core.
She had seen the play three times in its last
month and was sorry she’d waited so long, for it
had been running a good six months when
Marchbanks had left it. Another actor had taken
his place and the play had closed with what must
have been embarrassing swiftness for him. The
only thing that had kept the lackluster play alive
had been Archie Marchbanks. From the time
Marchbanks walked on the stage, she could
sense the current in the air. He had been utterly
convincing playing the role of a man twice his
age. It amazed her that whoever was in charge of
casting — casting directors, was that what they
were called? — had had the intuition or pre-
science to give the part to Marchbanks. He was
too young, too handsome, too — everything, on
the face of it.
Edith looked around the small room, at the oc-
cupants of four other tables, one right next to
Marchbanks. No one else had recognized him.
2
Edith was a regular customer at Mrs. Dawson’s,
as she lived nearby in one of the crescents that
branched off from the Fulham Road. She was
but a short bus ride away from the Victoria and
Albert, and she chided herself for not visiting it
146

often enough — scarcely ever, she had to admit.
The same carelessness was shown toward the
Brompton Oratory. She’d been in it perhaps
three or four times since she had made the move
to her present flat, which she had shared with her
mother until her death two years ago.
It was almost embarrassing to her, the fond-
ness she had always felt for her mother. Edith
seemed to measure time by her death; things had
happened either before or after the death of Mrs.
Parenger. Everyone else she had known carried a
mixed bag of emotions around, a deadweight, a
steamer trunk packed with feelings for their par-
ents. Any one of these friends would have ana-
lyzed her feelings for her mother, presumptively.
That was when Mrs. Parenger was alive; they
daren’t do it now she was dead. Her friend Zoe
saw Edith’s feelings as repressed. “One only has to
look at the way you live, Edith,” Zoe had said,
with an all-encompassing sweep of her arm
around the flat. Whatever Zoe had meant, Edith
didn’t want terribly to know. Zoe was at best an
uncertain reader of others’ lives and feelings.
Another acquaintance was a man who saw ev-
erything in combative terms. He adored sports,
especially American football, and seemed un-
able to express his thoughts except in sporting
metaphors. He had told her she was doing “an
end run round the Electra complex.” That par-
ticular complex she remembered as relating to
daughters and fathers, not mothers, but Edith
made no comment, for he so enjoyed getting into
147

his sporting talk. “Now, you’d be happier,
Edith, if you’d just stop playing shortstop and
get in the outfield.” Edith wondered what that
meant. Was it that she didn’t take risks? She
hadn’t asked.
On that afternoon’s walk to Mrs. Dawson’s,
Edith had stopped before the same shop win-
dows she always did — the lovely little cheese
and wine shop, the florist’s — coming at last to a
corner shop that specialized in embroidered pil-
lows. Edith always lingered before this window.
Once or twice she had taken this walk to the tea-
room with Zoe and pointed it out. Zoe had seen
only the larger picture, the window as a whole,
and pronounced it fine. Edith’s ability to stand
silently and look was annoying to others who
wanted to get on with things.
Her mother had often patronized this shop.
Mrs. Parenger had done brilliant needlework
and had found a compatriot in the little woman
who owned the shop. Edith herself embroidered
but had never mastered the art. She did, how-
ever, have her mother’s way of looking. Details,
Mrs. Parenger had often said, told the story; it
was all in the details; the larger scene would then
take care of itself.
Edith leaned closer to the glass. The nuanced
colors of the roses in a cushion propped against
the leg of a footstool had been expertly done.
The colors seemed to be fading right before
one’s eyes. Her mother was adept at this process
of shading and shadowing. Had been, Edith told
148

herself, flooded with the sense of loss she had
been feeling now for two years. It was ripe pain
she was feeling, not old. Tears stung her eyes
and she took a deep breath, leaning her forehead
to touch the glass. She recovered and looked
again at the pillows. Another pillow, done
mostly in browns, depicted a whippet and was
marvelous in the way the needlework managed
to convey the dog’s energy. One would really
have to get closer, have to pick it up and examine
it, in order to separate the patterns, the details
from the dark background. It’s all in the details,
Edith heard her mother saying again.
It was only to be expected that such fine at-
tention to detail, such scrutiny, would be
brought to bear on other things — brooches and
rings, lace and dresses. If there was a flaw, her
mother could find it. Edith wished sometimes
that she herself couldn’t. Still, it was this ability
to take in details that allowed her to recognize
Archie Marchbanks, when the other customers
were simply blind to him. It was that gesture of
extending his arm and raising the glasses toward
the light that made him irrefutably Archie
Marchbanks. He was capable, Edith thought, of
putting more into the turn of a wrist than other
actors could do with their whole excitable
bodies. He had walked away with the otherwise
indifferent play. It must have made the leads hor-
ribly uncomfortable when they came onstage for
their curtain calls to realize the applause had
simply spilled over from Archie Marchbanks.
149

Mrs. Dawson’s had been her mother’s favorite
place for tea because the pastry was so light and
flaky and the tea brewed from loose tea, not bags.
Edith had finished eating her napoleon and was
having a final cup of tea when she noticed him. A
slant of sun spreading across his tablecloth acted
upon him like stage lighting splashing over the
diamond-and-ruby necklace. She had been mes-
merized then and was now....
But she could not spend the afternoon here;
she would have to go. It took her another quarter
of an hour to get her bill from the waitress. She
meant simply to pay it, rise, and leave, but on her
way to the door she suddenly changed direction
and stopped at his table. She seemed unable to
help herself. Knowing she was flushing to the
roots of her hair, she said, “I’m terribly sorry to
bother you, but — you’re Archie Marchbanks,
aren’t you? The actor?” She kept her voice as low
as possible so she wouldn’t attract attention to
him.
He smiled as he nodded.
“T couldn’t believe it was you in this place.”
She looked about her as if she’d surprised them
both in some uninhabitable corner of the earth.
“You were so good in that play last year.”
“Sit down.” Archie Marchbanks inclined his
head toward the vacant chair.
Edith hesitated, astounded by whatever had
propelled her to his table. She was not ordinarily
audacious; indeed, she considered herself shy,
perhaps the last person to walk up to an actor
150

and tell him how much she’d enjoyed his perfor-
mance. And she had attracted attention to him.
Fortunately, the two at the table next to him had
paid their bill and left, but the women at the re-
maining table had heard her, had looked with
curiosity, and had finally realized who this was.
They had their heads together, whispering; they
were probably plotting out a way to approach
him.
“Do sit down,” he said to Edith. “You’d be
doing me a favor.”
She could not believe this, but she sat down.
He was looking around for the waitress.
“Would you care for some tea?”
“Oh, no, thank you. I’ve just had some.”
RO Omlaverl. Duty iMmmaving more. Can weever
get enough tea? I don’t think so.”
The waitress, a young thing with curls of silky
pale hair framing her face, came immediately
(although, when waiting on Edith, she had been
quite slow and sullen), came wreathed in smiles.
Edith doubted the waitress knew who he was;
she was probably responding to his youth and
exceeding good looks. It was difficult to guess
Marchbanks’s age, but he could not be more
than thirty-one or -two and most likely was even
younger. She had, surely, twenty years on him.
She was fifty-two. From the waitress came any
number of Yes, sirs, Right away, sirs, Ill see, sirs be-
fore she gave him a little tilting bow and rushed
off, her apron starched to within an inch of its
life and crackling all the way.
ity

Archie Marchbanks smiled at Edith as if they
had both perceived the waitress in the same way.
“Do you live around here?”
“Yes, just a few streets away, actually.” She
named a street off the Fulham Road.
“Oh, yes, I know that street, lovely houses. Not
‘purpose built’ but ‘mansion house.’ I love
British euphemism.”
She smiled. “Mansion houses; you’re right.
It’s very comfortable, our — my — flat. But I ex-
pect I’ll be moving one of these days.”
“Why, if it’s comfortable?”
She could hardly bring up her mother’s death,
so she avoided answering at all and asked him
the same question. “Do you live somewhere
around here?” Edith didn’t really suppose he
did; Fulham didn’t cater for actors.
“No. Where are you moving to?”
Edith had said she was because it seemed to
give her some purpose, to show she was not
merely going on with her life but giving it direc-
tion. “Oh, I haven’t worked that out yet. I’ve
just been looking around.” She hadn’t; she
hoped she had not been caught out in a lie and
would therefore have to invent another Edith,
living the life this Edith felt she should be living.
“Not terribly seriously, though. One hates to
move, so much trouble.” She was glad the wait-
ress was back to interrupt should he again ask
her why, since she was “comfortable.”
The waitress had set down the fresh, steaming
pot of tea and a cup and saucer for Edith,
132

beamed at Marchbanks, and gone off. Edith did
not realize, until she saw her gloves lying on the
table, that she’d removed them; nor that she’d
slipped her silk scarf from around her neck; nor
that she’d shrugged her coat from her shoulders.
All of this gave the impression that she meant to
Stay, that she was making herself at home. She
was shocked by this. She simply could not
imagine a less likely meeting than this one, or
that it would leave her feeling at home. The man
she had seen up on the stage a few months ago
and herself, an ordinary maiden lady.
“Tf I do decide, though, it will only be after The
Mousetrap closes,” she said, watching him pour.
Eiclooked sup at her, puzzled! la becsyour
pardon?”
“The play.” It had simply popped out.
“Yes, I know it, but —”
Feeling rather silly, she hurried on. “Decisions
I hesitate to make, such as whether or not to
move, I tell myself I’?1] make when The Mousetrap
closest?
He loved that. He laughed heartily. The
women at the rear table, who’d been staring at
them — well, at him — ever since she’d sat down,
were riveted by his laugh. It was the same laugh
that had come at several points during his last
play. “That’s marvelous. What a wonderful yard-
stick that is. Will it ever close? God, how long’s it
been going?”
“Forty-seven years. Can you believe it? It will
close, of course; it has to.”
153

“Perhaps. So you’re safe for the moment, is
that it?”
Edith didn’t feel at all safe. But it had rather
pleased her, this bargain she’d struck with her-
self, that significant lines of action or large deci-
sions would be taken only when that play closed.
They — she and her mother — had made almost
a ritual of going to see it once every two or three
years. It was like an amulet, a good-luck piece.
The most important decision was the one
about the flat. Would she remain in a place
where nearly every object tugged at her, pulled
her back, ambushed her? Sentimental nonsense,
of course it was, and the best thing she could do
for herself would be to take another flat or even a
small house and forget the past. This was the ad-
vice given by those who did not have to doit....
“T’ll put it off as long as I can. I’m not at all
good about changing things. I marvel at people
who can pull up roots and simply go. I’ve never
been good at going.” She sipped her fresh cup of
tea.
“You probably won’t have to. The Mousetrap
will undoubtedly be there for the rest of our
lives.”
“Yes, 1t’s an institution, isn’t it?” Edith smiled.
“Yet I can’t think of anyone I know who’s actu-
ally seen it, except for me and my mother, when
she was alive. It must be mainly tourists.”
He nodded. “I saw it years ago. I don’t think
depth of characterization is — was — one of
Agatha Christie’s strong points.”
154

“No. But that isn’t what one goes for, is it? One
goes for the trick.”
He laughed. “Do we like that? Being tricked?”
“In the context of detective stories, of course.”
He picked up a caramel éclair and set it down
again. “In that play, doesn’t the trick turn on
identity?”
“Yes. It —”
“The plot’s coming back to me now... ah, yes.
But it’s a very crude approach to the concept of
identity, the way she does it. She’s not very
subtles:
“No, but then she’s hardly trying to deal with a
philosophical question. It’s simply the trick.”
He was still holding a section of the paper
clamped to his chest as if it were a kind of protec-
tive armor. He shrugged. “Anyway, it’s always a
question of identity, isn’t it?” He turned his tea-
spoon over and over. He had elegant hands.
“It was the question raised in the play you did
last year, wasn’t it?” It had been such a difficult
role, she thought, one that required the actor to
give such a layered performance that the audi-
ence would be kept suspended between fear and
sympathy. Bewitched. She relived the moment
in which he held out the diamond-and-ruby
necklace, and the absolute lust he felt for these
jewels was plain on his face, an expression
quickly replaced by a look of polite inquiry as he
turned and spoke to the young woman he would
almost certainly betray. The reaction of the audi-
ence had been almost visceral; she herself had
155

felt as if she were being pulled from her seat.
He had made the poor play nearly a great one;
he had certainly turned his own role as second
lead into the starring performance. The lead
actor was very good but not in a league with
Marchbanks. Edith could think of no other role
to compare with it — rather, what he had made
of it — in terms of absolute villainy, except per-
haps lago.
She told him this. Had it not been so banal, she
would have told him the effect was magical, like
a magician’s effects. What she did say was, “I’m
at a loss to see how you did it, how you kept ex-
changing personas. Or is it personae?”
He smiled brilliantly. “Practice.”
She laughed. “Oh, surely not just. Not when
you could make us all believe in you so much.”
Again, he shrugged. “So does a confidence
man. It’s not so difficult to make people believe
in you. You said it yourself: One goes for the
trick?
His smile was ambiguous and for a moment,
Edith was uncertain. “I didn’t mean it quite that
way. And we were talking then about The Mouse-
trap.”
“Oh, but you wouldn’t confine it simply to
that play, would you? Anyway, the villain in The
Mousetrap, was he so different from the one I
played?”
“Good God! The difference is astronomical.”
She brought her hand down firmly on the table,
causing the cutlery to clatter and jumping the
156

half-eaten pastries on the plate, and coloring at
this display.
He didn’t appear to notice. “I’m not talking
about the acting, only about the role. Both roles
turned on making the theatergoers believe we
were one thing and then we turned into another.
As I said, it’s the trick of the confidence man.”
“You are oversimplifying. You did not suddenly
become someone else, as the Christie character
did. You slipped in and out of the character. The
first time I saw the play I had a difficult time
working out whether you were — well, evil or
not.”
He smiled. “The first time? How many times
did you see it?”
“Three. It simply couldn’t be absorbed the
first time.”
He inclined his head slightly, treating it in this
spirit, picked up the éclair and took another bite.
The cake plate held several bitten-off pastries
where he’d sampled them. He said, “I still say it’s
not much more than a confidence game. We
work damned hard at it.” He glanced at his
watch. “Oh, Lord, I’m late.” He called the wait-
ress for the bill. “I’ve enjoyed this,” he said. He
was not going to wait for the girl to come and
collect. He dumped a little pile of uncounted
coins on the table — pounds and fifty-pence
pieces — clearly much more than was called for.
Edith wondered if he was this spontaneous, or
careless, otherwise in his life. He slung his coat, a
pale cashmere, over one shoulder. The day had
157

warmed considerably. Edith gathered her gloves
and bag together and they left the tearoom.
Outside, pale sunlight washed over them as he
put out his hand and told her how much he’d en-
joyed their talk. Perhaps they would meet again.
He asked her if she came here often.
She assured him she did, quite regularly every
Wednesday and often on Sundays. And some-
times on other days. They parted, but a few steps
away he turned and came back. “Listen: as long
as we’re both at loose ends on Wednesdays —”
She could think of no one less likely to be at a
loose end than Archie Marchbanks! But she
waited, hardly daring to breathe.
“Why couldn’t we have tea together next
Wednesday? Here.” He inclined his head toward
the worn facade of Mrs. Dawson’s.
She opened her mouth to reply but astonish-
ment held the words back until she coughed. “I’d
love to. The same time, about?”
He nodded, walked off, and turned to wave.
Edith stood staring for a moment. His sur-
prising offer so stunned her that it made her bold
enough to improve upon it. “Mr. Marchbanks!”
she called. When he stood waiting, she walked
up to him and said, “I just wondered. ... Perhaps
you could join me at my flat next Wednesday,
and I could return the favor. I mean, I could give
you tea.”
Archie Marchbanks seemed to like the idea
and immediately fell in with the plan that he
would turn up at her flat the following
158

Wednesday. It was only the work of a moment
for her to jot down the house number. Her flat
was the ground floor, she told him.
“Just in case,” she said, as she included her
telephone number. “One never knows what
might happen.”
Again they separated, and again he turned to
call out to her, “And don’t forget our argument!”
“No, no, I shan’t!” she called back to him. But
the surprise she felt at his clear desire to meet
again, and her own boldness, forced the argu-
ment (as he had called it) straight out of her
mind. Well, she would remember soon enough.
2
Edith retraced her route along the Fulham Road,
feeling her step to be jaunty, which was a decided
change from the one with which she’d entered
the tearoom. Quite deliberately she paused by
the several windows she’d stopped at on her way
to the tearoom, for she wanted to see them now
in this new frame of mind.
As she stopped again at her mother’s favorite
shop, she thought it was to her credit that she
had not dwelt upon her feelings of loneliness and
(she had to admit now) desperation. It was safe
only now to recognize such feelings, now that the
dark well of them had been partially boarded
over. Now they could be acknowledged.
Edith rested her forehead gently against the
cold glass window of the cushion shop. She felt a
painful acceptance of her earlier feelings, the
159

ones she’d carried into Mrs. Dawson’s. Had she
felt that awful? Apparently, she had, or the relief
from them would never have been so visceral.
Such a physical thing, the earlier feelings, a crip-
pling burden that had now been lifted. Had she
remained silent, had she been too timid to ap-
proach Archie Marchbanks, it was terrible to
think such feelings would still be dragging at her.
It was rather horrible to accept this because that
cast of mind could easily return to weigh her
down again.
But not now, thank God! Her eyes rested on
the whippet, sensing its nervous anxiety. The
petals around the bowl of roses looked freshly
fallen, as if she had glanced away for just a mo-
ment and missed their soft descent. That stitches
could render such nuances and breathe life into
objects was a fresh source of amazement to her.
Although she would never have considered it
earlier, now she felt she must certainly buy one.
It would always be a reminder of her good luck.
The shop was named Timothy’s and was
owned by a Miss Vole, a nice little woman whose
entire life was tied up in her needlework. Her
mother and Miss Vole could talk endlessly about
embroidery: satin stitches and couching and
petit point. Edith remembered a morning that
she had left her mother there, talking to Miss
Vole. When she had returned an hour and a half
later, she had found them in exactly the same
spot. They hadn’t moved an inch and apparently
hadn’t considered sitting down.
160

Miss Vole had for many years occupied the flat
above the shop when it was an antiques shop.
She had supported herself — and quite well —
by selling her needlework to a few discerning
women (such as Mrs. Parenger) and had occa-
sionally placed a cushion or runner in the an-
tiques shop itself on consignment. Thus when
the shop owner decided to sell, Miss Vole
thought it was perfect logic that the next step in
her life was to buy it and turn it into a shop for
embroidered furnishings. She had kept the
name, despite no one’s knowing who Timothy
was.
Edith loved this charted course, this near be-
lief in a life ordained. For when it came right
down to the “steps” in Miss Vole’s life, she’d
found them few and far between. When she was
twenty she had taken one enormous step against
the wishes of her parents. She had entered a con-
vent.
“T thought it would be calm; it would be quiet,
so different from my home life. I wanted only to
do my needlework, you see. That was really why
I joined in the first place. I had some vague no-
tion that I could put it to work in the convent,
you know, making chasubles or prayer cushions.
I assumed there would be oceans of free time.
“How naive I was! There wasn’t any free time;
they wanted to keep us busy, keep us occupied. And
they didn’t want us doing what wed done out in the
world beyond the convent. They seemed to be fearful
of worldly occupations, of a new person tracking in
161

the things of this world. So you see” — and Miss
Vole spread her hands — “we were simply at log-
gerheads. I’d joined because I thought there would be
no distractions; I forgot about God.” Here Miss
Vole shrugged, as if having made one silly mis-
take by joining, she was not going to make an-
other silly mistake by staying. And she had left
the convent at the end of her novitiate.
Her leaving, Edith bet, was done with the same
sweet reason with which she had gone into the
convent in the first place. Edith could not help
but smile, but she was indeed in awe of Miss
Vole. Having had the conviction to fly in the face
of her family’s objections, she had then had the
conviction to stop. Edith (or her mother, or
both) had asked Miss Vole if it hadn’t been diffi-
cult for her to admit she had misjudged the reli-
gious life.
Miss Vole had been somewhat surprised at the
question. “Why should it?” was her answer. And
how Edith had envied what seemed to be Miss
Vole’s near-perfect freedom, freedom from
needing to justify her actions.
If ever anyone had a calling, it was Miss Vole.
She was nunlike in her commitment; why hadn’t
the sisters seen that? Hers was a worshipful na-
ture that surely would please God, despite its not
being aimed precisely at Him.
As Edith entered the dim little shop, a buzzer
over the door rasped. Miss Vole stepped forth
from a rear chamber. After an exchange about
the weather, Edith asked to see both cushions in
162

the window, and Miss Vole set about getting
them out, stretching across the other displays.
She handed them to Edith and stepped back a
little, as if she meant to remove herself from
Edith’s circle of decision. Both pillows were
costly — and had every right to be, the amount
of work that had gone into them. The whippet
was the smaller of the two, but the more expen-
sive. She liked the whippet, and this one pro-
jected such nervous energy. But she also liked
the muted colors of the roses and loved the soft-
ness of the satin quilting. She sighed, shaking
her head. (Edith, Edith, make up your mind!) Miss
Vole’s thin and talented fingers were interlaced
before her. She looked serenely at the two cush-
ions, telling Edith she had made both. Miss Vole
also sold needlework done by others, which, of
course, would have to meet her exacting stan-
dards. She had told Edith several times that Mrs.
Parenger was as good as she herself, especially
with drawn threadwork.
Edith said, running her fingers across the nee-
dlepoint whippet, “This is quite remarkable. If
you hold it even a short distance away, you’d
think it a painting. The shading of the browns is
quite marvelous.”
“Thank you. Yes, I’m fond of my little dog. ’m
asking a hundred pounds for that one.”
“Too fond to sell it?”
“Ah, well, I’m never that fond, am I?”
That was not quite true. Edith had seen regret
stamped on Miss Vole’s face on several occasions
163

when she parted from her own work. That was
her expression now. To Edith the entire transac-
tion seemed a momentous occasion, fitting to
the rest of the day’s activity.
“T’ll have both,” said Edith.
164

TWO
The little flat Edith shared with her mother for
nearly twenty years had served for both of them
as arefuge. Her mother used to leave her slippers
by the door, in order to exchange her shoes for
them immediately upon entering. It had been a
symbolic farewell to the stress and strain of
London living.
Edith’s father had died just after she had ac-
quired this flat, with its two bedrooms and spa-
cious living room. It seemed the natural thing for
her mother to come to stay. The family house in
Putney was not only too large but painful for her
mother because everything (everything, Edith)
reminded her of Edith’s father. Mrs. Parenger
had at first naturally thought she would carry on
in the Putney house; how can one move from a
place that has been home for forty-five years?
But the wake of Mr. Parenger’s death had carried
with it a series of small shocks — a cuff link
rolling out from beneath a table, a shirt forgotten
in the warming cupboard — reminders every-
where of him. It had surprised Mrs. Parenger
that she couldn’t take it. It was her home; she
165

should live in it until she died. Edith had swiftly
cut through all this, insisting that her mother
come to live with her. It had been an ideal solu-
tion.
The flat was in a mansion house that had been
divided into four roomy flats. Edith’s was on the
ground floor and had the advantage of the
garden, which was lovely and quiet. Even with
the French window open, there was little to dis-
turb her. And it was wonderful for Barney, her
cat. Mrs. Parenger had called the cat Barnard,
apportioning to it a dignity the cat did not de-
serve. How much dignity was there in hiding be-
hind the hydrangeas to hold vigils over the
birdbath?
Everything in the flat had been carefully
chosen, with an eye not to decoration but to har-
mony. Occasionally, Edith (and her mother)
chose wrongly and there was a misfit to deal
with: they spoke of these poor choices in com-
bative terms. The marble washstand fought with
the granite top of an end table; a side chair
warred with the wall hanging above it. Thus, they
would have to separate the beleaguered pieces.
On the other hand, there were odd marriages
that turned out quite well: the painted chair that
Mrs. Parenger used to do her needlework, pulled
out from a gaming table to sit by the light of the
long window. Some other delicate piece sitting
beside a lumbrous old sideboard — somehow
these odd arrangements worked without looking
out of place.
166

The room was beautiful, Edith thought, full of
deep chairs and deep colors, many of them
garden colors that seemed to absorb warmth in
winter and cool shades in summer. It was really
the materials, the embroidered surfaces, that
pulled the room together. The soft cushions,
fireplace screen, needlepoint footstools of wool
or linen, all very fine and beautiful, and the best
of it, Edith thought, was her mother’s own hand-
iwork. Edith picked up a large square pillow
from the sofa and studied it. It was the old house
in Putney with its gables and gardens, which
Mrs. Parenger had done from memory. Because
her mother had been unstintingly attentive to the
smallest of the small (Details, Edith), a shooting
star above the Putney house actually seemed to
be shooting, leaving its incandescent trail of
silver gilt. Gold and silver thread had been used
to work the night sky, and a small willow had re-
tained its delicacy through the feather stitching
of its dripping leaves. The moon was nearly
hidden by a silverish vapor.
She replaced the cushion and got up to wander
about the room, looking at the various pillows,
runners, and wall hangings. Here was one of her
mother’s more abstract works: dream designs her
mother called such pieces. This pillow, titled
“The Red Queen,” had been done in vibrant,
even violent colors and run up in goldwork,
shadow quilting, and appliqué. It was dominated
by the scarlet figure of the Red Queen. Edith’s
mother had related a long complex dream about
167

Alice’s toppling into Wonderland; the piece was
her rendering of the dream. Edith had never
mastered this sort of metal threadwork. Why,
Edith wondered, had she never questioned her
mother about these dream designs, beyond
asking about the technique? They were fiery
pieces, swirling, bursting, wild with strong
colors.
She came to the French window overlooking
the garden. Sitting beside it was a scroll frame on
a stand that Mrs. Parenger had got a carpenter
friend to build for her so that she could draw it
up to the painted chair and work on it. Edith
didn’t know what it was to be, perhaps another
wall hanging. It was a replica of the garden, half
finished, and looked painterly. There was the
herbaceous border, the willow tree, the birdbath.
In the foreground were larkspur and deep blue
delphiniums. The stitching was painstaking and
dense, with French knots for the centers of the
poppies and daisies; the tiny beads on the leaves
of the flowers imitated dew or raindrops. The
little willow’s gracefully trailing branches were
done in many shades of silvery-green.
In the kitchen Edith made herself a cup of
coffee and drank it sitting at the white enamel
kitchen table. She felt heavy, as if she had eaten a
large meal and was now suffering its ill effects.
The hour with Marchbanks might have been too
rich for her, too plentiful and varied for one such
as Edith, who was used to less abundant rations.
In another moment she was crying. Now it was
168

as if the earlier hours of the day had never hap-
pened, as if she’d dreamed the whole thing —
the tearoom, Archie Marchbanks, the purchase
of the pillows in Timothy’s. Indeed, it was pre-
cisely the sort of thing one would dream. She did
not understand herself. What then had hap-
pened to her fine feelings, her exhilaration?
Had she been drifting for many years, half
asleep, and now awakened to swift, icy currents?
Edith looked at the wall behind the stove where a
china plate hung, a whimsical thing better suited
to a child’s nursery, the story of the owl and the
pussycat in their pea-green boat. The boat rolled
along on little waves. She had found it in the
house in Putney, in the attic she had sometimes
explored. The plate had been packed away with
other reminders of childhood.
She felt somehow shamed that her life was so
narrow, that it covered such a small territory,
that if she raised the spyglass she would see
nothing but blank gray water. Yet she had always
thought she preferred being on her own, except
for the company of those now dead and two or
three others who had moved away from London.
Was this desire for solitude one of the signs of old
ager She sat for some moments fingering the
linen place mat, refusing to give in to the urge to
lie down with a cold cloth over her eyes. That
was what she wanted to do, draw the bedroom
blinds and lie on the large cool bed. Her bed-
room was painted in shades of gray. Edith sighed
and wondered what that said about her.
169

She did not do this; instead, she made another
cup of coffee and carried it into the living room.
There, she opened the French window wide and
pulled the painted chair up to it. The day had
grown brighter; now, at nearly six o’clock, the
garden seemed to steep itself in all of that col-
lected sunlight, as the birdbath had collected the
early morning rain. Her cat, Barney, hid in a
camouflaging shrubbery, his yellow lozenge eyes
turned toward the birdbath, waiting. She looked
at the bright red stock, the foxglove, the blue del-
phinium, and the pastel shades of the borders
and thought she had no reason for discontent.
There were too few pristine days like this one;
she shouldn’t squander them in weeping. What
had caused that sudden squall, that little tempest
of tears? She shook her head. Yes, it had simply
been all too sumptuous an afternoon. Rich, like
those pastries Archie Marchbanks had taken
bites of. She saw the cake plate in her mind’s eye:
the éclair oozing its custard filling, the flaky na-
poleon, the walnut loaf and lemon curd tart. And
that irresistible strawberry meringue! How had
he managed to take only one bite?
Archie Marchbanks appeared to like every-
thing and nothing. Edith fell to wondering what
she could serve him for tea on Wednesday. She
could of course simply pick up cakes at Mrs.
Dawson’s, but she thought it would be nicer to
do something herself. Perhaps she could com-
promise and buy some walnut or orange slices
and then make a few Cream Roses.
170

She told herself that she would not spend
every day planning Wednesday’s tea.
But of course she would. Although she might
try to occupy herself in the flat and the garden,
or pay a visit or two to the library or the cinema,
these attempts to occupy herself would not be
successful in expunging Wednesday’s tea from
her thoughts.
Already exhausted, she slept. It was all too
much, too unreal.
171

THREE
|
“How in the world do you do these?” Archie
Marchbanks held out his small plate with its
Cream Rose as if distance would give him a
better understanding of it.
It was with relief that Edith told him. Relief
that the week of waiting was done with. It had
turned out to be more full of dumb anxiety than
pleasant anticipation. All she need do now was
pour the etea’-and, pass. cie scakemplates as ie
fluting is the only part that takes a bit of prac-
tice.” Pink and pale and suffused as a blush,
theyeRwere GaSa periectmasm the srosesmeAreiic
Marchbanks had brought her, and which now
stood on the sofa table behind him in Edith’s
silver Georgian vase.
“You don’t mind, do you, if I simply admire it
ferabite® ,
She said of course she didn’t mind. He was sit-
ting on the sofa with the air of an old friend who
is certain his presence is welcome.
That Marchbanks had come at all surprised
her. Remarkably, there had been no last-minute
172

call, no apologetic change of plan. And until he
had stood there in her doorway, she had
thought his appearance to be less and less likely.
How crowded with engagements, how de-
manding his life must be! But wasn’t that aw-
fully superficial of her, to think it was all
applause and adoration?
She was delighted to be offering him some of
the walnut bread. “Try this; it’s a bit less compli-
cated than the rose.”
Archie Marchbanks slid a piece onto his plate
and took a bite. “Mrs. Dawson’s?”
“Yes, it is. I wouldn’t have supposed you’d re-
member with that medley of pastries on your
plate:
“I’m an actor,” he said, smiling over the rim of
his teacup. “It’s my business to remember.”
She looked at him blankly, feeling that was
somehow an odd answer. She had been about to
say this, when he spoke again.
“T think your flat is quite wonderful.” He had
already spoken his approval of the arrangement
of furnishings, the depth of the colors, the “in-
terplay of surfaces.”
She had laughed. “You make it sound like a
stage set.”
Now he was up again, making a circuit of the
room. He stopped before the French window,
open on another pale blue and gold afternoon.
Even the weather seemed to be cooperating with
their tea party. With his back to her, shaking his
head, he said, “So this is what you intend to give
EY

up” — now he turned and smiled — “when The
Mousetrap closes?”
She flushed and looked away. She wished she
hadn’t told him about that harmless game she
and her mother had played; it now seemed such a
foolish thing to admit to. Why had she told him?
Her voice steady, she answered, “That wasn’t ex-
actly what I said. I would decide what I’d do then.
It’s making decisions that I find difficult.”
He had moved to where the painted chair half
hid the scroll frame holding her mother’s em-
broidery. He knelt down, studied it, picked it up,
and took it over to the window. “Beautiful. It’s
your garden?”
PeyeSs«
He returned the frame to its place against the
wall and took his seat again on the sofa. “Why on
earth would you leave a flat that seems so perfect
in every way? That has your imprint all over it?”
“My mother’s imprint, you mean. Most of the
embroidered? "pieces are hers) Shelwas every
good.” She poured more tea. “That’s quite a dis-
approving frown you’re giving me. You’d stay, I
expect.
“Go on living here? Of course.”
“Even if a place is too full of memories?”
He raised his eyebrows. “Surely, that’s all the
more reason to keep it.” He picked up his cup.
“Are the memories painful?”
“Memories are generally painful.” She sur-
prised herself with this quick answer. Picking up
the blue glass plate holding her Cream Rose
174

(which she, just as he, hadn’t yet eaten), she laid
her fork beside it, saying, “I mean simply that
they’re painful by virtue of that part of your life’s
being over — that day, that year; you know.” She
disliked the turn the conservation was taking.
With such a visitor as he, the talk should be abso-
lutely heady, not, for God’s sake, the same busi-
ness she brooded over daily. She steered it onto a
less dangerous course. “You told me to re-
member the argument. About The Mousetrap.”
For some reason, she hated to disturb the Cream
Rose. It was as if, once she split it with her fork, it
too would become one of those memories. How
absurd. Deliberately, she took a bite. It was a
lovely, smooth confection of meringue, whipped
cream, and strawberry mousse.
“Cleverly concealed identity, wasn’t it? I read
the play again, incidentally.”
“Really?” Edith was pleasantly surprised to
find the earlier conversation had made such an
impression on him.
“The villain was perfectly believable. He was
plausible. The audience has no reason at all to
question his role.”
“Only I wish the others wouldn’t go to such
pains to appear guilty.”
Marchbanks waved this comment away some-
what impatiently. “That’s not the play; that’s the
acting and directing.”
“I’m not sure what point you’re making.”
haatat swall aucontidence game; surely...) He
smiled, got up, and shoved his hands deep into his
175

pockets as if that aided his thinking. “For example,
I expect I have your complete confidence.”
She laughed. “That depends what the confi-
Gence isn.
“That I am what I say I am. That I’m Archie
Marchbanks.”
“Oh, dear.” Edith gave an exaggerated sigh.
“Or that I” — she smiled, she hoped, wickedly —
“am Edith Parenger. And as such, I still fail to
see your point.”
He shrugged. “That nothing really exists out-
side of its role.”
“This is sophistry.” It amazed her how easily
they fell into argument, as easily as others fell in
love. She smiled. “Please, let’s not have one of
those tiresome arguments about the nature of re-
ality. No one really lives by them, anyway.”
“Lives by them?”
“Those arguments. I mean, that whatever ‘re-
ality’ is or isn’t, we still get up in the morning and
drink our tea.” She picked up the teapot as if by
way of demonstration. It was cold.
“You don’t question it?”
“Well, of course I question it. But not as some
philosophical system. If I’m hurt in some way, or
terribly ill, I might say Why me?” Edith amazed
herself. She was, ordinarily, reticent, though not
because she lacked conviction. “Right now, I think
we should have more tea.” She held the pot aloft.
Marchbanks laughed.
But she didn’t rise. She said, “You know, I’d
much rather hear about your life — or what
176

passes for your life — since the way you ques-
tion reality tells me you don’t appear to know if
yourre living it.”
That made him laugh again. “My past?”
“Assuming you’ve had one.” She was being,
perhaps a little too arch.
“Oh, you’ve made your point. Now, what
about the tea?”
Edith took the cold teapot into the kitchen.
Marchbanks trailed after her, stopping in the
doorway. She ran water into the dented electric
kettle, feeling a little embarrassed over its condi-
tion. Really, she should get a new one. “I’d rather
hear about the present, actually. What’s this play
you're doing?”
“Tt’s the new David Crael one.”
Edith brought the tea canister down hard on
the counter. “I knew it! The one everyone’s been
speculating about.” David Crael had not pro-
duced a great body of work, only three plays in
his fifteen-year career. He was thought to be
more lucid — at least superficially lucid — than
Pinter or Stoppard, the writers with whom he
was often compared.
Archie laughed. “Oh, I imagine there might be
someone or other who doesn’t give a damn.”
“T read somewhere — was it in an interview?
— that he wasn’t going to stage it because he
couldn’t find the right person for the lead.”
Marchbanks smiled. “He must have found
him, then.” He pressed one hand to his heart.
“Archer, c’est mot.”
ray

She turned from measuring out the tea, puz-
Zed
“Oh, you know. Flaubert and Emma. Emma,
c’est mot.”
She smiled. “Yes, I know Emma. But who’s
Archer?” She put hot water in the teapot, poured
1@Outs
“That’s the name of the character, my char-
acter. It’s rather a small cast.”
“And do you really become your character?
As Flaubert claimed to have become Emma?”
He watched her spoon the tea into the pot.
“Aren’t we in danger of falling into another dis-
cussion of reality?”
Edith filled the teapot with hot water and said,
“Ts that what I’m talking about? I don’t think so.
Let’s go back to the other room.”
Seated again, she said, “You still haven’t
touched your Cream Rose.”
“No. It’s too perfect. Like the elegant little fig-
ures one sees made of marzipan.”
She asked him again. “Do actors become the
characters they play? I really wonder.”
He shrugged. “They say they do. Perhaps they
dorskdonss
“You don’t? Given your last role, I would think
you must. You were so terribly into it.”
Marchbanks laughed as he broke off a bit of
walnut loaf. “I would hope I was into it. I’m an
actors abterall
“Then ...if you don’t become your character,
what are you?”
178

He raised his eyebrows. “Calculating.”
Edith shook her head. “You can be quite exas-
perating sometimes.”
2
Exasperating, yes. But she was perfectly happy in
the way the friendship was going on. For the last
several weeks, they had met every Wednesday,
sometimes at Edith’s flat, sometimes in Mrs.
Dawson’s, where Marchbanks continued to take
bites out of everything on the cake plate. Anyone
would have taken them for old friends. Edith felt
they were. In Mrs. Dawson’s, Edith could not
help but enjoy the reflected glory of it all. He had
either got used to it or he honestly did not notice
the sensation he caused. The ladies (more and
more of them) were expending a lot of energy in
trying not to notice him.
On this particular Wednesday, Marchbanks
studied one of Mrs. Dawson’s lemon curd tarts
and returned it to his plate. He had been ex- °
plaining the lengths the playwright David Crael
would go to to keep his new work secret. “It’s
why I’m in South Ken during the week. For re-
hearsals. David refuses to have them in a theater,
so he’s rented a lock-up.”
Edith laughed in disbelief. “Rehearsing in a
lock-up garage in South Ken? You are joking,
surely?”
He shook his head. “No, it’s the truth.” When
she opened her mouth to reply, he held up his
hand. “If you’re going to ask which garage,
WE

don’t. You already know more than anyone else
in the world outside of the cast and crew. But I
feel you’re one of the rare people who can be
trusted.”
Edith merely nodded, but she was terrifically
pleased.
“He’s doing his own directing, David is. To tell
the truth I think he’d have preferred to do it all
himself — lighting, set design, costumes, acting;
there are only four of us in the cast, so he might
just have managed — and sell tickets to boot.”
Edith laughed again. “And, no doubt, write
the reviews.”
“David doesn’t bother about reviews. He’s one
of those lofty artists who shuns the opinions of
others.”
“It doesn’t sound like it; otherwise why would
he be going to such pains to keep the play se-
Chetr«
Marchbanks shook his head. “It’s not because
he fears criticism. I think it’s because he feels it 7s
a secret — you know, the way some artists and
writers have to keep hold of their work until it’s
done
“Yes, but this play is —”
“Done? No, not for David. We have yet to see
the ending.”
“What?” Edith gave a little gasp of surprise.
“He’s going into rehearsals with an unfinished
play? I don’t understand.”
Marchbanks turned his smile from her in the
direction of a heavyset woman with papery light-
180

brown curls, heading for the table. She flushed
so deeply Edith was afraid the poor woman
would have a stroke; her hand, when she held
out a paper for Archie to autograph, trembled.
He signed it, handed it back with a smile. Hur-
riedly, she returned to her seat.
It had not taken long for word to spread, after
their second visit to Mrs. Dawson’s, that Archie
Marchbanks was by way of being a regular. Mrs.
Dawson (wherever the dear lady was) had in-
creased her business, yet the customers took
some care to avoid staring at him, and only three
or four times had one nerved herself to approach
him. Had he been a film star, it would have been
impossible because of that larger-than-life im-
pression film people can’t help but make. Edith
had suggested that they could, after all, meet in
her flat on Wednesdays, every Wednesday. But,
no. Assiduously, Archie had insisted on taking
Edith to tea at least once in a while, and he
thought Mrs. Dawson’s probably the most pri-
vate, or at least the most respecting of privacy, of
any establishment they might find.
So here they were, at the end of June, a month
after they had met. “I don’t understand,” Edith
said again.
“Oh, the end is finished; he’s written it, of
course. He simply doesn’t want us to know about
it until he can no longer hold out.” Marchbanks
crumbled some of his square of shortbread,
frowning slightly. “You know, come to think of it,
it could very well have been a part of his reason
181

for wanting us, especially Nell —”
“Are you talking about Nell Tuitt?” He
nodded. “How lucky for you!”
The thin smile he gave her suggested that the
luck might well be Nell Tuitt’s. “Anyway, as I
was saying, the other two” — he named two ac-
tors who weren’t well known — “they don’t even
come into it until nearly the end; but Nell and I
— David might have chosen us because we don’t
mind —” He paused. “We don’t mind hanging
by a thread. At any rate, David wasn’t going to
take a chance on some critic or reporter stealing
a march on opening night.”
‘The opening of a new play was always public
long before it opened. A David Crael play —
well, that was an event. He hadn’t done one for
nearly seven years, which appeared to be the
pace of his writing. He was not prolific.
“Anyway, Nell doesn’t seem to mind; neither
do I, not if that’s what he wants.”
“You’re both showing a good deal of forbear-
ance, I think.” Edith sipped her tea. “I think she’s
simply — wonderful!” She felt she was gushing,
which was something she seldom resorted to. But
she did think Nell Tuitt was wonderful. The
actress had a reputation for being extremely
modest, with none of the self-serving artistic sen+
sibility that Edith imagined too many actors were
cursed with. And with all of her fame and money,
it was awesome to Edith that Nell Tuitt lived qui-
etly with a husband, a cat, a dog, and two teenage
children near Clapham Common. Interviews had
182

told her that much, and the pictures that accom-
panied them showed a woman with a serene ex-
pression, a comfortable face. “I recall in one
interview she said she had no wish to be glamor-
ized. She said, ‘I’m a better victim.’ I always
thought that interesting. Is she?”
Marchbanks was motioning for the bill and
getting change out of his pocket. “Victim in Da-
vid’s play, you mean?” He was thoughtful. “I ex-
pect so.”
“Don’t you know?”
He smiled. “Remember, we don’t have the
ending yet.”
The waitress with the brown curls came
quickly with the bill. She seemed to regard their
table — and it was so designated (“Oh, yes, sir,
I’ve kept your table for you”) — as her particular
property.
Edith laughed. “You do make it sound as if the
thing’s just being written as you go along.”
He looked at the bill, put down far more than
the total. “You know, I think that’s just what
David wants. At the beginning he said he wanted
us to think our way through the script.”
“Oh, for heaven’s sake,” said Edith, with a dis-
missive little wave of her hand. “The actors might
as well play charades.”
“You think it’s all empty talk?”
“Well, don’t you?” When he didn’t answer, she
went on. “I suppose I shouldn’t be making judg-
ments on such a little bit of evidence. It’s one of
my faults. But as far as the ending is concerned,
183

you know, it’s rather fascinating. Not to know, I
mean. Still, you must have some idea; there
must be clues.”
Marchbanks was ironic. “Like The Mousetrap,
you mean?”
“No, of course that’s not at all what I mean.”
She was impatient. “We’re not talking about the
clues one finds in mysteries.”
“Ts there that much of a difference?” He smiled
as he reached around for his coat. The sunlight
had turned to drizzle and would no doubt turn
back again. “Clues. Ill have to think about it.”
2
Their meetings continued for some weeks, well
into the summer, as long as he was engaged in
these rehearsals in this undisclosed garage in
South Kensington. They talked a great deal about
the theater, Edith trying to guess where these
clandestine rehearsals were held, Archie not
giving her even the whiff of a clue.
They talked — or, rather, Edith talked —
about her family. Edith spoke at great length
about her parents, especially her mother; about
her sister, whom she rarely saw. “We just never
got on, that’s all.” ‘There was the old house in
Putney, which had been too big and — her
mother had said — too haunted. Her mother had
sold it.
“There you go again,” he said. “Selling up
memories.”
Marchbanks said little about his own family.
184

Edith didn’t know if he had any siblings or if his
parents were still living. But he was like that; he
talked a great deal, but a lot of it was abstract ar-
gument or hypothetical question. Somehow,
Marchbanks was elusive. She could not pin him
down.
“T can’t imagine,” Marchbanks said on this
particular Wednesday, as his eyes moved round
the room, “giving this up.” His fingers traced the
raised stitches on one of her mother’s pillows.
Edith said to him, “I know. I expect I can’t ei-
ther.” While she had fretted about giving up the
flat before, now she was less inclined to do so.
“This is fine, this pillow.” He held the embroi-
dered side so that Edith could see it, as if she
might not be familiar with all of the pillows.
Shemsmuled.© Yes; it is. Its whats called
bargello work.”
He raised his eyebrows.
“You have to find your pattern. You find that
medallion shape by sliding mirrors across the
charted background. The mirrors have to be at
right angles to one another.”
Marchbanks looked again at the needlework,
frowning. “What a complicated process. I don’t
see how it works.”
She smiled. “But it’s simple; half the medal-
lion is a mirror image of the other half.”
He shook his head. “Not simple to me. Your
mother must have taken her needlework seri-
ously.”
185

Edith thought that sounded a trifle patron-
izing — as if on such pursuits a serious cast of
mind was wasted — but she said nothing except
to offer him more tea.
“Yes. Thanks,” he said, as he took back his
cup:
He appeared to be restless. He rose from the
sofa and walked over to the French window,
rested his hand on the back of the painted Italian
chair.
“Is something the matter?”
“What? >be. turned INownothine., shieslctit
the window for the wallful of books. He pulled
out one in a worn leather binding and thumbed
through it. “John Webster. The Duchess of Maift.
I’d give anything to play Ferdinand.” Suddenly,
he snapped the book shut:
“My sister, O my sister, there’s the cause on 1t.
Whether it be from fortune love or lust
Like diamonds we are cut with our own dust.”
Edith was amazed. Marchbanks’s swift and vi-
olent transformation into the frantic Ferdinand
left her breathless.
He retrieved the copper-colored book and re-
turned it to its place. “Great stuff.”
“Never tell me again that you don’t become
your characters. I’ve just seen you do it. Are you
going still to claim what you just did was calcu-
lated?”
186

“Of course it was. You don’t have much con-
temporary stuff, do you?”
Edith smiled slightly. “If you mean by that, I
don’t have any David Crael, you’re right.”
Marchbanks turned. “You don’t like his
plays?”
“Oh ...I1 didn’t mean that.” Although she
hadn’t much liked the man’s last play. It lacked
passion to the point of seeming heartless. And
the creeping progress of this new play made her
think she’d like it even less. It sounded artificial
and egotistic. But of course Archie Marchbanks,
being the wizard that he was, would probably
turn it into gold. What Edith said was, “That last
One-ol his-that- saw, it seemed! a’ bit=coldy 1
thought.”
Finished with the books, Marchbanks came
back and slid down on the sofa. “So is this one.
Like a block of ice. Fortunately, it can be melted
and moved. By me.” A mock smile flashed and
disappeared.
“And Nell Tuitt?” Edith asked, smiling also.
4
Edith’s friend Zoe called several days later to dis-
cuss their luncheon date the following week. It
was always the third Wednesday of every other
month, and it could be that Edith had entirely
forgotten because the dating of these luncheons
was so complicated. Had the luncheon occurred
once every month, the date might stick better.
Now it had been some seven or eight weeks since
187

the last one. Edith felt as though she hadn’t seen
Zoe in years.
Edith apologized, said she couldn’t make it on
Wednesday, and couldn’t they change it to
Thursday? Or perhaps Tuesday? Of course not,
Zoe had said, and reminded Edith that Thurs-
days were always her gallery days (Royal
Academy, National Portrait, Tate) and Tuesdays
were shopping days (Harrods, Liberty’s, Upper
Sloane Street).
Edith had known before she suggested it that
the Wednesday date couldn’t be changed, not
because it was important but because Zoe’s days
were so completely booked. Zoe’s week was
tightly, even stubbornly planned, and inflexible.
There was no room for maneuvering. Over-
turning one appointment would, as far as Zoe
was concerned, bring down the whole house of
cards. Which was what she told Edith over the
telephone: “If I start swapping dates there’ll be
no end to it.”
Zoe had her life planned into the foreseeable
future. All else was havoc. Edith had once seen
her filled-in calendar, and it was quite daunting.
She put Edith in mind of a perfectly trained
circus performer, judging the moment the tra-
peze would swing to her fingertips with uncanny
accuracy, executing her turns and spins in defi-
ance of gravity. Zoe was always on time, but al-
ways in a rush because (Edith suspected)
rushing reinforced the illusion that she was ac-
complishing things. Zoe was not, Edith sus-
188

pected, aware of any of this, but was compelled
by it — the full calendar, the spot-on meetings,
the dates set in cement.
“It’s always been Wednesdays,” Zoe said
again. “Before we settled on a definite date, our
lunches were all helter-skelter. It didn’t work at
all. You remember.” What Edith remembered
was a more relaxed luncheon. Zoe went on. “It
simply throws me off, throws off my entire day,
my whole week, you know that!”
“[’m terribly sorry, Zoe.” And Edith was,
hearing that edge of panic in her friend’s voice.
She was sorry enough that she revealed at least
part of what made the Wednesday lunch impos-
sible. “I ran into someone — well, someone
rather unusual — and Wednesday is the only
time he has free.” She realized of course as soon
as she said it that she’d never get off so lightly.
“Honestly, Edith! It’s the only time I have —”
Zoe stopped, as curiosity took over, curiosity
being stronger than Zoe’s need to remonstrate.
“Who? Who’s unusual?”
Edith hesitated. She did not want to tell Zoe,
or anyone else, really. She felt like a child blessed
with an enormous secret that sharing would
somehow squander. And she smiled. Perhaps
she could understand David Crael’s feeling
about his new play. She said, “It’s an old friend.
You don’t know him.”
“No, and I didn’t know you had an ‘old friend.’
I’ve known you fifteen years, Edith. How much
of an older friend is this person?”
189

“I don’t mean old in that sense. It’s merely
someone I knew before under entirely different
circumstances —” Oh, what abstract nonsense
she was talking!
“JT don’t know what you’re talking about.
What’s his name? You said he.”
One thing no one could accuse Zoe of was scat-
tered attention. Zoe heard every word and re-
membered it. Edith sighed, resigned to speaking
the truth. “Marchbanks. Archie Marchbanks.”
“ldontt recall’ you revers mentioning sany
Marchbanks.”
“Zoe, I know I didn’t. I haven’t seen him in
years.:
“Well.”
Nothing else? Just well? To Edith’s astonish-
ment, she realized that Zoe didn’t recognize the
name, at least in this context. It seemed impos-
Sible,. but there 1t was. Yet, Edith<recalled that
Zoe didn’t often go “up West” to the theaters; in-
deed, Edith thought the last show she might have
seen was Cats. Or perhaps Les Miserables. Musi-
cals, that was what Zoe liked.
“But surely you’re not tied up with this person
every Wednesday forever?”
“No, of course not, but it would make things
much easier, wouldn’t it, if we could work out
something Kelsev! hie Low -<aboutedinnermon
Wednesday instead of lunch?”
“Dinner... .” Zoe murmured this in a way that
suggested she was turning it over carefully, as if it
were an eccentric but not unpleasant notion.
190

It was the days that Zoe so carefully con-
structed. Nights had never presented much of a
problem. Edith couldn’t recall anything Zoe did
with her nights, other than Cats. How odd. It was
generally the coming on of darkness that made
most people anxious, wasn’t it? Perhaps nights
were taken up by her family, her husband and two
children — when they were home from university
— none of whom appeared to occupy Zoe’s day-
time thoughts. Rarely did she speak of them, and
only when she was irritated because one or an-
other had interfered with Zoe’s scheduled lun-
cheons, museums, galleries, shopping. The
daughter’s name was —- Gemma? Was that it?
The son’s Edith couldn’t recall. Zoe’s husband
was Harry. A thin, pale man who did something
in the City. They all seemed to be perfectly satis-
factory, but perhaps that was because they hadn’t
made much of an inroad on Zoe’s consciousness.
“Well, all right. Yes, dinner might be quite all
right. I’ll just have Mrs. Sipp do something
about dinner here.”
Who was Mrs. Sipp? wondered Edith, but she
didn’t ask. Mrs. Sipp apparently didn’t stand very
high up in the previously engaged hierarchy if she
was so easily available. Edith named an hour for
meeting, to which Zoe agreed, and rang off.
os
“You know, there are times I think of giving it up.”
It was the Wednesday after the dinner with
Zoe had been accomplished when Marchbanks
191

made this surprising disclosure. They were sit-
ting at their usual table in Mrs. Dawson’s.
Edith glanced up from her teacup, frowning.
Since he couldn’t be talking about the meringue
swan he held, he could only be talking about David
Crael’s play. “But don’t you have a contract?”
Puzzled, he was looking at the complicated
little meringue, as if it had been engineered to
keep him guessing. But the look was for Edith.
“Oh, you mean David’s play? No, no. I mean
acting altogether.” He took a bite of meringue,
returned the damaged swan to the cake plate.
She could not believe he meant that. Argu-
ments rose thick in Edith’s mind, but she was too
staggered to formulate them. She felt as if she’d
literally taken a blow to her chest, got the wind
knocked out of her. For once she saw the aptness
of.that.old, cliché: “But 2.¢:you,-canit;:thatiseall:
You’re one of the best — certainly, at this point,
the best-known actor in London.”
He flushed, as if embarrassed by his own ce-
lebrity. He picked up a cream horn. Bleakly he
smiled. “I expect that’s it, you know. I’m not set
up for that sort of thing.”
“From what I’ve seen, you’re quite brilliantly
set up; you handle fame amazingly well.” Her
tone was ironic as she gestured toward the tea-
room’s women customers.
“lm... Lthink Idilikesan: ordinary lite. “Fle
paused as if inspecting his words for their apt-
ness. “I want” — he looked at her, smiling — “to
be anonymous.”
192

Edith hardly knew what to make of this. “Like
me, you mean?” Her arm moved in a small arc
that circumscribed the tearoom. “Like us?”
“Something like that.” He bit into the cream
horn, looked thoughtful. “What I really want to
be is someone like an accountant: you know, a
dreary job that fed me but that allowed me to go
back to my flat and simply have a meal and watch
nivestellya:
Edith was truly impatient. “Oh, for heaven’s
sake. You only say that because you aren’t an ac-
countant.”
“Then I don’t want to be admired quite so
much. I might enjoy being a shop assistant,
someone like that.”
“You can be so tiresome at times, Archie. I
can’t really believe you. No matter what your
natural talent, you’d have to have worked tre-
mendously hard to get where you are. What
you’re saying sounds so — disingenuous. You’d
rather be a mediocre shop assistant than a gifted
aetor; is that it?”
Marchbanks smiled wryly. “No. I'd rather be a
gifted shop assistant. After all, I have my pride.”
They both started laughing. They spoke of it
no more.
C
As he was scooping thick Devon cream onto his
scone, Archie said, “I’m afraid we’ll have to sus-
pend our meetings. The play’s opening a week
from Tuesday.”
195

Edith just looked at him. Finally, she managed
to say, “You mean the preview performances?”
The air in Mrs. Dawson’s, normally warm and
redolent with spices, suddenly had a chill in it.
“Preview?” Archie laughed.
Edith failed to see the joke, but then she was at
the moment not especially in the mood for one.
She really did not know what to make of this an-
nouncement, doubly difficult for their having
their tea today in the tearoom, where it was not
easy to retreat. At home she could simply have
made an excuse to go into the kitchen. But not
here:
“Can you imagine David ‘trying out’ this play?
What I told him was, we should go directly from
opening night to closing. Which would give pre-
cious few people precious little time to work it all
out. The play could then remain his secret.”
Archie laughed again.
‘This might have amused her had he not pre-
ceded his comments about David Crael and his
play with the fact that they would have to suspend
their meetings. It was difficult not to give in to
the temptation to ask him exactly how many
weeks did he mean? How many Wednesdays? Or
to suggest another day, any day; she was quite
free. Archie’s remark was all the worse for his
seemingly easy acceptance of the Wednesdays he
would miss. Edith felt cold; her hands were
freezing. She put them in her lap, rubbed them
together. It was as if these afternoons meant little
to him, really. She could say nothing of all this
194

but tried to match his airy manner by saying,
“Well, isn’t that a shame? The play opens a week
from ‘Tuesday? Then you could perhaps come to
the flat next week?” Her voice at the end of these
questions almost betrayed the underlying inten-
sity of the need which made her ask them. When
he said, yes, of course next week, her relief made
her light-headed.
“Our Wednesdays would be difficult; you see
that.” He bit into a lemon square, studied it as he
eheweds returned (theirest toothe pastry plate:
“Wednesdays are matinee day for this play.”
Edith gave a little start, a rush of pleasure, for
he might be going to suggest another day. “Then
you mean... another day, perhaps? Well, I think
I could manage —”
With a vagueness that made her uncomfort-
able, he said, “We'll see.”
We’ll see. Was that all he had to offer? That
banal and patronizing bit of comfort? But she
told herself to be reasonable. He could hardly
be in Fulham having tea and giving his matinee
performance as well. So it didn’t mean he didn’t
care about their meeting. Except... his expres-
sion was so awfully sanguine. She looked quickly
away, looked at any other object or person but
him, at anything else in the tearoom, anything
else but at his comfortable and languishing
figure. Turned slightly sideways, legs jutting
out before him, ankles crossed, he gave the im-
pression of being so at home, one might
wonder that he would prefer any other place to
195

Mrs. Dawson’s ‘Tearoom.
Her breath came more easily. Had he not in-
tended to keep up their little tea parties, he
would hardly have said, “We’ll see.” She bent her
head, forced herself to continue eating the straw-
berry tart. That she could take any comfort in
such an unpromising phrase as Well see only
served to tell her how far gone she was.
/
When he arrived at her flat the following
Wednesday, he seemed dispirited. That was
quite all right with Edith; he should, she felt, be a
little sorry. Edith had gone to some trouble, had
made a seed cake and a tart and got some very
good strawberries at the greengrocer’s.
She wasn’t surprised when he reverted to the
subject of their Wednesdays. It was as though he
thought he might not have made it clear to her
the week before. ‘The demands of the play, he
said. Although she wasn’t surprised, she heard
all this with a sinking heart. She had not until
now felt how ephemeral the relationship was,
how easily dispensed with. But “ephemeral”
wasn’t really the word. “Unrooted,” perhaps. Or
rooted only in imagination. She began to think of
their meeting places — her flat, the tearoom —'
purely as stage sets. A divided stage, perhaps,
one set illuminated, the other pitch dark. And
then the reverse, light-dark, dark-light. Back and
forth.
“T’m so sorry we won’t be able to do Wednes-
196

days anymore. What a delicious tart this is!”
We won't. As if half the responsibility were
hers. She murmured a response, but her
thoughts were taken up with what he’d said. Jo
do Wednesdays. He really might have been that
shop assistant he claimed he felt such a kinship
for. Yes, madam, we do scarves; yes, we do gloves.
So this was to be their last tea together for
some time. Realizing this, Edith felt a hollowness
that bordered on terror. It was not so much that
their routine would have to be changed (to the
point even of there being no routine at all), but
that the prospect didn’t appear to bother Archie
Marchbanks. Her tone was deliberately sar-
donic when she asked him, “And do you like the
ending?” She said this to his back, for he had
risen after returning his bitten tart to his plate.
Now Marchbanks was standing in the French
window looking out at what he called the “unsul-
lied” garden. Nothing stirred in it, not even the
oat-colored cat, crouched and unmoving as a
piece of garden statuary. “I don’t know,” he said.
Edith found she was capable of even more
surprise, of renewed interest: “What? Oh, but
surely —!”
He turned, a faint smile on his lips. “No, it’s
the truth. David’s letting us in on it tonight. You
see, it doesn’t require any of us to do anything. I
mean, there are no new lines to be learned. No
new turns to take, expressions to devise, mean-
ings.to:explore —”
To Edith, it sounded as if he were talking to
197

himself. “Even so, there’ll be things for the audi-
ence to discover.”
“Yes, but not for us, not for the actors.” He
started back to his seat on the sofa.
“There must be clues scattered along the
way.”
“Yes, I suppose there are.” Sitting, he scraped
his hair back in a boyish gesture. “If one is paying
attention.”
Edith lifted her cup from its saucer but set it
down again quickly, as she couldn’t stop the
tremor in her hand. “I should imagine anyone
who’s having to pay thirty quid for a seat is cer-
tainly going to be paying attention.” She tried to
stop the landslide of her feelings by making rea-
sonable, even chilly replies.
But it was as if she hadn’t spoken. He carried
on with his thought. “Because otherwise, if one
didn’t anticipate the ending, one might find their
situation — intolerable.”
“By ‘their’ I assume you mean the characters’
situation?”
He nodded, rose again, nervously. “If the end-
ing’s what I think, then it’s rather — vicious.”
Edith looked up at him. “Then why are you
smiling about it? Is it so clever?”
“Yes.” Marchbanks laughed. “Perhaps that’s
the point at which the audience comes into it.”
“I have no idea what you mean.” Her tone
was measured and cold. It was one of those
rare moments when she felt herself to be abso-
lutely right. Let him explain himself, dear
198

God! She wanted to weep.
He didn’t. “It’s the surprise; I think he wants
us to be surprised.”
Feeling in the midst of her sorrow something
like contempt, she rose and said, “This is ridicu-
lous. Are you sure there is such a play?”
It was his turn to be surprised. “Good Lord,
Edith, do you think I’ve been fabricating all of
this?”
She looked into the dregs of her teacup. “What
you say the director is doing doesn’t make any
sense. The actors’ surprise will be over after to-
night, but the play will run for at least a year.
How will he wring three hundred and sixty-four
more nights of surprise from you?”
pesmi Pre esate back: @sltiusounds absurd el
aerees
This infuriated her. He could hand over the
absurdity of it to the playwright. She knew her
tone was hopelessly sarcastic. “Aren’t you going
to offer to send me a ticket?”
He looked at her, and his look was somewhat
sad. “I don’t think you’d like it, frankly.”
Which was such an unexpected answer even
she had to laugh.
Marchbanks left a few minutes later. At the
door to her flat he said, “We'll have to resume
these tea parties in the future.”
“When The Mousetrap closes, you mean?” Her
face, a mask, refused to soften.
He laughed. “I hope we shan’t have to wait
199

that long. .. . I’ve really enjoyed our Wednes-
days, Edith,” he said, somewhat more solemnly.
“I’m sorry.”
But neither his voice nor his face was apolo-
getic. She was sunk; she was unable to match his
breezy manner and was a little surprised when
Marchbanks bent his head and kissed her on the
cheek. She took no comfort from this; it seemed
merely the last detail in the pattern. She stood in
her doorway, a stiff smile on her face, watching
him go out the front door. When he started to
turn, probably to wave, she quickly retreated,
not wanting to be thought of as wringing the last
morsel from their meeting.
She went back to the living room to collect the
tea things. The cups and saucers clattered
against the pot. It was perhaps a bit too showy,
the silver tea service. Edith returned the tray to
the piecrust table and sat down in the painted
chair, still in its position by the French window.
She picked up the scroll frame leaning against
the wall and rested it in her lap as she looked out
over the garden. It was always a little shocking to
find that after a huge upheaval in the mind or
heart everything outside oneself remained exactly
the same. The hydrangeas were as deeply colored
as ever, the cat still lay in wait in the shrubbery, a
robin twitched on the edge of the birdbath, and
from a distance she could hear the bells of the
Brompton Oratory.
I don’t think youd lke it. The words took on a
more sinister tone when she was left, on her own,
200

to turn them over. What Marchbanks had said
was really immensely patronizing — no, worse; it
was cruel. Surely he could not believe for a mo-
ment that she would not want to see this play.
The point wasn’t whether she liked the play; it
would make no difference if she loathed it. It was
Marchbanks whom she would be going to see.
And far from discouraging her, it would have
bechnmnoresnatural: surely, to tell:her he'd send
her a ticket or leave one at the box office.
Edith sighed and looked down at her mother’s
tapestry. Perhaps she had been right, her mother,
in attempting these complex arrangements, for
such work was demanding and one had to stay
focused. When it gets down to the truly complicated
part (her mother had said), don’t think you can
talk and stitch at the same time.
201

TOU
There were days to be filled as there had been
before Archie Marchbanks. Edith had been with
him for only a few hours a week, yet it seemed so
much more, for there had been the preparation
and anticipation leading up to those Wednesdays
and the pleasant musings leading away from
them. In this way, her week was largely occupied
with Marchbanks.
Now Edith wondered what in God’s name had
occupied her time before Archie Marchbanks.
She did not remember her days as having been
barren and empty; there surely had been a pat-
tern to them. For Edith knew how much she was
a creature of habit, enjoying the same things —
Mrs. Dawson’s, the cushion shop, the excellent
cheese shop, and her cup of tea and a book be-
fore going to sleep. These were all the raised
parts of a pattern she had established, those
parts to which the eye was drawn; the muted
backdrop was of those places and people she did
not regularly see, and because of this were al-
lowed to seep back into the ambiguous back-
ground. They were not parts of her ritual, as
202

were the lunches with Zoe (now restored to their
original Wednesdays). There were visits with
Miss Vole; day trips on the train to places like
Brighton or Stratford; the Tate Gallery and the
Victoria and Albert.
Perhaps she was not much different from Zoe
with respect to how she spent her time. No, that
was not the case. Edith didn’t have a schedule;
she could easily switch from one thing to another
on one day or another. Had Edith been seeing a
psychiatrist (as was Zoe), she would of course
have to keep to a fixed time. And he would be-
come part of the pattern that stood out in bold
relief. She actually contemplated starting
therapy, one of the milder forms — not the ex-
haustive treatment Zoe was engaged in, cer-
tainly. But she honestly could not think what she
had to tell him. Or her. A woman might be more
helpful, given the loss of her mother (though in-
stinct told her the sex of the doctor was probably
irrelevant); in Zoe’s case it was clear to Edith
that her friend was responding to her male
doctor as if he were her mother, which, unfortu-
nately, was not clear to Zoe. Edith thought it
might have helped Zoe had she been aware of
this. For Zoe, the causes of her unhappiness had
begun in the nursery; Zoe was always making
fresh discoveries about herself and drawing un-
likely (Edith thought) conclusions. This did not
make Edith suspicious of psychiatry, only of
ZOe:
But Edith herself? What complex relationships
203

had she that would require a doctor to unravel
them? She could think of none. If Edith was mis-
erable, she was perfectly aware of the source of
it. And she sincerely doubted a secret life of the
mind was going on beneath her awareness — of
her mother’s death, of Marchbanks’s behavior
— that denoted yet another pattern, one of long-
standing misery.
The days, the days. It was nearly a week after
her last tea with Archie Marchbanks that found
Edith sitting in the painted chair that now
seemed permanently placed to look out over the
garden. She had picked up her mother’s embroi-
dery of the garden scene and was running her
finger over the gold and green stitching. Needle-
work was at least one thing to be taken up again.
She set aside the scroll frame and went in search
of her own piece, barely touched in these last
weeks. Her mother’s work was far better than her
own. Edith hadn’t the deep attachment to color
and line that made her mother a virtual Impres-
sionist, a kind of pointillist in thread. Her
mother, like Miss Vole, had been devout in her
practice of embroidering. Edith again recalled
the two of them standing in the cushion shop
talking about drawn threadwork: how when she
had gone back after over an hour, they were still
talking about it, standing where Edith had left
them. It was as if there were literally nothing else
in the world except drawn threadwork, nothing
worth their regard. Good heavens, Miss Vole had
even wanted an environment in which no one
204

was permitted to talk and was willing to join a
convent to get it.
Edith hadn’t this cast of mind, clearly. This
was the deeper difference between them. She
was much too analytical. Even if she hadn’t Zoe’s
problems waiting to ambush her around every
corner, she still considered herself to be fairly
deep. It was this analytical turn of mind that
made her sensitive to what was sham or shallow
— which was why she disliked David Crael’s
WOttemret shemcertainly sedver hime credit ‘for
raising sham to extraordinarily high levels, so
that it almost turned the corner into honesty. He
had very little to say, but was masterly in saying
it. But was that possible, really? He was an
enigma. Were these thoughts about David Crael
simply holding at bay similar thoughts about
Archie Marchbanks?
Edith had been sitting by the open French
window for a long time, long enough for day to turn
to dusk. She looked down at her piece of embroi-
dery of a starry night and wondered what had
moved her to attempt such a difficult piece of
needlework. The pillared house, lights at the win-
dows, and that sky, all done in petit point and
Gobelin stitches. Ordinarily she did surface em-
broidery. She liked to experiment with wavy lines
and metal threads, like Japanned gold, that got its
effect on the cheap. That made her smile slightly;
it was rather what she had thought about David
Crael’s plays. Or perhaps it was what she was at-
tempting not to think about Archie Marchbanks.
205

There had been no mention of the play’s week
of preview performances because there had been
none. If David Crael had been as successful as
she supposed in keeping his play a secret, its
listing in the theater section would not have ap-
peared before today, Tuesday. It was difficult to
believe that the play could appear with no ad-
vance publicity, but it had. She had seen no men-
tion of it in either of the daily papers she read.
The play would appear like a genie out of a bottle
to astonish reviewers and the theatergoing
public alike. She could be cynical and say this
was just David Crael’s trick to generate even
more publicity. But somehow she didn’t think
so; she believed what Marchbanks had told her
about Crael’s wanting to keep the play secret.
Edith saw in his work a love of secrecy. It could
even be that opaque quality that, in the end,
made his work inaccessible for most people.
She put aside the hoop filled with the starry
night and went to the kitchen to retrieve the
paper, which she had used to cover the counter
to collect flower trimmings. She swept these
aside and found the entertainment section,
which she took back to her seat by the window.
There was still enough light to read by, with her
glasses. Yes, here it was: “A new play by David
Crael.” It was called Elsewhere, the sort of title
that invites ambiguities of time and place, just
the sort she would expect David Crael to come
up with. In larger print there was ARCHIE
MARCHBANKS and NELL TUITT. It had opened
206

today, as he had said it would. Matinee,
Wednesdays; two performances on Saturdays.
Edith tore this announcement from the theater
listing so that she would have the telephone
number. She should call right now, but she knew
the box office telephone would be busy for a long
time. Better to call in the morning, as soon as the
box office opened.
Or perhaps she was being precipitate; perhaps
he had every intention of seeing she got a ticket,
probably several extras for friends. Perhaps he
was even planning on a theater party and would
invite her. Perhaps, perhaps... .
She lowered her head, resting it on her palm,
and looked out over the garden where, in a
sudden shaft of light, the old crumbling statue
blazed whitely and two robins perched on the ce-
ment bath. She wondered if the cat was still in its
hiding place; she had not seen it move.
Edith sighed. J don’t think youd Itke it, Edith.
No, there would be no tickets waiting at the box
office. How she wished she’d kept quiet about
The Mousetrap and her childish way of using it as
a hedge against change. She should have kept
that back, even if she kept back little else. And re-
ally, she thought, within the confines of good
taste she had kept back little else. Why couldn’t
she have handled the relationship with the facile
touch that he himself had brought to it? For
Marchbanks (she realized now) was a canny con-
versationalist, one of those who made listening
such a fine art that one had the impression he
207

was himself doing most of the talking. Archie
Marchbanks had been in quest of — what?
Nothing, she supposed, but an opportunity to
while away a few tedious afternoons that would
put him to no trouble.
She felt exposed, onstage herself, with all
those eyes taking her in. Her face was hot. But
white-hot. Glowing, perhaps, like the statue with
its blind eyes.
208

TIVE
|
When Zoe found out about the play, and that
Edith had a ticket for the Thursday night, she
asked why Edith hadn’t got two tickets, that
Edith surely must know how much she was dying
to see it. Edith told her she didn’t know; Zoe
seldom went to the theater. And anyway, there
weren’t two tickets together to be had, not even
for the matinee. Now, if Zoe would be willing to
sit in another part of the theater by herself... ?
Naturally, Zoe said of course she didn’t want
to sit by herself. Zoe wouldn’t. Zoe was one of
those women who simply couldn’t go out into
society by herself, couldn’t eat in restaurants
alone, go to plays or films. Galleries, yes, but
there everyone was more or less by himself, wan-
dering about looking at his own private paintings
and sculptures.
Edith knew she’d refuse. It would no doubt
have been possible to get two tickets on this
Thursday since she’d called a week ago. But cer-
tainly not two tickets as good as her single one.
Her seat was on the aisle and in the fourteenth
209

row, a plum. And she hadn’t wanted anyone
with her when she saw it for the first time. She
was sure that she would see it more than once,
and as the weeks went by, tickets would be a
little easier to come by. Perhaps she would treat
Zoe. Zoe was the sort of person to whom one was
always making amends, even though one was
blameless.
Thursday night came and Edith found herself
in the lobby, crushed between a woman in a fig-
ure-hugging black jersey and another who had
splashed on too much of a heavy, earthy scent.
They were the companions of men in rather vio-
lently colored waistcoats, all of them talking
about David Crael and his oeuvre. The woman
in black actually said this. Edith had never before
heard the word spoken but was sure the woman
was mispronouncing it. The four were great ad-
mirers, but Edith doubted David Crael would
have wanted to be around them, around anyone
who spoke of his oeuvre, or perhaps anyone who
spoke of him at all. Edith smiled, recalling
Archie Marchbanks’s comments about secrecy.
‘This made her fonder of David Crael (and his
oeuvre — not a very large one, since this was
only his fourth production) than she otherwise
would have been. She believed that even if his ©
play was impenetrable, he himself was deadly se-
rious about it. One could depend upon him not
to hoodwink his audience intentionally.
The buzzer sounded for the first act, and Edith
was more or less carried along by the people on
210

all sides of her. She wondered briefly if anyone
had ever been trampled to death by a theater
crowd; not only was it heavy in the lobby, but
there were all those people on the pavement
pushing from the rear. When she finally got to
her seat, she was thankful it was on an aisle, for
she could stretch her legs for a moment.
The lights dimmed, people coughed, pro-
grams rustled, and breaths (it seemed) were sus-
pended. The audience seemed aware that this
was the theatrical event of the year without being
told so by the reviewers. Reviews always colored
her reaction to a play, so she was just as glad she
hadn’t seen any.
The curtain rose slowly to show a corner of a
public park with synthetically green grass and
glossily leaved trees, evenly lit in bright sunlight.
None of this green and gold was so overt it was
distracting, but it seemed heavily symbolic in its
suggestion of fakery. Edith observed how the
yew hedge at the back of the stage was pruned to
topiary perfection in the fleur-de-lis pattern
across its top, a perfect design carved out of tiny
leaves. The primulas and petunias were so very
neat, they looked painted there. And that sky!
Such a blue as Edith had never seen — so deeply,
falsely blue. All in all, the set struck her as
stylized and unreal. Edith liked elaborate sets;
streetlamps throwing disks of light into swirling
fogs of Victorian drama, or the gilt and velvet of
some overinvolved Restoration comedy. Even an
inferior work could be almost (not quite, though)
ole

redeemed by the mazy details of a complex set.
There was plenty of time to consider the set, to
make up one’s mind as to whether or not one
liked it; Edith disliked it intensely. It made her
uncomfortable for herself and uncomfortable
for the actors. It offered no support to them. No
soft cushions to fall back on. They must flail as
best they could; and this was, perhaps, the play’s
point. She had wondered after seeing Crael’s last
play if he hated his own characters and thought
that, yes, he very well might. Edith squinted at
the program, looking for scene changes. There
wasn’t one until the third act, and there only in
the third scene. So she would have to look at this
pinched and glaring little park for nearly the
whole of the evening.
Along the gently curving path that ran by a dry
concrete fountain were three iron benches. Nell
‘Tuitt (Julia, in the play) sat on one, reading a book.
Archie Marchbanks (Neil Archer) sat across from
her on the other side of the path, reading a news-
paper and eating a sandwich. All that one could
hear for a full two minutes was the rasping sound
of the newspaper and the pages of the book being
turned. It was startling how long a minute could
last, thought Edith. It seemed forever, which was
one of the Crael effects — to make time stand '
still or speed up. The silence here created a great
deal of tension.
‘The action began when Julia looked across the
top of her book at the man on the other bench
and frowned. The frown gave way to surprise
Die

(pleasant, apparently) when she looked at the
back of her book’s jacket and then across again at
the man. It was evident that he must be the face
on the back of the book. For several moments
after putting the book in her lap she seemed about
to speak. Finally she did — delight, timidity, awe
all registering in her tone. Yes, she had correctly
identified him; yes, he was Neil Archer. When it
was certain she had before her the famous nov-
elist and she tried to talk, her tongue sounded
swollen in her mouth, stumbling over words that
she felt needed saying, expressions of admiration
and gratitude for his marvelous books. It was
clear from her fluttering movements and her
halting speech that Julia was aware of sounding
banal, and that she wasn’t at all banal, she was
intelligent and insightful. It was marvelous the
way Nell Tuitt conveyed this because her actual
lines, her words, sounded flat and platitudinous.
Archer for his part was easygoing and affable.
But, of course, he was the object of all of this ad-
miration. Marchbanks’s beautiful voice sounded
deeply sincere. Neil Archer was rich, he was pop-
ular, he was well regarded by the critics, and he
was a simple man. After all, wasn’t he eating his
luneh Wweteiona parkebench?
“Care for one?” he asked Julia, holding up the
brown bag. “It’s cheese salad — like the old joke
about the fellow who hated cheese salad —”
“What old joke?”
“Oh, you know. Man complained over and
over about always finding cheese salad in his
213

lunch box” — Archer was unwrapping a sand-
wich — “and when his mate asks him why didn’t
he make his own, he says, I do.” He raised his
face to stare at the blue sky. “Somehow that joke
lost something in my translation.”
Julia laughed. “Yes, I have heard that joke.”
Archer said, “I wonder if it might not repre-
sent the ultimate in controlling a situation.”
“Or having several pounds of cheese salad at
home:
Edith smiled. She liked Julia, a person with a
practical turn of mind. And she liked Nell Tuitt’s
ability to project so much empathy.
The conversation continued in this way, a
great deal of it the ordinary (or seemingly so)
discourse one might expect from an acquain-
tanceship struck up by two strangers. It ap-
peared they had much in common, but of course
(Edith knew) they hadn’t anything in common.
David Crael wouldn’t allow them to have. She
felt a swift sadness move over her, lightly,
quickly, as if a breeze had ruffled her hair.
No, they had nothing in common. Edith was
troubled by this.
There were two intermissions, unusual these
days. At the end of the first act, the applause ©
was (as to be expected) resounding. It was al-
most a relief to get away from the formidable
tension conveyed by these two actors, get away
and go out and have a cigarette on the pavement
or a drink at the bar.
214

Edith had had the foresight to order her gin
and tonic before the first act and now found it on
a corner table with a slip of paper bearing her
name. Her mouth was dry; she was thirsty from
the excitement of seeing Archie onstage. She
smiled, though, looking around the crowded
room, thick with talk and brandy and nearly blue
with smoke, and wondered what everyone would
say if they knew the lone woman standing in this
corner had met Archie Marchbanks in much the
same way that Julia had met Neil Archer, and
would — just as Edith and Archie had — prob-
ably go on meeting him.
And even with that realization Edith hadn’t
seen it coming.
It was not until halfway through the second act
that it all became chillingly familiar. Up to that
point she had only registered the connection be-
tween Archie onstage and Archie in her flat. It
wasn't suntil: NeilmArcherssaid: to Juhiay “bm
thinking of packing it in; I’m thinking of quit-
ting,” that Edith stiffened in her chair, her hands
grasping the arms of her seat.
“Oh, no. Oh, you mustn’t,” Julia wailed.
“Td simply like to be anonymous for a change.
Sometimes I think I’d like to be a shop assistant.
To go home at the end of the day and watch the
telly.”
Julia sympathized; Julia understood. Archer’s
thirst for anonymity was much like others’ thirst
for celebrity. There was always the hunger to be
someone else, wasn’t there?
ONS

Edith wanted to bolt. But something pinned
her down. She had the fanciful notion that ev-
eryone in the audience would guess if she sud-
denly left. That all of these eyes fastened on Neil
Archer would turn to fasten upon her. What kept
her in her seat was resolution; she would not be
turned out of it. Resolution and no small mea-
sure of healthy curiosity. She kept watching the
two actors with a kind of fascinated horror. How
far would he go? How far, with her, had he gone?
“T like to climb aboard a double-decker,” Neil
Archer went on, “and just go where it takes me.
A purposeless ride. I like being a face in a crowd.
But if such a character as that were to be putina
play or a book — well, it would defeat the pur-
pose, wouldn’t it? Or, I should say, the pur-
poselessness. In the end, art lies, doesn’t it?”
Around Edith, Marchbanks had stopped just
short of expressing such pretentious sentiments.
For had it been Edith sitting on that bench
across from him, she would have said, “What
nonsense” or “Don’t be tiresome.” But that did
not make the similarity between the two situa-
tions any less striking. He had not expressed
such sentiments because he had not been
encouraged ‘to do soy The analyticalmsidesot
Edith’s mind was still working in spite of the ex-'
tremity of her feelings. And that side wondered
how David Crael could put such sham ideas into
Neil Archer’s mouth. But perhaps that was the
whole point. It was so easy for Julia to be taken
in. Julia begged Archer to reconsider, begged
216

him not to give up. There was a great deal more
said about art, Archer suggesting that they might
be, the two of them, “characters in some hack
writer’s novel.”
After a silence, Julia said, “Oh, but we’re not.”
‘That was the end of the second act. Grateful
that she had the aisle seat, Edith was not greatly
disturbed by people crawling over her to get to
the bar. Only the couple sitting beside her
wedged past; the others in the row went in the
opposite direction.
She still sat. Her face burned; her entire body
burned. The beginning of the third act she sus-
pected she could predict, but not the end of it.
She simply had to see how it came out, had to see
what David Crael would make of it.
Their next meeting in the park had Archer
looking chagrined as he said, “I won’t be seeing
you for a while; I have one of those promotional
tours to do, the ten-cities-in-a-week sort of
thing. You know how that is.”
It took Julia some time to answer. “No, I don’t
expect I do.” Her disappointment was palpable.
The program read TEN DAYS LATER. This was
the second scene of the third act: Julia, seated on
the same bench, her purse clasped tightly in her
lap. There is nothing she can say; there is no one
to say it to. The tour was to last a week; the week
was over. Edith glanced at the profiles across the
aisle from her, the faces bathed mysteriously in
the theater’s lambent light. She wondered what
they thought and if they understood that Neil
27

Archer was not going to return. And would they
understand why? Edith didn’t. Not at all.
The final scene was the one in which the set
changed. The curtain came down but the lights
did not come up. There was a deep, dense silence
in the theater. The curtain rose upon Julia,
standing in a bookshop before a display of new
fiction. This was a huge pyramid of one title, Ar-
cher’s latest. And here were the other two
players, a shop assistant and a customer. Julia
took a book from the pyramid, opened it eagerly.
Edith knew, with a shock, what this scene
would do and how the play would end.
Julia had opened the book and read a bit,
picked another section, read a bit more. And
more. It was quite amazing that even from the
distance of the fourteenth row — and probably
all the way to the rear of the theater — one could
see the transformation of Nell Tuitt’s face. Edith
thought she could see even the shifts of expres-
sion on Nell Tuitt’s face with the growing real-
ization she had been used. And the awful thing
about it was not that he’d written his and Julia’s
meeting into a book, but that he’d written the
book before they met. Archer had written their
script.
The set then expanded into a dazzling ar-'
rangement of mirrors, in which the figure of Julia
was reflected into infinity. It was quite a display
of pyrotechnics, but Edith wondered if this sym-
bolism was even necessary; she wondered if the
point hadn’t been made already by Julia (with
2 AGS

the help of Nell Tuitt) herself. In the back-
ground were signs of weather that never came —
reverberations of thunder, reflections of light-
ning, echoes of rain.
Edith left as the curtain was coming down,
again glad she was sitting on the aisle. She did
not want to stay to hear the applause. As she was
getting her coat and leaving a pound for the coat-
check girl, the applause continued. She still
heard it echoing as she walked out of the theater
into a rain that fell like glass rods. She could even
hear the applause beneath the rain hammering
the pavement, or imagined she could.
Edith sat in the painted chair at midnight,
drinking warm milk heavily laced with brandy
and looking out over the dark garden.
What had Marchbanks been doing?
He could not write lines already written by
David Crael, so if the play had already been
written, what good was she as an experiment?
What in God’s name had Marchbanks hoped to
experience? Had he thought up this charade
from the moment she’d approached his table in
Mrs. Dawson’s Tearoom? Had he perhaps
wanted to see how convincing he would be in the
role? Had he wanted to see if it “worked?” Surely
not. Archie Marchbanks knew he would be con-
vincing; he didn’t have to practice on an un-
known woman.
Unlike Julia, Edith hadn’t responded to him in
2D

a way he would have found useful. He couldn’t
get at what he needed, and she assumed that he
needed what Archer needed of Julia. But what
was that, exactly? Edith did not know what he
wanted; and neither would Julia have, but Julia
at least had spoken her lines marvelously well;
her response to Neil Archer was assuringly pre-
dictable.
Edith’s own lines weren’t comfortably predict-
able. Whatever Marchbanks himself had been
looking for, it was certainly not common sense;
he wasn’t looking for Edith’s “I don’t believe
VOU
‘To judge by this play, common sense was the
last thing anyone was looking for. And she was
fairly certain it would sink beneath the weight of
its ambiguities and, perhaps, its pretentious so-
lipsism. It would last only as long as Archie
Marchbanks was there to keep it afloat. (And
Nell Tuitt, let’s not forget her, dear God.) Archie
would want to go on to something new. Actors
usually did.
2
A year later proved Edith right. She could not
help but follow theater news in the Arts section
of her paper. Archie Marchbanks was in re-'
hearsal for another play, not a play of the caliber
of David Crael’s but a play he would drag by the
scruff of its neck toward success.
She had given up The Mousetrap. That game
she had played with herself had no appeal for her
220

anymore. It had been a secret between Edith and
Mrs. Parenger, and the secret having been told
had tainted it. But she continued her Wednesday
visits to Mrs. Dawson’s, sometimes going on
Sunday too. It made her uneasy to realize the
number of times she mistook someone else for
Marchbanks, for his looks were certainly not in
common circulation: someone just darting onto
a District Line train in South Ken, or reading the
paper in a restaurant window as she passed, or
turning a corner on St. Martin’s Lane. For Edith
couldn’t help but go into the West End when she
wanted to see some production or other and,
going, would sometimes pass the theater where
Archie’s new play was in rehearsal. The high
black letters of his name up on the marquee were
larger than the name of the play.
Looking at the big posters, at the photographs
of Archie Marchbanks, she couldn’t help but
wonder how it all might have turned out if she’d
read her lines right, if she’d been a better actress.
She hadn’t been good enough; she hadn’t been
Julia. She never saw him again.
ie)

- - a
y - — 7 ”
- = ; Pia k
‘ ai va TO | if 13 ad
oe ji erbeene, e h 7 pa aoss | 7 Ee Se=a y pora t|
i
yh ciiennd odbatir parr a
a. c
-
ne ech 4n e i ’ wit otix: aw
i 5
am rie ur pat anon
ral a a ar ‘ : a) : : ® ry iat 3
a ————— a n
; — ad : Ae : = a: v p e he :: bri: an 2 :- oh
=a 123 Snes fies ci igo Porn
=
2
ry
- i" a | =< { Caerrae Oee a apis h i) 2
i=
~ ag ‘| ‘+ ere ij ae a ; cae seal dau! Ia
@ ereet 4 ." o 7 Fiase ks— — rf oe meMe i @
a = 7 fi _
F ot a oy | ' asiy ti rs ae aL i bartey! cauy va
Hr ie A e774) per e@ i fut s se ev r basn fey
, : <P oe 7 2 77 nl :
%°) = fo wid pierre :
: = ‘one seve Tu
‘ ) res “ OTe 4). ' ay
. 8 Tis
Tv i aly ie 4 <r ne bt ; -
7 ’ ry 4 rele a s 7 “*( eiiseres,
) ( o' es rf Adidas: bind r pastas g
. résooef ni this a = iso n ee UP 7
=—1 i e040 ert) bol ee éoF tert) iG is 7 ' !
= : a &, _a i : nr :
een Ar 4s weal mile py: free sash i a -
4 eka itt let oeip’: fou 6!r s hooy7” A0 dab alf ries
io ~e il eke Ft di ¢ ‘a2 bis a: | Sal Co it!
= i4w : i ' \aya s , ai ads aa
ims 7 = ; ry
Ut oh oii: A . arte Ceres
i? call

The employees of G.K. Hall hope you have en-
joyed this Large Print book. All our Large Print
titles are designed for easy reading, and all our
books are made to last. Other G.K. Hall books
are available at your library, through selected
bookstores, or directly from us.
For information about titles, please call:
(800) 223-1244
(800) 223-6121
To share your comments, please write:
Publisher
G.K. Hall & Co.
P.O. Box 159
Thorndike, ME 04986

Stay wud civ aeye flat Aan aenicniene
tintegietssa aig ari var ets
“vo e-bay acibee Vise wl tangioh ah
eSteS alt Ais 150i) denne SRR « v 7
baivales yniaits vt i sane vi atdalinves
. ass euah ylYorila east
‘ies Seridvasley Tpyds aici ji
| helmet 2.06
4cieESs (O08
swe fC =
fiir aeselg ctanyars sun) 270 e
a 7 — _—
ee : carling
oo 2 ee
7
r%
-

=
=
—
Snes Sent (2 Wiad |i at Ath easniquy
sash Sytol Se [A shogr aid sura Lewitt
9 iis fia anibtie Jtie tm) Laoniish Bes
staid taht Jha? TH sont (7 sbattt we
OUsasls: Gun: in NITRITE: worry. th odsllive 3
v we oe ultosuls on Ronny
(lad wiisles@Slet tus OcernACG
be I-Can (a US
Toba ELGG
‘operw:salole yairrouigy> uy Oto
- o i -_

Martha (irimes is the bestselling
author ot the acclaimed fiction The
End of the Pier, Hotel Paradise,
and Biting the Moon, and of sixteen
Richard Jury mysteries. She lives
in Washington, D.C., and Santa Fe,
New Mexico.

A LARGE PRINT MYSTERY
THE TRAIN NOW DEPARTING
Two Novellas
Martha Grimes
Subtle and perceptive, atmospheric and lyrical, these
two beautifully accomplished novellas are deceptively
profound in their exploration of emotional isolation
and identity within human relationships. Each of the
two thematically linked stories centers on a single
woman living a quiet, well-ordered, seemingly con-
tented life. In each, those lives are gradually altered by
meals shared with male acquaintances. Though distinct
in characterization and mood, both tales are passion-
ately told in Grimes’s inimitable voice. They combine
the singular characters and richly textured narrative
that readers have come to expect from this internation-
ally bestselling storyteller.
“These carefully written little gems showcase Grimes
at her best.”
— Library Journal
il U.S. Hardcover ISBN 0-7838-9071-0
9"780783"8 8907
G.K. Hall & Co.