Preview
Oh, gosh. Just thinking about the size of that thing, and it penetrating me was making me have all sorts of wild thoughts that involved him. Was he willing to do it right now? I didn’t know for how much longer I could keep waiting.
“You’re a pretty princess, and you deserve only the best,” his other bearded friend said with his deep voice, putting both of his hands on my shoulders and then making me lie down on the bed.
Lying down on this bed was nice. I needed this, and seeing them all standing in front of me, already lowering their pants and showing me their underwear, was making my nipples feel even harder than before.
I couldn’t wait until they were finally penetrating me.
“I can already imagine how much milk she’s going to be making for us.”
“It sure looks like we are going to need some kind of milking machine and maybe some gallons,” Fulvio mentioned. “Palmiro, didn’t you say that you have some gallons stored somewhere?”
His friend nodded, and I didn’t know for how much longer I was still going to remain awake. They were making plans for what they were going to do with me, and just thinking about them was making my pussy itch.
“Then, bring them over. I think we’re going to need them.”
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter 2
T
hey took me to their home. It was more like a mansion, with plenty of guards roaming around and patrolling it. They took me then to this room on the fourth floor, keeping me in the middle of it while they surrounded me.
To say that I felt exposed would be quite an understatement, and yet I also felt that this was everything I was asking for.
“I’m Fulvio, if you want to know,” he said, looking at my librarian work attire and registering my name with his eyes. “Fernanda… Nice name. Very fitting for someone that looks so beautiful.”
He put both of his hands on my love handles, pulling me to him and making me feel the hugeness of his body and his muscles working under his suit.
He put a hand on my belly, making me feel how big it was.
“You’re so, so willing, and making all of this so easy for us. And yet, if you weren’t feeling like this about it, I’d have to do something to your loved ones that you wouldn’t like. You don’t want that to happen, right?”
That was his question, and I couldn’t help but nod.
I was willing. My nipples were perky, hard, and pointing at him, and yet I still knew that if I didn’t follow his explicit orders, he wouldn’t hesitate to find where all my loved ones lived.
I wore a light brownish button-up jacket, his hand going now for the first button and undoing it. His eyes were staring at me as one of his friends held a syringe, and it had a clear and thick liquid inside it.
I didn’t know what it would do, but just looking at it was making me nod in agreement.
“We are going to inject a concoction in you that will make these nice, round jugs of yours produce milk for us. You don’t mind doing that for us as well, right?” Fulvio asked, his hands still undoing the buttons of my jacket and making me melt even more before him.
“No, not all. Please inject it in me.”
“You’re the perfect candidate,” Fulvio said, undoing one more button and then grazing his lips over mine. “You’ve got a pair of nice, round boobs, and just looking at them is making it difficult for me not to rip off your jacket. But as with everything that I do, I have to be patient.”
My legs were trembling. They were making me feel my pussy getting wetter, and I had this sudden desire to rub my clit. My bundle of nerves was asking for it, demanding it, and I knew that he was thinking about doing the same thing, too.
“No need to haste,” he said, undoing the last button of my shirt as his friend, whose name I was begging to find out, pressed the needle of the syringe and then put a white ball of cotton on it.
“It shouldn’t take too long for the transformation to finish, and once it’s over, you’re going to be crawling around and your boobs will look even bigger than they are now.”
“Uhhh, what?” My head was feeling a little dizzy, but I didn’t worry about it. I knew that I could trust these men, and that they were thinking about pleasing me in ways I’d never thought possible.
“Don’t worry,” he said, planting a kiss on the side of my face and running his callous hands over my arms, keeping me close to him as he pressed his bulge to my ass.
Oh, gosh. Just thinking about the size of that thing, and it penetrating me was making me have all sorts of wild thoughts that involved him. Was he willing to do it right now? I didn’t know for how much longer I could keep waiting.
“You’re a pretty princess, and you deserve only the best,” his other bearded friend said with his deep voice, putting both of his hands on my shoulders and then making me lie down on the bed.
Lying down on this bed was nice. I needed this, and seeing them all standing in front of me, already lowering their pants and showing me their underwear, was making my nipples feel even harder than before.
I couldn’t wait until they were finally penetrating me.
“I can already imagine how much milk she’s going to be making for us.”
“It sure looks like we are going to need some kind of milking machine and maybe some gallons,” Fulvio mentioned. “Palmiro, didn’t you say that you have some gallons stored somewhere?”
His friend nodded, and I didn’t know for how much longer I was still going to remain awake. They were making plans for what they were going to do with me, and just thinking about them was making my pussy itch.
“Then, bring them over. I think we’re going to need them.”
Costante turned his head to them, affirming, “I don’t think that we have a milking machine in here, though. Maybe on the farm, but it’s nothing that would work with a woman like her.”
Fulvio squatted by the bed, putting his arms on his legs and inching his head so closer to mine that I could smell the minty flavor of his breath.
“Well, that’s okay,” he answered, showing me some of his teeth. “I don’t think we are going to need it. We can milk her
ourselves for now, and then once she’s feeling a little better in her new body, we can do something a little more special with her.”
Something special? I couldn’t wait until they were doing it.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter 3
W
hen I woke up, it felt like my whole body was twice its original weight, and that wasn’t for no reason. I sat up on the bed where they were still keeping me, looking down at my body and finding out that I didn’t have clothes on anymore.
I was fully naked, and realizing that only made my fanny burn hotter.
How I needed a trio of tough-looking men filling me up with all of their might, I thought, opening a smile when they took no time getting back into the room.
I thought they were going to be naked too, and ready to do something about my jugs. They were heavy with something, and I could only think that it was the milk that I was producing for them.
When I tried to get off the bed, one of them put his hand out in front of him, his palm pointing at me. I froze, and then another of his friends – I was thinking that this one was named Palmiro – showed me that he was holding a large bucket made of metal.
They were all smiling devilishly as they surrounded me, and when I opened my mouth to say something, Fulvio spoke before I could.
“You’re allowed to strip us naked, if you want to.”
“If I want to?”
“Well, we can do this with our clothes on, if you don’t mind. However, we do prefer doing this without them.”
He glanced at me from bottom to top, winking.
I padded over to him, taking off the coat of his suit, and then unbuttoning his white office shirt. When I finally was able to see his manly, delineated chest in all of its glory, with the light shining off of it the right away, I felt like I couldn’t even breathe.
He was the perfection in person, and the look on his face was pretty telling that he thought the same way about himself. He was a confident bastard, and that would never change.
Then, I unbuckled his belt and pulled down his pants. He stepped out of them while keeping that same devilish smile on his face. His hands played with my boobs while I tried my best to be as respectful as possible.
“You’re such a pretty thing,” he said.
I bit my bottom lip, proceeding to say, “I’m a virgin, and I don’t know if you’re going to like that or not.”
“Oh, I love that,” Costante said, rubbing his bulge against my ass to tell me this – he was impatient that it was taking me this long to get his friend undressed.
But finally, I did, my boobs still feeling too heavy for my liking. I really needed one of them to milk me now. Or all of them, at the same time, would work as well.
I stood in awe, on my knees, standing right in front of this man – Fulvio. I was almost thinking that there was something wrong with his manhood. He looked too big, and I didn’t think that, even if he were to be gentle, he wouldn’t make me feel too much pain.
I was already gritting my teeth at the thought of that happening.
I finished taking off the clothes of his friends, the sight of them surrounding me making me wetter by the second. I was
remembering that, at one point, I dreamed about them milking me.
“Hmmm, before going on with this, there’s something I want to do first,” Costante murmured, nibbling my earlobe and grinding his body to mine. When I took off his underwear, I noticed that he was already hard, and now he appeared to be even harder, pre-cum coming out of the slit of his manhood.
“And this slit here,” Palmiro said, putting his finger on it and then diving deep inside with it, only stopping when he felt some resistance and me clenching my pussy walls around it, “is making me feel a little impatient.”
“We are going to milk you now, and you’re going to obey everything that we have for you,” Palmiro murmured into my other ear, and I could feel all of them surrounding me, touching my body with theirs, and making me moan.
I was already thinking about when they were finally going to milk me.
“Fuck, just get on your knees now. I’m going to milk the hell out of you,” Costante demanded, stroking his massive and veiny dick with his hand.
I couldn’t help but obey.
I knew that they were going to make me feel things that I’d never thought possible.
I got on my knees again, and they all started to suckle on my nipples, one after the other, and I could feel my milk being pumped out in hot, straight jets into their mouths.
“Such a pretty, delicious little thing,” Palmiro cooed, putting himself beneath me and then sliding his shaft into my pussy.
I thought that they were going to make a big deal out of who was going to take my virginity first, but I guessed that was not on their agenda today.
He was already pumping in and out of me, his pace fast from the get-go, and his balls looking heavy with his sperm. I
wondered when it was the last time that he’d cummed before he pulled out all of sudden, giving space for one of his buddies to suck me dry too.
One after the other, they milked me, sticking their fingers in holes that were already theirs. And despite all the milking, my breasts were still feeling full, and I just couldn’t stop thinking about what they were going to do next with me.
When they finally pulled away from me, surrounding me with the heaviness and the frame of their bodies, there were smears of my milk around their mouths.
“This is far from over, Fernanda. You think you can keep up?”
I nodded. My heart was beating like a speeding train, but it was okay.
I wasn’t a virgin anymore, and I was still wondering what it was they were going to do with me now. What else they were going to do.
I knew that their plans were evil and that they were still going to make me feel so much pain.
With the door of the room closed, though, I knew that it was all going to happen right in here.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter 4
T
hey were still milking me, except that now I was lying down over two chairs, with a bucket put right below me. The milk seemed to be flowing into said bucket, each time Fulvio pressed his hand on one of my boobs making me moan.
I was naked, and I knew that my pussy was dripping wet.
The room was in a layer of silence. These tough-looking Italians were still milking me, stroking their dicks with their hands, and showing me that they still had a lot more planned for me.
“This is all fine and good, but there’s something I want to do now, and it can’t wait,” Palmiro said, rounding the chairs until he was standing right behind me, and getting on his knees.
I knew what he was going to do, and it didn’t look like any of them was going to stop him. If anything, Costante was already thinking about joining in. His legs were thick and very hairy as he kept playing with his manhood, and just looking at it, staring at it, was making my nipples extra-hard.
Fulvio chuckled.
“Don’t make this any longer than it needs to be, guys. She’s looking pretty impatient, and I’m also thinking that we could make some money off of this milk. It’s delicious.”
“I know. I drank some of it too,” Palmiro joked, playing with my ass using his hands, and then licking my butthole with his tongue.
Oh, fuck. I could let him keep doing what he was doing for hours on end. It was everything that I needed to finish off this first time of mine in style, and I knew that he was thinking the same thing, too.
“Well, her mouth is mine,” Costante murmured to himself, easing his prick into my mouth and not stopping to ask me if I wanted what he was doing or not. He didn’t need to, after all. The look of desperation on my face was pretty telling.
I licked my lips, Fulvio still squeezing my boobs with his hand and filling that bucket. I was almost thinking that it had an infinite bottom, but looking at it now, I realized that it wasn’t going to take much longer until it was full.
I was still moaning and groaning, the room getting hotter.
Palmiro was still playing with my ass, his fingers applying just the right amount of pressure until he touched my orifice with his prick.
“Today, my little princess, you’re going to lose all of your virginities. You want that, right?”
I nodded.
“Good. Very good. And then, you’ll be able to tell everyone how incredible this night was,” he said, and the man behind me – I couldn’t even remember his name anymore at this point – was stroking my little bundle of nerves with his finger.
“You’re mine – all mine,” he murmured into my right ear, his breath hot and minty, and with drops of his sweat dripping on my skin.
I moaned as my body convulsed, the whole room shaking with everything that was happening. My breathing was a difficult one and raggedy, with the guy that was kneeling in front of me still pumping me with his massive dick.
I thought that I was going to cry.
After this was over, I didn’t think that I was ever going to find men that could milk and fuck me like this. I was already thinking about letting go of all my rights and liberties, and become one of theirs for the rest of my life.
It didn’t take too long for the mafioso that was thrusting in and out of my butthole to unload his sperm, and when I thought that he was already going to pull out and end this moment minutes too soon, he stayed inside me.
He went still, just keeping his massive shaft in there. I was clenching my muscles around his length, thinking about not telling him to get out until he made me come a second time.
He was looking down at me like I meant nothing to him, and then, he pulled out. I moaned in dissatisfaction, feeling Fulvio still milking me until he saw that happening. I thought that he was going to keep milking me until there was nothing else left in my boobs, but then he stood up and took his friend’s place behind me.
He crammed his prick in me. ‘Cram’ was the right term as it felt like he was stretching my butthole even more than it already was.
I thought that he was never going to stop thrusting in and out of me until he came at right about the same time his other friend did, shooting out his sperm in long, hot jets inside my butthole. I was a little disappointed that they didn’t fuck me in my cunt, but that was something that they were going to leave for a more appropriate time.
I was panting and begging for them to stop for a little while when they did the unthinkable, masturbating and them painting my whole body with their come. I was licking what I could and I couldn’t move my hands, which was only making me a little bit angry at myself.
They got dressed and then left the room, and didn’t bother to look back to find out if I was okay or not.
I was just their little toy of pleasure, and I wouldn’t have it any other way…
The End
But don’t go just yet…
Sign up to my
Mailing List
and read “Subduing the Woman of the House” and “Ganging the Hucow” for free! Check the next page for more information. Also, consider leaving a review if you liked the story. It always helps me a lot!
OceanofPDF.com

Looking for Freebies?
Claim them
HERE
– they are filthy and steamy.
Ganging the Hucow: Hardcore Backdoor Only
I graduated from college, but finding a job was hard. I had one option only, and that was to seduce some of the rich students I knew. With that in mind, I visited the campus again, wearing a shirt with so much cleavage showing that men wouldn't be able to look the other way. To make things more appetizing, a pair of very short shorts complemented my dirty little plan, and the results spoke for themselves.
Four guys surrounded me in a cramped hallway, and their hands soon began to discover things they thought a woman shouldn’t have. As a hucow, I could do things that they never imagined possible...
Subduing the Woman of the House: Her Last Sigh
Felicia had found and rescued Phil. He had no idea what kind of woman she was when that happened, but over time, he found himself with a huge crush for her. Whenever she was
doing the dishes or any other housework, Phil would be behind her checking every inch and detail of her body.
He swore that she was going to have to submit to his darkest wishes. Phil wanted to ease his member between her lips, pound her cherry with it until she screamed for more, spurt his loads of man juice inside her mouth and make her his.
She will have to kneel in front of him, that old lady…
OceanofPDF.com

About the Author
Leandra Camilli writes steamy and sinful stories. Her most loved and depicted scenes involve domination, submission and humiliation. Futa on female, sissification and hucow are her favorite stories to write, and if you’ve come here looking for them, then you’ve found the right place.
She practices her teachings almost every day, and there isn’t a story she ever found boring. Her tales aren’t for the weak of heart, so be careful when picking up one of her works. And as always, make sure nobody is peeking over behind your shoulder.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter 1
I
was flipping a page of the book I was reading when the door of the library opened all of a sudden, and in stepped men that made shivers run down my spine. And it wasn’t just that, either, but also something else that they were making me feel.
I was turned on.
They looked much older than me, and even though they were already inside the library, a place where not much light got into, they were still keeping their dark, thick sunglasses on.
I wasn’t standing near them, but even where they were, I could tell that they made me feel small. I was already a shorter than average woman, so I guessed that didn’t help things, but… Damn. I didn’t think that I’d seen taller men in my life.
They walked with straight postures, their chests puffed out. I was pretty sure that they thought of themselves as the kings of this small city located in rural Italy. And they pretty much were.
I didn’t know their names and I didn’t think I was ever going to, but I could still admire them for what they were. I didn’t think I ever had a chance with them, either, considering that I was a virgin and didn’t know anything about seductions, foreplay, and sex.
I decided to dig my head back into my book, trying to pay attention to the words that I was reading, but failing at doing so.
I kept perking my head up slightly, looking at those studs while wondering what they looked like without their suits on.
They looked like men straight out of a mafia movie, but that couldn’t be the case, right? They looked tough, they made people dodge out of the way just so that they wouldn’t give them a second glance, but I didn’t think that they were capable of hurting people.
Something in me was growing wetter.
I hated how all of my coworkers kept talking about their first times, and that I had to keep lying to them about it. I just didn’t want them to think less of me, to invite me less often to their parties, and to make jokes about me for still being a virgin.
The book I was reading was about a woman being turned into a hucow, and tough-looking and demanding men sucking milk out of her.
If there was a fantasy I wanted to make real one day, that was it.
I was still trying to get back into the story when those men in their dark suits turned in my direction, strolling to me while holding books in their hands. I never thought that men like them had the habit of reading, but I guess I was wrong about that.
One of the mafia-looking men leaned over on the desk, putting the book he was holding on it and making me perk up. Not even after standing up it felt like the top of my head could reach his chin.
I couldn’t believe how tightly my clothes were pressing around my breasts, too, and I was hoping that was something he wasn’t paying too much attention to. I didn’t want him to think that I was some kind of hooker trying to pass as a librarian.
“Hey, little angel. You’re looking lovely today. You’re sure that you’re supposed to be working here?” He asked, his hand going for his book and holding it again.
“Uhhh, I’m sorry?” I asked, poking my glasses with my finger, my mind finding it difficult to process what he said.
He had some beard on his face, and it was trimmed, and it looked like he groomed it pretty much every day. And there was also the smell of his perfume, which was strong without making it feel like something that I didn’t want to stand near to for too long.
If anything, I was already hoping that he wasn’t going to leave the library anytime soon. I was already thinking about inviting him to spend some more time here with me, teaching me everything that he would learn about the book that he was holding.
I was paying so much attention to the man itself that I couldn’t even read the title of his book, and that wasn’t something I did often.
He leaned in over the desk closer, putting his lips so close to touching mine that I thought he was going to do so.
He breathed in, his long-bearded men crossing their thick arms over their chests and allowing me to see some hints of tattoos on them.
“You’re a pretty young woman, and it looks like you’ve been stuck in this library for a pretty long time. I was just thinking it would be nice to show you the other side of your life that you’re missing.”
His voice was so thick that he just kept drawing me more and more to him, making it impossible for me to breathe and wink. I was holding a pen in my hand, and scribbling random things on a piece of paper.
My head was propped in my hand, and it was shaking. He was reeling me to him in ways I never thought possible, and he was doing all of that as if it was the most natural thing to him.
I could feel his experience, the age gap, his self-esteem, and my heart speeding up. I was thinking about him taking me in
ways I never thought possible, shoving his prick into my pussy, and finally popping my hymen.
He would be rough and gentle with me. He knew that I was a virgin. Hadn’t had sex yet, and he would make sure that my first time would be unforgettable.
“I… really don’t know what you’re talking about.”
“But you do,” one of his friends said, uncrossing his arms and grabbing my hand. It took him very little effort to make me go around the desk, proceeding to put one of his arms over me.
“You’re such a pretty little princess, and let me tell you this – you’re wasting your time in here.”
My glass slid down to the tip of my nose as they took me to some kind of black, menacing Cadillac, and then drove me away from there.
I looked at the side view mirror of their vehicle as some people rushed out to the sidewalk to find out what it was that was happening.
But little did they know that I wasn’t thinking about going back anytime soon.
OceanofPDF.com

More Like This
Milked for Christmas: 15 First Time Hucow Stories
http://mybook.to/milked_christmas
Christmas time is coming, and these hucows are more than willing to be shared, passed around and dominated. Submission is their middle name. They can’t do it with protection, so for them it has to be the BARE and fertile way. Their minds are obsessed with giving their Masters multiple heirs, and they will even fight among themselves to do it.
This collection includes 15 dirty, filthy, out-of-this-world stories that are sure to make you feel like taking a shower as soon as you are finished with them. All characters are consenting adults. Themes involve getting stuffed, filled to the brim with their men’s white nectar, first time, and hungry and insatiable naughty women.
And even more:
Milked by Plumbers: A Bimbo Ganging Story
Milked by Firefighters: A Bimbo Ganging Story
Milked by Policemen: A Bimbo Ganging Story
Milked by Electricians: A Bimbo Ganging Story
Squirty Bimbos: A Hucow Milking Bundle
Dirty Cowboy: A Hucow Milking Bundle
Peculiar Dairy: A Bimbo Hucow Story
Milked by her Boyfriend: A Bimbo Hucow Story
Menage for Milking: A Bimbo Hucow Story
Farm Milking: A Hucow Ganging Story
Milked by Cowboys: A Hucow Milking MEGA Bundle
Plowed by the Cowboy: The Complete Hucow Harem Series
Creamy Harem: The Complete “Welcome to my Harem” Series
Bimbo Magic: A Fertile Harem Story
When he Creams: A Hucow Bimbo Story
OceanofPDF.com

Milked by the Italian Mafia
A Fertile Bimbo Ganging Story
Leandra Camilli
OceanofPDF.com

Copyright © 2021 Leandra Camilli
All rights reserved
The characters and events portrayed in this book are fictitious. Any similarity to real persons, living or dead, is coincidental and not intended by the author.
No part of this book may be reproduced, or stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without express written permission of the publisher.
Cover design by: Leandra Camilli
OceanofPDF.com

Contents
Title Page
Copyright
Preview
Chapter 1
Chapter 2
Chapter 3
Chapter 4
Looking for Freebies?
More Like This
About the Author
OceanofPDF.com

OceanofPDF.com

OceanofPDF.com