MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 1
AMERICAN HAGWON
by
Min Jin Lee
A Novel

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 2

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 3
Book I
March 1992 - January 1995

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 4
1:1: March 1992 "Return"
1. Gaepo-dong, March 1992
The rules of engagement have changed already.
#
Within a month of their arrival from Australia, Mrs. Helen Koh found her family a
suitable apartment in a good school district in Seoul. The middle-class neighborhood of Gaepo
was not as nice as where her sister Sonya lived but it had to suffice. After paying the key money

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 5
for the annual lease, which consumed the bulk of their savings, and replacing the most urgent
things before their shipping container from Sydney could be delivered, there just wasn’t room in
the budget for anything better.
From the outset of their marriage, Helen’s husband John had put his sensible wife in
charge of the household finances. Her thrift and fine judgement allowed him to focus on his work
as a manager at a trading company. For almost two decades, on Monday mornings, Helen gave
her husband a weekly allowance for his carfare, meals, and pocket money, then it was her job to
make due with the remainder of his salary for their tithes, overhead expenses, and retirement
savings, if any, and in that order. A former math major at Seoul National University, John
preferred problems he could solve on paper, and family life had far too many unknown variables.
Raising three children was costly, and Helen, a former English major at Ewha Womans
University, worked as a retail sales associate to supplement John’s steady income, which was
inadequate for their mounting needs. John’s work had taken the Koh family to Paramus, Seoul,
and Sydney, in each city, Helen’s supervisors recognized her talent as a reliable salesperson.
Every academic year, for each of the three Koh children, Helen kept a spiral notebook,
and on the back flap, she pasted a manila envelope where she tucked away cash for their school
fees, clothing, and sundries. This year’s envelopes were lighter than usual because the children
had needed many new things upon their return to Korea. In addition to school uniforms, the boys
required larger sneakers, thicker winter coats, and stacks of study guides. The girl, the youngest,
had not grown as much as her brothers, so her main wardrobe would serve another year;
however, in Sydney, the child had needed to see specialists, which had wiped out her portion of
the savings.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 6
Unlike their rental house in Campsie, a suburb of Sydney, which had four bedrooms, a
den, and a generous backyard for cookouts, their Seoul apartment was on the third floor of a
five-year-old building that had been built out quickly by mediocre developers. Their rental unit
had three small bedrooms and a decent sized living room and two baths. The largest bedroom
went to the two boys—Bo and D.H.; Helen and her husband John occupied the medium-sized
bedroom, and the tiny one near the foyer was for Mido, the child Helen worried about the most.
Her daughter Mido was 13 years old and in the first year of the local middle school. The
girl was short and slight for her age and often mistaken for a much younger child. Like her father
John, Mido had small, round eyes, which made an endearing expression when she smiled. Like
him, she had perfect vision and didn’t need to wear eyeglasses, which the eldest child had
required since he was a toddler. With her dark hair parted in the middle, Mido wore her hair in
two thick braids, which suited her pale, unremarkable demeanor.
Although Mido could speak well enough, she seemed almost incapable of doing so at
school, church, and anywhere else outside the home. With her family, she spoke as needed,
mostly to Helen and the boys. Around her father, Mido was visibly at ease, and on Saturday
evenings, after Mido finished her homework and household chores, the two of them watched
music variety programs on television, smiling and laughing in a wordless cocoon.
All the children were born in Paramus, New Jersey, in the early ‘70s when John worked
at a Japanese trading company and reported to Taehun Shin, who was one year his senior at
university. Shin had been like a brother to John throughout school; military service in the elite
KATUSA unit where their English language skills only improved; and at the Japanese and
Korean trading companies, which had allowed both men’s families to live overseas as subsidized
expatriates. Due to John’s work, the Koh family lived in New Jersey for five years, Seoul for

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 7
four, then Sydney for almost six, prior to their return to Seoul the month before the start of the
school term.
Throughout her childhood, Mido’s teachers had asked Helen to come in for her
daughter’s excessively quiet manner. At her preschool in Paramus and kindergarten and the first
two years of primary school in Seoul, Mido did not talk much with the other children and was
left out of friendships. At her primary school in Sydney, the teachers had hinted at learning issues
despite her good marks. The teachers encouraged the child to talk more in class, advocate for
herself, and work better in groups.
Helen saw herself as a modern, educated parent, and she wanted to help her youngest.
She took time off from work and visited learning specialists and doctors in Sydney with her
child, who pronounced Mido normal, more or less. A reputable pediatrician said there was
nothing wrong medically with the girl’s hearing or vocal cords. The child psychologist believed
that Mido’s shyness was cultural and all the moving around may have confused her. Asian
children, the school counselor had observed, were often less talkative.
Mido’s father, a high-functioning introvert who managed the natural resources
department at a multinational trading company, dismissed such simplistic nonsense. Not all
Koreans were quiet. His own family had been filled with loud people. They were all deceased
now, but growing up, John had lived with their high noise level. At the slightest provocation or
encouragement, his mother, father, and elder brother would shout and argue their well-articulated
opinions. To be left alone, John had retreated into his studies, excelling at math and foreign
languages. As an adult, he did not ask for much in life. He enjoyed listening to music and being
in the presence of his wife and three children.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 8
John wanted to comfort his dear Helen who was clearly troubled that their daughter did
not have friends. Throughout her own childhood, Helen, like her elder sister, was a natural social
leader—engaging, kind, and deliberate about her goals and methods. In college, she had served
as vice president of an English poetry society and secretary of a music appreciation group. John
was proud of his appealing wife who spoke remarkably well in both Korean and English in her
calm speaking voice, which matched her thoughtful demeanor.
The father felt less anxious about his daughter’s prospects. Mido was a seventh grader
who read at a college reading level. The other children did not appreciate her, he reasoned. When
ready, she would speak up, make friends, and find the work she was meant to have. She would
grow out of this social reticence, and Helen, a devout woman, prayed he was right. Perhaps Mido
might be different if her self-assured brothers didn’t crowd her with their larger personalities or if
the Koh family hadn’t moved across the world every few years.
John Koh wanted things to be equal for his sons and daughter but recognized their innate
personality differences. Above all, he wanted to protect his daughter’s peace of mind. All this
poking around and extra attention couldn’t be good for children. After all, if you looked hard
enough, you could always find something wrong. The world was too noisy. It was fine for Mido
to be her own way and seek privacy and solitude.
As to be expected of a child who hardly talked and read excessively, Mido received
admirable grades; however, on her report cards, her teachers commented often: “Mido is a fine
student and a good girl. However, she should have more social relationships.”
Helen was accustomed to her sons’ strong school performance and popularity. Her middle
child, DH, was an exceptional soccer player, and the eldest, Bo, was a standout student and the

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 9
teacher’s perennial favorite. Helen was the sort who needed to fix things, and she wanted to
know what she could do to bolster her youngest’s self-esteem. The child didn’t have to be school
president, the prettiest, or the top student; however, the earnest mother wanted her child to be
included.
Although Helen had not wanted to return to Seoul, preferring to raise the children abroad
to enlarge their opportunities, she was relieved to be back home since a little girl could be quieter
here. Mido’s exceptional shyness seemed almost unremarkable in Korea.
#
The middle school was six blocks from the main shopping street and less than a ten-
minute walk from the Koh’s apartment. The four-story cinderblock building with a slate roof,
whitewashed with a dark blue trim, housed numerous classrooms, a spacious auditorium, two
music rooms, and a new gymnasium. There was a well-maintained field for the three grades of
boys and girls. Mido did not attend the coveted middle school in Gangnam which sent the
greatest number of students to the desirable specialized public high schools in the city, but her
school was far from the worst.
In Mido’s homeroom class, there were forty-six students. Mr. Na, the homeroom teacher
who also taught mathematics, assigned Mido, who was smaller than most of the children and
built like a tender sapling, in the second row.
One row behind her, in the center, was Yun Kim—an attractive child with the dark, large
eyes of a bird that noticed the tiniest of things. An exceptional student, she was also known in the
school for being a brilliant sprinter and solid keyboard player. Each year, her homeroom teachers
selected her as the class leader because her peers listened to her. In the morning, Yun’s mother

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 10
French braided her only child’s shoulder-length raven hair, and although all the girls wore
matching uniforms, Yun stood out by wearing imported sneakers from America.
As class leader, it was one of Yun’s tasks to help Mido, the new student from Australia, to
assimilate. On the first day of school, it was Yun who told Mido where to put her lunchbox,
where and when to change into her sports uniform, and what clubs she could join, as well as
where all the meeting rooms were located. Mido did as instructed, never bothering Yun with any
unnecessary questions, and as usual, she kept to herself. Ever an attentive child, Mido was able
to pick up from observation whatever she needed to know.
To make up for her silence around the other girls, Mido smiled often, her pleasant eyes
curving along her round, pink cheeks. Most adults liked her sweet face, but her classmates would
not have considered her as pretty as Yun, whose symmetrical and charming features were often
commented upon with great admiration. Mido’s lack of distinguishing physical charms did not
bother her; if anything, she was relieved not to be noticed.
On the third day of school, about ten minutes before lunch recess, Mr. Na, called on Bora
Kang to solve a math problem. On the bulletin board by the front door, the teachers posted
weekly exam scores, and more often than not, Bora’s name was at the top of most lists to reflect
her status as the highest scorer.
Bora, a serious girl who wore a different colored headband each day, marched to the
board, solved the problem in her neat hand, wiped the chalk dust from her right hand, and
returned to her seat in the next to last row by the window. She tucked her navy pleated skirt
beneath her bottom before sitting, then brushed down the front of her skirt to cover the tops of
her thighs.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 11
Mido checked Bora’s answer on the chalkboard against her worksheet. There was an
error. Mido should not have multiplied the numerator. Mido rubbed the worn-down ear of her
blue and white puppy eraser against the pencil markings and started again.
Mr. Na called out, “Koh Mido,” and she looked up from her paper and smiled at her
teacher.
“Number 3,” he said, pointing to the board.
Mido swallowed and approached the chalkboard gingerly, bringing her worksheet with
her. She copied her answer on the board with great care.
“Incorrect,” he said, shaking his head, disappointed at how the child got such an easy one
wrong. Out of consideration for her recent arrival to the country, he had assigned her a relatively
simple problem.
Mido bit the inside of her lip then checked her solution against the way Bora had solved
the previous question. She had made the same computation error as before by multiplying the
numerator. Using quick strokes of the chalkboard eraser, Mido wiped off her wrong answer,
smudging the edge of her blue sweater sleeve, to begin again.
“Who told you that you could do that?”
Startled by Mr. Na’s stern tone, Mido froze, realizing that she wasn’t allowed to redo the
problem.
“How can you learn if you do not recognize, admit, and explain your mistake? It does no
one any good if you do not point out your error. You erased the error, so now no one can learn
from what you did wrong. The erasing is like covering a weakness. It’s lying. It’s cowardice and

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 12
selfish.”
Mr. Na had been a college basketball player, who had become a sports radio announcer in
Daegu after graduation. When he couldn’t support his family working at a local radio station
doing a job he adored, he had labored hard to become a middle school mathematics teacher for
his second career, eventually landing in the capital city with his wife and two children. As a
handsome former athlete, female teachers and administrators admired him, and the male teachers
looked up to him for his discipline and dunking skills.
“Koh Mido,” Mr. Na said in his rich tenor voice. “Did you hear my question? How can
you learn if you do not admit then explain your error?”
Perplexed, Mido glanced at him then lowered her gaze just as quickly, having no idea
what he wanted her to do now. Was she supposed to write back her mistake? Tears filled her
eyes.
Crying never moved Mr. Na. It only made things worse. If girls were to succeed in the
world, he believed, they had to be more stoic. As a father, he was as tough on his daughter as he
was on his son. Life was full of terrible disappointment and cruelty, and he didn’t see the
pedagogical purpose of coddling these middle-class girls, who had no idea how easy they had it
compared to his generation and the ones before him.
The teacher crossed his arms and frowned. He didn’t like her face—the features were too
soft and little, and her head was not yet in proportion to her small body. Mr. Na preferred girls to
be bright like a new coin, visually engaging as the loveliest of flowers and with the vitality of
youth in their movements. No doubt this girl was an unmotivated, overindulged child from a rich
family that had lived overseas. He ascribed her puny size to being a picky eater.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 13
“Go stand by my desk.”
Mido went to the teacher’s large wooden desk by the windowed door. Across the hall,
uniformed boys and girls lined up in size order against the tile bordered wall for lunch recess.
She wished she could bolt through the classroom door and hide in a bathroom stall until her heart
stopped pounding so fiercely.
“Hold out your hands,” Mr. Na said.
Incomprehension clouded her shining eyes.
“Like this.” Mr. Na held out his large, strong ball player’s hands with his pale, lined
palms facing upward. He gathered his palms together, as if to receive a loaf of bread.
Mido crinkled her brow and imitated him. Her palms were three colors, more white and
pink in the center and bluish around the thumbs and fingers. She had never given much thought
to her body and least of all, her own tiny hands.
From his pencil cup, Mr. Na withdrew his brass ruler, one of the first classroom supplies
he’d bought with his initial paycheck as a teacher.
He raised his right hand and struck her open palms with the heavy ruler.
“One,” he said quietly.
Mido grimaced, stunned by the sharp pain.
The class pitied Mido. She’d had no warning. No one had told her that this was
something that happened. The only way to avoid this shame was by getting the answer right, or if
the teacher had an understanding with your mother. Things could be different if your father was
an important person.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 14
The class leader Yun felt especially guilty for not having mentioned Mr. Na’s golden
ruler, which left red welts across a child’s soft palms.
Tears flowed down Mido’s cheeks, and she regulated her breath the way Dr. Ryan had
taught her to whenever she was afraid. Everyone was watching her get punished but she had to
keep breathing. The gentle, gray-haired doctor from Sydney had told her that when she felt fear
or worry, Mido had to keep inhaling and exhaling. It will be fine, he’d said. Breathe.
“Two,” Mr. Na said calmly, then raised the metric ruler with flourish and swung down.
“Three.”
The class heard the final smack of the metal hitting skin, and the girl stood in her place
without a murmur. The children knew this was the last time.
Three strikes for the third problem.
Mido wiped her cheeks with the back of her left hand. Only after Mr. Na tilted his chin
toward her desk did she bow to the teacher and return to her seat.
“Students, line up,” Mr. Na said, his voice elegant and reasonable. He dismissed them.
#
Yun retrieved her lunch box and Mido’s from the shelves next to where the textbooks
were stored.
“Follow me,” Yun said to the new girl.
When Mr. Na was out of sight, Yun pulled Mido into the washroom.
“I hate him,” Yun whispered. “A real son of a bitch.” Her eyes widened, savoring the

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 15
forbidden salt of the insult. She smiled at Mido, revealing her matching dimples.
Mido blinked back tears. She had gotten the problem wrong, so she was at fault. But no
one had ever hit her before. Not at home or school.
Yun opened the water faucet in the sink.
“You’ll feel better after you wash your face. Go ahead,” Yun said, and Mido obeyed.
From her pocket, Yun retrieved a clean white handkerchief.
“Dry your face. You can’t pay attention to the asshole.”
Mido had never heard any girl talking like this. Even her brothers didn’t use these words.
At her school in Sydney, you could be sent to the principal’s office. Yun was the class leader, and
in their homeroom, she was an ideal and well-spoken student. In the washroom, she was
someone else. Even her pretty face seemed less placid, her teeth clenched, her jaw firm, and in
her anger, the cords of her thin neck became more visible.
Yun examined Mido’s hands. There were pink stripes across the meat of her palms.
“My mother says it’s my fault when the teacher hits me. My father says it’s good for me
to get the shit kicked out of me by the teacher when I’m young because then I’ll study harder.
Grown ups actually think this. Most of the teachers here are pretty nice and never do this, but I’d
heard about Mr. Na from the older students that this could happen. I’m sorry I didn’t tell you.”
Mido couldn’t imagine her parents thinking that this hitting was necessary.
Yun stared hard at Mido’s face, trying to read any meaning behind her dark eyes. Since
school started, the new girl had not spoken beyond the faintest of murmurs of assent for roll call.
It was strange but Mido’s silence had not troubled Yun. In a way, she felt drawn to the new

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 16
student, making Yun feel more useful, which she liked. Sensing that Mido might need a
translator or an advocate, Yun continued talking because it was clear that Mido was paying
careful attention, perhaps more so than anyone else.
“But I disagree with them,” Yun added. “I don’t study harder because the teachers hit me.
I don’t usually get hit but I don’t want to watch anyone else get in trouble either. I just hate the
teachers who do this. There must be other ways to make your point.” The class leader shrugged.
“Anyway, save yourself some trouble at home, and don’t tell your parents what happened today.”
Yun glanced in the metal mirror then looked away as quickly as if the pretty girl in the
reflection was a surprise to her.
“Just imagine if you had messed up Problem 10,” Yun said giggling, and raised both her
hands, splaying all ten fingers. “Ten smacks.”
Mido smiled at the girl. Yun’s cocoa-colored eyes were warm and open. The light spray
of freckles on her button nose resembled a tiny constellation of distant stars across a pale sky.
The girls were of a similar height, but Yun was built like a runner, slight, tan, and
muscular. She also had excellent posture, embodying an admirable self-possession for such a
young person.
“Mido, are you bad at math? I don’t want you to feel worse but that problem wasn’t the
toughest one of the group today.”
Mido shook her head no. In Sydney, she’d received perfect grades in mathematics.
Though here, the math was far more advanced, forcing her to read and re-read the textbook.
Homework took more time. Her brothers, too, had complained about it the night before. Bedtime

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 17
kept getting pushed back because of the difficulty of the school assignments.
“Maybe you have to change your hagwon,” Yun said.
Mido didn’t understand.
“Mr. Na doesn’t know anything. He won’t teach you, but he expects you to get the right
answers. If you get something wrong, he’ll hit you again and again. I heard that when he gets
really fired up, he can use the broomstick on your legs. The ruler’s not so bad, I guess. Two years
ago, I heard he hit a boy so hard that he bled on the back of his calves. Even his mom came in to
complain. Not that it did any good.”
With an imaginary broom handle, Yun’s wiry arms made dramatic swinging motions
below Mido’s knees. She shivered, realizing then that the joke was more scary than funny, and
she looked down at her clean white sneakers.
In the back corner of the classroom where the cleaning supplies were stored, there were
two wooden hand-held brooms, matching dustpans, a basket of rags, and a red plastic water basin
to clean the floors. Everyone hated sweeping, and the only worse rotating duty was waxing the
floors, done on your hands and knees, inhaling the noxious smell of the wax. Mido couldn’t
imagine getting hit with the thick wooden broom handle.
Yun picked up their lunch boxes from the washroom table by the long communal sink.
“When’s your birthday?” Yun turned to Mido. “Mine’s October 9. I’m short, and
everyone thinks I’m the youngest, but I’m not. You’re not tall either. Are you older than me?”
Mido shrugged.
“When? When is your birthday?” Suddenly, Yun felt entitled to an answer.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 18
At last, Mido replied, “October 1.”
Yun tapped Mido’s shoulder with her bony fist.
“Yaah! You do talk. I knew you did.”
Mido looked confused, unable to comprehend why everyone cared so much about
speaking all the time.
“Eight days difference is nothing. We’re almost twins. We could have been in the hospital
at the same time.” Yun grasped Mido’s left hand.
“Let’s go eat. My mother put sausages and dumplings in my lunchbox today, and I have a
box of Peppero. I’ll give you some. You know what? You should go to Eagle Academy with me.
For English, I have Sean Teacher. I study Math with Henry Teacher. They’re from America.
Henry Teacher went to M.I.T. That’s a better school than Harvard for math and science. I’ll get
my mother to call your mother. My parents want me to go to college in America so I go to this
special hagwon run by Americans. I mean, they’re Korean but not really. They’re gyopo.” Yun
paused. “I guess like you. Anyway.”
Mido followed Yun keeping a respectful distance, taking care not to step on the girl’s
shadow. The class leader walked with purpose down the wide, yellow linoleum covered hallway,
flanked by rows of classrooms. During recess, Yun chatted to the quiet girl who nodded and
smiled. Her friend had everything figured out for them, and Mido felt grateful to be in her care.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 19
1:2: 1992 "Envelopes"

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 20
2.
#
No one had expected Mido’s teacher to make a home visit.
Beyond the five gray metal folding chairs and laminate conference tables, one serving as
the children’s desk and the other as the dining table, the living room lacked rugs, paintings, or
books. It took no time at all to sweep the bare floors each morning. For the time being, the
children slept in sleeping bags, and Helen and John on borrowed bedding. Except for clothing
and toiletries, Helen’s older sister Sonya had loaned them everything as she had done years
before. There was no reason to buy expensive mattresses or pots and pans when their own
household things would arrive in two months. It was like camping, Helen told her family, and the
children had not complained.
Helen was filling out the application papers for a part-time sales position, which Sonya
had told her about. If she could get this job at the Lotte Hotel duty-free store, Helen would be
able to get home in time to fix dinner and help the children with their homework. Over the years,
she had accumulated sufficient retail experience in Paramus and Sydney, and could provide good
references. Helen didn’t care much for luxury handbags or expensive face creams; however,
having sold enough things in so many places to all different kinds of customers, she had learned
to appreciate better made goods and understood the value of an expensive and rare gift. Here in
Seoul, as a Korean citizen with good English language skills, she could work at the nicest places.
She was only forty-two years old and enjoyed working in sales. If she could get thirty or
forty hours a week with commissions, she would be able to send the children to a nice hagwon
and save.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 21
When the building security guard buzzed to announce Mr. Na’s arrival, Helen put away
her job application forms into a blue pocket folder.
The teacher bowed as he entered the apartment and removed his black leather shoes. Re-
soled again, not too long ago, Mr. Na had brush polished and buffed his penny loafers to a high
sheen. He prided himself on his neat appearance.
He was a few years younger than Helen and several inches taller than her husband John.
No visible gray hairs. Mr. Na’s clear complexion was tanned from morning runs. He was
noticeably nice-looking with a trim, athletic appearance and white teeth, evidencing his distaste
for cigarettes and coffee. Mr. Na wore a white gold wedding ring and an affordable Japanese
watch.
There was no sofa, so Mr. Na sat down on one of the three folding chairs on the
children’s table and placed his briefcase on the empty chair between him and Helen. He was
disappointed by the drab building and the room without proper furnishings. He’d hoped that
Mido’s family had more means. No servant had opened the door or offered tea. A
commemorative coffee mug from a large downtown church with cold milky coffee rested by a
blue folder.
The teacher looked smart in his gray woolen sweater vest over a crisp white shirt and
necktie with dark slacks, and the mother was in her house clothes, a white cotton tee shirt and a
pair of boys’ navy jogging pants. Doing chores, Helen often wore her sons’ hand-me-downs
since the boys grew so quickly. They sat opposite each other on the smaller conference table.
“Thank you for seeing me today. I wanted to stop by and say hello. I was told that you
had just arrived from Australia. I understand that your daughter was never educated here.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 22
“Well, Mido went to kindergarten and her first two grades in Seoul, but my husband’s
work took us overseas again. I’ve tried to keep up the children’s Korean through books and
cassette tapes. Mido is the youngest. She has two older brothers at the high school across town.”
The teacher knew the school. He had been turned down for a job there.
Helen continued.
“In Sydney, the children went to a Korean language school at the church on Saturdays but
I’m not sure how much they learned. I was working,” her voice trailed off, not knowing what he
thought of mothers like her. Nervous, she was talking too much.
Having lived abroad, there were times she didn’t know what to say when she returned
home. Things were constantly changing, especially language and schooling, and often, even
strangers had a word or two to say about her parenting. Natives would correct her when she
made a mistake or didn’t know how a thing had changed and smile like they won something, as
if to say, you might have lived somewhere else but you’re not so special, and Helen didn’t know
how to make them feel better for feeling left behind and disadvantaged by those who had gone
elsewhere when in reality, she felt lost herself.
“This is a nice apartment,” he said. “How many bedrooms do you have?”
“Three. It isn’t very big,” she replied. Their rented house in Sydney had been far more
spacious. “We are still waiting for our furniture.” The apartment felt even shabbier in his
presence, she thought.
“May I get you something to drink? We have coffee.”
“I don’t drink coffee.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 23
Helen tried to remember if there was any tea in the nearly empty pantry.
“I live about two hours from here,” he said. “I take the train almost four hours a day
round-trip for my job. It must be wonderful to live so close to the school.”
Helen looked down, embarrassed by what she’d said. He must have thought she was
boasting, and it occurred to her that in a way, she had. A teacher had never visited her home
before.
“Let me get you something to drink. I have some delicious biscuits from Australia.”
Helen went to the kitchen and found cold barley tea in the refrigerator.
The open kitchen faced out to the living room, and in his sight, Helen put together a tray:
two glasses of barley tea and sweets she’d been saving for her husband. She laid out the offerings
in front of the teacher.
“Is Mido doing okay?” she asked, thinking it was better to be direct in these situations.
His mouth twisted a bit to the left like he was thinking.
“Her math skills are behind the other children. I can help her with extra lessons in the
morning or after school.”
“How very kind of you. Thank you so much.”
“I do this for my students although it is difficult for me. My commute is rather long. I eat
most of my meals in the classroom, and I get home late. I almost never see my own children
during the week. Only on Sundays.”
Helen touched her forehead, her right hand hid the worry in her eyes for a moment.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 24
“A teacher’s work is so difficult. How old are your children?” she asked.
“I have two. One is studying for her high school entrance exams now. She’s a hard
worker. Like your daughter, she is quiet. The younger one, the boy, is a year behind her. He, too,
studies a great deal. It’s his dream to go to America and attend a great university there.”
“That would be wonderful,” she said, having heard this from nearly everyone she knew.
The schools were too competitive here with never enough spots.
“The cost would be impossible, however. I have to take care of my family and make sure
they have a bright future, but it’s difficult. My parents worked on a farm. I’m a luckless country
boy, but I studied and became a middle school teacher. I am honored to be a member of a noble
profession, but it’s not possible to take care of your family on a teacher’s salary alone. My
children have to eat, go to hagwon, and I’m the eldest son. There is also my aging parents to
consider.”
He coughed to clear his throat and glanced at the mother’s troubled expression.
“Do you think Mido will need a great deal of extra instruction? I don’t want to make
work for you. I mean, my husband can help her perhaps. He’s not bad at math.”
The teacher frowned, too polite to contradict her. If the child’s father knew math well,
then why did his daughter fall short on such basic problems, which her classmates could readily
solve?
“Mido will need help with her Korean subjects also. Her language has suffered, which is
understandable. If she wants to go to high school and college here, she has a great deal of work
ahead of her. I can do my part while she’s in my class. Your child is trailing far behind the

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 25
others.”
Helen nodded, feeling sick inside. For a second, she thought he was smiling.
Mr. Na munched on half of a biscuit. He’d never had a lemon sandwich cookie before,
and it was good. Having made his point, he waited for the information to sink in. He checked the
view from the window and saw the tops of older trees and rows of newer apartment buildings
sprouting from the sidewalk. The broad pane of glass had been cleaned only the day before, and
it sparkled, reflecting the crisp March afternoon sun. He thought it would be wonderful to live in
such a spacious apartment, filled with natural light, where his daughter and son could each have
a room. This woman had complained about the size of the apartment, and her ingratitude enraged
him.
The teacher undid the latches of his battered leather briefcase, raised the flap, and kept it
open.
“May I use your restroom? I’d like to wash my hands.” He stared at the briefcase then her
eyes.
Helen pursed her lips, got up and pointed in the direction of the bathroom the children
shared, which she had just tidied up that morning.
While he was out of the room, Helen took out the remaining won notes from the manila
envelope in Mido’s notebook and counted them. It was not nearly enough, so she took the rest
from Bo’s and DH’s stash, and put the cash in one of the new envelopes which she kept in her
folder. In her elegant hand, Helen wrote: “Thank you, Na Teacher, for all your good and valuable
work. With profound gratitude for your sacrifices. Cho Hejin (Mido umma).”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 26
The toilet flushed, then the faucet ran. He would have used the bar of soap then dried his
hands on a towel hanging off a nail. Helen tucked the envelope in his open briefcase, leaving a
sharp white corner visible so it wouldn’t be missed when he returned, and it wasn’t.
Every night, John went to bed at ten o’clock. His work exhausted him, and for him to
focus the next day, he had to sleep at least seven and a half hours. In the morning, John rose at
six. As ever, he remained calm and methodical in his outlook. At work and church, everyone
admired his evenness.
John was already beneath the thick coverlet in his blue pajamas, his head resting on one
of his sister-in-law’s pillows. Helen was not ready for bed, yet she sat beside him on the floor.
The children were still doing their homework in the living room, and she had wanted to talk to
him alone. The door shut, Helen then sat cross-legged beside him and whispered to her husband
about Mr. Na’s visit.
“What was there to say? Teachers have to do these shameful things,” John said with his
eyes closed.
For the most part, Korea was still comparatively poor and only just becoming a middle-
class country, and the government had never funded their schools well. They knew that. Ever
since John could remember, parents had to hand over these envelopes; the parent-teacher
associations had to raise money for building repairs, classroom renovations, mimeograph
machines, audio-visual equipment; and teachers had to charge for every little thing. His worst
memories as a boy were of having to ask his mother, who had labored in a factory, for money to
buy sheets of special paper that his principal bullied the students to purchase, fees for fuel costs

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 27
for the school furnace, and special charges from coaches for sports events. Money. Always, they
needed more money.
During her brief life, his mother, a young widow who had managed to graduate from
middle school, had worked at a garment factory, accepting as many shifts as possible to support
her younger siblings and parents, then later, her own boys. There was rarely anything left over
from her wages after the bills were paid. Even now, John could recall the anguish on her small
brown face when there wasn’t enough money for tuition, uniforms, and fees for both John and
his brother. His older brother, who had never liked school, had dropped out against their mother’s
wishes and worked first at the garment factory where their mother worked then later as a truck
driver where he was beginning to earn a solid income. John’s mother died from what had started
as a tooth infection, and not shortly after, John’s older brother died during his military service in
unexplained circumstances, which his friends had attributed to a superior’s cruelty. John met
Helen during his university days, and for him, she was his only remaining family.
Helen sat on the floor, hugging her legs, and even though she said nothing else, John
knew his wife was worried about the children and money but didn’t want to trouble him.
“Maybe I could get another job,” he said, opening his eyes. “Put on a cap and drive a taxi
on the weekends.” He sounded serious.
“No, no. You’re forty-five years old and a manager at a good company. How can you get
a second job?” Helen shook her head. “That would look bad. I think I should be able to get this
job at Lotte.” She smoothed the coverlet over his shoulders. “Everything will be okay. The Lord
provides.”
“My wife. You could have married the son of a wealthy family but, like a dope, you

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 28
married a poor math student.”
“And you could have married a rich girl instead of the second daughter of two terrible
card players.”
John opened his eyes, and they laughed. This was their joke—the comedy of their love.
Each had failed to marry up in the world when there had been a chance.
“I put my life and our children into your capable hands,” John said, closing his eyes
again. Sleep pulled him in, and he struggled to stay awake for her.
Helen felt sorry. John was doing everything possible, and it felt unfair that a hard-
working man like this could not sleep in peace. She shouldn’t have mentioned Mr. Na’s visit.
Helen prayed inwardly over her husband’s resting head: “Lord, protect my good husband’s rest.”
Overseas, the expenses had been easier. The company subsidized housing and the
children’s tuition, and the teachers didn’t expect extra payments. For Christmas, Helen had given
teachers in Paramus and Sydney flowering bulbs she’d potted herself; sometimes, a box of
Belgian chocolates; or a bottle of cognac. Certain schools would allow families to chip in a
nominal sum which, when collected together, made up a small year-end cash gift. Helen was
competent at making calls and chasing down payments so a teacher could have something for her
Christmas budget.
In the living room, the boys sat by the table doing their homework. Bo was focused on a
Korean history assignment, and DH was finishing up his math problems. Mido lay on the floor
figuring out a science worksheet. They wouldn’t go to bed until one, at least, and Helen would
stay up with them.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 29
“Who wants night ramyeon?” she asked, and the boys cheered loudly, and Helen shushed
them, her index finger across her lips. She pointed to the closed bedroom door.
“Appa’s sleeping. He’s had a long day.”
The children had eaten dinner earlier, but they were always hungry when studying. In the
kitchen, Helen filled the brass-colored pot with water and set it on the stove to boil. When she
was growing up, her parents would be at the neighbors’ playing cards in the evenings, and her
sister Sonya had been the one to fix her and their little brother noodles when studying.
Helen rummaged in the refrigerator to find three eggs to round out their meal.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 30
1:3: 1992 "Work"
3.
#
Two months ago, Taehun Shin phoned John in Sydney and said it was time to come home.
Shin was his superior, a director of Han River Trading and Industrials, a subsidiary of
Han River Group. He was also John’s oldest friend, an elder brother of sorts. Graduates of the
same university, both men were math majors, and with a one year age difference. They had risen
together in the ranks, albeit with Shin, a more canny individual, several steps ahead yet always
willing to carry John along.
Right out of college, through a KATUSA connection who knew of Shin’s exceptional

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 31
language skills in both English and Japanese, Shin found work in the trading division of Endo
K.K., a multinational Japanese conglomerate. He moved to New Jersey in the mid-seventies and
was able to bring along his elegant bride Miran, who went by Mary in the new country. A few
months later, Shin was able to hire John, and Helen, who had always wanted to live in the United
States, was eager to move to Paramus.
However, when Shin didn’t get another promotion he deserved after closing a major deal,
he figured out how to get hired by the Han River Group when the Korean conglomerate needed
to grow their steel trading business for Han River Trading and Industrials.
The two couples, the Shins and the Kohs, who each now had three young, American-born
children, returned to Seoul. When Han River opened an office in Sydney, it had been Shin, by
then a director, who put up John for the senior manager position, allowing the Koh family to live
as expats in Australia. Shin’s ambition and charisma made up for John’s discomfort with office
politics, and John’s sobriety and diligence supported Shin’s grander visions. They made a strong
working team, but they were never equals. When Shin told him to pack up, John did and returned
to Seoul within a month.
The school year in Sydney had just started; however, Helen understood that the start of
the Korean school year would be more important even if it required the children to repeat a
grade. She knew better than to ask John to request another year in Australia. Shin was not a man
to change his mind, and the abrupt nature of the request had already surprised both of them.
Already, the children spoke English fluently, and if they had enough supplemental tutoring for
their Korean subjects, Helen thought the children could attend university in Korea though it
might prove difficult for them to catch up with their counterparts. If it were up to Helen, she
would have remained in Sydney or returned to America, but John said that there was nothing

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 32
they could do about it.
From the beginning of their relationship, Shin appreciated John’s integrity and admirable
temperament. Shin was clear in his professional goals and muddy in his private life; he was
aware that a responsible person like John shored him up. John was dependable, easy to with
work with, and precise. Superiors and subordinates liked him. Above all, he was neither too
ambitious nor threatening, which pleased Shin and his superiors. It was not in John’s nature to
belittle or betray his boss or team.
Han River Trading and Industrials—HRT—the most profitable division of the Han River
Group, teemed with sharks, killer whales, and piranhas, and in such dark waters, having a
dolphin who could do reliable tricks was valuable. Above all, loyalty was essential to Shin, a
man of great ambition, and he demanded it from his subordinates. In return, Shin offered anyone
on his team the necessary protection from other predators.
There were other reasons why John had to return. Shin needed an effective manager for
his fast growing team. Also, one of the new hires, a young woman, had gotten big ideas, and
Shin needed her to understand how things worked. He hoped that John, another senior person,
would contain some of her unrealistic expectations and in passing, had mentioned Danbi Jung to
him.
#
In the first week of John’s return, Shin invited John’s team to dinner, including Miss Jung and
her peers who had just successfully completed the training program for the metals division and
would now report to John.
It was Friday evening, so after a pork barbecue dinner, over a dozen of them walked over

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 33
to an upscale noraebang to sing. No one had begged off because they were all curious about
John Koh, who was held in such high esteem by Shin, the big boss.
It didn’t take many drinks to make anyone sing. Three of the younger men grabbed the
microphones to sing “I Know,” a rap song that was just released. It was easier to sing in a group,
and once completed, they wouldn’t have to do more except drink and clap. Two of the female
trainees picked up the tambourines and tapped them against their hips. Strobe lights came on and
the stage vibrated. The Han River employees removed their jackets and transformed into
vivacious performers.
Goaded into a song, the guest of honor had to get up on stage. John had a set ready and
sang the first of his standards: “Can’t Buy Me Love.” If that went over well and the crowds
demanded, he had “Yesterday” and “Let It Be” at the ready. No one ever complained about a
Beatles song, especially since John’s pronunciation and vocal range were impressive. He had a
decent singing voice and didn’t mind going to noraebangs in general, but his wife disliked the
drinking that happened before and after.
John turned red when he drank and had never enjoyed the feeling. Mostly, he felt like
sleeping after one beer, so he had all sorts of tricks to avoid drinking without being noticed. With
great expertise, depending on the lighting and location, he could spill, spit out, and hide the
numerous shots offered. Invariably, he was the senior person who helped the others get home and
ended up returning home late himself when he was the one who needed regular sleep the most.
Late nights with coworkers was another reason why Helen preferred family life overseas. Here,
drinking, entertaining, and spending late evenings for work were too often expected.
John sat next to Shin at his table, filled with the most senior men and the loveliest of the

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 34
female trainees. Miss Danbi Jung sat beside the director, and slyly, she stroked his upper thigh,
her thin white fingers grazing the pleat of his suit trouser pockets. John looked away.
He knew Shin’s wife Mary well. Both John and Helen, who was his then fiancée, had
attended their wedding. Shin and Mary had three sons. Two of them now attended Lawrenceville,
and the youngest went to a public middle school in Bergen County. Mary and the boys returned
home to Seoul only during summer breaks. Mary had been a contestant of the Miss Korea
pageant and a graduate of Ewha, where she had been called “Beautiful Angel,” for being both
pretty and saintly. Helen was two years her junior and in Paramus, the two women had been
expat wives and young mothers together, helping to raise each other’s children.
The waiter came by to refresh their drink orders, and Shin, who knew the owner, ordered
a costly platter of fruit for each of the three tables. Whiskey flowed, and the ladies laughed
louder with each additional pour and song.
Shin turned to John.
“Don’t you think Miss Jung has the most beautiful mouth?”
John reached for his water glass and smiled politely.
“Ppo-ppo,” Shin said to Miss Jung, the way a grandfather might speak to a toddler, and
the lovely young woman pouted and kissed the director’s cheek. She inched her right hand
toward the director’s left pocket and placed her hand there.
Noticing John wince, Danbi rose from her seat.
“Let me sing you a song, Director Shin.”
He clapped like a child.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 35
Danbi Jung wore an ivory-colored silk blouse tucked into a dark midi skirt. The clothes
were modest, almost plain, but her body was so extraordinary that there was something obscene
in her sensual appeal. The outline of her large, old-fashioned brassiere holding up her young
breasts was visible through the scrim of pale silk, like tempting fruit encased on a budding tree.
The men were transfixed by the way Danbi held the microphone between her hands as if she was
praying to it, and she opened her rosy mouth to sing.
She had selected an old Nam Jin song, “Love Me Once Again,” which was curious. She
would have been maybe two years old when the song came out. Danbi had just turned twenty-
four, and it was a love song that her single mother used to hum whenever she was happy. Could
she have known that the director and anyone in his generation may have been vulnerable to such
a nostalgic choice? The gorgeous young woman picked a song that reminded a middle-aged man
that in his youth he was vital, leaving him defenseless in the reverie.
From the way adoring way she looked at Shin, John understood that she was infatuated,
and Shin was besotted. She may have been the reason why Shin brought him and his family back
to Seoul. He needed John to rescue him from the siren, tie him to a mast, but John wasn’t sure if
such a thing could be possible now.
#
The next morning, Shin pulled John away from his desk to get a coffee.
Shin Taehun had a distinct profile: a strong nose with a high bridge and a clear brow and
a head full of dark, wavy hair. Each day without fail, he did his calisthenics, and unlike John, no
matter how much he drank the night before, his work performance was never visibly affected. At
forty-six years old, Shin felt stronger and more mentally fit than when he did his military service.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 36
He wasn’t as fast as he used to be but felt that he could do anything and always work more
effectively than his peers.
Once they were in the lobby, they walked briskly toward the front of the building.
“She’s different,” the director said.
John nodded.
“Smart. Top ten in her class at Korea University.”
“I reviewed her last report. It stood out from the other trainees. Strong analytical skills
and writing.”
“It’s easier when they’re dumb. Normally, I choose the pretty ones without much sense,
but this girl—” Shin exhaled. “I don’t want her to make trouble.”
“I think she could. I don’t know why I say that but—” John said, and Shin was nodding
as if he was in a mess already. John let Shin pass through the revolving door ahead of him.
Once outside, right away, Shin lit a cigarette, cupping his left hand over the match flame
to block the wintry breeze. He inhaled deeply then exhaled through his nostrils. John said
nothing else.
“She could make trouble because I allow her liberties, which I shouldn’t,” Shin said.
John had to agree. More often than not, a man knew when he could no longer manage his
affairs.
#
The café was empty, and Shin selected a table in the corner. He made what looked like a peace

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 37
sign to the server, who recognized Shin, and the young man went to the kitchen to fix two
brewed coffees.
“She is twenty-four,” Shin said.
“Yes. I looked at her file.” John tried not to appear as if he disapproved. Long ago, he had
stopped saying anything to Shin about the other women. From Helen, John knew that Mary knew
about them. These were private matters between a husband and a wife, and almost never did Shin
bring up the women he slept with, but the trainee’s age must have been bothering him, too, if
Shin mentioned it.
“Can you speak to her?” Shin said.
“I don’t understand.”
“Ask her to resign. I can help her get another job but I want you to get rid of her. I can’t
do it. I tried.”
John looked puzzled. “Wouldn’t she suspect?”
“Probably. She’s very clever. But there’s a chance she might just think that you don’t like
her. I can handle it after. After you fire her.”
Shin’s head was muddled, full of images of the nights before—her pink mouth, her
breasts shaped like persimmons, the curve of her ass.
“I can’t be alone with her at the office. She pushes me around.”
John made a face, not comprehending. He had never heard Shin say such things before.
“How do you want me to fire her? For what reason? She just finished a difficult training

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 38
program. Miss Jung has the right to have this job. Wasn’t she hired because of her
qualifications?”
“Of course. I can get her another job.”
“Can you end this? End this relationship?” John asked.
“Do you think I haven’t tried? I can’t. I’ve even thought of leaving my family for this
girl.”
John looked down at the steaming coffee cup, which he had no recollection of ordering.
The server had placed the cups and saucers on the table and walked away.
“Give her an assignment she cannot fulfill. Come up with something. Wait a few weeks.
Let her fail publicly in front of the team. Be cold to her. Already, she thinks you don’t like her.”
John placed his hands around the coffee cup but didn’t drink from it.
“Brother,” John blurted out loud. At the office, he usually addressed him as Director Shin,
but they were alone.
“Yaah—try to understand. Your brother is in trouble. I told her you didn’t like her, that
you were a Christian, and you wouldn’t approve. That you don’t look at women the way most
men—”
“Brother—” John stared into Shin’s eyes. He had never seen him look this way before,
frightened and out of order.
“Put her on the coking coal projections. The demand numbers on that are a mess. Make
her figure out the requirements, too. You can hammer out the details. Don’t give her all the
information she needs. Mix up the number from Illawarra and Peaks Down, or keep something

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 39
back that would have been obvious later.”
“How could she possibly manage that alone? That would be hard for even my best guys
to run the models, and if she worked with someone else, any senior guy would know that they’d
need more information about the coking coal suppliers, and—” John thought of more reasons
why this couldn’t work, but Shin wouldn’t have it.
“I’m asking you for a favor. Please. Make up something. Others have to see how she
can’t manage and that you won’t play favorites. People trust you, and you’d be justified in
dismissing her—”
Shin drank his coffee.
“She won’t get hurt. I will take care of this afterwards. I know someone who needs
someone like her at his company, and I’m sure Miss Jung would be promoted there much faster
than here. All this can work out.” Shin smiled at John.
“Everyone happy,” Shin said in English. “Win win.”
John looked up from his coffee cup, wanting Shin to withdraw the request, knowing that
he’d never do so.
“It’s better for everyone this way. If she’s gone, I will be able to keep doing my job. We
need me to have this job, right? I promise, she won’t get hurt.”
#
After work, Danbi was waiting for him at the hotel.
When Shin entered the room, the young woman was sitting at the edge of the bed,
wearing what she’d worn at the office—a white blouse buttoned up to the neck, a navy crewneck

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 40
sweater, and a pleated navy wool skirt. She had removed her high heel shoes by the door. Her
coat and purse lay on the desk. Danbi stopped reading the fashion magazine and looked like she
might cry.
“My director is here. Your Danbi is unhappy.” She put aside her open magazine and
remained still, allowing him to undress her. She raised her arms, and he removed the sweater
over her head.
Shin unbuttoned her blouse and slid the straps of her brassiere off her shoulders.
“Tell me,” he said. “I will listen.”
“You smell wonderful. I like this aftershave.” With both hands, she pulled his head down
to her breasts and breathed in the scent of his hair. She kissed his upper cheekbone and left ear.
Shin could not control himself. There had been dozens of girls, so many that he’d lost
count, but this one was aggressive and made him do things, which made him feel lost in her. The
relationship was entirely sexual but he felt alive in a way that he did not feel elsewhere in his
life.
Danbi put her tongue on him and teased. She smacked his bottom, and when he was
surprised by the pain, she pleased him.
“I want you to fire him,” she said, barely stopping what she was doing with her hands and
mouth. She stared at him, looking hurt and hungry. “You have to fire him. Please.”
“Who?”
“Manager Koh. He gave me an assignment that no one can do. No one.”
“I can’t do that,” he said, shaking his head, eyes closed.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 41
She pushed him down hard on the bed then mounted.
“Do you think he’s an ordinary man?”
Shin could not talk.
“He hates me,” she said
Shin nodded. Her fingers pressed against his backside, and he gasped.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 42
1:4: 1992 "Shimcheong"
4.
Helen wore a charcoal gray suit that her sister Sonya had ordered for her many years ago from a
wonderful dressmaker in Itaewon, which still fit her mostly, though Helen could no longer close
the last button by the waist after having three children. Sonya had the fine wool fabric imported
from England, and they’d had matching suits made though her elder sister now wore even more
fashionable and elegant things, since she could afford to buy whatever she liked.
Sonya, a natural beauty with a striking figure, was often the best-dressed woman in any

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 43
room. Like Helen, Sonya had studied English and taken many classes in Art History, and as a
result, her sense of proportion and design were far more cultivated than most people. In their
childhood, none of the Cho children, Sonya, Helen, and the younger brother Kenny, had traveled,
or seen much of man-made beauty, and yet, all three had been graced with a good eye for form,
color, and aesthetic balance.
Helen carried a new handbag made by a respected Australian maker that wasn’t exported.
The black leather bag had been a farewell gift from her store manager in Sydney. Her high-heel
pumps complemented the bag and suit.
Kingdom Presbyterian Church in Gangnam was renowned in Seoul for its members, and
Sonya and her husband Yong-gil served as elders. On Thursday afternoons, Sonya hosted a well-
attended fellowship group at her apartment in the Hyundai apartment complex. The group was so
popular that there was never any room for newcomers. Helen, her sister, was of course, an
exception.
When Helen and John lived in Seoul in the early eighties, they had also attended this
church, and even then Sonya had been a prominent and active member as a result of her
marriage.
Sonya, Helen, and Kenny, who now lived in Sydney with his family, were raised in
Catholic churches by soft-hearted saints who pitied the three orphans of two inveterate gamblers.
Without charity, none of the three would have been able to get a proper education. That said, it
would be too generous to say that the church had provided abundantly, because the orphans had
lived at subsistence level, needing to get several part-time jobs to finish their education. They
still remembered sharp hunger and the gnawing shame of lacking what others took for granted.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 44
When Sonya Cho graduated from Ewha, her first job had been with a small real estate
company, owned by Chairman Hong-gyun Mun, an elder at Kingdom Presbyterian, a former real
estate broker who had masterfully invested in choice real estate in Seoul. Chairman Mun took a
strong interest in Sonya, and when the childless businessman and his wife adopted Mun’s
brother’s son, Yong-gil, the brightest of all his nephews and nieces, to train as the successor for
his real estate business, he had encouraged Sonya to marry Yong-gil, thereby making his
secretary his daughter-in-law. When Chairman Mun’s wife fell ill, Sonya, who no longer worked
at the company, nursed her until she passed away.
It was easy to spot Sonya, seated between her husband Yong-gil and his uncle, Chairman
Mun, in the second row of the enormous sanctuary. Sonya’s two high school-aged boys sat in the
row behind them, their heads bowed, pretending to read the church bulletin. They were saving
the empty pew on the other side for Helen and her family.
The Koh family sat down quietly, and Helen tapped her younger nephew’s shoulder, who
smiled brightly at his aunt, uncle, and cousins, Bo, DH, and Mido. Sonya’s oldest boy,
Seungman, was a year older than Bo and her younger son, Jiman, was the age as Bo and a year
older than DH. Seungman had already been accepted to Korea University.
Sonya’s eyes were closed in prayer, and her husband Yong-gil waited until she was done
to alert her to Helen’s arrival. The Chairman turned and nodded, and the Koh family bowed to
him.
When Sonya finished praying, she walked over to Helen’s seat. There was still a few
minutes before services began, and the seated congregants observed the Cho sisters, having
heard about Helen’s return to Seoul.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 45
The teenage cousins were already giggling, and Mido smiled, feeling safe to be back in
Seoul, where she was the youngest and only girl cousin.
Sonya wore a light beige suit, much like Helen’s, but cut closer to her slim figure and
made of double faced cashmere. A thick rope of extraordinary pearls circled her neck and large
pearls adorned her dainty ears. She was only three years older than Helen, and though her face
was unlined and hair still naturally dark, she had the air of someone older and more serious. In
the way Sonya carried herself, even as a little child, she seemed more mature and self-possessed
than anyone her own age.
Her husband Yong-gil read the church bulletin with half-hearted interest, while Chairman
Mun’s eyes tracked Sonya as she returned to her seat. Calmer in her presence, he did not like her
far from his side. Chairman Mun doted on Sonya, and preferred her company over anyone else’s,
including his nephew and his grandnephews Seungman and Jiman, whom he had named himself.
The church, attended by nearly three thousand parishioners over two services, remained
popular through the years because of the famed minister, Pastor Kim, who gave stirring
teachings, connecting popular culture with the Gospel. After each service, the church recorded
the sermons on cassette tapes, so the parishioners could listen to them again, and the cassettes
themselves were in such great demand that they were sold at a nominal cost rather than given out
for free as in other churches.
An unusually tall man with an angular, olive-skinned face, Pastor Kim was more jovial
than sober. Perfectly bilingual, Song-joon Kim had studied in America and received a doctorate
from Princeton Theological Seminary. A gifted preacher, his principal job was to give sermons,
and a team of pastors had been hired to protect Kim’s time to read and write. It was difficult for

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 46
ordinary members to reach Pastor Kim for mundane matters; however, Chairman Mun had been
able to get him to officiate the marriage of Sonya and his nephew Yong-gil. Each December,
Sonya invited Pastor Kim to her fellowship group, and he would come over for the Christmas
catered lunch and pray for the women.
This morning, Pastor Kim preached on idolatry, and he quoted from Leviticus:
“Do not give any of your children to be sacrificed to Molech, for you must not profane
the name of your God. I am the LORD.”
“With school starting this month, I have been thinking of my cherished flock and how
best to serve you,” he said.
“A woman in ancient times was without value unless she bore a child—preferably a son.
Sound familiar?” Kim raised his thick left eyebrow. He enjoyed teasing his listeners. Out of
habit, he pushed up his tortoise-shell eyeglasses on the bridge of his prominent nose.
“As you know when the Israelites entered the promised land, God told his people that
they should not follow the profane practices of the people who lived there. But what did the
Israelites do? Some offered their daughters and sons to Molech, the fire god. No doubt, some of
you may be tempted to offer up your disobedient teenager who refuses to study.”
The parents chuckled, and even the younger people in the audience reluctantly smiled.
There was something cool about him, and the pastor was hard not to like.
“Molech required more and more daughters and sons. Just imagine a continuous stream
of children being burned alive to appease some local deity.” The pastor grew serious again.
“Children being murdered by their own parents. Imagine that.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 47
“Now is this just an evil practice from ancient times committed by ignorant spiritual
ancestors in a faraway place called Canaan? I think not. From our own country, we have
Shimcheong, the legend of the virtuous daughter who trades in her life for 300 bags of rice so her
blind father might regain his sight. A child’s sacrifice to create a miracle for a parent.”
The pastor stared hard at his congregation then broke into a grin.
“Cross culturally and throughout time, we have had reprehensible practices to appease
the idols we created and propped up from our own minds and hands. So, are we still barbaric or
are we more civilized? Which gods do we bow down to today? To what gods do we sacrifice our
children? To which gods, do we sacrifice our most prized ideals and why?”
John Koh’s three children paid attention. Helen’s dark eyes watched Pastor Kim’s
gestures. The packed sanctuary followed along with the minister’s sermon and mentally
catalogued their man-made gods and their own costly sacrifices. White gloved ushers stood in
the back of the cavernous room, looking grim.
“For what? For what do we give up everything? What do you love more than your child?
What do you love more than God?” he asked. “Brothers and sisters in Christ, I implore you to
remember the true Lord, our God in Heaven, who despised child sacrifice.” Pastor Kim then
closed in prayer.
Mido bowed her head and clasped her hands. Not for a second would her parents ever do
something so horrible as to sacrifice her brothers or her for Molech. She felt certain that her kind
and beautiful aunt would never do anything like that either. Her parents had never pressured her,
Bo, or DH to get good grades; nevertheless, Bo was often near the top of the class. She could tell
her brother was upset that it felt impossible to be that in Korea. Mido disliked the stereotypes of

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 48
pushy mothers and fathers because that had never been her experience. There were always some
kids in the class who complained about their parents, but for the most part, Mido did not believe
that parents here loved an idol of achievement more than their children. She didn’t know to
whom the pastor was directing his indictments.
#
Helen didn’t want to go to coffee hour, but her sister insisted.
“Come on. I have to talk to some of the women in our fellowship group, and you should
say hello before the next meeting. You set yourself apart far too much, and you can’t do that
anymore. Your children need you to be involved,” Sonya chided.
The smell of coffee wafted in from the fellowship hall. Small children chased each other,
fueled by the platters of cookies and apple juice, and parents let their toddlers wander, feeling
secure in the basement of the vast church.
Mido remained by her mother’s side while her brothers talked to their cousins. The four
boys had been close when the Kohs lived in Seoul, and over the years, there had been little
opportunity to see each other. They still read manwha and wanted to go to a comic book store
like old times after lunch, but the problem was that there wasn’t enough room in their weekend
schedules. Jiman had tutors coming over, and Bo and DH had mountains of homework to do
back home.
The two brothers-in-law conversed politely. They got along well enough, though Sonya’s
husband Yong-gil didn’t talk much to people who he didn’t grow up with, and he didn’t have
much interest in John, who could be more quiet than most. Streams of expensively dressed
women paid homage to Sonya. Chairman Mun talked to Pastor Kim, and soon after lunch, the

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 49
family would disperse to their separate lives.
#
“Koh Mido!”
Yun from school ran to Mido, her eyes open wide in surprise.
Neither Helen nor her sister Sonya had expected anyone to call out to Mido.
Sonya broke away from the women from her fellowship group to study the pretty girl
talking to her shy niece. The two girls were smiling at each other, and the sisters were mystified
and delighted.
Sonya approached the girl with the French braided hair and American sneakers.
“Are you a school friend of Mido’s?”
“Hello,” Yun bowed. “We are in the same homeroom. We’re friends at school,” she said,
bowing slightly again.
Mido grinned, smiling with her whole face, and Helen suddenly felt relief.
“Oh, how nice,” Sonya said, turning to her younger sister Helen, who was always worried
about her daughter. “Now you have a friend at church, too.” She touched the top of Yun’s glossy
head then patted her shoulder. The girls were of similar height, and both looked younger than
thirteen.
Yun’s mother, Nari, who was watching her daughter, came closer to the cluster of women
gathered around the famed elder Sonya Cho, who was married to Chairman Mun’s nephew
Yong-gil. Everyone at church knew the prominent family, and Nari had never spoken to Sonya or

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 50
anyone connected to them.
Nari grew self-conscious about her clothing. Her red bouclé dress with the dramatic black
sequin flowers along the hem had seemed stylish to her that morning but looked garish in
contrast to the tailored gray and beige suits of the Cho sisters, Sonya and Helen. Sonya was
reputed to be a kind and gracious person, but at church, she was always surrounded by a wall of
the most beautiful and popular women—mostly Ewha graduates with well-off husbands who
worked for conglomerates and had also gone to elite universities.
Nari bowed to the sisters and placed her hands on her daughter’s shoulders to direct her
away from the group.
“Yun-ah, we should go. Your father is waiting for us outside,” Nari said quietly, feeling
awkward. Her shoulder length hair fell in loose, permed waves. She was only a few years
younger than the sisters and had not gone to college, having barely finished high school. Nari
brushed her hair away from her face with her hands.
“Umma, can Mido come to our house for lunch? We can do homework together. Can you
tell Mido’s mother about the hagwon?”
The Cho sisters smiled at the girl’s mother, curious about which hagwon.
“Oh, Eagle Academy. It’s a small one, which some Korean-Americans founded about five
or six years ago. Are you looking for a hagwon for Mido? I don’t know if they’re taking new
students. There’s a long waitlist.”
“Oh? Eagle?” Sonya opened her eyes and smiled warmly. She turned her erect body ever
so slightly to create a barrier between her and the rest of the fellowship women, who were now

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 51
talking among themselves. They had no idea who Nari was. The church was large, and there
were many different groups in it. “I was told that Eagle is supposed to have a good English
program.”
“Yes. Everything is taught in English, and they also have a math teacher from M.I.T. that
Yun loves. Henry Teacher.” Nari found herself wanting the sisters to like her. “Have you heard of
M.I.T.? I mean, of course, you have—” Nari still had her hand on her daughter’s shoulder. Yun
already sensed that her mother was not like these women in suits and wanted to protect her
somehow.
Helen didn’t know what to do. She had never needed to get tutors for her children before,
but all three of them were overwhelmed by the volume and speed of learning at their new
schools.
“Mido, we’re supposed to have lunch at your aunt’s house today and then homework.”
Right away, Nari understood that her child’s invitation was being rejected, and she pulled
Yun back.
“Yun, let’s go. Your father—” She bowed slightly, smiled then turned to walk away.
“Goodbye, then,” Yun said, bowing and walked behind her mother whose pace
quickened.
Sonya nudged her sister.
“Are you crazy? Your kids need to start at Eagle Academy right away. I heard that it’s
really good, and that mother can help you.”
“I don’t know,” Helen replied. “It’s expensive, and I have three children.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 52
“Who cares what it costs? You have to pay whatever they ask.” Sonya whispered, looking
around. The four boys were standing by the table laden with glazed donuts, unaware of their
mothers’ plans.
“Your kids are behind. I know you might send the children to America for school, but you
might be sending the children to college here, and these school grades matter when they apply.
How in the world will they catch up without hagwons? You got that job at Lotte. Even if you
have to borrow the money, you have to get them a spot.”
“But—” Helen exhaled, wondering if her husband could rescue her from this
conversation, but he was listening to Sonya’s husband Yong-gil, who was droning on about a
new development. Only Mido stood by her, listening to everything and not saying a word. All
she knew was that no matter how hard she studied, school was just more difficult here because
everything was all in Korean and the math was years ahead of what she had learned in Australia.
“Hejin-ah,” Sonya addressed Helen by her Korean name, “Go to that nice mother and tell
her that Mido would love to go to her house for lunch. And get all three of your children into
Eagle Academy. Don’t be a fool. Your primary job is to take care of your children’s education.
You can’t be like our mother who didn’t give a damn if we grew up in a pig sty,” Sonya said,
upset at the memory of how much the three of them had struggled to have shelter, enough food to
eat, and, of course, to be able to attend school regularly. They had begged strangers to pity them,
and Sonya would never let that happen to anyone in her family while she was breathing.
#
“Yun-umma,” Helen called out, walking as quickly as she could to catch up to Yun’s mother
whose name she didn’t know. The woman could have been a deacon or elder, yet Helen had no

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 53
idea so she addressed her as the child’s mother only, hoping not to cause offense. Mido ran
behind her mother. When Yun turned, she pulled on her mother’s red sleeve.
“Mido! Are you going to come home with us?” Yun said, delighted.
Mido glanced at her mother, who nodded.
“You can use my books. I have a photocopier at home, so we can use the worksheets
together,” Yun said, knowing her mother would never disagree to this.
The girls huddled, and Helen covered her mouth, trying to gather the right words.
“Yun-umma, are you sure it would be alright and not an imposition? I wasn’t being
polite. We just returned from living overseas, and I don’t know how things work here very well.
Please forgive me if I’m saying the wrong thing. Everything changes so fast. It would be
wonderful if you could introduce our Mido and maybe my sons to the hagwon you mentioned. I
would be so grateful.”
Nari tilted her head. The woman was sincere. She had seemed standoffish and quiet. Nari
and her husband Joonho bristled at even the slightest affronts from rich educated people. Her
parents had been poor, and she had grown up in the country, hundreds of kilometers away from
Seoul. Though she and her husband had lots of money now, it was hard sometimes, even at
church, to talk to people who had gone to fancy colleges and rarely mixed with others. She and
Joonho owned three convenience stores and two buildings with a partner. They were simple
people, she knew that much, but she didn’t think college people were better than they were. Nari
took pride in the fact that her daughter Yun was one of the top ranked students in her middle
school and in the school district.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 54
Mido bowed and smiled at Yun’s mother who wore a pretty red dress.
“If you like, I can try to reach the president of Eagle Academy,” Nari offered. “You can
pick Mido up tonight, or if my husband’s driver is available, he can bring your daughter home.
After they finish their schoolwork, I’ll give them their meals.”
“Oh, that’s not necessary. You’re being so kind even to host her. I’ll come by later myself
and pick her up. I’ll need your number or address though.”
With both hands, Nari handed Helen her business card with her home address and
number. The card said “Director of White Tree K.K.,” the name of the holding company of their
three convenience stores. Nari didn’t do anything as its director, but it gave her pleasure to be
able to hand anyone a card of her own.
Helen didn’t have her business card from the duty-free store yet, and even so, it would
have only said “Associate.”
The women bowed to each other, not knowing if they would be friends or fellow mothers.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 55
1:5: 1992 "Eagle Academy"
5.
#
Eagle Academy was not a bad place to work. The teachers were well compensated and paid on
time, and the children were motivated. With only ten students per class, everyone was able to
practice writing, listening, and speaking, as well as solving difficult math and science problems.
The parents who paid dearly for after-school and weekend lessons witnessed notable progress—
not a guaranteed outcome for a hagwon even in Gangnam. Eagle Academy’s reputation had
spread, traveling to even Apgujeong, where Helen’s sister Sonya lived.
With long waiting lists, there was almost never any room for new students who were not
siblings of graduates. Sonya’s two boys were already enrolled at the best tutoring center near the

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 56
Hyundai Apartments and performed at the top of the class, so she hadn’t seen a need to change
anything for now. If there were any issues, however, Sonya would have barreled through any
closed doors for her sons with all the resources she could muster, and she told her younger sister
Helen, to push her way into this famed hagwon, only blocks from their house.
Tom Song, the American owner of the tutoring center Eagle Academy, had put up the
sheetrock himself. He and his Korean wife, Clara, had painted each wall and ceiling of the two-
floor space, which they had rented from Tom’s former classmate Renee Cha from Cornell, where
he got his bachelors’s degree in Political Science before getting his doctorate at Teachers
College.
Tom and Clara had divided the two hundred square meter space into six classrooms, one
common area, and two professional offices. Inspirational posters featuring famous inventors,
presidents, and writers lined the corridors. Everywhere you looked, Tesla, Edison, one of the
three Roosevelts—Theodore, Franklin, or Eleanor, and the likes of Shakespeare, Locke, or
Montaigne and their most celebrated quotations encouraged beleaguered minds to persist and
excel.
Though the owner of the hagwon was not a religious man, his wife Clara was, and she
had tacked up Bible verses which few could argue about love and forgiveness, and of course, the
well-known verses from St. Paul exhorting the runner to run his race swiftly. Tom thought the
verses might be good for the students, and indeed, Eagle Academy had flourished. In five years,
Eagle had become the most sought-after hagwon in the area without any advertising. Their
students outperformed their peers but more importantly, they wanted to study there.
Clara, who believed in the power of prayer, spent every evening praying for each of the

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 57
Eagle students by name and concern. The childless couple almost lived at the hagwon, and in the
evenings, Clara would go to her office and pray that the Lord would strengthen and bless the
work of their hands. Whether or not they were believers, she would write down the challenges of
each student and pray for them and their families,
The meeting with the Koh children was more or less a courtesy. Clara, who had always
liked Nari and her daughter Yun, had explained to them that there was no space at the hagwon.
However, she and Tom would be willing to interview the Koh children for the waiting list in case
an opening came up. One of the teachers had to assess Tom’s friend’s son anyway, so it wouldn’t
be a problem to have the Koh children be assessed at the same time.
In Tom’s crowded office, its white walls lined with waist-high bookshelves stocked with
study guides as well as Tom’s framed diplomas from Cornell and Teachers College, the owners
welcomed the three teenagers and their mother. The Koh children and Helen took their seats on
the two sofas separated by a low coffee table, and Tom and Clara sat on upholstered arm chairs
opposite each other.
Helen thanked them for the soda that Clara brought. She understood that her kids being
accepted was a long shot, but Sonya had instructed her to persist. You don’t give up until they
say no to your face at least three times, her sister had instructed.
“Well, Yun told me that Mido just had to be in her classes. I think she mentioned it to us
and all her teachers,” Tom said, and Clara nodded. They smiled at the girl, who was drinking her
soft drink with a straw.
“Mido, do you prefer to speak in English or Korean?” Clara asked in English.
Mido and her brothers were surprised, not thinking they had a choice here. She hesitated

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 58
then answered, “English, please.”
“Bo?” Tom faced the oldest child.
“English is easier for all of us,” Bo answered.
“Yup. Same,” DH said with a slight Australian accent, which he had been learning how to
tone down. He felt relief speaking English.
Tom was born in Hawaii then his father’s work in the military had taken them to Texas,
Alabama, South Carolina, and Missouri. Seeing the children fidget in their seats, he felt sorry for
them and realized he should not have taken the meeting. Even accepting Peter, Renee Cha’s son,
had required shuffling the classrooms to keep the roster at ten per class. There was no way Tom
couldn’t accept Peter, whose mother had been a close friend at Cornell and owned the building.
If it hadn’t been for Renee, Tom and Clara wouldn’t have been able to start Eagle. Peter was
already in the next room, talking with Sean Teacher, waiting for the assessment to begin. Clara
touched her left ear, which meant that Tom had to rush through this consultation since this
meeting didn’t count, and there was much left to do that day.
Tom glanced at Mido, and the little girl said nothing. Clara grew concerned.
There were advantages of moving around, but having done so much of it himself, Tom
knew what it was like. As a kid, relocating every few years had been a series of setting up tents,
taking them down, then putting them up again, with no one ever asking or warning him about
what would happen. People weren’t tents, and not everyone was built for such a life. An itinerant
childhood had perhaps made his older sister and him hardy, but the instability had been difficult
on their youngest sister and mother, who had not done as well. His father was a good man, but he
had demanded order and sacrifice as if nothing had happened even when the world had shifted

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 59
with each new home.
“How are you finding it here? It’s not easy, is it?” Tom asked. “How many places have
you lived?”
“They were born in New Jersey, and they’ve lived in Paramus, Seoul, Sydney, and now
we are back,” Helen smiled.
Clara raised her eyebrows.
“My goodness,” Tom said and studied the children’s faces.
“It’s okay,” Bo said. DH rolled his eyes comically at his brother. Mido smiled again. DH
was the comedian.
Tom had worked with children for a long time. After getting his doctorate, he had taught
social studies at public and private schools. He worked in admissions at three schools, including
Harvard-Westlake and Phillips Andover. In Los Angeles, he was set up on a blind date with
Clara, a foreign student who was studying at U.S.C., and fell in love. She had followed him from
Los Angeles to Andover, but she had wanted to live in Seoul to be with her family, and he had
wanted to try something new.
All the years working with students had taught him that children tolerated and forgave
their parents to an almost alarming degree. Rarely did a young child complain or express
discomfort about a parent.
Mothers hushed babies to stop crying, fathers would tell toddlers not to make a fuss, and
teachers made children sit still, and if a child refused, the teacher had to inform his mother.
Eventually, most children complied.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 60
Tom had learned this, too, from experience: When things were unacceptable, or
something went wrong, a child often blamed herself, so Tom wanted to take the child’s side. He
felt sorry for every parent, but he knew a child had been taught to hold things inside, and Tom
worried about his students.
“It must have been difficult for you, too,” Clara said to the mother.
Helen shook her head. It had been tougher for the children to leave each time, learn the
rules of a new teacher, sports team, and the codes of each school yard then leave again when the
company said to go. However, she was grateful that they could be together. The children had
been healthy.
Tom and Clara observed that Mido had not yet made a sound.
Clara smiled. “Mido?”
Helen leaned in, “She’s shy.”
The boys nodded and stared at their sister, feeling protective yet recognizing that this
interview mattered. Earlier that week, Helen had prepared them for this. They had worn their
Sunday clothes.
“It’s okay to be shy,” Tom said and smiled at her.
Mido held her breath. They were watching her, and she swallowed.
“I prefer to speak in English, too. I’d like to study with Yun here. I know I have a lot to
learn in Korea.” Mido took a breath. “I’m a hard worker. I promise to do all my Eagle
homework. Yun told me there is a lot.”
Clara and Tom laughed, and Helen closed her eyes and exhaled almost silently. Both Bo

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 61
and DH smiled, trying not to make a big deal of their sister’s comprehensive answer.
Helen handed Clara a folder, and she continued to speak in English, which felt strange,
but it allowed her to be less formal and less aware of status and that she was a supplicant though
she was the elder. Helen believed in her children and didn’t want to sell them as if they were a
pair of expensive shoes or an article of designer clothing.
“I brought their report cards from Sydney. They’ve done well. I don’t think their recent
grades on quizzes and test here reflect their abilities,” Helen said.
Clara nodded, looking pleased. She stood and faced the children.
“We have assessments for all three of you. Come with me. I’ll let Dr. Song speak with
your mother.” She smiled.
The children followed Clara to the next room to join Peter and Sean Teacher.
#
Tom watched them walk out, and Clara closed the door softly behind her.
“Your children are great.”
Helen smiled, not knowing what else to say as his face grew sober.
“You see, the problem is that I have a waiting list for new students, and even if the
assessments showed that they were an ideal fit for Eagle, I want you to know that it’s highly
unlikely, no, impossible, for us to accept them if something changed with our enrollment,
because you’re not looking for one spot but three. There are parents who have been waiting for
two years plus for a space to open. It’s really my fault for accepting this meeting, and I blame
myself. I would not want to mislead you. If you would rather that the children not take the

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 62
assessment, I do understand—”
Tom looked pained, not wanting to hurt the mother’s feelings. This was strangely the
hardest part of success— this need to say no often. On occasion, a parent thought he was
negotiating and offered more money, which was refused. If that didn’t work, the ones who were
used to getting their way would reach out to a more prominent parent, but the more they tried,
the more awkward the situation grew. Tom, a liberal American who had written his doctoral
dissertation on education reformers, repudiated status performance of any kind. The irony of him
owning a private tutoring center was not lost on him; but the longer he did this, the more he
believed that he could make a difference by being a useful educator. The children here needed his
care and protection, in some ways, much more than back in the States.
Helen folded her hands in her lap.
“They won’t mind the assessment. At least you’ll have their results. In case—” Helen
looked up, trying again. Sonya had said three times.
“How about just Mido? She’s such a good student, and it would mean so much—”
“The assessment isn’t long. I suppose there is no harm—” he interrupted, not wanting to
hear her plea. It was difficult to say no. Between Clara and him, she was the tougher one.
“They’ve moved around so much, and Bo and DH may take the suneung and apply to
colleges here. Of course, their grades have to be good, too. DH wants to study in America, but it
might be hard—”
Helen felt overwhelmed by the number of rungs on the ladder, and as usual, each child
would need different things. Abroad, their education had seemed more manageable and the

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 63
mother of three hadn’t felt so powerless and alone.
Tom picked up the family education forms Helen had filled out earlier. He scanned them
as she watched.
“Do the boys want to go to SNU like their father?”
“Well, that’s like wanting to go to the moon, I think.” She laughed. “Especially for
children who have lived overseas. The children haven’t talked about the specifics yet. I suppose
we will have to do that.”
Helen focused on the blue paper folder, which had held her job application only a few
weeks before.
“Bo, the eldest, is an excellent student, and I know he’s determined. He likes living in
Korea and may wish to live here, and for a career, the alumni networks are important.” She
shrugged. “I don’t know for certain but of my three children, I think he could do well here. I’m
not sure about Seoul National though. I mean, no one gets in there anymore—”
Tom smiled. Each year, Eagle sent at least one child to SNU, Korea, or Yonsei. The
wealthier students from international schools often chose to apply to the more selective
American universities, which Tom could almost always manage. Many Eagle students had been
accepted to the Ivies.
“The most selective schools here will take some of our students, but it will absolutely be
more difficult for your children to apply to Korean universities. They are American-born? If Bo
goes to high school here, he would have difficulty applying as an international student. It makes
more sense to send them to the U.S. if possible.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 64
Helen nodded, biting her lower lip.
“And DH, the middle one? Where does he want to go?”
“He just wants to play soccer.” Helen laughed. She felt most comfortable around her
middle child, who was funny. “I mean he’s a great student, but he’d rather be in Sydney, I think,
playing on his team.”
“Is his soccer very good?”
“Oh, yes. He’s a striker. He was midfield but switched. Though he’s such a fast runner
that he could play winger if needed. Two coaches said he could go professional. I’m sure they’re
exaggerating. That’s not likely of course. Kids get injured, and I don’t like it when the ball hits
his head.”
“Can DH go to a boarding school in the U.S.? I know coaches at some very good high
schools, who would consider a strong player.”
“DH is not just an athlete. He’s bright. He doesn’t have the recall facility and discipline
of his older brother but—”
Tom glanced at DH’s records. The boy was a great student with almost perfect marks, and
he had a long list soccer accomplishments, but notably Tom was impressed by the fact that he
had been voted captain in his school and club teams.
“I can make some calls. It’s only April, and school will start in September in the United
States, and if he’s as good as you say—” Tom didn’t tell Helen that he had served as an assistant
soccer coach at Andover when he worked in admissions. The thought of a great high school
soccer player having to grind it out in Seoul trying to get into a Korean university depressed him.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 65
“I would be grateful to you if you could help my children in any way. I don’t know if Bo
or Mido could live away from home, but DH has the social skills. Everyone likes him right away.
When he gets a job, I think he will be a great success. I’m bragging now. Please excuse me.”
Helen tapped her mouth twice with her left hand. Mary, Shin’s wife, was sending two sons to
Lawrenceville, so Helen had looked into the cost at one point, and it would have been impossible
to send all three. With just one though, they might be able to manage if she worked more hours
or if her sister Sonya could help.
“Your youngest—”
Helen prepared herself, and Tom spoke up quietly, seeing her anxious expression.
“Mido is quiet. I can sense that it took a lot for her to say what she did today, but she can
speak well and persuasively.”
“Oh,” Helen covered her mouth this time in surprise, realizing that Tom hadn’t been
fooled. He had seen through Mido’s brave performance in answering the question.
“I don’t mind when a child is quiet, but it makes life harder for her in some ways. I have
a younger sister like Mido. Artistic. Private. Perhaps too sensitive.”
Helen felt grateful to him for seeing her children. Whenever a teacher felt hopeful for a
child, the parent cannot help feeling less alone. Hope felt like a rare gift.
As she listened to him talk, Helen was trying to figure out how she could get spots for
them here. She had wanted them to be accepted before because her sister Sonya had said a good
hagwon was everything, but now, she wanted her children to learn from this man who seemed to
see her children for who they were even in such a brief time. It was obvious he cared about their

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 66
personalities, and this meant something to the mother. They had not yet spoken about money, and
of course, she was concerned about that, too.
“The fees,” she said.
“Ah, yes. Of course.” Tom gave her a yellow folder, which had a simple chart with the
courses taught. There would be one fee for everything. Once a child was accepted, he was
required to take every term, including holidays and breaks. The price was breathtaking. Her
entire salary would be needed cover the fees for all three children. She would have to make top
commissions to make this work.
Helen inhaled. Her husband would think it was preposterous, but she wanted this for
them suddenly more than anything else.
“Since you don’t have enough spots, would it be possible for them to just study the
Korean subjects and Mathematics? Since they already know English so well. Perhaps pay only
two-thirds of the fees. I don’t mean to—”
“It doesn’t work that way. I try not to make a kind of itemized option because students
need to learn in a comprehensive way. There’s English in math if there are word problems, for
example, and there’s Korean in English if the student reads about a subject matter in Korean but
discusses it in English. My instructors are bilingual, but they conduct their classes in English. I
try to integrate a curriculum that’s organic to develop critical thinking. This hagwon is more like
an experimental school in America. I wanted to create my own school, so my wife and I did so
here.”
Helen paid attention.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 67
“You see, a capable child who is sufficiently motivated can memorize and take practice
exams. You don’t need us for that. I’m hoping to help these young people become more
independent and thoughtful so they can solve problems, not just predict problems or be familiar
with problems—not just in school but in life. I know how it sounds, but it works, too.”
Mothers loved their children, but pressed for time, they wanted their children to get the
best possible results, but Tom couldn’t emphasize that. He had seen firsthand too many students
who went to the finest schools in the States and Korea, and he had learned a valuable principle of
education: Testing outcomes could never be the priority. Good results were just a natural
byproduct of strong learning and wise problem solving. Over and over again, Tom had observed
that learning was never linear.
What Tom knew and felt, he could defend well, so Helen could not help but want more
for her children.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 68
1:6: 1992 "Interview"
6.
#
Eight instructors worked at Eagle Academy full-time, and Sean Teacher was the favorite among
the mothers and the instructor that the students talked most about at home.
“Sean Teacher said this. Sean Teacher said that. Sean Teacher wore funny hats during a
lesson to illustrate figures of speech.” He wrote them personalized notes on monogrammed
stationery and took the students on field trips to musicals and museums and listened carefully to
them. He taught math and English, which was unusual, and he and another popular instructor,
Henry Teacher, hosted a culture club to discuss films and novels they considered masterpieces.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 69
Except for his glasses, Sean Morgan resembled the actor Sidney Poitier, and unlike the
other teachers who dressed casually, he wore a beautiful suit and tie to the hagwon regardless of
the season or occasion. A summa cum laude graduate of Yale, he had studied physics and
European History then went for graduate studies at M.I.T. After a year, he left the doctoral
program because he didn’t see the point of it. After loafing for a few months back home in
Philadelphia, Sean found a job teaching calculus at the Collegiate School, a boys’ school in
Manhattan, then fell in love with a Mark, a Korean American banker visiting New York from
Seoul. Sean followed Mark to a new country and found that he liked their life in the fast-
changing city and traveling in Asia when he and Mark could get away.
Sean had been a Whiffenpoof, and if the students were very good, he would sing “Danny
Boy,” and even the other instructors would stop everything to listen. Everyone was a little in love
with Sean, and he was the highest paid instructor at Eagle Academy. He worked hard to earn his
high salary by forsaking everything except for work and his boyfriend.
When the hagwon owner Clara Song brought the Koh children to Sean’s classroom, Sean
was talking to Peter Son, a prospective student at Eagle who had recently arrived from England
and was the son of the landlord, Renee Cha.
Sean waved them in and pointed to the seats in the front row. The Koh siblings stared at
Peter, and Peter smiled but didn’t say anything.
“Did Peter start?” Clara asked Sean.
“We were waiting for you. How are you feeling, Peter?” Sean asked.
The boy shrugged. His jet lag had passed, but he still felt tired. He perked up when he
saw the other three kids. Seeing their resemblance, he figured they were related. The two boys

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 70
were almost identical, except that one was taller and the other wore glasses. The boys had longer
hair than most kids from Seoul. The girl wore her hair in two braids. They were dressed nicely.
“That’s my team!” DH shouted, pointing to Peter, looking happy. “I always wanted one
of those. Where did you get that? I never saw that here.”
Peter looked down at his Arsenal Football Club jersey. He had drawers full of them.
“Wait! What? Is that number 9? That’s my player. Oh, man! Is Alan Smith your guy? I’m
a striker!” DH rushed toward Peter, and Bo shook his head. Mido had not seen DH this excited in
a while.
“Hey. Yeah, Arsenal is my team,” Peter said with a British accent.
“Well, that’s settled,” Sean said smiling. “How about some assessments, and then you
fellows can talk soccer.” He handed each of the four teenagers a different assessment packet.
“All in, this should take about an hour. I will call out at the thirty minute mark when you
should switch between the two sections, and call time to put down your pencils.”
Sean examined each student’s face and raised his eyebrows. The students nodded, and the
four picked up their pencils and opened the assessment packets.
The instructor gathered his own papers and checked his watch. He had just finished
interviewing Peter, who would head to Andover in a few months. He was a good student and
quite capable but not a happy kid. For two years, he had been studying at King’s College, a boys’
school outside of London but had not liked it much. He had been boarding with a Korean
homestay guardian in New Malden and commuting to Wimbledon each day. Although he could
manage the work and sports, it had been difficult for him to make friends and adjust. When a few

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 71
boys on his soccer team had teased him too much and didn’t include him on the crucial plays,
Peter had run away to London where he roamed the streets and went missing for almost twenty-
four hours. His mother, Renee Cha, a divorced heiress of a mid-tier conglomerate, got on a plane
and did her best to sort things out.
During break, she brought her only child to Tom Song, a classmate of hers from Cornell,
and it had been his suggestion to send him to America.
Peter had applied to five boarding schools in New England and been accepted to
Andover, Hotchkiss, and Lawrenceville. Renee had preferred Andover since Tom knew the
administration well and could guide them in the process. Peter just wanted to leave King’s
College, where he didn’t fit in, and he hoped America would be better. It had been embarrassing
for him to tell his mother that he hadn’t made close friends in two years. He hadn’t gone into
detail about what his teammates had done, which wasn’t anything serious, but their joking and
relative detachment had made him feel lousy. The homestay guardian, a competent woman, was
uninterested in him.
It was rare that Sean had to assess four expatriate kids, but he felt at ease in their
presence. Already, DH had shouted across the room at the sight of a sports jersey, and Peter had
cheered up at meeting another Arsenal fan. Normally, it took a few weeks before Sean could
make his native Korean students relax, and he realized that he had missed this about not being at
home.
An hour passed in no time, and the students put down their pencils.
The Koh children looked horrified.
“That bad, huh?” Sean said to DH, who said nothing but shook his head like he was

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 72
disgusted.
“Brutal, well, I guess we’re not getting in,” DH shrugged and reached across to pat his
sister on the back. “Sorry, Mido. Your brother is dumb as rocks.”
Bo shook his head, too. “I can’t believe I’m saying this, but I think I might be stupid in
this country.”
Peter laughed at their joking then frowned, seeing that Mido was crying.
“Oh, what’s the matter, sweetheart?” Sean got up from his chair and went to her desk to
pick up her assessment. She hadn’t finished the math section. “Oh, I see. That’s ok.” He smiled
at her. “I wouldn’t have been able to do all of this at your age. We have to make the assessment
like this because some students here are several grades ahead. Unnecessarily, I might add.”
Sean picked up her brothers’ papers, and it was the same. The three had finished the
English section without making any mistakes, but both DH and Mido weren’t able to finish the
math sections. Bo had answered everything, but there were errors in the proofs toward the end.
Sean picked up Peter’s assessment, and everything was completed with only a few
mistakes.
“This is why I hate proctoring,” he said out loud. “Everything is fine, folks. Take a deep
breath, Mido. C’mon.” Sean inhaled dramatically and exhaled. He had done some yoga in New
York, and when he tutored, often, he taught his students meditation techniques, hoping his
students would be calmer and less serious.
Mido copied his breathing. It was easier to settle down in the presence of her brothers.
The other boy seemed fine.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 73
“Let’s discuss this assessment, shall we?” Sean said, and right away, the two Koh
brothers and Peter dove in, to relay their experiences.
The instructor couldn’t go over anything in particular because each had different
assessments, but Sean wanted to gauge their level of ability and how they would manage tough
examination situations. Beyond the substance of an examination, much of a child’s competence
was psychological, and consequently, he had to build them up to face anxiety-provoking
scenarios. This was why meditation techniques were not unhelpful.
Testing conditions had to include irritation, expected disturbances, structural and random
interference. Sean believed there should be conflict and anxiety in testing as in life. After a
while, his Eagle students could handle nonsense in any testing environment: coughing, gum
cracking, truck sounds, ambulance sirens, breakups, unrequited crushes, unfair proctors who
couldn’t tell time, and even strange odors. Once, he brought in a container of blue cheese to
make his Korean students adapt to an unfamiliar scent.
It was hard to explain to his friends from college or grad school what he was doing in
Seoul besides living with his soulmate. His friends in America thought hagwons were institutions
of child abuse, stealing time away from play, athletic endeavors, social lives, and free time to
daydream. He had heard all the arguments against them. It was true that private tutoring could
reproduce upper middle classes at the expense of the poor or middle class and perpetuate social
inequality. American friends and former colleagues believed that taken to the extreme, private
tutoring perpetuated oligarchies, dynasties, and made children dependent on more teaching when
a child should struggle independently and fail often to become stronger problem solvers. There
was merit to this, he thought.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 74
Before becoming a hagwon instructor, Sean would have agreed with them without
blinking, but he couldn’t believe all of that anymore. Now he knew too many children to break
down the world into reductive categories of rich kids are bad, poor kids are needy, and middle
class kids are normal—none of that reasoning would suffice in the face of real children who had
individual personalities and learning styles.
In America or Europe, most students would never go to another school after a full day of
regular school, but it was par for the course here. Few students skipped hagwon. There were
certainly students who didn’t want to attend hagwons, but there were as many who sought refuge
in them. The students at Eagle didn’t want to go home. They liked it here. Eagle was a haven
away from parents, students they didn’t like from school, and a place where they could ask
questions and learn at their own pace. It was true that the Eagle students did better in school; but
it was also true that the Eagle students were mentally stronger because they felt they had room to
look foolish and someone caring to guide them in case they couldn’t ask their teachers. What was
cruel, Sean believed, was that every child could not have such needed attention. However, it
didn’t make sense to him to get rid of something good because not everyone could have it.
The Koh children were obviously bright, and in a strange way, the three got along well
despite their differences. They spoke English with an Australian accent and were native Korean
speakers. The parents must have worked on it. Hearing the four students speak English and
Korean made Sean miss living in New York, where it was possible to hear a jumble of different
languages and accents. Every year, he thought about going back, but Mark wasn’t ready, and
Sean would not leave without him.
Sean smiled at Mido.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 75
“I might have flunked out in Korea at your age. I’m not being modest. I’m brilliant at
math. The way they teach math here would decimate most children in America. It’s sort of
absurd.” He laughed. “I mean, it’s doable because obviously, many of the the kids can do it here,
China, Japan, Taiwan, Singapore, and elsewhere but it’s just not the focus in the West. Especially
in the States. But it doesn’t mean that American kids can’t do it. Brains just have to be exposed
to unfamiliar knowledge. None of this is actually difficult for you. You have the necessary
aptitude. However, this material at your grade level is just unfamiliar. Remember that unfamiliar
is distinct from impossible or even difficult.”
This was a speech Sean had to give often, especially to bright students, who could be
discouraged when they didn’t do something well quickly.
Mido tilted her head. She’d never heard a teacher talking like this.
“I really tried,” she offered. “I’m sorry.” Sean Teacher was nice, and Mido found herself
crying again.
“Oh, dear.” Sean exhaled. “It’s not important, Mido. This is an assessment. We’re just
trying to see what you need to know. These papers don’t show anything really except for what
you have learned so far. If you have done the work you were asked to do, and if you don’t know
something new, then it isn’t your fault. What you choose not to learn is certainly your
responsibility, but it’s also our responsibility as teachers to explain things, to share what we
know. Right? How can I teach you what I know unless I know what you need? That’s why we
have assessments.” He trained his large amber-colored eyes at the girl’s teary face.
Embarrassed, Mido smiled and sat up straight.
“Yun said Eagle doesn’t have a lot of room, and she hasn’t seen any new families here.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 76
Especially anyone with bad marks,” she said.
Bo turned to Mido and also noticed DH staring at their sister in wonder. This was the
most Mido had ever said to a stranger.
“I wanted to study here with Yun,” she added.
“Ah, yes. Yun Kim is your friend. Right,” Sean touched his forehead as if to jog his
memory. “Dr. Song mentioned that. Did you know that her name in my class is Yvonne?” He
said with a smile.
Mido shook her head, curious about her friend.
“Yun’s Western name was between Yvonne and Yvette. She picked Yvonne.”
Mido nodded.
“Do you want another name?”
She shook her head no, unable to imagine another one. The two brothers shook their
heads, too. All of them had been asked this many times before.
“Cool,” Sean said. “Bo, DH, and Mido.” He paused. “Yeah, your names are easy to say
and spell. Lots of people get my name wrong.”
All four students turned to him, not understanding.
“People say “seen” instead of “shaw-n.”
The students nodded. It occurred to them that even Americans could get a Western name
wrong.
“Sean is the Irish form of the name John. My grandfather was apparently Irish.” He

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 77
laughed. “I’ve never met him.”
“That’s our dad’s name. John. His Korean name is Yohan, which is the Korean version of
John.” DH volunteered.
“Yohan is John like Sean?” the teacher repeated. “I didn’t know that. I just learned
something cool.”
DH nodded. “Yup.”
“It’s Bo-hun, Dae-hun, and Mido,” Bo said. “In Paramus, my kindergarten teacher started
calling me Bo, and it stuck. Even my parents call me Bo.”
“DH is short for Dae-hun, but I used to play baseball, and my coach used to say, DH was
for designated hitter,” DH added.
Peter looked up. “Nice.”
“Soccer is my game, but when I can, I do track and field and baseball,” DH said and
glanced at Peter, who nodded in approval. “So, Sean Teacher, I’m the jock,” DH pointed to
himself, “Bo is the brains. Mido is our baby sister who is just awesome. She’s the nicest of the
three of us.” DH patted his sister on the back gently, relieved that she wasn’t crying anymore.
An only child, Peter felt wistful at how clear DH sounded about who they were in
relation to each other. He didn’t know which category he would fit into, and no one had ever said
it like that. He was good at school and sports, but at King’s, he couldn’t figure out the others and
get into a group. The kids there were different than his classmates at Seoul Foreign School where
he had gone before, and even there, he hadn’t quite fit in. When he was younger, he had asked
his mother for siblings, but his parents had not gotten along, and after their divorce, his mother

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 78
Renee said she was too old to have any more children. She had no interest in remarrying, so there
wouldn’t be any step-siblings, either.
Sean raised his hand and pointed to Peter while staring at DH.
“Peter is a soccer player, too. Winger, right?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Peter is going to Andover in Massachusetts in the fall.”
“Wow,” DH exclaimed. “So cool.”
“Have you thought of applying?” Sean asked.
DH rubbed his thumb and index finger together and raised his eyebrows.
“Takes a lot of dough.”
“But you’d go if you could be admitted?” Sean asked.
“Sure. Who wouldn’t? I could play a different sport each season and not study for the
suneung. Man, that would be amazing. Dude,” DH turned to Peter. “You are so lucky.”
Peter shrugged, not having thought of himself that way. It had always been understood
that he would attend university in America as his parents had. His father had gone to Princeton
and his mother, Cornell.
Sean nodded and looked thoughtful. He gathered the assessments into a neat stack. He
picked up his red pen.
The Koh children and Peter looked around, not knowing what would happen next.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 79
“Any questions?” Sean asked.
The teenagers shook their heads.
“Listen, I need to take a careful look at these. Go on, get out of here. Your mothers are
waiting for you.”
Sean winked at them.
“Thank you, Sean Teacher,” Bo said first, then his brother and sister followed to thank
him. Peter said thank you last.
“The pleasure was mine. And I hope to see each of you again, Bo, DH, Mido, and Peter.”
The children liked him, and before walking out, they tucked the chairs in neatly, hoping
to make a good impression.
#
After Sean graded the assessments, he told Tom and Clara to accept the Koh kids.
“There’s no room at the inn,” Tom said.
“They would be excellent for discussions in class. I can make them sort of like teaching
assistants. The little one needs more confidence. I can work on that,” Sean said.
“There would be major complaints if the waiting list parents found out,” Clara said.
“Peter is only here until the fall before he heads to the States, so there will be room for at
least someone in DH’s grade,” Sean said. “It’s a shame though.”
Clara looked at him quizzically.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 80
“DH would be better off going to boarding school in the States.”
“I don’t think they can afford it,” Clara said.
“I can talk to Peter’s mother,” Tom said, who knew Renee was worried about Peter’s
troubles at King’s. There was little Renee wouldn’t do to help her son. “If Peter went to Andover
with a kid like DH, he might be better off. They’re both soccer players, and DH seems like an
easy kid who would be much happier studying in the U.S..”
Sean shrugged. “Ok, Dr. Song, do your behind the scenes prime ministering. No matter
what, my vote is for all three of them to be accepted. It would be good for the existing students to
have these native speakers here, and I don’t know why, but I think these kids need this.”
Clara made a face, worried.
Tom considered his star teacher’s evaluation. Sean was never wrong.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 81
1:7: Summer 1993 "Absence"
7. Summer 1993
For Mido and Yun, third year of middle school was a major improvement, because they had a
new homeroom teacher. No one missed Mr. Na. Mrs. Lim, the eighth grade homeroom teacher
also taught them Korean. Long straight hair framed her oval face with small black eyes, rimmed
with brown eyeliner. Often, she wore her hair down but now and then pinned it away from her
face with a simple barrette or pushed it back with a discreet headband. Once in a while, she
would pull her hair up in a casual bun that managed to look artistic. Yun and Mido admired Mrs.
Lim, a young woman who had been teaching for only a few years. There were rumors that she

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 82
had been a child actor, which were not confirmed, but somehow, because she was so attractive
and chic, the students imagined her background as otherworldly.
The class spent an unusual amount of time discussing Mrs. Lim’s personal life, which no
one knew much about, and since she was so appealing and warm, they wanted to one day imitate
her bohemian style clothing—collarless white blouses, dark V-neck sweaters, and a rotation of
pencil skirts worn with dark tights and black loafers. Her clothes were just classically tailored
clothes which Mrs. Lim had bought as an undergraduate at Ewha, which she could not yet afford
to replace since she and her husband, a fellow teacher, were saving for a larger place to live for
when they started a family.
Mido and Yun admired Mrs. Lim’s ability to discuss old writers of classic literature with
a kind of ease and knowing. Almost nothing ever ruffled their homeroom teacher, and even if a
student didn’t know an answer, she had a way of making the student feel fine about it. It was
admirable how she inspired the tired students to do all the reading and to talk about old poems
and stories, which they had to know well for future standardized exams.
That morning, Mrs. Lim’s hair was worn in loose waves set with rollers, making the
young, slim woman, appear even more glamorous than usual. Mido was curious as to what Yun
would think about Mrs. Lim’s new style and was disappointed to see that her friend’s desk was
vacant again. For three days, Yun had not been in class. Twice, she phoned Yun’s house, and no
one had picked up.
The Koh family had been in Seoul for about a year and a half. Mido liked middle school.
She had Yun, and not having had a friend before, Mido realized how much better things could be
with one. Even Mr. Na’s class had become manageable, because Yun had advised her how to act,

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 83
and Mido had become a better student, observant, prepared, and able to anticipate patterns. The
two girls had decided that with a teacher like Mrs. Lim, school could be a wonderful place, and it
did not seem so terrible that her brothers were so occupied with their own lives that neither had
time for her.
In his second year of high school, Bo studied night and day. A testament to Bo’s
remarkable efforts and the tutors at Eagle Academy, Bo had the necessary grades and high class
rank to be able to take the exams for Yonsei University. He could not apply for Seoul National,
which was reserved for the top student, but his rank was close enough that his advisors thought
even a school like Yonsei might be possible, especially if he applied for Sociology, which was a
subject Bo wanted to study.
Bo couldn’t sleep much. There was no time for that. In the evenings, when he worked,
Mido studied as well, but she could never stay awake as long as he could. Their mother Helen
did her best to stay up with Bo, but even she had to turn in because she had her job the next day,
not to mention, and fix breakfast for the family.
Home wasn’t the same without DH who was heading into his sophomore year at
Andover. The family believed that a private foundation that Eagle Academy had a relationship
with had given him a merit scholarship, allowing him to go directly to Andover only four months
after the Koh family had returned to Seoul. He had repeated freshman year at boarding school
with Peter, the boy he had met at Eagle Academy. Fast friends, DH and Peter planned to bunk
together for their second year and played on the varsity soccer team.
After another day without Yun at school, Mido walked to Eagle by herself, where she
would do her homework and have her lessons. It was difficult to concentrate at hagwon because

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 84
she wondered about her friend. Even Sean Teacher’s jokes seemed less funny without Yun
laughing at them.
As class ended, the students trickled out, and Sean handed Mido her graded assignments.
“You did a terrific job. Again.” Sean smiled as he returned his pencils into the case.
Mido smiled, nodded her thanks then turned to leave.
“You’re sad about Yun.”
Mido looked blankly, not understanding.
“It won’t be the same without her.”
“Hmm?”
“She’s going to California. I just heard from Dr. Song. Isn’t that why you have the long
face, my young friend?” Sean asked, half realizing his faux pas. From her stunned expression, he
could tell she hadn’t known.
Mido stood there, though she had to go to her next class, which would start soon. Jane
Teacher was understanding when you were late for going to the restroom, but there was no
reason for her to be late now.
“You’re upset,” Sean said, alarmed. “Oh my.” He got up and closed the door.
“Sit. Sit. I’ll talk to Jane.”
“What’s going on?” Sean asked. “You can’t learn if you’re upset. Oh, my dear Mido.”
She tried to be calm. There was no way for her to explain what this would mean. They
were supposed to have a birthday party together in October. She had never had something like

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 85
that before, to have a friend and to have one born within a week. Everyone liked Yun, and she
had chosen her to have lunch with, to go to hagwon, and in church, they always sat together. The
three days had felt unbearable because she didn’t know what had happened. The worst she had
imagined was that Yun could be at a hospital and that was why no one answered the phone, but
there was something worse still. Her friend could move to America, thousands of miles away,
and Mido did not believe she could have another friend. No one like Yun. In her time in Seoul,
Mido had not made another friend. There had been no need. She had the best friend a person
could have at the whole school.
Mido felt selfish to think these things but she didn’t want to go back to the way things
were before, where she had to always pay attention to everything so things wouldn’t fall apart.
DH was also gone, and Bo was busy. She could not say these things to anyone. Yun would have
understood and gotten it out of her.
Mido swallowed and got up. She picked up her bag and bowed to her teacher.
“You can’t go yet. Here.” He handed her the packet of tissues. “Listen. I know. It’s hard
to make friends, right?”
She nodded and the tears started.
Sean looked at the little face and the childish braids. Her eyes crinkled with worry and
sadness. He patted her back the way he had seen her brothers do. The girl was devastated, and he
had never seen her this emotional. Still, the child had so few words.
“She’s your best friend.”
Mido nodded.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 86
“I’ve never had one before,” Mido said, wiping her face.
Sean covered his mouth, wanting to cry himself. He knew what it was like to feel this
way. Even though he’d had many friends growing up, not everyone had known about him being
gay. In college, he was out and had friends, but it wasn’t until he fell in love with Mark, he felt
he had someone who could read his thoughts and be with him in silence. He sat with her and
gave her another tissue.
“This is terrible. I’m sorry, Mido. Living can be painful. I can tell you that things will get
better, and I want you to believe me, because they can. However, I know you can still suffer right
now, and no one will understand exactly how you feel. I’m sorry I broke the news to you in such
a careless way. I should have checked. What can I do?”
Mido shook her head, feeling badly for him. It wasn’t his fault. In a way, she was relieved
that Yun wasn’t at a hospital.
“Is she already gone?” Mido asked, unable to believe that her friend could move without
saying goodbye. However, she had moved away from Paramus and Sydney without much notice
or fanfare, never thinking that anyone could care about her absence. No matter what though, if
Mido had been the one to have to leave, she would have told Yun right away and couldn’t
understand what had happened.
Sean waved his hand no. “I don’t think she’s gone yet. I don’t know actually. I was just
told she wouldn’t be coming in. I was going to write her a note just in case. I was going to ask
Dr. Song for her address.”
Mido was clutching her school bag close to her chest. Jane Teacher would have started
her lessons. Mido knew these lessons were expensive, and her parents had to give up things so

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 87
Bo and she could attend hagwon. It would be wrong to sit here and feel sorry for herself.
Sean lifted his hands as if he had a bright idea.
“You will write to her. In English. It would be good for her and you, too. I will get an
address. I promise.”
Mido stood up. She bowed then exited.
#
The next morning, she got up earlier than usual and went to Yun’s house.
She walked the eight blocks down the main shopping thoroughfare then took a sharp left.
Past the furniture store, konditorei, and vegetable market, there was a cluster of high rises, and
Yun lived in Tower 6. The security guard recognized her and let her take the elevator.
On the second buzzer ring, Yun’s mother, Nari, opened the door.
“Mido, what brings you here? It’s so early. Are you alright?”
The girl burst into tears, relieved that they hadn’t left yet.
“Oh, what’s the matter?” Nari tapped her forehead. “Oh, of course. You heard. Come.
Come inside.”
Mido removed her shoes and put on the pair of red house slippers she wore at Yun’s
house. Nari had bought them just for her because she’d wanted Mido to visit often.
Nari guided the girl to the gilt edged sofa. Mido breathed in the scents of Yun’s house—a
mixture of food aromas and Yun’s father’s lime-scented cologne. From floor to ceiling, the living
room wall was mirrored, and if you stood in the hallway with a closet door open, you could see

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 88
seven or eight images of yourself. Nari wore a pink cotton apron over her burgundy wool dress,
its hem trimmed in fur. Somehow, in this living room, designed like a miniature palace, Nari’s
extravagant clothes made sense.
“Yun is upset, too. She’s in her room resting. I was going to phone your mother next
week.” Nari wrapped her head with her hands. “When I was her age, I would have been thrilled
to live in America. I don’t know how I raised such a brat. No doubt, it’s all my fault. I thought
she would go there for school. I mean later. For college. She’s in there sleeping. She was crying
all night.”
Mido wanted to defend her friend. Yun was the most generous and brave person she had
ever known. She was the furthest thing from being a brat.
“Mido, you should go to school. You don’t want to be late. Mrs. Lim will be upset.” Nari
stood up. She had slept poorly for several nights in a row. Her life felt like a weird dream.
“May I talk to Yun?”
“Have you had breakfast? I have some bread. I can put jam on it and wrap it for you.”
Nari looked exhausted. She wore no makeup, and her dyed auburn hair was gathered
loosely with a fabric tie. Mido had never seen Yun’s mother without black eyeliner or dark pink
lipstick.
Mido didn’t know what else to do.
“Be a good child, Mido. You should go to school. I will tell Yun that you came for her.”
Mido looked up at her again, unable to ask further. She tried to smile at the tired mother,
suddenly feeling sorry for the grown up. From all their moves, Mido knew that her mother had to

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 89
work even harder than her father during each move.
“She is resting, Mido.”
The girl went to the foyer to put on her shoes. She opened the front door but turned when
she heard her friend’s voice.
“Is she gone?” Yun stepped out of her bedroom, her face red, bruised and swollen.
“Yun!”
Yun’s hair was loose around her shoulders. She was still in her long flannel nightgown.
Shocked, Mido covered her mouth. She didn’t know how her face had become like that.
Nari opened the front door.
“You better go, dear. You can see Yun next week. She will return to school.”
“Yes, ma’am.” Mido tried to have courage and smiled at her friend. “If you want me to
bring your homework, I can do that.” She wanted to stay there but Mrs. Lim would notice her
lateness. Mido wanted to tell Yun about their homeroom teacher’s new wavy hair style and how
lunch had been so dull without her but it seemed wrong to even whine about such things when
her friend had been hiding in her room like that. Someone had hit her, and Mido remembered
what Yun had said the time Mr. Na hit her with a ruler that Yun’s parents thought teachers should
punish a disobedient child.
“I missed you,” Mido blurted out and waved goodbye.
Yun nodded, and for the first time, she was the one who wasn’t talking.
#

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 90
After church services, Helen heard about Yun’s family from her sister Sonya. Yun’s father’s
business partner had sold their three convenience stores without his knowledge and signed
promissory notes, pledging their building as the asset. The partner was nowhere to be found.
Yun’s father had family in Orange County, and they planned on moving to California in August.
Helen didn’t understand how this could happen.
“The partner was Yun’s father’s best friend from high school. He was in charge of the
money because he had the initial investment capital while Yun’s father was the one who did the
work but apparently they bought the building together. The partner had a gambling problem and
he borrowed money from banks and some bad people. After he sold everything, he left more
debts and then ran away. Yun’s father has no idea where he went.”
Helen leaned in closer, not wanting to be disturbed by the other women, who wanted to
speak with her sister. They stood below the staircase near the church auditorium, with Helen’s
back against the crowds to keep Sonya for herself.
“Do you know these people?” Helen asked.
“Yun’s family? Of course not,” Sonya said, surprised. “I never even spoke to Yun’s
mother until Mido became friends with the child.” She caught herself sounding haughty and felt
ashamed. It seemed uncharitable. “Yun’s mother seems like a very nice woman. My husband and
the Chairman were talking about the scandal during dinner last week, and I didn’t realize who
they were talking about until he mentioned the stores, and it occurred to me that it must be
Mido’s friend’s family.”
Helen nodded, not knowing what to say. It must have been terrible for Yun’s family, yet
selfishly, she felt disappointed that Mido’s only friend was moving away.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 91
“Apparently, they lost everything and have just enough to head to California. The partner
stuck them with tax problems too, and the company that bought the stores had all the legal
documents in place, so there’s nothing Yun’s father can do. The Chairman said the whole matter
is sordid and you can’t trust weak people with addiction problems.”
The two sisters nodded, each recalling their own parents who had gambled and fled,
leaving them behind because they had become a burden.
“The Chairman said it was featured in the major real estate paper, so all the other papers
carried the story. Anyway, now they have to go to America. Can you imagine starting again at
their age. I don’t think they can speak English. That poor woman.”
“Yun’s mother has always been so nice to Mido. I was grateful for that,” Helen said.
“Mido is heartbroken.”
“Are you sending her to Sydney during vacation?”
Helen nodded, relieved that Mido could go to her uncle’s, where she could spend time
with her young cousins.
“Kenny called last week. The children are so excited, and Mido can go to Lily’s school.
She got permission.”
“I like Lily. She’s always thinking. Kenny is lucky to have her,” Sonya said. The sisters
had not known what to make of it when their younger brother Kenny migrated to Australia on his
own then married a White Australian girl, but things had worked out well for him there, and Lily
had turned out to be a wonderful sister-in-law. She was devoted to Kenny and their four children.
She worked in the bursar’s office at an all girls’ school.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 92
“Have you seen Yun’s mother at services? I looked for them. Yun usually sits with Mido,
but she wasn’t at their pew this morning.”
“She can’t show her face, I think,” Sonya said.
The sisters said nothing else, understanding how things could get that way.
#
On Monday evening, Helen picked up a jam roll cake at a bakery near the Lotte Hotel. Mido had
told her that this was Yun’s favorite.
Nari was home alone. She accepted the cake and smiled, ushering Helen into the living
room.
“Mido was here the other day.”
“Oh?”
“Yes, she came by to check on Yun. I thought that was nice.” Nari offered Helen tea.
“I’m sorry to drop by without any notice. I won’t be long. I have to get home and make
dinner. I just heard you’re going away, and I was sad to hear it. Mido has never had a friend like
your daughter before. Yun is very special. I wanted to thank you for always welcoming her to
your home.”
Helen didn’t want to say any more. Seeing Nari’s anguished face, Helen reached for the
woman’s hands and held them for a moment then let go.
Their daughters were friends, but Helen and her sister Sonya kept themselves apart from
most people. They moved in different circles. Nari tried to keep herself from crying.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 93
“I don’t want to go to America, but it’s hard to stay here. My husband thinks it will be
good for Yun. There’s only three of us, so we’ll stay at my sister-in-law’s in Orange County. I
don’t speak English. Not like you. You’re so smart and can even get a job at a luxury store. I
have an empty gourd for a head. I just know how to spend money, and if I had been a better wife,
then maybe—” Nari could not continue speaking and clamped her mouth shut. She fidgeted with
the tissue box on the mirrored coffee table.
Helen looked away, feeling terrible for the woman. She knew what it was like to decamp
and move somewhere else though of course it was different when your husband still had a job.
“You’re going to be fine. I’ve moved a great deal over the years, and each time, it was
difficult, but I focus on my children and husband. Within each country, we moved several times,
too. Sometimes, more than once in a year because apartments cost too much, and we had to
watch expenses. I wish life could be easier. It’s difficult, isn’t it?”
“Yun is not herself. We have only one. She was elected the head of the class again this
year, and I think, she could have done so well here. We thought she could go to university in
America one day but not like this. In an American high school, she’s going to be last at
everything.”
“No, no. You can’t think like that. Children are good at adapting. I worry more about
you.” Helen laughed. “But I know you’ll be able to manage. You’ll see.”
“I didn’t know you were so nice.”
Helen raised her eyebrows.
“You and your sister are so smart and went to good schools. I’m just a country girl who

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 94
married a bumpkin. Yun’s father made a lot of money then he lost it all. It was that terrible man.”
Nari’s mouth grew firm. “I can’t talk about it. I hope he burns in hell.” She had surprised herself
and looked up. “I’m sorry. I shouldn’t say such things. No matter what, I must not hate my
enemies, right?”
Helen nodded, trying to understand. She had never been in this situation before. Her
father had taught her not to judge people if you could help it. You never knew what they were
going through. Perhaps he needed to say this since he was a gambler who drank and never kept a
job. He had not wanted her judgment.
“My father and mother never had much, and whenever they did, they would throw it
away. For nothing. They never planned for next week. It was always for today. They played
cards.” Helen shrugged. They were long dead, and she wasn’t angry with them anymore. This
was something she and Sonya never discussed with others.
“I didn’t know.”
“It’s shameful to discuss. But my sister and me, you have the wrong idea. We had
nothing growing up except our parents’ debts and messes, and no one thought our family was
any good. But my younger brother who lives in Sydney, my older sister, and I still got through
school, and we’re fine. The church helped us when our parents abandoned us. They died young
such a long time ago. When we were young students. Anyway—”
Nari glanced at Helen and felt foolish.
“Yun-umma, you are going to be okay. You’re healthy and strong. You’re still young. I’ve
heard California is a wonderful place. You’ll make money again. More than anything, Yun is a
bright and beautiful girl with such a big heart. Mido wasn’t herself until she met Yun. I’m here

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 95
because your daughter does you credit.”
Nari wiped her face with a tissue. The mascara had run, smudging the hollows of her
large eyes. She looked lovelier in a way. Helen had righted a piece that had fallen out of place in
the past week just by telling her something about her life.
“I heard you’re not leaving until the end of the summer. During break, I was going to
send Mido to Sydney, and I wonder if maybe Yun would like to go. Improve her English. My
brother works for Qantas, so we’ll take care of the tickets, and it won’t cost anything once the
girls are there. They can go to school where my sister-in-law works. Mido loves playing with her
baby cousins. My brother Kenny has four lovely children. Their break is different than ours.
Would you like that?”
Nari looked hopeful. “I can pay for the plane ticket.”
“No, no. That’s not necessary. My brother gets extra ones that he never uses. His wife,
Lily, was born in Australia and works at a nice private school. She loves Mido and needs help
with the children. They’re very young, and one is a newborn. There’s an au pair, but they can use
all the hands they can get. Mido loves to go to their house. She talks the most when she’s with
little ones.”
Nari covered her face with her hands.
“This means so much to me. Thank you. My husband has been so angry. He’s not himself
any more. And there’s so much to do. While Yun is gone, I can get ready for our move. Her
English will improve, too, right?”
“Of course,” Helen said, smiling.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 96
Briefly, the two mothers held hands again, then Helen rose from her seat.
“I will call with the dates and schedules,” Helen said.
In the elevator, Helen smoothed her hair, her back reed straight.
The polite security guard bowed as she left the building, and she smiled at him, recalling
that as a girl who’d had to plead with nuns for a small bag of barley, she would have been
grateful if her father had worked a steady job like his and just come home each night.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 97
1:8: July 1993 "Winter in Sydney"
8. July 1993
#
Helen phoned her brother and sister-in-law in Sydney. Right away, they agreed that both girls
should come to Sydney for their break. Sonya and Helen’s younger brother, who went by Kenny
rather than Kyungjin, arranged for the airline tickets, and his Aussie wife, Lily, received
permission for the girls to attend the school where she worked as visiting exchange students.
Lily Hughes Cho had not intended to fall in love with a Korean, but she did, and Kenny
turned out to be an ideal husband and father to their four children, ages 8, 5 year-old twins, and
the baby who was 17 months.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 98
Lily, a brunette, laconic, no-nonsense mechanic’s daughter, met Kenny at a TAFE school
for accounting and bookkeeping. Tired of horny boys from Campsie who wanted to spend their
lives watching footy and playing darts, the ambitious young woman had been drawn to the
foreign student who wore a clean, pressed white shirt to class each day and took his course work
seriously. They both earned their certificates, and Qantas hired Kenny straight away. After a
number of promotions, he worked at the main offices in Mascot as a senior manager in the
accounting department, while Lily did the bookkeeping in the bursar’s office at Erickson Ladies’
College, a girls’ school in Epping. The pair worked hard, lived below their means, and raised
their children with the help of a rotating cast of au pairs.
Mido was Lily’s favorite. The girl enjoyed the company of small children, and her friend
Yun, an academic star, served as a live-in math tutor for the Cho children. As far as Lily and
Kenny were concerned, the girls could stay as long as they liked. The girls liked Erickson, a
pleasant school which was almost easy in maths and sciences compared to their public school in
Seoul.
Lily and Kenny’s Epping home was a spacious, ranch-style house with four bedrooms
and a finished basement. The dwelling was modest looking, but its interiors were well-
maintained because Kenny was handy. Through TAFE courses, he had picked up some carpentry,
plumbing, electricity, and even heating and air-conditioning, saving them money on repairs.
There was plenty of room for everyone and a suite for the au-pair. The children shared two large
bedrooms, and Mido and Yun slept on cots in the basement, which also had a tidy well-organized
playroom. A sturdy sectional anchored the living room, and it was upholstered in a brown plaid
tweed, which wouldn’t show dirt or spilled juice.
Learning from how-to books, Kenny built two sets of monastery tables and benches—one

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 99
for the children to do their schoolwork in the living room and another for family meals in the
sun-filled, open kitchen.
Each morning, Lily left a stack of clean bowls and spoons, a pot of porridge, a tin of
sultanas, a gallon jug of milk, and a box of Weet-Bix on the dining table then headed to work.
Kenny, the au pair, and the children fixed their own breakfast. Lily finished her work day before
Kenny, so she cooked their simple dinners, and it was Kenny’s job to wash up and help with the
children’s bedtime. In no time, the girls fell into the family routine.
The girls didn’t miss their lives in Seoul. There was no need to go to hagwon because
schoolwork wasn’t impossible. With some effort and focused attention, the girls were able to do
their studies without extra help. For the first time, Mido did better in her coursework than Yun.
They had time to spare, and the girls read English language novels, watched game shows on
television with the family, and learned to bake, which Yun had never done before. Within a week
of school in Australia, Yun’s English improved, and whatever English she had learned from her
classes and hagwon made more sense. It was as if the words, phrases, and texts needed setting to
make sense and become alive.
On a Sunday afternoon, after the family returned from church, the girls went straight to
the kitchen and rooted in the pantry to find the ingredients for Anzac biscuits. Kenny was in the
backyard with the boys, and Lily was doing the wash. The au pair had taken the baby to the park
for air.
For once, the kitchen was quiet. Lily had told the girls that after they cleaned up the
breakfast dishes, they could bake. Yun started on the breakfast dishes, while Mido cleared the
table.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 100
Yun loved learning a new recipe and making something delicious to eat from start to
finish. In just two weeks, she had learned how to bake a chocolate cake, currant scones, and
Anzac biscuits. The baking pleased the children because Lily rarely bought sugary treats but did
not mind the homemade goods.
“We have all the ingredients, but maybe we can get some chocolate chips at the store. I
have the money umma sent. There’s a recipe in the book for chocolate chip Anzacs,” Yun said,
feeling inspired.
Mido thought that sounded nice.
Yun looked serious suddenly, “Oh, never mind.” In her last letter from home, her mother
said that she should be careful with her spending and to never borrow. Before her father lost the
business, with bottomless pocket money, Yun never thought about what things cost. If anything,
she had been the one to buy yogurt drinks for her classmates or lend money without expecting
repayment. She’d never borrowed a single won. Her mother, who also never paid attention to
money, bought too much of everything and was always giving things away. Yun felt badly for
being stingy about the chocolate chips, which the children would like.
Mido sensed Yun was thinking about the cost of the chocolate, which would certainly be
a few dollars.
“I have money, too. You always pay. It’s my turn.”
Yun looked ashamed and Mido wanted to take it back, having hurt her friend’s pride.
“Uncle Kenny doesn’t like chips in his Anzacs,” Mido said. “There’s enough ingredients
to make dozens of large ones. Let’s start now.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 101
Yun nodded, wiping down the counter with a sponge.
“Your dad will get a good job,” Mido said.
“Appa is older now. It will be harder,” Yun said without looking up from her work,
having repeated what her mother said.
Yun washed the last frying pan, and Mido dried the plates and returned them to the
cupboard.
#
On Monday afternoon, the girls went to the boys’ school to pick up Henry, the oldest. The au pair
had to take the baby to the pediatrician for her booster shots. They spotted Henry bolting from
the gates. He ran into Mido’s arms and hugged her. Then remembering himself, he pulled away
slightly, glancing around in case his classmates could see him.
“We brought you something,” Yun said, removing a large biscuit from her plastic lunch
container. She had saved it for him.
Like a puppy, Henry jumped at it. “Yes!” Immediately, he broke off a big piece and took
a bite.
“Hey, Henry Cho!”
“Hey, Tek!” Henry said to the older boy. His wavy hair was cut short on the sides and
longer in the front, his uniform navy blazer was open and the repp tie hung askew across his tall
and lanky frame.
“Your sisters?” he asked in an Australian accent.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 102
The girls didn’t speak. Tek’s dark eyes were playful like he was game for anything. Mido
caught herself staring and then looked away, while Yun looked only at the little boy.
“Nah, mate. Mido’s my cousin, and Yun’s her friend. They’re visiting us from Korea.
You’ll never believe this but she—” Henry pointed at Yun, “—is going to live in America.”
The boy said all this with his mouth full of biscuit. He nodded with awe as if he were
going to Los Angeles himself. With his father at Qantas, Henry had been on an airplane several
times, but he had never gone as far as the United States, a place as mythic as any place in a
storybook. It was Henry’s dearest wish to go to Disneyland, which was located in a place called
Anaheim, California.
His father, Kenny had told Henry that one day, they could go there. Why not, he’d said.
Kenny believed that a bright person could do most things if he worked hard enough. Recently,
Yun had promised Henry that if she ever got to go to Disneyland, she would send him a postcard
and tell him what it was like.
“Have you been to Disneyland, Tek?” Henry asked him.
“Nope. Haven’t ever been to America,” Tek said. He glanced at Yun, impressed that this
girl would go somewhere so far away. “Hey, Henry, what’s that you’re eating?”
“Anzacs. The best.” Henry snapped off a large corner for Tek, who popped it whole into
his mouth.
“Oh, these are really good. I always get the homemade ones at the bake sale. Store
bought is not the same,” he said. “These are good because they’re not completely crunchy. The
middle’s still chewy. Key factor.” Tek concentrated and pronounced: “Buttery. The coconut ratio

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 103
is amazing. Mom never bakes. I didn’t know Koreans baked.” Tek shook his head, still smiling
from the bite.
Mido felt happy that this boy liked their baking, while Yun thought he was dumb to think
that Koreans didn’t bake just because his own mother didn’t. That was poor logic, Yun reasoned.
“I’m Korean, too,” Tek said to the girls, hoping they’d say something. “Can’t speak it
much though.” He shrugged. “I’m going to pick it up when I go to uni—.”
Yun furrowed her brow, unable to understand how overseas Koreans didn’t speak the
language.
“Henry is my little brother at St. Titus. He was assigned to me on a project a while back,
but we’re still buddies. A school tradition,” Tek explained.
Henry high-fived him. “Big brother Tek! Yeah!”
“Tek’s in Year 10. He watches out for me,” Henry told the girls.
“Hey, Tek, you want more biscuits?”
“You have more, mate?” Tek brightened.
“We have them at home. Come over. We can do homework and eat ‘em with milk,”
Henry said. “We have dozens more, right?”
Mido nodded, not knowing if it was okay to invite Tek to the house although there were
neighborhood children over all the time.
“Race, you!” Henry shouted and started running. Tek counted 5-4-3-2-1, then flew down
the street and cleared well ahead of little Henry, who did his best to keep up with Tek’s long

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 104
strides.
#
At home, Henry brought out the large tin of biscuits from the pantry, and Tek ate five Anzacs and
drank two large glasses of milk with ice.
“Homework time, Henry. C’mon, mate. Let’s get serious. We are scholars. We must earn
our biscuits.”
Tek pulled out his books and did his work with great concentration. He finished his
English assignment in less than an hour, then began his geometry problem set. Henry imitated
the boy almost twice his size and did his work quietly. While they worked, Yun and Mido did
their assignments.
“Break,” Henry said before going to the washroom.
“Hey, Yun,” Tek said, “You excited about going to America?”
She shrugged and continued with her English grammar exercises.
“What’s school like? In Korea.” Tek asked the girls, and Yun didn’t reply. It was odd
because normally she wasn’t afraid to talk with anyone. Mido pulled out the crisps from the
pantry and poured them into a bowl.
“School is hard,” Mido said.
Tek smiled at Mido, wanting her to talk. He didn’t know many girls since he went to a
boys’ school.
Mido slid the bowl of crisps toward him, noticing that his dark eyelashes were much

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 105
longer than hers. Like her brothers, he had nice clear skin and a straight nose, but he was much
taller than they were and slouched when seated.
“I had a difficult time adjusting when we moved back from Sydney to Seoul. Yun helped
me a lot,” Mido said.
Yun smiled. “Mido is smart, but our teacher last year, Mr. Na, was not good. Mrs. Lim,
our teacher this year, is good,” she said slowly, feeling awkward speaking in English to a Korean
boy.
Tek smiled. At last, he had gotten them to speak.
“There are no Koreans at St. Titus, except for me and Henry. He’s half Korean but you
know he’s a Cho—”
Henry had returned to his spot next to the older boy and elbowed him jokingly as if they
were the same age and continued on with his astronomy worksheet. He felt proud that he had
brought such a cool guy like Tek to the house.
“Tek doesn’t have brothers or sisters,” Henry said. “Isn’t that weird?” he remarked to
Mido, who made a reproving face.
“Yun is an only child,” Mido said. “That’s not weird. Her parents just chose to have one.”
“You are?” Tek said, delighted. “I guess you get everything, too.”
Yun continued to read her grammar book.
“I have two brothers,” Mido said to Tek.
“Nice,” Tek said it like he meant it then ate crisps.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 106
#
In the evening, the girls washed up for bed and collapsed on their cots. It had been a long day,
filled with school, kids, then a guest, who had ended up staying for dinner and talking to Kenny
and Lily about St. Titus and all the Year 8 teachers.
“You like him,” Yun whispered.
“Yeah, he’s nice,” Mido said before realizing that Yun had meant it romantically.
“Mido has a boyfriend,” Yun teased, pulling her blue camp blanket all the way up to her
chin.
“We’re too young to have boyfriends,” Mido said.
“Well, he’s at least a year older than we are. Boys do lots of things earlier than girls. You
have to be careful or else you can get pregnant. My mother said you have to avoid boys until
after college.” Yun didn’t understand what her mother meant by this. It was just better not to talk
to them or give them any encouragement, she’d said.
“Pregnant?” Mido tapped Yun’s arm.
“You like him.” Yun laughed. “You were talking a lot. For you. A lot. Many, many
words.”
Mido blushed. She didn’t know how to explain that it was easier to speak when Yun was
with her at home. There were occasions when she wanted to talk more, and she was also in
Australia where she could speak English. Then it occurred to her that Yun wouldn’t be with her
anymore, and Mido forgot about Tek. In a few weeks, the girls would leave Sydney, and Yun
would go to California, and the color and warmth Yun brought to her life would be gone.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 107

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 108
1:9 Summer 1993 "Games"
9. Summer 1993
#
“She did all the work. She’s not bad at her job,” John said, finding himself defending the young
woman he was supposed to fire. Danbi Jung made him uncomfortable; however, he had to admit
that she pulled off assignments that employees with her experience should not have be able to
manage.
“You haven’t given her something she could not do,” Shin said, knowing it would be
difficult for John to be unfair. “I saw the projects you gave her. They were doable.”
“Not by someone who’s been out of the training program for a year. I don’t think I could

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 109
have done them at her level.”
“I’m having a hard time.” Shin put down his tumbler of whiskey, and the clear ice cubes
clinked in the amber liquid. “I know I told you to lay off for a while, because I thought she
understood the terms, but you were supposed to make her want to quit or else find cause for her
to be fired—” He broke off, unable to confess to his friend that Danbi wanted him to leave his
wife. None of the women he had slept with would have dared to ask for something so
unreasonable.
They were at their table at the bar at the Chosun Hotel, and John didn’t feel like drinking
anymore. It was only nine o’clock, but for him, it was late. If Shin wasn’t his oldest friend, John
would have left, without making excuses. He was tired. Not for a moment would he have
listened to this nonsense from anyone else.
This was the problem: Shin wanted to keep the girlfriend, family, and his job. He had no
plans of breaking it off with Danbi and felt that he could still control the situation. She had to
quit or get fired. Competent and appealing, Danbi could get another entry level job. That said,
HRT was the most prestigious trading company in Korea, and she had wanted to work there ever
since she’d heard of it. Shin could get her another position, even a better paying one, but any
other company would be several rungs lower than from where she had already climbed.
After John gave Danbi two additional assignments both seemingly impossible, Danbi told
her lover to fire John for being an unreasonable manager. Regardless, Shin instructed John to pile
on her more difficult projects to show that he did not play favorites. Despite the level of
challenge or volume of work, somehow Danbi completed her tasks. Her work improved at a
notable rate because she grew even more competent than the members of her training group. It

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 110
didn’t hurt that the mid-level and senior guys on the team figured out that she was Shin’s
mistress and consequently, they helped her out.
Company dinners became unbearable for John. It was like being in the presense of
teenagers with their public displays of affection. Danbi adored Shin, and the middle-aged
director did not mind his subordinates admiring his sexual prowess over the gorgeous young
woman.
When he went home, John could not tell Helen about Danbi. Shin’s wife Mary was like a
sister to Helen, and the two women had raised children together, as next door neighbors when
they were young expatriate families in Paramus. Both women were raised Catholic, the alumna
of the same college, and mothers of three children each.
Shin’s wife Mary now lived in New Jersey throughout the academic year because their
three boys went to schools in the States. Shin lived alone in a studio apartment in Seoul and sent
money faithfully to Mary and the boys. He did not spend much on himself and was financially
generous with his family. They owned a modest three-bedroom house in Englewood.
“Is it possible for you to give her up?” John asked, still hoping for reason to prevail.
Whenever Danbi came up, John asked the same question wishing for a change in his friend’s
attitude. Mary was a good mother to their three boys, and though she had tolerated mistresses,
refusing to ever consider divorce, and was able to suffer the extramarital affairs, she could not
have known that Danbi Jung was a different sort. She was the kind of mistress who needed to be
a wife.
Shin took another sip of his drink.
“Can you write poor reviews for her work performance? Then she can’t get promoted.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 111
Also, give her an assignment that even the senior guys can’t do. Something where she has to
make an error. I get it that she doesn’t like you, and it’s my fault. I’m sorry, but I think this is the
answer. In the next presentation, give her a job where others can see that she got it all wrong.
Change the data if you need to. I promise I’ll take care of it. You won’t get in trouble. I’m asking
you for a big favor. Please. ”
“I should get home. You know me. I have to sleep early.”
Shin nodded. Danbi was waiting for him at the hotel.
On the street, they bid each other goodnight, and John let him have the first taxi that
pulled up.
#
Helen had eaten alone. The house was empty of children. Bo was at the hagwon studying for his
Yonsei entrance exam and wouldn’t be home until late. DH was at soccer camp in Vermont,
while Mido was in Sydney. The plan was to move to a much smaller rental as soon as the lease
ended to save money. The private scholarship that the owner of Eagle Academy had found for
DH took care of most of his tuition at Phillips Andover, but there had been other unexpected
costs like soccer camps, plane tickets, and meals and gifts when he stayed with friends or at
Mary’s during breaks when he couldn’t return to Seoul. Helen didn’t like the idea of her son not
having enough pocket money and receiving free meals from others. DH had offered to get a part-
time job, but he was too young, Helen and John had told him. Whenever she could, Helen picked
up extra shifts at the store to boost her sales commissions.
When John came home, Helen was standing by the kitchen counter, picking through the
dried black beans in a large stainless steel bowl.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 112
“Did you have dinner?”
He nodded and smiled at her.
“It’s quiet without the children,” he said, glancing around the empty living room, where
the children used to do their homework.
“I’m going to wash up.”
Helen nodded, knowing it was way past his bedtime.
“Are you okay? Did you drink? Do you want water?”
“I didn’t drink much. Just sleepy.” He smiled to reassure her and went to his room for the
night.
Helen soaked the black beans and finished prepping more side dishes. She wished she
could phone DH. At work, he had left a voicemail on the answering machine to say hello.
“Everything is good here. I miss you, Mommy, and I bet you want to see me,” he’d said
laughing. In less than a minute, he had gotten off the expensive overseas call. She wanted to hear
from her second child—the one who was always cheerful and made her feel calm—but there was
no way to reach him unless it was an emergency call to the camp offices, and this wasn’t that.
DH had been right, because she did want to see him. She loved her children equally, but it was
DH who paid attention to her moods and knew how to joke. If he hadn’t been doing so well at
Andover, then he would have returned to Seoul, but his academic reports were far superior to
how he had done in Seoul and Sydney. The practices at the soccer camp were difficult, he’d said,
but even there, DH was flourishing.
#

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 113
It was seven in the morning in Burlington, and DH was already showered and dressed. Chilly, he
pulled on a UVM sweatshirt that a coach at camp had given him.
His eyes open but still groggy with sleep, Peter Son remained in bed with the covers over
him.
“Man, you want breakfast? I’m starving. I’m going to have five eggs with bacon and
cheese. Brenda said I can always have as many eggs as I want in my omelette,” DH grinned like
he won a prize.
“You’re her favorite. I get it,” Peter said, throwing the covers over his head.
DH packed his cleats in his bag.
“I love Brenda. She’s the greatest.” DH got on well with the summer college kitchen
staff, but especially with the seventy-two-year old white-haired cook, who wore a black hairnet
and a spotless white uniform, was in charge of the kitchen and teased everyone, especially DH,
who told her knock-knock jokes. She gave him extra bacon.
Peter closed his eyes. He shouldn’t have been amazed by how DH learned people’s
names at camp and found the good parts of almost everyone because he was just like that at
Andover. Peter was known as DH’s friend, not the other way around, and Peter was relieved to
have an ally who was kind of like an ambassador.
“Hey, wake up, sleepyhead.” DH stood over him and smiled. “Good morning.”
“Yup,” Peter said and sat up. “Why are we doing this again?”
“So we don’t get our asses kicked this season. Also, you gotta look sharp today.
Remember? The college coaches are coming by again to scout this afternoon.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 114
“Right, right.” Peter headed to the showers.
#
At morning practice, as Peter sprinted to the goal line during a drill, the head coach blew his
whistle and called him off the field. His mother was here.
At the office, Peter found her chatting and laughing with Larry, the physical trainer.
Renee Cha was wearing one of her sleeveless white linen sundresses, made for her by a
well known dressmaker, with a navy silk cardigan slung loosely over her pale shoulders. In the
summers, she wore white linen, and if she needed a sweater or jacket, they were khaki or navy.
In the fall and winter seasons, Peter’s mother wore tailored suits made from fine flannel or
tweeds in gray, navy, or camel colors. She wore pale blue or tea green for spring. She never wore
diamonds.
Peter’s mother, a striking and confident woman, looked like no other mother. She was
divorced from Peter’s father, Byron Son, who remarried when Peter was in primary school and
lived in Hong Kong with his new family. Renee had no interest in marrying again. Like her
siblings and cousins, Renee was a director for her grandfather’s family company, a company that
manufactured tires and other automobile parts.
Peter was wearing his blue Andover jersey, which should have been washed but as usual,
he was behind on laundry.
“Oh, my goodness. Excuse me. My beautiful child smells awful,” Renee remarked.
“All the boys smell,” Larry said winking at Peter. “Have a good visit. Lovely to meet
you, Mrs. Son.” The trainer left them alone in the waiting area of the office. The camp secretary

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 115
continued to deal with the bills and didn’t pay them any mind.
“I’ve been divorced from your father for over a decade, and why do people still call me
Mrs. Son?” Renee muttered. Peter slumped next to her on the brown leather sofa, not bothering
to reply. No one outside of Korea seemed to get that women in Korea kept their surnames after
marriage and divorce.
“How are you?” he asked, never surprised by his mother’s random visits. He was used to
her unannounced appearances, and in many ways, they were pleasant. She seemed to be able to
intuit whenever he needed rest or comfort.
“I missed you. I wanted to take you and DH out to dinner after practice. I got permission
already. I even found a Korean restaurant if you want to go. The driver is figuring it out now.”
Renee pointed to the parking lot where her chauffeur waited in a black sedan.
“Also, I brought you clean uniforms and clothes. Are you ever going to do the laundry?”
Renee knew she shouldn’t encourage his terrible habits, but she felt sorry for him. He
really did try hard all the time and had a good attitude despite his tendency to be melancholy.
“Thank you, Mother,” Peter said in his most posh British accent, relieved he could avoid
laundry for a few more days. Trying to find a machine felt impossible whenever there was time
to do the wash, and he couldn’t stay awake for when the machines were more readily available.
“I promise I will do the laundry, but it would be nice to get some fresh supplies.” The boy
smiled at her.
“How much longer is practice?” Renee asked. “Can’t we just leave?”
“A few more hours. We should be done at four. Patience.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 116
“I’ll go to town and pick you up at four sharp. Do you need any shampoo or toothpaste?
Snacks for your room?”
He shook his head.
“Oh, there are scouts today. From colleges.”
Renee raised her eyebrows.
“Any school would be lucky to have you,” she said. “My son is the best.”
“Thank you for your confidence, Mother,” Peter answered. “I better get back.”
#
The boys cleaned up and wore fresh clothes to meet Renee, and they didn’t go to the Korean
restaurant, which was almost an hour away. The boys were too hungry and there was a bistro
downtown, which apparently had excellent steaks.
DH glanced at the menu and tried to conceal his shock at the high prices though he
should have been used to it by now. Renee would never allow him to pay for his meal, but he felt
badly that the entrees were so expensive. His mother had taught him to always order the least
costly items and never to order a drink with its high margins when he was a guest at someone
else’s expense, so DH ordered the spaghetti marinara, which was 14.99 and no appetizer. He
drank ice water.
Peter ordered a French onion soup, the ribeye steak, and a baked potato. When Renee
passed the bread basket to them, DH took a large onion roll. Peter grabbed a Parker House roll
and slathered butter on it, and Renee asked the waiter to refill the basket. For herself, she ordered
the Dover sole, two servings of meatballs, two large salads, an extra ribeye steak, and two large

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 117
baked potatoes with all the trimmings. She ordered a cold pitcher of milk to be brought to the
table for the boys.
When the food came out, she said she wasn’t hungry, and the boys ate the appetizers,
entrees, salads, while she picked at her Dover sole. Watching them eat gave Renee enormous
pleasure.
“How were the scouts?” she asked DH.
“The Yale coach said he was interested,” the boy answered between bites.
Every time she took them out, DH ate the best food he’d ever had in his life. This time
was no different. The food at the dorm was fine and plentiful, but it wasn’t like this steakhouse.
“How wonderful,” she said and turned to Peter.
“The Yale coach said I’d be a good walk-on.”
“Are you going to the same college?” she asked, smiling. “I hope so. That would be
brilliant.”
“The counselor said that if I got into Yale, I could get the financial aid package and
compare it with—” DH mumbled, eating another meatball. His father and mother said that they’d
find the money and not to worry about it; however, the boy understood that of the three children,
he had far outspent his siblings.
“It would be great if the two of you could go to college together after Andover. DH, if
you took care of Peter, I wouldn’t need to worry so much.”
“Hey, I’m a good friend, too,” Peter said. He turned to DH and raised his milk glass, and
the boys clinked before drinking.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 118
Renee would have spent double what she was paying for DH’s tuition at Andover if it
meant that her son would be well. Her college friend Tom Song had hatched the scheme to send
DH to Andover with Peter, and it had worked out far better than expected. Unlike King’s
College, where Peter had been lonesome and withdrawn, her son seemed happier than he’d ever
been because the boys were best friends and teammates.
DH, who was doing even better in soccer than her son, had no idea of the source of his
private anonymous scholarship. Peter didn’t know either. Tom Song had told DH’s parents that
the hagwon had a foundation, which helped exceptional scholar athletes study abroad, and that
this kind of scholarship support was something that was done in America. If DH could go to
college with Peter, Renee would have picked up all the costs but she couldn’t say that. She would
tell Tom, and he would help with the administration of the scholarship.
“Any nice girls here?” Renee asked.
“DH likes this hot blonde from school, and she’s been writing him.”
“Yo,” DH shook his head, embarrassed, though he didn’t mind.
“Virginia Cooper, right?” Renee said.
“How do you know her name?” Peter asked though he should have expected it. His
mother had unbelievable facility with names.
“Oh, DH mentioned her the last time we spoke.”
Virginia Cooper, who was a year younger than the boys, had been writing letters to DH,
and their friendship had been growing because he was a regular correspondent. Peter had a crush
on Virginia’s classmate Eliza Ying, a pretty brunette, but that was going nowhere, and Peter

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 119
wasn’t too concerned about it. There were enough girls, daughters of family friends, who were
often reaching out whenever they were in the Boston area looking at colleges and grad schools.
He’d already had sex with one of the older ones on his sixteenth birthday, but nothing had come
of it except for the ensuing awkwardness. DH hadn’t been with a girl yet. He said he liked the
idea of a girlfriend at Andover, but he had to get into college first.
“Do you want to go to Yale?” Renee asked DH.
“The soccer at Harvard is supposed to be a little better, but I don’t know if I want to go to
a school just for that. I’ve never been to Yale, and I want to study English, I think.” DH smiled at
his friend’s mother, who was always interested in how he was doing. She asked him questions
and listened, and suddenly, he missed his mother, who wrote him short letters, reminding him to
eat good food and take his multivitamins. Without fail, she enclosed a ten-dollar bill in the
envelope for him to buy pizza, and he wondered when she found the time to get the currency
changed.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 120
1:10: August 1993 "Gapjil"
10. August 1993
#
It was late in the afternoon, and the office lunch crowd had already cleared out. The restaurant
was nearly empty. John and Shin were almost done with their meal. An older woman brought the
bill on a small metal tray, and John did not bother fighting for it. He stared at the piece of paper:
two orders of short rib soup.
“The Risk Team told her that the numbers on her Australia report made no sense,” Shin
said, straightening his necktie though it looked fine.
In the past month, John had warned the senior guys on the team that she wasn’t allowed

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 121
to have their help. They must not do her work for her.
“I didn’t tell her about the mines in Queensland, which affected the overall coking
numbers,” John said.
Shin looked relieved.
“Can you do it today? She’s already upset, and these things are best done quickly.”
John put down his metal spoon. He didn’t feel like finishing.
“She has a few weak performance reviews, but I thought maybe, I could get her to redo
the report and submit it to Risk again. Still get it wrong. Establish her incompetence. Have
another department’s support.”
John stared at his stainless steel spoon, unable to believe that he was doing this to the
poor young woman. He had reasoned out that the worse she performed in front of others, the
more justified it would be to terminate her. He needed more evidence to build his case.
“No. No. Now is the best time. After you fire her, I’ll get her something else. I can take
care of this. I have a friend in Busan, who has already agreed to hire her. I will see her but far
less often.” Shin didn’t plan to go cold turkey. It was his plan to taper off.
“You think she’ll go to Busan?”
“If she’s fired then the new position in Busan would mean no gaps in her employment.
It’s a slight promotion actually, and she knows she can’t get a promotion this year. She can take a
week off before starting there. This weekend, I’m taking her to Hakone. She loves onsens.
Should cheer her up.”
John wanted this to end. He didn’t want to keep giving Danbi difficult tasks and worse,

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 122
making her doubt herself. No matter the circumstances, a firing was never easy to explain.
“Couldn’t you tell her to quit? That she can work in Busan without getting fired? Just get
her to switch jobs.”
Shin smiled and looked away. He couldn’t tell John that he had tried. Danbi would not
budge. She wouldn’t leave him and a prestigious job. She had come from the northern part of the
country from a farming village, and to her, everything but Seoul was backwater. If it wasn’t the
capital, she wanted to live in New York or Los Angeles. More than once, she had asked him to
take her to the United States, preferring the West Coast since his wife and children were in New
Jersey. She had a wealthy cousin in California.
“Today,” Shin said. “Please.”
#
John arranged for Danbi Jung to meet him at the glass walled conference room by the bank of
elevators. He got there ahead of her and he waited, reading her thick file. This was the usual
room where employees received their reviews, promotions, or terminations. As usual, the
Venetian blinds were half lowered for privacy but the slats were not fully closed. The smoky
glass door was polished and open. Seated by himself in a conference table, which could
accommodate a dozen people, he felt all alone and cold.
John believed he was a reasonably honest man. Over the course of his life, he had
witnessed many unfair things, which had troubled him. When necessary, he had turned a blind
eye. When he had a duty to report, he had done so but not always. In school, you weren’t
supposed to snitch. In the military, you protected your fellow soldiers. In the office, you took
care of your people, trying to discern what had to be done for the greater good versus what a

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 123
company needed to do to survive. It would have been preferable if one didn’t have to do this sort
of moral calculus, but being an adult was never easy, and being wise required some sacrifices if
only to simplify the moral equation. Like most, John had given up a measure of professional
ambition and many ill-gotten gains. He loved his wife and children, so protecting them became
his primary constant. All else seemed to be a variable.
He had only worked at trading firms, so by practice, he understood the middleman. Over
the years, clients had offered him money to get a discount from the company. Suppliers had
offered him kickbacks to be selected for a lucrative deal. John never accepted money he didn’t
earn, and strangely, what was difficult for most people was easy for him. The act of refusal had
to be done well, so as not to insult the one who made the offer. Each time he did, that muscle of
refusal grew stronger. By this time, the ones in the business knew better than to approach him for
preferential treatment through the wrong means and went to his colleagues or superiors instead.
John Koh’s squeaky cleanness may have been one of the many reasons why he was sent
abroad and kept there even as a young man. Controlling greed protected a company from
catastrophe. Employees who took a packet of cash and turned the other way while favored
suppliers or clients did shoddy business created dangerous situations for the manufacturer,
distributor, and consumer. Both John and his boss Shin believed that financial greed was a
market inefficiency.
Shin’s vices were only women, and he admired that John had a professional conscience
and did his work well. A colleague could drink too much, gamble, or have secrets that made him
vulnerable. Weaknesses caused problems, but they also created bonds. Shin expected John to lie
for him about the mistresses. Helen told her husband that Shin’s wife, Mary, was troubled by his
cheating, but Mary’s religion did not allow a divorce. Shin’s wife blamed herself, because even

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 124
with three boys, her part-time job as a florist, and living in separate countries, she had learned
from her mother that men needed sex and adoration. She could not give her husband these things
readily and often, so her husband had turned to others. She still believed in their marriage.
Every Sunday, John Koh went to church with his family, and he paid careful attention to
the sermons. He believed that a wise man must regularly cultivate his morality and faith, no
different than reading the news to be informed, learning more about his profession, and
exercising regularly.
Ministers preached against sin. There were many kinds. However, he noticed that
ministers rarely exhorted on avoiding bad business practices. In college, he had attended a Bible
study group at SNU, where a young woman who studied Economics, a kind of shrill religious nut
who was not popular with the men, used to bring up the fact that the Bible instructed merchants
to use standardized measurements and avoid cheating. A faithful person was supposed to be
honest in trade, she had insisted, quoting chapters and verses to prove her point. Of all the
sermons, John had sat through in his entire life, not a single pastor had ever talked about the evils
of lying in business.
In reality, for John, the big sins had been easy enough to avoid. As men in trading, Shin
and he had only worked for large companies, which often had the power to control prices and
markets. Coking coal, iron ore, steel, and fuel were always needed, and powerful traders could
find trading relationships and keep the business going. Mostly the men had been able to keep
their hands clean. After decades of work, they could make intelligent guesses and prevent most
harms in pricing by putting predictable numbers on risks and values.
Unlike goods, people were harder to control because human beings were irrational.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 125
There was a phone in the center of the conference table. John wanted to pick up the
receiver to call his wife but couldn’t. Helen would have known what to do. People didn’t confuse
her as much, and under any other circumstance, he would have told her this problem. She would
have told him not to do this.
If John did not fire Danbi, Shin would not fire him. However, Shin would view the failure
to fire Danbi as insubordination and a kind of betrayal. John knew that Shin was embarrassed to
have asked for this favor. John was letting his morals or cowardice get in the way. Loyalty had
always been the highest value between the two men. If Danbi stayed at HRT, John realized that it
was Shin who would lose his job. If Shin was gone, John would not get automatically promoted.
He would become another mark — easy target practice for the tougher men in the company.
With Shin gone, if John was pushed out, he didn’t know where to go. He was too senior
to make a lateral move, and yet not senior enough to insulate himself from problems.
There was no one he could talk to. John was curious as to what Helen would think of this
predicament. The idea of moving to Busan was tempting even if it meant a deep demotion but
Shin would never allow it. John had never done anything like this before. No one had ever asked
him, and if anyone but Shin had, he would have refused. John felt like quitting but that seemed
impetuous. There was no job for a man his age in a company as good as HRT that would just
take him in. John could visualize the risks like they were bars of a graph, and the highest bar of
risk to his career would be to disobey his boss.
Danbi knocked on door, entered and sat opposite him.
John tried to smile but she missed nothing.
“Your coking ore numbers were wrong,” John said. “You missed the mines in the

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 126
Northeastern region.”
“I didn’t know about them. No one told me to include that.”
“I did tell you.” John said, immediately regretting his words.
“No, no. You didn’t,” she said, exasperated.
“You should have asked for more clarification.” He said, knowing this was unfair.
“I took careful notes when you gave me the assignment. That’s like asking me to ask you
if there should have been more factors, when you were the one providing all the factors. How
can you—?” Danbi stopped herself. “I have been trying to understand the project, but the scope
is enormous. There are variables that are virtually incalculable and unknowable. These projects
you give me remind me of theoretical math problems from university. In fact, those were easier.”
Danbi covered her mouth with her hands as if to stop herself from speaking. She dropped
her hands in her lap and sat up straight in her seat. Danbi was wearing a simple peach colored
silk blouse and a grey wool flannel skirt.
“I’d hoped that you would have made greater progress by now,” he said, wanting to stop
this performance.
“You gave me two weeks, and this Australia project could have taken a month even if I
had all the Queensland numbers. I don’t understand why—”
“Miss Jung, you are clearly a bright young person, but perhaps this is not the kind of
work you should be doing.”
“I don’t understand.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 127
“Well, part of what I do is to evaluate the needs of my team and department, and I don’t
think this is the right place for you. I hope you understand. Human Resources will be reaching
out with a package. I think—”
She felt out of her mind.
“I’m trying my best. The assignment was impossible. There have been so many absurdly
difficult projects. All of which I completed. How could you do this? You wouldn’t want to be
treated this way—”
John stared at the clear door behind her chair, taking in her arguments. She was not
wrong.
“I’ll provide a strong reference, and I think there are others who can help you as well to
find another position elsewhere. I hope you can understand—”
“No, I don’t understand. I was doing very well before you got here.”
John furrowed his brow. He was the kind of manager who could tolerate dissent, but even
he was surprised by her bold insistence, especially since she would need his reference in the
future. He had fired other people before, but never like this. Normally, the person left the office
understandably upset, but no one had ever shouted at him.
“You don’t like me,” Danbi whispered. “You’re jealous of my relationship with the
director.”
“What?” John’s head snapped back.
“You know we’re in love, and you’re judging us. I know about your wife and his wife
being friends. He loves me, and he wants to take care of me. I’m a good employee, and you’re

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 128
trying to kick me out. I’m going to tell him to fire you. You’ll see. I’m not going anywhere. You
won’t get away with this.”
Danbi got up from her seat and went to his side of the conference table. She breathed in
deeply and looked hard at him.
John pulled away from his chair unable to look away from her. The ripeness of her youth
flowed out of her. Reminding him of sex, peaches, and rage.
“You’re attracted to me. I know you are, and you want to punish me for it.”
“I don’t know what you’re talking about. You didn’t do an assignment properly. I have no
choice but to let you go. Please return to your seat.”
“Men like you just want girls like me to spread our legs and throw us away when you’re
done. You think I don’t know that? I was one of the best math students at Korea University. The
only woman who could keep up with the men. That assignment you gave me could not be done.
If I were you, I’d be preparing to leave your office, Manager Koh.”
John looked past the glass walls. No one walked by.
Danbi moved closer to him, standing over his chair. He could smell the jasmine of her
perfume.
“You want this.”
John moved his chair back and remained seated.
Danbi gripped his right hand and placed it on the neckline of her peach blouse. Her hand
over his, she ripped open her blouse and screamed.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 129
“Get away from me! Help me! Save me!”
She pushed up her skirt as if it was the most ordinary thing and sat on the table, her legs
straddling his thighs, exposing her underwear and stockings.
John tried to move away, but she clamped her calves around his thighs. She pushed aside
her brassiere to expose her left breast. The pink aureole of her white breast looked like a target.
Except for Helen, he had not seen another woman before, and he broke away from her forcefully.
“Help!” she cried again while staring at him. With her left hand, she smeared her mouth
to mess up her lipstick then threw herself on the floor.
Colleagues rushed into the door.
“I didn’t do anything. She is crazy—” he pointed to the young woman, who was now
sobbing. “She’s crazy. She attacked herself when I fired her—”
An accountant, a middle-aged man and the father of two college-aged girls, removed his
jacket to cover the woman’s nakedness.
“Manager Koh, I don’t think this is right,” he said.
“I didn’t do this. She’s making this up. I tried to fire her, and she—”
Shin moved through the crowd and looked at John with understanding. Danbi continued
to cry, whimpering now as if she was being tormented by the memory. John shook his head in
disbelief, unable to comprehend what had just happened to him.
#
Almost no one believed her because everyone knew John Koh was incapable of such a thing.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 130
Danbi Jung was disliked by the women at the office and most men on her team. However, what
everyone had witnessed was unquestionably compromising. It was hard to imagine a woman
showing herself like that at the office. Personnel, legal, and auditing were called in to investigate
for the parties involved. They interviewed John and Danbi separately. Shin supported John, but it
didn’t make things go away. John was put on leave without pay. It wasn’t clear for how long.
John went home and no one was there. He sat in his living room, dumbstruck.
When the doorbell rang, he didn’t know who it was.
Shin entered, and John didn’t offer him slippers or anything to drink.
“Is your wife here?”
“She’s at work.”
“I didn’t know Danbi could do something like that.”
“I can’t believe she would lie and accuse me of something so horrible. I would never
ever—”
“I know you didn’t. Do that—”
“I need my job—”
Shin sat quietly before speaking.
“She is threatening to press criminal charges against you, which would be far worse than
losing your job.”
“But I didn’t do it. If I tell the truth, then—”
“If you tell the truth, then I will lose my job, too, and then who will help you get

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 131
something else? Do you see the predicament we’re in—”
“You were behind this. I didn’t do anything wrong—” John turned slightly and paused
because he had. He had been asked to lie, and he had lied.
“You asked me to fire her because you knew she was a dangerous person. She said you
two are in love. You’re a married man with three boys. Brother, you should come to your
senses.”
It felt easier for John to warn Shin rather than to think of himself. He had no idea what to
tell Helen when she came home.
“I love this girl. I do. She’s crazy, but I don’t know how to make it stop. I can’t lose her.”
“If you want to go to hell with a woman like that—”
“She’s not what you think. She comes from a terrible family. Sometimes it’s like
watching a trapped animal trying to survive—”
“That may be, but I know when a person cannot be trusted.” John could see Shin’s
conviction and felt powerless before it.
Shin fidgeted with his cuff links.
“What will you do when she turns against you?” John asked.
“At work? To me?” Shin glared at him. No one could understand his relationship with
Danbi. She could not live without him, she had said again and again. Never would she hurt him,
she’d said.
“Well, yes.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 132
“She can’t accuse two men of rape. No one would believe that.”
John understood then that Shin had already considered this outcome.
“She could call your wife.”
“She already has.”
“And?” John closed his eyes, knowing Mary. She would do nothing to stop him. She
would pray for Shin’s soul and likely Danbi’s as well. She would pray to find forgiveness. She
would pray for her children. She would not divorce him because then he would be even more lost
without her. This was something Helen had explained to him once, and the logic of it would
make little sense to anyone who did not believe the way Mary did.
“My wife said this will pass. It always passes.”
“Will it? Will you make Miss Jung go away?”
“Don’t worry about me,” Shin said. “I will take care of this. I have to—”
John covered his face with his hands and took a breath.
“I listened to you. Somehow, I rationalized that a person like her would be bad for your
marriage and the company. In my mind, I justified her being fired because she would create
disharmony. Isn’t that ridiculous? Not once did I think that this could—” John couldn’t say
anymore.
“I appreciate what you did. I will never forget this.”
“How will I take care of my family?”
“I’ll find a solution. I’m talking to everyone.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 133
“I’m not getting paid until I go back to work.”
“Danbi said she won’t press charges against you or the company as long as you quit.”
“Resign?”
Shin said nothing.
“I have three children I have to educate. I have to save for their weddings and my
retirement. Helen can’t work forever, and HRT makes us retire when we’re sixty-two. I have to
work. There are people who depend on me. Bo is studying for Yonsei now, and DH is at
Andover. And Mido—” John covered his mouth with his left hand.
Shin raised an HRT duffel bag he had brought with him. He laid it beside John.
“It is a year’s salary.”
“No. I want my job. Give that to the woman. I want to keep my job. At my age, where
am I to go? Can you imagine if I leave like this? People will think I might have done this terrible
terrible thing. How?”
“Don’t you think I’ve tried? She intends to stay.”
“She’s holding you by your penis.” John blurted out the thing that came to his mind.
Suddenly, he remembered Danbi’s breast. “She is wicked.” He had never used such an old-
fashioned word before.
“I never intended for you to get hurt. Let me see what I can do. Give me some time. We
have to keep this out of the papers. I will do my best to talk to her again. I am sorry.” Shin said
before leaving.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 134
John did not get up from his seat to show him out.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 135
1:11: August 1993 "Disgrace"
11. August 1993
#
John could hardly recall if he had been to this part of Myeongdong. He wasn’t able to recognize
much of it though he’d once had a part-time job around here in college. The record shop, where
he worked weekends had been on the corner of the narrow street, next to a clothing store owned
by a sharp-tongued widow who disliked almost everyone. At the end of the season, she’d give
him sweaters and trousers she’d put aside in his size that she claimed didn’t sell. On weekend
evenings, John would put the outdoor record sales bins back into the store, then help her close up
shop. Both places had vanished long ago, and John tried to remember the widow’s uncommon
name, but couldn’t. Pretty much the only familiar things were the street signs and sewer covers.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 136
Lately, he had more time, and whenever he walked through parts of Seoul he had been before, he
found that even the width of the roads had changed and that if it weren’t for a significant
landmark that had been preserved, he would’ve gotten lost, no different than a tourist.
With some luck, he located the brick structure behind the cathedral, and its tall spire cast
a blurry shadow over the low-slung buildings on the street.
John stepped off the elevator on the sixth floor and paused at the tax preparer’s office,
shifting his body weight from one foot to the other. There was no one else in the whitewashed
hallway. Standing in front of the blue painted metal door, John stared at the company name on
the brass sign screwed into the wall. Judging by the size of the suite, he estimated maybe five or
six employees.
He tucked in his shirt and straightened his tie and jacket. Only a month ago, he had
managed a team of twenty-one people for HRT, which he’d joined right after leaving Endo, K.K..
In Sydney, he’d managed ten employees. He had worked at two global conglomerates. At SNU,
he had been the third in his class in his major. At 46, he was starting again and looking for a
temporary job.
The internal investigation had been fruitless. HRT wanted him to resign, refusing to pay
him. Not knowing what to do, John had done nothing. Only Helen knew. They could not tell the
children. John did not want to use the money Shin had left. Planning on returning it and
somehow go back to his old job, he had asked Helen to store the duffel bag somewhere safe in
the apartment.
John knocked on the door, and a woman’s high-pitched voice answered, “Yes?”
The office was warm and smelled like food. It was lunch time, and it seemed strange to

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 137
him that the workers were eating at their desks while working. No one did that at HRT, where
there was a well-run cafeteria for employees, and often, he and his peers went out to eat at one of
a number of local restaurants for a proper midday meal.
Here, men in white shirts with rayon neckties bought from street peddlers occupied the
eight large desks piled high with documents. Two desks remained empty. Seeing him, the
employees nodded their heads then returned to work. The lone young woman, who functioned as
the receptionist, sat behind the desk closest to the door.
Tiny and pale with a pointy chin, the receptionist wore her short hair parted on the side
with the longer piece pinned back like a school girl with a rhinestone encrusted barrette. She
wore a frilly white blouse and a brown cardigan hung over her bony shoulders. The woman
nibbled on a large fried pastry, and seeing John, she put it down by her tea mug and patted her
thin mouth with a tissue.
“Hello,” she said, more a question than a greeting.
“Excuse me. I didn’t realize it was lunch time,” John said, embarrassed.
“Is anyone expecting you?” She checked to see if the owner noticed. Seated in the back,
the boss was still on a phone call. The side of his desk faced the only window in the office. She
wanted to get the boss’s attention but didn’t know who this well-dressed man was. Unlike the
men she worked with who wore short sleeved white dress shirts with the same suits they wore
year round, the man in front of her wore a tropical-weight wool suit with a French silk necktie.
The young woman liked imported designer clothing and she knew his necktie would be worth a
lot. He looked important.
“Your name, sir? I don’t want to keep you waiting.” In her speech, she deferred to him, as

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 138
she did for everyone. It was safe to assume that she was inferior in status to anyone who came
by. It was always foolish to cause offense.
“My name is Koh Yohan,” John said. “I saw the advertisement for the tax preparer
position. I thought I’d drop off the resume myself.”
Puzzled, the woman tried to smile. He was nearly her father’s age. The position was for a
trainee.
“I had an appointment in the area,” John volunteered, seeing her confusion. He handed
her his resume in a folder.
“Is there an application that I could fill out?”
It had been over twenty years since he last looked for work. His mouth felt papery.
Unsure, the woman touched her sparkling barrette with her left index finger. She tried to
think.
“Wait, please. I’ll go ask the owner.”
When she got up, she was even smaller than she had appeared behind the desk. Her
standing height matched the seated man in the back. The owner was now off the call, and he
looked up from his uneaten lunch and shrugged. For a moment, he studied John. Without even a
sentence exchanged, the boss knew that the poor bastard with the fancy suit had been sacked
from a big company that no longer needed him. There were legions of men like this. He had no
use for leftovers, so he whispered to the receptionist, and she returned to the front of the office.
“The position has already been filled, sir. Thank you for stopping by.”
#

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 139
John walked toward the cathedral and did not enter it. Rather, he moved to the courtyard where
people gathered in clusters. He found an empty bench.
Not long after his brother died, John converted. His friends were Presbyterian, so he had
gone to Protestant services with them. It was all he knew. Helen had grown up Roman Catholic.
When her parents abandoned her and her siblings, they had received help from neighborhood
churches. An American priest had even given her the name of a saint, and she preferred it over
Hejin. Saint Helen was supposed to be Greek, and John had planned to take her to Greece one
day. This was something he had wanted to do after the children finished school and were
married. He wondered if that would be possible now without a job.
John decided to walk home. It would take him over an hour, but there was little else for
him to do that day. At home, he could finish cleaning up the house, but it wasn’t dirty. When she
returned, Helen would cook dinner, and Bo wouldn’t get back from the hagwon till late.
The wide shopping streets bustled with people rushing, haggling and selling — and it
occurred to him that everyone was occupied and needed to be somewhere. The small woman in
the tax preparer’s office had pitied him. He saw it in her face. That gentle smile, which she had
meant as a kindness, had affected him. He had given that same look to others. Pity and sympathy
had to doled out with greater consideration he realized. John walked a little faster, wanting to
leave that moment behind him.
Lately, he understood that he had done it all wrong. He had not saved enough. He had not
built other relationships besides the ones at HRT. He didn’t have any other interests except for
work. There had never been enough time for hobbies. It had not been his intention to be expelled
from his life and plans in this way. Had he known that something like this could happen, he

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 140
might have lived differently, but could he have imagined such a thing? That a woman could be so
cruel and that his friend so thoughtless and out of control. Why had he listened to Shin? John had
trusted him with his family’s well being.
Two weeks before, Shin had come by the house again and said that he was still working
on it. If John told the company everything, then they would both lose their jobs anyway because
the company would argue that John should have reported Shin’s scheme to fire Danbi from the
start. To blame Danbi alone would require evidence, and John had none. It was his word against
hers. Shin had not yet left her.
John was not a violent man, but he had wanted to hit Shin so he asked Shin to leave.
When John was a boy, he had read a manhwa about hubris, a word from Greece like
Helen’s name. Icarus, Achilles, Odysseus — all of them had hubris, and the gods had to punish
the proud.
Because John had done everything as well as he could, he had believed that he did not
need to develop other skills of those who were less accomplished.
Life was hazardous and unrelenting. It wasn’t as if he did not read the newspapers.
However, John had been protected thus far by his education and achievements. He had only
worked for two important companies, and he knew no one personally who had been fired without
cause.
Two classmates had lost positions at big companies. Neither found work in an equivalent
place; however, both were okay because they had come from prosperous families. One had a
savvy father, another a powerful uncle, and there was enough money to wait things out until
something decent could appear. They got another turn.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 141
His own parents and brother were long gone, and if they had lived to see this, they would
likely not have had any advice or help to give. For John, the man who knew how to survive best
and to whom he had leaned on was the very one who had brought him disgrace.
#
After dinner, Helen asked John to go to the mart to get eggs. As soon as he left, she phoned
Australia.
Her sister-in-law Lily picked up, and she and her husband Kenny took the call in their
bedroom, closing the door behind them.
Kenny held the receiver between them, and Lily sat at the edge of the bed, half expecting
one of the children to interrupt at any moment. Lily tucked loose threads from the fraying
bedspread into the seam of the ribbon binding and smoothed the fabric with both her hands. Lily
leaned toward her husband’s ear, and she could hear her sister-in-law’s quavering voice. Helen
spoke in English.
“It’s been almost a month, and he’s been looking. Just in case things don’t work out.
We’re thinking of leaving Seoul,” Helen said, embarrassed to be talking about her husband’s
situation. “He doesn’t get interviews. His old friends from school hardly remember him. The
school connections have dried up. We were away for too long.” She didn’t mention the part about
his age and seniority, which was obvious to them.
“I can’t even imagine,” Kenny said. He could not believe this was happening to his
brother-in-law. “What else can he do?”
“Kyungjin-ah.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 142
“Hmm?” His sister usually called him Kenny.
“What do you think of us going back to Australia?”
“How?” Kenny blurted out. “I mean, great. We’d love to have you. Does he want to do
the same thing here?”
“He’d take what he had before, which would be a step down.”
“Can he get that job?”
“I don’t think so. Do you know if Qantas is hiring?” Helen held her breath as if she could
bottle up the worries inside her and keep them from escaping. It was wrong to trouble her
younger brother, but she didn’t know what else to do. Already, she had asked Sonya, who had
offered money, but there was apparently no job at Chairman Mun’s company, where her husband
was president.
Kenny faced Lily, who frowned with concern.
“Right after you told me, I checked. Nothing. You could get a travel visa maybe and try
to find something here but—” He shook his head. It just meant more immigration trouble later.
She heard the elevator chime and checked the wall clock. Helen spoke faster.
“Maybe he could do something different?” Helen had been afraid to say this because if
she said it out loud, their problems grew more real somehow.
Lily took the receiver from Kenny.
“Sweetie. Oh, sweetie.” Lily was a tough girl from Campsie, but she was soft with her
tribe. “I can only imagine how hard it must be for you right now with the kids being everywhere.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 143
I will keep Mido here forever if I you let me. Her friend Yun is amazing, too.”
Helen wiped her eyes. When they heard, her siblings Sonya and Kenny had been
immediately pragmatic, but not gentle. Right away, they’d come up with practical solutions.
There was never any time for sadness or griping. Lily’s tender voice softened Helen’s stoic
resolve.
“I’ve been thinking. Of course we want you here. Before you start at zero, I think you
have to do one more thing.”
Helen waited. Lily was wiser in some ways than her brother.
“You have to talk to Shin’s wife. There’s no other way around this. Call her and tell her to
fix it.”
“Mary?”
“She will know how. She’s your friend. Right now, she still has the chance to save your
family from the situation you’re in. That asshole Shin will drag this on. Call his wife and tell her
what’s going on. I’ve had enough of this guy jerking you around. It’s bullshit. Tell Mary to clean
it up. It’s not her fault but it’s still her mess.”
It had not occurred to him, but Kenny cocked his head like he agreed.
Helen looked straight at the wall and envisioned her sister-in-law’s pretty oval face, the
radial laugh lines around her generous hazel eyes.
“Oh, darling. I’m so sorry this is happening.” Lily paused. “Listen, you’re not making a
request. You’re telling her that she gets to fix this.” Lily felt it was fair for Shin’s wife to share
the burden.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 144
“I can’t. It would upset John. She’s done so much for DH.”
“You must,” Lily said. “She is your friend.”
“Mary is suffering, too.”
“You’re the only one who can call Mary. She’s in Korea now, right? Time is not on our
side. Call Shin’s wife now, and if she doesn’t answer, then go to her house. Show up at her
beauty salon. Go to her church. Make a scene. Stop being polite. You can’t feed and educate your
kids in Korea on your salary, love. If you don’t call her, I will,” Lily said. “Try me.”
Helen didn’t know anyone like Lily.
“When does she return to New Jersey?”
“She’s here. For another week, I think. I’m not sure.”
“Get off the phone now and call her.”
Lily smiled at her husband and passed back the handset.
#
They arranged to meet at Lucky Girls, a tearoom near Ewha that had been around since when
they were in school. Mary was early and waiting for Helen. She had already ordered tea and
cake.
“I’m glad to see you,” Mary said. Sympathy pooled in her large eyes. She wore an old
black linen jacket, which Helen remembered her buying on sale at B. Altman’s. A classic beauty,
Shin’s wife looked chic —gray wisps framed her dark bobbed hair. She wore pale lipstick and no
other makeup.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 145
“It’s nice to see you, too, Sister.”
“I’m glad you called. I wasn’t sure what to do, but I thought about it all night. I didn’t
sleep. My husband said he was working on it, but I don’t think—”
Helen nodded. It occurred to her that this might be their last conversation.
“Your husband,” Mary sighed. “Such a fine person. I’m so sorry. I know he didn’t do
anything with that girl. I am ashamed of my husband’s behavior. It’s inexcusable. If you hadn’t
told me, I don’t know when he would have…no, I think he might never have told me. I knew
about her because she phoned.” Mary paused to collect herself. “But I didn’t know what she did
to Koh Yohan. I apologize. I apologize.”
Helen grew quiet.
“My husband needs a job.”
“Of course he does,” Mary said, indignant. Last night, her husband had not come home,
and if he had, she thought she might kill him then herself. They spoke in the morning when he
finally returned to change his clothes for work, and he promised to fix it but she didn’t believe
him.
Helen couldn’t argue with Mary. “My husband can’t find anything else. Nothing like Han
River Trading. None of his friends called him back once he said that he’s looking for work.
Apparently, he can’t work for that Japanese company because they are still upset that our
husbands became competitors. Everyday, John cleans the house, goes to the grocery store, and
sits and says nothing. He doesn’t complain. We haven’t told the children. Bo knows something
but doesn’t know what to—” Helen could no longer keep talking. She took a sip of water. “Mido

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 146
will be home soon, and I’m so grateful that DH is still in Vermont. And thank you for letting him
come to your house during breaks. I can never repay you for all the things you’ve done for him
and—”
“He’s like my son, too. And you know the boys love him. Everyone adores DH,” Mary
said.
“I’m working full time now but I can’t support our family on what I make. We have to
change apartments.” Helen blinked back tears. “I don’t want to burden you.”
Mary shook her head.
“My husband is weak. I should never have married him. My father was right. He said
Shin Taehun was self-centered. I’m glad they didn’t live to see any of this. If I wasn’t Catholic.”
Mary looked up at the ceiling as if she could stare at God’s face then closed her eyes. “Taehun
knows how to use people. That woman called me, and she was awful. I’ve heard from many of
his girlfriends, but there’s something different with her. She told me they’re soulmates. She used
that word. But I can’t be angry with her. There’s no point. My husband invited her into his bed.
My father helped us, you know. Taehun had nothing except his degree. We bought that house in
New Jersey with the money from my father. Taehun sends us money for the kids’ school but I
still work because it isn’t enough. Anyway. I wanted to see you today because I already made the
call.”
Helen wiped her face with a thin paper napkin.
“I called Kang Joonah and she fixed it. It’s not as good a job as the one your husband
had.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 147
“You called the wife of the Vice Chairman Han?”
Mary nodded. “I told her what happened, and of course, she understood.”
Joonah had been in the same Ewha class as Helen, and she married one of the grandsons
of the founder of HRG. Helen knew Joonah only from a distance, but Mary and Joonah had
grown up in Seongbuk-dong and attended schools together and were members of the same
church. She had never liked Mary’s husband—a boy not from their world— but there had been a
consensus among the girls at Ewha that Shin was one of the most attractive undergraduates at
SNU, and he had seduced the beautiful and well-off Mary, who had known nothing whatsoever
about men.
“Joonah talked to her husband, who already heard about the incident.”
Mary exhaled and stared at Helen.
“So this is Joonah’s husband’s solution. Your husband and you move back to Sydney with
a job, but it can’t be in my husband’s department, where that woman will also work. Your
husband can’t have contact with that woman. The job that is open is for a team leader, but it’s a
much smaller team than he had before. The Vice Chair will call your husband tomorrow. HRG
doesn’t want to lose our husbands. They have specific skills the company apparently needs.”
Mary pulled out more napkins from the dispenser and handed them to Helen.
“I want you to keep the money that my husband gave you. It’s not enough for what we’ve
done to your family. Joonah doesn’t know if there will be a subsidy for housing or schools
because the new job is not as senior,” Mary said. “I’m hoping that somehow, the money can
cover at least the move and—”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 148
“I don’t know what to say. I am grateful to you, Sister.”
Mary reached over and took Helen’s hands into hers. She bowed her head, her forehead
touching their hands, and without saying a word, Helen understood that Mary was praying for
them.
Helen knew that her husband would accept the post in Sydney. They had been back in
Seoul for seventeen months.
#

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 149
1:12 January 1995 "Cho Sisters"
12. January 1995
#
Even as an infant, Helen and John’s first-born had a calm temperament and responsible
disposition, as if he appreciated what it meant to be a jangnam with its attendant privileges and
responsibilities of primogeniture. Bo never seemed to let the burdens of being the eldest child
overwhelm him. He exerted himself in the classroom and on the sports field, he got along well
with his peers. A nice looking and thoughtful young man, Bo was a blessing and a relief to his
busy parents.
Often, Helen’s friends asked: How did she raise her son? Was there a method to rearing
such a fine student and good boy? The credit, however, belonged neither to Helen nor John. Bo

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 150
came that way, she would say.
Bo’s mother could admit this truth not because Helen was modest, but rather, the
experience of having more than one child in the same household amply demonstrated to any self-
aware parent that each child was entirely unique. Eventually, every small human—even flesh of
one’s flesh, which should have provided some illusion of predictability—asserted his
individuality, no matter how much a parent tried to control, shape, or design his formation.
As educated and earnest, middle-class parents, Helen and John had provided more than
the basics, and certainly more than they had been given as children of poor parents. Parenting
was, like it or not, a haphazard experiment for even the best intentioned humans, and Helen and
John observed Bo, DH, and Mido with profound fascination as only parents can with their own
babies. Each child was immutably distinct from the others.
Whenever Helen read or heard about a sad story in the news about a child who had gone
astray, rarely did she assign blame to the parents or their relationship. In a way, life had taught
her that the debate between nature and nurture was almost moot: Excellent parents sometimes
had badly behaved children, and careless parents could have admirably performing progeny. The
bond between a human and her child was binding, yet it had to be loosened. A mother had to
love, and a child had to grow up. The results were often out of one’s hands.
All three children of the Koh family were born in New Jersey, and Bo’s birth and delivery
had been manageable, bearing little relationship with the horror stories of childbirth she’d heard
over the years. Helen recorded the details of his birth in the notebook she kept for Bo:
February 7, 1976. 6:42 P.M. Eight pounds and eleven ounces. Twenty three inches long.
Bo had been neither early nor late, and the labor was a breezy six hours. Even the doctor

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 151
who delivered him was grateful. The charming Dr. Ellison had been able to shower and return
home to his large colonial house in Ridgewood before dinner was on the table.
In America, Bo was almost eighteen years old, but his Korean age was nineteen. He was
tall for a wrestler and built more like a powerful sprinter. Like DH, he could play soccer well
enough, but never enjoyed the running required. Girls admired his glossy chestnut-colored hair,
olive complexion, and large light brown eyes. He spoke English like a native, making him an
exotic curiosity at a public high school in Gangnam, and he studied from morning till night,
almost not needing to sleep. Most remarkably, Bo had maintained an impressive grade point
average in the second stanine nationally, allowing him to apply to Yonsei University. The school
did not think he could test for Seoul National, his father’s alma mater, which was fine by him.
There was a girl he liked, who adored him. Once, she showed up at his hagwon and
invited him to her house to study, and right there in her bedroom, she proposed sex. Stunned,
grateful, and naturally tempted, Bo was still able to control himself and demurred. He made a
deal with her. After they were accepted into college, they would make love. Whenever he
masturbated, he fantasized about the twin possibility of the college of his dreams and the
tantalizing promise of a very pretty girl he cared for wanting to sleep with him.
When Bo failed to be admitted to Yonsei University, he broke up with her. The girl, a
precocious beauty, who was in his homeroom class, had been accepted to Sunkyungkwan
University. The only daughter of two preoccupied college professors told Bo that she would be
happy to wait for him as he prepared to take the Yonsei exam again. Almost everyone took these
exams more than once, especially for schools as hard as Yonsei, she’d said, trying her best to
encourage him. Bo, guilt-ridden at the heavy expense of his failure, told the young woman firmly
that he would not hold her back. To make the situation even clearer, he told her that they should

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 152
not even be friends.
Bo took the national college exam in November 1994, which was called the “1995
Suneung.” In addition, Bo had to take the bongosa, a specific admissions exam for Yonsei
University, and although the bongosa devastated many students, Bo had thought that, for him, the
Yonsei-specific exam had gone well enough.
The bongosa question he could never forget was: “Describe the difference between
digital and analog.”
For his answer, Bo wrote that a digital clock stated a moment in time whereas, an analog
clock revealed the process of time.
Not long after he took the Yonsei bongosa, he and his hagwon classmates rushed back to
their Yonsei exam hagwon, which was different than Eagle Academy, his hagwon for his high
school studies. The bongosa hagwon tutor had been more or less flying blind because there were
almost no prior tests from which to teach. Each student, fresh from having taken the exam, was
asked to recall the test questions, and three tutors recorded the questions and typed out their
speculated answers. Bo’s tutor said his digital versus analog answer was terrific. Not that it
mattered.
Bo’s suneung score was what had kept him out. With 200 being the perfect score for the
“1995 Suneung,” he received 153, a strong score but not invulnerable, and predictably with his
focus on studying for the college exams, his high school grade point average had fallen on the
lower end of the second stanine, so he was no longer in the top 4% nationally.
Bo wanted to take the exams again. Helen did not know what to do.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 153
#
Helen’s sister’s apartment complex in Apgujeong was comprised of many separate towers. Helen
entered the elevator in Sonya’s building and pushed the button. She finger combed her hair,
tucking the loose wisps behind her right ear. That morning, she’d noticed two more gray hairs
sprouting from her side part. No doubt, her sister would comment on it. There wasn’t enough
time to get to the salon, and for each week Helen could hold off on getting her cut and color, she
could put aside more for the children’s school and hagwon fees. With John and Mido settled in
Sydney, Helen was still able to work full-time at the duty-free shop, and whenever the manager
had extra shifts, Helen raised her hand.
When the elevator opened to Sonya’s floor, a uniformed maid stood waiting at the
apartment’s front door. Sonya’s apartment was larger than most houses in Seoul and took up a
greater part of two floors. They owned both units of the floor, and the architect created a north
and south wing for the three generations living there. Sonya spent her days taking care of the
household, Chairman Mun, her former employer, her husband Yong-gil, the Chairman’s nephew,
and their two sons. She had a sizable staff led by a formidable housekeeper, two maids, a cook, a
driver.
The maid guided Helen to Sonya’s home office, where her sister was busy reviewing the
household accounts. Chairman Mun was at the health club with his physical trainer and
afterwards scheduled to have lunch with high school classmates, which had made this the ideal
time for Helen to drop by. The Chairman did not like to have guests.
Sonya’s office was the size of Helen’s living room. A large square of southern light
flooded the elegant room. Behind the modern oak desk was a green mohair wool upholstered

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 154
sofa where Sonya read in the evenings. Stacks of art books covered a low hand-carved Korean
pine table. Tall branches of persimmons filled an enormous cobalt blue fishbowl on a rosewood
pedestal.
The maid remained at the door while Helen took a seat on the sofa, and Sonya frowned.
“I can’t believe you’re going to leave. Again. You’ve barely been in the country,” Sonya
said, exasperated. She asked the maid for tea, and the woman bowed before closing the door.
“Is she new?” Helen pointed to the door.
“Just the niece of the cook.” Sonya said, then regretted sounding so dismissive. “She is
part-time. I don’t really need her but the cook asked me. She’s recently divorced. There are two
little kids.”
Helen understood. Everyone asked her older sister for help, and Sonya had a hard time
saying no.
“Did your husband find a place yet in Sydney? Is everything okay now? You’ll be joining
him soon?”
“They’re at Kenny’s.”
“Your husband and Mido are still there?”
“Well, Kenny and Lily said it’s fine, and Mido is tutoring the kids. My husband is always
working.”
“Are you okay with money?” Sonya looked straight through her.
“It’s tough. We returned the money to Shin. John couldn’t accept it,” Helen said.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 155
“What?” Sonya raised her hands. “Why? Your husband got a demotion and that…that
woman ruined his reputation in Seoul. If I didn’t believe in God, I would slap her.”
“Bo didn’t get in.”
“Oh, no.” Sonya said, looking sad. “Was he close? I bet he was close. Bo is very smart.
The hardest working boy. I shouldn’t have favorites, but he is the best. Nicer than my sons,”
Sonya said then smiled. “Then are you going to stay another year so—”
“I can’t stay. The apartment lease is ending, and we need that deposit back, so we can get
a place in Sydney. I can’t keep bothering Kenny and Lily. Bo missed that test by just a few
points, and the counselors said that this suneung was a nightmare. Apparently, the 1995 Suneung
is one for the record books.”
Helen folded her arms and rested her head, unable to forget what her son had said right
after the test results came out.
Umma, I want to take it again. I failed you and Appa. I’m sorry.
She told him he didn’t do anything wrong. He had never failed them, but Bo could not be
consoled. Her oldest child did not cry or waste more words. He was resolved that if he had
studied harder, he would have passed. Acceptance was within his grasp. Three points, maybe
four? All this expense and time would not have been squandered. How could she say no to a
child who wanted to study harder? Helen could not. For her son, passing that test was his
redemption.
The boy’s apology continued to press down on the mother’s brain like a tiny ball of
tungsten, a deceptively heavy metal she had once held in her palm in a chemistry class.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 156
Of course, the aunt felt terrible for her nephew. Sonya’s younger son had just been
accepted to Korea University. Like his older brother, he hadn’t been allowed to apply to Seoul
National or Yonsei because of his academic record which was strong but not the best in his high
school, so he had tested for KU and been accepted as an Economics major, which had delighted
the Chairman and Sonya’s husband.
“It doesn’t make sense for me to stay here and lease a smaller place,” Helen said. “DH is
doing well at Andover. We’re maintaining three households. I know. I must be out of my mind.”
Sonya shook her head. She understood. Helen’s mounting expenses were unsustainable,
and how would she ever save for the children’s weddings and her own retirement?
“Sister, I was wondering if, I know the Chairman wouldn’t like it, but do you think Bo
could stay here to take the test again? He’d be at the hagwon most of the time and wouldn’t be
underfoot. I know it’s a big—”
Sonya had been afraid of this. The Chairman had already warned her and said it just
wasn’t possible. She felt unable to refuse her little sister but unable to say yes either because this
was not her house. With her head bowed down, Sonya sat, not saying a word.
“Never mind.” Helen said.
She understood. Her sister couldn’t ask. “I was thinking of renting a room for him. I can’t
decide if he should stay at a boarding house or a motel for students.”
“I’ve heard that boarding houses can be terrible about meals,” Sonya said, wanting to be
helpful. “The newer motels can be nicer,” she said. “The rooms are small but some of them are
well run. I read that in a paper. I can help you with that. I am sorry about this. You know that if

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 157
the Chairman and my husband weren’t so against—”
The Chairman felt strongly about allowing anyone outside the immediate family to stay
overnight. He had never liked Sonya’s family. For her sake, he tolerated them.
“We’ll be fine,” Helen said, feeling foolish for asking.
“I can help you with the cost. I’ll get the money to you. Find the best motel for him, right
next to the hagwon. The boarding houses are often far away, and you don’t want him to waste
time commuting. Just pick the best one, and I’ll take care of it. I’ll check in on him often. I
promise,” Sonya said, and Helen nodded.
“You look tired,” Sonya said. “The sweater is pretty, but the lilac color highlights the gray
in your hair. You look older than me, so that’s not good. Get an appointment and get your roots
done. I’m a mean older sister, aren’t I? But who else is going to tell you to take care of your
looks?”
Sonya’s aesthetic tastes were impeccable.
Helen touched her head. Her sister was picking on her because she felt badly. Sonya had
married a man from a wealthy family but had learned that none of the money was theirs. This
vast apartment she took great care of did not belong to her. Sonya nagged or teased only two
people in the world: Kenny and her. With everyone else, Sonya was detached and her behavior
unimpeachable. To everyone, her sister appeared flawless.
“I promise to get my color done.”
“How is Mido?”
“School is easier for her there, of course. Mido and DH could never do what Bo is trying

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 158
to do.”
Sonya crossed her arms and tilted her head slightly, preparing to argue a little.
“Why is Bo doing this? It makes no sense. He should be studying in America.”
“He likes being here. He feels closer to the people. Bo was even thinking of trying to get
into military service,” Helen said, looking mystified.
“Has my favorite nephew lost his mind? My sons would be overjoyed if they didn’t have
to go through this. Actually, my older one is looking forward to military service, but the younger
one—” Sonya made a face, because he wasn’t the tough kind. He would likely be picked on, and
it worried her. Though the Chairman said it would be good for them to serve. It will make them
into men.
“It’s crazy enough that Bo wants to take the test again and live in Korea. Do not allow
him to give up his American citizenship to do service. I will not allow that,” Sonya said sternly.
Helen nodded.
Sonya glanced at the clock.
“Listen, let’s have something to eat now. The Chairman will be back soon—”
Whenever Sonya talked about the Chairman, naturally, she meant her de facto father-in-
law. It felt as if the rooms were filled with listening devices, and he could always hear her. Her
husband’s uncle controlled every decision and coin in the household, and Sonya did everything
she could to please him.
Helen brushed her hand across the the mohair wool fabric that covered the sofa.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 159
“Umma used to love this color so much.”
“Yes. She had a dress this exact shade,” Sonya said remembering, and Helen nodded.
“I wish she could have seen this sofa. This beautiful apartment,” Helen said, admiring the
view of the river.
Sonya considered what it would have meant for their profligate parents to see the
splendor of this house, how fine her sons were doing, and how far she had traveled from their
squalid childhood. Yet, she missed them.
She had also brought up Helen and Kenny as best she could, and they were doing fine
without their help. Nevertheless, inside her, a stubborn wish for their parents, long gone, to
witness their lives lingered.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 160

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 161
Book II
November 1996 - March 1999

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 162
2:1: November 1996 "Letters"
1. November 1996
#
Los Angeles, California
November 9, 1996
#
My Mido,
Yaah, I miss you.
The photographs are wonderful but not the same. I sound ungrateful. Sorry.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 163
Thank you for sending them in your last letter.
Seeing the pictures, I wished to be back in Sydney. I was there briefly and gosh, over
three years ago, but for me, it felt like a pretty dream during a terrible time. You reminded me
again how much I loved my few weeks there.
The twins are enormous! And the baby. Wow. Is she starting pre-school? That sweet
white dress. I hope I can have a little girl one day or four of them like Little Women. You can be
their aunt. And Henry. He’s as handsome as a drama star.
You have to tell Henry that whenever I drive past Anaheim, I think of him. I still
remember how much he wanted to go to Disneyland. It was all he could talk about whenever
California was mentioned, as if the whole state was just one amusement park. Now that I live
here it’s funny to think of what I once thought of as America.
California is gigantic, and it’s just one state out of fifty and the District of Columbia,
which is the nation’s capital. When we first got to Orange County, the youth group went to
Knott’s Berry Farm, which is an amusement park not far from where we live. Kids from my high
school work there during summers. Then this past June, right before graduation, I finally got to
go to Disneyland with some seniors. I kept thinking of your cousin Henry, who must be taller
than me now.
I thought Disneyland would be like Knott’s Berry Farm, but it was much bigger. It was
also more expensive but worth it. No one believed that it was my first time.
I’m ashamed to admit this, but back home, privately, I used to feel a little better about
myself because our family had plenty of money. No one could ever make me feel inferior
because my mother would take me to all the fancy places and buy me things no one else had, but

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 164
here, I don’t know any of the cool things and haven’t been anywhere interesting. A White girl in
my freshman writing seminar said she was a debutante in Atlanta, which she’d hated being, and I
had to look that up because I didn’t know what that meant. There were some kids in my high
school whose families belonged to country clubs, but I don’t think it’s the same thing. A lot of
the wealthier students at UCLA have traveled to Europe. I’m a country bumpkin here.
Maybe one day, you’ll come to America, and we’ll go to places like San Francisco, New
York City or Washington, D.C. I’d love to go to a Broadway musical and walk through Times
Square.
I think Henry got the Disneyland postcard I sent, but I should’ve gotten him the Mickey
Mouse hat with his name stitched on it but I wasn’t sure how to send it without the mouse ears
getting crushed. Tell Henry that if he comes to Los Angeles, I promise to take him.
More importantly, I should mention that you look pretty and happy with your boyfriend.
Tek seems more serious in the picture than I remember him. Then again, that time he
came over with Henry, after he ate almost all the Anzac cookies, he studied and got all his school
work done, which I admired. I’m glad he likes uni and is taking Korean classes. I wouldn’t want
you to marry a Korean who can’t speak it at all. I wish I didn’t have an accent, but I can speak
both languages now. I can even get by at work with my high school Spanish. If I could, I’d like
to learn more languages.
Oh, remember to be careful with Tek, if you know what I mean. Ha ha.
My mother has also been nagging me about being cautious because I have big news.
Are you ready?

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 165
Like you, now I have a boyfriend, and he’s not a boy. He is old, and he wants to marry
me. Ever since I met Lion Han, I liked him but I never thought I had a chance. He is 23, so five
years older than we are.
So, is that three years older than your Tek? He reminds me of a 1,000 year old turtle
who’s been walking the Earth forever. If you meet him, you’ll understand what I mean. He looks
nothing like a turtle or a lion, but there’s something about the way he is so wise and purposeful.
Everyone at church calls him the Oracle of Orange County.
Naturally, since he’s older, my mother is worried that I’ll get pregnant. Lion said he could
wait for as long as I wanted, but I don’t know. Your friend Yun is still a virgin but I’m now in
college, and between us, most of my friends from school and church have done all the things. Yet
I haven’t, so naturally, I’m curious. Ha ha.
He wanted to be a musician, and his father cut off his tuition, so he put himself through
Princeton by tutoring. He owns a hagwon in Cypress with employees. I know you will like him.
Let me tell you about my classes at UCLA.
Here goes: Communications, Psychology, Spanish, and Writing. Writing and Spanish are
requirements for me to graduate and the classes are small. Comms and Psych are huge, and I
have section leaders, who are graduate students. The classes are not boring. I much prefer college
to high school.
You know what though? I think I’m still tired from high school. College is great, and
UCLA has a beautiful campus but I don’t live in the dorms, so I have a long drive home to
Cypress five days a week. Traffic is the only part about California I hate. I’m getting to be a great
highway driver though. I can’t graduate in three years like Lion did, but I’m going to try to pick a

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 166
major early and focus, so I don’t waste time. I need to pick something. I was thinking maybe
Business Economics? I’m not that interested in business though but the math won’t be too bad.
Where do I study?
I do my work at the school library here, or at Lion’s hagwon office, which is quiet and I
get to see him when he’s free. Also, he can help me with schoolwork. He’s good at editing my
papers.
Nothing has changed at home. My father is still having a hard time. Same as usual. He’s
still angry at his former partner, and he hates working at Shrimp Castle and wants us to go to Sao
Paolo, where his younger cousin lives. My mother doesn’t like his cousin. She said she’s not
moving again unless it’s back to Korea. I can’t imagine going to Brazil and starting again at
eighteen. I guess I’d learn Portuguese. Both of them agree that UCLA is good for me, so even if
they went, I would get to stay and finish my degree.
#
Here’s my jansori list. Nagging is love.
Take your vitamins.
Make sure you get enough sleep.
Buy yourself a treat once in a while, it’s okay to buy yourself a lip gloss or a nice sweater.
Enjoy your last few days of high school. I think you’re graduating soon, then you have
those HSC exams, right? You’re going to get into a great uni. I know it.
If you can, after you finish your HSCs, please consider taking the SATs, 3 Achievement
Tests, and apply to UCLA and a few American colleges. Your school has sample study guides in

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 167
the library. I had problems with the reading comprehension section, but the math was fine. You
will do great on both sections.
College here is expensive and out of state students pay more, but Lion said for some
schools, it’s worth taking out loans. I live at home so I don’t have to pay for room and board.
The community colleges here are also excellent, and after two years, you can apply to schools
like UCLA and Berkeley. A lot of my classmates went to Cal State schools, which are great, too.
Can you tell that I want you to move here?
As soon as I have enough saved, I’ll send you a ticket. Lion wants me to focus on school,
so he doesn’t want me to work at Shrimp Castle as much, but business is getting better, and my
parents need help. If I worked at Lion’s hagwon, I’d make more per hour, though.
My mother’s English has improved. Dad works in the kitchen so he doesn’t get much
chance to talk with customers. They both say hello to your parents and brothers.
Send me a long, detailed letter soon.
Love,
Yun
#
She had filled up two blue aerograms with her tiny handwriting and marked the letters Vol. 1 and
2. In them, she had done her best to sound cheery, focusing on the good news.
On Saturday night, Yun’s father, Joonho, smoked a cigarette in the alley behind Shrimp
Castle. After stubbing it out, he picked up the cigarette butt from the ground, closed the back
door, and tossed the butt into the plastic-lined garbage can in the kitchen. The new helper Rafael,

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 168
had needed to leave early, so Joonho had to wash up the kitchen by himself. Joonho changed into
his rubber boots and mixed disinfectant into the wash bucket.
Joonho’s wife, Nari, had already locked up the front door, settled the cash receipts, and
was busy cleaning out the bathrooms.
Joonho, dressed in a white short sleeve cook’s shirt, navy drawstring polyester trousers
and boots, scrubbed the tile kitchen floor before hosing it down.
Yun had driven from Cypress to Garden Grove to pick up her parents. In the parking lot,
she waited for them to come out while she did her Spanish homework. In some ways, Yun liked
the sound of Spanish more than English. She’d had four good high school Spanish teachers, and
Profesora Martinez at UCLA was her favorite teacher.
When her father Joonho opened the front passenger door, Yun looked up from her
language workbook. He slid into his seat, reclined his head and shut his eyes.
In the back, Nari buckled her seat belt.
“What did we make today?” Joonho asked his wife, hoping for a big number. From the
kitchen, he could estimate how many entrees and sandwiches they’d sold, but couldn’t know
how many cans of soda and bottles of iced tea they sold, which could make a big difference in
their profit margins.
Yun started the car feeling sorry for her father, whose clothes reeked of fishy oil. His
uniforms were harder to wash than her mother’s.
“A little over nine hundred and fifty,” Nari answered. It was not a good take for a
Saturday, but they still had to get over the middle of the month hump and earn enough money for

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 169
the rent, utilities, supplies, insurance, and Lenny’s salary. They could keep what was left after
everyone else got paid. The promissory note they’d signed was getting paid off at a regular clip
but not fast enough for Nari, who worried about Yun’s tuition.
When they were already on the interstate, Joonho said, “We have to go back.”
“What?” Nari said.
“I forgot to lock the back door. I closed it but didn’t turn the knob. I had a cigarette—”
“This is the second time in two months. Do I have to do everything? Your head is still in
Seoul. Or you’re fantasizing about Brazil like you’re a young man. You’re almost forty,” Nari
shouted. “Your daughter has to pick us up because we have only one car in California. She
studies, works hard, and never hangs around with her friends. My little girl shouldn’t have to do
this. I can’t believe that you forgot again—”
Her complexion was gray from exhaustion and eyes bloodshot. Nari found herself raising
her voice again, when she had been trying each day to be gentler. At church, she had been
praying for self-control and patience. Her lips, clamped shut, were almost white. She was afraid
of saying anything more. In Seoul, she almost never yelled at her husband, but here, as she
worked beside him each day at the store, she understood that he was no longer the same
confident young man she had known as a teenager. He was broken. He used to call her his
princess, and she didn’t know how to fix him and turn him back into her prince.
“It’s okay. It’s okay,” Yun said calmly. “I don’t mind. Really.”
Joonho didn’t say anymore. He leaned against the headrest and stared at the dark blue
material covering the interior of the Volvo.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 170
Due to traffic, it took another forty minutes to get back to the store, and it was true.
Joonho had forgotten to lock the back door, but nothing had happened to Shrimp Castle.
“No harm, no foul,” Yun muttered under her breath as she secured the deadbolt, repeating
a thing that her boyfriend liked to say. She could not imagine telling Lion what had happened
though she felt certain that he would not judge them.
#
Back home, everyone was too tired to cook, so they tried to eat the leftover pizza from the night
before, which Yun reheated while Nari and Joonho washed up and put on clean clothes. Since
Yun had the car most days, Nari hadn’t had time to pick up groceries from the mart. Joonho
didn’t like American takeout and refused to eat fried chicken or fish. The only non-Asian
delivery food that he could tolerate was pizza, so whenever they ordered any, they ordered a
spare box for the following night.
Eating had become a chore. In America, Joonho had grown thinner each year,
unrecognizable from the brawny man who used to go to a boxing gym in his spare time. Here, he
was all loose skin, bones, and sighs held back.
Wearing his dark sweatpants and a clean tee shirt, Joonho sat down at the dining table, his
head resting in his hands.
“Yun-ah, can you get your father a beer?”
Right away, she brought him a cold Heineken with a beer glass from the cupboard.
“Don’t have more than one,” Nari reminded him, “Last night, you drank seven bottles
and threw up before going to bed. I can’t live like this.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 171
Yun stared at her mother, willing her privately to stop nagging him. Of course, her mother
was not wrong, but he would not listen. No one listened to each other anymore.
She put a slice of pizza on her plate and grabbed a paper napkin.
“I need to finish my homework,” she said. Yun wasn’t hungry but didn’t want her mother
to remind her to eat and start another argument about nothing.
“I should never have married you,” Nari said to her husband.
Joonho got up from his seat, opened the apartment door, and walked out.
He didn’t return until Sunday night and didn’t offer an explanation of where he’d been.
On Monday morning, he went to work, and Nari said nothing.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 172
2:2 December 1996 "Letter"
2. December 1996
#
Sydney
December 17, 1996
#
Dear Yun,
I think I read your sentence about your boyfriend wanting to marry you at least three
times.
You’ve never been the boy crazy type, so this Lion Han must be a special person. I need

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 173
to figure out a way to get to California to see you and to meet this Oracle of Orange County. No
need to send me a ticket because Uncle Kenny still works at Qantas. I’ve been saving my
babysitting and tutoring money for uni fees, and I’m skipping Schoolies, so I might have enough
to get to you soon.
You are not allowed to get married before I meet him.
I can’t imagine getting married myself. I like Tek, but I don’t really understand all this
talk of love. I enjoy hanging out with him. But it’s strange to think about marriage, which sounds
permanent. There’s so much left of life, right?
I am looking forward to going to uni. When I lived in Australia before, I had considered
going to college here, but now that I’ll probably go to the University of Sydney, I’m wondering
if we’ll always live here. My parents don’t talk about it anymore.
I’ve been worried all day, and it is helping me to write to you. My older brother Bo has
not called with his results. He took the suneung again, and my parents think he failed. They must
have tried his pager a hundred times.
He must be ashamed. Of course, he shouldn’t be. I can’t even imagine how hard that
exam is. This year, they got rid of the bongosa, which is the school specific exam for Yonsei,
then made the suneung longer and more difficult. Everyone at church was talking about the
changes because there was a greater number of questions without more time given.
My middle brother DH said test writers in Korea are sadists. The SATs are supposedly
gentle compared to the suneung, so I looked at some of the questions, and he’s right. He feels
even guiltier than I do for being at Yale. He just finished his finals and said college wasn’t as
hard as Andover.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 174
The reality is that both of us are stupid compared to our older brother Bo, and yet, both of
us have gotten into good colleges. I find out for certain fairly soon, but I’m pretty sure I got into
Sydney already. The HSCs went fine, and my TER will come out any minute then my offer will
be official. I sound like I’m boasting. I’m sorry. It’s just not as difficult as Korea or as complex
as the States. Here, it’s my school grades, ranking, and how many applicants want a specific
course. I didn’t choose Law or Medicine, so it’s easier to get in.
Unlike you, I’m no good at sports. I’m no class president or yearbook editor. I’ll never be
popular. I have made peace with all of this. However, it turns out that I can ace standardized
exams in my sleep. As long as they’re in English.
Because you told me to, I found a study guide with old actual SATs at the school library,
and I took three of them, and each time, I got perfect scores in the verbal section and only two or
three wrong in math. The third time I took it, I got everything right. I’m a freak. DH agreed.
Feeling smart, I tried a couple of the suneung exam questions, and I almost died. I don’t
even know how my brother Bo could understand most of those Korean vocabulary words. My
Korean is respectable, but the Korean literature questions were impossible. I had no idea what
they were talking about. Even my mother was stumped a few times, and she studied English and
Korean literature at Ewha. My father was able to do the math questions, but he said that they
were written in such a weird way to trick the kids. Why?
When I showed Tek the SATs, he thought they were manageable, too. He got into the law
course at University of Sydney, so his TER was excellent, but he found the SAT math a bit odd.
He refused to do a whole test with me. “What’s the point?” he asked, and he’s not wrong. So
unlike me, who finds taking a standardized test relaxing, my boyfriend is normal.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 175
I wish I could see my brother Bo. I could just make him a sandwich or something. Did
you know that he tucks crisps into his turkey and cheese sandwiches? DH thinks that’s gross. I
don’t know if he can get sandwiches like that in Seoul. I hope he is okay.
Bo is the most responsible of the three of us. It isn’t like him not to call after we try his
pager. DH tried his pager, too, but Bo didn’t reply.
I should trust him. He’s probably figuring out what to do, but it occurred to me today that
maybe he should try something completely different. I wish he could come here.
I know we agreed not to exchange presents for Christmas, but I don’t have to listen to
you. You’re not supposed to enclose money in the post, but my mother sends DH a twenty dollar
bill for pizza in her cards to him, and they’ve never gotten stolen or lost. I don’t think you can
get much for forty dollars but maybe you can find a pretty top on sale or go to the movies and get
a burger. You’re not allowed to save it. I thought if I got you something here, then I’d end up
spending more on postage. Yes, I’m still practical. So, please do something silly. Just for
yourself. Promise me.
When I read your letters, I can hear your voice. Write.
Love,
Mido
Bo took the “1997 Suneung” on Wednesday, November 13, 1996. It was his third try.
He would never forget every detail about the day before the test. On the Tuesday before

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 176
the suneung, Seoul was cloudy and cold. By the middle of the day, it got warmer, about 48
degrees Fahrenheit, and Bo jotted it down on his pocket-sized diary.
After his last hagwon class ended, he took a mostly empty bus to the Yonsei campus and
sat in a window seat near the back and tried to warm himself by tucking the blue woolen scarf
into his faded black parka.
“If you want to be a Yonsei student, you have to behave like one,” Kim Teacher, his
hagwon instructor had told him. “Go to the cafés where Yonsei students have their snacks, read
the books they read, and inhabit the peace of mind of being an admitted student. Visualize. Draw
the picture in your mind.”
Kim Teacher had graduated from Seoul National University—the same school as Bo’s
father—having studied Law. A suneung wizard and a legend for having gotten one of the top
scores of the country for his year, he charged an extraordinary fee to be a suneung tutor, which
Bo’s Aunt Sonya paid. As a bachelor, not yet forty years old, Kim Teacher earned more than
several lawyers and judges combined and already owned two commercial buildings in Hongdae.
It was rumored that he didn’t have to work anymore for money, and it was clear that he enjoyed
teaching. His speciality was re-takers, the ones who had not passed on their first or second tries.
Kim Teacher was convinced that Bo would pass this time. His scores were in the safety
zone, so he focused on preparing Bo’s mental game. He advised Bo to go to the campus at least
once a week to be in the mind of a Yonsei student. After the last class ended, Bo heeded his
teacher’s advice and went to the popular two-story cafe near Sinchon station, frequented by
Yonsei and Ewha students.
At a corner table near the window, Bo picked up a discarded copy of a Yonsei literary

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 177
magazine and read it while having his tea. All around him, young men and women huddled
together, warming their cold hands on hot coffee cups. Attractive girls in bold patterned sweaters
and denim trousers discussed politics in hushed tones, ignoring the boys sniffing around them.
Bo tried to imagine himself being one of the young men writing in their notebooks or
doing their assigned reading. A younger woman who had short permanent waved hair, resembled
Isul, his friend studying for the civil service exam at the motel. She was reading The Stranger in
French. Bo could not remember the last time he’d read a novel. During summers in high school,
he used to read classic European and American novels in English.
He’d always imagined working and living in Korea but he also wanted to be the kind of
Korean who knew more about the world—in books, film, and history.
In less than twenty four hours, he would take the suneung again, and since last
November, he had done little except for study for this exam. He felt good about it and ready to
put it behind him.
After Bo finished his coffee, he walked along the main part of the campus, decorated with
banners for student elections and teams. Cheerful undergraduates rushed to their classes or exited
lecture halls, relieved that a period had ended. It couldn’t have been that all the students were
pleased, but everyone appeared calmer than how he felt inside.
Kim Teacher had assured him that this time would be his last. Bo’s practice scores had
been well above the safety zone, and it had made sense for him to skip the extra practice session
tonight, where he would’ve unnecessarily absorbed the anxious feelings of the other exam re-
takers.
Earlier that morning, after class ended, Kim Teacher asked him to remain a bit longer.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 178
When the other students were gone, his teacher gestured to Bo to approach his desk.
Bo stood awkwardly while the teacher remained seated, his long brown face tilted in deep
thought. The teacher was unusually tall with broad shoulders and a square jawline. Even when he
smiled, he looked more like a curious detective or a bemused former professional athlete rather
than a once stellar student from a strawberry farm in Goseong who had decided to earn more
money as a celebrated hagwon teacher rather than become a prosecutor or judge.
“You will do very well. ” Kim Teacher pronounced. He handed Bo a paper box filled with
customary taffy.
“Make the score stick! This is the best yut in Seoul. Not everyone can get this.”
Bo smiled at his teacher, who was about ten years younger than his mother.
“One more thing,” Kim Teacher said, digging into his vest pocket and pulled out a 500
won coin.
“Take this with you tomorrow. It’s a good luck charm from your old teacher. When you
get nervous, just touch it. Remember, you’re not alone. Think of the millions and millions of
students who have taken difficult exams before you. Now, you’re part of this group of strugglers.
It is good to be examined. A young person should learn and be tested so he can retain
knowledge.”
Surprised, Bo stared at the coin in his palm. He wouldn’t have pegged his teacher to be
superstitious.
“My hagwon teacher gave me a coin when I took my test. I passed and got into SNU for
the hardest course. Didn’t I? A farm boy got a top score,” he said laughing. “So here I am,

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 179
training you to take an exam, giving you a coin, and wishing you luck.”
Bo bowed and thanked him.
“How are you feeling?” The instructor prided himself on checking in with his students.
He felt that his personal approach was the reason why his students got their best scores and
shook off their past failures.
Bo grinned, staring at the pale blue walls of the large classroom.
“I’m well, Teacher. I believe I’ve prepared as much as I could.”
“You will have fine luck, too. You deserve it.”
“I guess I haven’t had much luck.”
“Sometimes, it isn’t just preparation. There’s timing, circumstances, and personality. You
have good habits, and you did the work, Bo. You’re a hard-working and good person. Go easy on
yourself. Make sure you go to sleep early tonight. Tell yourself that the exam is just another
practice test. You’ll be fine.”
At the cafe, several tables had already cleared out, and Bo was alone in his corner. He put
aside the literary magazine for the next person who might want something to read. When he went
to the cashier to pay the bill, he could feel the ridges of the 500 won coin in his coat pocket. He
took the train home and stopped at the grocery store near the motel.
#
The motel kitchen for the residents was a modest sized rectangular room. There were three rice
cookers and three electric kettles on a long white counter by a deep sink and dish rack. Everyone
was required to wash their own dishes, and Bo did not mind cooking simple meals for himself.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 180
As usual, he found Isul resting at the communal table, her eyes closed with her head
propped up on a 5th grade civil service study guide. A brass ramyeon pot with rounded handles
simmered on the stove. Isul wore her usual indoor clothes: black sweatpants, gray sweatshirt,
white ankle socks with black and white plastic slippers.
Severely near-sighted, Isul wore eyeglasses with thick plastic lenses which obscured her
lovely small eyes. Bone thin and tiny, she looked like a primary school girl in her older brother’s
clothes though she was two years his senior. Only the wavy hair made her look her age.
“Sister,” he greeted her brightly.
Isul was the person he knew best at the motel, filled with transient students, day workers,
and ghostly figures who came and went. Bo’s aunt had selected the best motel near his hagwon,
and it rarely had a vacancy because it was so well-maintained. Regardless, it was still a pay by
the week motel and of course, nothing like home.
Bo met Isul in the communal kitchen on his first day at the motel. Within a week of their
meeting, she made a point of sitting him down to tell him that Bo was nothing like the others
residents.
“You’re not a loser like most of us. You’ll have a bright future. Keep studying.”
She had already graduated from Pusan National with good marks but hadn’t been able to
get any office jobs. Dejected by the process of applying for any white collar job, she had taken a
break for a few months to work as a barmaid at a restaurant owned by her aunt, who had
borrowed money just so Isul could study in Seoul for a civil service exam. Isul had failed twice
already. On the first try, she got to the interview stage but had gotten a severe cold and lost her
voice.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 181
Isul’s windowless room was one of the smallest ones in the three-story motel, and she had
to share a bathroom on the women’s floor. She teased Bo for being a rich kid because though his
room was also small —about six square meters—at least he had his own bathroom and a transom
window which opened, allowing him to get fresh air from the lobby windows. Isul and Bo had
made a wager that whoever passed on the third try would buy the other a beef barbecue dinner.
Every day, they ate at least one meal together in the third floor motel kitchen where they
could have as much rice, kimchi, and ramyeon as they wanted. With the allowance that his
parents sent, Bo bought eggs, sausages, tofu, and tins of jjajang tuna, and he shared his groceries
with her. She ate so little though that her intake was hardly noticeable. Whenever her aunt sent
her fish or banchan from home, of course, she shared it with him. She called him her little
brother.
The ramyeon in the pot burbled over, and Bo hurried to the stove to turn off the gas.
“Sister! It’s done, right?”
Isul didn’t open her eyes, and he nudged her shoulder gently, feeling the sharp edge of
her shoulder blade beneath the thick terry cloth sweatshirt.
He glanced at her open profile and saw that she was sleeping soundly, having forgotten to
take off her eyeglasses. As he removed them from her small face with both hands, Isul still didn’t
wake up.
Big Uncle, a middle-aged security guard at a downtown bank, peeked into the kitchen. A
long-time resident and a kind of mayor of the motel, he favored Isul and Bo. After his own
elderly father died six years ago, Big Uncle had moved into one of the back rooms with a
bathroom and never saw the point of finding a bigger place of his own. He preferred the bustle of

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 182
the motel to the idea of living alone and took great care to remember the birthdays of residents
and staff. On an important day, he’d buy a red bean bun from his favorite bakery and leave it for
them in the kitchen with the person’s name and a smiley face in a heart drawn neatly on the
paper bag.
“Our little Isul looks tired,” Big Uncle said. “Maybe we can get Manager Shin to open
her room, so she can sleep properly. Her neck is going to hurt if she sleeps that way,” he said,
clucking his tongue. “Manager Shin is at the store now. He’ll be back in half an hour or so.”
“Sister, Sister,” Bo jostled Isul’s shoulder getting no response. He spotted the familiar
green lanyard with her room key in her sweatpants pocket. He turned to Big Uncle, “Maybe we
can take her ourselves. She must weigh 40 kilos if that.”
Big Uncle bent over her chair and scooped up the young woman in his arms like an
infant.
“She weighs less than a small sack of rice,” he said with concern.
They both checked that she was breathing.
Taking her key, Bo walked ahead of him to open Isul’s room. Having never seen the
inside of her room before, he was startled by its smallness, easily half the size of his.
She had almost no possessions. The white walls of her room were bare and the A4 paper
sized patch of floor immaculate. On the clothing rack, which was less than half a meter long,
hung a navy woolen winter coat, a black interview suit, one white dress shirt, and the Burberry
scarf that Isul’s aunt had sent last Christmas. Every centimeter of her desk was covered with
heavy piles of test guides and notebooks. Her bed was made and covered with a thick red and

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 183
green checkered blanket. On the floor, lay an open tote bag, which Isul used as her school bag,
and on top of the bag rested an open box of cold medicine from the corner drug store. Six of the
capsules had been removed from the tabbed aluminum sheet.
#
At the hospital, the doctor pumped her stomach and gave her fluids. She would be fine, the nurse
told them.
Big Uncle had to meet someone and asked Bo to stay with her until her aunt could come
from Busan.
Finally, when she woke, Isul looked startled.
“Bo, what am I doing here?”
“You troublemaker,” he said, relieved that she was back to normal.
“Where are my glasses?”
Bo picked them up from the bedside table and handed them to her.
“Did you take all six pills?”
“What pills?”
“The cold medicine.”
“I don’t think so. I took two at first, then they didn’t work, so I took two more.”
“You dummy,” he said. “You need to take a child’s dosage, and you probably didn’t eat. I
can’t believe you have a college education and still don’t understand basic chemistry.” He looked
at her sternly but started to laugh.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 184
“Watch it. I’m still your elder,” she said, smiling.
“How do you feel?”
“I have a cold. My throat hurts.”
“They pumped your stomach. They thought you tried to—”
Isul smiled weakly. “Bo, I’m so tired. Let me sleep. I just want to stop feeling so tired and
sick. I keep getting these colds, and it makes it hard to study. My poor aunt. She wants me to
work in an office. I better get well soon.”
Bo watched her fall asleep and left her a note, promising to return the next day.
#
It was four in the morning when he returned to his room, and he closed his eyes for a couple of
hours, washed and remembered to pack what he needed for the test, including his exam ticket,
identification, a packet of tissues and the hard candies he liked. He tossed in the box of taffy into
his backpack.
As soon as the proctor allowed them to open the exam booklet, Bo plowed through the
questions. After the first section, he had a short break, and that was when he felt dizzy, the
exhaustion hitting him at once. He had taken his seat at 8:10am and the exam would end at
5:20pm. There would be another short break and an hour for lunch, and it was during the breaks
when he felt nauseous.
His head felt heavy and hot, and Bo could not keep his eyes open. He felt sick. When he
reached the literature section, he couldn’t puzzle out the meaning of the questions. He stared at
the reading passages, trying to make sense of sentences. The short questions were more

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 185
confusing than the longer ones. He reached into his trouser pocket and fumbled with the 500 won
coin.
One literature passage was full of old-fashioned poems, and one of its related questions
asked for a verse that most resembled the style of the poems from the passage. The
indecipherable words began to swim in his mind.
What had made him think that he could go to Yonsei at all? He was born in New Jersey,
grew up in Seoul as well as Sydney, and he was sitting in a room filled with students who had
been living, breathing, and eating this once a year exam since they were in primary school. This
year, the bongosa exam had been eliminated, so this test was everything. Bo opened his eyes as
wide as he could, doing his best to wake himself up from the stupor. His mind didn’t go blank;
rather, all the what-ifs multiplied like exponents and crowded his mind, disabling him from being
able to envision anything else.
The night before, Big Uncle and he had rushed Isul to an emergency room. The doctors
had treated her as if she had overdosed intentionally since they had seen this sort of thing far too
often. Isul had taken an extra dose of cold medicine without food, having forgotten to eat again.
However, in the hospital room, everything had been clear. Isul had to be saved. This test was just
one day. There would be others.
Bo stared at all the questions left unanswered. Another year spent in preparation.
The proctor told the students to stop, and Bo handed in the exam papers.
He walked out alone, leaving behind the examinees who gathered to discuss the hardest
questions. They complained loudly about the passage comparing the old Korean poems, and Bo
chuckled in recognition. He had not been the only one to get it wrong.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 186
At the train station, a beggar slept soundly on the bench. Easily over eighty, his unshaved
face was closed to the crowd milling about him. The man’s brow was deeply furrowed yet the
lower half of his face was oddly cherubic—jowls plump and a small pink mouth, almost smiling.
A threadbare coat covered his chest and arms like a blanket. By his left hand and cane, there was
a polished brass bowl and a laminated sign: “Blind from birth and abandoned by my mother. I
ask for mercy. I wish you good fortune.”
Bo placed the coin in the man’s bowl.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 187
2:3 March 1997 "Transit"
3. March 1997
Bo’s hagwon teacher paged him twice but Bo did not call him back.
When the results arrived, the young man read his scores and sat down. That year, the
scoring had changed from a top score of 200 to 400, and the newspapers reported that this test
had slaughtered hordes of top students. The top scorer that year hit 373. Bo had not cleared 300.
He was underwater and he felt like he couldn’t even breathe. He knew he had to leave. He didn’t
know how long he had been sitting in his room, but Bo walked out of the motel and applied for a
job.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 188
He didn’t want to see anyone he knew.
With his high school degree and good manners, right away, he got a part-time job at the
nicer mart a block from the motel. Working full time as a cashier and stocking shelves, Bo felt
productive. The mart manager, a thirty-two year old man from Daejon, who had gone
prematurely bald, admired Bo, who was timely, responsible, and honest. In no time, when other
employees came late or didn’t show up, Bo picked up extra hours. One evening, the manager
mentioned in passing that he had graduated from a college no one in Seoul recognized and
couldn’t get office work no matter how hard he’d tried. He didn’t seen the point of the years and
years of hagwon payments and countless job applications, all to end up at this mart, but the
degree, matted and custom framed, had made his late parents proud. The manager’s cheerful
wife, who was a head taller than him, also worked at the mart. They did not plan on having any
children.
Bo’s mother and father offered a ticket to Sydney, but Bo asked for time. Moreover, he
asked Helen and John not to send any money until he knew what he was doing. With his own
earnings, he was able to keep living at the motel. At the end of the work day, a mart employee
could purchase discounted meals, and often, the manager and his wife saved him the best of the
expired goods, which were still perfectly good to eat.
Between Bo’s mother and father, it was Helen who took it harder. She had trouble
sleeping and focusing at work. Even as she completed everything she had to do—work, family
meal preparation, house cleaning— even as her son DH and daughter Mido were doing as well
as any student could in the United States and Australia respectively, Helen’s mind dwelled on her
disappointed son in Korea. It was difficult to imagine her brightest child selling cigarettes and
beer and sweeping the sidewalk. Hearing that the manager and his wife were being kind to him

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 189
gave her little comfort.
With careless runaway parents, Helen and her siblings had grown up on their wits,
dependent on the charity of the church and pitying neighbors, and doing jobs that were forced on
children.
One summer, when they were in primary school and Kenny was still a toddler, her
parents disappeared, and she and her older sister Sonya had packed sneakers in boxes for a small
factory owner, who gave them food but almost no pay; during another school break, Helen had
washed towels and cleaned the facilities of a public bath. In middle school, Kenny had mopped
floors and broken down crates at a nearby dry goods store. All three of them had plucked chicken
feathers and scaled fish at a wet market, when they could even get the work. When Helen was
pregnant, the memory alone of slippery chicken carcasses made her unable to even look at a
bowl of chicken soup.
If Helen didn’t have to keep her good retail job at the department store, she would have
flown back to Seoul to get him. Her husband asked her be patient.
“Bo will figure it out. He’s the most sensible of the three,” John said.
Helen called her sister Sonya anyway.
#
When Sonya met Bo at the tonkatsu restaurant, she wore a simple camel-colored dress and didn’t
carry one of her expensive hand bags. Bo came on time and sat opposite her. He looked
remorseful, as if he deserved to be reprimanded, and his aunt felt badly.
“I ordered your favorite set and a cola with ice,” she said, smiling.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 190
“Thank you, Aunt.”
The young man in front of her was still a boy. Like her sons, her nephew was the size of a
man, but in his smooth face and the rising Adam’s apple of his thin corded neck, she could only
see his familiar baby face behind his eyeglasses.
“I’m sorry for all the trouble I’ve caused you. The tutor you found me was very good. It
isn’t his fault.”
“What are you talking about? I think you’re amazing, Bo. I imagine this feels awful right
now, but this could be the right thing,” she said and saw that he didn’t believe her. “I believe this
needed to happen. Your aunt is over fifty years old, and this is what I’ve learned. Sometimes, the
things you wanted most and still don’t get are the terrible things you’ve been delivered from. It’s
still upsetting. I understand.”
Bo looked up, his mouth opened a little.
“I talked to an admissions counselor about you, and he said that you should go to
America.”
Bo shook his head.
“Aunt, I can’t give up. I should take it again. I already spent three years on this, and my
scores were really high in my practice exams and the first two. I was just tired, so I thought this
job would be a kind of break. I don’t even have to learn that much more for the next suneung. I
should just take it, but I have to wait another year.”
“Your mother said something about a girl that you were helping the night before. Is she
your special friend?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 191
“Oh, no.” Bo shook his head, understanding her meaning. “She’s like my elder sister at
the motel. She got sick, and we just took her to the hospital. It’s not like that.”
“Is she well now?”
“Oh, I think so. She’s studying to take her civil service exam.”
The boy was too nice for his own good, she thought. Sonya’s husband thought it was
crazy that he wanted to live in Korea when he had U.S. citizenship. The Chairman thought the
boy was having some sort of identity crisis but felt that a person who could achieve should never
give up.
“So you’re not staying in the motel because of her then,” Sonya looked at her nephew
carefully, the way she did when she spoke with her sons, checking for even the smallest of facial
expressions.
“The admissions counselor had an idea, and I think it can also help your parents.”
The server laid the tonkatsu sets on the table and left them.
They bowed their heads and prayed silently, then she gestured for him to eat.
“Nephew. The admissions counselor is famous. She is the best in Seoul and she has this
plan, which apparently she’s used many times with her students who can get visas. If you go to
California and go to a community college for two years, then you can go to a California State
school or to one of the University of California schools. It’s not like here, where there are just a
couple of schools that people care about. After you establish state residency in California, then
the cost will be almost nothing. You can pay for it by doing part-time jobs if you like working so
much. Also, when you want and if you do well, and I know you will, you can apply to transfer to

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 192
the four year schools. You could transfer to an Ivy if you wanted. The rich schools give financial
aid to kids. Just think, you don’t have to do military service since you’re an American citizen,
and Bo, you can start again. I know you will flourish. It’s not your fault that—”
She stopped herself. The boy was clearly upset but trying not to show it.
Bo felt worse. She must have thought he couldn’t pass, yet he could not defend himself
because the evidence against him was irrefutable. He had failed. Three times. None of the
context mattered, because in the end, most people cared only about the results. He chewed the
fried pork and couldn’t taste anything.
“I spoke with your mother and sister.”
“Aunt, I can pass. I know this has been a terrible burden, so I thought I’d save the money
from this job and try to do it alone—”
“Bo. Listen to me. I know you can pass but what for? Is it worth it? Do you really want to
live here or did you just want to know that you got into Yonsei University? If you really wanted
to live here, you could have chosen an easier school to get into, isn’t that right? There were
dramatic changes in the past few suneungs—first the Yonsei bongosa, which they didn’t have
before, then they get rid of the bongosa—and all those extra questions in this recent one. Almost
all of the children of my friends didn’t get good results. It’s not their fault. This system of testing
just to weed children out is unfair and unpredictable, and I don’t know why you have to bear it
any longer.”
Bo said nothing. He had created and believed in his plan, and in a few sharp, well-
reasoned words, she had pierced his logic and purpose, leaving gaping holes.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 193
“I don’t know anyone in California. Where would I live?”
“Mido has that church friend Yun from middle school, and her boyfriend Lion Han said
you could work for him.”
Bo looked confused.
“Yun’s boyfriend owns a hagwon in Orange County, and he needs a van driver and a
math tutor. You can live with him, he said. You can go to school and work part-time.”
“How would I get there?”
“Uncle Kenny will get you a ticket to Sydney then after you see your parents, you can go
to Los Angeles.” Sonya held her breath. This plan had been in the works for over a week, and if
Bo agreed, she felt it could be the ideal situation.
“I guess no one thinks I can get into Yonsei.”
“You’re wrong,” she said, impatient and unwilling to entertain his self-pity. “You want
proof that you can get in. I get that you feel embarrassed. That’s normal.”
Bo put down his fork and knife and wiped his mouth with the paper napkin.
“I know you can get admitted. There were some tough breaks, and I’m positive that if
you keep taking it, you will pass. I read that this Korean Language section for the 1997 Suneung
was the hardest one in the history of this stupid exam. How were we supposed to know that?
Your friend got sick and had to go to the hospital. You did the right thing.”
Sonya lowered her chin and composed herself. It was on her to sell this plan. Her sister
was beside herself with worry. In Sydney, Helen was working at the department store round the
clock. To economize, the family had already moved into a two bedroom rental on the floor above

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 194
the garage in South Strathfield. They had to send money to DH who was at Yale as well as
support Mido who was at the University of Sydney. DH couldn’t get financial aid yet because
Helen and John made too much the year before, and Mido couldn’t get a reduced tuition loan on
HECS because she wasn’t an Australian citizen.
No one wanted to tell Bo how much his attempts were costing but he knew. Of course, he
knew. He was the oldest of three children, just as she was the oldest. The oldest needed to know
what had to be done for the family.
“If you go to California and study there, you won’t be vulnerable to all these exam and
admissions changes. You won’t keep delaying your life to prove something that everyone already
knows you can do. I know you want to be Korean and work and live here. But my husband said
the men in some companies could resent you for skipping military service. None of this is your
fault. Life is terribly unfair but we have to—”
From his expression, it was evident that Bo had already thought of these things, and
Sonya took another breath, not wanting to say any more.
“I spoke to Kim Teacher. You’re the best re-taker student he’s ever had. All of us believe
in you, Bo. We don’t believe in this exam.”
He stared at his barely touched plate.
“We don’t believe in Korea. Do you understand?”
“I won’t blame Korea,” he said.
“Eat your food,” she said as kindly as she could.
After he finished, he told her he’d think about it.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 195
#
Two days later, he ran into Isul in the kitchen. She was drinking her first coffee of the morning
and looked chipper.
“Thank you for the toast bread and strawberry jam, little brother.”
Isul was referring to the day-old baked goods and expired jams he’d brought back the
night before. The motel residents were delighted to supplement their rations with Bo’s regular
food bonuses. No one paid any attention to the expiration dates. More than one of them had
joked, “If only the mart could sell us expired soju.” She slid the plate of toast toward him.
Bo nodded thanks but didn’t say anything. He poured boiling water over the powdered
coffee in the bottom of his mug and watched the water bloom into coffee.
“My parents want me to go to America.”
“Go,” Isul said. “I’m glad somebody is making sense. Yaah—you better go. I’ll kill you if
you don’t go.” Isul raised her fist over his head while grinning.
On seeing his expression, she put her fist down.
“You don’t want to go? Why?”
“You, too?” he said. “I want to take it again.”
“Forget Yonsei. You’re going to pass next time. I’m positive. I would bet my eye surgery
savings on that. And when you pass, so what? Have you seen how hard it is to get a good job
here? You don’t have any connections, right? Does your rich aunt know any conglomerates that
are hiring?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 196
“I spent three years,” he whispered.
“Big deal. Go. Listen to your parents. I wish I had smart parents.” Isul smiled widely to
soften the blow of her words. What could he say to this? She had grown up with her aunt and
uncle after her mother passed away.
“You speak English perfectly, have U.S. citizenship, and you’re a genius. You’re better at
math than any hagwon teacher I have ever had. Except for your nearsightedness, which you
should get fixed by the way, you are a nice looking young guy. Go to America. Forget this hell. If
I had your choices, I would’ve been gone a long time ago. You foreign-born Koreans are all
messed up. You think you have to prove something. Prove you’re Korean. C’mon. There’s no test
for that. There are Koreans who are born here who hate being Korean. Hey, maybe that’s being
Korean!” she laughed then grew serious.
“Forget Australia, too. A friend of mine went there, and she’s doing just a little better than
here, but everyone wants to go to the U.S. You can. Do you need money for the ticket? I don’t
have much but for my little brother, I would give you some of my eye surgery money.—” Isul
still felt terrible that he had not slept the night before his suneung on account of her. He swore it
wasn’t her fault, but still.
“My uncle works at Qantas. We can get cheaper tickets.”
“Wow. If you weren’t such a nice little brother, I would not like you. You have it made.
What are you upset about?”
“I failed the suneung three times. I’m 22 years old.” It occurred to him that in the U.S., he
would be his American age of 21, and it sounded much younger though he was still the same
person. “Three times.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 197
“So damn what? I failed my exam three times. By the time I get a job, if I get a job, I will
be an old lady with thick eyeglasses. But you know what? Your motel sister will pass this son of
a bitch civil service job test, ace the interview, and I’m going to get my nearsightedness
corrected. I’m not so bad looking, and I’m going to have some fun. I’ll have tall, good looking
boyfriends who like short women, and one day, I’m going to buy my aunt a little building back
home. It’s not expensive like Seoul.” She put her her twig like arms on her hips. “This is my
plan. I believe it is a good plan. Every day, I work to make my plans into reality.”
“You will definitely pass. I’m positive you will,” Bo said.
“Go. You go to America. That’s a better plan. But first, you better go to work.” Isul
gestured to the kitchen wall clock.
Bo nodded.
“I better go.”
Isul nodded, and when he left the kitchen, she imagined the big motel without him, which
was sad. She made herself another coffee and opened her study guide.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 198
2.4 July/August 1997, "Sydney University Dramatic Society"
4. July/August 1997
#
Mido was not exactly qualified for the Sydney University Dramatic Society. Nevertheless, she
had a laudable goal for joining SUDS. She wanted to learn how to speak well.
Her boyfriend Tek was a third year at the University of Sydney, and a Director of the
Debating Society. In his second year, he had won the Australian Nationals. An exceptionally
gifted debater, Tek neither missed nor forgot a single word of an opponent. No question or
argument on any topic could ever be put to him, which he could not manage extemporaneously
with elegant logic and persuasive conviction.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 199
As a general matter, Mido did not wish to opine, complain or quarrel in most social
interactions. She preferred to listen and think. If needed, she’d say something and use words.
Mido was never impolite.
The couple got along well. Tek admired her thoughtful demeanor and restraint. He knew
she wanted to learn how to speak better, and he mentioned her joining the Debating Society. Out
of curiosity and with a good dose of will power, Mido attended the newcomers meeting and said
even less than usual. They agreed that nothing was more unnatural to her than debate.
As a first year university student, Mido had no problems with the written coursework. As
in high school, she found writing research papers and exams enjoyable. She had selected the
Education course, specifically at the Primary level, rather than Secondary, because Mido felt
comfortable being with small children.
After classes, meetings and work, the two undergraduates met at Tek’s rental apartment,
which he shared with old friends from high school.
One Friday afternoon, they made love in the empty rental; fixed scrambled eggs, baked
beans and toast in the common kitchen; then returned to Tek’s room to do their school work.
Mido was seated upright on the bed to do her reading, using two pillows as her lap desk.
Tek was at his desk, which was pushed up against the long wall. Before starting his assignment,
he remembered.
“How did your presentation go?”
Mido inhaled. Everyone had to give a brief talk about their research papers in her primary
school survey course, and it had been abysmal. It was a quarter of her grade.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 200
“That good?”
She looked at him, her expression full of worry, and sighed.
“When I talk to my tutoring students, even in a group of four or five, I feel fine. I explain
the concepts, ask them questions, and teach what’s needed. I must be doing okay because the
kids are doing well, and I get referrals since their marks improve a lot.”
Mido collapsed bodily into her open book, burying her head in the comforter.
Tek tried his best to understand her point of view. He had debated since year 9, but even
before that, he had been able to handle anyone who interrupted, shouted down, or fought a point
to death in any situation. At his boys’ school, arguing had been a kind of sport, and in a way, he
had been a kind of varsity athlete of talking. Nothing thrilled him more than persuading his
position against another thoughtful opponent. If the opponent was an ass, Tek enjoyed taking him
down even more. He loathed bullshitters—anyone who just liked arguing or talking to get
attention. The better he got at debate, the more he became aware of the responsibilities of the
gifts of logic, rhetoric and argument.
As a skilled debater, he felt more strongly than most that speaking and listening should be
meaningful. If he had to expound on the matter, he would say that the highest point of debate
was to reveal truth and knowledge among well-intentioned people. A mark of a great debater was
to be truthful in the structure of an argument. An assertion based on verifiable evidence, clean
logic, and fair execution of delivery should triumph over a weaker point.
One of things Tek admired about his girlfriend Mido was how she spoke: her words were
essential. There was nothing unnecessary in her thoughts. Whatever she said felt true and
valuable. It upset Tek, having been around so many loudmouths, to think that Mido’s ideas could

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 201
be lost or diminished because she didn’t know how to deliver her thoughts out loud well enough
to others. She spoke fine with him and her family.
His parents, both professors at the University of New South Wales Sydney, had taught
their only son that almost any subject could be learned competently by a student of average
ability, and Tek believed that his girlfriend was beyond average, rather, she was, to him, an
exceptional thinker.
Tek’s parents, who had graduated from Korea University and received doctorates at the
University of Sydney where they had met and married, believed fervently that a child should
never be forced to study. That said, they had provided a number of opportunities for Tek to try
many fields of interest in academics, sports, and extra curricular activities. Tek’s father was a
political scientist who specialized in East Asia, and his mother was a well-regarded economist.
Both prided themselves on never pushing a child to excel. Rather, they taught Tek about the need
for intelligent schedules, delayed gratification, and the value of consistent, high-quality work.
Tek’s father argued that Koreans back home had the wrong ideas about education.
“All that memorization, rule-following, and class-ranking. Foolish business,” Professor
Do would mutter.
His wife, Professor Yoon, who went by her family name, would add, “Such willful
disregard of the child’s personality and abilities. No wonder, the country is in such a mess.”
It’s not that they idealized the Australian education system; however, they thought it was
preferable to their own experiences and had remained in Sydney in the hopes that their
Australian-born son would get a proper Western education. They had not stressed learning
Korean or its study. Tek spoke enough Korean but not well.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 202
They liked Mido but noticed how quiet she was.
“Is she like that with you, my chatty son?” Professor Yoon asked.
“She’s not like that around me when we’re alone,” Tek said. “She’s brilliant, actually.”
They believed him. Professor Do and his wife Professor Yoon thought it was important to
trust their child’s judgment and for him to have experiences apart from them.
Even though most university students lived at home, they had encouraged Tek to live in a
shared apartment so he could have the gradual experience of being an adult. An added bonus,
Professor Yoon was relieved not to have to think of his meal preparation—sub-optimal labor she
had never enjoyed as a mother. Early on in her career, she had published a paper on the social
utility of housework and the opportunity costs of women’s labor in South Korea, which was still
cited widely. Professor Yoon loathed grocery shopping and cooking, and thankfully, her husband
would have eaten a fried egg and Marmite sandwich for dinner each night for eternity without
complaint.
It was Professor Yoon’s idea for Mido to join SUDS. If Mido and her son were to marry
and have children, Professor Yoon knew that the mother would need to speak not only to her own
children but also advocate for them in varying situations—schools, hospitals, and social events.
Of course, Mido would need strong, effective oral communication skills at work.
“My students who know how to perform on stage are not always extroverts,” Professor
Yoon advised her son. “Introverts can learn skills like improvisation, telling jokes, and public
speaking. I don’t like talking but I can give commanding lectures to hundreds,” she said without
any false humility, and Tek realized this was true. His mother and father were not loquacious
people. They seemed most happy reading and writing in their shared home office.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 203
It irritated him a little that his mother was correct. He had to admit however that being
around performers would be good for her. As a general rule, Tek was not impressed with the
intellectual level of actors and singers, but many of his friends were performers because they
were fun and attractive. They were invited to better parties. Unlike debaters, actors and singers
tended to be more sympathetic. He would rather have a beer with a mate who was an actor
rather than a debater who could be exhausting.
In bed, Mido was sitting up again, trying to do her reading. Even when she was frowning,
he thought she was pretty, not in a conventional way.
She wore almost no makeup ever and dressed plainly, having almost no interest in
fashion or shopping. Mido wore what her mother bought her and rotated her outfits, simple skirts
and dresses, wool sweaters in solid colors, and pressed white shirts bought from the boys section.
Recently, her friend Yun had sent her a pair of Levi jeans, so she wore them often.
Her skin was bright and clear, and she’d kept the same style haircut since they met as
teenagers, neat pageboy, which grazed her small un-pierced ears. Unlike Tek, she had no trouble
sleeping, and she usually appeared well-rested and imperturbable.
Unlike his four roommates who shared two large bedrooms, Tek had his own room and a
queen size mattress, where both he and Mido had lost their virginity at the start of her school
year. They liked studying in his room because it was the quietest part of the house and no one
bothered them when the room was closed, thinking they were having sex. They’d already had
sex, because it was usually the first thing they did when they got home.
“Mido.”
She looked up from her textbook and smiled at him.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 204
“Professor Yoon had an idea.”
“Your mother?”
“She mentioned that some of her students learn how to present by taking an intro theater
class or joining a dramatic society.”
“Acting?” Mido raised her eyebrows. “Me?”
“A couple of mates run SUDS. I’ll find out more about it if you want. I can go with you if
you’re nervous—”
Mido scrunched her nose like a puppy and said nothing.
“They do improvisation exercises. I’ve seen them. Hilarious and liberating, I think,” he
said
“Improvisation?”
“You take a prompt then make stuff up. Act the part. It’s usually brief. Otherwise, it
would be tiresome because it’s not a fleshed out thing with a script. Anyway, actors do loads of
these exercises to loosen up. I think it’s sort of good to try these sorts of things. Low stakes. Get
the momentum going to practice performing. If you think about it, a presentation is a
performance,” Tek said. Noticing that she did not protest, he turned back to his work. “I’ll find
out when the next general meeting is.”
Two weeks later, Mido had more or less attached herself to SUDS as her primary activity
outside of school. She did not act, sing, direct, sew costumes, work sound, do lighting, or know
how to make sets. The people in charge of SUDS did not seem to care but put her to work. Mido
liked the ticket booth, hanging up posters, and operating concessions during performances. None

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 205
of these activities interfered with her schoolwork, or her part-time job as a math tutor for primary
school children. Mido went to all the meetings, and she observed how performers behaved. It felt
impossible for her to get on stage, but when she wasn’t busy, she sat in the back of the theater, a
bundle of programs in her hands, and she admired the courage of performers.
#
In her first semester, not once did she improvise or do acting exercises, and no one seemed
interested in making her do anything she didn’t want to do. What she had not anticipated was the
inspiration she’d feel to write a one act play, which she did. When there was an open call for one-
acts, she submitted her “Desde/Mona/Rockstar,” which she attempted to write in not too terrible
iambic pentameter. The judges—two fourth years and three third years—picked her play out of
the dozen or so blind submissions.
The Cellar Theater was showing its age. The black paint needed attention, the curtains
were fraying, and two of the stage lights were out. No one bothered to scrape off the old gum
beneath the seats.
Despite its drab atmosphere, the colorful members of the Sydney University Dramatic
Society couldn’t help but light up the black box theater with their youthful beauty and spirit.
On Tuesday night, at the second rehearsal of “Desde/Mona/Rockstar,” Mido sat in the
front row and took notes, while the two gorgeous leads flirted.
Cynthia Hendrin, a supple, dark-haired third year from Brisbane, who was playing Mona,
had already memorized her lines and was busy refining her character’s air guitar and head-
tossing gestures. She batted her mascaraed lashes at the handsome Hami Chang, who was
playing Otto, the prosperous and jealous head of a record label. As usual, they were in the midst

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 206
of some private joke, which Mido could not hear from her seat. Everyone knew they were
screwing, and in a way, it was lovely to watch their erotic charge.
The director, Joe Kimball, a senior, raised both his hands like an air traffic controller and
pointed at the actors, giving his cue for the scene to begin.
Cynthia recited the lines with her characteristic verve, but there was something off in her
delivery.
Joe cocked his head. The director, sensitive to and respectful of Cynthia’s prickly nature,
gave her notes. He started by first admiring her performance then suggested that perhaps she
should slow it down and consider what Mona would be feeling at that moment. Wouldn’t she be
more sensitive to what Otto had just told her—that he could not bear to see his beloved talent
switch record labels and work with a despised competitor?
Cynthia tried it again, and this time, the performance felt even colder, more precise, each
phrase, making a sharp, brutal wound. Her tone was angry. Hearing her give the speech surprised
Mido, who had written the words herself.
“Uhm,” Mido raised her left hand lightly, her fingers fluttering a bit from nerves. She’d
never been interested in directing but felt that she should intervene. Joe didn’t like what Cynthia
had just done, and Hami, a beautiful man without much emotional range, sat in his chair, relieved
that he wasn’t getting criticized.
“May I?” Mido said, even surprising herself.
Cynthia smiled. “Please do. I’d love to hear how you had intended it.”
Mido was frightened but felt compelled to try. At SUDS, she had been a good sport—

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 207
showing up without fail to assist with lights, broken building sets, covering box office, writing
press releases, ironing costumes, and even pitching in with makeup and hair. She had never
missed any meetings or general votes. The members of SUDS had unanimously selected her
play, and it occurred to her that SUDS was the most exciting thing that had ever happened in her
life.
Mido spoke Mona’s lines from memory:
“I must leave, Otto. Yes, I’m in your debt.
I get that, however, I need to go.
Without you being in charge, there’s more in me.
There’s more music for me…for me….to make,”
She paused for the beat between “me” and “to make,” to emphasize Mona’s hesitation
about leaving Otto’s label but also her own recognition that she needed to leave to make room
for her own art.
“I wish you’d get how difficult this is.
But, our love, Otto, is unchanged.
My devotion to you remains the same.
No, no. Actually, it only grows.
Our love…my love…for you. Hey…hey, Otto.
Why can’t you see that? Why can’t you see me?” Mido lowered her voice.
“Yes!” the director sprang up from his seat and shouted. “Exactly! It must be quieter and

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 208
full of worry. She’s scared of his reaction. Right?”
Joe turned to the crowd who’d been absorbed by Mido’s performance.
In fact, the cast and the two dozen members present were astonished by Mido’s rendition
of the title character, and perhaps, that she’d said anything at all when normally, Mido said little
to nothing. She smiled and got along and did the work.
Hami crossed his arms and stared again at the first year playwright, who he had never
noticed before. She was a small, plain Asian girl, and not at all his type. He liked sexy green-
eyed girls like Cynthia with a stunning body. The long legs, perky tits and tiny waist. Her wavy
dark hair. Cynthia was the kind of knockout that every man and woman could not help but
notice. She sizzled just by crossing her ankles. You couldn’t help but imagine her having sex
while arguing.
Both Hami and Joe were startled by little Mido. They could not remember ever having
heard the playwright’s actual voice, which they must’ve but they’d been more like mumbles
between smiles. It hadn’t mattered because SUDS didn’t need another actor, and writers could be
lousy speakers and not terribly noticeable. Mido was this small quiet person, who had written a
solid one-act with a decent premise.
“Can you read a bit more with Hami?” Joe asked, ignoring Cynthia for a moment, who
seemed more curious about the playwright than annoyed. It wasn’t really possible to threaten
Cynthia’s place at SUDS. Whenever she was in a play, the performances were guaranteed to sell
out.
Hami nodded and read as Otto, and Mido picked up where she had left off, not needing to
scan the pages even.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 209
Otto: You can’t mean to leave me again, Mona.
Mona: Why can’t you see that I want my work?
Otto: I’m a rich man, and I can make you rich.
Mona: You and I can keep our love separate. It’ll be best if I record elsewhere.
Hami was about to read Otto’s next line, and Joe raised his right hand to make him stop.
“Let’s try now with Cynthia,” the director said. “Make it softer, Cynthia darling. We’ll
lean in more if you’re quieter.”
The rehearsal improved, and Cynthia, an acting whiz, took the notes well and did exactly
what was needed for the first scene in the one-act.
When the rehearsal ended, Joe held Mido back while the others went their way.
“Mate, your play’s good, and you can act.”
Mido laughed.
“No. I’ve no interest in acting. I don’t even know if I’ll write more plays. But I learned
something tonight. It’s easier to speak when I write my own words.”
Joe didn’t understand, but it didn’t matter. Mido couldn’t imagine how to explain
something she’d been struggling with for most of her life. It had never occurred to her before that
writing could make talking easier because writing could direct her thoughts and prepare her for
when she’d need to say something.
#
Mido closed the theater door and climbed up the concrete stairs. With her coat on, she waited

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 210
opposite the Holmes Building. Tek would be driving on Parramatta Road. From the banister,
she’d be able to see his old blue Volkswagen. From her bag, Mido pulled out her needles and
yarn. She was knitting a cardigan for her mother and working on the buttonholes. When she
heard the familiar honk, Mido raised her head and smiled.
“How was rehearsal?” Tek asked, moving his head toward the passenger seat to give her
a kiss.
“I feel like I understand the play better. That’s weird to say, but somehow, I inhabited the
words this time. The director said he wants to see more of my plays.” Mido shook her head. “He
said I can act.”
“Yeah?” Tek smiled. “Very cool. I’m glad he’s got sense as a director.”
“I mean, I don’t have the right look to be an actor but—”
“My girlfriend’s lovely,” Tek said, focusing on the road while making a turn.
Mido buckled the seatbelt. Uncharacteristically, she pulled down the dashboard mirror
and checked her face. She winced, a little disappointed by her pale reflection, seeing her round
unblinking eyes and the undistinguished nose. There was nothing wrong with her appearance.
She looked friendly and nice, which made up for her not being able to express herself well.
During year 12, right before final exams, she once overhead Franky Alcott, a swimmer at her
high school, say to a teammate, “Mido’s fine but she won’t win Miss Australia.”
Mido would never have thought to enter any beauty pageant, but hearing a popular
athlete’s offhand assessment of her looks was hard to forget. Often, Tek told her that she was
attractive, and she would just shrug, remembering what the swimmer, who she barely knew, had

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 211
said casually to another faceless boy in their class.
Rarely, did she study herself in the mirror, and in a way, it made it possible to forget she
had a face at all. Mido tucked her hair behind her ears.
“Well, you know why I joined SUDS. And gosh, this play…it’s all fun and games. I can’t
do this for a living. There’s no money in experimental theater.”
“Hey, you shouldn’t say that,” Tek sounded serious and reproving. “You’ve been in that
society for a semester but you’ve been so engaged. Lately, it’s just school work, me, and SUDS.”
“Well, I have to be realistic. I’m going to teach when I graduate. Be a grown up. Make a
good income.”
“After graduation, you can live with me. Focus on your playwriting. Or acting. Maybe we
can have kids.”
Mido smiled at the possibility of children. She wanted at least two.
“My mum always worked. When Dad was fired, she was the only one making money. I’ll
never forget that.”
“Your dad was fired?” Tek laughed out of surprise.
“In Seoul. A few years ago.”
Tek appeared sober.
“Mum used to keep these envelopes where she’d save money for each of us. There was
always a budget, and even now, she has to work. If she didn’t work, there’d be no money for
extras for my brothers and me. For tuition overseas and tutoring fees. I wouldn’t want you to

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 212
have all the pressure. Doesn’t seem fair.”
“There’s always pressure with a paying job or not. If you stayed at home and wrote plays
and took care of the kids, then I could make money. I’m going to be a barrister and make loads of
it. You watch.”
“As a teacher, I’ll take care of kids and get paid to do it. Like your parents.”
“My parents are university professors. It’s different. They make a lot more than a primary
school teacher.”
Mido glanced out at the road.
“You should focus on this play. Finish what you started,” he said, thinking it would be
cool if his wife was a playwright.
#

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 213
2:5: Winter 1997 "Financial Crisis"
5. December 1997
#
Established in 1865, Josiah Crawford’s Emporium had its beginnings as a dry goods
store, selling cotton fabrics, silks, velvets, ribbons, millinery, gloves, then later, cosmetics,
perfumes, and imported pottery and ceramic ware to a prospering middle class in Sydney. After
the second war, in fits and starts then gradually, the store expanded from a 2,000 square foot shop
to 50,000 square feet of retail space in the most fashionable part of the Harbour City, carrying the
finest collections of brand name merchandise in Australia. Its handbag and leather goods
department rivaled the toniest boutiques of London, New York, and Paris, and the Emporium was

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 214
the exclusive purveyor of the latest luxury imported goods from Europe. In the mid 1970s, the
Crawford family sold the legacy brand to Winchester Hall, an upstart gourmet food purveyor in
the mid 1970s, which put in a stunning food court in the basement level and ran the retail
business with effective corporate fiscal controls.
Starting from the late eighties, Crawford’s best customers were not native Australians but
the most stylish Japanese and Korean tourists who loved the curated selections of the store’s
famed retail buyers.
Helen had worked at Crawford’s for three years until 1992, then moved to Seoul with her
family, then returned a couple of years later. As a senior sales associate, Helen covered high-end
Korean speaking customers. Her manager Scott Cudahy was delighted to have her back.
Scott, a third-generation Aussie, who lived with his wife Olive, was fond of Helen. She
was the sort of employee who could be relied on to support her colleagues when they were in a
crisis and was fair about sharing commissions.
In the imported handbags and small leather goods department, Scott managed six
salespeople, three of whom were Asians —two Japanese and Helen, the Korean. In the past
decade, the Asian sales associates brought in the highest sales commissions. Their overseas
customers were decisive and unstinting in their luxury purchases. At the height of the bubble in
Japan, when a businessman had to buy gifts for his wife or girlfriend, or both, he’d hand over an
itemized list and salespeople wrapped up the purchases, denoting the appropriate labels for the
respective recipients.
The recent financial crisis began mid-summer in Thailand then like dominos spread
across Indonesia, South Korea and then Malaysia, Laos, and the Philippines. The countries had

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 215
borrowed in U.S. dollars, and when their local currencies depreciated, their governments and
corporations couldn’t pay their debts. The failure to protect against currency fluctuations and the
ensuing panic, among other factors, caused the terrible modern devastation.
Helen’s husband John had explained it to her like this.
Just imagine: “You’re a Korean worker who gets paid in Korean Won. You ask a friend
who is going to New York to buy a watch for $1,000 USD on your behalf. She agrees to buy it
and you agree to pay her back in U.S. Dollars within a year with 5% interest. In your mind, you
think you will owe $1,050.
In November 1996, that 1,050 USD watch cost 840,000 in Korean Won.
In November 1997, that 1,050 USD watch cost 1,048,950 in Korean Won.
Now, you have to cough up the difference of over 200,000 won or $188 USD. You
thought your interest was 5% but it turned out to be almost 12%. Imagine running a razor thin
margin business that’s growing rapidly and needs to borrow like crazy to survive, and out of
nowhere the cost of your debt more that doubles. Of course, you’d no idea that the Korean Won
would depreciate at that rate and that the dollar would become that much stronger. Your salary
hasn’t risen at a comparable rate, nor your investments. You can’t pay her back. Simple.
Helen had not borrowed any money, and she hadn’t purchased any imported watches or
designer handbags. As ever, she lived below her means. Every Australian dollar she earned went
toward her children’s costly imported education.
Her eldest son Bo was in Orange County, California driving a van and tutoring for a
hagwon. As soon as he could meet his California residency requirements, which would reduce

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 216
his tuition, he would enroll at Fullerton College. Her middle child DH was in his second year at
Yale, majoring in Sociology. Although he received a private scholarship from a benefactor, it
didn’t cover his books, allowance, and travel. Mido, her youngest, couldn’t qualify for HECS, a
reduced tuition and loan program for Australian citizens. It had always been a struggle to keep up
with the children’s education costs, but after November, the Korean tourists vanished and with
them, her commissions, making her budget unbearable.
At their church in Campsie, Korean expatriate families discussed the need to move back
home and the disruptions in schooling. Several considered opening up small businesses in
Campsie, Epping, or South Strathfield. Everyone discussed the IMF bailout, and the belt-
tightening measures, which felt more like a national noose.
Of course, Helen knew of wealthy women who had significant cash reserves for exquisite
bags, French silk scarves, Japanese skin creams, and Italian designer clothes, for which, their
requirements had once seemed bottomless, but fear shut tight their purses. The high heels of her
best clients no longer clicked across the gleaming marble floors of Crawford’s. In the food court,
she’d spot them, but for now, they averted their gaze to focus on their cake and flat whites. Helen
stood sentry behind the counter anyway, waiting for the clients to return.
In the first week of December, the general manager called Helen’s manager. Three heads.
Scott Cudahy knew the daily sales numbers, but to be absolutely certain, he sat at his
desk tucked away in the office behind the stockroom to review the sales data just one more time.
Scott was a fair minded person and a Catholic since birth. From infancy to adulthood, he
attended mass on Sundays, and in the season of Advent, the former altar boy reflected on the
meaning of Christ’s birth in a broken world. Though he spent his work days doing his best to sell

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 217
bags retailing several hundred to thousands of dollars, in his free time, he re-read Thomas
Merton and the devotionals of saints, cooked Sunday roasts for Olive and their old friends, and
volunteered at St. Canice’s Kitchen. Scott preferred people who cared about others, and of his six
employees, Helen was his nicest. However, her sales had dropped to sixth place after the
financial crisis had hit.
It wasn’t her fault, Scott knew this. However, the numbers were undeniable, and though
her attitude was unequivocally the best of the group, he could not save her. So, Scott sat at his
desk and stared at her sales numbers, which were not defensible, and from the finance team’s
sales projections for overseas customers, they would only get worse.
Never one to delay, he asked the stock boy to pull Helen from the floor, and she appeared.
“I don’t know what to say. I’m so sorry, but Crawford’s has to let you go. I apologize,
Helen. You know that I think you’re a terrific salesperson. The business has changed so much.
The finance people upstairs refuse to carry a loss. I hate them.”
“Things might improve over Christmas, I thought. I’m trying to develop a new client base
with the locals.”
“Yes, but you know how our team works. Our local clients have long established
relationships with Jenny, Clarissa, and Richard. You, Akemi, and Sara have taken a big hit.
Sadly, you’ve taken the worst of it. I know it’s not your fault.”
“I can try to work just on commissions. Give up my salary if that helps.”
“That’s very kind, but Crawford’s wouldn’t let you do that. I’m sorry, Helen. There will
be a severance of two months salary. I thought maybe if you looked for a position now during the

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 218
holidays, it might be a bit easier than looking in January. I called a friend at DJ’s but he said they
were okay with seasonal people for now. Everyone’s nervous about —”
“I can even wrap presents—”
“It doesn’t pay anything, and Crawford’s is okay with that for now.” Scott exhaled, not
knowing what to say. He had to make two more of these speeches.
Helen felt awful for both of them.
“You can count on me for an exemplary reference. I’m hoping that this crisis in Asia will
pass soon, and I can phone you in a few months and beg you to return. I promise you’d be the
first person I call.” Scott’s brow was furrowed with concern.
She nodded. Her manager was a decent man, and this was hard. Scott had always been
kind to her when so many other Australians had been unfeeling. He had hired her all those years
ago, not minding her accent and arguing that it would be a good idea to have a native Korean
speaker on his team. He’d never asked her questions about her private life, or tried to make her
feel uncomfortable.
“Thank you, Scott. You’ve always been a good boss.”
“I’m not the boss. If I was really the boss, I wouldn’t be doing this right now. I’m a mid-
level chump.”
Helen laughed.
“You’re okay though, right? Your husband still has a good job. Of my six sales people, I
thought you’d be the safest.” When drawing up the list, Scott had considered that Akemi was
divorced and had two children. She was fourth place in commissions but she was also the sole

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 219
provider, so he had decided to save her job. He’d ended up cutting Helen, Sara, and Clarissa,
because they were married.
He handed her the envelope from human resources, and she accepted it.
#
A week later, John’s boss flew in from Seoul.
Taehun Shin had hardly aged. His hair had a few more streaks of silver, but he dyed it
well enough so it looked natural. Shin could pass for forty. He brought his mistress Danbi, who’d
become a team leader at HRT. She’d never been to Sydney before.
Shin’s wife Mary lived in their house in New Jersey while their middle son attended
Fordham University. The older son was in his second year at the law school at N.Y.U. and the
youngest was taking time off. The boys commuted to school to save money. Mary worked at a
popular florist in Englewood and didn’t mix with the women at her church. Her sons did not
know about Danbi, and Mary did not tell them. Shin visited his family once a year.
Shin paid for most of the upkeep of both households, but since Mary and the boys almost
never returned to Seoul, he leased a studio in a high-rise in Apgujeong. During the week, Danbi
slept in Shin’s apartment, allowing her to save and invest her salary. On weekends, she stayed
with friends from school or visited her mother.
On the flight to Sydney, Danbi had not slept much, so when they reached the hotel, she
washed and fell asleep right away. Shin had trouble sleeping. In the morning, he had to fire
John’s division. HRG was shutting down most of the business in Australia.
They were staying at a decent hotel, but it was not as nice as the one Danbi would have

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 220
preferred. However, she was agreeable because Shin had allowed her to accompany him to
Australia. This was their first trip together to Australia.
In the middle of the night, Danbi woke up. She removed her nightgown and unbuttoned
his pajama bottoms. Aroused, Shin woke up.
“Give me a minute. I need to go to the toilet.”
“Shower, please,” she said
He grunted yes. One of the reasons why he’d brought her was because Danbi acted like a
whore in hotels, and he had missed this. When stressed, Shin needed to have sex more often, and
she wanted it more than even he did.
Shin showered, toweled off and returned to bed.
Danbi got on her knees and started licking him.
He held out then said, “Get on top. Hurry.”
Taking her time, she turned on the lights, and he could see the fullness of her beautiful
young body.
Danbi stuck out her pink tongue and continued lick. In a flash, she mounted him and
buried his face between her manhwa round breasts.
“Tell me to do what you want,” she said.
Shin could not resist her, and he closed his eyes.
“You have to get rid of her.”
Shin felt close.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 221
“Just finish,” he said. “Push into me.”
She dismounted.
“No,” she said, laughing.
“What?”
He pulled her down, got on top of her and continued.
She stopped smiling and tried pushing him off.
“You son of a bitch, I control this,” she smiled again.
Danbi tried to pull away but he was stronger.
Shin slapped her bottom hard.
“Fine. Just try to finish,” she said.
He’d never hit her before, and suddenly, he felt more foolish than sorry. They played
these rough games, and sometimes, Danbi could be cruel in her teasing. He was more afraid of
her than he let on. Usually, he let her get her way but it felt different this time.
She climaxed, then when he was done, she separated from him.
“You’re getting fired,” she said.
Shin stared at her, confused.
“You’re here to fire most of the Sydney office, but when you return, you’ll be fired. Then
I’m what you have left. I love you, so I’ll care for you always, but you’ll have nothing without
me. Get rid of that woman.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 222
Shin sat up on the bed, not comprehending what she’d just said.
“Vice Chairman Han told me.”
“Why would he tell you.”
“He did.”
“Are you fucking him?”
“No,” she lied. It had been a closed-door office blowjob with her top off and nothing else.
It had just been that one time. They hadn’t even had a meal together although the vice chairman
had offered dinner afterwards. She had declined but she fully intended to reach to him again for
investment advice.
“I love you, Shin Taehun. You’re my whole life. You’ll be my husband.”
Shin stared at this beautiful girl who looked like an angel but had the heart and mind of a
vicious beast. It was hard to believe that she might sleep with that disgusting little fuck with the
comb over. He told himself she wouldn’t.
“The Vice Chairman is firing me and keeping you there because he wants you for
himself. Your plan was stupid. Of course, he’ll get rid of me now. What have you done?” Shin
put his hand on his forehead as if to still his mind.
Every minute with this woman had been insane and wrong yet, she compelled him to her.
His wife Mary was good and wise but he had no interest in sleeping with her. He was going to
get fired, and no one was hiring in Korea.
“I’m not staying at HRT without you. We’re going to California. My cousin lives there
and he is going to help us. I have money. Get rid of that woman and sell that house in New

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 223
Jersey. You can split the proceeds. Then you’re going to marry me. I want to have a child. Two
months ago—”
Shin turned, his throat felt dry.
“—I stopped taking the pill. I’m not pregnant now. Make me,” she said.
He got out of bed to find water.
#
In the morning, Shin went to the Sydney offices. The secretary offered coffee, but he
declined.
In the fourth floor conference room, he spoke to each employee on the list separately. In
his career, Shin had fired numerous people. It wasn’t hard anymore.
At last, when John Koh entered the room, Shin got up from his seat and went to shake his
friend’s hand.
Shin was wearing a suit and tie, and John remembered that he had left his jacket hanging
on the back of his chair.
“Have you been well? It’s been a while,” John said.
“I’m getting laid off, too,” Shin said.
“I understand,” John said.
“What will you do?” Shin asked.
“I don’t know. My wife wants us to go to California. Bo’s there now.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 224
“Mary and the boys are still in New Jersey.”
“How is she?” John asked.
Shin went to the States last Christmas. It had been uncomfortable because Danbi had
called him at home, and Mary had gotten upset.
“It’s hard to imagine starting again somewhere else,” John said.
“Life doesn’t give you the choices you like. The IMF deal is going to shut things down
for a while. If I had a lot of money, I’d buy up everything because things are going to get cheap.”
John nodded, smiling. Shin was always looking for a good trade. After she was let go,
Helen had mentioned California again. She wanted them to be with Bo, and John had been
thinking about it. What would he do there? There were no jobs for him with Korean companies
overseas. His father had sold used tires and scrap metal when he could get it. Everyone in his
family was gone. What was holding him to Korea? John thought of his father, a chatty man who
never thought much of himself. He was a decent person, always willing to help others.
“Maybe we can work together in the United States again,” Shin said.
John smiled. “I think my wife has other ideas. Maybe opening a small business.”
“I’m still with Miss Jung. She wants me to divorce my wife and marry her.”
John opened his eyes wide, incredulous, then shook his head. He expected things between
them to have ended by now.
“She’s not so terrible. I mean, what she did to you was not good, I realize. She was afraid.
When Danbi is afraid, she attacks.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 225
“Brother,” John said, “Pay attention to your house. I don’t normally give you advice, but
your wife is a fine woman. Maybe she can forgive you. A woman can sometimes put aside her
pride better than a man. I’ve met Jung Danbi. It cannot be good to share a whole life with a
person like that.”
Shin did not reply because he believed his friend could not know what this was like.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 226
2:6 January 1998
6. January 1998
#
After washing the breakfast dishes, John went to take a shower, and in the bathroom he found
Helen leaning over the sink massaging hair dye into her scalp.
She wore a beige plastic smock over one of DH’s baseball tee shirts and his blue middle
school gym sweatpants. Helen smoothed a wide-tooth comb over her wet hair. Drops of dye
dribbled down her smock.
“In less than an hour, I will have darker hair again,” she said.
John checked in the bathroom mirror, their middle-age faces reflecting back. The couple

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 227
stood in the white tiled rental bathroom, each wondering how old they really looked to others.
“Should I do this, too?” He picked up the box of hair dye, never having given much to his
appearances. Each morning, he showered, washed his short hair, shaved, and went on with his
day. In the evening, he bathed again then went to sleep.
John touched his graying part, feeling foolish. Now that he was seeking work again, he
felt less sure of how he appeared. In April, he’d turn 51. It had not occurred to him that he’d be
sending out resumes again.
He had time now to read the newspapers in English and Korean, following closely the
IMF bailout and how the financial crisis was playing out back home. If it hadn’t been for the
strict terms of austerity imposed in the IMF loan repayment, companies wouldn’t have needed so
much restructuring and layoffs. Some economists said that strong medicine could kill a sick
patient.
As a manager, he knew that more than ever HRT needed to keep this office open, but no
one asked him. The top guys wanted to save their jobs, and it was cheaper to cut those who
couldn’t complain.
Every night, John and Helen discussed going to California. If he couldn’t get another job
here with a visa, they had to find another way. No matter what, they couldn’t afford to stay in this
two-bedroom apartment on Helen’s salary.
Helen put on a shower cap and left the bathroom so John could shower. In the kitchen she
put the rice in the cooker and set the timer. She prepped the night’s dinner. When she got home
from work, she’d finish the cooking. In thirty-five minutes, she had to rinse out the dye and catch
the bus to Mrs. Silars.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 228
#
Helen was grateful to have work. Her manager Scott Cudahy had remembered Mrs. Silars, an old
client who could no longer care for herself, and with Helen’s language skills and strong
references, she’d been hired right away even though she’d never been a home health aide before.
She was out of a job for only a week and working an 8-hour shift as an aide paid the same
as her base salary at Crawford’s. When there were two shifts, Helen could make up for some of
the lost commissions. Mr. Silars, a retired banker, paid her in cash, and as soon as she got her
envelope, Helen deposited the sum in the bank. Mido’s second year tuition was due in two
weeks.
Helen and John’s fancy degrees from Korea meant nothing in Australia. Their white
collar peers in Australia were executives at Korean companies, or service professionals who had
their own offices—doctors, lawyers, accountants—with skills neither Helen nor John possessed.
Right after John lost his position, Helen went to the realtor to find a cheaper place, but
they couldn’t move until their current lease terminated in March. John’s work visa would expire
in a few months.
They had eight thousand Australian dollars in their bank account, and with it, they had to
pay Mido’s tuition, expenses for DH at Yale, and their overhead.
For now, Bo was the only one who didn’t need money. Lion—the boyfriend of Mido’s
best friend Yun—had hired Bo at Exodus Academy and charged him only two hundred dollars a
month to live in the furnished rooms above Lion’s garage. From his earnings as a van driver and
math tutor, he was saving for his tuition and paying off the used Subaru he’d gotten to get
around.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 229
Helen’s new job was not easy. However, she didn’t mind caring for Mrs. Silars, a Korean
woman who had married a wealthy Australian banker. One of three round-the-clock aides
watching over Mrs. Silars, Helen had the day shift when Mrs. Silars had the most energy.
Mrs. Silars had been one of her better clients at Crawford’s before the onset of
Alzheimer’s in her mid-70s. Once a stylish, vivacious woman with short raven hair and a bright,
remarkable complexion, the former art director of a fashion magazine had always kept up with
the latest trends even after her retirement.
In all the years Helen worked at Crawford’s, Mrs. Silars would buy a new handbag each
season. She wore her trademark carmine red lipstick, one-piece silk shirt dresses in solid colors
and low heeled shoes. Mr. Silars bought her exquisite jewelry each year on their wedding
anniversary. Not long after her illness began, she lost complete interest in her clothing, bags, and
gold and diamond jewelry.
Mrs. Silars spent most of her mornings seated in her crewel-work covered wing chair in
her bedroom, dressed in a gray zip front tracksuit, white ankle socks, and white running
sneakers. If any of the nurses tried to vary her clothing, Mrs. Silars would scream.
In complete contrast to her former self, Mrs. Silars was no longer tidy, elegant, or trim. If
allowed, Mrs. Silars would eat seven or eight meals a day. None of her old clothes would ever fit
her again, and since they were too small for her, her daughter Annabelle gave them away. The
other two aides, Korean migrant women, cooked, cleaned, and laundered the numerous sets of
gray sweatsuits so she could wear them in rotation.
Mr. Silars, a kind man who loved his wife, accepted that she was more or less gone and
had been replaced by this other person who could not recognize him. The most challenging thing

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 230
for him and for their daughter Annabelle was how more and more, Mrs. Silars turned from only
speaking English to Korean, her native language, a language neither Mr. Silars nor Annabelle
understood.
Mrs. Silars spoke to him and their daughter and their grandchildren in Korean if she
spoke to them at all, requiring a translator for everything, especially going to the doctor.
When the weather was good, Helen took Mrs. Silars to Hyde Park, which was close to
their home. She preferred to sit on the ground near the large fig trees and have a chicken salad
sandwich and a decaffeinated coffee with cream and three sugar cubes.
That morning, when she got to Mrs. Silars’s house, Helen realized that in her rush to dry
her hair and clean up the mess in the bathroom from the dye job, she’d forgotten her house keys.
She phoned and Mido picked up, and her daughter arranged to bring her the keys to Hyde Park
since later that day she had a tutoring job near the Harbour.
It was a sunny and clear day, not quite hot but summery. In a week, it would be
Christmas, and the park breezes felt gentle. Helen guided Mrs. Silars to the shaded spot near her
favorite fig tree with the tall cavernous roots, which came up from the ground like triangular
screens, creating deep pockets of space between the roots.
“Hello, Mr. Fig,” Mrs. Silars whispered to her large tree.
Helen hoped that she’d be calm and well today. The aide that Helen had just relieved had
mentioned that Mrs. Silars hadn’t had a good night. Helen spread the large picnic blanket on the
ground and unpacked the sandwich and coffee thermos. Mrs. Silars liked her picnics and ate
immediately after reaching the tree. If she was calm, Helen would read to her. After the book,
Mrs. Silars would get three biscuits and more coffee.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 231
“Would you like to have your lunch now?”
Mrs. Silars laid down to stare up at the fig leaves. They looked like large green paw
prints.
“Are you tired?” Helen asked, and Mrs. Silars didn’t reply.
Helen scanned the park but didn’t see Mido. She unwrapped the sandwich and placed it
on the paper plate then poured coffee into the tiny metal mug. Mrs. Silars liked to count out the
three sugar cubes, so she left the sugar tin by the thermos.
“Your picnic is ready,” Helen said, and Mrs. Silars sprang up like a child.
The first thing she did was to open the sugar tin.
“One, two, three,” she counted in Korean and dropped the cubes into her coffee.
Helen smiled and watched Mrs. Silars eat her sandwich.
When Mrs. Silars finished her sandwich, she looked up and noticed Mido approaching
her.
“Here’s my daughter,” Helen said.
Mrs. Silars stared at Mido, who smiled at them.
“Who’s that?” Mrs. Silars asked.
“My daughter. She’s my youngest child. Remember, I have three children,” Helen said.
“No,” Mrs. Silars said.
“Mido, say hello to Mrs. Silars,” Helen said.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 232
Mido bowed deeply to Mrs. Silars and greeted her formally in Korean.
“Get away from me,” Mrs. Silars screamed. “Get away!”
Mido looked confused.
“Should I go?” Mido asked in Korean. She looked as afraid as Mrs. Silars, who was now
crouching behind Helen.
“This is my daughter, Mrs. Silars,” Helen repeated slowly in Korean.
Mido nodded and smiled again. She turned to her mother, “Here are the keys. I don’t
want to bother your work.” Mido moved back a little.
Mrs. Silars picked up the mug and threw it at Mido. The coffee splashed across her jeans,
and Mido could feel the warm liquid on her thighs.
“Mrs. Silars, Mrs. Silars. That’s not nice,” Helen said then turned to Mido. “You should
go home and change. She’s tired and upset. I’ll call you later.”
Mrs. Silars slapped Helen’s back.
Mido was alarmed but didn’t know what to do.
“It doesn’t hurt,” Helen said. “You should go.”
Mrs. Silars crumpled into herself and began crying, and Helen did her best to console her.
“Everything will be alright. Everything will be alright,” Helen said to Mrs. Silars. “I can
read to you now if you like. I’m sorry. I left my key and my daughter brought them. Everything
is the same now.”
Mrs. Silars picked up her sandwich, and Helen retrieved the book from the picnic bag.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 233
Her daughter’s figure grew smaller and more distant as she walked further away.
#
Mido went to Tek’s house to change. It was easier than going back home.
“You’re here?” Mido said, seeing the desk light in his room.
“I wasn’t expecting you,” Tek said. “What happened?” He pointed to her stained white
shirt.
“Coffee. I have to head back to the Harbour. I have two tutoring appointments tonight. Is
there anything to eat here? I have about an hour. So sorry to bother you.”
Tek got up from his desk. “We can make eggs. I have some pasta from last night. Oh, hey,
did you choose your classes for next semester?”
“My parents are thinking of moving to California.”
“Not going back to Seoul?”
“There’s less work there. What did your mum say about the IMF thing? Any insight?”
“Yes, Professor Yoon said it’s very bad and the short term pain will only get worse.”
“I see.”
Mido grabbed a tee shirt from her small pile of things in Tek’s closet and changed. Tek
tried to embrace her but she pulled away. “There’s no time.”
“We can make time,” he said, smiling.
“Later,” she said. “I’ll come back later. I have to eat then catch the bus.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 234
Tek took her by the hand and they went to the kitchen. He started to pull things out from
the refrigerator.
“I’m going to go with them,” she said. “Drop out of school for now. I’ll finish my degree
in California.”
“What?” Tek put down the frying pan and turned.
“This is the right thing. It’ll be better for us in California.”
“That’s crazy. You can’t quit uni. You’re doing great here.”
“I’m paying full tuition, working non stop, and my parents can’t afford to live here. They
won’t have a visa soon.”
“You can stay though.”
“I have to go with them. Even if they told me to stay, I’d go.”
“How about—” Tek looked puzzled.
“We’ll be fine,” she said. “They have to get settled. I’ll do what Bo’s doing. Work, then
study. You know?” All of a sudden, the plan grew clearer in her mind, making sense. She
couldn’t imagine her mother working like that and them still not getting by. If they didn’t need
her tuition for uni, then there’d be more money.
“I never thought something like this could happen to me. I never thought of myself as
poor. Isn’t that funny? We always had more than enough for everything I thought.” Mido covered
her mouth with her hands. “But we don’t. My folks are scared. I can tell. Because they’re getting
older.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 235
“They’re not old, but it’s hard to start all over again.” His mother, the economist, had
taught him about scarcity as early as primary school. She didn’t pressure him, but she said, one
must face facts. One has less time with each passing day. You cannot get time back. One must
make wise choices with time and resources. Every one of her lessons had been burned into his
brain, and whether he liked it or not, he could not forget them.
“How about your plays? ‘Desde/Mona/Rockstar’ was great, Mido. Everyone said so,
right?”
“I have to be realistic.”
“And?” He pointed at his chest.
Mido didn’t know what to say.
“I can’t stay here. My family.”
“You can stay with me. Here. Why can’t you live here? You take up no space.”
“No, I could never do that. Depend on someone else.”
“I’m not someone else.” He wondered if they should get married, but that seemed insane,
even to him. She was only nineteen, and he was twenty-one. His parents would never allow it
either, and he depended on them for everything still. He’d never had a paying job.
“When you came back to Sydney, I thought it was a sign,” he said.
“If I can, I’ll try to come back, Tek. My family needs me now.”
“Then you come back. You come back to me. Again.”
Mido tried to fix his face in her mind. She and Yun had gone to pick up her cousin at St.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 236
Titus. Tek had run into them by chance. He was a boy who liked homemade Anzac biscuits and
pushed himself into their kitchen. When Mido and her parents returned to Sydney, he’d shown up
and somehow, he’d become her closest friend here then later, her boyfriend and lover.
She would go to California with her parents. Being a playwright seemed impossible
anywhere, and now that her parents needed money, Mido could not believe she’d spent all that
time caring about things that couldn’t give them security. Even White Australians couldn’t make
a living writing in iambic pentameter, how could a migrant like her do so?
If she finished her degree in primary education, she still wouldn’t make enough to take
care of her family. Mido’s white shirt with the coffee stain lay on the dining table, reminding her
of Mrs. Silars, who could not control herself, and her earnest mother, who could not control their
minor economy.
“I better go to work,” Mido said, troubled yet sufficiently clear of what she had to do.
“I’ll call you later.”
“You didn’t eat.”
“Later,” she said.
“Mido, everything will be okay with us.”
Wanting to believe him, she agreed.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 237

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 238
2:7 January 1998 "Property"
7. January 1998
#
Unlike her younger sister Helen who’d married for love, Sonya Cho had refused to give up her
marriage prospects for romance. Since childhood, Sonya had been clear-eyed and mature about
her few assets. She was beautiful, capable and motivated to perform well. At school and work,
she had outperformed everyone.
Negligent parents and a difficult life had taught Sonya that the combination of talents and
persistence could yield occasional rewards even in the midst of terrible struggles. Neither an
optimist nor a pessimist, by living in the present with great concentration on what was most
important, Sonya had become a gifted adapter and a brilliant problem solver.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 239
For Sonya, her family was everything. And also God. Self-aware, she knew that if she did
not have faith in her God, she might have become a terrible person. She was wise and sober
when most people were not. Because of her Christian ethics, she refrained from taking advantage
of others; however, she was never unaware of her advantages.
Only a few years after she finished Ewha Womans University, her contemporaries
believed Sonya had won at life by becoming the hand-picked bride of the heir of her employer
Chairman Mun, the owner of some of the costliest real estate in Seoul.
Young-gil, Chairman Mun’s chosen nephew, was a hard worker. Not only was he smart
about people and diabolical in business, he loved his uncle like a father. As the boy of a luckless
divorced mother, he had understood early that his savvy uncle was his only ticket out of the
average life of a salaryman—the best that a person like he could’ve achieved without family
wealth and significant connections.
Young-gil did not want a mediocre life. He wanted grandeur, power, and an extraordinary
wealth that would protect him and his family for generations.
Chairman Mun chose Sonya for him, and Young-gil obeyed. He would’ve preferred a girl
from a higher class of people. However, there was an advantage of marrying someone from an
inferior background: Her people could never look down at him.
Sonya’s parents were itinerant gamblers, who left debts, wherever they lived. The mother,
a coarse, illiterate woman who loved to smoke cigarettes and play go-stop, had done odd jobs,
working more frequently than her husband, who died early from cold exposure while drinking.
At age 42, Sonya’s mother collapsed at a market from a coronary, leaving all three in the
care of a neighbor who made living so difficult that the orphans had to figure things out for

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 240
themselves.
The Cho sisters, Sonya and Helen, applied themselves at school, and with the guidance of
a few upright public school teachers and a collection of priests and nuns, who rooted for the
bright children, ended up graduating from the fine women’s college then married. With a letter of
introduction from a priest, Kenny migrated to Australia where he settled and flourished. The Cho
siblings almost never spoke of their parents or their birthplace.
Chairman Mun had watched his nephew Young-gil grow up and recognized his unstinting
ambition and relentless work ethic. What his nephew needed was not a high society beauty who
would waste time and money on things that did not matter, but rather a diligent, sacrificial, and
ethical girl from a pathetic family like his favorite secretary Sonya, who was also an exquisite
beauty.
Her undisciplined parents had given her no money, education, or pedigree, but she had
been born with the face and body that would rival any Miss Korea. Men used to gape at his
secretary, and ever loyal, appropriate, and virtuous, Sonya’s clear and polite refusal to flirt or
acknowledge their romantic and sexual advances had flattered the Chairman.
Tycoons had asked him privately, “Does Secretary Cho have a boyfriend?” and the
Chairman would demur any requests for a introduction. Wealthy men, by nature more persistent
than poor ones, tried anyway. “Miss Cho, would you make some time for me so I can buy you
something delicious?” the bold ones asked as if the woman could not afford to eat, when for a
secretary she was paid handsomely. Always, Sonya declined.
“If anyone bothers you, please let me know,” the Chairman said, and she’d always
handled it without any fuss.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 241
The nephew, a canny negotiator, understood that marrying the girl that his uncle had
selected would inure to his benefit. Obedience on such an important decision in a man’s life
would demonstrate the requisite filial piety that even most sons would not practice. Moreover,
with Sonya’s impoverished background and lack of protectors, Young-gil would be free to do
what he liked, so he bought a proper one-carat diamond and proposed to her exactly as expected.
After two dinners and a day trip to the seaside, Young-gil asked,
“Miss Cho, would you be my wife?”
Sonya accepted him.
The Chairman and his wife threw the couple a grand wedding at the Shilla Hotel and
gave them a honeymoon in Rome. Sonya was a virgin when she married the Chairman’s nephew,
which pleased him.
Young-gil worked six days a week. He came home late at night if he came home at all.
Sonya understood this from the beginning. After she gave birth to their two sons, she cared for
the Chairman’s ailing wife, and after she passed, Sonya became the lady of the house.
The IMF crisis affected the Chairman’s holdings in as much as the corporate rental
income was diminished; however, because he didn’t have much debt, his company fared better
than most.
The morning after Sonya learned that her sister Helen and her husband John had lost their
jobs, Sonya bathed, did her makeup elegantly, and dressed in the cream-colored dress that the
Chairman had selected for her. She wore the thick rope of white South Sea pearls, which she had
inherited from the Chairman’s wife, around her smooth, pale neck.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 242
Sonya knocked on the main door of the Chairman’s suite of rooms which combined his
home office, living area, and bedroom.
“Yes,” he said.
“Chairman, may I come in?”
Chairman Mun was seated on the built-in sofa by the large window overlooking the Han
River. He was reading a newspaper. He had a nice forehead, a strong brow and the large brown
eyes of a retired statesman. The Chairman had a habit of staring at people and his approval and
disapproval came quickly.
At home, he wore charcoal gray flannel wool trousers and a white dress shirt, gray
necktie, and a black cardigan vest. He was sixty-three but looked over a decade younger. His hair
was graying well, and unlike his peers, he refused to dye it.
Seeing her, he removed his reading glasses, better able to scan the plea behind her eyes
without them.
“I arranged your lunch today. It will be served in the dining room. I thought you might
like duck.”
He nodded. She needed something. The girl was clever and knew he didn’t like to be
asked for anything so she always began with an offer or the announcement of a task performed.
“Do you want to come sit by me? Tell me how you are.”
She nodded.
“Come.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 243
Sonya made sure the door was closed.
“You’re wearing the dress I bought you.”
“Yes.”
“This dress. Let me think. That was from when we stopped at Shinsagae after the
lawyers.”
“Yes, thank you again.” Sonya’s lower lip trembled, and out of habit, she touched the fine
cashmere fabric along her hip with her right hand.
“It’s your sister, isn’t it?”
“They have to move.”
He exhaled.
“Where will they go?”
“My sister thinks America. California. Their eldest son, Bo-hun is there. It’s too difficult
to return here. There’s no work for my brother-in-law, I think.”
“This is a terrible time. It’ll be better for them there. No one there seems affected by it.
Some Americans are here already, buying things up. The dollar’s strong. They’re going to pick
up bargains.”
Sonya swallowed. She knew he knew. He always knew.
“They don’t have money to immigrate,” the Chairman said.
She touched her flat stomach, smoothing out a fold in the skirt fabric.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 244
He studied her waist. He liked that she was trim even after giving birth to two large boys.
He didn’t like her to be too thin but he liked that she paid attention to her form. He wanted to
know her weight but didn’t ask. 55 kilograms or less, he guessed. It embarrassed him that he had
imagined her undressed.
“How is the new physical therapist?” she asked, wanting to change the subject from her
sister. “I ordered more of the salts and pads she recommended.”
“She has bad breath. Otherwise, she’s perfectly fine. Tell her to brush her teeth and
tongue.”
Sonya nodded. The therapist had come highly recommended, and she didn’t want to
offend her.
The Chairman put down his newspaper.
“I’ll give them the money.”
“I’ll ask them to pay it back,” she said. “They’ll need time though.”
“I’m not the IMF. You sister has to educate and marry off three children. I doubt they
even have a house or much savings for their retirement. This money won’t affect me.”
Sonya tried to keep from crying.
“I’m so grateful to you for your generosity. I know it’s not the first time.”
“I doubt it’ll be the last. However, it hasn’t been frequent, and I know that they’re
working very hard. Sometimes, life isn’t fair. It’s harder for poor people to get to the next steps.
It’s hard for people in this country. I’ve been lucky.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 245
Sonya admired the Chairman. He could be so tough and truthful, and yet, he was never
mean or stingy with his money.
She covered her mouth, and the Chairman reached for her free hand.
“There’s no need to cry. It will be fine. I have the dollars, so it will be possible to move
them. I’ll talk with Yong-gil.”
He felt aroused and powerful.
She was only growing more beautiful to him, and he couldn’t help but want to please her.
As his workload reduced, he had more time. Often, she accompanied him to meetings, and on the
way, he’d make them stop at expensive stores. The more she resisted, the more he wanted to buy
her things.
The Chairman liked to dress her, and it pleased him when she tried on exquisite clothing
at boutiques. Salespeople couldn’t figure out at first who she was to him. She was too mature to
be his daughter, and soon it became clear when they spoke that they were not a couple, yet
seemed intimate.
Sonya wore her diamond engagement ring and wedding band, but she had inherited the
jewelry the Chairman’s late wife had expected of him, and he wanted Sonya to enjoy them. The
precious ornaments made her elegant bearing more regal, making her even more alluring to a
wealthy and elegant man. The gold, rare pearls, and paper white diamonds brightened her clear,
unlined skin, and the effect they had was to make her look more valued and esteemed by the man
who must have bought them for her.
He did not buy her jewelry, thinking it too intimate. However, last Christmas, the

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 246
Chairman bought Sonya a one-of-a-kind sheared mink coat from France, which had surprised
even Yong-gil. It was an exceptional coat and Sonya was embarrassed by the cost. She couldn’t
imagine wearing it outside though the Chairman insisted. If she sold it, although that wouldn’t be
possible, she knew it would pay for most of her sister’s bills for the year. The Chairman believed
she should be well dressed, and Sonya wore the coat.
Each morning, Sonya prayed for her family—Helen, Kenny, and their families, and she
prayed for Yong-gil, and her sons Seungman and Jiman, and she prayed to God for forgiveness
for loving the Chairman more than her own husband. It couldn’t be helped, she thought, since
she’d met the Chairman first, and he had rescued her from every privation and humiliation, and
now, he was being gracious to her sister, too.
#
Right away, Sonya sent Helen the money. A month after Helen had settled in California, a young
woman came to see Sonya.
She was even younger than the other ones, and Sonya met with her in her office. The
woman was tall and striking. She wore a maroon colored dress and her legs looked pretty even in
the guest house slippers. The woman wore more makeup than she needed. She would’ve been
prettier without all that eyeshadow and mascara.
“How may I help you?” Sonya asked.
“I am involved with your husband,” the woman said.
“What is your name?” Sonya asked.
“Noh Jayoon.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 247
“May I ask what you need?”
“We are in love,” Jayoon said.
“I see. Does my husband know that you’re here? Shall we phone him?” Sonya went to
her desk phone.
Jayoon stood up. “He doesn’t know, but I know he wants a divorce. He said you don’t
have relations anymore.”
“Is that right?” Sonya stared at the girl’s small oval face. Her hair was shoulder-length
and colored slightly blonde. The light brown lipstick worked well with the pale hair. The nails
were painted neatly in a matching color with the lips.
Jayoon felt embarrassed, having imagined some sort of conflict or at least a wife’s anger.
“Would you like coffee or tea? I can ask my housekeeper to bring you some. Have you
eaten?”
She shook her head no, not understanding what was happening. The wife seemed
genuinely concerned about her welfare.
“No thank you. I’m fine.”
“Well, let’s phone my husband then. It’d be easier than if I called his uncle, the
Chairman, I suppose. There’s no need to get anyone in trouble, I think.” Sonya spoke calmly and
slowly, measuring her tone and words. She hoped the girl would stop her.
“You don’t love him, do you? If you did, you’d be jealous.”
“Is that what love is to you?” Sonya tilted her head slightly and looked out the window,

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 248
admiring the blue and green color of the river. A large black ship carrying cargo freight was off
in the distance. She wondered where it would go.
“I love Mun Yong-gil,” Jayoon said.
Sonya nodded, understanding why she had to say his name like that rather than to say, “I
love your husband,” which sounded wrong to her own ears. Sonya wouldn’t question the
genuineness of the girl’s feelings. It took enormous courage or some other urgent emotion for her
to come to the house like this. Yong-gil would’ve lied to her to get her to sleep with him. No
doubt, there were many words, some true, but most not.
“Are you pregnant?”
Jayoon shook her head no.
“That’s fortunate for you.”
“I’m not the first, am I?” Jayoon said, realizing then why the wife’s reactions had already
been bled of all feelings.
“No. You’re not the first to come to this house. You will not be the last.”
“So you do not have relations with him, then?”
“How would you feel being asked that question by your husband’s latest mistress?”
Sonya asked.
Jayoon said nothing.
“I suppose you think that if I divorced my husband, then all this would be yours. This
dress that I’m wearing, the pearls on my neck, this beautiful green sofa I’m sitting on—the view

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 249
outside my office window. I suppose you think this would be yours.”
The young woman had not thought that far, but it made sense. “If I wasn’t married, then
I’d marry you tomorrow,” Yong-gil had said to her not once, but many times.
“He told you that he would make you his wife, did he?”
She nodded, feeling tricked.
“I see.”
“Why can’t you divorce him? It’s obvious you don’t love him.”
“One day, you’ll understand how love works. How love of a mature woman is different.
You see, I love my family. I love my husband. I love my sons. I love the Chairman. I love my
brother and sister. I’m a Christian, so I guess I should say, you are my neighbor so I love you.”
Jayoon shook her head in disbelief.
“Even if you were my enemy, I am called to love you.” Sonya said it dryly, because she
was talking to a child, and she was tired of being upset, humiliated, and angry at her husband’s
poor behavior.
“Do you work at a bar?”
“It’s a club.”
“Do you work at a club?”
“Yes,” she said.
“My husband works at a club. This is our club. This is our bar. He works. I work. We
work for someone. My husband doesn’t have the power to give any of this to you. He is an

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 250
employee. Like I am.”
Sonya looked at her hands and folded them on her lap. The first time a girl showed up at
the house, she had been far more disturbed than now, but Sonya prided herself on being self-
controlled, and even then, she had tried to remember that she had two wonderful sons, and she
was loyal to the Chairman who was a great man, and she would never embarrass anyone,
including her husband.
“I think you should call him,” Sonya said. “You can use my office if you like. I can step
outside. Would you like that?”
Jayoon stared at her.
“I’ve done this before. You can imagine what happens. Can’t you?”
Jayoon shook her head slowly.
“Do you know how to play go-stop?”
She nodded, recalling the card game her grandparents played with their friends. Jayoon
thought it was old-fashioned. Of course, she knew the rules, but none of her friends played it.
“In the game of your beautiful young life, you still hold most of the good cards. Make a
wise decision on how you play your hand. Throw away the useless cards. Never get attached to
any one card. Remember the game.”
“I don’t understand,” Jayoon said.
“He will never see you again. He will change bars. Or clubs. He will talk to your
employer, and you will lose your position. That is what usually happens, because you see, my
husband is an important client at these clubs, and your employer cares more about money than

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 251
you. There was no love. Are you the useless card or is he? Is he the valuable card, or are you? It’s
up to you to decide.”
With the back of her hand, the young woman wiped her eyes and for a moment, looked
clear like she was awake, and Sonya went to her desk and picked up the box of tissues for her.
#

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 252
2:8 February 1998 "Los Angeles"
8. February 1998
#
Dear Mido,
#
What a mess we’re in, you and I. It’s not a contest, but I think my situation is worse. It’s almost
laughable.
Your parents lost their jobs, and my father has now left us to go to Brazil. We were in the
process of getting our green cards, and I’ve no idea what this will mean for my mother and me.
Dad said that he would rather die than work a day longer at Shrimp Castle. He didn’t go

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 253
to work for a whole week, saying that he had a terrible headache. It turned out that he was
preparing to leave for Brazil.
He didn’t sneak away in the middle of the night. We had a family discussion, sort of. I
guess he talked, and Mom and I listened. Mom cried a lot and yelled.
“I’m never going to Sao Paolo. If you can’t wake up from your fantasy, that’s too bad. I’m
going to stay in California. We have a lease, we own the store, and I’m not starting again. Go.
Go, chase your dream.”
Mom thought at first that there might be another woman, but I don’t think so. He pleaded
with us. Dad said he had to go to Brazil and try his luck there.
“Yun-ah, there might be some luck still left in my life. My cousin thinks there might be,”
he said to me. “Every morning when I walk into that kitchen, the smell of the oil makes me want
to throw up. A man cannot be chained to that stove. I owned three stores and a building. If it
wasn’t for that son of a bitch who took everything—”
You can just imagine how that went. Anyway. I should’ve told you all along how terrible
things were, but I was embarrassed. He had been thinking of going back to Seoul, but then the
IMF happened. In America, no one cares about the crisis, but all the Koreans in California are
paying attention to it, of course. The foreign students are having to drop out because their
parents back home can’t afford to send money anymore, the dollar being too strong.
I’m complaining too much. I’m sorry. You and Lion are the only ones now who know
what’s going on. Mom won’t tell anyone that Dad left. Anytime anyone asks at church or at the
store, she just says, he went to visit his family in Brazil, which is sort of true.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 254
I feel sorry for my mother. She thinks he’ll return. Just like in the dramas. He’s going to
make a fortune and somehow come back and rescue us. I hope she’s right.
She loves him but she won’t go with him. They both want me to finish my degree here.
I’ve been thinking so much about you. I cannot imagine what you and your parents must
have been going through. I’m sorry you have to move again, but I’m really happy that you’re
coming here.
Your brother Bo has been so great. Lion says he’s a wonderful person. Bo works really
hard, and the students at Exodus love him. He’s making a decent salary now, but he lives like a
monk. I have never seen a person work that hard. Your parents should be proud of him. Lion
knows that Bo intends to go to college, so he’s trying to figure out a way to help him, too. He’s
sad that Bo will move out once you get here, but of course, he understands.
Lion’s brother Ray has already reached out to our landlord and found an available unit in
my building. You and I have never lived in the same place before, so that will be fun.
The unit is not big, but Bo said that it fits in the budget. He said once things get better,
you’d get a bigger unit. He has everything figured out.
I’m sending you my heart, my dearest friend. Finally, I will see you in a month.
Yours,
Yun

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 255
The remodeled church basement of Gospel Presbyterian was a cavernous room with soaring
ceilings. It was used for coffee hour, church meals, and assemblies. Set in the back of the room,
facing the north side of the highway, was an impressive platform stage with six steps on each
side.
Yun felt happiest on that painted plywood stage. Apart from her classes and helping out at
Shrimp Castle, she lived for Wednesday praise team rehearsals and service on Sundays. Back in
Seoul, she had resented piano practice and disliked her teacher, whose clothes had smelled of
mothballs. However, if she ever ran into him again, she would’ve thanked him, because she had
turned out to be a competent piano player, able to read music on sight and play almost anything
on the Yamaha keyboard.
After Wednesday evening practice, Yun tidied her sheet music and prepared to leave. She
didn’t want to go home, where her mother Nari would be watching her rented drama videos.
If Nari wasn’t in the middle of a drama series, she would be looking at the Korean news
and talking to the television screen.
At first, when Yun’s family moved to Orange County, her father Joonho had been the
angry one. To him, no one in America had any manners, and her mother was disappointed by
how far they had fallen in the world. But after a few years, in their mid-lives, her father and
mother had retreated, accepting the defeat life had handed them, then her father had taken half
their savings, bought a one-way ticket to Brazil and left. He’d asked Yun to understand that this
would save his life, and in a way, she believed him.
Keeping him in that kitchen at Shrimp Castle was killing him, and she imagined him in a
country that seemed as unreal to her as the moon.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 256
“You can visit me,” he’d said at the airport. Only Yun had gone with him. Her mother had
refused.
“I will write to you, but you know that I’m not much of a writer. Thank you for being
such a good daughter,” her father had said. “You and your mother deserve better than an idiot
like me who lost everything. Your father will work hard in Brazil. My cousin says that there are
more business opportunities there for Koreans. Maybe it’ll be easier for a man alone.”
“Appa, I think I understand,” Yun had said and wished him the best.
He sent a postcard, and they did not hear from him.
#
At church, more than anywhere else, Yun felt lighter and more capable. Surrounded by other
Koreans, she felt like the class president again. When the person she liked best at church, the
praise team leader, Lion Han, asked her to be his girlfriend, Yun felt like life in America had
turned out okay for her, though it had not for her parents.
She liked college, and she was in love.
When rehearsal ended and everyone else cleared out, Yun stayed back and waited Lion
for who would drive her home. Everyone knew they were a couple but in the church building,
they still felt shy around each other.
“Want an ice cream?” Lion asked.
They headed to his car.
#

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 257
At Blinky’s, Yun selected a vanilla soft-serve and sat down on the red stool and looked out the
plate glass wall, facing the parking lot. Lion brought their cones to them, and as she ate hers, he
put his left around her shoulder and studied her face, lit up by the pink glow of the neon sign of
the ice cream shop.
“You’re getting prettier.”
She raised her eyebrows and smiled.
“It’s not easy dating you,” she said. “I’m doing my best to keep up my appearances so no
one feels sorry for you dating such a plain girl.”
Lion laughed. Everyone at church always mentioned how handsome he was. Even as a
child, his physical beauty was often commented upon. Dark eyebrows, the clear brown eyes,
clean jawline, and an appealing nose, he had an ideal face. Even Yun’s mother, Nari said, Lion
was nice looking enough to be a film actor.
Not quite six feet tall with the wide shoulders of a tennis player, his physical presence
was formidable. If it wasn’t for his strict upbringing in a long line of pastors and missionaries on
his mother’s side, he might’ve been more vain. When anyone mentioned his looks, Lion would
frown and change the subject.
Yun was a beautiful girl, but she was not as noticeably attractive as her boyfriend. Lion’s
girlfriend in college, another Korean girl, who was a brilliant Chemistry major and physically
ordinary in appearance, had ended up breaking up with him, and one of the reasons she cited was
the frustration she felt when everyone made it seem as if she was the lucky one to date a deity. In
a way, Lion had learned from that experience that there might be cause to have some parity in
terms of physical and intellectual gifts and abilities for a harmonious relationship.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 258
“How’s the ice cream?” she asked.
Lion never noticed food but knew Yun liked sweet things, and she rarely ate.
“I found a bigger space,” he said.
“Really?”
“I signed the lease. Exodus now has a larger home. I went with Bo today, and he liked it.”
Yun tapped her cone to his like she was making a toast.
“How many rooms?”
“Seven. The lobby, office and five classrooms. I plan on hiring three more tutors at least.
I’m already too busy.”
“And light? Is there more light?” This was something he’d wanted, believing that
children needed to be in a brighter space with natural light.
He nodded, smiling.
“I think you should marry me.”
“What?”
“I introduced Bo to my sister Sarah for their immigration issues, and when she was
talking about Bo sponsoring his parents, it occurred to me that your green card issues aren’t
resolved yet, and it’s causing you a lot of worry.”
Yun said nothing.
“I love you, and you love me. I was going to ask you after your graduation, but why not

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 259
now? Why not?”
She didn’t know what to say. Why not was one of Lion’s favorite phrases. He thought the
world was too unquestioning, and often, he would ask in his polite, thoughtful way, why not? His
students loved it when he’d say this.
“I know their papers are being processed, and Sarah said that your parents would likely
get their green cards, but even she thought now that your father left, it might help for us to get
married. Your mother can come live with us, too.”
Yun ate some ice cream and thought about it, feeling embarrassed.
“I’m a native-born citizen, and I can provide for you now even. More importantly, I’d be
so grateful if you became my wife.”
She looked up and nodded. Yun was nineteen years old, and about to finish her first year
in college.
“When?” she asked.
“Soon. However you like,” he said, never having thought about a wedding before. People
were always talking about him getting married, but he had not thought much about it until he
started dating Yun, and he thought she was ideal for him. He had known almost right away. It
occurred to him that perhaps he should’ve mentioned that before talking to her about
immigration law.
“You would do this for me?” she asked. Her eyes looked enormous with concern.
“You would be doing this for me,” he answered. “We’re going to have a wonderful life,
Yun. You’re marrying a struggling songwriter and successful hagwon owner. How fun is that?

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 260
You’re my person. I know this.”
“Yeah, really?”
“Eat your ice cream,” he said. “You have to eat more.”
“Why not,” she said.
#
To save on the electric bill, no one ever turned on the overhead lights. The dark living room was
lit by a table lamp with a beige pleated shade, and as soon as Yun entered the apartment, her
mother Nari turned away from the television set.
Yun hung up her raincoat in the closet in the foyer and put down her bag on the chair by
the door and removed her shoes.
“Did you have dinner?” Nari asked. Her legs were raised on her husband’s recliner and
covered with a red fleece blanket.
Yun nodded although she hadn’t eaten except for the ice cream.
“How was Castle today?” she asked.
“The new cook started today. I don’t know how long he’ll last.”
“Oh?” Yun looked up.
“He’s complaining already. He wants more money.”
“I can work on Saturday if that helps.”
“How about your midterms?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 261
“I can still be there,” she said. “Oh, Lion rented a bigger space today.”
“For the hagwon?”
Yun nodded.
“Can’t he do something else? He’s still young.”
“What’s wrong with the hagwon?”
“Yun-ah, the boy went to Princeton. That’s a good one, right? He’s good at school and
comes from a nice family. Can’t he go to law school? His sister is a successful lawyer, right?”
“Not everyone wants to be a lawyer. He’s a musician.”
“But he can’t be successful here. Maybe as a classical musician. Does he play the piano
or violin? I don’t know a single Korean American who’s on the radio. Every day at Shrimp
Castle, I have the radio playing, and I’ve been paying attention to the singers, and everyone is
American.”
“Lion was born here.”
“All the American singers are White or Black.
Nari didn’t want to argue but she couldn’t stop thinking about the boy’s farfetched goals.
If things became serious between them, she didn’t want her child to be with a man who was
disappointed by life, who had failed at his dreams.
“It’s not like in Korea where there are so many pop singers.”
Yun didn’t say anything. Even Lion had said that Asians from here didn’t get record
deals. Things would change, he said. Yun believed him.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 262
“You can make a nice living as a lawyer,” Nari said. “How will you live and give things
to your children?”
“This is what Lion wants. I’m not telling him what to do. He’s doing well as a hagwon
owner, too. He doesn’t depend on anyone.”
“You can be a lawyer then, and in law school, you can meet someone else with more
ambition,” Nari said. “My daughter would be a great lawyer. You’re excellent at talking. Even
when you were a little girl, the teachers would always choose you to lead the assemblies and
classroom. I’m always so proud of you. And you even got into UCLA after being in America for
only a few years. You know how to fight for yourself. You learned how to argue.”
“I don’t argue with you, Umma,” Yun said. “To you, I lose,” she said smiling. “You
should’ve gone to law school.”
With her father gone, the apartment felt messier and more cramped. He had been the one
who threw out the old newspapers and grocery bags. He would never leave a dirty dish in the
sink. Exhausted and sad, her mother worked six days a week and watched dramas in her waking
hours. No one cooked anymore.
Yun imagined living in a large house with a grassy backyard. There would be sunlight
streaming through floor to ceiling windows. In her mind, there was an upstairs, from where she
could hear children’s voices laughing. Having grown up as an only child, she wished for a large
family. Lion had two siblings, and what she liked best about his family was how everyone got
along. Lion seemed stronger even when he was alone because somewhere else he had backup.
You could feel his brother and sister when you were with him. He had extra knowledge,
relationships, and experiences because he had been raised with a team.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 263
“Lion wants to get married.”
“He’s not stable yet,” Nari said, frowning.
Yun was surprised. “I thought you liked him.” She’d thought her mother would be more
worried about her age or that she hadn’t finished college yet.
“Lion is a nice boy,”
Nari still wanted someone better for her daughter—a kind of prince who would take Yun
away from their two-bedroom rental, its lobby smelling of roach spray. The prince would be a
warm-hearted noble person, from a distinguished family and would be kind to her and her
husband. He would never look down at them.
“You don’t have to marry a Korean,” Nari said. “You have time to get married. I’m not
like the ignorant Koreans who insist that their daughters have to marry a Korean man. If you
bring home a yellow-haired man with blue eyes who is worthy of your heart—“
“Umma,” Yun stared hard at her mother. “Lion is a good man, and he will do well. He is
already doing well-”
“Do you have a lot of homework?” Nari asked.
“Just some reading and a problem set. It’s almost done.”
“Are you looking forward to Mido coming soon?”
Yun nodded and smiled.
Nari got up and threw the blanket on the recliner. Joonho would have folded it but he was
in Brazil.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 264
“Going to sleep now,” she said, and patted her daughter’s shoulder.
#
At her desk, Yun opened her finance textbook and continued to work on her assignment.
Her mother was wrong about Lion. There was no need for him to be a lawyer. About
music, she couldn’t be sure. There was so much they didn’t understand about that world. Of
everything Lion had written and played, Yun believed that he was incredibly talented but there
were no guarantees in the arts, but someone had to do well. Everyone liked music. Why not, he’d
say, why not me?
She felt certain that he’d be even more successful as a hagwon owner then he was
already, and that he wouldn’t have to work like her parents. He would work but the work would
be different.
Lion didn’t want to be a pastor, lawyer or work in finance. He didn’t want to work in real
estate like his brother Ray. Lion wanted to write music and needed at least three hours a day for
his music and exercise. It was Lion’s plan to have a top-performing hagwon with the best tutors
and the strongest students. Later, he’d replicate his model in other locations, he said.
His business model was to pay the highest salaries and bonuses to the most gifted
teachers in Orange County. Already, his small tutoring business had shown a net profit of a
hundred and seventy-five thousand dollars. Even his older brother Ray couldn’t believe it. There
was no way for Lion to have more students and tutors unless he had more space.
Yun didn’t tell her mother what he had earned last year, because it didn’t seem right. Lion
wanted her to run the office for him so he could focus on growing the business. He felt impatient

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 265
for its success. They would have a beautiful life with a good purpose, he’d said. Too many
American kids weren’t getting a good education, and Lion thought he could provide better
methods for the students to study and become good learners. “I want kids to like learning and
playing,” he said. Yun thought this was right. There would also be time for his songwriting and
band.
Yun finished up her problem set and set it aside. She took out the sheet music from her
church tote bag. From beneath her bed, she grabbed the small Casio keyboard and propped it up
on her lap. Without turning it on, she tapped, “Blessed Be the Lord,” and she sang quietly.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 266
2:9 February 1998 Orange County, CA "Self-Determination"
9. February 1998 Orange County, CA
#
“Are you sure you don’t want a dress and a party?”
“I do not want a dress or a party.”
At the traffic light on North Brookhurst, Lion turned to look at her.
“You can change your mind.”
Yun shook her head. There was no way she’d allow her mother or Lion to incur such an
expense. Besides, they didn’t have the money. Weddings were wasteful, she reasoned. The
marriage was what mattered. A dress worn for a day could cost thousands of dollars, which made

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 267
no sense.
They were driving to Anaheim. Lion was wearing his dark blue suit and a gray tie, and
Yun wore a white cap-sleeved shift trimmed in buttercup yellow, and high heeled sandals without
stockings. The dress and shoes were new, and both could be worn again. Traffic was not terrible.
“What will we tell our children?” he asked.
“When are we having children?” Yun asked. “And how many?”
“My father used to say, he wanted ‘Quality Five.’”
“Huh?”
“Five kids of high quality. For example, you could have ten kids but only five make the
cut. His grandparents had a pig farm. Statistically speaking, he said not every member of the
litter makes it, and some are of an inferior grade. I know. Crazy.”
“Wow, he doesn’t seem like that when you talk to him,” she said. “All three of you are
the best quality, right?” She laughed.
“No idea. None of us will cure cancer or win an Olympic medal though,” Lion nodded,
looking straight ahead, thinking of his parents, who he hoped would understand their decision.
His mother liked Yun.
“We have no federal prosecutors either. At first, my sister Sarah becoming an
immigration lawyer was not great, but now, she helps all their friends. Ray does real estate,
which is fine now since he owns several buildings.”
Yun worried about what his parents would think of her father heading to Sao Paolo to try
his luck and her mother operating Shrimp Castle by herself. And, of course, about today. They

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 268
weren’t happy about Lion’s hagwon expansion and playing music but what at this point could
they do?
Lion’s mother would say, “A parent always loses to the child.”
#
The sun-filled annex chapel, used for the smallest of church services, funerals was empty. Wide
beams of light from the clerestory windows divided the oak-paneled room with diagonal stripes.
It felt odd to be at church on a Tuesday morning. The vast parking lot of the Anaheim
mega church, usually managed by volunteer traffic guard wearing neon yellow safety vests over
their tropical weight suit jackets who directed the long lines of parishioner vehicles around well-
placed orange cones—had almost no cars.
The young couple held hands and sat in the front pew, waiting for Sam Yi, the youth
pastor, and his wife Andrea Kim.
“Ah, there are the lovebirds!” Andrea shouted, rushing past her husband, who walked
more calmly.
A bright, tiny Korean woman with waist-long blond hair was a favorite with the younger
congregation. She was a junior partner at Price Waterhouse, and for Lion and Yun, she had taken
the morning off to serve as a witness and photographer.
Andrea, a native of Southern California, wore her hair in a sweeping up-do, and her pale
pink lipstick flattered her tanned face.
Everyone adored her husband, the thoughtful and brainy youth pastor. Sam, a reserved
transplant from the Bay Area, was someone everyone trusted with their secrets, and people felt

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 269
comfortable around the couple who were well-matched opposites.
“Our baby Yun is marrying Lion, the Oracle of Orange County,” Andrea whispered
dramatically although there was no one else in the chapel except for the four of them, “In a secret
wedding ceremony. This is the most romantic event of the year.”
Yun smiled. If she couldn’t have Mido with her, at least she’d have Andrea.
Lion and Yun took their places at the altar, and in less than thirty minutes, Sam married
them, keeping his homily the length of a decent benediction.
After Lion kissed and embraced Yun, Sam blessed them again.
“Normally, I advise against these sorts of private weddings, but I respect your wishes and
understand,” Sam said. “You’re both sort of grown up.”
“Lion would never rush into anything,” Andrea said. “So, do you kids feel different?”
“Yes,” Lion said. “I feel different. I’m the happiest I’ve ever been.”
Yun nodded, beaming.
“I was also twenty when I got married,” Andrea said. “But I was pregnant.” She laughed.
“Then it turned out to be a false alarm.”
“I didn’t know that,” Yun said, mildly shocked. “But you have the girls.” She tried to do
the math in her head but wasn’t sure when Andrea and Sam married. Their three girls were
already in high school.
“Yup, I got really pregnant with Susie, our first, right after we got married. I trapped him,
Yun,” she said, laughing again.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 270
Sam shook his head to deny this. Marriage had been his idea. He couldn’t imagine living
one day without her.
Andrea put her thin brown arms around her husband’s waist. She was a head shorter than
he was.
“Not as gorgeous as your Lion, but my Sam has always been a catch. I think every girl in
the English Service is in love with either my husband or yours.”
Yun blinked, realizing that Andrea was referring to Lion as her husband.
“Can we buy you lunch?” Sam asked, and Lion smiled.
“Another time. Maybe next week. We’ll take you,” Lion said.
“When will you tell your parents? Both of you?” Sam asked, pausing before saying,
“Secrets are not good.”
“My sister Sarah will back me on this. The immigration issues are compelling. My folks
like Yun a lot, so that helps. It’ll be okay. Just think of all the money we saved them,” Lion
smiled, having figured it all out. “We would’ve gotten married after Yun’s graduation anyway.”
“And you?” Andrea looked concerned. “Your mom and dad?”
Yun glanced at the stained glass window depicting the Transfiguration above the pulpit.
“My father went to Brazil. No one at church knows about him being gone. My mother
will be sad about the wedding, because, well, you know. She wanted something huge, but I
know she’ll understand. I figured it’s best if we just did it then told them after.”
“You’re an only child, right?” Andrea asked, putting down the camera.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 271
Yun nodded.
“We could have another wedding later,” Lion said. “Something massive. In the main
sanctuary and invite every Korean in Southern California.”
Yun smiled at Sam and Andrea, and Andrea snapped a picture.
“Today was beautiful. It was just right. Thank you for making the time.”
“Where are you going now?” Sam asked.
“Believe it or not, we’re going back to the hagwon because I have to meet a friend of
Bo’s younger brother who might be a great hire. Then I’m taking my wife away somewhere.”
Lion raised his eyebrows.
#
Peter Son was waiting with Bo at Exodus. As usual, Lion’s office was free of any clutter. Lion
did not leave papers about. At the end of the day, his desk was clear. No half-empty coffee mugs
or water bottles topped the glass coffee table, which was always kept bare.
Floor to ceiling shelves lined two of the walls, and they were stocked with every kind of
test guide and numerous books about education and childrearing.
On the walls, there were no diplomas. Rather, Lion had framed and hung twelve black
and white yearbook photographs of high school students before the war that he’d found in an old
bookshop on a summer trip to Seoul when he was in college.
Hundreds of boys and girls in dark uniforms and well-pressed white shirts stared out from
the gray and sepia images. Rows and rows of clear-eyed students—their young faces fresh and
sober— peered into the camera, and often, Lion thought about each of them and what might have

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 272
happened in their lives. A number of them could be alive, and they could be anywhere in the
world, or back in Korea.
When Lion entered his office, Bo and Peter got up from the longer sofa along the wall.
“You’re wearing a suit,” Bo remarked. “You don’t even wear one on Sundays.”
“I got married today,” Lion said, smiling.
“With Yun Kim?” Bo blurted out, forgetting to introduce Peter.
“She said yes,” Lion said, not mentioning that Yun was waiting for him in the conference
room, doing her Psychology homework.
Bo remembered and gestured to Peter.
“This is Peter Son, my brother DH’s best friend.”
Lion grinned at the young man who wore a Chuck Berry tee shirt beneath a black cotton
work jacket and blue jeans and sneakers.
“Solid choice,” Lion pointed to Peter’s shirt.
“He’s a musician, too,” Bo added. “And a math wizard.”
“Ah. You might need a job then,” Lion rubbed his hands. “And I need a math wizard for
my students. How do you feel about middle school and high school kids?”
Peter smiled. Bo and DH had told him that Lion was a wonderful person, and Peter liked
him immediately.
“I prefer kids over adults.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 273
“Same,” Lion nodded with conviction. “We’re a mess, but the kids, they’re awesome.
You look like a kid yourself though. How old are you?”
“Twenty-one. You?”
“Twenty-four. I guess, we’re sort of big kids. Though I am the oldest in this room,” Lion
said clearing his throat then smiling. Bo had just turned twenty-two.
Dramatically, Bo bowed to Lion and Peter followed. Everyone laughed.
“Congratulations,” Peter said. “I’m sorry to bother you on your wedding day.”
“Oh, you’re not a bother. Are you kidding me? Bo told me that you’re here just for the
day, and I’m desperate for good math teachers—”
“No, no. Our wires must have crossed. Apologies. I’m staying in Irvine for now, and I
was coming in to Cypress to see Bo just for the day. If I’d know today was your—”
Lion waved this off. “What do you play?”
“Bass and guitar. I write some songs. I was playing in New Haven and some in New
York. Then I decided to follow this girl here and apply as a transfer student to Pomona against
the better advice of his brother.” With his thumb, Peter gestured to Bo, referring to DH. “But
Cesca, the actor, I mean, the girl, broke me in two, and now she’s gone. And, I don’t feel like
going back to old New Haven.”
“Sounds like you’re writing a song,” Lion said, looking at him sympathetically. “How
much school do you have left?”
“Less than two years. Maybe a year plus. I’ve always taken extra classes.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 274
“You didn’t like Yale?”
“It’s fine. I got injured so couldn’t play.”
Lion leaned in, not understanding.
“I was on the soccer team. With DH. We’ve played since Andover. In my freshman year, I
blew out my knee pretty badly, and I just can’t run like I used to. So I ended up taking a lot more
classes to fill the time. I could probably graduate in a year and half. Then I met this girl, I mean
woman, and well, she dumped me. Anyway, maybe it’s all a sign. I should focus on my music.
Get over Cesca.”
“I like your candor,” Lion said.
“Life’s too short to tell lies,” Peter said. He didn’t mention how all he did was his
schoolwork after he couldn’t play soccer anymore, then during winter break, he played at an
open mic at Toad’s and met Cesca, an acting student at the School of Drama, and she’d said
everything was better in Los Angeles, so he had followed her.
“So if you get into Pomona, you’re going to quit Yale?” Lion asked.
Peter shrugged, figuring that finishing a degree was better than dropping out altogether.
He didn’t see much point to college. Transferring was his compromise.
“Why not,” Peter said.
Lion laughed, “Good answer. Your folks okay with this? The Ivy League thing is a big
deal to—”
“It’s just my mom and me. She’s not like that—”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 275
Peter couldn’t imagine returning to Connecticut, which had felt even grayer and colder
than Andover. After losing soccer, he’d felt even more lost. DH was always at practice or away at
games, and Peter didn’t begrudge him. Falling in love with Cesca had been far better than soccer,
and now, that feeling was gone, too.
Pomona, a small liberal arts college, was the solution from his former hagwon teacher,
Tom Song. Peter’s mother Renee said she’d support transferring as long as Peter felt better. She
owned a house in Irvine she rarely used, and California was closer to Seoul than Connecticut.
Her ex-husband, who had graduated from Princeton, would be furious at throwing away a Yale
degree, but she didn’t care what he thought.
Bo had not known this detail about transferring colleges until now. His brother DH had
said that Peter may need to do something like tutor math just to get out of the house while he
took the semester off and got over a girl. Maybe work the summer, too. Peter’s mother was
worried sick that her son wasn’t leaving his place or picking up the phone. She’d been calling
DH and Bo, asking if Bo could check in on him more regularly.
It was Bo’s idea for Lion to hire him for Exodus, since it would give Peter something to
do, and the hours were flexible so Peter could do his music. Renee said she just wanted her son
to rest and be happy.
She was also grateful that the older girlfriend was gone. Both DH and Renee had not
liked her. Cesca was certifiably gorgeous but wild and unpredictable.
The girlfriend’s logic had been, “An artist must take risks. Be more daring. Never be
boring.”
Cesca had enjoyed seducing the attractive college musician from Korea with the posh

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 276
British accent, who knew a lot about the Premier League.
In January, Cesca got a good feature role which took her to Toronto, and she phoned him
from location to tell him that she was in love with a cameraman.
“You’re far too young for me anyway,” she’d said kindly, and that was when she finally
admitted her real age. Thirty four. Peter’s first love had been over a decade older.
Lion and Peter discussed music and guitars, and Bo sort of tuned out because he couldn’t
follow along. What was important was that this meeting was working out , and he could call DH
afterward and reassure him that Peter seems better, and that his mother in Korea didn’t have to
worry.
Bo raised his hand, and Lion noticed.
“Hey, Lion, I already showed Peter the lesson plans and practice exams, and he knows
what to do.”
“And this is why I owe you, man,” Lion replied.
Everything at Exodus had gotten better after Bo’s arrival. Soon, Bo would be starting
classes at Fullerton College, and the hagwon would need more math tutors, and now, Peter was
here.
#
On their ride to the hotel in Laguna Niguel, Lion talked excitedly about Peter Son, who could
start as a new math tutor as early as tomorrow.
“I don’t know how long he’ll last at the hagwon, but I have a good feeling about him.
Also, he plays bass. Maybe he can join the band.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 277
“Does he go to church?” Yun asked.
“Not the praise band. My band.”
“Oh, right!” Yun remembered. Lion’s band had lost their bass player several months ago,
and though it’d been easy enough to find an occasional bass player, none of them had stuck
around. No one had fit in the right way.
“Wife,” he said.
“Husband,” she answered.
If Peter is Bo’s younger brother DH’s best friend, you must know him?”
“No,” Yun said. “Mido has mentioned him but I’ve never met the guy. I think he and DH
went to Andover together then Yale. He must be a junior.”
“He wants to transfer to Pomona.”
“Really? Not UCLA or USC?”
“Nope. Wants a small school, I guess.”
The red Honda Civic moved smoothly across the highway. There wasn’t as much traffic
on the 405 as they’d anticipated. As they approached the hotel driveway, Yun felt strange inside
and didn’t say much.
They checked in without any luggage, but no one minded. Yun was glad she was wearing
her gold wedding band.
Lion opened the door of their hotel room, and prevented her from walking in. He scooped
her up in his arms to carry her over the threshold.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 278
“I saw this in a television show, so I thought I’d try it,” he said then kissed her while she
was in his arms then put her down gently. “I don’t think Koreans do this though.”
Yun laughed. “I think it’s American.” She went to the enormous window to admire the
view of the shining blue ocean.
On a tray, there was a small white strawberry cake, a plate of fruit and a bottle of
champagne and two flutes.
“You don’t drink,” she said.
“I know. Again, I thought we should do something traditional.”
“Champagne is not Korean, and this looks expensive,” she said, looking concerned.
“I can’t handle soju or makeolli and certainly not on an empty stomach,” Lion said,
picking up the champagne bottle, and he removed the wire casing over the cork. “I saw someone
do this at a party once.” With a firm grip, he twisted off the cork in one shot, and it made a
pleasant sound.
“Do you have I.D.?” he asked.
“No.”
Lion filled the glasses only half way.
“We can have just a sip. I’m nervous,” he said.
This was why Yun liked him. He said what he felt in a way that was needed.
In college, he’d had sex before, but he and Yun had not slept together. They had agreed
that this was the right way—to marry first and that this afternoon would be their first time. Yun

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 279
was a virgin, and this was what she had wanted to do today. They would not spend the night, but
they would remain for the afternoon and early evening before going back home.
Tonight, they would go speak with her mother.
“This room looks fancy,” Yun said with admiration, feeling grateful that Lion had picked
such a beautiful hotel and had made the effort with the cake and champagne. She sat on the
loveseat and stared at the bed. “Can we afford this?”
“Yes, absolutely. When things get easier with Exodus and staffing, we will go on a great
honeymoon. I want to take you to London. To the Ritz Hotel,” Lion said. “I went there for
afternoon tea once when I was still in college, and I’m going to take you there. I think you would
like it. You can have as many cucumber sandwiches as you like. Scones, too.”
“Cucumbers in sandwiches?”
Lion nodded. “You’ll like them.” He handed her a glass, then raised his.
“For my wife Yun.”
“I’m glad we got married,” she said.
“You okay?” he asked, not understanding why she was crying.
“Yes,” and she kissed him.
They had never done anything like this. When they made out, it was usually in his car or
at the Exodus office after everyone was out. Once, on a beach at night, they got dangerously
close. Usually, they stopped right before sex, keeping on some clothing. Before things got too
difficult for them, Lion would stand back and take deep breaths. There was no reason to stop
now.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 280
Quickly, they removed their clothing, feeling shy and excited.
Yun had gone to Bloomingdale’s to buy a matching set of ivory-colored brassiere and
panties for today, but in their hurry, she’d taken them off before there was a chance for him to
notice her purchase.
She stood naked before him, her arms folded across her chest. The room was filled with
afternoon sunlight, and the curtains were open but no one could possibly see them.
Lion smiled at her. He was naked, too.
The two young people could hardly talk. They knew what each other looked like more or
less from having been to the beach and swimming pools together but this felt new and
wonderful.
“You’re so pretty,” he said. “I’m so lucky to be with you.”
Yun shrugged, feeling sort of proud. She was a runner, and she’d always felt fine about
her body in a way that most girls did not. She liked the strength and speed of her legs and the
distance they’d carried her.
He put his hands on her shoulders then stroked her upper arms. Lion kissed her neck and
she led him to the bed.
Yun had tried not to think about what it might feel like. When they made out, she’d felt
his erection beneath his clothes, but had never seen it.
As if he knew what she was thinking, he kissed her again, and Yun grew aroused, the way
she did when with him. They took their time, and when they were done, Yun felt glad they were
lovers now. At nineteen years old, she was married and no longer a virgin.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 281
#

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 282
2:10 February 1998, "Orange County"
10. February 1998
#
Ray, Lion’s older brother, who found the rental apartment in the same building where Yun’s
mother lived, said the unit wasn’t a true two bedroom because the second bedroom didn’t have a
window.
The landlord had put up illegal partitions and a door to what must have once served as
part of the kitchen and dining area then listed it as a two bedroom for seven hundred and fifty
dollars. The so-called bedroom would be Mido’s, and Bo would sleep in the living room. He kept
later hours than everyone else except for DH, the family night owl, who was still in Connecticut.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 283
In all their years, at only eight hundred square feet, this apartment was the smallest place
the family had ever rented, and if DH came home for the summer, Bo thought he would have to
return to Lion’s garage apartment if the family could figure out the transportation situation. For
now, they had only Bo’s used Subaru, but if there was any room in the budget, they had to get
another car, and Mido needed to learn how to drive on the freeway.
When Bo first arrived in Orange County, he’d tried taking buses to get around, but it was
not like Seoul. You had to add several extra hours a day to make the buses work. No one they
knew took the bus.
Bo had cleaned and sparsely furnished the apartment for his family’s arrival. For his
parents, he purchased a queen-sized mattress set, and for Mido, a full-sized mattress. For
himself, he bought the floor-model sofa bed from a furniture warehouse in Buena Park, which
was owned by a deacon at their church, who had given him a discount. Lion loaned the family a
collapsible conference table and six folding chairs from the hagwon storage facility.
Yun had driven Bo to the Costco in Garden Grove to buy the most urgent things for the
kitchen: waste bins, a dish rack, dishes, bowls, a set of pots and pans, and cutlery. From Sharon
Mart, he bought a Japanese rice-cooker that Yun’s mother Nari had recommended.
Every item had to be urgently needed and within budget, but when his family walked into
their new home—sleepless from the long noisy flight and even more exhausted after an
interminable wait for their luggage—Bo realized that nothing here was beautiful. From their
eyes, he saw how shabby and dismal everything must have seemed to them. He had forgotten to
wash the small living room windows.
“You did a nice job,” Helen said, doing her best to hide her disappointment. “It must have

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 284
been difficult to find all these things. Son, you’re all grown up since you know how to set up a
household.”
John patted Bo on the back, and Mido smiled at him. No one was fooled though. The
kitchen walls, once painted gray, were grimy with grease, no matter how much Bo had scrubbed
them down with water-diluted bleach. The baseboards along the walls were cracked and the
corners missing like a gaping underbite. There was no money or reason to buy wall to wall
carpeting for a rental, he had reasoned.
It occurred to Bo then that perhaps he should have bought the rugs that the church
deacon, who owned the warehouse in Buena Park, had tried to sell him after all, but it would’ve
pushed him well over his budget, and he’d refrained as much as he could from borrowing on his
recently issued credit line.
“Next weekend, I thought I’d paint the apartment white. There wasn’t enough time this
week,” Bo said to his family.
“Can we do that?” Helen asked with hope in her voice. Over the years, she’d read a
number of leases and deposit terms, and renter’s alterations were often not permitted.
Mido put her arms around her mother, wanting to make the ugliness disappear somehow.
At her high school in Sydney, she had read a British novelist writing about coming down in the
world, and though she had understood then what the words meant, she felt them now for her
parents, and this grieved her.
“We won’t be here long,” Mido said, and John and Helen nodded, resolving to move as
soon as possible.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 285
#
The first guest to visit the Koh family was Yun’s mother, Nari. The morning after their arrival,
the doorbell sounded twice, and when John opened the door, Nari was balancing a thick stack of
brightly-colored floor cushions on top of a flat box of pears and a box of ramyeon. In her hand,
she clutched a full shopping bag.
John relieved the heavy load from her, and Nari rushed in, slipping off her kitchen clogs.
She bowed quickly to the family then sat down on the bare floor to pray.
In silence, Helen, John, Bo, and Mido watched her.
Yun’s mother had aged visibly in only a few years. Her hair, pulled back with a banana-
style hair clip, was dyed brown, a shade lighter than her natural color, and the roots along her
side part were white.
In Seoul, Nari’s nails were vermilion, but here, they were clipped short and unvarnished.
She wore the tan and brown-colored uniform shirt for Shrimp Castle and matching brown
polyester slacks, which smelled lightly of frying oil.
Her mumbled prayer ended in a few minutes, and Nari rose to her feet. Helen approached
her, and Nari took Helen’s hands into hers. She looked around the almost bare living room.
“It’s small, isn’t it? Our apartment is the same, and I may try to move into a smaller one.
Yun moved in with her husband after the wedding.”
“Congratulations,” Helen and John said at the same time. “Your son-in-law is great. We
met him last night when he picked us up. Yun looks very happy.”
Nari nodded, smiling weakly. When Yun and Lion came to tell her about eloping, Nari

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 286
had been upset, but nothing could be done. They would’ve gotten married later, Lion had
explained, and it did make more sense to do it now for the green card.
Later, when they were alone, Nari asked her daughter Yun if she had eloped because her
father had gone to Brazil, and Yun said no. It was impossible to know exactly what her daughter
had been thinking, but it was not like her to be so impulsive though the decision to marry also
appeared pragmatic.
“She’s not pregnant,” Nari said, as if this explanation was necessary, “Yun is going to
finish UCLA. Lion is a kind boy. He thought of being a minister but he changed his mind. He
wants to be a songwriter. He sings well. He put himself through Princeton in only three years.
Now, he’s a hagwon director. He earns good money, but it’s a waste of such a good education.”
She shrugged then turned to the door.
Helen smiled. “Lion seems like a wonderful young man, and he is fortunate because Yun
is the best.”
Nari shook her head, unable to agree with anyone praising her child though it felt nice to
hear it.
“My husband is in Brazil. I think Yun told you. I have to get to work now.”
John went to the door.
“Are you running the store all by yourself?”
“I just hired a nice student. Part-time. Alex is a good boy and very strong, but he can only
work fifteen to twenty hours. I still have Lenny, who helped my husband, but he can’t work more
than thirty-five hours. The new cook quit after a week. Koreans won’t work this job, and

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 287
Americans can’t work like us,” she said.
“I don’t understand,” John said.
“Labor laws. My son-in-law Lion said I’d need at least two workers to replace my
husband. I better get back.”
“It was nice of you to stop by. Thank you for all these things. What is this?” Helen
pointed to the shopping bag.
“Roach traps and steel wool.”
Helen was confused.
“Roaches?” Mido turned to Bo.
“I haven’t seen any,” he said.
“They come out at night. You’ve only had one night. Put out the traps in all the
cupboards, and if you see any mice, then you have to plug up the holes with steel wool. They’re
usually behind the refrigerator or beneath the sink. I should’ve given this to Yun last night when
she picked you up, but I forgot, and I got home late from church.”
Helen rubbed her arms. Mido knew her mother was scared.
“You’re so kind to think of this. I don’t like mice,” Helen said, trying to sound natural. “I
remember them from when I was a child. They were always in the house. Getting into
everything.”
Bo was mortified. It had never occurred to him that where Yun and Nari lived, there
could be bugs and rodents. When he was renting Lion’s garage apartment, he never even saw a

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 288
mosquito inside, which all of a sudden made him check the living room windows here, and Bo
realized then that there were no mosquito screens either. He’d never considered bugs.
If Lion’s brother Ray hadn’t mentioned the air conditioning, he wouldn’t have known to
check to see if they worked or not. In the kitchen, there was no dishwasher, but his parents rarely
used it even when there was one, so Bo had not thought to negotiate for one. The refrigerator
worked, and he had to buy a small microwave. The coin-operated washing machines were in the
basement.
“Are there many mice?” Bo asked Yun’s mother.
“Oh, once you plug up the holes with steel wool, they’ll move on to the next place. They
live in the walls. You can hear them at night,” Nari said. “I don’t have them inside my apartment
anymore. But we did the first month or so. No matter how clean you are, these buildings that you
share with people have problems. It’s fine.”
Quietly, John stooped over the shopping bag and he pulled out the roach traps. He
separated the individual traps from the large packet.
“I better go,” Nari said. “I’ll bring you some large pots and pans tonight. For soup.”
“Oh, we’re going to the store in an hour. That’s okay,” Helen said, smiling. “You’ve
already done so much.
Nari nodded, “We’ll see each other on Sunday then. I’m so glad you’re here, especially
since Yun moved out. That bad girl,” she said, smiling.
“It’s terrible being poor here, but you’ll work hard, and things will get better,” Nari said.
There was a plain way that Nari spoke that Helen respected. Yun’s mother wasn’t putting

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 289
them down. She was trying her best to protect the people she claimed, and Nari was claiming her
family, and Helen felt grateful.
Both Nari and Helen had grown up with nothing, and though they’d seen far better times,
they wouldn’t complain now. This was no time for self pity. Only their children had lived for
most of their lives with money, but they had lived without for far longer. Helen didn’t like mice,
because she remembered as a little girl the mice running across her feet when she went to the
bathroom at night, and how if she screamed, no one would come to make them go away.
Nari went to the door and slipped on her clogs, and Mido bowed deeply to her.
Nari patted Mido’s shoulder. She’d been worried about her daughter’s best friend who’d
left Australia without finishing her degree, and she looked at the girl with great affection.
“When we got first here, we rented a spare bedroom from another family because we had
so little. We were trying to save for a down pay for the store.” Nari shrugged. “And, there’s
always another bill, but we have strong bodies and even stronger minds.” Nari said looking at
Mido and Bo. “Remember that we are very strong people.”
Mido and Bo nodded.
“Things will get better. You have good, educated parents. They’re going to figure things
out that I don’t know how to do. They speak English so well!”
Nari opened the front door as if she were leaving her own house, and the family bowed to
her as she left. The apartment felt quiet again, and John glanced at his wife’s white cotton socks,
their soles already black from the dirty floors.
#

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 290
Bo found parking for the van not too far from the entrance. When his family couldn’t contain
their shock at the immense scale of the store, he burst out laughing.
“Welcome to Costco,” Bo said.
“I read about this store, but it’s even bigger—” Helen said.
“We don’t have a lot of time. I have to return the van, drop you off, and get back to
work.”
Mido pulled out the list of things they needed.
The store was cold, and Mido rubbed her hands. Helen and John had worn fleece vests,
but Mido had only a tee-shirt, so Bo gave her his blue Exodus Academy windbreaker, which had
the word “DRIVER” written on the back.
“If we want to get a television, they have some on sale,” Bo said.
“We can wait on that, but we’ll need to buy a phone and an answering machine today,”
Helen said. “We need to find jobs and can’t miss messages.”
Along the way to electronics, they picked up cans of coffee, boxes of tea, and laundry
detergent and tucked them away in the giant cart.
Bo moved quickly while his family continue to marvel at the store. They passed rows and
rows of goods, and Helen picked up two boxes of water glasses and coffee mugs.
She tried not to think of all the beautiful dishes she’d given away to her friends at church.
If she had been living in Seoul, she would’ve been able to leave them with her sister Sonya, but
it hadn’t made sense to ship them to her, either.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 291
Helen had criss-crossed the world with her possessions, but always, the container
shipments had been paid for by John’s employers, and when she looked into the cost of shipping
their things herself, they couldn’t possibly afford it.
“Here,” Bo held up a box containing a white Panasonic phone with a built-in answering
machine.
Alarmed at the price, Helen scanned the lower shelves for a cheaper model.
“I think this is the best one,” Bo said. “I have a job, Umma. I can get it for you.”
“No, no. I’ll buy it,” Helen said, plucking it from his hands. “There’s another kind here.
Besides, it’s a better color,” she said. The one she selected was a third the price at forty nine
dollars. “It’s black so it won’t get dirty.”
John looked over the Panasonic phones and found an even more expensive one that was
also black.
“No, we’ll get this one,” John said. “This is black, too.”
Helen said nothing, pushing the cart towards the pots and pans, and Mido walked beside
her.
Behind them, John asked his son,
“Bo, where is Shrimp Castle?”
“It’s not far. We’re already in Garden Grove.”
“Can you take us there after this trip? I’d like to see it. Do you have time?”
Bo checked his watch.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 292
“What do you think Shrimp Castle can pay?” John asked.
“Lion said they’d have paid someone 900 a week but they’re only paying Alex 350
because he arrives exactly at 11 and leaves at 3pm and takes a half hour lunch break, which is
making Yun’s mother crazy. That’s why they can’t afford two men. The other guy Lenny, who’s
always worked there already gets 500 a week.”
John nodded.
After they packed up the car with their purchases, Bo drove them to Shrimp Castle, and
John went inside while the family waited in the van.
#
The front door bell tinkled when John entered, and Nari turned.
“Hello, what are you doing here?”
“May I see your kitchen?” John asked.
Nari couldn’t understand but brought him in where Lenny was washing the cabbages.
“Where’s Alex?” John asked.
“He’ll be here soon. If he shows up.”
Before exiting the kitchen, John nodded to Lenny as if to say goodbye, then went toward
the front door near the cash register, where he could speak in private with Nari.
“There’s enough space,” John said
“Huh?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 293
“You could have all three of us in the kitchen. I can work for 550 a week in cash. If either
of your guys quits, then I’ll do his work and make his salary.”
“You can’t do this work,” Nari said out loud, then turned to see if Lenny could hear them,
not that he could understand Korean.
“I worked in kitchens when I was in high school and college, and I’m still strong. I can’t
work on the books, because it will affect our green card application. Lion’s sister Sarah already
explained all this to us. In a few months, we have to adjust our status and Bo will sponsor us
since he has a job. My wife and I have to find work that pays in cash.”
“I can start today,” John said. “I just need to change my clothes.”
Nari shook her head confused.
“Have you asked your wife?”
John smiled, knowing that Helen wouldn’t like it.
“A man with your education should not be in the kitchen frying shrimp and making fish
sandwiches. Do you know how terrible you can smell? Your hair, your skin, it gets into your
pores. I think my husband went to Brazil just so he could get that smell out of his nose.”
“I’m sure your husband had good reason to do what he did. You don’t know what a man
is thinking until you’ve walked in his shoes. I have a good reason, too, for wanting this job.”
“I don’t know,” Nari said, because she really didn’t.
“I have a request though. I will work as hard as possible but I’d appreciate it if you could
drive me to and from the apartment, and I will pay for part of the gas until we get a car. My wife
will be looking for work, and it would be ideal if she could find work on this shopping strip so

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 294
she can commute with us,” John said.
“I can ask Mrs. Chung. She’s always looking for someone,” Nari said.
A frown flashed across Nari’s face, and John picked up on it.
“What’s she like?” he asked.
“Picky,” Nari said right away.
John wanted to spare his wife another trial.
“But she’s not a dishonest person, and she’s an alumna of your wife’s school. Ewha.
Don’t those people have to be nicer to you? If you went to the same college?”
“It depends,” John said.
For once, Nari felt hopeful, believing that Mrs. Chung would give Helen a job and with
John’s help, she could pay off the promissory note on Shrimp Castle on time. She knew her
husband had expected her to lose the business and join him in Sao Paolo, and Nari wanted to
surprise him.
Things had been so difficult, and suddenly, a path had been cleared.
#

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 295

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 296
2:11 February 1998 "Strip Mall"
11. February 1998
#
The next morning, Helen and John met Nari in the carport below their building. Nari drove a
dark red Volvo, which her husband had insisted on buying. Every time she placed her dishpan
hands on the leather steering wheel, she calculated that the Volvo’s monthly payments would
have allowed the family to have two used Corollas.
“You look nice,” Nari said.
Helen and John bowed their heads to greet Nari.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 297
For her interview, Helen was wearing a white blouse with a Peter Pan collar, a straight
navy skirt and navy leather pumps with a low stacked heel. John wore Nari’s husband’s old
uniform, which had his surname “Kim” embroidered on it. As it turned out, the men wore the
same size. Nari had offered to order John his own uniform, but he declined, saying his mother
had been a Kim.
From the front passenger seat, Helen kept glancing over at her husband, who’d said little
all morning. He didn’t seem troubled but appeared more withdrawn than usual. Neither had
talked much about John starting work at Shrimp Castle.
When Helen and the children had seemed surprised by his decision, John said, “I won’t
run into anyone I know. I have to get a job. I checked the classifieds, and it would be hard to
make almost 600 a week in cash right away. If that part-time student Alex leaves Shrimp Castle
after the summer and doesn’t return, then I can make 900 a week in cash. We need to pay the
green card lawyer and save for a bigger place.”
John looked out the backseat window, unable to recall the last time a woman had driven
him anywhere. He could tell Nari was a good driver.
“Was it hard getting a license?” Helen asked Nari.
“We didn’t have our papers, so we had to get the licenses in Nevada. We drove there early
in the morning and in the afternoon took the test. I was half asleep, and I couldn’t believe my
husband and I passed. We were so nervous,” Nari said, remembering how happy they were—
their first victory in the new country.
When her husband had wanted to buy an almost new Volvo, rather than a used Toyota,
she hadn’t put up a fuss, because he’d said, “When we drive to church, we drive in something

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 298
nice.”
When they had money in Korea, Joonho would let her buy anything she wanted. “My
beautiful Nari should have at least the nicest things money can buy.” No matter how much a face
cream from Japan cost, Joonho would say, “If my wife wants it, she must have it.” Both of them
had grown up with so little and during their years of plenty, Joonho wanted to give her and Yun
every single thing, even if they did not need it. Joonho didn’t want them to be the kind of rich
people who having once been poor still felt poor inside.
“It’s hard not to have car here,” Nari said. “We tried for a week. That was enough.”
“I’m glad Yun will get her green card soon. Her sister-in-law Sarah explained that
everything should be fine,” Helen said, wondering if they’d need to go out of state to get a
license if they couldn’t get work papers. She knew John wouldn’t allow it.
“You must be relieved.”
Nari nodded and looked straight ahead, paying careful attention to the the traffic.
“I can drive but I still get nervous in traffic. Driving in Paramus seems much easier than
here,” Helen said.
“I’m a great driver. I’ve never been the one for school but I have excellent hand-eye
coordination. My daughter is an athlete because of me, not my husband,” Nari said with pride in
her voice. “I don’t know how these people expect us to work and get around without a license.”
“We really appreciate you taking us,” Helen said, and when she turned this time, her
husband’s eyes were closed.
#

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 299
The strip mall in Garden Grove was an enormous rectangle with businesses all along the four
sides of the rectangle as well within the four square islets set in the middle of the black asphalt
ocean of the parking lot, which opened out to the boulevards along the lengths of the mall. The
largest building, a branch of a Korean bank, was set in the center like a pagoda ornament.
Shrimp Castle was one of the seven stores on the southern subdivision of the mall, and it
did brisk business because there were no other shops that sold fried foods. The mall was a kind
of Korean neighborhood filled with people, who would never have crossed paths in their
previous lives back home.
Nari’s store was a fifteen hundred square foot shop separated into a dining area, kitchen,
storage room with a little desk and file cabinet, and two restrooms. The white-tiled open kitchen,
about three hundred square feet, faced out to the dining area. There were sixteen tables that could
be moved around to seat thirty two customers.
Nari handed John a disposable hairnet, a new baseball cap, and a fresh white apron. From
the supply closet, she pulled out her husband’s black, knee-high rubber boots for spray washing
the kitchen floor each night.
“These might work, too,” she said, being mindful not to cause offense by offering
something used to her daughter’s friend’s father. Nari would’ve bought him a new pair, but there
just hadn’t been enough time.
John thanked her, seeing that they would fit him. He put on the hairnet and tied the apron
over his uniform as if he’d been doing this for years.
When Lenny came into work, the two men went into the kitchen, and John pulled out a
small notepad to write down whatever Lenny taught him so he wouldn’t have to ask twice.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 300
Nari fixed instant coffee for them and distributed the ham and egg sandwiches she’d
made at home earlier in the morning. She asked John to say grace and afterwards, they ate the
breakfast quietly before starting work.
From industrial-sized containers of tartar sauce, vinegar, and ketchup, Nari transferred
individual portions into plastic containers for takeout customers. When Helen tried to help, Nari
told her not this time.
“You can’t get your clothes messy, especially today,” Nari said sternly. “I already told
Mrs. Chung about you, and she’s expecting a high class salesperson almost like herself. I’m so
worried that you might smell even a little like frying oil.”
Suddenly, Nari got up and opened the front door to let fresh air in. From behind the cash
register, she withdrew her prized bottle of Chanel No. 5 that her daughter had given her last
Christmas.
“In case. You can use this,” Nari said.
At ten minutes to ten, Nari walked Helen to the Emporium, which was only five stores
down from Shrimp Castle. Helen smiled at the name because she had worked at Crawford’s
Emporium in Sydney for so many years.
The lights were on, and Nari pushed the door open.
“Good morning, Elder Chung,” Nari said, bowing. “I brought you my friend, Helen Cho.
She’s the wife of John Koh, who is now working at my store.”
Seated like a dowager in her low stool, Mrs. Chung gestured for them to come in, but

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 301
Nari sent Helen in alone.
“I have to get back and help Mr. Koh. It’s his first day,” Nari said, then to Helen, “Come
back when you’re done. It’s just there,” she said, pointing in the direction of Shrimp Castle like a
concerned mother leaving a small child at a new school, and Helen smiled and nodded.
“I’ll be fine. Thank you so much for everything,” she said and watched Nari return to her
store.
Mrs. Chung was decades older than Helen, but it was difficult to tell how many from her
appearances. She was over seventy; however, in a certain light, her hair professionally colored
and with her unlined forehead and neck, she could look far younger.
The Emporium’s owner wore a black boucle jacket with gold threading that matched her
skirt and a long rope of pearls with large Mabe pearl and diamond earrings.
The shop was twice the size of Shrimp Castle and crammed from floor to ceiling with
costly inventory. On one wall was a floor to ceiling shelf with suitcases, bags, and briefcases; on
another wall was a stock of thick satin covered quilts, pillows, and embroidered bedding from a
famed maker in Seoul; and in the glass display cases were imported Swiss watches as well as
gold and diamond jewelry. On the sales floor, there were several racks of high-end suits from
Italy and France for men and women. Crystal vases and porcelain dishes from France, England,
and Ireland filled the tall brass and glass shelf. Security cameras hung from each corner of the
ceiling.
The store was neither beautiful nor elegant. Mrs. Chung had not spent any money on the
interior design; however, even Helen was impressed by the depth and quality of imported goods
from Europe, Japan, and Korea. Mrs. Chung’s merchandise could also be found at Crawford’s

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 302
Emporium.
“Would you like to be called Mrs. Cho or Mrs. Koh?” the owner asked.
“It’s a pleasure to meet you.” Helen bowed formally.“For here and Australia, people
address me by my husband’s last name, Koh, especially at my children’s schools.” “You’re also
welcome to call me Hejin, or Helen. Sometimes, I think Americans are right to be simpler with
first names and dispense with titles.”
“Well, yes, but we are Koreans in America,” Mrs. Chung said. “I will call you Mrs. Koh,
because we just met. Please sit.”
Mrs. Chung had been sitting on a low backed stool behind the counter, and she got up and
wheeled the stool to the leather armchair kept for guests.
“Thank you for speaking with me,” Helen said. She pulled out a resume and handed it to
Mrs. Chung with both hands. “The first page is in English, and the second is in Korean.”
Mrs. Chung read it carefully.
“You’ve worked in sales for a long time.”
Yes,” Helen continued to speak in formal Korean.
“I was told you don’t have your green card. That you might be getting it soon.”
“All three of our children were born in New Jersey when my husband worked in New
York. We’ve always had proper work documentation through my husband’s companies. I have a
social security number from back then. Our son Bo will be able to sponsor us but it will take
some time.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 303
Mrs. Chung paused reading to study Helen’s pleasant face.
“You went to Ewha,” Mrs. Chung said. “Yun’s mother told me. It’s my college, too.” She
checked at the resume, “you majored in English.”
Helen smiled having loved Ewha, but she didn’t think it was the right time to ask what
Mrs. Chung had studied.
“I can’t pay any more than 450. It’s six days a week. I close on Sundays so I can go to
church. Do you go to church?”
Helen nodded.
“Yes, we will be going to Gospel Presbyterian in Anaheim. Our son said it’s nice, and
that’s where Yun’s mother goes, too.”
“I am an elder at Gospel Presbyterian,” Mrs. Chung said.
“I should call you Elder Chung, then.”
“Yes, you may.”
“How old are your children?”
“In America, Bo-Hun is 22, Dae-Hun is 20, and my youngest is 19. My middle one is in
school but my oldest and youngest need to go to college. We moved around so much—”
Mrs. Chung nodded.
“If you can sell very well, I may be able to raise your salary to 550,” Mrs. Chung said.
The thought of getting this poised and well-educated woman to work for her was appealing.
Also, unlike the young ones who talked too much, or brought her their complicated problems,

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 304
then quit, the owner wanted someone to stay on and take the work seriously.
Helen brightened a little.
“I’ve always worked with a base salary and commission. I’d be happy to work for 300 a
week and take a 10% commission of the retail price if that would work for you. I would be glad
to work six days a week.”
Mrs. Jung appeared surprised by Helen’s counter-offer.
“I haven’t given you the job yet.”
“I’ll make more money for you. I am good at what I do.”
Mrs. Chung laughed, more than a little pleased by her alumna.
“I don’t know,” Mrs. Chung said. “It’s not personal. I’ve hired many people.”
“We can try it for a month, if you like. I’m able to keep track of sales and can make it
simple for you,” Helen said, unwilling to give up her commissions. It was really the only way
she could make more in sales.
Mrs. Chung looked doubtful. She wanted Helen to work there but didn’t like the idea of
sharing profits. She took a breath.
“Let’s try your way just for today. What do you think?” Mrs. Chung asked.
Helen asked to study the floor inventory and checked price tags. She asked Mrs. Chung
for her markup structure and how much room she had for discounts, because here, the customers
expected the negotiation. In the back of store, behind a set of swinging doors, a middle-aged man
named Matty sorted the inventory, and he would get them any needed stock from the basement.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 305
Mrs. Chung was not disappointed. Helen had a wonderful manner with customers. She
greeted them politely, observed them without being intrusive and knew precisely when to be
useful. Without much context, she was still able to discern which customers wanted attention,
deference, or to be left alone to browse. Some customers needed privacy to imagine themselves
with the desired good—be it a pair of Italian shoes, a rare handbag, or a cashmere coat. However,
she knew that she could not disappear. Helen was able to anticipate the needs of her customer.
Above all, she knew never to judge the worth of a customer based on her appearances— only the
novice or the fool did that.
Where she excelled uniquely was how she honored her customer without being
subservient since aspirational goods, which is what Mrs. Chung sold, required a knowledgeable
salesperson who wasn’t off-putting and yet the kind of person whose approval you sought.
Everyone wanted Helen’s approval because she knew herself well, and about her was an
ineffable air of objectivity and appropriateness.
Helen was like your kindest, most tasteful ally, who would tell you the truth and never
let you get in trouble. Customers felt comfortable asking Helen questions about how to put on a
diamond necklace with a tricky clasp, how to tie a large silk scarf as a cummerbund, or what
kind of watch one bought for a lawyer son-in-law.
Of all the nearby Korean strip malls in Orange County, Mrs. Chung’s had the highest
priced inventory, and though her customers were Koreans who had once shopped in fine
department stores in Seoul or Busan, they still felt uncomfortable walking into an equivalent
American department store or luxury boutique. Most importantly, they had no time to drive over
to the fancy mall, which could take half a day from work on a Saturday and certainly never
during the week when they worked dawn til dusk.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 306
The Emporium opened at 9:30am, and for a Thursday morning, business was not bad.
Around lunchtime, Mrs. Ku, who managed the video store across the strip mall, came in.
Mrs. Chung said hello and returned to her newspaper. She was on cordial terms with the
video store owners, but didn’t know Mrs. Ku well enough to chat.
Helen who had been wiping down the counter with a glass cleaner, put away her dust
cloths and bowed her head to greet the customer.
Although it was warm outside, Mrs. Ku wore a long sleeve cotton jersey shirt, elastic
waist pants and a woolen vest, all in shades of blue. Her hair was gray. She was in her late fifties
but seemed older than women her age. Her skin was papery and mottled, and she appeared a bit
intimidated, anxious that the owner Mrs. Chung appeared a bit cool toward her.
“How may I help you?” Helen asked.
“You must be new,” Mrs. Ku said shyly. “I haven’t seen you before.”
“Yes, my family and I moved here recently.”
“From where? Did you find a place to live?” Mrs. Ku asked, wanting to help the
newcomer.
“Yes, thank you,” Helen said. “Is there anything you need specifically today?” She knew
that a person like this didn’t come into the Emporium unless she had to buy something.
“My son is getting married,” Mrs. Ku said. Her voice was quiet but proud.
Hearing this, Mrs. Chung looked up from her newspaper.
“What wonderful news. Do you like the bride?” she said.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 307
“Yes. Yes, so much. She’s a dental hygienist. I think she’ll take good care of my son.
She’s a hard worker.”
Helen smiled.
Mrs. Ku puckered her lips slightly as if she was thinking of something and preparing her
sentences.
“My son bought her a ring already, but I wanted to get her something myself. She’s a
very attractive girl. She cares about how she looks. Not like me,” Mrs. Ku laughed, looking
down at her white sneakers from Costco. “But she’s not vain. I’m not trying to say that. I think
she looks so pretty. I’m so lucky. I’m not trying to brag. I’m so sorry.”
Mrs. Ku blushed. She was a woman who wasn’t used to speaking about her recent good
fortune.
“What do you think she’d like?” Helen asked, not knowing the woman’s budget, but
needing to know.
Mrs. Chung pretended to read her newspaper, but she was paying attention.
“I thought maybe a necklace or earrings. Diamond or pearls maybe. I’ve some money I
have been saving for her.” After her only son graduated from college, even before he was dating
anyone, Mrs. Ku had been setting money aside to buy presents for his bride and her family.
“Do you have to get presents for her family, too?” Helen asked.
“My son said they’d prefer cash.”
“Oh, I see.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 308
“The wedding will be small.”
Helen nodded.
“But I want to give her something. From me. I don’t want her to think I’m not happy
about it because I am so grateful. He’s my only one, you see.” Mrs. Ku could hardly say this last
bit. She wanted her daughter-in-law to like her, want to visit now and then, not to feel pressured,
but want to see her even though their apartment was small and not very nice.
“I have something that’s beautiful.”
Helen guided the woman to the jewelry counter and took out a tray of pearl and diamond
earrings.
“What do you think of this? A young woman may like these studs. They’re not old-
fashioned. Or maybe just these diamond studs.” Helen showed her the small ones first, which
were not the cheapest but not the larger ones, which might be prohibitive.
Mrs. Ku tucked her lower lip inside her mouth like she was afraid. She had never bought
jewelry before.
“The pearl and diamond ones are 1,500. And the diamond ones are 3,000. We have larger
sizes, but maybe they might be too old looking for her. This is a high quality diamond. We have
the papers if you want to take a look and if she chose to insure them with her ring.”
Mrs. Ku nodded. “Her ears are pierced.” She touched her own lobes, which were not.
“The earring backs have a safety feature so she won’t lose them,” Helen said, showing
her how it worked.
Mrs. Ku tried to think of a way to ask for some sort of discount, but she wasn’t sure how.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 309
She swallowed. “Is it possible to have some sort of discount? I’m sorry to ask, but—”
Helen looked over Mrs. Chung, and she nodded.
“If you have the price in cash, then we can take off 10 percent.”
Relieved, Mrs. Ku nodded.
“The diamonds, please. I’ll bring the cash tomorrow. Will that be okay? I work right
down there. At Star Video.”
“I’ve never been there, but my friend who owns Shrimp Castle already mentioned it,”
Helen smiled.
“Do you know Yun’s mother?” Mrs. Ku asked, excitedly.
“Yes. I’ve known her and her daughter for a long time,” Helen said, smiling.
“She’s my best customer. I think she borrows a bag of videos, twice a week. She knows
everything about dramas. Do you watch them?”
“I don’t know much about them, but I like some of them,” Helen said.
“What kind do you like?” At once, Mrs. Ku sounded confident and serious.
“Oh, the historical ones and sometimes the love stories,” Helen said. “But truly, I don’t
know many of them. I’m always working so, I—”
“Well, please come and see me,” Mrs. Ku said, “If you ever want to borrow videos.
Though, I guess you can watch them with Yun’s mother, too. That would save money.” Her smile
disappeared, realizing she might’ve lost a customer.
“I think she’s far ahead of me in every show, but I promise when I start watching dramas,

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 310
I will only go to your store,” Helen said then gathered the earrings and put them in a black velvet
box.
“I will wrap them for you now, and you can pick them up tomorrow anytime.”
After Mrs. Ku walked out of the store, Helen calculated that after deducting 10 percent,
the $3,000 earrings would cost $2,700, so her own sales commission would be $270. The
wholesale price of the earrings had been $1,500, so Mrs. Chung would still net $930 minus her
overhead.
When Helen had worked in Sydney and Seoul for large luxury stores where she almost
never met the owners, she had not given much thought to the store rent, taxes, utilities, garbage
removal, storage, workman’s compensation, healthcare, insurance, and all the other variables in
running a small business, but working here alongside the owner and Matty, the stock person, was
teaching her that they had to survive together. Everyone had to eat. Mrs. Ku had paid a hefty
retail premium but she left the store happy, and in her mind, a heavy problem had been solved.
When the day ended, Helen walked over to Shrimp Castle where there was a line of
customers. Helen put on an apron hanging on the hook behind the counter but Nari waved her
away.
“You should sit down. We’re fine. Only five more orders.”
Helen nodded but looked around. The drink refrigerator needed restocking, so she went to
find sodas from the storge room. Then she found the mop and pail and started on the bathrooms.
After the last customer left, Nari went to the front door and locked it. She turned on the
red neon Closed sign.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 311
In the kitchen, John was scrubbing the stainless area around the fryer. Lenny had already
finished his section and left for the night.
Helen stood by the kitchen doorway.
“How was business?” she asked her husband.
“Busy. We sold a lot of fish sandwiches today but even more shrimp baskets. Yun’s
mother had to call the supplier for him to bring another shipment for tomorrow morning instead
of Monday.”
“I had a good day, too,” she said. “I got a nice job.”
“Mrs. Chung called Nari a few hours ago to tell us. You were busy with customers.”
“You must be tired,” Helen said, seeing his expression. His hair was matted down with
sweat and oil beneath the net.
“Shin Taehun came by,” he said without looking up.
“What?”
“He came by to talk with the big realtor across the lot, and they came into buy
sandwiches. He saw me in the kitchen.”
Helen couldn’t speak. She saw that Nari was busy closing out the register.
“He and Danbi just moved here.”
“How about his wife?”
“She’s still in New Jersey. She won’t give him a divorce.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 312
“That woman is pregnant.”
Helen shook her head. “You can’t meet him anymore.”
“I didn’t look for him. He found me. Look at me.”
The crisp white apron from the morning was spotted with oil and soapy disinfectant. John
wore Nari’s husband’s black rubber boots. His jaw firm, John continued to wipe down the long
metal counter.
“He was wearing a suit. He’s going to sell insurance and annuities, he said. Wanted to
know if I needed a job.”
Helen checked his face.
“I said no. I have a good job,” he said, removing his hairnet and wiping his brow with the
back of his hand.
“Ah, there’s my nice-looking boyfriend,” she said, pointing to his face.
John grinned and went to the sink to rinse out the cloths.
#

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 313
2:12 March 1999 "Lost and Found"
12. March 1999
#
March 12, 1999
#
Dear Tek,
#
I’m writing to you from the Exodus staff lounge which is the large room near the library, it’s
about the size of my new classroom, and where we also store everything.
Right now by the door, there are six cases of juice boxes, a dozen tubs of pretzel sticks,

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 314
and several pallets of toilet paper and paper towels which need to be put away.
I’ll get to it right after I finish writing this.
Before you frown, it’s not officially my job to organize the supplies, but I do as much as I
can to save Yun and Lion the trouble. What I like about working here is how everyone pitches in.
Even the parents help out when things break down or we need something special.
There’s an extra long conference table near the back wall and a dozen chairs for teachers
to prepare for classes and grade homework. This is also where I eat two meals a day. On the
shorter wall, there’s a refrigerator, coffee machines, two microwaves, and an industrial size sink
and a dishwasher. A rattan laundry basket on the counter is filled with granola bars, cup noodles,
and crisps.
When the door’s closed, the room feels like my sanctuary. I finished preparing for my
class early today, so I thought I’d write. My letters have been infrequent. Forgive me.
For lunch, I’m eating a chicken salad sandwich that I brought from home with a bag of
crisps from here. Every time I have a sandwich, I think of you layering yours with pickle slices
or jalapeño peppers. It would make me laugh when you’d take a bite, and bits of pickle or
peppers fell out of the sides, making a mess. You’d smile like you were pleased. I don’t know if
you do this in front of anyone else, or if you just did it to make me laugh. I never got a chance to
ask you. I hope you’re having good lunches.
Last month was my one year anniversary at Exodus, and Lion gave me a nice raise. Also,
he’s letting me teach one of the boot camp classes for specialized high school admissions tests,
which will start tomorrow. I’ll make an extra $1,500 per session, and if that goes okay, I might
get to do a couple of those per semester. Bo taught those already, and he said I’ll be just fine.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 315
My new afternoon class is going well. I have twenty-seven students. The work isn’t
difficult.
I was worried because last year, my students were so young, which turned out to be more
babysitting than anything, so I thought middle school kids would be tough, but they’re not that
different from my kindergartners.
My middle schoolers are a little more serious, and they do listen to me, which is a relief.
They’re like nutty puppies. It’s hard to get upset with them because they’re adorable but I do
have to pay attention to all the relationships. The girls have built their own worlds upon worlds,
and the boys are still daft and goofy, which make them a little easier.
Bo is taking two classes at Fullerton College but he’s still driving the hagwon van and
tutoring a few high school kids.
When I have my middle schoolers, I can still see my former little ones who are now in
the first and second grade when they come in. There’s a plexiglass partition separating my room
from theirs.
I feel proud of them. Isn’t that strange?
It’s as if I’m the only one who taught them to put away their things in their cubbies, wash
their hands, and wait quietly for their snacks before worksheets and story time. It’s odd how
much I want to check in on them.
During breaks, they knock on the plexiglass and wave at me. My middle schoolers are
sweet, too, but they’re awkward and funny around each other like little adults. I remember being
self-conscious around that age. How did we ever survive all this, I wonder.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 316
Sometimes, I go with Bo to take a kid home when his parents can’t make pick up, and I
make sure he gets inside to his apartment while Bo stays in the van. Often, there’s no one home.
Even though my mother always worked somewhere, she was usually home at 2:30pm. Also, I
had my brothers.
I imagine the parents must be concerned but I guess they have no choice. When the kids
whose parents can’t pick them up live in my apartment complex, I just let them stay in our place
until someone can come get them, because I worry, especially when they’re little.
What I realized is that if the kids weren’t here at Exodus, nearly all of my students would
be home alone in their apartments until a grown up gets home. Not everyone lives with their
parents, I’ve learned that too, so I try not to assume that the adult is the kid’s mother or father.
Anyway, my kids are great.
Nicky, one of my former kindergartners, always manages to find me at the hagwon just to
tell me jokes. This was today’s before he went into his class.
“Miss Mido, what is Beethoven’s favorite fruit?”
I don’t know, Nicky.
“Ba-na-na-na. Ba-na-na-na.”
I’ve no idea how he knows how Beethoven’s 5th sounds, but he waited until I got the joke
then he laughed harder than anyone else. I think his belly clutching laughter is my favorite part
of the day.
His mom works as a cashier at the Sharon Mart along with several other kids’ parents.
She’s always on time to get him, which is helpful. I’d no idea how much I’d respect timeliness as

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 317
a personal quality until I had to dismiss dozens of students of different ages and temperaments.
In my middle school class, only one or two of them fool around and give me trouble, but
if I give the kids the right book to read and let them use the beanbags, they settle down
eventually. I had no idea what kind of power a juice box, three pretzel rods, and some attention
would have over even an eleven year old.
Sometimes, the kids are so content that I get to work on learning more test prep materials.
I’ve started working through the GREs, GMATs and LSATs just to see if I can. They’re all
manageable. I like figuring out how the questions work. They’re like complex, long puzzles. I
realize I’m not normal.
I know you want me to go back to Sydney and finish uni. You write that in every one of
your letters. Your last letter was almost shout-y about it. Maybe that’s why I took so long to write
back. Either you don’t understand, or I haven’t been clear as to why I can’t return now.
For the first time, my family needs me. I’ve always needed them, but now, they need me.
To work. I don’t mind. Really. I feel useful. I don’t know how to make you understand more than
that. Also, it’s not forever.
Bo’s earning as much as he can while he’s starting school. DH has only one and half
more years left at Yale. My salary helps the family, and if I can get some private tutoring jobs,
too, then I can make a larger income and set aside money for my own education. I’m the
youngest, but my income helps, and it’s good. I don’t want you to worry about me. I will finish
school.
Everything is expensive here. I looked into the community colleges, but because I’m not
a resident yet, I’d have to pay out-of-state tuition. I’m almost there though. Also, I forgot to tell

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 318
you. I got a California driver’s license. Ta-dah. However, I’m terrified of driving on the
highway.
The good news: Bo can pay in-state tuition because he’s been here longer than me, and
he’s considered financially independent from our parents. That’s also how he’s able to sponsor
their immigration. The plan is to send him to school first, get our parents’ green cards, and I’ll
keep working to help out.
Tek, I’m lucky to have this job. I like the kids so much. They’re not stressful like adults.
I miss you, and I’m sorry I didn’t write sooner.
#
Love,
Mido
#
She wrote letters, and he called now and then even though it was prohibitively expensive.
Sydney was 19 hours ahead, so he’d phone for a few minutes before his day started when it was
her early afternoon.
“What’s your Monday like?” she asked when he phoned her after church.
“It’s good. Working for Judge Alcott is far preferable to PLT. He’s kind of a genius.”
“How’s your Sunday?” he asked.
“Fine. Did you go to church yesterday?”
Tek hadn’t gone. He was sitting on his living room sofa, trying to imagine her face.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 319
“Were you working?”
“Yes. I had to finish up some research.”
Tek walked over to his wall unit where there was a photograph of them in front of the
Opera House.
“Housemates okay?” She tried to sound cheerful. It was good to hear his voice even
though he sounded worn out.
“Everyone’s fine,” he said. “I thought you’d be back by now.”
“Oh,” she said quietly, not wanting to start this again. He meant back in Sydney, of
course.
“I’m working,” she said. “I wrote you.”
“I know, I know. How were services?”
“The sermon was about self-control.”
They laughed.
“You’re strong on that,” he said.
“Not when it comes to ice cream.”
“I miss you, buddy,” he said.
“Easter?”
“That’s why I called. It’s not looking good.”
“Work?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 320
“Yes,” he said.
“You can’t control these things. I get it.” She had no right to ask him to change anything
for her when it was she who’d left.
“One of the clerks got sacked, so I’m beavering away on his behalf. Judge Alcott is
looking for someone else but really needs me. I’m sorry, buddy.”
Mido nodded as if he could see her from 7,500 miles away. He had planned on coming
for Easter, his first time to America, but this was an important year for his budding career as a
lawyer. They would likely not see each other for the remainder of the year.
#
At Exodus Academy, Lion told everyone that hiring Peter Son had been one of the best things
he’d ever done.
After Pomona accepted Peter as a transfer student from Yale, the Philosophy major
arranged to take classes only on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays, leaving him free to work
at Exodus on Saturdays and Sundays. During the week, he stayed in his single dorm room on
campus, and on the weekends, he slept at his place in Irvine. On Fridays and Saturday nights, he
played bass in Lion’s band.
His commuting life formed a right triangle, the three points: Cypress, Claremont, and
Irvine. He enjoyed driving his unwashed blue Volkswagen Passat. It was easy to forget that Peter
was only a junior in college.
At Exodus, he taught both verbal and math, which was rare. Most teachers had a
preference, and although Peter taught math mostly because there was a greater need for skilled

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 321
math tutors, if a verbal instructor went missing, he could teach it just as well.
As a musician, he was also a natural performer. One on one, Peter could be reserved,
more willing to listen than chat. However, like on stage, in front of a class, he brought a kind of
engaging energy. He could teach difficult subjects with a learner’s enthusiasm and charisma.
Lion didn’t know why exactly Peter left Yale for Pomona, or why he needed to work so
many hours. He didn’t seem interested in money and never talked about it. Nevertheless, he took
every class or gig Lion offered, so when he wasn’t in school or playing bass, he was at Exodus.
Neither Lion nor Yun knew of his future plans, and Bo couldn’t figure them out either. Bo got to
know him only because of his brother DH, who said Peter preferred not to talk about his family.
Peter got along well with his mother Renee, but had no intention of moving back to Seoul for
work. He wanted to be a rock musician and live in the States.
For Lion, it helped his business to have actors, musicians, and writers who needed
flexible jobs.
Students preferred cool grownups in creative fields to teach them the subjects and tests
they dreaded, and people in the arts usually stayed on at hagwons longer because it was difficult
for even the most talented musicians, artists, actors, writers, and singers, to make a stable living.
Lion Han, the owner of Exodus, was himself a struggling singer and songwriter. He had
been writing and performing his own music for eight years, and he’d never made traction. Now
and then, he thought of touring, but he liked being at home.
Lion told his wife Yun that in college, he was a wunderkind hagwon teacher and now a
successful young hagwon owner. He was beginning to accept that he was an unremarkable but
competent musician who loved being in a band. Lion was proud of helping kids do well in

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 322
school, providing dozens of well-paying jobs at his flourishing tutoring center, and he played
music several times a week. There was always the standing gig at least once a month at Rascals,
a steakhouse in Irvine.
On Saturday morning when Mido started teaching her specialized high school entrance
exam bootcamp, her new classroom was next to Peter’s SAT boot camp, filled with high school
seniors. In the past year, she hadn’t seen him as much because she worked during the week and
on weekends helped out at home and church.
After the bootcamps ended, they had to attend the general staff meeting, led by Lion and
Yun. At the end of the meeting, it was customary for the teachers to bring up any special issues,
and Mido raised her hand.
“I haven’t seen Ginny Noh in a week, and when I phoned the guardian, Mrs. Chiu, I
didn’t hear back,” she said.
“Maybe she’s ill,” Yun suggested.
Mido shrugged.
“I thought we could check in on her.”
“What do you mean? Beyond phoning?” Lion asked
The other teachers glanced in her direction.
“You mean go to her house?” Yun made a face, appearing puzzled.
“Her guardian lives in Garden Grove.” Mido said, scanning Ginny’s profile folder.
Peter looked up. “I’m heading to Irvine, so I’m not far from where she lives. Do you want

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 323
me to check in?”
“You should go with him, right?” Yun glanced at Mido to see if that would work.
“Do you think I could go with you? It might be odd if you went, and Ginny didn’t
recognize you.”
“Sure. Let’s do that.” Peter got up from his seat, and Mido followed him.
#
In the car, Mido put on her seat belt. She smelled cigarettes but had never seen Peter smoke at
the hagwon.
“I smell cigarettes,” she said, switching to Korean. At Exodus, she almost never spoke
Korean but in the car, it felt normal.
“Busted. Only while driving, and I try not to do it too much. My ex used to get on me to
quit, and I’m now down to maybe one or two in the evening when I want to feel more alert.”
“I didn’t know that about you.”
“Not much to know,” he said in English.
“My brother said you’re a good musician.”
Mido stopped speaking in Korean. It was as if she’d opened a door then he closed it.
“DH?” he asked, wondering how that would’ve come up.
“Yes.” Mido didn’t want him to think they’d been talking about him. Peter could be
voluble when teaching yet so cryptic around others. She noticed that when Bo or Lion talked,
Peter was included but he didn’t say as much. “Yun said you’re playing in Lion’s band. You’re a

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 324
bass player, right?”
Peter smiled and nodded.
“You should come out when Lion and I play next time. At Rascals.”
“Ok.”
“You’re supposed to be a playwright?”
It was her turn to be surprised. “How did you know?”
“Bo. He said you were in a drama society in Sydney. Are you going to act here? This is
the right place.”
“Oh, I’m not an actor. I joined SUDS, that’s the drama society at uni, because—”
“You don’t have to explain,” he said, not wanting her to feel uncomfortable.
“No, no. This is precisely why I joined SUDS. I wanted to learn how to talk better. I’m
fine with little kids but—”
“—but peers are harder,” he said like he understood.
“You’re not an actor then,” he said.
“No. I wrote a few plays in school. I still write a little bit but I can’t imagine doing that
for real. No one does that.”
“Actually, I think a lot of people do that here.”
“Well, I admire people who can do that, but it’s not for me. Though, I did like what
would happen when I finished a scene.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 325
“What’s that?”
“People made sense. I started to imagine what everyone else was feeling in a conflict, for
example. Writing a scene would force me to think not just about one character, but everyone in
that scene and even people off stage. Not sure if that makes sense,” she said.
“No, I get it. I do. Are you going to keep writing plays? You don’t have to go to school
for that, right? Or do you?”
“It’s hard to imagine doing any thing like that now.”
“Well, I’m not going to encourage you.”
Mido faced him and laughed.
“Why is that?”
“It doesn’t matter if you’re a good or even great writer. I wouldn’t want you to suffer,”
Peter said. “Art feels impossible.”
“Thank you. For not wanting me to suffer,” she said, laughing again. “Now, I just want to
work and eventually, I’ll finish school,” she said, realizing then that he hadn’t asked her what her
plans were, and she didn’t know if she’d said too much. He was trying to respect her privacy, and
she felt like he was teaching her to respect his.
“What’s this kid like?” Peter asked.
“Ginny? She’s one of my favorites. Her parents live in Busan, and they sent her here by
herself two years ago?”
“That’s crazy,” he said. “When she was 9?

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 326
“She boards with a guardian.”
“I know all about that. My mother sent me away when I was eight? I’ve had several
overseas guardians.”
“What’s that like?”
“When it’s bad, it’s like a Dickens novel. The guardians eat good food and the kids get
frozen pizzas and cup ramen, and there’s never enough to eat. I met one kid who boarded at a
giant house in Englewood Cliffs. He slept on a dirty mattress on the floor with the other
homestay kids, and the guardian family lived like royalty on the second floor. They put a lock on
the fridge and pantries. His dean at the private school had to come rescue him.”
Mido stared at him, hoping that Ginny wasn’t going through something like that.
“Did you have that happen?”
“I usually had enough to eat because my mother could pay a lot; but the experience was
weird. I wouldn’t do it to an eight year old.”
“I heard that you went to Aunt Mary’s —I mean Mrs. Shin’s house with DH during
breaks. Is that because you didn’t like your homestay?”
Peter didn’t reply. He was taking time to think of what he should say.
“When I was in England, I had a good host in Malden. Mrs. Oh was lovely and tried to
make sure I was okay. She was a great cook and would bake me scones on Sundays. Her British
husband was a bit of a cold fish. I cried once about something, and he said I should buck up. I
think I was 8 or 9?
Then they moved and I got another family. Very proud people. A woman who went to my

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 327
mother’s high school. Mrs. Lee would tell me that she didn’t need to take my mother’s money
but she did not want to harm their friendship. I had no idea what she was talking about. I did well
in school but I had regular problems with some of the other students. I was one of the only
minority kids, and if I hadn’t been an athlete, it would’ve been worse I think. I couldn’t tell her
what was going on. Some of the kids were shits, and when I got older, I tried to run away.”
“Where?”
Mido had so many questions then realized that he was signaling to enter the 405, which
had five lanes in each direction. Although she’d gotten her license, it was difficult to imagine
driving on the interstate with ten lanes, teeming with traffic. “Oh. You need to pay attention.
Sorry,” she said quietly, embarrassed by her keen interest.
Peter merged smoothly. “All good.”
“You ran away?”
“Yes. That’s how I ended up in Seoul. My mother had to come get me because I refused
to go to school and ran away to Waterloo Station, where the police found me, and that’s how I
ended up at Andover with DH.
“We met at Eagle Academy in Seoul. I remember,” Mido said. “I didn’t know you didn’t
like England.”
“I like England very much. It’s one of my favorite places in the whole world. I’m a
musician only because that little island has produced some of the greatest bands.”
“But you didn’t like school there.”
“No, when I think about it, I realize that I liked the school a lot. I just didn’t know how to

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 328
deal with some of the kids. I could’ve stuck it out but it was hard. I was alone. My mother
couldn’t visit often. She was working in Seoul. Also, I couldn’t worry her.”
Mido didn’t want to ask about his father but he’d read her thoughts.
“He lives in Hong Kong. I don’t know my father. I mean, I know him but we’re not in
touch. He’s not interested in me, and I’m not interested in him.”
Not knowing what to say, she blurted out,
“You’re a good driver. I don’t know how to drive on the highway.”
“Practice. Now we have to merge onto the 605 to get to Garden Grove,” he said.
“Highway driving is one thing but driving in California is another thing altogether. Next level.
You might start smoking if you have to drive as much as I do.” He laughed. “If you can’t smoke,
swearing helps.”
Mido had never heard Peter curse before. DH swore often but Bo never did.
“Is that why you offered to go to Ginny’s?” she asked, still thinking about how Peter
grew up.
“Garden Grove is on the way to Irvine,” he answered and turned on the tape player. They
listened to Talk Talk, and the car filled with a kind of happy, familiar sound.
Mido felt calm in Peter’s presence even when it was quiet in the car, then suddenly he
said, “I was worried that Ginny’s guardian might be a bad person.”
#
It took a few minutes for someone to come to the door, and Peter made a face like he didn’t like

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 329
that. When the person in the house asked who it was, Mido introduced herself as Ginny’s
hagwon teacher, and the door opened right away.
“Ginny is not feeling well,” the woman said in Korean. She was in her late sixties,
wearing a beige and black plaid sweater with dark slacks and house slippers. The woman didn’t
invite them inside.
“You must be Mrs. Chiu, Ginny’s guardian. I brought these packets for her. Ginny likes to
do them. Of all my students, she completes all her work the fastest and always asks for more.”
Mido smiled. “I feel certain she’ll get into Oxford Academy. She’s very bright. I hope you’ll tell
her parents how hard she works.”
The woman smiled then looked Peter over. He looked serious.
“I’m also a teacher at Exodus. Can we say hello to Ginny, please?”
“She’s not well. It’s late. I’ll tell her you stopped by.”
“Will she be able to return to class next week?” he asked.
“I don’t know,” the woman said. “Her mother is late on payments.”
“You’ve paid up through for this month,” Mido said.
“Yes, because I’m never late with payments. But I advance the fees for the students who
stay here. Ginny’s mother is late with me.”
“Is Ginny’s mother okay?” Peter asked.
“IMF. That’s the excuse every parent is giving now for being late.”
“It’s not the child’s fault,” Peter said. His voice was sterner than usual. “The won is worth

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 330
a fraction of what it used to be compared to the dollar.”
“I have to pay everyone in dollars, though. The groceries, utilities, taxes, hagwon, and the
mortgage.” The woman gestured with her hands toward the roof as if she needed to demonstrate
the concept of shelter to the two young people who seemed like idealists.
“You’re not sending Ginny to the hagwon because her mother is late with her payment to
you?” Peter couldn’t hide his irritation, his voice tremulous, and Mido placed her left hand on his
back to calm him.
“I’m sure you must be in a difficult situation,” Mido said. “Both my parents lost their
jobs because of the IMF Crisis.”
The woman nodded with a modicum of empathy. She resented Peter’s tone. She’d heard
of Miss Mido from Ginny, who loved going to hagwon.
“She’s actually not feeling well, and it’s late. You don’t have to believe me,” Mrs. Chiu
said to Peter. “Thank you for stopping by. I’ll give the packets to Ginny.” The guardian dipped
her head ever so slightly, more a nod than a bow, then shut the door.
#
“So how old are you again?” Peter asked.
“Twenty.”
They were walking back to his car, feeling defeated and only more suspicious.
“What do you remember about being 11?” he asked, not expecting a real answer. He was
still thinking of the little girl who was staying with the guardian.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 331
“I was living in Seoul then. We’d just returned from Sydney. The first day of school, my
math teacher Mr. Na hit me with a ruler. Yun saved me.”
“She fought the teacher?”
“No. She became my friend. I didn’t have any friends in Sydney.”
“Yun is great,” he said.
“I’d fall on a sword for her.”
“I wish Ginny had that kind of person,” he said, opening the passenger door for Mido.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 332

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 333
2:13 "Rescue"
#
13.
#
On the following Saturday, the bootcamps resumed. When Ginny walked into class and smiled at
her, Mido felt relief. The little girl looked fine. There had been other occasions when students
were ill or injured, and it wasn’t always clear what had happened. Sometimes you looked for
clues from the adults, but pick ups were rushed. The guardian waited in the car, and the child ran
out to meet them.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 334
Before the students arrived, Mido had already put out snacks, and the students took their
seats. Ginny sat at her usual spot at the front table near Mido’s desk and nibbled on a pretzel rod.
“Take a few minutes to settle in. Have your snacks, and we’ll go over the practice
exams.”
Mido tapped Ginny’s shoulder and took her outside to the hallway.
“How are you, Ginny? I’m so glad to see you.”
Ginny’s eyes filled with tears. No one here ever looked at her like that. She missed her
father who always took her side, and he was back home.
Mido told Ginny to wait for her and popped her head into Peter’s room next door, asking
him to keep an eye out for her class. “I need to talk with Ginny for a few minutes in the lounge,”
she said, and he nodded, he could see her class through the plexiglass.
The lounge was empty, and Mido gave Ginny some water.
“What’s the matter, Ginny?”
The girl continued to cry, and Mido passed her a tissue.
“My parents can’t pay Mrs. Chiu, and they don’t think I should come home because I’m
doing well here. They can’t afford the plane ticket, and my mother says that she will make more
calls but we don’t have family here—”
“What did your guardian say?”
“I can’t stay for free. She’s sorry but she can’t afford to do that. Each bed has to be used
for a paying student.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 335
“I see.”
“She’s paid for the hagwon through the month, so I’m allowed to finish out the next two
weeks, she said. But my parents owe her a lot of money.”
“What a grown up you have to be now,” Mido said, feeling awful. “These are big things
for even adults to think about. I admire you.”
Ginny reached for another tissue.
“Miss Mido, thank you for bringing the worksheets. I finished them. I have them in my
bag for you to check later,” Ginny said, trying to keep her breathing even.
“I know you did the work. You’re a wonderful young person, Ginny.”
“Where will I go, Miss Mido?”
“I’m sure your parents will let us know.”
“Will I have to go to foster care?”
“What? No, no.” Mido shook her head but she didn’t know actually what would happen
to the child. She wished she could speak with them. Who wouldn’t want to care for this little
person, who was trying so hard.
“I want to stay here. I want to go to Berkeley then become a doctor.”
Mido laughed in surprise. Her middle school students said things like this, but it never
felt normal to hear. How did she know about foster care or Berkeley?
“I promised my grandmother that I would become a heart doctor. She has a weak heart
that has irregular beats.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 336
Ginny’s pretty face was sun-browned and shaped like a tiny oval. Her hair was held back
by a thin black plastic headband. Mido patted the girl’s shoulder.
“If anyone here should become a heart doctor, I think you will.”
“Dad lost his job and everything. The house and the car. They had to move from Seoul
back to Busan where my grandmother lives. Mom said the school near Grandmother is not good
enough for me. My little brother is too young so it doesn’t matter for him. She wants him to
come here, too, because he was also born here, but he was so young that he had to go back with
them. But I’d wanted to stay, which was why my mother found Mrs. Chiu for me.”
“You were born here?”
“Yes.”
“Your Korean is so good.”
“We lived here then moved back, then my parents sent money to Mrs. Chiu when I
returned.”
“Mother said all their extra money had been spent on me.”
Mido shook her head, wondering why a parent would tell a little child this.
“No. That’s not what happened. Your father lost his job because of the economy. The IMF
Crisis is not your fault. Your parents sent you to school here because you’re a good student,
Ginny. There’s nothing wrong with that.”
“We owe Mrs. Chiu money, and she is always talking about it.”
“I see,” Mido said.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 337
Ginny repeated everything her mother had said which she could understand, not
mentioning that her mother had been sobbing, which had made the stories about the debt even
more confusing. Her eyes shining, Ginny stared at the refrigerator, trying to calm her breathing,
unable to face her teacher. She was eleven years old and perceptive enough to understand that
she was alone, and the adults didn’t know what to do with her.
“Miss Mido, where did you go to college?”
“I started at University of Sydney in Australia, but I couldn’t finish because I moved here
with my family.” Mido nodded.
“Are you going back to Australia?”
“It’s unclear.”
Ginny nodded and smiled, wanting to comfort her teacher.
“Let’s wipe your face and go back to class. Everything will work out. Okay?”
While the girl blew her nose, Mido understood that it would be years before she could go
back to Sydney, if at all, and she wished she could do something for the child in front of her.
#
At the end of the evening, after the kids left, Mido tidied up the classroom.
Peter knocked on the doorframe and entered.
“She came back?”
“Ginny?”
He sat down near the snack table and opened a new tub of pretzels.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 338
“I think I may have eaten a thousand pretzel rods since I started here. I never ate a single
one before. Not in England, Andover, or Yale. I had no idea how many of these I could eat. Have
you ever had one with the chocolate and caramel on them?”
Mido shook her head no.
“Ginny’s parents can’t pay the guardian fees. The guardian is going to kick her out
because she needs to rent out the room. I can’t believe an eleven year old has to deal with this
shit.”
“Are you cursing? There could be children here.” Peter glanced around dramatically.
Yun and Lion passed by the classroom.
“Hey, is this cocktail hour?” Lion asked. “What are people drinking?”
Peter smiled. “I didn’t find any beer in the faculty lounge fridge, but let me know if
there’s a secret stash anywhere. I will never tell the boss.”
#
At the pizzeria next door, Lion ordered pitchers of soda and beer for the table and a sausage pie.
The coke came out first, and Lion poured everyone a glass.
“You’re saying that Ginny doesn’t have a place to stay?” Yun raised both her hands in
shock. She looked at Lion expectantly.
“We can’t just take in a student into our house, Yun.” Lion said.
He took a sip of his coke.
Peter raised his glass and drank his soda.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 339
“I have an extra room in my place but I can’t take in a little girl who’s not my daughter.
That looks crazy. Right?” Peter glanced at the women.
“Peter, that would not work. I think you should call the parents. We have to do
something, though,” Yun said.
Lion puffed out his cheeks and exhaled.
“It’s not like a stray cat. She’s an eleven year old human. We can’t just take in children
who have no place to go.”
“Did you just hear what you said?” Yun asked.
“Yeah, that’s true. You can’t take in every child, I guess, but the guardian is scary, Lion,”
Peter argued. “I met her. I wouldn’t want to stay there, especially if the lady is calling my parents
debtors.”
“I can help out with taking care of her,” Mido said.
“Lion, we have to take her, or at least get her a ticket home, right?” Yun said, her head
tilted to the side, and Lion covered his eyes.
#
At communion, the ones who took the bread and wine proceeded down the middle aisle to
receive the sacrament from the ministers. Held only once a month at Gospel Presbyterian,
communion Sunday was a parade and a roll call of saints, some with bowed heads in private
contemplation, others in glorious peacock mode, heads tall, draped in their finest garments. Each
parishioner had a unique faith and a specific reasoning of God.
Many wore their best clothes, but there were just as many who abhorred fancy dress or

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 340
luxury clothing, viewing excessive consumption as a violation of modesty and charity. Being
Southern California, men rarely wore wear a full suit with necktie.
When Shin and his mistress marched to the head of the communion line, Helen didn’t
know what to think. Shin wore a navy suit and a silver striped necktie, and Danbi was in a white
skirt suit with nude colored heels.
Helen had never seen the woman before. Her husband had described her but Danbi’s
attractiveness still took her by surprise. John had not said that she was beautiful, but she was,
noticeably so.
When the service ended, Helen and John left the narthex as quickly as they could.
“We have to go home now,” Helen said, and John nodded.
Bo and Mido followed them, not understanding why their parents were in such a rush to
exit. Normally, they lingered to talk with friends and met up with Lion, Yun and her mother Nari
who sat with them.
“Aren’t we having lunch in the patio? I was going to see Yun.”
“We have to go home,” John said, looking at Bo.
They still only had one car, and as usual, Bo had driven.
“Okay, let’s go,” Bo said, shrugging.
As they walked to the parking lot, the family could hear Shin calling out to John.
Shin and Danbi walked briskly to follow the Koh family in the parking lot.
John and Helen continued to head to the car, and Bo and Mido kept pace with their

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 341
parents, not understanding what they should do. Before that horrible business with Danbi, of
course, they would have greeted Shin, who had been like an uncle to them, yet Bo and Mido
knew enough to say nothing.
They could hear the quickening click clack of Danbi’s heels behind them, and she caught
up with them first. Shin stood by her and smiled at John and Helen. The couple bowed to John
and Helen.
“We wanted to know if you could have lunch today,” Danbi said. “We could eat here or
go somewhere much nicer. I’d love to buy you lunch.” She turned to the children, “Of course,
you’re invited unless you have something else to do.”
Bo and Mido bowed their heads, no differently than they would have with any of their
parents’ peers. Danbi was not much older than they were, and Bo’s first thought was of Shin’s
wife Mary, who had always been so kind to them.”
John wouldn’t look at the Danbi. He turned to the car, and Bo who had the keys in his
pocket opened the passenger door.
Helen looked directly at Danbi,
“Please leave us alone.”
John got in the car, grateful that Helen was protecting him because Danbi was not a
person he could manage.
“We just took the sacraments,” Danbi said. “I wanted to say I’m sorry. I’d hoped you
would accept my apology,” she said to John but he would not look at her.
“I said I wanted to apologize,” Danbi said again, her tone business like and crisp.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 342
“What are you saying?” John faced the woman.
“It’s a small community here in Orange County, and this is the best church. I thought we
should clear the air. Let the past be the past. There’s no need to keep avoiding each other,” she
said, her attractive face calm and full of light.
“You ruined my husband’s career and hurt our family,” Helen said.
“Your husband tried to ruin me. What choice did I have?” Danbi replied. “I had to save
my career and my man.”
John appealed to Shin, “Please leave us alone. I don’t have any more good feelings left of
us. Let me at least have peace.” He put his head down. “You don’t mean any of this apology. We
cannot go back to what we were. It is broken.”
Bo walked his mother to the other side of the car and helped her in. Mido went to sit in
the front passenger side, and Bo opened the door to the driver’s seat.
Danbi held open the driver’s car door.
“You’re supposed to be Christians,” she said. “You’re supposed to forgive. I already
forgave you for what you did to me. I think you should grow up.”
“Bo, start driving,” John said, unable to look at them.
Shin took Danbi’s hand.
“Let them alone. You tried. Let’s go to the nursery,” Shin said.
As Bo started the car, everyone was quiet, trying to puzzle out the logic of the woman
who had changed their lives.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 343
At home, Helen went to the kitchen to make lunch. She put a pot of water on the stove to
boil. There was rice already in the cooker, so she took some cold ingredients and rolled up
gimbap. It was the fastest thing she could think of. Although she couldn’t imagine eating, she
needed to do something to feed them, so she made four rolls anyway. When the water was
heated, she added soybean paste, dried seaweed, and tofu to make soup. When lunch was ready,
she told Bo to get his father who was lying down.
Mido set the table and they sat together.
They bowed their heads in a quick, silent prayer.
“I’m being tested,” John said. “I don’t think I could go to that church anymore.”
Helen covered her mouth with her right hand like she was thinking of something to say.
“Why are they following me?” John asked. “Why can’t they stop?”
Mido had never seen her father like this, and she grew afraid.
“We could find another church,” Bo said.
“They’ll find us again,” Helen said. “We cannot run away.”
Mido touched her head, remembering.
“I was supposed to talk with Yun and Lion. I better call them.”
Helen looked up, concerned.
“Have you told Yun and Lion about that woman?” Helen asked her daughter.
“No, no. I have to talk with her about my student Ginny.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 344
“Who?” Bo asked.
“She’s one of my new students. She’s in my regular class and the bootcamp for the
specialized high school exam. Ginny wants to go to Oxford Academy.”
“Is she okay?” Helen asked.
“Her parents owe the homestay guardian money, but they want Ginny to stay here.” Mido
surveyed their small apartment, because they had no room for another person. “She’s only 11 and
definitely the brightest student.”
“What happens to her?” Bo asked, picking up his soup spoon.
“Not sure,” Mido replied, unable to say how much she wished they could take her in, and
for the first time in her life, she wished that she were a wealthy and powerful person. It had
seemed wrong to wish for this for her own family since they had each other and were able to
work. This period in their lives was a temporary set back. Eventually, things would work out for
them, but Ginny was eleven. “I wish—” she started to say and saw her father’s crestfallen
expression, because she knew he felt the same way.
“Everyone has troubles,” John said. “Even little children.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 345
2:14 "Debtors"
14.
#
In the church parking lot, Shin had witnessed his friend’s face turn sickly white. He could not
forget the surprised looks of Bo and Mido, whom he had known since birth.
Danbi invited Helen and John to lunch, and of course, they declined. Shin had tried to
dissuade her from this absurd plan. Yet no matter what Shin said about a man he had known for
almost three decades, Danbi was certain that John would be civil, that he might even be open to a
reconciliation. She had to try, she’d said.
In a way, Danbi was correct, because Helen and John had not made a scene. They did not

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 346
raise their voices; if anything, John became more passive, retreating into the privacy of his car.
Shin knew that look, that bloodless expression, belonging to a man who was fighting with all his
might to pull his punches, the strain of drawing down his own power.
Shin was afraid.
He should not have left his marriage and three sons.
It had begun with a flirtation with an intoxicating young woman, then a romantic affair.
He’d had those before, almost too many to count. His wife Mary had suffered them. She had not
maligned him to their sons, who did not know about Danbi until it wasn’t possible not to tell
them.
Shin felt that he had done almost everything he could to somehow separate himself from
this woman, but she would not let him go. He had used his best friend, hoping that wise John
could clean up this mess, which had once seemed somewhat manageable. The wish to be free
from Danbi was inevitable because like all affairs, eventually, fun transformed into the reality of
rights and responsibilities. Shin had sworn vows to his wife and made promises to his girlfriend,
and Danbi did not see the difference between the words spoken, agreements made and the
identity of the parties. Now, there was a baby with Danbi, an innocent.
Danbi’s wishes and fears could not easily be dismissed. For her, Shin had sacrificed his
wife, sons, and his closest friend.
After church, when Shin and Danbi returned to their house, the baby was asleep. The
housekeeper had put her down for a nap and was cooking in the kitchen. Danbi went to speak
with her.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 347
In the bedroom, Shin removed his necktie and hung up his suit, changing into khakis and
a white golf shirt. At 53, he had kept himself trim and attractive. He still had a thick head of hair,
which Danbi liked. Since he was a boy, he’d been vain, and now, his enduring good looks almost
embarrassed him. In high school, the popular girls used to call him the lodestone, and they, its
mere metal shavings. By mid-life, he had squandered his pull and felt like a cheap horseshoe
magnet stuck to a large factory anvil. He was now fixed to a mass with a hold that was far greater
than he could ever manage to be free from.
Shin sat down in the loveseat opposite the bed. From his mind, he could not dislodge
John’s forlorn expression—the shame, repulsion and despair.
Danbi had pored over the Gospel Presbyterian church members’ guide to find clients for
their insurance agency. While creating spreadsheets for potential client outreach, she had learned
that John and his family had become recent members. There were other mega churches in
Orange County, but Danbi wanted to settle at this one, because her American-born cousin Frank
Lim and his pretty Korean wife Bina, who owned a large insurance agency, were elders at
Gospel.
“You know John Koh and Helen Cho?” Bina had asked Danbi. “They arrived not too
long ago but they’re a well-regarded family. Helen’s sister Sonya Cho is an elder at that big
church in Gangnam; and the daughter-in-law of the Mun real estate family. I heard John and
Helen lost money during the IMF but everyone at church likes them. The wife has very good
taste and works at Mrs. Chung’s, the pickiest woman in Southern California.”
Danbi listened to her wealthy cousin’s wife go on about John and Helen, and nothing
Shin could say reassured her that they would not gossip about them. She needed to make things

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 348
right with John and Helen if she were to do well here.
It was possible to repair this relationship, Danbi told Shin. She was even willing to
apologize.
They could not wed because he was not yet divorced; however, Danbi had told everyone
they were. She wore a large emerald-cut diamond ring, which Bina had admired, and addressed
Shin as her husband. Danbi wanted to make sure that Helen and John never told anyone about
Mary or Shin’s three sons.
Danbi entered the room, and Shin looked up without saying a word.
“Are you upset with me?” she asked, closing the door behind her.
Danbi unbuttoned her jacket then stripped off her blouse, dropping it to the ground. She
pulled down the shade behind him and removed her brassiere and panties.
Shin closed his eyes.
“Why did you have to do that to them? I don’t understand you.”
“I’m not making trouble. I’m trying to fix things. For us. Our family.”
She climbed onto his lap and put her breast on his lips.
Shin pulled back. He picked her up in his arms and laid her on the bed.
“Get dressed.”
Danbi turned over.
“You can punish me,” she said, glancing at him like she was frightened. “Maybe that’s
what I need. Punishment.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 349
Shin returned to the loveseat and sat down, his hands cradling his heavy head. This was
what they did.
She shaped the world’s needs and values through the machinery of her reasoning, and
when he disagreed, she offered her body in ways that were shocking, even to him.
For her, there were no taboos. In the beginning, he could not comprehend her seeming
innocence then gradually, he realized that he had experienced a series of potent illusions.
She was not a virgin as she had implied then later neither affirmed nor denied. There was
little she hadn’t done, and there was nothing that she wouldn’t do.
A man who needed to have sex often and with greater stimulation, Shin found her
exhilarating, as if he’d discovered some sort of fountain of youth in her body, then later, sex
with her became a compulsion.
Numerous times, he’d gone to room salons and slept with other girls, to check if he could
forget her and replace her with some nameless body, but he found that he couldn’t. No one was
like her. Before Danbi, he would have said a lay is a lay. Pussy was fungible.
It was not. Even this request for punishment. He was furious yet he felt aroused. His dick
refused to listen to his brain’s command: Cast her out.
Danbi sat up and rose from the bed to approach him. Getting on her knees, she removed
his pants, then turned around to slap her own bottom hard then bent over. She slapped herself
again and again until she reddened. Shin took her hands in his to make her stop. He obeyed.
When it was over, Danbi showered then returned wearing a white gauze sundress,
unrecognizable from the woman who’d been hitting herself less than an hour before.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 350
Shin was still seated in the chair, half-dressed neither understanding nor accepting how
he had done this again. What he felt was hatred for his own weakness, and the hatred seeped
further and further into himself. For a long time, he thought it was a kind of self-loathing for his
lack of discipline, but now, this shame felt as fierce as violence. He wanted to hurt her, but he
was afraid, too.
“I’m going to check on the baby. She’ll be ready for her bottle,” she said, approaching
him.
Like a gentle mother, Danbi gathered his head in her hands and smoothed his hair. She
turned and went to the door. For moment, she stood still.
“We have to stay at Gospel Pres, and your friend is not leaving either. This church is
important for our business, and our little family will be respected here.
“I forgave you and that man for trying to get me fired. Your friend is supposed to forgive
me if he believes that he was forgiven by God. Isn’t that how this religion works?”
There was nothing Shin could say.
#
All weekend, Lion and Yun discussed the child. Everything would change, Lion argued, but Yun
didn’t think so. She thought it would make sense since there was more than enough room in their
new house. They had no plans of having children anytime soon, and Ginny had nowhere to go.
At nine o’clock, they phoned Ginny’s parents in Busan.
“Your daughter is a wonderful student, and we’re happy she attends our hagwon,” Yun
said.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 351
Ginny’s mother started to cry.
“I didn’t mean to upset you.”
“We owe you money, and as soon as we find work, I promise to send it. I promise you. I
promise.”
Yun opened her mouth to speak but Ginny’s mother continued.
“It’s just that if she heads back here, we don’t know how she can return. The school in
my mother-in-law’s neighborhood is not good. Ginny has always been such a bright child, and
that new school Oxford Academy is supposed to be great—”
“There’s been a misunderstanding. My husband and I are not calling about money. In
fact, we think Ginny is an exceptional child. The guardian needs to rent her room, so we could let
her stay. At our house. We don’t have any children, and we have a bedroom for her.”
The mother grew quiet. She didn’t understand why these hagwon owners would do this
for a stranger.
“There wouldn’t be a fee. She can stay as long as she needs until you want her to come
home. We want to support good students,” Yun said.
“I’ve been praying for a miracle,” the mother burst into tears again and sobbed.
Lion frowned. Although he was so religious that as a little boy he had wanted to be a
pastor, Lion disliked references to miracles, angels, and “the Lord’s will” even more than the
flintiest of atheists.
“Ginny is a delight. Her teacher—”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 352
“Miss Mido,” the mother said. “My daughter mentions her all the time. Was this Miss
Mido’s idea?”
Lion shrugged then nodded.
“Yes, it was Miss Mido’s idea. She would certainly take Ginny into her house but she
doesn’t have the room.”
The mother said nothing at first unable to believe and afraid to ask questions.
“My husband and I would be grateful if you could take Ginny in until things are a bit
better for us here. We would be in your debt, of course. Every cent would be repaid.”
“Ginny has been studying to go to Oxford Academy, which as you know is an excellent
new public school that starts in the 7th grade, and we think she could do well on that test,” Yun
said. “It doesn’t cost anything to go there, but she has to take a test, and there is an application
process, which we know how to handle.”
The mother twisted the phone cord, not knowing how to tell the hagwon owner that she
owed the guardian, Mrs. Chiu, at least six thousand dollars, the room and board for the past year.
“If she’s accepted, then we have to find a way for her to be able to go. We have no friends
or relatives in Orange County.”
“Why don’t we face that situation when we get to it? Do we have your permission to
bring Ginny here? That’s the only reason why we called,” Yun said, sounding more mature than
her years.
The mother promised to call the guardian and thanked her again.
#

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 353
The homestay guardian told Lion that she felt swindled. Mrs. Chiu stood in the entrance in her
brown house slippers and didn’t ask him in. Lion remained at the door.
“The parents owe me last year’s fees and with every call the mother promised to pay it.
They’ve already gone through the deposit. Thank God I made them pay that before I took the
child in.” Suddenly the woman stared at Lion like he was an idiot. “Why would you take this
problem on?”
Lion glanced at the living room behind the woman to make sure there were no children
around. He couldn’t imagine having to hear this sort of talk all the time.
“You’ve heard from Ginny’s mother then? She’s given us permission?”
“Yes, she must have called right after speaking with your wife,” she said. “Ginny is at
school now.”
“Good, good. This is the only time I had to pick up her things, and she’ll be coming to
Exodus this afternoon anyway. My wife and I will take her home tonight from the hagwon.”
“Why do you want to take her?”
“My wife thinks—.” Lion stopped himself from saying that Yun thought it was the only
correct answer, not wanting Mrs. Chiu to feel judged. “We understand that you need to house
another boarder.”
“I’m not a bad person,” Mrs. Chiu said. “I’m retired, and this is the only source of
income for me. My husband died of leukemia, and my daughter is in graduate school in Boston. I
paid for everything for Ginny believing that her parents would pay me back. I don’t charge a
high fee to care for these children. That’s why I have all these problems. If I only took in the

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 354
really rich kids, then this sort of haggling, owing, and delays wouldn’t happen. I’m dealing with
middle-class children of parents who have company jobs, who have no business sending their
kids to the United States. I felt sorry for them, and I didn’t charge enough to have any cushion
for me.”
The woman was frustrated, hoping he wouldn’t think poorly of her.
“Six thousand dollars is an enormous sum of money for me. I turned down several
students so Ginny could keep that room. I’ve given her everything that I’d promised her parents.
What would you do if your hagwon students didn’t pay you?”
Lion exhaled and smiled at her, having had his share of bounced checks and
nonpayments, but somehow it had all worked out. The hagwon fees for Exodus were not high for
Orange County. Nearly all the parents paid their bills, and the Koreans here hadn’t lost their jobs
from the IMF crisis. Moreover, the working parents couldn’t afford to lose their child’s spot
because there was no other good place for the kids to go at these lower rates.
“You can take her things. I’ve already packed them. The child is nice. Ginny studies and
behaves herself. I can’t believe how terrible that mother is. She lied and lied. I’m not a rich
woman. Look!” The guardian pointed to the modest townhouse with its old brown furniture and
threadbare carpets. Nevertheless, the house was well-maintained, tidy and free of any visible
dust.
Lion removed his sneakers and went upstairs where there were three bedrooms and two
shared bathrooms. Both spare bedrooms were being used by three boarding students—the master
bedroom was used by two brothers who attended Fullerton and the smallest room was Ginny’s.
Making to trip, he carried down a large vinyl suitcase and an egg crate full of books.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 355
“Is this all?” Lion asked.
“There’s a CD player on the desk. That’s hers. Last night, the child tried to give it to me
for the debts, but I cannot accept it. What use do I have for a CD player?”
Lion nodded.
“I made her three meals a day and packed her snacks. When she got good grades, I would
get her pizza. I noticed that she needed underwear and socks, and I bought them for her.”
The guardian felt cheated, not just because of the debts, but because she had been a
decent person, a good Christian woman. She had never overcharged any of her boarders. There
had always been food in the cupboard, and she had protected her female boarders vigilantly like
they were her own daughters. “Just because I accept money to care for children doesn’t make me
greedy,” she said, wanting to defend her character. “I come from a good family, and I would
never dishonor my family’s name—”
“Mrs. Chiu, you have been more than generous with Ginny. Her good report card and fine
personality must have a lot to do with your excellent care and guardianship. Thank you for caring
for her.”
Lion withdrew his wallet where he kept two extra blank checks. He took out a pen and
wrote out the guardian’s name and the full sum.
Mrs. Chiu didn’t understand.
“You were owed this money,” he said.
“You don’t even know these people.”
“Well, I know you now,” he said, smiling at her and folded the check into the guardian’s

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 356
warm hands.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 357

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 358
Book III
October 1999 - January 2001

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 359
3:1 October 1999 "Maslow"
1. October 1999
#
Bo wanted to be cautious.
In the spring, he enrolled at Fullerton College and took two classes, while still working at
Exodus sixty hours a week.
When he received A’s in Calculus II and Discrete Mathematics, he made an appointment
with Mr. Gonzalez, a soft-spoken counselor of the Transfer Alliance Program, who kids called
the TAP Guy.
Only a month into his first fall semester, Bo showed Mr. Gonzalez a draft of his course

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 360
selections for the next year and a half.
“You did all this yourself?” Mr. Gonzalez asked, impressed.
“My friend Lion helped me think it through,” Bo said. “I created the spreadsheet and
listed the classes.”
“So, how’s this semester going?”
“Good.”
“Favorite class?”
“Psychology 101,” Bo said, adding, “Honors Focus.”
“Ah, you have Dr. Wilson. She’s the greatest. Once you have her for Honors Focus, you
might get converted.”
Bo looked confused.
“She might make you want to be a Psych major. She’s that good.”
“Do you become a psychologist then?” Bo asked.
“You can do lots of things with a Psych degree, but you’d have to get an advanced degree
to become a clinical psychologist. You can ask Dr. Wilson all about that. We’re getting ahead of
ourselves.
“For now, if you stay on the honors track, there’s a lot of upside: smaller class sizes,
meeting serious students like yourself, and most of your credits can transfer over to a school like
UCLA,” Mr. Gonzalez said, snapping his fingers. Self conscious about getting too excited about
his work, the TAP Guy lifted his wireframe eyeglasses, which had slid down a bit from the

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 361
bridge of his button nose.
“That’s where you said you want to aim, right? UCLA? My alma mater.”
Bo nodded. Lion had already explained that he could get his Associate Degree in two
years but he could transfer to a four year institution like UCLA to get his B.A.
“I need to stay in Southern California,” Bo said. “Do you think I could get in? To
UCLA?”
“Yeah, definitely. But, man, you need to work a little less. Not your school work, but your
paid work. Sixty hours is a lot. Even if it isn’t mentally taxing for a brainy dude like you, it’s still
a lot of time. Man, you still need to sleep and eat. Can you afford to work less hours?” The
counselor tried to read Bo’s expression. Most students at Fullerton had to work. “You got a kid or
something?”
“Me?” Bo looked startled then laughed. “Oh, no. I don’t have any kids. I help my family.
We just moved apartments, and the rent’s gone up.”
“Right. I get you. Same,” the counselor said, nodding. “Life. Family. It’s expensive.”
Gonzalez shook his head, feeling sorry for Bo. He, too, had worked since high school to help
Moms and his younger brothers.
#
Bo did his problem sets in the van while waiting for the kids. At Exodus, before teaching SAT
bootcamps or tutoring, he’d finish his homework in the lounge, and if that was crowded, Lion let
him use his office. At home, when everyone went to sleep, Bo did his reading at the kitchen
table. During the summer, the family bought a television and a VCR from Costco but after

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 362
dinner, no one watched anything, and the house was kept quiet so Bo could do his schoolwork. It
was all work, school, and on Sundays, church, but he felt like the family was making progress.
Just last month, when the Choe family moved out of their building to try their luck in
Atlanta, the Kohs moved into the vacated three-bedroom apartment on a lower floor, which had
an extra bath and an additional bedroom with a window for Bo and DH. The unit cost an extra
four hundred dollars, but with four people working in the house, the rent was manageable, and
now they would have a houseguest. Sonya was arriving, and she’d stay in Mido’s room. Bo
would pick her up at the airport after Psych 101.
#
This fall, there were twenty-six students enrolled in Intro Psychology 101 (Honors Focus) taught
by Dr. Rhoda Wilson, the forty-eight year old mother of two, who had earned her Ph.D. in
Psychology at UCLA in her late thirties, after putting her husband through law school. The
professor was highly regarded for her pioneering scholarship on anxiety and immigrants from the
West Indies.
The daughter of immigrants from Jamaica and St. Kitts, she had grown up in Altadena
and started at Cal State Long Beach, then transferred to UCLA. It had been her idea for Bo to
meet with Mr. Gonzalez.
On campus, Professor Wilson was also known for her unbelievable recall. She could
learn the class roster on the first day and somehow remember your name years later. Pretty,
friendly, and able to pass for mid-thirties, older male students would flirt with her during office
hours; however, when a student lingered in her office too long and tried to make a move, she’d
tilt her head and say with a smile,

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 363
“C’mon now, really? That’s how you want to get an A? No, thank you, dear.”
Attendance was part of the grade, but even if it wasn’t, Bo couldn’t imagine missing
Professor Wilson’s class. Before, Fullerton College, he had known almost nothing about
Psychology and had never expected to like the subject this much.
“Definitely take Intro Psych. It’ll help you understand Americans, who are not like
Koreans,” Lion had advised him, and whenever Bo did the reading from the used Myers 6th
Edition, which had cost almost forty dollars, he found that he enjoyed it even more than his 18th
century British literature class, which he loved, and certainly far more than Multi Variable
Calculus, which he could handle fine since he’d done so much math in Seoul.
The more he liked Fullerton and working at Exodus, he thought about his years spent
studying for the suneung. Having failed three times to hit the target scores for Yonsei, Bo had felt
stupid and ashamed, and looking back, he couldn’t understand why it had been so important to
him but it had.
His aunt Sonya had argued that if it was true that he wanted to remain in Korea and be
more Korean, then he could have applied to a good school requiring lower suneung scores, but
he hadn’t.
Bo had bet everything on one school, for which, there was an entrance exam given only
once a year. Now that he was outside the country and earned a living teaching college entrance
exams given several times a year, he wondered why the suneung for schools like Yonsei, SNU,
and Korea University, was offered only once each November, when the nation almost held its
breath for the suneung’s duration.
Almost never did Bo talk about his years studying for Yonsei but the more he felt hopeful

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 364
about his life in America, he could not forget his once stubborn quest. More than anything, he
hoped that he’d never make such a mistake again with his time, his choices, and life.
After his first failure, he had redoubled his efforts, though it hadn’t helped. For his third
try, he’d allowed Isul’s emergency to overtake his own need to rest before taking an all-day exam
given just once a year. When she passed out, and he saw the cold medicine packet, his mind
immediately went to the possibility of Isul taking her own life, and he had to help her.
Given the same set of facts, Bo would have certainly taken Isul to the hospital again. Yet,
perhaps he should’ve asked someone else to stay with her, but he hadn’t known how to do so. In
his mind, no one would have helped him, and he was all alone, and he had to help another person
who was also all alone.
Once, he had tabulated the cost his family had borne for his three tries, and the number
humbled him. Of course, Bo wanted to make it up to them.
Psychology appealed to him. In Seoul, he’d selected Sociology, because his high school
counselor said if he wanted to get into Yonsei, a Sociology concentration would be easier for
admission than say, law or medicine. As for Psychology, he had once believed that it was the
study of people who were not well mentally, and the idea of it had scared him.
In class, no one seemed unwell. Professor Wilson seemed like the most joyous person
he’d ever met, and her class was fun. The class was full of interesting people who asked original
questions he’d never considered. Students didn’t talk as much in his other classes, but here, his
fellow classmates, surprised him at each meeting.
Every time he did the reading, he thought of more people he’d encountered in his life. He
wanted to know more about his own life and started to remember more about how he had grown

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 365
up in New Jersey, Sydney, Seoul, and now in Southern California.
In addition to Chapter 7 of Myers, the reading for today’s class was Abraham Maslow’s
“A Theory of Human Motivation,” a research paper from the 1940s, which was supposed to be
really important. Professor Wilson put up a poster of a five layered pyramid symbolizing the
different levels of human motivation.
“Maslow himself never depicted his theory using the pyramid image. Others did that.
However, I think the image is helpful,” the professor said and looked across the room, not
expecting anyone to agree or disagree on that point. She had a tendency to offer a thought, let the
statement linger in the air, then move on.
The students shuffled in their seats, took notes on looseleaf paper or cheap notebooks, not
much different than the paper they’d used in middle school or high school. Bo copied the
diagram, certain that the material would appear on the midterm.
“Initially, Maslow argued that human beings had five stages of needs: at the base level
are physiological needs — air, water, food, shelter; then above that is the need for feelings of
safety — the wish to be free from violence but also insecurity. For example, even the need for
insurance because that feels like protection from harm to one’s body or property. Above
physiological and safety needs, is our need for love and belonging. Human beings are social
creatures, and we crave love and community.
“Above physiological, safety, and love needs, we have our need for esteem — both self
esteem and esteem from others. For example, if you are a football player and achieve a
touchdown, you may feel good about yourself, and the crowds may respect your achievement.
The touchdown can do both things.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 366
“Finally, the top of the pyramid is self-actualization, when a human being fulfills his
potential. Maslow later revised the five and added more over the years, but today, we’ll focus on
the original paper.”
The class wrote down the five.
“The four bottom levels of the pyramid, physiological, safety, love, and esteem are called
‘Deficiency Needs,’ because when we feel deprived of them, we need them even more. Say, if
you are freezing cold, your need for warmth only increases. You are motivated to find a sweater,
a bowl of soup, or better heaters.”
The class nodded and wrote down Dr. Wilson’s examples.
“The fifth stage of self-actualization is called a ‘Being Need,’ because it’s a need to be a
fully developed person. After one’s basic needs are being met, and of course, there are
fluctuations and a wish to maintain these levels, a person will wish to seek her fullest expression
of who she is.”
“In the paper, how does Maslow define ‘self-actualization’?’ ” she asked.
A woman in the front row raised her hand and read from the Maslow’s paper:
“Even if all these needs are satisfied, we may still often (if not always) expect that a new
discontent and restlessness will soon develop, unless the individual is doing what he is fitted for.
A musician must make music, an artist must paint, a poet must write, if he is to be ultimately
happy. What a man can be, he must be. This need we may call self-actualization.”
“Thank you, Priscilla,” Professor Wilson said then continued.
“Now, what’s interesting is that if your needs for self-fulfillment and growth are being

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 367
met, you may have motivation to keep growing. As you grow toward your full self, you’ll keep
expanding your human capacity.
“Maslow argued that a human being could wish to seek her maximum potential.
However, it would be difficult to seek self-actualization if your basic needs such as housing,
warmth, food, love, and esteem are not met. Although there are counter examples, of course. One
can be a prisoner who writes beautiful music, so he has little public esteem but he is still growing
in his human potential, so it is important not to think of it only as a sequence. There are many
people who may never seek to become self-actualized.”
Hands shot up in the air, and the boldest students who usually spoke up asked questions,
and Professor Wilson fielded them with evident consideration.
Bo took notes and thought of his family, and how they had gone backwards to meeting
their most basic needs but their motivation to rise had not yet flagged.
When Bo didn’t get into Yonsei on his first try, he broke up with his girlfriend Ara, who
had been accepted to SKKU, her first choice school. She’d insisted on being with him, but he
broke it off, saying that she’d be better off without him. He hadn’t wanted her pity.
Now, it occurred to him that under Maslow’s theories, he may have valued self-esteem
even more than love. He had lacked self-esteem, and feeling ashamed, he didn’t think he
deserved a girl like her. Ara had been kind, smart, and alluring. By now, she’d be finishing up
SKKU, and he’d just only started school again. He reminded himself to care less about esteem.
Remembering her didn’t make him feel worse, and he didn’t want to go out with her
again; however, he liked knowing that he could try to figure things out like Maslow’s Hierarchy.
If anything, he wished he could ask Professor Wilson about Ara and his three tries, but he

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 368
couldn’t imagine having so much nerve.
After each class, he felt a bit of darkness lifting away from him, even though he hadn’t
realized it had been there, and he felt lighter inside.
As he walked out of the class, Professor Wilson called out to him and Bo turned around.
“Bo, you haven’t been to office hours. Why is that?” she asked.
“I’m sorry. Is that a requirement? I thought it was for extra help.”
“It’s not required, but almost everyone in this class has come by, and you should, too. Mr.
Gonzalez called me.”
Bo didn’t know what to say.
“You’re not in trouble. He just said that you had questions about Psychology and
studying it possibly at UCLA, so you should come by sometime. When you want,” she said
before picking up her heavy tote bag, and they walked out of the classroom toward the quad.
“Can you want esteem more than love?” Bo surprised himself by asking Professor
Wilson. It felt safer to ask in private.
“Of course. Maslow argued that it wasn’t a matter of consecutive stages, and it wasn’t a
kind of rule that one must have achieved or acquired love before getting esteem.”
“Is that a life worth having?” Bo asked. “A life with esteem but no love?”
Professor Wilson smiled.
“Well, personally, I don’t think so, but I suppose one can protest and reason that he
doesn’t need love perhaps at that time in his life? I doubt it though, don’t you?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 369
Bo nodded, still thinking of Ara.
“I’d rather have love than esteem, but I can’t imagine not seeking self-actualization,” she
said. “There are so many kinds of love, too. I value the love of my family of origin, friends, as
well as my husband and children. Human beings need love, I think.”
Priscilla, the girl from class, caught up with them in the quad.
“Professor Wilson, I have so many questions.”
Wilson smiled. “Yes, Priscilla. Do you know Bo?”
“Hey,” she said to Bo with a passing glance then turned to the professor, her enormous
silver hoops almost touching her shoulders.
“Maybe I’m meant to be an actor, which I think is self-actualization,” the pretty freshman
said, “But how about if I never get a role and die?”
Wilson looked perplexed.
“Why so grim? Were the other needs met? Why acting? Not enough details here. But
regardless of the outcome — I think in your case, you think it’s getting a role— what we need to
value is your pursuit of growth as an actor and more importantly, as a human. It’s the outcome
orientation that I question.”
Bo stood with Professor Wilson and Priscilla, who were still discussing her follow up
questions, and he looked at the enormous tent in the quad. Asbestos was being removed from the
library, and the school had set up a massive tent for the temporary library.
The Fullerton campus was nothing like Yonsei with its grand paths and old buildings.
Was that his wish for esteem again that made him compare the two campuses? Weren’t the

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 370
schools entirely different in its history and purpose? More than anything, Yonsei didn’t want him,
and here, his professor had even asked him to come by because she was interested in him. Wasn’t
it good for a school to be getting rid of asbestos? Perhaps a better library would be built later.
On his first day, someone had told him that the film director James Cameron had gone to
Fullerton College, and he had made the “Titanic,” a film that Bo had watched twice — once with
DH and another time with his parents. Again, he realized, what did it matter if James Cameron
had walked along the same quad, or if he never had. It didn’t matter, or it shouldn’t have.
What mattered was that Bo was here now, and he wanted to learn more in his classes
rather than just preparing to get into UCLA, the next step in his education. He had learned all this
from reading a twenty six page paper a person had written over fifty years ago, and Bo smiled.
“I think Maslow would argue that the pursuit of being an actor has great value in self-
actualization. The process matters, I think,” Bo said to Priscilla, and Professor Wilson agreed.
Bo checked his watch and excused himself to get to the airport.
#
The new apartment was larger than their first, but it still felt crowded. They were saving to buy a
two-family townhouse, but it seemed almost impossible to gather a down payment. Bo made
about forty thousand dollars from his driving and tutoring. Fullerton tuition was less than a
thousand dollars for the year because he was in-state. Sometimes books could cost more than his
credits, because Bo preferred to buy them, and Lion said he must. Reading and writing on the
text itself, Lion said, was superior to reading the library books alone.
Since Bo was sponsoring his parents’ residency, he had to show a sufficient income, but

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 371
lately, Mido had been earning more since she had more time than he did. He couldn’t qualify for
a mortgage yet.
The plan was for him to graduate, get a higher-paying job, then they could get a mortgage
in his name. For a while, things were going well with savings, but during the summer, Helen had
a persistent stomach virus, and she’d missed two weeks of work and the medical bills had to be
paid in cash, wiping out a portion of their savings.
Sonya didn’t know any of this when she arrived at her sister’s house.
Bo put her bag in Mido’s room and got her a glass of cold barley tea. He showed her the
clean towels his mother had left on the bed for her.
“If you’d like to wash up, the bathroom is over there,” Bo said. He remembered the size
of his aunt’s palatial home in Apgujeong, and he wondered if she could be comfortable here.
“Where will Mido sleep?” she asked.
“She’s sleeping in the living room. I used to sleep in the living room in our old place, but
I have a lot of school work, and she offered hers. We always knew Mido was the nice one.” Bo
smiled. “Is the room okay?”
“It’s very nice,” Sonya said, removing her jacket and laying it on the sofa.
Right away, she went to the kitchen. Rice was kept in the cupboard below the sink, and
the refrigerator was filled with tofu and vegetables. Helen kept a clean and well-stocked kitchen.
“I’m going to fix dinner,” Sonya said. From her purse, she pulled out two twenty dollar
bills and handed them to Bo.
“Can you go to the store and get two whole chickens? Is that enough money?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 372
Bo wasn’t sure what he was supposed to do.
“I have money,” he said.
She frowned at him, no different than when he was a little boy. There was no need for her
to remind him that she was his elder even though they both knew she was a guest, and it did not
seem right that a guest should pay for groceries and cook dinner, especially on her first night
visiting. Bo worried what his mother would say.
“Aunt, I think umma is going to make dinner, or she’ll bring something home.”
“Be a good nephew and go to the store now. Your mother will be tired when she gets
home. I’ve been sitting on a plane for a long time. Business class. It will be good for me to be
useful. My sister has to rest and eat.”
Bo went to the store.
Sonya put on the red apron hanging on a nail near the kitchen door and rolled up her
sleeves. After soaking the rice, she began preparing the spinach.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 373

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 374
3:2 October 1999 "Plans"
2. October 1999
#
With varying work and sleep schedules among five people, there was usually someone in the
apartment. On Sunday afternoon, the Cho sisters finally got a few hours alone.
The women were seated in the living room. Perched on the corner of the new L-shaped
sectional, recently bought for Sonya’s visit, the older sister nursed a cup of Earl Grey, while the
younger one sat cross-legged on the floor, hemming a new pair of khakis for her son.
Uncomfortable, Helen set aside her sewing work to stretch out her legs and touch her

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 375
toes.
Sonya remarked, “You’re still so flexible.”
Helen smiled. Sitting up, she winced and rubbed her stomach.
“You didn’t eat much. Are you hungry?” Sonya asked.
“No. I can’t digest well at night. I had too much coffee this afternoon. I have to cut down.
We drink Taster’s in the morning, and I switched to Sanka for my second cup but a nurse I know
from church said all coffee has too much acid. Even decaf.” Helen took up her sewing again.
Sonya raised her arms and stretched her back.
“Drink barley tea,” Sonya said.
“Is Mido’s room okay?” Helen asked, threading the needle with more thread. “You never
complain.” She cut the gray thread from the spool with her teeth then made a neat knot.
“Use scissors,” Sonya said.
“Ah, yes. You don’t complain about yourself but you do nag those you love. Gosh, I
missed you.”
“You could lose your nice teeth,” Sonya said. “You wouldn’t be as pretty without teeth.”
Helen smiled like a little child, exposing her straight teeth, feeling content to be with her
big sister.
“Remember that room in Haebangchon after that time Father disappeared?” Sonya said.
Helen nodded, almost shivering at the recollection. A distant older cousin had rented a
place for them in a shantytown at the bottom of Namsan.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 376
“That room was not even a room, was it? I don’t even know how we slept there. That
horrible woman— the owner of that shack, was so mean to Mother.”
Sonya’s chin dipped, breaking up her lovely profile and straight posture. Abruptly, she
looked up and exhaled at the memory of the landlord who’d push around their mother and call
them peasants. After the cousin paid the first month, he refused to help anymore. They were late
with the rent until their mother got the cleaning job at the bathhouse.
“She smelled like mothballs.”
“Right!” Sonya slapped her own thigh with recognition.“She wore that awful yellow
sweater with the brown elbow patches. Ugh, I hated that room. And that man who rented the
room next to ours. He was always trying to touch us.”
Helen nodded, having forgotten. There had been a handsy neighbor, who’d leave the
outhouse door ajar, and if she or Sonya opened it by accident, he’d try to pull them in. Once,
when he attempted this with Mother, she picked up a pebble and threw it at his head.
“If it wasn’t for school and church, I think I would have died when we lived there,” Helen
said. There had been so many neighborhoods like that growing up, and it was a wonder that the
three of them had survived at all.
Sonya nodded. After school and on weekends, the three of them would go anywhere else
because there was nothing and no one for them at home, and they learned quickly that if they
were studying or doing odd jobs, strangers didn’t bother them. They studied in the back pews of
two different churches, any empty classrooms or auditorium, and they’d take their baby brother
Kenny to the park along the river when the weather was warm enough and teach him whatever
they were learning, and of course, whenever they could, they’d find part-time jobs. Helen and

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 377
Kenny would give their earnings to Sonya, who’d hide the money from their parents who would
certainly squander it on cards or soju.
After Sonya was accepted to Ewha, she helped Helen get in, and a priest from St. Francis
found a way to help Kenny go to Sydney, who swore never to let the soles of his feet touch
Korean ground again.
“Mother shouldn’t have drank so much,” Sonya said.
“Father, too.” Helen said. She looked up at her sister, whose gaze was fixed on the empty
space below the television stand on wheels.
“I miss them sometimes, though,” Helen said. “They died so young, and you know they
weren’t all bad. Even that landlady could be nice. When she had extra cakes, she’d give us some.
Right?”
Sonya nodded. The nuns and priests had taught them never to forget a kindness,
especially from an unkind person.
“I was thinking of buying a business here,” Sonya said.
“What?” Helen stuck her needle into the unfinished hem, and looked at her sister. “Why?
Why would you do that?”
“I think it might be a good idea for me to have something here.”
“You don’t have to work,” Helen said. “I don’t understand. Did the IMF hurt your
husband’s business? I thought the Chairman owned his buildings and land outright.”
“They’re fine. It’s just that I have some dollars, and I thought I’d buy a business. Do
something useful and one day, maybe I can earn a living. The lawyer said that I can get a visa if I

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 378
invest in a business and create jobs. I was thinking of something not too difficult. I mean, I can
still work hard, but something manageable with regular hours. I think a business like Mrs.
Chung’s requires too much costly inventory. No restaurants. Too much work. Shrimp Castle has
good hours but it’s very hard work.” Sonya couldn’t imagine the smell of oil on her clothes. In
the apartment, even though Helen did the wash four or five times a week, it was impossible to
escape the smell of frying oil from John’s uniforms.
“I heard that car washes can make a lot of money. Or coin-operated laundry machines.
Again, that’s still a lot of people to manage. Maybe your kids can help me run it,” Sonya said.
“Bo might—”
“Are you getting a divorce?” Helen stared at her sister’s calm expression. “Your sons live
in Korea. I know they’re grown men, but I never knew you wanted to live in Los Angeles. I don’t
understand.”
“My sons are fine. Seungman’s working at the company, and as soon as Jiman graduates,
he’ll join him. They love their father. I still need to care for the Chairman—”
“—Why would you?”
“—He’s getting messy.”
“The Chairman?”
“No. My husband. He’s always fooled around with hostesses, and he used to be more
discreet. Respectful, I thought. I know he didn’t want to marry me.” Sonya shrugged. “I don’t
care anymore. Being here. With you. I feel like there’s so much to do. You need my help still.”
Helen smiled. It was true. She needed her older sister, and it was hard to live like this.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 379
Every day, she would think how Sonya would have approached a person or a problem.
“But your sons? How about them?”
“If I leave my husband without divorcing, I think it might be okay. A few of my friends
live abroad while their husbands live in Korea.”
“But they’re abroad with their children. For schooling, right?”
“Yes, I suppose.”
“Your sons have always wanted to work with their father.”
“Yes.” Sonya shrugged. “They’re genuinely interested in the business. They adore their
father and the Chairman,” she said, sounding a little sad.
“If my sons took my side, they’ll lose their positions, I think. If they came here, they’d be
disinherited. They have no interest in living in America anyway.”
Helen turned and blinked. Her sister had raised two ideal heirs, trained to take over the
Chairman’s business, but it had cost her something greater than she could name.
“They’re better off without me. I think they’ll understand when they get older. It’s just—”
Sonya couldn’t say the words in front of Helen, when it appeared as if she had everything. It
seemed wrong to talk about humiliation and pride in front of her sister who was working so hard
to start again in a new country when she was fifty. What nagged at her inside was this feeling of
what it was all for. Though of course, she had done good things. She had raised her siblings,
cared for her husband, sons, the Chairman, and even his late wife. Sonya had served the poor at
her church and taken care of the women of her fellowship group for over two decades. She knew
she hadn’t wasted any of her time; however, these recent visits from the hostesses. Had there

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 380
been four or five now? She couldn’t remember how many exactly.
In Seoul, Sonya had drafted an escape plan: Go to Los Angeles to check how her sister
was doing. Helen’s 50th birthday had been a good excuse. She had spoken to a lawyer, who had
told her how to get an investment visa. She thought that her husband might help her with the
money. It was hard to tell if the Chairman would understand. He would feel betrayed.
In this small brick building, Sonya had felt hopeful and well for the first time in years. No
one knew who she was here. She felt younger and more alive. Even at 53.
“So you don’t want to go back?”
“No.” As soon as Sonya said this, she realized that she had needed to say it because it was
true. She could not go back to the way things were. The idea of running that house again while
being so disrespected by her husband was difficult. She couldn’t imagine telling the Chairman or
her sons. Of course, her husband knew her feelings. He cared but not enough to change. She
would miss her sons terribly and the Chairman, too.
“I didn’t know you were so—”
“If I go back to Seoul, I feel like I’ll die,” Sonya said. She got up from her seat and went
to Mido’s room, returning with her carry-on bag. She laid it on the coffee table and opened the
hidden bottom of the trunk and lifted the silk scarves hiding the stacks and stacks of one hundred
dollar bills she’d taken from her husband’s safe without his knowing. “I need to speak to a
lawyer and deposit this money into a bank account.”
#
At four o’clock, Shrimp Castle was almost empty of customers. John was in the kitchen

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 381
preparing the fish filets for the next day when Nari said there was a call for him from his second
son. John wiped his hands on his apron and rushed to the counter, worried that something bad
might have happened.
“Dad?”
“DH, are you all right?” John asked, sounding worried.
“I’m good, Dad. I wanted to let you know that I’m thinking about apply to law school. I
got a good LSAT score, and even my advisor thinks it’s not a bad idea.”
“Oh, that’s nice, right?” John felt proud suddenly. He hadn’t felt this feeling of hope in a
long time. It almost felt like he was a young man again and applying to law school himself.
“When I was young, I wanted to be a prosecutor but I couldn’t get into the law program at SNU.
I stuck to math because, well, I’m very good at it.” John wiped his hands on his apron and looked
down at his black plastic kitchen clogs. The only time he used math now was when he divided
the fish into uniform pieces or weight. “I think it would be wonderful for you to study law. So
proud of you,” he said. “Your voice. You don’t sound happy.”
“Oh, Dad. I was worried about the cost. I can take out loans if I get in. I heard they’re
easy for law students.”
“Don’t worry about money. We have money. We can make money. You study. I’ll work as
many hours as I need if that means that you kids can—” John exhaled and sat down on the stool
by the cash register. In the back of the restaurant, Nari was folding paper takeout boxes while
watching a drama on the VCR television set anchored on the ceiling.
“Where will you apply?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 382
“All the top ones and a few safeties. If I don’t get in, I’ll look for jobs in California.”
“Did you tell Mommy?”
“I wanted to ask you first. I know she’s going to say the same thing. I just felt bad
because I’ve spent the most. I can’t ask the foundation for any more money from Korea. Dr.
Song said this was the last year. I still don’t know how to even thank whoever paid for Andover
and Yale. You and Mom still paid tens of thousands of dollars, and Bo is putting himself through
school and sponsoring you guys. Mido is pulling a paycheck. I should do more. I don’t know
how I became the student in the family. I’m the dummy.” DH laughed.
“No child of mine is a dummy,” John said. “You call Mommy and tell her that I told you
not to worry about graduate school. If you want to study, we will find the money. Okay, DH?”
DH nodded. “I’ll start on the essays then. These applications are really long.”
“How much do the applications cost? Tell us and we’ll send you the money right away,”
John said.
After they got off the phone, John felt lighter. He went into the kitchen and counted the
number of filets he had left to prepare. The kitchen felt brighter and cleaner than he remembered.
Even the smell of oil had lifted somehow.
Buoyant, John hadn’t realized how much he needed something good to happen that
reminded him of how things had once been for him when the future seemed unrestricted by
limits and unfairness. Things had been so up and down that he had started to believe that nothing
truly amazing would happen to them anymore even though that didn’t make any sense.
Money—this thing they had rarely discussed at home—had become present in every

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 383
decision ever since he was fired, and even though they worked all the time, they could not seem
to return to how things were. There had been nicer neighborhoods, excellent public schools with
fine teachers and facilities, and special occasions when they could eat at a restaurant without
looking at the price per item.
It wasn’t as if DH had been accepted to law school or become a prosecutor. John had no
idea if being a lawyer was something easy or hard in America. What mattered now was that his
children, even his middle son who used to hate school, wanted to keep climbing the steep hills,
so he couldn’t give up. John would carry them as far as his body let him.
When the last child was picked up, Mido started cleaning up her classroom. Peter’s students were
older and tidier, so all he had to do was turn out the lights. While she collected the test materials
and the geometry diagrams, Peter straightened the rows of desks then started on the blackboard.
“Have you heard from DH?” Mido asked. Her brother and Peter spoke regularly. Peter
didn’t seem to pay attention to the cost of long-distance calls. “I miss him.”
“I spoke to him last night as a matter of fact.”
“And?”
“He’s applying to law schools now. He did really well on the LSATs. That’s our boy.”
“What?” Mido blinked.
“I found out last night. He didn’t want anyone to know until he got his scores back
apparently.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 384
“I’ll write to him tonight. He’s pretty good about replying.”
“He said the logic section gave him a bit of trouble but he figured it out by taking a bunch
of old tests,” Peter said.
“Yeah, that logic section is weird. I don’t understand how that’s related to law.”
“I could never be a lawyer,” Peter said. His uncle had studied law but never practiced. He
went to Singapore and started a rubber factory, which his cousins managed.“Sounds dreadful.”
Mido shrugged.
“Tek is already a lawyer in Australia, but he’s becoming a barrister, which is like a
litigator in America. It takes more time.”
“Your boyfriend wants to argue. In court,” Peter said, grunting dismissively.
“He’s a debater. Tek is good at arguing. Ideas. Not with me. I mean, he doesn’t argue with
me.”
“I wouldn’t argue with you either,” Peter said.
Mido picked up her jacket and tote bag to head out.
“You want to get food?”
“I should get home. I think my aunt is making dinner.”
“Is she a good cook?”
“Yes.”
“I’d love to have a home cooked meal.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 385
“You aren’t really Korean, are you?” Mido laughed, admiring how he just said what he
wanted.
“Koreans can be straight forward, too, you know. Don’t make generalizations,” he said.
#
John, Helen, and Sonya had already eaten, but there was plenty of food left over for Bo, Mido,
and Peter. Everyone was happy to see Peter, who served as a kind of stand-in for DH. Peter ate
two servings of everything and three of rice, delighting Sonya, and when he left for his place, the
apartment felt quieter.
“If I keep working at the hagwon, I can help DH with his law school tuition,” Bo said.
“Aren’t you going to apply to transfer to UCLA?” Mido asked Bo.
“Yes,” Bo said. “The Fullerton counselor said I should. I think I’m going to major in
Psychology.”
Sonya clapped. “My nephews will be a prosecutor and a psychologist. Wonderful. So
wonderful,” she said.
“I think you should start school, too, Mido. Maybe take a few classes at Long Beach or
Fullerton, then you can make some progress with your education,” Helen said.
John nodded. “Your mom and I will keep working, and we’ll help with the tuition. DH
said he can take out some student loans. We can help him pay that off.”
“I think I’m going to keep working. It’ll be better for us if I keep working. With all the
private tutoring I’m doing, I’ll make almost seventy thousand in a year. I can help us buy a
house. It makes sense for me to do this, and I really like the kids,” she said. “When my brothers

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 386
are done, they can pay for me to go to school.”
“Waaah,” Bo exclaimed. “Will the family baby send me to school? I don’t know if I
should be embarrassed or proud.”
“Then you can send me. After you and DH are done,” Mido
John and Helen protested a little, not quite believing Mido’s logic, but they sounded
happy, wanting to feel like this decision to come to California had been a good one, and it
occurred to Sonya that her sister’s family had much more than most.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 387
3:3 October 1999 "Election"
3. October 1999
#
During the offertory, ushers in black suits with white carnations pinned to their lapels passed
brass collection plates. Backs straight and alert like soldiers, in lock step, the deacons waited at
the end of each pew before moving on to the next row. Parishioners dropped their envelopes and
nodded respectfully in the direction of the ushers.
The Cho sisters were sitting up in the balcony. On the other side of Helen, John listened
intently to the magnificent baritone solo. Bo and Mido sat in the pew behind them.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 388
Helen felt a nudge coming from her right and turned to see her sister’s dark eyes
widening with anger.
“Look.” Sonya pointed to the last page of the church bulletin, whispering: “Isn’t Shin
Taehun your husband’s friend? I mean, the man who—” Like a pretty meerkat, she swiveled her
slender neck to check if anyone was listening.
“Also, Jung Danbi? She’s also nominated? Is he divorced now?”
Helen nodded once, her chin firm and resolute.
“Later,” Helen mouthed the two syllables in Korean.
Helen never read the back of the church bulletin, so if her sister hadn’t pointed out that
Shin and Danbi had been nominated as church deacons, she wouldn’t have noticed it. John had
been nominated as an Elder, and Elder Fred Byun, the founder of Taegeuk Bank, which was
located in the center of the Garden Grove mall. Elder Byun, another SNU alum and a venerated
member of the church, assured John that he had everyone’s support. Gospel Presbyterian had no
lack of men who wanted to lead; however, what they didn’t have enough of, Elder Byun said,
were those who wished to serve the Lord humbly.
Although Helen and John had served as officers at churches elsewhere, neither had gotten
too involved in Anaheim. They’d become members, but that had been the limit of their
involvement. Elder Fred Byun, the son of a poor farmer, who ordered Shrimp Castle’s fish
sandwich special No. 2 every Friday and a can of Seven-Up, had taken a liking to John Koh.
Last Christmas, Elder Byun invited John to the Men’s group when they cooked meals for
the homeless, and John came, worked the food line then washed the heavy pots without having to

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 389
be asked. When Elder Byun brought Elder George Hong, a significant real estate developer, to
Shrimp Castle for lunch, the two powerful elders who controlled the Finance Committee and the
multi million dollar Building Fund of the church made a point of pulling John out of the kitchen
to sit with them to discuss church business.
Both Fred and George were impressed by John’s background, his humble acceptance of
his downward career trajectory, and plain spoken honesty. John’s competence was self-evident,
and having been a very wealthy man for most of his adult life, Fred Byun could spot a man who
knew how to serve without being servile. Fred and George decided to make John a member of
the Finance Committee, and they controlled the votes.
Every year, there were far more nominations than seats for deacons and elders; however,
John was already in. When Fred Byun told John this, John didn’t understand how it worked. He
told Fred Byun, “I’m honored to be have been considered. If I cannot become an elder, I’m fine.
Please give the seat to someone else. I trust the Lord will choose wisely,” and of course, Fred and
George had laughed at how correct they had been to tap a fair man without political ambition.
In Orange County, John had retreated as much as he could, hoping no one would notice
him. Even more than Helen, John wanted to be left alone. Each day, he went to work with Nari,
and on Sunday morning, he put on his coat and tie to attend morning services. When he had any
time to himself, he read history books in English and now and then, he watched music variety
shows on Korean television, and Mido would sit with him. He liked trot music.
At church, the Koh family kept to themselves. They learned of any important church
news during announcements or later from Lion and Yun. Mrs. Chung, Helen’s employer, also an
elder, would mention tidbits at the Emporium.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 390
After services ended, Sonya linked arms with her sister and insisted on having lunch at
the church patio.
“I want you to tell me everything. I need to know who is in charge here. How in the
world could those terrible people become deacons? It must be prevented,” Sonya said quietly, all
the while smiling at every parishioner who greeted the exquisite newcomer with the South Sea
pearl necklace and enormous diamond solitaire. She wore an ivory summer tweed skirt suit with
tan sandals and carried a matching leather and wicker handbag.
“You really want to eat here?” Helen asked. “I mean the food is fine but—”
“It’s your birthday dinner tonight, so we’ll eat light downstairs. I won’t eat much. I just
need to understand how you live. Big sister needs to know. I need to see everything.”
Helen gathered her family to explain that they’d stay for lunch.
Ever since they had run into Shin and Danbi, Helen and John had done whatever they
could to avoid them, even if meant bolting out of the sanctuary. Beyond polite greetings, the Koh
family attended services and left immediately after the benediction.
In the patio, Mrs. Chung spotted Helen immediately and waved her over. She was sitting
with her friend Mrs. Kwon, also a fellow elder.
Helen introduced her sister.
“You also went to Ewha,” Mrs. Chung said. “Mrs. Kwon went to Ewha as well.”
The four alumnae smiled and bowed to each other. They were connected somehow
having shared four years in different eras at a school —six thousand miles away— founded by a
White American Methodist woman. Mrs. Chung was the eldest but Mrs. Kwon was not far

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 391
behind.
“We have room here,” Mrs. Chung said kindly, “Please sit down.”
John checked his wife and followed her polite gaze. He pushed two picnic tables
together, and John, Mido, and Bo went to get food on the line for everyone, while Helen and
Sonya remained at the table. Elder Kwon’s doctor son Marcus remained beside his mother.
Gospel Presbyterian Church was immense. There were over eleven thousand registered
members and three services held each Sunday, not including the English service for non-Korean
speakers. Mrs. Chung introduced Heesung Kwon as Elder Kwon and Marcus Yim, her eldest
son, as a world famous doctor who lived in Newport Beach in a mansion by the bay. Marcus was
a pleasant looking man in his late thirties with short cropped hair and round eyeglasses. Filial
and sweet by disposition since birth, Marcus smiled.
Sonya was accustomed to people trying to impress her, and she knew how to appear so
without being false.
“How wonderful that your busy son attends church with you,” Sonya said.
“He wants me to retire,” Mrs. Kwon said, looking annoyed and proud at the same time.
“My Marcus and his wife attend another church in Newport Beach but he comes by once a
month to nag me.”
“Umma,” Marcus said gently, and she smiled at him as she led him in the social dance of
a mother’s pride.
John, Mido, and Bo returned with five metal cafeteria trays of food and sat alongside
Sonya and Helen. Rice, soup, bulgogi, spinach, and radish kimchi.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 392
“Why do you want to retire?” Mrs. Chung asked. “I’ll never retire. My grandchildren are
all grown up now, and I never see them anyway.
Mrs. Kwon replied, “I don’t want to retire. Maybe I should just cut down my hours.” She
glanced at her son, who looked reprovingly at her.
“Your business is going so well, anyway. You have twenty girls now or thirty?” Mrs.
Chung added.
“What kind of business do you have?” Sonya asked.
“A nail salon. Rose Salon. It’s in Buena Park, near Zion Market. I have twenty-two
employees.”
“I’d love to stop by during my visit,” Sonya said, and all the women turned to admire her
pale pink manicured hands. “We should go. Hejin, I’ll treat you. It’s your birthday. Is it open
now?” Sonya asked.
Mrs. Kwon who looked a bit embarrassed. “Well, I should really close, but the customers
prefer to go on Sundays, so yes, it is open but only until 8pm.”
“Will you be there later?” Sonya asked.
Mrs. Kwon shook her head no. “Tomorrow. I work six days a week. My son wants me to
retire or work maybe three. Please come on Monday. If you can only come today, then I will call
the store. You will be my guests, and happy birthday,” she said to Helen.
Marcus smiled and patted his small mother’s rounded shoulders.
“My mother must like you, and you must be nice people,” he said to Sonya and Helen,
who smiled.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 393
“I’ve spent too many years in school and have worked with many patients, but my mother
is far better at diagnosing people than I am. I’ve never seen anyone like her. My brothers and I
joke that she is a personality radiologist.” Marcus said, beaming. “We think that’s why our
mother has been so good at business and was able to send all of us to medical school.”
John nodded with admiration then followed Marcus’s upward gaze. A person shaded their
view.
“It’s been a while,” Shin said to John, who nodded without saying anything. He could tell
Marcus was looking at them.
“Are you going to the congregation meeting next week?” Shin asked. “I’ve been
nominated to be a deacon,” he said. “I saw that you’re nominated to be an elder. The Lord is
discerning.”
John glanced at him, wondering where this piety came from. Shin had never been
religious. He went to mass with Mary and the boys when they were in New Jersey but not in
Seoul, since his family lived in the States. They never discussed religion. John felt that he was in
no position to question any man’s faith, but Shin’s talking about God seemed uncharacteristic.
Marcus nodded at both Shin and John, and Shin bowed to him.
“You’re Mrs. Kwon’s famous doctor son, isn’t that right?” Shin said.
John touched his brow. He couldn’t understand how Shin knew all these people when
he’d arrived only a little over a year ago, and how was it possible that already he’d been
nominated to be a deacon. Apparently, from what Elder Byun said, these officer positions were
coveted ones.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 394
Helen turned her back to face Sonya, who stared hard at Shin, astonished by his
shamelessness. She looked up when a young woman walked toward the two joined tables.
“You’re speaking with Dr. Yim. I’m so glad!” Danbi bowed to everyone at the table.
Everyone nodded in greeting except for Helen and Sonya. John stared over Helen’s head toward
the cafeteria window as if he wasn’t sitting there at all. He had not once replied to Shin’s
questions. Having lunch at the patio had been a mistake.
Shin and Danbi tried to make conversation with Marcus and Mrs. Kwon, but Marcus,
noticed how quiet John and Helen became, said less and less.
Shin tried to leave the table, but Danbi asked for a minute.
“Dr. Yim,” she said.
“Yes,” Marcus replied.
“My cousin, Elder Frank Lim, mentioned you,” Danbi said. “Your practice is in Irvine,
isn’t it? I’ve been meaning to get my husband to see you but your schedule is always full.”
Helen glanced at Shin, and all she could think was of Mary and their three sons. Were
they married now? Shin didn’t wear a wedding ring, but Danbi wore a large diamond
engagement ring and diamond wedding band. Sonya smiled as if she were enjoying this
spectacle.
“I know men should have their prostate checked at my husband’s age,” Danbi said.
Marcus nodded.
“You should call the office again and tell them that you go to my mother’s church.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 395
“I already did,” Danbi said, touching her collarbone with her right hand as if to draw his
gaze toward the swell of her bosom beneath her yellow silk dress.
Like a magic trick, Helen noticed that Marcus’s eyes tracked her right wrist, resting on
her breasts.
“Is there another number?” she asked, opening her pink mouth slightly.
“I don’t have a card on me,” Marcus answered. “What is your husband’s name?”
“Shin Taehun,” Danbi said, now touching her milky exposed skin below her collarbone.
His eyes followed her hand as if she was training him like a dog, holding up a biscuit in
the air. Danbi smiled.
“I’ll call your office and mention our meeting today. Will you remember me?” she asked.
Marcus tried to look serious and nodded, unable to keep his pale face from coloring.
Mrs. Kwon pulled at her son’s elbow, forcing him to face her.
“We have to get our food,” Danbi said then turned to Shin. “Maybe you can get ours. Is
there room here for us?” Shin went to the cafeteria window.
Sonya got up from the table and approached Danbi.
“Excuse us. I’ll only be a minute,” she said, taking Danbi’s left arm gently and guiding
her toward the shaded area on the other side of the patio.
#
As they walked away, Marcus turned to his mother, surprised. Heesung Kwon was a
businesswoman who got along with everyone. She was the sort of person who would’ve asked

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 396
him to get extra chairs to make room but she had said nothing.
With Danbi and Shin out of earshot, Mrs. Kwon said to the table, “Those people are
snakes. You must avoid them and their family.”
“Mother,” Marcus said. “Why do you say that?”
“That woman is dangerous, and her uncle was a loanshark in Namdaemun Market. Her
cousin Frank is honest but even he said there is something off about her. We can feel charity for
our fellow Christians but we must never be stupid about assessing character.”
Mrs. Chung nodded, having heard similar things.
“She wanted me to see her husband for a check-up,” Marcus said. “Men have to get their
prostates checked. Also, is it fair to blame her for her uncle?”
“There are other doctors. You can’t see him,” Mrs. Kwon said. “You can help other
people, but not them. They’re the kind who will do something terrible then sue you. I know. I
know from experience.”
Marcus made a face like he was confused. Mido and Bo smiled at him, wanting to bypass
the awkwardness, and he smiled at them, as if to communicate that long ago, he had ceased
quarreling with his mother because she was always right.
#
Unlike their church in Seoul which had one large main building and an annex, Gospel
Presbyterian was more like a school campus with smaller buildings for classrooms, gymnasiums,
a theater, and a dining hall. They were expanding still and had raised over six million dollars for
a state of the art worship and education center. Beneath a wooden portico covered in vines, a

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 397
large window on the first floor of the church center opened out to connect the church kitchen
with the outdoor cafeteria, which was called the Patio. Any parishioner could buy lunch for a
nominal fee and children ate for free. There was a rotation of volunteers who signed up to cook
and serve meals. Dozens of picnic tables were set up in neat rows with half of them shaded from
the bright midday sunlight. The second morning service had just ended and several parishioners
had already eaten, while others were just starting to line up.
On the green astroturf covered patio, Sonya stood out in her ivory colored suit and Danbi
in her yellow silk. Finding an empty picnic table under the awning, Sonya asked Danbi to sit.
“This won’t take long,” Sonya said.
Danbi smiled. She didn’t understand who this person was, but she was sitting next to
important people at the church as well as the Koh family.
“I’m John Koh’s sister-in-law. I have wondered about you,” Sonya said quietly.
Danbi bowed her head and raised it quickly. She knew enough about battle not to show
fear.
“Forgive me for being so plain, but I don’t have much time. I don’t live here. I live in
Seoul and will not be here next weekend. I wanted to speak with you briefly.”
Danbi stared at the woman’s beautiful face. She was striking in every way, elegant in an
almost otherworldly sense—her skin, hair, nails, and exquisite suit. Even her handbag, which
she’d noticed beside her, was worth thousands of dollars and impossible to buy.
“If I had known what you were planning to do to my sister’s husband, I would have made
sure that you reconsidered your plans. Sadly, I learned of what you did too late.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 398
“I don’t know what motivates a person like you to cause such great harm; however, I
know this. You did not wish my family well. My sister’s husband is my family. He is my dear
brother. What you don’t know about me is that I am a relentless woman, severe, harsh, and
unforgiving. This is my worst quality as a Christian. I have difficulty with forgiveness. I will
continue to pray about it.
“It’s my understanding that my brother and sister want to be left alone by you and your—
” Sonya hesitated before saying, “Shin Taehun.”
“I don’t understand your meaning,” Danbi said, putting her hands on the table to get up.
“I should go.”
“Wait. You think I’m just another woman who is angry or protective. No. That would be a
mistake. I’m not threatening you. There’s no need for that. I am telling you never to speak to my
sister or brother-in-law again. Never.” Sonya smiled kindly.
Danbi touched her throat reflexively as if she were guarding herself. She checked her
surroundings, and everyone at John’s table was looking in her direction.
“You’re moving your hand toward your chest. It’s the reflexive behavior of a novice
seducer to think a woman would fall for this. A habit is sometimes a lazy thing, which one must
address. I don’t care about your tits. I’m not some stupid man who thinks only with his dick. I’ll
never believe that you—you of all people—are a damsel in distress. Women are not fooled.
“I’m telling you that you will regret this moment if you do not stay away from my family.
I know who you are. I know who your cousin is, and where your mother lives. I know where you
live. I will hold this grudge forever. Here is some wisdom: Let life tutor you. Learn quickly
where danger lies. I am danger. Have a good day. I shall not keep you.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 399
Sonya smoothed out her skirt and rose elegantly from the bench. She looked directly at
Danbi to give her a moment to respond, and when she could not, Sonya smiled and returned to
her family.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 400

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 401
3:4 October 1999 "Presents"
4. October 1999
#
Sonya had rented a private room at a French restaurant in Newport Beach. When the Koh family
entered the oak-paneled room, the five people waiting for them shouted “Surprise!”
Helen covered her face with her hands.
“Mommy!” DH shouted, laughing. “Oh, don’t cry.” The tall college senior sprinted over
to hug his astonished mother.
Bo laughed, turning to Peter who was seated closest to the door, and said, “The favorite
has arrived.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 402
Mido nodded, pleased to see everyone. Yun and Lion laughed for having kept the secret
so well. Nari clapped her hands together like a happy child. It had been a long time since she’d
been to such an elegant place and it was her first time being invited to a surprise birthday party.
The long table was covered with white linen, and Sonya had requested pink dahlias and
beeswax tapers in pewter candlesticks. An antique Provencal fruit chandelier with colored glass
apples, grapes, and pears hung from the center of the high beamed ceiling, diffusing red, green,
and gold across the pale cloth and silver flatware. At the head of the table, a large cake covered
in buttercream dahlias rested on a green Majolica pedestal.
Sonya had told Helen that tonight was a dinner for the family at nice restaurant she’d
heard about from a friend back home who knew Orange County well. She’d kept DH’s arrival a
secret.
“Yaah,” Helen tapped her son’s chest. “What are you doing here? You’re supposed to
come home for Christmas. How did you get a ticket?” Helen asked, realizing the answer as she
asked the question. Her sister, of course. She cradled his lean brown face in her hands. “So thin.”
“We’re not even going to pretend that they care as much about us,” John joked to Bo and
Mido, who nodded smiling. Bo turned to Peter, “Glad you can make it.”
Helen looked up, remembering herself, and wiped her face.
Peter bowed to Helen, “Happy birthday,” he said, congratulating her in Korean. Nari,
Yun, and Lion said together, “Happy birthday!”
Grateful, John smiled at his wife. More than anything, Helen had wanted to have her
whole family with her tonight, and it would have been sad for DH to miss this, too.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 403
“Sit, sit,” Helen said to everyone, and she took the seat between DH and Sonya.
“What are you doing here? Is it okay?”
“It’s October break, and I’m usually in New Haven but Aunt sent me a ticket. I’m going
to stay at Peter’s because he has an extra room. I know the inn is crowded right now. I’ll come
visit every night though. Aunt and I figured it all out. Pretty clever, huh?” DH embraced Helen
again.
“My Mommy,” DH said, and because he was a head taller than she was, it was funny to
hear him sound like a boy with his mother.
More than his brother or sister, DH was affectionate like a small child, and in a way,
because he was so open and caring, everyone loved him best.
DH got up from his seat and greeted everyone. He hugged Mido and held on to Mido for
a long time. “My shy baby sister. All grown up and pretty. Peter said you’re a big earner now.”
Mido hit his arm affectionately and glanced at Peter who shrugged.
#
After the cake and presents, the party scattered with everyone heading back to Cypress except for
DH who went to Irvine with Peter.
At the house, it wasn’t late but DH wanted coffee, and Peter made a pot.
“If I drink that, I’ll be high,” Peter said. “You drink coffee, and I’ll have a cigarette.”
They sat on the deck in front of the pool.
“This place is really nice,” DH said. “Has my family seen it?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 404
Peter shook his head.
“It’s going to freak them out a little. I haven’t told them about your situation.”
“What situation?”
“You’re loaded.”
“Oh,” Peter said. “I’m not loaded. My mother has money. It’s not mine.”
“I spoke with Tom Song. From Eagle Academy.”
“Oh? Why?”
“I’m graduating, and I wanted to tell him thanks for the scholarship.”
“You always had good manners, dude.”
DH swallowed his black coffee. He had put a few ice cubes in it so it wouldn’t be hot. He
had changed into a gray sweatshirt and long navy shorts with running sneakers.
“This weather is sick.”
“Right?” Peter said. “That’s why I couldn’t go back.”
“Seriously?”
“Well, I guess I could have gone back. I’m one ambivalent fuck. I think after that girl, I
mean woman. She was 34 years old.”
“Damn,” DH said. “I always forget that part. She looked younger. Right?”
Peter nodded.
“Anyway, after Cesca dumped me by phone from Toronto, I just felt like quitting school.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 405
Tom Song, from Eagle, told my mother that Pomona would be better than not finishing my
degree.”
“Did you jump the gun? Like, if you had waited a year, would you have returned to
Yale?” DH asked, thinking that his friend wouldn’t have wanted to graduate later.
“You know, I don’t know. I just don’t know what the point of this college degree is
anyway. Pomona is nice. The classes are basically the same as Yale but smaller. I mean, the work
is fine. I don’t really know anyone there. I just work all the time at Exodus, do my schoolwork,
and play music with Lion.”
DH nodded. “You didn’t answer the question.”
“Oh. No, I don’t think I would have returned. I was pretty stuck in my apartment until
you sent me to Bo and Lion. Once again, DH to the rescue,” Peter said, raising his cigarette to
him. DH raised his coffee mug.
“Happy to oblige. Listen, man.”
“Hmm?”
“I learned something from Tom Song. In our call.”
Peter turned. DH’s face was lit by the deck lights. His mother had been right, he had lost
weight. Even his legs looked thinner.
“What’s that?”
“Your mother has been paying for my tuition.”
“Oh, that.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 406
“You knew?”
“Yeah. She told me my senior year at Andover. Asked me if it was ok if she paid for
Yale.”
“I have to pay her back.”
“Why?”
“It’s weird. Don’t you think?”
“No,” Peter said. “She has more money than most people, and it makes her happy to give
it to folks who work. If you didn’t work so hard, she wouldn’t give it to you. It’s not charity,
man. She said that it’s the optimum allocation of resources for a better society. Something like
that. You know Renee.”
“Well, I’m going to pay her back.”
“If you want. She’ll probably say something like you can pay for some kid’s school
someday. I mean if she needed it, Renee Cha would call you for the money, but she doesn’t,”
Peter said, stubbing out the cigarette. “You mad at me?”
“No, of course not. I’m really grateful. Your family changed my life.”
“Oh, man. You’re always so grateful and nice,” Peter said, looking a little disgusted.
“This is why everyone likes you so damn much.”
DH reached over to give him a side hug, and Peter sat there, shaking his head and
smiling.
“Does Mom know?” Peter asked.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 407
“I’m going to write to her. I want you and her to come to graduation. I looked up the
dates, and our graduation is only a day apart in May. Not sure if we can pull it off, but I wanted
to ask you both. If you wanted.”
Peter went to the kitchen and grabbed his guitar before returning to the deck. He started
to play “Rosetta,” a song he’d been working on.
“You sound really good,” DH said.
“Next week, the Zekes are playing. I wish you could come,” Peter said. “My boss will be
singing.”
“I wish. I head out on Saturday night,” DH said. “Haven’t heard you in a while. My sister
said Lion has a good voice.”
“He’s really good. It’s too bad we can’t get booked anywhere except for Rascals,” Peter
said. It wasn’t as if he hadn’t known that music would be an uphill climb, but he hadn’t realized
how bad it would get. “We should be touring but the hagwon is taking off. Also, Lion doesn’t
want to tour. I’m indifferent. As usual.”
“How do you like the work?” DH studied his friend’s face. Peter’s tiniest feelings and
expressions fluttered across his large eyes, strong brow, and small mouth. If DH noticed
everything, Peter showed everything without necessarily saying it. His friend’s transparency was
one of the things DH liked best about him. If asked, Peter always told the truth. “Is it fun?”
“I was going crazy just practicing the guitar all the time in the house. I don’t want to
work in an office or go to school anymore. I mean, I’ll definitely graduate in May but I don’t
care really. The tutoring suits me. I like the kids a lot. Lion’s a good boss, and my hours are

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 408
good. I get there at 2 or 3 and leave at 8. I’m free in the mornings to go running and do music.
On weekend nights, we play gigs at Rascals. It’s a steakhouse with a bar and a stage.”
DH nodded. Peter’s family in Korea was supposed to have a lot of money. He didn’t
really know what they did. Something about tires. Peter almost never spoke about them. His
wealthy father had remarried and had another set of kids, and his mother, Renee Cha, was
supposed to be even wealthier than his father’s family.
“I tried just doing music and nothing else, and I couldn’t handle it. When Cesca was
gone, I didn’t see the point of leaving the house. We were only together for a few months but it
was an intense thing. At least for me.
“I can see why half the musicians I’ve met do drugs or drink too much. Lion is clean. He
dabbled in Edge for a while. I never liked drinking, and getting high makes me feel like dying,”
Peter said.
“Dying?”
“Yup. At Yale, when I was playing soccer, I didn’t do drugs.”
“I know.”
“Well, after my injury, when I’d go to parties—”
“Without me—” DH was trying to look hurt.
“You were at travel games—”
“Ah, yes.”
“Anyway, I got stoned a couple of times, and you know, depressives and pot. Not a good

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 409
combination for me.” Peter shrugged.
DH had never smoked a cigarette even. In the States, he’d been offered every kind of
drink and alcohol, and always, he passed. He’d joke, pointing to his athletic form—the powerful
legs from years of soccer and his 100 daily squats and pushups even off-season— “This is my
temple,” and most people left him alone.
“Is your sister still dating that Tek guy?” Peter asked.
“I don’t know what’s going on with him. She doesn’t talk much. I still haven’t met him.”
DH stared at Peter and his mouth made an O. “Hey, my little sister is off-limits.”
“Innocent question.” Peter laughed.
#
The next day, on his way to school, Peter dropped DH off at Cypress. Mido was home alone. She
was washing the breakfast dishes.
“What’s going on with you and Peter?”
“Nothing,” Mido shrugged. “He’s your best friend.”
DH nodded. “You don’t want to date Peter.”
“I don’t want to date Peter,” Mido said. “I don’t want to date anyone.”
“How about Tek?”
Mido pursed her lips as if she was thinking. She turned off the faucet and removed the
yellow rubber gloves.
“How much are you borrowing for law school?” she asked. “I think Mom and Dad are

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 410
trying to figure out a budget.”
“They can’t swing it. They don’t even have a second car. I’ll be borrowing the maximum
but it’s still going to be tight. I still have to get in, right? I just sent off one of the applications. I
have six more to do.”
“I read that your first year law school grades are really important.”
“Yup, and my summer internships are make or break,” DH said, looking afraid. “Unlike
you and Bo, I have to study to do well. I can’t just waltz into an exam and get a good grade. Your
dumb brother has to make a serious effort on a regular and very steady basis. It’s like training for
a sport. I can’t take many days off from the gym or the field.”
“You’ve never been dumb. You’re doing the best of the three of us. Of the five of us,”
Mido smiled. “I’m really glad you’re applying to law school. It’s the only thing that makes Dad
smile lately.”
“He’s not doing well, is he?”
“No.”
None of them knew what to do about John.
He’d always been quiet. In his dailiness and diligence, there had been a steady, inner
hopefulness about him. However, in the past few years, he had transformed into an almost silent
person, often with a blank, private expression, a husk of their father. There were times when
Mido felt helpless in his presence. The two of them used to be fine with the quiet, but this felt
different. No one could talk about it, not even Helen. Each morning, John got up and went to
Shrimp Castle, and when he returned home, he bathed, put his uniform in the wash, and read

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 411
something, then bed.
Even after they got their green cards last month, he didn’t look for work anywhere else.
He made $1,250 a week, and Nari had given him a $10,000 cash bonus at the end of the year. As
a 52 year old immigrant with a college degree that didn’t matter here, John was making more
than what he could wearing a suit.
DH who had not lived with his family since high school had noticed his father’s
transformation because for him it had been far more dramatic than gradual. Of course, his father
had been pleased to see him, but there was something wrong now, and DH wished he could bring
his old father back.
“He didn’t want me to come by Shrimp Castle. Mom said there’s no need for me to do
that.”
“I think he’s embarrassed,” Mido said.
DH nodded. “Dad is the kind of player I’d vote for captain. You know?”
Mido smiled, understanding that for DH, this was the highest compliment.
“Well, you going to law school will make him happy. So thank you,” she said. “No
pressure though.”
DH shook his head, wanting to cry. When he’d been studying the LSATs, he’d thought
about how much his parents were going through after they lost their jobs in Sydney. He wasn’t
the smartest of the three, but thinking of them had made taking dozens of practice tests bearable.
“You and Bo have been working really hard,” he said.
Mido shrugged.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 412
“Bo is going to apply to UCLA in a year. He’s getting really good grades at Fullerton.
And after he graduates from UCLA, I know he’s going to get a good job.”
“I just need three years, Mido, then I’ll start making real money,” he said. This was the
plan that he and Bo had drafted. The two Koh brothers would do whatever they could to help out
their parents and send Mido to school.
“I can pick up more hours at the hagwon. I think once Bo goes to UCLA, he has to quit
Exodus during the week, so he can focus. Lion and Yun are desperate for more help, and I can do
more admin and do more private tutoring. I’ll make more than Bo soon. I’m going to send you an
allowance when you’re in law school.” She said all this without once looking at his face, hoping
he wouldn’t argue against her plan. He was better at talking than anyone she knew except for
Tek.
But he didn’t protest. He looked serious.
“Listen, if you can spot me just while I finish school, then we can take turns.”
“I know. You and Bo will figure it out,” she said. It had never occurred to her that she
could be supporting her brothers, and in a way, she felt this was right.
“What are you going to do about Tek?” he asked.
“He wants me to go to Sydney, but I can’t. It makes more sense for me to stay here with
Mom and Dad.”
DH wondered what Tek was like. She didn’t seem too upset that she couldn’t go back to
Sydney, where she could finish school and be with her boyfriend. Whenever DH asked about
him, Mido would say he was nice to her, which was fine, but almost nothing in terms of

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 413
description. Yun who had met Tek a long time ago said that he was a good person and excellent
student, which was a bit more information since Yun was fairly tough on character.
Everyone in the family was curious about why Mido didn’t insist on being with Tek but it
had always been Mido’s way not to say much about what she wanted. DH was resolved to do
well in law school, and when he returned to the East Coast, Mido opened a separate savings
account, putting aside half her pay for her brothers’ education.
#
On Saturday, Bo drove Sonya and DH to the airport. The apartment felt more spacious with them
gone, and their appearance had added other things. It was as if their presence had reminded
everyone to pay attention and that they had a mission. Elders Fred Byun and George Hong had
been correct. John was elected Elder, and this had lifted his mood.
Before Christmas, Yun and Lion asked Mido and Peter to lunch at the Greek restaurant on
Orange Avenue.
The petite hostess grabbed four menus and took them to a booth in the back. Lion waved
at the owner’s wife, who he’d gone to middle school with. Yun smiled, used to everyone in the
neighborhood saying hello.
Without them even ordering, bowls of lemon chicken soup appeared with baskets of
warm flat bread.
“It’s always good to eat with you, boss,” Peter said, raising his eyebrows. He picked up
his spoon then refrained, noticing Lion and Yun bow their heads in prayer. He could never get
used to them doing this. Mido didn’t do it when she ate with him. However, whenever she was

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 414
with Yun and Lion, she also bowed her head to pray silently.
When everyone lifted their heads and opened their eyes, Peter swallowed a spoonful of
soup.
“I’m thinking of expanding Exodus and opening another hagwon just for high school
kids. In Irvine.”
Peter reached for the bread. “Cool. Closer to me.”
Mido glanced at Yun, who’d been mentioning that the waiting list kept growing, and
there was no reason why they couldn’t find a much bigger space in Cypress. Yun had not
mentioned Irvine, which was farther away and more expensive.
“I’d like you two to manage it. I’ve found the space already and have hired the teachers,
but I need people I trust to manage the business. Mido, you’re getting so good at the financials,
scheduling, and the general operations, and Peter, you could manage the materials and the
teaching for the tutors. I thought I could start with four teachers, not including you, of course,”
Lion said, studying Mido’s face more carefully than Peter’s. She needed the money more than
Peter did, but it would require greater changes to her life.
Peter tilted his head.
“How many more hours, you think?”
“You’d have to pick Mido up and drive her there and back ideally on the days Bo isn’t
working. He has to cut down his hours in the fall,” Yun said. “I’m not sure of your plans after
graduation, but this would be a full-time job, Peter. You’d be working 25-30 hours there for now
as we build out, but it would definitely be 40-50 hours. You’d get two days off. I think once we

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 415
get the place up and running, we could hire another manager to help but—”
“—Okay,” Peter said. “What do you think, Mido?”
Mido nodded. She could tell Yun was relieved.
The family still only had one car, and Bo had priority because of school. They were
saving for a second car, which would require getting another parking spot, insurance, and gas,
too. Nari still drove John and Helen to Garden Grove, and they’d been able to manage by on one.
“How about Pomona?” she asked Peter, feeling badly about all the driving. “Can you
graduate and work so many hours? You’d be living on the 405.”
“I like driving. Also, I have enough credits to graduate today probably. I could take two
classes on the days I have off. I’ll figure it out,” he said. “I’ll get my degree in May. All good.”
Lion pulled out a legal pad from his bag and started writing down some of the things they
could do right away. The new hagwon would be called Fortress, he said.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 416
3:5 February 2000 "Ginny"
5. February 2000
#
At church, everyone called him the “Oracle of Orange County,” because he was smart.
Lion seemed to know everything. His brother Ray told people that his younger brother’s
I.Q. was 159, and this fact was verified and published in The Korea Times when he skipped three
grades.
Lion, however, did not believe that I.Q. was a meaningful measure of intelligence. He
argued that what really mattered was if a person lived wisely. The Oracle of Orange County had
numerous ideas and questions on how to live and grow in wisdom.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 417
Dr. Carl Han, Lion’s father, a physics professor at Chapman University, had all three of
his children take the I.Q. Test, and the results bothered Ray, the eldest, because his was higher
than average but much lower than Lion’s—the youngest child. Ray wouldn’t disclose his score.
Sarah, the middle child with an uncanny resemblance to the singer Patti Kim when she
was younger, was a lawyer. She owned the immigration law firm Han & Hudson LLC in Beverly
Hills with her husband Bob Hudson. Like her brothers, she also had a high I.Q. score. Sarah and
her husband found the whole testing thing absurd and refused to do it to their twins.
All three Han children qualified for Mensa but none of them joined because their father
had wanted them to do it— their first collective protest.
Neither Ray nor Sarah spoke Korean and were called a “banana” when they joined
Korean social clubs at school, but they were not the kind to be distracted by such antics. Lion
learned how to speak Korean at Princeton and could read newspapers and business magazines in
the language.
When he skipped three grades in primary school, Korean newspapers wrote about him
and his family. Yun had skipped only one, and she could not imagine something so bizarre.
However, because of the news articles, Lion had a long-established reputation of being a genius.
Especially as a little child, grownups would ask him tough questions and give him logic
problems. Ever helpful, he did them. High school students would ask him to do their math and
science homework when he was nine or ten, and he would teach them how because he was
against cheating.
Lion finally met his wife when she played keyboard for the praise band during English
Ministry.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 418
“Why did you ask me out?” Yun asked once.
“I’d noticed you as soon as you walked into EM service.”
“I don’t remember that day.”
“You were still a senior in high school, and I was almost done with college. Home for
break, and I saw you. Pow!” he pretended like he’d been punched in the stomach. “I just knew.
Like a gut punch. But we didn’t talk until you joined the band.”
Yun pretended to punch him in the stomach.
“Pow. Pow. Pow. You waited until I turned 18?”
“Yes, and thankfully, you were not dating anyone.”
“You should’ve asked me out sooner.”
“Yun, if we were meant to be, then nothing could have prevented it,” Lion said, as if
nothing could have persuaded him otherwise. “Sometimes, it’s important to wait.”
#
On Monday afternoon, Lion went alone to Oxford Academy for Ginny’s parent-teacher
conference. Yun had a seminar at school she couldn’t miss.
When it was his turn, Lion entered Ginny’s classroom.
“You must be Ginny’s homeroom teacher, Ms. Hamilton.” Lion smiled at the young
woman with the short dark hair. She wore a green cardigan with a brown skirt and knee-high
boots.
“I’m Ginny’s guardian. Lion Han.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 419
“I’m Olivia. You own Exodus Academy,” she said. “My friends have worked there.”
“Oh?” Lion said, startled. “Who?”
“Selina Kim, Sharon Chiu, Aaron Schwartz, and there’s another one I’m blanking on. I
heard you’re hiring, too, for the new location in Fortress. That didn’t sound right. I’m not
looking for a gig.”
“Wow. I love those guys. Aaron’s still with us. He’s our middle school science guy but
he’s not allowed to have kids from his school in his hagwon class. Sharon moved when she got
married, and Selina may start again with the older kids at Fortress.”
“I know. They told me. They said nice things. Selina said that she worked in another
hagwon, and she had not liked that at all.”
Lion nodded, having heard many of Selina’s experiences. Nearly all hagwon teachers had
a few war stories of teacher abuse, but Selina, a very patient person, had suffered quite a few
terrible hagwon owners and mean-spirited parents.
“Let’s talk about Ginny,” Ms. Hamilton said.
“Yes, please. How is our Ginny doing?”
“She’s kind of amazing. An extraordinary reader. Her math and science skills are good,
too. Ginny wants to be a doctor. She already has the medical school picked out. A seventh
grader!”
“I know. Berkeley,” Lion said, shrugging. “I kind of wish she could do something else. I
mean, I think it would be great but she feels a lot of pressure.”
“From you? Or her parents?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 420
“Not from Yun and me, I don’t think. Her parents don’t tell her to be a doctor in so many
words, but her mother thinks she’s well-suited for the work. Anyway, I think if she did pursue
this path she’s been talking about since she started Exodus—I think she was 9 maybe—then I
suppose her family would be relieved. Hard to say. I’m not a parent. Our living with Ginny has
been like practice for Yun and me.”
“How long has she been living with you and your wife?”
“Since spring. It’s less than a year. She’s so easy. Almost too easy.”
Ms. Hamilton nodded. “I wish I could meet her parents.”
“I could give you their number, but you might need a translator. I know her father can
speak enough to get by. He worked here for a company, so Ginny was born here. But they had to
move back, and Ginny wanted to stay. Anyway. Is anything wrong?”
“No,” Ms. Hamilton said. “I wish they could know what a great kid they have. No
problems. She has friends, too. Just a really great kid.”
Lion smiled and relaxed, suddenly feeling like he could breathe again.
“Is she still in school?” he asked, checking his watch.
“Yes. The kids are in the auditorium waiting to be picked up. Doesn’t the van get her
today?”
“Oh, well, since I’m here, I’ll get her. Thank you, Ms. Hamilton—”
“Olivia—”
“Olivia, thank you. Thank you for taking good care of our Ginny.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 421
#
In the auditorium, Lion found her right away. She was sitting beside two other girls who were
reading, and he didn’t want to disturb them. A group of boys ran over to him, “Mr. Lion!” they
shouted then growled. “King of the Jungle!”
“Hello, boys. Here for Ginny.”
“She’s over there—”
“Yup, I see her. Reading. And you are doing your homework? I was told all of you had
some work to do.”
“Yes, Mr. Lion,” they growled again, quieter this time.
“See you guys,” Lion said. Ginny had seen him and was packing her bag to go.
“You had a terrible report,” Lion said to her.
Ginny opened her mouth.
“Kidding, kiddo. She said you are perfect, which we knew. So you no longer have to be
perfect.”
Ginny shook her head. “You’re always joking.”
“A lot to joke about. Let’s get ice cream.”
The child trailed after him, and they walked toward the mart near Exodus.
“My father said you went to Princeton.”
“I did.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 422
“And you skipped grades so you graduated before you were 20.”
“Yes.”
“Can I do that?”
“Why?” Lion stopped walking and crouched a bit to look at her face.
“Well, I could save money.”
“What money?”
“Tuition for hagwon, college and medical school, and all the money you and Miss Yun, I
mean, Mrs. Yun are spending on me.”
“Gosh. Is that why you think I skipped grades?”
“Well, you skipped grades because you’re smart. I don’t have your I.Q.”
Lion laughed. “We don’t know your I.Q. Your might be much higher than mine. Also,
your I.Q. doesn’t mean you’re smart. It’s just a dumb number — something about pattern
recognition abilities. Who cares.
“You know what though? I wish you won’t have to skip grades,” he said, staring into her
brown eyes, shaped like tapered maple lozenges.
“Why? Wouldn’t everyone admire you?”
“That’s not important,” he said. “Never do something or be something just to be admired.
Our Ginny is wonderful just the way she is.”
They entered the mart and went to the ice cream freezer near the door. Lion slid open the
door. “Pick whatever you want. I’m have strawberry shortcake. Oh, maybe I should have the ice

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 423
cream sandwich. Hmm.” He stared at all the choices.
“The cone!” Lion marveled at Ginny’s selection.
“I thought I wanted the strawberry shortcake, then the ice cream sandwich, but the cone.
Ah, the cone. Nice choice.” He took a sandwich for himself.
“Should we get a cone for Yun?”
Ginny nodded and took another.
Lion paid for the ice cream, and they took off the wrapper and started eating it while
walking.
“My mother would get so mad when I ate and walked at the same time.”
“Why?” Ginny asked.
“I don’t know. Something about how it’s not proper. She said beggars do that.”
Ginny nodded, not wanting to disagree with either Lion or his mother, whom she’d never
met. For five seconds or so, she bowed her head and prayed before eating the ice cream, and
Lion stopped himself and waited for her. In his mind, he said, “Thanks, God, for ice cream.”
“How’s the cone?”
Ginny smiled. “Good.”
“You know why I named my hagwon Exodus?”
“Is it a Bible story? There’s a chapter in the Bible named Exodus.”
“No and yes,” he said, thinking it over. “When I was in college, I wanted to be a

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 424
musician, and my parents stopped paying for my tuition.”
“Did they have the money?” Ginny asked, wondering if his parents were like hers.
“Yes. They have money. They just wanted me to have a secure life, so they thought I
should be a professor or lawyer or something like that. Being a musician is financially very
unstable. But—”
“What did you do? When they stopped paying your tuition?” she asked.
“I started tutoring. I was able to pay my own way, then later, I realized that I liked what I
was doing. I still play music, but my parents were right, I’d starve to death if it was just playing.”
He laughed.
“Should I start tutoring?” Ginny asked.
“No. You’re just a kid. You are welcome here. Your parents are finding their footing. The
crisis has been difficult for many, many people in Korea. It’s not their fault, okay? We’re fine.
There is no need for you to worry. You have us, kiddo.”
“I worry.”
“I know.”
They sat down on the bench outside the hagwon. The parking lot was mostly empty. The
vans wouldn’t show up for another hour.
“I wanted to tell you about Exodus because you see, it’s a story about freedom, and when
my parents cut me off financially, I learned that by knowing things and teaching other people to
know things, I had freed myself from doing something I didn’t want to do. I wanted to free
myself from hierarchies, conventional thinking and status obsessions,” he said. “I don’t know if

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 425
that makes sense to you now, but I wanted you to know that you can do anything, Ginny. I
believe in you.”
“Isn’t Exodus a Bible story?” A religious child, Ginny had learned this story in Sunday
School many times, had even acted it out in a church play.
“Well, yes. Moses fought against a bad ruler, freed his people then entered the wilderness
trusting only in God. He’s kind of weird but I thought he was cool, too. Like you, kiddo.”
“I’m weird?”
“No. Mostly cool. I’m weirder. Please don’t skip grades unless they make you. Like you
have no choice about it. I wish I hadn’t skipped all those grades. It was hard. I don’t want that for
you. Okay?”
Ginny nodded soberly.
“Are they still mad at you?”
“My parents?” Lion said, smiling. “I talk to them. I always talk to them. They were just
scared, I guess. They’re still scared. I think being a parent means being scared.”
“Huh?”
“You can’t control kids, and even if you could for a while, you can’t control the world
around them. So you get scared.”
“My father would prefer it if I came home, but my mother wants me to stay here. My
father is upset with me, I think.”
“Where do you want to be?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 426
“Here. I’m going to Berkeley and become a doctor.”
“Yes, you’ve said,” he laughed. “You might change your mind. You can.”
“No. I won’t but I think my father is angry that he owes you money and can’t pay it
back.”
“Your father is not mad at you, kiddo. And even if he was or they were both furious at
you, they would get over it. My parents got over it. Eventually.”
Lion got up first and Ginny followed. Their ice creams finished, they entered the hagwon
together.
#
At home, Yun told Ginny that she could watch television before going to bed. Like Yun and her
mother, Nari, Ginny loved watching rented videos of Korean dramas. It was one of the few
things the child allowed herself. When she wrote to her parents, she’d mention the programs
she’d seen with Mrs. Yun.
They were watching “Hello Again, My Darling,” and although Yun had already finished
the series, Ginny had several episodes left in the video totebag. When Yun told her that she’d
borrowed the new episodes, Ginny dashed to the television room to watch a full episode before
bedtime.
Yun picked up the bowl of tangerines and went to the study where Lion was working.
“How’s the song?” She handed him a tangerine.
Lion looked up from his book and started peeling the fruit.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 427
“It’s not any good. In fact, it’s so bad that I’m reading this book on commercial real
estate.”
He showed her the cover of a business book he’d bought.
“Wow. Seriously?” Yun exclaimed. “Are you okay?”
“You know, this is the best year we ever had for Exodus, and the enrollment at Fortress is
unbelievable.”
“Yeah, I got that sense. We’re going to have to turn kids away, which is kind of sad.”
“Well, I talked with my brother, and Ray said I can rent the store three doors down. It’s
not next door, but it can work. I can separate the older kids from the little ones. Or maybe use the
smaller space for an office and the faculty lounge. I can hire a three more teachers at this rate if
we— Oh, did I tell you that Ginny’s teacher said that we have a good reputation with the other—
”
“And the song?”
“I’ll work on it later. I don’t know why it sounds so, so, gosh—”
“You sound more excited about renting space.”
“Yeah, maybe I should write a song about that.” Lion laughed. It bothered him how much
his own music was disappointing him. The more he wrote, the more he realized that all of his
stuff was fine enough, but not great. Lately, his lyrics embarrassed him and the melody seemed
incomplete like fragments of songs he’d already heard. Seeing the kids at Exodus made him
joyful. He liked being a hagwon person, which didn’t make much sense. Of course, his parents
didn’t like it either, and they hoped he was going through a phase. He was young enough to

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 428
change his mind, they said last Christmas when he saw them.
“If you want to rent that space, I think that’s good,” Yun said. “I hate turning kids away.”
Lion smiled at her.
“Maybe we can take Ginny somewhere on our next break.”
“I worry about that child,” Yun said. “She’s too grown up.”
Lion nodded, grateful that his wife wasn’t asking about the music.
#

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 429
3:6 May 2000 "I'll Stand By You"
6. May 2000
#
It was easier to speak in the car with both of them looking straight ahead. The round trip from
Irvine to Cypress could take over an hour and at the worst, two. With Peter driving and Mido in
the front passenger seat, they ended up talking a lot.
When they weren’t, Peter played music. Initially, she didn’t know the songs he liked,
which surprised him.
“It’s mostly guys singing,” Mido said.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 430
Peter nodded, embarrassed that he hadn’t noticed this earlier.
“It’s not bad. I mean, I like them.”
Nearly all of the songs were unfamiliar to her, and gradually, she found herself listening
to his music when she was alone. Mido approached his favorites the way she’d approach
recommended books from friends.
As a boy in England, Peter had preferred to listen to older music— The Clash, Ramones,
and the Sex Pistols, and gradually to more of The Cure, No Doubt, The Pretenders, Blondie,
Nirvana, and Radiohead. In the car, he played Talking Heads, R.E.M., and Peter Gabriel.
Mido realized that she hadn’t paid much attention to what Bo or DH listened to, and later
when she asked her brothers, they knew all of Peter’s music. She had been living in a dark, quiet
cave, DH had teased her.
When she mentioned to Peter that a lot of the music was sad, right away he said, “I know
one. A female vocalist and not a song of despair.”
She already knew and loved “I’ll Stand By You,” so whenever they drove together, it was
their last song in the car.
Peter would put in a disc, and Mido would pull out the paper liner notes from the
clamshell case and follow along. They’re like smart poems, she said, not having thought much
about lyrics before, and Peter shrugged. He didn’t like explaining lyrics. “I’m more interested in
the feelings and the stories within a song,” he’d say but not much more.
To beat the Friday commute to Cypress, they’d left Irvine an hour later than usual.
What? You’re going to skip your Pomona graduation?” Mido asked when they got in the

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 431
car.
“Yes,” Peter said.
“Why?”
“Not a big deal.”
“But you and your mom are going to DH’s graduation at Yale?”
“Yup.”
“Why?”
“Because it’s a big deal to him, and I’ll already have graduated the day before.”
“But without going to your ceremony.”
“I don’t stand on ceremony.”
“Ha,” Mido said. “This is okay with your mother?”
“Mother Renee is not normal. You haven’t met her. She’s cool about stuff like this.” Peter
smiled. “I wanted us to go to DH’s. Mine’s not important.”
“You’ll see my parents there then,” she said.
“But you?” Peter frowned. “You’re not going?”
Mido shook her head. She and Bo were sitting it out. They couldn’t afford the flights and
the wages from skipping work. There was a strong demand for finals tutoring and bootcamps that
week. DH had understood.
She picked up the liner notes again for “Joshua Tree.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 432
“The Zekes will be playing tomorrow night. Your pal Yun is playing keyboard,” Peter
said. “Spot is on guitar, and Will on drums. Lion will sing seven of the songs. I have five. I’ll still
play bass, of course. Can’t imagine singing without holding something.”
“How’s the music going?”
“It’s good,” Peter said. “We’re the best cover band in Newport Beach.” He laughed.
“Is this what you want to do?”
“Don’t know,” he said. “I’m thinking about working more.”
“On music?”
“No. Teaching. I like running Fortress Academy a lot more than I thought I would. We
have a wait list already for the summer. The music is, well, it’s a side thing.”
Mido glanced at him but said nothing.
Over the years, the Zekes had played several decent clubs in Southern California and
Orange County. There had been nervous evenings with talent scouts and booking agents in the
audience. However, other bands were picked for more but not them. Agents had told Lion and
Peter that a band of Asian guys, except for Spot Johnson, their one White guy who played guitar,
wouldn’t get any traction. The forty-two year old drummer, Will Guo, also the owner of the
steakhouse Rascals, no longer got angry about this.
Of course, there were successful musicians in China and South Korea, but it was
indisputable what the scouts and agents had told them in California. Peter couldn’t name a single
Asian-American rock and roll band that ever got played on the radio or was booked for larger
venues.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 433
“There’s James Iha of Smashing Pumpkins,” Will would bring up. “Things will change,”
they said, not wanting to get into it.
In general though, as far as they could see, the “truly greats” were Black or White artists.
Peter leaned toward British bands, and Lion was more open to American musicians.
As he drove, Peter looked straight ahead at the dark, open road. Blaming his race and
ethnicity seemed like making excuses, hating the way that sounded. It was also true that Lion
didn’t want to tour, and Peter wasn’t sure where to go from here as a vocalist. No one needed
another competent bass player, and Peter liked writing music but he didn’t have much to say.
Sometimes the lyrics would come in pieces but the melodies, not so much. Everything he wrote
sounded depressing.
There were plenty of musicians in Korea whose sound he liked, but he and Lion were
more alternative rock grounded in L.A., and the rules for them were different it seemed. They
couldn’t find a manager, and Lion was busy with the hagwons. Peter didn’t have it in him to
promote their work, and now, there was Fortress to think about.
The last time he was in Seoul, his uncle, his father’s older brother, had said,
“Men have to face reality. Dreams are just dreams. Wake up,” and Peter had replied,
“Yes, Uncle.”
Now and then as Peter drove, Mido stole glimpses to catch his mood, but he didn’t seem
to notice her. He appeared more resigned than upset, and she thought she should drop it. It wasn’t
any of her business.
“It’s nice to drive with almost no traffic,” he said. “I’m glad we waited to take off.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 434
Mido nodded.
“I thought Tek was supposed to visit this summer,” he said.
“He was. But work came up.” Mido shrugged. Lately, there were fewer calls, and the
intervals between them felt longer. They were both busy. The calls were expensive. She wanted
to support his career, which was flourishing. If Tek wanted to be a barrister, he had to do more.
Since she left, they had not seen each other once. It had been over two years but neither ever
discussed breaking up.
“What’s he like?”
“Only child. Born and raised in Sydney. Speaks Korean better now. He’s a lawyer. Over
there, you become a lawyer after graduating from university, but to become a barrister, there’s
more training and an exam. He wants to be in court—”
“How long have you been dating?”
“I met him years ago but I guess we’ve been dating a couple of years now but long
distance. So many questions, Peter.”
“You don’t have the exact number of days?”
Girls he knew from Korea would celebrate the number of days—Day 1 to Day 1000—
even. One girl he saw briefly—less than a month—had expected him to remember the dates, and
before they broke up, he recalled marking off the boxes on the calendar as if measuring a prison
sentence.
“I met Tek in middle school. We met up again when I was in high school then we ended
up at the same university. And why am I telling you all this?” Mido looked out the window.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 435
“Sorry.”
“Are you going back?” he asked.
“Where?”
“Sydney or Seoul?”
“I could finish my degree in Sydney, I guess, but I can’t right now.” No one had been
asking her about her future. It was as if her plans had been forgotten by everyone, including to
herself.
“Why are you working at the hagwon?” he asked. “You don’t fit the profile.”
“I didn’t know there was one.”
“Grad school dropouts, actors, musicians, and teachers who need more money. It’s
supposed to be a transition job. Not the end-game. No one grows up dreaming of becoming a
math tutor.”
“I haven’t even finished college,” she said, her voice breaking. Yun would graduate
UCLA at the end of the month, and she had only finished a year.
Peter had upset her and felt badly.
“But you’re a standardized test genius.”
Mido smiled. “I’m in-between things.”
“You want to finish college?”
“Of course,” she said, alarmed by such an obvious question. “I like school.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 436
“You don’t have to. It shouldn’t be assumed that everyone wants to go to college. Half
the kids we teach have no idea why they’re even trying to get in. If they really thought about it,
they wouldn’t even go. They probably shouldn’t go. Not right away.”
“What? You work in a hagwon and teach high school students. We’re actively prepping
kids for higher education. You’re just being contrary, Peter.”
“No, no. I’m not. Not everyone should go to college. Nobody should follow a fucking
script. You’re smart not to—” He laughed then saw that she looked upset when he had only been
trying to justify her position.
“I want to finish. Not just get my degree but I want to figure stuff out.”
They stopped at an intersection, and finally, he faced her. She was lovely, he thought and
felt guilty. When Mido was thinking about something, she opened her eyes wide and looked up
as if the answer would be written on the sky.
“Why finish though? What’s the point of it?”
“I, I…” Her chin tilted upward, exposing her neck.
“See. You don’t know either, and you’re not 16 years old like our students. You’ve had
time to think about it, and you don’t know,” he said softly. “I’m saying all this because I respect
you, Mido. You have choices.” Peter turned off the music, so he could hear her better.
“Well, I liked going to school at Sydney. I’d be okay going to Fullerton or Long Beach
then transferring like my brother. I don’t have to go to Yale or Pomona like you and DH. Right
now, I’m working to make money, which is fine. I’m trying to take care of my —”
“I get it—”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 437
“No, I’m not sure if you do.”
“I didn’t mean to—”
“Never mind. We’re good. Thanks for driving me home. It’s out of your way.”
Peter parked the car in front of her building and watched Mido get out. She fumbled with
the keys at the glass lobby door but got it to finally open.
Right before she entered the elevator, Mido turned around and saw that Peter was still
parked watching her get in, making sure that she was okay. Mido waved at him, and he waved
back.
Peter turned on the ignition. It occurred to him that he wanted to keep playing the bass
and sing even if it never amounted to anything, and he wanted to see if he could build out this
new hagwon business in Irvine for Lion.
#
Rascals was a fancy Newport Beach steakhouse split into two large rooms—a spacious bar in the
front with an elevated stage for live performances serving a bistro menu and in the back, a grand
white cloth dining room with a full wine list. Their best-selling dishes were steak frites, mussels
in white wine, and their famous aged porterhouse.
On Fridays and Saturdays, local bands played to strong crowds. There was karaoke on
Thursdays and Sundays where guests signed up at the bar to sing.
Zekes’s drummer, Will Guo—a fourth-generation Chinese American, whose family
owned seven successful restaurants in Orange County—had agreed to go into the family business
as long as he could have his way designing and managing the steakhouse. A terrific

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 438
percussionist, he played piano or drums in three different bands that played at his restaurant. The
deal with his family was that as long as Rascals made money, Will could do as he liked.
Like Lion and Peter, Will didn’t have much regular practice time but the Zekes had a
standing gig at least once a month, and when there were cancelations, and if the guys could make
it, they got the first call. The joke was that they were the house band, playing mostly cover songs
and two or three songs that Lion had written. Will didn’t pay himself but the Zekes got what all
the other bands got: drink tickets, burgers in the kitchen and $300 a gig, which Lion usually split
in half and gave to Peter and Spot.
On Saturday night, Lion felt good about playing, and though he’d been working on a new
song, he wanted to open with was a ballad that he’d written for Yun years ago but had re-worked
to have a faster tempo.
He’d come to Rascals straight from work so he was wearing jeans and a black tee-shirt
from the Gap. He’d taken off the blue button-down because it made him look like a guy holding
down an office job, rather than a musician. He and Peter had worked out the set for the night, and
thankfully, Spot Johnson, their second guitarist, who worked in produce at Vons, showed up on
time. Will knew the set cold, and Yun had been practicing the whole week.
The packed dining room felt good, and Lion felt relaxed. Peter was focused on his bass
and did the backup on Lion’s songs, and vice versa when Peter sang. Spot was a good guitarist
but wasn’t the kind of guy who believed in practicing too much. He also had two kids, a wife
who taught fifth grade, and no time.
Lion opened with his ballad “Figs,” and they played through their eleven more songs,
including covering “One,” “Iris,”and “I Drove All Night,” and the crowd wouldn’t let them get

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 439
off stage. At the end of the set, Peter turned around to huddle with the band, and after he nodded,
Yun played the intro to “I’ll Stand By You,” and Peter took the center microphone and sang the
intro, and the crowd was rapt, and he turned slightly toward the bar but the lights were too bright
to make out Mido’s face.
When the set ended, they returned to the green room to pack up then met at the bar,
where Mido was sitting alone. Spot’s wife was at home with their daughters, and Will’s wife
managed another restaurant on the other side of Newport Beach, so neither could make it. Mido
clapped vigorously when she saw the band approach her.
The bartender told Will that there was an issue in the kitchen, so he gave Lion the pay
envelope, and after getting his share, Spot guzzled his diet soda and left to relieve his wife.
“Great night, fellas,” Spot said, “And madam,” he winked at Yun.
Yun took a bow, holding the sides of her short black dress, which she wore with combat
boots.
“You were amazing,” Mido said to them.
Peter raised his hand, “We better head out, too. Another big day tomorrow in Irvine.” He
turned to Mido. “You need a lift?”
Mido glanced at Yun and Lion. It made more sense for her to head out with them, but she
knew they had to get back to Ginny, who was with the housekeeper.
“You sure, Peter?” Yun asked. “We’re late. It is not easy to be a rock star couple with a
middle school aged child.”
In Peter’s car, Mido put on the seatbelt.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 440
“I think I should start giving you gas money, Peter.”
“I was thinking the same,” he said, laughing. “No need. I’m good.”
“You were really great. It’s a terrific band. I’d listen to you guys all the time, and I’m not
even someone who gets music.”
“There’s praise in there somewhere. Is that a compliment when someone who doesn’t
know music likes your stuff?”
“Oh, I mean, I don’t know much about alternative rock and the music that you like on
KROQ. It’s all so new to me. I love that song though, the last one. The Pretenders song. Did she
write it? The woman who sings it on the disc?”
“Chrissie Hynde? She’s one of the writers,” Peter said. “It’s also by Steinberg and Kelly.
They wrote a lot of songs you know.”
“Huh?”
“Steinberg and Kelly wrote “I Drove All Night”, “Like a Virgin”, “True Colors”, “Look
in Me in the Heart”. So many. But others recorded them.”
“I do know all those songs.”
“It’s impossible to write songs like that,” Peter said. “The reality is I can’t even imagine
trying to —” He stopped and signaled before turning.
Mido waited for him to finish his sentence but he didn’t. It got quiet in the car.
“The better we sound and the less traction we get, the more I think Zekes is a waste of
time.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 441
“When my weird experimental play got put up at SUDS, it was such a cool experience,
but I know I don’t have what it takes. I don’t feel like writing plays all the time. I think I wanted
to do it to be somebody in that world. At least once.”
“I think I moved to California because I wanted to impress Cesca, who saw me sing at
Toads.”
“Toads?”
“It’s a bar in New Haven. Cesca is that woman I moved to California for. We dated for
not even a few months.”
“Oh.”
“When I’m on stage, and I sing, I can tell when the sound connects. I feel powerful and
safe. Also, it’s nice to have girls think you’re hot.”
Mido laughed out loud, remembering how it felt to have him look at her while he sang.
Until he sang it, she didn’t realize they had a song.
“You do it for the girls?”
“Got you in the car, didn’t I?” he laughed.
“ Peter, it’s kind of your job to drive me.”
“Yup.”
A few minutes from her building, he put on the Pretenders, and quietly, they sang along.
#

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 442

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 443
3:7 July 2000 "Yokshim"
7. July 2000
#
It was DH’s idea to work at Fortress for the summer before starting law school in the fall.
At the first Monday staff meeting with Lion and Yun, he had a proposal.
“College counseling,” he said, then grabbed his coffee mug to take a sip. A big smile
crossed his long, handsome face, and he raised his thick eyebrows with enthusiasm. “What do
you think?”
Lion and Yun glanced at each other. Mido shrugged and turned to Peter, who’d already
heard the plan from DH, who was staying at his house again.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 444
“Exodus is on autopilot, right?” DH asked rhetorically. “Fortress has been up for five
months, and already you’re having to turn kids away and hire more teachers. Why not go after
the big ticket item and help everybody with college applications. These are your kids that you’re
raising. You know them. You’ll know best how to help them with their applications. Let’s have
everything here. One stop hagwon for high school students”
Lion looked skeptical. He’d been thinking of college counseling for the Irvine students,
but hadn’t wanted to rush into it.
“We can put our degrees to work,” DH said, his excitement undiminished. “Among us,
we have Princeton, Yale, Pomona, and UCLA. Mido was accepted into University of Sydney,
and Bo will be transferring to UCLA from Fullerton. We’re like a California dream team.”
“I thought you had to leave in August for school,” Mido said tentatively, wondering how
her brother who’d never worked at a hagwon could show up and tell Lion how to run his
business. She couldn’t imagine Bo doing anything like this. He was at UCLA this summer
working on a psychology research lab and had to cut down his hours. “Are you going to stay
with us until they submit their applications in the fall for early and then for regular?”
“No,” DH said. “You’ll be in charge of that. You’re great at admin, and high school
seniors are terrible at it.”
Peter stared with mixed wonder and admiration at his friend who could sell sand to
people who lived in deserts.
“Hear me out. Two guys I know from Yale were doing this for a lot of money.”
Lion and Yun frowned and made a little disapproving noise.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 445
“We don’t have to charge as much. Mido can teach essays, and you guys can keep doing
the test prep. Mido, Peter, and I can help the kids with the whole application. And Yun can teach
a weekend bootcamp to the parents and seniors about FAFSA, which is its own kind of trial.”
Lion sipped his black coffee and nodded.
“Let’s try it. Six students?” Lion threw out a number.
“Twelve,” DH said. “Twelve at $5,000 per student. 10 applications per student from
beginning to end with revisions and counseling.”
“$5,000?” Lion looked shocked.
DH raised his hand. “And each additional application costs another $500. The consultant
gets half and the house takes half. This would be a bargain. My friends were charging three times
that. They told me that it’s market rate. And for your lower income and middle income students
who’d qualify, the FAFSA bootcamp can be a town hall style lecture with Q&A. It can be open
to the public and at no charge as a goodwill gesture.”
“Consultant?” Mido asked.
“You,” DH said, pointing to her.
Mido turned to Peter, and he shook his head like it was out of his hands.
Yun tilted her head.
“So the consultant needs to take $2,500 per kid, and Fortress gets $2,500? And you’re
doing all this work and Fortress provides the space, consultant, and students then?” she asked but
she was thinking out loud.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 446
“Lion could disagree but I think the numbers would work for us if we charged $3,500.
You’d still get the $2,500 but we’d take $1,000.”
“That sounds better,” Lion said. “Even $3,500 sounds like a lot.”
“You don’t have to hire a consultant,” DH said. “Or, we can also have a general class like
the FAFSA lecture but for a lot less but you’d get less individualized attention. We can try hybrid
models,” DH said. The Econ major wrote out pricing and numbers on a legal pad, and Peter
shrugged and looked out the window.
“It’s not a bad idea,” Peter said, exhaling. “Just figure out what’s a fair number. Maybe
we can take a quarter of the kids on scholarship.”
“One full scholarship or two partial scholarships would work. Three would be tough to
break even,” DH said, his head still lowered and scribbling on the legal pad.
“Oh, DH,” Mido hit her brother on the arm.
In less than a week, the college counseling program was fully enrolled. Lion selected two
students for a full scholarship on condition that no one could ever disclose this fact.
#
Saturday was the start of the SAT Boot Camp at Fortress. The tutors had already prepared the
rooms for the diagnostic tests, and they sat waiting for Lion to start the morning meeting but he’d
been continuously interrupted by parents who had shown up without making an appointment.
Sixty high school students were scheduled to be there. They were supposed to start in an
hour, but half a dozen had already shown up, and they had already found seats in the testing
room, the largest classroom in the building.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 447
Peter sat in the front of the testing room, drinking his second cup of coffee. The other
tutors, Valerie and Joe, who taught verbal and reading, looked over their handouts, and the
second math tutor, Chris, was smoking in the parking lot.
Unlike the Cypress location, everything was new and matched —the desks, chalkboards,
folders, books, coffeemakers, and even the enormous copy machines. There were three vending
machines in the student lounge, something they’d never had at Cypress. Despite Yun’s efforts to
air out the classrooms, the smells of fresh paint and new carpets lingered.
Yun and Mido were checking the class lists in the front office when Mido got a call.
“I’m here,” Tek said.
“What?” Mido said, covering her mouth in surprise. She was standing by her desk phone,
and Yun looked up from her desk.
Mido mouthed “Tek,” and Yun nodded, returning to her work.
“How long will you be at Fortress?” he asked.
“I have to be here until six.”
“I’m at the Westin. When can you come by?”
“You said you weren’t coming. I can’t just leave—”
“I know. I have work, too. I wanted to see you. Take your time. I’m going to go for a run,
do some reading, and we can get dinner.”
Mido wrote down his address on her memo pad and returned to the chair by Yun.
“Tek is here?” Yun said.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 448
Mido nodded.
“You don’t look happy about it.”
“I am happy. I’m just surprised.”
Yun smiled. “I better go rescue my Lion. Those parents are scary.”
#
Yun knocked on the glass portion of Lion’s door. Without hearing a thing, just from his posture,
she could tell that Lion was calming a person. Seated in his office armchair, Lion leaned toward
the two parents, his back straight in a sixty-degree angle.
The father was a state judge, a local celebrity in the community because he was the first
Korean American prosecutor turned judge in Orange County, and the mother, a former Olympic
speed skater from South Korea.
Tracking the parents’ gaze, Lion looked up and saw his wife. He waved her in, and Yun
took the seat nearest him.
“I was just telling Judge Cha and Mrs. Cha—”
“You should call me, Melanie,” the mother said.
Lion nodded, smiling again.
“I was telling them about how the SAT boot camp works.”
“I think the diagnostics and the review classes sound great, but is it possible for our
daughter Catherine to get individual tutoring if she needs it? She’s weak in math and may not be
able to keep up with the others. All these kids have been going to hagwons forever, and they’re

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 449
super prepared. I don’t even know why they’re here. Anyway, she’s shy and isn’t good at
advocating for herself,” Melanie said.
The judge looked at his hands while his wife spoke.
“Do you think these classes can really change scores?” the Judge asked. His wife looked
at him.
“Of course. Scores can change dramatically. Isn’t that, right?” Melanie looked at Lion
and Yun.
“Yes,” Lion said. “If the child studies, these scores can change. I’ve seen extraordinary
progress depending on a number of factors: the child’s foundational skills, interest in the subject
matter, habits, and her ability to withstand testing stressors.”
“Stressors?”
“Well, the lower her scores are, the more we can raise them. The score differential toward
the higher end is harder to change. You’d be surprised at what’s required for a 1400 and a 1600.
At those scores, it’s not just skills, but a great deal about confidence, pattern recognition,
familiarity, and mental fortitude. Sometimes, a hundred point score difference is about getting
four or five questions correct.”
The judge opened his mouth.
“I don’t remember taking the SATs,” the judge said. “Isn’t that strange? I know I took
them, but I can’t recall the fuss. It’s all we talk about lately at home,” he said.
Melanie shot him a look. “Catherine is worried, and we have to help her. The school is
putting a lot of pressure on her.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 450
Yun nodded.
“Do you have a child?” Melanie asked Yun.
Yun shook her head no. The judge glanced at Melanie, his mouth set firm with
disappointment.
“You’re too young, of course,” Melanie said. “We had trouble at first. I had three
miscarriages then we had Catherine.”
Yun smiled, her eyes full of sympathy. She had read that somewhere or seen it on a
television documentary about her.
“We take care of a young student right now. In our home. She’s at Oxford Academy,
and—”
“Oh, Catherine is at Troy,” the Judge said. “It’s a great school. Oxford is newer, I think. I
heard it’s very good.”
Yun smiled. “We have many students from Troy at our other location in Cypress, and it is
an academically rigorous school, so it’s bound to have a lot of kids talking about exams. Even if
you and the judge never said a word about the test, she’d hear about it at the school probably all
day. If she wants to talk about it, I can listen to her. Get it out of her system if that’s possible.”
“I took the suneung, and I remember what it was like.” Melanie shivered at the memory.
“I had to hit a specific score. You know how it is. Thankfully, it was easier for an athlete. No one
expected me to have good grades. When I moved to the States, I went to UC Irvine to finish my
degree, which is where I met my husband,” Melanie said.
“Let’s see how Catherine does on the diagnostic, and if she needs more tutoring, we can

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 451
figure that out,” Lion said.
The parents nodded.
“We came early, because we know that not all the kids can be tutored privately, but we
would like Catherine to get first consideration. That’s why we came by today,” Melanie said.
“We thought it would be fair if we came early, rather than try to pull strings.”
“I understand. You were here first. You didn’t cut any line.” Lion smiled.
The judge smiled and looked at his hands again.
#
The students left at five o’clock, and an hour afterwards, Mido wasn’t ready to leave. She had
been working the whole day, and the phones had been ringing non-stop it seemed. The tutors
were finalizing the scoring and creating classrooms based on levels. Each student would get a
diagnostic report and a class assignment for the following week. Mido buzzed around the
building, cleaning offices. After straightening up each one, she’d turn out the lights and lock the
door. All the tutors were still working in the testing room. She had to phone Tek and let him
know that she’d be late, and when she got to the main office to make the call, she saw him sitting
there talking with Yun and Lion.
“I was just about to get you,” Yun said, getting up. “Tek just got here. We were surprised,
too.”
Mido’s face grew flushed.
“Hey, stranger,” Tek rushed up to embrace her. “Yun and I were having a reunion, and I
just met her husband who has the greatest name ever.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 452
Tek turned to Lion. “Mate, how did you get that name?”
“I used to carry a stuffed lion around as a little kid. Talk to it, take it to school, and I
couldn’t be separated from it, so my big brother Ray called me Lion’s friend, and eventually, I
just became Lion. My real name is James but no one calls me that. Even my parents call me
Lion.”
Mido laughed. “I never heard that story.” She turned to Tek. “How did you get here?”
“The most expensive taxi ride in the world. I thought I was going to rent a car and then I
realized that I didn’t have it in me to brave the roads of Orange County in the dark,” he said.
“I’m ashamed to admit this as a dude, but I have no sense of direction, and I wasn’t even sure
about my license working here.”
Mido nodded and smiled, wondering how to ask Peter to give them a lift back.
“We could take you two,” Yun offered. “Tek’s hotel is closer to us anyway.”
“Oh, okay. Just let me tell Peter.”
“Tell me what,” Peter said, walking into the office and sitting down on the new sofa. He
waved good bye to the other tutors who were leaving. He stared at Tek.
“I’m Tek. Mido’s fiancé.”
Mido looked at him, puzzled. “What?” They were not engaged.
“Peter Son. Math tutor,” he said then exhaled for a long time like he was confused.
“I’m going to drive them to Tek’s hotel,” Lion said to Peter. “You and DH want to come
to dinner with us? Yun and I are going to get food. I’m sure these two want to have time alone.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 453
Peter nodded, raising his eyebrows slightly.
“I’ll get DH and follow your car then,” he said.
#
In the hotel room, Tek kissed her, and Mido folded herself into his warmth. He was like that—
joyful and positive.
“Why did you say you’re my fiancé?”
“Because I am more or less, no?” Tek said. “Do you know how long that bloody flight
was?” He smiled. “Every minute was worth it though. I’m so glad to see you.”
He started to remove her clothes, and she wriggled a bit, not feeling ready to make love.
“Aren’t you hungry?” she said.
“I ate lunch late. My schedule’s off. You hungry? You must be.” Tek stopped unbuttoning
her shirt.
They became shy then, and Mido bit her lip.
“I’m okay,” she said and began undressing. “I want to shower first. Is that okay?”
“Do you want me to order food? I had a burger earlier. It was fine. I think I saw some sort
of fish entree. Would you like that?”
Mido nodded and headed to the bathroom and closed the door.
#
As soon as they got home, Lion, Peter, and DH said hello to Ginny then ran off to the garage like

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 454
kids. They wanted to try out a song that had been giving them trouble.
“30 minutes. Tops.” Lion promised.
Yun didn’t mind. Dinner could wait even. It was a relief when Lion was working on his
music. Though he counseled anxious parents and moody students with admirable patience and
self-control, with himself, he was intolerant of self-pity or excessive feelings.
He was kind-hearted and principled, and in the presence of wives who complained about
their husbands, Yun didn’t know what to say. Among women, at times, it was just good manners
to commiserate, but Lion didn’t give her sufficient material to file any social complaints.
Over the years, she’d observed that what made the most dramatic change in Lion’s mood
was when he was working on his music. Whether practicing or performing, Lion could transform
from level-headed to rapturous—eyes closed, body fluid in synch with the melody. Seeing him
joyous, Yun wished he could play music and do little else.
Once, she had suggested this to him, and he had pointed to the stack of envelopes that
arrived with regularity in the red-painted mailbox beside their doorbell:
“Bills,” he said. “That’s my job, too.”
They owed money: a mortgage on their home in Coyote Hills; Yun’s student loans; car
payments for two cars; home owner’s and car insurance; real estate taxes; rent on two locations;
and now dozens of employees who needed to get paid on time. When the Cypress location built
up a steady cash reserve, Lion proposed opening Fortress Academy, which would involve
significant upfront costs and expectations for larger revenues for its higher upkeep.
From the kitchen, Yun could hear the guitar and keyboard. They were playing “Flower

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 455
Girl,” a song Lion had written years before—one of her favorites.
Ginny had already eaten dinner with the housekeeper, and she helped to set the table. She
was twelve years old, and like so many girls her age, mature. However, despite her adult-like
sensibility, her size was far smaller than her classmates. The week before, Yun had cut her hair in
a pageboy style with the bangs Ginny preferred, and the child looked pretty, her pretty brown
eyes ever thoughtful and caring.
Ginny wasn’t growing as much as the other girls and didn’t eat much, so Yun tried to
make her favorite dishes—gimbap and hearty Korean stews. She refrained from commenting on
the child’s eating.
At the hagwon, mothers of girls talked often of eating disorders, and Yun didn’t know
what to do because she was neither the mother nor a family friend. Technically, Yun was the
guardian but unlike a homestay guardian—a surrogate parent who was paid to house and feed an
overseas student— Ginny was like a houseguest who happened to be a child. It was an odd
arrangement, because there was no formal end date, and Yun didn’t have the heart to find one.
Lion and Yun had agreed that the child could stay. She wasn’t any trouble. If anything, she was
almost entirely self-sufficient for someone so young.
Always, Ginny did her best, not wanting to disappoint anyone. Living abroad and so far
from her parents and brother had only made her more determined to do well at school, and above
all, not to need anything.
Yun felt that she was living with two sober adults, rather than a husband and a child.
“Ginny, do want to eat with us? I know you had something, but there’s chicken and ribs
from Johnson’s.” Yun glanced at the boxes of take-out. “I was also going to fix a salad.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 456
Ginny shook her head.
“I’m okay. I’m going to finish my homework.”
“It’s Saturday night, do you want to watch some television before going to bed?”
Ginny brightened a little.
“I saw the bag of videos,” she said. “I wanted to wait until you said—”
Yun smiled.
“Oh, did you see the bag?”
Ginny nodded, widening her eyes to match Yun’s happy expression.
“We have to wait till Sunday. My mother’s coming over. We’re going to try to watch five
or six of them. I will not allow you to study on Sunday. We are going to watch until our vision
goes blurry.” Yun laughed. “Maybe Mido will come over, too.” Then Yun remembered that Tek
was in town.
Ginny smiled. Growing up, she had not watched dramas with her family. Her mother
didn’t like them. At the homestay guardian’s house, she’d never been allowed to watch any since
she was supposed to be doing homework. More than anything else in her life in America, Ginny
loved to watch rented drama videos with Yun and her mother Nari.
“Then I’ll finish up all my weekend homework. I only have two more worksheets left.”
“You always finish,” Yun said, looking carefully into Ginny’s dark eyes.
“Would you like to phone your parents tonight? They’re expecting a call soon, right?”
Ginny had been waiting until she had Yun’s permission.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 457
#
In the den, Ginny picked up the phone and dialed. On the first ring, her father picked up.
“Our daughter, have you eaten?”
“Yes, Appa.” Ginny closed her eyes and tried to picture her father’s morning unshaven
face. When she was little, she’d jump into her parents’ bed, and his morning beard would scratch
her, and she’d burrow herself into her mother’s sweet-smelling embrace.
In the morning when he shaved, Ginny would sit on the bath stool to watch him do this
strange thing that her mother did not do, waiting patiently until he’d dab shaving cream on her
nose. Now that they were at Grandmother’s house, she imagined that he’d have to shave in front
of the tiny framed mirror in the tiled bathroom, which had a plastic wash tub and a corded
shower head instead of a bathtub.
“How was school this week?” he asked.
“100 on my social studies test and a 100 on my science test.”
“Our great, praiseworthy daughter,” he said. “Appa wishes he could have breakfast with
you.”
“Is that Ginny?” Her mother grabbed the handset.
“Umma, hello. How is your health? How is Granny? How is my little brother?”
“Everyone is well. Grandma is making breakfast, and Jiho is good. He’s been studying a
lot, too.”
Beneath the friendly conversation, there was a deep reserve of feeling. There were things

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 458
that none of them would mention for fear of worrying the other.
When Grandma did piecework for the hairpin factory, little Jiho helped her, too, getting
faster all the time. Umma sold yogurt drinks in the neighborhood, although her knees were
giving her trouble. Appa’s old blue truck had broken down again and needed a new carburetor,
wiping out their savings. Grandma had a cough that wouldn’t get better but she refused to go to
the doctor.
Ginny couldn’t mention that at school, she knew everyone but had no close friends and
didn’t know how to make them.
“Oh, Grandma needs me. I miss you, Ginny. I’m praying for you all the time,” her mother
said, and she passed the phone back to her husband.
“Hearing my daughter’s voice makes me feel like I had the most delicious meal. I feel
full. I won’t even need breakfast,” Appa said, wiping his nose with a tissue. “You make us so
proud, our beloved daughter. You make us so proud.”
Ginny couldn’t speak anymore. If she started crying, it would make her parents feel
awful.
“I know you are doing everything well, so I won’t tell you to do anything else. Please tell
Yun Teacher and Lion Teacher thank you again. We’re so grateful, Ginny-ya, we’re going to pay
all these debts. Umma and I are working and saving money by living at Grandma’s. You can
study hard and not worry.”
Ginny nodded.
“Appa, I better go now. This phone call is expensive,” she said. “I’ll call you next week.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 459
Ginny closed her eyes. Grandma’s house usually smelled like camphor liniment, soy
sauce, and the coal briquettes they used to heat the ondol rooms. When Grandma would hug her,
Ginny would breathe in the clean, nutty scent of her hair oil.
After she hung up the phone, her family vanished again for the week. There was no way
of knowing when she’d see them again. Ginny wiped her face with the back of her hand then
went to the bathroom to wash. She’d get into her pajamas, finish the worksheets before bed. The
adults were eating now, and she wouldn’t bother them.
#
Yun served the salad in bowls and passed the bottle of Ranch dressing. The men took ribs and
chicken from the boxes and put them on their plates.
“The ribs are great,” DH said, chewing.
Peter nodded, his mouth also full. He hadn’t eaten all day.
“Tek was a surprise,” Yun said, her eyes crinkling.
She was confused by his appearance. More than anyone else, she knew things were
awkward between Mido and Tek. Mido had been mentioning him less. Of course, she’d already
noticed her friend’s growing ease with Peter, but Mido had said nothing about the tutor. Peter
was harder to read, but they got along well enough, and she never saw Peter with another girl.
“He told her that he couldn’t make the trip. Then he showed up at work. At the new
location.”
Peter looked up from his food and studied Yun’s bemused expression.
“So do we like him?” DH asked. “So weird they left even before introducing him to her

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 460
brother? Don’t you think he should have met me? I’m her brother,” he said again.
“Well, I met him when I was in middle school, and he seems sort of the same. Good-
natured. Funny.”
“Mido said that he had a crush on you then,” Peter said.
Lion shrugged. “Everyone has a crush on my wife.”
“Not me,” Peter said.
“Me neither,” DH chimed in.
“Okay. Me neither,” Lion said, laughing.
Yun threw a balled up paper napkin at her husband.
“Yes, I think Tek might have had a tiny crush on me, but it passed since I had zero
interest in him. He seemed so Australian and not Korean at all.”
“I guess Mido is fine with that since she grew up in Australia but I found his informal
behavior strange. Also, his Korean is not great.”
“Let’s just be honest. You were waiting for a better looking man, and I happen to be that
ideal combination of intelligence, musical creativity, and movie star good-looks,” Lion said.
Yun lowered her head and stared at her dinner, stifling a smile.
“Indeed,” she said at last. “I was waiting for you.”
“Aaaww,” DH let out.
“So do we like him?” Peter asked this time. “I didn’t get a chance to speak with him.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 461
In terms of looks, Tek was quite handsome—tall, clear-skinned, and fair. He kept his
black, spiky hair short, and there was something happy and light in his expression. His smile
came quickly. Like Mido, his brown eyes were large and well-shaped.
He wasn’t like Peter, who appeared sober, almost too serious. Even when Peter joked, he
could keep a straight face. Tek was the sort who’d laugh at his own punchline, inviting you to
laugh with him. Peter could tell a joke without ever breaking.
“I wonder how long he’s staying. Apparently, his job is really intense,” Yun said.
“I thought he was pleasant,” Lion said. “I mean, for a lawyer. He didn’t seem to be full of
himself.”
“Be fair. How many lawyers do you know?” Yun asked.
“Enough,” Lion replied. “I could never be one. Tough job.”
Lion habitually gave everyone the benefit of the doubt and half dozen chances at
redemption besides. Yun thought Tek was fine, but couldn’t figure out why he hadn’t come
sooner. Tek hadn’t done anything wrong, and though they weren’t formally engaged, he had used
the word fiancé like it was nothing. Tek was casual, used to winning arguments.
“They’re not going to get married,” Peter said. “I’d put a bet down on it.”
“Married?” DH said loudly.
“He told me he was her fiancé,” Peter said.
“I heard that, too,” Lion said.
“He’s fine, but no one is good enough for my Mido,” Yun said.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 462
There, someone said it, and somehow, Peter felt relief then suddenly worry. He was
curious about Tek, and he would have preferred to have observed him longer.
“I didn’t get a chance to speak with him,” Peter said, and Yun glanced at her husband
who shrugged. “I mean, not that I have any right,” he added then started collecting the empty
dinner plates and placed them in the sink.
“Fiancé, huh? We’ll see about that,” DH said with a harumph. “My baby sister.”
After clearing up, the guys returned to the garage to work on the song.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 463
3:8 July 2000 "Bond"
8. July 2000
#
Clutching a pink stuffed rabbit close to her chest, Danbi sat quietly in the rocker watching Anna
sleep—her chest, its width barely a handspan, rising and falling with each deep breath.
Her daughter’s nursery was painted a pale green, because the color was the only thing
Danbi had liked about growing up in a farming town.
Born and raised in the outskirts of Sangju, Danbi had loathed almost everything about her
rural hometown: the narrow minded elderly villagers who clucked their tongues and gossiped
about her profligate drunken stepfather; how the harsh sun etched even young mothers with

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 464
indelible wrinkles and frowns, capturing their too early disappointments; the cheap nylon
clothing saturated in gaudy colors and incongruous prints that covered squat country bodies; and
the uniformly dyed jet black permanent waved hair of middle aged women, including her weak-
willed mother who would not leave a terrible man no matter how Danbi had begged.
Through unfathomable efforts at a competitive girls high school and two suneung trials,
Danbi was accepted into Korea University as a math major and graduated second in her class.
Always surrounded by men, she had refused countless romantic overtures of peers, graduate
students, and young professors, developing the reputation of being the ice virgin. Discreetly, far
away from campus and under a different name, she’d dated a series of wealthy married
businessmen who gave her money for school.
As soon as she was hired at HRT, Danbi threw away her second pager, broke up with all
the older men, and moved to a small apartment closer to her office, where none of them could
ever find her.
Contempt for her rural upbringing had made Danbi aspire elsewhere, yet now, over 9,000
miles away in an elegant nursery in a grand house in Irvine with Anna, her two year old daughter
old fast asleep in a toddler bed, converted from a crib imported from Italy, she yearned for
Sangju’s verdant fields, rock terraces that touched the clouds, evergreen mountains thick with
ancient trees, and the blue and white streaked skies that touched its waters. She missed the
plaintive sounds of the people’s voices, the rounded Sangju dialect that bore little relationship
with Seoul speech, and her umma’s sad way of phrasing everything into a questions.
Danbi heard Shin’s footfalls outside the nursery door. At the crib, she covered Anna with
her pink quilt, kissed her dear child’s forehead, and left the room.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 465
She touched his shoulder ever so lightly.
“Where were you?”
Shin smiled at her, not wanting to lie but knowing she’d be displeased with his answer.
“I want to take a shower. It’s late.”
For a moment, Danbi felt afraid, wondering if he could have gone to a room salon. She’d
heard of two between Garden Grove and Anaheim. They had sex nearly every day or every other
day, and she couldn’t imagine him needing more. It was important for him to have sex.
“Are you upset with me?” she asked.
“No, no.”
“Do you want me to scrub your back?”
He shook his head and went to the bedroom, not wanting her to follow him. Shin wanted
to be alone. For two hours, he had driven around looking for John but had missed him at work
and home.
Danbi went to the kitchen. In the refrigerator, she found the ingredients to make a stew
and heated the short ribs. The housekeeper had already made the rice.
The first time she had sex with Shin was at a motel in Shinchon. He had flirted with her
after a work dinner.
“Miss Jung is the smartest and loveliest trainee in the world,” he’d said to her at the taxi
stand.
So she asked him to take her home claiming she’d had too much to drink. “I’m afraid of

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 466
being alone with the driver. Would I be out of your way? Could you be my protector?”
In the taxi, when they passed a motel, she looked at Shin first then asked the driver to pull
in. In the lobby, without any words exchanged, Shin knew exactly why they were there. He asked
for the honeymoon suite, which was the most expensive room.
“I’ve always wanted a grown up man to be mine,” she’d said as he undressed her slowly.
She took him to the bathroom, got on her knees and washed him, not letting him touch her until
she was ready.
On the bed, he turned her around and made love to her, and she bled a little, making him
think that it was her first time.
With her index finger, she tapped the blood on the sheets.
“Will you take responsibility for me?”
“Of course,” he’d said before climaxing.
The first year of their affair intoxicated him. With the energy of a twenty-four year old
woman, she thought of new things and places each week.
Danbi bought erotic novels and manhwa and studied what men and women wanted from
sex. She didn’t like pornographic films, finding them more unhelpful than vulgar. The women
were often unappealing and looked artificial.
For her purposes, the images weren’t important. She cared about the motivations in the
novels and manhwa because if she could control a man’s motives, she could do what she wanted.
She could even keep him.
Of course, Danbi had lovers before but none of them could do anything really important

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 467
for her. Money was a commodity that many men possessed and many young women could
extract it from them. So, that home could never be enough.
Never before Shin did she want to possess a married man. He wasn’t rich, and he was not
the most important officer in the company. He was beautiful and strong. When he talked about
his sons, she envied them and loved him more. He could be old-fashioned about what a man was
supposed to do for a woman, and Shin was tender with her, even when she could be cruel.
Always, he forgave her though she could not understand why. When he was angry with her, she
was afraid of losing him.
After Shin’s numerous attempts to be free from her, she realized that she loved his failure
to be free.
A year after they met, she went to his apartment and made him dinner and asked him to
leave his wife. He ate the meal and they made love.
“It isn’t up to me. My wife is Catholic, and she refuses to ever give me a divorce. I’m
responsible for her and our sons,” and his answer had not wavered in all the years they had been
together.
After Anna was born, he promised never to leave her. Danbi had not realized what it
would feel like to be a mother. For Shin, she would have killed a person; but for Anna, she would
have died for her. Everything had changed after she had a baby. Anna was perfect—creamy skin,
Shin’s large eyes, and Danbi’s button nose. Already she could speak well. Her first word had
been cat.
Danbi wanted another child, but Shin said no and got a vasectomy. “In twenty years when
Anna finishes college, I’ll be 75. Let’s be reasonable.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 468
#
In her large kitchen with its double-door, stainless steel refrigerator, twin German dishwashers,
and six burner stove, Danbi cooked a meal for Shin and set the table.
His dark wet hair was combed back and his tanned profile was still remarkable—the
unusual aquiline nose, the sad deep set eyes and his elegant mouth. Shin wore a black polo shirt
and khakis. He was barefoot.
“You made dinner?” Shin seemed surprised.
“Yes.”
He sat down at the table, having retained the manners of an older generation, vulnerable
to a woman pouring him a drink or cooking him a meal. Shin was good at being grateful and
liked the roles a woman and a man played from another era.
“Do you want a drink?” she asked.
“No. I’m okay.”
She served his dinner and sat opposite him without eating.
“You ate?”
“Yes,” she lied, always watching her figure, never allowing herself to weigh more than 50
kilograms.
She poured his water and sat quietly, letting him eat in peace. When he was done, she
cleared the dishes.
“Did you call her?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 469
“No. I told you I wouldn’t,” he said. “The answer would be the same.”
“I did a bad thing. I’m sorry,” she said.
Shin looked concerned.
“I called him.”
“Who?”
“Your eldest son.”
“Joey?”
She nodded, her eyes full of fear.
“I told you that’s not allowed. There’s a line. My sons should be left alone. My life is
separate from theirs now, and—”
“But you send them money still. Every month. Like a Swiss watch. I’ve never seen you
not send—”
“My wife and sons are still my responsibility. What did you say to my son?”
“I invited him to visit us in California. He has a baby sister now. I invited him and his
brothers. This summer. Anytime. If she won’t give you a divorce, why can’t we be modern? Why
can’t you see your boys? You have a right to see them.”
“I can go to New Jersey.”
“Why can’t they come here? We have guest rooms.”
“Do you know where I was today?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 470
It was her turn to look worried.
“I went to see Koh Yohan. But I couldn’t find him.”
“Why?”
“I needed to talk to someone. You’re making me crazy.”
“I’m sorry,” Danbi said. Shin closed his eyes, and she knew he was trying to be calm so
she went to him and sat on the dining room floor by his chair and laid her head on his lap.
“Forgive me. I was wrong. I won’t do it again. I want us to be a good family. I don’t want you to
go there anymore.”
Shin knew she didn’t want him to go back to his sons this summer. He had gone back
only once, and it had been an awkward three days with Mary barely speaking to him, and the
boys still in shock. Joey, in particular, could not contain his disappointment. Luke, the middle
son, had walked out of a restaurant before the food came out, and the youngest, Patrick, had sat
in his chair and cried, begging his father to return to them.
“I won’t do it again,” she said, and she didn’t.
This was how it was between them. He would tell her no, and she would test him until he
warned her, and then she would apologize, and he would forgive.
“What did Joey say?”
“He won’t come here.”
“Is that all?”
“He said I was a bad person because I had known that you were married.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 471
Shin dropped his chin to his chest, thinking of his first child, whom he had once carried
in his arms no differently than baby Anna. Joey was already 25 years old, third year in law
school. He had no right to have such good sons, and of course, it was Mary who had raised them.
“Do you still want to be friends with Yohan Koh? If you miss him, why don’t you hire
him? I can’t imagine him wanting to work at that fried fish place.”
“You think he would work at our insurance agency?” He laughed.
“Yes. He’s 53 years old. There’s no trading company that’s hiring a man like him. You
know that. We had to create our own business and own jobs. He has no choices. All these
salarymen—”
“I’ve already asked him. Months ago when I first saw him. He flat out refused. And the
last time we saw them at church, don’t you remember what his sister-in-law Sonya said? You are
supposed to never talk with his wife or him again.”
Danbi said nothing, having learned more about Sonya and her husband’s family’s
business from Bina her cousin’s wife, who still kept up with everything back home. No one
trifled with Sonya, her husband Yong-gil, and Chairman Mun.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 472

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 473
3:9 July 2000 "Wedlock
9. July 2000
#
In the morning, Sonya accompanied the Chairman to view a large parcel of property in Hong-dae
— six attached buildings not far from the university. The canny seller, who had come down from
the North during the war with his family as a young man, now wanted to retire and his middle-
aged daughter, who lived in America, couldn’t manage the properties.
The eighty-year old seller, wearing a maroon colored wool vest over a charcoal cardigan
and gray corduroys, said he wanted a fair price without fuss, and the Chairman was the first
person he’d contacted, knowing his solid reputation in the shaky world of real estate. Mun’s
handshake was surety for a clean and open deal.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 474
As he was leaving, the Chairman told the seller that he would send the company team for
due diligence, but as far as he was concerned, if the engineer, accountants, and lawyers thought it
was what the seller had purported, he would buy it.
Seeing the valuable site lifted the Chairman’s mood considerably, and he proposed lunch
at the Shilla which was only thirty minutes away.
Without having to ask, the host seated the Chairman and Sonya in the back of the
restaurant with a grand view of the mountain.
“I feel like a young man,” he said.
“You are not an old man.”
“You speak always in a such a kind way.”
Sonya smiled.
“Did you want to get the buffet or a la carte?” she asked.
“I feel like eating well today,” he said.
The two ordered a bottle of water to share, because the Chairman never drank alcohol in
the afternoon.
As they ate their lunch, now and then, a person would stop by and bow to either the
Chairman or Sonya, which they had expected by coming to the hotel. Across the main room, they
spotted a number of friends, and even the pastor of their church was dining with several
businessmen.
Before the pastor exited, he came by the table to say hello then excused himself.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 475
“I always forget how busy this hotel is,” she said.
“It’s good to be around and about with my Sonya.”
When the bill came, the Chairman paid it, and they walked out of the restaurant, again
being greeted by a number of people they knew.
“Would you like to pick up some bread?” he asked as he passed the hotel bakery.
Sonya nodded and paused to look over the pastries. Her sons had loved the cream bread
as boys but they were now grown men. She selected a loaf of the milk bread and a twist donut
for the Chairman and looked up to ask if he wanted anything else, which was when she spotted
her husband with a tall slender beauty walking hand in hand toward the elevators.
As to be expected, she was not the same woman who’d visited her two years ago. Jayoon
Kim — another young woman who worked at a room salon. This one was taller and looked more
professional in her beige suit dress and nude heels. They stood in front of the bank of elevators,
they released their hands only to press the Up button.
The Chairman followed Sonya’s gaze and frowned before checking his watch. “It is two
o’clock.”
He motioned with his right hand toward Yong-gil and the young woman, and Sonya
suddenly put her right arm on the Chairman’s left shoulder.
“It isn’t that I don’t care,” she said. “I do; however, I don’t think it’s wise to approach
them now. I’m sorry you had to see that.”
The Chairman looked sad.
“It is hard for me to believe that my nephew could be so thoughtless.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 476
“I would prefer to return home,” she said, leaving the tray of bread on the counter.
#
The car ride home was silent. The Chairman rarely spoke about private matters in front of the
chauffeur, and the two sat in the back of the car and faced the road.
At home, the Chairman asked her to come to his office.
“What would you like to do? This is not the first time, and surely, it will not be the last. I
know a little about some of them, and so far, there have been no children out of wedlock. I
suppose, I should be grateful for that.”
“You looked so happy after seeing the property and during lunch. It’s a pity that your
good afternoon was spoiled,” Sonya said, and it was unusual for her to speak of unpleasant
things like that with him. She didn’t want her husband to be out of favor with the Chairman, but
he had witnessed her humiliation, and for the first time, her husband’s philandering struck a
different chord within her.
“You married him because I asked it of you,” he said. “You trusted me and my choice. I
take responsibility for this. I did not know the extent of his weakness. He is an excellent
businessman. I suppose all of this was not enough.” The Chairman raised his right arm slightly,
gesturing to his exquisite home.
“I am not enough,” she said.
“That’s not true. He is a fool. Young men are fools.” The Chairman corrected himself.
“He is no longer young. In fact, it is precisely when men are this age, when they act most
absurdly to prove that they are not old. I thought he would be wiser. My sister-in-law spent a

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 477
fortune on his education and raised him to be a smart businessman, but she did not raise a good
man. I thought too little before choosing him for you. What a waste,” he muttered.
Sonya didn’t want to sit in this office but she didn’t want to be alone. She was a failed
wife. Sonya had not been able to keep her husband’s interest or esteem. In the middle of the day,
he held hands with a woman at a hotel where anyone in their world could have seen them.
Everything about her life in Seoul seemed false. Worse, she had let the Chairman down,
and he had rescued her from many blind alleys and the kinds of broken promises women from
her background were offered. She’d admired no one as much as the Chairman.
One by one, the Chairman, a small time real estate broker, had purchased abandoned
factory buildings and fixed them up. With foresight and luck, he’d acquired dozens of others,
developing them into a wildly impressive real estate portfolio. He was reputed to be an honest
landlord, not overcharging a desperate tenant with poor credit, while never suffering liars. When
his wife was discovered to be infertile, he did not consider outside his marriage for an heir. He
chose his eldest brother’s brightest son and taught him everything he knew about real estate.
The Chairman was embarrassed by Yong-gil’s flaunting of his mistress. Their pastor had
been in that dining room only moments before. He could have seen his nephew with the woman.
The Chairman had always prided himself on properly assessing the character of his employees,
and he had treasured Sonya so much that he had asked her to be his nephew’s bride.
The Chairman had already written a will, leaving his business to Yong-gil, Sonya and
Yong-gil’s two sons, whose births he’d awaited in the hospital just the same as Yong-gil. He had
named the boys himself.
“I took his dollars,” Sonya said, looking up. “From his bedroom safe. He knows it was

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 478
me. Only I have his passcode. I deposited the money already in an account in California. It was
$250,000. I don’t know where he got it, and I didn’t ask. I took it as my compensation. For all
the terrible, terrible conversations I’d had over the years.” For a moment, she could hear her own
self-pity, and she stopped speaking and looked at her manicured nails.
“It wasn’t enough,” he said. “A million wouldn’t cover it. Not ten million dollars.”
Sonya laughed, and she covered her face with her hands.
“I’m glad you can still laugh.”
“Would it be possible to get a million dollars?”
“What?”
“From him.”
“Why?”
Sonya couldn’t believe the words came out of her mouth but when she’d said it, she
realized that this was what she needed.
“I spoke to a lawyer. I can get an investor visa for America if I invest in a business and
create jobs. I think he said it’s a million.”
“I’ll take it out of his share of the business. I can do that. It’s my money to give.”
“Really?”
“Yes,” he nodded, feeling pleased. “You never ask me for anything. You can have two.
It’s easier for me to give you money from his share of the estate rather than to kill him for
hurting your feelings.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 479
She laughed again.
“But why do you need a visa? Did you want to leave?”
Sonya didn’t say anything.
“I need you here,” he said. “Even if my stupid nephew—” the Chairman stopped himself.
“—And the boys need you.”
“They’re twenty five and twenty three,” she shook her head, not believing herself how
old they had become. “Seungman has already started at the company, and Jiman will be done
with college soon after. They haven’t complained once about military service—”
“They’re fine sons,” he said. “You’ve been a good mother to them. They’re better men
than their own father.”
Neither of them wanted dinner so they watched a documentary about a man who had
climbed some of the highest mountains around the world in the den.
The housekeeper and cook came by to tell her they were leaving for the night. At ten
o’clock, her husband wasn’t home yet. What would the Chairman would say, she wondered. She
was afraid to ask him. It was hard not to think about Yong-gil in a room at the Shilla with that tall
beauty in the beige dress.
Whenever mistresses had visited her, it had been during the day and usually in her office
at home. Almost never did she think about the woman and her husband making love. It had been
years since she had been with him, but since he was the only man she had ever slept with,
everything she knew about lovemaking was related to Yong-gil. Sometimes, she blamed herself
for not being sexually attractive enough or skilled in keeping him with her.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 480
On television dramas and films, there were so many instances of women cheating on
husbands, and men cheating on wives, and it was hard for her to imagine that there were so many
people fooling around. Seeing Yong-gil at the elevator banks holding the young woman’s hand
had made all the prior conversations feel different. Her husband had looked happy and in love.
Perhaps he was proud to be with a young, beautiful and elegant woman in daylight at a luxurious
hotel. Perhaps every man knew what they would do, and he had indeed felt young again, drunk
on the wine of other men’s admiration.
“Do you think I’m attractive?” she asked the Chairman. “I’m sorry. I can’t believe—”
“I think you are the most beautiful woman I have ever met,” he said, having read her
thoughts behind her furrowed brow. The Chairman put his index and middle fingers between her
eyebrows and smoothed out the ridges.
The documentary ended, and the Chairman changed the channel for the news. There was
a clip of President Kim getting off a plane.
“I don’t envy him,” the Chairman said. “All these presidents and politicians. Terrible
jobs. I feel sorry for the sons of bitches that I can’t ever criticize any of them. It’s hard enough
just to run my company and even take care of my little family. How do you run a country that’s
in a perpetual state of war.”
The Chairman’s face appeared sad again at the memory of his nephew at the hotel. He
didn’t know what to tell him to stop. Sonya did not know this, but he’d already told him to watch
himself several times and never to bring shame on their family. A year ago, when another girl
called and would hang up during meals, the Chairman had pulled him aside to have more control
over his affairs.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 481
His nephew had blamed Sonya.
“But she doesn’t love me,” Yong-gil had said. “My wife has never loved me. Sonya
married me because of you. I’ll never divorce her, but I will have affection. The romance makes
me work better. I don’t know how you live without it,” he’d said.
Sonya sat beside the Chairman and watched the clock, wondering if Yong-gil would
appear before eleven. If he didn’t come home in thirty minutes, he would sleep out and join them
for breakfast. With their sons away, Yong-gil had been more lax about his schedule.
“He won’t be home tonight,” the Chairman said. “You should go to sleep.”
Sonya nodded and went to her room. After she bathed and changed, she went to bed and
couldn’t sleep. She rose from her bed and went to the kitchen.
She got her water and returned to the room and saw that the Chairman was still awake in
his room.
“You’re not sleeping,” she said. She wore a bathrobe over her pajamas.
“Come in and sit down. Talk to me,” he said. “I’m worried about you.”
Sonya entered his room. He was seated in his reading chair by the large window with an
open newspaper in his lap.
“Will you give this business to your sister and her husband?” he asked.
“I thought if I lived there, then I could be useful. I’m not useful here. They could also
work for me. To get the visa, I have to create jobs. I met a woman who owns a nail salon that’s
really successful. I looked at the numbers. It’s impressive. I would be able to pay you back in a
few years, I thought.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 482
“You’ve thought it all out. You are leaving me. When I haven’t done anything wrong,”
the Chairman smiled.
“My sister needs me more, I think.”
“No. I need you more, Sonya. You and the boys are all I have in this world. I’m 65 years
old, and all the money and buildings are nothing without you.”
“Your nephew—”
“I care about him, too. That’s what makes this impossible.”
Sonya covered herself, pulling the white robe tightly across her body as if she were cold.
“Is the air conditioning too low?”
She shook her head, and she got up and went to close his door.
Sonya opened her robe and unbuttoned her pajama top. She wasn’t wearing a brassiere.
The Chairman looked at her body then her face.
She moved closer to him and placed his hands on her breasts. He was still seated and
dumbstruck at what she was doing. For years, he’d thought only of her. He kept his hands lightly
on her, feeling her skin beneath his fingers, thinking she might break but he could not pull away.
“It would not be right—” she said, and as she stirred as if waking from her own spell, he
pulled her closer to him.
“You’re everything that’s good in my life,” he said, removing her white robe, and she
stepped out of her clothes. He followed her to his bed.
Like young lovers, fumbling and shy, without any extra words, they remembered what

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 483
they were supposed to do, and submerged in a deep dream, they found each other.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 484
3:10 July 2000 "Debate"
10. July 2000
#
They made love, and it was good like before.
Mido buttoned up her brown cardigan over her indigo sundress and sat down on the
tweed armchair. On the bed, Tek was still wearing his blue cotton boxers, and cold, he covered
his legs with the blanket.
The room wasn’t big but there was a good-sized desk for work and beside it a single size
coffee machine on a mini refrigerator. The window overlooked the tarred roof of the building
next door and the half-empty hotel parking lot. It was dark outside but it was possible to make

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 485
out the tall palm trees from the streetlights.
“I can’t stay over,” she said.
Tek had assumed that she would, and he was debating with her now, which she never
enjoyed.
“You’re almost 22 years old. Your parents can’t possibly think that you’re a virgin.”
Mido didn’t know what they’d think, never having discussed it. She got up and raised the
thermostat.
Tek pulled on a blue sweater and a pair of jeans. He stood barefoot on the tan carpet,
hands on his hips, ready to argue.
“Your parents would understand. It defies logic that I’d fly all this way and we would not
see each other as much as we could. Be reasonable, Mido,” he said, then closed his argument
with his signature moral punch:
“Deceit breaks bonds. Truth builds trust.”
He took her hands into his.
Mido remained sitting and looked up at him.
“Tek, we have to perform our parts for now.”
“Is this like a play for you?”
Mido looked at her bare feet. Had she known that he were coming, she would’ve given
herself a pedicure. She tucked her coarse heels beneath the armchair.
“Are you writing out a part for me? Am I the handsome romantic lead? Or, the villain?

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 486
The young lawyer from Australia who travels 7,500 miles to Los Angeles to rescue the budding
playwright or to kidnap an innocent victim?” He wagged his eyebrows, trying to make her laugh.
This was Tek. He knew the old Mido—what she had once cared about and the things she
refused to consider while living here. In her bedroom, she had not yet unbound the stack of plays
and writing books that she’d allowed herself to bring back in her limited luggage to California.
In a trunk, she’d stored away her second-hand copy of Lajos Egri’s The Art of Dramatic Writing,
which she’d read cover to cover three times. She had forgotten about it until now.
In Sydney, whenever she could, she’d seen nearly every new play, musical, and film.
Here, only an hour’s drive from Hollywood, a place that made movies for the world, she had not
watched a single American film. It had been easy to forget what had once given her immense joy
because, there was always so much work to do.
She had not even gone into a movie theater. If there was any free time, she’d go to Yun’s
to eat takeout and watch rented videos of dramas that sometimes had 60 episodes, which she’d
never done in Seoul or Sydney, since her parents eschewed television. She’d sit in Yun’s living
room with her and occasionally, her mother Nari and Ginny, not knowing which episode she
happened to drop in on, not that it mattered, because she was just there to be with people who
gave her strength. They could have been eating a pizza, talking about their lives, or baking a
cake.
For her, she enjoyed mostly watching their rapt faces, listening to the Korean being
spoken, and how similar romantic plots were spun out no matter which era, which seemed to
comfort Yun and her mother in their predictability.
It was in Mido’s nature to keep from mentioning the number of times the same plot

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 487
devices would occur: a man would give a back hug to a woman cooking or cleaning in the
kitchen; a man would grasp a woman’s forearm to keep her from walking away; a woman would
trip and fall into a man’s arms, teaching them to look into each other’s eyes and feel the power of
an accidental embrace; or that lovers never kissed until the second or third from the final
episode. She knew Tek would mock the stories—the amnesia, evil mothers-in-law, the fated
reunions, finale weddings, and the way everyone good got a happy ending.
The harder life became, the more Mido understood why Yun and her mother borrowed
ten or eleven videos per week.
In Seoul and Sydney, Mido’s family watched Korean news occasionally, but lately, if Bo
wasn’t studying, her parents might watch a Korean documentary or the latest drama on a Korean
channel. They were living in America, but it didn’t feel like it. They spoke more Korean now in
Orange County than they did in Sydney.
Mido didn’t know how to explain any of this to Tek—so bright-eyed in his hopeful
expression. He had asked to say hello to her parents at their workplace, but she had put it off.
He was staying in California for a week, and she told him that it would better for him to
see them after church, when they could go out to a restaurant for a meal. She didn’t want to bring
him home. They had met him a number of times already and liked him but everything was
different now.
He would have been startled to see how they lived. Her father fried fish and her mother
sold luxury goods in a makeshift Korean department store, which resembled a small warehouse
with clothing, bags, and jewelry for people who wouldn’t walk into an American store.
At least the new hagwon in Irvine was smart looking and new, unlike the hagwon in

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 488
Cypress—three one-story storefronts capped together like uneven teeth to accommodate over a
hundred children of cooks, nurses, school teachers, taxi drivers, and shopkeepers.
Only three years ago, Mido had been in a first year student at the University of Sydney
with a play chosen to be staged and performed at the Seymour Centre by the oldest student
theater group in Australia. That part of her life seemed, even to her, to have belonged to another
person.
Before Tek arrived, she had been feeling proud that she was helping to pay the rent and
contribute to their house down-payment savings account. The hotel room still felt too cold, and
she hugged her arms. Mido didn’t want to feel embarrassed, but she was, and it filled her with
shame.
Tek sat on the floor by her feet. He picked up her right foot and massaged it, and she
pulled it away gently, not wanting him to feel the rough heel.
“It tickles,” she lied.
“Are you writing at all?”
She didn’t know how to answer him. He didn’t mean to be hurtful, but she felt awful.
“Why did you come?” she asked.
“What? Because I missed you. I thought you’d be glad to see me.”
“You said you had work. I wasn’t expecting you. I would’ve planned something—”
“In record time, I finished the PLT and took the bar exam. The whole time I kept thinking
of you, so I fixed it so I could come right away—” Tek looked hurt, and Mido felt worse.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 489
“—I’m sorry. I’m glad you’re here.”
“You could come back with me. I know all the answers you’re going to give already, but I
wanted to hear it from you. In person. We can argue all night. That’s why I came.”
“I can’t go back, and I have to go home now.”
“You could go back with me. This is your life, Mido. Finish university. Get your degree.
You can live with me. I can pay the tuition. I have savings. I’m with Stephen Jackson at his
chambers. He’s the best in complex commercial litigation in all of New South Wales—a
legend—and he has found a place for me on his team. That’s why I’ve been so busy, because I
was setting things up for us. In a few years, I should be on my own, getting referrals. I’ll be
arguing really interesting cases. There’s not a lot of money now, but there will be loads later.
Stephen said that he’s never seen a person so young who can argue tactically as well as me.
“If we live simply at first, maybe we can send some money to your folks. I know they’re
hard-up right now—”
“—They’re fine,” she said, getting up. “I have to go.”
“Why are you getting angry with me. Just stay and discuss the point. Tell me why I’m
wrong. I’m perfectly capable of admitting that I’m wrong, but tell me why. Can’t we discuss the
merits?”
Mido stared at the door, its polished brass knob, and she wanted to go home. She didn’t
want to explain that she had to help her brothers finish school first. If she kept her salary as the
manager of Fortress and increased her tutoring, she could make almost six figures, and she could
help her parents get a house and stop paying rent. There had been immigration lawyer bills, car

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 490
payments, insurance, furniture, rent deposits, and what she had not realized as a child was that
every day you’re alive costs money. If she stopped earning, then someone in her family had to
earn more, defer the timeline of their goals, or put them aside altogether.
“Mido, if you said to them that this is what you wanted, they’d understand. Your parents
are good people. They can’t possibly expect you to sacrifice your future.”
“My folks would understand, but this is my decision to support them for now. My salary
is meaningful to our family right now.”
“I can help you.”
“I don’t think that’s right.”
“I can’t move to Los Angeles, Mido. I can’t practice law here like in Sydney. I’d have to
start all over again, go to law school here, and I’ve already finished my training and took the bar.
I have the best barrister in the field who wants to back me. All my achievements mean something
back home—”
“I didn’t ask you to live here—”
“Why, why don’t you ask me?”
“I couldn’t ask you to start again, and you are meant to be in Sydney, Tek.”
“I know. I was born and raised in Sydney, and I have worked toward this since I started
debate in middle school. This is all I want to do: Become a barrister. And I want to be with you. I
don’t think you have a better counter argument because I know you want to be with me.”
Tek stood up and opened the refrigerator. He grabbed a bottle of water and drank it. “You
didn’t ask me to come. You’ve never asked me to come. This trip was my idea originally, and

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 491
when I thought I couldn’t make it, not once did you put up a fight. And now that I’m here, I
know you are happy. Then why can’t you come?”
Mido fell silent again.
“Why didn’t you tell me to come here?” he started again.
“I felt bad about the costs.”
“It’s not like I’m rich now but what’s the point of having any money if I can’t see you?
What’s the point of us dating if we never see each other? It’s been two years.”
Mido covered her mouth with her hands.
“I’d be happy to marry you,” Tek said.
There was that faithful resurgence of confidence. This was how Tek worked. He would
push his case, and when it felt hopeless, he’d come up with something else. He couldn’t lose.
She’d never thought of him as not being romantic, but somehow, this didn’t sound like a
proposal. He’d be happy to marry her, he said. It was an admission, or a concession. It was a
declaration of love, too, but it wasn’t a request.
“I can’t get married. I haven’t finished college.”
“Are we back to square one, mate? But I’ve submitted a plan. Sydney. I pay all the costs.
You. Me. Couple. Happy. What do you say?”
“I’m grateful that you came all this way, but I can’t go back to Sydney now. My family—
”
He shook his head and inhaled. From his expression, she could tell he was thinking of the

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 492
next argument.
“Can’t you stay tonight?”
He’d gone back to the first.
“I told you. My folks.”
“It’s always about your family. Always. For fuck’s sake, I flew all day and night to see
you. Remember me? The love of your life? You’re my best mate, Mido. I need you to come
back.”
Mido didn’t want to repeat herself, so she said nothing.
Tek wasn’t having it. He frowned and clasped his hands together.
If she stayed with him, not only would she get in trouble, her parents would think poorly
of him, which was something neither wanted. There was the bigger problem: She couldn’t say
what both of them felt at this moment which was that their outlook and values were no longer
aligned.
He was a Korean born in Australia and had grown up only among other Australians. Tek
was an only child with two successful professors. He had visited Korea once. Tek’s parents were
sophisticated intellectuals. They had never expressed any preference on the race of the woman
Tek married and told her so, which she’d found strange because the opinion was unsolicited. His
mother knew they were sleeping together because Tek had told her.
She had never told her parents that she wasn’t a virgin. Her parents could have known but
there was little reason to flout convention. To her, it seemed disrespectful. She knew they
wouldn’t approve but they wouldn’t have told her either way.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 493
If she stayed over, she’d be communicating something more than the fact that she was
sleeping with her boyfriend. She’d be telling her parents that she didn’t care what they thought,
and perhaps that was the greater offense.
“They won’t like it,” she said at last.
“Fine.”
In the lobby, there were two taxis waiting. Tek handed her five twenty dollar bills for the
fare, which embarrassed her. He opened the car door.
“I’ll see you tomorrow morning then?”
“I have to work tomorrow but I’ll try to get out early.”
“Can I come to the hagwon? In the morning? I can work there rather than in my hotel
room.”
Mido pursed her lips, not knowing what to say. She glanced at the taxi driver whose
hands grasped the steering wheel.
Closing the taxi door, Tek said to the driver,
“I need a few minutes, mate.”
The driver nodded and raised the window to give them privacy.
“I’ll stay in the offices where you and Yun work and see you during your breaks. If
there’s a desk, I can get my work done.”
“Wouldn’t you be more comfortable working here?”
“No. I would be more comfortable working in Sydney, Mido. Should I just get on a plane

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 494
tomorrow?”
“I didn’t mean that, Tek. I’m sorry. You can’t get mad at me when I didn’t know you were
coming.”
Tek turned from her and closed his eyes in frustration. Mido had never seen him so angry.
“Are we still dating?” he asked, raising his left hand as if he were arguing a point with a
judge. “Seriously.”
“Okay. Okay. I’ll ask Yun and Lion to pick you up tomorrow. We’ll go to the morning
services then head out to Irvine. I haven’t even mentioned to my parents that you want to say
hello. I was thinking that maybe after work ends, maybe we could all go out, but my parents get
so tired on Sunday nights. I have to go to work after church. I’m in charge of all these kids. Do
you want to go to church with us?” Mido was exasperated. He had no idea how hard it was to
move her schedule around, and how little of it could be fixed. “I don’t have a car, Tek, I can’t
just—”
“No. Just forget it. Forget tomorrow.”
Tek tried to compose himself. He couldn’t believe what was happening. On the plane,
he’d imagined a different response, a different Mido. He’d no idea she could be so stubborn.
Mido touched his forearm, making him turn to her.
“You’re right. I won’t get out until almost seven tomorrow and wouldn’t be able to see
you at the soonest 8; but if you come to Fortress, then I can see you during lunch and whenever
the kids are taking tests. I might be running around but if it’s quiet, I’ll get more time with you.
After church, we’ll come by. I’ll phone when we head to the hotel.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 495
Tek closed his eyes and smiled.
“Okay.” He felt terrible being upset with her. It wasn’t like him to curse, and he was
ashamed of his behavior.
“I’m sorry, Mido. You’re right. I took you by surprise. By coming.” He opened the taxi
door, and Mido got inside. He closed the door and out of habit, knocked on the roof of the car as
if for luck.
“Tomorrow, mate” he said.
The taxi drove away, and he stood there, wondering how he could change her mind.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 496
3:11 July 2000 "Fortress Teachers"
11. July 2000
#
Fortress Academy took up the second and third floor of Building E at the Blue Gate office
complex. Ever the optimist, Lion had negotiated an option to rent out two additional floors in the
same building at first availability. The high-end commercial complex was owned by Joel Bu, the
second son of a wealthy landowner in Hawaii, who lived modestly in Laguna. Joel was friendly
with Lion’s older brother Ray and had given him a favorable lease.
Lion and Yun had designed the office section of their second hagwon with great care.
There was a large office for the directors and an attached one for the business manager. The walls
and wide corridors were lined with shelves filled with books on education, psychology, self-

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 497
improvement, college admissions, as well as every different kind of test guide.
The large office had two desks, one for Lion and another for Peter. It could be used by
anyone from Fortress meeting with a parent, prospective hire, or a student. As the business
manager, for the first time in her life, Mido had her own office and business cards.
Lion and Peter managed the teachers and curricula, and Mido took care of all the
administrative functions. She was in charge of enrollment, scheduling, managing practice tests,
updating study guides, inventory management, and payroll. Both Peter and Mido taught
bootcamps, tutored privately, and managed the pilot program for college counseling with DH.
At Fortress, there were six regular tutors, six part-time tutors, including Bo, and three
college counselors.
When Tek arrived at Fortress, she let him use her office, and he started his work
immediately. As ever, he could work wherever and focus regardless of any number of
distractions. Mido did not have this ability to tune out everyone around her. He claimed that his
foam earplugs did half the work, but when she tried them, her focus was only marginally
improved.
It was Sunday afternoon, so the teachers were reviewing the practice tests from the day
before. The students were separated according to their verbal or math score ranges, but the
classes were not fixed. Each week, students could be moved from one class to another.
Seated on the armchair opposite Mido’s desk, Tek read cases, while she reviewed student
score reports. No different than her kindergarteners or middle school students, Mido wanted to
get to know each Fortress student and their goals.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 498
In all her schools, Mido had never had a teacher who’d cared about her in a personal way.
Throughout her years at school, she had witnessed many other students being chosen by an
instructor—clear favorites who had been marked as gifted or special—and long ago, Mido had
accepted that she would never be that student. She was too quiet, shy, and plain.
A student like her could not stand out in a large classroom of thirty or forty students, or in
a lecture hall of hundreds. It wasn’t the teacher’s fault. They were busy trying to teach the
material and manage a large class. Now that she had been in front of the classroom herself, she
was beginning to appreciate just how impossible the job must have been for her teachers.
The only time Mido had felt like a teacher really paid attention was Sean Teacher at the
hagwon in Seoul. He didn’t seem to have a favorite but in the classroom of ten or eleven
students, he listened to her and didn’t want to change her. She felt like he liked her the way she
was, and perhaps because he thought she okay, she wanted to learn more about whatever he
knew.
After Tek finished the last page, he removed his flesh-colored ear plugs and looked up.
Mido was taking notes on a yellow legal pad.
“What are you working on?” he asked.
“I’m putting together the list of kids who requested private tutoring. Demand exceeds
supply. Peter thinks we should create study groups, which is a good idea, I think. Then we don’t
need to hire more, keep costs down for everyone, and most importantly, keep the kids more
motivated?”
Tek looked doubtful, never having been a fan of hagwons or private tutoring.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 499
“Will you be leading a group?”
Mido nodded.
“Really? You haven’t taken the SATs here, right?”
“Actually, I have taken it.”
“And?”
“I did well enough to teach it.” She didn’t mention that she’d scored in the 99th percentile.
“I could apply to UCLA or Berkeley, or I guess any other university in the States. But getting in
is another thing altogether. There are many more factors here than just the standardized tests and
grades.”
“To get hired here, all the tutors have to show the official scores. In verbal, I got a perfect
score.”
“And for math?”
“I did quite well, thank you.” Mido checked the digital clock on the wall. “The kids are
breaking for lunch.”
“What are we eating?” Tek jumped up and rubbed his stomach. “Hungry.”
“There are lunch boxes for the faculty in the lounge. Do you want to eat here? I can bring
you one, or we can join the others.”
“I think we should eat here, no?”
#
They fed the students at Fortress SAT boot camp. Mido had ordered enough gimbop and cutlet

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 500
sandwiches for everyone. With only a forty five minute break for lunch, the kids ate in their
classrooms, but the tutors could eat anywhere.
From the faculty lounge, Mido picked up two lunchboxes and bottles of water. While she
grabbed napkins, Peter walked in. He raised his eyebrows, nodded hello, and approached the
table.
“Hey,” he said, pointing to her lunchboxes. “Is that one for me?”
“Oh, here,” she handed him one.
“You want to eat here?” he asked. They usually ate together.
“Tek’s here. In my office.”
“Your fiancé is following you to work now?” Peter laughed.
“He’s not my fiancé. He was kidding.”
“Didn’t sound like that.”
Mido punched his left shoulder lightly, and Peter winced dramatically, pretending to fall
backwards.
“Why do Korean girls hit?”
“Why do Korean guys need to be hit?”
Peter nodded. She used to be so quiet around him, and now, she snapped back at him.
“He’s not here for long and wanted to hang out today.”
“You’re hiding your boyfriend in your office? Do your students know?” Peter grinned.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 501
“Should I tell them?”
“You better not, Peter Son.”
“Got it. Well, then.” Peter sat down at the empty table opposite the food and opened the
lunchbox.
“How was class?” she asked.
“Highly motivated bunch,” he said. “No joke.”
“I gave you and my brother the top scorers because they need help on the hardest
problems.”
“Thank you.” He liked being the musician who could make precalculus look easy.
“There’s a very long list of kids who want math tutoring. How many do you want?”
“I can do six.”
“Can you do sixteen? I was thinking of trying out that group thing. There would be a four
groups of three.”
Peter laughed. “I’m glad you teach verbal.”
Mido tapped her mouth, “I mean, four groups of four.” She pretended to punch his
shoulder and tapped him with her fist.
“Wait, you get the math wrong, and I get hit? How is that fair?”
They both turned when they heard the knock on the heavy glass door of the faculty
lounge.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 502
Tek waved at her then entered.
“Here you are.”
Peter leaned in and whispered, “Doesn’t give you much breathing room, does he?”
Ignoring him, Mido picked up another lunchbox.
Peter picked up his food and followed.
“May I join you? So we can keep chatting about the small groups?”
Mido paused and DH and Bo entered. They would want to eat with them, too.
“Alright,” she said.
#
The five of them moved to the director’s office for more space. There were two long leather
sofas and a pair of armchairs, opposite the two large desks—one for Lion and the other for Peter.
DH sat between Peter and Bo, and Tek sat on the armchair closer to the sofa where Mido
sat. They had less than half an hour before the Peter, DH, and Bo returned to their classrooms.
Mido wouldn’t teach until later when the kids switched to verbal.
Tek didn’t seem to mind that the others had joined them, which was a relief to Mido.
Occasionally, Peter spoke to Bo in Korean, and though they knew each other well, Peter still
used honorifics and addressed Bo as Brother, because he was a year older. As DH’s best friend,
through a kind of social transitivity, Peter had become Bo’s younger brother, too. Recently, Bo
had given up the van driving to take more classes at Fullerton, and increased his weekend
tutoring, which made more money and gave him more time for his schoolwork. Now that DH

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 503
was here, creating the college counseling program and teaching math, she was working with both
her brothers and Peter.
Tek seemed to be taking it all in, and he asked the guys a lot of questions about college
admissions and standardized tests. He didn’t understand why there were so many factors in
college admissions.
“Why should it matter if a person can throw a ball?” Tek asked.
“I wouldn’t have gotten into Yale unless I played soccer,” DH said, taking another bite of
his chicken sandwich. He was already on his second lunchbox. “I got a likely letter way before
most of my peers at Andover.”
“With all due respect, mate, why should soccer matter to your admission status at a top
university?” Tek asked.
“Athletes are as valuable to a school community as someone who does math well,” Peter
offered. “I was a walk-on for Yale soccer, but I know it was a tip for me getting in. And—” he
stared at Tek’s profile, thinking that Tek was likely considered better looking to women than he
was. “What was your thing outside of school?”
“I was a national debating champion,” Tek answered. “It’s quite academic though.
Debate. I wouldn’t have been able to do law and become a barrister without that early training,
mate.” He smiled.
Bo glanced at his sandwich.
“Hey, Mido, these are pretty good. Where did you order them from?”
“A lady from Gospel Pres caters for us. Yun found her—”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 504
“I think it’s terrible for society that we overvalue athletes. Sports are fine but they don’t
help society. Only a few athletes can have jobs doing it, and so many boys lose their minds
about—
“Is my sister’s boyfriend putting down soccer?” DH turned to Peter, looking aghast.
DH had met Tek for the first time earlier in the morning, but hadn’t spent any time with
him. Bo knew him a little better since Tek had come by twice when he was in Sydney before
coming to California. Bo felt sorry for Tek; it couldn’t have been easy to face two older brothers
and Peter, who loved watching soccer almost as much as playing music.
Tek laughed, thinking that DH and Peter were joking, because they sounded like they
were.
Peter switched to Korean with Bo.
“Brother, would you like another sandwich? I’m going to grab another one.”
Bo shook his head no.
Tek glanced at Bo and Peter. His Korean had improved dramatically at school but it
would not have occurred to him to speak it with these guys.
“How many students does this hagwon have?” Tek asked in English.
Peter replied in English, “120 now, but there’s a waiting list. We could have 200 if we
wanted, but I’d have to hire more tutors. As it is, I had to pull Brother out of semi-retirement. I
hope I’m not going to affect your grades this semester.”
Bo was taking two extra classes this summer and working on a psychology research
project. He would apply to UCLA in the fall. He studied, worked, and slept. At church, several

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 505
college girls had tried flirting with him, but Bo refused to notice. He was determined to transfer
and get into grad school.
Tek looked around the office. “This place looks like a serious business.” He stretched his
arms and put his feet up on the coffee table, the soles of Tek’s shoes facing Bo.
Bo glanced at Tek’s feet and frowned.
Peter cocked his head in surprise, never having seen a Korean put up his feet on a table,
especially in front of an elder.
“This place is clearly a moneymaker, mates,” Tek said, and he meant it as a compliment.
DH unwrapped the remaining half of the tonkatsu sandwich. He was trying not to deduct
points. In his mind, everyone started with a hundred, and they could keep that score or go down.
He had met Tek in Mido’s office briefly, and though he wasn’t an old-fashioned person,
having spent most of his life in the States and Australia, even he had been put off by Tek’s breezy
casualness.
Bo could be far more accepting of people and would never look for an offense. He would
argue that Tek, an Australian born Korean, wouldn’t necessarily know proper Korean etiquette.
DH wasn’t just offended by the athlete comments, which had questioned the legitimacy of his
college acceptance, but rather, it also surprised him that Tek wasn’t recognizing his subordinate
status in the room.
Tek was younger than Bo by a year and Peter by a few weeks, which shouldn’t have
mattered but sort of did, and DH was almost a year younger than Tek, but he was still Mido’s
older brother, which meant something, too. Tek had committed the social sin of being too

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 506
familiar. The national debating champion had failed a test without having recognized its
existence.
It wasn’t that Tek didn’t see that the guys didn’t like him. He knew something was off.
He was perplexed and checked Mido’s face. The guys were annoyed but he had no idea why. He
had gone to an all boys school for most of his life and would have thought that he understood
men, but Tek had not been around any Korean guys.
Mido looked at his shoes, which were still on the coffee table. Tek followed her gaze and
removed his feet and sat up straight, unable to believe that a bunch of young men could get so
worked up about his being at ease.
Tek said to Peter and DH, “I heard you two went to high school and college together,
until recently, right?”
Peter nodded. “I transferred to Pomona my junior year. Graduated in May.”
“Was Yale difficult?” Tek asked.
DH shook his head.
“No, mate. It wasn’t difficult for him. Peter’s a genius. He was too smart for us
knuckleheads on the soccer team. He just wanted more sunshine and smaller classes.”
Peter didn’t say anything. He got up from his seat and tucked in his white button down
shirt into his jeans.
“I heard you’re a musician,” Tek said. It was as if he refused to be disliked.
“Yup,” Peter said. “We better get back to our students.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 507
Bo wrapped up the remainder of his sandwich. “Time’s up.”
“You’re not hungry?” Mido asked him.
“If I eat this now, I’ll get sleepy. I’ll finish it later.”
Peter closed his empty lunch box and tossed it into the wastebasket by his desk.
Growing up, Peter had never thought much of hagwons. Everyone went to them in Korea.
In England, he had not gone to any. His mother had let him alone since he did well. The only
private teaching he’d had was for his bass lessons and keyboard. It was only when he was in
Seoul, he had gone to Eagle Academy, which was how everyone in the room had met, except for
Tek.
Unlike his musician friends, Peter didn’t hate professional types. His own family had
money, and he was required only to finish college and stay out of trouble, which he had done.
That said, in Tek’s tone and manner, Peter could sense Tek didn’t think much of hagwons and
those who worked in them.
Bo picked up his lunchbox and water bottle.
“Let’s go back to class. ” As if on cue, Peter and DH followed him. Mido got up as well,
and Tek was not entirely unaware that he may have lost their good opinion.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 508

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 509
3:12 July 2000 "Bonds"
12. July 2000
#
On Monday morning, when Peter drove up to her building, Mido was already waiting outside.
“Where’s the fiancé?”
“Peter.”
“Kidding. Are we picking him up?”
“No.”
Peter had more questions. She wasn’t staying over at his hotel, so he figured she was
either the kind of girl who didn’t sleep with her boyfriend at all, or the kind who didn’t let her

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 510
parents know that she was sleeping with her boyfriend.
He didn’t want to think about her with Tek, who didn’t seem terrible, but didn’t seem
right for Mido. Last night when they went to get pizza, DH, Bo and he had talked about Tek. As
usual, Peter had said little, so finally DH asked Peter what he thought of Tek.
“He’s a suit but doesn’t think he’s a suit,” Peter said. “Tough as nails.”
“Not a fan,” DH muttered. “My sister is wasted on him. Too full of himself. Doesn’t he
know how hard athletes work? If he said ‘mate’ one more time, I was going to—”
“—You say mate, too,” Bo teased. “We used to say mate all the time. We just stopped
because we lived elsewhere. Now, you say, dude, or bro—” he laughed and Peter nodded, having
noticed that in England, he used to hear chap, bloke, fellow—words no one used in California.
“He’s a perfectly good person. We should trust Mido. She would never date a guy who
wasn’t decent. We probably made him nervous,” Bo said. “My issue with him is that if she stays
with him, she’ll have to move.”
The three of them looked worried at the thought.
“Dad would be devastated. She’s his favorite,” DH said, and Bo nodded.
“She could do worse. He’s clearly smart and a hard worker. Already a lawyer and about
to become a barrister. Apparently, he’s going to work for some important barrister then go on his
own. It’s pretty impressive. I haven’t done anything like that at his age. I’ll be entering my
second year at Fullerton then applying to transfer to UCLA for my bachelor’s degree. You have
to give credit—”
“—You’re right. You’re right,” DH said begrudgingly, and turned to Peter, “My brother is

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 511
the noble one in the family.”
“Yes, I’ve noticed,” Peter said, smiling.
“Thanks, man,” DH said. “Have more pizza.”
#
In less than a year, Peter had gotten closer with both Bo and Mido, and it had also occurred to
him when Tek showed up that Mido could go back to Australia with him. It made sense for her to
do so, since she had to finish college, and she’d already started at the University of Sydney. Their
parents got their green cards, so he figured they were more stable. She had mentioned something
about trying to buy a house and maybe starting Fullerton part time then transferring eventually to
UCLA after Bo was done.
“Are you going back with him?” Peter asked.
“No.”
“Does he want you to go back?”
“Yes.”
“I heard from Lion you were going to do more tutoring.”
“Yup.”
“Are you upset or something?”
“No.”
“You fight with Tek?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 512
“Nope.”
“Are you going to speak in sentences sometime during this ride to Irvine? I am your nice
driver after all.”
Mido laughed and faced him.
Peter looked straight ahead. He wore a black Ramones tee-shirt and jeans, looking far
younger than his age. She liked how he kept his dark hair kind of long in the front and short in
the back.
“You don’t dye your hair anymore,” she said. “When I met you in Seoul, your hair was
sort of blond. Then when you started working here, you had it kind of white and short. Now it’s
natural?”
“Yup.”
“Why did you stop dyeing it?”
“Felt like a stereotype of a musician.”
“You’re not a stereotype. Of anything.”
“Thank you. I think that might be the nicest thing you’ve ever said to me.”
“Oh. Hang on. I can think of more. You’re a good teacher. The kids think you’re a cool
genius. Their scores go up like crazy after you work with them. And most importantly, my
brothers adore you.”
“Wow. Am I dead? Is this a eulogy?”
“I thought I was always nice to you.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 513
“Yeah, but you don’t say nice things to me. I mean, you don’t not say nice things. Never
mind. You just don’t talk as much as other girls.”
“I’m not a stereotype either.”
They laughed.
#
When they got to Fortress, Mido unlocked the doors of the hagwon and turned on the lights. She
liked the airy, bigness of the facility, and how there was a space for everything. Unlike the ad hoc
add-ons of the hagwon in Cypress, the Irvine site was seamless and clean. Everything was new
and attractive, and Mido felt proud to work there.
Her family apartment was cramped, and their furniture was mostly second-hand or floor
samples that didn’t look right with anything. Even their dishes, pots, and pans were unmatched
and cheap. Mido remembered when they had beautiful possessions, paintings on the wall, and
elegant dishes on the table.
It seemed silly and materialistic to recall these things, but they had lived differently
before, and strangely, she wanted to give these things to her parents again, the way they had
provided them for her when she was young. She wanted her mother and father to have a house of
their own.
When she started her job at Exodus Academy, she had tried to make her classroom as
pleasing as possible, wanting her students to come into a pretty room without clutter or dirt. The
best she could do with their Cypress facility—a warren of unequal sized rooms and halls, divided
by plexiglass walls—was to make sure that in her small classroom that all the books, worksheets,

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 514
and materials were arranged neatly and the desks and cubbies were aligned in rows and columns.
Here, in Irvine, even the name Fortress Academy made her feel invulnerable and well-
constructed. The rooms even smelled new and clean.
Peter went to his office to review files and test results, and Mido made a pot of coffee in
the kitchen. She carried two mugs of coffee and placed one on his desk.
“Thank you.” Peter raised his mug like he was toasting her.
“No problem.”
“I guess I could make coffee, too.” Peter made a face, not sure if he’d been wrong not to
make it.
“It’s not a big deal. I’m a college drop-out doing admin and tutoring. I know my place.”
“I’ll make it tomorrow.”
“You drove. We’re even.”
“I think you got the better trade,” he said, and Mido agreed.
#
The meetings with the parents went quickly. Mothers acted like they didn’t care about where
their kids were going to college yet were visibly anxious about their child’s practice test scores.
Mrs. Kim, Mrs. Cho, Mrs. Im, Mrs. Eom, and the two Mrs. Lees—each of them was
distinct in appearance, manner, and personality, but it was as if they had received the same script.
They tried to seem detached but were powerless in front of the hagwon teachers.
The diagnostic tests exposed an examinee’s strengths and weaknesses. With the mothers,

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 515
Peter hyped the strengths, and Mido pointed out the weaknesses. The fact that together they
outnumbered the parent wasn’t fair.
Often, the mothers wanted to know how their child did relative to the others, and Peter
evaded answering because it didn’t matter. Over and over, he reassured them throughout the
meeting that if the child followed the Fortress plan, the weaknesses could be resolved.
For each student, Mido had already written a detailed individual report and proposed plan
of action. The parents liked the reports, and no one objected to the fees that Yun suggested for
individual or group tutoring. In a newspaper, Yun had read about a famous Koreatown hagwon in
Manhattan on 32nd Street owned by a former doctor, where the tutors and consultants could
charge anywhere from a hundred to three hundred dollars an hour. Yun created lower pricing
models for Irvine, but they were considerably higher than the ones for Cypress, because it was
more difficult to find teachers for higher level subjects.
Lion said the parents would complain, but Yun had been certain they wouldn’t, and Yun
had been correct.
The judge’s wife, Melanie Cha, the Olympic medalist, was the last parent they had to
meet. Lion had already briefed them about her and her husband, the judge. For this meeting, the
judge wasn’t present. Mido had looked out for the student during the diagnostic tests. Catherine
seemed normal enough. It was impossible to tell from her appearances.
She was another pretty girl from Orange County. She was tanned with large round eyes
with dark lashes, and during her diagnostic exam, she had a nervous habit of dabbing her lips
with clear lipgloss. Her bobbed black hair was streaked blond, giving her a cool L.A. girl look.
On both Saturday and Sunday, she’d worn a black mini-skirt with combat boots and oversized

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 516
sweatshirts, dwarfing her tiny frame. One would not have guessed that her father was an
important judge. Unlike her mother who had the squat, muscular frame of a speed skater,
Catherine was built more like her rail-thin father.
“We asked Lion Teacher for Catherine to get priority for math tutoring. As expected, she
didn’t do very well.”
“Actually, Mrs. Cha, she didn’t do badly. She’s a bit weak on geometry, but that’s
teachable.”
The mother nodded.
“Also, the longer word problems need some attention,” Mido added.
“Yes. I saw that. She got several of them wrong,” the mother said as if to bolster her
argument.
“I think she’d be better off working in a group,” Peter said.
“No, no. I think she’d be more likely to admit she doesn’t know things if she is working
with a tutor one on one.”
Peter tilted his head a bit.
“No. I disagree. Some children are like that, but I don’t think your daughter is like that. I
can tutor Catherine privately; however, I think she might be more motivated in a smaller group.
Kids like to see other kids solve problems and my students support each other.”
Melanie Cha was not persuaded and turned to Mido.
“Well, if anything, I think Catherine might need more help in verbal. Especially on

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 517
reading comprehension,” Mido said.
“I was also surprised by that,” she said, visibly irritated by her daughter’s lower than
expected score.
“Again, I think a small group would be better for Catherine. I’ll be teaching that cohort.
If Catherine doesn’t improve in two weeks in either math or verbal, we’d be happy to get her
private tutoring. It costs less to be in a small group rather than one on one.”
“The cost doesn’t matter. You have to pay up for the best coaching.”
Peter nodded and exhaled, having heard this before.
“I believe Catherine will get better results from the smaller group if she could see her
peers as teammates in this process rather than as an individual race,” Peter said.
“I disagree,” Mrs. Cha said.
Surprised, Mido looked up from her notes.
“Why is that?” Peter asked.
“Ultimately, my daughter will be competing with these kids to get into her first choice
college. The best schools cannot take that many of the kids. What is the point of them becoming
friends, when in fact, they are each other’s rivals?” she said. “They’re not teammates. It’s a
pretty idea, but be realistic.”
Mido paused and was about to speak when Peter broke in: “There are limited seats;
however, the race is long, and your daughter would benefit personally from both the best
teaching and the community to stay the course. I hope you will respect that.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 518
The mother’s jaw appeared immovable. She resented these American Koreans. They had
no idea how hard life was, that sometimes, true competitors had no choice but to be loners.
“Two weeks. We’ll try it your way for two weeks.”
The tutors bowed as Catherine’s mother walked out.
#
When Mido finally reached Tek’s hotel, he was at the hotel gym. She was almost an hour late. He
had left her a key at the front desk.
She sat down on the armchair and pulled out her files, and he walked in, a white towel
around his neck.
“I’m sorry,” she said. “Work.”
“Keep at it. I’m taking a shower,” he said. “Then dinner.”
When Tek came out the shower, he was wearing a robe, his hair still wet. He held her
tight, and Mido felt good to be with him.
After making love and a quick dinner at a Spanish restaurant, she returned to the hotel
with him.
Tek rummaged through his knapsack and pulled out a box.
Mido didn’t have to open it to know what it was.
“Should I get on a knee?”
“No, Tek. No.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 519
“You didn’t even see the ring. It’s one whole carat.” He smiled and opened the box
himself to show her the setting. Mido admired it then closed the box.
“I need to be here, and you need to be there.”
Mido looked at his eyes, trying to figure out if he was okay. She didn’t want to break up
with him but this wasn’t possible.
“You want to live here and work as an office manager who didn’t finish college? Come
on, Mido. Why would you throw your life away? Your parents can’t possibly expect you to do
this? It’s not fair. I can speak to them. I can convince them that I can take care of you.”
“No, Tek. I don’t want that.”
“Okay. We can discuss this later.”
Mido nodded. “I have to go home. We’re not breaking up. That’s not what just happened,
right? I can’t get married and move to Sydney.”
“We can get engaged.”
“I can’t do that.”
“Then we’re breaking up?”
“No. Why does it have to be in your timeframe?”
“Why does it have to be your location?” he asked.
“It would be wrong to take the ring,” she said. “I—”
“I have to return to Sydney. I talked to Stephen Jackson. He’s buried in a big case. He can
use my help, and—”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 520
“—I thought you were going to see my folks and stay the rest of the week.”
“I’m changing my ticket, Mido. My work is there. You can keep thinking about my offer,
then. I want you to come to Sydney. I can always send you a ticket.”
Mido sat down on the armchair, not knowing what to do. He had taken her by surprise
again: first, the visit; second, the ring; and now, the change of flights. She was exhausted and felt
angry suddenly.
“Will you leave early?” she asked.
Tek looked in her eyes. She wouldn’t change her mind, and he was upset that he had done
this all wrong. He would not back down now.
“There are tickets for flights tomorrow. I checked.”
“Got it.”
“Are you playing hardball with me, Mido?”
“No, you are. I don’t even know how to play.”
“Fine. Do you need money for the taxi?”
“No, I’m fine. Let me know when you arrive in Sydney,” she said, getting up.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 521

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 522
3:13 October 2000 "Austerity"
13. October 2000
#
October was almost over. Bo had started his second year at Fullerton; DH was in his first year in
law school at Columbia; and Mido worked as an office manager, college counselor, and tutor at
Fortress. John and Helen worked six days a week at the mall in Garden Grove, encouraged by
their children’s efforts and progress. Already they had managed to save eleven thousand dollars
for a down payment for a house. They still had only one car, but no one complained.
It was a Saturday night, so the last customer of the day was also the last customer of the

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 523
week. Helen had already shown Deacon Sobin Jun all the suitcases they carried at the
Emporium. Finally, the deacon settled on the model but she wanted a red one to match another
bag she’d bought years ago at Mrs. Chung’s.
Sobin Jun was not quite forty years old. She wore her dark hair very short, which
complimented her lovely egg-shaped face. Born and raised in Seoul, she had moved to California
at age 17 to attend U.C. Irvine and graduated as a Chemistry major. A devout Christian, she’d
once considered missionary work but didn’t like it when she tried it for a year in Bangkok.
Her mother and father came from a great deal of money, and Sobin’s father had become a
successful real estate developer in Los Angeles and Orange County. Sobin’s husband, George
Hong, a popular elder at Gospel Presbyterian, worked for her family. Her maternal uncle, Elder
Fred Byun was the founding president of the Taeguk Bank at Garden Grove, and when Sobin
shopped, she patronized Mrs. Chung’s Emporium, since Mrs. Chung was one of her uncle’s
oldest customers.
Like her own frugal mother, Sobin refused to spend extra on personal items like clothing,
handbags, shoes, and luggage, which were quickly depreciating assets. She’d been taught that
status markers were indicative of social insecurity and the downfall of many Koreans.
“A person of a good breeding lives in the best neighborhood, own his own home, has the
best education, and never carries any debt. There’s no need to show off. Your address and resumé
are everything,” her mother had taught her. Sobin did not agree with everything her conservative
mother believed; however, she never bought designer clothes, bags, or drove an expensive car.
Sobin and her husband George owned a five million dollar house with a 40 feet long
pool in North Tustin, where they hosted church gatherings twice a year. Each day, she wore a 4.5

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 524
carat, emerald-cut, flawless and colorless diamond ring—a tenth anniversary gift from George;
they drove only used Honda Accords and tithed more than twenty percent of their income. They
had four children, two girls and two boys, who attended private schools.
Sobin wanted a red suitcase. Of this model and make, Mrs. Chung stocked only black and
navy. Helen had made the mistake of telling Sobin that it was manufactured in red but they just
didn’t carry it.
“Couldn’t it be ordered?” Sobin asked, looking hopeful.
Helen smiled and shook her head.
There was no way Mrs. Chung would order 6 red bags, the minimum number the
wholesaler required of each color. If Mrs. Chung had her way, they’d no longer sell bags like this
one with such modest margins which took up a great deal of inventory space. The canvas,
collapsible suitcase with rotating wheels cost $200 retail, and there were nine in stock—six black
and three navy. The wholesale price was $100, and Mrs. Chung marked it up by another hundred.
Helen would make $30 on this sale.
Almost half an hour ago, Mrs. Chung had already closed up the register and wanted
Helen to wrap up. No doubt, Sobin would buy a bag, but she would not be rushed.
“I prefer the navy, but my husband George doesn’t like the color blue. He loves red,”
Sobin said, opening and closing every zipper. She prided herself on never having been cheated
on a purchase, not even as a girl at a no-name stall in Namdaemun with the sharpest of hawkers.
“I can’t understand why anyone would buy a black suitcase, when everyone has one. It’s
confusing when you go to claim check, and every bag looks exactly the same. Sometimes, my

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 525
husband will pull out the wrong one from the carousel, and another person gets angry, and it’s
nobody’s fault. Isn’t that right?”
Sobin chattered on in Korean as if no one else had ever made the same remarks to Helen
before. She had a wide-eyed innocence about her, and if Helen wasn’t tired and it wasn’t so late
in the evening, she would not have minded any of this.
Helen smiled and kept her breath even. She was exhausted. In the past few months, it had
been increasingly difficult to sleep and keep her food down. Her neck felt warm all the time, and
at night, she perspired, which she’d never done before. Her sister Sonya told her that her
menopause symptoms matched hers, especially the sleep part. Helen also had stomach pains and
had been taking antacids, and even though she didn’t eat much and avoided spicy meals, her
stomach looked bloated.
Sobin rolled the navy bag to and fro in front of the mirrored wall. Trim and pretty, she
looked clean-cut and appealing, wearing a simple white tee shirt, jeans, and white tennis
sneakers.
“Are you taking a trip?” Helen said, and Mrs. Chung looked in her direction, and she
immediately regretted having asked.
“I’m going home to a wedding. We have to bring so many things. It’s my older cousin’s
son.”
It was late, and this was no time for small talk. Mrs. Chung kept checking her watch. She
liked Sobin Jun enough but disliked how little she spent. In her experience very wealthy people
could be terribly cheap in places like hers. They could throw money around in fancier
establishments, but with Koreans, they could barter over the last nickel. She wished Sobin would

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 526
shop elsewhere. That said, Sobin Jun was the niece of her banker Fred Byun, and her husband
George was a fellow elder at the church.
Helen had offered to close up the store with Matty, the helper, however, Mrs. Chung
refused to let anyone else close the shop, insisting on pulling down the metal grated gate herself
and securing the heavy locks with her ring of keys.
“The wedding is in two weeks,” Sobin said, checking the wheels below the bag with
great care. “I can’t miss it.”
“Congratulations,” Helen said.
“My cousin’s son is marrying a girl who is a pediatrician. They met in college. Her
father’s a surgeon and so is the girl’s brother. Some families have all the brains.”
Without saying so directly, Sobin was grumbling at how her husband’s family was always
asking for money. George was handsome, thoughtful, and kind, but as her father had predicted,
George’s parents, owners of a modest office supply store, had become needy almost as soon as
they got married. His two younger siblings were public school teachers and would never make
enough to support their parents.
Suddenly, Sobin felt ashamed at how she sounded. She wanted to be happy for her
cousin, who had recently had a liver transplant, which was the other reason why she felt she had
to go back for the wedding when it wasn’t an easy trip this time of the year with the kids just
having started school.
Helen pressed her hand against her abdomen. The dull pain had returned. It came and
went. This afternoon, she had eaten only half of her ham and cheese sandwich, which Mrs.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 527
Chung had ordered her for lunch.
“Are you alright?” Sobin looked up from the bag and examined Helen’s face, from her
neck to her forehead.
“Your coloring isn’t good. Your eyes look a little yellow.” Her cousin’s eyes had looked a
little like that when he had cirrhosis, but Sobin kept from saying that part, then she couldn’t help
herself.
The deacon leaned in and whispered, “Have you been to the doctor? Maybe you should
get a liver function test. You’re perspiring. Are you warm?”
Helen removed her left hand from her abdomen, touched her brow then placed both
hands on the counter as if to steady herself.
From across the shop, Mrs. Chung glanced at the two women who were whispering.
“I’m fine,” Helen said.
One of the hallmarks of a high level service worker was never to draw attention to one’s
needs. Whether it was at a store located in a Garden Grove strip mall or at the finest department
store in Sydney, Helen wanted to present competence and fine service. Then she remembered.
Helen turned and rooted around the glass cabinet behind her. She pulled out an attractive
red canvas luggage tag from the bottom drawer.
“If you put this tag on a black bag, then your husband can get the color he wants, and
you’ll be able to tell that it is your bag.”
Sobin smiled and nodded.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 528
“Is the tag included?”
“It’s $20 but I’d be happy to include it as a gift,” Helen said, smiling through her
discomfort.
Mrs. Chung nodded. The wholesale price for the luggage tag was seven dollars, and she
wanted to go home.
“Oh, no. I could never accept that,” Sobin said, fingering the modern looking tag, which
she liked. It was exactly the right color. “Oh, I know. I’ll accept this one as a gift and buy another
red tag for my bag at home.”
Helen smiled and began to write up the purchase on her sales pad.
#
The lights were still on at Shrimp Castle but the shop was closed. Helen knocked on the glass
door, and Nari let her in right away. John was still cleaning the range.
“You look tired,” Nari said.
“Yes, it’s been a long week. I want to get home and take a bath.”
“That sounds wonderful.”
“He’s almost done,” Nari said, peering into the kitchen. “I feel so bad at how hard he
works. What a smart man, and what he has to do now.”
Helen didn’t know what to say. Her husband had done nothing but work hard all his life,
and now he was frying seafood and cleaning an oil splattered range each night, six days a week.
There may have been white collar jobs that might have considered him, even at his age, but the

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 529
starting pay was less than half what he made here. Already, Nari had increased his salary to
thirteen hundred dollars a week, so, John couldn’t find anything comparable.
“I don’t know what I would have done if you two hadn’t come and saved me. After my
husband went to Brazil, I thought I’d die. You also saved my daughter, because Yun wouldn’t
have been able to finish school if she was trying to do what your husband is doing for us now.”
Helen shook her head, leaning on the chair near her. “No, no. We’re grateful to you. You
and Yun have helped us so much,” she said, then suddenly the pain in her abdomen grew more
intense.
“Are you okay?” Nari said. “Sit down, sit down.”
Helen exhaled. Beside her was a table with four chairs, and she slumped into the chair
closest to her and lowered her head into her folded forearms.
#
Around ten o’clock, when Bo returned to the apartment, no one was home. It wasn’t like his
parents not to be home on a Saturday night. Once every few months, John and Helen might go
out to eat something simple but nearly always, they came home to wash up before, and his
father’s uniform was missing from the laundry basket.
He called Fortress and Peter answered. He and Mido were about to head back.
Bo went to his room and took out his seminar assignment. He had photocopied the
assigned pages at the library because the textbook was so expensive, and he hadn’t been able to
purchase any used copies. As he read, he underlined the important concepts so he could create an
outline of them later.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 530
Half an hour passed, and Bo wasn’t sure what to do. He phoned Yun’s mother Nari, and
there was no answer at her house. When he phoned Yun to see if she’d heard from her mother,
she hadn’t.
When the phone rang, it was Peter, who was at the gas station, filling up.
“Mido is asleep but she asked me to call to see if her parents were home.”
“Not yet. It’s odd.”
“Is Mido okay?” Bo asked.
“Yeah, she fell asleep in the car. I had to get gas. You okay?”
“My parents should have been home a while ago. It’s not like them.”
“Okay, I’m not far from you. I’ll bring Mido home, then. Maybe it’s nothing,” Peter said.
Bo hung up, and suddenly, he felt anxious. He went to the kitchen and made coffee. As he
waited for the water to boil, he put a teaspoon of instant coffee into his mug. Silently, he prayed,
“Help, God. Let them be okay. Please.”
#
Mido woke up when Peter got into the car.
“Oh, can I pay for the gas?” She asked, even though he never let her.
“I called your brother, and they’re not home.”
“What?” Mido rubbed her eyes. “Where’s the pay phone?”
Peter pointed.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 531
“I’m going to call Yun.”
“Do you want to wait until you get home? It’s only ten minutes from here.”
Mido nodded, and when they reached her house, she invited him up.
Bo was drinking coffee and sitting in the living room without a book in front of him.
“I brought Peter,” she said, as they entered the room. “You haven’t heard anything?”
“No,” Bo said. “It’s so strange. I can’t reach Yun’s mother either.”
Straight away after taking off her shoes, Mido went to the phone and called Yun, and as
they were talking, she paused when the call waiting clicked on.
“Hang on. There’s a call,” Mido said, picking up.
Bo and Peter looked as Mido’s eyes widened. “I’ll be right there,” she said in Korean.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 532

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 533
3:14 November 2000 "Wives"
14. November 2000
#
Helen never returned to the Emporium.
After the rotation of emergency room doctors and nurses, a succession of specialists
followed. First, there was an ultrasound then a scan, which revealed a large mass on the
pancreas, and the cancer had already spread to the liver and bones.
The doctors were kind and respectful. They listed the ailments she’d been experiencing
without her ever mentioning them: back pain, bloating, cramps, weight loss, fever, vomiting,

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 534
constipation, dark urine, and inability to eat. She nodded at most of them.
How did you bear it? they asked.
How you must have been suffering, they said.
No, they did not know how she got this.
No, no, no. Of course, it was not her fault.
Yes, we can do everything possible to relieve you of your pain.
There was a social worker who spoke Korean, and hospital clergy. While she was
hospitalized, Mido, Bo, and Peter took turns staying with John, who had to miss work for a
while.
Helen and John did not have health insurance. Everyone in their household earned an
income above the poverty level, and Helen and John had just finished their immigration
paperwork and received their green cards. They were on track to get their citizenship. They
would not qualify for Medicaid because they made too much money. Bo and Mido told them not
to worry. They had jobs and credit cards.
Doctors offered treatments without much enthusiasm. Helen received a stent to improve
her bile flow. Over the course of a month, her condition deteriorated so rapidly that the doctors
recommended palliative care. They laid out her options, and Helen wanted to be at home. She
asked everyone not to tell DH until Thanksgiving when he came home. “It’s his first year in law
school,” Helen pleaded.
#
Bo had picked him up from the airport, and as soon as they walked through the front door, DH

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 535
shouted, “What’s the matter with Mommy?”
Helen was resting on the sofa with an aluminum cane resting beside her. Her skin dark
gray and body skeletal, she was watching the Korean news with her eyes half-open while Mido
set the table. Over her yellow flannel nightgown, she wore DH’s Andover sweatshirt.
Removing his shoes and dropping his coat on the floor, DH rushed toward her.
“Wait, you should wash your hands,” Mido said, looking worried and pointed to the
kitchen sink. “Mom is very sick.”
Right away, he scrubbed his hands with soap and his hands still wet, he went to his
mother.
Helen opened her eyes and smiled when she saw him, leaning over her, his wide
shoulders and tall frame towering over her shrunken one.
“Ah, my Dae-hoon is home. Mommy is so happy to see you. I waited.” She touched his
wavy hair and mussed it up playfully. “Didn’t I do a good job waiting for you? I missed you so
much.”
DH glanced at Bo and Mido, and they were crying.
“How could you not tell me?” DH said, bursting into tears as Helen explained. “Oh,
Mommy. Oh, Mommy. Not you. Please, not you. Please.”
#
DH wanted to take a leave of absence but Helen said absolutely not. In exchange, even though it
was expensive, she asked him to phone her for a few minutes every day.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 536
When DH argued that he couldn’t study because he’d be worrying about her, Helen told
him that people die without warning, and in a way, this was far better because every call
mattered and she would have more peace of mind if he was in school. If things were really awful,
she promised he could come home right away. It would make her happy, if he did well in his first
semester at Columbia.
“I want you to stay on track. Bo is doing his very best to finish Fullerton while working
so hard, and he will get his four-year degree soon. You and Bo will both get degrees in three
years. Both of you and Daddy will make sure that Mido gets her turn at school, right?” Helen
looked at her sons, while smiling at Mido. “Mido earns more money than all of us now. Isn’t that
amazing? Oh, my children.”
“I can stay home and help,” DH said. “Drive you to the doctor and run errands.”
“I’ll ask God for another Christmas, when you can come home. Maybe I will get another
Christmas.”
“Ask God for another summer, because I’ll get an internship in Los Angeles.”
“Deal,” Helen said.
#
Each morning, Nari drove John to Shrimp Castle.
He could not afford to stay home. The hospital bills continued to arrive, and though a
social worker had helped them connect with an organization that helped immigrants, John could
not see how they could ever pay all the bills.
The mailbox filled him with dread. Bo and Mido told him not to worry. The three of them

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 537
were paying everything in installments. Every credit card they had was spent up to its limits. Just
when it looked like the total amount of debt was say $36,000, suddenly, another bill would arrive
for a scan and a doctor’s visit from weeks ago, and it would be for a few thousand dollars. The
pain medication always had to be paid.
Like a faithful ox pulling a plow, John worked silently each day. Nari made sure that he
ate breakfast and lunch. She raised his salary to 1,400 a week, which was the best she could do,
while she paid off the promissory note for the store. Yun, having graduated, now worked full
time at Exodus as the C.F.O. With her salary, she was helping her mother with the rent and
utilities.
#
On the Monday following Thanksgiving weekend, Taehun Shin dropped by when John was
hosing down the kitchen floor.
The shop was closed but recognizing the deacon, Nari let him in. She bowed to him and
pointed to the kitchen.
“You should stand back because the water might get on your clothes,” she warned him.
Nari knew there was something wrong between the men, but no one had told her about what
Danbi Jung had done to John Koh. Helen never mentioned that Shin wasn’t divorced to Mary, or
that Danbi wasn’t his young wife. Nari just knew the men had worked together and that they
were not close.
“Knock, knock,” Shin said, tapping on the open doorframe.
“What are you doing here?” John asked. He was tired.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 538
Taehun Shin wore a clean white dress shirt with a crimson silk necktie and navy suit
trousers. He’d left his suit jacket in the car, not wanting to show off; however, his well-tailored
clothes were costly and looked so.
“I heard about your wife. I wanted to see you. If there is anything I can do, you should
know that I’m here. I always thought your wife was a kind person. An elegant woman and a good
mother.”
“She’s not dead, you son of a bitch. Get out. Can’t you see that I’m working?” John flung
his sponge on the ground, missing the plastic clogs he wore when he sprayed down the tiled
floor. What was the point, he wondered, wiping his nose across his forearm. The smell of the
bleach water on his gloves overpowered him and stung his eyes, making him blink back tears.
Shin stood there, feeling the weight of the man’s sadness. He’d known John for almost
three decades, and had never seen him like this.
The backdoor of the kitchen opened and Ernie, the new helper, walked in, having finished
his cigarette.
“Boss,” Ernie said, “I’ll finish up if you want to go home.”
“Thanks, Ernie,” he said, picking up the sponge then removing his wet apron and gloves.
#
Shin offered to drive him home in front of Nari, but John refused.
“Oh, that would help me,” Nari said. “I’ll wait until Ernie is done then I can head straight
to Yun and Lion’s place, and you can get home faster.” She knew he was worried about Helen.
John followed Shin to the parking lot. He drove a new white Mercedes sedan.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 539
“I know you’re angry with me, but the church asked me to come by. Do you want to get a
drink? I can buy you dinner.”
“We are never going to drink together again,” John said.
“Do you know how many hundreds of meals you and I’ve shared? You are one hard-
hearted bastard,” Shin said, pulling out of the parking spot.
John leaned against the headrest, feeling the weight of the day worsen. He was in Shin’s
expensive car, because he didn’t have one of his own. Bo was driving their car to and from work
and school. Shin and Danbi had opened an insurance agency in Buena Park and many of the
newer parishioners from their church bought their policies there. He closed his eyes.
“You’re tired. If you don’t want dinner, you can sleep. There’s going to be traffic, so you
can rest.”
“Why did you come again? I told you to never show up.”
Shin didn’t answer. He kept driving. At the intersection, he stopped the car and turned
around to take out an envelope from the pocket of his suit jacket hanging on a hook above the
back passenger door.
“I wanted to give you this. You must have a lot of bills.”
“I don’t want anything from you. I’d rather fry shrimp for the rest of my life.”
Shin exhaled, having figured as much.
“It’s not from me, you bastard. It’s from the deacon fund. The church wanted to give it to
your family. Helen’s not working, and I don’t know about your insurance situation, so—”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 540
“Why didn’t the pastor give it to us? He was at the house the other day.”
“The deacon fund is different. Yaah—don’t be so difficult. If you want me to ask another
deacon to bring it to you so you don’t have to accept anything from me, I can do that. Don’t be
such a prick. Your wife is—”
“Shut up. Shut up.”
“I was wrong for what I did back in Korea but I also helped you out a bunch of times.
You’ve been mad at me, and I’m not saying you don’t have a right to be but I said I was sorry a
hundred times. I am sorry.”
John looked straight ahead. It didn’t seem fair for him to have to forgive him, too, on top
of everything else. If Helen died, then he would have been forced to lose almost everything in his
life—his parents and brother, career, his only friend, and his treasured wife.
He could not understand how cruel it was to have to sit in this car, scented by some car
freshener that smelled like vanilla candy. There was no one to whom he could explain this. The
only close friend he’d ever had was driving the car. After what Danbi had done, there had been
no one else to witness how cruel life could be.
Shin missed him and that was why he had come, but not forgiving him had been the only
thing John could hold on to that had allowed him to keep his dignity. Now, Shin wanted that as
well.
The freeway was passable, and John stared at all the cars ahead of him. He didn’t drive
hardly ever in California. Now he and Helen had licenses but they had kept from getting a
second car because of the expense. Nari hadn’t minded driving them to work and back home.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 541
It occurred to him that he hadn’t been in a car with Taehun Shin since they were in Seoul.
Shin didn’t ask John about his work. None of their friends from college would have
believed that John cooked at a strip mall in Garden Grove. Shin could hardly believe it himself.
“Are the children okay?” Shin asked.
“Are yours?” John retorted. He had always liked the boys, who were so bright and fun.
Joey was responsible, Luke was studious, and Patrick had been like a comic. John could
remember little Patrick doing funny dances. Mary had done a good job raising them.
“The boys don’t speak to me anymore. They took their mother’s side. I can’t blame
them.”
John shook his head. It made no sense. Nothing could have made him give up his
children, and if they gave him up, John did not think he could bear it. In the kitchen at Shrimp
Castle, he had hung a plastic covered photograph of his family taken in Sydney years ago, which
always made him smile.
“I have a little girl now. With Danbi. Her name is Anna.”
“I saw her at church. How old is she?”
“Almost three. Girls are different than boys. I think she owns me.” Shin laughed.
John knew what he meant. He loved his sons, of course, but Mido was different. He
didn’t know if that was because it was a daughter or if it was because it was Mido, but if she
asked him, he would have fought a war for her.
“My little girl talks all the time and has so many questions. When my sons were small,
they were kind and sweet, but none of them was as affectionate as my little Anna. She’s smart

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 542
like her mother, but of course, unlike her, innocent.”
John said nothing and let the silence fill the car. He would not say anything about that
woman. This was something that he and Helen had agreed to do, to never speak of her. The only
people who knew about Danbi were Helen’s sister and brother.
“I tried to leave Danbi a few times, but she threatened to kill herself and Anna if I did.”
“Crazy woman,” John blurted out, not having meant to say that out loud.
“I’ve never met anyone as crazy as the woman I am living with. Every day is a kind of
new hell. I am being punished for all that I have done to my family. I am being punished for what
I did to you. It would be easier for me to die now. If I could die instead of your wife, it would be
justice,” Shin said. “If I could have my way, I would ask for that. I am so sorry. You have always
been a friend to me, and I was wrong. I was weak.”
John faced him, and Shin was looking straight ahead, his right hand on the steering
wheel, and his left covering his mouth as if to suppress a scream.
When they were in the army, now and then, someone would be picked on and on
occasion hit by a superior ranking soldier or just someone stronger.
When a man was being beaten and didn’t know when it would end, he’d have that same
expression, and he knew it would be worse to let the pain out. At first, when you were being hit
and no one did anything, there’d be some fear, then horror not just from the pain that would
surely come again but rather that there might be no end to it and more might come the next day
and the next.
Shin got off the freeway and drove toward Cypress.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 543
“There’s a restaurant down that street,” John said.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 544
3:15 December 2000 "Fruit"
15. December 2000
#
Most evenings, Sonya sat in the den with the Chairman as he read his business journals and
books. In the morning, he read three newspapers, and at night, he caught up on real estate
journals and translated business books. He had not attended college, and from books, periodicals,
and public lectures, he had taught himself finance, accounting, capital markets investing, and
business theories. The Chairman kept tidy notebooks, summarizing the key points of everything
he studied.
Sonya was crocheting a red cardigan for her sister Helen’s Christmas present. The torso
complete, she was working on the arms. By November, she had already finished her sons

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 545
Seungman’s and Jiman’s matching blue sweaters. Now and then, the Chairman would look up
from his papers, remove his reading glasses and admire her handiwork.
After the household staff went home, and if her husband Yong-gil had not returned for the
night, they would go to his room.
A virgin before marriage, Sonya had only been with Yong-gil. After the birth of their
second son, her husband was less and less interested in going to her bed. They’d always slept in
separate rooms, because he came home late frequently, and she was a light sleeper. An adjoining
door connected the dressing room and bath between Sonya’s bedroom with her husband’s.
The Chairman’s bedroom was on the opposite side of Sonya’s, so when she slept in his,
she’d lock the adjoining door to the dressing room and the main door to her bedroom; however,
her husband never tried to open her doors.
Except for when the boys were home, visiting from their military service, Chairman
asked her to sleep in his room.
In his bed, she called him by his name, Hong-gyun. Elsewhere, she addressed him as the
Chairman, no differently than when he had hired her out of college.
Hong-gyun was sixty five years old, and she was fifty-four. Like her, he had not had
many lovers, and like her, after his wife was sick, he had been abstinent. Neither had made love
for almost two decades. There were numerous opportunities for him find women to bed;
however, the idea of being with someone he neither admired nor loved repulsed him. If he could,
he would have married Sonya and made her his wife; however, he could not, and it troubled him.
He liked watching her undress, and asked her to remove her clothes slowly the way she

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 546
had done the first time she came to his room in her nightgown and robe. They had been lovers
for a little over four months, and it was as if time passed backwards. The years seemed to fall
away.
As soon as they entered his room, the Chairman locked the door behind him, and Sonya
put on his favorite records—Hank Jones, Getz & Gilberto, or Chet Baker. The music made him
feel near her.
For years, she had fought her unyielding infatuation of her married employer, not wanting
to feel the guilt and shame. When the Chairman asked her to marry his nephew, it had felt like a
gift. She had imagined being deeply in love with Yong-gil, but that had not turned out that way.
He was never enamored with her; if anything, he was grateful for their two sons and respected
how she did not make a fuss about his affairs. The marriage was at best a kind of professional
relationship.
Long ago, she’d resolved that she would never be loved as a woman and had taken
consolation in the love and admiration of her sons, friends, and the Chairman. She knew this
kind of love and esteem were far better than the lot of most people. When Sonya prayed to God,
she prayed for the well being of her family, friends, and even her enemies, but it had never
occurred to her to petition for love.
He excited her, and she loved being with him. Although she had always been fastidious
about her own appearances, she took even greater care with her bathing and dress to please him.
The Chairman was besotted with her.
“You make me feel like I’m thirty,” he said.
“That’s young,” she said, not telling him that she felt like a college girl, and the

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 547
unexpected feelings astonished her.
They were in bed, about to go to sleep. Sonya thought she should return to her room, but
again, he didn’t want her to go.
“I’ll get up early and wake you. Before the housekeeper gets here—” he promised,
kissing her neck and shoulders. They’d made love several hours earlier and had been listening to
music together in bed but as she was about to closer her eyes, his hands reached for her breasts
and hips, and Sonya yielded to the growing pressure of his cock.
Sonya could not believe this part of her life. The Chairman loved her, and she, him, and
this interval felt like a clear window of joy after decades of duty.
Still, she knew it was wrong. Despite the guilt, she justified this because she had raised
her siblings, taken care of her husband and sons, and nursed the Chairman’s wife. This
unexpected love had made her realize how little she knew herself, and how unhappy she’d been.
They did not speak directly about her marriage.
“Would you make sure that he never enters your room?” the Chairman asked her more
than once. “Can you keep that closet door locked in the evening always? I cannot bear the idea of
him going to your—”
“—We haven’t been together since Jiman was two or three—” Sonya could hardly recall.
Perhaps it was when her younger son was in preschool. Like an incubus, late at night, when she
was asleep, Yong-gil had come to her room to make love to her, then vanished never to return.
For years, she’d wondered how she’d failed to keep her husband’s sexual attention. After
menopause, she reasoned that he wanted the flesh of much younger women and there was little

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 548
she could do.
Her friends had surgery, difficult procedures, and regular costly treatments, and some
looked unbelievably young, fresh, and beautiful; however, Sonya had resisted thus far. She
swam, did yoga and pilates, and she stayed out of the sun. Like her peers, she tried expensive
face creams.
She had the ordinary vanity of an intelligent woman who had always been exceptionally
beautiful from birth, and it was a mercy that she had already been nourished of that sort of praise.
For now, she felt lovely enough for a woman in her fifties. Having resolved long ago that she
could never compete for her husband’s sexual attentions against knowledgeable young women
from hostess bars; there had been both resignation and dignity. Awakened by a mid-life love
affair, Sonya looked in the mirror more often, and she did not dislike what she saw.
Within fourteen weeks, the Chairman and Sonya had tried various positions and oral sex,
which was new for her. They had bathed together, and once, they met at a hotel suite to try
Viagra, a joke present from the Chairman’s former high school classmate, which he had never
thought to actually use. The experiment had been painful for her and uncomfortable for him. For
days, they laughed at the memory of this seemingly endless erection.
After almost never having any sex, they had it so frequently that Sonya had to get
antibiotics for a tract infection and learn about lubrication. Like teenagers, they made love more
than once a day, and on occasion, they would meet in the middle of the day at beautiful hotel
rooms in Seoul. They became inseparable.
Often, the Chairman bought her presents—a diamond pendant, a long South Sea pearl
necklace, more exquisite clothing, and jewel-colored silk lingerie.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 549
One Sunday, he made a reservation at a hotel not far from their apartment and gave her a
key. After church, they separated publicly then met an hour later in the room.
He was already there waiting when she arrived.
“I don’t know if the hotel manager noticed me,” she said.
“It doesn’t matter,” he said, smoothing the hair away from her brow. He felt the need to
touch her, and this wasn’t possible outside of a hotel room or his bedroom. They never went to
her room. “I almost don’t care anymore about getting caught.”
Neither knew what would happen if they grew more careless. They were more worried
about her sons than Yong-gil.
During church service, as usual, Sonya had sat between her husband and the Chairman,
and even the scent of the Chairman’s vetiver and woodsy aftershave reminded her of their
intense lovemaking. She was eager to meet him at the hotel room after church, and she felt
ashamed at her weakness. However, after services, without blinking, she lied to Yong-gil saying
that she couldn’t have lunch with him because she was meeting a friend from college. The
Chairman had left them already giving some excuse himself.
For the first time in years, Sonya wasn’t angry at her husband. If anything, she found him
almost pleasant. He was a hard-working executive who took good care of the Chairman’s
company. She liked their polite interaction. They never fought and there was no need. The boys
were already working for their father, and if they discussed anything, it was about their sons.
Immediately in the room, she stripped off her clothes, and he led her to the bed, where he
took her from behind. With both hands, he held onto her breasts then when she was about to

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 550
climax, he laid down, and she climbed on top of him.
“I need you,” he said, and she murmured the same.
They laid in each others arms and when the room-service arrived, she hid in the
bathroom, so he could let the server in.
Naked and seated on the ledge of the cold marble bath, she saw herself in the mirrored
wall. Her face was glowing, and her pink nipples were flushed and raw from what they had just
done together.
He knocked on the door to let her know that it was safe for her to come out.
“Would it be possible for me to divorce him?” she asked, standing before him, her
forearms covering her small lovely breasts. “Is there a way for us to be together as husband and
wife?”
How could this be wrong when she was so in love with a man she’d known even before
her husband? she wondered.
In his white terrycloth hotel robe, the Chairman was seated on the sofa by the window.
He’d found her appealing the first time she entered his office, and he had told himself to be
appropriate and distant. It was she who had reached for him first, coming to his room, and now,
she was proposing.
“Aren’t you cold?”
She shook her head no.
“Do you want me to put a robe on?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 551
“No.”
Sonya went to bed and drew the covers over her shoulders and waited for him to come to
her.
“There’s no need for anything to change,” he said. “I promise not to ask too much of you.
I am a man, and you are a woman. Yong-gil is not my son but he is my dead brother’s child. You
and your sons will have everything I have one day.”
She opened her mouth to say something but he shook his head.
#
When they returned home in the evening, Yong-gil was out. The household staff had left for the
day. There was a message on the voicemail from her brother-in-law.
“Sister, I am so sorry to leave this message—” John’s voice was broken and strange.
Sonya glanced at the Chairman, and he remained with her.
“My wife is very ill. She didn’t want you to know. But,” he hesitated. “I think you should
come to California and see her. I don’t think there’s much time. If you could call me—”
Sonya phoned Helen’s house, and John picked up. Helen couldn’t get on the phone
because of the morphine. “On the next flight,” Sonya promised.
During the call, the Chairman had been sitting beside her.
“Let me call my secretary. He’ll put you on the next flight—”
“—This is my fault. I’m being punished. Every day I was happy, I worried that something
terrible would happen to the boys, and for them, I had prayed for mercy. If something bad

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 552
happened to me, then I’d deserve it for loving,” Sonya clasped her hands. “But Helen—”
“I don’t think the Lord works that way.”
“I’m being punished. I should be punished.”
“Then shouldn’t Yong-gil have been punished for all of his affairs?” he asked.
“He was though. I no longer love him. His affairs never gave me the right to dishonor my
vows though.”
“We knew each other—”
“—I need to pack.”
The Chairman nodded and grew serious.
“Hwang, an old friend of mine who is living mostly in New Jersey wants to buy a
building in Seoul for his son, so I’ve already made arrangements for you.”
“Huh?” Sonya looked at him.
“That business visa you wanted. You said you wanted to buy a business. If I buy Hwang
his building in won, he can get you the dollars right away. He’s already in the States so the cash
transfer will be a wire. You can buy that business and whatever else you need. I’ve already
spoken to the lawyers. I thought I’d get you that money when you went to California but the trip
came sooner than—”
Sonya understood. He would not allow a divorce with Yong-gil and survive a scandal, but
he’d give her the money she needed.
“I know you are worried about them. Take good care of your sister, but after—” he

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 553
refrained from saying her death. He knew two people who had passed from pancreatic cancer,
Broker Sun and Accountant Noh—both fine men.
At his age and position, he had gone to hundreds of funerals, but he could not have
imagined anything like this.
“I will be waiting for you here.”
Sonya headed to her room to pack.
#
When Sonya arrived in Cypress, she didn’t express a visible reaction to Helen’s jaundiced and
gaunt frame. Her sister’s face was all bone and angles, her eyes yellow and their sockets
seemingly hollow—her head more skull than flesh.
The morning after she arrived, Sonya rented a collapsible wheelchair and a large hospital
bed, which she placed in the living room alongside a twin bed for herself. Hired hospice nurses
appeared around the clock to administer pain medication and to care for Helen.
Sonya took charge of the kitchen and cooked separate meals for Helen and the family.
When she wasn’t with Helen, she was on the phone with experts in her extraordinary network.
Now and then, she would leave the house to meet business sellers, immigration and estate
lawyers, and real estate brokers. The household shifted to attention and hummed along as if a
competent general had arrived with reserves for a devastated squad of soldiers.
Even when it was eighty degrees outside, Helen was often cold and lethargic. Most days,
she lay beneath a comforter and a fleece throw on the living room sofa, writing in one of her
three notebooks whenever she had any energy. She slept a great deal, and when she was awake,

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 554
she didn’t talk much.
As soon as classes ended, DH took a shorter study period and arranged to take his 1L
exams a few days early, allowing him to come home a few days earlier. He didn’t stay with
Peter; rather, he shared the room with Bo. The house was crowded with people but it was mostly
quiet. As before, John went to work six days a week. On Sunday mornings, everyone went to
church while a nurse stayed with Helen, and they returned home unless they were working.
Now and then, Helen would awake and be clear and talkative as before. She worried
about debts.
“How will we pay for all this?” Helen asked, pointing to the beds and the team of hospice
nurses. “We can’t keep borrowing money from my sister. Already we owe—”
John showed her the envelope from the deacons’ fund, which he had been meaning to
deposit.
“Shin Taehun came by.”
Sonya looked surprised. “What?”
“It’s from the church,” he said. Five thousand dollars wouldn’t make much difference to
the growing pile of bills, but not wanting her to worry, he wanted her to have physical evidence
against something invisible yet looming like hospital bills. They weren’t alone in this, he wanted
her to know. “The bills will get paid.”
“Are the kids home?” Helen wanted to know.
“Bo is studying in the room, and Mido is heading home from Irvine. There was a lot of
traffic,” Sonya said.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 555
“How much is that?” Helen asked, clenching her brow. The stony gray brown skin
stretched across her forehead.
“It’ll take care of all the bills,” he said though it wouldn’t. “Shin Taehun said this is from
the deacons at the church, and if we have more needs, we can ask for help. We are fine with
money.”
Sonya looked stern. “No more talk of bills. Your rich sister is here. You focus on getting
well.” She turned to Helen, “My little girl, haven’t we solved every money problem we’ve ever
had? Every single one. We were no better than paupers, and somehow, you and I paid college
tuitions and didn’t starve. I have a lot of money now, Helen.”
“I don’t want to have these debts between your husband’s family and us.”
“And I don’t want to talk about money anymore. What can I do if I don’t have you?”
Sonya turned her face away and took a deep breath. “You have to trust me. I can be trusted,
right?” she said calmly, stroking Helen’s warm head. Sonya brushed away the wisps of baby hair
that continued to grow. “I will protect you.”
In the morning, her head and body heavy and dull from morphine, Helen shook her head
no when Sonya tried to give her porridge.
“I want to eat grapes,” Helen said as if she was in a dream. “Isn’t that the oddest thing?
All day yesterday, I was thinking of those purple grapes from Mr. Jo’s market.”
“You mean the mart near the bakery behind the elementary school?”
“Yes, that’s the one,” Helen said. “I always wanted to eat those grapes again. Buy a box
of them and eat the whole thing.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 556
“We got caught, didn’t we?” Sonya laughed, recalling the time she stole a bunch when
Mr. Jo wasn’t looking so Helen, Kenny, and she could try some. Kenny had begged and begged,
and finally, Sonya took some and walked away. “Mr. Jo was so angry.”
“Mother caned you with that backscratcher, but you didn’t cry once,” Helen said.
Sonya had brought her sister and brother the purple grapes wrapped in white paper. None
of them had ever tasted grapes before. In an alley, the three children had eaten the fruit, seeds,
peel and all, their fingers and faces stained a deep purple.
“It’s not the season, but I can get Bo to drive me to the store. Maybe there’s some juice I
can—”
“No, no. Don’t bother the child. He’s writing a final paper. He told me yesterday—”
“Our children are better than we are,” Sonya said. On her last call home, her elder son
Seungman told her to take as much time as she needed in California. “I don’t deserve my sons.”
“What a thing to say.” Helen patted her sister’s hand. “My sister deserves all the good
things in the whole world.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 557

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 558
3:16 December 2000 "Instructions for the Living"
16. December 2000
#
Within two weeks of Sonya’s return to Orange County, by mastering the church networks and
through introductions from important friends back home, she was able to find a real estate
broker, property inspector, banker, real estate and immigration lawyers, insurance agents, private
nurses, and a new three bedroom house with a garage and driveway in Cypress. Before
Christmas, the Koh family closed on the house.
The lawyer advised Sonya to protect the property interest of the children in the event that
her brother-in-law remarried. “Surely, your sister will want to make sure that her children own
the house and can never be evicted if they continue to make payments,” he said.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 559
So the deed was held in the children’s names, and although their individual incomes were
not ideal, in the aggregate, several lenders were more than willing to give them a mortgage, and
the borrowers were John, Bo, and Mido since DH had law school loans and no income again
until he started his summer internship. Sonya gave each member of the family money separately
to avoid gift taxes and in the aggregate, the family was able to put down twenty-five percent of a
$200,000 house. The monthly loan payments, HOA fees, and real property taxes came out to be a
little more than their rent.
It was not a grand townhouse, but it was a new construction by a reputable builder—one
of ten in a row of townhouses—painted white with a pale gray trim. Located in the center of
town and close to an excellent public schools, the broker had emphasized that it would only
increase in its property values. Sonya visited almost two dozen houses, and the one on
Candlestick Lane met the criteria of everything required while in the range of their budget.
Two days before Christmas, Sonya pushed Helen on her collapsible wheel chair across
the threshold of the townhouse.
Looking up at her sister, bundled in a quilt and scarves, Helen said quietly, “I never
thought we could own our place in America so soon.”
Lately, John said less and less but he was grateful that Helen was comfortable. As long as
he was able to work, he was determined to make good on the loan. He promised Helen that he’d
repay her sister’s family, and she believed he would.
Helen refused to go to hospice. There was little point to it now. The nurses were
wonderful, and ever watchful, Sonya never seemed to sleep.
Sonya had the maid’s room by the kitchen. The boys shared the basement, which had a

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 560
bathroom, and Mido got her own room with the picture window beside the master bedroom.
Helen didn’t want to miss anything whenever she was awake, so the rented hospital bed
was placed in the living room in the new house as well. John slept alone in the master bedroom,
but when he wasn’t asleep, he remained by Helen’s bedside to read to her and do chores. He
washed and folded laundry so well that he joked that if Shrimp Castle shut down, he had another
career waiting for him.
DH never left his mother’s side, and only he could get her to eat porridge or have sips of
water when things got worse. Though there was no need, he checked the nurses, and when Helen
slept, he read casebooks to prepare for his second semester of 1L. Helen wanted him to return to
New York as soon as classes began, and he told her he would but didn’t mean it, having already
gotten excuses from the dean if things turned for the worse.
“I want you to be my secretary,” she said one morning.
DH nodded. The house was empty. The morning nurse had just left and the second nurse
was running late. Bo and Mido were tutoring at Irvine, John was at Shrimp Castle in Garden
Grove, and Sonya was at a meeting with a lawyer in Buena Park.
DH removed his blue hooded sweatshirt and tossed it on the sofa. From the hallway
closet, he retrieved three heavy knapsacks. Helen had saved each of their JanSport knapsacks
from middle school when they had become too worn out to carry any longer. Bo’s was black,
DH’s navy, and Mido’s green. Inside each bag were the notebooks Helen kept for each child.
“Can you get me my jewelry box?”
“Why, Mommy?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 561
Helen just smiled, and DH went upstairs to fetch the lacquered Korean jewelry box, no
bigger than two cigar boxes.
“Open,” she gestured with her jaw.
“Find the pearl necklace and put that in Mido’s bag.”
DH opened the silk drawstring bags to find it and placed it in Mido’s knapsack.
“The diamond engagement ring. That’s for Bo. He’ll get married first, I think.”
“Definitely,” DH said. “I’m not getting married anytime soon.”
He pulled out the diamond and platinum engagement ring in its velvet box. The diamond
was a third of a carat but set in a way to make it look a bit bigger.
“Your Daddy used every bit of his savings to buy me that ring.”
DH admired it. Even he knew it couldn’t cost very much. He tucked the box into the
black knapsack for Bo.
“The Swiss watch. It’s 14 karat gold. That’s for your wife,” Helen said, admiring the
small watch face on the thin brown leather band, which she’d had replaced when she was still
working in Sydney. “Your Daddy bought that for me the first time he went to New York. I don’t
know if your wife will like it but she’ll know it is from me.”
“I don’t have a girlfriend,” DH said, which was true. He’d had two in college and neither
had worked out. In law school, he had decided to avoid all such entanglements until he was more
settled with a job.
“You will have a wonderful wife,” she said. “I will pray for that in heaven. I will be

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 562
watching over you.”
“No, no,” he said. “Please don’t go.” DH bowed his head, unable to look at her, and when
he opened his eyes, he saw that she had fallen asleep.
When Sonya returned from her meeting to relieve DH, she went to the powder room to
wash her hands. She told DH to get some rest, and he went to his room.
“Sister,” Helen said, and though her voice was soft, Sonya heard her voice and rushed to
her side after turning off the faucet.
“Do you need the bedpan?”
Helen shook her head.
“Sit, please,” Helen said.
Sonya sat on the twin bed beside Helen’s.
There had been no time to buy more furniture than whatever they’d had in the apartment,
and John had pleaded with Sonya not to spend any more money.
The new house was bigger than their old place, but it felt even more so because there was
only a sectional, dining table, television on its stand in the first floor, which functioned as both a
living and dining area. Helen’s hospital bed and Sonya’s bed were placed near the dining table.
There were no rugs on the floor or pictures on the walls, and again, they were starting all
over without any decorations or extra furnishings.
“I don’t feel well,” Helen said. “I don’t want to worry the children anymore. Before Bo

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 563
and Mido come home, I want to talk to you.”
Sonya patted her sister’s thin arm, covering her up to her shoulder with the blanket.
“I know you have been unhappy with things at home. You always say you are fine, but I
know things have been difficult. I worry that no one will take care of you, my sister, the one who
takes care of everyone. I’m sorry to have been such a burden to you. You’ve always–”
“Hush, you should rest.”
“Will you call Kenny for me? I want to talk to him. Just in case.”
Sonya dialed their brother, who had already booked a flight for Monday.
Kenny recognized her voice and started crying.
“I’ll be in LAX on Monday. Please wait for me. I got time off to come.”
“I wish I could see your face, Kenny, but I’m afraid that I might not be here.”
“I’m going to try to change my ticket for tomorrow. I don’t care if I get fired,” he said.
“No, no. You have to take care of your family. I know you’re working.”
“Noona.”
“Don’t cry, dear Kenny. I wanted to hear your voice because I’m so tired. Everything
hurts. I’m trying not to complain. Our big sister is working every single minute to take care of
everyone. It would be easier for me if I could go.”
Sonya shook her head back and forth, unable to speak.
“If I’m not here when you get here, will you do something for me?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 564
“Don’t say that. Noona, please don’t say that. Please.”
“Will you make sure that our sister is okay? When I’m gone, you have to check in on her
and see if she is okay. Umma and appa were never able to do much for us, so it’s just us, right?”
“Please. Please don’t—”
“Kenny, I’m so proud of you. You made a good life for you and your beautiful children.
When we were in Sydney, you took such good care of us. I’m sorry for not taking better care of
you. I’m the older one, and—”
“Noona, I promise to do everything I can. I promise. Please wait for me.”
Helen nodded and handed the phone to Sonya.
“Kenny, I better let her rest. I’ll call you tomorrow.”
Sonya put down the receiver and turned to chide Helen but saw that her sister was asleep
again, her breathing steady.
#
Late that evening, when everyone was home, the family gathered around her. John was seated on
the sofa, and the children sat on the wooden dining chairs arranged by the bed. Sonya sat on the
side and massaged Helen’s calves.
Propped up with three pillows, Helen sat up and admired her family. All day, she’d been
thinking of what she wanted to say, and worried she could never get through it all.
Ever since the trip to the emergency room and the first scan, her odyssey had taken
another turn, mocking all her well organized plans. Nevertheless, her boys were getting their

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 565
education, and after they were done, Mido would return to school and get hers, too.
She felt terrible for her husband, but in her time here, she found that she admired him far
more than when he had graduated near the top of his class from Seoul National. He had been
mistreated but he was still good. A minister had told them at their wedding service that in a
marriage, your spouse should make you grow closer to God, and John had done this. He had
tried to see the better nature in a person, and he had done this whenever she couldn’t.
“When the Lord calls for me—”
DH was the first to take his mother’s hand.
“Thank you for being our mother.”
Bo and Mido nodded, grateful that DH could say this.
John smiled, “Our baby lawyer DH is speaking for us.”
“It hurts when I laugh,” Helen said.
Mido couldn’t speak. She had never seen a person die, and she’d never imagined that the
person who never seemed tire out could become this skeleton before her eyes. She was near her
mother’s feet, and she held them in her hands.
“Children,” Helen said. “I will miss your graduations, your weddings, and the births of
your children. I will not be here to take care of your wonderful father, who has been my guardian
angel. But I want you to know, that in heaven, your mother will ask the Lord to protect you and
watch over you every single day. Maybe the Lord will take pity on me for missing so many
valuable things with you that He will have to listen to me. I don’t know why I have to go but I
believe God is fair.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 566
Bo got up from his seat and put his arms around her.
“Bless us, umma.”
Helen reached for her children.
“I will ask God. I will argue with Him. I will ask the Lord for satisfaction for cutting
short my life. The Bible says that God likes a wise servant, so I will plead my life in exchange
for the protection of my family.”
Sonya stroked her sister’s wasted legs, while John and the children held her body.
Helen faded and fell asleep again, her breath uneven. No one wanted to leave her side for
fear that they’d miss her, but John told everyone to go to bed. He would keep watch.
#

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 567
3:17 "Sunday After"
17.
#
The seller’s broker had recommended installing blackout shades for the master bedroom, but
there’d been no time for that. The bedroom faced south, and on Sunday morning, the enormous
California sun flooded the large room with an incandescent, glorious light.
The family had come home from the burial in the early evening, and John had showered
and gone straight to bed at ten o’clock. Having slept deeply, he wasn’t tired but he didn’t want to
rise.
As usual, the pillow next to him was untouched, and for a moment, he wondered if Helen

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 568
could be asleep downstairs in the living room in the rented hospital bed.
That could not be true. Her body was resting at a plot at Westminster. Church services
were in a few hours. Before bed, he’d hung up his black suit and tie on the hook by the master
bath. He wouldn’t have to dress in his Shrimp Castle uniform this morning.
His entire life, John had worked. In fact, he couldn’t remember not working. Even as a
boy, he’d delivered newspapers, sales circulars, milk, then stocked the mart below his family’s
rented rooms. During college, he had worked at a record shop and tutored well-off students in
Seoul, and after military service, he’d gotten his first job through Taehun Shin. His father,
mother, and brother, all who had worked endlessly had died so early.
Helen Hejin Cho
October 10, 1949 — December 29, 2000.
Beloved Wife, Mother, Sister.
The funeral director had asked for an inscription, saying the headstone would take
months to fabricate and install. If there was anything the family wanted to add, please let him
know, he’d said. Fifty-one years old. What could he add?
There was no one he’d ever loved more than Helen, and there’d be no one else.
A week ago, she’d said to him, “You are my dearest friend. Please be well and take care
of our children. If the Lord will allow it, I’ll do everything, everything, I can to watch over you.”
John believed in God and Helen. He didn’t feel at peace, however. He was angry. If he
could, he would have lodged a complaint against heaven that his angel had been taken from him
too soon. For a second, he thought of what he could add to the headstone. Stolen. Cheated.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 569
Denied. They deserved many more years together. His sole consolation was that she was out of
pain. That was all.
He rose, shook out the comforter and smoothed it over the queen size mattress.
#
In the kitchen, Sonya was drinking coffee. The children were still asleep.
“Would you like breakfast? You didn’t eat yesterday.”
Sonya’s large brown eyes were still swollen. Helen’s blue apron covered her black dress
with a white collar. She wore no jewelry except for a thin gold wedding band.
John poured himself a cup of coffee and sat down.
“Sister, I’m so grateful to you for having been here. For all of us. I know how much it
meant to my wife. She looked up to you more than anyone else.”
Sonya shook her head and waved her hands in denial, wanting him to stop. She couldn’t
cry anymore or bear to think of Helen’s goodness, which she had always wanted to protect. She
swallowed and sat down at the table.
“I’ll close on Mrs. Kwon’s nail salon next week. Everything happened sooner than
expected. She’ll run it for six more months and train the new manager.”
John listened carefully.
“I need to ask you for something.”
“Anything.”
“Would you manage the nail salon? It’s a profitable business and the financials look good

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 570
but there’s a lot to do. When I’d heard about Mrs. Kwon’s business, I’d imagined that Helen and
I could run it together one day.”
“What? Why would you—”
He paused when Sonya looked away, not wanting to answer.
“—After the closing, I need to return to Seoul but I’ll be back—”
“—You have to get back to your family. You’ve already given up so much for us.”
“I don’t think I can live in Seoul much longer.”
“How about your family?”
“I don’t want to live the way I do. I’ll speak to my sons.”
John didn’t understand. Helen had said that Sonya wasn’t happy with her husband, but it
wasn’t like her to complain.
“Right after the closing, I would like you to take over and be trained by Mrs. Kwon, and I
will return as soon as I can. I thought of asking Bo or Mido, but I thought you might find this
work easier. Also, I can pay you more.”
Sonya studied his face. It would be difficult for him to leave Shrimp Castle, not because
he enjoyed the work, but he’d feel loyal to Yun’s mother, Nari, who had helped them from the
beginning.
Being a manager at Rose Salon would be complicated but easier than frying fish, lifting
boxes, and cleaning a kitchen six days a week. He’d oversee two dozen nail technicians and
mind the financials.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 571
“I thought if you became my partner, then we can split the net receipts in half. It’s a very
strong business with an excellent location in Buena Park, and even after taxes, I think you could
make a weekly salary of eighteen hundred dollars. At the end of the year, we can see how things
are. The accountant said we can do a quarterly profit sharing and a year-end bonus but to keep
the salary at a lower level.”
John held his coffee mug in his dry brown hands. When he worked in an office, they were
smooth and well-cared for. After almost three years at Shrimp Castle, his hands and forearms
were covered in oil splatter burns.
In the first few months, he’d cut his left index finger with a cleaver, requiring stitches and
a tetanus shot. He raised his hands for Sonya to see. She smiled weakly, understanding.
“I’ve never been inside a nail salon.”
“You never fried fish, either.”
It was hard for John to imagine working at a nail salon where people decorated their
hands and had their feet scrubbed by others. The customers would be women, mostly, and the
hours would be similar to Shrimp Castle. Of course, he could do it but he worried what would
happen to Yun’s mother, who depended on him. She was a soft woman, who had become nervous
from the disappointments of life. What would he tell her? She would understand, but even to
him, it felt wrong to leave the store.
“Do you need time?”
“I’ll tell Yun’s mother today. She’ll need to find a replacement right away. Do you think I
can have two weeks?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 572
#
At church, the Koh children studied their father who said little. The family sat in their usual pew,
cognizant that Helen would never return. Sonya was there and DH, who was often away at
school. After services, they went downstairs to the patio for lunch, and many of the same people
they’d seen the day before at the funeral came by to say hello.
A few mothers with college-aged daughters looked over DH carefully. Without him
saying anything, they knew he’d gone to Yale as a soccer player and was now a 1L at Columbia.
Though mournful and considerate, the mothers still could not seem to control themselves.
Already two mothers who were friendly with Sonya stopped by and asked about DH, and
she’d diverted them, saying that her nephew had no time for girlfriends because of the demands
of law school. The mothers nodded, bowed to the family, and smiled at DH before leaving.
DH frowned, aware that no one was asking about Bo. It would have made more sense to
inquire about him since he was older.
“No thanks, man,” Bo said to his brother. “I’m fine. Not in the market. I guess this is
what happens to Ivy League lawyers?”
“So, if you’re in medical school, do the fathers come by?” DH asked.
Mido shrugged. “Probably.”
DH laughed. “Well, that’s a relief that I never liked Biology or Chemistry.” He turned to
his aunt. “Are our cousins getting pressure to marry?”
“Too young, and girls don’t want to get married in Korea.”
“Even to your sons?” Mido asked. “They’re so nice.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 573
“And good looking,” Sonya added. The Chairman and her husband had strong opinions
about who the boys would marry. The brides had to come from established families, preferably
well-connected in media and government.
“I’m done,” Bo said, picking up his empty tray.
“Can I get a ride to Fortress?” Mido asked.
“Sure. I have a student in the afternoon, but I can go now.”
DH raised his hand. “And me?” He sounded plaintive, much younger than usual. It felt
like the old days when the three of them moved as a unit.
Bo glanced at their father, who was still eating his bibimbap. He looked up when the
three of them got up from the bench.
“You kids can go. I’ll see you at home. I need to talk with Yun’s mother.”
“How will you get home?” Bo asked.
“We’ll get a ride,” Sonya said.
#
On Sundays, parishioners filled the airy cafe across the street from Gospel Presbyterian. Along
the wall, churchgoers of all ages, some still clutching service programs, gathered along the
yellow banquettes.
In groups of threes and fours, teenagers from youth assembly sat as far away as they
could from the clusters of grandmothers in print dresses. Retirees in eyeglasses sat close to each
other and nodded with enthusiasm while taking turns telling funny stories.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 574
Sonya led John and Nari to one of the empty tables in the back. Once seated, John went
to buy their coffee. At church, hot drinks were free, so he’d never frequented the cafe before.
He was relieved that Sonya had wanted to come and talk with Nari as well. His head felt
thick and muddled. He knew he had to work for his sister-in-law but felt confused as to how to
go about this. The only thing he felt clear about was to tell the truth plainly but he wasn’t sure if
there was a better time or place. In the past few years, he had lost some confidence in his own
judgment.
Before losing his job at HRT, John had been the sort of man who believed that the world
was a fairly reasonable place without many surprises. He wasn’t naive, but he could not have
expected a person like Danbi to exist or for an old friend Shin to alter so completely. He’d had
dinner with Shin once when he brought the gift from the deacons’ fund. Shin had also come to
Helen’s funeral, thankfully alone. Life was forcing John to change, and he did not always know
to execute.
The server placed John’s coffee order on the counter.
“Sir? Sir?” the young woman behind the counter repeated.
“Oh.” John remembered himself and paid for the coffee, surprised by how expensive it
was.
Nari had already wiped down the table with a napkin, and when John placed the tray
down, she smiled at him, feeling sorry for the man who looked lost.
“I should have ordered cake. I wasn’t thinking,” he said.
“I’m not hungry,” Sonya said, glancing at Nari, who liked sweets but was always

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 575
watching her weight.
“No cake,” Nari said.
For a while, they spoke about the funeral, which had been well-attended. John could not
remember almost any of it clearly. If it hadn’t been for the funeral book and all the condolence
cards, he wouldn’t have really known who’d come to pay respects.
“I’m buying Mrs. Kwon’s Rose Salon. I’ve asked my brother-in-law to be the manager,”
Sonya said.
Nari opened her mouth then closed it.
“Oh, oh,” she murmured.
John looked at Nari with concern.
“We’ve been so grateful to you for everything you’ve done for our family. I don’t know
how we would’ve survived,” John said. He could tell that Nari was about to cry, as she covered
her mouth with her hands.
“I didn’t do anything.”
“No, you did so much. My wife and I received so much of your help. I will spend the rest
of my life paying back our debts to you and to my sister-in-law—”
Sonya interrupted him. “I apologize for this inconvenience. I’ve been asking around to
find you another person for Shrimp Castle.”
Nari nodded and didn’t say anything.
“I can stay for another two weeks if you need, unless you find someone else sooner,”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 576
John said. He felt terrible. “I don’t want to burden you with another problem. If we can find
someone right away, I’ll still help to train him.”
Nari stopped him. “—I’ve wanted to close for some time. After my husband left, Yun and
I talked about me doing something else. If you hadn’t helped us at Castle, I would’ve been forced
to sell much faster. The promissory note is almost paid off now, and I own the business. I have
three more years on the lease. I can sell the store. Lion’s brother told me I could get a decent
price on it. My husband needs the money. He wrote me not long ago but I didn’t know what to
do.”
“But your store is doing well,” Sonya said. “Why would you sell it?”
“My back and knees hurt all the time. I’m too old for this I think. I’d prefer to sit and
work.”
John felt badly for her. He had never wanted his wife to work behind the counter either.
Helen hadn’t complained when she was at her sickest, until it was too late. He blamed himself
for her needing to work the way she did. If he’d made more money or knew anything about
investing, then she wouldn’t have had to work like that. Perhaps she wouldn’t have died, he
thought.
“Maybe you can work for me then,” Sonya said. “My sister never complained about
having to stand all day but I’m sure it must have been difficult.”
“What?” Nari looked puzzled.
“It would be easier work than Shrimp Castle. You don’t have to do the nails. I think
that’s more difficult. You’d have to learn how to book appointments and deal with the schedules

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 577
for the technicians. You can learn that.”
“I don’t know,” Nari said. “I’m not as clever as you and your sister. My English is not
as—”
“You’re younger than I am, and you can handle appointments. Also, my brother-in-law
will be there, too.”
“He went to the best college and worked for a big company—”
“Let’s not disagree,” Sonya said, glancing at John, who looked lost. “You would be
helping our family again. I’d worry less if I knew that you and my brother-in-law were managing
the salon together.”
John smiled and nodded. He was seven months younger than Sonya, but now looked
much older, having aged years in a matter of months.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 578

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 579
3:18 January 2001
18. January 2001
#
After the morning meeting ended, the tutors headed out to their first period classroom, while
Mido gathered the stack of proposed test materials.
Peter lingered in his chair near the whiteboard. Both Mido and he wouldn’t teach until
later in the afternoon.
He could’ve gone to his office, but Peter took his time jotting down reminders in his
spiral notebook, which was filled with half finished song fragments and a growing list of tasks.
“There’s a rising junior if you want another student. Tough cookie but I think you

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 580
might—”
“Sure,” she said.
Mido looked sad and exhausted, and he wished he could do something for her instead of
just giving her more work.
Her head in her hand, elbow resting on the table, Mido attempted to smile. Peter was
trying to be normal, and she appreciated his effort. She didn’t want to talk about her mother or
how nothing made any sense now that she was gone. She wanted to work.
“I think you might click with her.”
“Which kid?”
“Susie Yoon.”
“Oh, sure. The cool customer.” Mido furrowed her brow, not understanding why she was
being asked. “Wasn’t she working with Joe for verbal? He’s really good.”
“Yeah, Joe is terrific, but his nice guy methods are not working on her. Susie’s mom
called me last night. At home. She wants to quit.”
“Can’t we just let her quit?” Mido didn’t believe in making kids do things they didn’t
want to do.
Peter gave her a hard stare and pointed to his black t-shirt with a heavily made up image
of Robert Smith.
“Remember me? I wanted to be a punk rocker when I was in middle school. I know I
now sound like some sort of boss person but you know me by now, Mido—”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 581
Peter thought kids should be learning how to surf rather than be stuck in an office park all
weekend memorizing SAT words they’d likely never use in a sentence or solving math word
problems.
He stood up from his chair and mussed up his gelled hair, raising it a good two inches
from his scalp. He played air guitar, rocking his hips back and forth and started to sing “Just Like
Heaven.”
Mido laughed out loud.
“I’m sorry. I shouldn’t have said that. To you especially.”
“Of course, she should quit if she wants to. I’m not an owner of this place,” he said,
sounding proud to be against profit. “Although Lion is definitely not a capitalist pig either.”
They both nodded.
“This is the thing. The mom called me close to 11o’clock last night to plead her case.
Apparently, they’re going through a divorce, and Susie who was on track for all the fancy college
things decided to throw her academic life to hell to get back at her dad who went to Wharton and
wants her to go there.”
“Wharton? That’s the business undergrad at the University of Pennsylvania, right?”
As a college consultant, Mido had been researching the Ivy League schools that Fortress
kids talked so much about. She’d never visited any of them, so it was hard to understand how
they were different from each other. Of course, she’d heard a lot about Yale from her brother DH.
Having grown up in Australia, just the names alone confused her. U. Penn was an entirely
different college than Penn State, she’d only learned recently. U. Mass. - Amherst was distinct

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 582
from Amherst College though they were in the same town. There were over a dozen schools in
the University of North Carolina system.
Then there were the two-year community colleges and junior colleges—one being public
and the other private or public. Bo was getting a two-year Associate Degree from Fullerton
College but he could get a four year Bachelor Degree from Cal State Fullerton, which was not
part of the University of California system. Mido had created detailed spreadsheets to keep them
straight.
In the United States, there were many, many strong colleges and universities. To her, the
sheer number, variety, and cost of them were overwhelming. Higher education in America was
nothing like Australia or South Korea—countries with far smaller populations.
“I guess Susie doesn’t want to study business?”
“Wharton’s a professional school. Not for everyone.”
“This is Susie Yoon with the blue hair?”
“Wharton could use a little color,” he said.
“I guess.” Mido worried about all the students. They were uniformly anxious “I like
Susie. The hair looks good on her. I couldn’t pull it off—”
“You never know until you try,” Peter smiled, his hair still poufy. “I miss being a blond
sometimes.”
“Anyway, thank you for taking her on, and I’m going to send her to your office after
lunch,” Peter said, without waiting for her to reply.
Having checked the master schedule, he knew Mido was clear in the afternoon. Peter

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 583
didn’t ask why she’d returned to work so soon after the funeral. Both Yun and Lion had tried to
encourage Mido to take more time off, but she had insisted on getting back and taking on her full
load. Bo was also teaching his private students and going to school. He had to give up the van
driving because the hours didn’t work, but he taught every weekend.
Fortress now had a hundred and fifty students enrolled — SAT boot camps, subject tests,
subject tutoring, and now, college counseling. They had to turn students away. Tutors left other
hagwons to work at Fortress because Lion preferred to pay the highest salaries though he didn’t
charge the highest tuition fees. The competitive Irvine hagwon owners didn’t mind, but
Fortress’s growth upset the struggling ones.
#
Mido had a good-sized windowless classroom in the back of the building for private tutoring and
college consulting. On two of the walls, she’d put up whiteboards, and on the wall and the
narrow remaining space beside the glass door, she’d hung up postcards, posters, and drawings of
American writers: Toni Morrison, Anne Sexton, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Kurt Vonnegut, John Dos
Passos, James Baldwin, Stephen King, Isaac Bashevis Singer, John Steinbeck, Maxine Hong
Kingston, and Zora Neale Hurston. On a library cart, she stored copies of their novels and stories
with a beanbag chair and reading lamp to encourage her students to read.
In Cypress, Yun had decorated the walls of Exodus Academy with inspirational quotes
from men and women of great accomplishment, whose images often accompanied their words.
For Fortress, Mido had latitude with this room and a modest budget. If a student really liked a
book and wanted to keep reading it at home, Mido could tell the child to keep the volume.
Mido sat with a legal pad and Susie Yoon’s latest SAT practice test results. Her verbal

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 584
scores were significantly lower than her initial diagnostic test in September, which made no
sense.
The door opened. It was Susie.
Mido glanced at the chair beside her.
“Heard you want to quit.”
“Yes.”
The girl was fifteen and besides her blue hair, she had a nose ring and several piercings
on her left ear lobe.
“What does the rest look like?” Mido pointed to her inked forearm, half hidden beneath
the sweatshirt.
Susie pushed up the sleeve to expose a skinny right arm which had a beautiful drawing of
a weeping willow.
“Cool. Did it hurt?”
“Like a motherfucker.”
Mido laughed.
“Heard about the divorce.”
“Yup.”
“Listen. You can quit if you want to. I know I’m supposed to talk you out of it but I’d
rather hear why you want to quit. If you tell me why and convince me, I will persuade your
mother myself. I have nothing better to do than to act as your fake free lawyer. You can quit. It

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 585
will not affect our bottom line. I’ll still pull a great salary. In fact, it would be less work for me.”
This time Susie laughed, and Mido felt glad because life was shitty but it felt bearable if
you could still laugh.
“My dad cheated on my mother. He’s marrying some West Hollywood bitch with gigantic
boobs, and my mother is drinking a lot of wine. They’re not acting like Korean parents. I don’t
give a fuck anymore.”
“I see. That is a lot.”
Susie looked proud of herself at having told another adult the lousy state of affairs at
home. It felt just.
“If they act like assholes, I don’t see why I have to act like a genius.”
“Fair point.”
Again, Susie smiled.
“Listen. You can quit. You can blame your parents who are going through whatever.
Frankly, I don’t care what the adults are doing, because they’re not my students. They wouldn’t
listen to me about their problems. I don’t even like talking, especially to adults.
“However, I would like you to have many wonderful choices. Fucking up your life right
now is not going to help you become liberated from your parents who are going through some
possibly delayed rebellion. Maybe if they had blue hair when they were kids, there might be
more peace in your life now. No idea. I’m guessing all this without knowing any of the facts.
Regardless, I’m on your side.
“The reality is that the way you can get away from their nuttiness is by doing well at

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 586
school and going across the country and having them pay for a college education, which they’re
able to do. Lucky you.”
“Where did you go to college?” Susie asked.
“I finished my first year at the University of Sydney, then I came to the U.S. with my
family.”
“You haven’t finished?”
“Nope. Your verbal teacher and college essay specialist is more or less a college dropout
or you can say that I took a pause.”
“Cool.”
“I can’t afford to finish my college education right now.”
Susie made a face like she didn’t understand.
“You can’t get loans?”
Mido wondered if she should bother telling her about how her life had not ended up the
way she thought it would when she was Susie’s age.
“My mother died last week from pancreatic cancer.”
Most of the Fortress students knew this. They’d signed a group condolence card for her.
Mido didn’t pause to accept Susie’s sympathies and continued.
“I need to earn money. I’ll finish my degree later. The only thing that’s relevant for you
right now though is that you are sitting in a room with a person who not only knows how to get a
perfect score on the verbal section of the SATs or most standardized exams, I am tremendous at

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 587
teaching high school students how to get one, too. I’m unaware of my other gifts, but on this
testing thing, I’m a savant. Look up the word if you don’t know what it means. The dictionary is
behind you on the shelf. I can and will raise your scores. Joe is also excellent but you didn’t
realize that. He’s nicer than me. Anyway, his loss is my gain.”
Susie was paying attention. When it came to students, it was easier to talk like this.
Around adults, Mido spoke as needed, measuring every extra word, but when it came to children
and teenagers, she wanted to tell them all of the truth. For them, she was willing to be expansive
and as clear as drinking water.
Susie glanced at her practice test in front of Mido.
“I wasn’t even trying for that score.”
“I know.”
“If I focused—”
“It’s not the score, Susie. Respect language. If you respect words, sentences, and
meaning, you will have command of one of the greatest gifts of your life. Forget the test. Obtain
the command of the English language.”
Mido checked her math scores.
“Do you like your math group?”
“Meh.”
“Do you know Catherine Cha? She’s also at Troy.”
“Blonde girl.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 588
“Yeah.”
“You want to join her group? That group is led by Peter, and they’re doing very well.”
“Okay.”
“Done. Let’s turn to this reading comp passage.”
Mido sat up straight and gestured to the page.
Susie picked up her pencil, straightening her posture and brushed away the blue hair from
her eyes.
#
Ten days after the funeral, Tek arrived in California. Work had prevented him from attending
Helen’s services. He’d sent an enormous wreath of white chrysanthemums. He called her more
often and when he missed her, left brief messages on the answering machine. Mido got an email
account, and he sent her messages from his.
Right after work, Mido went to his hotel, and as soon as she walked into his room and
closed the door, she collapsed in to his arms. It was as if they had forgotten their disagreements
and his disappointment for her refusal.
“I’m so sorry, Mido. This was the soonest I could get away.”
Tek’s dark hair was longer in the front than usual. A while back, he’d mentioned
changing his barber. Mido was surprised by how unfamiliar a person could look just from a new
haircut. His fine features—the thoughtful sloping eyes and straight nose, became more distinct,
shaded by his dark hair. He’d lost some weight and his cheekbones were more defined. Tek was
more handsome than before.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 589
“Are you hungry?”
She wasn’t. The thought of food made her think of her mother, who always asked about
her meals. Mido sat down.
“You must be tired from the flight.”
“No. I’m okay. I was reading this fascinating brief. No kidding. I’m studying it actually.”
Tek picked up the papers beside him and smiled. “Are you tired?”
They were being polite. The last time they were in a room at this hotel, right away, they’d
made love as if two people in love needed to do something to remember each other. Now, it felt
strange to think of sex. Mido didn’t want that.
“How’s work?”
“Fine,” he said. He’d already been called to the NSW Bar and was at Chambers,
supporting the barrister Stephen Jackson. Swamped, Peter had no business being here, but
everyone at Chambers had understood.
Tek had met Helen only a few times, but he had felt her kindness. She was not a frivolous
person. His mother, Professor Yoon, the famous economist, was a college professor, who had
never been interested in being like other mothers; however, from an early age, Professor Yoon
had drilled it into him that women did paid and unpaid work in the house, but it was all work.
When Tek worked for or with women, he’d gotten along well, unlike some of his peers.
What he had learned was that women were often more protective of junior men than junior
women.
“You’re back at the hagwon so soon.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 590
“It’s better to keep busy.”
“I felt badly that I couldn’t be here for you.”
Mido understood. In order for this to continue, neither could expect much from the other.
This was how they had managed to last.
Tek had no intention of moving to California. It made no sense, and of course, she
respected it. There was a stronger argument for her to move to Sydney, finish her degree, and to
marry him. However, Mido would not leave her family now. Her income was more important
than ever.
Hospital bills, mortgage for the new house, insurance, taxes, and car payments—all of it
required Mido to help out. They no longer had Helen’s earnings. Bo had two more years of
school, and he said he was interested in becoming a psychologist, which would require a
doctorate, and that could add another six to eight years. DH would graduate law school in two,
and his grades mattered for the jobs he wanted.
“How long can you stay?”
“Two days at best. I should leave tomorrow but I think I can stay until my original
flight.”
“You flew two days already.”
“I would’ve been here sooner, Mido.”
“I know.”
“Come back with me. I’m a working barrister. In record time. My offer stands. I can send
money back to your family and put you through school.” He folded his arms against his chest.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 591
“This can’t go on with you being here and me in Sydney.”
Mido hugged her knees. His reasoning made sense, and she was so tired.
“You’re going to sacrifice your life for your father and brothers? No, Mido. This isn’t
some Korean fairy tale. This is your life. We’ve entered the 21st century. How’s this okay? Your
mother wouldn’t want this.”
“You’re right. She wouldn’t want me to do this for them, but it’s not just for them. I like
working at Fortress.”
“You can’t be serious. You’re an office manager and SAT tutor. You’re helping kids with
college essays when you haven’t finished your own degree. You can do any of this in Sydney if
you want. They have hagwons there—”
“—No, no. I don’t think you understand. It’s not just a job—”
Mido felt inadequate to argue with Tek and was too worn down to try. How could she
ever persuade a barrister? She could not.
“I give up,” she said then saw him grin at the thought of winning. Again, he’d
misunderstood.
“No, I mean us. I’m not going back.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 592

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 593
Book IV
January 2003 - December 2005

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 594
4:1 January 2003 "The Rose Salon"
1. January 2003
#
John had never worked with so many women before.
In his two years as the business manager of the popular Rose Salon, he could name only
two regular male customers, Oliver Bonoba and Nathaniel Rosario, who scheduled monthly
paraffin pedicures. The pedicurists preferred Mr. Bonoba and Mr. Rosario because they tipped
well and never tried any funny business. Unlike other nail salons, there were no massage
therapists, and John had observed that most men were less inclined to pay money for personal

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 595
grooming. Although several technicians had offered, John had never had a manicure or pedicure.
For most of his professional life, he’d worked with men and a few junior women.
Although Taehun Shin had preferred including attractive female office workers for drinks after
work, John had avoided socializing with them one-on-one or in a group.
As the father of a daughter, John hoped that no one would treat his daughter unfairly. A
man, he knew, could get the wrong idea when a woman was just being polite or kind. His
widowed mother had gone through a lot with landlords, bank officers, and shopkeepers, and John
took pains to be as clear as possible, even at the risk of being viewed at rude or cold.
For the past two years, Nari had suggested a salon Christmas party—a tradition from
Mrs. Kwon’s era—but, John had passed on the idea. What most employees wanted was to get
home early and good year-end cash bonuses. When there was a budget line for a party, John split
the money equally among the twenty-four technicians and added it to their year-end bonus
envelopes. Everyone also got a crate of oranges and a tin of butter cookies.
The previous owner, Mrs. Kwon, had called all the workers “girls.” However, after
hundreds of hours of training at Saddlebrook College relating to the nail technician licensing
exam, required for her to legally own the salon, Sonya insisted that all the technicians’ name tags
reflect their preferred status. Everyone was called Miss or Missus, and for the women with
church titles, if they wished, they were addressed as Deacon or Elder.
John preferred the formalities, wanting to keep as much distance between him and the
women. He made sure that he was never alone with anyone anywhere in the shop. The workers
found Manager John Koh, as his name tag read, competent and polite, but far too quiet.
The technicians addressed him as Manager John and the ones who were also members of

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 596
Gospel Presbyterian called him Elder Koh. Many of them were curious about Helen and admired
the widower’s reserve and mourning, believing that he was a man who’d never love another
woman as much as his late wife. When they asked Manager Nari about her, she shared that Helen
was an elegant lady—a graduate of Ewha Woman’s College, a good mother of three fine
children, and a woman of strong faith.
“Was she pretty?” they’d ask, having met Helen’s sister Sonya, the beautiful owner of the
salon, who came by the salon several times a year.
“Oh, yes,” Nari stressed. “She had style, too. Deacon Cho was pretty like her sister but
they looked different. The deacon’s face was softer and more olive-toned, and when she listened
to you, you could tell that she was interpreting you in the best possible way.
To keep from crying, Nari would make a self-deprecating joke.
“She wasn’t tacky. She didn’t wear much makeup or bright clothes. Didn’t talk so much
like me. Almost never watched television.”
For Nari, one of the best things about working at Rose Salon was that she could wear her
clothes from back home, which still fit her—dresses and skirts in jewel-tones and lots of eye
makeup. Her hands were now always perfectly manicured and painted in the latest colors. There
were always women to chat with about the latest drama programs and fashionable clothes in
magazines.
Unlike at Shrimp Castle, where she’d worn a long white apron over her brown and beige
polyester uniform, here, Nari was a manager, and she styled her hair up or down, depending on
the fashion, and she could wear her fanciest things, including any remaining pieces of jewelry
she hadn’t sold when they needed money.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 597
At the salon, with its mirrored walls and chandeliers, it was appropriate for Nari to wear
sequin skirts and fur trimmed sweaters. For the first time in years, she felt almost attractive
again. After only a week at the salon, she told her daughter, “I feel like a girl.” Not once did she
miss Shrimp Castle, a business that her husband had purchased and left behind.
Several workers had considered pursuing John as a prospective husband, but Nari put
them off. “You can try, but there’s no point,” she’d say. “He’s never going to remarry.” If a
technician or customer tried flirting, perplexed, John would nod politely and return to his tiny
business office, which could barely hold his desk, chair, and filing cabinet.
If he ever needed to talk with a worker in private, he’d schedule the conversation, always
accompanied with Nari, in the employee’s room, which had a mirrored two-way window as well
as security cameras.
Nari believed that none of the women interested in the widower were up to Helen’s
standards. Even if Helen and her sister Sonya came from poor families, Nari had been astonished
by how neither ever seemed intimidated by other educated and wealthy people. Nari didn’t know
if that unwavering personal dignity came from having gone to an elite college or from what
they’d been through and survived. Surely, it wasn’t just money. Nari had once had a great deal of
money, and she hadn’t been astute like Helen, or steely and elegant like Sonya.
Nari had a few regrets. She had graduated from high school with decent marks and had
once considered becoming a nurse, but she’d gotten pregnant with Yun and married. She
believed she would have made a good nurse because she liked helping people. When she and her
husband had plenty of money, Nari had seen no point to studying hard to become a nurse or
learning English properly, which she now sorely regretted. She missed her husband and wished

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 598
she’d been better to him. If Joonho ever returned, she vowed to be more patient.
For five years now, with two businesses, Nari and John had worked together well. Nari
was relieved to sell Shrimp Castle and send money to her husband. Working at the salon was far
easier on her back and knees. Except for the nail dust and chemical smells of the polish and
remover, Nari thought being a sales manager at Rose Nail Salon was the perfect job.
As the business manager, John minded the books, taxes, licensing requirements, lease
management, waste disposal, maintenance, and inventory, and Nari took care of the
appointments and workers.
No different than the customers at Shrimp Castle, often, people mistook them for a
married couple, and Nari would correct them, saying John was her brother-in-law.
She was married, and Joonho would always be her husband. He would return.
If her husband wanted a divorce, he could come back and ask for one. She’d be sad but
give in. Life was too brief to hold grudges, and he had given her many good years and their
beautiful daughter Yun. Nari had no interest in ever getting married again.
Each morning, John would walk over to Nari’s apartment building and meet her in front
of the lobby. They’d walk down to the basement parking, get into her Volvo and drive to Rose
Salon. In the evening, unless John’s kids picked him up, which was rare because they were
working or at school, she’d drive them back to her building, and he’d walk home. They didn’t eat
dinner together. Each night, he’d bow, say thank you for the ride, and wish her good night.
After she parked her car, Nari would rush to her apartment, wash off her makeup and
change out of the dress-up clothes, and put on a pair of clean pajamas. In the small kitchen, she’d

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 599
fix herself a bowl of popcorn and watch two rented drama videos and go to bed early. In the
morning, she’d make herself a large breakfast of rice, fried eggs, soup, and side dishes.
Her daughter Yun worried about her living alone, but Nari couldn’t imagine living with
anyone else. Nari was still nice looking, and at church, the other women deacons who knew
about her husband leaving mentioned fixing her up with men seeking a nice, hard-working wife.
“Thank you for thinking of me, but I am still married.”
She felt no wish to take care of another man. Nari intended to age as well as possible and
live quietly. When she wrote to her three brothers that her husband Joonho was gone, none of
them had advised her to marry again. Two of them asked her to send money for their mother,
who was suffering from dementia, so of course, Nari did.
She matured. Each month, Nari put aside half of whatever was left of her pay in a
retirement savings account. On Sunday afternoons, she drove to South Coast Plaza and window
shopped. Now and then, she’d try on a one-piece dress or a skirt, but thinking of her eventual
retirement, she did her best to refrain from buying anything. It amazed her how much money
she’d spent over the years on clothing, shoes, and bags. Having her husband leave her with a
large promissory note to pay off while their daughter was in college had taught her that she
should have saved more money.
She saved also for Joonho, who she believed would eventually return, if not for her but
for their daughter. This was what happened in dramas about true love, and Nari believed that
their love had been genuine from the start. They’d had troubles, and if both of them had been
more self-controlled, they’d still be together.
Her husband was not heroic but he was a very good person. Nari thought about him often.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 600
Joonho had made mistakes. Weak and ashamed of how life had turned out, he was trying his luck
in Brazil again. After selling the store, she’d sent him money, and on Christmas, he called her for
the first time in years. She’d been writing him now and then and knew from his cousin’s wife
that he got the letters. He knew Yun was married and she got her green card.
“How is Yun?” he asked.
“She’s happy with her husband.”
“I wanted to wish you a Merry Christmas,” he said quietly. “You’ve always liked
Christmas more than me.”
Nari laughed. In Seoul, she’d decorated their home with three trees, all their stores, and
insist on buying all their employees expensive presents.
“I better go,” Joonho said.
“Where are you working?” she asked, wanting details.
“I’m driving a truck but I found a fabric store. That money you sent was helpful. I don’t
have any debts anymore.” He didn’t mention how he’d borrowed money from his cousin for an
aloe vera supplement business that had gone bust and that very day, he thought of returning to
California but couldn’t until he had a suitcase of money. “I’m doing much better,” he said,
noticing his dispatcher waving him over. There were fewer men at the garage because no on
wanted to work during Christmas. “Say hello to Yun. Thanks again. For you know. Take care of
your health.”
#
On the second anniversary of Helen’s death, Sonya returned to Orange County—her fourth trip

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 601
to the States for the year.
On Friday evening, when John went to an elders’ meeting, Sonya invited Nari to dinner.
They went to Horatio’s Bar and Grill, a large anchor tenant of the new mall in Buena Park and
walking distance from Rose Salon.
“Business has been going well,” Sonya said. “Thank you for working so hard.”
“I like the work so much.”
“That’s a relief,” Sonya said.
“I’m surprised but I don’t think I want to go back to Korea.”
Sonya tilted her head, trying to understand. She didn’t want to go back to Seoul either,
and it was strange to hear another married woman saying the thing she was thinking.
“My husband left me, and when that happened, I thought I’d die.”
“Oh? You seem so well. So strong.”
“I also thought I’d die when we lost all the stores. But I didn’t. I didn’t die when my
husband left.”
“Have you heard from him?”
Nari nodded. “He called.”
“He’s okay?”
“I don’t think so. I called his cousin’s wife two years ago. That’s how I knew he needed
money. She was complaining about how he had debts.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 602
“Have they been paid?”
“I think so.”
“He doesn’t live in the boardinghouse anymore. I heard that much.”
“What?”
“When he got there, he lived with some Korean woman and her daughters who rented
rooms. I don’t think it was anything bad. I don’t know. It didn’t work out, my cousin’s wife told
me. Anyway. He doesn’t know I know.”
“Does it bother you?”
“Yes, but I didn’t go there like he wanted. I guess he didn’t want to tell me.”
Sonya nodded in understanding. “You’re a good person. You’re always thinking of
others. I know that.”
“Thank you, Sister. That means so much to me. I’ve always looked up to you and your
sister. Your world was so high class. We couldn’t even talk to each other.”
Sonya shook her head though she understood what Nari meant.
“I never thought you’d own a nail salon in America, and that I’d be working for you.”
Sonya made a face, confused by her meaning.
“I mean, I’m so grateful to be working for you. I mean, you’re so rich. You went to
Ewha! All your friends are women who went to good colleges who are married to men from
good families.”
“That doesn’t mean—”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 603
“—You’re married to an important family, have two perfect sons who went to Korea
University, and I still don’t understand why you wanted to buy this business. It doesn’t make
sense. Unless you bought it for your sister.”
Sonya glanced at her untouched plate of food.
“I talk too much. I should shut up.” Nari tapped her mouth a few times with her hand.
“I haven’t told anyone but I’d rather be here. If it weren’t for my sons—”
“Do you not like your husband?” Nari asked.
Sonya stared the woman, surprised. Her eyes were warm and curious. It was true that she
had never noticed Nari until her child Yun walked up to Mido and introduced herself. That
moment seemed like a lifetime ago.
They didn’t come from such different backgrounds, but after college and marriage, their
worlds were far apart even though they went to the church. Nari wouldn’t have fit in well at
Sonya’s famous Bible study group. The women would’ve been polite to her but none would’ve
sought her friendship.
Even Helen, her only sister, had never asked Sonya the simple question: Do you not like
your husband?
“I don’t like my husband. He sleeps with young women from hostess bars. They call the
house. Several have even come to ask me to divorce him. But I’m not a good person either.”
“You are such a fine Christian. You’ve been so kind and generous to your brother-in-law,
all the employees, and me. What are you saying?”
“I don’t like my life in Seoul. When I’m there, I feel like I’m dying. That I am in hell. I

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 604
am sinful.”
“Oh my.”
“Often, I wish I were dead and had no one to take care of. That would make things
simpler.”
Sonya lowered her chin. She’d never uttered such a terrible thing before but couldn’t take
it back.
“But your boys—”
“I treasure my sons.”
“You’re such a good mother.”
Sonya smiled weakly. “My sons came like that. They’d be better off without me.”
“You can’t say that.”
“I’m so tired of living.”
Nari took hold of Sonya’s right hand.
“Then leave home. Leave your family. It’s better to live. If my husband had felt this way
and that’s why he left, and if it saved his life, then I’m glad he’s gone. I’d rather he be alive
somewhere else than be gone forever.”
Sonya covered her mouth with her hands.
“It’s not late,” Nari said. “There’s still time.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 605

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 606
4:2 "Compromise"
2.
#
Sonya’s long and frequent absences had taught him that she could leave forever, and the shrewd
businessman decided to change course.
She’d been gone for nearly a month, and it had been more difficult this time, even with
the boys being home. In May, she’d leave again for her nephews’ graduation ceremonies.
“What can I do to stop these frequent trips to California?”
They were in the den. He put down his reading, and she continued to crochet. Sonya
picked up her teacup.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 607
“We need you here.”
“I am here.”
“I don’t want you to go so often. And the trips get longer.”
“It was not a month.”
“Right after your sister passed away, it was almost four months—”
“That was almost two years ago. I had to get my license to transfer ownership.”
“You would rather clean a stranger’s toenails.”
“I told you that I don’t have to do any of the work anymore but I had to learn it for the
licensing requirements, and I don’t mind doing any of it.”
Sonya looked at her hands. Before she left, Miss Hong given her French tips, cut short,
painted in a blush colored polish. During her early training, Sonya had liked doing the pedicures,
recalling the Bible stories of Jesus washing the feet of his disciples.
“I wish you didn’t go so often.”
“I have to check on the store. It’s an investment, and my family needs me. I promised
Helen—”
“—They’re not your family. Your sons are here.”
“When I was gone for the licensing, they were so busy. College, military service, and
work. They are young men with their own lives.”
“They’re home now,” he raised his voice.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 608
“Seungman and Jiman are doing so well at work with their father. I thought you’d be
glad.”
“I am glad,” he said, pleased by how perfectly his succession plan had worked out. His
nephew and grandnephews would take over the company. None of them were profligate, and like
their father, both boys were ambitious and competent.
Yong-gil kept mistresses but was managing to have them under better control. The
Chairman’s last warning had been effective. There were to be no more daytime excursions at
luxury hotels. There would be no more visits from mistresses to the house with appeals to Sonya.
Sonya picked up her knitting basket.
“It’s late. I’m going to sleep. Good night.”
“I miss you,” he said, looking up at the slim outline of her form beneath the plum-colored
cashmere sweater and dark green skirt. He wanted to touch her skin. “Can you stay with me?
The boys are out late.”
“We mustn’t while they’re—”
“I bought the unit downstairs.”
“Why? We already own both units in this line.”
“It was up for sale, and I thought the boys might want to live in their own place. They can
come up for meals.”
“Is that what they want?”
“Who wouldn’t want an 80 pyeong apartment in Apgujeong?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 609
“I like them being here. They’re not married yet.”
“When they marry, I can buy them a bigger place. I’ve been thinking of getting a house in
Hannam-dong. Would you like that?”
Sonya shook her head and closed her eyes. In Cypress, she stayed in the maid’s room
near the kitchen, and after a long day at the nail salon, she always slept soundly.
“Do you want to see it? I got the key last week.”
She didn’t answer.
“Come.” He tried to take her hand but she bowed her head not looking at him and
followed behind as they walked to the elevator.
#
The layout of the downstairs apartment was original and hadn’t been remodeled as much as their
two units. The view of the Han River was not dissimilar from the one above. The drapery was
worn and faded.
“They left the sofas,” she said. “Were they included?”
“Come sit,” he said then kissed her.
Sonya could smell him, the clean scent of starch of his shirt, the vetiver of his aftershave.
She leaned into his chest, and he held her.
“You are my woman,” he said quietly. “How can you go away? Don’t you know that I
can’t sleep when—”
Sonya raised her arms as he removed her plum-colored sweater over her head. He pushed

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 610
up her green tweed skirt and reached for her buttocks, and aroused, Sonya held her breath,
unable to resist him at all. She reached to undress him.
There was a roughness to their sex, which felt different and more powerful in the dark,
empty apartment. The heavy sound of their quick breathing seemed louder, and in his arms, she
climaxed.
When he was finished, she caught her breath then pulled away as if waking up to
remember herself.
“Where are you going?”
Sonya pulled on her clothes, feeling awful. Again. She had done this again.
“ It’s wrong. This is something we should not do. I’ve been wanting to talk with the
pastor. Do you think we can do that? Maybe if someone else knew then we would stop this. I’ve
already lost my sister. If Helen could see me, she would be so disappointed.”
“No. I doubt that. That would be foolish to talk to him. He’d never understand. This can’t
be wrong. And a divorce would merely be a legality.”
“Then why can’t I get a divorce? It would be terrible, I understand. Terrible. But we
wouldn’t be sinning against God if we were to marry.”
“Are you prepared to deal with the consequences if you were to be my wife? You’d be
both mother and great aunt to Seungman and Jiman, and even if they understood, no one else
here would. It would destroy my nephew and my sister-in-law, who has always been good to me.
Yong-gil, the one who has cheated on you dozens of times with whores half his age, would be
seen as the victim. You’d become a laughingstock, and I’d be a villain.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 611
He didn’t even bring up how his company would be tainted by the gossip. That much he
could face. He had made the company from nothing, and if he were to lose it, so be it. But he
could not imagine hurting his aging sister-in-law, the nephew he had adopted, and those dear
boys whose births he’d witnessed.
“My sister-in-law would never understand.”
“My sister Hejin is dead. She was punished for my sins.”
“I told you already that God doesn’t work that way,” he said, his voice certain.
“Then surely I’ll be punished later. I don’t want my children to suffer.”
“The scandal would follow your sons forever. Our world here does not forgive or forget.
How will they hold up their heads? No one can ever know.”
“Their mother is a whore.”
He brushed her dark hair away from her brow.
“You could never be that.”
“I am your nephew’s wife. I was your secretary. I am the daughter of two drunken
gamblers. No one will care that I’ve loved you all my life. None of it will ever matter. Never
mind.”
Sonya waited for him to dress. In their lovemaking, her mauve lipstick had been erased
and hair came undone. She didn’t want to run into anyone in the elevator, so they climbed the
stairs to go home.
When they returned, no one was home. He asked her to stay with him. “I sleep better

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 612
when you are beside me.”
Sonya went to her bathroom to wash then changed into her white silk nightgown.
Standing in the hall outside her bedroom door, she stared at her heavy doorknob for a few
moments, then locked it from the outside before going to him.
#
For breakfast, the housekeeper served two different meals. The two brothers ate toast with eggs,
and the Chairman and Yong-gil were eating rice and grilled fish.
Seungman and Jiman wore dark gray single-breasted suits. Seungman wore a red and
navy college repp tie he’d had since high school, and Jiman, the younger son, wore a deep blue
French tie borrowed from his father’s closet.
Both young men were tall and slim with thick, chestnut colored hair, pale complexion,
dark eyebrows and large smiling eyes. Seungman resembled his father with his straight nose, and
the younger Jiman looked more like Sonya around the mouth and chin, giving him an almost
pretty appearance.
Girls preferred Jiman because Seungman could seem too serious. Neither had any
difficult getting offers of girls’ phone numbers when they went to nightclubs with their friends.
The young men’s fine physical appearances as well as their academic accomplishments fed the
vanity of both the Chairman and Yong-gil. Breakfast, the meal the family always shared, was
usually a happy one with the brother teasing each other or their father.
“Jiman has another date tonight,” Seungman announced. “I feel sorry for her.”
“She will be treated like a queen,” Jiman said. “I have made a reservation at a cool Italian

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 613
restaurant in Garosugil. I will not be home tonight.” He smiled at his mother.
“Yes, you will treat her like a queen until you tire of her. Then you will break her heart
like all the others,” Seungman said.
The Chairman drank his tea and said nothing, and Yong-gil smiled at his sons.
Neither men pushed the boys toward marriage. The older one was a devout Christian, and
he was not against marrying young. He wanted a wife who shared his faith, but his standards
were unbelievably high. She had to have the looks of a model, the education of a genius, native
English language ability, and the virtue of a nun.
Jiman, who had intensely disliked his recent military service, wanted to fool around as
much as possible with as many girls within reasonable limits. His father had told him three rules:
condoms for sex; give a generous gift when ending things; and preserve his future by always
being better than decent.
More than once at nightclubs, when drunk girls flung themselves on Jiman, his older
brother instructed: No sex with drunk girls. Never. If a sober girl wanted to do things, and if
Jiman could not overcome temptation, do everything but intercourse and know that you may not
want to marry that girl you sleep with, so be mindful of that. A woman’s virtue was something
for which he should be prepared to take responsibility.
Seungman was saving himself for his future wife and believed that she should be a virgin,
too.
“I guess you don’t have a date tonight, Brother,” Jiman said. “I can introduce you to
someone if you like.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 614
Seungman pretended to hit the back of Jiman’s head, and as he swung his arm, he
knocked over Jiman’s coffee, ruining his brother’s shirt and tie.
“Oh, sorry,” Seungman laughed.
Jiman shook his head and got up. He was laughing, too.
“Just grab another tie in the closet,” Yong-gil said as Jiman walked to his room, removing
his jacket. “I guess we’ll be late for work.”
Seungman wiped up the coffee on Jiman’s chair and Sonya helped him.
“Your brother is so good-natured,” she said.
“Yeah, I would have been shouting if he’d done that.”
She nodded, knowing her sons.
“Well, I guess we can all learn from your younger brother.”
“You started all this,” Yong-gil said to Seungman by talking about the date.
“I guess I did,” Seungman said. “I was just teasing him. Sorry.”
“You were just joking,” the Chairman said. “None of it matters. Finish your breakfast.”
He turned to the housekeeper, who had come out of the kitchen with a cloth to clean up the spill.
“Bring Jiman more eggs. There’s coffee all over his plate.”
When Jiman returned with another one of his father’s ties, Yong-gil said, “You look better
in it than I do.”
#

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 615
Afterward Yong-gil and the boys left for the office, the Chairman called Sonya to his office.
“I’m making you a Vice President. You’ll get a salary, and the salary will be put aside for
your retirement. No one can touch the money except you, but you cannot have it until you turn
sixty-five.”
“That’s generous of you.”
“Don’t you want to know how much your salary is?”
Sonya said nothing.
“It is one hundred and fifty thousand dollars a year. It’s more than whatever you’ll ever
make owning the nail salon. I spoke to a lawyer, and he can figure out how to transfer some of it
to your brother-in-law and your nephews and niece, if you like.”
Sonya stared at the bridge outside his picture window. The water was dark green and blue
in the bright sunlight of the morning.
“Your sons will get the company as long as they keep doing good work.”
She nodded.
“A woman needs money when she gets older. When I’m gone, you’ll be taken care of.”
“Every additional year that I am alive, I will set aside one percent of the stock of my
company in an escrow account, which will increase by one percent each additional year. Soon
enough, you’ll have more stock in my company than my nephew. In the first year you get one
percent, the second year, you get two percent more, and so on. In five years, you will already
have a total of 15% of the company. If I live long enough, you could control the company.
Imagine that.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 616
Sonya blinked.
“Why?”
“I believe my nephew will do right by you after I’m gone, but I won’t allow him the
opportunity to do something stupid because he can’t control himself or recognize what is truly
valuable. I know that you would never dispossess him or harm the company. You will preserve
and nurture everything for the boys. You will always know what matters.”
The Chairman tracked her light brown eyes as they stared into the river. She was seeking
privacy, and he knew she’d think deeply about what she valued.
#
In the evening, she ate dinner alone with the Chairman, and afterwards, they went to the den. He
read on the sofa.
Nothing was amiss in his attire: gray wool necktie, white dress shirt, navy blue v-neck
sweater, gray cashmere slacks, and black dress socks. On his feet, leather slippers from England
from a maker he favored. At sixty-seven years old, he had remained fit, looking like a man in his
early fifties. He was still expanding his business interests and keenly interested in the world.
Death was nowhere near him, Sonya thought. He could live twenty-five more years, and she
wanted him to live always.
“Sit closer to me,” he said.
Sonya got up from her armchair and sat beside him.
“For your lifetime, you can control the stock and benefit from it; but upon the end of your
life, all of it will go to your sons equally.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 617
“This again. I can’t think of this. I don’t know what you expect me to do. It seems crazy.”
“The boys are excited to move downstairs, so you can take Seungman’s room next to
mine. Jiman’s can become a closet, and our rooms can be joined. ”
He framed her face with his hands.
“When you are gone, I cannot stand it.”
Sonya looked down, unable to bear his gaze.
“I am here now.”
“This is holy and separate from the world,” he said, reaching for her mouth, but Sonya
knew that wasn’t true.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 618
4:3 November 2003 "Turns"
3. November 2003
#
As a first year corporate associate at the white shoe law firm of Stark & Mellors, DH made
ninety eight thousand dollars a year. However, with his portion of the shared West Hollywood
rent, car payments and insurance, law school loans, credit card bills, and overhead, DH didn’t
have as much to spare as he thought he would. His financial situation embarrassed him.
Of the three Koh children, DH had the smoothest path toward his profession. He’d had
full-ride scholarships for Andover and Yale. When DH learned that his benefactor was Renee

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 619
Cha, he’d felt uncomfortable, but Peter hadn’t cared at all. He, too, had figured it out late.
“Mom has a lot of money. More than you and I can imagine,” he’d said. “She’s just like
that. Mom likes to do secret stuff to support people. Besides, you got me a job and a band. Now,
I make more than you, and I didn’t go to law school. You poor thing,” he’d teased.
It was true. Annualized, both Peter and Mido had been earning in the low six-figures for
the past two years. Unlike DH, Peter lived rent free in his house in Turtle Rock, and though Mido
helped with the mortgage and expenses, since she no longer had to send money to DH, she was
able to save.
Ever generous, Renee had offered to pay for law school, saying “You’re like my son,” but
DH had declined. Once he knew, he couldn’t accept any more money. She asked him never to
tell his father or mother, and DH had not. He knew it would upset his father.
When DH promised to pay it back, Renee had been stern. “I don’t want the money. When
you’re a rich lawyer, please take the best care of your father and mother. If they become rich,
then you can give the money to another young person. Okay?” That was classic Renee.
Regardless, DH intended to pay it all back but had no idea how. He also owed Mido
money. For three years, his kid sister had sent him fifteen hundred dollars every month, which
had allowed him to only borrow tuition, and though he earned money in the summers and tutored
when he had time, graduate school in Manhattan had been more than he could afford.
He had over ten thousand dollars in credit card debt because he’d had to travel back and
forth to California, rent deposits, and the down payment for his used Toyota Corolla. There were
suits and shoes to buy for work and his share of food and liquor when he went out. He thought
about the cost of things all the time.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 620
When Peter transferred to Pomona, DH realized how often Peter had picked up the tab for
pizzas, beer, and even rides to New York. Of course, when Renee wasn’t around to visit Peter,
there were no town car rides to the city or grand meals at restaurants he could no longer enter.
DH adored his best friend’s mother, who was one of the coolest people he’d ever met in
his life. When she’d told him that DH was like her son, he knew she meant it as a kindness, but
in the year and a half when Peter was no longer living in New Haven, DH understood that day to
day, a son lived differently than a scholarship student who was like a son. As a gracious
benefactor, she owed him nothing more, and DH would be grateful to her always nonetheless.
DH was not a wasteful person with poor financial habits. Even as a boy, living abroad
alone, he’d been thrifty about every cent because there was never enough for the three kids.
Helen had sent him extra cash whenever she could, and even when he wanted sweets at the
commissary or a burger with his teammates at an away game, he had economized. “Not hungry,”
he’d say when his friends ordered pizza and he had to chip in, then he’d make himself ramyeon
with the hotpot in his room.
Whatever food the school offered, he ate. He accepted free sneakers that the coach gave
him, and refused invitations to attend concerts or games requiring him to pitch in, saying he had
to study since he wasn’t naturally smart. Almost never did he spend money on things he did not
need.
There wasn’t enough money to go on dates but there were always cute girls willing to
hang out and watch television in his room. Sometimes the well-off ones didn’t understand why
he couldn’t afford to go to Fort Lauderdale for spring break or Aspen at Christmas.
When Joanna, a girl he was sleeping with, during his senior year at Yale offered to pay

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 621
for her family’s trip to St. Barth’s, DH had declined, not wanting her father’s charity. He wasn’t
poor. His parents had been upper middle class, then middle class.
Over the years, when other girls dropped hints for shopping trips, DH heard them loud
and clear; but he thought it would be wrong to buy them shoes or bags when he could barely get
any gifts for his own family. He stayed away from the girls with too many expectations.
Once he got the firm job, DH had tried to live at home in Orange County to save money,
but the round-trip commute ate into his sleep, so he agreed to rent a small room in a rented house
in West Hollywood with two friends from college and law school.
Growing up, there were always stories of fabled achievers who could ace tests or
compete in a tournament on four or five hours of sleep, but having been a scholar athlete most of
his life until law school, DH knew he could not do anything well without at least seven and a half
hours. His father, whose sleep schedule could be used to set a watch, had been right. There was
no other way.
If it were up to him, he’d sleep nine hours, and his work would be done better and faster.
His brother Bo was also a big believer in good sleep habits.
From childhood, as Bo’s younger brother, DH had long accepted that he was fine with not
being brilliant. After having worked with Yun’s husband Lion Han and met his brother Ray and
sister Sarah with the remarkable I.Q. Scores, DH was even more convinced that he wasn’t
intellectually special. At Yale, especially, he had met some out there thinkers and artistic types.
DH was ordinary, just intelligent enough, and hard-working. His primary superpower was
that he was able to work steadily and finish what he started. He was always on time.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 622
He had been an excellent soccer player in Australia and in college, but there was no way
in the world he’d go pro, and even that had become clear his freshman year, just playing at
college level.
What did he want now that he was a first year lawyer? DH wanted to be rich. He didn’t
need to have as much money as Peter’s mother’s family, sums which seemed incalculable to him;
however, this middle child wanted enough money where he could take care of his family.
If one day, his son wanted to go on a trip for spring break, he could say, okay. If his wife
wanted a necklace from some fancy store, fine. If his brother wanted to go to graduate school, no
problem.
#
After two years at Fullerton College then two more at UCLA as a transfer student, Bo had done
something miraculous. As a college senior, he had performed some complicated data tabulation
and run models for Dr. Harry Kim, a Psychology professor at UCLA, relating to anxiety and
depression of aging immigrant communities in Koreatown in Los Angeles, and Dr. Kim listed
him as one of three co-authors.
When Bo applied to the UCLA doctoral program in Developmental Psychology, Dr. Kim
and another graduate student, who’d also worked on the project, wrote letters on his behalf.
Accepted, Bo would get a full-ride but had to work for his hopefully, six year degree.
Mido needed help. It was time to clean up the house.
DH had passed the California bar and was working now. Bo had started his Ph.D.
Program. She felt okay about asking them to come home on Sunday afternoon after church to

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 623
clear out Helen’s things and go through the unpacked boxes.
“I can’t do it by myself,” she’d said, and DH and Bo agreed to go home right after church
on Sunday. Their father had Elder Council then a finance committee meeting, which would take
the rest of the afternoon.
Bo cooked fried rice with SPAM and kimchi, and after lunch, the three of them faced
Helen’s clothing and shoes, which were in boxes in the garage. After Bo loaded up the car, Mido
announced there was more to do.
“Oh, c’mon, Mido. I get no time off ever,” DH said, “Can’t I just pass out?”
Bo tapped DH on the shoulder. “No whining.”
“That’s not very sympathetic coming from a psychologist,” DH said.
“I’m not a psychologist yet, and I’m probably going into research. Not built to listen to
people’s problems.”
“That’s so true,” DH said, turning to Mido, thinking she’d agree.
Mido put her hands on her hips. Turning to Bo, she said, “In the guest room, there’s all
your CDs, cassettes, books, and the clothes you’ve outgrown,” and to DH, “And all the stuff
you’ve shipped from New York. I left both of you alone because you were busy taking a bar
exam and working at the lab, but no more nice guy. I want the stuff cleared out, gentlemen.”
“Who are you?” DH asked. “And what have you done to my nice sister?”
Bo laughed. “Let’s go, clown. Follow the leader.”
Mido smiled.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 624
#
In the guest room, DH rifled through Bo’s boxes. He pulled out Bo’s Korean CDs and cassettes,
setting aside the ones he wanted to borrow. Bo put on a cassette of Trot music, and DH smiled.
“Seriously? You are such an old man,” DH said.
“I am,” Bo said without a hint of irritation. “I’m going to grow a beard like Freud soon.”
“Very cool,” DH said. “How long will it take you to graduate?”
“It’s a six year program but I might need more time if I want to get my hours for
licensing. I’ve been talking with the other grad students, and there are so many steps. There’s
coursework, training, and the dissertation. I had no idea it would take this long.”
“When do you make money?” DH asked.
“I will never make the kind of money you make. Never.”
Mido looked up from her sorting.
“That doesn’t matter. You’re going to do important work. You’re going to be a doctor.”
“What Mido said,” Bo smiled and patted her shoulder.
“Did you find an apartment on campus?” she asked.
“I was thinking of staying here. The drive isn’t too bad.”
“No. You have to get a place. You have to be on campus to teach and do research.”
“My funds aren’t that—”
“You have to be on campus,” Mido said. “That’s final.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 625
DH shook his head. “Wow. An alien has snatched your body.”
“You are not going to tutor anymore when you’re in school. Just like DH. I am going to
put you through grad school,” Mido said. “Your sister is rich now.”
“I’m not going to let my baby sister put me through school,” Bo said. “I can work. I made
forty thousand last year during my senior year, and I was doing new work for Dr. Kim. If I live
on campus, getting to Irvine will be—”
“She put me through school and so did you,” DH said. “I’m going to help you, too, and
when Mido’s ready, we’ll send her to school. I can send five hundred a month. If I get a bonus at
the end of the year, I—”
“No,” Mido said, shaking her head. She continued to fold old tee-shirts and sweatpants
DH could no longer wear. “You still have school loans and credit card debts. I can do this on my
earnings alone. I made $126,000 last year. After you pay off all your debts, we can talk about
how you can help.” She turned to Bo but didn’t look up from her work. “I can send you a
thousand a month for rent and five hundred for your car expenses. If you need more, I can—”
“—That’s a lot of money, Mido,” Bo said, glancing at her hooded eyes. She wouldn’t
make eye contact as she was saying these difficult things. However, what she was saying was
true. If he kept working at Fortress, his degree would take longer, and his work would suffer. His
advisor had also told him to live on campus.
Mido didn’t look at them as she organized the old clothes. Sitting cross-legged, she
leaned across the floor to push the folded pile of clothing away from her and pulled a messy pile
toward her.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 626
“I don’t think I’m going to college for a while,” she said.
“What?” Bo said. “Why?”
“I don’t see the point. Right now. It makes more sense for me to keep doing what I’m
doing. Last year, I made a lot. Sixty-five thousand from my salary as the manager at Fortress and
over sixty from college admissions counseling and from SAT bootcamps.”
“Wow,” Bo said. “Lion said you were doing well but—”
“You have to get your degree,” DH said. “You need to finish school. Mom would have
wanted that.” His voice broke.
The three got quiet, and after a long pause, Mido spoke up.
“Umma would be so happy if she knew you were going to get a Ph.D.” Mido looked up
at the ceiling.
“When I passed the bar, the first person I wanted to call was Mommy,” DH said through
his tears.
Bo put his arm around his shoulder. “I know. I wanted to call her, too. About you passing
the bar. Apparently, the California bar is hard.”
“The toughest,” DH said, laughing. “This dummy passed it on the first try.”
Bo and Mido laughed.
“I don’t know how to be without her,” DH said. “I keep reading that notebook she gave
me. I was hoping she had written some advice, but she hadn’t.”
“She wrote me a ten page letter,” Bo said.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 627
“What?”
“Kidding,” Bo said, and DH pushed him with his left foot, and Bo who was sitting cross-
legged fell backwards.
“You’re kicking your older brother? The lack of respect is just—” Bo laughed, unable to
complete his thoughts.
“Mom wrote that I was her favorite,” Mido said, finally looking at them.
“She did not,” DH said.
“She did not,” Mido said. “We know who that was.”
DH started to cry again and wiped his face.
“What did she write in your notebook?” DH asked Bo.
“It was filled with lists of things she had to do for me. Lots of budget stuff. All my report
cards were in there, too. I kept thinking there would be some clues.”
DH nodded. “Same. I couldn’t look at it for a long time, and finally, when I read it, it was
what you said. Things to do like parent-teacher meetings, get me the cleats that I wanted for
Christmas, and all the prices for things I needed. And of course, my report cards. There were the
envelopes in the back, where she saved money for us.”
Mido couldn’t talk anymore, and Bo took her hand.
Her notebook had been filled with names of specialists in Sydney, and her mother’s
beautiful penmanship in Korean and English. Her spelling was usually perfect, but once, she
misspelled speech therapist, leaving out the h in therapist. Her brothers had not needed all these

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 628
extra people. She’d given her mother so much more to do, and Mido felt sorry that she hadn’t
realized any of it until it was too late.
“Everything will get done. Mom always said this.” DH said. “Whenever I would speak to
her from overseas, and I was freaking out about some exam or tournament, she’s say, ‘Dae-hun-
ah, everything will get done. Commit your plans to the Lord. Sometimes, when I was really
freaking out, she would pray with me. Even though it was such an expensive call.”
DH wiped his nose and Mido looked around for the box of tissues but there wasn’t one in
the guest room. He pulled over the tail of his t-shirt and covered his face as he sobbed.
Bo was crying too, and Mido got up to get tissues from the bathroom. She sat down
beside DH and pulled the shirt away from his face.
“I know. I know,” she said, and Bo nodded.
Helen had lived by these words, believing that everything would get done, but everything
had not been done because she was gone. There was so much more left to do. The notebooks
weren’t even full.
“One thing at a time. One person at a time. We will each get our degrees. Just not all at
once,” Mido said.
“You should start now, though, Mido,” Bo said. “I can keep tutoring.”
DH looked serious and turned to Bo, “Yeah, what would be your best time to finish a
doctorate? Like if it were a race. I mean, high quality, of course.”
“Six years at the fastest, I think. If I did nothing else but my courses, teaching, training,
and started writing my dissertation after I found my research, and if I don’t change things–”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 629
“Seven to eight, maybe nine if you keep working at Fortress,” Mido said. “If you include
the traffic in L.A. to O.C., you might as well add another two or three more years, not to mention
high blood pressure. The commute from U.C.L.A. to home then to Fortress and back is crazy,
man,” DH said. “Mido is right. She’ll help you at first, and as I get more senior, I’ll make a lot
more, too. I’ll pay off the debts first.”
They were in agreement about the madness of commuting. They had lived in many
places, but they couldn’t figure out how traffic could eat up so many hours of each day. The well-
off lived closer to work; however, those who couldn’t live close to work, spent hours in cars not
making money, paying for gas, just trying to get to their jobs so they could earn a living. There
was no way not to drive either. In the very beginning, they’d tried the buses, and that took even
longer if there was even a bus route.
The boys looked like their mother more than their father. They had her large dark eyes
and the strong nose. Mido alone had gotten her father’s full lips and strong chin. Only Bo was
near-sighted like his father and squinted even with his glasses.
Mido said to Bo, “I’m sending you to school, and I can do it for six years.”
Bo bowed his head a little and said nothing, which was his form of assent.
At this, DH covered his mouth. What he felt was awe. Growing up, even their mother
who believed in miracles would not have guessed that little Mido would be educating her two
older brothers.
Bo shook his head in disbelief. With his savings and fellowships, he might be able to
relieve her sooner than six years.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 630
“How can I let you do this?” he asked.
“Easy. You’re both now my retirement plans,” she said, beaming. “I’m getting the better
deal. When you get married, you better tell your wives that you’re responsible for me, too.” She
laughed. “Kidding.”
“Our little Mido is impressive,” DH said, his chin touching his chest.
Mido said nothing, feeling relieved that she could do something. She liked teaching, and
she had reason to work harder now. Her brothers would have graduate degrees: A lawyer and a
psychologist.
“Hey, how about marriage? You’re not getting any younger. When are you going to find a
husband?” DH asked.
Bo turned to his younger brother, “Privacy?”
DH ignored him.
“So, is Tek still out?”
“He’s been out for a long time,” Bo said.
The brothers checked Mido’s face to confirm.
“Didn’t he want to marry you?” DH asked. Mido never talked about him anymore.
“I would’ve given my approval if I liked him enough. I mean, after giving him a battery
of tests and trials: Go pluck the moon from the sky for my baby sister; slay a modest-sized
dragon to be worthy; and find the tooth of a flawless purple unicorn. Though he does get a plus
for being Korean, even though he’s an Aussie, and Peter said—”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 631
“What did Peter say?” Mido checked DH’s bemused expression.
“He said Tek had stopped by again after the funeral then hasn’t in the past two years.
That’s all.”
Mido pursed her lips.
“You still like him?” Bo asked Mido with a little more hesitation in his voice than his
brother who could ask anyone anything and not be put off.
When Mido remained as blank as possible, Bo glanced at DH and made a slicing gesture
with his hand drawn across his neck.
Undeterred, DH said, “You could go back to school in Australia and finish school. You
liked it there, and if you want to take him back—”
“I want to be here” she said, not saying the part about their father.
Bo nodded and looked at DH, who was watching Mido like a prosecutor. Her eyes were
lowered, unwilling to show her thoughts. The brothers knew why she felt compelled to stay.
Mido was also keeping their father alive.
“So, you’re giving up school and marriage?” DH asked.
“I like my work, and I’m good at it. And for the time being, I make more money than
either of you.”
“Showoff,” Bo said with pride. She was such a good kid, he thought. Never gave a day of
worry to anyone, and now, she was trying to save all of them on those tiny shoulders. He moved
toward her and gave her a squeeze.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 632
“Hey, I’m proud of you,” Bo said.
“Me, me!” DH shouted, moving closer to them. “Be proud of me, too!”
“No, not you,” Bo said, shaking his head. “Sit down, counselor.”
Mido laughed.
“Mom would have wanted you to take care of yourself, too. She would want you to get
your degree.”
“I’ll get it,” she said. “I will.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 633
4:4 February 2004 "Hagwon Expansion"
4. February 2004
#
On Friday afternoon, Yun and Mido were in Mido’s office, waiting for Lion to drive down from
Cypress and for Peter to finish his Advanced SAT Math class. After a quick teachers meeting, the
four of them would head back to the house. The band had to rehearse, and Mido would hang out
with them.
“How’s your father?” Yun asked. Having unrolled the yoga mat over the office rug, she
was doing her daily sit ups. “Umma says that Manager John Koh is the most polite and private
human being to walk the earth. She’s with him six days a week, including a round trip car ride,
and knows almost nothing about him. He could be CIA for all we know.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 634
Mido smiled in recognition. She unknotted the blue cardigan around her neck and pulled
it on over her white dress shirt. “Between your mother and me, he’s fed and alive. By the time I
get from home from work, he’s reading the newspaper or getting ready for bed. Once or twice a
week, he has meetings at church. On Fridays and Saturdays, I get home even later, which makes
it hard for me to check on him. I think he has a church finance committee meeting tonight? On
Saturdays, Bo is around. I know he eats whatever I leave in the fridge because there are washed
empty containers and dishes on the rack when I get home.”
“That’s a relief.”
On Sunday afternoons and Wednesday nights, Mido prepared rice, entrees, and side
dishes that her father liked and packed them up in various glass containers for the week ahead for
her father to re-heat. On Saturday afternoons, Bo came home to help with the grocery shopping
and cleaning. They’d have dinner together, and Bo would sleep in his room. On Sundays, DH
joined them at church, and the three of them took their father to lunch.
John was most like his old self at church and on Sundays when the three of them were
home. During the week, Mido could see how difficult things still were for him without their
mother but how hard he tried to keep going.
At work, he was determined to show a strong profit each quarter for his sister-in-law’s
business even though Sonya never said a word about money. Every month, he made the house
mortgage payments and set aside money to pay Sonya back. John kept a ledger and a separate
savings account for the down payment, Helen’s hospital bills, and the loan to move to the
States—a tally of their debts to Sonya and her husband’s family. He had promised Helen that he
would pay it off.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 635
Working at a nail salon full of women had made him feel conspicuous. Their attention
embarrassed him, and John had only grown more formal with everyone, deferring to Yun’s
mother Nari to deal with any personnel issues. He spoke more often with the church male elders.
“How’s your mom?” Mido asked, marveling at how many sit ups Yun could do. She had
stopped counting after a hundred. After stretching, Yun did leg lifts.
“She’s good. Every morning when I call her, she says the same thing: ‘Thank God, no
more Shrimp Castle headaches.’ She’s never wanted to own a business, so Rose Salon is perfect,
where she gets to be the queen without any of the risk or burden. Your dad likes doing the
numbers, so she’s relieved. As long as there are drama videos to rent, she says, she can live in
America forever. She doesn’t even talk about returning to Seoul anymore.”
After ten push ups, Yun got in position to plank, her lithe frame forming a straight line
from the crown of her head to her toes.
“Time me?”
Mido scribbled 5:42 pm on a scratch pad. She never wore a watch anymore. With large
wall clocks in every room at Fortress, including the bathrooms, it was impossible for anyone to
disregard time.
“She misses Appa but doesn’t miss fighting with him.” Yun kept her head parallel to the
floor.
“Do you think he’ll return?”
“No.”
“Really?” Mido knew that Yun’s mother thought he would.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 636
“I know. I know. I hope he does for her sake.”
“You don’t want him to come back?”
“Of course I want him to return, but we couldn’t get him to stay. We weren’t worth
sticking around for.”
Yun’s disappointed profile grew stern and her plank form more straight. Without any
makeup on her tanned oval face, her long dark hair in a ponytail, Yun still looked like one of
Mido’s high school students. “His loss. Not mine.”
Mido had met Yun’s father, Joonho Kim, a number of times but never had a conversation
with him beyond greeting a friend’s father. He was the opposite of Nari, the chatty mother who
was always interested in you.
Joonho was considerably taller than Yun and Nari and well built with powerful arms. He
had a striking face, his face usually brown from the sun, and he shared the distinct features of
generations of the Kim farmers from Gyeongju, the dark sloping eyes, which crinkled when he
smiled, and the elegant nose.
The thing Mido couldn’t forget about her friend’s father was the time he hit Yun in the
face, and how she couldn’t go to school. Having never hit anyone before, he’d felt terribly and
stayed away from home for days, Yun said. He never hit her again but whenever he was upset
with her or Nari, he’d disappear without explanation. This time it was Brazil. Six years. When he
was ashamed, he hid. He loved them; he just loved his shame more.
“I’m not mad at him.”
“I didn’t think you were,” Mido said.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 637
“We’ve had our share of fights, but I know he’s a decent person.”
Mido stared at the wall clock.
“Time?” Yun said, still in her plank pose.
“Three minutes.”
Yun collapsed on her stomach, exhaled then got in the pose again.
“Time, please.”
“Gotcha.”
“Never mind,” she said, lying down on her side. “Hey, where are these guys?” Yun
glanced at the clock over the door. She pulled herself up and sat down near her tote bag and took
out some folders.
“So, twenty two more kids signed up for the Spring Boot Camp. Several want private
essay counseling, and I think once you meet them, probably all of them will want you. How
many can you take?”
“I can handle maybe six to eight more. Maybe ten tops. It depends?” Mido shrugged.
“You’re everyone’s favorite. The mothers are trying to keep you a secret but they are
sharing the information with their closest friends. As long as their kids are not in the same grade
level.”
Yun laughed, her eyes widening. Over the years, they were continually astonished by
what parents were willing to do to get their children an edge over their friends’ children.
“Maybe Peter wants a few?” Mido asked. “He’s a good writer.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 638
“Peter said he’ll take private tutoring for math but the college admissions stuff makes his
skin crawl.”
Mido nodded.
“Yup, I can see that.”
“Why does he hate it so much?” Yun asked.
“He hates the competition. For him, the math stuff is worth teaching. The angling to get
your kid in and paying the fees makes him want to hurl. His words.”
“Against capitalism and authority. Once a punk, always a punk,” Yun said, repeating her
husband Lion’s assessment of his bandmate. Neither played much of that music anymore, lately
it was more indie rock, but for years, they had loved it.
“I can’t figure out why he still works here,” Yun said.
“He likes kids and teaching. I asked him if he’d teach at a school but he said he doesn’t
like schools. Peter says, ‘A hagwon is not a school. School is a serious responsibility.’”
#
Mido rode in Peter’s car to Yun and Lion’s house.
“I fired Mr. Shim.”
“What?”
Peter kept his eyes focused on the traffic light.
“But he just started.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 639
“He had the SAT tests that you’re not supposed to have. He said he had to use them, and
that we were naive.”
“Oh.”
“Lion said no way, and he’s right.”
“When did you fire him?”
“Earlier this morning. Mr. Shim lives in Cypress, so I met Lion earlier today. I should’ve
called you but it was very last minute. I figured you didn’t want to be—”
Mido nodded. She hated firing people, and Peter knew that.
“I think everyone has them now. I keep hearing the kids talk about them. One of the
mothers asked why we’re not teaching with those tests.”
“What did you say to them?” Peter signaled before taking a left. The side roads were less
busy but darker.
“I said that the kids needed to learn how to do the work. They’d be better off for it.
Right?”
“Fucking crazy parents. I’m so tired of this shit.”
“Not all of them want their kids to have those tests. I mean, I understand why they’d be
upset since so many other kids can study from them at the other hagwons.”
“They can go there. Mr. Shim can go. If that’s what you got to do to get your kid a perfect
score, then fine. I’m not doing it.”
Mido nodded. “I know you’re right, but I understand why the parents and kids are

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 640
freaked out. They think they’re at a disadvantage because the other kids will have seen the exam
questions and be able to memorize the answers without solving the questions.”
“Listen to you. You sound like Mr. Shim.”
“No. No. I just said I understand. That’s all. These parents are really worried.”
“Life’s not fair but it doesn’t mean that you teach kids to cheat. What, they’re going to
keep getting tests ahead of time in college? At work? How can you handle shit you didn’t
anticipate? We’re supposed to give the kids the tools to solve problems. Not give them the
answers for specific problems. That makes no fucking sense.”
“Hey, hey. I’m not Mr. Shim.”
Peter parked along the road.
“I’m sorry I’m yelling. I just had this conversation with Lion earlier, and he said basically
what you said, and I lost my shit. I almost quit.”
“Huh? You mean Lion didn’t agree with you?”
“No, no. It was his idea to fire him when he found out, but he said we’re going to take a
hit because our students will not get the results that kids get from hagwons that teach from the
illegal tests.”
“Can we report this?”
“Too hard to prove. Besides, Mr. Shim is just another poor dude who’s providing for his
family. He’s got two little kids and a wife at home. And so, this is why people hate fucking
hagwons. They think we’re all cheaters.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 641
“I heard anyone can get the illegal tests.”
“Yeah but they don’t come with the answers. Only people like us can create the answer
key. You could probably make one up in a few hours.”
Mido shrugged. She had liked Mr. Shim a lot. He had come highly recommended, and it
surprised her a little, but lately, things had gotten crazier. It had been easier to work at Exodus
with the kindergartners and middle school students. The working parents had just been happy
when the kids were safe and their homework was done before pick up time. With some of the
Irvine high school students, there were far more expectations—from within and without.
Tutoring wasn’t enough.
Lately, the highly selective schools required top scores, beyond perfect grade point
averages with the most demanding classes for their respective school, original extracurricular
activities with leadership positions, letters of recommendations attesting to generationally
exceptional qualities, significant publications, nationally important awards, and, or elite and
costly sports. Mido had met a high school junior who had started a dot com business selling
flashlights her freshman year in high school, and a boy who had learned C++ and Java so well
that he could work as an independent contractor and skip college.
Most of her Fortress high school students had marvelous profiles. By the time they were
juniors, they were already accomplished. The difference Mido made was helping them find their
essay subjects.
A fifteen year old could be a nationally ranked tennis player but he couldn’t figure out
how to express himself in a five hundred word essay. Mido asked them simple questions, let
them talk, and she listened, paying such close attention, that they understood she cared for them.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 642
Even before they finished, she would know which biographical events mattered. She asked them
to tell her more. This time on a piece of paper. “You have twenty-five minutes. Write something
messy. There’s too little time, so it can’t be any good. Do it anyway.”
The rough drafts came quickly. The students knew their stories. After they were done
with their draft, she’d make them put it aside then start again. Then again and again. There was
no other way. Trust me, she’d say, and they did. Her students got into their schools. Always.
For many exceptional students without standout resumes, getting straight into U.C.L.A.
and Berkeley had become almost impossible. Forget the Ivies, because that wouldn’t have
happened for nearly every remarkable student here, and now, there were more and more
applicants from everywhere.
Whenever Mido gave the speech about college expectations, the parents read to her from
the same scripts: “But I know someone from church whose child got into Cornell…” or “But my
child has straight As and perfect test scores and is the captain of the debate team…” Even if only
one child from a class of eight hundred students had gotten into a highly selective school, it gave
sufficient hope to at least twenty-five percent in the following class.
“I like the kids so much,” Peter said. “Believe it or not, I actually want them to get what
they want. But I just can’t justify—”
“—so we take a hit,” Mido said. “I know you and Lion are right, Peter. In the long run, it
really matters, right? And they trust us.”
The car was parked yet Peter kept his hands on the steering wheel. He faced her and
exhaled.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 643
“How’s Tek?”
“What?”
“The lawyer guy from Australia who thought we were losers for working at a hagwon.”
“Pardon?”
“Never mind.” Peter turned the ignition.
“He didn’t think we’re losers. He just wanted me to go to Sydney and finish school.”
“So why didn’t you?”
“I like teaching kids, too.”
“That’s all?” Peter looked at her again.
“The pay’s good. We always have more bills. Also, my dad needs me around. It’s been
hard with—”
“—I get it.” He never wanted to pry.
“You ever see your father?”
“No.”
Mido didn’t ask any follow up questions. DH would have asked many more, though he
probably knew all the answers. Normally, short of attorney-client privilege, DH told Mido and
Bo everything he knew about everyone, but he rarely revealed anything about Peter. It was as if
they had reached an agreement as kids that Peter’s background was off limits. He had asked
about Tek, so for a moment, Mido had asked him something personal.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 644
#
As soon as the car pulled into Yun and Lion’s place, Ginny ran out to meet them. She hugged
Mido.
“Did we beat them here?” Mido asked Ginny, stroking her lovely brown hair.
“Yes. You won,” Ginny said, her head on Mido’s shoulders.
“Yun Teacher just called. They’re leaving Garden Mart. They’ll be here in 15 minutes. I
set the table already.”
“Did you eat?” Peter asked.
Ginny nodded. “I had dinner and finished my homework.”
“Nice work,” he said, smiling. More than any other student, Ginny was special. She had
become a surrogate baby sister for all four of them.
“Yun Teacher said you’ll help me with college essays,” Ginny said, looking up at Mido.
“Did she?” Mido raised an eyebrow.
“Won’t you? Are you too busy?” Ginny looked concerned.
“You’re my top priority. But you’re going to have to work. My students suffer.”
“I’ve heard.” Peter looked worried then broke into a smile.
“Same,” Ginny said, wondering if it could be true that Mido Teacher was called the
Surgeon.
“You have to write, write, re-write and re-write,” Mido said.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 645
“Yes, and somehow, you’ll like it,” Peter said, his arms folded across his chest.
“I don’t like writing personal essays,” Ginny said. “I’m a science and math person.”
Mido shrugged.
“You just haven’t had the right teacher,” Peter said. “The kids say that Mido Teacher will
split your skull open and fish around until she finds exactly the right subjects for you, then
apparently, she slices open your heart to get all the feelings out. And that’s before you start your
re-writes. I pity you, Ginny. I do. You have to face the Surgeon.”
“I sound scary,” Mido smiled. “I like it.”
Ginny laughed. “I want to go to Dartmouth now.”
“Why?” Peter asked, remembering the guys he knew from Andover who’d gone there.
They were smart jocks. Of course, Dartmouth had every sort of student, but from Andover, they
took their top scholar-athletes. Ginny couldn’t run down the block or throw a ball. “New
Hampshire is very far. Kinda remote.”
“Monica Cho goes there.”
Mido looked puzzled, not recognizing the name.
“Is she a Fortress student?”
“No. She went to my school though. Monica went to another hagwon in Cypress — Ivy
Leaf Academy.”
Peter nodded. It was supposed to be a good one. Most of the students from Exodus went
there because Fortress was too far.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 646
“Monica graduated last year, and when she came home for Christmas break, she told me
that she loves Dartmouth. She said I can visit her, and if I got in, she said she’d tell me what
classes to take and which ones to skip.”
“That’s how you’re going to choose a college?” Peter asked.
“That’s how most of them seem to choose a college. At least when they’re being honest,”
Mido said.
“I have a friend who teaches there,” Peter said. “A history professor. He went to King’s
College then Yale. I should look him up. Such a good guy. Your brother DH knows him, too.”
Mido heard Yun’s car in the driveway.
#
During dinner, Peter brought up Ginny’s rationale for applying to Dartmouth, and neither Yun
nor Lion were surprised.
“Your students learn math problem solving skills from you, and the ones you like, you
talk with them about music. Which is fine. However, have you ever asked them about why they
want to go to college, or if they even want to go at all?” Lion asked. He picked up another piece
of gimbap and popped it into his mouth.
Peter taught math for every standardized test, including grad school exams, and did
occasional private tutoring for physics and calculus. As much as he could, he avoided discussing
the practice test scores with the students. Most of them tended to get very high scores, because
he’d teach them how to think like a mathematician. His students were already mid to high level
scorers, and liked learning math with him.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 647
At the end of a very tough class, if they were well-behaved, Peter would give the kids a
choice of 5 songs and actually sing one. Just one though, and never more than twice in a
semester. Even the parents had heard about this and had tried to get him to sing.
“Focusing on outcomes doesn’t help you learn,” Peter said.
“Agreed,” Lion said, recalling their earlier conversation that morning when firing Mr.
Shim.
“Why is it wrong to think about outcomes?” Yun asked. “I’m not saying I disagree with
you—”
“Because then what? What happens after you hit the score? What happens after you get
into college? What happens after you get the job? What happens after you meet your goal? Then
what?” Peter grew irritated. “I hate that about Koreans. Set the goals. Then set the goals higher.
Then higher.”
“All Koreans?” Mido asked.
“Well, not all Koreans. Just my father. Never mind.”
Peter didn’t say never mind often. They all knew what it meant.
“Well, how should our kids choose their colleges?” Yun asked.
“We should at least include the question: What is college for?” Peter said, tapping the
dining table for emphasis.
“Yeah,” Lion shouted and raised his fist. “What is college for?”
“Seriously,” Yun said. “I’m not done yet. So it’s not just to get a job. You need that degree

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 648
to get a good job.”
She turned to Mido, remembering, “Well, you don’t need a degree because you’re
special.”
“Thank you,” Mido smiled.
“We should take the kids on a tour. They should see the campuses. They should attend
classes. They should know more about these schools. I know we keep getting our students into
the fancy schools but are they doing okay there?” Peter asked. “Two of them flunked out for
doing drugs. One of them locked himself in his room for days and didn’t come out because he
was playing GTA.”
They nodded, having heard about John Lee, Seth Kim, and William Chang—kids who
had never once caused any problems in high school.
“And one of them is still at home now, right? Brown, Wesleyan, and N.Y.U. Top schools,
right? When I heard about those kids, I thought we did something wrong. And then, the kids who
can’t get jobs after graduation.”
Several students who had graduated with superb records from highly selective schools
hadn’t been able to find good work. Colin, one of Fortress’s brightest students who had
graduated from Cal Tech, had been admitted to a hospital for serious depression for a month.
When it happened, his mother had called Peter to check in on him because Colin had gotten
along especially well with her son.
“There’s nothing wrong with our students,” Peter said. “They’re great.”
“What’s wrong with the world that can’t employ kids like that?” Yun asked.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 649
Lion crossed his arms. “You can’t always get the job you want, right? I think a few of
them were trying to get jobs in entertainment and media, which is hard for anyone. They had no
connections. Eventually, they found jobs. Probably not their dream jobs. Isn’t that life?”
Yun picked up her chopsticks and put more gimbap on her husband’s plate. She knew
Lion was upset about it. Their graduates often stopped by the hagwons to say hello. Of the ones
who wanted to work in entertainment and media, one worked at a real estate brokerage, another
at an accounting firm, and Colin was a server at his aunt’s coffee bar.
“Maybe we have to teach our students different things about college,” Mido said at last.
“We can start with the tour.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 650

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 651
4:5 March 2004 "College Tour"
5. March 2004
#
Yun stared at the spreadsheet on her screen, while tapping her pencil against Peter’s desk. Seated
opposite her, Lion was drafting the copy for the Fortress College Tour poster on his computer.
The four of them were in the main office, each in front of a laptop.
It had not taken long for Lion, Yun, Mido, and Peter to figure out the itinerary and costs.
The Fortress College Tour group would fly into Boston, charter a bus, sleep in motels, and fly
back home from Philadelphia.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 652
Tufts, Boston University, M.I.T., Harvard, Boston College, Northeastern, Wellesley,
Dartmouth, Williams, Amherst, Yale, Wesleyan, Columbia, N.Y.U., Fordham, Princeton,
University of Pennsylvania, Swarthmore, and Haverford—seven nights of lodging, meals, and
roundtrip flights out of LAX for $1,500.
“We won’t make a cent from this,” Yun said. “We might lose money.”
“It’ll be a great trip though,” Lion said. “I wish we could go with them.”
“We need to be here,” she said and turned to Peter. “Can you and Mido handle twenty-six
kids?”
Peter scratched his head and smiled at Mido.
“Well, the students listen to the Surgeon, and we’ll have Ginny, too. She might as well be
a teacher.”
“This trip is for her really,” Lion said, smiling.
“No parents, huh?” Peter asked.
“No parents. No way,” Lion said. “They’ll be harder to control than two dozen teenagers
scrambling to buy Harvard tee-shirts at the Coop then trying to make the bus waiting for them at
the Square.”
“The price for the trip is down to the bone,” Yun said, shaking her head. “Is there any
where to find some profit in this? How will we pay Peter and Mido for their time?”
“I’m okay,” Mido said. “I think this is important.”
“Yes, it is important, but you will be losing a lot of private tutoring income if you’re gone

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 653
for a week—”
“—I’m okay,” she said. “But I shouldn’t speak for Peter.”
“He’s fine with money,” Lion said. “We pay him handsomely.”
“Handsomely?” Peter cocked his head.
Lion ignored this.
“It would be better if the kids actually saw Princeton before applying to it as their top
choice, and it’s equally possible that Williams is a much better fit for them.
“It’s just Ivies, Ivies, Ivies. Oh, good grief. I’m exhausted by these conversations with the
parents telling me that the kid has to get into an Ivy.”
“Husband, you went to Princeton,” Yun said, laughing. “Had you even seen it before
applying?”
“Yes, because my mother made my brother Ray drag me across the country to make sure
that no one there would beat me up. I was sixteen when I went to college, and I looked like a tall
twelve year old. I didn’t need to shave until I graduated.”
At the vivid recollection of his first year in college, Lion made a face of
incomprehension, disbelieving even now that nothing odd had happened to him, except for the
fact that most of his closest relationships had been with his professors, who must have felt sorry
for the youngest undergraduate at the university. Not a single person said an unkind thing to him
in his three years there; however, he had never felt quite normal either.
Those years had shaped Lion Han. It was at Princeton where he was cut off by his fat

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 654
her, forcing him to tutor to earn his tuition.
At school, he had easily grasped the mathematical elegance and mystery of the Fourier
series, Dirichlet Characters, and the Hilbert Space, and as a teenager, he felt like he had become
a man because when his family abandoned him, he could take care of himself and continue to
learn.
Not everyone had to go to college, but Lion wished that anyone who wanted to go could
experience the exquisite engagement of learning for its own sake. Getting a degree merely to get
a job could not be the sole purpose of higher education. Lion was about to turn thirty one, and
that was not old, but he had lived long enough to know that one should never be cynical about
one’s intellectual growth.
Over the years, the more money he made, the less important it had become. If it wasn’t
for Yun and her accounting department, he would have cut in half the tuition bills for more than a
third of the middle income families at Exodus and forgiven the tuition for all the lower income
kids. Almost ten percent of the families were behind on their payments, which he and Yun had
decided long ago to overlook.
In contrast with Exodus, Fortress never lost money. The extraordinary profits of Irvine’s
hagwon more than covered Cypress’s losses. There were parents who would never be able to pay
back the money they owed Exodus, but Lion allowed the kids to come. The parents had no other
forms of childcare, and Lion reasoned that the kids would just get in trouble if they were left
home by themselves. He and Yun agreed that they could afford to let ten percent of the kids
attend for free as long as no one else knew about it, especially the children themselves.
For four years, Ginny’s parents hadn’t paid any tuition, room and board. Lion and Yun

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 655
paid for her annual plane ticket to Korea so she could see her family. This year, Ginny had
refused the ticket so she could go on the college tour, and when Yun said they could still send
her, she had said no.
“I want to get into Dartmouth first. Or U.C.L.A. My mother wants me to apply to Yale or
Harvard, but I think it would be better if I went somewhere that I chose—”
“You can make up your mind about the college list after you visit some of the schools,”
Yun said, not wanting to disagree with Ginny’s mother, who was a kind woman but single-
minded about making her daughter into a doctor. She had initially wanted her daughter to get
into U.C.L,A. and go to the medical school there, but with Ginny’s exceptional marks, test scores
and high class rank and after she was voted yearbook editor—knowing that another former
yearbook editor had been accepted into Yale two years prior—Ginny’s mother had grown only
more ambitious for her child.
Ginny’s mother reasoned that being fostered, more or less, by famous Orange County
hagwon owners would position Ginny to get into Yale or Harvard. In five years since its
inception, Fortress had sent on average a dozen students to Ivy League schools each year, and
their reputation had spread even to Seoul. In the past two years, students with already remarkable
profiles had flown in from Korea for the July essay bootcamp to work on their applications with
Mido.
Finding 26 students for the college tour, each paying $1,500 would be no problem at all.
If anything, there was so much demand that mothers asked Lion to have a second tour, and Peter
and Mido agreed. When the students returned, application boot camp would start, and that was
another $2,000, which wasn’t considered on the higher end of what counselors charged in the

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 656
region. A bargain, several mothers had said. Yun said they could double the boot camp fee, and
parents would pay it. Lion said that wouldn’t be right.
#
When Ginny stepped onto Dartmouth’s grassy campus, she felt certain that she should apply.
Unseasonably warm for March, she removed the blue winter parka she’d borrowed from Yun and
stared wide-eyed at the pristine white painted Colonial buildings and the Georgian Revival brick
facades. Only fifteen years old, she was a serious girl mostly, but loved to laugh and dance when
she was with her classmates.
As guardians of such a responsible child, Yun and Lion had given her sufficient latitude
and freedom, and Ginny never abused her privilege. If anything, Peter and Mido worried that she
was far too grown up. The other students on the tour followed Ginny’s lead as if she had been
deputized by Lion himself as a third teacher.
After a quick tour led by the Admissions Office, the Fortress students separated from the
others and re-grouped to form a kind of moving huddle around Mido and Peter as they walked
across the Green. They were the only all ethnically Korean group of visitors. Some of the other
visitors thought they were a bus tour from overseas and didn’t speak English.
“Are you from Japan?” A preppy looking White boy asked Kate Gwon, Ginny’s closest
friend.
“No. We’re from O.C.,” Kate answered, irritated. “O.C. is the acronym for Orange
County. That’s in southern California, dude. Near L.A., which stands for Los Angeles. Have a
nice visit in Hanover.” She flicked one of her long dyed blonde pigtails before showing him her
back.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 657
Ginny giggled then pulled Kate away from the stunned young man, who didn’t know
what had happened. He had been just trying to make conversation with a cute girl, who’d
reminded him of Sailor Moon.
“I know I could be happy here,” she said to Peter, Mido, and Kate. Most of the other
students were taking photographs of each other.
“Really? Why is that?” Peter asked.
“It’s so beautiful. There are so many trees that we don’t have in Los Angeles,” Ginny
said.
“Yes, but you’re seeing New Hampshire in late March. It’s very cold here for most of the
school year. I don’t know what it’s like in the winter. I remember being at Andover, which is
considerably more south, and wishing for sunshine and a time when I didn’t have to wear a
heavy coat.”
“It’s so fucking cold in New England,” Peter said then covered his mouth with both
hands, when he saw Mido’s shocked expression. She was always having to tell him not to swear
in front of the students; although the students seemed to love it. Lion and Yun never used curse
words, and they would have preferred Peter not to swear either.
“Too many trees and mountains for me,” said Honey, a fair-skinned girl wearing a
baseball hat and sunglasses as if she were a celebrity trying to avoid being recognized. She spoke
English with a faint Korean accent. Honey, or “Ha-yeon” — she answered to both— attended
one of the international schools in Seoul. She and six other students had flown in from Seoul just
for this tour. “Hanover looks boring. I’d rather be in Boston.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 658
“Don’t tell me, you want to go to Harvard,” said Charlie, a sophomore from her school.
“No, I don’t. Harvard won’t take more than one from my school, and my class rank is not
top five,” she said with certainty. “My mother said I’d be better off applying early to Tufts or
Wellesley.”
“But you won that international debate thing though. Man, if you can’t get into Harvard,
then who goes there?”
“I mean, I’ll apply, but I’m not counting on it.” Honey put her arm around her best friend,
Cindy, who was just happy to be on the trip and had no expectations of getting in anywhere close
to the top schools, and Charlie snapped their photograph.
#
After Mido did the room-check for the kids at the hotel, she went downstairs to the bar to meet
Peter, who had ordered a soda for himself, a glass of white wine, and a bottle of beer.
“The kids are freaking scary,” he said as soon as she sat down.
Mido nodded. “I don’t remember knowing so much about the schools and the likelihood
of me getting in or not. I mean, Australia is totally different than here. Nothing is like here. It’s
madness. Why are so many of these kids from Korea trying to study in the U.S.?”
“Are you serious?” Peter asked, shelling peanuts. He made a pile of the shelled ones on a
napkin and set aside the shells in an empty bowl. “This is the globalization strategy.”
“What?”
“Every Korean kid needs to speak English, and ideally, if the parents have any
connections, pull, or money, they want their kids to leave Korea and not deal with education

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 659
hell.”
“I mean, I know that, but still. The kids are so cynical and in many cases, misinformed. I
was just listening to them talk because I wanted to overhear them, but they don’t even know
what they’re talking about. Right?”
“Well, they’re just repeating stuff they heard from their parents, classmates, tutors,
relatives, and whatever the media says.”
“Did you call your friend?” Mido said.
“Yeah, Jack is heading over. He couldn’t meet the kids. He said it would be a disaster.”
Peter raised his hand when he saw his friend walking toward them.
“You’re buying this, right?” Jack said, giving Peter a hug. He shook Mido’s hand.
“Yeah, man. Order whatever you want. On your assistant prof salary, you can’t afford the
steak here.”
“No, I cannot, but I’ve had everything on the menu here, and the steak is brilliant.”
The three of them talked about college admissions, and Mido didn’t know if she should
excuse herself so the guys could catch up, but Jack kept pulling Mido into the conversation, so
she thought it was okay for her to stay.
“What are the students like here?” she asked.
“They’re awesome. For the most part, very sophisticated, can handle the work, and a lot
of them become consultants, lawyers, or go into finance. No one wants to get a PhD in history.
That’s only for morons like me.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 660
“Wait, hang on. You have a book coming out on the Tudors, right?”
“You are kind to remember, Sir Peter.”
“Sir Peter?” Mido glanced at Jack, wanting more details.
“Yeah, that’s what we called him at King’s.”
“He was the poshest Asian we had ever seen. His mum was trying to send him a maid to
live nearby but the school wouldn’t allow it. So Sir Peter had to learn how to make his bed and
attend to all sorts of horrid sundry matters. Dreadful. Oh, how he suffered trying to be just upper
middle class like the rest of us.”
“Change topics,” Peter said, laughing. His British accent became more pronounced
around Jack.
“You have a bit of an Aussie accent,” Jack said to Mido.
“Oh, you picked up on that,” she covered her mouth. “I thought I got rid of it.”
“I never forget a pretty face or fail to pick up on a Commonwealth accent.” Jack smiled at
her.
“Are you fucking flirting with my colleague?” Peter threw a peanut shell at his old friend.
Jack winked. “Is it working?” He smiled at Mido. “I don’t meet many beautiful women
here.”
Mido looked down. “It’s late. I better get to my room. Tomorrow starts early. Day 4 is
Amherst and Williams. Western Massachusetts. Nice meeting you, Jack. I’ll let you two catch up.
See you at breakfast, Peter. I think the bus is at 9am.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 661
“Oh, don’t go,” Jack said, looking disappointed. “Don’t leave me here with this toff.”
“Oh, please go,” Peter said, waving her off. “Go. Goodnight, colleague.”
#
In the morning, Peter said that Jack had wanted her number but he had not given it to him.
“Really? I guess he wants a long-distance relationship with a woman based in southern
California?”
“Not sure if he wants a relationship per se. Jack is a dog. Did you not notice his friendly
mutt qualities?”
“I did sense some of that. He’s not my type.”
“I know. You like lawyers.”
Mido smiled. “Change topics.”
“Nicely done,” Peter said.
When the kids were on the bus, Peter sat in the back and listened to music on his
headphones, while Mido sat in the front reading A House for Mr. Biswas.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 662

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 663
4:6 March 2004 "Peter's House"
6. March 2004
#
After the last student was picked up from Fortress, Peter and Mido picked up their luggage and
headed to the parking lot. Peter would take her home.
“Tired?” Mido asked.
“I’m fine. Slept on the flight.”
“How’s the band?”
“Good. Rehearsal on Thursday.”
“Do you still write songs? I was think about that one about wasted paper? I didn’t catch

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 664
the name.”
“‘Drafts.’ It’s about writing songs. I’ve only written six. It’s not a lot. I’ve started dozens
but finished only those.”
“Yes, ‘Drafts.’ That’s the one. And that ballad, ‘Rosetta.’ I thought those were so clever.”
“Well, that seems to be my problem.”
“Hmm?”
Peter opened the trunk to store their bags inside.
“I think I’m too clever when I write. Or maybe I want to be seen as clever. When I sing
other people’s music, I turn to the stuff that’s got more feeling, something that I haven’t thought
about before but it’s so true that I wish I could sing it out loud. I want my songs to be smart, of
course, but that feeling has to be there,” he said, realizing that he’s never said this before, not
even to Lion.
“Do you like the melody part or writing the lyrics?”
“It’s funny but I think both Lion and I prefer the melody more than the lyrics. It would
have been great if he was stronger at one and I was at the other.”
“You have a beautiful voice,” Mido said.
“Thanks.” Peter smiled and looked away.
In the car, she asked him, “I think the tour went well, right?”
“No one died. No one is missing. No one went to jail.”
“That’s your rubric?” she asked.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 665
“Well, no. I’m sure the trip was life changing for every single child. That’s my standard.”
“Oh.” Mido smiled.
“If the kids had fun, and they got to see the difference in the campuses, then I think it was
better than nothing. It was a blur, but a lot of those kids took photographs and notes. Something
happened. I suppose it’s too early to tell,” he said. “Lately, I think a lot about the kids. They take
up so much of my mind. I worry about them. Weird, right?”
“It’s strange how much I care about them.”
“Not sure if the tour helped enough though. Ginny is convinced that Dartmouth is the
school. If anything, I was hoping she could feel something off.”
“Why?”
“It’s a great school but how about if she doesn’t get in?”
“Their loss,” Mido said. “Ginny is amazing.”
“Yeah, it would be their fucking loss.”
“You see what’s happened to us? We’re like the parents now. We don’t want them to be
disappointed.”
“But they have to be disappointed,” he said. “Life has a lot of that. And for many kids,
this will be their first major one.”
“I think Ginny has had quite a few more let downs than college admissions. She’s been
living without her family since middle school. I can’t even imagine.”
Peter nodded, not saying more.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 666
Mido studied his profile as he focused on the road ahead, keeping to the speed limit but
doing his best to dodge the build up of other cars all around them. His black hair was shorter in
the back, a bit longer in the front—more rocker than prep school. Dark eyelashes fringed his
deep set eyes.
“The tour should’ve given kids clarity but I don’t think it helped that much. If anything,
visiting the schools just gave them a different set of standards. Instead of the more famous
schools that their parents would be impressed by, now, they’ll think about the size of a dining
hall.” Peter laughed and put the cassette into the player. “Lion has gotten all those U2 songs
engraved into my brain. I think we have 3 of their songs on the Zeke’s set list.”
“I can’t imagine writing songs. That must be hard.”
“No. It’s easy to write songs. It’s hard to write good ones. I have written many terrible
ones.”
“Ah, yes.”
Peter continued to drive but didn’t talk, and Mido figured he was tired.
“Jack texted me again to ask for your number. Persistent bugger. He thought you were
cute.” Peter had been mulling over this the whole night, not knowing what it meant.
“Oh?” she said, remembering his friend, the professor at Dartmouth. Mido brushed the
hair away from her face, fighting the impulse to check the dashboard mirror as if this could be
true. It had been a while since she thought much about her looks.
For as long as she could remember, she’d tried not to think too much about her face or
figure. She had only been with Tek, and when she first met him, she’d found him so physically

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 667
attractive that she thought she wasn’t appealing enough. It had been clear to both Mido and Yun
that Tek liked Yun, or thought she was more appealing. By any objective standards then and now,
Yun would have been considered the more attractive one.
However, Yun had no interest in Tek, and she’d made that clear. Also, Yun, who noticed
everything, had sensed early that Mido was interested in Tek, and perhaps bowed out by being
cold to him. That was the way Yun was, she gave up things for other people. Perhaps because
Mido had sensed this, when she moved to Sydney, she didn’t waste the opportunity. She had
worked to get Tek’s attention. She had tried to make him fall for her even though she had no idea
how.
Yun had allowed her an opening, and Mido had tried, and it must have worked. In the
end, Tek had found her attractive, too. He had even wanted to marry her. What Mido couldn’t
have imagined was that the boy she had wanted would want her and that she’d be the one
refusing the one she’d once wanted so much. Regardless of that experience and even this Jack’s
attempts, Mido did not believe she was noticeably attractive in any conventional sense, and at
this stage in her life, it seemed fine.
Was it ever possible to know if a person is objectively attractive? It seemed that the test
would be if enough people believed it or stated this. There should have been some sort of
consensus. If a so-called hound like Jack could find her attractive, did two people make a
consensus? Mido was embarrassed to admit the comparison she’d been making her whole life
after meeting Yun: She could not be beautiful because Yun was. Everyone said so, and it was
true. Yun was beautiful as a teenager, and as a young married woman, nearly everyone remarked
on her face and figure. “Yun Teacher looks like a drama actor,” mothers and students said often.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 668
Mido was not unattractive. Tek once told her, “You’re sexy in an innocent way. It’s your
eyes. They look pure.” He never said anything like that again, and she’d been too self-conscious
to ask what that even meant.
She was 25 years old, and though she’d already had a lover, she felt neither innocent nor
sexy. She had liked sex with Tek. They had that going for them. If her family had not been an
issue, it would have been easy for Mido to go to Sydney; however, she felt the pull to stay in
California. For now, she preferred the idea of America more than anywhere else. It was where
she was born.
“You hungry?”
Mido nodded.
“You want to come over?”
“To your apartment?” Mido tried to sound cool about it.
“Yeah. I can cook us something. My brain feels noisy. Don’t feel like eating alone.”
“Seriously?”
“Yeah, and I’ll take you home after we eat. No pressure if you’re busy.”
Mido was curious.
#
She had never been to Peter’s. DH had stayed over a few times, but he never described what his
place was like. Even something as ordinary as where Peter lived or the kind of apartment was off
limits for conversation, so Mido had not pressed it. Always, Peter picked her up in front of her

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 669
house, and he’d eaten with her family numerous times but she didn’t even know where he lived.
When the car passed through a gated area, Mido realized that Peter didn’t live in an
apartment. He lived in Turtle Rock.
The house was very large and modern with a two-car garage. It was the second house on
the hill, and tall cypress trees shaded the backyard. Mido spotted the glint of a swimming pool
behind the trees. The front garden was well-maintained, and the long panes of the glass walls on
the second floor, overlooking the hills, were shiny and clean. In the late afternoon light, the
house cast a blurry shadow on the left side of the road.
He pulled into the gravel-lined driveway and pressed a button, which she hadn’t noticed
above his dashboard. The garage door opened. In the garage, there was another car, a silver
BMW.
“Is that your landlord’s?”
“No.”
Mido had to stop herself from asking another question.
They went through the garage door to a white-tiled laundry room with a large washer and
dryer, and a trundle iron, used for ironing sheets, which she’d once seen in a home improvement
magazine. A hallway connected the laundry room to a vast kitchen with a stainless steel paneled
refrigerator and freezer. There were European appliances on the long marble counters.
She tried to contain her amazement. Peter lived in a magazine spread.
“Do you live here alone?”
Nodding, he pointed to the powder room in the hall. “You can wash up there if you

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 670
want.”
#
Mido checked her face in the vanity mirror and finger-combed her hair. Her makeup was mostly
gone, and she looked more like a kid than the manager of a hagwon. She sniffed the University
of Sydney sweatshirt she’d been wearing all day, and it smelled like the plane.
In the kitchen, Peter pressed a button on the rice cooker.
“What are we having?”
“Curry rice. In my freezer, there’s always frozen Japanese curry.” Peter read the digital
clock on the rice cooker. “In thirty-eight minutes, we will have dinner.”
A foyer connected the kitchen to an enormous living room and dining area. The front
double doors were large enough to push a piano through. A modern Italian sectional took up a
quarter of the glass-walled living room and near a fireplace, there was a bone-colored leather
daybed.
“Okay. I give up. I’m going to ask questions, and you don’t have to answer them.”
Peter nodded as if he were ready for the firing squad.
“Did you do all this?” she asked, pointing to the well-appointed house. “I’m confused.”
He shook his head. “My mother’s designer. I know. It’s kind of Hollywood. Not my
choice.” He shrugged. “I couldn’t hurt his feelings. If I asked, I guess they could have done it
again, but that seemed ridiculous and wasteful.”
“This house is big enough for half a dozen people. Maybe a dozen?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 671
“Yeah.” Peter opened the microwave and began to defrost two containers of frozen curry.
“Do you get paid ten times more than I do?”
“I don’t think so. I made $150,000 last year. That’s probably a bit more than you but I
have more students than you do. I teach two large classes and take private—”
“You do. You have way more students than me. I’m being rude. I’m sorry. This is none of
my business.”
“My mother comes from a lot of money. Her grandfather started a tire company and then
he created a transport business. Anyway. Dad comes from money, too. Chemicals. Anyway. I’m
the only child of divorced parents, who wants to be a musician and doesn’t want to live in Korea.
She bought this house as an investment and had all this done. I know. I’m grateful but I didn’t
ask for this.”
“That’s cool. For you, I mean. I’m happy for you.”
She had figured that Peter was not poor but because he worked so many hours, she had
thought he needed money. However, after what his friend Jack said at Dartmouth about him
being posh, she had wondered what he meant by it. Mido had never been to a house in America
like this before.
Her aunt Sonya had a very large home in the Hyundai Apartments in Apgujeong. Her
family owned both enormous apartments in one line, separated by a public elevator. Now, they
had the apartment below for their cousins Seungman and Jiman, which Mido had not yet seen.
One apartment would comfortably house five people; and they had three units, now because
there were three generations of adults. Peter’s house seemed far too large for one person, and

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 672
Mido understood why DH had been staying here.
She didn’t get it. There’d been nothing about Peter that suggested that he was wealthy. He
drove an old Volkswagen and wore faded rock tee-shirts and jeans. His sneakers were less fancy
than their students at Fortress.
“My folks are decent people. They grew up here and there. Maybe that’s why I don’t get
why all these kids are always talking about terrible Korean parents. I mean, I don’t really know
my father anymore. He has a new life in Hong Kong, but if I really wanted, I guess I could see
him. I just don’t see the point. I doubt he wanted me to be a musician, but it was me who cut it
off with him, not him with me. My mother’s cool.”
Mido tilted her head.
“You do that whenever you have a question,” he said.
She righted herself.
“Okay. I don’t understand why you don’t do music full time. You don’t have to be a
hagwon teacher.”
“Me neither.”
Peter opened the refrigerator. The second shelf was stacked with side dishes in Pyrex and
stainless steel containers. There were half-gallon sized containers of milk, pink grapefruit juice
and liter bottles of club soda.
He pulled out the side dishes.
She pointed to the kitchen table. “Eat here?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 673
“Sure.”
Mido set two place settings. She tilted her head again. They’d been gone for almost eight
days but his refrigerator was stocked with fresh vegetables, drinks, and assorted types of kimchi.
He answered the questions without her even asking.
“Ajumma comes by twice a week. My mother and I have an agreement.”
“An agreement?”
“I pay my bills—food, taxes, utilities, gym, gas. However, my mother has hired a
housekeeper to clean, shop, cook, and deal with house stuff. When something breaks, Mrs. Ma
handles it. I tried to avoid this but couldn’t. The deal makes her calmer.”
“Who?”
“My mother. My uncle, her brother, pleaded to let this arrangement continue just to settle
her nerves. Until I get married, Mrs. Ma will do all this domestic work.”
Mido opened her mouth to speak then closed it.
“Just say it. DH makes fun of me all the time. Jack spilled the beans, so I figured you
might as well see how posh I am.” Peter drew air quotes around the word posh.
“Everything is nice. Your mother’s designer has great taste.”
Peter nodded. “He tried really hard. Even got an incredible stereo system for me as a
surprise. Without having met me. He just knew that I liked music, so he got this system. It’s your
brother’s favorite thing in the house. Anyway.”
“Have Yun and Lion seen this place?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 674
“Nope.”
“They think you’re like me? Middle class?”
“I don’t know, but does it matter?” Peter looked at her. “Anyway, if we could keep this
quiet, I would appreciate it.”
“That you’re rich and your mom has hired you a housekeeper?”
“Yes.”
“I thought you and Lion are friends.”
“Yes, we are friends but money ruins everything.”
“You work really hard at Fortress.”
“I alway work hard.”
“My brother never said anything.”
“He knows how I feel about this stuff. Also, it shouldn’t matter.”
“Do you want to do music full time?”
“I thought I did but I couldn’t. The isolation made me kind of crazy. That’s why DH
thought I should work at Exodus. He also wanted me to get to know Bo and you.”
“Me?”
“Yeah. He thought we should be friends.”
The microwave beeped, and Peter removed the containers and laid them on the table. He
gestured to her chair, and she sat down.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 675
“He said we’d get along.”
“Tell me about the song you’re working on now,” she said, not knowing why DH had
said this and not knowing how to ask.
“You switched topics.”
“Yes.”
Peter put on an Springsteen record on low, and the two tutors talked about colleges, and
where the kids wanted to go most. After dinner, Mido offered to wash dishes but he said Mrs. Ma
would come in the morning.
He zipped up his navy hoodie and picked up his car keys, and she followed him to the
car. Peter would drive her home.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 676
4:7 June 2004 "Nomination"
7. June 2004
#
Danbi did not observe the Sabbath.
After Sunday services, there were insurance and small business seminars to give,
Christian youth to mentor, and church meetings. After church business ended, often, she and
Taehun Shin entertained clients.
In the fall of 2001, Shin and Danbi had been elected as elders and were now up for re-
election for their second term. It was not easy to be re-elected at Gospel Presbyterian because so
many people coveted these positions, and the church observed strict term limits.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 677
Elders, if elected, served two terms consecutively, and were required to observe a year of
rest before serving as elder again, if and only if, he or she were elected by the congregation. In
the history of Gospel Presbyterian, only Fred Byun, Chairman of Taeguk Bank, had served as
elder for twelve years, and even he, a founding member of the church, had taken a break between
the two consecutive terms.
It was not possible to avoid Shin and Danbi at church. They were active ruling elders
sitting on the most important committees. On holidays, Shin led prayers at the popular eleven
o’clock service, and Danbi circulated during the various coffee hours. Their work naturally bled
into Sundays, and the two spent the day slipping in and out of all three services. Their weekend
nanny would picked up Anna after the church sitters were gone, and drive her home in the
company car.
Shin and Danbi now owned the fourth largest insurance brokerage in Orange County with
the largest Korean base, and many of their clients attending Gospel Presbyterian. Although Shin
spoke English beautifully, Danbi couldn’t seem to speak it, despite numerous attempts in her six
years in America. She had been a top math student and proficient at nearly everything in her
work. Her English reading and writing skills were excellent. However, she could not speak the
second language without a heavy accent and grammar errors, which embarrassed her.
“When you learn to speak a new language, you must look foolish,” one American tutor
told her, and she fired him. Danbi refused to lower herself to native speakers she could never
respect. Shin and her employees dealt with English only customers. At church, she spoke only
her flawless Korean.
Danbi was thirty-six years old. She had altered only a little in the new country. Still

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 678
young and remarkably alluring, she spent considerable time and attention to her appearances.
The only thing which had ever forced her to be more thoughtful about her sexual powers was
motherhood.
With a daughter in school, she realized that she had to get along with at least a few
important mothers to learn about classes, schools, and teachers, so she befriended the ones that
mattered, refusing to have her child left out.
Anna was six, and she had marvelous tutors. The first-grader went to the premiere
elementary and middle school hagwon for mathematics, reading and writing in their
neighborhood of Woodbridge. On Saturdays, Anna had private lessons for golf and tennis but it
was becoming evident that the child was better at golf. From the golf hagwon, Danbi learned the
name of the best children’s golf instructor in Southern California.
As a younger woman without means, Danbi had believed that sexual power was no
different than her exceptional ability to solve difficult math problems. If anything, men were like
simple math problems. Women were far more complex.
Danbi enjoyed sex and seduction; moreover, she delighted in controlling men through
sex. When she was younger and single, there was almost no man she couldn’t control through
sex, and having this power had gratified her.
More than any other man, Danbi had wanted to be with Taehun Shin. After she realized
this, it took no time for her to grasp that if she got him to leave his wife and three sons, he’d have
no real money to speak of. No matter how hard she worked at HRT, she’d never be able to earn
the kind of capital she’d require for their new life from her salary alone. Danbi had almost no
money of her own, so she decided to accrue capital and valuable information, especially when

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 679
the IMF Crisis occurred and panic set in at every level of the company. She knew better than
most that sex relieves tension.
Bonhwa Han, a vice chairman at HRT, gave her 25,000 U.S. dollars when she playfully
teased him about going to his wife. Certain men of significant stature, she had learned, wanted to
do things that their wives did not enjoy. Vice Chairman Han preferred sex outdoors, and after she
took care of his specific needs on a penthouse hotel balcony at twilight, she let him know that
she required a certain amount of money in American currency, and his wife wouldn’t miss it.
On their next date, at a party on a boat in Seoul, they had sex in one of the stalls in the
men’s bathroom. The following day, he brought her a beautiful purse filled with dollars. Each
time, he brought more, and when she refused to meet him again, he offered her even more.
Not once did he get cross with her flirtatious threats and financial requests. If anything,
he seemed to respect her more for the increases. However, as he grew more outlandish in his
fantasies, Danbi lost interest. She drew the line at recording outdoor sex. Worse than that, he was
grew possessive, tracking her movements. More than once, he’d had her followed.
Danbi ended it wisely by introducing him to another young woman who had a far greater
appetite for risk and money, and Danbi told him that she was moving away for family reasons
and had a great deal of work to do.
Not long after, she chose another vice chairman of a telecommunications company that
Mr. Outdoor Sex had unwisely introduced her. In no time, she learned about his kinks, involving
domination and strategic ejaculation. After a few meetings, she learned which
telecommunications companies would survive the IMF Crisis. Under his tutelage, she took the
capital she had received from Mr. Outdoor Sex and bought the stocks and held them. The

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 680
masochistic ejaculator had been correct; and if only she’d had more initial capital, she and Shin
would have had a far larger nest egg to start their company in California.
Shin never knew of their existence, and in her mind, none of these encounters had
mattered because they meant nothing to her except for the capitalization she had sought. Through
intimacy, Danbi had merely raised money for her new venture. She could not help that he was
under the false impression that their insurance agency was being backed by her cousin Frank
Lim, when in fact, she was the sole owner of the holding company.
She was deeply in love with Shin, and she had allowed him to father a child with her.
Much had changed between them over the years; however, she was as attracted to him now as
she had been when she first met him right out of college.
Of course, men still wanted to sleep with her. It was obvious from the way clients and
strangers behaved. There was a way a man looked at you, handed you his business card, offered
to buy a meal, which all led to when he’d plot a way to pass you a hotel room key.
Danbi valued her prowess. Nevertheless, even if she could, she would not exercise her
sexual power unless she was willing to pay the price she’d paid before. Before Anna, she had not
cared much of what other women thought of her. Now, as mother and as a business owner, she
put on the frock of church elder to cloak the deep reserves of her power.
So she changed her clothes and makeup. If as a young single woman, she could have
played a sexual ingenue in a pornography film, now, as a mother of a little girl, she had to play
the elegant and cool businesswoman to be an alpha or beta in any women’s group. Elegance—a
personal quality other women accepted— and a raw erotic availability simply could not coexist.
Danbi maintained her figure, and beneath her expensive clothes, she wore the lingerie of a

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 681
prostitute that Taehun Shin could not resist; however, in the presence of other women, she looked
chic, costly, and vaguely maternal.
#
For this Nominating Committee meeting, Danbi had selected an imported black pants suit cut
close to her slender figure with a long row of pearl buttons and a pair of beige and black ballet
slippers to highlight her small and narrow feet. Her throat was exposed and her only jewelry was
her five carat emerald cut diamond ring and channel-set wedding band that she had purchased
herself.
As an elder, Danbi served as the co-head of the Nominating Committee along with
George Hong, the highly esteemed president of a real estate company. Like most men, George,
eight years her senior, was attracted to her, and Danbi allowed a bit of joking when they were
alone. However, Danbi admired his popular wife Sobin whose family owned George’s business,
so in his presence, she talked about her husband Taehun Shin and how he liked to do taekwondo,
which was true.
Seven elders had gathered after the late morning services. Among the numerous items on
the agenda was to elect two elders for this committee. In practice, any elder could be nominated
for a seat, but in reality, it was far trickier because so many elders wanted to be on this one,
which allowed greater influence for any church member to become a deacon or an elder—fast
tracking an individual’s ascent in the large community.
“We have twenty one candidates to go through. Fifteen women and five men. I should
add that Ryu Seong-tae has been nominated again,” George said without mentioning that Ryu
had nominated himself. After several business and tax scandals, Ryu and his wife had been going

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 682
through different churches in the area to sanitize their reputations. After becoming an elder at
Gospel by a fairly narrow vote, Rye now sought even higher status with a seat in the Nominating
Committee.
Danbi glanced at the agenda papers. Earlier that week, she hadn’t reviewed the document
that George’s assistant had sent. Danbi scanned the list of nominees and crossed off Ryu. There
were at least two Kohs on the list she recognized, including Elder John Koh, who’d been
nominated by George’s wife Sobin, who had served as an elder with him on the Finance
Committee and had been a customer of his late wife Helen at Mrs. Chung’s Emporium.
Over the course of the meeting, the seven elders quickly whittled down the list to three
people, and John Koh remained.
“Does John Koh even want to serve?” Danbi asked even though she knew the answer. No
one could be nominated unless they had already agreed to serve if elected. “I mean, really serve.
Also, doesn’t he roll off in a year and a half requiring a Sabbath year? I think he must be quite
busy in his work. I heard they’re expanding.”
“That’s why I nominated him,” Sobin said. “We lost Elder Park because he moved, and
we need someone who wants to serve out the remainder of Elder Park’s term. He’s perfect.”
Another elder asked, “What is his work?”
“He manages a nail salon,” Danbi said with a polite smile. “He doesn’t own it. He runs
it.”
“I should stay out of it since my wife nominated him, but I think he’s managing the
business on behalf of his deceased wife’s sister, who doesn’t live year-round in California,”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 683
George said. He liked John Koh and felt sorry for the laconic widower.
Elder Christina Bong, who had recently joined the committee added, “ Elder John Koh is
a very thoughtful person. I think he has a business background and went to SNU for math. I
really liked his wife, too. Such a wonderful mother. So sad. We once served bulgogi at the church
picnic, and —” she looked up and smiled at George for mentioning Helen, “—well, I think it
would be wise to have someone who is such a good Christian join us and give counsel.
Sometimes, these positions go to people who have important jobs. I mean—” she smiled at
Danbi and George. “—It’s possible for a wealthy person to have great faith, but Elder John Koh
is known for being self-controlled and thoughtful. The nail salon workers speak very highly of
him as someone who is fair about tips and salaries. I’d be happy to second anyone that Elder
Sobin Jun would find it in her heart to nominate.”
Danbi wrote down her comments, unwilling to look up.
“But Elder Kevin Cho is an outstanding community leader. His law firm has twenty-five
associates,” Danbi said. “If we have to choose one male and one female elder, then Elder Cho
may be a more seasoned leader—”
Elder Christina raised her hand. “Elder Cho is a good man, but he would just be another
partner at a law firm. We have so few male elders who aren’t white collar professionals. Isn’t that
so? I fear that we will be criticized for favoring the professional class.”
“Elder John Koh used to be a manager at the largest trading company in Korea. He
graduated from Seoul National University. Without question, he was a member of the
professional class. It’s not as if he’s some uneducated farmer who fell off a tractor after seeing a
vision of Jesus,” Danbi said, then immediately recognized her error.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 684
The elders stared at her in shock. Elder Sobin covered her mouth and turned to her
husband.
“I think that’s not kind,” Sobin said. Often, she thought of Helen who had sold her a
suitcase and given her a red name tag as a present. She had been so patient with her when she
must have been in agonizing pain. Once, Sobin had visited Helen, who had been asleep, and she
would never forget the woman’s altered appearances, ravaged by cancer.
Danbi had been too forceful in her disagreement. Normally, she did not show her hand
but she had. If John Koh was on the committee, then she would have to deal with him. She
would never be able to defeat him. Not once had she forgotten what his sister-in-law Sonya Cho
had threatened. Danbi understood how power worked better than most. Sonya was the kind of
person who would follow through on her threats.
George spoke up. “At the risk of siding with my wife, I think Elder Christina has made a
valuable point. The elder on the committee should be selected on his character and not just his
present socioeconomic status. Perhaps we can place Elder Cho on a short list for another time.”
The six elders nodded in agreement, and John Koh became a member of the Nominating
Committee.
#
When the meeting ended, George remained behind while his wife went to meet their teenage
children who were still playing basketball with the youth group.
Danbi gathered her papers and said nothing.
“Why don’t you like him?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 685
“Who?”
“ Elder John Koh. I thought he was friends with your husband.”
“Do you discuss the meetings with your wife?”
“What?” George looked puzzled. “Yes. She will be interested in what happened to John
Koh since she nominated him. I’m sure she’ll discuss it with Elder Christina, too. They’re best
friends.”
“Would you tell her that I actually wanted to support John Koh? I don’t want her to be
upset with me.”
“But you were against it.”
“Wouldn’t your wife believe your word against the others?”
“I suppose so. I don’t understand.”
“I’m asking you for a favor, George.” Danbi laid her right hand on his left forearm. She
parted her lips slightly, and from his expression, she saw that just showing a man the hint of her
pink tongue was enough to make him think of her.
“Of course,” he replied and got up. “You supported him all along. I think you just had
some doubts about his schedule. That’s true, right?”
“Yes,” she said, and it occurred to her that Sobin would never like her. Danbi resented
this.
“You believe me, don’t you?” she asked, pulling him back down to his chair, and he sat,
looking nervous.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 686
Danbi saw that same expression that all men had when she did these things. He was
afraid, and she felt aroused.
“How are you, George?”
“It’s getting late.”
Danbi undid the pearl buttons of her jacket quickly. Beneath it, she’d worn a sleeveless
black silk chiffon blouse.
George looked at her breasts visible through the sheer material.
“What are you doing?” she asked, laughing.
“I should go.”
“Have you ever cheated on Sobin?”
It gave her pleasure to say his wife’s first name. Danbi wanted to hurt her. She wanted to
damage the women who refused to lower their guard and take her in just because she wasn’t like
them, because she wanted far more than they did. She wanted to crush those who excluded her
from entry into their golden circles.
George held his breath. He had been with hostesses in Seoul but he didn’t count that as
being unfaithful to his wife, although, of course, it was. Raised as a Christian from birth, he
knew being with any woman who was not his wife was a serious sin and yet, he had a rule. He
was never with a woman not his wife more than once. He’d always paid good money, which
alleviated some of his guilt. If Sobin ever found out, she would divorce him.
He had prayed and trusted that he was forgiven. He had not been with a hostess in years,
but he could not answer Danbi without lying, and he did not like to lie.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 687
George didn’t answer her.
“Oh, so you have. Naturally, you must have. You’re a desirable man.”
Danbi placed her index finger on his lips to hush him. She opened the door and checked
the dark and empty hallway. Danbi locked it and dimmed the lights.
“I need only a few minutes of your time. Give them to me.”
George remained silent, and Danbi made herself comfortable on his lap, feeling the rush
of his hands move across her body. She closed her eyes and willed him to back their bodies into
the wall.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 688
4:8 "Teachers"
8.
#
At home, Danbi bathed and changed into a strapless white muslin sundress trimmed with eyelet.
The children were asleep when Shin returned from dinner with the Finance Committee elders.
After a tasteless church dinner without any alcohol, Shin was exhausted from listening to
the same boring men talk and the endless, self-righteous prayers.
Danbi rushed to him, fresh and clean, wearing a dress he hadn’t seen before. He breathed
in her new scent—orange blossoms and mint—and admired her ivory shoulders. He held her
tightly, not wanting to talk.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 689
“Oppa,” she said, her voice throaty and low. “We were in the same building all day and I
barely saw you. Did you miss me?” She touched his elegant face then withdrew her cool hand at
the feel of his day’s growth of beard.
Shin smiled.
The housekeeper’s car was gone for the night, so it was unlikely she wanted to go out
again. Their intense lovemaking schedule varied but without fail, they had rough sex on Sunday
evenings. With the muslin sundress and her braless, he imagined she had some sort of surprise
for him.
He tousled her hair and headed to the shower.
Shin did his best to anticipate Danbi and to please her, because he didn’t know how to
control her. He had never been afraid of his wife Mary—a beautiful and well-educated woman.
She had loved him, given him three sons, and to this day, he felt guilty for having ruined her life.
His sole consolation was knowing that Mary was better off without him. They were still married.
Mary was in New Jersey with their three sons, and Danbi was in California with him and
their daughter. There were times when Shin thought of getting on a plane and flying across the
country and remain in Englewood, pretending like Danbi and their daughter Anna were hazy
figures in a dream but he could not. Already, he had harmed his original family and thought he
should be decent to the new one.
In his military service, Shin had never been the fearful sort. He had not been afraid of his
superiors, and somehow, through his cool competence, his superiors had admired him. Shin was
astute about men and what they wanted; however, Danbi was not a man, and she was not like
most women.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 690
She was unpredictable and far too canny for her own good. If she’d been born a man,
Shin believed that Danbi would have a been a self-made tycoon or a national leader. He’d never
witnessed such determination and ambition in a human body. Shin would not cross her, and the
wisest thing his wife Mary had done was to recognize the terms of their engagement with a
person like this. Mary was too smart to tangle with the likes of a crazy woman, so she kept her
distance yet held her ground.
#
Danbi was a petite woman, five feet three inches, weighing a little under a hundred pounds. If
she wasn’t so physically striking with exquisite proportions, she might have been overlooked
because of her slight stature. Built more like an adolescent girl with pretty breasts and hips, her
tiny girlish body appealed to men who wanted to feel powerful.
In her first year in college, male students dared each other to physically pick her up like a
parcel. Every man she’d ever slept with enjoyed being able to carry her in his arms to a bed,
desk, counter, dresser; piggyback; or hold her up straddled against a wall, so Danbi had learned
to weigh less so they could feel stronger.
In the beginning of their affair, Shin had wanted to protect her; however, over the years,
she had protected him from the changes in the world because of her ability to survive. Shin had
come to understand that he was merely the figurehead and totem of power. The outside world
saw him as the head of the family and their business; however, they always carried out her plans.
After his shower, Shin put on a clean navy polo shirt and khakis and went to the kitchen
and stood by the counter.
Right away, Danbi opened a bottle of beer and poured it into a tall glass.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 691
“Your friend is now on the Nominating Committee.”
Shin didn’t understand. He took a long swallow of his drink.
“John Koh. He has less than two years left on his second term, and Elder Sobin, George
Hong’s wife, insisted that he was such an admirable person. You’ll never believe this but she
wanted him in particular because he works as a manager of a nail salon. Apparently, we have too
many important people, so we need minor workers.”
Leaning on the marble counter, Shin sipped the remainder of his beer and watched her
anxious face.
His own tan, angular face was far harder to read than hers. With his large sensitive brown
eyes hooded by dark brows, he could appear more placid and self-possessed than he felt.
More than anyone else, he knew John was a decent man who loathed gossip, and
although there had been numerous opportunities for John to tell others at church about him and
Danbi, John and his late wife had not. He trusted John, and especially after Helen’s death, he
wished Danbi would leave him be.
“Isn’t he already on the Search Committee for the new pastor and…”
“It doesn’t matter,” Shin said. “He’s not going to hurt us.”
“I don’t want him on the Nominating Committee—”
“There’s nothing else you can do.” Shin finished his beer.
“People like him. The fact that he’s now a widower makes women fall over themselves.
Thank God he’s poor. The women at church would lose their minds if he had money.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 692
“You don’t have a high opinion of women.”
“Women don’t like me.”
This was something Danbi knew, and Shin had witnessed it countless times. Danbi had to
work much harder to have women trust her. Able to sense her danger in a way that men could not
conceive, women were wary of her. Shin raised his glass to her.
“More?” she asked. Danbi liked it when he was a little drunk at night. Alcohol made him
talkative.
“I shouldn’t. It’s affecting my sleep.”
Shin got up from his chair and placed the empty glass in the sink.
“You sure?”
Standing in front of the refrigerator, he considered a second beer. He felt good enough
and didn’t want to feel sleepier. Shin got down on the floor and did twenty push-ups, a thing he
did often. Over the course of a day, he did a hundred push ups in five sets of twenties. As he was
about to do his set of squats, Danbi moved toward him and put her dress over his head, exposing
her pale navel and slim hips. She had not worn anything underneath.
He uncovered his head and lifting her body, he seated her on the counter. He let her talk
as he pulled down her dress to her waist, exposing her.
“He can tell someone about us. It was such a long time ago. I was younger and afraid of
losing you. I apologized to them. You saw me. But he and his wife refused to greet me. Once, I
went to the store where she worked and she wouldn’t even look at me. She was a saleswoman
and wouldn’t try to serve me. Unbelievable.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 693
She leaned back on the counter and pulled his head toward her left breast.
“He can ruin our company.”
Shin stopped what he was doing and stroked her hair with his hands as if she were a
child. Sometimes, this would calm her.
“John Koh doesn’t like to talk about people. He doesn’t like to talk.”
“You are my naive oppa. Here, come to me.” She sat up on the counter and reached for
him. Her nude-polished fingernail traced a straight line from the center of his clavicle bone down
to his belt buckle. Her manicured hand covered his erection, and she held him with both hands.
Shin closed his eyes.
He inhaled the scent of her, barely moving and focused on her light breathing.
She kissed his closed eyelids.
“Today I was very bad,” she said, wide-eyed and unblinking in her gaze.
“You fought against John getting nominated?”
“Yes.”
“You were afraid,” he said, and he pulled her to him.
“I was bad.”
“Everyday, you are bad,” he said, smiling. “Everyday, everyday.”
Shin opened his eyes and smiled at her extraordinary open face, upturned pink lips, black
pools for eyes framed by her dark shining hair.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 694
Amused by this game they played, Shin pushed up her skirt over her bone white hips,
scrunching up the muslin dress on her waist like a thick gauze bandaid, covering nothing really.
Without any tenderness, he turned his woman around and leaned her over the kitchen counter.
As mutually agreed, on Saturday morning, Elder George waited for her at a parking lot
near Hoag Hospital. When he spotted her gray Porsche, he waved at her and pointed to his
phone, so she checked hers.
“Follow my car,” he had texted.
“Where are we going?”
“Near Anaheim.”
“I have to be back in four hours,” she typed and followed him.
#
He brought his gym bag to the four-star hotel near Disneyland. The reserved room was
expensive, but Danbi said nothing and followed him. She wanted to order room service and a
motel wouldn’t have that.
“I could not stop thinking about you,” George said, once inside the room. He was
embracing her.
“Good morning, Elder Hong,” she whispered, taking care not to leave any makeup on his
jacket.
“I could leave my marriage,” he said.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 695
Danbi pulled back and covered her mouth, peals of laughter escaping her apricot colored
lips. She removed her yellow cardigan, exposing her wide strap butter yellow sundress. Looking
up at him, she smiled like an ingenue and pouted. She took his left hand and put it on her belly.
“I haven’t had breakfast yet. Can we get eggs and bacon?” She dropped the cardigan on
the desk and looked around for a menu.
“I’m serious,” he said. “My wife and I haven’t had sex in over a year. Everyone thinks
that Sobin and I are an ideal couple but she never wants me to see her naked or touch her.”
“That’s a shame. No more talk like this, or be assured that I can never ever see you again,
Elder Hong. Well, we are here. I guess you’ll feed me after then.” Danbi opened the curtains
wide but left the sheer panels closed. She walked around the room and turned on every lamp and
stripped off her clothes slowly making sure that his eyes never left her hands as they moved
across zippers, buckles and straps.
“Did you want to keep the lights on? I don’t mind.” She placed her hands on her breasts
and moved them toward her abdomen. Bent over at the bed, she removed the coverlet and laid
across the white sheets, burying her face in the pillow, so he could see her from behind. She
raised her bottom a little to tease him.
“Your husband is the luckiest man.”
“He is. Let’s make rules. Don’t talk about him, and we will not talk about her.”
“So you don’t want to leave him?”
She shot him a warning glance.
“Never.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 696
“Then why? Why are we here?”
“I wanted to own you,” she said, laughing again invitingly.
George looked hurt and surprised, and she was charmed.
“My puppy, don’t you want to be owned?”
“Are you playing with me?” He looked furious.
“I’m teasing you, Elder George. You’re adorable, and I thought you’d understand that this
was for fun. Elder, you and I are sinning in the eyes of the Lord. I want us to be close friends. I
need a friend. I think you need one, too. We can be less lonely. Now and then, we should hold
each other for warmth when the world is cold.”
He looked confused.
“But not too close. Not too often. I shouldn’t have agreed to come today, but you asked
so nicely, and I’ve always thought you were fine looking.” She had slept with so many men for
money or information, but so rarely had they been as beautiful as Shin, and George was a very
attractive and strong man. If Danbi had some weakness, it would be that she liked fucking too
much and preferred them to be handsome.
Danbi got up and approached him, observing his quiet eyes. She looked up at his face
with both adoration and amusement. Danbi hung both her slim arms behind his neck and
wrapped her legs around him, and George did what every man his strength and size did when she
made this move. He would lift her and carry her to the bed, believing he’d won a trophy.
“My darling puppy,” she said, removing his khakis and kissing his cock deeply. From her
purse, she took out a condom and covered him with her hands. “We have to be careful. I’m still

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 697
young enough to have your baby.”
George’s eyes focused, recalling how old his wife was. Both he and his wife were 47, and
he remembered that Danbi was maybe 36. Unable to control himself, he pushed her down on the
bed and saw the wildness in her eyes. She wanted this to be rough. In her flirting, she was
pushing him toward the edge.
“I didn’t mean to laugh.”
He covered her mouth with his to make her shut up but she pushed him off.
“You cannot leave your marriage. That would make what we’re doing so so much
worse.” She watched to see his reaction, and she knew he was upset with her.
He wasn’t a talker during sex, but she didn’t care. He had long powerful arms and legs
much like Shin but George was more youthful, and it had been a while since she’d been with a
man only a decade older, not needing to worry about a heart attack or stroke.
For fun, she breathed a little louder, noticing that he followed her movements and
gestures, so she made more noise, which made him crazy. Normally, it was easy to know what a
man wanted but on the thick hotel mattress, she could tell he was fighting for control.
This sex felt different than what they did at church because he was no longer surprised by
her forwardness. All week, George had been plotting on how to take her body. He was still angry
with her because she had laughed at him, and he was using the kind of force men use when they
thought it was the last time.
When they were done, Danbi said nothing and went to the desk to get the menu. She
picked up the phone.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 698
“My husband and I will have American Breakfast. Yes, two. Toast White. Yes, coffee,”
she said in English and listened to the woman repeating her order back to her.
Danbi put on her dress and cardigan and sat with her legs beneath on the sofa. George
was still brooding in bed, upset with himself.
She hated it when men got like this so early on in the relationship. George said nothing.
Since Sunday, he had been looking forward to seeing her again. It had never occurred to him that
Danbi wouldn’t be anything but serious about what they had done that afternoon.
In the church conference room, they barely spoke afterwards, and he had tried to kiss her
but she begged off and left him, promising to see him another time if he wanted.
He had interpreted that as shame or shyness, believing that she had long been in love with
him. They had known each other in the Nominating Committee and joked privately often
enough. He had been flirting with her and when she made her move, George had believed that
she was as lonely in her marriage as he was in his.
For George, her propositioning had been a kind of confession. It never occurred to him
that she was seducing him like a man, or worse, for a lay. She had called him a baby dog.
When the breakfast arrived, she took the cart from the man and closed the door. She
wheeled it to the bed, where George was sitting up, his lower body covered by a white sheet.
Danbi picked up a piece of bacon and fed him. He chewed it slowly, still not saying
anything. She placed a fried egg on a toast triangle and put it near his lips so he could take a bite.
George shook his head.
“Be a good baby and eat,” she said, pleading. “I don’t want to eat alone.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 699
Turning to the cart beside the lamp table, George poured her a cup of coffee then one for
himself.
“Thank you,” she said then asked, “How many women have you been with, Elder
George?”
He considered his answer and exhaled.
“Three,” George said at last. Two college girlfriends and Sobin. He still would not admit
to the hostesses. They did not count. “Danbi-shi,” he said, never having addressed her by first
name before. “I misunderstood this. How embarrassing,” he said, looking sober and took a sip of
coffee.
“Don’t be like that, please,” she said and looked at her watch.
George crossed his arms against his wide, muscular chest.
Danbi put aside her plate. Fully dressed, she climbed into the bed beside him and placed
her head on his shoulder. George could smell the clean scent of her balsam shampoo and the
orange blossoms on her skin. She put her hands on him, and he closed his eyes.
“It would mean so much to me if you and I can keep being friends. In secret. I want your
protection,” she said, glancing up at his jaw then kissing his chin, nose and lips.
Slowly, George unfolded his arms.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 700

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 701
4:9 October 2, 2005 "Celebration"
9. October 2, 2005
#
None of them could remember the last time everyone had eaten together at a Western restaurant,
and the mood was joyful. Lion had already ordered a set menu, so as soon as they were seated,
servers brought out fried calamari and cocktail shrimp. Silver platters of shucked oysters on
chipped ice followed. Two waiters brought trays of champagne in glass flutes.
John said a short prayer to bless the food.
“Thank you, Elder Koh,” Lion bowed to John, and he returned the bow to the younger
man, only three years older than his oldest child, Bo.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 702
“Thank you, Elder Han,” John said. They laughed.
It had been Lion’s idea to host the girls’ birthday dinner in the grand private room at
Chip’s, the upscale steakhouse in Irvine. Mido and Yun were born 9 days apart, so they usually
had a birthday party on the first or second Sunday of October for both of them at Yun’s house,
but this year, Lion had insisted on going out. He made all the plans and invited both families and
Peter.
At the long, cloth-covered table with fresh cut flowers in silver cups, Yun, her mother
Nari, Ginny who was reviewing her AP Physics index cards for a test on Monday, and Mido were
seated on one side. Opposite them were Mido’s brothers Bo and DH, who had managed to slip
out of work that Sunday afternoon, and Peter. John sat at the head of the table, and Lion was on
the opposite end.
John had come straight from a church meeting and wore his best gray suit and a navy silk
necktie that Helen had bought for him years ago in Sydney. His graying hair was cut short, and
he wore a new pair of tortoise frame eyeglasses, which his daughter had selected for him that
made him look younger and modern. His face tan and dressed like an executive, it would have
been difficult for any stranger to know that six days a week, John Koh managed his sister-in-
law’s nail salon in Buena Park, surrounded by dozens of nail technicians and as many customers.
“Dad looks sharp,” DH said to Bo and Peter. “And nice job on the glasses, Mido.”
Mido gave a thumbs up.
“He looks like an architect,” Bo said, shrugging. “Or a lawyer?”
The women nodded in agreement and stared at John.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 703
“Your dad always looks nice,” Yun said, and her mother Nari waved her hand in
disagreement, “No, no. Sometimes Bo’s father, I mean, Elder Koh, looks so tired. But today, in
that suit, he’s a twin of that actor, Lee Seung-han!” she said, snapping her fingers, pleased with
herself for getting it right. “Yes! Exactly like Lee Seung-han in ‘Trees Without Leaves.’”
Yun shrugged, unable to remember that drama. They could’ve watched it years before.
Her mother’s encyclopedic recall of shows and actor names was masterful. Her customers, co-
workers, and church friends turned to her when they forgot the plot of a drama or which actor
played who. For fun, they’d quiz her and marvel at her knowledge. They called her the Drama
Dosa. Yun was pretty good for her generation, but no one could beat her mother.
At Yun’s puzzled expression, Nari slapped her daughter’s upper arm in frustration.
“Yaah, how can you forget that one? It’s the one where Lee plays a surgeon from a big
hospital in Seoul but when he goes to a rural hospital to help a medical school classmate, there’s
a train crash and he gets amnesia. Years later, his wife finds out that he started another life with
another woman in a rural beach town. The two women end up becoming friends but then the
second wife gets sick, and the first wife cares for her but the woman dies anyway. Go Jiyon plays
the first wife, and she was amazing. I think I cried in every episode,” Nari tapped the table for
emphasis. “They suffer so much, and the second woman dies only after the surgeon gets his
memory back. Too sad but—”
Yun tried to remember if the doctor returns to the first wife, which would make sense, but
refrained from asking her mother because then everyone would have to listen to the recap of
every episode.
“Umma, is this when I was in college? I might’ve been studying for exams.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 704
“No, no. You were in middle school. We saw it in Korea right before we came here. The
surgeon forgot that he was a famous doctor—the first in his medical school class and speaks
perfect German—and he’s working as a fisherman in this rural village, and his second wife, who
is played by Hong Haera. So beautiful—”
“—Umma,” Yun interrupted, pointing to Lion, who was standing and holding a glass.
“Let’s toast first then we can learn about the surgeon-fisherman who regains his
memory,” DH said, smiling. Like everyone, he thought Yun’s mother was fun.
Bo nodded. “Yup, Lion is ready. I can tell. He’s so polite, he was waiting for his mother-
in-law to finish the plot summary. There he goes, he’s finishing up his breathing thing.”
Lion, a former praise band leader and musician, enjoyed being in front of a crowd. As the
proprietor of two important hagwons in Orange County, he had to speak to assemblies of
students and parents regularly, and before speaking, he’d take three deep but almost indiscernible
breaths. In his mind, Lion had already formed the structure of whatever he’d say well before he’d
utter a word. He never spoke more than he had to, and now that he was a successful business
owner and the youngest elder at the largest Korean church in Southern California, he thought
even more carefully about what he would say because people sought his advice routinely and not
only listened to him but quoted his words.
Lion checked to see if everyone had a glass before beginning.
“We are celebrating two important dates in October 1978. On the first of October, our
Mido was born, and on the 9th of the same month, my wife Yun was born. This month, our
favorite young women turn 27. Happy birthday, Mido and Yun.” Lion raised his glass, and
everyone followed to toast them but he remained standing.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 705
Yun smiled and got up.
“Lion and I are going to have a baby in twenty-two weeks.”
“How could you not tell me, you terrible girl,” Nari said, bursting into tears and
embracing Yun’s waist.
Everyone clapped, and Lion nodded, waiting for them to pause.
“We wanted to wait until everything felt more certain this time.”
Ginny nodded, having been the only one who knew before everyone else. After the last
miscarriage, Yun had wanted to wait to tell everyone else all at once during the birthday dinner.
Throughout the meal and even after the candles were blown out, Nari couldn’t stop
crying.
“I am blessed. I am blessed. Thank you, Lord. Thank you, Lord,” she repeated, and Yun
wept with her mother, until Lion threatened to sing every U2 song he knew by heart.
#
When dinner ended, Lion and Yun took Nari and Ginny home, and Bo offered to drive his father
home before heading back to Westwood.
At the parking lot, DH turned to Peter.
“8-ball. Best out of three. Twenty bucks.”
“You will lose your hard earned money, counselor. You had how many beers?” Peter said,
laughing. “Let’s go.”
Mido followed Bo and their father, but DH stopped her.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 706
“I think you should hang with us.”
John nodded and waved her toward them.
“Go. Go play with DH and Peter. Bo has to drive back to Westwood.”
Mido made a face, “I’m 27, not 7.”
“But you’re the killer at pool,” DH said. “You can help me beat this guy.”
Peter laughed. “Doubtful. Remember, I live with that pool table.”
DH turned to Bo, “You want to join after dropping Dad off?”
“Can’t. Have to read two books by next Friday and write a paper for a seminar. There are
exams to grade for my Intro class. You kids play but stay out of trouble. Playing is important for
growth.”
Peter saluted Bo, and mockingly, DH bowed deep from the waist to his older brother,
“Good to have a future shrink in the family. I know you are thinking of my mental growth.”
“Maybe just growth,” Bo said, smiling, and to Mido, “If you hang out with these young
men, make sure they don’t drink too much. DH doesn’t get out of the office, and who knows
what he’ll do.”
DH shrugged. “I have good friends at the firm who do criminal law. Strictly white collar
though. But they’ll spring me out of jail”
Bo frowned.
“Kidding, brother,” DH said, and Bo and Peter laughed.
“I will take responsibility for your siblings,” Peter said in Korean. With each other, they

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 707
had been speaking in English mostly, but in Korean the teasing sounded more serious in the
honorific tense.
Bo placed his hands on Mido’s shoulders.
“Go ahead. I’m taking Dad home. I have a paper to work on and need to grade exams.
Otherwise, it would be three Kohs against one Son.” Bo tried to look fierce with Peter but broke
in a grin.
“Why am I being bullied by the Koh family?” Peter asked.
“You might as well be a Koh,” Bo said.
DH nodded, looking more woozy and happy. He’d starting drinking beers before eating.
Peter looked at Mido. “You want to come over? It’s your birthday. Your call.”
Mido handed her bag of presents to Bo, and he packed it in the trunk of his car. John got
in the passenger seat and said goodbye, and all the three young people bowed their heads in the
direction of the car as it drove away.
#
“I want to watch a movie, too,” DH said from the back seat. “I want to play pool, drink more
beer, eat tteokkbokki, and watch a movie. Yeah, that’s what I want,” he recited all the things they
used to do when there was more time. “Red Card. I want to play Red Card.”
“He’s drunk,” Peter said to Mido. “Your brother only wants to play Red Card when he’s
drunk.”
Mido looked confused.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 708
“It’s a video game.”
“Oh.”
When they walked into Peter’s house, the living room was immaculate, same as before—
almost as if no one lived there. A blue cashmere throw was folded in a tidy square stack just the
way Mido remembered from last time.
“Your house is a thousand times neater than mine,” DH said. “My roommates are
disgusting. Nice dudes but appalling housekeepers. Oh, yeah, Mido, I forgot, one of them, the
one who works at McKinsey needs a date for the holiday party. Do you want to go with him? I
promised him that I’d ask. He saw your picture.”
“What?” Peter said. “You’re setting up your sister?”
“No, no. Nick just moved in and he’s a good guy. You know. Nick Yang. He just doesn’t
have time to find a nice woman to go to the holiday party, and he can’t go stag, otherwise, he’ll
get shit from his partners for being a loser.”
“Nick Yang?” Peter said. “From Andover?”
“Yeah, Nick.”
“You’re living with Nick? Did I know that?”
“No. He just got here. Sean was transferred to Dubai, and we needed a third. Besides,
he’s never home. None of us are ever home. All we ever do is fucking work. Beer please. One
more makes a six-pack.”
“Ah.” Peter handed him an open bottle but didn’t take one himself.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 709
Mido raised her hand, and he gave her one. She shook her head when he offered her a
glass.
“You want to meet him?” DH asked Mido.
“He’s okay,” Peter said. “No rock star though.”
DH laughed. “He’s a handsome guy. I mean not as hot as me, but I’m your brother so it
might be weird to see me that way. But plenty of women see me that way I should add.”
Mido made a face like she smelled something bad.
“Makes good money, obviously. But has zero time. I think I’ve seen him awake maybe
once or twice since he moved to L.A. He’s working right this minute. On a Sunday night. I guess
I should be working, too, but it’s your birthday, and my baby sister should be celebrated.”
“You work Sundays, too,” Peter said. “You big loser. Where are your priorities?”
“You work a lot of Sundays,” DH said and turned to Mido. “Let me know, and I’ll text
Nick Yang right now, and you two can have a chat. He won’t be mad at me then.”
“I don’t know,” Mido said. “Not looking for anyone, but thanks.”
“Your loss,” DH said. “He wants to marry a nice Korean girl. The hot girls at Andover
used to fall all over themselves for him but he was saving himself for his wife. Now, he’s ended
up saving himself for McKinsey.”
Peter rolled his eyes.
“Let’s play pool,” Mido said.
In less than two hours, she beat both men twice and picked up forty dollars. DH ended up

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 710
having seven beers and stumbled upstairs to the guest room to sleep it off. Peter offered to drive
Mido home.
In the kitchen, Mido grabbed her jacket and purse from the chair where she’d left it, and
when she turned around, Peter was standing right behind her.
“Whoa,” she said, surprised. “You ready?”
Peter was quiet as if he was thinking.
“Never mind,” he said at last.
“I’m a really good pool player. I know,” she said, smiling. He looked so serious that she
felt the need to make a joke.
He nodded and took a breath.
“May I?” he asked, his face near hers, and Mido got his meaning and nodded.
#

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 711

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 712
4:10 "Terms"
10.
#
He didn’t know what to say, but perhaps it wasn’t necessary, because she liked him.
She had for a while, but he was right to have hesitated. Now, it would be weird. In the
middle of his spotless kitchen, they continued to make out, Mido dropping her jacket and purse
on a chair, and Peter his car keys on the table. Slowly, he moved her toward the kitchen counter
to anchor their bodies.
Mido opened her eyes and saw that he looked happy, and she smiled.
“Do you want to—?” he asked, his hands on her waist.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 713
Embarrassed, she couldn’t look at his face and turned to the glass patio doors. The blue
light of the pool was all she could see, and she felt like going outside. Mido had only been with
Tek, and it was a long time ago. A few times he had reached out, but they had agreed not to talk
anymore. It would be five years in January since they last saw each other. Sydney was a world
away.
“Too soon,” he said. “I’m sorry.”
“No, it’s not that.”
He kissed her again, and Mido remembered what it was like to do this thing, when you
had to breathe only through your nose, the unthinking movements of the face and neck as two
heads reached for each other. She liked the way his mouth felt on hers.
It wasn’t too soon, because she had known him for so long. They had been friends and
colleagues, and she couldn’t imagine not being with him now. They had spent so much time
together. When he teased her, she tapped his shoulder or forearm. In a meeting with a parent or
student, they were a pair, almost like unified voice and mind.
His beautiful hands were stroking her back, and she relaxed into him.
Peter was an attractive man. When he sang, she felt like a fan, and she had to work to not
swoon and be normal around him when he stepped off the stage. Long ago, she figured he was
off limits because they worked together. He was her brother’s best friend; he was Lion’s
bandmate; and because he had become a dear person to her. What if this ended poorly, she had
wondered. Already, she lost Tek because it wasn’t possible to be friends.
When DH offered to set her up with his roommate Nick Yang, for a moment, Mido had

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 714
considered it but even thinking about it had felt like a betrayal to Peter though that made no
sense. There was an unspoken agreement, she supposed; they were together, and keeping that
bond unbroken by refusing to acknowledge this wish to be doing this — this touching, holding,
their hands searching for skin beneath the fabric covering their bodies.
At Fortress, several female tutors talked of how nice looking Peter was, and not once, did
Mido comment either way. He never flirted or showed any interest in the women who’d left an
opening. She thought he was not interested in dating, that he wasn’t over that woman from a long
time ago. Easily, he could have thought that about her and Tek.
Brushing her hair aside, he kissed her neck lightly, doing something he had wanted to do
for a long time. Mido had a graceful neck, always unadorned. Sometimes when she talked, he
would stare at the delicate movements of her throat, wanting to kiss it.
“Where?” she asked, and Peter understood her question.
“There’s a room in the back. Near the garage.”
“If DH finds us, he’ll freak out.”
“You think? Could be.” Peter shrugged as if he didn’t care. “Does it matter to you?”
“Well, no. I mean. I don’t know. Could he hear us?”
“It’s soundproof.”
“Huh?”
He took her hands and kissed her again.
They’d never held hands before, and oddly, this felt intimate, more than if they had

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 715
removed their clothes.
He led her to the studio and shut the heavy door, creating a calming hush.
The large room had a daybed and two large desks. In the corner, there was a piano and
beside it, many guitars. On the walls, there were framed posters of The Cure, Clash, and Blondie.
There was a large gas fireplace.
“Does that work?”
“Yeah,” he said, turning on the switch, and blue flames rose above the stack of birch logs.
“I almost never use it, but it’s nice.”
Outside the window was the swimming pool, lit up — blue and calm — like a hotel
postcard.
“Is this where you work on your music?”
“This is my studio.” Peter held her waist and kissed the back of her neck. He hadn’t been
with anyone since Cesca, and he’d almost forgotten how intensely he wanted to be with a woman
he cared about. It wasn’t clear when he started to like Mido, but he’d kept himself from reaching
for her so many times, and it was the strangest feeling to have her in his studio. He stopped
himself as if waking from a deep dream. “You sure?” he asked.
She nodded.
He unbuttoned her blue long sleeve dress, which he’d seen her wear numerous times. The
fabric was a heavy cotton, worn soft from many washings, and he inhaled the jasmine scent of
her hair and body. Mido pulled his green sweater over his head.
When he fumbled with her brassiere, she unclasped it, and they were both naked.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 716
In a passing moment of awareness, Mido said,
“This is kind of crazy. Are we going to be normal tomorrow? At work?”
Switching to Korean, Peter said, “I take full responsibility.”
Mido nodded, wanting to be reassured.
“Will you?” he asked, taking her to the daybed.
#
DH was still asleep. Afterwards, Peter made her an omelet then drove her home. There was
another guest room in the house but she wanted to get back for her father. Peter didn’t insist, and
she felt relieved not having to argue the way she did with Tek about sleeping over. She had never
spent the night out with a man. She was 27 years old, and her father must have known that she
wasn’t a virgin, but it didn’t seem right to stay out.
In front of her house, they remained in the parked car, not knowing how to say goodbye
although they’d see each in a few hours. The car ride over had been filled with polite talk, a
sweet silence, and hands being held.
“The confession,” he said in Korean. “I’ll make it now.”
She laughed. “Seriously?”
“I like you. A lot. I have for quite some time. For several years. Even when you were with
that lawyer.”
Mido shook her head in disbelief.
“I had no idea. Truly. You could work as a spy.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 717
“Good to know that I am still a man of mystery, not just a failed musician slash math
tutor.”
He waited for her to say something serious. Their lovemaking had been so erotic and
natural, and he would have liked to have been with her again, but he knew he had to bring her
home.
“Another thing,” he said. “I want to go out with you. I mean, if you want to go out with
me. But I don’t believe in marriage and that stuff.”
“Is that what you meant by responsibility?” she switched to Korean. “Gosh, what will my
brothers say?” She laughed out loud.
“What?” Peter looked concerned.
“I didn’t say I wanted to get married but I think if this is the paradigm you’re working
from, then perhaps my family can’t know that we’re together. I mean, for now. The speculation
will start right away. They are like regular brothers. I’m pretty certain they are worried about my
romantic future.”
“DH knows I can’t marry anyone,” Peter said.
“Not sure if he wants me to date you,” she said.
“Right. That’s true. He told me once you’re off limits.”
“What?”
“Yes.”
“But—”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 718
“I guess I didn’t listen.”
“Then—” Mido looked puzzled.
“I don’t want to break up,” he said.
“I didn’t know we’re dating,” she said.
“Today is Day 1.”
“You are Korean,” she laughed. “I better go inside.”
#
The next morning, Peter picked her up, no different than any other Monday, but getting dressed,
Mido had taken a little more care about her clothes and makeup. She put on a shrimp-colored
cotton dress with long sleeves, a cherry wool sweater and white tennis sneakers.
All night, she’d thought about Peter and his stated terms of their relationship, and she
surprised herself that she might be dating a man who would not marry. After refusing to return to
Australia with Tek, she’d wondered if anyone would propose to her again. Though, to her, it
seemed absurd and prosaic to care about getting married at all. She hadn’t even finished college.
After her mother died, it was as if time had stopped. Everything had stopped except for work and
family.
At Fortress, church, or the nail salon, someone would invariably ask if she had a
boyfriend or when she’d marry. Another person might shush the questioner to be polite, or if
anyone knew about her mother’s death, the questions were less frequent. There was one less
parent to care about a child’s marriage. Her father never brought it up, and if anyone ever talked
about it, he would say nothing or walk away, not wanting to go into details.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 719
None of them knew what to do about the future without Helen. On occasion, DH was
dating but nothing had stuck. There was a fellow graduate student at UCLA that liked Bo, but he
didn’t think he could start anything until he finished his degree. It was as if the family had agreed
to postpone anything that would separate themselves from the family unit.
Mido had not expected Peter to say he didn’t want to marry while at the same time
declare his committed interest in her. At this moment in her life, she was okay with dating a man
who didn’t want to get married, but now that he said it, she wanted to understand why.
Mido’s first and only lover had wanted to marry her, and though the endless public
discussion of her marriage prospects irritated her, it had never occurred to her that she’d date
someone who was against it. Also, she didn’t even know the reason, and it was too awkward to
ask, because the act of asking might seem as if she wanted to marry him, no different than all the
others in their world who persisted on asking these personal questions.
Pride and shame now kept her from asking him his reasoning, and it wasn’t shame from
rejection but rather shame from not seeming independent-minded as a modern woman.
They needed coffee. Peter suggested the McDonald’s drive-thru to pick up breakfast, and
she agreed. He knew she liked the hash browns.
Peter ordered the usual for them—2 Egg McMuffin sandwiches, three hash browns —
two for her—and large coffees. He handed her the bag of food, and Mido unwrapped his
breakfast sandwich for him, so he could eat while driving. She’d never done this before, blushing
at the memory because it was something she would’ve done for Tek when he drove.
“Thank you,” he said, taking a bite, keeping his eyes on the road. “Starving.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 720
Mido drank her coffee and wondered how things would change.
#
At Fortress, they had meetings all morning with high school parents about college applications
and testing, and during meetings, she caught him looking at her. With a two hour break between
more parent meetings and before tutors arrived for afternoon teaching sessions, Peter suggested
going out to lunch instead of ordering in.
Mido locked the front entrance to the hagwon. She led him to the teacher’s lounge and
closed the door.
He understood and began to kiss her. She removed his clothes then her own. After they
made love, Mido said, “I don’t want to get married either.”
“Oh?” Peter looked hurt. “Why?”
“Why what?” She wanted him to ask the question she was too embarrassed to ask as a
single woman. He had not even blinked before asking for her reasoning.
“Why don’t you want to get married? To me.”
Mido wouldn’t say. It didn’t seem fair for her to have to go first, when she still didn’t
want to ask him his reasoning. Her pride wouldn’t allow it.
“I think we can’t tell anyone about this. I don’t know how long this can last.”
“Oh. I think I understand.” Peter was upset.
“And, I’d like it if we could always be kind to each other. I think we would be anyway,”
she said. They were dressed now, and she opened the lounge door. He followed her to their

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 721
offices, which were side by side.
“Are you against marriage?” he asked.
“No. But if you don’t want to marry me, I don’t want to marry you. I just don’t know
what this means though. I suppose we can be together. Is this a fling?” she asked, realizing that
just asking this made her seem commonplace. A sophisticated person would probably just keep
the questions hanging in the air rather than saying them out loud. She didn’t feel cool or free.
“I hope it’s not a fling,” he said. “I made the confession. I said it was Day 1 yesterday.
Isn’t that the right thing?”
“I can’t believe we’re talking about this. Let’s just, you know, see how it goes,” Mido
said, feeling mortified.
“It’s not what you think. I hesitated as long as I could because I knew that I’d be serious
about you. Everyone will expect us to get married if you wanted that, and I would look like an
asshole for being against it.”
“You’re a musician. A rolling stone that gathers no moss, right?” Even to her own ears,
she sounded bitter, and Mido wanted to take it back.
“If we married, then my mother and all three of my uncles would want us to go back to
Korea and live there. I can’t do that. I can’t live in that world. My oldest uncle works for the
company, another is a judge and the youngest, a prosecutor. My mother’s family is always in the
news because of the size of their business, and my father’s family— they have less money but
they’re more established, so after the divorce, he went to live in Hong Kong just to be left alone.
I don’t want to live under that level of scrutiny. Here, I’m just a struggling musician with a side-

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 722
hustle.”
“You’ve thought this through,” she said, fumbling in her dress pocket for her hair-tie. The
more they talked about this, she felt like she was no less conservative than the most ordinary
woman at church.
“I suppose they wouldn’t approve of my family and me,” she said, putting her hair up in a
ponytail. Immediately, she regretting having blurted this out. It was always better just to be quiet,
she thought.
“Except for the college part, my mother and all my uncles would think you’re fantastic. I
don’t want you to think they’re snobs. They’re very understanding but they care a lot about
education. It’s everything to them.”
Mido didn’t know what to say.
“Besides, you’re going to go back to school anyway. I shouldn’t have brought this up.”
“Wait, I might not. It’s not clear to me that I need to get my degree. For what I do, so far,
lacking a degree has not held me back. I don’t think you’re better than me because you have a
college degree.”
“Hey, I didn’t say that.”
“Right.” When he’d mentioned his family might judge her poorly for not having finished
school, it stung more than she thought it would. Clearly, he’d considered her CV in relation to his
family back in Korea. Perhaps because she was intending to go back at some point, it hadn’t
occurred to her that her not having finished college might be seen as something negative in her
personal life as well.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 723
Since her high school students got such extraordinary outcomes, none of the high school
parents at the hagwon ever brought up her lack of a degree. Mido felt sick in a way that she
hadn’t last night when everything about their nascent love had been good, thrilling, and possible.
Tek had insisted on her finishing school, but he had never said that it was something his
parents would have looked down upon if she hadn’t; but perhaps that was why he kept on saying
that he’d pay for it. It was a given that she would finish, and she wanted to, but she was working
to pay bills. Mido pursed her lips tightly.
“I’m sorry. I didn’t mean to—”
“—No, not at all,” she said in English, tinged by her Australian accent, which had been
fading in America. “You’re just telling me how it is. For people like them. I mean, for people
who care about that.”
“Hey, I don’t care about that. You’re brilliant, and I know how smart you are.”
“Let me go order lunch. It’s my job. It’s too late for us to pick something up anyway,” she
said, reaching for the binder of menus inside her desk drawer.
In her mind, Mido listed all the reasons why she’d had to stop going to school and what
she had done with her time. By reading and studying manuals, without any formal training,
Mido had learned to get perfect scores on college entrance exams, fill out college applications,
then coax nervous and resentful high school students how to make the whole process worthwhile
and interesting.
She had this ability to coach students to excel and get the outcomes they needed. In the
time she’d lived in California, Mido had taken everything she’d ever learned in school and out of

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 724
school and figured out how to administer a hagwon, teach, and to counsel applicants. With
money she earned, she had sent DH to law school and was helping Bo get his Ph.D., and it
seemed particularly cruel to have strangers think less of her, when getting a degree and becoming
better educated was the thing she’d taught herself how to do for others. It would be pathetic to
defend her life, so Mido was unwilling to say any of these things to Peter.
“I’m fine, Peter. We’re in agreement. All good.”
She excused herself and went to open the main doors.
One by one, tutors arrived, then students and parents with appointments. The two lovers
acted no differently than before. At the end of the day, Peter drove her back to his house, and she
stayed with him until it was late then he drove her home.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 725

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 726
4:11 November 2005 "Exchange"
11. November 2005
#
Shin & Jung Insurance Agency was not losing money; however, their first few years had been far
more difficult than expected.
Danbi’s cousin Frank Lim, the preeminent property and casualty brokerage of the Orange
County community, had done his best to explain carefully the business to her.
Six years earlier, when Shin and Jung first got licensed in California to sell casualty and
property as well as life policies, Frank invited them to lunch at his house in Newport Beach.
Frank, 11 years her senior, grated on Danbi by the way he condescended to her and Shin.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 727
It was unfair but she also disliked how unattractive he was to her— the small potbelly forming a
low swell on his otherwise long narrow frame, booming American voice of a know-it-all, and the
unfortunate tadpole eyes. Mostly she envied his perfect English language skills. His clients were
mostly white affluent Americans with special insurance needs for their beach front properties and
large boats. He easily wrote seventy to eighty million in business taking an average twelve
percent in commissions. Like his father, he was tall and graduated from Berkeley, which she
viewed as pluses. He had also grown very rich. Bina, his adorable and sweet wife wore only
designer clothing and had a diamond ring the size of a Charms candy, genuinely adored him. As
a special favor to his mother, Frank has sponsored Danbi’s work visa but had not required her to
work for him.
“Why don’t you now really come work for me?” Frank asked that afternoon, and Bina
nodded as she poured iced tea into tall sapphire blue glasses. They were having lunch on the
lanai opposite the large kidney-shaped swimming pool. “I can get you set up with desks
tomorrow morning if you want.”
Danbi smiled at him, hiding her resentment. Frank’s mother, Danbi’s mother’s sister, had
pitied their family but had done little to help them. Each Christmas, Danbi’s mother prominently
displayed Frank and Bina’s impressive greeting card and newsy letter, detailing their exotic
travels and how well their two daughters were doing. Danbi wanted to tear it up every time she
saw it.
Frank’s mother had imagined Danbi would make a good bookkeeper, but he would have
been fine with her and Shin writing policies for Korean customers, business he had not been
interested in previously. Frank knew how much trouble they had gone through studying for the
licenses. Danbi told him that they would own their own agency. They had the capital to do so.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 728
Frank had offered to help her start one, and now he wanted them to be his employees. She felt
hoodwinked and worried that he wouldn’t tutor them on the business if they said no to his offer.
“Can you sell more life policies than casualty?” she asked. “I hear that life policies have
the greatest revenues?” Frank made a face. He made an excellent living but he had not chosen his
insurance products on revenue alone.
“Well, yes and no. There are many exceptions. We try. But life can be harder to sell even
for charming you,” Noticing her disappointment, Frank explained, “Danbi, if you’re really
serious about having your own agency without having any insurance experience, which makes
no sense to me, sell car insurance and homeowner policies, which are required for everyone. The
profits might be smaller because there’s more competition, and slowly slowly grow your
business and relationships—”
He droned on about trust, learning the business, and starting with less risk, and Shin
sensed that Danbi was growing more irritated.
When Frank finished talking, Shin spoke up.
“Danbi really wanted her own place, and I’m at the age when we could have an agency.
We were going to hire some agents, too. Do you have any enterprising young people who want to
work with Koreans? We looked at office space near John Wayne Airport.”
Frank laughed out loud. “You want to take my people from me? That’s confidence for
you,” he looked at his wife in amusement. “I told you my cousin is ambitious. I guess she wants
to eat from my table and take the table. Why not the house?”
“No, no,” Danbi said, sounding more girlish. “You misunderstand. My husband has lots

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 729
of business experience, not specifically in insurance, but—”
“—It’s fine. I’m going to help you. I promised my mother I would.” Over the course of
the meal, Frank broke down the list of things they had to have and do. Danbi pulled out a pad of
paper and took notes deferentially. Except for the warnings about renting a small clean space and
not having expensive furniture, Danbi and Shin followed his advice. Shin overpaid on hiring
bonuses that first year and negotiated commissions with better agents not always in the agency’s
favor, which kept their net revenues closer to four percent for several years.
Also, each month, Shin sent money to his wife and sons, and nothing could keep him
from doing this.
#
Danbi wanted more for her life. They still had a substantial mortgage on their four bedroom
house in Irvine. Anna attended a private school in Woodbridge. They were leasing two German
cars. Neither Shin nor Danbi would ever inherit any money. Shin’s widowed mother no longer
even spoke to him after he left Mary.
Shin could not divorce his wife, and the unspoken terms of their separated lives was that
Mary kept the house in New Jersey and the three sons would inherit that unless she had to spend
that down in her old age. Mary had a full-time job at a florist, but she didn’t earn enough to save
for her retirement. He sent her $2,000 a month, but that was not enough to cover the mortgage
and the boys’ education. No matter what Danbi said, it was his plan to one day pay off the
Englewood mortgage if only for his conscience’s sake.
Danbi had never met the wife. At first, she saw her from afar. She had waited outside
Shin’s home when Mary visited for the summer, wen to her Catholic church in Seoul, and could

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 730
not help but admire Mary’s extraordinary oval face framed by the elegant chignon, the placid
beauty and long-suffering manner. Another time, Mary had come by the office. Finally Danbi
called her on the phone, and the conversation lasted less than two minutes. Danbi didn’t respect
Shin’s wife’s unwillingness to fight for her husband; however, she admired Mary’s willingness to
keep her distance. Shin would have given her a divorce if she wanted one, but Mary refused,
citing her faith.
Mary focused only on their sons. After seeing Mary, Danbi had said, “She’s pretty. Why
can’t she get a man? Someone would take her,” and Shin had shrugged, knowing he had no right
to be jealous. Every time Mary said no to a divorce, a tiny part of him believed that Mary might
forgive him and let him come back home. Of course, Danbi wanted Mary to sell the house in
New Jersey and split the proceeds since the boys were grown.
The boys had finished their degrees. Two of them were lawyers and one was studying to
be a nurse. One of the lawyers, the smart and better looking one, was gay. All three boys
wouldn’t have anything to do with their father. He hadn’t been allowed to attend any of the
graduations.
On every major issue, Shin lost to Danbi, but he made it plain that he would leave her and
Anna if she ever contacted Mary or troubled the boys again.
Danbi needed money. The people in their circle had a great deal more than they did. At
this stage in their lives, their finances were not sufficiently secure. They had a large mortgage
and credit card debts. She thought they should have a much larger house with a private pool to
entertain like others. She wore expensive clothes and bought herself designer jewelry, the same
possessions as her wealthy clients. Woodbridge, a beautiful community in Irvine, wasn’t

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 731
prestigious enough anymore.
They did not have enough saved for Anna’s education and wedding. If Shin ever left
her—something, a practical woman like Danbi had to consider—then she’d need to have more
set aside. She was only 37 years old and attractive enough to make most men do what she
wanted, but there would certainly come a time when this power would diminish. Before that
eventuality, she had to have reserves.
#
Danbi’s lover George didn’t have the kind of cash she wanted. To please her, he taught her how
to fish. Soon, Danbi was flipping houses in Garden Grove and Santa Ana.
George had plenty to pay for expensive hotel afternoons, sexy gifts, and trips. Danbi told
Shin that she needed to attend a conference for agency owners, and of course, he let her go.
George arranged for a suite at a five-star hotel in Santa Barbara, and as usual, they pretended to
be married.
Shin had no idea about George, and he didn’t mind her lack of attention. In a way, he was
relieved by the slight cooling of her ardor for him. George was not jealous of the older man and
gradually found this arrangement more useful.
George’s wife, Sobin, was a terrific mother and a leader of their social set. Her father and
uncle owned a notable real estate company in Northern California and a nicely growing one in
Southern California led by her incompetent brother Tommy. George would never have been able
to amass their holdings in Orange County without her family’s support. As the only son, Tommy
was the Chairman and owner of the company but he did little to no work. George alone had
increased his father-in-law’s initial capitalization tenfold; however, no one was under any

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 732
illusion that George, the second son of an office supply store owner, would have been able to
become a wealthy man without his well-funded wife.
Only when it came to sex did George resent Sobin. After having their fourth child, she
lost all interest in it, and for years, they could sleep in the same bed and never touch. They were
like a hand-holding brother and sister. At eleven o’clock, George went to sleep, and Sobin never
slept until the early hours of the morning. When the children were at school, she napped.
Also, she was no longer a size six, who had once stunned him in a polka-dot bikini on a
beach date. She maintained her appearances as an attractive middle-aged woman, but after four
children and breastfeeding each of them for a year, the occasional yoga, Pilates, and running had
not slowed her aging. Sobin disliked the idea of plastic surgery or cosmetic dermatologists to
update her speckled and wrinkled face. “Those perky breasts look so fake,” she’d remark
whenever she watched television. George thought plastic surgery shouldn’t matter if a person
looked and felt better afterwards.
Sobin didn’t like shopping for clothes, and the athletic, no-nonsense things she wore as a
young woman now made her look frumpy. More than once, answering the door, she was
mistaken for the help but didn’t care. George still found her attractive enough, and he liked
having a wife and mother who was admired by everyone. For thrilling sex and deep
conversation, George sought Danbi, who fulfilled those needs.
George had never expected a gorgeous woman like Danbi to seduce him, especially the
way she did. Recalling the experience alone continued to arouse him. There was something
brazen and insane about her, and initially, he had not seen it. He had been with hostesses, and he
was smart enough to know not to get entangled with the likes of women who would need to be

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 733
paid dearly for sex. Women like that came with shadowy figures behind them, and George
believing himself to be clever had avoided them. He welcomed this married lover who wanted to
have sex, friendship, and instruction.
George didn’t understand why Taehun Shin could be so clueless and allow a stunning
woman like Danbi to remain unsatisfied. George had no idea that she was able to sleep with both
men. She needed sex all the time, and George, thinking that women were all like his wife,
believed Danbi was sleeping mostly with him only, which was not true.
The two lovers rotated among several hotels, but most often, they went to the Hyatt in
Huntington Beach, got a room with a water view, never leaving the room even for food. On most
Saturdays afternoons when Anna was at her hagwons, Danbi met him in Huntington Beach, or at
a large suite at the Sheraton, Marriott, or the Fairfield in Anaheim.
In the tub, Danbi would bathe him, then they would have sex, order food and talk for
hours. George found that he needed those meetings more and more, and when she couldn’t make
it, he would call her during the week to check if there were any openings in her schedule. It was
harder for her to get away because she worked with Shin. Once, when he was desperate to see
her, she met him in a movie theater for an hour to help him get through.
What allowed him to see her more often in public was her growing interest in real estate.
Shin did not mind that George was teaching her how to flip houses. This side business was
Danbi’s alone, they agreed. The money she earned, she said, was for Anna’s future.
George showed her the listings, introduced her to the best mortgage brokers, bankers,
contractors, painters, plumbers and electricians, and even an appliance wholesaler. He taught her
to buy fixer-upper houses for low six figures. Using hard money loans with their short terms and

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 734
high interest, she’d spend about ten thousand to fix the house, sell them for a profit in two
months, and net fifty or sixty thousand profit. Any buyer, it seemed, could get a mortgage. She
told Shin she made less and socked away the money. After each closing, Danbi met George at a
hotel.
George never let her pay for the hotel rooms and food. He was a man, and his pride
would never allow it. A year after becoming lovers, Danbi mentioned that her birthday was in
March. They were in the nice room at the Hilton. She was naked and he was still dressed,
something he had requested of her. They allowed each other fantasies, and George, who had
never had anything like this in his sex life, felt grateful. He had learned that the more he wanted
her, the more excited she’d get.
“What would you like for your special day?” he asked.
“I want to get my breasts done.”
“Don’t do that.”
“I might need to in the future.”
“Not now though,” he said, cupping her round, full breasts. They were luscious and
appealing, but George found himself admiring Danbi for thinking ahead. “Don’t do it for me.
You don’t have to change anything.”
Her eyes crinkled with pleasure, and she got on her knees. After he finished, she looked
up and pouted.
“Twenty thousand dollars. I could put it aside and get it for myself as a gift later. I
promise you’ll be the first person to see them.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 735
“Not too big though,” he said. “I don’t like the ones that look too big.”
The next time he saw her at the Sheraton, he gave her the money in a Gucci purse. He
made her promise not to have the surgery until later. She took off her blouse.
“What’s that you’re wearing?” he asked, pointing to the ivory colored bra that covered
her waist and enhanced her bosom.
“It’s a corset,” she said then dropped her skirt to show off the matching white garters and
stockings.
“I don’t know why you do this to me,” he said and reached for her and placed her on his
lap.
Danbi relieved his stress, and he wanted her to have beautiful things. “This is for a new
dress,” he’d say, putting a thousand dollars in her pocketbook. In several of his properties in
Santa Ana, he received partial rental payments in cash, which reduced their tax bills, and it was
easier to put aside a bit of cash for her each week. Danbi never gave it back to him. When he saw
her at church, he liked knowing that she wore things that he had paid for.
In the past year, there had been two weekend trips, where George and Danbi had
pretended to be husband and wife, and he enjoyed the way men looked at him with admiration
when she wore a white strapless bikini by the pool. He felt possessive of her and tried not to
think of her being with Taehun Shin. At church, he would glance at Shin and wonder how a man
could ever let a wife like Danbi out of his sight.
On a trip to San Francisco, where they knew no one, she brought up money again. They
were dining at the hotel restaurant, which was risky, but Danbi didn’t want to eat in their room

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 736
every night. As they walked back to their suite, she said, she wanted to a bigger house.
“How big?”
“As big as yours.”
He laughed.
“How many small houses do I have to sell to get that? And I don’t want a mortgage.”
“How much do you have saved?”
“Only three hundred thousand.”
“Well, you can get a few more little ones and acquire a much bigger one using the smaller
ones for collateral. If you sold a whale, you would make a much bigger profit faster.”
“Won’t it cost a lot to fix a big house?”
“No, you want to get in on a new development. Not a fixer upper for a starter home. But
sell a place that’s likely to go up and stay up.”
“Everything has rising,” Danbi said. “Everything I bought has gone up. If I had more
money and time, this is all I would do. I would be so rich,” she said, her laughter sounded like
bells, and George kissed her on the mouth.
“How much is your house?” she asked.
“Several million,” he said. “I haven’t had it appraised in a while. I think at least seven or
eight?”
“Do you have a mortgage?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 737
“Sure. Not a lot. We didn’t buy it for that much.” George didn’t mention that it had been a
present from his father-in-law.
“So I need more money to buy places and to invest, then.”
“Why do you need such a big house?”
“Why do you?” she asked, and George kissed her again.
She reached for him and pulled him closer to her.
“I need more than the house. I also need to care for my mother and my retirement. I
won’t be poor when I’m middle age, and I won’t be living with my daughter. My mother is less
clear these days, so I need to get more help for her. The agency is doing fine but we give too
much to the agents. I don’t make enough for me to quit working. Maybe if I have a lot, I can just
leave my husband.” Again. Danbi laughed.
A week later, they were meeting at the Sheraton. George got there first and when he heard
the knock on the door, he let her in.
“There’s a new development in Irvine. You can probably make six figures if you flip it. If
you put down a little, and get loans for the rest. You won’t have to deal with fixing this one up. It
will sell fast.”
“Keep talking,” she said and turned around so he could unzip her pink shift dress. She
had worn a baby pink brassiere and panties for him. He spanked her rear lightly.
“If you get in on this new development in Irvine and make a couple of hundred, we can
do it again until you become a millionaire,” he said.
Danbi faced him, “You’ll help me. You always help me.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 738
“Of course,” he said and carried her to the bed.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 739

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 740
4:12 November 2005 "Cool Factor"
12. November 2005
#
“Turn in the problems sets please,” Bo said as the section ended. One by one, the students passed
the work forward. Only two didn’t hand them in, which wasn’t bad. Alvin had missed class, and
no doubt, he was still working on it, and Hattie stared at him then looked away. She waited until
everyone left class to approach him.
“I couldn’t do it.” Hattie sat in the empty chair next to his, so Bo who was packing his
things stopped. The classroom wouldn’t be used next period, so he preferred to meet students
here rather than draw out his limited time for office hours. A few of his students were talking in
the hallway, and the door was ajar.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 741
“Let’s hear it, Hattie. You okay?”
Hattie was a junior Psych major, a Korean national who had gone to an international
school in Seoul. She was normally a strong student, and Bo wanted to give her the benefit of
doubt.
“I had a conflict with a professor about my grade.”
“Oh?”
“You mean, our class? I’m the one who grades Psych 100A.”
“No, not this class,” she said, touching the back of her neck. Hattie wore a blue UCLA
sweatshirt and sweatpants. No makeup and unwashed hair tied up in a ponytail. “I can’t tell you
his name because you know him.”
“Your midterms?”
“Yes. I went to speak to him. He was so rude. I think it’s because he got tenure last year.”
“What does that have to do with anything?” Bo straightened his glasses and kept from
folding his arms. Every time he had office hours, he thought about his body language as a future
clinician. He leaned forward and paid careful attention to the student. She was visibly upset.
Hattie took her grades seriously.
“He can’t get fired now so I can’t even give him a bad eval. It is the difference between a
B+ and an A-. It will be really hard for me to pull this up in my finals. I want to go to medical
school, and I have to get all As.”
“No interest in getting a Ph.D.?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 742
“No way.” She stared at him like he was insane. “There’s no real money in that. Oh, I’m
sorry,” she said, laughing. “I mean, some people don’t care about money, right? You want to help
people.”
“Yes,” he said, feeling a little embarrassed. He had not disliked Hattie before, and he
reminded himself that she was still a kid and didn’t know how to talk properly. “Okay, so you’re
interested in psychology and want to be a medical doctor and therefore you need good grades.”
Bo knew pre-meds had to have these exemplary transcripts. All of his pre-med undergraduates
were endlessly stressed out. One had killed himself a year before.
“‘B’ means I will be rejected from med school.”
“‘B’ should stand for breathe,” he said.
Hattie wasn’t amused. She looked at him up and down as if to assess him. Bo wore an old
white shirt that he had ironed himself last night and faded jeans from college. She stared at his
cheap black sneakers he bought from a mart, which even DH had teased him about.
“What grade did you get? In that other class?”
“”B” but a B+ and even an A- is entirely defensible,” she said, sounding like a lawyer.
“I see. What do you think you should do now?”
“I can’t fight him anymore. I couldn’t even sleep last night, I was so angry. I can’t stand
the sight of him. He might ruin my chances of being a psychiatrist.”
“I don’t know if that’s true.”
“I can’t stand these tenured professors. They won’t move an inch.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 743
“I suppose the untenured faculty is more amenable,” he said, wondering what she must
think of a graduate student like him.
Hattie blurted out, “Untenured faculty still need a good eval from me. I pay a lot of
money to attend UCLA. I’m not in-state. I should get better treatment. His office hours are only
an hour. I barely had time to —”
“I see,” Bo said. Hattie thought she was buying her education like buying a lesson with a
private tutor. From her appearances, she didn’t seem at all like a materialistic international
student. She was only 20 years old, and probably repeating ideas some grown ups must have said
to her, he told himself.
“Hattie, you might get better outcomes if you focused on the learning. I realize you are
under a great deal of stress and it’s obvious how hard you work, but thinking of your teachers as
your employees is probably not the best idea. A teacher may think that you’re threatening them
with a poor written evaluation. You didn’t talk about the eval with your professor, did you?”
Hattie caught herself and covered her mouth. “Oh, I didn’t mean to threaten him. I just
think that these grades are important, and I need the best ones for medical school. He should
want me to do well, right?”
“I’m sure he does,” Bo said. “But everyone is human, and it would be hurtful to think that
your students don’t respect you.”
“I don’t think he wants me to do well or anyone for that matter. I think he just wants to
prove how smart he is. He’s intellectually insecure. The curve in that class is crazy. Only people
who are stupid insist on these rigid grading curves. Why can’t everyone get an A if they deserve
it? In this class, no one might get an A, and it’s too late for me to withdraw.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 744
The student appeared so disheartened that though Bo disagreed with her, he didn’t want
to say anything more.
“Do you have any other B’s?”
Hattie got up from her seat.
“I’ll hand in my problem set by the end of the day. I’m sorry I’m late.” She bowed
reflexively then left. “My friends are waiting for me.”
#
Bo went to the parking lot and saw Priscilla Banks, the only person he knew from Fullerton in
his program. She was two years behind him and on the track for Developmental Psych. She was
taking out her backpack from the trunk of her dusty Nissan.
“You look happy,” she said, laughing. “Not.”
Bo smiled. They’d gotten to know each other a little during Dr. Wilson’s class. They
weren’t close then but it was nice to see a friendly face from his Fullerton days.
Priscilla was tall and pretty. She wore a cropped blue cotton sweatshirt with a brown mini
skirt with biker boots. In Franz Hall, she stood out from the others because she wore her clothes
well, and looked more like a well-off humanities grad student than a poor one from social
sciences. No one could tell her race or ethnicity exactly and she seemed to enjoy people
guessing. Her skin was medium brown and her long hair wavy. She spoke Spanish well, but
wasn’t a native speaker, she said.
“You okay?”
“I’m fine,” he said, opening the door to his car. “Have a good weekend,” he said before

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 745
trying his car but it wouldn’t start. Bo jumped out of the car and waved at Priscilla.
“Battery?” she said.
“Yes. Help.”
“I can give you a jump,” Priscilla said calmly.
As they connected the cars, his student Hattie and her friends stared at the two old cars.
Bo drove a seven-year old gray Subaru, and Priscilla’s car looked even worse. The girls laughed
and shook their heads.
“What a day,” he said.
“Are they laughing at us?” Priscilla stared back at them. Their tittering ceased as they
walked away.
“I hate that girl,” Priscilla said.
“What?”
“You swear not to tell?”
“Swear.”
“Blood oath?”
“Okay. Is there actual blood involved? Or do you mean it metaphorically.”
“Shut up, Fullerton,” she said.
Bo laughed.
“That kid Hattie Cho. Can’t stand her. Fought with me for every fucking grade. I ended

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 746
up giving her an A- just so she couldn’t dispute it.”
“What did she deserve?” Bo looked curious.
“B+ at best. At best,” Priscilla insisted. “She’s just another grade-grubbing Asian kid.”
“Watch it, Young Fullerton,” he said. “No racism.”
Priscilla laughed.
“You know what I mean. She looks dorky and doesn’t put on airs but that kid is rich and
thinks we’re pieces of shit who work for her.”
“Oh.”
“Wait, is she in your class? I should shut the fuck up.”
“Yes, as a matter of fact, Hattie is one of my students. That is all I will say.”
“I will make a terrible therapist,” she said.
“It’s your first year, Priscilla. The kid is pre-med. She’s just freaking out. She doesn’t
mean anything.”
“I have White kids and Black kids who are also grade grubbers,” Priscilla said. “I
shouldn’t have said it like that.”
“You shouldn’t have,” he said. ‘Shame.” Bo smiled.
“I was a grade grubber. How else did I transfer here then also get into the fucking UCLA
Psych program?” Priscilla laughed again, and Bo thought she looked beautiful standing in the
sunny parking lot, the tall palm trees swaying behind her. “Okay, Fullerton, I have some blood
tickets.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 747
“What? All this talk of blood.”
“I gave some this morning, and I got two tickets. They give you tickets if you give blood.
That’s how I go to the movies. I’m a broke grad student who needs to go to the movies all the
time. I’ll take you now. My roommate just bailed. There’s a showing in an hour for ‘Sideways.’ It
came out last year but I heard it’s really good.”
Bo hadn’t gone to the movies in years.
“Right. You wanted to be an actor. Now I remember. You probably picked something
good. Okay. I just have to text my sister. I need to be at my job in Irvine by 7. If you give me the
ticket, I can buy popcorn then right after I have to push this car and make it to Irvine.”
“You live in Irvine?” she asked.
“No. I live at Weyburn.”
“Fancy.” Priscilla removed her Dodgers cap and bowed dramatically.
“It’s a studio, and it costs too much but I want to walk to classes or use my bicycle. I only
keep this car going because I tutor on the weekends and go home on Friday nights. I should find
a cheaper place off campus and get roommates but I’m too old for that. Anyway,” he said and
took out his phone.
“How old are you?” she asked.
“I turn 30 in February.”
“You look younger,” she said, putting her cap back on, and she waited for him to text
Mido that he’d be late.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 748
After the movie ended, Bo ran back to his car to beat the traffic back to Irvine. He felt grateful to
Priscilla for the movie, but as he drove, he couldn’t shake off his embarrassment. His student
Hattie thought his decision to get a Ph.D. was foolish. From the look on her face, his poverty was
something to be mocked. He wondered how children could have learned such terrible ideas about
education, money, and hierarchy. She had complained to him, her TA for —Statistics for
Psychology,—a prerequisite for every Psych major. He didn’t matter.
After each reading, lecture, and assignment, something in him opened up, and Bo
believed he was supposed to be a clinical psychologist and see patients. Every study, article, and
clinical experiment forced him to re-interpret his own life, and he felt eager to learn more. He
wanted to work with immigrants, and the more he studied, the more he realized that the way
most modern Western families functioned would make little sense to diasporic families from
Korea, Australia, and the States, but from having met so many people, he knew everyone was
trying. If he ever had kids of his own, he wanted to know how to raise them better.
As he studied family structures, he thought of his mother more often than his father, and
he regretted having spent so much time in that tiny hotel room in Seoul, trying to get into an
impressive college that was different than his father’s. When he studied the research on romantic
and erotic love in a seminar, he recalled his first love, and on Facebook, he found Ara without
any effort.
In one photo, Ara was at a restaurant in Garosugil with a nice looking young man in a
suit, which was enough information for him. In another post, the same man was in his military

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 749
uniform, doing his service. Like Hattie, Ara might not respect the degree he wanted now either.
Why be a psychologist and make less money than a medical doctor?
Ara might look down at him for having misspent his twenties in a room—the size of two
coffins. He wanted to give his first girlfriend more credit than that, so he stopped looking at her
profile. He diagnosed it for himself as unhealthy.
Today, Priscilla had saved him. She was beautiful and so funny. He could not have met
her unless he had come all this way taking the most circuitous path.
Each day, as he walked from Franzer Hall to Weyburn, past enormous palm trees beneath
the seemingly endless sunlight of Los Angeles, he felt grateful for the end of that college testing
period in his life. He would not wish it on his enemies, if he had any. Bo tried not to doubt
himself, so he pressed on with his work. He was doing well in the program, and it embarrassed
him that he still cared so much about his academic record. It was self-awareness alone that made
him less angry with Hattie. She was a young person with her own rigid thoughts. Once, he too
lived in that mental prison. He would never have argued with a teacher for a better grade than he
received, but he had also given up almost everything except for his grades and a test. This
afternoon he went to his first movie since high school.
#
When he arrived at the offices at Fortress, Mido called out to him.
“You have twenty minutes to eat your sandwich,” his sister said.
Bo opened the white paper bag and smiled.
“My favorite.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 750
“For some reason today, I felt like a turkey sandwich, so I got three.”
“You ate two?” he asked.
“Oh, I got one for Peter.”
Bo had noticed a difference. Something had changed between them. Peter was now
attending church, then driving Mido back to Fortress. Then their body language. At the hagwon,
the space between them had grown closer. They didn’t touch. It wasn’t like that. On another
occasion, their father had mentioned that Mido was working too hard and he was worried. She
was coming home later than usual. She’d prepare his meals and leave them in the refrigerator for
them to heat up, but often, she didn’t come home till as late as eleven o’clock, two or three nights
a week.
She was supposed to be at Fortress working, but the hagwon closed at 10pm at the latest.
There was a strong demand for late night tutoring, but Lion and Yun had drawn the line at 10
o’clock. She could have been doing administrative work, but Bo still had doubts. If Peter was
bringing her home, he assumed they had been together.
As an older brother, he didn’t know how to broach the subject, and he wasn’t sure if it
was his place. She was 27 years old—fully grown. Without question, she was probably more
mature than him and DH. She had given up school and Tek, he thought, in part for their family.
She had worked to earn money to replace their mother’s income.
Bo had been observing Mido with Peter at church and at the hagwon to see if they
behaved as friends, colleagues, or lovers. If they were dating, he didn’t understand why they
hadn’t told anyone.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 751
Bo got up and checked the glass door. No one was in the hall way.
“Are you seeing him?”
Mido paused, then shook her head.
“Is that a no, you’re not seeing him, or a no, you’re not talking about it.”
“Oppa, you should eat your dinner.”
Bo bit into his sandwich then opened the bag of chips. DH had told him years ago that
Peter came from an important family in Korea with money and connections. He had not specified
much, but Bo, who followed the news in Korea more often than DH and Mido, had figured out
that Peter’s mother was the daughter of a conglomerate, and his father was the second son of
another prominent family in business.
“You know about his family, right?”
“No need to know,” Mido replied. She opened a bottle of water for him and placed it near
his food.
“I like Peter. He’s a good guy,” Bo said. “DH hasn’t noticed. I can tell he doesn’t know.”
Mido glanced up from her pile of test papers. They had been as careful as possible, and
Mido knew things were getting serious but had no idea what to do. Peter was clear that he
wanted a commitment from her and also certain that he would never marry. She didn’t think she
could get married now anyway, but the hiding was getting awkward. At her age, she felt silly for
concealing this.
“It would be hard to marry him though,” Bo said before taking another bite.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 752
Mido pretended to make notes on the student charts. If she asked him why, then it would
be an admission.
“His family would be upset about you not finishing college. I realize part of this is my
fault. If you want me to take out some loans, you can go back to school and get your degree, so
no one can say anything about your—”
“Getting a degree from a community college is not going to impress Peter’s parents, and
besides, he doesn’t want to get married. Doesn’t believe in it. Won’t move back to Seoul. He
wants to stay here to do his music and teach. That’s why he doesn’t really take their money
anymore.” Mido didn’t mention how Peter’s parents still paid for the housekeeper, who still
stocked the refrigerator and cleaned the house.
“I don’t want to get married anyway. Are you going to tell?” she asked, sounding younger
suddenly.
“I trust you,” Bo said, wanting to add that he was there for her, that he’d protect her, do
whatever he could to fix things, but she knew all that already. “I went to the movies,” he said.
“With a woman from my program.”
“What?” Mido was delighted. “Tell me.”
“Oh, look at the time, I have to teach,” he teased. The car ride home would be filled with
questions.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 753
4:13 December 2005 "Hong Gildong"
13. December 2005
#
Yun wanted a love story with a happy ending. She blamed her pregnancy for making her
sentimental.
From the shopping bag, she pulled out the VHS of Episodes 6 & 7 of “The Light and
Shadow of Rainfall.”
It was Saturday night, and after fooling around on his guitar for an hour, Lion had left the
garage with headphones around his neck and taken his usual seat by his wife on the beige tweed
sectional. He picked up the copy of In Search of Excellence from the coffee table and removed

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 754
the pen from where he’d been reading.
Yun was already comfortable on her favorite spot on the deep rug, arms folded around her
knees, and she grabbed the VCR remote control.
“Your mom didn’t come over?” Lion asked.
“She saw this years and years ago,” Yun said. “She’s watching a new show at home on
her new DVD player. It’s a historical drama, and I wasn’t in the mood.”
“Is this one any good?” he asked, looking doubtful.
“I like it a lot. The male lead is—”
“Don’t tell me. Virtuous, handsome, and long-suffering. And he won’t kiss the female
lead until close to the end of the series. Maybe they’ll hold hands around the two-thirds mark, or
perhaps she’ll fall into his arms by accident, sparking a thought of romance and not just mutual
respect.”
“If you’re going to make fun of it, I will not give you any of my chips.”
“Not making fun. I know this is holy ground for you and your mother. You keep
watching. I need to focus and find that quote for my Prep Talk.”
“You haven’t done it yet?” Yun was surprised.
The first draft of Lion’s ten-minute lectures were usually finished by Friday afternoon,
revised later in the day and delivered the following week. He gave the elementary to middle
school version to the students at Exodus on Mondays and a high school version to the teenagers
at Fortress on the following Fridays.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 755
Lion’s Prep Talks— filled with personal anecdotes, statistics and inspiring quotations—
were legendary and one of the distinguishing hallmarks of their hagwons. Former students
remembered them and cited passages to Lion when they returned to visit, and some curious
parents asked for copies to read since their children mention them at home. They were secular
homilies, which most hagwon owners would never bother to write with such care.
“You’re usually done by now,” she said.
“I was busy helping Mido and Peter on Friday afternoon with college app students, so I
couldn’t get to it.”
“Oh, right. They’re really jammed with kids.”
“Peter’s hiring again but Mido’s rightfully choosy and it’s taking a while. She even told
me to be nicer on Friday. I thought I was the boss. Guess not,” he smiled.
“Mido’s never wrong,” Yun said. “I’m sure you were too tough. These kids are really
anxious—”
“—I know, I know. I think when Ginny was going through it last year, I got my first gray
hairs.”
“I still hate Dartmouth,” Yun said. None of them could believe it when she didn’t get in.
They deferred her then came the rejection.
Lion looked up from his book.
“But she loves UCLA. Your alma mater—”
“I know Ginny’s happy there. But I still think she should have gone to Johns Hopkins or
Cornell. It might have been good for her to get a different experience than California. We could

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 756
have paid the difference,” Yun said. “Oh, it makes me so angry that she didn’t get in.”
Lion patted his wife’s shoulders gently.
“Ginny wants to be a doctor. There’s a long road ahead of her. We should respect her
decision. She’s a wise kid.”
“Yeah, I know. The college apps are just ridiculous. Almost no one is getting into UCLA
or Berkeley now. You have to have these crazy good scores, perfect grades, row crew, and be an
astronaut. Our students are suffering.”
“Yes, they are. As am I,” Lion said, staring at the potato chips. Yun passed the bowl to
him with a napkin.
“Put on your headphones. I’m going to start this now,” she said and hit Play on the VCR
remote control.
#
Lion didn’t watch television, and Yun had grown up watching everything with her mother Nari,
who kept up with every major drama from Korea. Unlike Nari, Yun preferred mysteries or
medical or legal procedurals, over melodramas and historical narratives. She could not watch
horror of any kind and disliked stories about suicide. Occasionally, she watched high school
dramas to figure out what young people cared about, but she had not cared for happy romances,
until she got pregnant. The idea of anyone getting hurt now seemed unbearable.
No matter which kind of dramas she watched, in them, Yun could rely on a neat
resolution for almost every character, and fair endings in an unfair world. Also, through dramas,
she kept up with the latest slangs, and whenever she heard a regional accent from Gyeongsando,

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 757
she thought of her father, who was from Daegu.
When she watched her programs without her mother or Mido, Lion would sit with her,
his ears covered with headphones and read. For his Prep Talks, he kept up with the latest batch of
classical philosophy, modern advice guides, popular social science literature, psychology of
motivation, coaching treatises, and business books to give structure to his brief speeches.
#
Lion tapped Yun on her back.
“You know what I noticed about your shows?”
Yun paused the video.
“What’s that?” She frowned, wondering how he could make any kind of generalization
when he never watched a show from beginning to end. Whenever she brought home a bag of
rented videos of some series with dozens of episodes, he’d exclaim that she could be reading
good books, and she’d walk away. She knew he wouldn’t let her return to her program until he
made his point.
“There’s always a Hong Gildong character. In fact, That’s the reason why Koreans are so
messed up.”
“Are you going to complain about dramas again? Also, Koreans are not messed up. You
and I are Korean, and we’re not so messed up.”
Yun was seated on the floor in the space between the sectional sofa and the large square
coffee table covered with books, while Lion sat just inches away from her. She leaned her head
back and looked at him from upside down. “You need to trim your nose hairs.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 758
“Thank you,” he touched his nose then returned to his point.
“Listen, if people have to have supernatural powers to be the hero of their lives, then
what should ordinary people do?”
“What are you talking about?”
“Hong Gildong, the Korean Robin Hood. I mean, not exactly like Robin Hood. You
know, the concubine’s son who’s ignored by his father and the dad’s wife, not his mother, who
hates him. But he’s got to live at home because he’s a kid, and he suffers his evil stepmother’s
abuse. But—”
Lion held up a pointed finger, something he did when he taught kids. “—The thing that
saves him is that he studies super hard, and he ends up being smarter than everyone else, fighting
better than everyone, and eventually he steals from the rich to give back to the poor.”
“Yes, I know the Hong Gildong story. Every Korean does. I don’t get your point.”
“There’s always an outsider in your dramas who’s gifted and earns his place in the world.
Even though he’s treated unfairly, he’s the deserving heir to the throne or the love of some rich
nice girl, because he’s virtuous and exceptional. He’s always head and shoulders better than
everyone else. He’s always got some extra bizarre abilities. He’s never normal. There are female
Hong Gildong characters, too, right?”
Yun considered this. Even in the drama she was watching, the heroine Jiyon was an
outcast, who had been mistreated in her community, because her mother had run away with a
married man and her long-suffering father was a poor man who ran a dumpling stall. The heroine
trains herself to be the best student of her high school but she can’t go to university in Seoul

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 759
because there’s no money for it. So far in the story, Jiyon becomes the top cadet in the police
academy, and Yun predicted that she would capture the heart of the romantic lead Gil-yong, who
was exceptional in his ability to memorize police law and has the best marksmanship.
She slapped her head in recognition and irritation. Even the male lead’s name Gil-yong
sounded like Gil-dong.
Lion wasn’t wrong, but she hadn’t noticed this before. Many of the dramas could be
explained by the legend of Hong Gildong.
“I didn’t know you were paying attention to my dramas. I thought you were reading,” she
said.
“I am reading. You don’t have to pay that close attention to figure out who the leads are
and what they want. The music is just so over the top in your shows, and that’s why I can’t listen
to the soundtrack.”
“I love these soundtracks.”
“Oh, please don’t tell me this. I mean, I’ve always known this about you but somehow, I
still love you. You’re the mother of my child after all.”
“Can I watch my show? I love these soundtracks. I love them.”
He made a face. “If you ever left me, I will probably die; however, I will be grateful for
just one thing: I never have to listen to your drama soundtracks.”
“You knew the deal when we got married. I haven’t changed.”
Lion nodded. He glanced at the cover of his book then back at her. He was still thinking
of Hong Gildong.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 760
Yun took a breath and let him have it.
“You don’t even know what you’re saying because you haven’t watched everything.
Carefully. Fully,” she said. Her mother paid attention to every second of a program. She’d go to
the bathroom or kitchen only during commercials when they watched a broadcast show, or when
the rented video ended. Yun had learned to do the same. Watching the shows, Nari sobbed often,
as did Yun. It felt wonderful to cry. The word she had learned in her required writing class in
college was catharsis. When her mother and she wept, they felt a sense of release that they got
nowhere else in their lives.
Lion never shed a tear watching a program. Seeing her cry, he would stroke her hair or
pat her on the back and continuined to read his books. If his wife and mother-in-law were
sobbing together, he’d hand them a box of tissues or make them tea.
“What bothers me about these programs is that all of it is so unrealistic,” he said, not
letting up.
“Well, of course, it is,” she said, exasperated. “It’s television. It’s not real.”
“But at our parent conferences, the parents ask us why their kids aren’t doing better. How
many times has a dad asked us who’s the top student in the class, like his kid needs to have a
target? The dad is looking for the Hong Gildong. He wants his kid to be Hong Gildong,” Lion
said, realizing the genesis of all this madness.
Yun turned off the television, leaving the cassette in the VCR.
“I didn’t mean for you to stop watching,” he said. “There’s nothing wrong with the
dramas.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 761
“You just said they’re ruining—”
“No, I haven’t seen all of them. They just perpetuate these unreasonable expectations of
merit and competition, and besides—”
Yun got up, not wanting to hear another lecture from Lion about the value of education
for its own sake. He believed that education should be transformational and not transactional. It
was wrong to want to graduate from a school just for a degree. He hated that more than anything.
Of course, what he was saying wasn’t all wrong. However, Yun loved watching dramas, and even
if they weren’t real or even if their messages weren’t always helpful, the emotions she felt
watching them were real to her.
Also, when she saw the heroes being good and kind even though the world was unjust,
she rooted for the heroes and wanted the villains to be punished. In life, she rooted for her
students at the hagwon, wanting them to succeed against all the odds that seemed impossible,
too.
At Exodus, the hagwon students were often the poor kids without sitters, whose parents
had to work and no one could watch them. Some of the parents wanted their kids to do well, but
most just wanted their kids to have a safe space to do homework and not be lonely at home. The
parents trusted a Korean place, because they couldn’t speak English, and there was nowhere else
to put their kids.
Yun stared at the dark screen and it occurred to her that what she couldn’t find herself
saying, even to her husband, her best friend, was that she missed Korea. She missed ordinary
Koreans—ones on the street, on the trains, in her schools. She missed hearing the language. Her
parents had decided to leave without considering her feelings or ever asking if it was okay.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 762
Her father was still in Brazil of all places in the world, and she wondered if he had
learned Portuguese, or if he still spoke with that heavy Gyeongsando accent that made him seem
like he was from the country when they lived in Seoul. She wanted to see her father, and Yun
started to cry.
“Oh, I’m sorry, babe. I was just thinking out loud about how to write my Prep Talk.”
“I know. It’s not you. Hormones. I’ll watch it later. Besides, I need to get ready for
tomorrow. Ginny is coming home.”
#
On Ginny’s first night back for Winter break, Lion couldn’t be home because he had work at
Fortress. Yun and Ginny ate dinner quickly to make time to trim the tree.
“Hang on, I have something for you,” Ginny said. She ran into her bedroom and brought
out a shopping bag.
“Aren’t I supposed to wait for Christmas?”
“I got my first paycheck.”
“What?”
“From my job at school.”
“You have a job at school?”
“It’s at the library. They’re basically paying me to study. I don’t do hardly anything. I’m
like a security guard for books.”
“I could increase your allowance,” Yun said.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 763
“No, no. I want to work. I’m going to send this money to my folks.”
Yun covered her mouth. “Oh? Are they okay?”
Ginny shrugged. “Same old. Same old. I don’t want to talk about it.”
Yun nodded, wondering if Ginny was sending her allowance to her parents. There was no
way for her to find out. Ginny could be so private.
“Close your eyes and hold out your hands,” she said. “I don’t have anything for Lion
Teacher this time, but I didn’t think he’d want this.”
When Yun opened her eyes, she saw the shoebox inside the paper bag.
“Sneakers?”
“No. I didn’t have any other box, and my roommate had this. Open it.”
Inside the box lined with white tissue paper, there was a Louis Vuitton wallet.
Yun opened her mouth in surprise.
“It’s not a real one. My friend went to Korea and she got this one for me at Itaewon. She
said it was the nicest fake wallet. It’s a practice gift. One day, when I become a doctor, I’ll get
you a real one and a handbag. I just wanted to get you something with my first paycheck. You
and Lion Teacher have been so good to me.”
“You don’t have any extra money.”
“You have that canvas wallet that’s falling apart, and I wanted to get you a real designer
wallet, and I will one day.”
“I don’t need any of that stuff. I don’t mind my wallet at all. You know I never buy

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 764
designer things. I have everything I need. I’m so glad you’re doing well in school. You have no
idea how grateful we are that you’re doing well.”
“You don’t like it?” Ginny looked concerned. The wallet had cost her a hundred dollars,
which had taken her a whole weekend to earn. A real one cost almost a thousand, her friend told
her.
“No, no, no,” Yun shook her head. “This is the nicest wallet I ever had. You can’t get me
a real one because I have this one now. I’ll carry it forever.”
“You deserve a real one, Yun Teacher. I wouldn’t have anything without you and Lion
Teacher . I know my tuition at school is so expensive. I’m going to pay you back.”
“Oh, Ginny. You’re our blessing. You’re our gift from the Lord. I get to share you with
your parents.”
“I’m going to work harder,” Ginny said. “I’m going to pay you back, and I’m going to
get you a real handbag. Not just a wallet.”
Yun sat down on the child’s bed, clutching the brown and beige wallet. She had never
wanted designer things. Growing up, her mother had yearned for them desperately and bought
everything. When they had money, every item in the house was imported or known to be a high
status object. Then when all the money was gone, everything had turned out to be a fraction of
what her mother had paid for them.
Now and then, her mother still bought expensive things, and whenever Yun gave her
mother an allowance, she spent it on designer clothes and other luxury things to wear to the
shop. Yun never chided her mother for any of it, because the woman had suffered so much and

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 765
had not given up on them. Like a character from a melodrama, her mother still waited for her
father to return for her with a good job, an armload of gifts, and a heartfelt apology, and Yun felt
fairly certain that this would never come to pass.
Yun looked into her eyes.
“Thank you, my dear, dear Ginny.”
The child she had taken in was training to be a supernatural wonder, so she could rescue
everyone, and Yun wept for all of them.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 766
4:14 "The Lecture"
14. “The Lecture”
#
Lion gave his talk on the legend of Hong Gildong twice—one version for the primary and middle
school children at Exodus, and another for the high school students at Fortress. The primary
message was “Hong Gildong is a character from a fable, and he cannot serve as our role model.”
He told them none of them needed to be like Hong Gildong—a boy with supernatural
powers of intellect and wit, who tries to save the larger community and earn his station in life.
“Rather,” Lion said, “Use and nurture the talents you have. Show up and do the best you
can on whatever you put your hands to on a regular basis. Be honest and good to yourself and

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 767
others. Avoid comparisons. Each of you is needed on the team. I like you right now. Just as you
are.”
The children seemed a bit confused but relieved, too. Lion Teacher always knew their
names, said hello to everyone, and looked you in the eye when he spoke to you. They already
knew he wanted to lighten their burden.
At the version at Fortress, Jonathan Park, a senior boy from Troy High School raised his
hand during Q & A.
“My mom said that you have the highest I.Q. in California, so maybe you don’t have to
try as hard?” Jonathan said smiling, and the other children laughed.
“Wise guy,” Lion smiled back at the tall senior, “To the best of my knowledge, not the
highest I.Q. in California. You are wrong, sir, about something very important. I tried very hard
when I was your age to learn. I still try very hard now to be the head of this organization that is
only one factor of your education.” He was constantly stressing how important their regular
school teachers were, who did nearly all the difficult work five days a week.
“Everything takes an enormous amount of effort for me, but I want to give it that effort. I
don’t believe I.Q. really measures intelligence. I know for certain that I.Q. does not measure
success in life. There are many, many successful people in life who never finish high school.”
Greg Kim, a senior from Oxford, in the front row raised his hand. Lion looked at him and
nodded.
“No offense, Lion Teacher, and I ask this out of respect, but what are you not successful
at?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 768
Yun, who had been sitting near the front with Mido and Peter, looked up to observe her
husband’s face.
Lion’s eyes shifted toward the white ceiling and his jaw grew firm as he pursed his lips.
He covered his mouth for a moment to think before speaking.
“Most people would not call me a successful musician by the world’s standards, but I am
still a good musician. I don’t think I’ll ever win a Grammy, have a national tour, or have one of
my songs played on the radio, but that doesn’t take away the fact that I still love to play my
guitar, write my songs, and sing in a band. I never wanted anything out of music other than to
play music, so I think I win for me.”
Greg nodded, trying to understand. What Teacher Lion just said sounded like what his
basketball coach was talking about when Michael Jordan had a clause in his contract that
allowed him to play ball anytime he wanted for the love of the game and not just to compete for
his NBA team, even though Jordan could risk being injured playing in a pick-up game at a park
that didn’t count for the Chicago Bulls.
Greg wondered if that love of the game was what made Jordan the Hong Gildong of
basketball, or if Jordan just had supernatural talent combined with the best work ethic in
basketball history. The senior boy wanted to know because he wasn’t the best ball player on his
team, the smartest student in any of his AP classes, and the girl he asked out in the beginning of
the school year had turned him down but he had to see her every day in his English class. Was it
possible to think you won when no one said you did?
#
After Lion gave the talks, he sat in his office and reviewed his lecture notes and thought about

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 769
what he’d said to Greg. For his music, Lion had walked away from mathematics and physics —
subjects he understood almost intuitively. He had to do the work but he could almost see the path
to the solutions more quickly than almost anyone. It was music that made him feel alive and
hopeful. Yun made him feel like this, too, which is why he knew he had to marry her if she loved
him. He had not intended to own two hagwons in Orange County, but caring for the students
gave him energy he could not find elsewhere, and he knew that had to mean something was right
about his vocation.
He was a solid musician and a good vocalist. People told him he had an original
beautiful sound. That said, Zekes was just decent local cover band that played in a steakhouse. If
that gig disappeared, he’d continue to perform until he couldn’t.
Lion wouldn’t sign with a label, produce records, and his music wouldn’t hit any
billboard charts. Of course, he had once wanted those things, but somehow, he saw that none of
it would happen. So far, his hagwons were his records and greatest hits, and he felt lucky to have
a home with Ginny and Yun, and soon, their child.
#
Like yeast in dough, the Hong Gildong archetype permeated the fabric of so many important
dramas and films, and therefore the mindset and culture of nearly every striving Korean. Lion
felt compelled to warn the children of its unbearable weight. Trying to be a Korean superhero
was a terrible way to live because you might think that life has no value unless you were
exceptional at absolutely everything and able to rescue others, often at great peril to yourself.
When he first explained this to his wife, she seemed irritated that he was criticizing her
cherished dramas, which he wasn’t doing exactly. For days, he thought about the theory, and

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 770
after church on Sunday, when he spotted Bo in the patio having lunch, he broke down the theory,
and Bo listened to his interpretation.
“Of course, there are other important values in that legend—resistance to unfair
authorities and systems of hierarchy, personal effort, resilience against inequity and abuse,
perseverance, generosity toward the oppressed, and individual valor. Gosh, so many things. I
haven’t thought about the good parts of that story in a long time—”
“Yes, yes, of course, you’re right,” Lion said impatiently, “But—”
“Yes, I agree with you, too, Lion. Hong Gildong cannot be a goal for children set by the
children themselves or by their parents. Hong Gildong is a fantasy superhero. Such expectations
would crush a person. The need to be endlessly exceptional would destroy the lives of even
Olympic gold medalists, because you can’t keep winning medals forever,” Bo said. “I don’t think
I need to be a psychologist to say this. Besides, I don’t have my doctorate or my clinical license
yet.”
If Lion had wanted to be the Hong Gildong of music, he might have lost his life’s
mission. He saw then that even thinking of wishes as something to win or lose was immature.
Having the wish, exercising any given talent, and practicing a craft should have been enough.
There would always be outside factors which he couldn’t control.
He disliked setting target goals but in his experience as a hagwon teacher, everyone
expected them, including the students. But having worked with so many students, he had learned
that it was never the goal—however reasonable or lofty—but rather, the steady execution of
habits, reliable structure and available resources, personal attitude and motivation, and
psychological makeup of the individual which factored into a person’s growth and possibilities.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 771
Lion felt like he had tutored every kind of student, and the wider his data set, the more humbled
he felt about education.
At Exodus, he and Yun accepted as many kids as they could. Not including staff, the
building and annex had capacity for two hundred students, and as long as a child was healthy and
had decent manners, they accepted the child. They had waiting lists, but Lion refused to expand
the number of seats. The profit margins for Exodus were abysmal, and if they expanded, the
profits might grow incrementally, but he didn’t want to run a larger operation. It was never easy
to find teachers who could handle larger classrooms, and he didn’t want to raise prices. Since it
was a safe, well-run place where the kids liked going and did well enough, even the poorest of
the working parents did their best to pay on time. They were always cheaper than a sitter.
At Fortress, Peter and Mido capped enrollment to a hundred regular students, but they
could have easily had two hundred. Again, the owners and directors felt they wouldn’t have been
able to deliver the best results. Already, due to the high demand, they were able to pick the most
high performing ones, who in many cases, only needed to have their motivations realigned and
given better methods of studying. It also came down to sheer numbers for college admits. If they
had fifty students applying in a year, not all of them could get into their top choices if the top
choice was, say, Stanford.
The students at Fortress wanted to work, and often, they ended up getting the results their
parents expected. Unlike Exodus, which catered to working and middle class Korean families, in
line with the hagwons of Irvine, a wealthier community in Orange County, the fees for Fortress
were high, and the profits on Fortress subsidized Exodus, which took much more work to operate
yet made far less money.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 772
When Lion met prospective students for either Exodus or Fortress, often, the interviews
surprised him.
About half the children were excessively quiet, nervous, and fearful. The meetings
troubled him. It was as if they believed that somehow they’d failed when they hadn’t even started
at life. How was it possible for an eleven or thirteen year old to think he was dumb?
“I’m not as smart as my brother,” a kid would say, or “My mom says, I get bad grades
because I’m lazy.”
When Lion got them to talk, eventually, they’d say, “I’m trying. I really am,” or “I’ll
never be a natural like fill-in-the-blank name of the student with the highest grades in her class.”
Lion didn’t blame the schoolteachers or parents. He knew from experience that everyone
wants a child to flourish but everyone had different ideas of how to make that happen. He
worried about the kids. Lion wanted them to learn better so they could feel stronger. He wanted
them to be able to solve super problems, not to be super anything.
He finished his coffee and faced Bo.
“All these little kids are walking around feeling like they’ve disappointed their parents
and themselves. I just want to scream. You know, I never had a record deal,” Lion said, feeling
embarrassed about saying this out loud but continued anyway, “I still have a meaningful life.”
“Correct,” Bo said, amazed by Lion’s courage. Hearing this felt like an unexpected gift,
for he, too, believed that it had been better that he didn’t get into Yonsei. All three times. This
wasn’t just sour grapes. At that time, he could not imagine a life without getting the right score
and being accepted.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 773
“Do you know that I still have that blue Yonsei teeshirt in the plastic bag?”
“Where is it?” Lion knew how Bo had taken the test three times.
“In the back of a drawer in my studio. I can’t get myself to throw it out and I can’t get
myself to wear it.”
Lion said. “Give it to me. I’ll wear it for you.”
Bo laughed. “It’s yours.”
“No, you should wear it, because you earned that shirt more than anyone who ever got
into Yonsei on her first try.”
Bo got quiet and remembered that tiny hotel room, his friend Isul, Big Uncle, and the
kind tutor who had given him a coin for luck. He had subsisted on ramyeon and cheap rice from
a gositel kitchen, and his Weyburn studio at UCLA seemed like a five star hotel in comparison.
He could not imagine a better life than this one even with its petty humiliation, the attendant
discomforts, because this one was worthwhile and full of hope. Things had changed for the
better, and he could not have seen today then. He saw it now.
“I’m glad you told the kids. That’s good.”
“Thanks, Bo,” Lion said.
“Now go tell the parents.”
“What?”
“Yeah, tell the parents,” Bo said. “You should give that same talk to the parents,” he
repeated. “Get to the root of it.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 774
#
The new Gospel Presbyterian Learning Center was not close to being done, so the church let him
use the bigger of the two learning center auditoriums on a Thursday night, and he invited parents
from both Exodus and Fortress. Of course, members of the church were also allowed to attend.
Over five hundred parents came to hear Lion speak about education. Some of the younger
parents didn’t even have hagwon age children, but they’d heard of Fortress’s college admissions
results, and they wanted to see who Lion was. If needed, as members of the same church, they
were preparing to jockey for a better spot on the established waiting list.
Tutors from both hagwons stood in the back because they ran out of chairs. Near the
church gym doors, Yun and Mido sat behind a folding conference table checking off registered
guests.
Before taking their seats, parents asked for brochures and study guides for purchase. Not
finding any, the parents walked away, mumbling under their breath at their business
incompetence. They couldn’t believe this lecture wasn’t for marketing purposes and there was
nothing to buy. The lecture seemed contrary to everything a famous hagwon owner should have
been saying.
Lion had titled his talk, “Our Child’s Heavy Burden: Education in America” For thirty
five minutes, Lion talked about the legend of Hong Gildong and what he perceived to be its
impact on the students of Korean ethnicity.
Danbi and Shin sat in the second row, not far from George and his wife Sobin. George
never once looked at Danbi, who sat in front of him on the other side of the auditorium. He tried
not to recall what they had done a day before at the Hilton in Anaheim.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 775
After a bath and making love, he’d told her about a new flip property in Garden Grove to
buy and gave her the card of a new mortgage banker who had better loan products. For the last
property she bought to flip, she was short a hundred thousand, and he had borrowed a hundred
thousand dollars from the church building fund by creating a fake contractor invoice. As soon as
she sold it for a premium, he returned the hundred thousand to the church fund without it being
noticed.
During the week, he sent her text messages on her second mobile phone, which he bought
for her. They played a game, where he’d tease her about a valuable lead, but he couldn’t tell her
the details. When they met in the room, she’d cajole until he gave in.
Sex outside of marriage was a sin, but in his mind, what he was doing with Danbi was far
worse. He felt committed to Danbi, far more than to the mother of his children. He couldn’t
imagine living with a woman like Danbi, but he didn’t want to live without her. All week long,
his primary thought was of this little woman and what he could do to please her, and after he saw
her, he felt an urge to see her again.
After his talk ended, Lion gave everyone a fifteen minute break for restrooms, time to
grab refreshments, or polite exit strategy in case people wanted to leave. After break, there’d be
a Q & A.
Most of the parents didn’t leave. They milled around the snack tables in the back of the
auditorium, piled high with platters of mart gimbop, grocery store pastries, and baskets filled
with individual sized bags of chips and pretzels. Another long table was topped with coffee, tea,
water, and soda. Everyone in the room had attended school meetings, but this one felt unusual
because every parent gathered was ethnically Korean. They knew each other from their child’s

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 776
school, neighborhoods, businesses, and church. The mood in the room felt more convivial than
competitive.
Women from church surrounded the popular Sobin Hong, clamoring for her attention,
and as Danbi and Shin passed by her, they nodded in her direction, but she didn’t seem to notice
them. Shin bowed to George, who stood by his wife, and George bowed back to him, unwilling
to look at his lover.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 777
4:15 "Q&A"
15.
#
Lion gave the lecture in English, and Mrs. Bu, a woman from church who’d once worked as a
translator for the U.N. helped them out.
At the end of the 15-minute break, Yun rang the wood-handled brass bell and parents
rushed back to their chairs. Remarkably, only a dozen people left for the night, and those seated
in the back rushed to take the empty chairs in the front. Parents sat patiently, nursing their paper
cups of urn coffee while balancing paper plates of gimbap on their knees. The mood in the room
grew serious as if they were sitting for exams.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 778
Wearing one of his white button-down shirts that Yun ordered for him by the stack from
one of the catalogue companies and blue jeans with his dark gray running sneakers, Lion looked
like an undergraduate. He’d made a concerted effort to look less like a high school musician
tonight and had even worn his wire-rimmed eyeglasses instead of contacts.
Since childhood, people praised Lion for his physical features, and at 32 years old—tall,
doe-eyed, tanned—and now a self-possessed business owner, parents treated the famed Oracle of
Orange County with the greatest of deference, which he found both discomfiting and almost
normal.
Ever sober and thoughtful, even in front of this large audience, Lion stood with his back
straight like a soldier, never appearing timid or uncertain about his message. The men respected
him, and of course, women admired his good manners.
During his childhood, at church youth groups and summer Bible camps, grownups
pegged young Lion as a leader, and asked him to give personal testimonials, which had given
him some ease in front of audiences. Lion had given hundreds of Prep Talks to his hagwon
students because he’d observed that children seemed willing to listen to them and be changed.
He’d never admired the things most people wanted—the accumulation of status, money,
and power—and he thought that if the world wanted his students to crave these things in excess,
he had to be against popular culture, and he needed to persuade them somehow. Every time he
met with students, he could hear their worry, anxiety, and brokenness. Especially, his teenagers.
He wondered what had gone wrong so early as if they had caught a virus and developed a
chronic condition.
Never had he given a lecture in front of five hundred Korean and Korean-American

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 779
parents and had it translated into Korean. While Mrs. Bu translated his remarks, Lion had the
unusual opportunity to study his audience’s faces carefully, in a way one cannot when just
speaking. He was able to observe his audience react twice to the same message.
What was clear to him was that the parents listened with great intention and understood
the substance of what he was saying; however, he could tell that they did not want to believe
him.
When Lion finally opened the floor to questions, a man he didn’t recognize raised his
hand.
“The gentleman toward the back wearing the red windbreaker,” Lion motioned with his
right palm open, trying not to point at anyone. He’d grown up in a Korean family and attended
Korean church all his life, but now and then, he could make an etiquette error in speech or
gesture. Often, especially at church, when he was with his fellow elders, he was more deferential
than necessary to avoid giving offense. It was easy to give slights or annoy one’s elders, and in
this room, Lion and the tutors were younger than every single parent.
Mido, wearing her old brown cardigan over a blue dress with white Keds, was stationed
at the left side of the church auditorium. Tracking Lion’s sight of vision, she rushed to the
windbreaker man to hand him a wireless handheld microphone.
“Please speak into the microphone so everyone can hear. Thank you,” Lion said, bowing
slightly.
The tall, thin man got up from his seat and covered his mouth with his hand, paused, then
removed his hand before speaking. He cleared his throat and took another moment.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 780
“Thank you for your words, Teacher. I’m going to speak Korean if that is okay.” The man
bowed and the translator nodded. The man paused again, looking worried. “I’ve heard from other
parents that it’s more difficult for Asians to be accepted into Ivy League colleges. I read in the
Korean newspaper that race is not considered because of Prop 209 in the California public
universities but private schools don’t want too many Asians. Is that true? How much better does
my child have to be to get into an Ivy League school? My child is not a legacy or an athlete. For
example, based on what you’re seeing, what will the scores be needed for next year?”
Lion had been concerned that this lecture might turn into a college admissions talk, which
he had no interest in giving. There were numerous qualified hagwon owners and private college
counselors who gave these talks regularly. Tonight was not for marketing Fortress. Lion did not
want more students, and the more he insisted on not getting any more, it seemed that the more
parents wanted to send their children to his hagwons.
Lion took a deep breath and smiled at the man.
“I want to thank all of you for attending tonight, and I want to make this clear. I felt
entitled to ask you for your very rare free time because I’m concerned about how our students
and their peers are doing. Our students at the hagwons—both Exodus and Fortress—enjoy
coming to our locations. You can ask them. As you know, I am very fond of your children, who
are our beloved students. I’m grateful for them. However, it’s clear to me that they are under too
much pressure, and I thought that if all of us could change our mindset, perhaps examine where
this pressure is coming from, then perhaps the children could have better lives. I feel certain that
they would flourish better as well. I’m interested in what their childhoods feel like to them so
they can become strong and well-adjusted young adults.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 781
The man scratched his head and sat down. He raised his hand again for a second, then
thought better of it, and turned to his wife who pulled down his sleeve to keep him from asking a
follow-up.
Sobin and George rolled their eyes. Their eldest two children had been accepted into
Cornell and the University of Pennsylvania, but they’d been rejected from other Ivies, which
their White peers had been accepted into although their daughter and son had far better profiles,
leadership positions, and sports. Sobin and George had not graduated from an Ivy League school.
Sobin had gone to USC and George had graduated from Berkeley.
Sobin whispered to her husband, “You’d think that Elder Lion Han would be more
forthcoming about what’s really going on. Why can’t he just admit that Asians have to be better
than everyone else?”
“Leave it alone. He doesn’t want to answer it,” George said. The guidance counselor at
their children’s expensive private school had told them that their first two, Cindy and Joe, had a
fair shot at the very top schools, and in the end, each had been accepted into at least one Ivy.
“Be happy with the results,” another parent had said.
However, other students with slightly inferior grades—legacies, athletes, and children of
donors—had been accepted into Harvard, Yale, and Princeton, which had turned down their
children. Their oldest Cindy was the valedictorian, editor of the school newspaper, and a rower
that college coaches thought was strong enough to walk-on to any of their rowing teams;
however, the only Ivy she was accepted into was Cornell. Joe, their second child, who had
excellent grades, scores and superb extracurriculars but wasn’t valedictorian material had been
accepted into Wharton but not an HYP school. This rankled them, because their younger ones

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 782
weren’t nearly as good students as their older sister and brother, which meant that none of their
children would be a graduate of the Big Three, a dream Sobin’s father held dear.
Sobin and George’s children attended a relatively new private school catering to mostly
wealthy White children and Asians. In their respective grades, there were no Latinos or Blacks.
However, there were enough students in each class whose parents had attended the highly
selective colleges and universities and some known to be wealthy donors.
Over time, Sobin and George learned the mechanics of American college admissions and
did as much as they could to boost their children’s chances, and even when they knew the system
wasn’t fair or transparent, each rejection their child received from the Big Three had stung,
leaving an ugly scar rather than a soft bruise that could heal.
The rejections incensed Sobin and George, who believed that the only unfortunate thing
for their beautiful and hard-working children was having being born to parents without an HYP
school degree. In his mind, if George had studied harder as a young teenager, then his children
could have received HYP offers, especially since they were very rich parents.
Knowing now how legacy admissions worked, he would have written big checks each
year and dangled even bigger ones if needed. If his older kids had gotten in, he would have
donated as much as possible to ensure that the younger ones had their shot. Like her husband,
Sobin believed that this was the least a wealthy parent could do without breaking any laws—
“What wouldn’t a parent do to help their child?” she asked.
As an alumni, donating generously wasn’t bribing. It was entirely legal and desired by the
schools since it justified the mounting costs of education, and the generosity of alumni allowed
for financial aid for those who could not pay full freight. Who could argue with that? George and

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 783
Sobin did not. They would have loved the opportunity to be more giving.
If one of theirs could have attended Harvard, they would have paid tuition for another
child. “Buy one, get one free,” George joked to his wife. However, they were not alumni. “To
Harvard, Yale, and Princeton, you’re just a nobody—that’s just how it works here,” a private
college counselor had explained. “Unless they were generous billionaires.” There were ways to
donate significant sums to the schools if you knew someone, and they did not. Besides, to HYP,
full tuition for another child was not a significant gift if offered by a non-alumni, it was
explained to them by people who knew better.
There was no point in arguing over the past, Sobin said. They had two more children who
needed to get into Fortress—which never seemed to have open spots—and Sobin had explained
to her husband that the two younger ones would need a lot more attention in their essays, because
they were not interested in academics and couldn’t fall back on athletics either. Neither of them
were close to top ten student material.
The last thing Sobin and George were going to do was to attend this crowded meeting for
the most in-demand hagwon in Orange County and offend the owner, Lion Han, who was a do-
gooder and idealist.
In the row in front of them, Danbi worried about Anna’s chances. Danbi’s daughter could
not attend Exodus, because Cypress was too far and Anna had other lessons after school;
however, she’d felt the need to attend tonight because Fortress’s reputation was so strong. Of
course, she should have known that George and Sobin would attend, but there hadn’t been much
time to discuss it in their last rendezvous. They never had enough time, it seemed. At the thought
of him, Danbi sat up straighter, shoulders back, chest out. For her, it was a competition. His wife

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 784
Sobin could not get one of their kids into an HYP, but Danbi felt certain Anna would get into at
least Yale or Princeton.
In the past year, half the Fortress students were accepted into Ivy League schools and
impossible ones like M.I.T. and Stanford, and the bottom half were offered spots into the most
selective schools in the country. Danbi didn’t mind admitting that she had the highest ambitions
for her child.
Almost 8, Anna could play the “Moonlight Sonata” and read five grades above her
reading level. Once, Danbi had been called in and advised to have Anna assessed by a
neuropsychologist because although she was clearly academically gifted, the child had trouble
interacting with her peers. “Anna could learn more about social cues,” the first grade teacher had
said. “She doesn’t get included with the other girls, and clearly Anna would like to have friends.”
Danbi thought Mrs. Grace, the hippy primary school teacher at the expensive Montessori
school who smiled far too much was an idiot. Danbi had no friends when she was young, and
consequently, there’d been no distractions from the horrible culture of little girls and their petty
rules of social engagement. Danbi would teach her daughter to excel and fight even but in her
experience, the most popular children were never the most successful adults. Pleasing everyone
was an expensive habit for women. To Danbi, there was no problem for her child, so she did not
bring Anna to a neuropsychologist.
If a doctor poked around, he would find a problem. She read in the Korean newspapers
that in America, they gave drugs to children to make them behave. Danbi could not imagine
putting chemicals into her own body. She didn’t smoke, drink, or take any illegal drugs. Rarely,
did she swallow an aspirin for a headache. When Shin questioned her about what Mrs. Grace

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 785
advised, Danbi said, “The doctor will find something and prescribe drugs. That’s what you pay
money for. And he will make us come back. Our baby does not need drugs.”
When she brought up what Mrs. Grace said about Anna to George, her lover told her
what Sobin had done when their son was unable to sit still in school. She signed him up for
several sports classes, until he found basketball, and he made varsity in his sophomore year and
loved being on the team. He liked tennis and enjoyed competing, but he wasn’t ever going to be
nationally ranked, so they let him play basketball.
George’s younger son, Harrison, was a junior in high school, and he had good grades, and
he’d likely be admitted into a small liberal arts college in New England on his strong basketball
skills. He couldn’t be recruited as an athlete but his skills would be considered, his guidance
counselor said. This summer, Sobin had found a basketball camp run by some NESCAC team
coaches in Vermont, and most likely, they’d know which coach would be able to give their
admissions offices a tip.
Danbi sat up straight and raised her hand, and George turned in her direction.
She wore an ivory colored shift dress with a matching cardigan and nude sandals. Around
her neck, she wore pearls. George admired the way she dressed. Danbi’s husband also wore
clothes well, and ever since George had been with Danbi, he made more of an effort with his
clothing and had been working out with a trainer twice a week, determined to be in better shape
than Taehun Shin.
“Elder Jung,” Lion bowed. “Do you have a question?”
Danbi stood up, feeling almost nourished by the stares of the men in the room. If it
weren’t for the fact that she had to get along with more women, she would have dressed

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 786
differently—more fabric covered buttons, zippers, and mother of pearl snaps—things that made
men think of unwrapping her like a gift.
“Elder Han,” Danbi bowed and spoke in Korean. “Thank you for your talk. What you
said was valuable, and we also care very much about our children.”
“Of course,” Lion replied in English, “I didn’t in any way mean to suggest that parents
don’t or are hurting their children by giving them too much pressure. There are many sources of
pressure: our community, our heritage which prizes education, the schools, their peers and the
colleges themselves. We have to be almost counter cultural if we want to have our children be
safe and for them to grow. More importantly, I called this meeting in the hopes of pointing out
that our community, socio-economic class, culture and history seems to demand a kind of
unattainable achievement, which is hurtful for our children. We expect them to do things that we
could not have done ourselves.”
“You could have,” she said. “You finished college in three years. I read about you,” she
smiled.
Everyone laughed, and Lion bowed his head in defeat.
“But my child is no Oracle of Orange County,” she said charmingly in Korean.
“However, I’m standing here because I thought the gentleman earlier—” At this point, Danbi
turned to the man in the red windbreaker, looked at him, smiled then bowed slightly, and he
returned the smile, his neck flushed with pleasure at her recognition. “—I thought his important
question should be answered.”
“I thought I had answered the question.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 787
“Well, no.” Danbi laughed like a flirt, and others laughed with her nervously, taking her
side. “You said you wanted to talk about the pressure children feel. However, I want to follow up
with the earlier question. Do the children feel more pressure, not from Hong Gildong, but rather
from the fact that they have to try harder? That they have to get better scores than American
children?”
“I don’t understand your meaning. Our students are American.”
“Well, you know what I mean, coming from Korea. Our children are Asian. I’ve heard the
same thing from parents of college age students that it’s much harder for our children than it is
for any other child in America. Apparently, it’s even harder for South Asian students here,
especially if they need financial aid.”
“We’re not talking about different things. Even if it were true—and I do not think it is—”
Lion sighed and started again, realizing that he was angry.
“Even if it were true that children of Asian descent have to do better than non-Asian
children, the story of Hong Gildong that our generation and previous generations have
swallowed will only reenforce the notion that they have no choice but to perform like a
superhero because that is what this culture demands. However, as we know, Hong Gildong is not
a real person. Our children cannot know everything, create doubles, summon magic, fight better
than everyone, and fly through the air.
“This flawed but worthy American project of immigration, reinvention, and multiple
chances creates more possibilities, but it requires us to explore different paths in order to have
lives of greater purpose.”
Frustrated by Lion’s nonsense, Danbi gripped the microphone with both hands and put it

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 788
close to her mouth. “But many Korean students do get into Ivy League schools. Do those
children fly? It’s an honest question to ask how our children can learn to fly so they will be
noticed among other children who don’t need to fly.”
“No. I’m not being clear. I apologize. Each child’s acceptance is highly individual. If you
examined every child’s acceptance into Princeton, each child’s application would look different.
It isn’t like Korea or China, or even Australia where one of our counselors spent her childhood,
where the primary determinant of acceptance or at least a minimum benchmark is a numerical
score. Our students who are accepted into Ivy League schools do not fly. We do not teach that.
But I’m not here to talk about what we do, I’m here because I wanted to share the need for us to
think differently, for our children’s sakes.”
The parents listened carefully, trying to grasp his meaning. It made no sense for a hagwon
owner not to take credit for the impressive outcomes.
“Our student’s achievements have been remarkable, I know that, and for every child that
does get into a school of his first choice, they’re around twenty that do not,” Lion insisted. He
pushed up his sleeves and took a deep breath. “The point of tonight is that the twenty who do not
get in feel terrible about themselves when they shouldn’t. They view their ultimate college
experience as a kind of failure, and that is a terrible way to start their higher educational
experience and adulthood.”
Danbi opened her mouth to speak again, and Shin touched the side of her hip. “Enough,”
he whispered. “You have done enough.”
“Thank you, Elder Han,” she said, handing back the microphone to Mido, who stood
waiting near the end of the aisle. Shin smiled at Mido, and she bowed slightly.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 789
Lion touched his forehead, and Peter approached him. He whispered something, and Lion
nodded.
#
“Good evening. My name is Peter Son, and I am the Director of Fortress.”
The parents sat up and clapped, as if he might be able to see their faces and remember
who’d smiled at him, somehow helping their children be accepted into Fortress and be given
favor.
“Our students at Fortress get excellent results because we have an unfair advantage,” he
said.
“I want to tell you that because it is numerically true that we get an outsized slice of the
Ivy League pie for our region. Tonight, by our count, there are 517 parents here.” Peter glanced
at Yun and Mido, and they nodded, having just given him the number.
“If every one of you had only one child who needed to be admitted to Fortress, we could
only take one out of five applicants because we do not accept more than a hundred students per
year, and there are only twenty five students on average for each grade. When we have twenty-
five seniors, let’s say, spread across several high schools in this large and academically
competitive, well-prepared student population, it is very possible for us to help our students get
excellent results.
“However, it would be misleading for us to take credit for the fact that our students come
from loving families who care immensely about education, for the fact that we have among the
most motivated young people, and that the students are willing to do the incredibly difficult work

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 790
of becoming a desirable applicant while managing their studies, sports, and inner lives.”
The parents murmured.
“Your children are asked to sit for an assessment just to be considered for our hagwon.
We didn’t want to give the exam but it was easier to explain why a child was not accepted to the
families when there was a data point, rather than just saying, there is no room. The assessment
was a kind of objective measure; however, as a teacher, I want you to know that I would prefer
not to do this. I would prefer to have a lottery system, and each year, Lion, Yun, Bo, Mido, the
senior tutors, and I argue about this. We feel terrible that we cannot accept every student who
wants to study at Fortress.”
Lion and Yun nodded. Mido knew they were surprised that Peter was admitting to this;
however, everything he said was true. They would take everyone if they could but it wasn’t
possible.
“We can take some of the best performing students of Orange County and in the
summers, some from Seoul have been flying in just to do some essay boot camps with us, so you
should not feel surprised that our hagwon gets the best results in California. Now, take that very
simple idea and apply it to let’s say Yale where I spent the first two years of college.”
The parents in the audience knew he had gone to Yale then transferred to Pomona
College, but they’d never asked why.
“If Yale has 1300 seats for the Class of 2009, and if 20,000 students apply, then 93.5
percent of the applicants will be unable to attend. These schools want geographic diversity,
which means, your children are also competing against children from each of the 50 states and
every country in the world. Your children come from Orange County, one of the strongest

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 791
applicant pools in the United States. The 93.5 percent who are not accepted are already from a
pool of self-selected, accomplished kids who felt that acceptance was possible. I’ve seen
extraordinary students be rejected from these highly selective schools of every race, class, and
background. The admissions committee of each school considers numerous factors in each
applicant’s evaluation.”
The parents shook their heads in irritation, just waiting for the word “holistic” to come
out. Every senior parent who wanted their child to attend a highly selective school knew this
word and no one knew what it really meant except that everything was considered and nothing
could be predicted.
Lion moved toward the standing microphone, and Peter stepped aside.
“You’re looking at the problem in the wrong way,” Lion said as if he were speaking to a
math student. No longer did he care about giving offense.
“If you make your child into the perfect object that these schools want to purchase, then
you might make the sale. However, will you get what you want?”
“I wish I could tell you how many times I’ve heard the term return on investment being
applied to young humans,” Lion said, and his voice broke. Yun inched her chair toward her
husband, never having seen him like this. She touched her growing belly, not knowing if she
should do something.
Lion spoke into the microphone. “Many of our children out of the goodness of their
hearts and because they love their parents will do as well as they can. They will try to get that
trophy to earn your love or to feel good about themselves, but it will never be enough.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 792
“I’ve seen wonderful students be accepted into top schools, and once they get in, they
break down, no longer understanding why they’re there at all. Once the schools have accepted
your child, they can only do so much to help him or her flourish. Forget the acceptance rates or
the average salaries of majors, I want you to look at attrition rates and the mental health data. If
your child is 18 and over, the schools will not even tell you if your child is not doing well, and it
could be too late.
“If your children live in the dorms, they no longer have mom waking them up, or
grandma making their breakfast, or a hagwon teacher asking about their Calculus final. They are
on their own. They have gotten into the school, but many of them didn’t do it for themselves.
What’s worse, if they didn’t get into the school that they thought they wanted or feel they should
have gotten into, they might even feel like they failed you and themselves.”
“If you’re just focused on what it takes to get in, you have the wrong question, the wrong
tests, the wrong child.”
“I am pleading with you to consider not the needs of the buyer, or the seller. I am
pleading with you that your child is a young human who needs an education to transform his life
to be who he is meant to be. He needs an education. He needs to learn how to solve problems.
She needs to ask good questions and to be critical. She needs to value her judgment. If your
children can do those things, they will be able to survive and flourish. No one needs to be a
superhero. Our children should not have to save us.”
Lion folded his arms and looked down then put his arms by his sides.
“There is a crisis in this country and in the country where many of you were born. The
crisis is in our education and what it is meant to do. Having a degree from the Big Three or any

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 793
of the SKY universities will not save our children from harm. You know of many stories of
people who graduated from these schools who did not have a safe and perfect life. I am asking
you to consider at least the anecdotal evidence each of you has to disprove the theory that an elite
education will create a successful life.”
A balding man in the front row handed Lion a clean handkerchief and gestured to Mido
for the microphone.
“Young teachers, we’re all here because we know you love the children. That’s clear. My
wife who’s a nurse sent me tonight —she couldn’t get off her shift at the hospital. You see, our
son doesn’t study at all but he’s our only son, and somehow he has promised to start studying if
he could get into UC Irvine where his girlfriend goes.”
Everyone laughed politely.
“I was sent here to beg you for a miracle so you can help him get into UC Irvine, so he
can become a serious student. He promised. Also, it would be more affordable. I went to Santa
Monica College.” He raised his hand like a politician, then he turned to Lion and started rubbing
his hands together in prayer, pretending to beg.
The audience broke out in laughter.
The woman in a skirt suit next to him, clearly someone he knew, hit his upper arm for
kidding too much and wrested the microphone from him.
“Why can’t you just increase the size of your hagwon? I’m sure in this room, there are
bankers who’d give you loans to buy bigger buildings and hire more people. Even our church
raised six million dollars for a new learning center. There’s money in our community for our

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 794
kids—”
Lion wiped his nose, and smiled.
“Thank you for the handkerchief,” he said to the man, then turned to the woman, “If it
were just a simple formula of providing test materials and the same training, then we would have
done that already. We will keep our hagwon at this size. We just wanted to appeal to you to
consider the humanity of your children.”
Lion glanced at Peter, and he stepped in front of the microphone naturally as if they were
performing on stage at Rascal’s.
“The schools want to have a certain kind of class made up of all different types of
students, including scholars, athletes, actors, musicians, writers, and from every place on the
planet. However, just because the highly selective schools that your child or you may have
dreamt of accepts only one student from your child’s high school, we cannot treat our students as
objects to shape and bring to the market. The market theory is wrong because they’re just young
people, minors who can’t even sign a contract. Their brains aren’t even fully formed. As the
director of a hagwon, I see how they are suffering under this weight.
“It’s not one group’s fault. It’s that children are being asked to respond to market
demands and to believe that life is only about scarcity and musical chairs. Our children can only
do so much,” Peter said.
George stood up and spoke without the microphone.
“The students in Korea work much harder than our kids. They have to go to hagwons
almost every day, some starting as early as kindergarten, and not just once a week. Our American

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 795
kids are just lazy.”
Everyone laughed except for the tutors.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 796

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 797
Book V
January 2006 - May 2007

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 798
5:1 January 2006 "Trades"
1. January 2006
#
For years, Mrs. Im, the housekeeper, had understood the relationship between Sonya and the
Chairman. More aunt than servant, Mrs. Im was devoted to her generous employer, Sonya Cho,
who had entered the Mun household as a young bride for the Chairman’s nephew and heir, Yong-
gil. As lady of the house, Sonya was nothing like the Chairman’s late wife— a capricious
daughter of a former cabinet member who could not be gracious to anyone she felt was below
her social class.
The Mun family fascinated Mrs. Im. Like vivid characters in her morning drama, she
watched Sonya; her husband, President Yong-gil Mun; his uncle, Chairman Hong-gyun Mun;

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 799
and the two boys Seungman and Jiman, whose diapers she had changed. She knew the favorite
dishes of every member of the family, their general dislikes, private interests, goals, allergies,
and of course, their formal and informal acquaintances.
From the very start, the housekeeper took to Sonya, admiring the young secretary’s fine
manners and humble demeanor despite her natural beauty and excellent education. In the ensuing
years, Sonya changed little despite the rise in her station. If anything, the more she was given,
the more she gave away.
Sonya treated everyone fairly and with great consideration, remembering birthdays,
weddings, funerals, and illnesses of those who worked for the family. To be connected to the
Chairman’s household was to be protected under Sonya’s umbrella of concern.
Mrs. Im was unable to finish high school; however, she was more capable than some of
the Chairman’s brightest employees who received MBAs from abroad. She missed nothing,
especially the wants and needs of her employers.
With so much warmth between them, the Chairman and Sonya did not appear as former
boss and secretary. By the way they considered each other’s expressions with deep, abiding
interest, they did not look like father-in-law and daughter-in-law. Lacking the casual boredom
brought by the expectation of an eternal bond, they would not be mistaken as husband and wife
either.
In the eyes of a sensitive observer, the two were undeniably lovers connected by yearning
and fear of loss. Exquisite manners and honorific language covered the public interactions
between the Chairman and Sonya like a fine silk gauze. At home, it was possible to measure the
physical space between them, which was closer than Sonya’s and her husband.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 800
Like his uncle, Yong-gil was a stickler about language, and although he was sufficiently
fair to the household staff as well as to his employees, he could be cool and rigid, unable to
garner their affection. His business competence shielded him from criticism, and his formal tone
kept him at a distance from almost everyone except his sons.
On Friday evening, he came home to change before heading out again. At the door, Mrs.
Im greeted him and hung up his raincoat.
“Good evening, Deacon Im.”
Yong-gil removed his black cap-toe oxford dress shoes. She picked up his shoes and
returned them to the right shelf in the President’s private shoe closet, withdrew his bespoke
leather slippers from the bottom shelf. Mrs. Im knelt on the floor to place the slippers in the
appropriate direction of his stocking feet.
“Is everyone home?”
“The Chairman and Madam are here, but the young masters will not be at dinner. Madam
said you would not be dining at home—”
“That is correct. I want to shower and change. I have a work dinner.”
Mrs. Im, older than the Chairman by a few months, a church deacon of two decades, and
mother of three grown children, was not a modern person with liberal moral and romantic
sensibilities; however, she knew well what it was like to be married to a philanderer. Mrs. Im
was not fooled. The President did not have a work dinner. On Friday evenings, he went to room
salons. Over the years, Mrs. Im had met no less than half a dozen of his mistresses who had
barged into the house to hassle Sonya.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 801
Chairman’s nephew was ungrateful and over entitled, blind to his true riches. Unlike the
uncle who preferred the poor over the wealthy, the nephew who had grown up in relative
privilege was a two-faced playboy who remembered to say please and thank you to his
employees but could fire the household driver through his corporate secretary for being a few
minutes late. Never did he dole out any punishment himself. Always, he asked his secretary, Mr.
Yi, who everyone called “The Sword,” to do the worst.
After Yong-gil was promoted to President of Mun Realty at forty-five years old,
bypassing several senior members of the company, rather than being considerate to the
executives who had helped to build the successful company, he terminated those who didn’t
praise the decision. Then, he hired his smartest friends from university, shedding anyone whose
background and attitude he deemed unsuitable for his vision of the future of Mun Realty.
Unlike the Chairman who disdained hostess bars and room salons, the President preferred
the most selective ones. To the women who worked there, the President was nice looking,
wealthy, and aloof. He wore designer clothes. Naturally they fell in love with him. In hotel
rooms, he made beautiful promises, and girlfriends came to the house to realize their dreams, and
Mrs. Im was their first point of entry.
In her office, Sonya met each young woman, served tea or coffee in fine china, and
disabused her of any illusions about her husband Yong-gil. In the large kitchen, Mrs. Im chatted
with the cook and waited to be called to show the guest out. When she cleared the tea tray, the
cook would eat the untouched biscuits and leave the chocolates for Mrs. Im.
The housekeeper was on Sonya’s side. On births, deaths, weddings, holidays, and trips,
Sonya gave each employee an envelope of cash to mark the occasion. When she went to a famed

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 802
bakery to buy treats for the family, she brought back as many for the staff. Everyone was equal.
In this way, Sonya was unlike the President and more like the Chairman, an orphan who had
built his real estate company from the earnings of well-timed real estate bets.
Years earlier, even before the boys were born, Sonya discovered Mrs. Im crying in the
pantry. When she learned that Mrs. Im’s oldest had a fight at school and had broken another
child’s arm, requiring payment of his hospital bills and a legal settlement, Sonya advanced her
the full amount without telling the Chairman’s wife and Mrs. Im’s husband, who worked as one
of the two family drivers.
Mrs. Im would never tell a soul what she knew about the Chairman and Sonya, including
her own husband, because when he drank, he talked too much. Life had been fair enough to Mrs.
Im, and except for a troublesome husband, who was not all bad, she found joy in the
accomplishments and good lives of her children, each of whom had finished college, been hired
for respectable jobs, and married nice people. She was a grandmother of three children, and each
day before work, she went to Myeong-dong Cathedral to pray for her family and the Mun
household.
As long as her husband did not bring home any diseases and didn’t get into any big
trouble, Mrs. Im didn’t care about the cheating and the drinking. None of it was very serious.
Men did foolish things, and he was too old to change. Her son and two daughters took her side
always, so if her husband left her for another woman, at least, she would have the love of her
children and money of her own. More than once, Sonya had told Mrs. Im, that if she ever needed
a place to live, she could have her pick of the rooms in the servants’ quarters.
Although Mrs. Im had been in love with her husband when she married, she had never

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 803
liked sex very much and couldn’t imagine why people carried on the way they did for love.
However, even at their advanced age, she felt that men needed it more, and it was better that the
Chairman was with Sonya, rather than marrying another woman, which would mean another
possible headache for her and the staff, who liked things the way they were.
Yong-gil had finished work early, ate gukbap near his office, then practiced at the range
for an hour. He intended to head to Sticks & Stones, but wanted to go home to shower before
meeting his friends at the members-only room salon. Yong-gil was smitten with Boram, a new
girl, a beauty contestant and trainee for a girl band. Last weekend, she and another trainee did an
adorable dance number for him and his friends from college who were also CEOs.
A man who loved clothes, Yong-gil didn’t want to wear a suit or golf clothes to the room
salon. On weekends, he wanted to look like a wealthy boyfriend, and he had purchased several
new pieces of clothing on a recent business trip to Tokyo. “In that jacket, you look like you’re in
your thirties,” the saleswoman in Ginza had said.
“Would you like something to drink?” Mrs. Im asked. “Tea or a soft drink?”
“No thank you, Deacon Im,” he said. “Is the Chairman in his office?”
“I believe so.”
“I suppose they will have dinner soon?”
“Madam asked for dinner to be served in an hour and half.”
“Where is my wife?”
“Should I get her for you?” Mrs. Im asked, knowing that the Chairman’s bedroom door
was closed, and Sonya could be in there with him. Mrs. Im didn’t know if the door was locked,

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 804
but it didn’t matter because once the rooms were closed, she would not disturb anyone.
“Thank you, Deacon Im,” he said, before heading to his room. From the closet, he pulled
out his new black jacket, a black tee shirt, and a pair of French jeans and laid them on the bed.
Cassie, a college girl who worked at another VIP room salon told him that he looked incredible
in his jeans and black ankle boots from England.
In front of the closet mirror, he inspected how smart he looked in his pinstripe suit.
Before getting in the shower, he decided to greet his uncle. Earlier, they had spoken on the
phone, but his uncle liked to see him each day and get a brief report on how things were going at
the company.
Yong-gil passed his wife’s office, its door open and stuck his head in. The room was
empty. He walked into her bedroom, but she wasn’t there. He passed the den then stopped at the
Chairman’s suite, where the doors were closed. He knocked lightly then turned the door knob,
which wouldn’t budge. Curious, Yong-gil put his ear to the door, and he heard his Uncle clear his
throat.
“Uncle, are you all right?” Yong-gil asked “Do you have a cold?”
The Chairman looked over Sonya and put his finger to his lips. He had just finished
undressing her, and she was seated on his bed, quiet, pale, her gentle eyes wide with alarm.
With both hands, Chairman stroked Sonya’s bare shoulders, admiring the elegance of her
frail beauty. He felt little anxiety at being discovered by his nephew. In fact, he found himself
more aroused. What could his nephew do? The Chairman believed that Yong-gil was a fine
businessman but wasn’t astute enough to value people correctly. The exceptional businessman
knew the true value of his assets and would never need to part with them.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 805
Yong-gil knocked again, this time more quietly. He took a deep breath, and he could
inhale the tuberose of his wife’s perfume. She was in there with him.
Sonya was afraid to move and get her clothes. She remained as still as if frozen, refusing
to breathe even. The Chairman held her gently by the shoulders, and he didn’t answer his
nephew’s knocks.
The large doors were thick, paneled with Macassar ebony, and its twin brass handles
heavy. Only Sonya had the key to the Chairman’s suite. Even Mrs. Im didn’t have one.
Still standing by the bed, the Chairman moved his hands across Sonya’s supple body, and
she took a deep, long breath. He didn’t care what Yong-gil thought.
Mrs. Im stood at the end of the hallway behind the floral arrangement on the center table
in the foyer. She watched him move away from the Chairman’s room and return to his room,
where he showered, put on his new clothes before heading to Sticks & Stones.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 806
5:2 January 2006 "Terms"
2. January 2006
#
Sticks & Stones, a members-only room salon, occupied the basement and subbasement of a six-
story office building in Gangnam. The narrow, unassuming entrance was hardly noticeable to
passers-by. The white door, located between a bespoke tailor and jewelry store specializing in
men’s watches, opened to a short hallway leading to another door and a staircase that only went
down.
Behind a set of wood doors, there was an elegant, paneled reception area, well-lit and
filled with fresh flowers and candles. The manager greeted President Yong-gil Mun with a deep
bow.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 807
“President Mun, your guests are already in the room,” said the manager, an elegant thirty-
five year old woman, her hair in a tight bun and wearing a black well-tailored skirt suit. “We can
send Miss Kim Boram in at anytime. She has been asking about you.”
Yong-gil cocked his head and remembered that he was supposed to meet his two of his
friends from school, a city government official and a banker. Neither could afford these places
often, and Yong-gil never minded picking up the tab. Both had done him favors relating to work.
“Can you send Boram and two others for my guests?”
“Of course,” the manager said.
After a few drinks, the three men separated, each paired with a hostess. Yong-gil took
Boram upstairs to a nice room. He felt like talking. No doubt, she would tell him some made-up
story about hospital bills, school loans, or a younger brother who wanted to study abroad,
expecting Yong-gil to rescue her.
In the room, Boram asked if he would like to take a shower first, and Yong-gil said no.
“Here, sit down,” he said.
Boram, a gorgeous twenty-three year old woman from Daegu, appeared confused. A
week before, President Mun, had been very clear that he wanted to be her lover. He had texted
her twice this week suggesting as much. The manager had made a point of making sure that
Boram had no other appointments for this Friday evening.
She sat on the edge of the bed, her legs tucked behind her as if waiting to serve. Her ivory
one-piece dress, a copy of a French designer, flattered her slim figure and long legs.
Boram was a bright young woman. She came from a middle-class family without any

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 808
tragedy. The mistakes she had made were simple ones: She wanted to be an actress and had spent
too much money on plastic surgery, acting hagwons, and her new life in Seoul, requiring loans
from friends then later, disreputable men.
Her family didn’t know about the loans, and Boram, exceptionally pretty and able to
command a very high fee for flirting and sex, thought this was not the worst way to build her
career. In her two years, she had been roughed up only twice, and Sticks & Stones, was a much
better place to work than others. If President Mun or someone like him could support her career
development, Boram still believed that she had a shot at becoming a television actor.
“You seem sad,” she said.
“You are observant,” Yong-gil said.
“Do you want me to sing you a song.”
“No.”
“Shall I do a dance? I learned this new routine—”
“No.”
“Do you want me to come to you?” she asked.
“Why do you do this?” he asked. Yong-gil could not stop thinking about his wife having
sex with his uncle, and he wondered if all women were whores. Nothing could have prepared
him for this idea. He had not seen it with his eyes. It was possible that he was wrong to think it;
however, it would explain the gifts of stock to her. There had been costly jewelry, the fur coats,
then the car. His uncle had bought the very best things for Sonya and allowed her every request.
His wife must have been sleeping with him all this time. How long, he wondered.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 809
She untucked her beautiful legs from under her and stretched them out. Not knowing if he
was the kind of man who wanted her to be girlish or vulgar, she felt uncertain. It was easier when
a man wanted you to take off your clothes.
Boram had been with many men; however, not as many as the other girls she worked
with. In a diary, she wrote down the names of all the men and details about them. In two years,
she had slept with ninety-two men. Nearly all of them had been fine.
Several had slapped her in the face or spanked her. Only twice, she had been beaten so
badly that she had to go to the hospital and miss work for a month. Men, she learned, liked
hitting women, and she had no idea why since she wasn’t the sort to provoke them. It was not in
her nature to talk-back or be rude.
A few of them, she had liked. They were nearly all married. The single ones would never
date her seriously but sometimes sought her out so they could avoid paying, she had figured out
eventually. None of them would provide for her, and the manager explained that Boram was not
good with scams as other girls were. “You’re very pretty but not clever. You should try to save
your money and quit if you really want to be an actor,” another girl had told her.
“What can I do to make you feel less sad?” Boram asked Yong-gil.
“Take off your dress.”
Boram did as she was told.
“Take off the rest.”
“Yes, President Mun.”
The young woman was visually perfect. She was exactly his type—long, slim, dark hair

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 810
natural, flat-waisted, and pale. He stared at her full breasts, not minding that they were implants.
The doctor had done a nice job, he thought.
He removed his trousers and she put a condom on his erection.
“How can I make you happy?”
Yong-gil frowned, wanting to push her down on the bed. He was not like this normally
but he thought it would be better not to speak because he felt cruel. She was dumb, and he
wanted to be with a woman who could talk to him. He wanted an explanation of what was
happening at home. Boram couldn’t do that. She couldn’t even seduce him properly.
“Mr. President, you’re so big,” she said.
All the girls said this to him, and Yong-gil didn’t know if he was actually big or if this
was something that whores said to their johns.
“Don’t talk,” he said and pushed her gently on her back.
Yong-gil tried to forget his wife and uncle but couldn’t. He recalled his wife’s nude body
the first time he saw it on their wedding night. Sonya was as beautiful as a goddess that he could
hardly breathe. She had been a virgin, and until a few hours ago, he believed that she still loved
him.
He had cheated on his wife many times, but never with anyone except a woman he’d
paid. It had been years since he slept with his wife, but she was still an extraordinary beauty.
None of these girls at the room salons could have rivaled her at the same age. Even now, Sonya
was prettier than most of these girls. The idea of her being in his uncle’s bed was disgusting. He
felt like killing them.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 811
“President Mun, you’re hurting me,” she said, the extreme force of his thrusts was painful
to her. He was also holding her wrists too tightly.
Quickly, he finished and told her to get the fuck out.
#
Sonya did not come to breakfast. Yong-gil ate alone with his uncle.
“Uncle, can we speak after breakfast?”
“Why can’t we speak now?”
Yong-gil looked at the door separating the dining room from the kitchen, where Mrs. Im
and the cook were working. Two maids were cleaning the apartments and the driver was having
his breakfast in the kitchen.
“Where is Sonya?” Yong-gil asked the Chairman, feeling foolish not knowing where his
own wife was.
“She had a meeting with a lawyer.”
“Why?”
“Something about the nail salon and her green card.”
The Chairman got up and headed to his office.
“Do you want to talk there?”
Yong-gil followed him.
#

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 812
The Chairman sat down on the armchair with the view of the river. Yong-gil closed the doors
behind him and sat opposite his uncle.
“Why did you give my wife the stock? Every year, her ownership grows. I own only two
percent of the company even though I’m the chief executive officer. I work at Mun Realty every
single day.”
“Every share Sonya receives will ultimately go to the boys. You know that.”
“Yes, but every share I have will go to them, too. Why can’t you give the shares to them
directly?”
“They are too young. They don’t know enough about life. They have so much more to
learn about how to run the business.”
“They are very wise young men,” Yong-gil said, defending his sons.
“Yes. So far, it seems that way.”
“And me?” Yong-gil asked. “Why not me?”
“I think I haven’t taught you everything about life. You have more to learn.”
Yong-gil said nothing, wondering if he might be wrong about suspecting something
untoward between his uncle and his wife. It seemed absurd the more he thought about it.
“What do I have to learn? What could Sonya possibly know more than me about the
business?”
“Where were you last night?” the Chairman asked.
“At a work dinner,” Yong-gil said.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 813
“You were at Sticks & Stones.”
“Yes.”
“It wasn’t for work.”
“No.”
“You were having sex with a prostitute who could try to come to our house. You could
get some room salon girl pregnant, who could make claims upon your property. In all these
years, you have brought shame to me and to your wife with your inability to control yourself. I
cannot risk my company being exposed to illegitimate heirs or lawsuits from hookers. We’ve
spoken about this. Have we not? When will you learn?”
Yong-gil could say nothing. For once, he thought he had the upper hand, but immediately,
his uncle made him the fool.
“Your father was unable to control himself with cheap bargirls. Now you. I thought you’d
be different. You’re a smart businessman but you leave your family wide open with these
indiscretions. You can be blackmailed by any of these women. You’re lucky that Sonya has been
so patient and wise about how she handles them. Do you know how often you’ve made your wife
cry?”
Yong-gil stared at the wall behind his uncle, trying to control himself.
“She’ll own most of the company by the time I die. However, she’ll never divorce you,
and the company will go to the boys. It should go to the boys equally unless they prove to be
unworthy. You will remain president, and when I’m gone, you’ll be the Chairman. This was my
solution to your addiction to whores. You will always be my nephew—that doesn’t change.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 814
“She wants to be in California. Why can’t I send her there if I make her so miserable?”
“We need her at home. She is the lady of the house.”
“Can’t you get married again?”
“What?”
“Get a new lady of the house. My wife, my wife would rather be in California. Isn’t that
why she bought that business and obtained a green card?”
“She needs to be here,” the Chairman said, seeing the defiance in his nephew’s eyes.
Then he understood. Yong-gil knew something. “Her job is take care of her own family. Your job
is to take care of the company.”
“I am taking care of the company.”
“You need to be more careful with those women. So far, you’ve been lucky.”
“I’ve never fallen for a bargirl scam. I’m not an idiot.”
“Only an idiot says he’s not an idiot.”
“Uncle—”
“You are my brother’s son. You are my heir. However, you will be my heir through Sonya
and the boys because you’ve left yourself exposed. This meeting is over.”
Yong-gil got up and bowed before heading to work.
#
In the evening, he went straight to his wife’s bedroom without changing out of his work clothes.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 815
Sonya was at her dressing table in her nightgown and robe. Getting ready to sleep, she was
combing her hair. He was wearing his navy pinstripe suit.
“How are you?” Yong-gil asked.
“Did you have dinner? I can—”
“Yes. I’ve already eaten. Thank you.” He fixed a stray wisp of hair away from her face
and moved closer to her.
Yong-gil touched the yellow silk chemise robe and Sonya froze.
“You look pretty in this. I have a beautiful wife,” he said to the reflection in the mirror.
“Are you alright? I heard you were upset about the stock.”
“I guess he tells you everything.”
“I don’t understand.”
Yong-gil went to the door and locked it.
“I’d like to stay here tonight. Is that alright with you?”
Sonya examined his eyes.
“Have you been drinking?”
“Not a drop.”
Yong-gil brushed his hands across her shoulders. “You feel like my wife.”
“Why are you being strange?”
He removed his jacket and unloosened his tie. Taking her hand, he placed it on his crotch

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 816
and smiled like a naughty child. Sonya withdrew her hand as if she touched something too hot.
“I don’t feel well,” she said, doing her best to keep her composure.
“Don’t lie to me.”
Yong-gil buried his face in her neck. The faint scent of white flowers overwhelmed him.
Without a word, he slid the silk robe off her shoulders and Sonya averted her eyes as he traced
the outline of her breasts beneath the yellow nightgown. He gathered his hands around her waist
to hold her close and was unable to see her anxious expression.
She murmured calmly, “I’d rather another—”
“Tonight. I’d rather tonight.”
He pulled up her nightgown and moved her against the closet door. When she began to
cry, he picked her up and laid her gently on the bed. He sat beside her and stroked her hair and
kissed her brow gently. She was like this their first time and needed to be coaxed. He took off her
nightgown, and she closed her eyes.
As he made love to her, he whispered, “My wife. My wife.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 817

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 818
5:3 January 2006
3. January 2006
#
The Chairman knocked on her bedroom door.
“Come in.”
“Your door was locked last night.”
Sonya was sitting in her armchair by the window. Feeling cold, she’d worn her beige
cashmere turtleneck twin set and gray woolen slacks. Small gray pearls in her ears. Calm and
glorious, the river shimmered in the bright morning sun.
A silver breakfast tray rested on the ottoman. Sonya picked up her coffee cup, not

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 819
knowing what to say. Her bags were packed and stored in the closet. She had finished her
makeup.
“Yong-gil left without eating. I was alone this morning.”
“I’m sorry.”
“Are you not feeling well? I knocked last night but there was no answer, so I thought you
fell asleep. I waited.”
“He locked the door.”
The Chairman looked confused.
“He was here last night?”
“I didn’t know what to do.”
“You let him touch you?”
“I tried to tell him I didn’t feel well.”
“Why didn’t you fight him?”
“I couldn’t—”
He raised his right hand and slapped her. The Chairman pulled back in surprise, never
having hit a woman before.
Sonya covered her mouth and left cheek where he’d struck her.
“I’m going to California today.”
“No, no. You can’t go.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 820
“I bought my ticket.”
The Chairman checked the knot of his blue silk necktie and swallowed, feeling sick at the
thought of his nephew being with her. Then he saw her. She was holding her face with her hands
and crying.
“I’m sorry. I was wrong to I hit you. I wasn’t thinking. I thought he didn’t come by
anymore.”
“He hadn’t. For so many years. Has it been twenty?” All morning, she’d been trying to
puzzle out what had happened. “I don’t know why he did that. It wasn’t my idea. Surely—”
“Of course. I’m sorry I—” The Chairman couldn’t admit to her that Yong-gil might know.
Sonya shook her head, sensing that he felt awful about hitting her. He shouldn’t have but
it hadn’t hurt. Growing up, she’d been beaten by her parents, employers, and kids at school. To
protect her siblings, she’d fought bullies. A number of times, landlords, storeowners and other
creditors had taken their shot at the eldest child of debtors.
One landlord’s son, a pale gnome of a man, who would squeeze her rear end with his
stubby hands whenever he passed behind her, and had offered to forgive months of overdue rent
for sex. “I’d erase all the debts and get you another six months since you’re a virgin.” he’d said,
smiling sweetly. Sonya, who was in college then, ran to the church to beg the nuns and priests for
a loan, which she ended up paying back by tutoring.
Always, it was unfair to have someone put their hands on you, push you around, and try
to cause you pain. Mostly, they were trying to make her afraid, and Sonya refused. That was the
trick. If you didn’t mind the pain or the greater pain that would come surely, they couldn’t hurt

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 821
you inside. Even if someone tried to kill you, you could still decide what you thought about it.
You could always tell yourself your own story and keep your dignity.
They picked on her but Sonya was the girl who fought back in her own way, and almost
no one had ever hurt her so badly that she had to go to the hospital. It was only humiliating if she
cared about the person who caused her pain or the people who witnessed her shame.
After she started working for the Chairman, no one had ever hit her or even tried to make
her feel bad. He had protected her from everything she had endured before. She never thought he
would hit her.
His slap was the worst because she adored him. The Chairman was her protector,
provider, defender, deliverer, and lover.
When Yong-gil was on top of her last night, she had pretended to be somewhere else,
anyone else. He was her husband, and she could not tell him what she felt for his uncle. As he
kept repeating “My wife, my wife,” something he had not said since their wedding night, Sonya
wondered if her husband wanted to make love to her, or if he was a dog peeing on a spot to mark
his territory. She had always belonged to the Chairman. He told her to marry his nephew, and she
obeyed him, because she owed him everything.
“I have to go to California now.”
“No, you can’t go. If you go, you cannot return.”
Sonya turned toward the closet. She grabbed her down coat and the two large suitcases.
“This was always wrong. I am sorry.”
“Sonya, you cannot—”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 822
He embraced her, preventing her from moving.
“I forbid you to go,” he whispered.
“Hong-gyun-shi—”
Surprised, he looked at her, so rarely did she call him by his name.
“Let me go. Please.”
He was afraid to put his trembling hands on her, and he thought hard about what he could
do.
#
The flight felt brief because she slept through it, and Bo was waiting for her at Arrivals. He
picked up her two large heavy cases like they were knapsacks and took her to the car. Sonya felt
strangely alert and light. The sun always felt brighter in California.
“Aunt, it’s so good to see you.”
“You look well,” she said, taking his arm.
“Don’t I?” he smiled at her.
“You’re in love?”
“Maybe?”
“What?” Sonya felt joyful suddenly. Helen’s first child was happy.
“I want to hear more. Is there a wedding coming up?”
“No, no, no. It’s only been a few months. I have to get my doctorate.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 823
“Oh, yes, of course.”
Bo smiled, shaking his head.
“We thought you were coming last December on umma’s anniversary. But you couldn’t
make it. Then you said maybe this summer—”
“I couldn’t get away. Tell me about her.”
“Priscilla?”
“Like Elvis’s wife?”
“Oh, I hadn’t thought of that.” Bo grinned. “She’s a graduate student in psychology. It’s
nice to have a friend in the program. We go to the movies and grade papers together.” He did not
mention that they were lovers now, and he could see himself marrying her. It was too soon, of
course, and neither were in a rush.
“I better focus on my driving,” he said. “I have an important guest in my car.”
“Nice excuse,” she said. This sounded like the Bo she knew as a child—thoughtful,
measured and quietly confident. Somehow, he had returned to himself, and Sonya was grateful.
She thought of Helen. More than anything, she wanted her sister to know that her boy was well.
Each morning, after she read her Bible, Sonya prayed for every member of her family,
and when she thought of Bo, she could not forget searching for him at his rented rooms when he
was studying for his college entrance exams. He had failed to get into Yonsei repeatedly but
refused to apply elsewhere. She remembered taking him to eat tonkatsu, worried sick that he
might not listen to her plan of him going to America.
Had the Chairman allowed Bo to stay at the house, would he have passed the exam and

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 824
remained in Korea, she wondered. What would that life look like? Would it have been a better
one? She didn’t think so.
Her sons had gotten their needed scores on their CSATs on their first try, and at every
stage of their application process, private coordinators and tutors had guided them to their
destination. Bo had less of that kind of care. He lived, studied, and slept in that tiny room, eating
instant food from the mart and attending classes at the hagwons. If he had been at her house
without the need to cook, do laundry, and figure out his transportation, Sonya felt certain that he
would have gotten in. At least on the second try.
“I still feel terrible that I couldn’t take better care of you when you were studying for
Yonsei—”
“You took better care of me than my own folks.”
“Your parents were in Sydney, and they asked me to—”
“I know they were working. It’s not their fault. It was my stubborn decision to try to get
into Yonsei. It’s no one’s fault but mine.”
“I still don’t understand why you wanted to go there,” she said, laughing.
“I think I picked it because my father had gone to Seoul National, and your sons wanted
to go to Korea University, so I applied to the Yonsei. The Y in SKY. It isn’t a very good reason.”
“Really?”
He shrugged.
“I used to go to the Yonsei campus, and I’d imagine myself being a student there. I
thought if I got in, I’d get one of those Yonsei jackets that men wear, and I thought I might

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 825
belong in Korea if I had something like that.”
Sonya smiled. It was the logic of a child but it made sense.
Bo didn’t mention that he’d bought a bright blue Yonsei tee-shirt, which was still in its
cellophane wrapper in the bottom of a box somewhere. If he’d gotten the score needed for
admission, he had promised himself that he could wear it, and if he had been accepted, he would
have bought the Yonsei jacket and schoolbag. He would have covered his body with logos.
Whenever he saw the men on campus or on a bus or train wearing the jackets, he’d felt a pang of
envy. The thoughts embarrassed him now.
“In a couple of years, you are going to have a Ph.D. I will call you Dr. Koh. My nephew
will have a baksa—the first in our family. You will have raised our family in the world. My
parents didn’t even finish high school.”
Bo smiled and continued to drive.
#
Sonya’s jet lag was always worse on the second day. She wanted to be alert but found herself
taking more naps. The day after she arrived, she went to Rose Salon and sat behind the counter
with her brother-in-law, who seemed well, too. The salon was full of customers with only one
empty chair, and every technician was occupied. She didn’t know if they were on their best
behavior because she was there, or if this was how things were like when she wasn’t. It had been
almost a year since her last visit.
John got her a large cup of brewed coffee from the cafe next door instead of the instant
kind from the back room. He wanted to do something for her. She didn’t touch the blueberry

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 826
muffin he’d bought for her.
“How is your family?” he asked. “Is the Chairman well?”
Sonya nodded, wondering when she would have to return. Sitting on a plastic folding
chair in a strip mall nail salon was preferable to living in a luxury apartmen in Apgujeong. She
couldn’t go back to what she was doing. Even if her husband didn’t want to come to her room,
when he had, it dawned on her that she could never be okay with this arrangement. The
Chairman would not allow her to divorce Yong-gil, and he would not marry her. If she stayed,
things would not change. Every path seemed closed.
If she returned to Seoul, she would have to move out. She loved the Chairman and felt
sick missing him. Now and then, she would stare at any door in the room and think soon he
would send for her.
“Your boys? How are Seungman and Jiman?”
“They’re both working for the Chairman and report to their father, and I think Seungman
might be the President when my husband retires, which won’t be any time soon.”
“The older one? That makes sense.”
“He’s the one that pays attention to details. Seungman also likes to be in charge.”
John smiled. “You must be so proud of them. They’ve grown up so nicely.”
Sonya picked up the paper bag with the blueberry muffin and held it. In her palm, the bag
felt heavy and oily.
The boys had to turn out well. That had been her job: To love her boys and to raise two
heirs. Sonya had done every thing in her power to make sure that their path was secure, and they

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 827
had been willing to go along. She was grateful for that.
Even with extraordinary sums of money, two educated parents and every necessary
connection, things could have gone awry. Her friends who were in her situation had kids who
had suffered—poor decisions, illnesses, sadness. There were hundreds of things that could have
spoiled every good intention and effort. Each morning, Sonya prayed for protection over her
family. Thus far, the Lord had answered her prayers and favored her children, despite her terrible
sins. She felt certain the bill was due. From the moment she started packing the suitcases in
Seoul, she had prayed for forgiveness and absolution.
She picked up the white plastic knife to cut the muffin in half. The artificial scent of
blueberries and cheap vanilla sickened her. Helen’s children would never inherit a company
worth hundreds of millions of dollars, and yet, they were purposeful and upright, and she thought
God was gracious.
“Are you all right?” John asked. She was troubled. He wanted to go through the books
with her, but she had no interest in talking about the salon, which had been profitable each year,
and he had been putting aside all the profits in an interest-bearing business account, but she
never asked for anything.
“I keep thinking of my sister.” Sonya started to cry. “She missed so many things, and I
wish I could see her.”
John nodded, unable to speak. He looked outside the glass door. The parking lot was busy
with activity, and he imagined driving to Garden Grove to Mrs Chung’s. Behind the counter,
Helen would be busy helping a customer. She’d smile at him and tell him to wait. John closed
his eyes, and he could see her bright face, how her eyes shone with warmth in the presence of

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 828
others, how much she cared for her children and him. Her death was his fault, John thought, for
having made her work so hard. He could never say it but he believed this.
John picked up the black ledgers.
“Would you like to talk about the books?”
“I’m grateful that you and Yun’s mother are running this salon so well.”
“What would you like to do with this business? I know you were considering living here
when Helen—”
“When Helen was alive, I thought I’d live here because I wanted to be with her as much
as I could. I find living difficult without her. Especially now.” Sonya said this even though she
sensed that it would be unfeeling. No doubt, John was missing her more but he looked healthy
enough, and inside, she wanted to die without her. If she were gone, the Chairman and the boys
would miss her, but her husband would be fine, she thought. He could remarry a younger,
beautiful woman, who would take better care of him than she did.
John opened the books to show her the profits column and the clipped stack of bank
statements.
“You have a great deal of profit,” he said.
“We should expand,” she said. “Maybe get another location.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 829

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 830
5:4 "Limits"
4.
#
With her savings, Sonya bought the building in Buena Park and with the profits from Rose
Salon, she decided to expand to a second location in Anaheim. DH negotiated the purchase and
sale agreements as well as the lease for the new space. After the closing for the building at the
offices of the seller’s lawyer, Sonya took her nephew to lunch at an Italian restaurant in Anaheim
that the seller’s lawyer recommended. “Calamari, lobster ravioli, braised beef. Can’t go wrong,”
the lawyer said and asked his assistant to get them an early table.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 831
DH ordered a number of their famed dishes, and the waiter cocked his head at the two
thin Koreans, wondering how they’d eat all this food. Sonya shrugged and smiled.
“We’ll take home whatever we don’t eat,” she said and the waiter left them.
“Nice job today,” she switched back to Korean.
“Thank you,” he replied in English. He understood everything she said, but his Korean
vocabulary was more limited compared to Bo and Mido. He grinned. “I was trying to impress
you.”
“You did. You are impressive,” she said in English.
At the closing, DH was measured, organized, and clear. The seller’s counsel took the
young lawyer seriously, but in Sonya’s mind, DH was still a boy.
“Are you thirty yet?” she asked.
“In America, I’m 28. I turn 29 in November.”
“November 2nd. I flew to New Jersey in December to help your mother with Bo. You
were such an easy baby.”
Sonya grew quiet thinking of Helen, who was so grateful that DH ate and slept without
any fuss. All three of Helen kids were good, but DH did whatever he was supposed to do and
was so affectionate that the ever stoic Helen softened around him and laughed more.
“You made your mother happy. She lit up when you were near.”
DH reached across the table and held his aunt’s hands. “I think you and I might miss
Mommy the most.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 832
Sonya just shook her head, unable to speak.
“Actually, Dad is having a hard time but he won’t mention it. Whenever anyone says
anything about Mommy, it’s like he’s gone. He’s sitting there but looks anguished. I don’t know
the right word—” DH unfolded the napkin on his lap.
Sonya nodded.
“Is he okay otherwise? How’s his health?”
“Mido cooks for him and makes sure he takes his vitamins. He works so hard still. Never
complains. He looks healthy but we all worry about him.”
“He managed the salon so well that we were able to expand.”
DH nodded. He could feel his BlackBerry buzzing, but he ignored it. He spent every
waking minute at the firm, and he never got to see his aunt alone.
“Aunt, you’re now the landlord. No more rent payments for Rose Salon.”
“I’ve never owned my own building before.”
“Congratulations,” DH said. “It’s a solid piece of commercial property. Not cheap
though. Everything is really expensive these days. I think even our little house in Cypress has
doubled in value.”
“I hope your bosses appreciate you,” she said, sitting up straighter. “Your aunt has money
so I want to make sure you charge me your full fee and get credit. You’re a wonderful business
lawyer, and—”
“I am a good lawyer, but my firm doesn’t take me seriously. In a few months, I’m a

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 833
fourth year associate, and I don’t think I’ll ever make partner here.”
DH took a sip of his club soda. A frown crossed his bright face like a shadow.
“When do lawyers get considered to make partner?” she asked.
“It depends on the firm. At mine, usually 8th or 9th for corporate. I was told that it used to
be 7th but every year, they keep pushing the goal posts. I can wait but my problem is that I won’t
inherit any business from any of my partners, and who knows how to get these giant fee
generating clients on my own. I’m put on all the deals because I do the work that the other
associates don’t want to do, but all the partners I work for are worker bees and none of them are
rainmakers. I should be out there hustling for the big kill but all I do is other people’s scut work.”
Sonya nodded, trying to understand. The Chairman didn’t have any business in the
United States. His company hired lawyers in Korea. None of them were Americans.
“So what will you do?” she asked, having a hard time believing that DH wouldn’t be
adored at his firm, the way he was everywhere else. “Is there a future there?”
“It’s up or out if I don’t make partner, and I can tell that as much as my partners like me,
none of them are going to give me their business outright. I’m everyone’s boy but no one’s boy.
I need to be adopted. I need a serious backer, and I don’t have that at Willings & Cane. If I don’t
make partner on my 8th or 9th year, then I’m just clogging up the system. I should probably find
another firm.”
#
Back at the office, DH had several pink message slips for missed internal calls. His BlackBerry
had been buzzing the entire time during lunch, but he had tried to put it out of his mind. The

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 834
managing partner. Jack Pockett, wanted him to swing by his office.
DH knew it was about the bonuses. At Willings & Cane, the partners gave out associate
bonuses in late January. In 2005, he had billed 2700 hours, so he had been expecting something
decent. His supervising partner, Eddie Veler, had tried to manage his expectations. “Profits per
partner this year weren’t great, DH. I know you worked your tail off.”
Jack looked up from his desk when DH walked in. They were both wearing navy suits,
but his had a faint windowpane pattern.
“Koh.”
“Hey, Jack.”
“Tough news. I think you heard from Veler.”
“Managing expectations, right?”
“Koh. You are one smart cookie.”
“So how bad is it?”
“Not good. Fifteen thousand.”
“Oh,” DH nodded.
“I’m sorry, ” Jack said. “You look disappointed. It was the highest bonus of your class.”
“I billed 2700 hours. That is not a normal number. I was in this building easily over 3000.
I did nothing else last year except work.”
DH looked away from Jack to study the view of Beverly Hills behind him. They were on
the twelfth floor, and he could see other tall buildings on the other side of the boulevard and from

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 835
a distance, palm trees, several blocks parallel to them. He wished the numbers were different.
DH had been counting on something closer to $40,000, so he could pay off his school debts and
help out more at home. There was never any need to be rude to anyone but DH was exhausted
and in no mood to be polite. He felt like walking out.
“You’ve worked very hard, I realize. The firm appreciates your work. We had a decent
year but we thought we should limit our bonuses and salt some away for the future in case the
economic picture changes. It’s better for us to put money away rather than to have to cut—”
DH faced him, getting ready to leave. This was the speech nearly all the lawyers heard
even when the firm was making crazy amounts of money.
Jack raised his right hand to stop him from going.
“We really value you, DH.”
“Do you think I can make partner here?”
Jack didn’t reply.
“Oh. I see.”
“I can’t answer a question like that. You’re very young still. It could be another 5 or 6
years before you could be up for partner.”
“Wait, another 5 or 6? I thought it would be 4 or 5. Can’t you tell from my work quality
now if I have a shot”
“We do not want you to leave. You are a valuable member of the corporate department of
Willings & Cane, and we know you have options, DH.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 836
“I’m confused. I just asked a simple question. Do I have a shot? I didn’t say you had to
put it in writing. Do I have a shot of making partner?”
“Hard to say.”
DH inhaled then exhaled. He tried to clear his head.
Jack folded his arms and smoothed down his desk blotter. The reality was that it was
partners like him, who prevented associates like DH from getting ahead. Jack had no clients of
his own. Because his billable rate was so high and with too few clients of his own, he had been
made into a kind of administrator. Managing Partner sounded like an important job, but at
Willings & Crane, it was the job that no one really wanted.
The firm was going to bet that DH would stay another five or six years, but unless there
was a major boom, his corporate partners couldn’t justify another partner for a while. If anything,
they wanted to bring in some lateral hires from a peer firm who had clients of their own.
“I know you mean well,” DH said. “Thank you for talking with me.”
“Hey, man, don’t leave like that,” Jack said. “You want to have a drink? I can call the
wife and kids and tell them that I’ll be late.”
DH shook his head, thinking that even the offer to have a drink wasn’t even a real offer.
Had he said yes to drinks, he would have been the bad guy taking a husband and father away
from his family.
“I’m good, Jack. Thanks,” DH said and walked out. He looked over his messages and
realized that he didn’t care.
#

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 837
As soon as he entered Peter’s kitchen, DH removed his necktie and stuffed it into his jacket
pocket. He sat in the beige armchair by the patio doors. Mido was setting the table. Peter took
out containers from the freezer and put one in the microwave to defrost. He filled a stockpot with
water and set it on the large burner.
“Spaghetti and meatballs make everything better,” Peter said. When DH had called him
earlier with the bonus numbers, Peter just told him to come over.
“Man, you ok?” Peter asked.
DH had his head in his hands, his fingers clasping his thick black hair.
“I got fucked. Again,” DH said. “Fuckers fucked me. Why did I trust those assholes? I
did nothing but work, work, and more fucking work. I got the shittiest bonus last year, too. My
friends in the same kind of firms made three times what I made. But it’s not the bonus that pisses
me off — ”
“You still have a job, right?” Mido said, wanting to sound positive, but seeing his face,
realized she had said the wrong thing.
“Yes, I have a fucking job, and yes, I make a good salary, and yes, I am grateful to be
employed. However, I’m pretty sure that I will never make partner at this firm. I have the right to
have big fucking dreams just like the White guys whose deals I manage, contracts I negotiate and
draft, and—Fuck, fuck, fuck.”
Peter had not seen DH this bad in a while. He was more upset than when he was crying
after losing the big game their sophomore year to DH’s then nemesis, Jack McCurry, who played
for Penn.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 838
“How do you know you won’t make partner. That’s not for a while, right?” Mido asked.
“I asked. I asked if I had a shot. The bastard wouldn’t even answer. He said, ‘Hard to
say.’ Fuck, fuckers.”
Peter walked over to where DH was seated and mussed up DH’s hair.
“I’m sorry, kid,” he said in Korean. Although they had always been in the same grade,
Peter was almost a year older.
“Fuck, fuck, fuck.” DH laid his head on the back of the armchair.
Mido looked at Peter, who frowned. Neither knew what to say.
“You want to quit? I’m sure you can get another job,” Mido asked, wondering if he
would. She wouldn’t have, but DH was not like her.
“I’m starting to look tomorrow,” DH said. “You think our lives would have been different
if we never left?”
“Where?” Mido asked. “We lived in a lot of places.”
“We were born in the States. Isn’t it more logical to ask what would have happened if we
stayed in the States and didn’t move around so much?”
Peter handed DH a bottle of beer. “I’ve lived in Seoul, London, Massachusetts, New
York, Connecticut, and now, California. I like it here. I like my life. I don’t want to go back.”
“Maybe I should be you, then,” DH said. “I’ll marry a nice Korean girl and return to the
motherland. If I were you, I’d go back and live in Korea and join the business.”
“What?” Mido said.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 839
“Kidding,” DH said.
Peter turned down the flame on the boiling water.
“Be my guest. My mother has always liked you,” Peter said. “I am never doing that.”
“But is it possible that in Korea, I might have made partner at a firm and that you would
have been appreciated for being a great songwriter? It’s harder here for Asian guys—to make it
in business and entertainment.”
Peter nodded. “I get it.”
“I work for five white guys, and I do so much of their work, and they would make me do
more if it were possible. I am more qualified than—”
“You’re not wrong but I’m just not that political. I can’t make everything about race
because it’s too depressing. I know you worked your ass off, but would it have made you feel
better if the partner told you that you had a shot and you don’t? The economy is weird. Law firm
structures aren’t sustainable. That’s not to say they’re not assholes or that racism is not an issue.”
When DH opened his mouth, Peter said, “Koh, I’m on your side. It’s just that we can’t
prove anything. I don’t know if it’s about race or greed. It’s probably about money. If they had
it—”
“Nope.”
“Can you wait them out?” Mido asked.
“Doubtful.”
“Why?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 840
“Too top heavy,” DH said. “And I think they don’t think I’m partner material. I can’t
prove it. It’s just so different than when I was playing ball. Things were so much clearer. I was an
MVP on my team. My teammates voted me captain. The only thing that is clear is that my work
must be fucking fantastic because all the partners want me to be staffed on their deals.”
Peter sat down at the dining table a few feet away from DH’s armchair.
“I’m sorry, man. I’m sure you know a lot more about this than we do.”
“I’m going to get another job.”
Mido sat down opposite Peter.
“Great. Where?”
“I’m going to start looking in Korea. I know a headhunter who is scouting for American
lawyers in a massive firm based in Seoul.”
“Seriously?” Peter widened his eyes.
“Well, I’m going to look.”
“Can you practice there?” Mido asked.
“I can’t practice Korean law, but I can practice American law. There are two Korean
firms who want to grow their U.S. legal team. Maybe I can make partner there. I’ll need to bring
in business, but maybe I can get business in Korea.”
“Wow,” Mido said, never thinking that DH would be the one to return.
Peter slid the bowl of chips closer to DH.
“Yah—Eat something, kid. Eat something first. The partner thing will come. I don’t know

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 841
anyone more competitive than you.”
#
After DH drove back to his apartment, Mido and Peter cleaned up the kitchen.
“Would it have been better for me, too?” Mido asked.
“To be in Korea? No,” Peter said. “Korea can be tough on women. Ask my mother.”
Mido poured herself a glass of water. She was nervous enough as it was at the thought of
meeting her in several weeks when she was coming to visit.
“I guess my life. I wonder if it would have been easier elsewhere. I mean, it’s not bad
here. I mean, it’s really good in lots of ways.” She didn’t want to complain.
“You mean Sydney or Seoul?” Peter peered into her eyes. “School is cheaper in both
places, and you would have finished your degree. You probably would never have worked in a
hagwon. You might have married that guy Tek. He’s a big shot lawyer, right?”
Mido shrugged. Tek was now a barrister and now worked for himself. Tek had sent her an
announcement. She wrote him a note congratulating him, and he wrote her back. He hadn’t yet
married, he said, claiming work had taken over everything. Yun told her that he must be still
thinking of her since he wrote back right away.
“Can my brother get a legal job with a Korean firm based in Seoul?”
“Probably, but he won’t make partner unless he can bring in business.”
“How would he get business?”
“I can ask my mother. Do you want me to ask?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 842
“I don’t want DH to go back.”
“Same,” Peter said.
“But I never want him to feel slighted,” she said.
“Even if he makes partner, they’ll pay less than here, I think,” Peter said.
“I think he would make a good partner. Not that I know what makes a partner good. I
mean, he’s always working on big deals, and he works round the clock. In our family, it was
always Bo who was the smart one out of the three of us, and DH was the athlete, so it’s funny to
me that he went to all those Ivy League schools and became a corporate lawyer so young. I
wonder if it’s because DH was our mother’s favorite.”
“Your brother is a disciplined athlete. You have no idea how much work he can endure.
Even tonight, he didn’t drink. He got mad but he also ate his dinner and returned to the office.
He’s planning something. Man, I could never put up with all those people.”
Peter wiped down the counter with a clean cloth.
“I should get home,” Mido said.
He picked up his car keys.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 843

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 844
5:5 "Securitization"
5.
#
Shin served as the C.E.O. of their insurance agency; however, Danbi owned and controlled
Promise Realty, her real estate company. In her wallet, Danbi had two business cards, one as the
President of Shin & Jung Insurance and the other as C.E.O. of Promise Realty.
Flipping houses was easy. George tipped her off to excellent undervalued properties in
Santa Ana, Anaheim or Garden Grove. He taught her the 70% rule, so she never lost money after
repairs. Through him, the mortgage lenders, and real estate brokers, she assembled a team of
subcontractors, suppliers, and contractors to improve the fixer-uppers and sell the houses at a
profit. Every buyer, even those without a job, seemed to get a mortgage.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 845
Danbi created a checklist and revised it after each sale. After closing on a property, she
was able to put in a new boiler, repair the HVAC system, and update the kitchen and bathrooms
in a few months or so. Sometimes she replaced the windows because they raised the prices so
dramatically. Always, she gave the houses a fresh coat of cream-colored paint and made sure to
landscape properly. A few hydrangea bushes cost a hundred and fifty dollars but raised the curb
appeal about a thousand. It was a no brainer: Add flowers. Promise Realty sold good looking
houses—ones immigrant wives wanted to buy, and there were always lenders willing to make
deals with any buyer.
Already, she flipped six houses, often doubling her money. For now, she had two fixer-
uppers lined up to replace the one she was certain to sell. The hard money lenders wanted to
work with her, and sometimes, she pitted one against the others to shave off a point. George
called her a good student.
Whenever she had a question, George was happy to meet her. They had a standing date
on Saturday afternoons when Anna went to her hagwons for math, piano, and golf. When there
were flareups with her properties, he would find time for her during the week and even on
Sundays after church. She had a second Blackberry for her real estate business.
George wanted to see her at least twice a week. He kept nude Polaroids of her in his desk
and texted dozens of times a day. They had phone sex on the days they didn’t see each other.
When his wife Sobin made a point of snubbing her at church meetings, Danbi redoubled her
attention toward him, aroused by George’s single-minded devotion.
The colder George’s wife was to her, the hotter Danbi grew toward George. When she
bought costly lingerie, she didn’t think only of George; she thought of how Sobin could never

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 846
wear a baby pink silk brassiere and thong, and the thought alone of defeating an older woman
cruelly animated her.
If there was a rubric that a man had of what constituted a desirable woman, Danbi was
determined to outperform George’s wife in every category. Sometimes, it occurred to Danbi that
if only Sobin had been a little nicer, she wouldn’t have plucked off George as a low-hanging fruit
of female vengeance. Envy and anger toward a haughty well-off wife had caused Danbi to
seduce him and ruin his marriage.
Like most men, George wanted to rescue women, and it was easy for Danbi to be helpless
on command. Taehun Shin could not help her with real estate, and she didn’t tell him everything.
He was busy growing the insurance business and did not seem to mind Danbi’s foray into real
estate. “The business is doing fine,” she’d say, “I’m not losing money.”
Occasionally, she dipped into the customer’s premiums meant to be sent to the insurance
carrier—though only for a month or two. Always, Danbi returned the money and paid the
premiums on behalf of the customers, so there was no real harm.
Shin didn’t understand why Promise Realty was only in Danbi’s name. “If Promise
Realty was owned jointly, and if something happened to you, your wife and sons can try to claim
their share,” she reasoned. “Everything I have is yours. You know that. And I want to make this
company so I can have something to leave Anna.”
#
On Saturday, after the sitter took Anna to her hagwons, Danbi met George at the Hilton. Before
lunch, they bathed and made love. He kissed her when he was done. George left her on the bed,
put on a robe and opened the room service menu.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 847
“You should consider selling the Garden Grove houses. I think it’s a good time.”
“That’s crazy. I should wait a few months. I already have two offers on Magnolia Street,
and if I push out the kitchen on the bigger one, I can get so much more. Don’t you want a very
rich girlfriend?”
“I don’t think I was ever after your money,” he said, putting aside the menu. He towered
over her and grabbed her ass, and Danbi squirmed flirtatiously.
“You’re terrible.”
“I was after your heart. I am in love with you, Danbi Jung. Let’s run away.”
She kissed him to make him shut up. More and more often, he talked about love. Danbi
found it amusing that men thought women wanted love, when they were far more interested in
the practical realities of life. This arrangement was ideal for her. She enjoyed having two men.
Each served a different need. If she had more time, she could have taken another lover if he were
useful enough to her.
“I was on a call with some analysts and they’re talking bubble. My company just sold
several holdings in Irvine at a good price.”
“You should have sold one to me.”
She opened his robe and drew his hips closer.
He laughed.
“I like your ambition, pretty lady,” he said, “I can sell a few of your properties for you.
There are some buyers that I know who would—”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 848
She reached for him, and George closed his eyes and held his breath.
He wondered if the sex would be this powerful if they lived together. In college, with his
first girlfriend, he was able to have sex more than once a day. A personal record was three times
in 24 hours.
With his wife, he had stopped having regular sex almost a decade ago. They slept in the
same bed but except for a brief kiss goodnight, they never touched. He couldn’t remember the
last time he saw her body in daylight.
If he saw Danbi every day, would she be able to make him feel like a college sophomore?
If his wife left him or passed away, he’d force her to leave Shin. He would even raise Anna, who
was only in the second grade. Kids that young could handle a step parent, he figured. She seemed
like a good kid.
As Danbi continued to dote on him and impress him with her business acumen, George
grew more critical of his wife. At home, small things about her grated on him, things he’d never
noticed before.
Regularly, his wife boasted about herself, demanding credit for what she did at the kids’
schools, their church, and charity events. When her friends called on the phone, she soothed them
on the phone but when she got off, she ridiculed their little problems. The cackle of her laughter
and the loudness of her voice annoyed him. They were the same age, and she didn’t take care of
her figure. Whenever she saw someone in a restaurant or even on television who had work done,
she’d judge them severely, reciting the list of their procedures.
“Eyes, nose, chin, lips, and boobs. That’s so not her chin. Disgusting. Doesn’t she know
that she could die from unnecessary surgery?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 849
However, when their daughters wanted to get double eyelid surgery, she had allowed it,
saying it was different because that procedure was safe. Bigger eyes were prettier, she thought.
George wouldn’t have minded if Sobin wanted to get any procedures. The world was judgmental,
and he didn’t know why people couldn’t avail themselves to improvements.
Once in bed, Danbi sat up and picked up the hotel pen on the nightstand and tried to tuck
it underneath her right breast, and the pen had rolled off her rib cage.
“Why did you do that?” he asked.
“When the boob holds the pen, I’m getting my breasts lifted.”
“What?”
“You need a plan to preserve your assets.”
She was only 38, but looked far younger. When they went on trips as a couple, he could
see how men wanted her. Even after having a child, she could still wear a string bikini. His wife
had raised four kids well but she had not done other things. Danbi owned an insurance agency
and learned how to flip houses. He could not help comparing them.
There were times when George could not remember why he had married Sobin. On
holidays when the kids were home, George told himself that having an intact family was
important. However, as the kids grew more independent, he wondered what it would be like to
live in an empty house with his wife. Danbi made him feel young, sexual, and powerful. She
adored him and needed his counsel. When he didn’t see her, he looked forward to her texts and
had to be careful because he couldn’t get caught carrying both phones.
Danbi massaged him, and he grew more excited. Very gently, Danbi pulled back, still

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 850
keeping her hands on his erection. She was teasing him, making him wait.
“The two houses in Garden Grove are worth over a million. I’m going to flip them this
year. ” She sat up uncovered, looking proud.
“Yes, but you owe almost six hundred thousand on them,” he said, trying to mount her
but she held him off, smiling.
“You should sell one on Magnolia Street that’s pretty much done. If you want to wait
until the kitchen is done though—”
“I don’t want to. Make me.”
George laughed, more aroused by her petulance.
“Rates may kick up soon, and I don’t know if you’ll be able to keep up the payments. I
already loaned you fifty, and I can’t spot you much longer without being noticed—”
“I know I’m running out of cash but we can get more. Can’t we? I can pay it back as soon
as I sell the two but it makes more sense to wait a few more months. I feel it. I just know the
market will get even hotter.”
“I don’t have access to that kind of cash. Your payments are almost ten thousand per
month now, not including the cost of the improvements.”
She embraced him and moaned quietly in his ear.
“Everything is getting expensive. I read another report on securitization, and things could
always take a turn. That’s why I unloaded some of our buildings.”
“I don’t want to sell now. Why should I leave several hundred thousand dollars on the

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 851
table? I’m just starting.”
“If the rates go up, your payments will go up. You don’t have any cash coming in. You
are speculating right now, and you don’t want to lose the properties in case—”
“You wouldn’t let me lose.”
George got up and put on his robe. He tried to look stern.
“We’ve been through this, Danbi. I loaned you all my personal cash and last time we
borrowed some from the building fund to keep you at 70%.”
“We paid the church back.”
“Well, no. I paid the church back then—
“It’s been paid back. I do the same thing with the premiums. It’s not a big deal.”
“Bear Creek,” he said, and saw her eyes flash with interest.
“Will you get it?”
“If the Bear Creek deal works out, I might be able to save you one for an inside price.
That one, you don’t even have to do anything except find the buyer. You need to keep some cash
reserves instead of constantly buying. What will you do if we get found out? Will you take care
of me?”
“I will take care you right now,” she said, raising her eyebrows.
On paper, his company was richer than ever but even he felt over-leveraged. His father-
in-law wanted to be prudent and had insisted on selling some of their holdings. George had
always kept a modest, personal slush fund, but he had burned through it paying for hotels and

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 852
recently, when Danbi wanted to buy her most expensive house to flip, he had loaned her the last
of it, and when she wanted the second property, he had borrowed some from the church building
fund without anyone finding out. He was now using his salary to pay for these rooms and trips,
which wasn’t difficult, but her cash requests were getting harder to hide. Now and then, he
thought of buying a nest for them, but knowing Danbi’s requirements, he had to raise a lot more
money.
He sat down on the sofa and looked sober.
“Come back to me,” she said. “Or do I have to come get you?”
“What are your payments now? I was just estimating before.”
“Almost fifteen thousand a month with the HOA fees and taxes, not including my
contractors. I owe the contractors some more.” She didn’t want to admit that the contractor
needed an additional $40,000 for the foundation because they had hit utility lines and enormous
rocks while excavating. Already, she had pulled the maximum cash advances on all of her credit
cards.
“The last time you told me to sell, I held, and I was right. Wasn’t I?”
Two months prior, George had advised her to sell the properties in Santa Ana when she
had a cash shortfall, but she had held on another month and made an additional two hundred
thousand dollars. But immediately, Danbi had set her sights on even more expensive properties
to flip, leaving her with no spare cash. She kept running out of money even though her properties
grew more valuable.
“The market can’t always keep going up.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 853
“I have to trust my gut. It will go up. The bigger kitchen is going to get me another two
hundred thousand. I just know it.”
George smiled but didn’t say anything.
“How can I let them go?” she asked. The house on Magnolia Street was far nicer than the
ones she had flipped before. She also had her eye on a fixer upper in Anaheim with great bones.
“Can you borrow some more premium money from your agency?” he asked.
Danbi nodded. Routinely, she borrowed five or ten thousand from the business account,
which held customers’ insurance premium payments. Shin didn’t like her doing this.
“You can sell the Garden Grove houses and buy others later when there’s a dip. You
should have more of a cash cushion. Also, you’re taking all your profits and getting more
expensive places—”
“The bankers don’t mind. The lenders are fighting to lend me more money—”
“—You can give yourself some breathing room.”
“That last lead you brought me, I missed out on because there was that bidding war.”
“It’s not a big deal, baby. You just haven’t lost enough leads, so you think that was the
last one. There will be more. I promise.”
“Give me more. More,” she said, climbing out of bed to get him.
#
George wasn’t wrong. The rates went up, and her interest and principal payments increased.
Danbi withdrew $60,000 from the premium account of the insurance agency to make up the

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 854
difference and to pay the contractors. Shin noticed it and got upset.
“You can’t do that. We hold those premiums in custody for the clients who give us cash
and checks. That’s not our money. You need to put that money back.”
“Don’t you have more money?” she asked.
“No. You know exactly how much we have. Our personal joint account has been almost
zero since you started getting the properties, and whatever we have goes to our overhead. We are
stretched. I was thinking of firing our landscaper to save cash. We need to reduce our expenses.
Anna’s school tuition is coming up and our eight year old goes to three hagwons at two thousand
a month. I almost bounced a check last week”
Danbi did her best to look contrite and tried to make herself cry.
“I’m doing all this for Anna,” she said. “Why are you getting mad at me? If you were
divorced, I wouldn’t be so worried all the time about having to take care of my daughter.”
Shin went to the den, and she followed him to make him feel better. When he was done
and in the shower, Danbi sent a message to George on their Blackberry.
“After church?”
In an instant, as if he’d been waiting for her message, he replied, “Yes.”
After the eleven o’clock service, when others were having lunch, they would be able to
see each other in the office where the Finance Committee room usually met, which had a lock on
the door.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 855

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 856
5:6 "Value"
6.
#
Despite the long flight, Peter’s mother Renee appeared immaculate. Her dark bobbed hair looked
fresh from the salon, and her pretty face appeared well-rested, having slept almost eight hours.
Alert and pleased to be out of the airport, Renee focused on her only child.
“It was freezing in Seoul,” she said, staring out the windshield. The Southern California
weather never failed to astonish her. “It’s January, and I don’t have to wear a winter coat. Should
I move here? Would you like that?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 857
“Sure,” Peter said. “What would you do though?” His mother wasn’t serious, not that he
would’ve minded.
“I could work on my golf game and fix you dinner.”
Peter smiled. “I get home very late, and you’d be bored in a week.”
“Do you have to go back to work?” she asked.
“I’m good for the rest of the day.”
“Wonderful. Let’s go to the grocery store. I need to shop. Call your friends. Invite them to
dinner.”
#
Renee removed her dark sunglasses as they entered Zion Market. “Palm trees, sunshine, and all
the conveniences of Seoul. This is why you never come home, and your aging mother has to
come all this way to see you.”
“Aging? You’re not even sixty.” Peter pulled out a shopping cart from the others, and
Renee dropped her tote into the basket.
“Umma doesn’t look sixty, right?” Renee flexed her left bicep, not waiting for a reply. A
trainer came to her home gym twice a week and she’d been lifting weights. Her lithe form was
stronger than she’d been in years. “Son, tell me how you are. I want to know everything.”
“I have a girlfriend.”
“Oh?” Renee looked concerned. She had met Cesca briefly, and though she was beautiful
and charismatic, things had not gone well. “What does she do?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 858
“She’s a tutor at the hagwon.”
Renee raised an eyebrow, relieved. She directed them toward the meat section.
“Not an actor then.”
“No.”
“Is she nice? What’s she like?”
“You’ll like Mido. She’s great.”
“She’s Korean?”
He nodded, and his face grew blank. She knew him well enough to know that she had to
wait until he wanted to talk more about her.
“How long are you staying in this visit?” he asked, changing the subject.
“Three days. After this, I head to New York. I was hoping you might come with me to the
East Coast. We can go skating at Rockefeller Center. Remember when —”
“I have work, umma.”
“Right,” she said, inhaling deeply. “How is that?”
“I like running the new hagwon.”
“Really?” Renee considered her child’s face. He did seem much happier than the last time
she saw him. His face looked relaxed and tan.
“The kids are good, and they’re improving so much. I find it satisfying to see their
progress. Weird. I never thought I’d teach math.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 859
Renee smiled, thinking the same. Being a mother had surprised her. When he was born,
she had so many dreams for him, and all of them seemed absurd to her now. His father had
wanted him to be a judge or a professor, and she had wanted him to be an athlete because he
loved soccer so much.
After her divorce, Peter had become even more private and withdrawn. It wasn’t until he
ran away in England that she realized that none of her dreams for him mattered. When the police
found the 13 year old at Waterloo Station and returned him to his homestay guardian in New
Malden, Renee had instructed the guardian to let Peter stay home and not go to school until she
got there. On the plane from Seoul to London, Renee didn’t sleep for a moment, worried that
Peter might run away again. As soon as she was able to withdraw him from the school in
Wimbledon, she brought him back to Seoul.
Renee thought things were calmer with him until Peter left Yale and moved to California
to be with that actress. She hadn’t understood why he did that, and when Cesca threw him over
for another guy, Peter had taken it hard, refusing to leave his apartment or go to school. Again,
when Peter started working at Exodus and transferred to Pomona, all she thought was that
absolutely nothing mattered except for Peter being okay.
When her ex-husband got upset with his decision to leave Yale, she told him off.
“It’s people like you who make their children crazy.”
“Pomona is good, but he’ll have better options if he finishes Yale,” Peter’s father said. “It
has more name value.”
“He’ll have better options if he makes these decisions by himself. You don’t understand
him. You don’t even know him,” she said.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 860
“You don’t know how life works.”
“Fine. Our son still talks to me though,” she said.
#
As they put the groceries in the trunk, Renee looked up at the blue sky. “This sunshine!”
“You should move here,” Peter said, though he knew that would never happen.
“Maybe I should just to be close to you.”
“I’d be happy with that.” Peter meant this. He’d always gotten along with his mother,
who was unlike most people.
“How’s the music going? Any new songs?”
“I’m still writing, but I don’t know. My boss Lion and I play gigs now and then at this
restaurant, and we have a good local following. But I’m never going to — you know, make it
here. In the States. I see that now. My father tried to tell me—”
Renee didn’t say anything else. Her son had a remarkable voice, and often, whenever she
watched Music Camp or Music Band, she knew her ex-husband had been correct. If Peter stayed
in Korea, she would have been able to make introductions to television studios and record
companies, and once he got his chance, the fans would have loved him. No one could make a
star from just having contacts, but in Korea, he would have had a chance.
“You don’t want to come back home?” she asked.
“To Seoul? Oh, no. I like it here.”
“I miss you,” she said. “Your mother—” Renee tapped her chest, “—would like to see

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 861
you all the time.”
Peter smiled, having heard this ever since he left Seoul when he was a child.
“I know you are an adult. I’d leave you alone in Seoul. Just once a week. Saturday brunch
at my house.”
“We talk several times a week.”
“We send text messages several times a week. We might talk on the phone once a week
for maybe five minutes? Not enough. Not enough for this mother.”
“You know who wants to go back?” Peter asked.
Renee turned.
“DH. He told me that he’s interviewing with a big firm in Seoul that’s looking for
corporate associates from the States.”
“Really?” She looked thoughtful. “No problem. I’ll call the general counsel. They use all
the firms in Seoul.”
“Yeah? I know you don’t like doing that sort of thing.”
“Anything for DH. He’s your best friend and he’s a good lawyer. Korea needs more kids
like him to come back. All these young people keep leaving—” Renee shook her head, repeating
the things others said back home. She felt old-fashioned for saying this, but the more she thought
about it, the sentiments felt true. What would happen to Korea if all the young people who could
leave left? Why weren’t there enough opportunities in Korea for the next generation? She didn’t
want families like hers to be well-off and removed from the realities of ordinary people. If her
grandfather and grandmother hadn’t been so brave and diligent, she wouldn’t have had it so easy.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 862
“Can I tell him that you’ll make a call?”
“No, don’t do that. Make him come to dinner tonight.”
“I’ll see if he can get out of work.”
“I’m going to get him a job. And invite the girlfriend,” she said.
“My girlfriend?” Peter pointed to himself.
“Yes, and if DH has one, then her, too. Invite everyone. I bought enough food for a dozen
people.”
“Mido is DH’s younger sister.”
“Oh, right!” Renee slapped her thigh. “The one who put him through school. You told me
about his younger sister but I never met her. She couldn’t come to the graduations. I’ve only
spoken to Bo on the phone. Can he come to dinner?”
“I don’t know. Everyone could be busy. It’s very last minute.”
“I want to meet Mido’s parents, too.” Renee stopped, remembering that DH’s mother had
passed away.
“She was such a nice woman. I remember her from graduation. How is DH’s father
doing? Is he okay?”
“He manages a nail salon. With Lion’s wife’s mother.”
“Oh?”
Peter nodded. “It’s nice. DH’s aunt owns it.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 863
“Invite them, too.”
Peter looked at his watch. It wasn’t even one o’clock.
#
He called everyone. “My mom is here, and she’s cooking. She wants you to come to dinner.”
Renee said to be flexible about the arrival time but dinner would be served at 7:30pm.
The guys said yes. Yun, heavy in her third trimester, begged off. In the evenings, she was too
sleepy to stay out, but she insisted that Lion go. John and Nari were working late and Sonya,
who was still visiting from Seoul, was at the shop with them.
In a flash, Renee marinated bulgogi meat and prepared two kinds of stews, then started
on a cake, which took the longest. While she cooked, she made Peter put on recordings of Peter
and Lion playing their latest songs.
When the bell rang, the guest Peter expected to arrive the last came first.
“DH!” she shouted and opened her arms.
“Renee Ajumma!” DH yelled, bolting into the house like a child. He ran and hugged her.
He’d known her as a boy and felt closer to her than his aunt, who was a wonderful person, but
not nearly as fun as Renee Ajumma, who knew music from every era, old American films, and
had a broad and deep knowledge of cars and every country. Moreover, Renee knew more about
baseball and soccer than any man and understood the finer points of boxing, tennis, golf, squash,
archery, and rowing. She could remember details of nearly every Olympic game.
In Renee’s home office, her shelves were stocked with prized sports paraphernalia, gifts
from professional players and team owners. She was the only girl born in the third generation of

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 864
an important tire company, which was now publicly traded. With her excellent manners and
English skills, the men in her family’s company preferred her to attend important meetings with
foreign dignitaries and important overseas chief executives, because she could even talk to men
about cars and sports—safe topics, and she never said the wrong thing. Lovely and elegant, and
always appropriate, despite her divorce, she was treated like the family jewel. None of the
daughters-in-laws, even the ones from the more important Korean families could compare with
Renee.
Of course, everyone hoped that Peter, Renee’s only son, who was also well-liked would
enter the company. He wouldn’t be considered the successor, because each of Renee’s three
brothers had several children, and there were four cousins from her uncle’s side. Nevertheless,
the company would make room for Peter high up in the organizational chart if he returned.
DH put on an apron and started helping Renee.
An hour later, Lion and Mido arrived together, and as usual, Mido held back, remaining
quiet. Renee didn’t miss this. Bo called to say he couldn’t make it after all.
As the sheet cake cooled, Renee enlisted Mido to help her make the frosting, handing her
the confectioner’s sugar, cream cheese, and butter.
“Peter told me about all the wonderful things you’ve done for your family,” Renee said to
Mido in her British English. “I admire you.”
Mido shook her head and continued to mix the ingredients.
“You look a great deal like your mother, who I liked so much. We met at DH’s
graduation.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 865
Only a few people remarked on that. It was around the mouth.
“Peter said you’re an extraordinary teacher, able to reach the most difficult pupils.”
She felt shy, unable to speak around this worldly person, who seemed to envelop
everyone in the room with her charisma and warmth.
“I know we’ll be good friends,” Renee said. “My mother never cooked. I doubt she knew
where the kitchen was.” Renee laughed. “I always loved being in the kitchen, so I learned how to
make everything from our family cook. Korean food is healthy, and whenever I’m away and
don’t eat it regularly, I don’t feel well. That’s why I hired the Mrs. Ma for Peter. Her cooking is
very good, don’t you think?”
Mido nodded, never having met anyone like Renee. It felt like talking to a well-off
Western woman, rather than any of her mother’s friends or relatives. Renee was open about her
privileged background. Peter was more reserved.
“Do you like to cook?”
“I cook a lot but I can’t every day. Once a week, I prepare three large meals and pack
them up in smaller containers. I freeze a lot of dinners,” Mido said.
“I suppose I wouldn’t want to do it every day. When I cook, it feels like a holiday because
I don’t have to do it. When Peter lived at home, I didn’t cook every day. The cook did, but I’d
make his favorite dishes at least once a week, and always his birthday cake, a chocolate sheet
cake with cream cheese frosting, which I learned how to make from Kitty, my tennis coach. I’ve
seen him eat a whole one throughout the day.”
“When is Peter’s birthday? He won’t tell me.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 866
“Tomorrow,” Renee said. “Oh, Peter,” she muttered, looking in his direction. He was
busy laughing with Lion and DH.
“I had no idea.”
“He doesn’t like anyone to make a fuss.”
Mido paid close attention, wanting to know more about him.
“He never talks about school, his family background, or his birthday. It’s not true what
they say about singers.”
Mido didn’t understand.
“Singers are vain and love attention. I know a lot of them. Well, not Peter. He likes to
hang back.”
“I didn’t even know how old he was until my brother told me. His birthday is tomorrow?
Wow.”
Renee nodded, remembering the icy January morning when her labor pains began then
almost a full day later, she became a mother.
“This is his favorite cake, and I see your frosting is almost done.”
Mido looked down at the bowl of creamy, white frosting.
Renee slathered a dollop of frosting on the cake and began to spread it evenly.
“No one in the family likes chocolate cake except for Peter and me. They always say it’s
too sweet, but I don’t think so.” Renee smiled brightly.
Her excitement was infectious, and Mido smiled back. Her mother had cooked every day

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 867
but never baked. Birthday cake was store-bought, and if they had dessert, it was fresh fruit. Her
mother had loved cake, too.
As she watched Renee bustling about the kitchen, Mido felt like she understood Peter a
little better. He wasn’t just a guy who was good at math and singing, he was her cherished son.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 868
5:7 "American Hagwon"
7.
#
Renee promised not to get in the way, and she didn’t.
In Peter’s lecture class, she sat all the way in the back of the room and took notes. After
class, she insisted on paying for two of Fortress’s proprietary study guides, and while Peter
taught his smaller classes where she’d be more noticed, Renee went to the Teacher’s Lounge to
solve practice problems. The other tutors didn’t know what to make of the chic woman in the
thin black turtleneck, brown leather pencil skirt and narrow calf boots.
Valerie, an S.A.T. tutor who worked on Saturdays, stopped by Mido’s office. A skinny

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 869
graduate student in a hunter green hoodie and blue jeans fiddled with the straps of her gray
knapsack while sipping coffee from a paper cup.
“The lady in the leather skirt. New tutor?”
“Peter’s mother,” Mido said.
Valerie nodded, now seeing the resemblance: the large, deep-set eyes; thick dark hair; and
creamy complexion. Peter dressed so simply that it was hard to imagine such a rich looking
mother.
“Why is she doing practice tests?” Valerie asked.
“Good question. No idea.” Mido threw her hands up.
#
In the afternoon, Lion came by Fortress. Renee had moved to Peter and Lion’s shared office and
was now doing reading comprehension passages.
“Thank you for the amazing dinner last night. I haven’t eaten so well in a long time,”
Lion said.
“Does your wife Yun cook?”
“Oh, yes, Yun is an excellent cook. Like her mother. She enjoyed the slice of chocolate
cake I brought back. ”
Renee smiled. “Mido mentioned that Yun’s family helped her family a great deal.”
“I think they helped each other.” Lion gathered the documents he needed from his desk.
“I think Mido is teaching her essay seminar now,” he said looking at the schedule chart on the

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 870
wall.
Renee nodded. Both Peter and Mido were teaching. She knew their whole day. After
class, they had two college consultation meetings. Then they’d finish their work.
“I was told that Mido has not finished college. Is that normal for hagwon work? In Korea,
one cannot tutor at a hagwon like this one unless the tutor has graduated,” Renee said.
Lion nodded. “Mido is a special case. To be frank, I don’t know if I would’ve hired her to
be a tutor if she hadn’t proved herself so remarkably.”
Renee remained silent, wanting Lion to keep talking.
“She’s my wife’s childhood friend. Initially, we hired her to help us out with
administrative things, then gradually, we noticed that she was good with young kids at Exodus
— that’s our center in Cypress.”
Renee nodded.
“But she studied on her own and took practice S.A.T.s, and one day, she registered for it,
and got a perfect score on the first try. I suppose it shouldn’t surprise me really because she was
at the University of Sydney. She’s strong in both English and Math. Normally, I hire only college
graduates or people with advance degrees—teachers, graduate students, and people like Peter
who come from creative fields. We started her out with a small high school class in verbal, and
their kids improved dramatically. Then when we started with college counseling, DH thought
she’d be good with the essay sections, and Mido said she’d try.”
“And I suppose she was good at it?”
“For the verbal section of the S.A.T., her students routinely improve a hundred or even

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 871
two hundred points, which is very hard to do. She gets them to do the work of critical reading
and memorizing all those words. Her students have the best scores. She could teach more
sections if she wanted.”
“What’s her secret?”
Lion furrowed his brow. He knew she was digging for more information about her son’s
girlfriend.
“Hard to say.”
“Try,” Renee prompted.
“She cares about them. I’ve come to believe that kids can’t learn unless they feel that you
care about them.”
“Oh?”
“Mido spends more time on each student than what’s required. She writes them notes and
gives each of them different things to read based on the personality and interests of each child.
As a college essay consultant, I think she’s one the best in the field. She gets them to write these
astonishing essays. Some of them are so good, they can be published, I think. Mido is much
better than I am as a college consultant. The kids talk to her.”
“I thought you were going to say the kids listen to her.”
“No. The kids talk to her, and she listens to them.”
Renee thought about that. Even the night before, she could tell how carefully Mido paid
attention to everyone.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 872
“Does she need to finish college?”
“Not to have this job, as far as I’m concerned.”
“I see. I wish the students in Korea had a teacher like her,” Renee said.
“Well, our students are Korean,” Lion said. “They’re mostly American citizens but almost
all are ethnically Korean.”
“I mean, the students in Korea. Not the Korean-American ones. They already have
wonderful things here.”
“What do you mean?” Lion asked.
“The students in Korea are anxious. They work all the time and hardly have time to
breathe let alone sleep. All of my friends’ children in international schools are under so much
pressure. You should open a hagwon in Seoul. You can make millions.”
Lion frowned. “I don’t think so.”
“Why not? I can back you. You could have Fortress Seoul”
“My kids need us here.”
“You can make more money there, especially with high school students.”
He glanced at his mud covered sneakers. Yun had mentioned opening another location in
Orange County, but he felt terrible about how unfair it was for the kids who could afford to have
great tutors like Peter and Mido, while others could never have them. Fortress was not the most
expensive hagwon in Irvine but it wasn’t cheap and definitely not free.
It had never been Lion’s goal to get rich through teaching. He had wanted to be a

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 873
musician and not a burden to his family. Somehow, he’d become a famous hagwon owner and a
part-time local musician. He played his music several times a week, but he knew he’d never tour
to promote the Zekes. Every day, he thought of the prospect of the baby, and it thrilled him to
think of having a family with Yun. What he had once yearned for had changed, and surprisingly,
making his music second, third, or even fourth in his life, didn’t bother him as much as he
thought it would have when younger.
“How much do the Fortress tutors make per annum?” Renee asked.
Lion looked up. Yun knew the figures better than he did.
“Starting base is $65,000 but Peter and Mido make more. They do a lot of administrative
work and of course, college consulting, which is more lucrative. As of last year, Peter and Mido
get a percentage of the net profits of Fortress. However, they know that the profits from Fortress
subsidize Exodus, which has a much poorer population—the newer immigrants. We can keep the
fees at Exodus low because Fortress earns so much more.”
“You could charge more then?” Renee appeared confused.
“I created Fortress because several parents asked me to open something like this for high
school students in Irvine, and because Peter and Mido could handle them. Yun thought it would
be a financial success but I hadn’t realized how well-off the people are in Irvine and Newport
Beach. And now, we depend on Fortress. Without its success, we’d have to change the fee
structure of Exodus.” Lion didn’t mind talking about the business model. Often, he wondered if
what he was doing made sense to anyone else.
Renee considered Lion’s bemused expression. Peter mentioned that Lion was a noble
character like Robin Hood, wanting to take from the rich and give to the poor, but she hadn’t

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 874
understood what he meant until now. Lion’s sincerity was evident, almost to the point of naïveté.
“Aren’t you concerned about Korea?”
“What do you mean?”
“The children of Korea are suffering. From too much pressure. The middle class and
upper middle class want their kids to study abroad because there’s limited spots in the top
Korean schools, and in a global economy, candidates who have exposure to the West do better.”
“If you opened a great hagwon in Seoul for Koreans students who want to study in
America, then maybe you can send more Korean kids to the U.S. There are so many great
schools here, and most of the Koreans only know the Ivies. You can tell them about the other
great schools. Then more Koreans would have a chance.”
“Is that a good thing? For more Korean kids to go to the U.S.?” Lion didn’t know the
answer himself. “Also, wouldn’t I just be helping more rich kids get into the highly selective
schools beyond Harvard, Yale, and Princeton? International students don’t even get financial aid,
so we’d only be helping students who already have all the resources. If we helped a student who
didn’t have resources, then what do we do when he can’t pay the full tuition where he’s
accepted?” Lion shook his head.
“If you opened a Fortress in Seoul, then the money you raise there could help you expand
Exodus in Cypress. Then you can help more poor kids here. Or you can open an Exodus in
Seoul, too. What do you think? You can do both. I bet if you opened a college consulting hagwon
in Seoul then the profits from that company would fund at least another fifty kids at Exodus or
maybe more.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 875
“In fact, I can guarantee that with just a little word-of-mouth, you can get a hundred
students in Seoul to apply immediately. Or we can do a press conference and try this
experiment.”
“We already have students who fly from Korea just to work with Mido, which must be so
expensive. I mean she’s great but—”
“I have buildings in Daechi-dong, and you can have two floors in the same one as Eagle
Academy, a hagwon Peter attended. Hagwons don’t have to be on the main floor.”
“Why would you do that?”
“Because I was able to study in England and America. It changed my life. I always
thought it would be great to create my own school which was more globally focused but this
could be a way to keep costs down for you since I’ll donate the space and I can help with the
visas and start up capitalization.”
Lion didn’t say anything. He was thinking.
“You could help poor kids here or in Seoul with the profits.” Renee studied Lion’s face.
She knew people made deals if the offer aligned with their motivation. Lion wanted to be fair in
an unfair world. She felt almost noble herself coming up with this idea. Renee wanted to work
with him, feeling certain that her brothers would help out through the company’s foundation.
“Think about it,” Renee said.
#
She left for New York on Tuesday morning to meet her brother who was meeting some people
who would be in town during the U.N. General Assembly. Peter stayed behind.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 876
He hadn’t been alone with Mido while his mother was staying with him. After work, she
came over. They were going to defrost something for dinner.
“I think you should move in,” he said.
“What? No, I don’t think so.”
“My mother has this crazy plan. Did Lion tell you?”
Peter opened the refrigerator and scanned its contents.
“Your mom is cool,” Mido said.
“Agreed. She still has this nutty plan. For us to save Korean children.”
“Huh?”
“She wants Lion to open a Fortress and eventually an Exodus in Seoul. The same model
and we’d work there. She’s willing to back it for two years even if it doesn’t show a profit. I
think the family foundation would support it. She just said not to worry.”
Mido sat down near the window.
“How many students?”
“You’re serious?” Peter pulled out glass containers from the freezer and set the pot of
soup over the range to heat. He checked the rice cooker, which was full of steamed white rice
with barley and mixed beans.
“If we could recruit good teachers and provide housing and excellent pay, then we could
create a new kind of hagwon,” she said.
Peter stared at her, puzzled.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 877
“Where would it be?” she asked.
“She has a few buildings in Gangnam which we can use. Apparently, there’s space in
buildings in Apgujeong and Daechi-dong,” he said.
“My aunt lives in Apgujeong,” Mido said. “Can we have nice dorms for the tutors?”
“I guess,” he shrugged. “My cousin owns hotels, and some of them are higher-end
gositels. I can’t imagine we’d need that many rooms. My mother has always wanted to start a
school. Thinks it would be easier to open a new kind of hagwon rather than starting another
international school.”
Mido snapped open the tops of the side dish containers and set them on the table. Peter
ladled soup into bowls.
“If Bo stays here with our father, then I can try this.”
“You can’t teach the students because you don’t have a college degree but you can train
the tutors and manage the company, I guess?” Peter ate half of a pickled egg as his mind started
to work this out.
“Maybe if we did this, we can help more kids. Give out scholarships and lower the fees—
mix up the kids who pay full fare and the kids who don’t. We can train tutors to focus on
customizing the learning. There are lots of college graduates and teachers who want to work in
Korea, and —” Mido grew more excited at the idea of taking Fortress to Korea. She felt like
calling Yun to discuss it with her.
“I like it here. Don’t you?” Peter looked worried.
“Yes, I do. We wouldn’t go there forever.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 878
“Don’t kids need us here?”
“Yes, I think so, but I’d like to try this. Maybe we can do something different, and
somehow be more fair. I mean, unless you don’t want to do it. I wouldn’t do it without you,” she
said.
“So you won’t move in with me but you’d be willing to go to Seoul to open an American
hagwon. I can’t imagine a country that needs private tutors less than Korea. There are thousands
and thousands of hagwons there. A lot of them are really great ones. Korea is doing just fine
without us.”
“Yes, but it wouldn’t be ours. We could bring them what we’ve learned here, and we can
learn from there what we don’t know here—”
Peter leaned his head against his left hand and considered everything the others had
said—first, his mother, then Lion, and now, Mido. He didn’t know if this was a good idea, but
none of them seemed to think it was a terrible one.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 879

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 880
5:8 July 2006 "Repatriation"
8. July 2006
#
Renee made calls, and both DH and Mido found themselves in Seoul. Of course, Peter came, too.
In March, the law firm Kim & Gong hired DH. As soon as the offer was in writing, he
quit Willings & Crane. His aunt Sonya helped him to lease a large one-bedroom apartment in
Yongsan, a few train stops from his offices in Jongno. DH started his new job in April.
In May, Tom Song, the owner of Eagle Academy, reached out to Lion and floated the idea
of a joint venture to create Fortress Seoul. To create the pilot program, Tom’s former students,
Peter and Mido went to Seoul in June.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 881
Although Renee lived in a large house in Hannam-dong, Peter did not want to live with
his mother. She found him a three bedroom unit in Complex 1 at the Apgujeong Hyundai
Apartments where Sonya’s family also lived. He wanted Mido to stay with him; however, Mido
moved in with her brother DH.
Their aunt Sonya had returned to Seoul. Inexplicably to nearly everyone, she was now
living alone in a newer building in the large complex, separated from her family but only a five
minute walk to the Mun’s primary residences. When Sonya offered Mido a spare bedroom, she
declined her aunt politely, “I haven’t lived with my brother DH since he left for Andover, and
Dad wanted me to check on him. Ever since Mom’s gone, DH calls less often.”
From adolescence, the three Koh children lived apart. DH was the first one to leave home
for boarding school in Massachusetts. When Mido lived in Sydney after their father was re-hired
but effectively demoted at HRT, Bo remained in Seoul to study for the suneung for Yonsei
University. In California, Mido lived with Bo and their parents, but DH lived alone in New York
for law school then in Los Angeles for work.
After Helen passed away, Bo had become even more serious, focused on getting his
Ph.D. in six years. While Mido was in Seoul, he went home to Cypress every weekend to be with
his father.
People remarked how rarely the three Koh siblings fought or didn’t get along. The causes
were simple. They didn’t live with each other, and as a family, they had been through too many
things. For always, Helen taught her children: “You are responsible for your siblings. They
should be your strongest allies.” Certainly, this was not true for many families, but for Helen, her
sister Sonya and brother Kenny had been her refuge and balm in a hostile world. She wanted this

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 882
for her own children, too.
Mido hadn’t been able to live with her brothers for very long, because they were studying
in different countries, and now she wanted to live with DH, the only one who still made jokes.
He wouldn’t accept rent from her, so she did the housekeeping. The day she arrived in
Seoul, DH was at work and couldn’t get away. He left a key for her. Soon enough, she learned
that he was always at work, and even when he went out, it was also for his job. When he came
home, she was asleep, and when she was awake, he was asleep.
From the first day, she scrubbed his bathroom, washed loads of laundry, and stocked his
kitchen with food and beverages beyond the half empty case of ramen, water, and beer she had
found in it. She bought him a vacuum cleaner and pots and pans.
Two days after she arrived, while she was making toast and coffee, he stumbled to the
kitchen and wordlessly, took the mug of coffee from her hands.
“Hey—”
“—Rent,” he said, taking a sip. Even exhausted, DH had a beautiful smile.
Dark circles shadowed his large dark eyes, and he looked paler than she’d ever seen him.
He had lost weight, appearing less like an athlete, his usual self.
“You okay?” she asked, pouring herself another cup.
He dropped his head on her shoulder.
“Don’t go back to Cypress. I’m sure Bo is taking good care of Dad.”
“I never see you though.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 883
She frowned at what he was wearing. He had fallen asleep in his dress shirt and boxer
shorts. Mido picked up a tissue.
“Close your eyes,” she said, and he obeyed, allowing her to wipe away the sleep near his
tear ducts.
“Thank you,” he said, sounding like a child.
“Well, at least you took off your socks. You know, the first day I did the laundry—”
“Yes, thank you for that—”
“—No, no, it’s fine. It was funny because I found all these black balled up socks on your
bedroom floor, and every time I had an even number, I thought I found all the mates, but then,
another one would appear in some random corner of the room.” Mido had marveled at the
disparate locations of all the balled up socks. “How many pairs of black socks do you own
anyway?”
“I don’t know. I don’t do laundry, and it’s so cheap to buy them here.”
“Wow. Just wow.” She shook her head.
“Oh, don’t be like that. I don’t even have time to sleep. I’m not used to all this drinking
either. I have no idea how people can drink so much. The women can put away so much soju—”
“Is it bad?”
“Actually, I really like it here. I’m not crazy about all the after hour stuff but the work is
interesting, and I’m learning a lot. My Korean is getting amazing. I might live here.”
“Forever?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 884
“Yeah, maybe. Everyone is always offering to introduce me to their daughter, sister,
friend—”
Mido raised her eyebrows, not that she was surprised.
DH shrugged. It had never been difficult for him to meet women but here, he felt like a
prized stud bull. It didn’t hurt that everyone knew that Renee Son, the director of THT
Corporation backed him, ensuring that he’d make partner as long as his work held up.
“Are you going to find a wife here?” Mido buttered the triangle of toast and handed it to
her brother, and DH swallowed it in two bites.
“Do we have eggs?” he asked.
Mido opened the refrigerator and pulled out a carton.
“Do you have time to eat?” she asked. “You’ve lost weight.”
DH nodded. “I want six fried eggs and a pan of bacon. Fatten me up, please.”
Mido nodded and started cooking.
He sat down near the small round dining table.
“I’m not get married right away. I’m kind of picky. Besides, I need to prove myself here.
It’s only been three months, and I want to make sure that I do a good job. I can’t let Peter’s mom
down.”
When the bacon was done, she used some of the fat to fry the eggs. DH ate two more
slices of toast with butter and jam. Mido felt happy cooking as her brother chattered away.
“I think I could make partner here, or at least go back to the States with a lot of really

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 885
cool experiences. I was doing good M&A work in Los Angeles, but here, the transactions are at a
whole other level because there’s so much I don’t know.”
DH picked up a pair of chopsticks and selected a piece of bacon from its pan.
“It’s too hot,” she warned.
Over the sink, he blew on it dramatically and crammed the entire piece into his mouth.
“Bo is still dating Priscilla, right?” he said chewing, “He’s older, so he should get married
first.”
“Birth order? You really have become more Korean,” she said, placing his breakfast plate
in front of him. She dropped more bread into the toaster.
“My first home cooked meal in Seoul,” he said, looking grateful, and dug in.
“You can’t leave,” DH said, admiring his suddenly well-organized apartment. On the
counter, there was a basket of bananas, apples, and tangerines; in the open cupboard, he spotted
his favorite boxes of cereal, crackers, tinned fish, and jars of crunchy peanut butter and grape
jelly; and in the refrigerator, she had stocked it with regular and chocolate milk, eggs, tofu,
bacon, and pyrex containers of side dishes. The bathroom was cleaner than in its move-in
condition. “Mommy would want it this way,” he said, smiling.
“You’re kind of a beast.”
“Not true,” DH said. “Almost every day, a stranger tells me that I am exceptionally nice
looking. I had no idea how appealing I was until I moved to Seoul. Just last week, I was on the
train, and a woman who works for an ad agency scouted me to model.”
Mido’s two thumbs touched and index fingers pointed upward to make the letter W with

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 886
her hands. Whatever. Her hagwon students made this sign to dismiss people who annoyed them.
“I threw away your shower curtain liner. I tried using the disinfectant spray in your
bathroom cabinet but—” Mido made a face of disgust. “Have you always lived like this? I guess
at Andover and Yale, someone else probably cleaned the public bathrooms, but when you went to
law school in New York, I hope you weren’t this gross.”
He smiled sweetly, and Mido imagined even their normally serious mother unable to keep
from smiling back at him. Seeing his face made her miss their mother.
“I’m sorry, Mido. Your brother is repulsive and has filthy habits. I apologize,” he said,
hanging his head repentantly. “I work harder here than I did in L.A.”
“Don’t you have a girlfriend yet? Maybe she can help you find—?
“That’s very sexist, Mido,” DH said, smiling again, looking pleased with himself for
pointing this out to her. “Finding a woman who cooks and cleans has never been a priority. I’m
shocked that you could—”
“That’s not what I meant. Most women I know don’t cook and are not interested in
picking up after a man. But gosh, hygiene does matter. You didn’t even own a vacuum cleaner.
How is that possible? And there’s nothing to eat in the house. Anyway, I thought maybe a
girlfriend or any woman in your office might know how you can hire someone when I’m not
living here anymore.”
“Are you leaving?” DH looked devastated. “No, Mido—”
“I don’t mean now, I mean when—”
“I eat out every meal, and it’s cheaper to buy socks and underwear—”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 887
She could imagine her mother or aunt saying that he needed a wife, but that sounded
absurd to say in 2006. Bo was an excellent cook and cleaned better than most people.
“Are you going to get married?” DH asked. Ever since he learned that she was dating
Peter, he was expecting an announcement.
With a new sponge, Mido swept up the toast crumbs from the counter. DH could tell that
she wasn’t talking.
“Is he at least being nice?”
Mido nodded.
“He better be,” DH said, crossing his arms.
“What are you looking for in a girlfriend or wife?” It had never occurred to her before to
ask. “Every woman you’ve ever dated has been good looking.” Mido had only met two briefly in
Los Angeles and seen photographs of some of the women he dated. “I noticed that all of them
have long hair and are curvy.”
DH nodded. “Guilty.”
Mido waited for him to continue. He was thinking, having learned even more about
women living in Seoul.
“I also need good conversation. I want to be with a woman who is smart. And ambitious.
She also has to be nice.”
Over the years, DH had dated many women. However, except for the beautiful Christina
Suh, his first serious girlfriend at Yale who broke up with him to date a graduate student, DH
hadn’t been in a longterm relationship with anyone. Conscious of money and loans, and ever

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 888
forecasting before taking action, DH had intended to make partner in Los Angeles first then find
someone to marry, but he had changed his course by finding work in Korea.
If DH wanted a wife, of course, he could have found one. However, he wanted to be
madly in love when he was financially prepared for a wife and children. Growing up and
watching his mother work all the time, DH wanted to be well off enough that if his wife didn’t
want to work, she wouldn’t have to. He had every intention of paying off all of his law school
loans, take care of his father, pay for Mido’s education, so he intended to make partner at this law
firm, or return to the States and find a large firm that would want his experience in Korea. At 28
years old, DH felt no rush to get married. Privately, he figured Mido would marry before all of
them.
A day didn’t pass without someone wanting to introduce him to a marriageable woman.
He declined most offers but now and then, when he couldn’t refuse, he found himself sitting in a
hotel lobby coffee shop, talking to a single woman from a good family who was interested in
marrying an American, Ivy-League educated lawyer. Naturally, the dates were awkward but
tolerable. Sleeping with any of them was out of the question, because sex would imply a
seriousness that DH did not yet feel.
Thus far, of all the arranged dates, he had found two women appealing, bright, and
interesting: one was a surgeon and another a sociology professor. Neither of them seemed
concerned with his housekeeping, or childbearing, though he knew that eventually, some of that
would matter because he could do neither well. They could hire a housekeeper but someone
would have to take care of the children if they had any. It was hard to think that far ahead, so he
didn’t pursue either. DH could imagine marrying a Korean woman but it occurred to him that it
would be easier if she were also American.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 889
Neither the surgeon nor professor was anything like his mother, aunt, or sister—willing to
sacrifice everything for their family. The women seemed like brilliant students, which attracted
him, but he wondered if they would like him if he hadn’t been educated at Andover, Yale, and
Columbia Law School. He only felt this way because they brought up his educational resume
several times during the brief date. Without any self-consciousness, the surgeon had said, “I
could never be with someone who didn’t graduate from an Ivy League college.”
DH thought it was weird, but he had to admit that he wouldn’t marry a woman unless she
was also gorgeous and hot in bed, which may be far more superficial than his educational
history.
The other thing that disturbed him about living in Seoul was how often his colleagues
went to room salons. In his three months, he’d been asked to go to them half a dozen times. DH
didn’t like to drink, and he really had no wish to sleep with a prostitute, which made it awkward
when he said no.
After a few glasses of wine, one beautiful young woman, an aspiring actor, had offered to
go upstairs to the attached hotel with him for a fee. When DH said no, the men seemed more
surprised than the woman, who moved on to his colleague, who was more than happy to follow
her.
DH enjoyed talking to the women, because he liked talking and the women seemed fun
and interesting at first. Two young hostesses told him that they were working there to send their
siblings to school, and he’d been moved by them, because it had reminded him of how Mido had
worked at the hagwon to pay his and Bo’s tuition.
Later, when DH relayed the stories to a fellow lawyer who brought him to the room

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 890
salon, his colleague, a wealthy Korean who, like him had been educated in the States, told him,
“Don’t get played, man.”
The sad stories weren’t always true. “The girls want to make easy money pouring drinks
or work on their backs for the idiot then nail him for bigger payouts. Watch out if they start
messaging you with ‘Oppa, buy me this or buy me that.’ In fact, don’t give them your number
unless you like them, and no matter what, never believe their sob stories. You can’t believe how
many foreigners fall for that shit.”
DH passed his clean plate to Mido.
“Thank you for breakfast. It was outstanding. You are the greatest. Peter doesn’t deserve
you.”
Mido laughed.
“I should just live with Peter. His place is amazing,” DH said.
“Yes, Peter’s place is also very clean.”
“He has help,” DH retorted. “Not that I begrudge him. I owe that dude everything.”
Peter had a different life from them. He was generous and worked harder than anyone but
when it came to domestic matters, his family money removed ordinary friction from daily life.
“How do you like it here?” DH asked.
Mido looked at him. “Seoul?”
“No, this apartment. Should I get something bigger? I could have gotten something else
but I was trying to save money.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 891
“It’s nice,” Mido said, thinking that she’d hurt his feelings but she hadn’t meant to. “This
is way nicer than our first place in Cypress. Thank you for letting me stay with you.”
“Are you really not going to stay at Peter’s?” DH asked.
“He asked me to, but I have to be careful. Apparently the press tracks Peter’s personal
life, and even Fortress Seoul is getting a lot of media attention. Dad wouldn’t like reading about
me in the papers—”
“The papers? They would report on you dating Peter? So what?”
“That’s what Peter said.”
“Besides, you’re going to marry him, right?”
Mido made a face and didn’t say anything.
“I didn’t realize what a big deal his family was until I started working at the firm. His
family has a lot of money. Crazy amounts.”
Mido shrugged. “It has nothing to do with me. I don’t want to marry him.”
“What?”
“I mean, we’re not getting married.”
“Ever?”
“Nope.”
“You think if you sleep at his place the press will find out?”
“They could.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 892
“Dad can’t possibly think that you’re a virgin,” DH said.
Mido shrugged. “He has never asked, and I will never tell.”
Dad would not sanction living with a man without marrying him, and it did not seem
likely that they’d get married anytime soon or ever. Peter never brought up the subject, and Mido
no longer knew how she felt about marriage. She liked being with him. Next to Yun, he was her
closest friend. They loved each other; however, despite all their years together, marriage meant
different things to each of them. For Peter, marriage was a burden that would change everything.
“Dad’s never going to check if—”
“—I know, but I don’t want to lie to him.”
“So I’m kind of a beast and you’re kind of a liar.” DH laughed, and Mido put the dishes
in the sink.
Renee had advised Peter that unless he and Mido were engaged, they needed to be
careful. The director of an educational center would be judged for spending the night with a
woman. Every major newspaper had a reporter dedicated to the THT Corporation and the
owner’s family members. Peter had managed to stay out of the press by staying overseas. As the
only child of the only daughter of the THT family, journalists and the public were interested in
his life.
“Who cares?” Peter had argued only a few days ago about Mido’s refusal to sleep over.
She agreed that Peter’s mother was right to be cautious. The more she stayed here, the more she
could see why Peter had refused to come back.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 893

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 894
5:9 April 2007 "Whale"
9. April 2007
#
“You told me to sell. But you were wrong. I could’ve made more,” Danbi said. “I should’ve
stuck to my instincts. You owe me. Pay up.”
George didn’t say anything. He stroked her hair, wanting to calm her down. She was
bringing up the Magnolia Street house again.
“I’m still upset with you. I listened to you even though I felt that if I waited, I would’ve
made more. The buyer flipped it two months later. I could’ve made that $200,000, which would
really help me right now.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 895
Squaring her shoulders, Danbi pushed out her chest and pouted as she watched him
unbutton the front of her white dress. He let her keep talking. She leaned closer to him and blew
lightly into his ear. He pushed her away gently then bent down to remove her underwear. He
stood up to face her.
Her front exposed, Danbi placed both her arms around George’s neck, and he lifted her
bare legs over his torso then backed her into the wall.
“Did you talk to the developer at Bear Creek?” she asked, licking his ear lobe. “Can you
get me that model house for 2.5? Vice Chairman Han said he’d buy it for 3.5. He’s coming to the
States next month.”
George closed his eyes and rocked against her, and Danbi swore at him quietly, telling
him to hurry, to make her come, which excited him more. As he moved faster, Danbi jerked away
and smiled.
He grabbed her hand but she freed herself and laughed like a young girl, knowing that he
liked her teasing.
In front of the curtained hotel window, Danbi slid out of her dress then her blush-colored
brassiere. She got on her knees and put her hands on his hips. Danbi looked up at him, wide
eyed, mouth parted slightly.
“Tell me. Did you talk to the man at Bear Creek? I have a million from the lender, and I
have $450,000 for this deal. You said you can get me the rest. I’ll pay you back the day after the
closing.”
Danbi started working on him and as he grew more excited, she pulled away then moved

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 896
toward the bed where she’d left her black leather pumps. She slipped on her shoes and stood at
the foot of the bed, her hands covering her breasts. George liked it when she broke up the
lovemaking into segments, forcing him to follow her lead.
“Where am I going to get a million and fifty thousand dollars?” George said, smiling.
“From the building fund. No one will notice. You’re in charge.”
“1.05 million is different than a hundred thousand,” George said. Twice, as the head of
the real estate and building committee at Gospel Presbyterian Church, George had taken money
out for Danbi’s acquisition then returned the funds. Ever careful, he adjusted the records and
prepared invoices just in case. No one ever questioned the disbursements and repayments. In
effect, there was no money missing in the building fund which had 6.7 million for the land
purchase and construction of the new meeting center. None had ever bothered to review the trail
of funds.
“We’ll return it right away,” she said, bending over the bed, and looking at him over her
shoulder. “It’s a bridge loan. I’ll tithe just like last time. I promise. I promise.”
George stood behind her, placing his hands on her rear end.
“The church will make ten percent,” she said.
“It’s too big of a risk, Danbi. I know you can do this later—”
“I listened to you about Magnolia Street. You owe me this money,” she said, kissing him
lightly on the mouth. “How will I ever make enough to leave him if you don’t help me with this
one? This is the whale I want to catch. Vice Chairman Han swore he could buy it for 3.5.”
Danbi knelt before him, but George hoisted her up and turned her around so he could

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 897
finish.
#
Bear Creek was the most recent premiere development in Irvine. The lots were often less than
half an acre but the gorgeous houses were enormous, often seven to ten thousand square feet with
every possible amenity. Already, there were wealthy buyers from Seoul, Beijing, Hong Kong,
and Taipei, who had expressed interest, and though things were slowing down in the less
expensive homes, the foreign buyers shored up the luxury developments.
Huey Carlin, the developer, had promised one unit to George at 2.5 million. Carlin owed
George a favor for an important easement, and selling a place to George at the inside price was
like making a deposit of good will.
George had kept the Bear Creek unit for Danbi. He could have used it for his company
but he knew it would make her happy if she could flip her first whale.
#
Less than two months later, on a sunny afternoon in Irvine, Han Bonhwa, the Vice Chairman of
HRG, showed up to the model house at Bear Creek as he had promised.
The third son of a pharmaceutical family and educated in Seoul with a brief stint in
Boston for business school, Han had married one of the dozen grandchildren of HRG. As he
approached early retirement, he was looking forward to spending more time in Southern
California, where his sons were in school. They were interested in living in Irvine, and his wife
thought it made sense to buy another house there.
Han knew Danbi from HRG. After the IMF Crisis, Danbi had boldly approached him for

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 898
advice about investments, and several times, they had met in hotel rooms. He had taken her out
on a boat ride and to secluded parks on dates. He liked the smart girl more than hostesses,
because she was adventurous. Then later, she introduced him to another girl then disappeared,
saying something about her family. Han had been surprised to learn that Danbi had actually
intended to move to California with Taehun Shin.
Recently, when she reached out to him to get advice on interest rates and currency
exchange, he mentioned wanting to move to California. “My sons go to U.C. Irvine,” he’d said,
and she didn’t tell him that she knew this already from her cousin’s wife Bina, who followed
news about Vice Chairman Han’s wife’s family. Danbi knew that the older son had a Cyworld
account, and the younger boy was on Facebook. “I could use a house in Orange County.”
Danbi told him that she’d just bought a perfect place for herself but would be happy to
sell it to him since she wasn’t in a rush to move, then sent him photographs of the Bear Creek
property. Quickly, they struck a deal and set a date for a reunion.
When he rang the doorbell for the model house, Danbi let him in.
“It’s been a while,” he said to Danbi. “You look very beautiful.”
Danbi smiled. She wore a new salmon colored suit for the occasion. Once, when they’d
made love in a men’s bathroom stall, she’d worn a similar colored bra and panty set beneath her
clothes, and he had remarked how much he liked that color. His wife only wore white
undergarments.
“How long has it been? Since—”
She laughed, covering her mouth with her left hand with its large diamond engagement

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 899
ring. She didn’t tell him how long it had been, not wanting to date herself but they both knew it
had been almost a decade.
“I was surprised when you said you wanted to buy a house here,” Danbi said, though she
had predicted as much with astonishing accuracy and had reached out to him, knowing that he
would have the cash for such a property.
“It’s so perfect that I had to buy it, and I would have kept it for myself, but if you get it,
then we’ll still be neighbors,” she said. “I think I should remain in my house a little longer.”
“Where do you live?”
“Woodbridge. It’s also Irvine but north of here.”
Han put his hand lightly over her jacket sleeve. He could feel her thin bones beneath the
soft shoulder pad.
“I had no idea that you were becoming such a big shot,” he said, admiring her diamond
ring and gold watch. “I’m glad our reunion worked out today.”
“Five bedrooms, five full bathrooms and two half-baths,” she said, her voice echoing in
the unfurnished house.
The vice chairman kept his hands behind him and walked around the living room,
admiring the pale wood flooring.
“I know you didn’t want to close today, but I called the lawyer, and because it’s a cash
deal, we can do it as early as tomorrow if your schedule allows. I know how busy you are.”
Han said nothing and continued to appraise the house, which was just like the
photographs Danbi had sent. In many ways, it was larger and more spacious. They both wore

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 900
their shoes, and he felt like removing them so he did.
Danbi gasped lightly and touched her breastbone, and he looked at her hand.
“I don’t know if it’s clean. I mean, it’s clean, of course, but there might be dust.”
Han wore black dress socks. He shrugged like he didn’t care.
“I haven’t had a chance to get it mopped. Of course, when you and your family want to
move in, I can certainly arrange all that for you. Find you someone to—”
He ignored her and opened every door on the first floor then opened the door to the
basement, where he spotted a beautiful tiled laundry room with 2 sets of washing machines and
dryers. Before he came, Danbi had turned on the lights to every room and sprayed a lavender
scent in all the bathrooms. Han peered down but didn’t go down the stairs.
“Three and half million dollars,” he said. “It’s a lot.”
“It’s a very good price. Everyone wants this development. The best people will be buying
here,” she said.
Han approached the staircase and climbed the steps. He checked the bedrooms closest to
the upstairs landing then went to the largest, which had a beautiful view of the mountains. His
wife would love this room, he thought. There were enough rooms for the children and their
guests. His sons would be able to stay here during breaks if they didn’t want to return to Seoul.
Danbi stood by the door as Han gazed at the mountains. George had said that they had to
close this week and return the money to the church. No one suspected anything, but he didn’t like
this delay. She promised now to pay any missing interest and to tithe from the profits.
“You can’t fuck him,” he’d said, and she said there was nothing like that in her

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 901
relationship with the vice chairman. George didn’t believe her but he wanted to, and she’d kept a
straight face.
“Vice Chairman Han,” she said quietly. “Can you just imagine the sunrise and sunsets?
You can have your morning coffee on the terrace outside the bedroom.” Many years ago, he had
wanted to do it on a balcony of a five star hotel, so she did.
Han smiled at her. He had not forgotten the balcony either.
“Do you have time for dinner?”
“Of course,” she said. “I brought the sales contract since we’ve already agreed on the
terms. The lawyer said that we could expedite the closing as early as maybe, two and half weeks.
Three tops. That’s when you’ll return from your business from New York?”
“You wore the color I like,” he said. “How good of you to remember. I haven’t forgotten
anything.”
Danbi opened the paper folder to show him the contracts. “We can get them notarized in
town. I know several—” He sat on the window ledge, his arms folded across his chest, not saying
anything, and she understood what he wanted. They were all the same, and she tried to figure out
the order of what she would have to do now. She didn’t want to do it on the terrace. “What did
you want for dinner?” she asked. “I can make a reservation. There are so many wonderful
restaurants near here.”
Han turned to check the view. No one could see them inside the house, but he liked all the
large windows of the room.
“You hurt my feelings when you left without saying goodbye. I was under the impression

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 902
that you introduced me to your friend because you were getting ready to move for your family. I
had no idea that you were with that Shin Taehun. Wasn’t he your boss’s boss?” Han said all this
at last. “And he had a wife and kids in New Jersey. He’s my age.”
Danbi smiled. This time, she didn’t say anything.
“Why did you call me?” he asked. “Did you miss me?”
She nodded.
“Come here. What are you wearing beneath your jacket?” he asked.
She closed the door behind her even though there was no one else in the house, and only
she had the keys.
He opened the door to the terrace, and she followed.
#
He wanted to get sushi, so she took him to Saya’s, and after they ordered, he told her to cut the
price.
“I can’t do that,” she said. “I bought it close to 3.5.”
“It’s too much,” he said, drinking his brown tea. When he had the choice, Han didn’t like
to drink. Drinking too much was a weakness, and in general, he loathed drunkenness. “Change
the contract. Otherwise, I’m not buying it.”
Danbi bit the inside of her lip. He had promised 3.5. The contracts were still in her purse.
It was too late in the evening to get them notarized.
“Will you see your sons while you’re here?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 903
He nodded yes and gestured to the server for more tea.
“Where are you staying?”
“At the Marriott.”
She and George had been there many times. The front desk people knew her by face.
“Can you stay with me tonight?”
“I have to go home. I have a daughter.”
Han smiled. “How old?”
“Nine. I should be home now.”
“With Shin Taehun?” he said, sounding a little jealous.
“With my daughter.”
“Did he divorce his wife?”
Danbi shook her head no.
“But the ring,” he gestured at it with his chin. “I thought both of us were married now.
Fair game. If I buy the house, then you and I could see each more often. I come through the West
Coast a few times a year, and—”
She laughed.
“I know you didn’t buy it for 3.5. The closing sale price was 2.5. You bought at the inside
price. And I know that Shin Taehun is not divorced. His wife grew up with mine. Do you know
the most important part of buying something?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 904
Han straightened his lacquered chopsticks on its curved metal rest and looked up.
“Due diligence,” he said.
Danbi picked up her teacup and steadied her breathing.
“I want the house. You can sell it to me for 2.95, and still walk away with a generous
profit for less than two month’s work, I imagine. We don’t have brokers, so I’m saving us a fee.
I’m a rich man, but not a stupid one. The house is wonderful though.” Han smiled, recollecting
how breathtaking she appeared on the decking of the terrace, the sun hanging low. Danbi had
only improved with age.
Danbi touched her lower lip briefly then wiped away the wine-colored lipstick from her
fingertips with her napkin.
“I better go, Vice Chairman Han.”
“What? The food hasn’t arrived.”
“I thought you were a friend who could keep a promise. This is disappointing.” She
picked up her handbag. Danbi couldn’t imagine sitting at the table a second longer.
Now he recalled all her funny games. He was prepared to play them for as long as she
wanted but money, well, that was different. He had given her money before, and she had
mistaken his grace and caprice for foolishness. Years ago, she had lied to him about why she had
to leave him, replacing herself with a substitute; however, no one was fungible.
While she was seeing him, Danbi had been with another man, and eventually, she left for
America with him. She had wounded Han because he had cared for her. His wealthy father had
taught him noblesse oblige for those deserving. Han had always liked giving big handouts to

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 905
poor women he bedded. However, with Danbi, he no longer felt as generous. No one wants to be
made a fool. There were many houses he could buy and felt no urgency. As soon as he saw the
prepared contracts, he knew she needed to sell right away.
The rules never changed: cash was king, and he had plenty of it. Surely, he had taught her
this when she had come to him for lessons.
Han didn’t stir from his seat.
“Well, I will stay for dinner. I’m hungry. I enjoyed seeing you today,” he said. “I’ll head
to New York in two days and return in a few weeks. I’ll call you. Would you like that?”
Danbi walked out of the restaurant. She had played it wrong. If she told George, he would
surely tell her to accept Han’s price immediately.
For two and half weeks, Danbi waited for Han to phone her, but he did not, and when she
finally reached him, he apologized because he’d needed to head back to Seoul early for business
reasons. “Next time, I come to California, I’ll let you know,” he said, saying nothing about the
house. The next day, she phoned him again, and he was in his office in Seoul. “I’m hearing that
prices will fall. I can wait. I’m in no rush, and you’ll only grow lovelier.”
Two days after their last call, the elders of the Finance Committee met with the elders of
the Building Fund to discuss the missing amount. The pastors had no choice but to call the
police, who arrested George first. The authorities caught up with Danbi at LAX with her passport
and ten thousand dollars in cash.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 906

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 907
5:10 April 2007 "Return"
10. São Paolo, Brazil
#
The taxi driver dropped her off on Rua Jose Paulino. Nari stood outside the clothing and fabric
store and stared at her husband through the plate glass. Seated on a barstool behind the counter,
Joonho was reading a newspaper.
He was thinner and browner than she remembered. His reading glasses were perched
across the tanned skin of his sharp nose. When he was a boy, the children called him “Eagle,”
because of his prominent nose and his broad shoulder span. Gray and white patches streaked his
thick black hair. She felt compelled to tell him to dye it, and Nari covered her mouth with her left
hand, chiding herself for criticizing him in her thoughts. She was afraid to go inside.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 908
The busy street was filled with clothing stores, manufacturers, and vivid clusters of
pedestrians in motion. With all the Korean signage, Bom Retiro felt more like downtown Seoul
than Orange County. Everywhere, there were Koreans moving about, colorful words in hangul
on storefronts, and though Nari hardly knew any Portuguese, she felt like she could get by on the
languages she already knew. Lion had taught her how to say thank you, help, and please:
obrigada, ajuda, and por favor.
Joonho didn’t look up from his focused reading, and Nari pulled out her mirrored
compact from her zippered nylon tote bag and checked her lipstick. Her forehead was mostly
unlined, but the set of crow’s feet had deepened and spread toward her hairline. Before she got
on the plane to Brazil, she’d gotten her haircut colored and styled, hoping to look younger.
Nari pushed the glass door open, and a bell tinkled. Once he saw her, his mouth opened
slightly, his feet still fixed to the floor.
“Nari.”
She glanced around the store. He seemed to be alone. A faint musty odor of fabric and
dust mingled with an unfamiliar lime aftershave. Joonho had always preferred citrusy scents.
Six mannequins were dressed in bright colored evening gowns, and behind them were
enormous bolts of jewel-toned fabrics. Rolls of measuring tape, pairs of scissors and pin
cushions covered an oak work table near the front counter where Joonho still stood.
“I came to bring you home,” she said, trying to keep her voice from breaking.
“What?” Joonho remained dazed by her appearance as if she was a ghost. “How did you
get here?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 909
“I took two planes.”
Remembering himself, he picked up a barstool with a red leather cushion and brought it
closer to her.
“Are you happy to see me?”
He nodded. “Why are you here?”
“You have a grandson.”
“What?” Joonho put his hand over his heart.
“Yun had a baby, and I thought you should come home now. Michael is the most
beautiful child in the whole world. Even more beautiful than our daughter.”
“When did you get here?”
“Late last night.”
He couldn’t believe that his wife could travel all this way by herself.
“I put my things in the hotel room and took a nap. Lion found a very nice hotel for me.
He was so worried about me coming, and—” Nari didn’t mention how she fought with Yun for
two months about traveling to Brazil by herself. As soon as she received her American passport,
she had pleaded with Yun and Lion about making the trip. “As soon as I thought your store
would open, I came. Do you have any mix coffee for me?”
Joonho rushed to the alcove behind the curtain. Nari could hear a spoon clinking against
the mugs.
“It tastes like Taster’s,” she said. “Why did I think that coffee would be different here?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 910
Joonho laughed. He didn’t know what kind he drank, having bought the large red box at
the mart down the street. Sometimes he forgot where he was. Seven days a week, he worked, and
he never left the Korean neighborhood. He moved in a closed circuit of his studio apartment, the
clothing store, and the mart. Once in a while, he and his cousin Max ate at a Korean restaurant on
Rua Prates.
Joonho grabbed his chair to sit near her, but they did not touch. The married couple spoke
to each with as much curiosity and politeness as if on a blind date. He felt as nervous as when he
first confessed his feeling for her in high school.
“Can you leave right away?” she asked.
“I haven’t made back my fortune.”
“Is this store yours?”
“It’s my store but I owe the manufacturers a lot for the cloth. Paying the tailors is
expensive. I didn’t know the margins would be this bad. All these clothing stores,” Joonho
gestured to the businesses on the street, “We’re just killing each other. The prices are so low.”
Nari said nothing, knowing how bad her husband was at negotiating. His former partner,
the one who’d stolen from them, had been the one who understood how to make money. Joonho
was the one who knew how to work.
“I just didn’t want to work in food anymore.”
“My boss said I have a job for you,” she said, referring to Sonya. “It’s not food related.”
He tilted his head attentively, wanting to go home but still ashamed.
“We’re opening a second nail salon and need another manager. You’d be doing the same

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 911
job as Mido’s father. My boss said that if you came back, you could have the job. She promised
me. Elder Sonya Cho is an honest woman.”
He looked confused.
“She is Helen Cho’s older sister. I wrote to you that she passed away.”
Joonho nodded in recognition.
“As a manager, I earn more than I did when I was running Shrimp Castle. I brought
money with me. To pay off any of your debts. Will you come home?” Nari tucked in her lower
lip, her eyes fearful that he might say no.
Joonho clasped his calloused hands. He wanted to hold her in his arms but didn’t think he
had the right to do that.
“Is Yun angry with me?” he asked. He imagined she must be because she never called.
When he heard from Nari, she’d mention that Yun and Lion were fine and living well, but there
was never any word from his daughter. Even a brief message from her in one of Nari’s letters
would have given him hope. “I guess I ruined her life. And yours.”
Nari reached across the coffee tray and put his left hand in hers. He still wore his
platinum wedding band.
“Every day, I was hoping that you’d come home. That you would walk through the doors
of the nail salon and tell me that you’re back for good.”
He clenched his jaw, his eyes downcast.
“But then you didn’t come. And when little Michael was born, he looked so much like
you. Just like your baby pictures. When he was born, he had so much dark hair. Like a silky

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 912
black mop above the sleepy face of an angel.”
Nari dug into her tote bag and pulled out a small album filled with photographs of him
and Yun.
“You missed his Baek-il, but you can still make his first birthday party. Remember how I
lost that pregnancy before Yun was born? The doctor said it was a boy? Our Yun has son, and she
wants to have three or four kids. Isn’t that amazing?” Nari said, crying.
Joonho nodded, feeling the warmth of his wife’s tiny hands, their nails a brilliant red. She
looked so pretty in her pink linen dress, and he wanted to tell her but felt afraid.
“Where are you staying?”
“At the Luz Plaza. Near the park.”
“Yes, that’s a good one,” he said.
Nari put her hands on his leathery face and felt the scruff of his beard.
“Look at all your freckles,” she said, laughing. “I missed you so much.”
Joonho nodded, unable to speak.
“You didn’t come for me, so I came for you.”
He couldn’t look at her face.
“I don’t care if you don’t have a cent. You took good care of me all my life, and I should
have said that when we were having a hard time. If you don’t want to work in the nail salon, you
don’t have to. I don’t mind working. I like it.”
“No, I want to work. I will work. I am glad you came here.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 913
He wanted to tell her that he was grateful. All he had ever wanted was to go home.
“Are you hungry?” he asked.
“Yes. You should buy me breakfast.”
“I should.”
“Yobo, I don’t want to get on those planes by myself. It was so scary. You should take me
home,” she said, looking at him imploringly. “Please.”
Joonho nodded.
#
When Lion and Yun made the announcement about Fortress Seoul in their email newsletter, over
six hundred students applied for their pilot program for Korean students who wanted to attend
college in the United States. In the first year, they had room for fifty students. Renee and Lion
agreed that forty students would pay a reasonable, market-rate tuition, and ten students would
receive full scholarship, but no one was allowed to discuss one’s financial status and if anyone
did, the offending student would face expulsion. Since nearly all international students paid full
freight tuition, Renee and her company pledged to provide a four-year private scholarships for
the ten students.
Through assessments, Lion established a floor of high aptitude then from that pool, he
chose students by lottery. Standardize then randomize. In addition to the hagwon tuition
payments and pledge of college tuition for 10 scholarship students, Renee’s family provided
Fortress Seoul office space, dorm rooms, and airfare for the overseas tutors. Lion and Yun would
figure out the math to make the numbers work so that the pilot program wouldn’t lose money.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 914
Tom Song from Eagle Academy had always wanted to try something like this, but it would have
been too expensive for him to do by himself.
From the beginning, Tom guessed why Renee had cooked up this scheme. When she
came by his office in Daechi-dong, he asked her outright.
“Are you doing this so you can bring Peter back to Korea?” he asked.
“Yes,” she said.
“It’s an awful lot to go through to —”
“Also, I saw what happened when DH got a scholarship. You made that happen,” she
said. “It was your brilliant idea.”
Tom scratched his head. Creating that one scholarship for DH had been one of the
strangest things he had ever been asked to do, but even he had to admit that it was worth the
subterfuge and white lies. As an international student of middle class, white collar parents, he
would never have received financial aid, and DH’s parents would not have accepted such a
generous gift from their son’s friend’s mother. Their pride wouldn’t have allowed it.
“DH is a special case.”
“I know Peter was better off with having DH. Actually, both boys needed each other.
Even when Peter was in California, DH’s family took such good care of him, and they didn’t
know for the longest time about DH’s scholarship. I think Peter got the better end of the
bargain,” Renee said.
“It was a lot of money,” Tom said. “Not many people would have just paid for a
stranger’s kid. There’s no one like you, Renee.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 915
“I’m not wonderful. I have a lot of money. I have even more. I told you that my
grandfather and grandmother didn’t go to college. Grandfather finished high school but he
wanted to be a pharmacist. Instead, he sold used tires then learned how to manufacture them. He
became rich because his timing worked out. He always wanted all of us to be educated and to
help Korea.”
It was true. Renee wanted her son Peter to move back to Seoul; however, she felt badly
for the children here who worked unceasingly and their parents who had no idea how make their
kids competitive globally. Everyone just told the kids to do more work.
In high school, she played tennis seriously. As an athlete, she knew work, talent, and luck
were important, but smart coaching was essential, too. In her mind, there had to be another way
for these kids to get a better education and bring back good things to Korea. Her grandparents
had loved the people of their country, and her saintly grandmother, who was almost a Buddhist
nun after her husband died—just short of shaving her head, had always told her five children that
one must share one’s good fortune with those who had less.
Renee couldn’t change things for everyone but if she could affect the education of fifty
children, while getting her own son to come back, then it was worth spending a fraction of her
wealth on this hagwon experiment. Everyone had to admit it. Within one academic year, Seoul
Fortress had made a difference.
#
Fortress Seoul occupied two floors of an office building in Apgujeong-dong, where there were
many other hagwons. Designed similarly with the Fortress in Irvine, there were two executive
offices, one teachers’ lounge, three classrooms, and two spacious meeting areas. Within walking

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 916
distance there were six suites in a long-term residential hotel reserved for three tutors, one
college consultant, and the office manager— all from the United States. When Lion came by the
first month, Peter insisted that he stay with him, and Ginny, a rising sophomore at UCLA, who
was re-thinking her pre-med track, and had taken a year off from school to work as an assistant
office manager to Mido, had a large room at the hotel.
Even after the fifty students were selected, there were numerous appeals for more
applicants. Peter was getting better at saying no, and thankfully, Tom’s petite, unassuming wife
Clara Song, was a master at turning people down.
The number of parents who visited the office with boxes of ginseng, orchids, and fabric
wrapped gifts from luxury department stores diminished rapidly when they realized that no one
at Fortress was allowed to accept any gifts or money.
In the first month, Clara managed to throw out a father who could not believe that his son
wasn’t accepted, and then three hours later, when his wife showed up, Clara left her office again
at Eagle Academy and returned to Fortress Seoul to throw the mother out. Clara told the insistent
mother, “This is becoming harassment. If you or your husband return again to plead your son’s
case, I want you to know that your younger child will never ever be considered.” Now that the
American hagwon’s good results were ineffable, parents deferred to anyone related to Fortress
Seoul.
Peter had taken the smaller of the two offices, enclosed by glass walls, because everyone
tended to gather in the one that Mido and Ginny shared—a vast open work space which they
shared with the tutors.
Needing to expand their team, they decided to hire another American college consultant,

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 917
who had a terrific reputation for being able to reach kids. Reg Sherman had been working at an
international school in Seoul, and at the end of his term of employment, he decided to join
Fortress. It was Mido’s job to sort out his employment agreement and immigration issues, so she
went to talk to their lawyers in Jongno.
In the lobby of the law firm, the receptionist asked her to wait in formal language and
with great deference, which surprised Mido. The last time she had been in Seoul, she was in
middle school. Inside, she still felt like a child, but now, she was an adult, and somehow, through
Renee’s relationships, Fortress Seoul had become a client of this large law firm, which DH had
confirmed was excellent.
On the coffee table of the law firm lobby, there was a wide assortment of English
language and Korean newspapers, and Mido picked up a copy of International Herald Tribune.
Her father had told her that several families at church had recently lost their homes, unable to
make their loan payments, which had gone up dramatically with rising interest rates. Each
month, Bo, DH, and Mido sent their father money to help with the mortgage, taxes and expenses,
so he was okay. He had a fixed rate, so his monthly payments hadn’t changed.
As Mido read an article about subprime mortgages and foreclosures in California, she
heard footsteps approaching.
“Mido?”
She heard his Australian accent. Tek was standing in front of her, staring down with his
familiar, warm smile. Her first boyfriend wore an expensive looking gray suit and black leather
Oxfords. Like her brother DH, Tek had always cared about his appearances. He looked taller
than she remembered. He looked wonderful.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 918
She didn’t know what to say.
“My first love is sitting in this lobby reading an American newspaper,” he said in Korean,
laughing.
“Your accent has improved,” Mido said, standing up.
“No, don’t get up. Sit, sit.”
Tek sat beside her on the leather sofa.
“Why are you here?” he asked.
“I’m here to see Linda Hur. I think she’s an employment lawyer.”
“Oh, I don’t know her.”
“Wait. Why are you here?” Mido asked.
“I’m here for work. One of my insurance clients has a thorny issue, with a big Korean
company, and it was easier to bring in the barrister at this stage.” Tek chuckled. “Another lawyer
on this matter is a mate from the debate world who’s now based in Seoul, and he’s—”
He smiled at Mido just happy to be near her.
“Anyway, I’m talking too much. We’re trying to avoid an expensive fight. This firm is
my client’s local counsel. It’s an excellent firm by the way.” Tek raised his eyebrows. He was
surprised to see her here.
Mido nodded, trying to understand what was happening.
“Gosh, it’s terrific to see you. You look fantastic. I like the hair long.” He pointed to her
face. “It’s very pretty. I don’t remember you ever having hair this long—”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 919
“Oh, Tek. How strange it is to see you. I mean—”
“—Wait, I tell you that you’re pretty, and you tell me that it’s strange to see me.” Tek
smiled. “Hey, what are you doing for lunch after? Are you—? How long is your meeting? I can
cancel my next appointment if you’re free.” He paused and looked at his watch. “Oh, I know, we
can get dinner at this great place down the street. You used to be crazy about soondubu, right?
Oh, hang on—”
He picked up her left hand and smiled, making Mido laugh out loud.
“You’re not married, right? I’m not married yet. You broke my heart, so I hold you
entirely responsible.”
It was the same old Tek—open, funny, and full of hope. Being with him felt familiar and
happy, and though she wasn’t doing anything wrong, suddenly, it occurred to her that perhaps
this was not a good idea.
“How long are you in Seoul?” he asked.
“You’ve asked me several questions—”
“I know. I want to know everything. I’ve missed you. I’m not mad at you anymore.
That’s all. Can I just say that?”
A tall Korean woman wearing a brown suit appeared.
“Hello, I’m Linda Hur. You must be Ms. Koh.” Linda shook her hand then glanced at
Tek. “Are you together?”
Tek laughed. “We used to be. Right?” He turned to her and smiled like he was doing
something wrong but she couldn’t get upset.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 920
Mido shook her head and pushed him away lightly.
“Don’t mind me. I’m a barrister from Sydney. I was just visiting your colleague John
Darren, who serves as local counsel for my client, and I ran into a dear old friend,” Tek smiled.
He held up his hand with the confidence of someone who always knew what to say. “Linda,
could you just give us a minute?”
The lawyer walked away toward the reception desk.
“Dinner tonight? I’m at the Grand Hyatt. How’s six?”
She couldn’t refuse. Tek would never accept it.
“Okay.”
“The hotel lobby then. Oh, here.” He handed her his card. “My mobile number is there.
So much to talk about.”
She nodded, having been swept up in his enthusiasm and warmth. He wasn’t angry at her.
#
DH could not believe it.
“Are you going to tell Peter?” He whispered into the phone receiver.
“Of course. I already did.”
“What did he say?”
“He said have a good time.”
“Seriously?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 921
“He’s not the jealous type.”
“You’re wrong, Sister. Everyone is the jealous type. Peter is a cool customer but he’s
human,” DH said. “Hang on, how did he look?”
“Great, but it’s not like that.”
“Wow. Didn’t he want to marry you. Wait, is he married? He must be married.”
“Nope. He picked up my hand to check if I was then told me he’s not.” Mido laughed.
“He wants you back. Men are simple.”
“He said he’s not angry at me.”
“Yup, he wants you back.”
“No, he wants to catch up, and I’m with Peter now.”
“If you get back together with Tek, then you’ll move back to Australia. Dad is better now,
and you’re done with your indentured servitude. But gosh, Fortress Seoul is a goner. Poor Peter.
You can’t do this to him but he hasn’t made an offer, and I do want my sister to get what she
wants.” DH glanced out his office window. He wished he could tell Peter to get his act together.
“Oh, I guess you’ll get married first of the three of us. Just as I always thought.”
“You’re out of your mind. I’m not getting back together with Tek. We are having
soondubu. He knows a place, he said.”
When they got off the phone, Mido felt less certain than she had sounded with her
brother. She should’ve said no to dinner, but that would’ve been rude. Also, she was curious
about how Tek was. They broke up on the phone and over the years, they’d kept up with each

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 922
other a little. She knew he was a barrister and doing well for himself.
When she returned from the law firm and saw Peter, she mentioned seeing Tek in the
lobby. Peter had not seemed bothered by it. In a normal tone, he’d said, “Have a good time,” then
went back to his office to deal with study materials.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 923
5:11 April 2007 "Trust"
11. April 2007
#
They reached a settlement, and the Chairman put the agreement in writing.
Sonya would live in Seoul in the same complex and remain in California no longer than
12 weeks a year. She would never divorce Yong-gil even after the Chairman died. The boys
would inherit the business, and Sonya would have the controlling share for her lifetime. The
Chairman bought her a three-bedroom apartment in the newest building, a few minutes walk
from his residence. Each morning, she went to her former apartment and checked on the
household.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 924
It was summer, and the family had a Western-style breakfast, eggs, bacon, yogurt, and
toast. After the meal, Yong-gil and their sons left for work as if nothing had changed. The sons
believed that Sonya had decided to move out because she was going through a change in her life.
Menopause made women peculiar, she’d told them, and this was her solution.
The Chairman looked forward to the mornings when he could be alone with her.
“I’m going to California next month.”
He nodded, not needing to remind her that it could only be for a month.
“I’ve made all the arrangements with the housekeeper and your secretary, so you won’t
be inconvenienced.”
“You look lovely in the dress.”
Sonya wore a camel-colored cardigan over a dark beige shift and nude stockings. As
usual, she wore her wedding band, and this morning, no other jewelry except for small brown
pearls in her ears.
“Do you have a lot of work?” he asked.
After breakfast, she would remain in her home office and study the same packet of
documents that the Chairman had reviewed the previous day. Except for where she slept, little
had changed in the main residence. Even her bedroom remained the same yet left unoccupied in
case she wanted to come back, puzzling the staff, who knew she lived openly in the building
across from theirs.
“I was going to look over the acquisition papers. What did you think of the deal?”
“The numbers make sense. It’s easier to buy this realty company rather than building a

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 925
new business in Hongdae.”
Sonya nodded.
They enjoyed talking about work. The Chairman believed that she was as smart as his
nephew, who had gone to business school. He wondered what would have happened if she had
remained at the company and not married his nephew. Would he have promoted her? Every
night, he speculated the different scenarios. How could he have known that his wife would die
and that the only woman he wanted would be Yong-gil’s wife?
The Chairman touched her bobbed hair, and Sonya pulled back. She looked in the
direction of the kitchen. The cook and housekeeper were absorbed in eating their breakfast.
“Please don’t.” Sonya got up and the Chairman followed her to her office and closed the
door.
Once or twice a week, he tried to wear her down. Sonya refused to give in but she could
not imagine leaving the house altogether. She loved him, and he knew this.
“I wish you wouldn’t go to California,” he said. “I know we have an agreement, but it is
so hard when you are gone.”
Sonya said nothing. When she was in the States, she thought of him even more than
usual. She worried about his meals and health more than her sons. They talked on the phone
daily, which was also part of the deal.
“I can’t come here anymore if you insist—”
“No,” the Chairman said. “No. I won’t allow it.”
He moved closer to her, and she stepped away. Sonya went to the office door and opened

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 926
it wide. There was no one in the hallway.
“If you keep doing this, I have to go away.”
The Chairman closed his eyes, preparing himself for the same speech she usually gave.
He intended to persuade her. He believed that she would choose to return to the house. Her
moving out could not possibly be permanent.
“I can get an office at the company. It makes more sense than to work from here.”
The Chairman nodded.
“I’ll just stay in the room and let you read. I have my own reading to do.”
Sonya nodded, unable to refuse him. She wanted him to stay with her. When he was near,
she felt less anxious, and he felt the same.
After dinner, she returned to her apartment to bathe and sleep. In the morning, she would
return. This arrangement had to be enough.
#
Mido met Tek at his hotel lobby.
Right away, they got into a cab, and Tek gave the directions for the restaurant to the
driver in Korean, and Mido marveled at his fluency. He seemed more confident than when she
last saw him in Los Angeles.
“I never thought I’d run into you here,” she said.
“Why? I’m Korean, too.”
“Well, yes, and you seem at ease here.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 927
“I love Seoul.”
“Really?”
“I could live here. The law firms which hire me in Sydney have important business
relationships here, so now and then, I’m brought here though—”
“You’re a barrister, so that means you go to court, right?”
“Yes. But sometimes, it’s easier to bring me in before you get to court. I can fight you or
we can get on.”
The way he said this made her think that Tek had said this before to his opponents.
“It’s a short flight, compared to the States. Everyone is so nice to me here. My parents
think that Seoul has gotten much better since they left. They’re back all the time—”
“—Wow.” Mido blinked. It had been a little less than a year since she arrived, and though
she felt comfortable here, it hadn’t occurred to her that she’d stay for always.
“Mido, why are you here?”
“We opened a hagwon. For college admissions. Kind of like the one we had in Irvine.”
Tek appeared puzzled. “There are a lot of those here, no?”
“Yes,” she answered, remembering how he felt about her work.
#
Tek had made reservations at a galbi place, where he seemed to know everyone. The manager
guided them to a private room.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 928
“This is nice.”
“I’m trying to impress you. Are you impressed?”
She nodded.
“Are you with that guy now?”
“Who? Peter?”
“The son of the THT heir.”
“I didn’t know that about him when—”
“I didn’t say you did.”
“You looked him up,” Mido said as she studied the menu. The prices were high. Tek used
to prefer simpler things. Baking him Anzac cookies alone would delight him. This dinner would
cost several hundred dollars. His clothes, shoes, and even this restaurant. Everything reeked of
money.
“Why haven’t you married him?”
“You don’t waste any time.”
“I’m an excellent lawyer,” Tek said. “Have you forgotten?”
“No.”
“I was thinking this afternoon that maybe we were supposed to meet here. It’s like neutral
territory, or a kind of homecoming for people like us.”
She glanced up from the large menu, trying to see where he was going with this.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 929
“I could never live in California, and you didn’t want to live in Australia. But maybe we
can be together—”
“I’m with Peter.”
“You said.” Tek looked thoughtful and paused for a moment. “There’s no reason why you
and I can’t be friends. I’ve known you longer than most people in my life.”
Mido closed the menu and stared at him.
“Tek.”
“Mido Koh, my first love.” He laughed, saying this part in Korean as if he were reciting a
moment in his autobiography. “I know, I know. You’re with Peter.”
Mido smiled and let him order their dinner. When they finished eating, she told him that
she had to get back. He ordered a taxi for them and dropped her off at her brother’s.
“I leave tomorrow morning for Sydney. Now that I have your number, I’ll send you a
message now and then. Not too often. I’m glad we’re back in touch.”
Tek held out his hand for her to shake, and she shook it before getting out of the car.
#
When Mido opened the door to the apartment, her brother and Peter were in the living room
watching a Pohang Steelers game.
“Oh, you’re back,” DH said, not turning his eyes away from the screen. “How’s Tek?”
“Fine.” She removed her shoes and went toward the sectional where they were seated.
Peter smiled at her.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 930
“How’s the game?” she asked, gathering the empty takeout dishes from the Chinese
restaurant. She piled the dishes and placed them on the tray on the kitchen counter. When she
returned to them, Peter was watching the game intently. He didn’t say anything.
Mido looked at DH, and he raised his eyebrows conspiratorially.
“I’m going to wash up,” he said. “Early morning meetings. Man, you stay and watch the
game,” DH said to Peter.
Mido sat down. “How was your night?”
“Good.”
Peter smiled at her and appeared thoughtful. He wasn’t the sort to show his hand. She had
forgotten this about him.
“You two usually watch games at your place.”
“DH invited me over.”
“Are you upset with me?” she asked.
“I’m not.” Peter faced her and looked into her eyes like he was trying to see what was on
her mind.
“He leaves tomorrow. For Sydney. Tek just wants to be friends.”
“Men don’t do that.”
Mido had heard this before, but she didn’t believe it. Lion was both her boss and Yun’s
husband, and he was her friend, too. Her brothers had women friends. The dinner had been light
hearted and fun. Tek had been flirtatious, and she enjoyed the attention, but she would never take

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 931
it any further than that. If Peter didn’t want her to be friends with him, then she wouldn’t see
him.
“Does it bother you?”
“No,” Peter said.
Mido said nothing and watched a pizza commercial on television. The game came back
on but Peter turned to her.
“I came to Korea because of you. Because you wanted to try this hagwon idea. Because I
thought we were going to help kids. It’s like a utopia mission, right? Our great educational
experiment. We have a lot to do. I better get back home. Do you want to come back with me? We
can’t stay here.”
“Tomorrow night.”
Peter nodded and left without turning off the game.
#
As Mido washed the glasses in the sink, DH came out of his room.
“I changed my mind. Tek is not the one. If he was, then you’d be with him.”
“Wow,” Mido said.
“Don’t mess this up with Peter. He’s the best guy in the world. I know he’s got some
hangups about marriage, but people like us don’t understand what it’s like to come from that
kind of family.”
“Their family is not better than ours.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 932
“No, but they’re different.”
“So, I’m learning.”
“I guess Tek is still interested,” DH said, sounding concerned.
Mido didn’t say anything. She put away the empty beer cans in the bin.
“I hope nothing bad happens between you and Peter.” DH said shaking his head.
“Why, because it’ll hurt your relationship with TMT? That’s not going to happen,” she
said.
“That’s harsh,” DH said, impressed by her incisiveness. “But come to think of it, I guess
if you pull the plug on Peter, then his mom won’t like it either. Oh, but I love Renee. Please don’t
hurt Renee.”
“First, you don’t want me to hurt Peter and now, you’re protecting Renee. Huh. I thought
you were my brother.”
“Don’t listen to me. My imagination is running wild. I have a rich interior life. This is
what makes me a great corporate lawyer. I can foresee all sorts of problems.”
“You’re the second person tonight who’s told me that he’s a good lawyer. That can’t be
normal.”
“I would fall on a sword for you, and I trust you implicitly—”
“—I’m not going to hurt anyone. I may never see Tek again. It was weird running into
him today, and I wasn’t sure how to decline his dinner invitation—”
“Peter was knocked out by it.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 933
Mido stopped cleaning. Peter was her best friend, and it was true what he’d said earlier.
He wouldn’t have come back to Seoul, the city he didn’t want to live in, unless she’d insisted
that Fortress Seoul was a good idea. He had trusted her, and she had done something wrong.
“He said that it was okay for us to be friends.”
“Dummy. You can’t be friends with Tek. He’s still single, right? He wanted to marry you.
Dudes don’t do that. Men are not friends with women. They wait around until you change your
mind—”
“Is there a manual I never got?”
“He has something to prove now, and now that you’re with Peter, an important person in
Korea, Tek is going to pull out all the stops.”
Mido stared at him like he was crazy.
“Okay. Where did he take you to dinner?”
“Palace Gate?” She was pretty sure that was the name.
“That’s the most expensive galbi place in Korea.” DH said this with the certainty of
having won an argument.
Mido poured herself a glass of water and went to the sofa to sit. It surprised her to think
that DH would worry or that Peter wouldn’t trust her.
DH sat down and put his arm around her shoulder.
“I have big news,” he said.
“You okay?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 934
“Not about me. You won’t believe what I heard today.”
“Hmm?” Mido glanced at him. DH had the pleased look of a child who received a
present. “You look happy but not in a good way.”
“Nicely done.”
“Huh?”
“I’m feeling justified. We lawyers are righteous.”
“What?”
“Bo called.”
“Is Dad okay?”
“I told you. It’s not about me. Or you.”
“Danbi Jung and George Hong were arrested.”
“Ajeossi’s wife? I mean Mr. Shin—”
“Yeah, well, sort of wife—” DH said, squinting and shaking his head to and fro.
“George Hong? Isn’t he an Elder? Dad’s on some committee with him, right?”
“They’re all Elders. Fucking bonkers.”
“What did they do?”
“Turns out Danbi and George stole money from the church building fund, and Danbi
stole premiums from their insurance clients. George confessed to the whole thing.”
“That’s crazy. So, why did Bo call you? Just to tell you this?” It wasn’t like their brother

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 935
to gossip.
“Mr. Shin’s lawyer wanted to speak with Dad. Dad called Bo, and Bo called me, because
I’m the consigliere.”
“Huh?”
“I’m your general counsel. The family lawyer?”
“Oh.”
Mido was confused. “Didn’t Mr. Shin and that woman hurt Dad’s career. Something like
that, right? I mean, he lost his job after the IMF Crisis but he would’ve been better situated if she
hadn’t falsely accused him. Mom told me only a little about it and Aunt Sonya said that we
should never ever deal with Danbi Jung. Not even say hi. Yun told me that she and Lion couldn’t
buy insurance from them because—”
Mido paused, then drank the rest of her water. DH got up to get himself a glass.
“Mom said she could forgive anyone who hurt her, but it was almost impossible to
forgive anyone who hurts Dad,” Mido said, remembering the time she asked her mother why
their family avoided Dad’s oldest friend. “I think Dad had sort of forgiven him but Mom disliked
that woman till the very end.”
“That woman was kind of scary.”
“Why?” Mido asked.
“I remember once, Danbi Jung sat behind me at church. It was one of those times when I
was visiting from law school, and I didn’t know who she was. But I thought she was smoking
hot. I mean, even though she’s older than me.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 936
“What?”
“That woman is pure sex. She radiates blue flame heat. Anyway, she knew I thought she
was attractive, and when the service ended, she touched my sleeve, and I thought I was going to
be on fire. I think she gave me a boner in church.”
Mido made a face.
“Oh grow up. Any man would bang her.”
“You didn’t just say that.”
“I did. I mean it. I don’t think one should but it would be understandable—” DH wagged
his eyebrows.
“Isn’t she married? To Ajeossi?”
“Turns out, no. I love Mary Ajumma, and I thought they were divorced. Mommy never
mentioned anything about them still being married. Anyway, Mary Ajumma is now back in
California.”
“No way.”
“Yeah. And Joey—”
“He’s the oldest son, right?”Mido tried to remember him. It had been decades since she
last saw Mary Ajumma and her sons. When they were kids, Joey was skinny and serious. The
middle son, Luke, was more stocky. The youngest, Patrick, who was a little older than she was,
was sweet and let her play with his toys and games.
“Yeah. Joey and Luke are lawyers. Anyway, Joey had to hire a white collar lawyer for his

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 937
dad in California. Ajeossi is so fucked.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 938
5:12 April 2007 "Clean-up"
12. April 2007
#
When she saw Shin’s number on the screen, Mary almost didn’t pick up. She was about to head
out to work; however, she’d been meaning to speak with her husband about their eldest son’s
engagement. Joey didn’t want his father at the wedding. As far he and his younger brothers were
concerned, their father might as well be dead. She hoped that one day, they’d forgive him.
Shin and his estranged wife spoke only a few times a year. He still sent Mary money each
month, which helped with the mortgage and high real estate taxes in Bergen County. She still
worked at Sandoval’s Florist on Ridgewood Avenue. At a moment’s notice, Mary could put
together a hundred boutonnièreres for a graduation, gorgeous wedding arrangements for the

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 939
pickiest bride, and ferry a delivery across town when the driver got sick.
On the hall table, Mary put down her car keys and rested her stainless steel commuter
mug filled with milky hot coffee. She wore a beige raincoat from her college days over a white
button up shirt, a quilted cotton work vest, and an A-line denim skirt. On her left shoulder, she
carried a large canvas tote bag, which held her wallet and change purse, lip balm, tissue packet, a
ham and cheese sandwich she’d packed that morning, a thin cardigan sweater, and the library
books she’d return after work. As usual, she wore thin white socks beneath the garden clogs.
“I was wondering if the boys could help me find a good lawyer.”
“What?” Mary rested the tote bag by the brass umbrella stand.
“I need a lawyer who does white collar criminal defense.” From church and work, Shin
knew a few Korean lawyers but couldn’t ask them. “Joey and Luke might know which firms
specialize in this—”
“—They don’t do that kind of work,” Mary said out of habit, repeating what her sons
had advised their mother to say whenever people asked her for their help with immigration or
family law. No one had ever sought help with criminal law. Joey, the oldest, was a securitization
lawyer at Cleary Gottlieb, and Luke, the middle son, practiced bankruptcy litigation at Weil
Gotshal.
“I could go to prison if they think it’s my fault. I need someone good. I didn’t know that
she—”
“What? Who is she? Why would you—?” She couldn’t say the word prison.
“Danbi took money from the insurance account, and her boyfriend George took money

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 940
from the church building fund for her investment building. They said they were going to return it
but couldn’t. I didn’t know anything.” Shin told her everything he was just learning himself.
Still holding her phone, Mary sat down on the cold tile floor. There were no chairs in the
foyer.
“Hello?” Shin said. “Hello?”
Eye level with the shoe shelf, Mary stared at the neat rows of white sneakers and clogs.
Their youngest Patrick was studying to be a nurse practitioner at Rutgers. He’d been accepted at
the University of Pennsylvania, but wanting to avoid debt, he was in his second year at Rutgers
Nursing and living at home. Joey and Luke wanted him to be doctor but Patrick preferred to
make money sooner.
“Hello?” Shin repeated.
Suddenly, it occurred to Mary that her husband’s name might appear in the newspapers
and that Joey’s fiancée’s parents might see it.
“Is this in the newspapers?”
“Yes,” he said.
“I’ll call you back.”
In the evening, the boys came over and told her that she needed to divorce him
immediately. In the morning, they made calls for their father and engaged Andy Kuo, a former
prosecutor, who knew financial fraud well and specialized in white collar work. Since George
had implicated Danbi in his confession, they would be tried separately, Kuo said. Danbi who had
pled not guilty was being detained without bail because she was a flight risk and had assaulted a

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 941
deputy. Kuo would not represent Danbi but solely Shin. So far, Shin had not been charged with
anything, but now, thanks to his sons, Shin had a lawyer.
The boys were thorough. Joey asked a colleague who did family law to draft the divorce
papers for New Jersey, and Luke booked her on a flight and made reservations for a hotel in
Irvine.
#
Mary had never been anywhere in the United States except for New Jersey and New York. After
Seoul, her entire world was confined to these two states. Her boys had gone to college and law
school in New York and New Jersey—the older two at N.Y.U. and Columbia, and her youngest,
Rutgers. Their father had not been invited to any of the graduations. Shin had paid the college
tuitions for all three of their sons and the mortgage for the house; however, for graduate schools,
the boys took out loans.
When she reached his house, Mary parked her rented white Toyota in the circular
driveway. The doors of the three car garage were open, exposing a silver Mercedes and a silver
Porsche. She did not know that her husband was wealthy. He had sent her money regularly, never
complaining about the amount. Had she known how he lived, she would have asked him for their
sons’ graduate school tuition. The boys would have resisted though.
The modern house was two-stories high and from the driveway, Mary could make out
Italian sofas and huge paintings on white oak walls behind the glass-fronted great room. From
the enormous window above the pair of large oak doors, she saw a milky white chandelier set in
the foyer ceiling.
Her husband let her in.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 942
His feet bare, Shin wore a white golf shirt and faded blue jeans. He hadn’t shaved for
days.
“Your hair,” he said. Somehow, her long gray hair, surprised him. He was trying to
remember the last time he saw her. She used to dye it.
At 60 years old, Shin was more salt and pepper than white and had a full head of hair.
Danbi was 39, and she kept her straight black hair long, well below her shoulder blades. When
she undressed, her beautiful hair covered her breasts. Often, she was mistaken for a woman in
her late twenties, and she never revealed her age.
Mary touched her head and looked down.
Seeing the hurt in her eyes, he felt stupid.
“I mean—”
“—I stopped coloring it,” she said.
“I appreciate you coming. All this way. I’m embarrassed. I didn’t think this would be the
first time seeing each other here. It’s been so long. I am sorry. To you and the boys—”
Again, Mary touched her shoulder-length hair, which she wore in a low ponytail. She was
59 years old. Her face was freckled, and faint lines crossed her pale brow and radiated around
her brown eyes. She was still a beautiful woman and had never been vain. Over the years, she
had lost interest in makeup and treatments. Recently, Joey’s sweet fiancee Gracie had asked if
she wanted an appointment at the salon with the bridal party, and Mary remembered that there
would be photographs. She still hadn’t bought a dress.
Every cent had gone to her boys’ education, their housing, and food. Joey and Luke

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 943
shared an apartment with two other guys in the city to save money and repay their school loans.
When Patrick was done with school, she thought of selling the house and buying a one-bedroom
condo in Palisades Park. The property taxes were killing her budget.
Shin leaned his back against the large door and closed his eyes. Mary stared at the marble
saddle and tried to keep from crying. Her father and mother had told her not to marry him. They
had died without forgiving her.
“I don’t know what else to say,” Shin said.
“Can I come in?”
Shin shook his head, disgusted with himself for not having any sense. “I’m sorry,” he said
again and gave her a pair of slippers.
In the living room, Mary didn’t sit down. She pulled out a manila envelope from her tote
bag and took a deep breath.
“The boys told me that I have to divorce you. Right away. I need you to sign these
papers. You owe me that much.”
Shin took the envelope but didn’t open it.
Mary was a kind person and careful in the way she spoke. On the plane, she had prepared
a script for their conversation, which included some updates about the boys. She wasn’t the sort
of person who would abandon a person in crisis and felt disloyal. Standing on the deep white pile
carpet, she took in the elegance of the room, which looked like a millionaire’s mansion on
television.
“I have to get back to work. I am inconveniencing my employers,” she said. “Mr.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 944
Sandoval is filling in for me, and he’s older and gets tired. If you could just sign the documents.
Joey said we need to get it notarized. I’ll take it back and file the papers—”
“Can you sit down?” he asked.
Mary sat in the exquisite living room, far nicer than what she’d seen in glossy magazines
at her dentist’s. Sand-colored rugs, an enormous gas-burning marble fireplace in the center of the
room, a red and blue abstract wall-sized painting hanging somehow on a thick wall of glass by
the floating staircase. A thin carved wooden handrail led to the second floor. Huge panes of thick
clear glass everywhere she looked.
Out in the distance, from the living room window, she could make out the calm blue
water of the Olympic-sized communal swimming pool, rows of tennis courts, and a health club
for the residents of the development. Tall cypress trees lined the streets.
#
“Let me get you coffee. Do you still drink your coffee with half a cup of hot milk?”
Mary nodded. “I don’t want coffee.” There were many framed photographs of his
daughter Anna with Danbi.
“Is she here? Your daughter.”
“She’s at school.”
“And your—”
“She’s in jail. She tried to get bail but—” He could see Mary didn’t want to know. “I
don’t care anymore I guess.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 945
“What? How can you say that?”
She had met Danbi once in Seoul at his office without understanding who she was. Later,
there had been other opportunities to meet her but Mary hadn’t seen the point. There was on brief
call where Mary hung up because she didn’t know what to say. She’d met the others before
Danbi— all pretty, sexy, and young. How could this one be any different, she’d figured, not
having expected him to leave their marriage and sons.
“Danbi cheated on me with an Elder from church. A younger man. Isn’t that funny?” he
said without smiling. “He stole money for her. He was married.”
Mary frowned at the sordidness of it. Shin’s house was pristine, not a thing out of place.
Little Anna. Her sons had a half sister they had never met. She didn’t want to think about her.
“The divorce papers.” She glanced at the envelope between them. “I need to go home.
The boys—”
“I asked you for a divorce and you always said no. Your religion wouldn’t allow it.” Shin
said, sounding bitter. “Are you still Catholic?”
Mary felt distracted. Her mind was a blur. She tried to think of her sons. In her mind, they
looked younger than they were now — more like three little boys than the grown men who
gathered at her house for dinner every Sunday.
“Please—” she looked at the envelope again.
“I can lose everything I’ve worked for. I don’t know who will care for Anna.” He looked
at her wondering if his wife was a saint as their sons thought.
Mary shook her head.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 946
“I cannot help you with Anna, too,” she said. “You need to call a friend. I cannot be your
friend.”
“I’ve destroyed all the good in my life. I am sorry.” Shin tried to take her hand but Mary
pulled away.
“I am garbage.”
She didn’t know what to do.
“He might listen to you,” Shin suddenly said. “You can call him.”
“Who?”
“Koh Yohan. He lives here. I told you.” He had tried to contact John several times but he
wouldn’t answer.
Mary had not been able to go to Helen’s funeral. She thought of the poor man who had
always been decent.
“He’s an Elder and everyone trusts him. He’s on the important committees at church.
John knows I would never steal—”
Mary stared at her husband, whose eyes looked desperate and sad.
“Can you ask him to speak with me?”
“I cannot.”
“John would listen to you.”
“Have you lost your mind? After what Jung Danbi did to him, I was so embarrassed. If
his wife hadn’t called me, I don’t know if I could’ve ever faced her again. She was such a good

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 947
person.”
Mary looked out the window. Her rental car looked like a cheap toy in the green sea of
dark cypress trees and lush, well-cut grass. Over the years, several men and women her age had
died of different cancers, and sometimes, Mary wondered if hard work alone could kill people.
“John would feel sorry for you.”
Mary couldn’t believe what he was saying. The things she had read in the newspapers
about him and that woman, none of it made any sense. These were the sorts of things that
happened to bad people. However, her sons had explained that it was possible that their father
could go to prison for stealing insurance premiums even if he didn’t do it because as the C.E.O.,
he should have known. He was lucky that the prosecutor hadn’t bothered to charge him yet.
“I have no one left,” he said. “I’ll sign the papers if you can get John to talk with me.”
Every morning and night, Mary prayed to God to forgive him. She wanted to be free from
the hatred, self-righteousness, and hardening of her heart. In her life, there were glorious blocks
of light—her church, her sons, and her work at the florist. There’d been moments when she felt
free of the humiliation, betrayal and exhaustion. But in this living room with the soaring ceilings
and lovely afternoon light, silver framed images of that young woman who was unquestionably
more beautiful and the adorable child, evidence of their love—she wanted him to suffer. He was
willing to hurt her again to save himself.
“I have no right to ask that good man to help you,” Mary said.
“I need to talk with him. I have to know what’s going on at church. He would know. No
one else will tell me. I didn’t do anything wrong—” he said and saw her face crumple with

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 948
disappointment because of course, he had done so many things wrong to her. “I mean, I didn’t
steal from my company or from the church.”
Mary wanted to be back at work, doing something with her hands. When she arranged
flowers, she felt useful. A kind of tension released from her shoulders.
“Are you going to sign this?”
“If you get him to talk with me, I’ll sign. But please, please ask him. Our sons shouldn’t
have a father in prison. Imagine how that’ll look if the boys ever want to get married?”
Mary looked up and realized that she hadn’t told him about Joey and Gracie. The
wedding would be in six months. Gracie’s parents had not connected that the Anaheim Church
scandal in the papers involved Joey’s father. Of course, they would have to be told.
Except for the scruff of his beard, his face was more or less the same—the deep eye
sockets, dark brows, and straight nose. In college, when he asked her out for a date, her friends
had envied her because they made such a handsome couple. She knew he hadn’t stolen any
money. He was a terrible husband and father, but he had never been a man greedy for money. He
had been lustful about sex and vain about his form but would never take a cent that didn’t belong
to him. The splendor of this house and the expensive cars was not like him either, and Mary
knew that all of this must have been what Danbi had wanted.
“Please ask for me. Please. I’ll sign the papers. I promise. You and the boys can throw me
away. I won’t bother you ever anymore. Please help me. Please save me this one time,” Shin
covered his mouth and wept. “I didn’t take anyone’s money. I’m the victim here. Who will care
for Anna?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 949
Mary looked at him then closed her eyes.
“We have to use your phone,” he said.
Mary took out her mobile phone from her bag, and Shin dialed the number for Rose
Salon. Nari answered.
“Hello,” Mary said in Korean and introduced herself as Helen’s friend. She asked to
speak with Koh Yohan.
Nari passed the handset to John.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 950
5:13 May 2007 "Rosetta Stone"
13. May 2007
#
The results of the pilot program were too good, and from word of mouth, there was a staggering
number of applicants for next year’s Fortress Seoul.
The partners and managers met in the large conference room. They drank coffee and took
notes. All five were not the kind of people who were interested in congratulating themselves.
Rather, they tried to figure out next steps. Tom and Clara Song, the owners of Eagle Academy,
felt confident of doubling in size, but Peter and Mido weren’t as certain. Lion, who had flown
into Seoul alone the night before, listened and made curious faces whenever he was confused.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 951
“I have to find more consultants and train them well. Even if they’re good at their jobs—
” Peter looked skeptical. “I’d rather keep the size smaller. For another year maybe.”
“But we can help more kids,” Tom said. “Renee promised to find scholarships to send
maybe even 20 kids to the United States. If we double in size. This year we’re sending ten, and
the results for all fifty students were very strong.”
Mido glanced at Lion, who was refraining from talking. She couldn’t tell if he was jet-
lagged or thinking.
Tom who was suffering from allergies sneezed twice, and his wife Clara handed him a
packet of tissues from her purse.
“We have the numbers to double or even triple the number of students but Peter is right.
It all depends on the consultant to student ratio. Parents like that Fortress does only the
application section, and the kids seem focused—” Tom said, sniffling.
“We could keep it small and charge double,” Clara said.
“Would that even work?” Lion asked, facing the owners of Eagle Academy. He wished
Yun had come with him, but she was busy overseeing Exodus and Fortress. She didn’t want to
leave the baby. “I don’t know the market here very well.”
“We charge considerably less than most college consulting hagwons in Seoul. We can
certainly increase our tuition if only to reduce the numbers—”
“That isn’t why we came here,” Mido said. “I thought we were going to try to be priced
moderately and provide at least ten kids free tuition. If we’re less expensive, we can draw the
strongest students, right?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 952
Lion nodded. He was always trying to keep tuition prices down, and Yun had to remind
him that they paid their tutors the highest rates in Orange County, so something had to give.
No resolution in sight, Clara raised her eyebrows and checked her phone before putting it
away in her tan-colored jacket pocket.
“I have to head back to Eagle,” she said. “Three meetings with mother groups this
afternoon. Everyone wants to take the summer session with Fortress, and I don’t know how
much longer I can hold them off. Please,” she folded her hands as if in prayer, “Please just tell
me the final numbers.”
“I’ll stay,” Tom said to his wife, and Clara waved goodbye before leaving.
“Do you think we aren’t charging enough?” Lion asked, and Tom laughed.
“Right now, you’re sort of running a charity, and it’s interesting because you’re getting
better results than some of the best consulting hagwons here. We had eleven Ivy acceptances, one
Stanford, two M.I.T., as well as the best state schools. Some of the kids who got into these
schools surprised me even,” Tom said. “The parents keep calling me to offer to take us out to
dinner.”
“Well, you know what that means,” Peter said. He never let a parent buy him a meal
because too often, it came with an ask.
“They’re mostly just trying to say thank you,” Tom said, dismissing Peter’s cynicism.
“I’m just glad that Fortress Seoul is taking such good care of our kids. “And you are doing an
amazing job training the essay tutors,” he said to Mido, who wasn’t allowed to work with the
students directly since she didn’t have a college degree.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 953
“I don’t know how much longer we can stay here,” Peter said.
Lion and Tom looked up.
Mido smiled at Peter, wanting to support him.
“The parents are making me crazy,” Peter said. “There’s no way I can handle twice the
number. And the kids are really bright but they seem so freaked out. I feel like I spend half my
time trying to remind them that this is not everything.”
“But it feels like it is. To them,” Tom said. “They’ve worked so hard for this moment.
Believe it or not, you’re removing much of the stress from their shoulders.”
Mido sensed this was true. The students here wrote the tutors letters and brought them
tiny jars of candies or stuffed animals. The notes mentioned how they felt better because they
liked coming to Fortress to work on the applications and had someone to ask for help, who didn’t
pressure them.
“Do you want to come home?” Lion asked Peter and Mido.
Before Peter had a chance to answer, Tom interrupted, “This hagwon will not work
without you and Mido. Good teachers aren’t fungible.”
The four of them decided to take a few days to think about this, and Tom left first,
leaving Lion with Peter and Mido.
#
While Lion spoke with Peter, Mido got a message.
Once or twice a month, she heard from Tek. She hadn’t seen him since a quick coffee in

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 954
August. Tek was dating someone, he said, which made Mido feel better about them being
friends.
The message read: Heading to Seoul for work. Dinner tomorrow?
Mido met him at a Japanese restaurant, famous for its shabu shabu, and Tek was waiting
at the table when she arrived.
“How’s work today?” Tek asked, sounding no different than when they were in college.
“It’s busy. I should have dinner then get back to the office. I have to review a lot of files.”
“You’re doomed.”
“Hmm?”
“Your hours. Koreans work non-stop and Americans never take any time off. You’re both.
If you had stayed in Australia, you’d have some balance in your life. When’s the last time you
went on holiday?” Tek said, his Australian accent getting stronger.
Mido tried to think. After the family moved to California, she had never taken a vacation.
No one in her family had. Everyone worked. They had to.
“You have to take holiday. All this work is not good for you. You’re going to get sick.”
“You work a lot,” she said, taking a sip of her hot tea.
“How long will you do this, Mido?” he asked.
“What?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 955
“This hagwon business. It’s a nice updated concept. Promotes more fairness. I get that.
But you haven’t finished Uni. When does that come in?”
“It’s funny. No one in L.A. seemed to care whether or not I got my degree, and after a
while, no one asked about it. Here, I get asked quite a lot. Not that it’s stopped the business from
growing. I train the tutors and monitor each student’s progress, so I know what’s going on with
the students and —”
“Koreans are so damn crazy about education and degrees,” he said. “They’re obsessed.”
“That’s not always a bad thing. I don’t blame them. I mean, it’s better than in other places
where some parents don’t seem to care at all about school. No one in America blinks if a child
practices all the time for a sport, but it’s always somehow terrible if a child studies non-stop. It’s
kind of a lie,” she said. “I enjoy sports, but most kids won’t become athletes. Nearly every kid
could benefit from getting a sound education.”
“You sound like a Korean parent,” Tek said, laughing. “My mother used to tell me this
when I wanted to keep playing badminton. I wasn’t great but I loved being on the team.”
“That’s good that you liked it and played,” Mido said. “I don’t mean it has to be one or
the other.”
“Well, at some point, you get serious and have to give up something to get something
else,” Tek said.
“Now who sounds like a Korean parent?” she said, folding her arms across her chest.
“What is a Korean parent anyway? If you are Korean and have a kid, you’re a Korean parent,
and would you like someone to presume you’re one way or the other? I’ve met so many Korean

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 956
parents, and each one is different.”
“I’m not having kids,” Tek said. “I doubt it.”
Surprised, she looked at him again. They had spoken about having children when they
were together, and she didn’t know what had brought this about.
“You might change your mind,” she said. “Kids are great.”
“My colleagues here who have children do not feel this way. I am endlessly hearing about
learning disabilities, teenagers who are disobedient, and the expenses.”
“Well, I like kids. The more I work with them, the more I like them.”
Tek raised the temperature on the stove below the shabu shabu pot.
“Koreans aren’t having kids because of you,” he said, smiling. He prepared to have an
argument.
“What do you mean?”
“Hagwons cost too much. Everything costs too much, and if the kids don’t turn out well,
then parents get blamed. But all my counterparts here say they’re sick and tired of the costs of
education. Their number one complaint is hagwons. That’s you.”
“Is that why you invited me to dinner?” Mido said. None of these arguments were new to
her. It was true that every parent she had ever met complained about education costs, and how it
was impossible not to send a child to hagwon, usually starting around kindergarten. “You wanted
to lecture me about hagwons. You think I’m part of the problem.”
“I think you should quit this absurd industry and finish your degree. Find your calling and

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 957
do something else. You used to write plays.” Tek said this last part more cautiously. He wanted to
help her but from her expression, he could see that he hurt her feelings. “You were good at it.
You were even considering acting. Remember?”
“You think I failed.” Mido put down her teacup. She didn’t want to get up and make
things worse. No doubt, he thought he was helping her, being a good friend. She wanted to see it
from his side but it was hurting her to have him remind her of what she hadn’t finished. “I didn’t
fail.”
“I didn’t mean to—” Tek rapped his forehead with his right fist like he was trying to
discipline himself. “I just never went to a hagwon. My mother didn’t believe in them. Neither did
my father. They thought smart people didn’t have to go to these things. They bought me some
test guides and said I’d be fine.” He recalled how clear his mother had been about his not
needing a tutor or an exam prep course. “They’re for anxious mothers who never went to good
schools,” she had said, having gone to Korea University for her undergraduate degree, an MSt at
Oxford then a doctorate at Sydney.
“Mido, you’re too smart to waste your life teaching a bunch of kids how to game a test or
an application. I can’t believe Yun and Lion could be doing this either. It was a good job when
you needed something for a stop-gap and you were taking care of your family, but now—”
Mido got up from her seat.
“Sit down, Mido. Don’t go. I didn’t mean to—”
She sat back down and exhaled.
“You went to private school in Sydney and had a mother and father who got advanced

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 958
degrees abroad. You won a genetic lottery and live in a country where you were able to succeed.
I just don’t think you should sit in judgment over the people here who don’t have the same
opportunities that you do. How dare you make generalizations about people you barely know?
Just because you’re ethnically Korean doesn’t give you the right to speak about all Koreans. Your
parents didn’t raise you here.”
Tek didn’t know how to back down. It enraged him to think of her spending her life doing
this thing that made no sense to him. “Koreans care too much about this shit, and it’s wrong for
you to participate in this culture of hyper competition and status mania.”
“Wow. So that’s what you think of me.”
“Not you, but how you’re spending your life.”
“Tek, you have no right.”
“Are you still with that guy?”
Mido didn’t answer.
“I broke up with that girl. She wasn’t you.”
The broth bubbled in the pot, and the meat and vegetables lay untouched.
“I’ve loved you ever since we were kids. You can’t possibly tell me that I have no right to
tell you about what you were meant to do or who you were meant to be. I know how gifted you
are.”
“You think that being an actor or a playwright is somehow better than being a tutor or an
education consultant. You’re an elitist, Tek. I didn’t know this about you. I help kids, and I’m
trying to help them the best way I know how.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 959
“You’re helping kids who can only afford this shit,” he said. “You’re supporting this
endless culture of striving and cut-throat competition in a nation that has an inferiority complex,”
he said, taking a deep breath to resume his argument but Mido raised her hand.
“Tek. Most rich people here try to get their kid out of Korea by sending them abroad, but
what about the poor or middle class kid who couldn’t possibly afford to send their kid to college
in the United States? You’re going to look down at a middle-class parent for spending her last
cent on trying to help her kid learn English when every fancy job here asks for your TOEIC
score? You can’t be hired for a decent job here without a degree and these scores. It’s not like
America or Australia. Parents don’t want their kids to be factory workers, replaced by cheaper
labor or machines. You know that—”
Mido grabbed her bag and coat. “It’s too easy to blame the parents or feel superior to
your fabricated idea of Koreans. I thought you were smarter than that. It’s not a compliment to
me that you think I can be a playwright or an actor. I don’t think that’s a better job. It just sounds
cooler to you than being a hagwon teacher.”
“If you want to help kids so much, why don’t you teach in a poor public school. We have
them in Sydney and I know you have them in America—”
Tek could not stop himself. He had to prove her wrong, and Mido realized that she didn’t
want to fight him.
“Why do you get to question what I do?” she asked. “I never once told you to become a
barrister or not.”
“There’s nothing wrong with becoming a barrister. Any one would be lucky to be—” Tek
saw then and refrained, seeing his own standards exposed. He didn’t think being a hagwon

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 960
teacher was to be lucky. For him, there was something wrong with working at a hagwon.
Sometimes, he defended insurance companies that chiseled their customers, denying payments to
disputable claims. Why was that lucky?
“I don’t have to defend my life to you,” she said.
“I just want the best for you—”
Mido got up.
“I have work to do. Thank you for dinner. Please don’t call me anymore. I wish you
well.”
“Mido. I didn’t mean—”
Tek asked for the bill and paid it, and when he reached the sidewalk, she was gone.
#
When she returned to Fortress, most of the tutors were still at their desks in the main room. Peter
sat in his office alone. A glass wall divided their space, and he waved. Mido put her things down
in her chair and went to his office. She shut the glass door.
“You’re back sooner than I thought you’d be,” he said.
“Do you think we’re wasting our lives?”
Peter laughed.
“What? No. I don’t. But thank you for asking.” He looked at her quizzically, not
understanding why she seemed so upset.
“I think I need to get my degree.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 961
“Here?”
“No. Back in California.”
“Now? We’ve only been here for a year. Things are going well.”
“I don’t mean right this second,” she said, not knowing exactly what she was trying to
say.
“You should go back to college if you want. I know a great education consultant. She’s
considered the best in Orange County and now, Seoul.”
“You’re funny.”
“I thought we were going to take over the Korean hagwon market.” Peter rubbed his
hands like he was plotting something. “My family thinks we should get into the internet hagwon
business. Lion seems—”
“—Where is he?” Mido looked beyond the glass walls. He wasn’t anywhere on the floor.
“He went back to the hotel. Jet lag.”
“The owners’ meeting wasn’t clear.”
“Success breeds more problems sometimes,” he said. “My uncle thinks that if we record
the classes and there was an internet hagwon, then we could scale up.”
Mido made a face.
“I know. No interest. Someone smarter than me could do that.”
“What does Lion want to do?” she asked.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 962
“He said we can decide. He misses the band.”
Mido laughed. “Yeah, I miss hearing you guys sing.” In the armchair, she pulled her
knees into her chest and put her head down.
“Figures my uncles can figure out how to monetize this. The internet thing is not a bad
idea, but I don’t want to do that. You want to go back? Get your degree?” He tried to peek
underneath her curtain of hair. “Hey, Mido. You home?”
Mido raised her head.
“Do we have to take over? Do we have to make a lot more money? Do we have to scale
up?” she asked.
“No. We don’t. It was just an idea from a rich family member. Rich people get rich
because they have these money making ideas. I just thought you might like it because it could
help more students here who can’t afford to live in Seoul and—”
Mido smiled at him.
“I want to have kids. You want to have any? I never asked you. I know you don’t want to
get married but are you against kids?”
“I want kids. How many do you want?”
“I don’t know. I liked being one of three.”
“Let’s have kids, then. You’d be good at being a mom.”
Mido didn’t know if that was true, but it occurred to her that she wanted to try being a
mother. If Peter didn’t want to have kids with her, that wouldn’t change her mind. One day, she

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 963
would still want to have children. School, relationships, and kids. There was supposed to be an
order to things, and perhaps everything would be out of order for her, but the wishes remained,
and the wishes were worth saving.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 964
5:14 May 2007 "Friend"
14. May 2007
#
“I was very sorry to hear about your wife,” Mary said, holding the warm paper cup of milky
instant coffee. She didn’t know what to do with her hands.
Not an hour went by when John didn’t think of Helen. Everything made him miss her. A
tree budding leaves. Mido’s messages asking him if he had dinner. Bo’s tapered hands. An
unexpected parking spot. Every good thing to be had and hoped for reminded him of her. She
was gone but somehow she was with him. He wouldn’t have understood this idea until he lost
her—that she was alive in him.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 965
His parents and older brother had died before John finished college. They were the kind
of poor people few noticed. Until he died, his father had worked in a factory and was paid only
when his boss had money. “Be early for work. Do your job so well that you are missed when
absent. Never spend more than you have.” John lived by his father’s teachings.
In the middle of the day, Mary and John were sitting in the Rose Salon employees’ room
behind a mirrored wall. This was where the workers ate their meals and took breaks. On the
north wall, there was a two-door refrigerator, two microwaves, three hot water kettles, and an old
television that was almost never turned on. Nari stocked a bowl with chewing gum and mints, so
the nail technicians never had bad breath. All twenty-four of the gray metal employee lockers
were in use, each one secured with various colored combination locks—blue, black, and red—a
cube of privacy in the women’s working lives.
From inside, anyone could see what was going on in the shop through the large two-way
mirror, dividing the back room from the shop.
Recently, Nari had changed the ceiling light fixtures to three small crystal chandeliers,
and twice a week, she arranged a red rose and baby’s breath in the bud vase set on every work
station, refusing to use fake flowers.
Mary caught John glancing at the digital clock in the old microwave.
“You must have been surprised to hear from me,” she said.
John smiled at Shin’s wife, feeling sorry for her. This could not have been her idea.
“Thank you for meeting me. I won’t take long,” she said, checking the mirrored wall.
Neat rows of women labored, heads bowed over their customers’ hands. The technician held a

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 966
customer’s hand tenderly, and customers either looked over her head or at her own hand and
some continued to talk.
Mary knew women who worked at nail salons in Bergen County, and she felt grateful to
work at the florist, where she didn’t have to touch strangers. Once, a friend from church told her
that she liked the work except for having to make conversation because she was embarrassed at
having an accent.
John followed her gaze and picked up his coffee. Shin’s wife was nervous, and he didn’t
want to rush her.
“I was glad to hear that Joey and Luke are now lawyers.” He could remember the birth of
each one.
Mary waved away the implied compliment. The boys had worked hard as if they were
trying to relieve their mother of pain. She believed in God’s provision but felt uncomfortable
saying it.
“How hard you must have worked to raise them,” he said.
“I can’t take any credit.” Mary hesitated, “Elder Koh—”
John looked at her.
“—You’re a person of faith, so I should say this. It wouldn’t have been possible for me to
raise my sons here without God.”
“I understand.”
Mary bit her short thumbnail.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 967
“May I ask what brought you here?”
“My husband asked me to ask you if you would speak with him.”
“Ah—” John nodded.
“Would that be possible? I imagine you must have many good reasons not to speak with
him—”
“DH said that it was a criminal matter, so I should be careful. I didn’t want to hurt the
church—”
Looking alarmed, Mary nodded gravely.
“So you won’t speak with him.”
“What does he want?”
“I don’t know,” she said.
“What will he do now?” John asked. “I imagine he has a lawyer.”
“Joey and Luke got him someone.”
John nodded.
“He wasn’t arrested,” she said. “But he’s being investigated.”
“For what?” John looked puzzled. He had heard from the minister and Elders that George
Hong had confessed to everything. Danbi had corroborated that Shin knew nothing.
“Something about conspiracy, premium diversion, and embezzlement, because my
husband must have known that she was taking money from the premium accounts.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 968
“Oh—”
“My husband said he’d had no idea. She had done this by herself. I guess for her real
estate investments. I don’t understand it very well.”
“I read that she was buying houses and selling them for a profit. When buyers stopped
making offers, I think she was stuck with an investment property with big loan payments—”
“Yes, I read that, too, but I didn’t understand why she was doing this. They seemed to be
living so well.”
John shrugged. He heard talk that Shin had debts for their house, business, and cars.
“Apparently, it’s also my husband’s fault because as the C.E.O. of the agency, he should
have known.”
“I see,” John said and hearing the store doorbell chime, he reflexively turned to the
mirrored glass. More customers came in and Nari greeted them. “I don’t understand how I can
help.”
John folded his hands and stared at the bottom of his coffee cup. He didn’t remember
finishing his drink but it was all gone and only a thin brown ring remained.
“Do you think that she’ll go to prison?” Mary asked. Joey and Luke had explained that
she could.
“DH thinks so. I don’t know for how long exactly.” John squirmed a bit in his chair. DH
had said it was a Special Taking, and the penalties could be much higher than a Grand Theft
charge.
“It depends on the prosecutor and the judge,” DH said “And the deputy at the airport got

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 969
hurt. So, no bail, go straight to jail.”
“I don’t understand all of this. It’s a terrible thing for our community,” John said.
“I am sorry to bother you. My husband didn’t think you would speak with him. Unless I
asked you as a favor.” Seeing his confusion, she added, “I think he’s ashamed.”
John crossed his arms and looked down, unable to face her before saying, “But he wasn’t
ashamed to call you. I cannot imagine what you have had to endure. Your husband was my
closest friend, and it’s true that we went through our lives together. I used to think that he was
like an older brother to me, who watched out for me and made sure I was okay.”
Mary was certain that this was what Shin still believed.
“I benefited from our relationship, but now after all these years, I realize that I helped
him, too. I did a great deal of work for him. In a way, it was fair when he took the credit for my
work, because he was in charge and took risks I didn’t want to take, and after he got promoted,
I’d usually get promoted, too. He let me travel overseas so my children could be educated
abroad. I could never make enough money for the kind of life we had, and being an expatriate
allowed us that. He took care of me, and I did the work. Then after that time with Jung Danbi in
Korea, I started to understand more about who he is. I shouldn’t have fired her. It was unfair to
fire her. I should have said no.”
“My husband is a selfish man.”
“He is weak, but so was I.”
Mary shook her head, not understanding how he could blame himself.
“I’ve learned that weakness can be a dangerous thing,” he said.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 970
Mary splayed her fingers on the table. Her nails were cut short, and her knuckles had
thickened. When she woke up in the mornings, her hands were often swollen.
“I asked my husband for a divorce. He had asked a number of times, but I’d always said
no. I’m Catholic.” Mary swallowed. “But, Joey is getting married, but I haven’t even mentioned
it to my husband.”
John’s initial happiness at hearing her son’s good news vanished as he appreciated how
this mess could hurt him, too.
“The boys told me I had to cut ties right away. I couldn’t be exposed to his liabilities,
they said. I came to California so he would sign the divorce papers.” Mary pointed to her bag.
“I remember when Joey was born,” John said. Shin and he had gone straight to the
hospital from a work dinner.
“Joey asked me not to tell his father until it’s over. He’s marrying another lawyer from a
nice family. She’s Korean but born here. Her mother works in Manhattan as an architect, and her
father is a famous knee surgeon. Gracie goes to church and volunteers in the nursery every week.
Joey is so blessed.” Mary’s face brightened, and for a moment, she looked beautiful again like a
woman without troubles, and John thought she deserved something good to happen to her.
“Congratulations,” John said. “Please tell him congratulations for me. I wish him and
Gracie happiness.”
“Your children? How are they?”
“Bo is getting a Ph.D. at U.C.L.A., DH is working at a law firm in Seoul, and Mido is in
Seoul opening a branch of a hagwon from California.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 971
“A hagwon from America. In Seoul?”
John smiled and checked the mirrored wall to see if everything was okay at the store. The
place was mostly full with only a few empty chairs.
“No one is married yet,” he said.
The kids being single didn’t bother him, the way it bothered others. Losing Helen had
taught him that. His children were healthy and decent young people.
Mary was still wearing her raincoat and felt warm.
“I don’t want anyone in the bride’s family to know. But I know they have to be told—”
Mary looked anguished. “—About my husband. If I could get the divorce right away, then maybe
we can keep it quiet. Just tell Gracie and her parents. My husband said he’d sign the papers if
you—”
John didn’t understand.
“I suppose Gracie—she’s the fiancée—will understand. She’s such a dear girl. And my
Joey. They don’t deserve this awful—” Mary folded her hands as if in prayer.
He nodded.
“My husband said he’d sign the divorce papers if you would speak to him. If it wasn’t for
that, I wouldn’t have come all this way and bring you this shameful thing to your doorstep. Elder
Koh, I am trying to run away from him and asking you to help. I am disgraced.”
John shook his head.
“I’m asking myself how I can be so selfish,” she said. “I’m a hypocrite. I am so sorry.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 972
The words tumbled out of her mouth. Mary hadn’t planned on saying any of this. All she had to
do was ask him, and already, she had sensed that he’d feel badly.
John got up and brought her the plastic box filled with napkins and disposable utensils,
leftover from takeout meals. He pulled out some napkins and gave them to her. Mary wiped her
eyes.
“I’ve known your husband for a lifetime. He would never steal money.”
Mary couldn’t speak.
“Where is he now?”
She stared at the mirrored glass and pointed to the parking lot.
John gestured to her bag.
“May I have the papers?”
She handed the manila envelope to him.
“Why don’t you stay here for a bit. I’ll be back after I speak with him.”
John asked Nari to order Mary some lunch. From the reception desk, he got a blue
ballpoint pen and went to the parking lot. Shin got out of the car, and even before he had time to
say a thing, John told him they were going to the bank because there was a notary there.
#
Ever punctual, at six o’clock, John arrived at Shin’s house. Nari and Joonho would close the
salon without him. Shin invited him in and offered tea. Mary was gone.
“Did you already take her to the airport?” John asked, checking his watch.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 973
“No. She had to return the rental,” Shin said. Joey had been able to change her return
ticket, and Mary saw no reason to check into the hotel in Irvine and stay the night.
“I’m not supposed to be speaking with you. That’s why I didn’t return the calls.”
“My lawyer said as much,” Shin said.
John had never been to his house. Its grandeur astonished him, and Shin sensed what he
was thinking.
“The bank owns the house, and now it’s underwater.” Shin laughed.
John didn’t ask about the cars in the garage.
“Is there something you need? From me?”
“I have to go away for a few days. I was wondering if you could take Anna. If she could
stay with your family. I thought maybe Mido could watch her.”
“What? Mido is in Seoul.”
Shin opened his mouth then closed it.
“Anna is very easy. I have to take care of few things, and I can’t take her with me. It’s
already been so disruptive with Danbi being gone—”
John was puzzled. He’d assumed that Shin wanted information about the church finances
for the investigation, and DH had instructed him not to say anything.
“Where are you going?” John asked.
“I was going to try to raise some money. For the lawyers. I have a friend in New York,
who might be able to help. Anna goes to school from 8:30-4 and now she has hagwon. I enrolled

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 974
her in the one in Cypress, so you won’t need to—”
John was confused. Cypress made no sense when they lived in Woodbridge.
“You don’t have a babysitter or housekeeper?”
“Had to let them go. Money.”
John nodded.
“How many days?”
“Four, maybe five. You’re the only person I trust.”
John covered his mouth. At home, it was only him most nights, and Bo came over on the
weekends.
After Mary left for the airport, Shin had showered and shaved. He had put on a clean shirt
and dress slacks then packed Anna’s suitcase. The house was tidy and everything put away.
“It’s short notice, and I’m very sorry to bother you. Danbi just changed everything. Anna
is such a good kid. Reminds me of your Mido.”
“How old is Anna?”
“She turned 9 in March,” Shin said, smiling. From the side table, he picked up the framed
photograph of her third grade portrait. She wore a white shirt and a navy blue pinafore dress.
That morning, for picture day, Danbi had braided Anna’s long hair and tied a blue velvet ribbon
on the tail.
“Where is she?”
“Still at the hagwon. If you could pick her up for me, I’d really appreciate it.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 975
John checked his watch. It was almost seven o’clock.
“Does she eat dinner there?”
Shin nodded, trusting that she must. He didn’t know.
#
On Saturday morning, John went to work, and Bo stayed home with Anna. He made her French
toast with strawberries for breakfast.
“What would you like to do today?” he asked.
“I don’t know.” She looked down at her wide bare feet. Her mother said she had her
father’s big feet.
“Did you want to watch television?”
“My mother doesn’t let me do that. She said it will ruin my brain. When she was a girl,
she never watched any.”
Bo nodded. Anna had already washed her face and brushed her teeth without being
reminded and dressed herself in a pink tee shirt and jeans.
“She’s not entirely wrong. Do you like movies or video games?”
“I’m not allowed to play video games.”
“I see,” Bo smiled. “I’m not very good at them. My brother DH is amazing at all kinds of
games. He’s also an athlete.”
“May I read the books in Mido’s room?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 976
“Aren’t they too old for you?”
“There are books for my age, too. I looked in the boxes.” She wasn’t sure if that was
allowed but they were open.
Anna walked to Mido’s room, and Bo followed her.
In the corner, there were two large boxes filled with their old books.
“Oh wow,” Bo said. “You can definitely read them.” He sat on the floor and rummaged
through them.
One egg crate was just of The Hardy Boys and The Nancy Drew Mystery Stories, and
another box had all seven volumes of The Narnia Chronicles as well as The Hobbit, The
Fellowship of the Ring and The Return of the King. The Two Towers was missing. A big stack of
Shakespeare plays was tied together with plastic twine, and Bo knew his mother had put these
aside, and Mido must not have been able to part with them.
“Is this what you want to do today?”
Anna shrugged. She picked a Hardy Boys mystery.
“I like series books.”
Bo nodded. “I think there’s over fifty of those, but we didn’t buy them all. We borrowed
a bunch. Those are the ones we got for birthday presents. All of us read them.”
The child wondered what it would be like to have a brother and a sister.
“Do you ever go to the lakes?” she asked.
“Which lakes?”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 977
“The ones in Woodbridge. Near my house.”
“Oh, right, there are two of those. East, West?” Bo wasn’t sure. “North or South? I’ve
never been there. Isn’t that funny? It’s so close, too.”
“North and South. My dad and I used to go sometimes. To look at the ducks and coots.
You’re not supposed to feed them or catch them.”
“Coots?” Bo didn’t know what that was. “Is that the fish?”
Anna laughed. “No! It’s a bird.” She looked at him confused, wondering how he could
not know something so obvious. “It’s a dark gray bird with a white beak and red eyes, and it
looks like a duck, but it isn’t a duck. Their skinny green feet aren’t webbed.”
“Wow. Thank you for teaching me that,” Bo said, and he meant it.
Anna nodded. “Coots eat up the expensive shrubbery and poop a lot, and people in
Woodbridge don’t like them,” she said. “Dad told me. People prefer the mallards. Mallards are
wild ducks.”
“Do you like the coots?”
“They’re okay,” she shrugged. “They can’t help being coots.”
Bo smiled. “Yeah. They can’t help it.”
Anna sat cross-legged and opened The Secret of the Old Mill.
“Do you want to go to one of the lakes today? I can take you.”
Anna stared at Bo like she was thinking about it then shook her head.
“I’m going to read now. Maybe later.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 978
“Cool, I’ll do my reading, too, then. I’ll be
over there.” He pointed to the kitchen. “You can hang out with me if you want. There’s a
comfy armchair by the table, which my brother calls ‘The Throne.’ You can have it today, which
makes you the ruler.”
He left her in Mido’s room with the door ajar and set up his books, legal pads, and laptop
on the kitchen table where she could still see him. Within a few minutes, Anna brought her
mystery book and sat on the armchair not far from him.
#
The child was sweet and mild-mannered as Shin had described. She stayed in Mido’s room
without complaint. After four days, the weather grew colder, and John looked through her
suitcase for a sweater and found the letters in the zippered section, one for Anna and another for
John.
The police discovered Shin’s body in the garage. He had never left for New York.
Bo took a week off from school to come home and help his father with Anna. Before the
funeral, Shin’s lawyer brought John a white Bankers Box with his name on it.
Shin had left him written instructions for the insurance agency and information relating to
Anna — babysitter names and pediatrician contacts, immunization records, and her birth
certificate. There was a term life insurance policy on his life for a million dollars with all four
children as the named beneficiaries. He left a letter for the boys and Mary.
“What did his letter for you say?” Bo asked his father.
“His family was better off without him. He asked me to care for Anna. He apologized. He

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 979
said thank you.”
The letter to Anna was unsealed, and Bo advised that they read it just in case.
“Be a good girl. Appa is sorry and loves you very much.”
Shin did not mention anything about the child’s mother.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 980
5:15 May 2007 "Liberation "
15. May 2007
#
The baby was taking a nap in the nursery, and Yun reviewed the projected financials in the den.
Before Michael was born, she used to work from her office at Exodus on Saturdays and Sundays,
but in the past year, she worked from home on the weekends and Mondays.
After Peter and Mido left for Seoul, Lion hired a new director, account manager and a
bookkeeper for both hagwons. They were remarkably competent; however, out of habit, Yun
continued to check on all the jobs she used to do no matter how many times Lion told her that
she had to work less and rest more.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 981
There was the familiar knock. Two raps against the wall, never the door. Her tall husband
stood by the half open door of the den. Lion wore an Aretha Franklin tee shirt and faded blue
jeans.
“Have you thought it through?” he asked.
“What if he leaves again?” Yun said.
“Well, if he does, he does.”
Again, they were discussing moving her parents Nari and Joonho into the two-bedroom
apartment above the garage. Yun was relieved that her father had returned from Brazil, but she
still felt awkward around him. They never discussed why he left or what made him return.
“I don’t mind if they live here,” she said. “I just don’t think I should ask them.”
Lion sat down on the armchair opposite the television.
“Wife.”
“Yes,” she answered without looking up from her work. Yun circled figures she
questioned with her blue marker.
“I think he’s sorry,” Lion said.
“I know but he didn’t say it.” Yun refused to face Lion. If she saw her husband’s tender
look, she would lose her resolve and feel sorry for her father. Both Nari and Lion had forgiven
him, and Yun thought someone should hold up standards. “He’s never going to say it. I know.”
“Not sure if men in his generation do stuff like that. I mean, there could be exceptions.”
Lion shrugged and looked up at the ceiling like he was puzzling it out. He didn’t like to make

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 982
absolute statements. “It’s hard to apologize, I guess,” he said and added, “So, do you want me to
ask them?” Lion smiled at her. “I can. I’m happy to do it.”
Finally, she looked up from her papers and stared at him, wondering how he could be so
patient and buoyant.
#
By the time Nari and Joonho arrived with the takeout dinner from Mandu House, the baby was
awake from his nap and playful. Joonho washed his hands and held Michael up in his arms. The
baby squealed with joy. Near the dining table, there was a large white sheepskin rug covered
with a fresh bath towel and Michael’s favorite toys, and the grandfather and baby played on the
floor.
Nari knew where everything was in her daughter’s kitchen, and while Yun set the table,
Nari heated up the chicken porridge for Michael. Lion grabbed drinks from the refrigerator.
“Shin Taehun died,” Nari said.
“What?” Lion exclaimed, pausing in front of the open refrigerator door.
“When? How?” Yun stopped her work, a stack of plates, napkins, and chopsticks in her
grip.
“Yesterday morning, the police found his body.”
Yun looked at her father. In one hand, he held a stuffed tiger and a stuffed rabbit in the
other, mesmerizing the baby. When she was a child, he used to do sounds for the animals. Until
now, she had forgotten this. Yun set down the dishes. The bags of food remained unopened.
“I thought he had a lawyer and it wasn’t his fault,” Lion said. “Didn’t you just see him?

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 983
When he enrolled Anna?” he asked his wife.
“Oh, is that why he came to us?” Yun said. “She goes to school in Woodbridge, and
there’s a pretty good hagwon for her age in Irvine that’s not far from their house, and I didn’t get
it.”
Nari frowned her brow. “He was found in his car.”
“He asked Mido’s father to do all these things in a letter. He asked her to take care of
Anna. Can you believe that?”
Lion exhaled as if nothing could surprise him anymore. Joonho had heard all this earlier
and continued to play with the baby who had no idea what they were talking about.
Nari smiled at the baby and didn’t want to say any more. It was all too sad. Mido’s
mother Helen had never said anything bad about Taehun Shin and Danbi Jung, but she knew
something had happened between the two couples. Helen had said once that for decades, the men
were best friends. They went to college and served in KATUSA together. John said that Shin was
his first real friend.
The newspaper articles about Danbi Jung and George Hong and how much money they
stole from Gospel Presbyterian were shocking enough. Now, there was a terrible death, and the
adults felt badly for the little girl. In light of another family’s tragedy, Nari felt guilty for feeling
lucky for being with her daughter, son-in-law, grandson, and to have her husband back. Nari and
Joonho had lost all their money and now worked for someone else, but in their daughter’s pretty
house, none of it seemed to matter as much as before.
Lion began to take out the food containers from the bag.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 984
“But Elder Shin was innocent,” he said, repeating what the pastors and other Elders had
discussed at the emergency Elders’ meeting. “Why would he do this?”
“His wife Mary flew in from New Jersey and asked for a divorce,” Nari said. “I didn’t
know they weren’t divorced already. He has three children in addition to Anna. Two lawyers and
the youngest son is in nursing school.”
Nari picked up the baby and put him in the high chair, and the adults sat down.
Lion bowed his head to say grace.
Michael tapped his little hands on the white table attached to his chair, and Yun fed him
spoonfuls of warm porridge. While she fed the baby, she ate dumplings. Whenever Michael
reached for her food, she tore tiny pieces of the dumpling and chicken and put it on his tray,
allowing him to feed himself.
“Look at how well he eats,” Joonho said. “He’s going to be big like his father.”
“I think he looks like you,” Nari said to her husband, and Joonho grinned. Everyone liked
to be compared to Michael, who had a beautiful open face.
When there was a lull, Lion made his pitch.
“Yun and I would love it if you moved in with us. We have the two bedroom apartment
above the garage which is bigger than your current apartment, or you could stay in this house.
We have the extra bedrooms here, and —”
Joonho shook his head. “We don’t want to be a bother. The apartment in Cypress is fine.
The rent hasn’t gone up much and—”
“No. I want to live here,” Nari said. “If I live here, I can see Michael every day. The

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 985
apartment above the garage is perfect. Besides, when Ginny comes home from Seoul and goes
back to college, then she can have her own bathroom.”
Quietly, Yun kept feeding the baby, who was now almost done with the porridge. Michael
picked up the tiny pieces of shredded fried chicken and chewed, and the four adults looked as
delighted as if he was performing a magic trick.
Joonho put his hand near Michael, and the baby grabbed his pinky and laughed at his
grandfather.
“I want to live here,” Nari said again. “Would we be bothering you?” she asked Lion,
who shook his head.
“We’re healthy enough to take care of ourselves,” Joonho said. “You mustn’t bother a
young family.”
“It wouldn’t bother us,” Yun said to her father. “You could help me with Michael because
he’s going to have a little sister in five months. We will need your help.”
With his free hand, Joonho covered his mouth to blink back tears. Nari shouted, “How
can I be so blessed?” She wept. “Thank God, thank God, thank God,” the young grandmother
repeated her praise.
#
Her younger brother Kenny was visiting from Sydney, so Sonya invited Mido and DH over to
her place. DH was delayed at work, so Sonya, Kenny, and Mido were catching up. When Kenny
asked Mido about her father, she told them about Anna and Taehun Shin.
“Let me get this straight,” Kenny turned to Mido. Surprised and slightly outraged, his

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 986
Australian accent grew stronger. “That horrible woman, who falsely accused your father and
destroyed his career, cheated on Shin with another married man, then stole money from their
insurance company and the church?”
To gather her thoughts, Mido looked away from her aunt and uncle, and when she felt
certain he got it right, she nodded once.
“Fuck me dead,” Kenny said.
Sonya made a face like she didn’t approve of his cursing. “Kenny.”
“And there’s a kid?” he asked, undeterred by his older’s sister.
Mido nodded, wanting to change the topic.
Sonya who’d heard most of this from Nari sighed. She couldn’t believe John was taking
care of the child.
Still puzzled, Kenny kept shaking his head.
“Hang on. How can he take care of her? How old is she?” Kenny turned to Sonya in
disbelief. “You know all this? Isn’t he managing your salons?”
This time, Sonya nodded, not wanting to make Mido uncomfortable.
“Dad feels badly for her,” Mido said.
Sonya and Kenny nodded. They, too, had grown up like orphans. The doorbell rang and
the housekeeper let DH in.
Kenny got up and hugged his nephew.
“You look very successful.” Kenny had not seen him since his sister’s funeral.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 987
DH smiled. He wore a new suit and a French silk necktie Helen had bought for him for
law firm interviews years ago when he was a 1L.
“When are you coming to Sydney?” he asked. “Why are you working in Seoul? Are you
going to get married soon? You a big shot now?”
“That’s at least four questions,” DH replied calmly. “I’d love to go back to Sydney. I am
not a big shot yet. I’m working on it. I like working here, and I might settle down in Seoul if I
make partner.” He smiled, pleased to have covered all the questions.
The housekeeper signaled and Sonya gestured for them to follow her to the dining room.
Dinner was ready.
“How is your brother Bo?” Kenny asked.
DH glanced at Mido, who spoke to him more regularly.
“He took a week off from school to help out with Anna. He’s finishing up his
requirements and teaching. I think there’s clinical hours, exams, papers, and some licensing—”
“—Anna?”
“Mr. Shin’s daughter,” DH answered. He looked at the food and glanced at his aunt to see
if they could start eating. He was starving.
“My brother-in-law is now taking in a friend’s child whose mother is in jail.” Kenny
looked worried. “Not sure why all the good people have to clean up the messes of the sons of
bitches—”
“Kenny.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 988
“I know, I know,” he nodded at his sister. “It’s not like the kids don’t know these words.
They’re adults.” His wife Lily was constantly telling him to clean up his language at home, even
though their children could swear better than he could when they wanted.
“When do you go back to school, Mido?” he asked.
Sonya, who was serving the fish, looked up.
“I want you to finish your degree,” he said.
DH nodded. “She will.”
“When?” Kenny asked. “How long will you be working at this hagwon. Your father’s
doing well enough now. Korea doesn’t need another hagwon. You can come back to Sydney if
you want to get your degree in Education—”
Mido accepted the plate of fish from her aunt and smiled at her.
Kenny rubbed his sun-browned neck and stretched his shoulders. He pulled up the
sleeves of his blue dress shirt. The leather watchband on his left wrist was frayed.
“Your mother loved you kids more than anything in the world,” he said. “She wasn’t the
sort of mother who bragged, but she talked about each of you so much. My sister never
complained about anything. She told me that her life’s work was important.”
Mido wanted him to keep talking about her mother. DH was also paying close attention.
He put down his spoon and cocked his head like a puppy in the direction of his uncle.
“One day you’ll have kids. I hope you do. Greatest part of my life. I have four now, and
when they’re healthy and doing what’s good for them, I feel like there’s nothing I wouldn’t do to
support them. All over the world, your mother worked in stores, cleaned up after a retired woman

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 989
when she got fired because of the IMF, and worked as a salesperson in California until she got
sick. She did it because she wanted to take care of you.”
DH stared at his uncle, who had the same nose as his mother, and he thought about her
regular letters. Her handwriting sloped to the right, and when she wrote in English, her letter i’s
were dotted high and to the right. In each brief letter, she reminded him to go to bed on time
because sleep was really important, that she believed in him, and he could commit his prayers to
the Lord. Always, there was a crisp ten or twenty dollar bill so he could buy pizza. “Mommy is
always praying for you, my son.”
Kenny’s eyes were wet.
“Oh, she talked about you all the time, DH. You know why she talked about you?”
Mido wondered if it was because he had done so well in sports and school.
“She said you made her laugh. You always made her laugh.”
DH covered his mouth and began to sob.
Sonya patted his back. She almost never talked about Helen but living alone in this
apartment, the only person she wanted to talk to was Helen. She wanted to ask how was she to
continue to live. Was this the right way? Helen might have understood why she had to move out.
She couldn’t divorce her husband or live with the Chairman like before. Her sister wouldn’t have
judged her or made her feel weak for continuing to love a man who wasn’t her husband. She
might have just sat with her and let her cry.
“Did she talk about me?” Mido asked.
“Oh, I think you might have been her favorite.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 990
“No,” Mido said. “DH is her favorite. Everyone knows that.”
“I have four kids. The one I worry about the most. That one is my favorite. Doesn’t make
any sense until you think about it.”
DH smiled. All his life, he had heard how much his mother loved him, and in that
moment, he hoped his uncle was right.
“She worried about you the most. Especially when you were little. You were such a quiet
little thing,” Kenny said. “And she worried about you because you always took care of other
people and didn’t complain.”
Sonya nodded.
“But when your family moved to California and you started working at the hagwon and
supporting your brothers so they could go to school and help out at home,” Kenny paused, “She
was so proud of you because you became stronger. But I know she wanted you to finish school. I
know that. She told me.” Kenny talked in spite of his tears. “She told me to take care of my sister
Sonya and to make sure that you finished school. She was so worried—”
“Why was Mommy worried?” DH asked.
“Because you were so quiet,” Sonya said to Mido. “But she wasn’t worried about that
later. You learned how to talk, and you figured out how to teach kids. Did you know that your
mother wanted to be a school teacher?”
DH shook his head. “Really?”
Kenny looked puzzled. “How did you not know that? My sister Sonya was going to be a
doctor, and my sister Helen was going to be a high school English teacher.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 991
“You wanted to be a doctor?” Mido asked her aunt.
No one touched their food. It was as if they were meeting each other for the first time.
“Yes, I wanted to be a doctor, but I couldn’t afford to keep studying. So I got a job as a
secretary then married my husband and had the boys. Your mother wanted to be a teacher, but
after she got married, she followed your father to New Jersey. The first job she got was as a part-
time salesperson at a department store in Paramus,” Sonya said, recalling how excited Helen had
been when she learned how much she would earn. The salary would go toward the children’s
education, and her hours allowed her to be home when they returned from school.
DH asked more questions, and when Kenny couldn’t remember everything, Sonya filled
in the gaps. Mido listened intently, wishing her father and Bo could hear them talking.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 992
5:16 May 2007 "Information"
16. May 2007
#
The visiting area of the Santa Ana woman’s jail smelled like stale coffee, sweat, and disinfectant.
Every now and then, he could hear a loud buzzer and the clang of heavy metal gates opening and
shutting.
Her back pin-straight, Danbi sat on the opposite side of the booth behind a thick piece of
glass. She wore 0a white undershirt beneath her uniform shirt and pants; her dark hair was
gathered with a rubber band. A few white strands sprouted from her side part. Her face bare
except for lip balm, she looked younger and unfamiliar. Danbi held the handset lightly.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 993
“Elder Koh, thank you for coming by,” she said.
“I wanted to bring Anna but the lawyer said—”
“—I don’t want her to know that I’m here.”
John’s wedding ring tapped against his handset. He never took it off and didn’t even
know if he could. She was gone but he was always with her. What would Helen say? he
wondered in every difficult situation.
“Anna is a bright child. Losing her father was difficult for her. My son Bo is studying to
be a child psychologist, and he thinks that maybe it would be good for her to see you—”
“No, I don’t want her to come here. And after,” she paused, “it might be in a worse
place.”
John knew this. DH and Shin’s lawyer had said this could go badly. This judge was
notoriously hard on women committing felonies. Grand Theft; Special Taking; conspiracy;
embezzlement; and assault of an officer. Even with priors and full restitution, she would go to
state prison for at least a year or two. A former prosecutor said the worst part wasn’t the stealing
but the fact that the deputy chasing Danbi had broken her wrist.
“The lawyer said your mother is alive. Did you want Anna to go to her?”
“No.” Like an animal, Danbi tracked his eyes, trying predict his next move. “And my
cousin will not take her either.”
“Your cousin?”
“Frank Lim. His wife is Bina—”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 994
John knew of them from church but had never spoken to either.
“They’re your cousins?”
“Frank is the son of my mother’s sister,” Danbi didn’t mention that her lawyer had
already reached out to Frank and Bina about Anna. She thought Bina would take good care of
Anna but Frank said it was impossible. He agreed to pay her legal bills and put money into her
books for the length of her detainment and prison term, and in return, she could never contact
him and his family except through counsel. She could not return to Orange County to live. He
made her sign a contract.
John didn’t know what he should tell her about Anna. Initially, the child slept poorly and
cried often. At Shin’s funeral, she’d overheard things from adults and asked him and Bo to
explain.
“Sometimes grown-ups drink too much and have accidents,” John told the child. Every
chance he could, Bo told Anna that her parents loved her. When she asked to see her mother,
John followed Danbi’s lawyer’s instructions. “Your mother went to Korea for a job. She wants
you to wait for her.”
“I’ve no right to ask you. But can you take her while I’m here?”
John looked down at the counter in the visiting booth.
“I spoke with Mary. Shin’s wife,” he said.
Danbi tried to look blank. She wished she’d worn makeup. Her skin felt papery all the
time. The jail in Santa Ana was unbearable, and the inmates told her that state prison was far
worse. Prison would give her more privileges but she would be less safe. Every week in jail, she

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 995
got three hours outside, but never at once. The lawyer said the time she spent in jail would be
deducted from any prison sentence. If only she hadn’t pushed away the female deputy who had
fallen down like a bowling pin, then she might have gotten bail. “It was an accident,” Danbi told
the judge, but he did not believe her.
“Mary said she might be able to take her.” John didn’t mention how her sons weren’t
pleased about it, especially Patrick, the youngest. Mary felt awful about her ex-husband’s death.
“She just has to talk to her sons.” The boys refused to attend the funeral, and Mary had come
alone. Anna wouldn’t leave Bo’s side during the services.
Danbi looked surprised.
“But then Anna wouldn’t be able to be in California, where you are,” John said.
She kept quiet, trying to imagine what would happen if Anna lived with Shin’s ex-wife. If
the brothers liked her, then Anna would have a family.
Danbi blurted out, “If Mary says yes, then send her. Tell Anna that I had to stay in Korea
and I can’t have her live with me. I’ll be back for her when things are better.”
She didn’t sound normal, John thought, but it wasn’t as if he really knew her.
“I can’t ask Mary to lie to the child,” he said. “Mary isn’t like that. Also, it can’t be good
for her to think that. Anna has already suffered the loss of—” John tried to remember all the
things Bo had explained that a bereaved child might be going through.
“What did you tell her? About her father?” Danbi said the words slowly.
“That it was an accident.”
She nodded, relieved.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 996
“It was an accident. He drank too much and made a bad decision. That wasn’t really
him,” she said with poise. “It’s the truth.”
John didn’t know what else to say.
“If Anna lives in New Jersey with her brothers then she could forget about her father’s
death. This is the best I can do for her.”
“Are you sure? Don’t you want to see her?” Every other day, the child asked to see her
mother.
Danbi clenched her fists, wanting to smash the glass with the heavy plastic handset.
“He shouldn’t have done that,” she said, not looking at him. “I thought he was stronger.”
Danbi turned to him. “I don’t care if you believe me or not but I did all this for them.”
When their time was up, the guard led her away.
#
Rose Salon was only half full, and John went to his office and sat at his desk. He felt dizzy and
confused. When the phone rang, he picked up right away and smiled at hearing his daughter’s
voice.
“Did you eat?” he asked.
“Yes, Dad. Did you?” Mido asked. He sounded tired, and she could picture his
windowless office in the back of the salon — the metal desk and chair, the single filing cabinet.
“How are things with Anna? Is Bo able to get his schoolwork done?”
“I saw Anna’s mother today. In Santa Ana.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 997
“The jail? You went there?”
John nodded. From the open door, he could see Nari waving him over, and he stood up.
Several customers had finished at the same time, and she needed help with taking payment.
“Is everything okay? With the hagwon?” he asked. “We’re fine. You don’t have to worry
about us.”
“Yes, the hagwon is doing well—”
“—I better go. I’ll tell Bo to call you. Customers—”
#
Mido picked up the file for the next appointment on the schedule: Another set of parents of a
high school junior who had not been admitted to Fortress Seoul.
Professor Kim and his wife, Dr. Gu, had gone to college with Peter’s father, and they
wanted to make a special case for their youngest. Peter had told Mido that it would be fine if they
didn’t take the meeting, but she thought it would be easier for all if they did.
“It’s your father, Peter,” she’d said, and he shrugged as if to say so what.
Professor Kim, a sociologist who received his Ph.D. in the United States and taught at
KAIST, had been a Deputy Minister in the previous administration. His cousin was the wife of a
former president, and his sister was also prosecutor. Renee had tried to explain all this to her, and
Mido just put them in the category of important people in Korea.
Lately, every parent seemed to be some significant personage, or knew an important
person. Peter said no one was important or everyone was important.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 998
Ginny came in and handed her more folders.
“They want meetings, too,” she said with an eye roll.
“More parents?” Mido frowned.
Ginny nodded. “I tried to get rid of as many as possible, but they were very insistent.”
After her first year at UCLA she had taken a year off to work at Fortress Seoul to make money
and spend time with her family. Her father had opened a small export business in Busan, and
things had gotten better for the family, but her grandmother needed more care. Having spent
most of her life at Exodus and living with Yun and Lion, she could be as tough as any hagwon
owner when it came to pushy parents.
Standing over her shoulder, Ginny watched Mido skim the contents of the folder.
Mido underlined the student’s strengths with her blue pencil. There were no obvious
weaknesses. The boy had wonderful grades and scores, won international math competition
prizes, and held an internship at a nanotechnology research lab at the California Institute of
Technology. He knew how to code and build websites.
On the preferred list of schools, his parents had listed international choices: the usual Ivy
League schools, Stanford, M.I.T., CalTech, Carnegie Mellon, and Cambridge University. No
doubt, he would get something. Mido didn’t think the child even needed Fortress Seoul.
“Impressive kid.”
Peter had come in earlier and was sitting quietly on the office couch, his long legs crossed
at the ankles, his feet tucked in beneath the rectangular coffee table. He was reviewing his pile of
folders.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 999
“How are yours?” Mido asked.
Peter sat up and stretched his legs. His face tense and arms crossed tightly, he looked
irritated.
“I wish you hadn’t accepted the meeting with Professor Kim,” he said.
Mido smiled.
“It will take 30 minutes tops.”
“Professor Kim is not my sort of person,” he said. “I saw him at a family friend’s
wedding years ago, and no doubt, he’ll bring it up. Out of all the boring people I met that night, I
remember him because he talked non-stop. He’s going to tell us how important his people are.
His wife is fairly normal. If only he’d known how important I would become to him,” Peter
laughed. “How in the world did I become the head of one of the hardest to get into hagwons in
Seoul? How fucking bizarre is my life?”
Ginny laughed and left the room to return to her desk. “I’m going to Busan this
weekend,” she reminded them.
“Jealous,” Peter said.
At the founding of Eagle Academy/Fortress Seoul, the owners of EA/FS created strict
rules for admission into the program.
After the successful pilot year, they now had over 600 applicants from over 14
international schools in South Korea for the upcoming year. In the pilot year, they had about half
that number from eight international schools.
The EA/FS admissions committee, comprised of Tom and Clara Song, Peter, Mido, and

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 1000
three other consultants whittled down the 612 applicants to 180 high school juniors in the full-
tuition paying group and 20 tuition-free group, to make up 200 finalists.
Lion hand-numbered 200 ping pong balls—one for each finalist—with a permanent
marker and put the balls into two containers — one small and one large.
In a rented school auditorium, EA/FS invited every finalist to witness the drawing but no
one could announce the results publicly.
In the first drawing, Lion blindfolded Peter’s mother Renee to choose 10 tuition free
students from the the 20 candidates, and on the second drawing, he blindfolded Tom and Clara,
and they took turns to select 40 students out of the 180.
Each finalist was qualified; however, there was room for only 50 students. The results
were random.
No one was allowed to know who paid tuition and who did not. That was no one’s
business, everyone had agreed. They established a standard floor for admissions based on the
best grades, practice test scores, extracurricular activities, draft essays, then they randomized the
final acceptances in public, so no one could complain about favoritism.
Lion had given interviews to two big newspapers, and two famous scholars wrote
editorials arguing against any kind of private college consulting for students even if 20% of them
paid nothing. Three scholars wrote editorials arguing that since the system was deeply broken,
some effort toward helping qualified poor students was better than nothing.
Tom Song, who’d been a hagwon owner in Seoul for almost two decades was quoted
saying, “Life is absolutely unfair; however, Koreans educated in America could help fellow

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 1001
Koreans navigate a complex American system.”
Lion added that, “The EA/FS system is attempting to be less unfair in a category of unfair
things.” The published fees were a little below market-rate and not onerous, and the articles had
the unintended effect of making even more people apply to Eagle Academy-Fortress Seoul.
The inaugural class had such extraordinary results, sweeping across highly selective
universities and colleges in America that the demand for next year’s 50 spots had become even
more competitive because of the 612 candidates, nearly all of them could have benefited from
the program.
Professor Kim’s son Sung was one of the 180 tuition-paying finalists; however, his ping
pong ball, No. 87, was not selected.
Ginny returned to the office and stood by the doorframe.
“They’re here,” she whispered dramatically, pointing to the glass walled conference room
where Professor Kim, his wife Dr. Gu, and Sung waited.
“They brought the kid? Why did they do that?” Peter shook his head. He felt like walking
out.
Mido turned inconspicuously to check. The boy wore a navy flannel coat and a repp tie.
Thick bangs almost covered his round eyes. He sat in the conference chair, staring up at the thin
strip of molding between the ceiling and the wall.
“Poor bastard. Hasn’t he done enough?” Peter exhaled. He was wearing a black Arsenal
jersey and jeans.
“Let me grab a jacket from my office. I don’t want to hear about what I wore from my

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 1002
father.”
“Oh, your mother called this morning,” Ginny said. “I forgot.”
“I know. She called again between my morning meetings.”
“Oh?” Mido looked concerned.
“She’s fine that we passed on them. We’ve passed on a lot of people in her planet. I’m so
fucking glad Lion made us do that public lottery with the ping pong ball thing. He’s literally a
genius who does serious shit.”
“I just wish parents could accept the ball’s results,” Ginny said.
“Seriously. Mom said the wife is nice and to be polite. To her anyway. The father is
hopeless,” Peter said.
“I’ll be nice. To both of them,” Mido said, and Ginny nodded, “I’ve been polite.” They
smiled at each other, and Peter stuck out his tongue.
#
When Peter and Mido walked into the room, the family got up to bow their heads. Peter and
Mido bowed back and gestured for them to sit down comfortably. They smiled at the boy. Right
away, Professor Kim summarized the contents of his son’s file, stressing Sung’s exceptional
achievements. Peter continued to nod and smile. Mido was impressed by his calm demeanor.
“You see, it would actually be a feather in Fortress’s cap to have him,” the father said.
“It’s likely that he’ll get into the very best universities in the world, and his acceptances,
anonymized, of course, could even be published on your website. Although he cannot mention
that he came here publicly, but you can still include his acceptances on your final numbers,” he

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 1003
stressed then grew quieter. “I know how these things work—”
The mother smiled shyly, glancing now and then in the direction of their son, whose eyes
were shaded by the curtain of his long dark bangs. She appeared gentle and meek.
“Sung is a remarkable young man,” Peter said. “I’m confident he’ll get into a great
school. There’s no reason why he would not.”
“Exactly, and your hagwon could take the credit for his acceptances. We’re handing you
an easy win,” Professor Kim said in English, pointing to Peter’s soccer jersey.
The boy’s hands were folded. Mido wanted to deliver him from this terrible
awkwardness.
“Sung, we’re very sorry that we don’t have space. The good news is that you’ve already
worked so hard, and between you and me, I don’t think you need us. I don’t say that to just
anyone,” Mido smiled and looked carefully into his hooded eyes.
The mother smiled at her, appearing grateful.
“We understand it’s more and more difficult to get into an American university now,
especially schools like Harvard and Stanford, and we want to make sure that our Sung has every
thing he needs, especially when he has worked so hard already,” the mother said. “We don’t
think the guidance counselor at his school understands the process nearly as well as you do.”
“Both of you were present at the lottery, and unfortunately, we cannot change the
admissions policy. All 50 students have been selected,” Peter said. He didn’t want to repeat
Lion’s “Standardize and Randomize” speech, which he had studied and felt ready to deliver.
He took a deep breath and had an idea.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 1004
“Our founder Lion Han returned to Orange County right after the drawing; however, you
are welcome to contact him. We can set up that call for you if you like.”
This was something he hated to do. Yet the Lion option was always there if Peter and
Mido needed backup. Lion was good at this, somehow giving terrible news with grace and light.
If they didn’t want to talk to Lion, Tom Song could be much tougher. If things got bad, Clara
would have to do clean up.
“I was told that you grew up in Sydney. May I ask what school you went to?” Dr. Gu
addressed Mido, wanting to find a personal connection. Often, she knew someone who had gone
to a college in Australia, because she had gotten a Master’s in Public Health in Sydney and elite
overseas Koreans could be a small group.
“I started at the University of Sydney, but I haven’t finished my degree,” Mido said.
“You finished it in the United States, then?” Professor Kim said.
“No. I don’t have a college degree from anywhere. I studied for a year at Sydney,
thinking that I might go into Theatre—”
Astonished, Sung spoke up, “You don’t have a degree?”
“No. I don’t,” Mido smiled.
“Oh,” the boy said and laughed.
“See, you don’t want to learn from a person like me,” she said, hoping this might make
the parents feel better.
Dr. Gu was perplexed. “We were told that you teach the consultants. That you specialize
in testing and essays—”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 1005
Peter nodded. “I think Mido might be one of the best in the world at what she does. Here,
she can’t teach formally because she doesn’t have a degree, but she is overseeing our program—
”
Mido smiled and didn’t add anything.
“Why are you the best?” the boy asked.
“I’m not the best,” Mido said. “I’m not. Again, I’m sorry we don’t have space, Sung. I
hope you know how sorry we are. I hope you know that I’m disappointed, too, that we can’t
work together.”
“It’s fine,” Sung said. “Are you going to finish your degree?” He looked curious.
“Yes, I will. Eventually after this office is better staffed, I’ll return to California and—”
“Aren’t you too old for college?” Sung asked.
Mido laughed. “Yes, I am older, but that’s okay. I might even go after I have a child.”
Astonished, the boy covered his mouth with both hands.
“I can do things out of order, and it’s okay.”
“Nice,” Sung said, nodding. “Will you teach here? After you get your degree?”
“I don’t know,” Mido said, telling him the truth. It felt as if no one else was in the room
except for the two of them.
“What will you do then?” he asked.
“I’d probably do something like this but at a school. Maybe become a guidance
counselor, which I can’t do now because I don’t have the degrees. I guess I’ve been preparing.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 1006
Sung nodded.
The mother placed her hand lightly on her son’s forearm. “Sung-joon-ah, can you wait
outside in the lobby?” She pointed to the bench opposite the reception area, which was visible
from where they were seated.
The boy got up and bowed to Mido then Peter and left the room.
“He’s a great kid,” Peter said. “As Mido explained, we are sorry that we cannot work
with him. I’m sure that this is our loss and not his. It just wouldn’t be fair to make an exception.”
Professor Kim said nothing, but it was clear that he was thinking of something to say.
You could see the argument in his eyes then he blurted out, “How can you work here without a
proper university degree? There are many university graduates with advanced degrees who
worked hard to earn them who could do your job. It’s unfair for you to pretend to be qualified.
Shocking actually—”
He felt enraged that he had bothered to take valuable time off from his work to come by
to ask a fraudulent person like her to guide his son.
The mother tapped her husband’s shoulder. “Can you wait outside, too?” To Peter and
Mido’s surprise, the man obeyed. Without saying goodbye, he pushed open the glass door and
left.
“I am sorry about my husband. He’s under enormous pressure. Everyone cares about
where Sung gets into school, and my husband is determined that our son gets into the very top
schools on the first try. Our oldest went to Princeton for a year, then transferred to Harvard. My
husband would not relent because she was as qualified as the other children in Seoul who had

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 1007
been admitted to Harvard. Then our middle child, got into M.I.T, so our youngest needs to do
just as well as his sisters. Everyone is expecting the most from Sung, and he is suffering, I think.
I was so taken by the fact that he asked you questions. He never does that.”
Peter crossed his arms. “I’m sorry that we cannot make space for—”
Dr. Gu reached into her handbag and withdrew an envelope.
Right away, both of them understood and shook their heads and waved their hands no.
“Peter, I know you don’t need this, but perhaps your colleague might. This is the exact
amount of the tuition, and it would be only for you. Of course, we would pay the hagwon tuition,
too. If there were more lessons needed, then surely—” the mother continued.
“—Enough,” Peter said, holding up his hands. They had been speaking in Korean but
suddenly, he said this last word in English. “Enough,” he repeated, sounding angry.
He turned to Mido as if he was embarrassed that these people were somehow connected
to him.
“Jeokdanghi,” he said to the mother, in a kind of pleading voice. “Please be moderate.
This is all too much. It must not matter to this extent.”
Peter’s face colored, and Mido tapped his arm lightly as if to reassure him.
“I don’t mean to be rude, but your son has done more than enough. It’s like a disease, I
think. This constant battle between greedy ambition versus moderation. Your son is unbelievable
in terms of what’s he’s already accomplished, but we’ve seen too many kids like Sung, who think
they have to keep trying. Jeokdanghi,” he said. “Please be moderate. Please.”
The mother slid the fat envelope toward them, but Mido picked it up and reached over the

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 1008
table to put it back into the woman’s purse. Dr. Gu took it out again and put it on the table, her
hand covering it.
“Also,” Peter added. “Sung’s father can feel pressure, but it’s not okay for him to be
disrespectful to Mido. I think your family should go now. That envelope—” he looked up. “We
don’t do that here.”
“My husband—”
“Sung’s father obviously cares about education and his children. However, we cannot
accept another student. President Roh Moo-hyun could ask us, but we would say no,” Peter said
as if to dare her.
The mother sat there and stared at the two young people. At home, the couple had agreed
that it was her job to give them the envelope and she could not figure out how. She made no
motion to leave, and Peter exhaled again.
“Sung might not get into all those schools. Not because he doesn’t deserve it but because
sometimes, it’s not supposed to happen, and maybe it’s better for him to learn that like everyone
else. There is disappointment and sadness for even for the hardest working students. Maybe he
has to learn how to adapt to that. Perhaps adapting to that disappointment is the lesson your child
needs,” Peter said, echoing a thing Lion said often to parents and students.
“It’s easy to say these careless things when you don’t have children.” Dr. Gu rose from
her seat.
Using both hands, Mido bowed lightly and returned the envelope to the boy’s mother.
“I meant what I said to your son, I’m sorry we didn’t get a chance to work with him but

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 1009
thank you for thinking of us,” she said. There were two more meetings on the morning schedule.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 1010
5:17 May 2007 "Repêchage"
17. May 2007
#
Mido had slipped out of the office to pick up the guitar. On her way back, only two blocks away
from Fortress Seoul, she spotted the boy sitting outside the convenience store.
“I like that canned coffee, too,” she said to Sung.
“Oh, hello,” he bowed reflexively. “Do you play?” Sung pointed to the guitar case.
“No. It’s not mine,” she said. The boy didn’t look sad as much as lost, and she felt badly
for him. “May I sit down?”
Sung nodded. He had taken off his blazer and necktie and rolled up his white shirtsleeves.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 1011
“Where do you want to go to school?” she asked.
“Somewhere far away.”
“Can you take some time off? I mean, after you get in?”
“No,” he smiled. “Nice idea though. My sister asked me that, too, but well, our father—”
Mido smiled. “He means well, I guess.”
“Yes, they always do. They’re not bad people.” The boy sighed.
“You’re very mature,” she said.
“I have to be.” He sipped his black coffee. “They tried to give you money, right?”
Mido didn’t answer. “I better go. I just wanted to see if you’re okay. You don’t need the
counseling, you know. I just wanted to tell you that I read your file carefully, and you’re really
impressive. Whatever happens—”
“Don’t tell me that it doesn’t matter where I go. What matters is what I do there—”
Mido frowned.
“But it does matter,” he said, “It matters to a lot of people. You know, if I got into the best
college, I’d keep working hard. I wouldn’t slack off—”
Mido interrupted him, “—Many successful people in the world don’t go to SNU or
Harvard but they’re still—”
“—Not so in Korea,” he said. “Even I don’t get many chances, and I have rich parents
with connections. Or maybe especially with people like them. It’s tough here even for people like
me. Imagine how terrible it must be for people who don’t have what I have. My friend Unji’s

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 1012
mother is a hundred times worse than my father—”
“Why?”
“Unji’s family lost everything during IMF, got divorced, and now, she lives with her
mother and grandparents, who pay for her school. I think if she doesn’t get into an Ivy League, I
don’t even know what will happen to her.” Sung felt more worried about her than himself. His
parents didn’t know they were dating. “I wish you could have taken her.”
“Did she apply? To Fortress?”
“Of course. Didn’t even make it as a finalist. But she wrote me a note on the day of the
drawing to wish me luck.” He shrugged. “Oh well. Life is full of disappointments, right? Haha.
I’m learning how to adapt to them.”
Mido felt awful.
“You know I’m not allowed to work with you because I don’t have a degree.”
“I know. My father is still angry about the meeting. He called you a fraud,” Sung laughed
out loud.
“If you want, come by next Friday afternoon, and bring your friend Unji. I’ll give you
some guidance on your applications and make suggestions for the personal statements. I won’t
take a fee. I can’t. Only for the afternoon though, and you can’t tell anyone. No one. Maybe three
or four hours. Make sure you’re well rested before you come though. Okay?” She handed him
her card.
“Seriously?”
Mido placed her pointer finger across her lips so he knew it was a secret. She picked up

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 1013
the guitar case.
#
Except for the light in Peter’s office, the hagwon was dark when she returned. The counselors
were gone for the night, and she tucked away the guitar case in the hall closet. She knocked on
Peter’s office door.
“I offered to help that kid Sung and his friend.”
“What? You can’t do that.”
“I’m volunteering. Only the personal statements and some pointers for their applications.
One afternoon. I’m not going to get paid. Fire me.”
Peter stared at her. “You softie.”
“You’re a weirdo,” she said.
“You’re a creep,” he answered, laughing. Whenever they felt foolish about something,
they broke up the lines from the Radiohead song. Sometimes he was the creep, and she was the
weirdo.
“Can I ask you something? You won’t get mad at me?” she said, frowning.
Peter stared at her.
“Why don’t you play anymore?”
He didn’t answer at first.
“I think it’s because I’m here. In Seoul, I feel like I have to be serious.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 1014
“But you like to play music.”
“Hang on,” she said and walked briskly down the hall and returned with the guitar.
“Here.”
“What?” Peter burst into a large grin. “Hey, it’s a Gibson ES-330! Is this from 1959?”
“That’s what the store owner said. I went to that big arcade in Jongno. Lion gave me the
name.”
“It’s used but Mr. Shin said it’s a great one, and he put new strings on it. I bought the
amp, too, but I couldn’t carry all of it today. He said if you don’t like it, I could get credit for
something else—”
“Why?” Peter looked at her. “Why did you get this for me?”
“I think we should go back. After this year. I want to go back to school, and I want you to
come back to California with me.
“Is this like a wedding ring?” he asked.
“No,” she laughed.
Peter looked disappointed then brightened.
“I miss hearing you sing and play. That’s all.”
He stared at the beautiful guitar and held it close to his chest.
“I want to go home. In a year. You’re not upset with me, right?” Mido tried to read his
expression.
He shook his head no and played the first few bars of “Rosetta,” the song he’d been re-

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 1015
working in his head.
#
When Mido called her father again to check in, John didn’t answer because he’d gone to Exodus
to pick up Anna before heading home.
Seated in the carpeted waiting area, Anna was reading The Silver Chair, one of the
children’s old books she’d found in Mido’s room. She wore a green crewneck sweater and jeans.
The third grader was no trouble at all. She dressed herself, did her homework, and never
complained. After Shin’s funeral, she had asked for her mother but after Bo and John told her
that Danbi was away on a trip, gradually, she appeared to settle into her life in Cypress.
John didn’t know how to tell her that she might be moving to New Jersey to live with
Mary and Patrick. Bo thought that sounded right, but he wondered if it might be wise to wait
until the school year ended.
“Anna,” John said, and the girl looked up.
“Hello, Uncle John,” she said, calling him by the American name they’d agreed upon.
Anna knew that John was her father’s old friend. There were no other relatives. She
tucked a piece of scrap paper as a placeholder and closed the book. “Did you have a good day?”
John nodded. He looked around and Yun wasn’t there. Lion was at Fortress, and Yun
must have been home. The other teachers were busy with dismissals, and when they saw him,
they nodded in recognition. They waved goodbye to Anna.
In the car, Anna opened her book again. When he asked her about dinner, she said she’d
eaten pizza. John recalled seeing ice cream in the freezer. Bo had done the shopping.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 1016
“Uncle John,” Anna called from the backseat, and he looked at her reflection from the
rear view mirror.
“Yes.”
“Is it true that my mother is in jail?”
John didn’t reply.
“Where did you hear that?”
“At the hagwon. Two girls told me. They go to our church. They said my mother stole
money from the church and had a boyfriend. Is that why my father got drunk?”
The distance between Exodus and their house was less than five blocks, and John didn’t
answer. He parked the car in the driveway, and when Anna came out of the car, he locked it.
“On Sunday, Bo bought us ice cream sandwiches. They were on sale apparently. My
daughter loved those.”
“I like them, too,” Anna said. “I finished my homework already. At Exodus. May I read
my book?”
“Don’t you want any more dinner?” he asked.
“It was Bobby Kim’s birthday, and his mother brought ten pizza pies for everyone. I had
two slices,” the child shared, then frowned, worried he might be upset with her. Danbi never
allowed her to eat two servings of pizza.
“Do you want an ice cream?”
Anna nodded. At the kitchen table, she brought her book to read while she ate her dessert.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 1017
John pulled out some frozen dumplings and put them in the microwave to heat. Even
after she finished her ice cream sandwich, she remained at the table reading while he ate his
dinner. When he finished, he washed the dishes. Anna didn’t budge from her seat.
“Bo will be home on Friday,” John said. His son was able to get the child to talk more,
and he wondered if Anna would ask Bo about her mother being in jail. Throughout dinner, he
had been wondering what would be the best thing to do. He wasn’t sure. “Bo will be here before
dinner time.”
Anna looked up from her book and smiled at the thought of Bo, who was always kind to
her.
“I wish you could meet Mido and DH, too,” John said. “You’d like them. DH is good at
making jokes, and Mido is like you. Very thoughtful and kind.” He wanted to tell her about
Helen—how lovely and wise she was—but couldn’t imagine saying the words out loud, and he
remembered that this child had lost a father so young.
“When Mido returns from Korea, will I have to move out of her room?” Anna asked.
John could see the fear in her deep brown eyes.
“Do you like her room?”
She nodded.
“But I wouldn’t want to bother her. It is her room.”
John paused.
“Mido isn’t like that.”

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 1018
Anna didn’t return to her book but looked across the kitchen table, her eyes crinkled with
worry.
“Do you like it here?”
Anna turned to him and smiled. She nodded again.
“I would like to wait for my mother here. If that is okay with you and your family.”
John nodded at the child who sounded so grown up.
“Yes, you can stay. As long as you like. We have many rooms.”
“Do you think they’ll like me?” The small round face looked anxious again. “Your
daughter and Bo’s younger brother—”
“Of course. How could they not?” John patted her back, wanting to comfort her.
Her eyes shining with relief, Anna returned to her reading, her mouth pursed in
concentration.
At the table, John poured her a glass of water and placed it near her, and Anna drank it.
Without a word, he picked up the stack of mail he’d brought in earlier and took out his
newspapers. From the freezer, he got an ice cream for himself.
John sat beside his child and unfolded the news.

MJ Lee / AMERICAN HAGWON RCW LITERARY AGENCY 8.22.25 / 1019
* * *