OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Fourteen
ZYJII
I released
her ankle in order to grip her heel—at least, I thought it was her heel—and twist her foot this way and that. It was rigid. Almost no flex at all. I’d never seen anything quite like it. She had five toes, for one, all clustered together at the end.
“How do you grip anything with those tiny stubs?” I asked.
When she continued to watch me with a steady gaze, I looked around, then used my tail to pull her stick to us. I set it on the bank, beyond the waters edge, then released her to stand. I pointed at her very strange foot, then down at mine, and used my toes to pick up her weapon.
She snorted, the corners of her lips lifting in an expression I recognized. It eased something inside me to know her people smiled, just the same as mine. Probably for much the same reasons. She gestured at me, and I set the stick back down on the ground.
Instead of trying to wrap her stubby toes around it, she slid her whole foot beneath it, and
flick!
The stick was suddenly in her hand.
I cheeped in surprise despite myself. My tail looped and curled in a gesture that meant
again
, but she ignored it.
No, not ignored it. She didn’t understand it.
Right. A female without a tail wouldn’t see the silent words spoken with one.
“Again,” I said, and repeated the motion with my tail. Then used the rest of my body to playact setting the stick down and doing…whatever it was she’d done with her foot to make the stick hover in the air.
Smirking, she obeyed. This time, I kept my eyes locked on her tiny foot. She got her toes under it, and made a kind of scooping motion,
tossing
the stick straight up into her hand. I made a low sound of appreciation.
I gestured at her to stay, patting at the empty air with both hands, and said, “Wait.”
Leaving her with her stick, I bounded off, hunting quickly for and finding a lengthy branch that’d dropped from a nearby tree. It wasn’t as straight as hers, but I wasn’t planning to use it for anything important.
She let out a little chuckling huff when I returned and showed her my stick, chest puffed.
“Show me again,” I said. I looped my tail around, and then accented the request with my hands as best I could. “Again.”
The two patches of fur on her brow went up, but she did as requested. When I set my stick down beside hers, and attempted to get my foot beneath it, her brow fur went up again. I decided that meant surprise.
This time, when she did her stick-foot-toss, she did it slowly. She did the whole swoop moving as slowly as a sleepy krisvreep, her stick tilting and rolling off her foot rather than flying.
So, the speed was as important as the motion itself.
We spent a fair amount of time kicking sticks. We took occasional breaks to tend to our meat. Her tiny spits were done much sooner than either the smoked strips or the chunks steaming in leaves. When I finished tending the strips, I joined
her, crouching low. When she sat right on the ground, I followed suit. It gave me an excuse to let my tail curl around her, close but not touching.
She held up one of the sticks to me, her strangely flat teeth already sunk into the meat pierced on the stick in her other hand.
I accepted it with some hesitation. She probably didn’t realize what it meant for a female to give a male Mrriiv food. She was sky-fallen. It didn’t mean anything coming from her.
I told myself that, but my instincts stirred as I accepted the offering. Warmth pooled in my belly before spreading outward. But I could ignore it, so I did.
I took a careful bite of the meat she’d given me, and made a sound of surprise.
“Hot,” I said around my full mouth, trying to keep from burning my tongue. “Good, though.”
It was a little dry, but that happened to mlyrk meat if it wasn’t wrapped in wet leaves and steamed. That was why it made such good jerky.
“This would be better sprinkled with ground riiki,” I added around another bite. “But then,
everything
is better with ground riiki. I usually keep a pouch of it on me, but I used the last of it on my breakfast, and haven’t made more yet.”
I had a whole basket of the small nuts gathered, shelled, and already roasted. I just needed to do the tedious work of grinding them into a fine powder.
Which I explained to my sky-fallen female between bites.
Her avid gaze remained on me as I talked. She made a thoughtful kind of sound, as if she’d understood me, but…that wasn’t possible. Was it?
Setting aside her first stick, she leaned forward, placed a hand on her chest, and said clearly and distinctly, “Rynn.”
I tilted my head, ears pricked forward so hard I felt their quivering at the base of my tail.
Hesitantly, I pointed at myself. “Rynn?”
She shook her head, side to side. She tapped her chest. “Rynn.” Then she gestured at me, tipping her head in a silent question.
Oh! My wing-hands rustled as I straightened my shoulders and puffed my chest. I tapped myself, just as she had, and said, “Zyjii.” Moving more cautiously, I leaned toward her, reaching out to brush my fingerpads over her chest. “Rynn.”
She muttered something that sounded like
kloes iinuf
, before she beamed at me and said, “Yes!”
I blinked, ears shooting straight back in surprise. That word I recognized. She’d…she’d just used one of
my
words!
“Rynn,” she said. My ears came back up, because it sounded different when she said it. She tapped herself. “Rynn.” The light brush of her fingers over my chest made my skin tighten and tingle. “Zyjii.”
“Yes,” I agreed.
She grinned at me, clearly pleased with herself. I was pleased, too. My sky-fallen female had a name, and now she knew mine.
Rynn knew how to play. I didn’t know why that surprised me.
We finished eating, and then returned to the river to wash the grease from the fur on our hands. Well,
I
washed the grease from my fur. She washed it from her skin. Naked, vulnerable skin. It made me wonder why she didn’t wear more clothes. All of her arms, her stomach, and most of her legs were left exposed.
As I studied her, she removed the extra waist wrap to dunk it in the cool river water. She squeezed out the excess water down the back of her neck. She made a soft little moan that made my tail twitch.
Her head twisted as she patted the damp fabric over her shoulders, and promptly caught me staring.
One of her brow furs crept upward in an expression I didn’t understand. Slowly, she dipped her hand into the river. And then she flung water at me.
It hit me in the face, startling a sputter out of me. I shook myself, my wing-hands rattling in affront, and she laughed. The sound—low with a rusty quality that said maybe she didn’t do it often—stroked over me. I let my lips wrinkle in a play snarl. She dipped her hand for another barrage, not noticing my tail until it shoved her in the back, toppling her into the river.
She immediately shot to her feet and whirled toward me, her long mane flinging droplets on me. I lifted a hand to shield my face, laughing so hard I almost couldn’t breathe.
“Y-you look like a half-drowned vriiryn kit!” I gasped.
She made the most adorable little growl. Crouching, she shoved her cupped hands into the water and tossed them up, sending an entire flood straight at me. I let out an alarmed cheeped and darted to the side, but she was immediately right there, catching my arm and using it—and my precarious balance—to pivot me around and shove me into the water.
We played for a while, splashing and dunking each other. I hadn’t laughed so hard in…a great while. I’d forgotten how good it felt. For the first time in a very long time, I didn’t have to worry about how my people would react if they stumbled across me doing something they considered strange or inappropriate.
Rynn helped me forget all that.
Eventually she retreated, hands held up in front of her, palms toward me, speaking quickly in her musical language. When I
followed her out, she smiled, then wrung the water from her mane.
I stopped just short of her to shake myself. She let out a startled cheep as fine droplets showered her, and then she growled at me. I grinned, ears held at their most innocent slant. Huffing, she wiped the spray from her face, gave me a mock glare, then went check on the cook fire.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Fifteen
LYNN
Zyjii
and I spent most of the rest of the day by the river, tending the fire pit and keeping the local wildlife away from our smoking meat. Since the weird purple-teal river grass did most of the work for us in that regard, we killed time by messing around with our staffs.
He was absolutely enamored with my little trick of kicking my staff into my hand, and spent most of his time trying to figure out how to do it himself. It took some work—what with the basic structure of our feet being so vastly different—but by the time the meat finished smoking, he’d managed three successful kick-grabs in a row.
He held his practice stick out to me with a broad grin on his face, his tail swishing behind him languidly and those weird batwing-hands kind of…fluttering.
I grinned back at him and gave him a round of applause.
Quiet
applause, because who knew what kind of predators might be attracted to loud, sharp sounds. Best not to risk it.
His ears slanted the way they did when he was curious or confused about something, so I didn’t think he understood what
my clapping was for, but he puffed up his chest nonetheless. He was kind of adorable.
It made me want to keep him. Which was a ridiculous notion. He was a sentient, sapient being. Not a pet.
…I wondered if he’d let me feel his ears. Maybe give them a good scritch, right at their base.
Shaking the thought away, I followed him back to the fire and watched him test the smoked strips. He chuffed at them, tail twitching in clear annoyance. I gathered that meant they weren’t ready yet. The steamed packets, however, earned a toothy grin.
“Here,” he said. He added something else, but my translator only picked up ‘hot’ and ‘good.’
The more he talked, the quicker it’d learn, and lucky me, Zyjii liked to talk
a lot
.
I sat next to him and accepted the tightly wrapped leaf packet. I opened it carefully, and good thing too, considering the amount of steam it released.
It didn’t smell quite as good as the roasting skewers had, but the meat was a helluva lot more tender. The addition of the foraged vegetables and his special seasoning blend?
I moaned. I couldn’t help it.
He watched me with avid curiosity, the tip of his tail flicking restlessly. Or maybe that was a sign of pleasure. When I glanced at him, he grinned, all sharp teeth and smug satisfaction.
He dug into his own meal and we ate in relative silence. The jungle, already a noisy place, became downright boisterous as the sun began to set.
We finished eating, washed our hands clean in the river again—he looked annoyed by the grease that clung to the fine fur on his fingers, and I decided I might have to introduce him to the use of chopsticks—and then he check the smoking meat. He grunted in satisfaction and began pulling the strips from the long spits and laying them out on cleaned leaves to cool.
As darkness settled, Zyjii hurried to portion the dried meat out so we could each return to the relative safety of our camps. I assumed he camped but…I studied his odd feet and decided ‘camp’ probably wasn’t the right word. He most likely denned up in the trees.
He tried to give me the lion’s share of food, but I shook my head at him. I tried to give him the larger portion, but his ears snapped back against his skull and he bared his fangs at me, wings rattling.
I glared right back.
I relented when he finally divided it in half. It was more meat than I could eat myself before it spoiled—even jerked, it wouldn’t last forever in such a humid climate—but I figured I could use it to bait traps if it started going off.
We parted ways after that. He took to the trees like the arboreal creature he was. I trudged back to my meager shelter along the ground, paying particular attention to deeper shadows where the glow of the various bits of flora didn’t reach.
At least the glow meant my path was well-lit enough I didn’t have to worry about walking into a bramble patch, or catching my foot on a raised root and wrenching my ankle, or blundering into any number of hazards that tended to hide in the dark.
I made it back to my shelter, safe and sound without a fuss. I hung up the smoked meat with my other supplies, discarded the idea of getting a fire going yet again, and bundled up to sleep.
The next morning, I stood atop the branch I hung my supplies from and felt a weird twinge of disappointment. I didn’t know why I expected Zyjii to replenish my fruit basket. He clearly had his own things to do and foods to gather.
“Idiot,” I chided myself.
I was more than capable of taking care of myself. I didn’t even know why I expected him to bring me more fruit during the night after he’d spent the entire day smoking meat with me.
Ignoring the disappointment that continued to make my chest feel all tight and uncomfortable, I hauled up one of the leaf packets, pulled out a couple strips of dried meat and added it to the last of the fruit in yesterday’s basket. Protein and plant matter. The breakfast of champions.
Bundling up my breakfast, I climbed down the tree and headed back to my shelter. I kind of wanted to attempt stewing one of the fruits that had a similar crunchy consistency to apples, except I didn’t have a pot. Maybe I could roast it? Roasting made most things better.
Still focused on thoughts about how to improve and vary my current diet to keep things interesting and tasty, I hauled myself up the trunk of the fallen tree that made the floor of my shelter, and straightened.
“Morning.”
I jerked hard enough I nearly fell backward off the trunk. Zyjii’s eyes widened and his tail lashed forward, wrapping around my waist about the same time I caught my balance. I clutched my chest and panted for a second.
“Rynn?” Zyjii asked, all hesitance and concern.
“Sweet cartwheeling Jesus, you startled me,” I rasped.
His ears lifted slightly, and then further when I smiled wryly. I did my best to repeat his greeting, but I knew it wasn’t right. There was an underlying purr to it that my human vocal cords simply couldn’t emulate.
“Morning.”
It must have been understandable, because he beamed. He lifted a basket and started chattering at me, understandable now
thanks to my super fancy translation chip and spending most of a day with him.
“I brought you new things to try,” he said, shifting the fruits around to show me. “I thought I could eat with you this morning, so you can tell me which is your favorite.” His busy fingers paused and his ears wilted. “I guess you can’t tell me anything yet, can you?” Then he brightened. “I’ll just have to see if I can figure it out from your reactions. Here.”
Looked like he hadn’t made his delivery last night because he planned to join me for breakfast. Why did that flip the disappointment into glittery joy?
I took the basket from him, and started to gesture to my unused fire pit, but he reached behind him—around one of those wings—and tugged something free. Grinning with shy pride, he offered me a spear like the one he’d used on the river monster. Only this one’s haft was more narrow. Something that’d fit my smaller hands.
“For you,” he said.
I sucked in a breath that sounded suspiciously like a happy gasp. “You brought me a weapon? A hunting spear?”
“To hunt with,” he agreed, though I knew he had no idea what I’d said. “Your little rock-thrower won’t work against big things like the
mlyrk
.”
The translator had no suggestion for that last word, but I didn’t need one. ‘Mlyrk’ obviously meant ‘ugly river monster.’
“Not that you need to hunt big things,” Zyjii continued. His ears went back and his tail unwound from my waist to switch behind him. “You shouldn’t hunt big things. It’s dangerous. This is
definitely
better protection than throwing rocks, though.”
Setting down the basket with our combined breakfast offerings in it, I reached out to stroke a hesitant finger over the spear’s haft.
“You like it?” he asked. “If not, I can bring you shard-rock so you can make your⁠—”
I snatched it from him. He watched me, more curious than wary, as I petted the spear’s haft and crooned over it.
“Oh, you gorgeous piece of weaponry, you. You and I will create beautiful mayhem together. Yes, we will.”
Taking my nonsense as approval—which it very much was—Zyjii grinned at me.
“Breakfast?” he suggested. “Then maybe I can show you some of the forest?”
Sounded like a plan to me.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Sixteen
LYNN
While we wandered,
I set a few traps. Did I need fresh meat on top of all the smoked stuff? Maybe not, but a woman can only eat so much jerky before she gets sick of it.
Besides, Zyjii found the whole process fascinating. From the way he dropped on the river monster like a furry cannonball, I gathered his people were ambush predators. Humans had to be more tricky about our hunting, especially when hunting alone. And I found I didn’t mind the company.
We spent all day together. He pointed out a plant that sent hair-fine tendrils across the jungle floor. When something stepped on them, a large bulb shot out of the shadows, splitting open like a gaping maw before snapping shut around its prey.
That wasn’t the only carnivorous plant. He pointed out a cluster of mushrooms that picked themselves up and scampered away from the sunlight when he pushed back the fern leaves shading them.
“Those only eat already dead things,” Zyjii explained. “Many different birds will bring them insects to share. Once they eat, they change color from white to red—” he pointed out one mushroom larger than the others, its color closer to magenta
than red “—and then the birds will eat them.” He tilted his head to look up at me. “They are only edible when they are red. Any other color is bad.”
“Considering how dangerous eating unknown fungus is on my planet, I’m not about to go experimenting here,” I said wryly.
He flicked his tail, ears quivering, but hopped up and moved on to the next thing he wanted to show me.
The shadows darkened as day slipped toward night, and I got more antsy. I wanted to make it back to my shelter before full dark. Things changed a lot at night, and my day spent with Zyjii meant I’d learned how very lucky I’d been to avoid coming into contact with any number of viciously dangerous plants while bumbling about.
He seemed content to follow me back, especially when I stopped in at the traps to see if they’d worked as intended. We found two that had broken, one that remained untouched, but the last had snagged the same kind of critter I’d nailed at the river yesterday. Before the river monster attempted to eat me.
I held up one of my catches by the vine that had successfully snapped its thick neck. The creature was as long as my arm, including the tail, with eight stubby legs. It had fur
and
scales, its broad, flat head reminiscent of a rattlesnake’s, but with long whiskers.
Lizard or rodent, I wondered.
Both, I finally decided with a nod. A lizard-rodent. Lizdent? Rozard? Ooooh, rozard. Nice.
“That’s a
kicluck
,” Zyjii said. When I lifted my eyes away from my catch to him, he lifted his hands as if holding an imaginary skewer and chomped at the air. “They’re good to eat.”
A kicluck, huh? I frowned down at the strange thing. Decided I liked ‘rozard’ better.
“Rozard,” I said.
He blinked. I pointed at it. “Rozard.”
His ears came up and quivered. He bit his lip, one snaggletooth fang peeking out in a manner far too cute for a buff arboreal alien capable of hauling around a giant river monster.
“Rozard,” he said, parroting me near perfectly.
“Good to eat,” I said in my best approximation of his cheeping, growling language. Then repeated in English, “They’re good to eat.”
His head tipped first one way, then the other.
“Tey rr gud to eet,” he repeated. Frowned.
“They are good to eat,” I said, making an effort to enunciate clearly.
He said it in his language, then tried parroting me again. “Tey are good to eat.”
The
are
was more of a rolling growl than an actual word, and he was no where near getting the
th
sound right, but⁠—
“Close enough,” I assured him, and smiled.
He let me use one of his knives to dress my catch myself, then we returned to my campsite, foraging mushrooms and wild veggies along the way. He got the fire going while I skewered the rozard on one stick, and the foraged stuff on another.
I liked sharing meals with him, I decided. He could chatter the day away—and believe me, he had—but he also knew how to appreciate the silence that came with enjoying a meal. The fact he could barely understand me made no difference to him. Or to me.
Zyjii’s friendship was a gift. A rare and precious treasure I’d protect with tooth and nail.
Zyjii showed up the following morning, bringing with him another basket of nuts and fruit, along with a stone knife. I crooned over it, then stuck the sheath in the waistband of my skirt. A skirt I’d already torn up the sides to improve ease of movement.
Zyjii frowned over the placement of the sheath, but I didn’t have a belt. I’d make do until I rigged something better. Maybe with the button-up blouse I no longer bothered with at all because it was too hot.
After breakfast, he took the lead as we headed into the jungle again.
“I want to show you where to find
riiki
nuts,” he explained. “They’re my favorite, and they go good with everything. They’re hard to find, though, since they won’t grow in the tangle of tunjun roots, or too close to the river.”
“Picky,” I said.
‘Tunjun’ were the massive behemoth trees that made up the majority of the jungle’s arboreal flora. They were definitely the biggest. The others were all smaller, and tended to cluster along the relatively open spaces along the river bank.
Zyjii’s favorite riiki nuts grew on trees that occupied small spaces of sunlight where tunjun roots and the canopy overhead remained cleared.
He plucked a couple nuts up from the ground, their spike-covered shells perfectly intact if a little muddy. He cracked one open ate and the pale pink nut meat inside with happy little purring sounds.
He froze when he noticed me watching him, an amused smile twitching at my lips. Giving me a slightly sheepish grin, he held out the other half of the nut to me.
“Tey are good to eat,” he reassured me. In English.
I blinked. Holy shit. He remembered.
“Good to know,” I said.
And that was how I learned Zyjii had the ability to pick up English at a terrifying speed. He only had to repeat a word once to remember it forever, even if he didn’t understand it’s exact meaning at the time.
Instead of taking the shell from him—the thing looked more like a sea urchin than a nut, and I was willing to bet those spines were barbed and probably irritated fragile human skin like thistle—I plucked the nut meat free, gave it a tentative sniff, then a careful bite.
Nutty spice nearly blew my head off. It was a bit like cloves, but with the bite of good, fresh-cracked black pepper, with a hint of earthy paprika thrown in to really round things out.
“Good,” I wheezed. “But
strong
.”
“Good.” He used the English word, then asked in his own tongue, “that means ‘good,’ yes?”
“Yes.”
He stared at me as I pulled a bag of filtered water from my makeshift sling—pack sling not pebble throwing weapon sling—and took a few big gulps. I’d used his word without really thinking about it, since it was one of the few I could actually say correctly.
“You understood me,” he said.
I paused my guzzling—that spice was still attempting to beat the shit out of my tastebuds—and gave him wide eyes.
His ears went through a whole dance, swiveling in opposite directions, perking up, pressing flat back against his skull, before finally settling on a cautiously curious slant.
“You understand me,” he said. “How much? Everything? How?”
I wheezed. Now those were questions I had no way to answer. Not easily.
“I understand,” I said. First in his language, then English. “As for how…”
I shrugged. No way could I explain I had a microchip planted in my brain that learned and translated alien languages. Honestly, the little piece of tech was so far beyond my understanding it still felt like magic to me. To someone like Zyjii who lacked any kind of context for what a microchip was…
Yeah. Not happening.
“But you understand me,” he repeated intently.
I flailed for a moment, then shrugged again, a little helplessly.
“Yes.”
His smile was slow as the rising sun and just as brilliant.
I hadn’t thought it possible, but Zyjii chattered even more now that he knew I knew his language. At least on an aural level. Speaking it was another problem all together, but we made do.
My first impression about him being an intensely curious creature turned out to be well founded. For every thing he pointed out about the jungle, he asked me at least two questions. He didn’t even seem to care that I couldn’t answer them in any understandable manner. Figuring things out for himself delighted him almost more than the few answers I could give.
Every morning, he turned up with a basket of fresh fruit. There was usually one new thing for me to try, along with a few of my favorites. After a week of daily breakfasts, I realized he
never brought his favorites. That didn’t seem fair—I wanted him to enjoy these breakfasts together as much as I did.
So I planned a little surprise for him.
It meant getting up before sunrise and hunting for things I’d only eat as a last resort, but whatever. It was the only thing I could think of to do to repay him for everything he’d done for me.
I had everything laid out and ready for him when he finally swept into my shelter on wings that were more like a bat’s than I’d initially thought. He’d told me he couldn’t actually fly. Not like the many jungle birds—some of which were twice his size and subsisted entirely on river monsters like the one we’d killed. What he did was glide. More like a flying squirrel than a bat.
“Morning,” I said with all the casualness I could muster. In the somewhat messy blend of English and his language—he called his people Mrriiv, but his language had no name—I added, “I got something for you.”
“For me?” he asked.
I carefully lifted the huge leaf I’d used to cover my offering, then whisked it out of the way.
Seeing his eyes go wide and his wings flutter madly behind him made the extra time and effort I put into his breakfast worth it. So worth it.
The insects were as long as my hand from heel to middle-fingertip and vaguely resembled crickets, but with damselfly wings as colorful and patterned as a butterfly’s. They came in jewel toned green, yellow, and a glossy, almost translucent white.
Our second day together, he’d snagged one from the air and sank his sharp teeth into it with the same happy purr he made when he ate riiki nuts. I figured it had to be some kind of special treat. Or maybe just one of his favorite foods.
“For you,” I agreed.
He crept closer, then crouched, reaching out to touch a finger to one of the brightly colored insects like he couldn’t believe it was real.
“I don’t think you understand what this means to me,” he said softly. His tail lashed slowly behind him as he stared another moment before lifting his moss green eyes to mine. “Thank you, Rynn. I’ll enjoy them.”
“Good.” Embarrassed for reasons I couldn’t quite explain, I huffed and busied myself sorting through the breakfast options he’d brought. “Next time, bring some of
your
favorites. Even if it’s something I don’t like.”
There were some words in there he didn’t know yet, but he knew enough to get the gist. His grin was a little sheepish.
“It’s, uh, kind of habit,” he said. “To bring a female her favorite things to eat.”
I scowled. “Do the females ever do the same for males?”
“Yes,” he said simply.
A knot of tension unwound from my shoulders. Good to know it wasn’t a gender specific expectation. I hated those things.
Look,
you
try being a girl raised by a survivalist nut, whose friends were all either hunters, outdoorsmen, or other survivalist nuts. If I had a penny for every time a man tried to tell me to leave a basic task—like starting the campfire, or splitting firewood, or pitching my own damn tent—to the menfolk, I’d be rich.
“Does that mean I should be the one to bring your favorites?” I asked, just to be sure.
He sucked in a startled breath and nearly choked. I passed him one of my water bags, and he tipped the contents into his mouth, guzzling. Only to grimace and curl his lip at the bag.
“Why does your water taste bad?” he demanded.
“The pouch,” I explained.
He sniffed the super incredible biodegradable plastic-like bag and made an exaggerated
blech
face.
“It’s perfectly good water!” I said defensively.
He shoved the water bag at me, and stood. “Today, we’re finding jinveep.”
He tapped one of the gourds hanging from his extra broad belt for emphasis. I grunted, not nearly as miffed as I pretended. Super advanced or not, the plastic bag still made the water taste like plastic, and I’d be happy to use something else.
That didn’t stop me from grumbling.
“It’s good water,” I muttered under my breath.
“Maybe,” he said. His dubious look made me want to laugh. “But water kept in a jinveep tastes better.”
I snorted. No doubt.
Bending over, he plucked up three of the big insects I’d caught for him, tucking them away in a pouch to save for later. Straightening, he held his hand out to me with a charming grin.
“Come on,” he said. “Let’s go find
tasty
water gourds.”
OceanofPDF.com

To all the girlies out there seeking something a little extra beyond the stars
(It’s the alien
*winkwink* *nudgenudge*)
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Seventeen
ZYJII
I heard
the hunter before I saw them, but only because they wanted me to. I was burrowed hip deep in a teechii plant, trying to get at the elusive fruit. My tail, coiled tightly around a vine, was the only thing keeping me from falling head first into the prickly plant. It was
not
a good position to be in when dealing with one of the village’s hunters.
After a moment of consideration, I decided to ignore them. Maybe they’d find my antics so embarrassing they’d go away. Besides, I’d slept through Vobe’s rising and was already late for breakfast with Rynn. If I wasn’t absolutely certain she’d love the teechii berry’s blend of sour skin and sweet insides, I would have already given up on my quest to harvest a couple of the fruit.
“Zyjii.”
My wing-hands twitched. Of all the hunters in the village, this was the only one I couldn’t embarrass by acting like a brainless fool.
“Jeejee,” I said by way of greeting.
“I came to warn you.”
Of course she had. My sister loved me, but she didn’t seek out my company. Not after someone told her I was a bad influence,
and people would start to wonder what trouble
she
might bring if she spent too much time with me.
She wouldn’t tell me who’d said such a stupid thing, but I had my suspicions.
“Is that why Phex has been poking about my den?” I asked.
Because while my habit of finding trouble might rub off on my sister through some mysterious process no one had satisfactorily explained to me, everyone agreed that Phex was a good influence on me. A stabilizing presence. As if just being around her was enough to keep me in line.
I snorted. They didn’t realize that Phex’s nagging had never once successfully stopped me from poking the typvr hive.
“No,” Jeejee said.
The vine I dangled from bobbed as she clung to the others around it, the only place to land close to my somewhat precarious foraging spot.
Teechii grew in thick knots at the tips of tunjun branches. Branches too thin to hold the weight of a grown Mrriiv. It made getting at them tricky, and getting to their sour and sweet berries even trickier.
I finally spotted one of the brilliant orange berries and growled, triumphant. Now I just had to get to the thing, past a veritable wall of bristling, thorny stems.
“Phex has other problems she’s dealing with,” Jeejee continued. “She’s probably trying to find you so she can convince you to tie your heart-threads together, and⁠—”
I shuddered, hard enough to make the teechii bush twitch around me, threatening to close up tight. I went very, very still, hardly daring to breathe.
“Careful there, brother,” Jeejee chided.
That was the other thing that made foraging teechii dangerous. They weren’t hungry plants, not like the yreki, but they did respond to threats by shrinking in on themselves.
Except for the thorns. Those became as long as a spearhead, the barbed tips brittle so they broke easily, leaving festering sores on the unwary.
Slowly, the teechii bush began to relax again, and I let out a long breath.
“So, I need to avoid Phex with more care than usual,” I said. “I somehow doubt that’s the danger you came to warn me about.”
“We got word from Big Tree Village that a mated pair of grrn recently left their territory, headed in our direction.”
I yelped at the news, and my tail just barely managed to haul me up before the teechii bush snapped into a ball a quarter its original size and bristling with barbed spines. Curling, I managed to grab the vine with my working-hands, all the better to stare at my sister.
“Grrn?” I asked. “Are they sure?”
“Tryv went and checked. It looks like they’ve just found a den and started marking their territory.”
“Where?” I demanded. Because between our Grove Village and Big Tree Village was⁠—
“They’re denning in the salt caves,” she said. “Near the spot where the two tunjun giants fell. You know the place. It’s just off the river, and—Zyjii?”
But I was already gone. Because I did know the place. Lynn had made her den in the almost-cave created where one giant rested against the other. A sheltered place, but too open. And far too close to a pair of grrn freshly mated and looking to fill their larder.
She couldn’t fight them. Couldn’t flee them. I’d seen her climb. She was quick enough, considering her lack of a tail for balance and good sharp claws to dig into the tough bark of the tunjun trees, but she wouldn’t be quick enough to escape a grrn.
It wasn’t too late. I’d get to her in time. Grrn were particular about their dens. They’d spend a lot of time getting it just right before they went hunting.
Please
, I thought.
Let me get to her in time
.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Eighteen
LYNN
Two weeks
after we smoked the river monster together, I waited for Zyjii to join me for breakfast—as had become our routine—but finally admitted defeat when he hadn’t made an appearance by midmorning.
An aching sense of disappointment settled in, making my chest feel wonky. I ignored it the best I could as I geared up and headed out. I had traps to check. And I wanted to see if I could find some kind of plant alternative to gut string. I understood the process of making gut string—which was long and smelly and took tools I didn’t have at my immediate disposal—but if I could find an alternative, I’d use it.
Most of my traps were broken but empty, the vine ropes snapped. The area around each one showed signs of an unknown predator. Blood droplets. Flattened undergrowth. Tracks that belonged to something
huge
with long, non-retractable claws. Knowing something that big was in my territory, benefitting from my traps, put my hackles up.
I hoped I never ran into the monster. Those paw tracks? They were bigger than a brown bear’s, and considering my only weapons were a spear and a pebble-hurling sling?
Talk about a nightmare scenario.
Moving more cautiously, all my senses peeled, I hurried to check the rest of my traps. One yielded a scrawny rozard, and I managed to brain another one of the little critters with the butt of my spear when it darted across my path. I tied them to the vine-belt I’d made for myself and decided to call it a day. I’d have to ask Zyjii about the new predator sign I’d spotted.
Assuming I ever saw him again. Maybe he’d sated his curiosity about me and gone off to…wherever. Back to his people, probably.
That tight feeling in my chest intensified. I paused to breathe through it, and then froze. All concerns about loneliness vanished as the silent jungle settled around me. The jungle was
never
quiet, no matter the time of day, and the sudden cessation of all sound made my ears ring.
A howl shivered through the air. It reminded me of wolf-song, only deeper in pitch, rougher in timbre, with an eery, nails-on-chalkboard undertone that sent chills racing down my spine.
“Please don’t be a predator,” I whispered. A futile wish. The jungle’s silence, and those damn scary tracks, were confirmation enough.
Whatever made that shrieking howl, it frightened everything else. Even the insects.
A rustle, snap, and snuffle sounded from a few scant yards in front of me. I briefly closed my eyes. Because of
course
the unknown scary thing would be between me and the relative safety of my shelter.
A second screaming howl sounded behind me, and I twitched despite myself.
I bit my lip to keep from sighing. Why worry about one scary predator when there could be two out there in the jungle with you. Possibly more than two. Wolves and lions hunted in packs. Why not alien super predators?
At least the second one sounded further away. But the first one. The snuffle got louder. My leg muscles quivered with the need to run, my chest burning as I fought to hold in a terrified gasp when it howled again. I held myself perfectly still, except for my fingers tightening their grip on my spear.
Slowly, oh-so-slowly, I slid one foot back, shifting my weight in preparation to
move
. I brought my spear down and started to lift my free hand to it when my fingers brushed against the rozards hanging from my belt.
Fingers shaking, I tugged the dangling ends of the vine-ropes, undoing the slip knots. The snuffling ahead of me paused. Became a single, deep inhale.
Shit.
I whipped my arm around. Something burst from the undergrowth. I had a split second to aim as a gaping mouth full of dozens of rows of jagged teeth filled my vision. I released the vines with my rozard catches. The maw snapped shut around them. They weren’t even a mouthful. Barely a crumb.
It didn’t matter. They gave me the split second distraction I needed.
I bolted, using my spear to whack hanging vines out of my way or vault over dense bramble patches and fallen tree limbs. My bare feet beat the soft mulch of the jungle floor in a pounding drive that matched the panicked throb of my heart and my sawing breaths. The thing behind me let out a scream loud enough my eardrums threatened to rupture. The ringing silence that followed nearly drowned out the sound of it crashing through the jungle behind me.
I dodged to the side, ducking and leaping amongst the exposed roots of one of the huge tunjun trees. A stitch began to knot my side, and I wished I’d done more to stay in shape. I should have taken up parkour. I could have run and bounced around the
Rsp’rin
like a maniac and no one would have batted
an eye, because they would have simply chalked it up as a weird human thing.
No time to regret the year I’d spent idle. Now I had to
run
.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Nineteen
ZYJII
Wing-hands spread wide,
I swooped through the trees. I grabbed a vine, used it to whip myself in a different direction, the speed of the movement threatening to tear the thin skin between my wing-fingers. A foot planted on another vine—this one grown thick and brown, all its softness gone—launched me upwards higher,
higher
, so I could make better use of my wing-hands. I sped so fast the forest around me became a blur, and I was still nearly too late.
Rynn screamed. I threw myself in that direction and nearly glided out of the trees and right off the side of a cliff. A vine snagged by my tail saved me at the last second, and I stumbled as my feet landed on a too-narrow branch.
Breathing ragged, I kept a death-grip on the vine and leaned out to see Rynn on her rump on the ground, one foot dangling in thin air. She, too, had nearly fallen off the unexpected cliff. As I watched, she scrambled to her feet, her spear in hand as she spun to face the two grrns. They closed in on her from either side, leaving her nowhere to run.
Baring her teeth, she let out a hunting cry of her own, tossed her spear to shift her grip on it, then
hurled
it into the face of the
grrn nearest her. It snarled and snatched the spear from the air. Two chomps and it was only so much kindling.
The second grrn lunged for her, maw opened wide to snatch her like its partner had snatched the spear.
“No!” I shouted, and leapt from the tree, working-arms pinned to my sides and wing-hands angled to cut through the air.
I was too slow, but Rynn wasn’t. She leapt backward, straight off the side of the cliff, choosing to fall to her death rather than be ripped apart. The grrn swiped out with one massive paw, trying to snag her, but it missed, and Rynn fell.
Teeth gritted and lips peeled back, I adjusted the angle of my fall, trying to fall
faster
. I zipped past the pacing grrns, too quickly for them to react. Rynn kept her body spread wide, as if that could slow her. And it did. Just enough. I dropped below her and banked hard, bleeding off enough momentum I wouldn’t injure her as I caught her in my arms.
She hit me with a startled grunt. I pulled her in tight as I spread my wing-arms wide, muscles and tendons screaming from the strain of trying to slow our lethal plummet.
“Hold on,” I yelled.
She pulled her elbows and knees in close, making herself as small as possible just before we dropped through the canopy. Leaves ripped at the sensitive skin between my wing-fingers, already stretched to the point of tearing. Vines tried to tangle us. I twisted, turned, dipped, and dodged around branches that would smash our bones and pulverize our insides.
My feet slammed into a tunjun’s huge lower branch. I staggered along its length, wing-hands flapping to help bleed off the last of our momentum, tail whipping as I struggled to keep my balance with Rynn’s weight pulling me off kilter.
Finally, I staggered to a halt and sat hard, my whole body shaking as my breaths came in rapid, jagged pants. Rynn
groaned and pushed herself away from my chest. Not far. Just enough for her to blink up at me.
I offered her my most charming grin, though between my too-quick breaths, pinned ears, and slumped shoulders, it lost a lot of its impact. She blinked again, then let out a shaking sigh and closed her eyes, sinking against me. I held her tight, drinking in the living warmth of her, until both our trembling eased.
A shudder shook her small body, and then she started to pull herself away from me, legs shifting beneath her so she could stand. Only for her to cry out in pain and collapse back into my lap, gripping her leg.
Gentle despite the fresh surge of panic beating at my chest, I pulled her hands away long enough to see blood, rich red, and too much of it. Snarling curses, I got my arms around her and stood, striding back to the bole of our tree. I set her down with great care, then started digging through my pouches.
“I have some soak-moss,” I said. “It’ll help stop⁠—”
“Water first,” she said firmly, despite her expression being drawn tight with pain. “Clean it.”
I blinked. That was…not the way we did things, but if that was her people’s wisdom, I wasn’t going to argue against it.
Untying the leather cords holding one of several jinveep gourds to my belt, I wiggled the top free and handed it to her. She took a sip, nodded, then poured the water over the wound. I watched, the tip of my tail twitching with all the helpless frustration I tried not to feel.
“What’s soak-moss?” she asked through gritted teeth, the words barely discernible.
“It helps stop bleeding,” I said. “It’ll help fight off wound rot and blood fever, too.”
She grunted. Clutching the now empty gourd to her chest, she leaned back against the tunjun trunk and closed her eyes tight.
“Good. Can you⁠—”
“I’ll tend your injury to the best of my ability,” I promised her.
Nodding again, she blew out a shaking breath. I sat close, then carefully, oh-so-carefully, lifted the foot of her injured leg to my lap. She grunted, but didn’t otherwise show I’d hurt her.
I hated seeing the ragged, bleeding tears. The grrn must have managed to catch her delicate skin with a couple of its claws when it tried to snatch her from the air.
As soon as I finished, I looked around for something to use as bandages. Not seeing anything immediately useful, I reached for the length of cloth I wore to cover my cock pouch. It was one of the first pieces of cloth I’d woven as a kit. My dame had helped me prepared the plants, spin them into thread, dye the thread, then weave it into cloth. It was a memento, and I hated to ruin it, but Rynn needed it more than I did.
Before I could start the first tear, small but strong hands gripped mine, stopping me.
“No,” Rynn said firmly. She reached for the hem of her skirt. “Use mine.”
I hesitated. “Are you sure?”
She snorted. “It’s already
tourne
to
raags
. Yes, I’m sure.”
For once, I didn’t pester her about the unfamiliar words. We worked in silence as she tore strips from her skirt—shortening its already short length—and I wrapped them around her leg, binding the soak-moss to the wound.
When we finished, I moved to scoop her into my arms, but she tensed. I froze, except for the nervous lashing of my tail.
“May I carry you?” I asked. “I have an old den near here. We’ll be safe there.”
“Yes,” she said. “Sorry.”
She continued in a litany of lilting words. I picked out enough to gather she’d hadn’t tensed because she didn’t want me touching her, but rather bracing against the pain that’d come with any movement.
“Hold on, Rynn,” I said. “We don’t have to travel far.”
When I lifted her, she wrapped her own two thin arms around my shoulders, keeping herself pressed close as I used my wing-fingers, one working-hand, both feet, and occasionally my tail, to climb higher into the tree before leaping into the air and gliding away from the cliffs and the grrns’ new hunting grounds.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Twenty
ZYJII
I took
Rynn to one of my secret dens. I had any number of them scattered around the village’s hunting grounds. This one was right at the furthest edge, as far from the village as we could get without leaving the territory.
I might be an exile, but I wasn’t ready to give up the last tenuous threads I held to my sire and sister. Not yet.
I cradled Rynn close as I hopped off a branch and used my tail to swing us through the narrow opening in the tunjun trunk.
Another name for the tunjun was ‘den tree.’ This was why. Natural pockets grew into the trunk of the tree, their entrances tucked securely beneath the broad branches. The dens formed up high, but not so high a young Mrriiv kit couldn’t safely reach them on their own.
Not all tunjun grew dens, but some did.
I’d found this particular den tree during my aimless wanderings after my dame returned to the forest. I’d used it for a time. Even then, I’d thought to make a place for myself separate from the village, some part of me knowing without my dame to stand up for me, the others would cast me out sooner or later. But that had been many, many dances ago, and it showed.
The only signs of habitation were the moldering remains of the nest I’d made myself. I sniffed, but the air was clear of animal sign.
Satisfied, I set Rynn down near the entrance, where the air remained freshest. A quick check of the bandages assured me the soak-moss had done its job and stopped the bleeding.
Making the short hop to the nest, I picked up the blanket I’d left behind. The heavy must of decay wafted from it, and my ears pinned back as I curled my lip up in disgust. There’d be no saving it.
I glanced at Rynn, my ears sliding forward slightly in distress. She needed blankets. She needed to stay warm while she slept, and that was especially true with her wounded and weakened. Her body needed to reserve all its strength for mending.
I could make her another blanket. More blankets. All the blankets she wanted. But that would take time and tools I didn’t have here. For the short term, though…
“Wait here,” I said. She looked up at me, her usually bright eyes dulled with pain. “I’m going to fetch food and some other supplies.”
Her lips, once so pink and now nearly colorless, tipped up to one side.
“I’ll wait,” she agreed, followed by a muttered “Not like I can go anywhere at the moment.”
I hesitated, but…
Darting forward, I brushed my knuckles over her cheek in a gesture that was too familiar for whatever we were. A sky-fallen female and a Mrriiv exile. She didn’t protest, though. Didn’t hiss or slap at me. Instead, she tipped her head back and closed her eyes.
“I’ll be fast,” I assured her.
She smiled, trusting me.
I foraged enough food to last a couple days. Long enough to know if she’d get sick from her wounds. If she did…A shiver ran down my spine, puffing the fur on my tail. I had to hope for the best, but prepare for the worst.
Running through a mental list of all the things that might help her, I returned to the branch shielding our den and used my tail to swing inside, my arms and wing-hands full of useful things. I started to smile at Rynn, only to freeze.
The spot where I’d set her was empty. Rynn was gone.
Before I could spin around and throw myself back outside to begin looking for her, a quiet voice said, “Zyjii.”
I jumped hard enough to send the precarious stack of fruits and nuts balanced in my arms scattering. I twisted about to find my sky-fallen sitting toward the back of the den, her injured leg out, the other drawn up with her hands woven around it.
“Sorry. Didn’t mean to startle you,” Rynn said.
My tail twitched side to side in an erratic rhythm. Rynn watch it, mesmerized. She looked okay. That was all that really mattered.
I made quick work of emptying my arms and wing-hands of all the things I’d brought to help make the den more comfortable for her, then set to cleaning. As I did, I stretched my tail out to snag one of the jinveep gourds. I carefully freed the waxy stem from the top and used a claw to pierce the thick, tough skin so air could escape as the liquid inside was poured. Then I set it in her lap.
She accepted the offering. I watched to make sure she sipped and didn’t guzzle. Jinveep was good, and would help her
replenish all the blood she’d lost, but too much too fast could make her sick.
She took a few careful mouthfuls, then held out her hand for the waxy stem. I gave it to her, and she bopped it back into place. Scraping some of the waxy build-up from where I’d cut the stem free of its vine, she used it to seal the air hole I’d created. Just the way I’d showed her. The little plug would harden in a few hours, and then she’d be able to remove and replace it as needed.
She was so smart, my sky-fallen female. I hated seeing her like that, pale and injured and quietly suffering.
I refocused on my task. With her immediate needs met and her wound tended, it was time for me to do what I could to make her more comfortable. For now, I’d make her the warmest nest I could. And tomorrow, I would make the long trip back to my main den to gather all the blankets I’d made.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Twenty-One
LYNN
My own shivering
woke me sometime in the night.
Sleeping wrapped up in the emergency blanket, I hadn’t noticed before just how crisp the night air got. Not cold, exactly, but…It was a thing of relativity. I had no means of measuring the temperature fluctuations of the jungle, so I had no idea how big the change was. I just knew it got cool enough at night to make me glad to have a blanket, but not so cold I really worried about hypothermia.
Ha. This jungle would never get cold enough for hypothermia to become a concern. No, heatstroke was much more likely.
So while the shivering wasn’t normal, it also wasn’t cause for concern. My skin felt a little chilled to the touch, but that was as far as it went. There was none of that bone-deep ache that frequently accompanied my fevers.
Far more distracting than the shivering was the deep throb of pain in my injured leg.
Sucking in a breath, I reached down, moving as little as possible. I cupped my hand over the leafy bandages Zyjii applied earlier, but everything felt good. It was a little hot, but that was
to be expected. At least the touch didn’t send agony spiking up my leg.
I flopped back with a relieved sigh. No sign of infection meant I probably was just chill from the drop in the nighttime temps.
If I’d been on my own, I probably would have just sucked it up and dealt with the discomfort, resting as best I could. It wouldn’t be the first time. Unfortunately, I wasn’t alone, and my shivering made the leaves of my bed rustle.
One of Zyjii’s ear stuck straight up into the air and swiveled toward me. The tree-cave was dark enough that I wouldn’t have been able to see him at all if the jungle beyond the cave opening wasn’t lit with all kinds of glowing plant-life. That gentle glow created enough backlight for me to just make out the shadowed lump of him.
“Rynn?” he mumbled in a sleepy purr.
“It’s fine,” I whispered. “Go back to sleep.”
He did not, in fact, go back to sleep. Instead, he pushed himself up to his knees—he was a side sleeper and leaned more toward his stomach than his back, which made sense, what with the wings and all—and rubbed at his eyes with one hand, the other clutching his tail like a kid with a teddy bear.
His empty hand dropped into his lap and he blinked sleepily at me. His other ear twitched upward, turning in my direction. He frowned, then focused.
“You’re shivering,” he said.
“Very astute observation,” I grumbled, then winced, immediately feeling bad for snapping at him.
“Of course you’re shivering,” he muttered. “You don’t have any fur. Or wing-hands to wrap around yourself. And I threw out the blanket. I was going to get you more tomorrow, but I should have realized…I
did
realize, so why didn’t I do more?”
His ears slanted back in displeasure. He seemed to notice he still clutched his tail only when the tip started twitching back and forth. Glancing at me, his ears went flat out to the sides in what was basically a blush, and released his tail. When I didn’t say anything, he relaxed, then went back to frowning.
“It’s not really appropriate,” he said slowly, “but considering the situation…” His tail slapped the floor then stayed there while he drew his shoulders up. “I can hold you. Keep you warm.”
“Yes, please,” I said in his language, trying not to sound too needy.
Nodding, he crawled right up next to me, then settled down on his side, facing me. He curled an arm beneath his own head, and accidentally nudged my own with it.
“Sorry,” he murmured.
I grunted and lifted my head in silent invitation, which he took, shifting his arm into a more comfortable position that happened to provide me with a pretty comfy pillow. His other arm he rested across my stomach. All perfectly normal things for two people sleeping together for heat.
Then things got weird.
Instead of tangling our legs together, he draped his tail along the outside of my non-injured leg. It was fluffy and warm, and my muscles immediately went slack, drinking in the heat of him. The wing-hand—as he called it—came next. That was the really weird part. The ‘finger’ bones were long and looked delicate, but they were astonishingly strong. They had to be, to support his weight in the air, even in a glide. The skin stretched between them was furless, and thin enough to see the complex tracery of veins.
All those veins in the thin skin made the wing-hand a very warm blanket.
There was just one thing I worried about.
“Will you get…” I didn’t know how to say his word for cold, so I shivered intentionally.
“Cold?” he asked.
I nodded and mouthed the word, but it had one of those cheeping growling purring sounds I couldn’t replicate no matter how hard I tried.
So I said the English word. “Cold.”
And then realized it had an ‘L,’ one of the sounds he struggled with.
He grumbled a bit when he realized the same thing, but Zyjii wasn’t one to hold on to frustrations. He shrugged it off and snuggled closer to my side.
“I might get a little cool if I stretched my wing-hand across the ground,” he mumbled, sounding half-asleep already. “But wrapped around you, I’ll stay warm.”
That was good, because the heat he radiated felt absolutely sublime. And the fact he’d offered to hold me, just because I was shivering? I pressed a fist to my chest, over the heated spark that formed there.
His kind consideration threatened to undo me. He’d been like that right from the start. Helping me out. Giving me the tools and knowledge I needed to better survive, without making me feel lesser. Or stupid. Or frustrated because I knew perfectly well how to handle a spear and didn’t need some buff asshat mansplaining the basics of hunting to me.
Zyjii didn’t mansplain. He just gave me the damn spear and trusted me to figure out what to do with it.
I hated to say it, but he was a bit like my dad that way.
No, I did not have a Daddy complex. Actually, I was pretty sure I’d end up committing homicide if I ever married someone just like my dad. But it was thanks to him that I realized at a very young age that I’d never, ever stay with someone who felt the need to explain things I knew how to do better than him. Like
starting a campfire without using an entire fucking jug of lighter fluid.
Grumbling at the faded memory of my last—and really only—boyfriend, I snuggled closer to Zyjii’s solid warmth. My shivering eased, my eyelids grew heavy, and the throbbing pain in my leg faded to ignorable levels.
I had almost reached the land of dreams when Zyjii bolted upright into a sitting position.
I tensed, reaching for a weapon that wasn’t there. Never had I missed Mr McStaberson so badly since coming to this damn planet.
“Zyjii. What⁠—”
“Your things,” he said. “They’re strange and unusual, and if the village hunters find them, they’ll hunt for you.”
I frowned up at him in the darkness. I would have questioned whether that was really cause for concern, considering he’d been so open and accepting of me, despite my alienness, but the pained slant of his ears told me I’d maybe lucked out when Zyjii found me first.
“They won’t accept you,” he said, confirming my suspicions. He growled, half-frustrated, half-aggrieved. “They’re cautious, and will see you as a threat. I would try to explain but…” His ears drooped and he gave me a miserable expression. “I’ve caused them too much trouble for them to trust me when I say something is safe.”
It clearly tore him up, that his people might see me as a threat. I gripped the ‘thumb’ of his wing-hand that remained partially draped over me. He twitched in surprise, his tail lashing around him. It took him a bit of effort, but his ears lifted into a more relaxed pose, and he managed to smile at me.
“I need to go get your things,” he said. “Do what I can to hide your tracks.”
Meaning I’d be here in the tree-cave alone in the dark, without his warmth or a weapon.
I took a breath. I’d been in worse situations before.
“I’ll still be here,” I assured him.
The whip-like flick of his tail slowed into a more contented curl. Nodding, he got up and started shifting things around. Not that there was much in there with us.
“I’ll put these here,” he said, moving a leaf piled with fruits and nuts to the spot on the floor next to the head of my bed. “If your stomach starts to feel uneasy, drink the jinveep. It’s refreshing and nourishing, and helps sooth stomach upsets.”
Like ginger or mint, I thought. Good to know.
I was already mentally bracing myself to deal with the slight chill for the rest of the night when he set something on the mat next to my head. I glanced up at him, arrested by his unusually solemn expression.
“A knife,” he explained. “Just in case animals are attracted to the food scent. It’s not usually wise to keep food in the same den you sleep in, but…”
But I’d been injured and our current den was an emergency shelter. A thing of temporary necessity.
I reached up and grabbed the sheathed knife, then rested it on my stomach. I nodded at him.
“I’ll hurry,” he promised. “Fast as I can.”
“Be safe,” I murmured. But he was already gone.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Twenty-Two
ZYJII
I managed
to retrieve Rynn’s things—and disguise the most visible signs of her presence in the forest, without drawing the grrns’ attention—and make it to my main den unseen.
I pulled down one of the large baskets I’d used to carry my possessions when I first left the village, and carefully set all her things in the bottom. Despite the increasing worry about being away from her so long, I took a moment to consider what else I should take.
My tools and weapons were a must. My collection of shard rocks, used to create knives and spear heads, also needed to go with me. I could probably find more but that could take weeks of searching, and I wanted to make Rynn her own knife. Another spear, too.
I moved to the entrance, pulling back the woven cover so I could stare at the tunjun across the way. It had the dens where I kept my foodstuffs and the hrien I used for weaving. I’d take the dried meat, I decided, since Rynn wouldn’t be up for hunting until her leg healed. The hrien…
The half dozen bundles stowed neatly away represented weeks of work. If I left them, it would take weeks more to begin
weaving things for our den. I bobbed my ear, decided. I’d tie as many of them to the outside of the basket as I could carry without upsetting my balance.
With that settled, I let the cover drop and started packing. I used my favorite blanket to cushion and protect Rynn’s things, which had the added benefit of hiding them from casual perusal. A good thing, too. I’d barely finished tucking the blanket in when the scrape of a claw on tunjun bark announced a visitor, and Phex's scent proceeded her into my den.
“You didn’t request entry,” I said without looking at her as I weighed a pair of clay pots in my hands. Such was a privilege reserved for family and mates. Phex was neither.
“I didn’t actually expect to find you here,” she said.
I tensed. Anger had my wing-arms straightening, the long finger bones vibrating with fury. I whirled on her, ears pinned and fangs bared.
“You’ve been entering my den without permission? Invading my privacy when I’m not here?” I demanded.
She waved that away with a negligent flick of her tail. “This is the first time I’ve entered,” she said, as if that made all the difference. “I came to check on you. What with the grrn roaming about your usual hunting grounds.”
I pulled my wing-arms in tight and gave her my back to start throwing things into the basket with far less care than before. I shouldn’t have come. I could have remade all my tools. All the cloth and leather I’d stockpiled. All the clay pots holding the various dyes I’d concocted myself through trial and error. I could have made do.
But Rynn, my strange little sky-fallen, deserved better.
“As you can see, I’m fine,” I said tightly. “Leave.”
Phex did no such thing, instead choosing to ignore me—as she often did—to come poke at the contents of my basket.
“Going somewhere?” she asked.
“I’m moving dens,” I said. “Even I’m not stupid enough to wander where a mated pair of grrn are filling their larder. I’ve been studying ee vynla. I’ll just find a patch somewhere on the far side of the village. One too far for the village’s weavers to make use of.”
“You could do your…experiments in the village,” she said. “Then you wouldn’t have to live so far out, and⁠—”
She reached into the basket to grab something. I didn’t even care what. With a snarl, I used my tail to knock her hand away. When she glared at me, I pinned my ears and bared my teeth.
“You presume too much, Phex,” I said. “I have not welcomed you into my den. My things are
not
yours to handle as you please.
Leave
.”
She scowled, but let it shift into a sultry pout. “So welcome me, Zyjii. Tie your knot to mine and⁠—”
“Why,” I asked with all the bitter scorn I could muster, “would I want to tie myself to a female who does not respect our people’s ways?”
She hissed at me. “Clearly you don’t respect them either, or you never would have ended up an exile.”
I stared at her. “Is that truly what you think?”
She flicked an ear at me, a silent, resounding
yes
.
“Even if it were true, that doesn’t give
you
the right to barge in here uninvited,” I said. “I’ve told you to leave twice now, Phex. Please don’t make me ask a third time.”
She scoffed. “Or what?”
I met her gaze and let her see all my anger. I let her see the grim determination that had given me the strength and courage to leave the safety of the village. To not only survive on my own despite the dangers of the forest, but to
thrive
. If she did not leave, I would make her. It was as simple as that.
Her ears swiveled back at a nervous slant. She caught herself quickly, but I’d seen.
“Fine,” she said. “Find me once you’ve settled in your new den. We’ll speak of this again.”
I said nothing. Even if I hadn’t lied about my intentions, I wouldn’t seek her out, and she knew it. There was nothing more to say between us. I would not give her what she wanted just because she wanted it.
She curled her working hands into fists and stalked to the entrance, tail stiff and wing-hands spread enough for the fingers to shake.
She stopped, one hand on the wall, and looked back at me over her shoulder. “One day, Zyjii, you’ll see how wrong you are and come begging to me to accept you as my mate. They’d accept you back if you bound your heart-thread to someone the elders respect. Someone they think is strong enough to keep you in line.”
“If they think anyone is strong enough to force me to be other than what I am, then they are fools,” I said.
And so are you
.
I wasn’t quite brave enough to speak the words out loud, but from the snapping lash of her tail, I suspected she heard them anyway. With a hiss and a furious shake of her wing-fingers, she leapt from my den and vanished into the forest.
Vobe was well on his way to his daily rest by the time I returned to the den I now shared with my sky-fallen.
Phex had, predictably, attempted to follow me instead of leaving well enough alone, so I’d led her on a merry chase straight into a lyvchiss cluster. Also known as the sleeping flower. Hunters were taught to avoid them, because they sent anyone who breathed their alluring aroma into a deep sleep. And
kept them there as the denizens who lived amongst the tangled vines slowly ate them alive.
I’d worked out that it wasn’t the scent of the flowers that posed the danger, but breathing in the pollen. It was a knowledge I’d tried to share with the hunters, but they refused to listen. They trusted the learning tales, which had never gotten anyone in trouble. Quite unlike some of the things I’d discovered.
So I knew to hold my breath as I dove through the narrow tunnel the lyvchiss vines created, but Phex didn’t, and she stupidly decided to follow despite knowing the dangers.
I’d left her snoozing in an unused tunjun hollow, drugged into unconsciousness by the flower’s pollen. She’d wake in a day or two with a parched throat and aching head, but was otherwise unharmed.
I glided through the entrance of the den where I’d left Rynn, landing neatly right on the edge, only for something to come flying straight at my head. I jerked to the side with a startled cheep, the basket pulling me off balance. My tail and one wing-hand snapped out, bracing against the den’s wall to either side of the opening behind me, saving me from a backward tumble into thin air.
“Sorry!” Rynn cried. She sat on her nest, eyes wide and one hand pressed to her chest, as if her heart hurt. Her abashed look rapidly changed into a scowl. “You scared
the
shit out of me.”
I gave her a sheepish grin. “I’m sorry. I should have announced myself before swooping in like that. I was worried about being gone for so long. But look!”
I heaved the basket off my shoulder and bounded across the small space to her, tilting the basket so she could see⁠—
The blanket I’d used to keep things from toppling out while I made my way through the forest.
“Right, not that. Just a moment.” I quickly undid the knots holding the blanket in place, then whipped the fabric to the side. “There! See? I brought all the things we’ll need to make this a proper den. And you can’t see them yet, but your things are tucked in the bottom.”
I started pulling items out, carefully setting aside the pieces of my loom—inherited from my dame—and other more fragile tools. The cloth and other, less important things I tossed without caution or care, and soon the floor of the den was strewn with everything I’d thought worth bringing into exile. Deeper exile. Further exile? I flicked the thought away with one ear. It didn’t matter. I knew from experience that these were the things I—
we
—would need most.
Finally, I yanked out the last blanket, beaming as I tipped the basket to dump Rynn’s possessions into her lap. She blinked down at them, then looked up at me with wide eyes that glistened oddly for a moment before a tear trailed down her cheek.
My own eyes went wide. I’d made her cry? But I thought having her things would make her happy, not sad. I⁠—
“Thank you, Zyjii,” she said in a low rasp that made me worry she’d fallen ill while I was gone.
My wing-hands fluttered behind me as I started to reach for her, only to stop myself before I touched her, my tail quivering.
“Are you well?” I finally asked hesitantly.
Laughing, a sweetly musical sound, even if it warbled a little around the edges, she caught my hands and squeezed them.
“I’m fine. I know you said you were getting my things, so I don’t know why I’m…It’s just…” She quickly rubbed her hands over her eyes, stopping the tears that had gathered there from spilling over. “When you’ve lost everything, what remains becomes precious.”
My heart wrenched. I knew that lesson very well.
She caught my working-hands again and held them as she met my gaze.
“So,
thank you
, Zyjii. For bringing back my things.”
I wanted to lean in and nuzzle away the traces of sadness lingering in her eyes. Wanted to hold her and promise her I’d give her all the things she wanted. All she had to do was name them.
Instead, I returned the squeeze of her hands and smiled at her. “You’re welcome.”
Releasing me, she briskly wiped her cheeks, then straightened and looked about our den.
“So,” she said, and gestured at the mess. “What’s all this?”
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Twenty-Three
LYNN
After a quick meal
of fruits and nuts and some smoked river monster—taken from Zyjii’s stores because I’d been pretty close to out before the whole jungle shark-cat incident—he began sorting through the mess of items on the floor. Some were familiar.
I didn’t know a whole lot about weaving, but the lady on the property next to Dad’s raised a couple sheep and alpaca to supply raw wool for her little spinning business. Since Dad more or less trusted her, I’d spent a lot of time at her place as a kid. So I recognized what might be the primitive jungle version of carding combs, a number of spindles—both drop and supported—and a bunch of wood pieces that probably assembled into a weaving frame of some kind.
Zyjii talked as he worked, explaining what each item was and what it did. The slew of new vocabulary gave my translator a fit for a couple minutes until it did its magic and began to predict a word’s meaning before my mind made the association between the word and the object.
“My dame was a weaver,” he explained. “She always hoped I would take up her trade, since I liked it more than hunting—” he
glanced at me and flicked an ear in what I read as a dismissive gesture “—my sire is a hunter.”
I nodded. He had to choose between which part of the family business he’d follow. That was easy enough to understand.
“I liked weaving more than hunting,” he said, returning to his explanation. “Though hunting would have given me a better excuse to spend a lot of time in the forest, and I was good at it.” His gaze went distant in thought—or maybe lost in memory—before he gave his head a shake hard enough to make his ears flap. “Anyway, I decided to become a weaver, which suited my sister fine, since she was more interested in hunting with our sire. So, I got my dame’s things.”
He picked up a length of carefully carved wood and ran a reverent finger down its length.
“This is a part of her loom,” he said softly.
The wealth of old grief in those four words threatened to break my heart. I recognized loss when I heard it, no translation needed.
I braced myself against the pain in my bum leg and leaned over enough to settle a hand on his arm. His wings twitched and the tip of his tail curled, then began flicking back and forth. He glanced at me, smiled, and started assembling the loom.
“With this, I can make this a comfortable den for you,” he said. His tail froze mid-flick, and his ears drooped to what I could only read as a shy bent. An impression enhanced when his shoulders hunched up and he darted another glance at me. “For
us
, if you want.”
I had no idea what his people’s customs were around co-habitation. I also didn’t much care. I’d always struggled with loneliness. Ever since I was a little girl with a bowie knife as her only constant friend.
Here and now, Zyjii was my sole link to another sapient being. Without him…
I blew out a slow breath. I’d seen that Tom Hanks movie. The one where he ended up stuck on a remote island and goes a little crazy from the isolation. It was one of my dad’s favorite movies.
I did not want to end up with a pet rock as my only source of companionship.
More than that, though, I liked Zyjii. Liked how he viewed his hellscape jungle with excitement and wonder, despite growing up surrounded by it. Liked his easy chatter. Liked the way he made me feel seen. Understood. Accepted.
So I patted Zyjii’s arm, trying not to get distracted by the softness of his short fur.
“Yes,” I said, using his words so there’d be no confusion. “Our den.”
His smile was brighter than stepping into the sunlight after spending days spelunking without a headlamp.
I dozed a lot those first couple days. It never ceased to amaze me how exhausting healing from a major injury could be.
Zyjii came up with all kinds of things to help me. He brewed tea—somewhere outside, since lighting fire
inside
a tree was a downright stupid thing to do—that helped ease the pain. He put together all kinds of fruit salads and nut mashes for me to eat. He made sure I always had two of the drinking gourds. One with water, the other full of the gourd’s natural juice.
The real surprise was when he came in late one afternoon and hefted a third gourd, beaming with obvious pride.
“Yreki nectar,” he declared.
His fur looked a little more rumpled than usual, and there was a tooth-like thorn caught in the draping folds of his
loincloth, but he looked so pleased with himself I decided not to question him too hard about what a ‘yreki’ was.
I didn’t have to ask why he wanted the nectar. Zyjii, I’d come to learn, had boundless amounts of knowledge about his jungle home, and he was eager to share all of it with me.
“This nectar is special,” he said. “Not just to the yreki—though I’m pretty sure it’s what keeps them from eating each other most of the time—but because of what it can do.”
Eating each other…Huh. Wondered if that was the name for the ambulatory carnivorous plants that had tongues that looked like human spines and tended to rip each other to shreds when disturbed.
“And what’s that?” I asked.
He grinned, tail waving happily behind him. “It heals.”
I blinked. He hopped over to me and crouched down next to my wounded leg. He glanced at me, silently seeking permission, as he always did, and I nodded at him. He reverently set the gourd on the mat next to me, bracing it against my hip to keep it upright. When I picked it up so it wouldn’t accidentally tip over if I moved wrong, he smiled at me. Then he got to work removing the leafy bandages and wads of moss packed into the ragged tears across my shin.
Had to admit, the wounds looked better. Inflammation tended to peak within the first three days, and we were past that. My whole leg still ached, but usually only if I moved my foot, and it was more a sharp stab of pain quickly gone than the bone deep throb it had been.
“You were much smarter in your handling of the yreki than I was as a kit,” Zyjii chattered as he worked. “I didn’t seek safety in distance. I walked right up to them.” He paused long enough to flash me his disarming grin. “I was much younger then, and a lot more stupid.”
I kept my expression steely through sheer force of will. He didn’t seem to mind, his tail curling lazily in the air behind him.
“At least that time, my stupidity led to something good,” he said, and gently plucked the gourd from my hands. “I wanted to know how they moved. How to
make
them move. I eventually grabbed one of the tongues, and⁠—”
I sucked in a breath, because I’d seen. It was horrifically easy to imagine a smaller version of Zyjii with big, bright, curious eyes getting grabbed by one of those wicked carnivorous plants.
“Yes, you understand,” he said, bobbing one ear sagely. “I managed to fight my way free before the whole patch roused. During the fighting, some of the yreki’s nectar got smeared on my fur. Including over one of the cuts its teeth made.”
He brushed a finger over his forearm, eyes distant with memory.
“It healed far faster than all the other cuts,” he said. “I asked my sire about it, because he was a hunter and he knew
so much
about the forest, but he’d never heard of yreki having healing properties. He told me I must be mistaken. That if such a thing were true, wouldn’t the village elders know about it? Wouldn’t it be included in the learning tales?”
Zyjii fell silent, his trail drooping to lie limp on the floor behind him. Guilt, I’d learned during the year I spent working amongst aliens, was not a universal emotion. Vrigrix, for example. They understood the concept of guilt, but either lacked the emotional core necessary to experience it, or they simply never acted in a way that might burden them later.
Vrigrix weren’t real big on regret either, now that I thought about it.
I, however, was well acquainted with guilt, so I knew it when I saw it. Even in a being with additional bat hands, a ridiculously long tail, and adorably expressive long ears.
“I wanted him to believe me,” Zyjii said. That long tail all but coiled itself into a knot with the guilt in his voice. “I tried so hard. I went back, got more nectar, but it was like he’d shut his ears to me. I, uh…”
He fell silent, clearly conflicted about whatever memory he was reliving. Blowing out a long breath, he ran a hand over his head to the tips of his ears, which he clenched together in a fist.
“The hunter learning tales warn about yreki stampedes, but I’d never seen one. I didn’t know what caused them, or how to get the nectar without yanking on their tongues.”
The results of that equation—young boy desperate to make his father understand him, a secret he tried to share, and stampeding yreki—was glaringly, painfully obvious.
“Was anyone hurt?” I asked.
He shook his head. “When I realized they were following me—probably because I had their nectar smeared all over me, so I smelled like one of them—I veered away from the village. Another hunter spotted me, snatched me up, and carried me faster than I could move through the forest on my own. My sire was understandably furious, but it was my dame’s frantic touch as she checked me for hurts that I remember most.”
Straightening out of his hunch, he tipped back, bracing himself on his palms and staring up at the ceiling of our tree-cave.
“I wish I could say that was the last trouble I caused for the village, but…I was good, while my dame was there. I didn’t want to scare her like that again. After she returned to the forest, I became more reckless. More and more. I argued with the elders. Told the lead hunter to her face that she was stupid for not trying to better understand the forest’s mysteries. I caused enough trouble the elders deemed me a risk to the village and cast me out.”
“They never heard you,” I said.
“No,” he agreed.
He finally looked at me and smiled, a sweet, warm thing that hit me in the stomach like a field of butterflies taking flight.
“And good thing, too,” he said. “Now I am here with you. And because I was a reckless kit who grew into an only slightly less reckless adult, I have yreki nectar to make your wounds heal faster. The elders can tell me I’m wrong all they want. Words won’t change the shape of the trees.”
“Good thing,” I agreed softly, and meant it with all my heart.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Twenty-Four
ZYJII
It pleased
me to see how quickly Rynn healed with the help of the yreki nectar. Within another couple days, she was up and moving about the den. She walked with a pronounced limp, but she assured me the pain was mostly gone.
Not only did she insist on walking around the den several times a day, but she also contorted her body in strange ways. She mostly did it sitting, but there were some things she did while standing—like bending down to press her hands flat on the floor while keeping her legs straight.
“Stretching,” she explained.
It was meant to help with her healing. Help her regain strength in her injured leg.
I began to suspect it also helped her keep from going den mad. I’d seen it happen to many hunters during the wet season, when rain poured from the sky in such quantities it made traversing the forest even more dangerous than usual. Also pointless, because all the inhabitants took shelter, so hunting was poor, and foraging was a wasted effort because even the plants withdrew their leaves and stopped growing.
I recognized the signs, and so I kept a careful eye on Rynn. I did my best to keep her busy, giving her shard-stone to chip into replacement spearheads, and cured leather for her to fashion herself a belt to carry all the things a hunter needed to keep with them. It worked for a while, but not long enough for her leg to heal completely.
The day she remained lying listlessly on her nest, unable to work up the will to do her strengthening exercises, I knew it was time to intervene.
“There’s something I want to show you,” I told her. “It’s a ways away, so I’ll have to carry you, but⁠—”
She sat bolt upright, a fresh surge of life bringing color back to her pale cheeks.
“You’ll take me out?” she demanded.
I managed to keep a smile off my lips, but the lazy curling of my tail probably gave my amusement away.
“Yes,” I said.
She hopped up at once, limping as she headed to the entrance. She stopped upon reaching it, glancing at me over her shoulder.
“Well?” she demanded. “Are you coming or not?”
Since I needed my working hands free for climbing, and wing-hands free to balance and catch the air if we fell, Rynn ended up clinging to my front like a little vriiryn kit. The commonalities between their names was not lost on me, and I decided I needed to find a colony of the small but fierce predators so I could show them to her. From a safe distance, of course.
I kept one hand braced around her whenever I could, but when I couldn’t, her legs tightened their grip on me, pressing her
into me until it became a struggle to keep my cock in its pouch where it belonged. The last thing I wanted to do was extrude without her express request. Just the thought of it made me want to die of mortification.
The press of her against me, the squeeze of her legs around my hips, the feel of her fingers digging into the thicker mane that ran down the nape of my neck and along my spine all the way to my tail, would have been easier to ignore if it weren’t all accompanied by a hint of spicy musk. I’d never scented a sky-fallen’s arousal before, but there was no mistaking it.
She kept her attention turned outward, intent on ignoring the heated tension brewing between us, so I did my best to ignore it, too. I kept our minds busy by pointing out the things I thought might interest her. Pretty flowers, edible fruits, insects that were masters at hiding in plain sight.
“Oh, look,” I said.
I dropped to the branch below us and strode toward the wide bole of the tree. Rynn twisted as much as she could without releasing me to see what had caught my interest. After a quick look, she decided the branch was wide enough for her to stand on safely and dropped her legs. I released her reluctantly.
To distract myself from the strange feeling of missing her, even though she stood right in front of me, I stepped close to the bole of the tree and ran the pad of one finger over a patch of lacy moss, pale green and spotted at the edges with tiny purple flowers.
“This is soak-moss,” I told her. “It’s what I used to treat your wounds. Let me show you the proper way to harvest it.”
She stepped close to me, bracing one hand on my shoulder as she leaned in to get a better look.
“Show me,” she said.
I crouched—carefully, so as not to disrupt her balance—and began harvesting the moss, avoiding the darker green patches
spotted with flowers. I used the claw of one finger to carefully scrape only the palest green of the lacy plant away from the trunk and tucked each chunk away in one of the pouches hanging from my wide belt.
“You usually only see it in the higher branches,” I explained. “Where the rains linger in the air, so thick it covers the world like fine fabric.”
“Sounds like
myst
or
fahg
,” she said. She glanced at my ears—standing straight up with eager interest—and huffed a soft laugh. “
Myst
is the water in the air that comes from rivers falling.”
“Mist?” I suggested.
She grunted her agreement, leaning more of her weight against me. “
Fahg
is…mist but thicker.”
“Fog.”
“How about
klawds?
White things high up in the sky.”
“You mean clouds?”
She glanced at me, amusement in the tilt of her eyebrows. “If you had words for it, why didn’t you use them?”
My tail lashed a moment before I gave up and let it curl around her uninjured leg.
“Well, they’re not very poetic, are they?” I teased.
She snorted at me, but pointed at the soak-moss, returning my attention to the learning tale at hand.
“So that grows in areas where there’s lots of water in the air.”
Smiling, I settled into sharing my learning tale with her, content now that the excited light had returned to her eyes.
OceanofPDF.com

Contents
Content Warning
Chapter 1
Lynn
Chapter 2
Lynn
Chapter 3
Lynn
Chapter 4
Zyjii
Chapter 5
Lynn
Chapter 6
Zyjii
Chapter 7
Lynn
Chapter 8
Zyjii
Chapter 9
Lynn
Chapter 10
Zyjii
Chapter 11
Lynn
Chapter 12
Zyjii
Chapter 13
Lynn
Chapter 14
Zyjii
Chapter 15
Lynn
Chapter 16
Lynn
Chapter 17
Zyjii
Chapter 18
Lynn
Chapter 19
Zyjii
Chapter 20
Zyjii
Chapter 21
Lynn
Chapter 22
Zyjii
Chapter 23
Lynn
Chapter 24
Zyjii
Chapter 25
Lynn
Chapter 26
Zyjii
Chapter 27
Lynn
Chapter 28
Zyjii
Chapter 29
Lynn
Chapter 30
Zyjii
Chapter 31
Lynn
Chapter 32
Lynn
Chapter 33
Zyjii
Chapter 34
Lynn
Chapter 35
Zyjii
Chapter 36
Lynn
Chapter 37
Zyjii
Chapter 38
Lynn
Chapter 39
Zyjii
Chapter 40
Lynn
Chapter 41
Lynn
Chapter 42
Lynn
Chapter 43
Zyjii
Chapter 44
Lynn
Chapter 45
Lynn
Chapter 46
Zyjii
Epilogue
About the Book
A Note on Language
Next Up
Also by Lindsay Fox
About the Author
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Twenty-Five
LYNN
I’d needed a day out.
I didn’t do well being cooped up inside all day with little to do. I’d survived working on spaceships because the ships used by the ISSC’s ambassadors tended to be absolutely massive, with several gardens, swimming pools, gyms, shooting ranges, and a whole assortment of other recreational offerings to keep people from going bug nuts with cabin fever.
Zyjii had done his best to give me things to do, but I’d needed out of the tree-cave something fierce, and he’d provided before I broke down and begged.
Now, he kept one arm around me as he carried me through the trees. Possibly because I was tired enough I had a hard time keeping a solid grip on him. My limbs kept going all loose and limp as I fought against the pull of sleep. Entranced by his excitement and as eager to learn about his jungle home as he was to share his knowledge about it, I’d pushed myself too hard. Only the hot throb of my leg kept me conscious.
Yet he didn’t take me back to the den. Instead, he seemed to be searching for something, cheeping happily when he finally found it. He climbed to a spot where the branches of several
trees intersected at nearly the same height. The tangle of smaller limbs and heavy waxy leaves created a platform of sorts that housed, I realized as I took in the delicate looking plants, a small field.
“Here’s what I wanted to show you,” he said.
I started to unwrap my legs from around him, but he made a sharp sound, freezing me in place just long enough for him to sit. With me still wrapped around him, clinging like a limpet. It left me in a rather, uh,
compromising
position. Not that he seemed to notice or care.
“No more using that leg,” he said firmly. “Since we have to wait for full dark, we will rest here.”
Disentangling my arms from around his neck, I shifted myself off him and around so I sat beside him. He immediately picked up my bum leg and checked the bandages, swooping down to do a sniff test. Satisfied, he began absently kneading my calf muscle.
I bit my lip to stifle a moan. God, that felt absolutely
divine
.
“Those,” he said, using one skeletal wing-finger to point at the floating field of flowers, “are ee vynla.”
I obediently shifted my focus to the flowers. Anything to get my mind off his long, strong fingers and what they were doing to me.
“We use them for dye,” he explained. “Mostly, the village weavers only gather them when Vyneera dances alone in the sky.”
It took me a second to translate that. I found it weird that Zyjii used names for the sun and moons and talked about them as if they were actual people and not celestial bodies. Yet he didn’t act like they were gods to be revered, so it made it a little disorienting whenever he brought them up so casually.
Vyneera, I recalled, was the smallest of the three moons. The ‘dance’ was basically the moons’ phases. So ‘when Vyneera
dances alone’ meant when the smallest moon was the only one visible at night.
“Some weavers will harvest during Meerya’s or Pheena’s solo dances,” Zyjii continued, oblivious to my momentary brain blip. He flicked an ear toward me without taking his eyes off the field of flowers. “For the different colors the Sisters coax from the flowers.”
I nodded. A majority of the glowing flora seemed to have their bioluminescence tied to the phases of the moons, rather than simply day or night like the plants on Earth.
“Once my dame took me under her wing-hand and began teaching me the weavers’ learning tales, I figured out pretty quickly that the ee vynla bloom every night, no matter where the Sisters were in their dance. But the specific step in the dance produces different colors.”
He leaned back, gaze pensive as he stared at the flower patch without really seeing it. “I found it interesting, and wanted to see how many colors the flowers could produce, so I began to collect and craft dyes from each step in the Sisters’ dance. It took a long time.”
With three overlapping moon phases? I just bet.
He fell silent, his gaze shifting to something far away. Whatever visions of the past he saw made his ears droop and his tail tuck in close to his body.
I hated that. Hated watching him shrink into himself, as if he needed to make himself smaller to fit the world around him. He didn’t. He was big, his emotions loud, his exuberance a massive thing that should never be contained.
Before I realized what I intended, I reached out and stroked his arm. A comforting caress that brought him back to me.
He smiled, but it was a small, heartsick thing.
“That project didn’t end well,” he said.
I hesitated. I personally hated sharing the painful bits of myself, but…
“Do you want to tell me?” I asked. Then rushed to reassure him, “You don’t have to if you don’t want to.”
He shook his head, then leaned into the hand I still had on his arm.
“I intended to give the finished piece to my dame,” he said softly. His ears wilted until they hung like a lop-eared bunny’s. “She returned to the forest before I finished it.”
Returned to the…Oh.
“I’m sorry, Zyjii,” I whispered, my heart aching for him.
“I was going to present it to her, so I could become a fully fledged weaver, but I had to present it to the elder weavers instead. My dame had seen most of my process. Had watched over me as I extracted many different colors from the ee vynla. But they hadn’t. They looked at a piece of fabric woven from threads dyed many colors and saw nothing special. I tried to explain that all the colors came from a single source, and they called me liar.”
The way his voice tightened on those words, grew thick with remembered pain and frustration, told me it wasn’t the first time he’d had those words hurled at him. I remembered his story about how he discovered the yreki’s nectar’s particularly potent ability to heal, and the way his dad had dismissed his findings.
“Want me to go throw pebbles at them?” I asked. Because I would. I’d put the fear of Lynn Davis into that whole damn village if he asked me to.
The light came back into his eyes as his ears perked. He grinned. “No. Though I can just imagine their reaction to having a furious sky-fallen female charging the village and whirling her pebble-thrower, yelling incomprehensible, lyrical words at them.”
Snickering at whatever image popped into his head, he finally straightened out of his hunch.
“I ended up extracting dye from a plant that grows high up in the trees. Higher than most Mrriiv are willing to climb. It created a color the weavers hadn’t seen before, so they were forced to accept me as one of them.” He lifted the bottom edge of his loincloth. “This is my weaver’s pride. The one the weavers accepted.”
“And the other one? The important one?”
He smiled, but it was a melancholy thing. “I keep it safe, and bring it out when I need to feel closer to my dame’s memory.”
I propped my shoulder against his in a silent offer of support. He accepted it, his ears lifting to a more happy angle.
I waited a moment, then said, “Are you sure I shouldn’t go throw pebbles at them?”
Laughing, he curled his arm around me and leaned in to rest his forehead against the top of my head.
My heart lurched, setting off a chain reaction inside my chest that ended with melted honey spreading through my veins and pooling low in my stomach.
“I want you to stay here with me,” he said.
I stopped breathing. A shudder rippled through my whole body before hitting my core with an explosion of heat. His voice was
right there
in my ear. Low. A little raspy. The words of his language as much growl as intelligible syllables.
God, the things he did to me.
“I guess I’ll stay, then,” I said, the words only slightly strangled.
Zyjii shifted his head, dropping it lower. His tail curled around me before draping itself in my lap, the tip flicking in a way I’d come to recognize. He distracted me from my reaction by tapping my necklace with one finger.
“I’ve been wondering forever now. What’s that? Does it have some purpose, or do you wear it because it’s pretty?”
I blew out a long breath, unsure if it was relief or disappointment that drove it from me.
Curling my fingers around my necklace, thinking about how he might react to the little wonder of my fire starter, I smiled.
“Oh, man,” I said. “I’m not sure I have the words in your language to explain.”
Fortunately, I could show him. He’d figure it out.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Twenty-Six
ZYJII
I watched
with avid delight as Rynn lifted the small rock on its strange rope over her head. She held it out to me, dangling it from one finger. I went to grab it, but hesitated. It seemed like an important thing. I wouldn’t
keep
it. But my hands itched to hold it, my fingers to touch it. Explore it. Try to figure it out.
Grinning, she made it swing toward me. “Go on.”
I snatched it, then proceeded to study it from every angle.
“What is it?” I asked again. I licked it, tasted the salt of her skin and a sharp flavor that was almost like blood, but not. “It’s not…it’s not rock, is it.”
“No. You don’t have a word for it.”
Leaning toward me, she reached and tapped one of her strange, blunt claws against the not-stone.
“
Steel
,” she said firmly.
“Steer,” I parroted,
She shook her head in
no
. “Stee
l
.”
She placed hard emphasis on the last sound. The same sound that was in her name. The sound I couldn’t say.
I sighed, but tried anyway, carefully exaggerating. “
Steeeer
.”
Laughing outright, she patted my knee.
“Steel,” she said firmly. Then grinned. “Steer.”
My eyes widened when I heard the difference.
Understood
the difference.
I still couldn’t wrap my tongue around it, though.
Giving me another pat—to let me know she didn’t mind me saying her words wrong—she returned her focus to the
steel
.
Rynn—no, no.
L
ynn puckered her lips, clearly struggling to explain how
steel
was different than stone.
Apparently deciding it was beyond her, she shrugged. Then she lifted the odd rope.
“Steel,” she said.
I blinked. Hesitated, then licked it, too. It did indeed share the same bite as the not-stone. My wings shivered. How did one take a stone-like-but-not-stone material and turn it into rope? And delicate but
strong
rope, at that.
Setting that mystery aside for now—until I had a better understanding of
her
language—I returned my focus to the not-stone. I turned it this way and that, noting the odd shifts in color. Muted grey on the high points, shiny yellow in the dips and valleys.
If it served some special purpose, I couldn’t make ears or tails of it.
She chuckled and gently took it from me. Not a mocking sound, I realized, but one of genuine amusement. My curiosity pleased her. The tight knots that had bound my heart-threads into a tangled mess after sharing the story of my failed weaver’s pride finally relaxed. That sound felt like belonging.
“My sire gave it to me,” she said. She closed her fingers around it.
“It’s a keepsake,” I said, touching a finger to her fisted hand.
She immediately uncurled her fingers. Instead of taking the curious object from her, I cupped my hand beneath hers, studying her as much as the steel. Her skin there was soft. It
made me painfully aware of how rough the pads of my hands and fingers were in comparison.
“There’s more,” she said.
I glanced up to find her watching me with a small smile.
“More?” I asked, immediately intrigued.
Holding up the not-stone, she gripped it carefully in her fingers, and gave it a little twist.
I cheeped despite myself, surprise making my fur puff. She kept twisting, twisting, until the not-stone came apart, like a nut cracked in two.
It even held insides that were different from its outsides, just like my favorite riiki nuts.
She tapped it with her claw. “This part is a stone,” she said. Then, added in her language, “
Flint
.”
“Frint,” I repeated. Then tilted my head, ears pricked. “A type of stone?”
She smiled and nodded. “Yes.”
I scooted closer to her, leaning in to get a good eyeful of the
flint
and
steel
.
“Why,” I said, “is there a stone inside the not-stone?”
Again, she let me take the strange objects from her. I fit them back together, twisted them as she had, but they remained in two pieces. Until I turned them the other way. I made a pleased sound as they drew together and became a single whole again.
“Do they serve a purpose?” I asked.
She nodded and held a hand up. I promptly gave it back, eager for whatever she would share with me.
She withdrew her hand, separated the flint from the steel, then looked around us with a frown. She patted the branch beneath us. I did the same, the bark as hard and craggy as ever. She must have found whatever she’d been looking for, because she nodded. Then, she took a careful grip on the two pieces of
her keepsake, twisted them apart again, and struck the smooth, dark grey flint to the shiny, textured steel, and⁠—
I cheeped, wing-arms snapping out as a tiny light jumped from the keepsake. Alarm forgotten almost as quickly as it hit, I leaned in as close as I could, both hands braced on the tunjun branch and tail stretched out to keep me from tipping forward and planting my face in her lap.
“Again,” I demanded, because I recognized the little flash of light.
She obeyed, striking the
steel
and
flint
together, creating sparks.
Sitting back, I dug into a pouch, pulling out my fire rock and strike-stone. I knew her tiny flint looked familiar. It was hard to tell because it was so small, but it was the same as my fire rock. Or similar enough to serve the same purpose.
I hit strike-stone to fire rock, creating a shower of sparks.
“You wear your fire-making items as a keepsake!” I said, astonished.
“Yep,” she agreed with a smug grin.
The sturdy rope would ensure it stayed looped safely around her neck. It was much lighter and more compact than my kit, too, making it easier to carry with her everywhere, all the time.
“You are a wonder, Lrynn,” I said.
Her smile spread. “So close.”
Pride puffed my chest, and I spread my wing-hands, showing off. Chuckling, she brought her hands together, making the sharp sounds she’d made before, at the river. Figuring it meant approval, like a good snap of the wing-hands, I beamed.
Vobe slowly retreated to take his rest, the forest growing hushed as the daytime denizens of the forest sought out den and burrow. As dark blanketed the forest, nighttime creatures woke, beginning a new song for Meerya to dance to.
Dark never lasted long in the forest. Its more gentle radiance rapidly replaced Vobe’s glaring light, creating a time of magic. A soft time meant for secrets and the acknowledgement of emotions too fragile to survive the scrutiny of day.
I watched Lynn as the forest’s not-darkness settled over us like a fine-spun veil, and the ee vynla bloomed. Their many thread-like petals spread wide, colorless at first, before Meerya’s dance called a flush of color from them. Brilliant, vibrant blue, deeper and brighter than that of the sky during Vobe’s reign.
Each flower put out a subtle glow, but the thing that made them truly beautiful was the tiny pricks of light that shined along their edges and down the center of each narrow petal.
Lynn’s breath caught, her eyes widening as the flowers shared their brilliant secret with her. Small insects, each one glowing a pale, cool light, floated above the patch, occasionally drifting down to alight on a flower. A sky-light taking a moment’s rest amongst a shimmering sea of soft petals.
Her obvious delight was the single most magical thing in the forest.
She scooted closer to the edge of the flower patch and held out one finger, remaining perfectly motionless until one of the slowly drifting specks of light landed on her fingertip.
“It’s an insect,” she said, surprised.
“Yes. Not good to eat, though. Ee vynla are beautiful, and their colors can be extracted for dye, but their nectar is poisonous. It makes the insects that feed on them poisonous as well.”
She nodded, as if that knowledge came as no surprise to her, which made me wonder yet again what her home looked like. Was it a forest like mine? A forest amongst the distant sky-lights.
I flicked one ear. I couldn’t even imagine it. And in the end, it didn’t matter. Lynn was there with me. That
did
matter.
I found myself leaning toward her, determined to catch every shift and change in those expressive not-quite-blue eyes. The little ii-vyn insect left her finger, drifting back to the lure of the ee vynla flower, and she turned to me, probably not realizing I’d gotten so close.
Our noses nearly grazed, and she blinked but didn’t retreat. I didn’t either.
Her gaze darted to my mouth, then returned to my eyes just as quickly. I watched, tail flicking with interest, as color spread across her cheeks to the tip of her nose. But still she didn’t move away, and I began to wonder if maybe she felt as drawn to me as I was to her.
Then she asked a single question that all but confirmed it.
“Do your people
kyss?
” she whispered.
“
Kyss?
”
She screwed her lips to one side in that adorable expression she got whenever she struggled to find enough shared words to explain something new for me. My cheeks hurt from the effort of not grinning like a besotted fool, though I suspected that was exactly what I was.
I was so busy drinking in her expressive features that I completely missed it when she closed the distance between us. Then her lips pressed against mine and my mind when as empty as the sky on a cloudless day.
It lasted only a moment I wished could have stretch into forever, then she drew back, licking the taste of me from her lips.
“Kiss,” she explained.
I fought to keep my cock in its pouch, but the scent of her—musk and sweet spice and salt—filled my head, mingling with the taste of her on my lips, and made it close to impossible.
Growling softly, I shifted just enough to press my face into her hair at the side of her head.
“Lrynn,” I warned. “You shouldn’t kiss me like that unless you intend to accept me as your mate.”
She went very still, and cold panic swept through me, smothering the scorching heat of need. I didn’t breathe again until she moved, placing her fingers on my chest, just over my heart.
“Is that what you want?” she asked. “For us to become mates?”
Now it was my turn to go still. Did she understand what she asked? What her question implied?
“Mating is a forever thing,” I said softly. “Do I want you as my mate? Yes. I’ve known since we shared the mlyrk by the river that I could tie my heart-thread to yours. The more important question, Lrynn, is if
you
want
me
as your mate.”
She took a deep breath, her whole body tensing. I drew back, hating the distance I put between us, and pressed a finger over her mouth to keep her words from spilling out. I didn’t think I could handle it if she told me the kiss was a mistake. That she’d just been demonstrating the meaning of a word, and it meant nothing.
I wanted to believe in the possibility of an
us
for just a little bit longer.
“I don’t need an answer now,” I said. “Just…think on it. There is no rush, one way or another.”
She twisted to face me better, but the motion jostled her injured leg in a way that made her suck in a sharp breath. I immediately leapt to my feet. I should have gotten her back to the den forever ago, but I’d let myself get distracted.
“Come on,” I said. “Let’s get going. We should change the bandages on your leg before you nest for the night.”
She didn’t protest when I scooped her up. Arms wrapped around my shoulders, she pressed her face against my neck, and kept it there all the way home.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Twenty-Seven
LYNN
I clung
to the magic of the moment by the ee vynla flowers the same way I clung to Zyjii as he carried me back to our den. His words reverberated in my head, shaking corners of my soul no one else had reached before.
Mating is a forever thing. I’ve known since we shared the mlyrk…Do I want you as my mate? Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
The problem wasn’t whether I wanted him, too. I did. God, did I want to make him mine. No, the problem stemmed from the tenacious weed of hope that grew through the cracks of my determination to make the most of my life on this planet.
Some part of me still wanted to be rescued. If I took Zyjii as my mate…
To a vast majority of the alien species in the ISSC, ‘mate’ meant marriage. In some cases, it was
more
than that. It was a coming together of souls, or hearts, or purposes, that bound two beings together for life and beyond. Marriage without the option of divorce. But, as I understood it, between two true
mates, divorce wasn’t just unnecessary, it was unimaginable. It sounded like Zyjii’s people fell into that group.
What would I do if we did mate and rescue came? Leave him? My heart twisted, giving me the answer.
Fuck, I didn’t think I could leave him even if we weren’t mated. I’d be abandoning him to a life of solitary exile, ostracized by the people who should have cherished him.
And that was unacceptable to me.
But could I take him with me? Would he want to give up everything he knew, everything familiar, to enter a world he had zero frame of reference to even comprehend?
“Lrynn?”
I lifted my head from where I’d kept it pressed against the crook of his neck and blinked, a little surprised to find him kneeling next to my bed, ready to set me down. Except I wasn’t ready to let go of him.
Damnit. I needed to let him go unless I intended to keep him for the long haul, no matter what happened with the hunters from his village, or a potential rescue from the ISSC.
I could. Keep him. My arms tightened around him with the realization. If anyone ever came looking for me, I’d simply tell them to fuck off. That my place was here now. With my mate.
The tight knot I’d been carrying around in my gut since crash landing in the jungle finally unraveled. In the end, it didn’t matter where I ended up, as long as Zyjii was there with me. Somehow, he’d become home to me.
“Lrynn,” Zyjii said, tail curling behind him in amusement, visible thanks to the glowing moss that grew in patches on the ceiling of our tree-cave. “You have to release me before I set you down.”
“Or,” I murmured, trailing my fingers up his neck to dig into his thick mane of hair, “you could join me.”
His tail snapped straight out, a hard quiver causing the bones in his wing-fingers to rattle together. Something bumped the top of my head, and I knew without looking his ears had moved to their shyest angle.
“Only mates share nests,” he finally said.
I drew back enough to peer up into his face. His expression was so carefully neutral, but the wiggle of his tail gave away his hope and eagerness. I smiled, all my insides heating into gooey mush.
“Yes,” I agreed.
He sucked in a trembling breath and let it out in a rush of need. “Lrynn.”
His lips crashed into mine in the kind of kiss I’d seen a hundred times in a hundred different movies, but never experienced myself before that moment. He coaxed my lips to part, and when they did, his tongue shoved in, plundering. Devouring. I noted the differences between us—his tongue was narrower than mine, and a lot more agile—but I didn’t care. I kissed him back just as hard.
I smoothed my hands down the back of his head, over his shoulders, and down further, beneath his wings, then around to stroke along the center of his spine. He rumbled, a low purr of pleasure, and hugged me close as he shot up to his feet. He started to set me down, only to pause.
“Your leg,” he mumbled against my lips.
“Doesn’t hurt.”
He growled, but let me squirm out of his grip to stand on my own two feet. Which made it that much easier to tackle the laces on his wide, corset-like belt.
I shoved at it, but it caught over the base of his tail. He grunted, then his tail did a kind of squirming slither to work itself out of the confines of the belt. The tooled leather hit the floor with a rattling clunk, and I spared a thought to hope
the impact hadn’t broken his stone knives. Then he touched me, thoroughly distracting me by tracing the lines of my face, following the contour of my collarbone, and tugging at the stretchy fabric of my sports bra.
He made a shocked sound and dipped his head lower, tugging at the strap.
“How—”
“Explain later. Naked now.”
“What’s
naekiid?
”
I stripped my bra off over my head. He stilled for a split second, then made a rumbling sound of approval and brought his hands up to explore my breasts. The pads of his fingers were rough with callouses, and the slightest brush of them over my sensitive nipples had me sucking in a sharp breath as the pleasure cut straight to my core.
“So smooth,” he murmured.
“Is that bad?” I rasped.
“No. It’s different, but in a good way.”
He wasn’t the only one eager to experience the differences between us. I stroked my fingers through his thick mane and gently ran my hand along the length of one ear. His eyes slitted almost shut and he purred.
I rubbed his ear until he began to melt against me, then huffed and continued my exploration of him. The fur over his abs thinned, grew shorter and finer. My fingers brushed over heated skin, trailing slowly downward, and⁠—
He moaned, clutching my hips tighter as his tail wove itself around my legs.
Okay, that was definitely a cock-shaped cock. Long. Heated. Already slick. Instead of a flared mushroom head, the end of it tapered. There were also odd bumps along a portion of it I couldn’t quite make out in the shadows thrown by the moss overhead. Curious, I dragged a fingernail over one. Zyjii
groaned. His tail tightened its grip as he dropped his mouth to my shoulder, licking and nipping at my skin.
“Does that feel good?” I asked.
“Yes,” he growled.
I hummed and scraped my nail over another of the bumps. His cock flexed, and suddenly the bumps weren’t bumps, but short barbs. Soft and flexible, the tips dull. Nothing that would hurt me.
Thank god, because he’d stoked a fire in me that’d burn me to ash if it wasn’t quenched.
He reclaimed my lips and carried me down to the bed, being careful of my bum leg. He pulled at my skirt, grumbling when he couldn’t find ties or toggles to undo. Repressing a smile, I undid the zipper, and laughed at the astonished sound he made. I was willing to wager I wouldn’t be getting my skirt back until he’d satisfied his curiosity about how the silly thing worked.
But now wasn’t the time. He refocused on me with an intensity that brought an immediate flush to my cheeks.
“Lrynn,” he murmured reverently.
His weight settled between my legs, his erection a hot bar pressing into my stomach. I dug my fingers into the thicker fur of his mane as he kissed me, deep and sweet. He purred, the rumble of it sinking into me to stroke my core. He shifted until the tapered head of his cock pressed against my entrance. I shoved my hips up, trying to get him inside, but he resisted, moving with me instead of against me.
He broke the kiss with a groan to press his forehead to mine. “Lrynn. Are you sure?”
Checking in with me. Sweet, but unnecessary. I’d rarely been more sure of anything in my life.
“Yes.” I wrapped my legs around him, hooking my heels over the base of his tale, but not trying to force the issue. “Mine.”
Growling softly, he caught my lips in a searing kiss, his tongue thrusting into my mouth as he thrust his cock into my body. He worked himself in by increments that had him panting and shaking and me snarling curses as I struggled not to slam him deep.
Mostly because I was noticing the differences between him and what I was used to a lot more now that he was inside me.
Those barbs? I barely felt them when he pushed deeper, but when he withdrew, they spread, scraping along the walls of my channel. They weren’t sharp. They didn’t hurt. But I definitely felt them. Especially as they scraped over my g-spot.
The first time it happened, pleasure speared through me so hard and fast my muscles locked. Not an orgasm, but close.
“There it is,” Zyjii rumbled against my mouth. “I wasn’t sure a sky-fallen female would be the same, but…”
He rocked, pushing himself deeper, then withdrawing far enough to draw those blunted spines along that perfect spot. I moaned as exquisite heat surged through me, turning my insides molten.
“You’re perfect,” he murmured, and proceeded to devour my mouth in a savage kiss that ran completely counter to the slow, steady flow of his body above and inside mine.
I clenched my hands in his mane, fighting against the urge to shatter. Not yet. Not so soon. My heels dug into the base of his tail, and he shuddered, groaning. When I did it again, he grunted, then began pounding into me, finally matching the intensity of his bruising kiss.
It felt so damn good I could have cried.
His tail wrapped around my leg, the fluffy end of it pressing on my foot, encouraging me to dig my heel into the base of it. So I did. He tore his lips away from mine to snarl in my ear, his shoulders heaving with his heavy breaths as he drove his cock as deep as it’d go, again and again.
With those soft barbs scraping constantly over my g-spot, it didn’t take long for my climax to detonate, and I came apart on a breathless scream. He slammed into me again and again before he followed me over the edge. He thrust himself as deep as he could go and his cock barbs spread wide, pressing against my channel, locking him in place and leaving me choking on a surprised gasp as another orgasm rocked through me.
Zyjii held himself over me with his elbows braced on the bed to either side of my head, his hot breaths mingling with mine. He kissed my lips gently, then trailed tiny pecks over my cheek to my ear before he nuzzled his nose into my sweat damp hair.
“Are you all right?” he asked. His whole body tensed.
“I’m fine,” I said honestly. I stroked one ear in reassurance. “You feel so good inside me, Zyjii.”
He relaxed on a long exhale, but he didn’t try to move. Probably because those blunt-tipped spines were still spread, pressing into the walls of my channel, sending ripples of languid heat through me.
“I want to learn all your body’s secrets,” he murmured sleepily.
“You will,” I assured him. He was too inquisitive and too persistent not to.
“Will you learn mine?” he asked.
“With pleasure.”
He made a happy sound, tightened his arms around me, and started snoring softly. I remained awake a bit longer, basking in the afterglow. I’d made the right choice. No matter what happened, Zyjii and I belonged together.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Twenty-Eight
ZYJII
I woke to curious,
delicate fingers tickling over my stomach. Shifting, I discovered Lynn in my arms, and so tightened them, pulling her closer. I didn’t usually sleep on my side—it tended to kink the shoulder joint of whichever wing-arm ended up pressed into the nest—but this time I didn’t mind.
“Good morning,” I mumbled.
“You
prr
in your sleep.”
“What’s
prr?
”
Removing her fingers from my stomach, she pressed her hand against my chest. “This.”
I lifted an ear, listening. I could feel the contented rumbling I produced. Apparently even in my sleep.
“Purr,” she said.
I made a sound of agreement, then curled around her, tucking my face in her hair. It wasn’t so bright I couldn’t go back to sleep. Our nest was warm and cozy, with blankets mounded around us. I tucked a wing-hand more securely around my Lynn, my mate, and my
purr
grew louder.
Before I could slip back into slumber, Lynn spoke again.
“You have a happy
trayl
.”
“What’s…last word.
Trayrl
.”
“
Trayl
,” she corrected, sounding amused as she ever did when I got that wretched sound wrong. Not in a mean way—never in a mean way—but as if she found my struggle endearing.
Since I felt the same about her attempts to say my words with that adorable little growl of hers, I couldn’t say I minded.
“
Trayl
,” she repeated, and went quiet, thinking.
She thought so long I finally huffed and stretched my legs out to keep from falling asleep.
“Must be a very complicated word,” I mumbled.
“It has a lot of different meanings,” she agreed.
That was true of much of her language. And mine, too, to be honest.
“It can be something you do,” she finally said. “This is
trayl
.”
She trailed her fingers over my hip, making heat pool in my cock pouch. I took a deep breath, unintentionally filling my head with the scent of her and the results of our mating, which did nothing to keep my cock from misbehaving.
“But it’s also…a path?” That was one of my words, and I cheeped to let her know she’d gotten it correct. Or close enough I understood. “A path through the forest.”
I considered it a moment, then suggested, “A trail?”
“That’s the one,” she agreed.
She wiggled, curving her body away to expose my stomach again. She stroked a single finger from my bellybutton to the slit of my cock pouch, a place where my fur thinned to reveal a strip of skin.
“Happy trail,” she said.
I grinned appreciatively. Her people were very clever with their words.
My curiosity sparked and I finally opened my eyes. I propped myself up on one elbow, biting back a grunt as my wing-arm protested the sudden lack of pressure. I stretched it carefully
behind me, but kept my attention focused on the pretty female now lying on her back, blinking up at me.
“Sky-fallen males must have more fur than you, if they have a ‘happy trail,’ too,” I said.
She grinned. “Their trail isn’t skin.”
I quirked an ear at her. “No?”
She touched her own bare belly. “Our happy trail is hair.”
I pushed myself further upright so I could get a closer look at her belly. She was right. It was very sparse, almost non-existent, but there was a visible trail of fur—hair, as she called it—leading to the nest of curls concealing her slit. A slit I’d felt, had filled, but never seen.
“
Huemyn
males have more hair,” she said.
“Here?” I asked, tracing the same path on her she’d traced on me, from bellybutton to just above the thicker thatch of hair.
“There,” she agreed. Then she sat up and smoothed a hand over my chest. “Here, too. On their arms, and legs. Some have
hairy
backs.”
“
Hairy?
”
“A lot of hair.”
I bobbed an ear, mentally repeating the word so I’d remember it. It was close enough to ‘hair’ to make it easy.
“So, sky-fallen males have more fur than females?”
“Most do,” she agreed.
I crooned thoughtfully, but couldn’t imagine it.
She continued her exploration of my chest. I considered lying on my back, to give her access to as much of me as she wanted, but it wasn’t a comfortable position. Since Lynn seemed content with me as I was, I decided to remain there.
Her stroking soothed me. Our den was brighter now, signaling the start of a new day and the need to get up and start doing, but I was closer to falling asleep than rising.
“I couldn’t see you,” she said softly.
“Hmm?”
My lazy response made her chuff with quiet laughter.
“I want to see you,” she insisted.
“You see me right now,” I said, one ear twitching into a teasing slant. “Unless your eyes are closed?”
She dug those delicate-seeming fingers—which contained a surprising amount of strength—into my sides, tickling me. My whole body jerked as I let out an alarmed cheep. I managed to get my tail around one of her wrists—carefully, since I didn’t want to jostle her still-healing leg—and pulled her hand away, but she tilted her body to block my attempt to grab her other hand with the one not bracing my weight upright.
Leaning into me, she rubbed her nose along the underside of my jaw. Her hand pressed against my stomach, no longer tickling, the touch changing the timbre of the moment from playful to intense in the span of a single breath.
She smoothed her hand down my stomach, settling it over the heavy heat of my cock pouch.
“I didn’t get to see you,” she repeated.
And I understood.
“Am I different from sky-fallen males?”
“Oh, yes.”
“And you want to see,” I guessed.
She drew back enough to look into my face. “Can I?”
I smiled, my ears softening. Brushing the back of my fingers over her cheek, I carefully tucked a lock of her bright, pale yellow hair behind one small ear.
“I am yours,” I said.
Color brushed across her cheeks and the tip of her nose. It warmed my chest. I couldn’t resist dipping my head to touch my nose to hers.
“Zyjii,” she whispered.
“I am yours,” I repeated.
A slight shift let me kiss her. Just once. A bare touch of my lips to hers. Enough to let me taste her sweetness and make her sigh. Then I flopped onto the nest and made myself as comfortable as I could lying on my back. I stretched my wing-arms out to keep my elbows from jabbing into my sides, then tucked my working-hands behind my head.
I grinned up at her. “Look all you want, my Lrynn.”
The pink across her cheeks deepened, but she didn’t hesitate to take advantage of my prone position. She didn’t seem to mind having my tail around her wrist, so I left it there, moving with her as she stroked and petted all of me.
Those clever, busy hands explored the area between my legs, making my whole body ache with need. She quickly found the hard ridge of my cock, stroking a careful finger over the length of my pouch slit. A bit of pressure at the base of my pouch, and I extruded fully.
I groaned, my wing-hands shifting restlessly.
“Lrynn,” I panted.
She hadn’t even touched my cock yet, and I was already on the edge of spilling my seed. She tore her pretty misty blue eyes away from my cock to meet my heavy-lidded gaze.
Concern drew her expressive features into a frown. “Want me to stop?”
“No,” I growled.
She watched me carefully as she rested her fingers on the base of my cock, right above my slit, which parted further to allow my seed sacks to slip free. My tail uncoiled itself from her wrist to lash back and forth.
“
Inntrysting
,” she murmured.
She trailed one finger down my shaft to gently stroke one exposed seed sack. I sucked in a breath, my muscles straining as I fought against the need to buck. To pin her to the nest and
claim her again. And again and again. I had to dig my claws into the mat I’d woven to keep from grabbing her.
“Okay?” she asked.
Too lost to the blaze of pleasure of her touch to form words, I purred at her.
She hummed softly in return, and resumed her study of me.
It took me three tries to force words out, and even then, I worried she wouldn’t be able to understand, they were so growled.
“How am I different?” I asked.
“No hair,” she answered immediately. She carefully rolled my seed sacks in her hand and I moaned. “Here.”
I blinked the fog of lust from my mind. “Your males have fur on their seed sacks?”
“Some.” She sounded amused.
“What about on their cock?”
She started to say something, reconsidered, and settled on, “Those are bare.”
I was curious now. I rearranged my limbs so I could prop myself upright on my working-arms, wing-hands shifted back and out of the way, which had the added benefit of letting me stretch the kinks from my shoulders.
“How else am I different?” I asked.
“You have a pouch.”
“And your males don’t.”
She shook her head, never pulling her eyes from my engorged cock. Keeping one hand on the base, she used a finger of her other hand to lightly touch my tip, smearing the heavy bead of seed that’d gathered there.
“The shape is different,” she said. “
Huemyn
males are more like mushrooms, here.”
Her thumb brushed over the narrow head, smearing more thick seed.
I swallowed hard, struggling to focus.
“This is different, too,” she said.
She trailed her fingers from the crown of my cock to the first segment, tracing the dip that defined it.
My eyes fluttered shut at that light touch. I grit my teeth together to keep from snarling.
“No segments?” I clarified, barely able to get the words out.
“No. They’re smooth from base to tip.”
I grunted so she’d know I’d heard and understood.
“They don’t have thorns, either.”
I didn’t have time to wonder what she was talking about. She scraped a nail lightly along one of the barbs dotting the middle segment of my cock and I nearly passed out.
“Not thorns,” I gasped. “Barbs. For pleasure.”
“Yours?” she teased.
“Yes.” As if it wasn’t obvious. “For yours, too.”
“Yes,” she agreed, her voice husky, no doubt recalling exactly what my barbs had done to her last night.
She’d made such sweet sounds as she came apart around my cock, squeezing it, pressing the barbs into herself, and into my shaft, heightening both our pleasure. Just thinking of it had me squeezing my eyes shut as heat pulsed through me, more seed dribbling from the tip of my cock.
“Lrynn,” I gasped. “I⁠—”
Before I could say more, she leaned in and closed the wet heat of her mouth around the pointed crown of my cock.
I lost the rest of my words in a sound that was a tangled, choking mix of startled cheep and purring growl. When she sucked lightly, my elbows buckled. Only a deep seated sense of self-preservation saved me from dropping to the mat completely and pinning my wing-arms in a painful position.
Braced on my elbows, I dropped my head back and closed my eyes, which only heightened the sensations of wet heat and
searing pleasure. She kept one hand fisted around the base of my cock, moving it in time with the bobbing of her head. I heard the slick, wet sounds as she used her other hand to pleasure herself, so I was taken more than a little off guard when she carefully scraped a fingernail over one of my barbs.
I didn’t even have time to warn her. My cock throbbed, spilling my seed into her mouth, but she drank me down without hesitation. My snarls tapered off to a spent whimper, and I ended up falling onto my wing-arms after all, my limbs splayed and limp.
“Zyjii?” Lynn asked, a hint of concern in her voice.
“Wha—” I stopped, licked my lips, but it didn’t help. My voice still emerged as a harsh rasp. “What was that?”
She said a word that went in one ear and out the other with barely a twitch of acknowledgement. I caught the dread sound I couldn’t get right, and decided it didn’t matter.
I rumbled, a sound of deep contentment. “That was…”
The nest rustled as she shifted. When she hesitated, I lifted an arm toward her in invitation. She settled against my side, with her head pillowed on my chest. I purred, stroking careful claws through her long fur. Hair.
“Do you not do that?” she asked.
“Use our mouths to bring each other pleasure?”
“Yes, that,” she said wryly.
I considered it. “We lick each other, but we don’t do anything like
that
.”
“Was it bad?”
“Lrynn.” I shifted us, rolling her onto her back so I could brace myself over her. Then I bared my teeth at her to show just how very sharp they were. “I can’t think of any male who’d risk his cock by putting it in a female’s mouth, whether she was willing or not. We lick. It is pleasure enough. But what you did?” Sighing, long and wistful, I laid partially atop her in our usual
sleeping position. It let me bury my face in her hair and nuzzle against her neck. “That was beyond pleasure.”
I paused a beat. “When can we do it again?”
Her laughter filled me with a different kind of pleasure, and my tail swayed in a lazy curl. I decided I would strive to make her laugh at least once every day. Always.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Twenty-Nine
LYNN
Staying
cooped up in the den to finish healing became a much more tolerable experience with sex thrown into the mix. It didn’t surprise me at all that Zyjii proved to be an inquisitive, attentive lover. He took particular joy in finding all my buttons and the best way to push them.
He was attentive in other ways, too. When I told him I wanted to make myself an atlatl and darts, he went out and hunted up wood that might work—after I gave him a detailed description of the Paleolithic era weapon. You know, the one humans used to hunt megafauna like mammoths and shit.
I figured if it worked for my ancient ancestors against giant sloths, it’d work for me against giant alien fauna.
By the time I had a useable atlatl and a sling full of the long darts, the wounds on my leg had finished healing up—in large part thanks to Zyjii’s careful, repeated applications of yreki nectar and soak-moss. All that was left was regaining strength and flexibility. I figured the best way to do that was to use it. Carefully.
“This is a clever thing,” he said as he walked beside me. He turned my freshly sanded atlatl over in his hands. “And it throws those slender spears?”
“Darts,” I corrected. Though he wasn’t wrong. An atlatl dart had the length of a spear, but the fletching of an arrow. And the weapon was sometimes called a spear thrower, so…I guess
spear
wasn’t wrong. “But yeah. That’s what it’s supposed to do.”
We were out on the atlatl’s maiden voyage. Which meant I was basically wandering around looking for an area open and flat enough for me to practice using it. Honestly, I wasn’t even sure I’d made it right, but it was a simple enough weapon it wouldn’t take me long to figure out how to fix anything I got wrong.
Unlike a bow. Those things were stupid complex for being basically a stick tensioned with a bit of string.
Zyjii made a thoughtful sound as he studied the darts on my back. He’d made the sling for me. It was essentially a long strip of fabric with a loop at one end, and a leather reinforced pouch on the other. You stuck the darts through the loop, set the tips in the pouch, and slung the strap over your shoulder, and voila. It was an elegantly simple solution to carrying the awkward things.
“Your people have many clever ways to throw things,” he commented, handing the atlatl back to me.
“That’s because we’re not as strong as the other animals on our planet,” I said. “This—” I hefted the atlatl “—puts more force into the darts than I could just throwing them. You do something similar by dropping onto your prey from above.”
He grunted, his tail doing its slow coiling lash that meant his mind was working on all cylinders, full speed ahead.
“I want to know more about where you came from,” he said. “Did you grow up in a forest?”
“Kind of?” I gestured at the massive trees around us. “Not like this one, though. My home is dry, and much cooler, so the trees are smaller. And there are mountains.”
“What are
mauntyns?
”
“They’re…you know the cliffs?”
He nodded.
“Mountains are many cliffs, and big rocks, that rise high, high above the forest.”
“Oh,” he said, brightening. “Mountains! I’ve been to the mountain city, so I’ve seen them myself.”
Zyjii puffed his chest, clearly proud of the fact he knew what mountains were.
I bit my lip to keep from grinning. My male was too damn cute.
Then he got a thought, tail snapping to one side before it draped over my shoulder and curled around my waist. The Zyjii version of a boyfriend absentmindedly resting his hand in the small of my back.
“Did you grow up in a village? Or do your mountains have a city, too?”
“The mountains where I live are rugged. There’s not really space for a city.” I didn’t even try to explain wildlife preservations and national parks. He wouldn’t understand. “Some humans live in cities. Some live in villages. I grew up alone with my dad.”
“What about your dame?”
I shrugged. “I never knew her.” I pursed my lips, glancing up at him. “Do your people ever have sex just for pleasure, when it’s not between mates?”
“Yes,” he admitted. “But…not often. It’s considered a sad thing, a sign of great loneliness.”
“Have you ever—” I started, then stopped so fast and hard I bit my tongue. “Never mind. I’m not sure I want to know.”
His smile was gentle. “Have I ever been lonely enough to have sex with someone I did not intend to take as my mate?”
I glowered.
“No, I haven’t.” He dipped down, bumping his nose against my temple. “You are the only one I’ve shared myself with.”
Unaccountably relieved by that—and fully aware of how hypocritical it made me—I shifted closer to him. Close enough for me to tuck my arm around him, beneath his wings.
“My dad was like that,” I said, a little surprised by that particular truth. “He and my mother had sex because they were both lonely and needed a moment of connection. They were only together one night, but…”
“They made you,” he said.
“And my mom wasn’t in a place where she could support me.” I pursed my lips, trying to think of it in terms he would understand. “Human villages aren’t woven tight like yours. And her family weren’t good people. They were bad to her, so she left them as soon as she became an adult.”
“So she had no one but herself to rely on to help raise you,” he guessed.
“Yeah. She didn’t know my dad well, but she found him in the hopes he could take better care of me than she could.”
“And he did.”
“He did,” I agreed. “So it was always just Dad and me.”
Zyjii listened intently as I told him about my childhood years. He didn’t have as many questions as I expected, interjecting mostly for clarification about things that were unfamiliar to him. It took me a bit to understand why.
From his perspective, my childhood wasn’t all that strange. A lone male raising his child, teaching her how to hunt and forage and survive the forest wilds on her own, was perfectly normal in his world. Or, if not normal, then at least not unusual. It was
only on Earth, amongst my fellow humans, that living as off-grid survivalists was considered strange.
Well, on Earth and amongst the technologically advanced species populating the ISSC.
It was a startling thing to realize that Zyjii’s people lived an existence my father idolized. A more simple way of life. One that existed in harmony with nature, rather than destroying it for material gain.
If Dad had been the one to crash land on this planet, with little to no hope of rescue, he’d have been as happy as a clam.
I was in the middle of telling Zyjii about my first bear hunt—which involved a detailed description of a bear, because Zyjii—when he interrupted me with a soft hiss. I froze, listening, but didn’t notice anything out of the ordinary.
His ears twitched, tracking something I couldn't.
“Zyjii, what’s—” I started, but he clapped a hand over my mouth.
I grunted, offended. He immediately released me, babbling an apology.
“Sorry,” he stammered. “It’s just, Jeejee’s message was so soft I could barely hear, and I didn’t want to miss it.”
“Message?” I asked. Then frowned. “Jeejee?”
“My sister. She needs to talk to me.” He pulled his spear from the sling he used to carry it against his back, between his wings, and strode to the nearest aerial root. “She must be close for hunt-speak that soft to reach me.”
Using the butt of his spear, he tapped out a series of patterns not unlike Morse code. He kept the taps light, so they only produced sound a little louder than a handclap. I bet with a bit of effort, he could create a crack that traveled quite a ways through the forest.
Hunt-speak. Neat.
“I’ve told her to meet us at the bathing pool,” he said. “That will give us a chance to observe, make sure it’s really Jeejee trying to meet me and not…someone else.”
“Someone specific?” I guessed.
He nodded, but didn’t elaborate.
I took a breath, bracing against the queasy sense of unease that started churning in my gut. I stroked the tail wrapped tight around my waist, then smooth my hand down his arm. He immediately bent down to nuzzle me, silently seeking reassurance. I gave it to him, wrapping my arms around him and squeezing tight.
“Let’s go talk to your sister,” I said.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Thirty
ZYJII
One of the
first things I’d discovered about my sky-fallen female was that our people shared a sense of fastidiousness. I hadn’t forgotten the way she’d meticulously cleaned her hands after butchering the mlyrk. And again after eating.
So, durning my many outings to fetch food and jinveep for Lynn while she healed, I built us a bathing pool.
I’d chosen a rocky stretch along the river nearest our den, and stacked rocks in a wall to catch the current. It’d taken a lot of work, and each time we visited, I tended the zeeving grass to ensure our little pool remained safe.
Lynn and I found somewhere to crouch where we could see the pool and the stretch of shore leading up to it without being seen. We didn’t have to wait long. Jeejee found the spot easily, since she knew what to look for. I was just relieved that it was my sister who came and not Phex or someone else from the village.
Next to me, Lynn shifted, grimacing. Her leg was strong enough for her to walk for most of the day before it began to ache, but crouching must hurt. That decided me.
“It’s my sister,” I said, and stood.
Jeejee spun toward me, her ears going slack with relief when she spotted me. She controlled herself quickly, though, hiding her emotions behind bared teeth.
“Idiot brother,” she snapped. “Do you have any idea how worried I’ve been? Especially when we couldn’t find you in the part of the forest Phex insisted you’d moved to. I was beginning to think you’d been eaten by the grrn.”
“Not eaten,” I said. “I’ve been tending my mate.”
“Your—”
I held my hand down. Lynn tipped her head back, eyes narrowed at me, but slid her hand into mine and let me pull her to her feet. Jeejee’s eyes rounded big as biin berries, all the fur on her tail bushing out.
“No wonder you threw yourself into the forest so fast when I mentioned the grrn,” Jeejee said faintly.
Together, Lynn and I stepped out of the bushes. Jeejee’s eyes widened further—which I hadn’t thought possible—as she took in all the things that made Lynn different. The lack of fur, the missing wing-hands and tail, her strange feet. My sister’s gaze settled on the harsh red scars marring Lynn’s leg and her expression softened.
“Grrn?” she asked.
I nodded. “I nearly didn’t make it in time.”
The realization hit me hard, and my hand tightened reflexively around Lynn’s. I could have lost her. Why that knowledge waited until now to ambush me, I didn’t know, but I trembled so hard with the shock of emotion my wing-hands rattled.
“Zyjii,” Lynn said softly, stroking my arm. “You made it. You caught me. I’m safe.”
“What did she say?” Jeejee asked.
My sister’s voice cut through the rising flood of my anxiety. It still took me three attempts before I managed to get words out.
“She reminded me that I made it in time. That she is safe.”
Jeejee softened further, her fur finally smoothing.
“She really is your mate,” she said softly. “That’s going to make this harder for you.”
“What?”
But she didn’t hear me, her attention locked on Lynn, the familiar gleam of curiosity in her eyes. “What is she?”
“She understands you,” Lynn muttered. But she did it in her language.
I swiveled one ear toward her so she’d know I’d heard her and understood and found her disgruntled grumbling and amusing, but I kept most of my attention on Jeejee.
“Did you see the sky-light that fell, back during Meerya’s solo dance?” I asked.
“No,” Jeejee said. Then grimaced. “We all
heard
it. It woke the whole village. But the elders forbid anyone from finding it. Said it’d be dangerous.”
I grimaced. Of course they had. “They do remember that the mountain city keeps a fallen sky-light in their big temple, don’t they?”
“I did point that out, but they insisted the sky-light in the temple was countless floods old. Any danger that came with it was long gone by the time the mountain dwellers found it.”
I wondered about that. Maybe the mountain dwellers found it because they’d followed the sky-light as it roared across the sky, just like I had with Lynn’s sky-den. Wouldn’t that be the only way they knew the rock they picked up fell from the sky?
I shook my head hard enough to make my ears flap, trying to chase away the errant thoughts.
“Well,” I said. “
I
didn’t know it was forbidden to follow the fallen sky-light.”
“Not that knowing would have stopped you,” Jeejee muttered, but she tapped her tail affectionately against the top of my foot, to make sure I knew she was only teasing.
I smirked, because she knew me well.
“The fallen sky-light was a kind of den,” I said. “I found it, and watched Lrynn stumble out of it. She wore strange clothing, but⁠—”
“Rynn?” Jeejee asked.
I blinked at her, then glanced down at Lynn. She had her lips pursed in the strangest expression. It took me a moment to realize she was trying not to laugh at the way Jeejee had said her name. The same way I had said it when we first met. With a growl rather than the soft almost-hum Lynn herself used.
“Lrynn,” I said. I used our clasped hands to tug my Lynn closer, but gently, since she still favored her injured leg. “Lrynn, my mate. And Jeejee, my sister.”
Lynn dipped her chin in greeting. Jeejee’s head tipped to the side in brief confusion before she bobbed one ear back.
“Jeejee, what did you mean this will make things harder for me?”
It took a long moment before my sister finally dragged her attention away from her intense study of my mate.
“What do you—oh.” She blinked. “Phex is looking for you.”
My lip twitched, threatening to curl into a snarl.
“Phex?” Lynn asked in a soft whisper.
My tail coiled around her leg and squeezed, a gentle promise that I’d explain later. I didn’t want to distract my sister again.
“I figured you’d feel that way,” Jeejee said, her sharp hunter’s eyes catching my almost snarl. “Hence why I thought it might be better if I found you before she did.”
“What’s she want now?” I asked, exasperated. “Did dropping in a lyvchiss tangle teach her nothing?”
“She—you—” Jeejee blinked, her ears dancing in an usual display of emotion. “No wonder she’s had her tail in such knots. You chased her into a lyvchiss tangle?”
I scoffed. “No.
She
chased
me
.”
“And she succumbed to their sweet scent, but you didn’t?”
I stared at her, baffled. Until I realized that she might not know the trick to navigating the dangerous flower tangles safely.
“I held my breath,” I said. “It’s not the scent that causes sleep, but the pollen. It sticks to your fur, but as long as you don’t lick it off or sniff at it, it won’t hurt you, and it comes right off in water.”
Jeejee’s tail lashed, angry. “Why haven’t you told anyone this?”
My own tail twisted tight, until Lynn made a little growling sound. I glanced down at her to find her gripping her atlatl and looking like she was one short breath away from whipping a dart from their sling and hurling it at my sister.
“I did,” I said absently. “I told them I could prove it, but Huntmaster Dyrn told me he wouldn’t put one of his hunters at risk to entertain my idiocy.”
He’d said a lot more than that. About how I’d already brought enough trouble to the village, and now I wanted to put the hunters at risk? Everyone knew how my ‘experiments’ tended to end. He accused me of intentionally bringing harm to the village, as if I wanted to see my friends and family fall to the forest’s dangers.
Lynn made the strangest sounds as her face went an alarming shade of red. She bared her teeth at a suddenly worried Jeejee, and I thought it was probably just as well I kept one of Lynn’s hands trapped in mine.
“You shouldn’t growl at her like that,” I told my fierce little mate. “Jeejee’s never doubted me.”
I also absolutely failed to keep the amusement out of my voice, much to Jeejee’s wide-eyed disbelief and Lynn’s dire glower. I gave her my most charming grin, then tugged her into my arms—all the better to keep the darts trapped in their sling.
“Thank you for getting angry on my behalf,” I murmured.
She huffed but settled back against me with minimal grumbling.
“Your mate is kind of terrifying despite being so small,” Jeejee said, eyes wide and fur bushed out once more.
“Like a vriiryn,” I agreed.
Lynn answered with her adorable growl. I laughed, bending down to nuzzle her cheek affectionately. I wanted to do so much more to her, but not with Jeejee watching. And not with the issue that had driven my sister to look for me dangling over us like a yreki tongue.
“So,” I said. “Phex?”
Jeejee blew out a long breath, her tail dropping limp to the ground, her ears pressed back. As if whatever she had to say was something I wasn’t going to like. I braced myself, but her words still came as an unexpected blow.
“Dyrn presented a mating offer to her,” Jeejee said. “She refused him, announcing loudly enough for the whole village to hear that she was already mated to you. That it wasn’t her fault the elders refused to permit her mate to den with her.”
Lynn went very, very still in my arms, but I barely noticed. Fury at Phex for lying about something so important, so intimate, burned through me. My wing-fingers rattled, and my tail uncoiled from around Lynn to lash behind me.
“I
never
mated her,” I hissed. “I made it clear that our heart-threads would never tie.”
Jeejee ran a hand over her ears, still pressed back, and sighed.
“I did try to call her out on her yreki tongue—” she stopped, glanced at Lynn, and explained, “Her dangerous lies.”
Lynn jerked her head in a short, sharp nod.
“That gesture means—” I bobbed my ear.
Jeejee bobbed hers back in understanding before it immediately swiveled to its previous unhappy position.
“I tried to call her out, but she spoke over me,” she continued. “She insisted you were ready to come back to the village anytime. That you’d changed. That you’d promised her you’d stop with your ceaseless poking at things that had no business being poked. That you simply waited for permission from the elders.”
I hissed, so furious I was beyond words.
“That was my reaction,” Jeejee muttered.
I didn’t realize I was squeezing Lynn, my sweet and fierce and beloved sky-fallen female, until she made a small sound of discomfort. Releasing her, I spun away, stalking to the edge of the river. Maybe jumping into the water would help cool my anger.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Thirty-One
LYNN
Zyjii’s hands
balled into fists and he bared his teeth at the river as if it’d personally offended him. I glanced at his sister, but she stood there, clearly concerned. Her wings twitched, but she didn’t otherwise move.
In a sudden blur of motion, Zyjii snatched up a rock and hurled it across the river with all his considerable strength. When that did nothing to release his volatile emotions, he threw another rock, and another and another.
His sister, Jeejee, made a soft sound of distress and still made no move toward him.
I wasn’t so reserved. The next time he cocked his arm back for a throw, I caught it by the wrist.
“Zyjii,” I said softly.
He snarled, but he aimed it at the poor unsuspecting river, not me. He stood there, fingers flexing around the rock, the muscles in his shoulders bunching, but he didn’t even try to break free of my grip. After a moment of panting he dropped the rock, spun, and snatched me up to bury his face against my neck.
“She’s not going to give up finding me,” he said. “It’s become a matter of pride now. If she doesn’t return with me as her mate,
she may as well not return to the village at all, because no one will work with a hunter who lies about mates.”
“She can’t have you,” I said simply. “You’re mine.”
And I’d skin her alive if she ever put her hands on him without his consent. Simple as that.
All at once he relaxed, the anger and frustration and hurt draining from him in a rush, as if I’d said the magic words.
“And you’re mine,” he murmured. He nuzzled the spot behind my ear that made my breath catch and my knees go wobbly. “I just don’t know how to keep you safe from her.”
“What’s the situation?” I asked.
He leaned back far enough to give me an incredulous look.
“A hunter is determined to find me and force me to mate with her so she won’t be cast out of the village for her lies,” he said in a very
duh
tone that, under other circumstances, would have made me snicker.
“Can she force this heart-thread tie on you?” I asked.
He’d mentioned it before, but I didn’t really understand how it worked. I just knew it had something to do with his people’s version of mating bonds.
He shook his head, to my immense relief.
“If a thread is bound against someone’s desire, it’s no good. Like tying a strong cord to a rotted one, it will eventually break,” he explained.
“You actually understand what she says?” Jeejee asked in an awed whisper.
One of his ears twitched in her direction, almost as if he’d forgotten she was there.
He chewed over several responses, before he finally shrugged. “Yes. She is mine.”
As if that explained everything.
To my utter bemusement, Jeejee bobbed her ear as if that was, indeed, a perfectly acceptable explanation.
I was beginning to see the family resemblance.
“So she’s looking for you,” I said, returning us to the problem at hand. “What will happen if she finds you and you don’t go with her?”
He tilted his head, ears at their thinking angle. The whipping lash of his tail slowed to its more languid curl. And I began to breathe a bit easier. Apparently, I hadn’t liked seeing him in such obvious distress. But a thinking Zyjii? That was good. That was normal.
“She can try to force the tying of our heart-threads,” he said slowly. “Even if it was only temporary, she could haul me back to the village and later claim that the threads snapped of their own accord, because I was the wrong mate for her, or some other lie.”
“Something that’d make herself look good while making Zyjii out to be the problem,” Jeejee said, a growl edging the words.
Zyjii bobbed an ear toward her to acknowledge her point.
“And she’d have to deal with me, because I wouldn’t let her take you without a fight,” I said.
He tensed up again, wings rattling together to create a sound a lot more frightening than a rattlesnake’s rattle.
“Mine,” he growled.
My lips twisted up on one side. “Yeah, same.” I sobered, dropping into what I called my Serious Dad Mode. The one where he could realistically plan out a murder without so much as a trace of guilt or regret. “We know the situation, we understand the risks. So now we plan. And we prepare.”
And that’s exactly what we did.
I laid in bed staring up at the glowing moss, unable to sleep. Several days filled with emergency preparations and frenetic
planning should have left me exhausted. And it had. My bad leg throbbed and I was so tired my eyeballs ached. Yet sleep continued to elude me.
At least I had Zyjii’s mane to run my fingers through, the tactile sensation giving me something to focus on other than my body’s small miseries. He liked to sleep draped on top of me, his head on my chest and his arms tucked in against my sides. Never in my life had I been so glad I was a back sleeper, because sleeping on his stomach was pretty much the only position Zyjii
could
sleep in that didn’t leave his shoulders and wings aching.
None of which stopped my stupid eyes from stinging with tears. Exhausted tears. Hated those fuckers.
“Lynn,” he mumbled. “You’re not sleeping.”
My fingers stilled. “Sorry.”
“Your breathing hitched.”
I grunted. Stupid tears affecting my breath and disturbing my male’s much needed rest.
He curled his lower body closer to mine, the tip of his tail tickling the top of my foot when it flicked once before it went limp again.
“Are you all right?” he asked.
“Just tired,” I said, voice thick. “I always cry when I’m exhausted. It’s a stress response.”
For once, he didn’t ask what the unfamiliar words were. He just stroked his tail up and down my leg, attempting to sooth me.
“So you are not hurting?” he asked.
A little yeah, but that wasn’t the reason for the damn tears.
“Just tired,” I insisted.
He was quiet for a long time, but the subtle tension in his body told me it wasn’t because he’d dropped off again.
“You never asked me about Phex,” he said at last.
“I know enough.”
Mostly that she was a selfish bitch who wanted to force him into becoming her mate because of her own dumb ass mistake and subsequent lies.
“She was my friend once,” Zyjii said in a small voice. “Or maybe she was never my friend, and I blinded myself to the truth of her because I would have been too lonely otherwise.”
I sucked in a breath in understanding. Wrapping my arms around his head, I held him close.
“I had a friend like that,” I said. “My dad didn’t like people, so he only ever let a few people get close. One of them had a son a little older than me. We grew up together. Learned how to hunt together. I thought of him as the big brother I’d always wanted.”
I hadn’t thought about Bo in years. Hadn’t wanted to think about him and the deep hurt he’d caused me.
“I’m guessing he didn’t see you as a sister,” Zyjii said softly, drawing me back to him, to the present.
“No. Maybe when we were little, but as soon as I grew tits—small as they are—he stopped seeing me as a person and started seeing me as an object that existed for him to use as he wished. When I disagreed with him, he tried to force the matter.”
In the confines of our den, Zyjii’s furious growl was a huge thing, filling the air until it pressed down on me like a weighted blanket. A comfort, rather than something to be wary of. To me, at least. I had no doubt that sound would have made Bo piss his pants.
“What did you do?” Zyjii asked.
“Dropped him to his ass when he grabbed me and pressed the tip of my knife to his dick.”
“What’s
dyk?
”
“Another name for cock.”
Zyjii’s continuous low rumble shifted timbre into a purr. “Good.”
“I told him if he ever touched me again, I’d cut his dick and balls off, grill them up, and feed them to his father, so he’d know just what kind of monster he’d raised. My dad heard that last part, and made it clear to his own friend that they weren’t welcome in our territory anymore. We never saw them again.”
Zyjii made a low cheep that was basically his version of a satisfied man grunt. He stretched out, wings lifting behind him, before he draped back over me, this time with even more of me tucked beneath his big body.
“It wasn’t until after they were gone I realized he was my only real friend, and he’d never been a very good one of those.” I shrugged, as much as I could lying flat on my back with a massive male using my chest as his pillow. “I was glad he was gone, but…”
“But you mourned what he should have been.”
“Yeah.”
My sweet mate tucked me more solidly beneath him. The change in position let him nuzzle my cheek, and he purred, a bare whisper of his usual motorboat rumble, but all the more soothing for its softness.
“I understand,” he said. “Phex…She used to stand up for me, whenever I brought trouble to the village. I saw that as acceptance. After I was exiled, she was the only one who sought out my company. Even Jeejee only comes looking for me when she has news to share or a warning to pass along.”
“She was the only friend you had,” I guessed. He tensed, holding me tighter. A subconscious plea for reassurance. So I gave it to him. “Now you have me.”
His whole body twitched. Pushing himself up on his elbows, he blinked at me. Then he laughed and dropped back down to resume his sweet nuzzling.
“Yes. I do. You know, if another Mrriiv had said that to me, their expression would have been soft. Gentle. But not my Lynn. You look ready to go hunting grrns.”
“Or at least dumb bitches named Phex,” I muttered darkly.
His laughter did what hours of staring up at the ceiling hadn’t managed. It relaxed me enough I was finally able to get some sleep.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Thirty-Two
LYNN
A few days
after we set our final plans in place, Zyjii surprised me with a gift.
I sat in the entrance of our den, my legs dangling as I worked on sanding down long shafts of wood to make more atlatl darts. I already had a solid stockpile of heads carved from bone or stone. Our last hunt had provided me the feathers I needed for fletching, so I just needed to prepare more shafts to store as replacements.
He came up behind me, stooping down to quickly nuzzle my hair before he settled in a crouch.
“Hi,” I said a little absently.
“I have something for you.”
That
snared my attention. Setting aside the long stick and the chunk of tunjun bark—it really did make the best sandpaper—I pulled my legs inside and spun on my rump to face him.
“You have my attention,” I said.
He flashed me a shy grin, then held out a leather-wrapped bundle. I accepted it, quickly untying the twine holding the package closed, and flipped it open to find⁠—
My breath caught.
I lifted out the first piece of fabric and it unfolded into a long skirt dyed the most spectacular shade of blue. The kind of vibrant, saturated blue humanity hadn’t been able to achieve without synthetic dyes.
Even ignoring the color, the cloth was spectacular. Lightweight and breathable, it flowed like silk.
The next piece of fabric was a top. I held it up by the braided straps, lips parted in surprise. He’d taken the strips left over from our dart-sling experiments and stitched them together into a wide band, then dyed it to match the skirt. Nothing wasted. And I could finally stop wearing my nasty old bra.
“Did I get the shape right?” Zyjii asked, all restless tail twisting and twitchy wings. “I used your chest covering as an example, but I couldn’t get the shape the same.”
“You’d have to cut the fabric,” I said absently. “It’d make a lot of waste. Zyjii, this is gorgeous.”
The aimless writhing of his tail slowed. “You like them?”
“I love them. Let me try them on.”
I stood and immediately shucked out of my bra. I’d come to hate the thing—being made with fancy tech had somehow not managed to make the damn thing more comfortable for long-term wear—and was glad to be rid of it. The strips of the top tapered down into a single, narrow tie that I could probably wear either in front or back.
The skirt was basically just a single big piece of cloth, stitched up the side and gathered into a corset-like leather waistband, not dissimilar to the one Zyjii wore.
“Here,” he said, stepping up to me.
He adjusted the skirt, switching it so the belt’s opening was over my hip.
“The hole here—” he trailed his finger through the open slit above the stitched side of the skirt, and below the laces on the
belt “—is for a tail. Since you don’t have one, I designed it to sit here, over your hip. I made the slit much smaller, too.”
He tugged the laces taut, checked to make sure the leather waistband wasn’t too tight, then swiftly tied them.
“It’s perfect,” I assured him.
“I made you a hunting skirt, too,” he said. “The style is different from what our females wear, and I’m worried you⁠—”
I caught him by the face to stop his fussing, then drew him down to press a gentle kiss to his thin lips.
“It’s perfect, Zyjii,” I said. “Because you made it with me in mind.”
“But—”
I bumped his nose with mine, startling a smile out of him.
“If it doesn’t fit, or doesn’t have enough loops to tie pouches to—” something he’d fretted over as I struggled to find ways to carry more and more on my makeshift vine belt “—then we’ll work something out, and the next skirt you make me will be even better.”
He made a contented sound and drew me into his arms. I leaned against him, cheek resting on his chest, and let myself soak in the sweetness of the moment. Ever since the first time I saw him poking through my things on the riverbank, Zyjii had been doing things for me. Providing safe fruit to eat, helping me clean and butcher the river monster, snatching me from the jaws of certain death. Tending my hurts. Going above and beyond to make a hole in a tree into a home comfortable for both of us. And he did it all without ever undermining my self-confidence or sense of worth.
He was quick and clever and so damn smart I sometimes felt like I had rocks in my head in comparison.
I stroked my hand down the center of his back, trailing my fingers over the base of his tail. He rumbled a purr, low and amorous, and started nuzzling the top of my head.
“You’re really something else, Zyjii,” I murmured. “No wonder I had to travel across the galaxy to find you.”
He started to lift his head, no doubt to ask what ‘galaxy’ meant, but I didn’t want to dive into another language lesson. So I gripped his tail and tugged. It had a similar effect to grabbing a much more intimate piece of flesh. He grunted and shifted his grip to my hips to tug me in against the growing hardness at his groin. When I tipped my head back in invitation, he gladly accepted, kissing me hard enough to knock every coherent thought right out of my ears.
“I like you wearing my weaving,” he said against my lips. His low growl sent delicious heat curling through me. “Makes you feel like mine.”
“I am yours.”
“Yes,” he agreed simply.
His hands wandered, brushing lightly over every exposed inch of my skin. Thanks to the new skirt he’d made me, there wasn’t as much as usual, so I fully expected him to tear everything right off me again.
Instead, he ended our kiss with a sharp—but not painful—nip on my lower lip, then started trailing kisses over my cheek and down my neck. I tilted my head to give him better access, but he continued down further, licking and nipping my collar bone. I braced myself, but he skipped over my breasts completely, moving straight to the line of my stomach left exposed.
“Zyjii,” I protested.
He grinned up at me, completely unrepentant, and palmed my breasts through the finely woven fabric of my new top. He brushed a thumb over one peaked nipple and I grunted as a thread of heat shot straight to my core.
Face buried against my stomach, he took a deep breath and groaned, tail lashing wildly behind him.
Dropping his hands from my breasts, he quickly rucked up the long length of my new skirt to expose me to him. He purred his pleasure at the sight, then promptly buried his nose between my thighs. I sucked in a breath of surprised.
“Zyjii,” I protested harder, except it was full of laughter.
His ears lifted, letting me know he heard me, but he otherwise chose to ignore me. His tail snapped around my waist, holding tight. It was the only warning I got before he dropped backward, pulling me with him.
I let out a startled grunt and braced for impact. I shouldn’t have worried. He caught me with his hands around my thighs, his ridiculously strong, prehensile tail easing me down to kneel over his face.
Under other circumstances, with someone else, I wouldn’t have complained. But this was Zyjii, and I knew he didn’t like lying on his back like that.
“Zyjii, your wings⁠—”
“It’s fine,” he growled. “I won’t be here long.”
My eyebrow shot up at that. Because that sounded like a challenge. “Oh?”
He crooned and kissed my cunt, then smacked his lips as he licked my juices off them, because, yes, I was that wet already. The sound was obscene, and it made me snort with laughter.
“I want you like this,” he said.
I started to inform him he could still eat me out in a position that wouldn’t leave his wings and shoulders aching, but he licked me from slit to clit and I forgot what words were.
He ate me out like I was his favorite flavor of ice cream cone, alternating between long licks, quick, teasing flickers, and eager sucks. I abandoned myself to the sensations, rocking against his face as much as the grip of his tail permitted.
The orgasm hit me hard enough to throw my whole body forward. I managed to catch myself on one hand on the floor,
right between his ears. He didn’t even notice. He was too busy making eager sounds as he lapped up my release.
He kept up his ministration through the quivering aftermath, waiting until I was limp before he unwound his tail and carefully shifted me off his face. He cradled me against his chest as he flowed to his feet, aided by a push of his tail.
Without a word, he carried me to our bed made of leaves, covered with a woven mat, and piled with pillows and blankets. He set me on my feet, stroking my hip when I leaned against him. He undressed me with care, folding each piece of clothing before setting it aside.
“Come, my mate,” he murmured, stroking the backs of his fingers over my cheek. “Let me claim you.”
I answered him with a kiss, right between his pectorals.
When he carried me down to the bed, I went willingly, parting my legs as he settled his weight between them. I hadn’t even noticed when he removed his belt and loincloth, but there was only heated fur and skin against mine.
A shift of his hips, and he thrust himself deep inside me. We moaned in unison, the mingled sounds accompanied by the soft rattle of his wings quivering.
He paused there, as deep as he could go, his expression intent as he studied my face. I reached up with one hand to cup his cheek. He leaned into the caress, finally breaking his gaze from mine to turn his head and press a kiss to my palm. Then he leaned down to kiss my lips as he began to move within me in a slow seduction of bodies, hearts, and souls.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Thirty-Three
ZYJII
Lynn insisted
she needed practice with her throwing spears and the strange device she’d crafted for throwing them—which she called an
atlatl
. Since there was no way I could say her word for it, and my people didn’t have one, I decided to call it a spear-whip, since it allowed her to whip one of her slender spears forward with great force.
I perched on a tree branch above and behind her, safely out of the way, where she asked me to stay until she was certain she could handle the spear-whip with enough precision not to accidentally hit me if I stood beside her. Or, more accurately, when I hunted with her.
She wore the chest wrap I’d made her, along with the shorter hunting skirt. I’d used a particular kind of nut to dye it, giving it a rich loam brown and moss green look. The blue of her chest wrap was a stark contrast, but in the shadows of the thick foliage that grew at ground level, it didn’t stand out.
It was her pale, pale skin that made blending in with her surroundings tricky.
None of that bothered me at the moment. I was too fixated on how she looked wearing the clothes I’d made for her, and
how well she moved in them. Lynn looked small and delicate, but there was no denying the lithe strength of her. I watched the muscles in her thighs bunch as she put her whole body behind the motion of the spear-whip, sending the spear zipping through the air to pierce the fat bundle of dried hrien stalks I’d tied together at her request.
I was so focused on Lynn I didn’t notice the distinct sound of wing-hands opening. Only the clap they made as they snatched at the air to slow a Mrriiv’s rapid fall.
I jerked to my feet, but too slow. Phex was already there, her tail around my ankle and one hand around my arm.
“Come,” she said, breathless, eyes wide and ears pressed back with panic. “Before that
thing
sees us. Your curiosity is going to get you killed, Zy⁠—”
Thok!
Phex let out a screech and stumbled back. She released my arm, but her tail twined tighter in reflex, nearly yanking my leg out from beneath me. Only my own tail anchored around the branch kept me from losing my balance and stumbling after her.
I barely noticed, though. I studied the dart lodged firmly beneath where Phex had stood. A branch covered in the tunjun’s incredibly hard bark.
I cheeped, impressed. No matter how small and delicate she looked, my sky-fallen female was a hunter as strong as any the village had produced.
Fur bristling and lungs heaving with panting breaths, Phex glanced fearfully down at Lynn.
Who met her gaze and said in clear, if heavily accented, Mrriiv, “Oops. I missed.”
And then she bared her flat teeth in a smile that was all threat.
Phex cheeped and staggered away from the spear still firmly stuck in the branch. At least this time her tail released me. I
snapped my own tail free and spun, intent on getting away from my old ‘friend’ before she could⁠—
She grabbed me by the leading finger of my wing-hand, forcing me to freeze as her claws dug into the tender webbing, threatening to tear it if I moved wrong.
“Phex, let go,” I said, my voice calm.
“We have to go,” she hissed at me. “That thing has
weapons
. It’s going to kill us both.”
A low growl built in my chest. I was one more ‘it’ from losing my patience. Lynn wasn’t an ‘it.’ She was a sky-fallen female, smart and strong and capable, and she deserved more than to be treated like a rampaging yreki patch.
Lynn had no such patience.
“Hey
,
bich
,” she snarled. “Get your
fahking
hands off him!”
Phex’s quick temper snapped past her fear—she might not understand Lynn’s English words, but an insult sounded remarkably the same in either language—and she hissed. Only to freeze when she saw Lynn with a dart in her spear-whip and her arm already drawn back, ready for the throw.
Lynn glared. “I never miss twice. Let. Him. Go.
Now
.”
The claws digging into the webbing of my wing-hand sprang free. I threw myself off the branch, Phex’s furious shout chasing after me.
My wing-hands snapped out, guiding me to my Lynn. I landed on the branch next to her, and she immediately moved to place herself in front of me. Protecting me from Phex, who rattled her wing-fingers at us.
“Zyjii!” she hissed. “What are you doing? Get away from that thing.”
“She’s not a
thing
,” I snapped, tail lashing in annoyance. “She’s my mate.”
Lynn smirked, smug and pleased as a vriiryn with a kicluck dead and ready to eat lying at its dainty paws. But when she shifted her attention to me, she was all seriousness.
“You okay?” she asked softly.
“Annoyed she keeps calling you ‘it’ and ‘thing,’” I growled.
That wasn’t what she meant, though.
She hissed, a soft angry sound. “You’re bleeding!”
I blinked. Was I?
I kept my attention on a stunned Phex as Lynn handed me her spear-whip and the dart she’d been ready to launch at the other female. She bustled around me, clucking over the marks Phex’s claws had left in the thin skin stretched between wing-fingers. Marks that bled, apparently.
“I’ll kill her,” Lynn growled as she pulled a pouch stuffed with soak-moss from its place tied to her new belt. “I mean it, Zyjii. She touches you again, I’ll spear her through the heart, then skin her and use her tail as a
skarph
.”
Her defense of me made me want to preen. Even if I wasn’t sure what a
skarph
was. Considering it involved tails, maybe I was better off not knowing. Just this one time.
“So fierce, my little sky-fallen female,” I crooned. I held Phex’s disbelieving stare. Ears pinned back, I curled my lip in a silent, threatening snarl.
“Zyjii,” Phex protested. She dragged the tattered threads of her confident nature together, straightening her spine and clamping her wing-hands tight to her back to keep them from rattling and showing her lie for what it was. “This is your last chance, Zyjii. Come back to the village with me. Tie your heart-thread with mine.”
“‘Do as your told, Zyjii,’” Lynn said in a high mockery of Phex’s voice. “‘I know what’s best for you, Zyjii. Don’t worry your precious little head, Zyjii. You just do what I say and I’ll take care
of you.’” She twisted around to glare at Phex around my wing-hand. “
Bich
.”
I really wanted to know what that word meant, since she kept using it. Though, thinking back on it, she only ever used it in reference to Phex so…no translation needed.
Lynn patted my shoulder. “Don’t listen to her.”
“Wasn’t planning to,” I murmured, never taking my eyes off the other Mrriiv. Then I raised my voice. “I won’t return to the village, Phex. Not with you. Not ever. I will not go where I am not wanted.”
Her tail snaked behind her, giving away her silent fury. But I wasn’t finished with her yet.
“Besides,” I said. I pointedly coiled my tail around Lynn’s leg, where Phex could see the possessive claiming. “My heart-thread is already tied. I know of no female more worthy of weaving my life with than my Lynn.”
Phex hissed, low and furious. “You’ll regret this, Zyjii.”
Behind me, Lynn snorted.
“Now that’s a
villin
line if I’ve ever heard one.”
“What’s
villin?
” I asked her, even as Phex bared her teeth as us before flinging herself up the trunk of the tunjun, climbing to gain the height she’d need to use her wing-hands to speed her trip back to the village.
Where she’d likely rally the hunters to come after us. To separate me from the dangerous ‘creature’ I’d mated.
“A
villin
is someone who does bad things,” Lynn said after one of her long, thinking pauses. “They choose to do bad things because they are selfish and don’t care what happens to others, as long as they get their way.”
I grunted. “We have teaching stories that speak about brave hunters who stand against villains who want to claim the goods of other villages for themself. Is that the right word?”
“Yep.”
Villain. I blew out a long breath, ignoring the way it quivered. Lynn, though, she didn’t ignore it. She finished tending the small hurts from Phex’s claws, then stepped between my wing-arms to hug me from behind. I gripped her hands, letting myself shake as all the emotions I should have felt during the confrontation ambushed me all at once.
“We shouldn’t stay here,” I said, my voice a rasp.
“You think she’ll send hunters after us?”
I stared up into the hazy green of the forest canopy where the other Mrriiv had vanished. “I know she will.”
Lynn nodded. The gesture rubbed her cheek against the trailing path my mane followed down my spine, soothing me.
“Let’s go, then,” she said. “Plan A?”
I judged the amount of time it’d take Phex to reach the village. Even if she maintained her fastest speed, she wouldn’t get there before Vobe went to his rest. The question was, would she manage to convince the elders my Lynn posed a threat dangerous enough to stage a night hunt?
My heart twisted. Probably.
I considered going after Phex. Trying to explain to her that Lynn wasn’t dangerous. To make her understand that all Lynn and I wanted was to live out here, at the farthest edges of the village’s hunting grounds, in peace.
I think if it’d been anyone else, I would have tried. After all, Jeejee had been surprisingly okay with Lynn once she got over the shock of meeting someone who appeared so different. But Phex…Phex only ever heard what she wanted to hear, and ignored everything else. She wouldn’t listen to me. Not after I’d so soundly rejected her.
That left us with only one real choice.
“Plan A,” I agreed.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Thirty-Four
LYNN
Plan A was simple.
We returned to the den, and I gathered up everything we wanted to take with us while Zyjii worked to rapidly disassemble his mother’s loom. A part of me—currently buried beneath the hot coals of frustration that we had to leave our den because of fucking Phex and the village of intolerance—was glad we had enough time for him to pack the precious loom away.
We had other contingency plans. Ones that pretty much involved grabbing our go-bags and
going
. We’d even buried a bag thoroughly wrapped in waxy leaves beneath our den tree, so if Zyjii and I ended up separated, I could have come back here to grab the pack and head off on my own. In that plan, we had a pre-arranged meeting spot where I could hide and wait for him to find me.
This was better. I still hated it, mind you, but it was better.
It meant I had time to carefully fold and pack the long, beautiful skirt he’d made me. Stupid, to get all sentimental over a piece of cloth, but I would have been pissed beyond belief—and maybe more than a little regretful—if I’d been forced to leave it behind.
“What food should we take?” I asked.
“The dried meats,” he said. “There will be plenty of fruit and nuts to find along the way, wherever we choose to go, but meat…”
“No time to hunt until we’re sure our own hunters have given up,” I said with what little humor I could muster.
“Yes,” he agreed.
“How long do you think they’ll chase us?”
“It depends,” he hedged.
“On?”
He was quiet, using our preferred sleep blanket to carefully wrap each separate piece of his loom.
I paused my own packing to look at him. “Zyjii?”
“On how dangerous Phex manages to convince them you are.”
I thought of the dart I’d hurled at her. Zyjii had never seen an atlatl before, but Phex had definitely recognized it as a weapon. Unknown creature wielding unknown weapons?
I blew out a breath. We were so fucked.
“We can lose them,” Zyjii said, correctly interpreting my angry silence and my quick, jerky motions as I finished dismantling our bed. “There are paths they will not take. Paths they deem too dangerous, because the hunting tales tell them so.”
I smiled, some of the burning knot of frustration in my gut easing. “But we can take them, because you understand
what
makes them dangerous.”
“Perhaps I should start making my own learning tales,” he said, voice light in an attempt to distract us both. “Hold your breath to fly through a lyvchiss tangle. All the colors of the ee vynla can be used for dye, so long as the dye is extracted before Vobe wakes. The nectar of a yreki heals wounds faster and better than soak-moss alone.”
Sometimes, I forgot he was a hunter in his own right, until he did something like move in absolute silence to sneak up behind me. When his arms came around me, I startled badly enough I barely stopped my elbow before I planted it in his gut in sheer reflex.
His breath whispered against the curve of my ear as he sighed. “Sky-fallen females are treasures of untold worth.”
My heart cracked.
“I like that learning tale,” I said softly.
He relaxed against me, the almost inaudible shivering of his wings finally falling still.
“I’m sorry that we must abandon our den,” he said, voice so rough with emotion it was mostly growl. “We’ll make our next one even better. And we’ll make it far away from Phex and the village. Somewhere you will be safe, and I can be wholly myself.”
“That will be a good place,” I agreed.
I sent up a silent prayer that we actually managed to find it. I wasn’t willing to hold my breath, though.
We had everything packed and ready with plenty of daylight to spare. Zyjii’s relief at that was silent, but obvious. I knew, from the time it’d taken him when he first went back to my campsite to gather the incriminating evidence of my existence, back after the shark-cat attack, that this place was a good ways away from his village.
If my guess work was anything close to accurate, Phex likely hadn’t even reached the village yet. It gave us plenty of time to get a head start.
Zyjii carried the biggest, heaviest pack, though it looked more like a laundry hamper to me. It was a basket, tall and
circular, with straps attached to it. The top set of straps were designed to go over the shoulders, but then tied together at the center of his back, between his shoulder blades and the point where his wings emerged from his back. The lower set of straps tied around his waist, beneath his wings.
It didn’t look comfortable, but it’d stay in place even if he needed to glide. And he was very careful to anchor a blanket over the top so nothing fell out, even when the basket was tipped completely upside down.
My own pack was much smaller, but no less important. My pack carried everything we’d need easy access to. Food, water, cloth that could be torn and used for bandages. A clay pot with soak-moss steeped in yreki nectar.
With both of us loaded down with our few but precious possessions—including his spear and my atlatl and quiver of darts—we agreed I should walk as much as possible. I knew, from hunting with Zyjii, that his people were skilled trackers. They did most of their tracking from up in the trees, but that made it all the more impressive in my books.
Still, I knew how to conceal my trail until even my dad struggled to find me, and I planned to put all my skills and knowledge to use. There was no way I wanted to spend the rest of my life hunted by scared Mrriivs led by a resentful Phex.
“There are lands beyond the jungle,” Zyjii told me as we walked along the first of many massive branches.
He stayed behind me, ready to catch me if my balance wavered. Our journey started in the trees, but it wouldn’t stay there.
“Like the mountains,” I said, remembering.
“Yes, but even beyond those. The mountain city was filled with people from all over, and I begged to hear every traveling tale from everyone we came across.”
I smiled, because of course he had. It was all too easy to imagine a young Zyjii unleashed upon a city filled with new and interesting things, with people from places he never could have dreamed existed. Free from the smothering disapproval of his village for the first time in his young life, he’d have attempted to learn everything he could all at once, drowning himself in every new experience he came across.
“There are places called deserts,” he said. “They have few trees, and those trees are small. Stunted. Barely bigger than you.”
“The place I come from has deserts, too,” I said.
He crept up closer behind me. I glanced over my shoulder to see his ears straight up and quivering with barely restrained eagerness. I smothered a laugh. I knew what he was going to say before he even opened his mouth.
“Have you seen them? What are they like?”
So as we traveled along branches as big around as giant sequoias in a jungle on a planet far, far from Earth, I told him stories about the Grand Canyon, Arches National Park, and all the other incredible desert wonders in the mountain west my father had taken me to see. Zyjii’s open awe made me wish, for one aching moment, that I could take him away from his planet and back to mine. So he could all the strange and beautiful places for himself.
Being surrounded by glowing flora sure made night hiking easier. It also introduced a whole new slew of dangers for us to avoid—there were a lot of plants that were safe to touch during the day, but became hazardous once they started emitting their
own light—so Zyjii and I decided to bed down and continue traveling in the morning.
We found shelter in the hollow of a fallen tree. There were signs of animal habitation, but they were old. I didn’t think we’d have to worry about fighting off any residents upset at finding intruders in their home, and Zyjii concurred.
After a quick meal of dried meat and fist-sized berries from a nearby plant that partially sheltered our hollow, I laid out the emergency blanket I’d taken from the pod so long ago, and we bedded down together.
Sleep refused to come, though. Mostly because Zyjii was clearly still keyed up and twitchy.
“Do you want to take turns keeping watch?” I asked.
“No,” he said. “I just…I’m sorry, Lynn.”
I frowned into his furry chest. “What? Why? You haven’t done anything wrong.”
“I lied to Phex.”
Ah. So he
did
know how to lie. I’d wondered. Then what he said really registered. I propped myself up on one elbow to look down at him. His ears hung at an unhappy angle, and he refused to meet my gaze. Whatever his lie was, it clearly upset him.
I replayed the whole incident with the bitch female in my mind, but couldn’t remember him saying anything that struck me as unusual or wrong.
“Do you want to tell me what you lied about?” I asked.
“I told her I tied my heart-thread to yours.” He curled in on himself, even his tail coiling up tight. Trying to make himself look smaller. Trying to make himself a smaller target as if he expected me to lash out in a rage which…okay, frankly that hurt a bit. “I haven’t yet, though.”
I blinked.
“Oh.” I laid back down beside him, quiet as I turned that over in my head. “Do you not want to be mates with me?”
That
provoked a reaction.
He shot up to a seated position, twisting around to stare down at me with a fierce expression.
“We
are
mates,” he growled. “You’re mine. And I’m yours.”
The hard knot of hurt that’d lodged in my chest eased. At least enough for me to breathe again.
“Then why not tie our heart-threads together?” I asked.
The hurt leaked into the words despite my best efforts, and Zyjii heard it. With a little pained whine, he curled around me, holding me.
“Because I didn’t want you bound here,” he whispered. “For just this reason.”
“Phex and your village, you mean.”
He nodded, his grip on me tightening. “You deserve better than to spend your life being hunted. I thought…maybe it would be best to leave our mating untied, leave you untethered, so you could return to the sky-lights if we were discovered. I’d rather you be safe and far out of my reach, than beside me and in danger.”
I sucked in a deep breath in an attempt to still my churning emotions. It didn’t work. Worse, it shook. Eyes shut tight against the imminent threat of
feelings
, I slid my arms around his head and held him hard.
“I can’t go back,” I admitted. “Not on my own. The people I traveled with, we were attacked. I don’t think anyone else survived.”
“Lynn,” he rasped, his sorrow rich and deep.
“Even if others survived, they won’t know where to look for me.” My arms tightened of their own accord, fiercely protective. And possessive. “I’ve already decided that if they come for me, I won’t go back. My life is with you, Zyjii. I don’t care where we go, or if we spend our whole lives running, as long as we’re together.”
I took a breath and said three words I’d never really had cause to say to anyone. Not since I was a little girl, when I could freely express my emotions because I was too young to notice my poor dad’s extreme embarrassment.
“I love you, Zyjii.”
He shuddered once, hard enough to rattle my bones, before he began to relax by degrees. The rough pad of his thumb stroked over my cheek in a gentle caress.
“And I you,” he whispered, voice low and husky and sexy as all fuck.
“Will you tie our heart-threads together?” I asked once he’d gone loose limbed and heavy above me. “I’d do it, if I knew how.”
He was silent a moment. I thought I felt a tug somewhere in the vicinity of my heart, but maybe that was wishful thinking.
“It’s done,” he murmured. He tilted his head to press his smile against my cheek. “We’re tied together forever, now.”
The last knots of tension making my chest ache crumbled. Finally, I felt like I could sleep.
The same could not be said for my mate.
“Lynn?”
“Hmm.”
My response was more wordless protest than actual answer. Zyjii hesitated, and I let out a long mental sigh.
“What is it?” I asked with all the gentleness I could muster.
Even to me, I sounded grumpy.
“If your people don’t tie heart-threads, how do you mate?”
“We trade words,” I said. “Words, and rings.” Then, before he could ask, I explained, “A ring is a band of metal worn on the finger. Decoration, like your necklace.”
His fingers flexed against my back. “Sounds dangerous. What if it snagged on a crag of bark? You could break a bone.”
I huffed a quiet laugh. “We don’t live in trees. We’re ground dwellers. And people who work with their hands will thread their
ring on a necklace, so they can still wear it without risk of injury. Or losing it.”
“Will you give me words and a ring someday?” he asked.
His tone might have been teasing, but the subtle tension in the arms holding me told me he was serious.
I chose to answer the unspoken need, not the lighthearted tone.
“If that’s what you want, then yes. Of course I will,” I said.
He was quiet a moment. Long enough for me to snuggle in and let myself start drifting toward sleep again.
“I want that,” he finally said, a soft admission whispered to the dark as if it were too fragile for even the gentle glow of the jungle flora outside our hidden shelter. “I want us to be bound in the way of your people, too.”
“Mkay,” I agreed.
I actually liked the idea of putting a ring on him, and I feel asleep planning how to make it happen.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Thirty-Five
ZYJII
A familiar,
rhythmic clacking woke me. Lynn laid tucked beneath me, her warm breath stirring the fur on my shoulder. I frowned, confused for a moment. Had I dreamed⁠—
The clacking came again. I tensed, listening intently.
Lynn woke in reaction to my sudden stillness.
“What—” she started, but I cut her off with a soft hiss of warning.
No sign at cliffs. Continuing search.
Five breaths of silence followed by:
Found den. Signs of quick departure.
Two breaths, and the message continued.
No tracks. Will keep searching
.
Other messages came in, my ears swiveling to catch the distant sounds, but the tree sheltering us muffled most of them.
Lynn waited until I blew out a sharp breath and rose to begin clearing away all evidence we’d stayed there.
“What’d they say?” she asked.
“They found our den, but not our tracks.” Largely thanks to a combination of me keeping us in the air as long as possible and her skill at concealing any tracks we did leave. “They’re looking for us.”
She blew out a breath, then got up and quickly gathered her strange blanket. A blanket that remained dry despite the dampness of the ground beneath my toes. She folded it into a square the size of her palm—small indeed for a blanket big enough for us both to stretch out on—and stuffed it into her pack.
“We should get going,” she said, sounding surprisingly calm despite the situation.
I was not calm. My wings shivered with my frantic need to scoop her up and carry her far away from any hint of danger.
I managed to resist only because I knew she wouldn’t appreciate being protected like that. Not my Lynn. She was more fierce than any battle scarred old hunter.
“Yes,” I agreed.
She caught my hands, gently pulling them away from their restless fidgeting with the straps tying my spear to the basket filled with our most precious belongings.
I met her gaze, the not-quite-blue steady, her calm unshakeable.
“We expected this,” she said. “The risks remain the same, our plan unchanged. We’ll be fine.”
I nodded. She spared a moment to brush her hand along my cheek in a soothing caress, and then she got to work.
It didn’t take long to hide all signs that someone—that two someones—had spent the night in the hollow. When we set off, we remained on the ground, with Lynn leading the way. She was more familiar with hiding her tracks in dirt and rotting leaves, and so I did as she commanded. I stepped where she stepped,
and moved as my father taught me, shifting with the forest rather than against it.
Lynn moved amongst the thick fronds like a night whisper, a hauntingly beautiful creature said to be made of wisps of mist and glow-light from flowers like the ee vynla. She was all silent grace, a vision from beyond Vobe’s searing light.
Until she glanced back at me, her reassuring smile more like a grimace. It lightened some of the heaviness weighing down my wing-arms.
I fought against the urge to grab her hand, but eventually gave in, letting my tail snake forward to twine around her wrist. She tossed me another look, this one amused. And tempered by a gentling around the eyes that made the expression as sweet as it was chiding.
We continued on like that through the morning, not even stopping to eat. Lynn pulled chunks of dried meat from her pack as we went, along with a mix of nuts and dried fruit she’d put together days before. All easily consumed while we walked. Nothing that left traces as we moved.
“Can you
sweem
?” she asked me.
One ear turned toward her, while the other kept swiveling, trying to catch any further hunt-speak.
“
Sweem?
” I asked.
“Move through water without falling to the bottom.”
I snorted, amused by the description.
“Yes, I know how to swim,” I said. “Why?”
“Because we’re nearing a river, and nothing conceals tracks like water does.”
That pulled my attention firmly away from the forest and the still-distant hunters.
“Rivers are dangerous,” I said. Considered it a moment, and corrected myself. “
All
ground waters are dangerous. They’re
used by the predators who can’t fly or climb. And there are plenty of predators
in
the water.”
Lynn was silent a moment, likely remembering her first encounter with a mlyrk.
“Right,” she finally agreed. “But what if we gathered bunches of the river plant? The one that turns away predators and other animals?”
“Zeeving grass?”
“That’s the stuff. We could strap it to our arms and legs. To our packs. That’d provide protection to swim, yes?”
“Yes,” I said slowly, my hesitation drawing the word out into a long hiss. “But the waters themselves can be dangerous. The surface might look slow, but the current can move so fast beneath that even the strongest hunters in the village can’t swim against it.”
“You don’t swim against the current,” she said, as if this was a much repeated learning tale. “You swim
with
it. And a fast current would carry us further from the hunters faster than our feet can.”
There was that. Still, I hesitated. It was too dangerous. Even if we covered ourselves in zeeving grass, there were still things that could catch us. Trap us. Drown us. And my worry about the strength of the water itself remained.
I chuffed. Traveling by river had merit. We just needed to be smart about how we did it. Smarter than the hunters following us.
“If you want to travel by water, I might have a way,” I said.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Thirty-Six
LYNN
I stared at the…creature—Beast?
Animal, maybe—in a combination of fascination and confusion. My lips parted, but nothing came out. It wasn’t like I needed to ask
what the hell
is
that?
because Zyjii, always eager to share his knowledge, gestured at it and exclaimed, “A
krisvreep
!”
He said it with such glee. I was more dubious. The creature stretched its long neck out, its mouth nomming the empty air as it attempted to catch Zyjii’s tail. Only the hulking beast moved far too slow for his whip-quick movements.
Its round, pudgy face looked like an axolotl’s, complete with feathered sticky-out bits. It definitely had a shell. A shell that apparently had hollow bits filled with sand because it issued a hiss like a rain stick every time it moved.
The feet, tail, and teeth were all crocodile.
Oh, and it was giant. Like, its shell was the size of an elephant.
“That’s a lot of teeth,” I finally said.
Zyjii blinked at me—clearly, that was not the reaction he’d expected—and twisted around to studied the krisvreep. It slowly opened its mouth, giving us a great view of the rows upon rows
of said teeth, then jerked its head forward and snapped its jaws shut, missing the tip of Zyjii’s tail by a scant inch.
“They look fierce,” he admitted, sounding thoroughly unconvinced, “but they’re harmless.”
I stifled a sigh. No animal that size was ever ‘harmless.’
“Well,” he continued, looking a little sheepish, “except for their feathers. You have to watch out for those. They sting.”
Wonderful, I thought dryly.
“And the fact it seems intent on eating your tail?” I asked.
“Oh, that?” He glanced over his shoulder, watching his tail snaked back and forth as the krisvreep's head followed it. Slowly, but without wavering or deviating from its intended target. “
That
is because of
this
. Catch.”
He flicked his tail. My left hand snapped up on pure reflex—you try growing up with a dad who thinks the only appropriate way to pass the salt is to say “Think fast” and chuck the salt shaker at your head, and see what it does for
your
catch reflexes—and something big, round, and meaty smacked into my palm.
I twisted my hand around to stare at the fruit.
The krisvreep's big head shifted toward me, its neck stretching. Frowning, I tossed the fruit toward it, and it snapped the fruit out of the air.
“Biin berries,” Zyjii informed me, chest puffed a bit. “Krisvreep love them, but have a hard time getting them, since they grow on vines high above the river. Other animals love them too, so by the time they’re ripe enough to drop from the vine into the water where the krisvreep can get them, there aren’t many left.”
“So it’s a rare treat,” I said. “What does that have to do with traveling the...river…”
My voice trailed off, because a horrible, awful suspicion snuck up on me, just waiting to pounce and ruin my day.
My cheerfully clueless mate beamed at me. “It’s simple. We attach a biin berry to a length of twine, and attach that to a long reed. The krisvreep will chase it, while we sit safely on its shell, out of reach of the water predators.”
I gaped at him. Oh. My. God. He planned to carrot-on-a-stick a giant axolotl turtle creature to turn it into a ferry for us. He was crazy. Absolutely bug nuts insane. There was zero chance this plan would work the way he expected it to.
And I was worse than crazy, because I was going to go along with it.
“I can’t believe this is working,” I muttered an hour later.
An hour sitting on the uncomfortably poky turtle shell while Zyjii used his berry-on-a-stick to steer our…conveyance.
“I told you,” Zyjii said. His tone remained cheerfully unconcerned, but there was a definite smugness to his flicking tail. “I used to do this as a kit, before I learned how to swim.”
“Your poor mother,” I muttered under my breath.
Seriously, from the stories he told me, he’d been a downright mischief goblin as a kid. One of those little boys with way too much curiosity fueled by boundless energy that got him into—and out of—all kinds of trouble.
I imagined chasing after a tiny version of Zyjii, with ears too big for his head, huge eyes, and a wildly expressive tail, trying to keep the miscreant from getting himself eaten by a yreki patch. Somewhat to my shock, my lips kicked up in a smile.
Huh. I sure as shit had never wanted kids before. Still wasn’t sure I wanted them now, but…I didn’t hate the idea as much as I thought I would. Actually, I kind of like the idea of little
Zyjiis running amok, getting into their father’s weaving and ‘borrowing’ my darts and atlatl to go hunting.
Smile softening, I lifted the knot of wood I’d taken from the hollow where we’d spent the night, and blew away some shavings.
“What’s that smile for?” Zyjii asked.
I glanced up from my work to find him with a sweetly puzzled smile as he watched me.
I hesitated, then shrugged. “I was thinking about children.” His ears twitched straight up, and I bit back a laugh. “Kits,” I explained before he could ask. “Mostly, I was thinking that any kits of yours would be little troublemakers.”
He chuffed a laugh. “I
was
trouble. My poor dame was forever scolding me for scaring all the fur from her tail. She liked to tease me that if I wasn’t careful, I’d be responsible for making her tail completely bald, like a kicluck’s.” He gave me a teasing glance. “A rozard’s.”
He’d told me once he thought my name for the rodent lizards was adorable. I suspected it was more that he thought
I
was adorable, but whatever.
“I, of course, found the idea of my dame with a bald tail hilarious,” he continued, “and used it as an excuse to cause even more mischief, just to see if I could make her threat come true.”
I grinned. Of course he had.
The tail that had been flicking idly against my thigh stilled. I glanced up from the awkward task of using a sharp rock to chisel away at a hunk of wood to find him with his head tipped back, staring upward, to the occasional breaks in the jungle canopy that revealed a deeply, impossibly blue sky.
“I’ve never really thought of having kits before,” he said softly. “Do you want kits?”
“I don’t know,” I admitted honestly. “Definitely not right now.” I hesitated, then gave him another truth, one he might not
understand. “We couldn’t have kits together anyway. We’re too different. It’d be like…”
“Vriiryn and trigiz,” he said.
Vriiryn were like wolf-sized foxes, only with the retractible claws and the boneless grace of a cat. Trigiz looked a lot like porcupines. Bigger, because everything in this god forsaken jungle was bigger, with reptilian scales instead of fur, but their overall shape, complete with quills, was similar.
“Yeah,” I agreed softly. “Like vriiryn and trigiz. They might den together, hunt together, and even love together, but they can’t make kits.”
Zyjii was quiet a moment, then his tail curled around my thigh, squeezing gently.
“It’s probably just as well. Can you imagine a vriiryn with quills?” He shuddered dramatically, the finger bones in his wings rattling. “They’re quite prickly enough as it is. They don’t need any extra bite.”
Chuckling, I petted his tail, then bent back to work whittling down the wood knot to the size I wanted.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Thirty-Seven
ZYJII
Vobe
strode high through the sky, his light piercing through the leaves that thinned as the river grew fatter and slower. Our krisvreep maintained a steady pace, occasionally snapping its teeth in an attempt to catch the biin berry I dangled in front of it, forever just out of reach.
I tried not to feel too bad about that.
“I promise, you’ll get the berry,” I said. “And more besides.”
I’d stuffed my largest sack full of them.
Lynn snorted softly.
She sat with her back braced against mine. I held my wing-hands above her, the first long fingers linked together at the claw to create a canopy to shade her. Vobe didn’t like my sky-fallen female. Too much time spent in his light made her pale skin burn pink. In the forest, the shadows were thick enough it wasn’t much of a problem, but out on the river…
She’d waved my concern away, but hadn’t protested when I suggested shielding her with my big wing-hands.
The scrape of blade over wood stopped, interrupted by a loud breath.
“What are you making?” I asked, not for the first time.
“So far? A whole lot of mess,” she grumbled.
Another, sharper blow accented her words, and I smiled.
“How are your shoulders?” I asked.
“Burned,” she said simply. “They’ll probably blister and peel for a bit.”
I frowned, tail snaking along the krisvreep's shell with displeasure. With her shoulders burned—actually burned, like meat lightly seared by fire—wouldn’t carrying the pack be painful for her? The straps would rub, making the blisters worse.
“You should apply some of the yreki nectar,” I said.
“It’s not that bad.”
My tail lashed, narrowly avoiding striking the krisvreep's shell.
“You are
burned
,” I said.
“A sunburn,” she agreed. “It’s fine, Zyjii. It happens every summer.”
Summer
, I recalled, was her home’s hot season, when the rains dried and their Vobe—their
sun
—roasted all the plants until they were brown and brittle.
“It’s because I’m so pale,” she continued. “Once I peel, my skin will darken a bit, and I won’t burn as easily.”
“Peel,” I repeated, nose wrinkling at the word. “Like a rozard?”
She grunted. “Kind of, I guess. For them, it’s how they grow. A human’s skin doesn’t peel if it’s healthy.”
“Will applying yreki nectar help make your skin healthy again?”
Her silence was answer enough.
“Lynn,” I growled, and started to twist around to face her, but a distant clack caught my attention.
“Zyjii,” she growled back.
“Wait,” I hissed.
Lynn’s hands immediately stilled. She all but held her breath as my ears swiveled, trying to pick up the faint sounds. It came again a moment later, an alert meant to signal fellow hunters to
listen
, followed by a longer message.
“No sign,” I whispered, just low enough for Lynn to hear. “Continuing hunt. Will follow river downstream.”
“Think that’s Jeejee?” Lynn asked.
“There’s no way to be sure. We planned, but…”
But even the most carefully planned hunts could still go awry, I thought.
There was a moment of stillness, and then Lynn exploded into action behind me. She put away the knot of wood she’d spent the day carving, and started gathering our packs. I swiveled the pole with its biin berry dangling from it, coaxing the krisvreep to move to the bank. By the time it reached shore, Lynn had her pack in place—despite her burned shoulders—and had my basket ready.
As soon as the krisvreep lumbered to shore, I hopped off, quickly untying the berry and tossing it to the big animal. It caught it with a happy munch. Lynn passed me the sack I’d stuffed with more berries, and I shook them out on the ground in front of our friend, who made a delighted grunting sound and began rooting about for the treats.
Folding up the sack, I traded it to Lynn for my basket. Once I had it settled in place, she handed me a spear, keeping the other for herself.
I hesitated. “Your spear-whip…”
“Good for hunting,” she said. “Less good for responding quickly to ambushes.” She hefted her spear, the second one I’d given her. “This’ll do fine.”
“All right,” I agreed. “Do you want to lead?”
She shook her head. “You have a better idea of where we’re going. I’ll watch our backs.”
I paused. Her faith in me felt too big. Especially since I had no idea where we were going to go beyond away from my village. And away from other villages. That didn’t leave many options.
“Keep your eyes on the branches above,” I cautioned.
Her answering look was dry as bone dust. “We’re being hunted by
areboriial
ambush predators. I’m definitely not going to focus too hard on things at ground level.”
“What—”
“Trees,” she explained. She gave my side a light poke, gently prodding me forward. “
Arboreal
—” she said carefully so I could catch the subtle shift of sounds “—means things that live in trees.”
I made an appreciative noise, even as I set out at a quick pace I knew she could easily maintain for hours.
“I like your language. It has words for everything, even if I can’t say them right.”
“You like ‘arboreal,’ don’t you.” She sounded amused.
Amused was bettered than scared or frustrated. My tail waved, brushing teasingly across her legs.
“I do,” I said. “We don’t have words like that. Do you have more? If I’m…”
“Arboreal,” she supplied, that note of amusement deepening.
“Then what are you?”
“
Terrestrial
,” she said.
I scoffed. Of course it’d be another words with that ridiculous sound I couldn’t get right.
Lynn continued, outright laughter in her voice. “It’s used to describe anything that lives on land.
Aquatic
are things that live in water.”
“What about flying things?”
“
Aerial
.”
So many useful, interesting words. Even if I couldn’t say most of them.
The hunters caught up to us just as Vobe began to head toward slumber.
Lynn and I had come across a patch of jinveep vines and decided to stop to catch our breath and gather some of the fruits. Not only was the juice delicious and good for long hunts—or moving quickly through the forest for long amounts of time—but they were incredibly useful. Too useful to pass up the chance to collect a couple more.
Besides, Lynn’s lips had started to look chafed and dry despite the moisture running down her skin, and she complained that the water we carried tasted lifeless. All signs that her body needed jinveep juice.
Lynn called it being
dehydrated
. She also admitted, begrudgingly, that jinveep juice did a good job replenishing
electrolytes
. As far as I was able to understand,
electrolytes
was the salt she lost when she sweated, as she’d been doing since we left our easy krisvreep ride on the river to dive back into the forest.
We shared the first jinveep, taking turns so neither of us would guzzle it and make ourselves sick. Then I climbed up and started dropping fruit down to her.
“How many, do you think?” I asked.
She lifted the one in her hand, scowling at it. “They’re pretty hefty, so not many.”
I leaned over further, tail wrapped around the branch and wing-hands spread to steady me as I searched for fruit that wasn’t fully ripe yet. If we picked one or two underripe ones now, they’d be good to drink in another day or two, and⁠—
“Zyjii!”
I didn’t stop to think. The sharp bite of alarm in her voice was warning enough. My tail snapped free as I launched myself off the branch, my wing-hands hitting the air just in time to save me from colliding with the ground. I landed in a tumble, and by the time I regained my feet, Lynn had already moved to put herself between me and the hunter, left hand in front of her for balance and the right drawn back, spear held for throwing.
A pose I recognized because I’d hunted alongside her. A pose a hunter from the village wouldn’t understand the danger of because we didn’t throw our spears. We dropped with them, using our weight and the speed of the fall to aid in our kill.
The hunter landed on her feet not five tail-lengths from us. Lynn’s weight shifted, and I lunged toward her, catching her wrist with my tail a second before my arms came around her.
“Lynn, no! It’s Jeejee!”
She froze, but didn’t release her spear. That was good, considering
releasing
would have meant
throwing
, and once that happened, there’d be no stopping it.
“Sorry for startling you,” Jeejee said to Lynn, who nodded and lowered the butt of her spear to rest on the ground. My sister then shifted her focus back to me. “Phex said you’d found something dangerous and refused to do the right thing and kill it.”
Lynn hissed. “I’m only dangerous to people who hurt Zyjii.”
My sister frowned, and I realized it was because Lynn spoke in her usual blend of her words and our Mrriiv, and Jeejee only understood the Mrriiv. I’d learned so many of Lynn’s words that conversing was easy now, and I’d forgotten that not everyone understood sky-fallen. I translated quickly, and Jeejee chuffed a laugh.
“Understandable. I tried to tell them if you were a threat to the village, there’d have been signs of it already, but nobody
would listen to me.” Her nose wrinkled, pulling one side of her mouth up into a snarl. “They think I’m too soft on you, Zyjii.”
Jeejee snapped her tail, ears pinned back. Her opinion on that was clear.
“I’m surprised they let you join the hunt, then,” I started, but stopped as a thought sent grrn claws scraping down my back. “Jeejee,” I said softly. “Did they let you hunt alone, or did they send someone to make sure you wouldn’t be too soft on me?”
She gave me a guilty look. It was all the answer I needed.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Thirty-Eight
LYNN
I understood
Jeejee’s guilty expression a split second after Zyjii, and by then, he was already moving.
We’d hunted together enough I didn’t hesitate. He dropped low to the ground in a crouch that would have made most humans’ joints dislocate, clearing the line of fire as I spun, snapping my spear up into a throwing position with a twirl.
I spotted the other Mrriiv right away, perched on a branch far enough behind us to make it obvious he hadn’t been planning an ambush strike. His eyes widened to find my spear hefted and ready to let fly.
The Mrriiv lifted both hands to show they were empty, and curled his tail around his feet.
“Wait,” he said. “I only came to make sure Phex’s ‘dangerous beast’ didn’t attack Jeejee. I have no intention of getting between siblings.”
I narrowed my eyes.
Zyjii flowed smoothly to his feet to one side of me—out of the line of fire—another spear in hand as he positioned himself to keep one eye on the hunter in the tree, and another eye on his sister, though it clearly tore him up to do so.
“My Lynn is a hunter,” he said. “How would you respond to having a pair of hunters divide, one distracting so the other could sneak up behind you?”
“Like those fucking shark-cats,” I muttered.
The male’s ears twitched up in a familiar show of intent curiosity.
“Grrns,” Zyjii supplied after translating for me.
Minus the cursing.
“I apologize,” the Mrriiv in the tree said. The tip of his tail flicked against his ankle. “May I come down to grovel?”
I wrinkled my nose. Was he serious?
Zyjii heaved a sigh huge enough to make the finger bones in his wings rattle together.
“Groveling won’t be necessary,” he said. “But come down, because my mate won’t relax with you crouching up their like a nrshiigiz.”
Big, predatory birds were nrshiigiz. As if their lethal hooked beaks and massive talons weren’t enough, their mouths were lined with serrated blades. I’d only seen one of them, and Zyjii assured me they preyed exclusively on fish. Like the river monster. Reassuring, until you got a look at one of those fuckers. It made swimming a little more nerve wracking. I never wanted to be mistaken for a fish. Ever.
The Mrriiv hunter eyed me warily. I eyed him right back.
“Come down, Tryv,” Jeejee said. “You heard them. If you don’t hurt Zyjii, she won’t hurt you.” She eyed my still-cocked arm and muttered, “Probably.”
Under other circumstances, I would have grinned. I liked Jeejee.
Tryv finally huffed and leapt from the branch, spreading his wings so he glided over the top of my and Zyjii’s heads to land beside Jeejee.
“I’m beginning to think Phex wasn’t wrong,” he muttered. He slanted his ears back even as he dipped his upper body toward me in a kind of stiff bow. “Any well-trained hunter is dangerous.”
“But only when threatened,” I said. Then considered it and added, “Or hungry.”
He chuffed, his tail curling languidly behind him and ears relaxed.
“Fair enough, dangerous creature,” Tryv said, grinning. “Fair enough.”
Zyjii’s sister climbed the tree again to drop down enough of the jinveep gourds for her and Tryv to enjoy, and then we all sat together to share a meal.
At first, we kept the conversation on easy topics. My strange stance with the spear led to a whole discussion about throwing weapons instead of falling with them, and since all four of us were hunters to some extent or another, we had a blast. Tryv wanted to see me in action, and offered to hunt with me so we could have fresh meat for dinner.
I was pretty convinced by that point that he meant neither me nor Zyjii harm, so I agreed.
We were in the middle of discussing the best place to find prey when all three Mrriiv froze, ears going up and swiveling in the same direction. I tilted my head, listening, but whatever they picked up was beyond my limited range.
“Report,” Zyjii murmured. And proceeded to whisper to me the reports coming in.
None of the other hunters had found anything. Jeejee likely wouldn’t have found us either, if we hadn’t already arranged to meet with her as part of Plan A.
“Phex’s hunt-speak is getting erratic,” Tryv said. His tail coiled with silent laughter. “You know she’s always hated your ability to vanish into the forest like mist on a rainy day.”
Zyjii scoffed.
“It’s our turn,” Jeejee said.
Rising, she picked up her spear and moved to the nearest tunjun aerial root, then started banging the butt of her staff against it. The loud crack she produced startled me, like having a gun fired unexpectedly right next to your ear. Tryv and Zyjii both grimaced and pinned their ears flat.
“Reached big river,” Zyjii translated for me. “No sign. Searching big river.” A beat of expectant silence, then all three of them relaxed. “That was the confirmation.”
Tryv leaned toward me, dropping his voice—probably because they all still had their ears pricked, listening to the other hunters report in—and murmured, “Downstream is another village. Phex is sure you’ll avoid breaching their territory, traveling in the spaces between instead. The spaces used by all because no one claims them.”
I grunted to let him know I heard and understood, but didn’t tell him that crossing territories was part of our original plan. I liked Tryv, but that didn’t mean I trusted him.
We finished our meal, but it lacked the easy camaraderie of before. The lingering hint of tension didn’t improve when we moved on to more serious topics.
“Once you leave the territory, they’ll never accept you back,” Tryv said.
Zyjii’s tail writhed behind him in a nervous coil before it slipped around my waist and squeezed. I stroked it, doing what
I could to comfort him, though I knew it wasn’t enough. How could it be? He was giving up everything for me.
“I know,” Zyjii said softly. “But…I don’t think they would have ever welcomed me in the village again unless I tied myself to someone like Phex. Someone they think is strong enough to keep me from…being me.”
From being curious and poking at things and then attempting to share whatever knowledge he discovered with everyone else. I understood that he might have gone about making his point wrong when he was younger, but people changed. He’d probably be a lot more wary about sharing anything with his village now.
“Did our sire say anything?” he asked in a small voice.
Jeejee shrugged. “Only that you knew your own mind, and if you’d truly mated with Phex, then you likely would have already sought permission from the elders to return. Phex gave them some yreki tongued story about how you asked her to speak on your behalf. Our sire gave everyone at the gathering that look he reserves for idiot kits who go out before they’re ready for their first hunt and get themselves into trouble. You know the one.”
Zyjii’s ears lifted, the grip of his tail around me relaxing a fraction.
“His stare can make you feel as small as a pebble,” he told me.
“And about as smart as one,” Tryv muttered.
Zyjii leaned his shoulder against mine, dipping his head down to nuzzle me. “He’d like you.”
Maybe, but I’d never like him. Not after all the things Zyjii had told me about him. A father who scorned his son’s discoveries instead of celebrating them, no matter how small or improbable, was no father at all in my book.
It was probably just as well that I’d never meet the male.
“Is he helping with the hunt?” Zyjii asked.
To my satisfaction and Zyjii’s obvious relief, Jeejee shook her head.
“He said you’d return when you wished, which, after the trouble Phex and the elders have caused you, is likely to be never.”
“Did you⁠—”
“I told him you’d found a mate, but it definitely wasn’t Phex. I told him your mate balanced you. That she’s cautious where you’re reckless, but she works to support your need to learn things, instead of hindering you.”
I snorted a laugh. I mean, she wasn’t wrong, but the fact she’d got all that from our two brief meetings—including this one? Color me impressed.
“He grunted and left it at that,” she finished, “but his tail gave away his happiness.”
Bobbing one ear in acknowledgement, Zyjii leaned a little harder against me, his eyes closed. Jeejee watched him with sadness etched in the droop of her ears. This had to be hard for her. Even exiled, Zyjii had always been there for her. Now, he was going away, and she couldn’t follow. She was losing her brother in a way she probably never expected. Despite that, she was handling it well.
Tryv glanced from Zyjii to Jeejee, then finally met my gaze. He bobbed his ear, a barely there flick, and changed the subject.
“I’d like to see this spear-thrower of yours in action,” he said. “Shall we go on a hunt?”
And give the siblings some privacy to make their final farewells without an audience.
I stroked Zyjii’s tail, then tugged on the fluffy tip. He unraveled it and straightened.
“Be safe,” he said.
I ignored the significant look he shared with Tryv—ensuring the other hunter would keep an eye on me and protect me
from the dangers of the jungle I hadn’t learned about yet—and gathered up my dart sling and atlatl.
“Let’s go get dinner,” I said.
Tryv grinned, fierce and eager, and followed me into the undergrowth.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Thirty-Nine
ZYJII
Jeejee waited
until the faint rustle of Tryv and Lynn moving through the forest faded completely before she rose from her seat and claimed the one Lynn had left. She sat close enough our wing-hands brushed, but I didn’t shift away. She was family.
“You know, it’s only now that you’re leaving that I realize I should have done more for you,” she said softly. “Supported you better. Stood up for you.”
I swiveled my ear in negation. “And ended up exiled yourself? Jeejee, I understand why you did what you did.”
She leaned forward, twisting so she could look up into my face.
“You don’t resent me?” she asked.
“Maybe at first, but not because you didn’t stand up for me,” I admitted.
“Then why?”
“Because you didn’t listen,” I said softly. “No one did. Not about the yreki, or the lyvchiss, or anything else.”
It hurt my heart to see sorrow and regret draw her ears in tight like that, so I gently bumped her shoulder with mine.
“You did start to listen,” I reminded her. “Eventually.”
“You spent too much time in the forest for me not to,” she said. “I remembered the fireside tales about those who walked the forest alone, how the forest talked to them and shared its secrets with them. I saw you living so easily where others would have struggled, and I thought surely, this is what those old hunters must have been like.”
And it was those hunters our first learning tales descended from. I tipped my head, considering it. I’d certainly never thought of it that way before.
Silence settled between us, old and comfortable. Jeejee had always been one who preferred her own thoughts to the incessant chatter of others. I liked to talk, but I’d always found her quiet soothing.
She eventually dropped her head to my shoulder, her eyes closed. It was as close as we’d been in…a very long time.
“I’m going to miss you,” she said.
Emotion threatened to choke me, but I managed to rasp out, “Same.”
“Just be happy, Zyjii.”
“I am,” I said, voice steadier. “Lynn makes me happy.”
“Good,” she said.
We lapsed back into silence, and remained like that, leaning against each other, drinking in some of the last moments we’d share.
Lynn and Tryv returned from their hunt, carrying a young trigiz between them, already cleaned. Jeejee immediately leaped up to help—since we’d remained behind at our temporary den-site, we were responsible for cooking the food—but I hesitated. Mostly because Lynn pinned me in place with a hard stare.
She glared at Tryv as she came over and shoved a fistful of quills at me, as if daring him to comment on her gift.
“For your weaving stuff,” she mumbled.
I let my tail twine around her leg as I accepted the neatly tied bundle.
“Thank you,” I said solemnly.
She grunted as if annoyed. But when I brushed a knuckle over her cheek, she leaned into the touch. She jerked away almost immediately, flicked me a quick, private smile, then rearrange her features into an angry expression before she stomped off to go find rocks to make a fire ring.
The quiet rattle of Jeejee's wings caught my attention, and I turned to find her with one arm banded across her stomach and her free hand clamped tight over her mouth to stifle her laughter.
“Fierce, that one,” she managed to gasp. “But sweet as biin berries.”
My lips twitched. Yes. That described my Lynn perfectly.
“A good hunter, too,” Tryv said.
“Yes,” I agreed proudly.
“I can hear you!” Lynn snarled.
I quickly translated, and Jeejee’s laughter flew free.
“No wonder she makes you happy. I bet she doesn’t put up with you trying to charm your way out of trouble,” she gasped. The smile she gave me was bright and filled with relief. “I’m happy for you, Zyjii.”
I smiled back, and pretended I didn’t notice the way Tryv’s tail twined with hers. I suspected she’d found her own source of happiness. It eased some of the worry weighing on my wing-hands. Tryv was a good male. I could trust him to watch out for her without stifling her need for independence.
I caught his eye, and he tipped one ear toward me. I relaxed, then went to go find firewood so my mate wouldn’t feel the need
to do everything herself. Knowing my family would be cared for made leaving them a little bit easier.
But only a little. I’d still miss them fiercely, and I suspected I always would, no matter how far Lynn and I traveled.
The following morning, we parted way with Tryv and Jeejee.
“We’ll wait another day, then lead Phex and the others on a merry chase,” Tryv said cheerfully. “All around the territory, possibly up toward Big Tree Village.”
“No,” Jeejee said. “We’ll make it look as if they’re headed for the mountain city. Our family’s been there before, so it’d make sense for Zyjii to flee there to make a new place for himself. If Phex decides to follow them there, it’ll get her out of our fur for the rest of the season.”
“Maybe she’ll find someone there she could actually love,” I said.
Maybe it was odd, but I truly hoped that for her.
“Maybe she’ll trip and fall into a
kazem
and save everyone from her
bychiness
,” Lynn growled.
My tail flicked, stroking against the back of her legs. “What’s
kazem
?”
“A deep hole in the mountains,” she said. “Long and narrow.”
She held her hands out, palms close but not touching, to demonstrate.
Jeejee and Tryv tilted their heads at almost the same time in the same expression of puzzlement. I tilted my head too, but my ears were slanted at a thinking angle.
“A chasm?” I suggested.
Lynn twitched a smile at me. “Got it in one.” She then glanced at Tryv and Jeejee, her eyes going wide with something
like panic. “You don’t need to translate that. I don’t really mean harm to Phex.”
“I know,” I reassured her, smoothing a hand down her spine.
And then repeated her words for them anyway.
Jeejee’s grin was as fiercely vicious as my Lynn’s could be, and Tryv barked out a laugh.
“A fall wouldn’t hurt her,” Tryv reassured a flustered Lynn. “Not if there was enough space for her to spread her wing-hands, and if there wasn’t, she’d have other ways to slow her fall.”
“But it
would
hinder her journey a bit, which I would deeply enjoy,” Jeejee said.
Lynn relaxed, and we finished making our farewells. I stayed in place, watching the spot where my sister disappeared into the forest until long after she was gone.
“Zyjii,” Lynn said softly, her heart in her voice.
“I’ll miss her,” I admitted.
My sky-fallen mate pressed her forehead to my arm and held me tight. We stayed like that until my jagged breaths steadied, and the ache in my chest was no longer unbearable. Then I carried my mate, my Lynn, across the river and we set off on the first leg of our journey to elsewhere.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Forty
LYNN
It took
us four days to cut through the river village’s territory. We remained tense the whole time, braced for the possibility of running into the other village’s hunters. Or foragers. Or anyone out and about for a stroll. But we made it through without incident.
I knew the instant we passed whatever invisible boundary the Mrriiv used to mark their territories, because Zyjii relaxed and started chattering. Mostly about all the things that grew on this side of the river that he hadn’t seen on his side, and how much he wished he could take the time to study them.
“Now that we’re traveling in unclaimed territory, why not slow down a bit?” I asked.
He started to refuse, but hesitated.
“Any sign of them following us?” I asked.
He shook his head. A gesture that he’d picked up from me. It wasn’t until we spent part of a day with Jeejee and Tryv that I realized just how much of my body language he’d adapted.
“I’ve been listening,” he said. His ears swiveled pointedly before drooping into a more relaxed slant. “But haven’t heard even the faintest echo of hunt-speak.”
“Then there’s no need to maintain such a hard pace. We can stop for a while for you to smell the flowers.”
His tail lashed. “Smelling unfamiliar flowers is dangerous.”
I blinked at him, remembered him pointing out a lyvchiss tangle and warning me not to breathe in the pretty white flower’s pollen, and definitely don’t ever fall asleep inside or near a tangle unless I wanted to end up with my flesh stripped from my bones in a matter of hours, and realized he thought I’d meant that literally. I snorted a laugh despite myself.
“I was teasing,” I said. “Definitely don’t sniff any dangerous flowers, please.”
Grinning, he swooped down to give me a swift nuzzle.
“I won’t,” he promised.
Later that night, tucked beneath Zyjii’s heated weight, I tried to sleep and failed. Despite feeling completely, utterly safe—like I was right where I was supposed to be—I couldn’t seem to shut the nattering of my thoughts off long enough to find unconsciousness.
“Zyjii?” I finally asked, low enough it wouldn’t wake him if he was already asleep.
His tail, coiled around one of my legs, tightened. “Mm?”
“If you could go anywhere, where would you choose?”
“Anywhere?”
He didn’t sound sleepy in the slightest.
“Anywhere,” I confirmed.
“To the sky-lights,” he said at once. No thought necessary. “As long as I was with you.”
I bit my lip to stem the surging tide of emotion
that
provoked. What had I ever done to deserve such an incredible male? I sure as shit didn’t know, but I was glad for it.
“How about somewhere here, on your planet?” I asked.
He chuffed at me, then fell quiet, because apparently that required some actual consideration.
“The grasslands,” he finally said. “Beyond the forest, in the opposite direction of the mountain city, there’s supposed to be great swaths of land that’s all grass, as far as the eye can see.”
“Then let’s go there,” I said.
He shifted his weight off me, bracing himself to peer down at me. The multi-colored glow of the jungle at night caught the spark of interest in his eyes and turned it into a dazzling gleam.
“Truly?” he asked.
“Why not?” I shrugged. “It’s not like we have anywhere else to go. Let’s explore. See what other mysteries this world has to offer.”
He grinned, so big and sweet I wanted to devour it. So I did. Locking my hands together behind his neck, I pulled myself up and pressed my lips to his, sipping at his delight, licking up the sweetness of his joy until it became something darker. Hungrier.
A hand, large and warm, settled on the outside of my thigh and stroked up beneath my short hunting skirt. I reached between us to find him already extruded, his cock slick and hard and hot in my hand.
I squeezed him and he groaned. The hand on my thigh trailed inward, stroking the crease between hip and thigh before dipping between my legs. Parting me, he spread my wetness up to my clit and rubbed a light circle around it, just the way I liked.
A bolt of pleasure spiked through me, and I ground against his hand. He rumbled a purr as I grew more slick, more desperate, until I gave his cock a hard jerk, reminding him he wasn’t entirely in control. Not that he minded. He brushed
his nose over mine before capturing my lips in a hard kiss. I opened for him at the first touch of his tongue, then I sucked it aggressively, initiating a battle that ended with him thrusting three fingers into me and pumping rapidly until I caved and came all over his hand.
Feeling flushed all over and breathing hard, I laid there until the last dizzying sparkles of orgasm faded. Zyjii nuzzled the side of my face, crooning sweet words of love and encouragement and praise. At least until I squeezed his cock, reminding us both this wasn’t over.
He braced himself above me, watching me through heavy lidded eyes as I notched the head of him against my entrance. He purred his approval and began working himself into me in slow, easy thrusts.
But I didn’t want easy or slow. I wanted him deep. Hard.
Mine
.
I wrapped my legs around him and hooked my feet together. My heels dug into the base of his tail in a way I knew would drive him insane, and I wasn’t wrong. His tail shot out straight and stiff behind him and his hips bucked, slamming him into me.
He grunted at finding himself hilt deep inside me. He drew back to give me a
look
, and I answered it with a lazy curl of my lips.
“Move,” I commanded.
He quirked an ear at a jaunty angle the way a human man might have an eyebrow, then he grinned and kissed me, swift, bruisingly hard.
“Love you,” he murmured against my lips.
Then he
moved
.
He used his mouth on mine to muffle my cries as he pounded me ruthlessly into the blanket we used as a ground cover. The friction of it, the fullness of him stretching me, his satisfied
grunts and hungry groans, all worked together to wind the pleasure in my core tighter. Tighter.
When it snapped, it bowed my spine and whited out my vision. Zyjii’s growl came from a distance, muffled by the ringing in my ears as ecstasy, pure and devastating, threatened to shatter me into splinters.
I came back to myself slowly. My lungs heaved in gasps as if I’d been starved for air, and my legs quivered with rippling after shocks.
Zyjii settled over me, caging me in the shelter of his arms.
“Lynn,” he purred. “You okay?”
“I don’t think I’ll be able to walk tomorrow.”
He chuffed, his warm breath shifting my hair just enough to make the fine strands stick to my sweat drenched skin.
“I think I’m okay with that,” he said. “If you can’t walk, that means I’ll have to carry you.” His tail stroked over my shin in a teasing, ticklish caress. “I rather like the idea of having you in my arms all day.”
Smiling despite myself, I pressed my forehead against his. Sounded like a plan to me.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Forty-One
LYNN
We spent weeks together,
traversing the jungle, and there was never a dull moment. The further we traveled, the more the flora changed, delighting Zyjii and prompting more than one full-day stop so he could poke at things.
Carefully. With a stick. From a safe distance. At my insistence.
More than once, he changed our course. The first time, I didn’t protest. The second, I demanded to know what he was basing his decisions on. That’s how I ended up getting a lesson in how the various Mrriiv villages marked their hunting grounds in a polite warning to others to either stay away or mind their manners.
Zyjii chose to steer clear. It was safer. For both of us.
Aside from random encounters with interesting animals and dangerous plants—watching a giant pitcher plant attempt to eat my mate shouldn’t have been as hilarious as it was, but I
had
warned him not to stick his head in the strange plant like that, and I’d been there to pull him out before it could swallow him whole. Seeing him with his slime slicked fur sticking out at all angles and his disgruntled expression had sent me into a fit
of giggles that lasted basically all day—our journey remained relatively uneventful.
At least until the day Zyjii’s ears kept twitching.
The first time he did it, I went still, because that was the look he got when listening to hunt-speak. Only this time, he frowned, tail coiling in confusion.
“What is it?” I asked.
He shook his head. “I don’t know. A strange sound.”
“Strange how?”
He gave me a laughing glance that failed to conceal the shadow of concern in his eyes. “Strange in that I’ve never heard its like before. But it’s gone now. We should move on, though. To be safe.”
In case it was a predator he wasn’t familiar with, he meant.
Wordlessly, I stepped behind him, untying his spear from the basket. I kept mine in hand at almost all times, simply because it made a decent walking-stick. A tool not to be underestimated when hiking all day through dense jungle vegetation. Zyjii only carried his spear when we stopped to hunt and replenish our food stores.
Today, he accepted it with a grim ear-bob.
“Let’s go,” he said, taking the lead.
Three more times, his ears pricked and swiveled, tracking sounds I couldn’t hear. It frustrated me to no end, knowing there might be something dangerous out there, but not knowing what it was, or where it might come from.
“Zyjii,” I said the fifth time his ears pricked, because this time they quivered with very real fear. When he didn’t so much as glance at me, I set a hand on his shoulder. “Describe it to me, this sound.”
“It’s…like a river rushing, but also like an insect buzzing.”
“So it’s moving,” I said.
He bobbed one ear. It instantly snapped back upright, and his wing bones clattered in a familiar warning.
“It’s been moving in circles, and back and forth. As if it’s hunting, but doesn’t know where it’s prey is. But it keeps getting closer to us.”
Knowing an unfamiliar something was hunting us should have freaked me out, but something in his description made a treacherous seed of hope sprout.
A rushing, buzzing sound. One he’d never heard before. It could be an insect. Or it could be a search shuttle.
No. I squashed the hope before it took root. There was no way. Why would they send a shuttle looking for me now? Months after the destruction of the
Rsp’rin
was attacked and destroyed and my pod crashed, all its electric systems fried beyond redemption. Especially when there’d been no other survivors.
Whatever that thing was, it couldn’t be a rescue team.
Zyjii and I stopped for lunch, choosing a spot not far from a river. The bank was one of the rare stretches of rocky shore, a clear break in the jungle’s dense foliage.
I was the one who picked the site. I might have chosen it because hope was like a fucking weed, impossible to get rid of without years of pulling it out by the roots or killing it with a hefty dose of poison.
My poor mate remained tense and twitchy. I watched him while I gnawed on a piece of dried rozard. He didn’t even touch the food when I offered it to him.
“Is it still following us?” I asked.
“Getting closer,” he said shortly. “I thought I heard it fly overhead earlier, but…I didn’t see anything out of place.”
If it was a rescue shuttle, there wouldn’t have been anything for him
to
see. The ISSC’s cloaking technology was lightyears ahead of anything humans could use, like something straight out of a sci-fi story.
I suspected that if Zyjii weren’t so utterly in tune with the jungle, with those big, sensitive ears, he wouldn’t have heard anything, either. I certainly hadn’t.
Assuming, of course, that it
was
a rescue shuttle. And I still wasn’t willing to admit it might be.
But if it was…
“You said once, that you want to travel to the stars with me,” I said. “Did you mean that?”
He blinked, one ear swiveling toward me before his eyes followed.
“Yes,” he said simply. “I’ve already said my goodbyes to Jeejee, and she promised to pass word to my sire, so there’s nothing tying me here.”
And then, because my mate was too smart for his own good, he made a frightening leap in logic.
“The thing I’m hearing. You think it might be a sky-fallen den. Like yours.”
“Not like mine,” I said. “But similar.”
His gaze shifted toward the small clearing by the riverbank. No doubt he was picturing my escape pod in that too-clever mind of his, measuring it against the space.
“The…sky-dens,” I said, using his words for it. “They’re not supposed to fall like mine did. They’re more like birds.” I swooped a hand through the air in demonstration, before alighting it on my knee. “They’re made to land and take off.”
“To carry you through the skies.”
I nodded, thinking about the vast, terrifying stretches of emptiness between stars. How would he cope with something like that? It’d freaked me out—still did, if I was honest about it, which I never was—and I had a bunch of science fiction movies and other media to draw from to use as a point of reference and reassurance. Zyjii would be entering interstellar space travel completely blind, with zero context to anchor him.
He studied me in silence for a long time. One ear twisted around to catch a sound somewhere behind him. When he held out a hand, I rose from the little rock I’d been using as a seat and went to him. He drew me into his arms and propped his chin on top of my head.
“We’ll wait here for them,” he said.
“It might not be a rescue party, Zyjii,” I cautioned. “It might not be a sky-den at all.”
“If it’s not, then we’ll deal with it and continue on our journey. I
would
like to see the grasslands. And maybe the deserts, too.” His arms tightened around me, snugging me close to the heated warmth of him. “But if it
is
a rescue party, then we will be here, where it is easy for them to find you.”
And find us they did.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Forty-Two
LYNN
I didn’t hear
the shuttle coming, but Zyjii did. Anticipation pulled his muscles tight, though the snapping flick of his tail read as trepidation to me. Whatever was headed our way made him tense. Fortunately we didn’t have to wait too long to discover what, exactly, hunted us.
I wasn’t sure how I felt when a shuttle’s exhaust winds blasted the foliage around us into a swaying, agitated frenzy. Relief? Worry? Guilt? Maybe a combination of all that and more.
Zyjii brought a wing around to shield us from the worst of the buffeting. When the winds cut off abruptly, he let out a startled cheep. Shifting his wing enough to peer around it, he studied the apparently empty space, his ears working overtime as he took in every minute change in the forest.
I wondered if he could hear the shuttle’s super quiet engines. I would have asked if it wouldn’t have required a lengthy, probably impossible explanation of what an engine
was
.
One thing was clear to me, though. The shuttle had landed, and no one was coming out. I narrowed my eyes at the seemingly empty space. I could just make out the marks on the mossy rocks
that showed where the landing feet had settled. So, yeah. They were definitely waiting for something.
Zyjii’s wildly lashing tail brushed against me, and I had a sudden spark of realization. The ISSC had pretty strict policies about interacting with people on underdeveloped and primitive planets. Whoever was in the shuttle respected the ISSC’s laws enough to wait for Zyjii to leave before they approached me.
Which wasn’t going to happen.
Standing, I brushed dust and broken leaf bits from my bare legs. Zyjii instantly leapt to his feet, his tail draping itself over my shoulder in a way that managed to be protective, possessive, and concerned, all at once. I stroked it, as much to reassure myself as to sooth him.
Then I stepped in front of him, planted my hands on my hips, and glared at the shuttle.
“My mate’s not going to leave me, and I’m not going to ask him to, so you might as well come out.”
Three breaths later, the soft hiss of an airlock seal breaking disrupted the eerie silence the jungle had descended into. A hatch opened, unseen except for the slice of the shuttle’s interior it revealed. The tip of Zyjii’s tail started flicking madly against my stomach, tickling me badly enough I gripped it and shifted it to wrap around my arm instead.
I risked a quick glance at him, honestly a little worried about his reaction. Seeing a camouflaged shuttle open up was disturbing to me, and I’d seen it before. To him, it must have been strange and possibly terrifying and⁠—
His ears stood up straight with familiar quivering intensity. His tail, despite remaining anchored around my arm, writhed behind him. In eagerness, not fear.
I pursed my lips and stifled the mad urge to laugh like a hyena. I should have known better. Present a world shattering
mystery to my Mrriiv mate and of
course
he’d react with extreme curiosity.
That curiosity only ramped up when an alien stepped into the doorway. What I felt, however, was extreme shock. Because it wasn’t possible. My eyes had to be playing tricks on me.
“Hirza?” I whispered. Behind me, all of Zyjii went still at whatever he heard in my voice. “You…you survived? But⁠—”
But I’d watched. I’d scanned the blackness of space with my eyes and the computer, searching for other escape pods. There’d been none. To all apparent evidence, I’d been the only one to escape the attack on the
Rsp’rin
.
Hirza frowned at me, her ears swiveling back and her three tails writhing behind her in a rare show of distress. But when she spoke, her voice remained crisp and even, full of that badass girl boss energy I’d so admired over a year ago, during the interview that saw me hired by aliens.
“All ambassador class ships are equipped with escape pods capable of voidstalker level camouflage.” Her expression soften, more a relaxing of her ears than a shift in her facial expression. Ah. That explained why I’d had such an easy time reading Zyjii right from the start. I hadn’t realized just how similar his body language was to that of a Rehiki. “I’m sorry you had to believe the worst, and for so long.”
I sucked in a deep breath that shook. “Then the others? T’rlkiax?”
“Only those caught in the initial blast were lost. T’rlkiax made it out. He’s spent the last two months working tirelessly to get the approval needed for a surface search and rescue.”
I blinked at that. Why would they⁠—
Correctly reading my confusion, Hirza smiled wryly.
“Usually, when a pod crash lands on a primitive planet, it’s a huge source of tech that we can easily track from outer orbit. But…well, you were there. Your pod crashed because of massive
system failures caused by the shockwave from the jump engine imploding. That meant no tech to track. Except a single piece shielded by living substance.”
She pointedly tapped her head, next to her ear. My translation chip, she meant.
“We should have still been able to track you from orbit, but…this jungle.” Hirza’s lip curled in a displeased snarl. “Between the constant, heavy layer of water vapor that hovers over this place, the super dense canopy, and whatever weirdness the plants here seem to produce, we simply couldn’t find you. We tracked the crash site. Got imaging that showed the door had been opened, but we didn’t know if it was because you’d left the pod yourself, or wild animals had ripped it off to get at your remains.
Behind me, Zyjii growled softly. Despite the fact Hirza and I were both speaking English, a lot of conversation involved vocabulary he simply lacked the context for me to even begin to explain. But he got enough of that last part to understand the implications.
Unsure what else to do, I reached back for him. He immediately took my hand and stood beside me. Hirza glanced between us, fox-like ears perked.
“Hirza,” I said. “Allow me to introduce my bonded mate, Zyjii. Zyjii.” I glanced up at him, but he kept his eyes focused on Hirza. “This is my friend, Hirza.”
“The one you thought you lost,” he said softly.
“Yeah.”
He studied the Rehiki and the slice of an entirely alien world he could see behind her.
“She’s here to rescue you. And she’s someone you trust.”
My hand clenched convulsively around his. “Yes. To both.”
He finally tore his gaze away from the tiny sliver of the shuttle he could see, his wonder and curiosity overshadowed
by some far darker, stronger emotion as he stared at me. His shoulders started to heave as if he was gearing up to dive to the bottom of a deep lake. The grip of his tail around my arm tightened before it fell away.
“Then,” he started. Stopping, he dropped his gaze to our clasped hands and closed his eyes. “Then you have to go with her. You have to go.”
Confusion tipped with razor sharp hurt stabbed through me. “Zyjii?”
Releasing my hand, he ripped himself away from me hard enough he staggered two steps. Wings rattling with distress, tail coiled around his own leg, he faced Hirza.
“This place isn’t safe for her,” he said, voice impassioned while the rest of him screamed in silent agony. “My people. They don’t accept those that are different. They will hunt her. They
have
hunted her. If they stumble across us, they’ll hunt her again. So she must go.”
I stared at him, my heart threatening to tear itself into bloody tatters. Until I clenched a metaphorical fist around it and squeezed, wringing out the heartbreak. This wasn’t a rejection. This was his attempt to protect me in the only way he knew how.
“Zyjii,” I growled at him.
He gave me a panicked look, but quickly shifted it back to Hirza. He clamped his wings tight to his back and fisted his hands, drawing himself up and setting his jaw with determination, even as his ears betrayed his misery.
“Please,” he pleaded softly. “I want her to be happy.”
“Then I’m staying with you,” I snapped.
He whined softly in distress, and I softened. A little. Enough that I carefully took his fist into my hands instead of slugging his shoulder. Gently, I pried his fingers loose,
tsk
-ing over the bleeding wounds his claws had dug into his palms. I tugged open
one of the pouches at my waist—a pouch he’d made me—and took out a pinch of soak-moss to press into the wounds.
“Idiot male,” I whispered. Cradling his hand in one of mine, I cupped his cheek with the other. “
You
make me happy, Zyjii. I’m not leaving you. End of discussion.”
“But—” he started.
I glared him into silence. “No. I’m staying with you.”
Ears trembling, he turned a pleading gaze to Hirza, who watched us with unfeigned consideration.
“We’ll see her safe,” she said. When I snarled at her, she smirked. “Don’t worry, Lynn. You know we don’t separate bonded mates.” Her golden eyes soften when she looked at Zyjii. “We’re not going to take her from you.”
His tail crept around my leg, coiling tight. Hope made his moss green eyes shine. “Does that mean I can go with her? With you?”
Hirza dipped her nose in a yes, then flicked an ear in a no. “I’m not authorized to remove a local from a primitive classed planet. Let me make some calls and see what I can do.”
It wasn’t a yes. Zyjii understood from the determined slant of her ears, even if he didn’t understand everything she’d said. That didn’t stop him from snatching me up in a desperately tight hug, his whole body shaking with relief.
He’d been willing to give me up in order to see me safe. I held him back, just as fierce, just as shaken by the thought of being forced to leave him. He really was an idiot male. A sweet idiot, and he was mine, but definitely an idiot.
My hand slid through his thick mane of hair to cup the back of his head and pull him in closer. Geeze, how I loved him.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Forty-Three
ZYJII
Lynn let
me cling to her without complaint. Better, she held me back even more fiercely.
“I’m sorry,” I murmured into the skin of her shoulder.
She sighed and stroked the length of one ear.
“I forgive you, but only because you obviously acted from a place of concern and care.”
“Not care,” I muttered. “I love you, Lynn.”
Huffing softly, she leaned into me a bit harder. “Then don’t try to get rid of me again.”
I jerked away as much as her grip allowed, spluttering in offense. She narrowed her eyes at me, daring me protest, but…she…wasn’t wrong. From her perspective, it must have felt like that was exactly what I was trying to do.
Accepting defeat, I sighed, then dropped my forehead back to her shoulder.
“I am sorry,” I mumbled. “That wasn’t my intent.”
“I know,” she said. And left it at that.
Slowly, the sounds of the forest—animal calls and insects singing and the occasional rustle of a plant relocating itself—returned. As they did, my heartbeat slowed and steadied.
At least until the hiss of Hirza’s sky-den announced her return.
Lynn straightened away from me, and I let go. Mostly. My tail stubbornly insisted on remaining wrapped tight around her waist. Not that she seemed to notice. Or maybe she did, because she ruffled her fingers lightly through my fur, coaxing it into lying flat when I hadn’t even noticed it puff with tension.
“I managed to contact T’rlkiax,” Hirza announced. I assumed the strange word with the click in it was the name of a sky-dweller. Both she and Lynn treated it as one, at least. The sky-dweller who was so like a Mrriiv and yet so different settled her sharp yellow eyes on me. “He’d like to speak to you.”
Lynn tensed. “Inside the shuttle
?
”
Shuttle. Sky-den.
Hirza flicked a glance at my mate I could only interpret as a warning. It put my hackles up and I resisted the urge to growl at the sky-dweller. I did
not
like her looking at my Lynn like that.
“Is that a problem?” Hirza asked.
Lynn’s lip twitched like it wanted to curl in a snarl, but she refrained from responding. Instead, she glanced at me and shrugged. Leaving it to me to decide.
“I must speak to this sky-dweller before I can leave here with Lynn in your sky-den?” I asked.
Hirza gave my mate an exasperated look. “Lynn,” she chided.
“What?” Lynn demanded, defensive. “He saw my pod crash, and saw me emerge from it. He’s called me ‘sky-fallen’ since the first time he approached me.”
My wing-hands shifted restlessly, the soft clatter of my finger bones drawing their attention back to me.
“So?” I said. “I must talk to this sky-dweller, yes?”
“Yes.” Hirza folded her hands in front of her. “If you’ll come this way?”
I stepped forward, Lynn right at my side. Possibly because my tail still refused to budge from around her waist.
“Zyjii—” she started in a low voice.
But Hirza’s sharply pointed ears weren’t for show.
“Lynn,” she warned sharply.
Lynn bared her teeth in frustration, but said nothing else.
It was clear she wanted to warn me about something, so I entered the sky-den with care, senses alert for anything out of the ordinary. Except that
everything
was extraordinary.
The ground beneath my long-toed paws felt strange. Smoother than the smoothest river-worn stone, but more solid than the smoothest leaves. Light, white and pure and as bright as Vobe’s glare, came from…everywhere. Long stretches of the ceiling, odd spaces on the walls that might have been patches of moss except the edges were too even, too uniform. The light even came from the corners where walls and floor met.
I bent over for a better look, but Hirza cleared her voice.
“This way,” she said.
I rose and followed her through a second opening into a space easily twice the size of the den I’d shared with Lynn. Toward the back of the space stood a monster straight from the murky depths of the floodlands. My fur puffed and my wings immediately rattled a warning. The monster studied me silently with eyes as black as the sky when all the Sisters rested from their constant dance.
When the monster remained still, I relaxed a fraction, studying it warily. My tail flicked when I noticed something strange.
I tilted my head.
“Is that a spirit?” I asked.
Behind me, Lynn snorted. “No. Think of it as a form of hunt-speak.”
I chuffed in disbelief. “Hunt-speak that…what? Throws images instead of sounds?”
“Yes,” the monster—who was vaguely transparent, like the veil of a shallow waterfall—said.
I cheeped in surprise, wing-hands bristling, then I crept forward, wanting a better look at this not-spirit monster.
I circled the figure. It turned with me. A stranger creature I’d never seen. Its head was skull-like, topped by a crown of many small horns. Those black eyes were deep set and—despite first appearances—not at all lifeless. Its teeth remained bared in a perpetual threatening grin, and it took me a close study to realize it was because it lacked lips of any kind. Only exposed black tendons connecting jaw to skull.
Behind it waved four vine-like tendrils that started off thick at the base and tapered to narrow ends. As I stared, spines lifted along the length of them, and I stiffened, my legs quivering with the need to leap away. I recognized a warning sign from a predator when I saw one.
I eyed the spirit-like monster, then darted one hand out, quick as a blink. Instead of hitting the solid breadth of the creature’s chest—a clothed chest, I realized—my fingers met only air and suffered a strange tingling akin to grabbing a krisvreep by one of its feathers.
Hissing in surprise, I hopped back, cradling my hand to my chest. My heart pounded hard, but the tingle faded instead of spreading. Not poison, then.
“Well, that’s encouraging,” the monster said.
Not a monster, I decided, eyeing its—his—complicated, finely woven clothing. This was another sky-dweller. The T’rlkiax I was supposed to talk to.
“What?” Lynn asked. “Were you expecting him to run screaming?”
“I wasn’t expecting him to make it through the
aerlahk
without panicking,” the hunt-speak spirit of T’rlkiax said. “And running screaming is the reaction most species have when encountering a Vrigrix for the first time. Hello, Lynn. It’s good to see you alive and well.”
“Same,
bahs
,” she said, her voice a rough rasp full of emotion she didn’t let reach her face.
I tilted my head first one way, then another, my ears swiveling. Because while his jaw moved, it didn’t do so in time with the English words he spoke, and the sound originated from somewhere else.
“So,” the hunt-speak spirit continued, watching me as I circled it and then began hunting down the source of its voice. “You went and bonded with one of the locals.”
Lynn shrugged. “I love him. And since I wasn’t expecting rescue, I didn’t see the harm in making a life for myself here.”
“Understandable,” the spirit murmured. Then he cleared his throat. “Zyjii, was it? What are you doing?”
“Trying to find where your voice is coming from,” I said. “Because it’s not from there.”
I waved a wing-hand in his general direction as I braced my working-hands on the floor and peered beneath the strange table that spanned most of the wall behind the hunt-speak spirit.
“You’re not afraid?”
My ear swiveled toward the sound of his voice—which seemed to be coming from one of those strange glowing not-moss shapes on the wall—but I looked at the image. I blinked and gave his terrifying figure another long look.
“You look like the dark dweller who hunts the floodlands,” I said. “It is a creature of many terrifying tales. But you wear clothing. The dark dweller only cares about eating.” I grimaced. “It’s worse than grrns, so it’s a good thing it’s confined to the floodlands.”
“
Lahjikal
,” the hunt-speak spirit murmured. I didn’t recognize the word—it wasn’t one Lynn had taught me yet—but his approval was clear. “You’re observant, and don’t react to the unexpected with fear. That’s a good quality for anyone to have, but especially someone who intends to step from their familiar world into something much bigger and more confusing than they could possibly imagine.”
“Actually, sir,” Lynn said wryly. “Zyjii’s curiosity is more likely to get him into trouble than anything. He doesn’t have much of a survival instinct when something catches his interest.”
Scoffing, I flicked my tail at her in dismissal of her description of me.
“Pitcher plant,” she said, her tone flat.
I growled. That was different. How was I supposed to know the plant would try to eat me? It’d looked like a giant jinveep, and those weren’t just harmless, but good to eat.
Leaning in close, I sniffed at the glowing part of the wall where T’rlikiax’s voice came from. It smelled like everything else in Hirza’s sky-den. Oddly lifeless, as if it hadn’t come from a tree, or rock, or anything else I was familiar with.
I considered licking the glowing spot, but that was generally a stupid thing to do in the forest. I settled for tapping it with the tip of a claw. It sounded solid, but also hollow. Head tilted and ears pricked I tapped it again.
“I think you may be right about that, Lynn,” the hunt-speak spirit of T’rlkiax said wryly.
I unsheathed my claws, intending to find out just how hard the glowing spot was, but Lynn caught my wrist, stopping me.
“Maybe don’t touch glowing things until you understand what they do,” she said, half scolding.
I whipped my tail. “But⁠—”
“Zyjii. What did you tell me the first time you took me into the forest?”
I knew exactly what point she was trying to make. It wasn’t anything I wanted to hear, though, because it meant having to stifle my need to explore and poke at
everything
. I wanted to figure out how the hunt-speak spirit worked. I wanted to understand where the light came from if it wasn’t from Vobe or plants. Maybe they’d somehow managed to capture many tiny white flames?
I gave Lynn a beseeching look, but she stared me down, waiting.
I heaved a sigh.
“‘The forest is filled with strange and mysterious things, many of which are dangerous,’” I finally said. I sounded like a sulky kit, even to my own ears.
“And then you warned me to avoid anything when it’s glowing unless you said it was safe,” she said, exactly as I’d expected. She was right, of course. I
had
said that. “I trusted you, because I was a stranger in your world.” She pressed our clasped hands over her heartbeat, then pet the back of my fingers. “Now I need you to trust me for the same reason.”
I grumbled a bit, but I also nuzzled my nose into her mess of pale hair and stroked the tip of my tail down the back of her leg so she knew I didn’t really mean it.
“I think,” the hunt-speak spirit of T’rlkiax said, “that this one will do just fine.”
I lifted my head in time to see him nod once.
“Hirza, bring them both home. I’ll get the
paeperwerk
started.”
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Forty-Four
LYNN
Rescued.
Even standing in our assigned room aboard the ISSC patrol ship the
Slipstream
, freshly showered and fed, I could hardly believe it.
Zyjii—now equipped with a custom programed translation chip designed to fill in the gaps for words his language simply didn’t have—prowled around the room, his fur still damp enough his tail left behind the occasional drip of water. He poked his nose into everything, though he did wait until I reassured him there was nothing dangerous in our room. Except the hot water tap, which could produce boiling hot water on demand if you weren’t careful.
Once he finished inspecting every corner, and poking into every drawer—which mystified and fascinated and pleased him, in that order—he came to stand behind me. Pressing in against my back, he wrapped me up in his arms and tail, his embrace familiar and comforting, even if was still just a wee bit damp.
“There’s so much I need to learn,” he said. For the first time, he sounded daunted by the prospect, rather than ecstatic.
I stroked my fingers over his arm. “We’ll take things one step at a time. If you begin to feel overwhelmed, let me know. We’ll
come back here and rest. T’rlkiax put in the paperwork so you can keep your loom and other tools. Working with the familiar will help make everything else seem more manageable.”
“Is that what you did?”
“Well, no,” I admitted. “But I left my childhood home to get away from the familiar, and humanity is more advanced than your people so my adjustment was easier.”
He let out a trembling breath and squeezed me harder. Not for the first time, I wondered if I’d made the right choice, taking him from his planet.
“Do you regret it?” I asked. “Leaving?”
He was quiet long enough for tension to start tying knots along my spine.
“I asked the healer questions,” he finally said. “Every question I could think of. Do you know what they did?”
“What?” I asked, though I already knew.
“Answered them. Even if I didn’t understand everything they said, they answered my questions to the best of their ability. They didn’t click their tongue at me, or tell me I didn’t need to understand what their tools did because it wasn’t my chosen path. They didn’t tell me that knowing things I shouldn’t would bring trouble. They even let me try using some of the tools myself.”
He rested his cheek on top of my head with a deep, satisfied sigh. “If I discover something new, they’ll listen and offer advice on how to discover more, even if it’s not new to them. I…I feel less like an outsider here, on this sky-de—this
ship
than I ever did in the village, surrounded by my own people.
“Do I regret leaving?” Again he was quiet a moment, really thinking it over. “I regret I won’t be able to discover why the ee vynla change the color of their glow depending on which Sister is dancing across the sky, and I still would have really liked to see the desert, but…those are small things.”
He squeezed me, then dropped his head to caress my shoulder with his lips.
“I do not regret choosing a life where we will not be hunted for being different,” he said firmly. “I do not regret being thrown into a world so much larger and stranger than anything I could have imagined. I will
never
regret being allowed to stay with you, no matter where you go.”
My eyes felt suspiciously hot. I blinked away the dry, gritty feeling that always preceded tears, and gave his arm an awkward pat.
“Good,” I said. I cleared my throat, trying to get rid of the telling rasp. “I love you, too. And I wouldn’t have regretted staying on your planet. Even if we did spend the rest of our lives traveling. As long as we did it together.”
He squeezed me and kissed my neck. “Together. Always, Lynn. My sky-fallen mate.”
Hirza and the rest of the crew gave us plenty of space for a few days. Apparently they thought I needed time to recover from the trauma of roughing it in a jungle for a couple months. Clearly, they did not understand that was pretty much my idea of a relaxing vacation.
All right, I could have done without the ambulatory carnivorous plants and giant ass shark-cats, but everything else was just a day in the life.
Zyjii ended up infected with cabin fever long before me. Hirza had provided us a tablet loaded with all kinds of teaching apps, and while Zyjii found the learning guides useful, he was more interested in figuring out how the tablet worked. And by
figuring out how it worked
, I really meant
take it apart to see what made it tick
.
Since I didn’t expect him to be able to put it back together in a way that would leave us with a still-functioning tablet—something he needed—I took him to the break room the engineers and mechanics tended to hang around in. Every ISSC ship of modest size had one, and they all invariably ended up littered with bits of tech or mechanical projects in various states of completion.
You’d think we’d walked into a candy shop, the way Zyjii lit up when we stepped into the cluttered room.
“Don’t touch without permission,” I warned him.
He threw me his most charming grin, the impact of it only heightened by the excited wiggling of his tail.
“But I
can
look,” he said.
I pursed my lips to keep from smiling. “I’m certainly not going to stop you.”
He lit up and bounded away toward the table shoved against the nearest wall. One covered in assorted bits that looked like engine parts in need of replacement or repair. He kept his wings tucked politely in and his hands clasped at his back. His tail, though, flicked back and forth, occasionally freezing whenever he spotted something particularly interesting.
One of the people on break obviously recognized me as someone who didn’t belong and approached me. The Ogirryn female stood way taller than me, and nearly as broad through the shoulders as Zyjii, but her curves were markedly, definitely feminine. So was the delicate chain connecting a silver stud in her pointed ear to the hoop in her broad, upturned nose.
Ogirryn would never not remind me of orcs from some kind of fantasy game. Only with skin tones that ranged from grey to brown to yellow instead of green.
“You need something?” she asked gruffly.
“Yeah, actually. You got any broken tablets and the tools necessary to take them apart?”
She eyed me. “You interested in tech work?”
My hands shot up in instant surrender. “Not me.” I tilted my head toward my mate, who’d tilted over until he was practically upside down in order to get a better look at something clinging to the bottom of the junk table. “For him.”
The Ogirryn followed my gaze and grunted.
“Word’s gone around about the new guy,” she said. “We were told to be patient with him and answer any questions he has. Like he was raised on some backwater planet and knows nothing about anything.”
“Close enough,” I muttered.
She watched him with eagle-eyed intensity for another couple minutes—probably to make sure he didn’t touch anything he wasn’t supposed to, which he didn’t, though he did nearly get his nose zapped when he stuck it too close to a misfiring piece of tech someone had stupidly left out—before she grunted again.
“We ain’t just gonna hand over delicate tools to someone who doesn’t know how to use them,” she said.
I scowled but didn’t protest.
“Hey, you,” she called.
“Zyjii,” I supplied.
Of course, his ears immediately swiveled in my direction, even though I hadn’t raised my voice. So he was already lifting his head when the Ogirryn called him over.
“Zyjii.” She waved one massive hand.
He came over, properly wary of her size and the bulge of her clear cut muscles, but not scared.
She crossed her massive arms over her chest and gave him a once over. “Your mate tells me you want to learn how to take things apart.”
“No,” he said. She tensed, but he continued. “I want to figure out how they work.”
She blinked, then a brilliant grin broke across her face, revealing her twin set of small tusks, upper and lower.
“Well, now, then,” she said, lowering her arms. “That’s something I don’t mind helping with. Name’s Sierva.”
She slammed a fist to the center of her chest in the traditional Ogirryn greeting, the meaty thump of it loud enough to make me wince.
“Zyjii.” He bobbed his ears at her. Then after a moment of uncertain tail writhing, he copied her gesture, hitting a fist to the center of his chest.
She grinned. “You’re cute. I like you.”
I cleared my throat.
She grunted at me. “Keep your panties unbunched, human. I’d be more likely to try to seduce you than your male.”
Fluster blazed across my face and I tried not to sputter. Zyjii just tilted his head, completely unconcerned with the idea of the giant Ogirryn female flirting with me.
If I had even half of his confidence…
“And me liking him is good news,” Sierva continued, smirking at my embarrassment, “because it means I’m willing to teach him what he wants to know.”
Zyjii perked. “You will?”
“Yeah.” She clapped a hand to his shoulder and steered him toward the back of the room. “Come on. We’ll start with something simple. You any good with your hands?”
“I’m a weaver.”
Sierva stopped mid-step to stare at him in blank incomprehension.
“Huh.” Finally she grunted and resumed striding across the room. “Maybe I better make it something
really
simple.”
Bemused, I made myself comfortable on one of the well-worn but definitely comfy sofas. I pulled out the small chunk of wood I’d talked Hirza into letting me keep—after sending it through a brisk decontamination process—as well as the small penknife I’d asked for and been issued our first day on board. Then I let my hands be busy while my mind chewed over a problem I needed to work out before the
Slipstream
reached port.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Forty-Five
LYNN
Zyjii’s
happy chatter accompanied us all the way to the mess hall where we grabbed dinner. He drew more than a few curious looks, for several reasons. One, because he was a never-seen-before species. Two, his cheer radiated from him like heat from a supernova, warming everyone around him. Then there was his tail, which kept alternating between intent swishing flicks and ecstatic wriggling. Considering there was considerably more tail than male, it garnered some attention.
Finally, there was the fact he still only wore his woven loin cloth and corset-like leather belt, though he’d left all his pouches and stone knives in our room.
To be honest, my presence probably didn’t help matters. Because I was human, and while humans were a known quantity in the ISSC, we were few and far between. There was a good chance I was the first Earthling most of these aliens had ever seen up close in person.
If that wasn’t all attention grabbing enough, I’d taken to wearing soft sports bras and the intragalactic version of cozy yoga pants, but over those, I wore the top and long skirt Zyjii had made me. I did it mostly so he wouldn’t feel pressured into
giving up the clothing he felt comfortable in. He faced enough change as it was.
“Lynn?”
I blinked down at my bowl of questionable soup—delicious, but it was better not to ask specifics about what kinds of meat or vegetables they put in things—and realized I’d been staring at it without eating for long enough to derail Zyjii’s happy ramblings.
I glanced up at him to find him studying his own tray intently.
“Yeah?” I prompted.
“Sierva asked if I planned to go into mechanics, electronics, or engineering.”
He pronounced the last three words with care, likely because they weren’t in his native tongue. The med techs had done a full work up on his physiology, brain waves, language centers, and a whole host of other tests I didn’t know the proper names for. Turned out his people’s language base—grammar and syntax as well as aural vocalizations—was similar to the Rehiki. Similar enough that they went ahead and programmed his translation chip using it as filler to provide all the necessary vocabulary living in the Coalition required.
So the words were unfamiliar to him in more ways than one, but I had no doubt he’d pick up on this new amalgamation of languages quick as a jiffy.
“What’d you tell her?” I asked, genuinely curious.
He flicked an ear at me. “That I didn’t understand what any of those things were.”
I snorted, nearly inhaling my soup.
He rescued my spoon before I dropped it, leaving me free to laugh. I could just imagine the Ogirryn’s absolutely befuddled expression.
“And?” I asked when I finally caught my breath.
“She explained that the…tinkering—” another careful tasting his way around the unfamiliar word “—we were doing was mechanics. And doing the same with things like the tablet was electronics, and engineering was making sure all the things worked the way they were supposed to.”
I nodded. Not a bad explanation, actually.
Instead of continuing, he fiddled with his silverware. Something he wasn’t used to using, but did his best to mimic me regardless. I made a point of eating with my hands whenever I could. Again, there was no need to push him over every little thing when he already had so much he needed to stuff in his head.
Having gone to the big city as a country bumpkin myself, I understood where he was coming from. It made supporting him in whatever small way I could extremely easy.
Studying his ears—which often told me more about his mood than anything else—I saw uncertainty in the way he held them. Uncertainty, and that intensity he had whenever he was presented with a problem he didn’t have a ready answer for.
“You don’t have to decide anything right away, you know,” I said. “We have time.”
He ear-bobbed in easy agreement, then shook his head like a dog coming out of water.
“I like tinkering,” he said. “I like taking apart the things Sierva gave me and trying to put them back together. It’s interesting, and there’s plenty of new things for me to learn, but…”
“It’s not the right fit?” I suggested.
He gave me a relieved look. “Yes, that’s it. I like the…metal things. The gears and electronics.” His eyes took on a distant misty look. “But I think I’d rather find a thing to do that involves plants.” The far-away look faded as he focused on me with a grin. “I still have mysteries about my forest to solve. And what if
what I already know could be used to help solve the mysteries of plants on other planets?”
The idea clearly excited him.
“You’re talking about xenobotany,” I said. The way his ears pricked to quivering attention made me smile. “That’s the study of plants from alien planets. And since we’re in the ISSC, all plants are technically from alien planets.”
He made his thoughtful croon. Then he noticed I wasn’t eating and pointedly nudged my spoon with one knuckle. I lifted an eyebrow at him—he’d stopped eating, too—and he grinned at me before tearing off a piece of bread and holding it up to my lips. I accepted the morsel, because I liked bread, and he didn’t.
He could eat fruits, nuts, and any kind of mystery meat in endless quantities without issue, but grains and dairy did not agree with him at all.
“I like the idea of that,” he declared. “I want to study plants. I want to figure out if they can be used to help others, like the yreki nectar. Mostly, I want to figure out why different moonlight makes the ee vynla change their glow colors.”
He uttered the last as an annoyed growl. It made me smile, which from the smug way his tail curled around my waist had probably been his aim. Smile settling deep in my heart, I leaned my shoulder against his arm.
“If that’s what you want to do, then we’ll make it happen,” I assured him.
Happy to have a solid path through the twisting confusion of his new life, Zyjii took a second to nuzzle me, then dug into his meal.
The Coalition had long ago worked out the psychological benefits of providing green spaces for long-term space crews, and that didn’t even take into consideration the many alien species who
required
a daily dose of sunlight.
Zyjii didn’t
need
green things and sunlight the way some other species did, but he was a being from a rich and verdant jungle, and I knew the sometimes cold sterility of the spaceship wore on him.
Most ships in the ISSC’s official fleet had hydroponic gardens, even if the garden wasn’t much bigger than a bedroom. The
Slipstream
’s garden was a lot bigger than that. More like a small city park. It was a gorgeous blend of strange flowers and edible plants, complete with a pond, brook, and several decorative bridges. Functional beauty at it’s finest.
Watching Zyjii’s wings finally relax as he stepped into the garden and took a deep breath full of the scent of growing things and damp earth confirmed all my suspicions. And my worries.
No matter where we ended up, it needed to be a planet with natural spaces. He might be able to survive on a ship, but he wouldn’t ever be fully happy or comfortable on one.
Leaving him in the capable hands of the Handavari in charge of the gardens—think elf, but less ethereal, with a splash of marsupial weirdness—I wandered around until I found a bench near the pond. Not long after I settled and pulled out my on-going busy-hands project, a familiar alien settled next to me.
“You know,” Hirza said, “I expected you to hunt me down for answers a lot sooner than this.”
Yeah, I just bet.
“Weirdly enough, my priorities have shifted,” I muttered.
Her eyes tracked to where the Handavari was showing Zyjii how to harvest a fruit vaguely shaped like a pumpkin, only it was pink with white and blue spots and grew on a tree.
“Yes,” Hirza murmured. “That’s understandable.”
I blew some shavings from the small chunk of wood I’d painstakingly pared down from the huge chunk it’d been when I’d first found it, way back in that hollow tree where Zyjii tied his heart-thread to mine.
“So?” I asked. “Why was the
Rsp’rin
attacked? What happened to the rest of you? I imagine the blast that fried my pod’s systems knocked yours offline, too.”
“It did.” Hirza leaned back, weight braced on her palms. Her tails twined together in a writhing display of old anxiety. “It was touch and go for a while. We likely all would have either frozen to death or suffocated in our individual pods if a friendly junker hadn’t been passing through.”
Junkers were rigged with all kinds of delicate equipment designed to search for signs of tech failure. Gathering up wrecks and other space junk was their job, after all.
“Lucky,” I said.
“Yes,” she agreed.
We were quiet for a second. I waited for her to expand on their rescue by the junker, but she didn’t. I huffed. I’d gotten to know Hirza pretty well over the year I’d worked for T’rlkiax, even though she worked as something as a fixer and hadn’t spent much time aboard the
Rsp’rin
—she took on the job of visiting distant planets like Earth to find suitable employees for the upper echelons of the ISSC. Because of that she tended to be very, very tight lipped about certain things.
That was fine. Let her keep her secrets.
“And the attack?”
Her tails writhed faster before she forced them still.
“The official story is that we came out at a previously unused jump point and got caught up in the test run of a new Fala’ahn weapon.”
I grunted. “And the real story?”
She was quiet for long enough I suspected she wasn’t going to tell me, so when she spoke, I jumped enough I nearly stabbed myself with my penknife.
“I was entrusted to bring T’rlkiax information regarding a Fala’ahn commander who recently went missing under suspicious circumstances. We were en route to deliver it to the Fala’ahn High Council.”
I remembered the data chip T’rlkiax had pulled from his console and tossed to Hirza, right before she picked me up and hauled ass to stuff
my
ass into an escape pod.
“Let me guess,” I murmured. “Someone didn’t want that information to reach its destination.”
She nodded. The gesture looked a little weird on her, since her face was more like a fox’s than a human’s, but I’d long since gotten used to it. Hirza was very good at adopting the body language of the various species she interacted with. She told me once it was because it helped put them at ease and made them less likely to eat her.
I thought it was more that it made her easier to trust, but whatever.
“In the end, they failed. We safely made it off the ship and we survived our pods’ computer systems going out. The junker managed to track your pod to its crash site, though it lacked the tech necessary to find you.” She gave me a wry smile. “Junkers can find a tablet floating in the vast expanse between solar systems, but finding a single human on a fertile planet?”
My lips kicked up because, yeah. I could see the junker’s crew being a little out of their depth when it came to a rescue mission.
“It all worked out in the end,” she said.
“Lynn!” Zyjii exclaimed, bounding over to us. “Try this.”
He lifted a slice of the blue and white spotted pink pumpkin thing to my lips. I obediently open my mouth and took a bite. Flavor exploded across my tongue, filling my mouth with
the undeniable sweetness of strawberry shortcake with whipped cream frosting.
I may have moaned. Just a little.
“I think that may be one of my most favorite things ever,” I said. With great, honest feeling.
Grinning, he offered me the last of the slice, and I ate it straight from his fingers, ignoring Hirza’s blatantly amused stare. He fed me the rest of the fruit before he kissed me—swift but deep enough to catch the taste of the strawberry shortcake fruit lingering on my tongue—then bounded back to rejoin the Handavari.
Yeah. It had all worked out, hadn’t it? Now I needed to make sure things continued to work out for us going forward.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Forty-Six
ZYJII
After months
of traveling with Hirza and the crew of the
Slipstream
—months of loving Lynn and tinkering with Sierva and tending the garden with its overseer, Leeanlyn, and studying, so much studying—Lynn and I finally stepped into the sunlight of a new planet.
Hirza escorted us, because she was the one who’d made the arrangements.
“Welcome to Va’outh,” she said, gesturing. “This entire planet and its moons are dedicated to learning. Technically, the planet itself is supposed to be a single academy, but functionally it’s more like a number of interconnected universities,” she explained as I took in the huge buildings in front of us. Bigger than anything in the mountain city of my home planet. Bigger even than a full grown tunjun tree. Maybe.
This wasn’t the first time Hirza had explained how this planet worked, but it was the first time I truly understood the scale of what she meant.
From space, the planet’s surfaced had gleamed like a polished gem on the sun-side, while the night side glowed like the bioluminescent moss that speckled the bark of tunjun trees.
From my studies, I knew the planet had several land masses, but the entire surface was covered with manmade structures. Even the oceans.
“Each moon has a unique biome,” Hirza continued, “without any significant natural dangers, which make them well-suited to serve as training grounds for new researchers and explorers.”
They would also be the classrooms Lynn used for her teaching.
Originally, Lynn had planned to find some other job. Despite being a planetary system devoted to learning and teaching, there was no shortage of other occupations. As Lynn had explained, students needed to eat, and professors needed places to live, to buy research materials, to relax after a tough day. She insisted she could find a position waitressing, at the very least, though she hadn’t sounded thrilled about it.
Instead, Hirza found her a position as a professor’s assistant.
Lynn’s agreement to fill the position was the only reason I’d even been allowed to take the entrance exam. Apparently Va'outh was not only the biggest academy in the ISSC, but one of the most prestigious. Thanks to my studies aboard the
Slipstream
, I’d managed to pass the lowest entry level test to get into Va'outh’s accelerated learning program.
I was going to have to work hard to keep my place as a student, but I was eager for the challenge.
Lynn, though…
“So,” she said sourly, planting her hands on her hips. “Who’s this professor I’m supposed to work with?”
“He should be here shortly,” Hirza said. “Let me go see if they’ve unloaded our luggage.”
As soon as she waltzed off, her many tails swaying, I inched over to Lynn and curled my tail around her ankle in a nervous gesture.
“Are you sure about this?” I asked.
“Yes,” she said flatly.
My ears pressed back, because she didn’t sound happy about it. She hadn’t since Hirza first told her of the teaching position.
Lynn glanced up at me, noted the position of my ears, and sighed, her body softening. Sliding her hand into mine, she laced our fingers together and squeezed, a silent reassurance.
“I don’t think I’m cut out for teaching,” she said. “I don’t have the patience for it. And if I lose my position, will they kick you out?”
“You won’t be the teacher, though,” I reminded her gently. “You’ll just be helping him. And, Lynn.” I bumped her shoulder with mine. “I can honestly think of no one better to teach a class on how to survive unexpected situations on uninhabited or primitive planets.”
She grunted her disbelief, but she leaned into me.
“Besides,” I said lightly. “You taught me your English, with all it’s tricky sounds and words with many, often complex, meanings. If you can do that, teaching others how to start a fire should be easy.”
She barked a laugh, much to my delight. It made me feel good, knowing I could tease her into a better mood.
“I suppose you have me there. But you’re smart, Zyjii.”
I tilted my head at her. “Implying the students in your class will be stupid?”
“Not stupid,” she said, and I knew she meant that. Lynn rarely said something she didn’t mean unless she was being sarcastic at the expense of someone treating her like she was a pet—or worse—just because she was human. “Just…clueless. I imagine this class is going to see a lot of people who’ve never spent a full day outdoors, let alone slept on the ground or cooked over a campfire.”
Which was very much the reason why Va'outh put this class together in the first place, I suspected.
“Maybe I can come help on days when I don’t have class,” I said. I used our clasped hands to tug her into me, curling my tail around the backs of her thighs as I bent my head to nuzzle at her. “I like the idea of sharing the learning tales from my home planet with others.”
Smile going soft and sweet, she placed a hand on my chest. If I’d been dressed as I usually was, she’d have petted my fur. But today I wore more ‘decent’ clothes. They’d been a gift from one of the Fala’ahn who helped care for the
Slipstream
’s gardens.
Like me, Fala-ahn had wings, though theirs were feathered and made for actual flight. They also had six of them. Unlike me, they did not have tails. The piece he’d gifted me, he explained, had been specially designed with me in mind.
I liked the Fala-ahn style of dress, and already had plans to weave myself more. The clothing was mostly just long strips of lightweight fabric draped and arranged around wings—and other excess limbs, because the Fala-ahn also had four arms—and then belted into place. It was not dissimilar to what my people wore. There was just more of it.
Apparently there were enough alien species concerned with ‘modesty’ that the rest of the ISSC made concessions.
At least the loose clothing didn’t ruffle and irritate my fur the way the bodysuit Sierva gave me did. I was supposed to wear it while tinkering to protect against cuts and burns, but I hated it.
Now, Lynn’s hands smoothed over the fabric dyed a blue that was
almost
a match for her ee vynla dyed skirt.
“You’ll probably need all your free time for studying,” she said. “But we’ll take things one day at a time.”
That seemed to be her ruling principle. One day at a time.
Smiling, I finished nuzzling her and straightened up, intending to check on Hirza, when a heavy step scuffed to a halt behind us, catching my attention. One ear swiveled toward the source of the sound just as the person spoke.
“Lynn?”
The voice was masculine and rusty, as if it wasn’t used very often. In my arms, Lynn went stiff.
“Lynn-bear? That you?”
“Oh, holy fuck,” Lynn breathed.
She pulled away from me and I turned, surprised to see what must be a human male. I even recognized him, because Lynn had described him to me in bits and pieces through the stories about her childhood.
His skin glowed a healthy reddish brown, though his face looked like old leather, cracked and worn. His hair, a darker yellow than hers and threaded through with more silver than she’d described, was pulled back in a long tail. His appearance reminded me a bit of the village elders, but his bright blue eyes remained sharp with a hunter’s focus.
Lynn confirmed my suspicions with her stunned, “Dad?”
Tears shimmered in the other human’s eyes, but he didn’t let them fall. Instead, he held his arms open.
“Hey, little bear,” he said. “Finally found you.”
Moving as if in a dream, Lynn went to her sire. When his arms—lean and corded with muscle, visible even through the short sleeves of his shirt—closed around her, she made a small sound and burrowed into him.
My heart ached for her. She always spoke of her sire with a mingling of affection and exasperation. From her stories, I knew he had not been what humans considered a good sire, but she always insisted he’d done his best.
She’d also told me how she’d come to leave her planet and join the ISSC. Like my people, the humans of Earth did not know about the vast galaxy-spanning Coalition. She’d applied for a job, not knowing being accepted into the position meant being taken from her planet and everything she’d known in order to join the widespread collection of advanced alien species.
Her sire was supposed to believe her dead, so it was no wonder his presence there stunned her.
She recovered quickly though, my Lynn. Grabbing her sire by the shoulders, she shoved back from him, glaring.
“How the
hell
are you even here?” she demanded.
He smirked. “You think a bunch of aliens could keep me from my daughter after stealing her away from me?”
“He went to Chicago,” Hirza said as she rejoined us, followed by a floating platform laden with our luggage. Mostly her luggage, since Lynn and I didn’t have much. “To see for himself that you’d died. He didn’t accept the story we concocted about a fatal crash and your body being cremated by mistake.”
“I wasn’t going to believe you were dead ’til I saw the corpse myself,” her sire growled.
My fur bristled. He had a good growl.
“He managed to track down our hiring agency, and then proceeded to hunt down each and every shell corporation we have set up across the United States and Canada,” Hirza continued. Her tone was very dry, but the snap of her many tails gave away her displeasure with the whole situation. “He hounded us ceaselessly until we agreed to bring him to you. Of course, by then, you and I were already aboard the
Rsp’rin
, and⁠—”
“Boom,” Lynn murmured, shaking her head in wonder. “So the teaching position…”
“It was
not
made just to give him something to do to keep him out of our fur, no matter what he claims,” Hirza said. “It is, however, a position that needed filling, and he has the required skillset and experience to fill it. As you know, all humans who wish to be a part of the ISSC must remain productive citizens. He was permitted to leave Earth in order to find you, but if he wishes to stay, he must be employed.”
“Teaching sounded like a better job than some of the others they offered me,” her sire said, rubbing the back of his head. Then he dropped his hand, his expression intent as he studied her. “You’re looking good, Lynn. I heard you had a rough time of it recently. ”
“Not so rough,” she said. “Except for the jungle shark-cats. You would not believe the size of those things.”
“Grrns.” I nodded. They were a threat everything in the forest was wary of.
My speaking drew her sire’s sharp-eyed stare to me. The fur along my tail puffed, but I managed to keep my hackles smooth and my ears relaxed. He narrowed his eyes. I flicked an ear and bared my—I mean, I
smiled
at him.
“Dad,” Lynn said, exasperated. She came to me, tucking herself against my side, where I liked her best outside of our bed. “This is my mate, Zyjii. Zyjii, this is my dad, Paul Davis.”
I made an aggrieved noise before I could think better of it. “What is it with your family and that awful sound.”
Her sire tensed. “Awful⁠—”
Lynn piped up quickly, stopping her father’s anger in its track. “He means the ‘L’ sound. It’s the only part of English he hasn’t mastered yet.”
“I’ve mastered it,” I countered. “I just can’t say it.”
Not all the time, at least. There were certain words I made sure I could say correctly. Like ‘Lynn’ and ‘love.’
…I’d have to practice saying ‘Paul.’
Lynn gave my chest a consoling pat. “Honey, unless you can say it all the time, you can’t say you’ve mastered it.”
My ears relaxed into a lazy, happy slant even as I growled at her. She’d never used an endearment like that before. I liked it.
“If I am your
hun-ee
,” I said, exaggerating the word because it would make her snort—which it did— “does that make you my ee vynla?”
She tilted her head back to look up at me. Whatever she read from my ears and the lazy coil of my tail made her soften. Until she quirked an eyebrow at me, mischief a sparkling light in her not-quite-blue eyes.
“You mean I’m a mystery you’ve yet to solve?” she said tartly.
I barked a laugh. “Is that not true of every male’s mate?”
“Hmm.” She eyed me, clearly unconvinced.
Her sire, though, had relaxed, wearing an odd kind of smile. It took me too long to recognize it as pride and affection. Two things my sire had not showed me in…a very long time. Lynn caught sight of it and flushed.
“Mate, huh?” he said. She cleared her throat, clearly flustered, and his expression softened. “He makes you happy?”
“Yeah, he does.”
He nodded, then stuck a hand out to me. “Then it’s nice to meet you, Zyjii.”
My tail snapped in surprised, but I clapped my hand into his in the gesture Lynn told me was called a
handshake
, and served as a greeting between humans, especially human males.
“It’s nice to meet you, too, sir,” I said.
“That’s wonderful. You’ve all connected,” Hirza deadpanned. She clapped her hands together. “We need to get Lynn and Zyjii settled in their apartment, and then I can leave you lot to your own devices.”
She then started herding us away from the…I forgot the name. Shuttle something. The place where many shuttles landed and let off their passengers before returning to their home ships. Lynn smirked at her vriiryn eared friend before she let us be herded, her sire falling into step on her other side so they could talk and catch up.
I envied her reunion with her sire, but I was happy for her, too.
I let my mind travel back through the stars to my distant home, imagining my sire and Jeejee sharing tales about me as they cleaned their latest hunt. A pang of longing went through me, until a hand, small and with too many fingers, slid into mine and squeezed, reminding me that I had family here, too. The ache in my chest eased, and I tugged Lynn into my side, holding her love for me close.
OceanofPDF.com

Epilogue
LYNN
I checked,
then double checked, to make sure my gift sat neatly in its box. It was something I’d planned to give to Zyjii before we settled on Va'outh, but the
Slipstream
hadn’t had anything to seal wood—weirdly enough, wood wasn’t a common building material used on active spaceships—so I’d had to wait until I was planetside, with an address where I could have an order delivered.
Closing the box, I wrapped it up in a pretty piece of silk I’d picked up during a weekend exploration to one of the many market cities tucked between the massive universities and academies spanning the whole planet. With that done, I went to find my mate.
Zyjii never ceased to amaze me. He settled into life in a city full of advanced technology that blew
my
mind as if he’d grown up there. I think attending his first set of classes helped with that. It astonished him that he could learn any subject he wanted, at any time, and the teachers would answer
all
his questions to the best of their ability.
And if they didn’t have answers for him, then they directed him to study materials or another person that could.
He loved it. The uninhibited learning.
On his days off, like today, he liked to spend his time outside. Hirza had found us a place in a residential quarter known as the The Grove. It catered to the needs of those who didn’t do well separated from nature.
Which basically meant all the buildings were relatively small, discrete, and surrounded by greenery. That included giant trees Hirza assured Zyjii could be climbed as desired—as long as no irreparable harm was done to them.
Claw marks apparently didn’t count, and good thing, because Zyjii wasn’t the only alien there with a penchant for tree climbing.
I didn’t bother trying to hunt him down. I simply scaled the trunk of one of the large trees and tucked myself away on my favorite branch. I think, like Zyjii, I needed time outdoors, surrounded by green things and the sound of wildlife, even if the The Grove itself was groomed and orderly. Usually, I brought a piece of wood to whittle. Something that kept me busy, but didn’t feel like
work
.
Today, I leaned back against the trunk and closed my eyes to wait for my mate to join me. It didn’t take long. But then, it never did.
Something furred slid around my ankle, creeping up my leg, and I smiled.
“Hello, mate,” I said.
“Were you sleeping?” he asked.
I shook my head, but didn’t open my eyes. I lifted the flat, silk wrapped box from my lap.
“For you.”
“This?”
He took it from me, and I cracked my eyes open to watch as he unwrapped the silk. He ran it carefully through his fingers, lifted it to his nose for a sniff, then rubbed it against his cheek.
“Silk,” he said. “Finely woven, but the threads themselves are so fine I can’t imagine how they were spun.” He squinted at me, ears swiveling as he attempted to unravel the puzzle I’d presented him. “This was handmade?”
“Yep. All natural processes and dying methods. No machines or artificial pigments.”
He made an appreciative sound and nuzzled the large kerchief sized square of fabric again. “Must have been expensive.”
Because anything in the ISSC that was genuinely handmade sold at a premium. The galaxy ran on machine created, 3D printed—or the hyper-advanced tech equivalent—or mechanically produced everything. Those with the wealth to spend on it appreciated the imperfect perfection of handcrafted things.
“That was a sample, so it wasn’t so bad,” I said. “That’s not the real gift, anyway.”
He carefully folded the square of silk and tucked it away into one of the pouches on his belt. The pouches no longer held herbs, spice mixes, soak-moss, or any other number of useful things to keep on hand while living in a jungle. Now, they carried his Personal Communication Matrix—so, a cellphone, only fancier—his university assigned tablet, credit chip, and other odd bits and bobs he liked to carry around with him.
Like the necklace he used to always wear. The one strung with teeth, painted wooden beads, and one big claw. He’d stopped wearing it after it got caught in something he’d been tinkering on with Sierva, back on the
Slipstream
, and nearly broke it.
He didn’t want to risk ruining it by wearing it all the time, but it was precious enough he wanted to keep it on him. And so the pouch.
Hopefully what I’d made him would work better.
“What is it?” he asked.
Taking up the box, he gave it an experimental shake. I pressed my lips together hard to keep from snorting. I’d known he’d do that, so I’d padded the thing enough it didn’t make a sound.
“Why not open it and see,” I suggested.
He plonked himself down next to me, his tail doing an excited wiggle. Ears up and intent, he carefully worked the lid off the box, removed the padding, then sat there and stared.
“Do…you like it?” I asked. I nearly bit my lip when I sounded like an uncertain ninny. “It’s a wedding band.” There, that was better. “You climb, and work a lot with your hands, so you can’t really wear it on your finger. It’s, uh, carved from tunjun wood. So you could always wear a little piece of home.”
Oh-so-carefully, he traced a fingertip along the smooth, curved edge of the wooden ring. I didn’t know if it would even fit on his finger. I certainly hadn’t tried to size it, always intending for it to be worn on a cord around his neck.
“It might get caught on something,” he said, looking sad and wistful.
“No, see.” I reached to lift the necklace from the box, but stopped myself, glancing up at him. “May I?”
He nodded.
“Here.” Lifting the necklace out of the box, I unraveled the cord, showing him the two knots. “I made it long enough to fit over your ears—” I hoped “—but you just work these two knots apart and…”
I demonstrated. He cheeped, that deep bass sound he did when truly startled.
Taking the necklace from me, he experimented with the knots, tugging the cord so it stretched to its fullest extent, then sliding the knots, decreasing the length of the loop until they met
at the ring, which I’d fixed in the center with a simple lark’s head knot.
“H-how,” he demanded.
“It’s called a sliding knot.”
And, because I knew my mate, I reached into a pocket and pulled out a length of cord, and demonstrated.
“Two loops around the cord, then through,” I said. “Flip it, and repeat with the other tail.”
I unworked the knots, then handed him the cord. He accepted it, and whipped up the first knot with ease. He was more careful with the second knot, even though the process was the same, and was mighty pleased with himself when it worked as designed. He tucked the cord away in one of his pouches—also not unexpected—before he returned his attention to the ring.
Picking it up by the cord, he set the ring in his palm, then carefully curled his fingers around it.
“This is a human mating mark?” he asked.
I cleared my throat. “You said you wanted one.”
Smiling that open, joyous smile I so adored, he tipped forward, pressing his forehead to mine.
“My Lynn,” he murmured. “Thank you.”
I cradled the side of his face in my hand, closing my eyes as I basked in his delight. When he straightened, I let him go, mostly so I could help him get the necklace on and settled where he wanted it. I stood and moved behind him. He passed me the necklace, and I looped it over his head, taking particular care with his long, expressive ears.
“How tight?” I asked.
“There,” he said.
I tipped forward to check. The ring sat right beneath the hollow at the base of his throat.
“Looks good,” I said, my voice a little raspy. Seeing him wear the ring I’d carved for him hit my possessive cavewoman right in the feels.
Reaching back he grabbed me and hauled me over his shoulder and into his lap, helped along by a little boost from his wings.
I might have let out a cheep of surprise.
He folded himself around me, holding me close. Touched but also a little confused, I stroked his head.
“I love you,” he said simply. “I’m so glad I got to come to this place with you.”
He lifted his head, staring around the leafy shade of The Grove. Not too far in the distance, ground vehicles zipped about along carefully routed roads. Overhead, giant wings beat the air as flight capable aliens carried themselves to class or the market or one of the many, many restaurants littered about.
Zyjii’s awe remained as fresh and vast as when he first stepped into Hirza’s rescue shuttle and confronted a holo-image of my old boss, T’rlkiax. He’d gotten better at keeping it hidden so strangers wouldn’t judge him for it, but he’d never let that awe fade.
And then he turned that wonder on me.
“My sky-fallen female,” he said, and smiled. “You continue to be the most incredible thing I’ve ever encountered in the forest. Or away from it.”
Huffing to hide my embarrassment, I buried my face against his neck. He laughed and tucked me closer.
“And you’re so incredible I had to cross the galaxy to find you,” I mumbled.
He purred his happiness at me.
We remained there for a while, simply holding each other. Eventually, we climbed down the tree and headed home to share our wonder of each other in private.
OceanofPDF.com

About the Book
Hello! Welcome to the end of the book, to the place where I tend to ramble about…the book. Clearly.
Ahem.
This book holds a special place in my heart. I’m a pretty voracious reader, and a lot of the sci-fi romance books I’ve picked up involve survival elements when the cast of characters end up stranded on an uninhabited or primitive planet.
It’s just…the FL never seems to know what to do. She always,
always
ends up relying on the ML to take care of her. And frankly, that bothers the piss out of me.
You have to understand, I live in a mountainous region where even the locals end up lost with no supplies and no choice but to sit tight and survive the best they can until rescue can find them. Learning the basics of surviving the wilds (how to find water, make shelter, stay warm) feels like it was such a basic and ingrained part of my childhood that it honestly stuns me when people
don’t know
.
Like, what do you mean you don’t know to dig yourself a little den in the snow during a blizzard? I thought that was common knowledge!
(Friends, this is
not
common knowledge in places where they, you know, don’t
have
snow. I’m aware of this, even as it continues to boggle my little neuro-spicy brain.)
*Coughs* Anyway.
I wanted to read a story about a woman with the knowledge and skills necessary to survive stranded on a strange planet on her own. Since I couldn’t find one, I decided to write one myself.
Ah, the song of authors everywhere.
And that’s the story of how this book came to be. There will probably be more like it in the future, though I doubt any of the future FLs will have quite the same depth of knowledge as Lynn. Lynn’s upbringing was rather, uh,
unique
, and was mostly just an excuse for me to show off my own magpie collection of survival skills.
If this book wasn’t your cup of tea, then no worries! The next couple of books are going to lean much harder on the sci-fi part of the sci-fi romance genre. We’ll get to know more about the ISSC and the various alien species within it. I’m looking forward to exploring the Milky Way Galaxy and all the potential weirdness contained within the ISSC.
If you haven’t yet, be sure to rate and review the book! It’ll help me a bunch, and also ensure there’ll be plenty more books like this in the future.
OceanofPDF.com

A Note on Language
First off, you need to know that I’m something of a language nerd. English is (tragically) the only language I speak, but that doesn’t stop me from nerding out over the interesting linguistic quirks of other languages. Mostly Japanese, since I have an unhealthy obsession with anime, and that’s where I got some of Zyjii’s issues when it came to learning English.
Lynn mentions that Zyjii’s language doesn’t have an L sound, and yet it still appears in a few words here and there. Like:
Zvillyn
Kicluck
Ee vynla
Mlyrk
Lyvchiss
This wasn’t a mistake on my part, promise. Mrriiv
do
have an L sound. Kind of. It’s more of a soft purr, as opposed to the rolling growl of their R (like in
grrn
). There’s a distinct difference (to
Zyjii’s ear) the same way there’s a difference between R and L for native English speakers.
Since this is a work of fiction, let’s say the reason
kicluck
and
zvillyn
are spelled with the dread L is because Zyjii’s people don’t have a written language yet, and so all spellings of Mrriiv words are rough, phonetic approximations Lynn made up to help flesh out the ISSC’s linguistics database. She probably poked at Zyjii to get him to say the words over and over, until he got fed up with her and told her “spell it however you wish.
I
know the proper way to say it,” and then continued to tease her by growling all the words she had trouble pronouncing when they were first trying to figure out how to communicate with each other.
So, there you have it. The use of L when making up words for the Mrriiv’s language wasn’t a mistake at all, but rather a carefully curated issue to serve as a stumbling-block-turned-inside-joke for our couple.
Other Alien Languages in this Book
The Vrigrix are…an interesting combination of deep sea creature, ram, and insect. More or less. Their language is even more impossible for us pitiful humans to replicate, since it consists of a series of rasps, clicks, and the kind of chirping crickets make.
I’ve done my best to capture the essence of that in a phonetic form for English readers. That said, the apostrophes in Vrigrixic words and names aren’t there just to make things “look more alien.” They serve a linguistic purpose. (Because I’m a nerd, remember.) In this case, they’re a hard click.
So T’rlikiax would be Teh-(click)-ril-kee-ax
(Or, you can soften it to Tehk-ril-kee-ax, which is what I do, since it’s a lot easier on my poor monolingual tongue.
)
This is not to be confused with the apostrophes in Fala’ahn words. Theirs is a much softer language, so the apostrophes are used to indicate a soft glottal stop to separate vowel sounds.
If you have any questions about pronunciation or anything else, please feel free to use the
contact form
on my website. If I get enough requests, maybe I’ll cobble together a glossary or something.
OceanofPDF.com

Next Up
First in a new trilogy!
Coming in 2026
Dreams in Blood
OceanofPDF.com

Also by Lindsay Fox
The Otherworlds Scion
Bound by Lightning
Bitten by Lightning
Claimed by Lightning
United by Lightning
Devoured by Lightning
Hired by Aliens
My Primitive Alien Exile
Blood Gifts
Dreams in Blood
(coming 2026)
OceanofPDF.com

About the Author
Lindsay Fox is an ace spec author of fantasy and sci-fi. She enjoys writing feel-good fluff featuring lots of platonic love, or romance with the spice dialed up to eleven. (Or both. Both is good.) Despite being a reclusive bog witch, Lindsay enjoys hiking the Rocky Mountains and loves camping with friends and family almost as much as she loves books. Which is really saying something.
Access free short stories, deleted scenes, and character art at
authorlindsayfox.com
Become a Foxy reader, and join us in the den!
https://www.facebook.com/groups/authorlindsayfox
OceanofPDF.com

Content Warning
BEWARE POSSIBLE SPOILERS!
While I aim for the books in this series to be mostly lighthearted fun, some topics, scenes, and attitudes might be triggering to some people. Take care of yourself, friend, and read with care.
This books contains:
Grim/morbid humor
Death of animals for survival purposes
Blood and gore
Explicit, on page sex with non-human anatomy (But you’re all here for the alien peen anyway, right?)
Eating insects (Look, the guy’s an alien. No judgements here)
Brief mention of domestic abuse (to a side character, happens in the past)
I’ve done my best to make this list as complete as possible, but if I missed anything you feel should be added, please use the
contact form
on my website to let me know!
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter One
LYNN
One more.
Just one more, and I’d be done for the day.
I snorted. God, I sucked at lying. Even to myself.
Because while I had only one more job interview, I definitely would
not
be done for the day. Living in a big city like Chicago was expensive. More expensive than I had anticipated.
No surprise there, considering. Growing up in the backwoods of Montana did not prepare one for any kind of city life, yet I was determined to make it work. Somehow. Before my time ran up and I had to return to my dad’s little cabin in the middle of nowhere.
I strode into the lobby of the sleekly modern building hosting my last interview for the day as if I belonged, completely ignoring the fact my entire off-the-rack suit dress probably cost less than the secretary’s gleaming tie. Was that silk? It was probably silk.
I was most of the way to his desk when one of my spiked heels slipped on the gleaming white marble floor. My ankle wrenched, I tripped, flailed, and let out a very loud, very unladylike curse before I managed to catch my balance.
When I straightened, the solid metal barrel of my functional accessory—aka a fire starter disguised as a pendant—thumped against my chest. I quickly tucked it down my shirt again, glancing up to find the secretary out of his chair, leaning over the desk as if he’d tried to catch me.
Sweet, but unnecessary. Also not feasible, what with the massive slab of gleaming granite countertop between us.
“Are you all right?” he asked.
I jerked my head in a nod.
More than once—
especially
since arriving in Illinois—I’d been told I should smile more. One of the other waitresses at my part-time job had actually pulled me to the side mid-shift during my first week to ask me if everything was all right.
“Yes, of course,” I’d assured her. “Why?”
“You just look so angry.”
I’d frowned. “This is the way I always look.”
She’d hemmed and hawed, and finally gave me that dreaded, hateful line.
Resting bitch face was a real thing, and I had it in spades. Fair, since it matched my absolutely sparkling personality.
Still, I was there for an interview, and my allotted six months to land a full-time salaried job were nearly up. So I ignored the ding to my pride and plastered on a smile.
“I’m fine, thank you,” I said.
The poor secretary paled and hurriedly reclaimed his seat. “Good. That’s…good.”
I sighed and dropped the smile. Smiling was stupid anyway. It was something people did when they were happy, but who’d be happy after spending seven hours trekking around this godforsaken city in five inch spike-heels, carting around a folder full of carefully crafted resumés that no one ever bothered to read, unable to find a position working in a cubicle maze because I didn’t ‘look friendly enough’?
That was a real criticism I’d gotten after one of my first interviews. At least they’d had the decency to say it to my face before kicking me out.
“I’m Lynn Davis?” I said now, when the secretary continued to sit there and stare at me like I was a kodiak bear and not someone way, way out of her element. I felt one eyebrow creep upward and tried to stop it. “I have an interview with a Ms Hirza.”
He blinked once, then visibly shifted into work-mode. “Right. Yes. Of course. You’re a little early, but she’s ready to see you now, if you want head back to the interview room.”
He gave me directions. I thanked him politely—no smile, since I honestly didn’t want to traumatize the poor man any further—then strode away, walking with a lot more care to avoid a repeat of the slipped heel incident.
The woman waiting for me in the cozy, minimalist interview room was everything I aspired to be. She exuded serene elegance, from her flawlessly coiffed fox red hair to her long, french manicured nails. Her commanding presence elevated the room from bland and spartan to something more suitable for stupidly rich CEOs to conduct top-secret business meetings in.
I’d admit it. I was intimidated.
My nerves did not ease up at all at her friendly smile. Instead, the small hairs at the back of my neck rose, like hackles, as a familiar tingle ran down my spine. I recognized a predator when I saw one. Even one dressed in a billion dollar bespoke dress suit.
“Ms Jones,” she said, holding out her hand for me to shake. “I’m Hirza.”
I accepted it, pleased by the firmness of her grip. You’d be surprised at how many women had no idea how to do a proper handshake.
She gestured behind her. “Please, have a seat.”
There were only two chairs in the smallish room, a low coffee table centered between them. I was clueless when it came to identifying wood through grain or whatever, but I could tell it was real, solid wood, not cheap veneer over plywood.
If I hadn’t been impressed before, I definitely was now. My chances of being hired by an obviously top tier company were approximately nil.
That didn’t stop me from plopping into the chair Hirza indicated and mentally reviewing questions and answers. I nodded firmly. I was ready. I could do this.
Except I couldn’t shake the odd feeling that Hirza—I wondered if that was her first name, surname, or only name, like Madonna—was a lot more dangerous than the grizzly my father made me hunt when I was fourteen.
“I got the job!”
It was the first thing I said when I burst into work—my part-time waitressing work, not my new chic work in HR. Jessica, the closest thing I had to a friend, squealed. She started to go in for a hug, but hesitated, because I’d made it pretty clear I didn’t like being touched.
I was just glad I hadn’t actually broken Bill’s arm when he grabbed me unexpectedly from behind. He had, however, managed to convince the other men working the kitchen that I was vicious and had attacked him unprovoked, so now they all avoided me like the plague.
Which was fine. Really. I knew when I started working at the little mom and pop diner that my employment there would be temporary. One way or another.
At that moment, I was so full of happy-feel-goods, my usual reserve went out the window. I grabbed Jessica’s hands and bounced like a little jumping mouse. I didn’t squeal, but it was a near thing.
“Congratulations!” she cried, bouncing with me. She gave me a sly look. “I suppose this is your two week notice?”
I nodded. Hirza had mentioned I might start as early as tomorrow, but if that happened, I’d simply rearrange my schedule with the diner’s manager to take shifts after I got off work. It’d make for a rough two weeks, but I’d survived worse.
A month alone in the backwoods of Montana, in late autumn, armed with nothing but my favorite bowie knife, Mr McStaberson, to help me survive definitely counted as
worse
.
Scheduling issues were a worry for later, though. Right now, I had a four hour waitressing shift to get through.
I swear to god and all that was holy, if
one more person
commented on how much nicer I looked when I was genuinely happy, I was going to stab someone with a fork.
Fortunately for my coworkers and all the customers, my shifted ended before I was driven to violence.
My earlier good mood completely gone, I wadded up my apron and threw it in the laundry hamper, swapped my low-heeled pumps for my well-worn hiking shoes, grabbed my purse from the locker—leaving behind the folder of resumés because I didn’t need it anymore and didn’t want to deal with carrying it home tonight—and slammed out the backdoor.
My scowl was fierce enough that the group of rough looking men who hung around the parking lot and liked to heckle the waitresses scattered before me like pigeons fleeing a stalking cat.
I’d asked Jessica once if she wanted me to do something about them. Jessica had given me a blank look that had quickly morphed into one of horror tinged worry. It’d amused me to learn the worry had been for the men.
Apparently, they acted as a kind of buffer. They were crude and annoying, but they weren’t mean, and they never touched any of the waitresses. Except once, when they’d arrived to find one of the girl’s being beaten on by her abusive ex. While three of the parking lot loiters beat the ever living shit out of the ex, the fourth escorted her with one of her hands in his and his other hand at her back. He’d stayed with her in the diner until her friend came to pick her up.
And they’d made a point of hanging around ever since. Since they protected the other waitresses in their own rough way, no one protested them being there, and no one called in to report their more legally questionable activities.
For the other waitresses, a bit of friendly heckling and cat calling seemed a small enough price to pay for a bit of security.
The assholes never heckled
me
. They didn’t dare. I was, and I quote, ‘One scary ass bitch.’ Which was hilarious when you considered the fact I was a petite blonde girl with the curves of a two-by-four.
It was fine. It wasn’t like I wanted complete strangers whistling and jeering at me.
But, damnit, it still stung a bit. And after four hours of hearing ‘Oh, wow, you’re
so much prettier
when you smile,’ I really could have used the confidence boost.
“Chickenshit assholes,” I muttered as I stalked down the sidewalk.
Stupid tears welled in my stupid eyes, and I swiped them away. More than anything, I hated the fact I always got teary when I was exhausted. I’d been on my feet for nearly ten hours, and I was fucking
done
.
I muttered all the way to the bus stop. I checked the schedule and cursed.
Of course, I’d managed to miss the last bus. It was only four miles to my apartment—an easy hour’s walk—but damnit, even in my comfy hiking shoes, my feet throbbed in time with my heartbeat, a deep ache that spread up my calves and threatened to start stabbing my kneecaps. Another hour on my feet might just result in the need for emergency amputation.
I opened my purse and stared at the contents. There was some cash in there, but not much, since most people paid, and tipped, electronically. I had my tip card—how the diner paid out electronic tips—but I didn’t trust the thing. I could thank my father for that particular bit of paranoia.
Actually, I could thank Dear Old Dad for all the bits of paranoia that made me ‘weird’ and ‘quirky.’
Sighing, I pulled out my knife—just a rinky-dink little pocket knife, but I kept the blade razor sharp, and it’d be enough to pierce a neck or stab out the eye of an attacker—then closed my purse and shouldered it, as grim as any soldier preparing for battle. It was only four miles. Less than an hour if I kept my pace brisk.
The streetlight above me flickered and went out. My hand tightened around the pocket knife, and I thumbed the blade open, just in case.
If I ran it, I could half the time it’d take to reach my apartment. I experimentally shifted my weight from one foot to the other, and winced. Yeah. No. I
could
run, but it wouldn’t be pleasant. Best save that for if someone decided to chase me.
Nodding once to myself, I adjusted my grip on my knife and set off. I’d barely gone three steps when some asshole’s high-beams hit me right in the eyes. I snarled and lifted my arm to block the light out, except I couldn’t move. No way I was suffering from deer-in-the-headlights syndrome.
Wait. I stood on the sidewalk. There shouldn’t be headlights directly in my eyes.
For a moment, I swear I went weightless, my feet lifting off the pavement, even though nothing had touched me. There was no pain, no crunch of glass. Just the light, the sensation of floating, then nothing.
OceanofPDF.com

MY PRIMITIVE ALIEN EXILE
Hired by Aliens
Book 1
LINDSAY FOX
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Two
LYNN
Sunlight made
the inside of my eyelids glow reddish-yellow. Groaning, I tried to roll over and bury my head under my pillow so I could sleep longer, except I couldn’t move. Something banded over my chest and arms held me in place.
Trapped.
Adrenaline dumped through my veins and I threw myself to the side as hard as I could, wondering what fresh hell my dad had planned for me now.
“Release the straps,” a vaguely familiar voice snapped. “Before she hurts herself.”
The resistance holding me back vanished, and I tumbled to the floor.
“She’s going to hurt herself regardless,” a sweet, weirdly musical voice muttered.
Scrambling away from the surface I’d been trapped on, I shoved myself to my feet, determined to arm myself, only to gasp as bright daggers of agony speared through my head. Caught completely off guard by the pain—Dad had
never
hurt me before—my legs went noodle-y and my knees hit the ground.
Movement in my blurry vision snared my attention. I bared my teeth and growled. The hand reaching for me froze, but didn’t retreat.
“You’re safe, Ms Davis,” that vaguely familiar voice said.
“If I’m safe, then why does it feel like you jammed an ice-pick in my skull?” I demanded.
A fluting trill sounded from somewhere on the other side of the—I squinted suspiciously—floating slab I’d fallen off of. The high pitched sound should have made my ears throb, but instead, it eased my headache enough it no longer felt like my eyes were going to burst in their sockets.
“Fee?” the voice close to me said.
The flute made a distressed sound. “Installation shouldn’t cause pain. Perhaps it’s the integration? This is a new model, and hasn’t been tested on a human yet.”
Oh, great. So I got to be someone’s guinea pig.
I stifled a snort, squeezing my eyes shut as I focused on breathing past the pain.
I froze as realization pinged through me.
Installation?
What had they done to me? Maybe more importantly, who was
they?
Correctly reading the stiffness in my shoulders as rising panic, the vaguely familiar one said, “We gave you a translation chip. And you
did
sign the papers giving us permission to install it.”
“No, I didn’t,” I growled.
“You did,” she—definitely a she—insisted.
I risked having the light try to murder me through my eyeballs to glare at the speaker. Who knelt on the floor near me.
As soon as the hazy blur across my vision cleared, I recognized her. Hirza no last name. From my new job. Except the put-together business woman had been replaced by something from one of those Japanese anime. The human aspects were all there; head, neck, shoulders. Two arms, two
legs, five-fingered hands. Two eyes and ears, a nose, and a mouth.
Just…the ears stood up straight from the top of her head and were distinctly fox-like. Her face was shaped oddly, turning her nose—a small dark triangle, again, not dissimilar to a fox’s—and mouth into a brief muzzle. And her eyes. The pupils were a brilliant, gem blue in a pale grey iris. They were also slitted like a cat’s.
But what really got me were the tails. Yes, tail
s
, plural. Three of them moved behind her, twisting together in what my achy brain translated as akin to nervous hand-wringing.
Taking a slow, deep breath, I touched the tip of each finger to my thumb, counting as I went. Five fingers. Excruciating pain in my head rapidly subsiding to a dull throb. Same clothes I’d worn home from my shift at the diner, including my old, reliable hiking shoes—never boots, except in winter. Wearing boots could lead to weakened ankles, and⁠—
Not the point.
For my final reality check, I fumbled at my neck, finding the sturdy chain and the hefty metal ‘pendant’ attached to it. For a second I considered pulling it off, unscrewing the cap, and testing the strike stick to see if it’d actually produce sparks, but considering we were indoors, I decided against it.
All proof said I wasn’t dreaming. Which left me in something of a shitty situation.
“Okay,” I said with enough calm Hirza’s tails stilled and…quivered. “What are you? Where am I? And why did you take me and jam a translator in my head?”
An hour later, I sat alone in the room Hirza led me to. It was bigger than my tiny apartment, but not by much. I sat in the single chair, staring at the solitary window. Porthole. It was small, round, and set in the wall of a fucking
spaceship
.
So, porthole.
And I was on said spaceship, thousands of lightyears away from home, somewhere on the other side of the Milky Way Galaxy. Because I’d apparently failed to read the fine print on the massive stack of paperwork Hirza had gone through with me at the end of my interview where it said I’d been hired by aliens.
Actual
aliens
.
What did aliens need with someone who wanted to work in human resources, you might ask? Because I sure as hell did. My first assumption had been the kind of resources you packed on a backpacking trip. Food. Water. The basics.
Hirza had been genuinely horrified by the idea, which made me feel vastly better about the whole situation.
I’d been hired, she told me, by the branch of the Intragalactic Star-System Coalition—the ISSC for short—that covered things like conservation of primitive worlds and the protection of rapidly developing alien societies.
Lucky me, humanity was on the severe watch list because of those tech-bros who couldn’t resist fucking over our planet in order to progress AI. Something that was, apparently, a huge no-no as far as the ISSC was concerned.
My job, Hirza explained, was to work with Ambassador T’rlkiax and act as a kind of representative of humanity.
(I spent two hours practicing that name because there was a weird throat-click right at the beginning that wasn’t used in English at all, and I wasn’t about to offend the alien in charge of fighting to keep my home planet from being invaded in a semi-hostile takeover by saying his name wrong.)
It was my job to answer every question the ambassador had about humanity and Earth, our development of AI, our space programs, and…pretty much anything and everything he could think of.
Me. The girl from the backwoods of Montana who barely managed to scrape up a GED and the necessary college degree to get into HR. I knew enough about computers and modern tech to be able to use my smartphone to make calls, send texts, and pull up directions on the map thingy when I didn’t have a paper copy and compass handy, but that was it. The only thing I knew about AI was that it was a massive resource drain, and just
one
of the damn things generated more carbon emissions in a month than over two-hundred fifty flights from New York to London.
I stared out the porthole at a night sky I’d never seen before. Stars. So many stars, and they were so bright. The ship apparently didn’t produce much light pollution, if any, and because there was no planetary atmosphere wherever the hell we were…
No obstructions. Nothing to diffuse the brilliant star light. As the ship moved, the cloudy ribbon of our galaxy filled my porthole. I’d seen the Milky Way back home, but not like this. Here, in space, I felt like I could reach out and sweep my hand through the multi-hued stardust and collect it on my fingertips.
I blew out a shaking breath. I had to wonder if any of the distant little specks were planets, and how far we were from the nearest one. Because, frankly, the idea of being in dark space, probably billions of miles from the nearest source of solid ground and breathable air scared me spitless.
I’d never suffered agoraphobia before, but I think I understood it now.
Shuddering, I pointedly turned my back on the porthole, drew my feet up onto the chair, and buried my face against my knees.
I wasn’t, by nature, a pessimistic person. I definitely wasn’t a
look on the bright side
kind of person, either. No, I was more of an
assess the situation, determine the risks, and plot a course of action
kind of gal.
The first was pretty easy. I was somewhere in the Milky Way Galaxy, but nowhere even close to home, with no way to get there without help from the aliens who’d abducted me. I was alone, without resources beyond the clothes on my back and my little fire starter pendant. They’d confiscated my phone and credit cards as contraband. I imagine they would have done the same with my necklace if they’d realized it was anything more than a hefty piece of jewelry.
Determining the risks was more challenging, mostly because my life wasn’t the only one I had to factor into things. If I messed up and made humanity seem like any kind of threat to the wider galaxy, it could mean bad,
bad
things for Earth.
No pressure or anything.
Setting the staggering weight of the risks inherent with my current situation—both to me personally and to humanity as a whole—I worked on plotting a course of action. That was a bit easier, since my choices were pretty limited.
I could refuse to work with the ISSC and Hirza, but that wouldn’t change anything. Now that their super advanced translation chip had integrated with my brain, there was no way to remove it without killing me, and they couldn’t return me to Earth and risk having it discovered.
Since I had zero desire to end up as a government lab rat, I agreed that going home was off the table.
That left me with exactly one choice. Make the best of it, put my best foot forward, and do the job I’d been hired to do.
“I should probably warn you,” Hirza said as she led me through the weirdly pristine halls of the spaceship, on the way to meet my new boss. “T’rlkiax is a Vrigrix. I’ve watched most of your science fiction movies in an attempt to prepare myself for debunking any false assumptions your kind have developed about us.”
That seemed like something of a non sequitur. Until I thought about what kind of sci-fi movies she might have seen, and why she might bring them up in relation to my boss.
“He’s one of those little grey aliens with the big heads and touchy about it,” I guessed.
She gave me an amused glance. I appreciated the fact her face was still humanoid enough to have facial expressions I could read. And if I found the constant waving of her tails distracting, that one was on me.
“No. There are no such beings that we’ve come across. There is no evolutionary path in which it makes sense for a being to develop a head that so vastly outweighs their body it’d likely crush their vertebrae.”
I grunted. Fair. And scientifically logical, which my pragmatic soul appreciated.
“No, the Vrigrix bear an uncanny resemblance to the aliens your people named Xenomorphs.”
I stared at her so hard I nearly tripped over my own feet. “Seriously?”
“More or less,” she said. Then her tails all twined together before spreading apart in a nervous wave. “Definitely less. They have a black exoskeletal-like structure and are facultative bipedal, but that’s where the similarities end.”
“I have no idea what ‘facultative’ means,” I admitted.
She smiled. The expression itself was surprisingly gentle, but the sharp teeth made it look more than a little threatening.
“It means that while he’s largely bipedal, he’s also capable of quadrupedal locomotion.” Her smile vanished, replaced by something somber. “Be wary of the Vrigrix, Ms Davis. And if you
ever
see one drop to all fours, I suggest you do everything in your power to get out of their way and pray to whatever deities you believe in that you’re not the target of their ire.”
So I was employed by a pseudo-Xenomorph who could trample me flat without effort. Noted.
I took a deep breath and reassessed the risks of my current situation. Things were not looking good. But I could make it work. I
would
make it work. My dad didn’t raise a timid mouse. He gave me all the tools I needed to survive, no matter the environment. More than that, he taught me the importance of not letting fear rule me.
I nodded once. It was time to get to it.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Three
LYNN
1 year
later
“Sir, we’re approaching the jump point,” I said. I checked the display on my holo watch and continued. “You have five minutes.”
My boss, Ambassador T’rlkiax, waved a tentacle in my direction to let me know he’d heard.
The motion no longer creeped me out. Despite Hirza’s long ago warning, meeting my boss had been something of a shock. Vrigrix were predators on a galactic scale, and it showed. Skin as hard as plate armor, joints designed for the kind of piston force that made mantis shrimp famous, tentacles, horns. They had it all.
Oh, and don’t forget the venomous, retractable spines. Or their lipless faces that looked like demonic, grinning skulls.
Vrigrix were hands down the most terrifying looking aliens I’d run into over the course of the last year—Earth time, more like 2.5 years standard ISSC time. The only thing that saved them from being villains of the worst sort was a core value
founded upon a deeply held belief in honor, and there was no honor in destroying the weak.
Unsurprisingly, the Vrigrix made up the largest percentage of the ISSC’s fighting force. My boss was considered an anomaly. His horns were smaller than average, but there were more of them, and that meant something to the Vrigriz that equated to charismatic strength rather than physical, or something.
I did my best to learn everything I could, but there were so many different alien cultures and customs that they still tended to blur together, the details either lost on me completely or getting constantly swapped around in my head.
At least I, as a human, rated as
weak, needs protection
on the Vrigrix scale of predator vs prey. T’rlkiax had been surprisingly patient with me, his corrections firm but gentle. He never yelled, even when I screwed up big time, and more than once, he’d defended me from the backlash of others.
It made it easy for me to give everything I had into doing my part to make his job easier.
And that included shooing him off an intragalactic phone call that threatened to drag past the point of safety.
“Shall I disconnect you, sir?” I asked.
He slapped the tips of his top two tentacles together in what I’d come to learn was the Vrigrix equivalent of baring their teeth in a threatening-yet-still-playful smile.
The end of a third tentacle pressed the section of his desk that muted the call.
“Don’t you dare,” he hissed. “This is important.”
“Jump in two minutes, sir,” I reminded him.
Vrigrix didn’t sigh, but the wilting of his tentacles conveyed the same general meaning.
“I must go,” my boss told the holographic display of a Kritallin.
Interesting beings, Kritallin. I was sure there was a scientific explanation for why they had crystals growing out of their bodies, but I didn’t know it. Probably wouldn’t understand it, even if someone explained it to me using very small words.
“Fine,” the Kritallin said. “Be safe, my friend.”
“We shall see,” T’rlkiax said in a dark rasping hiss that immediately put my hackles up.
My boss was not one for dramatics. That kind of statement, delivered in that tone of voice, raised every single one of my red flags and started waving them in a complicated, eye-catching color guard dance routine.
While my boss wrapped up his interstellar face-time call, I finished prepping his office to make the jump into folded space. The jump was supposed to be a seamless experience, but sometimes physics got a little wonky right at the transition point and made a mess of anything not nailed down. If there was one thing the ambassador wouldn’t tolerate, it was mess of any kind.
T’rlkiax shut down the view screen and strapped himself into his seat with exactly thirty seconds left to jump. I went to the wall and slid my fingers along a section that looked indistinguishable from the rest of the pure white expanse, and a jump chair emerged. I settled myself in, touching my watch, then my ear.
The first time my boss had caught me doing it, he’d gently reassured me that my translator would be fine. All ISSC tech was designed to survive jumping and the scientific shenanigans that went on in folded space. The chip being integrated into a living nervous system served as additional protection.
It’d been the reassurance I needed, but even though I no longer worried about my translator exploding my brain, the touch had become habit.
“We should brace ourselves for emergence from the fold,” T’rlkiax said suddenly. “Things might get a little rough.”
That flag-waving color guard team added flashing neon lights to their performance.
My eyes went wide with alarm, but before I could ask what he meant by ‘rough’ the ship jumped.
I didn’t like folding. Imagine being crumpled like a piece of overworked origami paper, crunched into a wad and tossed into the garbage,
and
feeling like a piece of fresh taffy, stretched well beyond the breaking point, all at once.
Now imagine it sucking about a hundred times worse than that.
It took me three months to stop being sick after re-emerging into real space.
This time was no different. Every atom of my body simultaneously compressed down into a single point of agony and spread apart until I worried my soul would rip free and be lost forever in the spaces stretched between stars. I counted the sluggish, painful beats of my heart to keep my body’s instinctive panic at bay. One, two, three.
After nine, there was a bright
snap
and reality righted itself. I sucked in a gasping, shuddering breath, hands clenched tight around the edges of my seat. T’rlkiax chittered his stress, his tentacles stretched to cling to the ceiling, floor, and his desk, before he wrangled them under control.
“I hate that,” I said.
“I, as well.” Shuddering hard enough to make his tentacles rub together with a sound like cricket song, he started to undo his chair’s jump straps. “And they say it doesn’t matter how much you travel. You never get used to it.”
“Peachy,” I muttered.
I managed to undo my own straps and stood, stretching out the kinks from my muscles. A sharp alarm blared, startling me. It was immediately followed by the entire room jolting hard enough to throw me to the floor.
“What—” I started to yell, but the office door sprang open and Hirza flowed through with a grace and speed that was utterly inhuman.
She met my boss’s gaze for a brief second, then hurried to me.
“Up,” she said. She grabbed my arm and hauled me to my feet with the same effort I might use picking up a discarded stuffed toy. “Come on. Up, Lynn. We have to go.”
I looked back toward T’rlkiax. “But⁠—”
“I am right behind you,” he said, even as he started using all his tentacles to eject memory chips from his desk.
He whipped one toward Hirza with one of those startlingly fast, liquid motions that still tended to make my lizard brain gibber in panic. Her fingers closed around the chip, and then we were running. Or she was running, dragging me along behind her with an iron-hard grip around my wrist.
The ship shuddered and heaved beneath us. I stumbled, slamming a shoulder into the wall. Somehow, Hirza kept her feet. Muttering a curse, she popped the chip into her mouth, then spun around and snatched me up. Then she
ran
.
The hallway blurred, the flashing red emergency lights becoming a single long tunnel, like the throat of some giant beast swallowing us straight to hell. She skidded to a stop with an abruptness that nearly gave me whiplash, then tossed me through a surprisingly small doorway.
“Strap yourself in and hit the blue button,” she snapped.
“What about⁠—”
“Don’t argue, Lynn,” she said. “The pod only seats one. I’ll be in the one right next to you.”
Swallowing back the tight knot of fear, I nodded and did as ordered. As soon as she stepped away from the door, it slid silently shut. I sat, my hands steady as they made quick work of the safety straps. The last buckle clicked into place, and I slammed my open palm down on the large blue button.
“Escape pod ejection protocol initiated,” a computerized voice said in Vrigrixic. “Launch in three. Two. One.”
I braced myself for the propulsion to smash me back into the seat, but nothing happened. Panicked, I checked the controls, but I’d left my text-translating glasses…somewhere. Damn it! Hirza had talked me into getting the contacts version, but I couldn’t wear them for more than three minutes before suffering some kind of serious allergic reaction the med techs had never seen before. Now, the one time I really needed their help, I didn’t have them.
“Computer, turn on view port!” I commanded, my voice high.
Panic is a good way to get dead, Lynn. Control your fear. Don’t let it control you
.
My dad’s voice was so strong, so immediate, I looked over my shoulder to see if his glowing ghost stood there, Jedi style.
But no. I was alone in an escape pod thousands of lightyears away from home, and my dad thought I died in a bus accident.
The blank expanse of wall in front of me suddenly cleared to show a view of a huge blue-green planet taking up most of the screen. My pod had definitely cleared the ship, then. I took a deep breath, forcing my lungs to expand just beyond the point of comfort. Hold for thirty. Then I blew all the air out in one rushing exhale.
Better. At least my hands had stopped shaking
“Computer, can you angle the pod so we can see the ship?”
“Affirmative. Positional correction initiated.”
I didn’t feel the pod move, but the planet shifted out of view, replaced by a distant purple moon, and then the ship itself. For
all their insectile-tentacled weirdness, the Vrigrix loved sleek, gracefully curved lines, and it showed in their engineering. The ambassadorial cruise ship
Rsp’rin
looked like the love child between one of the boats from the
Lord of the Rings
movies and a ship from
Star Trek
. The simple, organic lines of it glittered against the black backdrop of space.
It was also broken into pieces. I stared, heart pounding, as another chunk of it just disintegrated, scattering debris like sparks from a firework.
“Computer, can you see what’s attacking the
Rsp’rin
?” I asked.
“Negative. Scans suggest if the mothership is under attack, it is being done by a vessel under a complex cloaking shield, using cloaked ammunition.”
I bit my lip, watching and waiting for more pods to eject.
And waiting.
Something tore through the center of the ship, scattering more debris. Sound didn’t travel through space, but I swear the universe held its breath in the brief instant between impact and explosion.
The
Rsp’rin
died a beautiful death. She lit up like the heart of a star, surrounded by a halo of blue-white light. The corona swept over my pod, setting the emergency alarms blaring, the whole pod shaking like a row bow at sea in a hurricane, but my eyes remained locked on the view-port as the blazing ball of light that had once been the height of Vrigrix technology and design sucked into itself and winked out of existence.
I jerked out of my dazed fascination with the destruction of the
Rsp’rin
—trying not to think about all the people who hadn’t escaped—to focus on more immediate problems.
Like my survival.
“Warning,” the computer said in a voice so calm it caused a whiplash of cognitive dissonance. “High velocity electrical
impulse detected. Shielding has dropped below recommended percentage levels.”
“What’s it at?” I demanded, yelling to hear myself over the continuing blare of sirens.
“Fifteen percent.”
I sucked in a sharp breath. That was bad, right? I tried to remember the safety courses and emergency drills Ambassador T’rlkiax insisted his staff run once every three months, but shock made my thoughts sluggish.
Recommended shield levels bottomed out at twenty-five percent, because that was the bare minimum required to survive anything from a photon blaster to a strike from a pod-sized piece of space debris. It was also the minimum shield level recommended for attempting atmospheric re-entry.
Not that I needed to worry about that. The pod’s computer would work to keep us in orbit around that big green-blue planet to make pick-up easier. We⁠—
A sound I remembered from Earth. A horrifically loud crunch as metal crumpled and glass shattered and tires squealed. The whole pod jerked, snapping my head to the side to smack into the head support hard enough to leave my ears ringing and my vision fuzzy.
“Warning,” the computer said in that same, ridiculously calm voice, “impact with unknown space debris has caused catastrophic damage to the hull of EP-127. Recommended action: Emergency landing on planet CTX-897615.”
“Is that the big planet right outside the view-port?” I asked on a gasp.
“Affirmative. Preliminary scans of planet CTX-897615 show signs of compatibility to support all oxygen breathing lifeforms currently listed on Mothership
Rsp’rin
’s manifest.”
I bit my lip, eyes shut against the strobing red lights and blaring sirens. It hurt to think.
“What are the chances of successful re-entry?” I asked.
“Calculating…error, can not calculate.”
I stared at the screen which showed nothing but an expanse of black.
“Wha—why can’t you calculate it?” I demanded.
“I seem to be experiencing multiple, unexpected, undefined system failures. Directional thrusters are off line. The previous impact has knocked EP-127 off the predetermined course. Shall I attempt to recalculate a potential flight path?”
“No.”
With its thrusters offline and its systems already running errors, what was the point?
“Oh, fuck,” I whispered. “I’m going to die.”
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Four
ZYJII
The sky’s
anger startled me out of a sound sleep.
The echoing roar reminded me of the constant storms that heralded the wet season, but that was a step in the Sisters’ dance still a long way out. Wild storms weren’t uncommon, but no rain pounded the lush forest beyond the shelter of my den, so that wasn’t what made the angry sound.
Leaving the warmth of my nest, I swung out of my den and up onto the branch sheltering the entrance. I climbed quickly, taking the familiar path to the best branch to catch a glimpse of the sky-lights, but tonight they were hiding from the brilliant glow that seared through the darkness like a good knife through too-ripe fruit.
My breath caught as I watched the falling sky-light—for what else could it be, even if I’d never seen one that size before—streak toward the forest. I didn’t see its impact, but I felt it. The whole forest felt it, trees shaking, vines swaying, all the forest’s denizens falling deathly quiet.
Slowly, hardly daring to breathe and disrupt the absolute silence, I crouched. My tail wrapped around the branch I perched on, squeezing tight as if worried I might fall. The fingers
of my working hands flexed, claws unsheathing to dig into the hard, thick bark of the tunjun tree.
I shouldn’t go. I could already hear the elders’ scolding, see my sire’s disapproving glower.
I couldn’t bring more trouble to the village.
Couldn’t
. Not again. But…wouldn’t it be best for everyone if I worked to keep trouble
away
from the village? Wasn’t that what I’d decided when I moved into my current den, far from everyone else?
My weight shifted forward, the fingers of my wing-hands flexing as they readied to stretch out and carry me through the trees.
Curiosity—my greatest failing and the cause of so much ill, according to my sire—burned in my chest. I wanted to see the fallen sky-light. I wanted to know what it was. Why had it fallen? Would more fall with it? Maybe I could figure out how to put it back in the sky where it belonged.
A foolish thought. No matter how high we climbed, no one could reach the sky.
I should know. I’d tried once, as a young kit.
I’d also broken the thin branch at the top of the tree I’d perched in, and I’d been too young and panicked to think to use my wing-hands to slow my fall and steer me safely through the tangled maze of tunjun branches.
If that hunter hadn’t seen me tumbling and caught me…
Well, she had, and I’d survived completely unharmed. Not that my poor dame had taken much comfort in that. That was the first time she truly scolded me, her fury fueled by her fear.
Then she’d pulled me into her arms, cocooned me in her wing-hands, and rocked me until my trembling eased.
I shook the past away hard enough to make my ears slap. The past was past. My dame was gone, and no hunter would help me unless they caught me hauling back food to share with
the village. And that was mostly in an effort to keep me and the trouble I brought far away.
I shifted my weight, the claws on my toes digging into the branch, my tail clenching once before it released its grip to whip free behind me. An eager breath, a flex of muscles, and I leapt, spreading my wing-arms wide to glide through the forest, away from my den and toward the fallen sky-light.
Once, when I was still a kit, my sire and dame took my sister and me to the city grown deep in the mountains beyond the forest. There, they had a temple dedicated to the skies, and their greatest idol was a once fallen sky-light. To my young eyes, it had looked like nothing more than a strange rock. Shiny in some places, smooth in others, with ripples like disturbed pond water frozen forever into stone.
Now, I dangled by my tail from a low tree branch—wanting but unwilling to get closer—and stared at my fallen sky-light. This looked nothing like the stone on the temple’s altar. This was many times larger than that. Nearly as large as my smallest storage den. And it wasn’t like any stone I’d ever seen. Parts of it had broken off like bark from a rotting log, leaving a cluttered trail through the trees.
What was it? Was it truly a fallen sky-light?
Fires flickered within the downed trees, but the weight of damp vegetation soon smothered them. In the darkness, the songs of the forest dwellers returned in fits and starts until their full chorus once more filled the night. Under the cover of the noise, I dropped from branch to branch, getting as close as I dared.
I was in the middle of weighing up the merits of dropping to the ground and approaching to get a better look at the not-stone when it hissed at me. Startled, I jumped hard enough to dislodge myself from my perch. I let out an embarrassing cheep as I snapped my wing-arms out, banking in a sharp curve to hide behind the broad trunk of the tunjun. I crouched amongst the roots, wing-arms clamped to my back, tail coiled tight around my ankle, and ears pressed flat against my skull as I fought to slow my panicked breaths.
The fallen sky-light hissed again, more slowly, and a there was an odd hollow sound followed by…something. A voice, I thought, my ears pricked forward. Light and feminine, despite being a sharp bark of sound.
Cautiously—the elders would be shocked to realize I even knew that word let alone put it into practice—I crept from my hiding spot. I kept low to the ground, weaving my way through the tangled tunjun roots, until I had a good view of the fallen sky-light. And the creature now standing next to it.
It—no,
she
, I decided, spotting the same mammaries on her chest my people’s females had—placed her hands on her hips and surveyed her fallen sky-light. I stared, agog. Why, she only had two arms! Where were her wing-arms? Or her tail? She was angry enough—I could smell the peppery burn of it from where I hid—that her ears must be pressed tight to her skull, the darkness concealing them. Something about the shape of her legs bothered me, too. Like she didn’t have enough joints. Were her feet broken?
She made more noises, this time the sounds lilting and lyrical and completely incomprehensible. She lashed out with her leg, kicking the fallen sky-light. The impact made that strange hollow sound again, and she barked, jumping back and hopping about.
I squinted as if that would help my eyes pierce the distance. Her feet must not be broken for her to be hopping about like that. They were just tiny things, and remained flat on the ground. More like a kicluck’s oddly jointed paw than a proper foot with strong toes and sharp claws for leaping from branch to branch.
I looked from the strange female up through the broken branches left by the fallen sky-light to the empty sky above. Had she come from among the sky-lights? Why?
How?
And why had she chosen to fall here?
Had
she chosen? Watching a large chunk of the fallen sky-light’s smooth skin slough off and hit the ground, I thought she might not have had much say in the matter.
I touched a finger-pad to my food pouch to reassure myself it was well stocked. Someone needed to keep an eye on the strange female. To make sure she posed no threat to the village. Since I was the one who found her, it was my duty to keep her sa—I mean, keep the village safe from her.
And that’s exactly what I would tell any of the hunters if they found her.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Five
LYNN
After taking
my frustration out on the pod—which honestly hurt me more than the useless hunk of space junk—I took in my surroundings to get a lay of the land. I didn’t expect much, what with having fallen on the night side of the planet, but there was actually quite a bit for me to see.
Because the whole jungle glowed.
Awe stole the breath from my lungs and soothed the last lingering shakes of shock and terror of crash landing on an alien planet. And boy, was it
alien
.
Looking at the bole of the nearest tree, I decided it was a miracle I’d survived, pure and simple. The trunk was easily twice the size of anything in California’s famous redwood forests. These trees went beyond massive. It was more like standing at the base of an organic skyscraper than a tree.
It was pretty easy to judge the size of the thing, thanks to the colorful glowing mosses that clung to the rough, rock-like bark, limning its dimensions in a soft radiance.
The tree had a massive aerial root system. Between that and a hard line where the moss stopped growing, I suspected
the jungle suffered frequent flooding. Flooding that obviously provided the bioluminescent moss crucial nutrients or whatever.
Tangled among the roots of the giant glowing tree were giant glowing flowers. And small glowing flowers. I decided to retreat back into my pod for shelter when I saw a mushroom move in a very not-mushroom-like manner.
I tried to query the computer about what kind of lifeforms I could expect to find out there in the wild dark, but it’d gone completely dead. An hour of poking at things while I waited for my adrenaline to fade enough for me to maybe get some rest, and I discovered that anything remotely electronic was dead. Including my watch. The one with the fancy sensors that told me if the alien foods served in the mess hall were safe for human consumption or not.
So, that sucked. Trapped on an alien planet with unknown glowing flora that may or may not kill me if I breathed on it too hard.
Oh, and the emergency beacon was the final casualty. It was now little more than a fancy black brick the size of a hockey puck.
Things were looking just peachy.
I knew myself well enough to know that exhaustion fueled my more pessimistic traits, and if I kept going, I’d only drive myself into a state of apathetic depression, so I touched the fire starter necklace that had stayed with me since I was taken from Earth, and counted it as a positive. Then I dug up an emergency blanket, sniffled back the tears that always hit me when I was tired and frustrated, curled up in the solitary chair, and got some sleep.
My situation had not improved come morning, but I was in a better headspace to deal with it.
First off, I assessed my situation, which wasn’t as dire as it could have been.
The pod was trashed. That much had been evident from the look I’d gotten at it last night. The harsh light of day made everything more real and more shocking. The burned hull cracked and flaked in places, while entire panels fell off at the slightest bump. I’d survived pretty much unscathed.
Definitely a miracle. I had no idea if anything out there in the greater universe was looking after me, but I sent up a silent
thank you
, just in case.
Like me, the pod’s interior had survived, which meant there were all kinds of emergency goodies for me to pilfer, including nutrient bars, drip filters for water—I tried hard not to think about what kind of liquid they expected someone to filter while trapped in a tiny escape pod floating in space—another emergency blanket, and a small med-kit.
If, by another miracle, someone came to rescue me, I was going to use T’rlikiax’s power to submit a proposal that all escape pods also have things you’d find in a standard survival pack. Knife, some kind of fire starter—I was deeply grateful for the necklace my father had given me, but most people didn’t carry around flint and steel as a fashion accessory—rope, needle and thread, a better stocked med-kit, and maybe something non-tech that could be calibrated to the user to test food for toxins and other compatibility issues.
I snorted. My dad would have lightly slapped me upside the back of my head for suggesting that last one.
I taught you how to test for poison in plants, Lynn-bear. Getting complacent is a good way to get dead.
My lips twitched, and I thought
yes, Daaaaad
, in the exasperated tone of teens everywhere. No, really. I’d overheard T’rlikiax’s son hiss in the exact same tone whenever he thought T’rlkiax was being a worrywart.
Grief came up out of nowhere to body slam me.
Oh, god. T’rlkiax. All the other aliens I’d spent the last year working with and getting to know. And Hirza. Hirza wasn’t even serving on the
Rsp’rin
. She’d dropped in during her vacation to check in on me and make sure I was doing okay.
Now she was gone. They were all gone.
I wrapped my arms around my stomach and curled in on myself, screaming out my rage at the unfairness of it all. And if the scream became sobs and tears fell from my eyes like waterfalls, well, no one else was there to see, so it was okay.
Five minutes, I decided. That was all the time I could afford to let myself break.
Once I’d let the worst of the grief spill out, I straightened, slapped my cheeks, and got back to the business of assessing my tools for survival.
“Why don’t you have a weapon?” I growled at the dead pod.
It didn’t answer me, of course. It was dead. That didn’t change the fact it was also useless.
I’d tried breaking off a chunk of its metal hull to maybe use as a spearhead or knife or something, but the stuff was either too strong for me to work with my bare hands, or it was too brittle from being superheated during reentry.
That left me with a pack—made from one of the two emergency blankets—filled with food, the means to filter water, and nothing useful to defend myself.
I turned my back on the useless pod to consider the jungle. I could trace the path the pod took during its crash by means of the sunlight trickling through the dense canopy. It was a good thing those massive giant trees didn’t have many limbs, or I’d have crashed into one of those and likely exploded on impact. Like an insect smacking into the windshield of a truck going eighty on the interstate.
The super massive trees weren’t the only ones in the jungle. I’d find a broken branch lying around sooner or later. In the meantime…
It took some work, but I managed to tear a long strip from one of the emergency blankets. I scrounged up a pebble roughly the size of a peach pit, and gave my makeshift sling a whirl.
It worked. More or less. Not well, and not comfortably, but it’d do in a pinch until I made something better.
Good enough. It was time to take on the jungle.
What’s the point of modesty out in the wilds, Lynn? No one’s going to see you, and modesty won’t help you stay alive. Take off your damn shirt and put it to better use
.
Grumbling under my breath, I stripped out of my fancy button-up blouse. I’d already converted my makeshift sling into a hair-tie, using it to keep my short hair off my neck, but that barely helped in keeping cool. It was too damn humid.
“Humans aren’t designed for ultra humid climates,” I griped.
At least this human wasn’t. Montana was considered semi-arid, meaning we got some humidity, but nothing like this.
One of my dad’s few buddies had told me stories about his time living in New Orleans. About how, in the summer, they experienced something called supersaturated air, where the relative humidity went
over
one hundred percent.
“What is the point of sweat when there’s so much water in the air evaporation can’t happen?” I snapped at the nearest plant.
It, too, was sweating. Great big drops of neon yellow goo I very carefully did not touch.
My sweat sure wasn’t doing anything to help me. I was drenched in it. Which was bad. Not because losing water was dangerous—though it was—but because of the loss of electrolytes. Without those, you could drink until your organs drowned and still die dehydrated.
At least the canopy was dense enough I didn’t have to worry about sunburn on top of everything else.
I finished tying the sleeves of my blouse around my waist and huffed. As comfortable as I was going to get, I continued trekking through the sometimes dense undergrowth. Ten minutes later, I kicked off my low pumps after nearly twisting an ankle for the third time. I glared at the useless things and poked at the blisters forming on my heels. And on the tips of my toes, for some weird reason.
The thick loam of the jungle floor would be more gentle on my feet than those damn pumps, so I may as well get started building calluses now.
Shortly after I finished wrapping my blistered toes with tape from the pod’s med-kit, I found a good stick. No, it was the
perfect
stick. Long and straight, without too much taper on either end. The bark chewed the skin of my hands like serrated teeth, so I used one of the ginormous rock-like jungle trees to rub it off, exposing the smooth wood beneath.
“Oh, yes,” I crooned, stroking my fingertips up its length, plucking and peeling away the last lingering shreds of bark. “You’re gorgeous, aren’t you?”
In my mind, the image of my father shook his head at me. He’d never approved of my habit of talking to my tools. I blamed it on the fact a kid needed friends. Even if that friend happened to be a full-sized bowie knife named Mr. McStaberson.
I was more than willing to blame all my weirdness on the way Dad raised me. Seriously. He should have just given me the teddy bear I’d asked for.
New friend in hand, I continued on, taking in the jungle around me. The size of the plants worried me. The smallest flower I could find was bigger than my hand with my fingers spread out. The largest would have dwarfed the biggest flower on Earth. They were called corpse flowers, thanks to the stink they put out to attract pollinators. These flowers did not stink, but they did look suspiciously like they were ready to uproot and attack the first thing that touched them.
I did not touch them. I’d read
Day of the Triffids
. During my time in space, I’d seen at least two alien species that strongly resembled sentient, mobile plants. I wasn’t going to risk them
actually
uprooting and eating my face off.
But I did kind of want to find out what would happen if something disturbed them. I hadn’t forgotten seeing that mushroom skulking about last night.
So first, I found some good sized pebbles. Then, after tucking my staff through the loop of my pack to free my hands, I scaled one of the rock-bark trees, perched myself on its lowest branch—which still hung a good twenty feet off the ground—and chucked pebbles at the majorly sus flowers.
It took a few hits before I found their trigger. A pebble struck one of the tongue-like protuberances that dangled from the center of the ‘mouth,’ I figured you’d call it. The tongue
looked disturbingly like a human spine, and the instant a pebble touched it, the whole plant whipped into violent motion. Vine-y tendrils lashed out and up, sweeping through the air like feelers seeking prey, while the whole flower flipped upside down to reveal a circular mouth with rows upon rows of spade-shaped teeth.
I watched in fascinated horror as the plant, unable to find viable prey, turned on the flower next to it. The two locked together, leaves rattling and vines tangling while their freaky tongues wrapped together and…I tilted my head, unsure if they were eating each other, or eating each other out.
Whatever the case, their thrashing set off a chain reaction, and soon the entire patch of evil plant monsters were going at each other. Shuddering, I scooted back to the trunk of the tree, carefully climbed around to the side furthest from the vicious plants, then made my way back down to the ground. As soon as my feet touched solid earth, I bolted.
At least now I knew one thing to keep a leery eye out for. I’d call that a win.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Six
ZYJII
Whatever she was,
she was a clever female, I’d give her that.
My heart nearly burst from my chest when I saw her start throwing stones at the yreki. Nasty, wicked things. They always grew in big colonies, and they’d eat
anything
. Including each other. At least the sky-fallen female had the foresight to throw her stones at them from up a tunjun tree.
Good thing yreki couldn’t climb.
I followed her at a distance for most of the day. To make sure she didn’t head for the village, of course. I absolutely wasn’t worried about her using that long stick she stripped of bark to poke at something that would retaliate with violence and end up hurt. Definitely not. It didn’t take long for me to realize that, strange though she may be, and strange my world must be to her, she seemed to know what she was doing.
Even when she found the river, she approached it with appropriate caution, using her stick to jab the mud. Smart. A lot of nasty flesh-eaters lurked in shallow water, and if she stepped on one, she’d end up stripped to the bone before I could glide down to save her.
She didn’t need saving, though. After stabbing the mud, she eventually retreated and continued following the river downstream until she found a rocky span of shoreline. Again, she didn’t immediately go for the water, instead hurling small pebbles, further and further out with each one, and when that didn’t provoke a response from any predators, she found a bigger rock and lobbed it in. When she finally, cautiously approached, she kept her stick close to hand.
I could have told her this was a good spot to go swimming. Maybe she didn’t see the purple-teal zeeving grass rippling beneath the river’s surface. Where zeeving grew, predators steered clear. They didn’t like the scent the plant secreted when its fragile leaves were bruised.
Thinking about it, she probably didn’t even know what zeeving was. The sky she came from didn’t contain much. Just Vobe, the giant, searing eye that watched the forest from high above, and his three daughters. Shy and sweet, they only ventured across the sky once Vobe closed his eye for the night.
And then, of course, there were the sky-lights. Perhaps each light was like the one the female had fallen in. But then, how did one explain the fallen sky-light the temple displayed on its great alter?
My tail flicked in the air where it dangled beneath my perch. Mystery upon mystery, and no way to uncover answers. Frustrating.
Satisfied the water bore no dangers, the female removed the sling she’d fashioned from a piece of shiny fabric, stripped off her clothes, and waded in.
I stared. I couldn’t help myself. She really had no tail! I’d begun to think that maybe she simply kept it wrapped around her waist. That was the fashion in the city, where the crowds were thick enough wandering tails were in danger of being stepped on. Or maybe her tail was short enough she kept it
tucked beneath her clothes all the time. But no. The graceful line of her back flowed straight into the round globes of her rump, without so much as even a scar to indicate she’d once had a tail.
My own tail flicked beneath me, the tip curling back and forth. I waited as she swam further out into the river, armed with her long stick. I remained perfectly still—except for my tail, which I struggled to control at the best of times—as she paddled around a while longer she took a big breath.
The instant she dove beneath the water, I dove from the tree. I stretched my wing-arms out at the last possible moment, landing lightly on my feet. Then I bounded over to her abandoned sling and began poking through it.
I’d watched her enter and leave her fallen sky-light multiple times that morning, and each time, she’d set something on the ground. Oh, how I’d longed to get a closer look, but I wasn’t foolish enough to risk her spotting me just to sate my curiosity. No matter what the elders or the other villagers thought of me, I wasn’t stupid.
Usually.
The knots holding the length of fabric together came apart with a few experimental tugs. And then I was left free to go through the strangest assortment of…things. Some of them crackled when they moved. It startled me at first, and I darted a quick look at the river, but the female hadn’t surfaced. She’d been under for a while. Perhaps she was a dual-breather? Able to breathe both air and water, like the lumbering krisvreep?
Abandoning the thought for later consideration, I went back to studying the contents of her sling, but I had to admit defeat. Not a single thing made sense to me, beyond the fabric of the sling itself, and a couple of empty water-bags. The bags were a substance I’d never felt before. They smelled so odd, I decided maybe they weren’t meant to carry water at all, but something else entirely. And the fabric! I rubbed it between my fingers,
worried it might snag on the thick callouses left from a lifetime of scaling rough-barked tunjun trees, but it was much sturdier than it appeared, yet it was so soft. So pliable. I doubted even the best weavers in the city could replicate it.
I became so engrossed in my discoveries that I entirely forgot about the sky-fallen female. At least until she made a sharp sound from where she lurked in the river, sending me leaping to my feet.
Maybe, sometimes, the elders weren’t wrong about the dangers of letting my curiosity get the best of me.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Seven
LYNN
I explored
underwater as long as I could. No wonder this section of the river was a funny color. The grasses here grew teal and purple, not green. I spent a good long while looking for fish—to eat or to avoid, I wasn’t picky—but all I found were some tiny little frog-like things with lacy tails and a collection of brightly colored snails I very carefully didn’t touch.
I didn’t know how things worked on this planet, but I’d come to learn that, in the wider galaxy, bright colors usually meant “Danger!” Some of the most beautifully colored of the sapient alien species also happened to be the most deadly.
Better safe than sorry,
my father’s memory said with a shrug.
When I finally emerged from the river, I did so as silently as I could. I’d been under long enough some curious critter might have come to sniff around the clothes I’d left on the bank. I spent half a second being annoyed at my own sense of paranoia. Until it proved well founded.
I gaped at the creature pawing through my things. He—definitely physically male—lifted one of the nutrient bars to his face and sniffed at it, his huge ears swiveling back and down
before springing upright again. A long tail snaked behind him, the tip curling like a cat’s as it flicked back and forth.
He looked…almost human. A lot like a giant lemur, with those huge ears and prehensile tail. But his facial features, those were human. Ish. Had one of the planet’s natives found me already?
I was content to study him, silently treading water, until he tried to bite the still-wrapped nutrient bar.
“Hey!” I shouted.
He startled like a cat, dropping the bar like it’d burned him as he leapt a solid three feet straight up. He landed in a crouch, all the fur on his body standing on end, tail bushed out, and—and, holy shit, were those
wings?
They looked like freaky long-fingered hands with thin skin stretched between them. Like bat wings. But more hand-shaped. He spread those hand-wing-things and shook them as he hissed.
Refusing to be intimidated—who would be frightened off by winged jazz hands?—I surged up and slapped the river’s surface, sending a gout of water in his direction. With a startled, bass-y
cheep!
he bolted to the nearest tree and darted up it, vanishing into the shadowed branches.
Painfully aware of my nudity, I rushed from the water and snatched up my staff, holding it in front of me and settling into the fighting stance I’d taken a thousand times before. Because no way would my crazy father let his only daughter go out into the world unable to defend herself.
Why a staff, you might ask? Because in a fight, reach matters, and staves were quickly made from easy-to-find materials. I was better with a sling, but, stupid me, I’d used the strip of fabric meant to be a sling to tie my hair up when the heat and humidity first started threatening to melt me.
I waited, heart pounding, hardly daring to breathe, but there was no sign of the lemur alien. I strained my hearing, but the
only sounds remained the strange calls of the jungle’s residents and the gentle burble of the river behind me.
Only when I was utterly convinced I was alone did I plant the butt of my staff on the ground and slump against it. Shit. I’d meant to startle him so he wouldn’t bite through the wrapper. Eating plastic—even the biodegradable stuff the ISSC used—wasn’t healthy. But then he’d acted aggressively, and I’d responded exactly the way my father taught me.
Now he was gone, and I still didn’t know if he was just a staggeringly humanoid animal, or a sapient being who might be willing to help me.
“Good job, Lynn,” I whispered.
Sighing, I gathered up my discarded clothes and carried them into the river to clean. As soon as that was done, I needed to find shelter before dark fell.
I found shelter amongst the trees, unsurprisingly.
The ground beneath two of the behemoth trees had collapsed, causing them to crash one atop the other in a giant T. Their boles were so thick around that the leveled one would make a decent floor, while the one propped against it provided a pretty solid roof. I figured with a bit of work to close in the sides, it’d serve as a good place to stay.
At least for now. Until I figured out what I was going to do. If I was stuck on this planet indefinitely, then building an actual house for myself might be a good idea. Considering the water lines on all the trees—a line that extended several feet above my head—I’d probably want to build it up in the trees to avoid what was likely seasonal flooding, and that…wouldn’t be easy.
No. Best to focus on my most immediate needs. With shelter secured, I just needed fire and food. And clothing. Not for modesty’s sake, but because human skin was fragile and needed protection from things like thorns, poisonous or irritating substances, and the sun. Most especially the sun. What little there was of it.
I always burned more easily than my darker skinned father, but a couple good peels, and that’d be it. Here…I studied my bare arms. Because of the jungle’s overabundance of deep shadows, I hadn’t spent more than twenty minutes total exposed to direct sunlight, and yet my skin was still pink and tender to the touch. Not quite a burn, but I’d definitely want to avoid prolonged time in the sun.
Maybe I could find an aloe-like plant to help with my burn if it got worse, though the thought of experimenting on my already abused skin made my stomach twist. Or maybe that was the lack of food. Or possibly the water I’d drunk at the river, even though I’d filtered it. Or it could be heat stroke.
Sitting in the deep shadows of my shelter, I wrapped my arms around my knees and gave myself permission to spend a whole three minutes feeling sorry for myself. Then it was time to get up and gather the materials for a fire.
Days on this planet were longer than what I was used to, either on Earth, or aboard the ISSC ships I’d traveled on. In some ways, that was good. It meant I had more daylight to do things like find and carry rocks up to my shelter to make a fire-pit. And then haul up several storage bags worth of clay-like mud to help buffer the hard bark of the trees from said fire-pit, because the last thing I wanted was to set my shelter on fire.
It also meant I had enough light to venture out on my first real forage for food. I found several good options, picked the one that seemed most promising—the riper fruit closer to ground level had been heavily munched on by other critters, so the chances of it being poisonous to me were significantly lower—and took one piece of fruit back to my shelter.
Then came the agonizingly slow process of deciding if the fruit was edible. A task I started after I spent thirty seconds mourning my watch, which would have made things so much easier.
I started by cutting the fruit open and rubbing the flesh—neon pink with streaks of blood red and ember orange—on a patch of unburned skin. While I waited, I took one of the dirtied storage bags to the nearby river, rinsed it out, and carried it back and attached it to the filter, then stuck the filter’s hose into a clean, empty bag.
An hour later, and my skin remained fine. No redness. No itching. No signs that I’d applied anything abnormal but for a clinging trace of stickiness.
Next came the tongue test.
Cutting off a fresh piece of fruit, I barely touched it to the tip of my tongue, then I sat and waited, assessing. No burning. No stinging. My breathing remained free and easy. It tasted a little sweet, and a lot bitter, but the flavor wouldn’t matter if I got hungry enough.
Setting it aside, I ate half of a nutrient bar, then shoved all my food stores into the last clean storage bag, tied a rope around it, and went to go hang it from a tree someplace a good distance away from my camp.
I figured what was good practice to follow in bear country could be life saving here. Except, that also left the bag of goodies free for curious and intelligent critters like the one by the river to get into. So I compromised. I hung it from a tree away from
my campsite, but well within range of the sling I fashioned from another torn strip of emergency blanket and a couple of long, thin, flexible vines.
Exhausted beyond imagining, I sat in front of my unlit fire pit, debating whether to get it going. I wasn’t cold, and I had no food to cook, so why waste time, effort, and—most importantly—fuel?
With a sigh, I wrapped myself in the undamaged emergency blanket, curled up at the back of my shelter, and tried to sleep.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Eight
ZYJII
I shouldn’t do it.
Even as I wove together a rudimentary basket and filled it with a variety of good, edible fruit, I knew I shouldn’t do it. But she needed help, and I wanted to help her.
I’d watched my sky-fallen female lick a fruit but not eat it, and that’d been after she’d rubbed it against her furless skin. It took me too long to realize what she was doing and, more importantly, why she did it.
Of course
she wouldn’t know which fruits were safe to eat, and which would make her sick. She was different enough that I agonized over my selection until well after Vobe left the sky, and Meerya, the first daughter, appeared.
This didn’t mean anything, I reminded myself as I crouched on the branch she’d hung one of her odd bags from. I wasn’t leaving her a mating offer. That would be ridiculous. I didn’t know for certain what she was. I knew only that she’d fallen from the sky, and she didn’t know which fruits were safe to eat.
So I looped a second vine around the branch, tied my basket to it, and firmly ignored the instincts that whispered
mine. Mate.
Basket carefully hung, and both lines smeared with a salve that’d keep insects and other smaller pests from getting at the
stored food, I retreated to another tree to rest. I started to settle down, but hesitated. I finally decided she’d be safe enough I didn’t need to be closer. The resourceful little sky-fallen female could likely handle anything that disturbed her rest. Probably.
I grimaced. Maybe I should keep watch until Vobe’s rising. Just in case.
A familiar scent on the air startled me awake. My eyes darted immediately to the sky-fallen female’s den to find her still safe and sleeping. Sitting away from the trunk I’d slumped against when I quite unintentionally fell asleep, I stretched my working arms above my head and my wing-arms out to the side, all my fingers spread wide as I yawned. I shook my head hard enough to make my ears flap, readjusted the grip my tail had on the branch—an instinctive thing to keep a sleeping Mrriiv from tumbling out of the trees while wandering in the realm of dreams—and slumped back, fully intending to return to sleep.
“Zyjii!”
The quiet hiss barely sounded above the singing night insects, but it caught my attention like a tail-smack to the face.
I jerked to my feet, spinning around and looking to the next branch up to find Phex crouched above me, her tail lashing and a ferocious scowl on her face.
“I’ve been looking all over for you,” she hissed. “Why are you sleeping out here and not in your den?”
Normally, I was happy to see Phex. Aside from my sister, she was the only one of my friends who continued to seek me out after my exile. Today…
I slanted my ears in a sheepish expression, desperately searching for a plausible answer to her question that didn’t
involve the sky-fallen female. Fortunately, I spotted the perfect excuse in the not-so-far distance.
I pointed over her shoulder with a wing-finger, my working hands busy rubbing the lingering traces of sleep from my eyes.
“The blossoms close up and disappear during the day,” I said. “I didn’t
mean
to fall asleep here—” which was the truth “—but I must have nodded off while waiting for Vobe to rest.”
Phex glanced over her shoulder, spotted the dappled glow of the ee vynla patch, and scowled.
“What do you want with those?” she asked.
“I want to know how they glow.”
Her lips parted in disbelief, ears pressed flat against her head. Shaking out her wing-arms, she snapped her tail at me in annoyance.
“It doesn’t matter
how
they glow,” she said. “That’s what ee vynlas
do
. They glow. We should harvest some to take back to the village. The dyers will be most pleased.”
A quick check of Meerya’s position in the sky told me all I needed to know.
“There’s not enough time,” I said. She tossed me a questioning look, and I shrugged my wing-arms. “Vobe will rise before we get back and their glow will fade, taking any color they produce with it. The dyers need most of the night to extract the pigments.”
“That’s why you’re all the way out here looking at flowers,” Phex guessed.
I bobbed an ear in agreement. “The patches closest to the village have already been picked over, and these ones are too far away to be of use.”
Leaving me free to study them at my leisure.
That they grew so close to the sky-fallen female’s den was merely happy coincidence.
Phex leveled her ears at me, a smile curving one corner of her thin lips. I braced myself. I knew what inevitably came with that particular slant of her ears.
I tried to head it off, gesturing with a working-hand. “Come join me. This is a small patch, and I don’t see any sign of the glow bugs you usually see fluttering about ee vynla. Maybe there’s a reason for that.”
“I’m surprised your curiosity hasn’t gotten you into trouble yet, Zyjii.” She reached for me with a working hand, and I let her take one of mine. “Come back to the village with me, where it’s safe.”
I stiffened, my wing arms twitching open before I could control myself. “Have the elders called me back, then?”
Her expression shuttered, ears pressed against her skull as she released me and stepped back.
“No,” she admitted. “But if you’d just come and apologize⁠—”
“I did apologize. Over and over.” Every time something went wrong, even when it wasn’t my fault. I became known as the troublemaker, and so all troubles were blamed on me. “It’s safer for all of us if I stay far away from the village.”
“If you’d just promise to keep your tail to yourself, they’d⁠—”
“No,” I hissed hotly, though I kept my voice low. I didn’t want to risk waking the sky-fallen female and have her catch Phex's notice. That’d lead to all sorts of bad things. “I’m not going to change who I am to please the village.”
“Then what about me?” she demanded. Her pain didn’t touch her expression, but the way her tail wrapped around her ankle and squeezed gave it away.
Seeing her hurt made my chest ache, but I wouldn’t relent. I
couldn’t
relent. There was still so much for me to discover and learn. I wasn’t ready to give that up.
When I remained silent, struggling to find the words to convey everything I was and everything I felt, she shuffled closer.
“Come back for me,” she breathed. “Let us knot our threads together.”
I reared back, wing-arms snapping out. My immediate, visceral reaction hit her like a tail-slap to the face. I saw the impact. Was helpless to stop it as her expression shuttered, her whole body going still so she gave nothing of her inner pain away.
“I
can’t
, Phex,” I said, a plea in my voice I knew she heard. One she chose to ignore. “You want me to change, and I
can’t
.”
“Won’t, you mean,” she spat.
I clenched my wing-arms in tight, my tail wrapped around my ankle the same way hers had been just moments ago. Spinning on her clawed toes, she threw herself from the branch, wing-arms snapping out to carry her away.
A soft sound of distress escaped me before I could stop it. Dropping into a crouch, I wrapped my working arms around my knees, my wing-fingers over my head, and tried to keep my heart from caving in on itself. Why didn’t she understand that this was for the best? Why couldn’t she be happy with me as I was?
I peered out between my arms, toward the sky-fallen female’s den. More trouble? Or would she prove to be something good? Something the village might see as beneficial.
Would I have any chance of convincing them of that?
Somehow, I doubted it.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Nine
LYNN
Imagine
my surprise when I got up the next morning and discovered someone—my mysterious possible local, probably—had added a hanging basket full of fruit to my food stores.
I pulled up the basket first, my stomach gurgling as I picked up a strawberry-shaped thing the size of both my fists. The bright, radioactive green skin made it look like something to avoid, but that was Earth rules, and
everything
in this jungle had insane amounts of pigmentation.
My stomach growled again, louder. I could choke down another nutrient bar. Or…
I pulled one of the fruits from the basket, sniffed it, and took a tentative bite. The skin was sour enough to make my eyes water, with a thick, bitter rind like an orange. Beneath those, though, the flesh was deep magenta, juicy, and sweet.
God, I hope it didn’t poison me, because that was
good
.
Tucking the basket under my arm, I took in the jungle around me, making a special point of looking up.
“Thank you,” I said.
A twitch of motion in the corner of my eye. I whipped toward it, certain I’d seen a striped tail, but there was nothing there. If
my local friend had decided to hang around and watch me accept his gift, then he’d hidden himself well.
That was fine. I’d scared him yesterday, yet he’d brought me a nice variety of fruits to try. And it had to be him. Who else could it be?
I’d coax him out of hiding eventually, I decided. But first, breakfast. Then I needed to find a rock sharp enough to carve my stick into a proper spear. And set traps. Anything that’d put fresh meat on the metaphorical table.
Ten minutes later, I still felt fine, so I scarfed down the rest of the radioactive green fruit—after carefully peeling it—then selected a couple more options to try out later.
With food and temporary shelter secured, I rehung the basket, retrieved my staff, then set out to explore my new home.
Muddy riverbanks.
I narrowed my eyes at the expanse of brown slop, munching on the last of the fruit I’d brought with me. This one was kind of flat and tasted a bit like jackfruit, only with a bit more punch. It was also dusty purple speckled with neon orange and mint green. Ugly to look at, but it sure tasted good.
Back to the mud. Rivers in Montana were relatively safe places, since the only big predators were land predators, and if you bumped into a bear at a creek, it was probably more interested in catching fish than chasing you. Mountain lions were ambush predators. If you saw one…well, you weren’t
safe
, exactly, but they probably weren’t planning to eat you unless you did something stupid like run away.
My papa didn’t raise me as a fool, though. I knew perfectly well there were places in the US where muddy riverbanks
meant crocodiles. Or alligators. Or crocodiles
and
alligators. In places like the African Savannah, watering holes were especially dangerous, because all animals needed water, and it was easier to set up shop next to the only source of said water for miles and miles and wait for your next meal to stroll into your mouth.
This humid hellscape of a jungle was not a desert savannah. Water was plentiful and easy to come by. That did not make the river safer.
Ever heard about fresh water sharks? How about piranha? Those things
loved
jungle rivers.
But it was the mud that bothered me. I’d seen no animal sign at all around the rocky shore I’d explored yesterday. Aside from the danger snails and lacy tailed frogs, I hadn’t seen anything in the water, either.
I crouched within the coiling fronds of a fern-like plant with leaves as long as I was tall and studied the mud. Tracks churned it into an illegible mess. I didn’t see any signs of gore, or logs moving against the current, or anything else to raise an alarm. From my very careful observation, it looked like a well-used river access.
With a grunt of satisfaction, I settled in, sling at the ready.
The hardest part of hunting was the waiting, holding yourself as still as possible for extended periods of time. As the foreign sun rose higher in the sky, the temperature skyrocketed, even in the shade, making the wait that much harder. Moisture wafted from the leaves of plants overhanging the river in visible wisps, adding to the general mugginess.
I was in the middle of slowly flexing and relaxing my calves to keep them from cramping when the undergrowth nearby rustled. I froze, then slowly checked to make sure my sling was loaded and ready. I moved my arm back, wrist cocked and ready to whirl, but then the creature stepped out of the shadows into
the light dappling the muddy riverbank, and all thoughts of fresh kebabs for lunch fled.
The creature had cloven hoofs like a goat or deer, and the sloping back and short tail of a hyena. Its head was definitely on the equine side, with a single massive horn protruding from its brow.
I barely managed not to wheeze. It was a unicorn. An actual fucking unicorn. Ugly as sin, sure, with bulging muscles more suited to a rhino than a horse, and it had a tiny set of auxiliary…hands? Limbs. Kind of like the depiction of T-Rex in that one movie from the nineties. But it could definitely be classified as a unicorn.
It was also roughly the size of an African elephant. No way in hell would my little pea sling phase it. It probably wouldn’t even annoy it.
I watched, breathless, at the giant unicorn stepped daintily through the mud and bent its massive head to drink. Its hind legs actually lifted off the ground, dangling uselessly in the air, and I bit the side of my fist to keep from giggling. It used its little auxiliary limbs to push itself upright, gave its head a shake, and then strode slowly back the way it came.
Okay. So. That happened. Holy wow.
I shook my head. Of all the strange-ass alien shit I’d seen in the year since I’d left Earth, a giant mutated unicorn definitely topped the list.
It kind of made me wonder what other weirdness the jungle had in store for me.
OceanofPDF.com

Copyright © 2025 by Lindsay Fox
All rights reserved.
No part of this book may be reproduced in any form or by any electronic or mechanical means, including information storage and retrieval systems, without written permission from the author, except for the use of brief quotations in a book review.
This book is a work of fiction. While reference might be made to actual historical events or existing locations, the names, characters, places, and incidents are either the product of the author’s imagination or are used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual personas, living or dead, business establishments, events, or locales is entirely coincidental.
Any use of this publication to “train” generative artificial intelligence (AI) technologies to generate text is expressly prohibited. The author reserves all rights to license uses of this work for generative AI training and development of machine learning language models.
No generative AI was used in the creation of this book or its cover.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Ten
ZYJII
It took
me a while to figure out what my sky-fallen female was doing.
I decided to keep an eye on her when she set out from her den that morning, and not at all because she’d spoken to me. I didn’t understand the words, but her intent had been clear. She accepted the fruit I’d left for her, looked out in the forest, and offered words of what I hoped were gratitude.
Following her was just good sense. Watching was the first step to understanding, or so the hunting tales told.
So when she hunkered down near a dangerous swath of muddy riverbank, I perched on a branch above her and out of her immediate view, and I watched. And I puzzled. She just…sat there. Occasionally she’d check the rock she’d placed in the interesting tangle of vine and cloth she carried. Sometimes she stood slowly and moved about a bit. But mostly she just crouched there, still and staring.
Perhaps she was doing what I liked to do. She certainly seemed surprised and awed when a pryn strode past her hiding place to get a drink from the river. I tried to see it as she must,
but…it was just a pryn. Big. Amiable. Only dangerous when they came together in large groups to breed and raise their young.
Pryn were so safe that young kits often made a game of riding on their sloped shoulders to see how far they could go before a hunter spotted them and sent them home again.
My sky-fallen remained still and hidden as the pryn took her drink and strode back into the forest.
More denizens of the forest followed. A trigiz, all waddling movement and bristling quills, its two noses snuffling and waving independently of each other. It skirted close to the sky-fallen female’s hiding place, but she didn’t move, and it didn’t notice her. Or, more like, it trusted in its dangerous quills enough to not view her as a threat. It, too, took a drink and retreated back into the forest.
A family of vriiyn came. The father did a poor job of keeping the curious kits tucked safely in his pouch, their antics making me smile. The mother sniffed at the mud and sang a warning, sending her mate and kits scampering back into the forest’s sheltering shadows.
I tensed at the haunting cry. Vriiyn were small, as predators went. That made them as wary as they were curious, and more intelligent than the big hunters. The warning cry at the edge of the mud meant something lurked nearby.
Muddy shores were always dangerous, especially in places where zeeving grass didn’t grow. I frantically searched the undergrowth around my sky-fallen female, readying my spear as I did, but I saw nothing out of place.
I should just drop down there and warn her. Tell her it wasn’t safe. But how? If I found her liquid words strange and unknowable, then it’d be the same for her. I could try to scare her off, but after her fierce reaction to me poking through her things yesterday, I thought it more likely I’d receive a whack from her stick for my troubles.
A pair of kiclucks ventured out from the undergrowth, noses high. My sky-fallen female had chosen her perch well, since they didn’t scent her. They also didn’t scent the danger lurking along the river’s edge.
The faintest shift of leaves caught my attention, and my ears whipped to pinpoint the spot, but the sky-fallen chose that moment to move. A twitch of her wrist set the tangle of vines, cloth, and rock swinging, then spinning. Her eyes never left the kiclucks as her contraption snapped straight out. There was a sharp sound of rock striking flesh. I gaped down at the kiclucks, one dropped where her rock had struck it, the other already disappeared into the undergrowth.
H-how?
I stared, amazed, as my sky-fallen female wound up the vine and cloth creation that was clearly some kind of weapon. One that let her launch small rocks with lethal force with minimal movement on her part.
Taking up her stick—though in her hands, I suspected it became something more like a headless spear—she finally left the relative safety of her hiding spot.
I tensed, my tail wrapping tight around the branch I perched on as I leaned out, frantically searching. No, no, no. She was a stranger from beyond Vobe’s glaring eye. There was no way she could know about mlyrks. About how they baited their traps with smaller prey. The fact she baited the trap herself wouldn’t matter to it. It⁠—
My clever little female stabbed her headless spear into the mud. How did she know to do that? I wondered, but quickly realized that just because she knew
to
look didn’t mean she knew what to look
for
, because she didn’t see the reeds shift at the edge of the mud.
“Look out!” I shouted.
Stupid! She wouldn’t understand! My tail snapped free of the branch as I launched myself downward, spear held in the hunting grip my sire had taught me.
She might not understand me, but my little sky-fallen was
fast
. She paused in reaching for her kicluck prize just as the mlyrk burst from the mud, its maw gaping open as it lunged straight for her. Letting out a shriek not all that different from the vriiryn, she swung her headless spear around and—
crack!
The mlyrk was too big for her to stop it, but that cracking blow gave her the chance to twist out of the way of its teeth-filled maw. The instant her feet settled, she whipped her headless spear around again, striking hard enough the force of the blow sent her staggering back.
Crack!
The mlyrk flopped, hissing and snarling. It’s disorientation gave me the split second I needed to adjust the angle of my fall, and then I struck. The shard-rock head of my spear slipped cleanly into its neck, right at the back of its head, severing its spine. The hissing stopped, but the flailing became more wild, unpredictable.
A mlyrk’s death throes were nearly as dangerous as the living creature. Mrriiv hunters had been caught and crushed by its massive, flat tail.
Leaving my spear in place, I leapt away, snagging the sky-fallen female by the waist. I carried her to the nearest tangle of tunjun roots, where it was safe. Then I carefully set her down and put distance between us, giving her my most charming smile in the hopes she wouldn’t whack me the way she’d whacked the mlyrk. Unlike the massive river beast, I didn’t think I’d survive it.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Eleven
LYNN
I eyed the local,
who I pegged as the same one who’d gotten into my makeshift pack yesterday. Probably also the same one who’d left me a basket of fruit to eat. And he’d definitely just saved my ass from a river monster.
He grinned at me, all sharp teeth and charm. The snap of his ridiculously long tail gave away his nerves, though. Assuming I was reading the body language right.
Whatever. He’d dropped out of nowhere to spear the monster, then hauled me away before a thrashing coil of solid muscle could squish me flat. I figured that meant he didn’t plan to hurt me. It also meant I owed him one.
Deciding the best course of action for the moment was to ignore him in preference for the bigger threat, I focused on the felled river monster.
Yeesh. Talk about terrifying creatures from the pit of Hell. Its face looked vaguely like a cuttlefish and crocodile had a lovechild, all teeth and short tentacles—arms? whatever a cuttlefish’s face limbs were—and forward facing alien eyes. The body’s thrashing eventually stopped, settling in the mud to keep twitching as the last nerve impulses sputtered out. It’s long
narrow body had way too many legs and was topped with a forest of spines that looked suspiciously like the river reeds growing nearby.
No wonder I hadn’t seen the thing. I’d been looking for plants that looked displaced, but those had blended in too well.
Why pick me to munch on? It certainly hadn’t reacted to any of the previous animals that came traipsing along.
Once it stopped twitching, I took a step toward it. The local chattered and hopped past me, indicating it was probably safe now. I followed more cautiously, staff held at the ready. Just in case.
Studying the creature’s remains, I finally decided it probably determined edible prey based on weight. Its tail ended in a broad disk that matched the remains of a depression in the mud, right in the center of the accessible portion of the riverbank. It hadn’t gone after the unicorn because it’d been too big. The quilled thing must have been too much of a threat, even for the monster. It hadn’t gone after the little lizard rodents because they were too small. The wolf size catlike fox marsupial things had fled before stepping on the pressure-plate tail. Lucky me, I hit the thing’s Goldilocks zone. I was just the right size.
My new friend chattered at me some more, my brain implant picking out individual sounds and separating them into distinct words. His language sounded a lot like Hirza’s native tongue. Lots of growls, but where hers featured yips and yaps and barks, his had drawn out vowels and short, sharp cheeps and peeps.
It was, dare I say, a very cute language.
He pointed at the monster’s flat tail and held one hand out flat, palm up. He then walked two fingers of his other hand over it, and then closed his fingers around the ‘legs,’ trapping them. He followed it with a chomp of his impressively sharp teeth.
Message received. The mud monster’s tail wasn’t just a pressure plate, it’d snap up and curl around its prey, holding it
in place long enough to make a quick kill. I’d clearly missed that part, what with being busy whacking the thing over the head to keep its teeth-tacles away from me.
I narrowed my eyes at it. “But is it edible?”
My friend’s two big ears snapped straight up, leaning toward me so hard they quivered. I lifted an eyebrow at him, and he tipped his head to the side, one ear relaxing to emphasize the puzzled puppy head-tilt.
He gestured from himself to the mud monster, then reached forward with both hands, clasped them around nothing, and pulled them back toward himself.
“You want to help me haul this thing out of the mud,” I guessed.
His ears did that straight-up quiver thing again, and I had to bite the inside of my lip to keep from smiling. His tail stilled, except for the tip, which wiggled exactly like a cat getting ready to pounce. The rest of him remained crouched, muscles relaxed. Trying to make himself look smaller, I realized. Less intimidating.
He was too damn cute to be a lethal hunter, yet there we were, with the evidence of his skills lodged firmly at the base of the mud monster’s skull.
I found it surprisingly hard to be wary of him. It was the ears, I decided. They were, without a doubt, the most expressive thing about him, and they all but shouted hopefulness and curiosity and interest.
Plus, there was no way I could butcher that massive mud monster on my own.
So I jerked my head to the monster and said, “All right, then. Come give me a hand.”
“American crocodiles can weigh up to two thousand pounds,” I told my companion as he wrapped several vines around the mud monster’s beaver-flat tail and rear most limbs. “Think this guy is that heavy?”
My local friend chattered back at me. Hauling the ends of the vines over his shoulder, back to the monster, he braced himself with his feet spread wide. Every muscle covering his finely sculpted torso flexed, thighs bunching and wings partially unfurling, and the massive monster shifted. One inch. Then more, until my friend had enough momentum to haul the thing well-away from the water and into a nearby tangle of roots.
Tossing the vines up over a root as thick around as my waist, he caught the ends and gave them a solid tug. The mud monster carcass shifted a fraction and my lemur friend grunted. Shifting his grip on the vine, he braced his feet, partially spread his wings, and
heaved
. And actually lifted the massive monster into the air.
Definitely stronger than he looked.
I rushed to help, gathering the trailing ends of the vines and finding a solid aerial root to wrap them around. And so it went. Each time he hauled the carcass a little higher, I took up the slack, using friction and tension to hold the line steady while he readjusted his grip for the next heave.
As soon as the mud monster left the ground completely, my friend grunted and chittered something, too rapid-fire for my translator to pick up. I didn’t need him to tell me what to do, though. I quickly tied each vine in a taut line hitch, and made sure they were good and tight.
“We’re good,” I said.
He glanced at me over his shoulder, studied my knots, and slowly released the vines. My knots held. Of course they did. Daddy taught me well.
Confident the monster wouldn’t fall back to the ground, my friend hurried toward me. I tensed, but his attention was on the vines. No, on my knots. He touched one, tail lashing whip quick, head tilting one way, then the other, like a very big, very puzzled puppy.
Adorable.
“Would you like me to show you how to do it?” I asked.
His ears swiveled in my direction a split instant before his head followed. He blinked large moss green eyes at me, all but quivering with excitement.
Lips twitching, I found a length of vine he’d discarded and brought it back to him. Looping it around the root, I handed one end to him and mimed pulling it taut. His ears flicked, but he did it. As soon as there was tension, I looped my end over the part he held twice, then back around the bottom in the taut line hitch. I slid the knot, taking up all the slack, then let go. He tugged on his end, but the knot remained solidly in place.
His eyes went absolutely huge with delight. Chattering excitedly, he handed me his end of the line and crouched to play with the knot, sliding it up and down the line. He unraveled it, then attempted to tie it himself.
“Almost,” I said. “Like this.”
I showed him again, then untied it for him. He got it on the second try.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Twelve
ZYJII
My sky-fallen
female watched me intently as I pulled one of my shard-stone knives from its sheath and began the messy process of gutting and skinning the mlyrk. But first…
I carefully dug the tip of my knife into the mlyrk’s gums and pried out one of its big front fangs, then offered the trophy to the female. She stared at it for a moment before her eyes shifted to my hunter’s pride—a necklace strung with the big claw from a juvenile grrn and smaller fangs from the other kills I’d made.
Her hand went to her own throat, where a strangely shiny thread hung, then shrugged and accepted her trophy.
“Traditionally we use claws to mark our first hunt,” I told her as I went back to work butchering the mlyrk. “But mlyrk claws aren’t as impressive as their teeth, and that’s the important part.”
She shifted closer to me. I flicked one ear toward her before I glanced down to find her staring hard at my back-up knife. Shard-stone knives had sharp edges, but dulled quickly and chipped easily. A smart hunter always carried at least a pair of knives, along with some unshaped shard-stone stowed away in a pouch just in case.
Lifting her eyes—not quite blue, but not grey either—to mine, she gave me her lilting, song-like words. The lift at the end made it sound like a question.
I glanced down to find her pointing at my spare knife.
“You’re welcome to take it out for a look, though you’ll have to get it yourself.” At her confused head-tilt, I lifted my hands, already stained with mlyrk blood. “I’d make a mess of the sheath, and I don’t want to do that.”
She approached me cautiously. When I got back to work, pretending to pay her no attention, she started fiddling with the toggle and strap that held the knife in its sheath.
Did she even know what a knife was?
I tried to keep one eye on the little sky-fallen female without being obvious about it. She handled my shard-blade with care, keeping her strange clawless fingertips away from the sharpened edge. Convinced she had some idea what a knife was
and
how to handle it without hurting herself, I returned my attention to my work.
And was more than a little startled when the sky-fallen female joined me, working with practiced efficiency to help me dress and butcher the carcass.
“Are you a hunter for your village, then?” I asked. If she was, maybe she’d lost her hunter’s pride in her fall from the sky?
I found it unnerving that her ears didn’t move at all. They were small things stuck to the sides of her head. So flat. So expressionless. The two dark lines of fur on her brow more than made up for the lack, though.
At my question, they winged upward, then dropped, coming together in a way that furrowed the skin between them, creating intriguing little wrinkles. I started to reach up to my own face to see if my brow moved like that, but stopped when I caught a whiff of the rich blood saturating the fur of my hands.
“My sire is a hunter,” I explained, though I knew she couldn’t understand a single word I said. “He taught me everything he knows.” I paused, then admitted, “At my dame’s insistence.”
Ah, Zyjii. My curious, clever little vriiryn
, she used to say.
You’d never be happy working a single trade, would you?
No, I wouldn’t. She’d known me so well. Had loved me despite my oddities. In her mouth, the word
vriiryn
had been an endearment. One that made me giggle and attempt to catch her tail, just like a vriiryn kit, and she’d smile and catch me up to hug me close.
In the mouths of the villagers,
vriiryn
became something cruel, a denouncement that cut my soul and left my heart bleeding. Because to them, it meant
trouble
.
A light touch settled on my shoulder, and I glanced down to find the sky-fallen female frowning up at me with an expression easily read as concern, even without the signals from ears, tail, and hand-wings I was used to.
Managing to smile for her, I forced my ears upright into a more cheerful position. She eyed me, like she didn’t believe the change in my body language, but she let her hand drop. Only to make a dismayed sound. I followed her gaze to the streaks of brackish red marring my fur.
I wrinkled my nose. She babbled, the words rich in tone and lyrical in rhythm as she wrapped her hand in the strange fabric of her waist-wrap and attempted to pat away the smears of blood.
“It’s fine,” I reassured her. “I’ll need to take a swim in the river to wash off afterward anyway. See?”
I stepped back and spread my arms to reveal the inevitable spatters of blood and gore dotting my chest. She made a strange expression—nose wrinkled up and lips twisted to one side as the lines of brow fur crashed down—but bobbed her head and returned to the task of butchering the mlyrk.
As soon as her back was to me, I stroked a finger over the mark she’d left on my arm. Perhaps I imagined it, but I swore I could still feel the heat of her. It seeped into my fur and made my skin tingle.
OceanofPDF.com

Chapter Thirteen
LYNN
After butchering the monster,
my local friend wrapped up the chunks of raw meat in big flat leaves, tying each parcel shut with a length of vine before tying a stack together. While he did that, I gathered the hide and some other key useful bits, setting them aside in a tidy pile.
He chattered at me the entire time he worked, sometimes gesturing with his hands, other times with his tail, or his wings. And all the while, his ears danced, swiveling back and forth, drooping to stick straight out at the sides of his head, pinning back.
My original impression seemed to be correct. Whatever my friend was, his people expressed most of their emotion through ear movement.
Hefting several of the stacks of meat over his shoulder, he gestured to the remaining one and spoke at me. Frowning, I went to it and tested its weight. Not too heavy. I quickly used one of the broad leaves and a slender vine to wrap up the bits I intended to save for later use, then slung that and the stack of meat packets over my shoulder and followed him.
He led the way further up the river. He remained on constant alert, ears up and swiveling, often in the opposite direction of his face as he checked both aurally and visually for threats. I followed his example, keeping my staff at the ready.
We made it to a rocky patch of river without incident. He studied the ground around the bank before approaching the river. Whatever he saw made him relax. He waved me over, and when I joined him, he reached into the water and lifted a section of plant up for me to see.
I recognized it. It was the teal and purple grass that’d grown where I took my dip yesterday.
My translator picked up one highly relevant word out of the constant stream of his chatter.
Safe
.
“I’m going to go out on a limb and say that grass deters predators,” I said. “And since you brought us here with stacks of raw meat, I’m assuming that applies to land predators as well as water.”
Good to know.
I didn’t know if it was my tone of voice or my body language, but he flicked one ear. After a quick wash to get the worst of the blood off his hands and arms, he rose and started gathering wood. for a fire.
I followed his example. I probably should have taken the time to scrub the rest of me clean, too, but that could wait. I was starting to get hungry, and the thought of fresh roasted meat had me salivating.
I helped my friend collect dry wood. I wasn’t at all surprised when he produced a pair of stones and bits of fluff for tinder from one of his pouches. Striking the rocks produced the expected sparks, and he had a good sized fire going in short order.
He’d set aside a number of long branches, and, pulling a small ball of twine from yet another pouch, he tied them
together, creating two tripods. He set one on either side of the fire, then settled the final, longest branch into the crooks at the top, creating a kind of spit. One too tall to do any roasting on, but it was perfect for draping thin strips of meat to smoke.
Food preservation, primitive style. Something I’d done a fair amount of back home in Montana.
I watched silently as he untied another pouch from his belt. He rubbed the contents over a strip of meat before hanging it over the spit, the scent of herbs and spice pungent in the best way.
Not about to let him do all the work, I set to making skewers so we could eat sooner.
Once I got the first skewer done, I nodded toward his pouch of herbs. “Can I borrow some of whatever that is?”
He tipped his head, one ear flopping to the side a little.
“To season these,” I explained.
I hefted the skewer, pointed at the pouch, then made a sprinkling gesture with the fingers of one hand.
Understanding brought his ears to attention. Looking more intrigued than ever, he nudged the pouch toward me, and I scooted closer to make use of it.
We worked in companionable silence until we had all the meat either roasting, smoking, or steaming in their leaf packets with the addition of some wild mushrooms and something that looked a little bit like a cross between a garlic bulb and fresh strawberries. By unspoken consent, we headed to the river afterward to clean up.
I stepped straight into the water, since I was caked up to my thighs in mud, blood, and gore. Once I scrubbed the worst of the gunk off my hands and arms, I sat and hoisted one foot up, bracing it on my knee, so I could get at the mud stuck between my toes. And to check on the blisters. They⁠—
A long fingered hand wrapped around my ankle and yanked it up, startling me out of my thoughts and nearly sending me toppling backward into the water.
“Hey!” I spluttered. “Haven’t you ever heard of personal space?”
My friend twitched at the sharp snap of my voice. His eyes went to my face, flicked down to my ankle in his hand, then back to my face again and widened. He immediately released me, babbling something as he pointed at my foot before he lifted one of his own to show me. Which was more than a little distracting, because unlike me he wasn’t sitting. He was crouched next to me, now balanced on a single foot with his body bent and contorted like some kind of circus performer.
It took me a second to understand what he was trying to get at. His foot was very,
very
different from mine.
For one thing, he had six (6!) toes, grouped into two, wide spaced clusters—like a permanent Vulcan salute—with disproportionately large thumb-like digits on each side. At least, disproportionate for a human hand. I had the vague memory of lemur feet looking something like that. No need to wonder why. The thick, super long digits were made for gripping tree branches. I’d already noticed he was semi-digitigrade. He stood with his heels resting on the ground, but walked on the balls of his feet, and I bet he could jump like no one’s business.
Actually, I’d already seen him clear a twenty-feet high leap with ease, so yeah. He was definitely a product of his jungle environment.
As I studied the offered foot, he made a smug kind of sound and gently tapped the top of the foot he’d initially grabbed.
“Oh,” I said. “You wanted to get a closer look at my feet because they’re so different.”
I could understand that. What with my intent staring at his own strange-to-me foot.
I narrowed my eyes at him. “Fine. But not more grabbing. That shit’s not okay.”
He didn’t really understand me, but he gave me a charming grin and hopeful puppy-dog eyes.
Sighing, I braced myself back on my hands and wiggled my toes in invitation.
OceanofPDF.com

OceanofPDF.com