International DUMB,
aa e A ie ud
?M IN THE
DEAL ‘
Selected lines only
Ola
Contains A Will and a Way and The Return of Rafe MacKade

Digitized by the Internet Archive
in 2022 with funding from
Kahle/Austin Foundation
https://archive.org/details/cominghometowint0000robe

Nora Roberts is the New York Times bestselling author of more
than two hundred novels. A born storyteller, she creates a blend
of warmth, humour and poignancy that speaks directly to her
readers and has earned her almost every award for excellence in
her field. The youngest of five children, Nora Roberts lives in
western Maryland. She has two sons.
Visit her website at www.noraroberts.com

Also available from Nora Roberts
And Mills & Boon
Forbidden Summer
Summer by the Sea
Sunshine and Summer Kisses
Snowflakes and Mistletoe Kisses
The Magic of Christmas

MILLS & BOON

This novel is entirely a work of fiction. The names, characters
and incidents portrayed in it are the work of the author’s
imagination. Any resemblance to actual persons, living or
dead, events or localities is entirely coincidental.
Mills & Boon
An imprint of HarperCollinsPublishers Ltd
1 London Bridge Street
London SE1 9GF
This paperback edition 2020
First published in Great Britain by Mills & Boon,
an imprint of HarperCollinsPublishers Ltd 2020
Copyright
Coming Home to the Winter Wonderland © 2020 Harlequin Books S.A.
A Will and a Way © 1986 Nora Roberts
The Return of Rafe MacKade © 1995 Nora Roberts
Nora Roberts asserts the moral right to be
identified as the author of this work.
A catalogue record for this book is
available from the British Library.
ISBN: 978-0-263-27652-7
’ MIX
Paper from
responsible sources
a FSC’ C007454
This book is produced from independently certified FSC™ paper
to ensure responsible forest management.
For more information visit: www.harpercollins.co.uk/green
Printed and bound in Great Britain by
CPI Group (UK) Ltd, Croydon, CRO 4YY
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced,
stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means,
electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise,
without the prior permission of the publishers.
This book is sold subject to the condition that it shall not, by way of trade
or otherwise, be lent, re-sold, hired out or otherwise circulated without
the publisher’s prior consent in any form of binding or cover other than
that in which it is published and without a similar condition including this
condition being imposed on the subsequent purchaser.

A Will and a Way

tensE Saini Rite eee
— | bag oars = AryaP>
=i
y : PS dg v :
we > Puy Sine Mo -
Pete Bae
= Adee. as

For my family members, who, fortunately,
aren’t as odd as the relatives in this book.

Chapter 1
One hundred fifty million dollars was nothing to sneeze
at. No one in the vast, echoing library of Jolley’s Fol-
ley would have dared. Except Pandora. She did so with
more enthusiasm than delicacy into a tattered tissue.
After blowing her nose, she sat back, wishing the anti-
histamine she had taken would live up to its promise of
fast relief. She wished she’d never caught the wretched
cold in the first place. More, she wished she were any-
where else in the world.
Surrounding her were dozens of books she’d read and
hundreds more she’d never given a thought to, though
she’d spent hours and hours in the library. The scent of
the leather-bound volumes mixed with the lighter, homier
scent of dust. Pandora preferred either to the strangling
fragrance of lilies that filled three stocky vases.

10 A Will and A Way
In one corner of the room was a marble-and-ivory
chess set, where she’d lost a great many highly disputed
matches. Uncle Jolley, bless his round, innocent face and
pudgy fingers, had been a compulsive and skilled cheat.
Pandora had never taken a loss in stride. Maybe that’s
why he’d so loved to beat her, by fair means or foul.
Through the three arching windows the light shone
dull and a little gloomy. It suited her mood and, she
thought, the proceedings. Uncle Jolley had loved to set
scenes.
When she loved—and she felt this emotion for a select
few who’d touched her life—she put everything she had
into it. She’d been born with boundless energy. She’d de-
veloped iron-jawed stubbornness. She’d loved Uncle Jol-
ley in her uninhibited, expansive fashion, acknowledging
then accepting all of his oddities. He might have been
ninety-three, but he’d never been dull or fussy.
A month before his death, they’d gone fishing—poach-
ing actually—in the lake that was owned and stocked by
his neighbor. When they’d caught more than they could .
eat, they’d sent a half-dozen trout back to the owner,
cleaned and chilled.
She was going to miss Uncle Jolley with his round
cherub’s face, high, melodious voice and wicked hu-
mors. From his ten-foot, extravagantly framed portrait,
he looked down at her with the same little smirk he’d
worn whether he’d been making a million-dollar merger
or handing an unsuspecting vice-president a drink in a
dribble glass. She missed him already. No one else in her
far-flung, contrasting family understood and accepted her

Nora Roberts 11
with the same ease. It had been one more reason she’d
adored him.
Miserable with grief, aggravated by a head cold, Pan-
dora listened to Edmund Fitzhugh drone on, and on, with
the preliminary technicalities of Uncle Jolley’s will. Max-
imillian Jolley McVie had never been one for brevity.
He’d always said if you were going to do something, do
it until the steam ran out. His last will and testament
bore his style.
Not bothering to hide her disinterest in the proceed-
ings, Pandora took a comprehensive survey of the other
occupants of the library.
To have called them mourners would have been just
the sort of bad joke Jolley would have appreciated.
There was Jolley’s only surviving son, Uncle Carl-
son, and his wife. What was her name? Lona—Mona?
Did it matter? Pandora saw them sitting stiff backed and
alert in matching shades of black. They made her think
of crows on a telephone wire just waiting for something
to fall at their feet.
Cousin Ginger—sweet and pretty and harmless, if
rather vacuous. Her hair was Jean Harlow blond this
month. Good old Cousin Biff was there in his black
Brooks Brothers suit. He sat back, one leg crossed over
the other as if he were watching a polo match. Pandora
was certain he wasn’t missing a word. His wife—was it
Laurie?—had a prim, respectful look on her face. From
experience, Pandora knew she wouldn’t utter a word un-
less it were to echo Biff. Uncle Jolley had called her

12 A Will and A Way
a silly, boring fool. Hating to be cynical, Pandora had
to agree.
There was Uncle Monroe looking plump and success-
ful and smoking a big cigar despite the fact that his sis-
ter, Patience, waved a little white handkerchief in front
of her nose. Probably because of it, Pandora corrected.
Uncle Monroe liked nothing better than to make his in-
effectual sister uncomfortable.
Cousin Hank looked macho and muscular, but hardly
more than his tough athletic wife, Meg. They’d hiked
the Appalachian Trail on their honeymoon. Uncle Jolley
had wondered if they stretched and limbered up before
lovemaking.
The thought caused Pandora to giggle. She stifled it
halfheartedly with the tissue just before her gaze wan-
dered over to cousin Michael. Or was it second cousin
Michael? She’d never been able to get the technical busi-
ness straight. It seemed a bit foolish when you weren’t
talking blood relation anyway. His mother had been
Uncle Jolley’s niece by Jolley’s son’s second marriage.
It was a complicated state of affairs, Pandora thought.
But then Michael Donahue was a complicated man.
They’d never gotten along, though she knew Uncle Jol-
ley had favored him. As far as Pandora was concerned,
anyone who made his living writing a silly television
series that kept people glued to a box rather than doing
something worthwhile was a materialistic parasite. She
had a momentary flash of pleasure as she remembered
telling him just that.
Then, of course, there were the women. When a man

Nora Roberts 7 13
dated centerfolds and showgirls it was obvious he wasn’t
interested in intellectual stimulation. Pandora smiled as
she recalled stating her view quite clearly the last time
Michael had visited Jolley’s Folley. Uncle Jolley had
nearly fallen off his chair laughing.
Then her smile faded. Uncle Jolley was gone. And if
she was honest, which she was often, she’d admit that of
all the people in the room at that moment, Michael Do-
nahue had cared for and enjoyed the old man more than
anyone but herself.
You'd hardly know that to look at him now, she mused.
He looked disinterested and slightly arrogant. She noticed
the set, grim line around his lips. Pandora had always
considered Donahue’s mouth his best feature, though he
rarely smiled at her unless it was to bare his teeth and
snarl.
Uncle Jolley had liked his looks, and had told Pandora
so in his early stages of matchmaking. A hobby she’d
made sure he’d given up quickly. Well, he hadn’t given
it up precisely, but she’d ignored it all the same.
Being rather short and round himself, perhaps Jolley
had appreciated Donahue’s long lean frame, and the nar-
row intense face. Pandora might have liked it herself, ex-
cept that Michael’s eyes were often distant and detached.
At the moment he looked like one of the heroes in the
action series he wrote—leaning negligently against the
wall and looking just a bit out of place in the tidy suit and
tie. His dark hair was casual and not altogether neat, as
though he hadn’t thought to comb it into place after rid-

14 A Will and A Way
ing with the top down. He looked bored and ready for
action. Any action.
It was too bad, Pandora thought, that they didn’t get
along better. She’d have liked to have reminisced with
someone about Uncle Jolley, someone who appreciated
his whimsies as she had.
There was no use thinking along those lines. If they’d
elected to sit together, they’d have been picking little
pieces out of each other by now. Uncle Jolley, smirking
down from his portrait, knew it very well.
With a half sigh she blew her nose again and tried to
listen to Fitzhugh. There was something about a bequest
to whales. Or maybe it was whalers.
Another hour of this, Michael thought, and he’d be
ready to chew raw meat. If he heard one more whereas...
On a long breath, Michael drew himself in. He was here
for the duration because he’d loved the crazy old man.
If the last thing he could do for Jolley was to stand in a
room with a group of human vultures and listen to long
rambling legalese, then he’d do it. Once it was over, he’d
pour himself a long shot of brandy and toast the old man
in private. Jolley had had a fondness for brandy.
When Michael had been young and full of imagina-
tion and his parents hadn’t understood, Uncle Jolley had
listened to him ramble, encouraged him to dream. In-
variably on a visit to the Folley, his uncle had demanded
a story then had settled himself back, bright-eyed and
eager, while Michael wove on. Michael hadn’t forgotten.
When he’d received his first Emmy for Logan’s Run,
Michael had flown from L.A. to the Catskills and had

Nora Roberts 15
given the statuette to his uncle. The Emmy was still in
the old man’s bedroom, even if the old man wasn’t.
Michael listened to the dry impersonal attorney’s voice
and wished for a cigarette. He’d only given them up two
days before. Two days, four hours and thirty-five minutes.
He’d have welcomed the raw meat.
He felt stifled in the room with all these people. Every
one of them had thought old Jolley was half-mad and a
bit of a nuisance. The one-hundred-fifty-million-dollar
estate was different. Stocks and bonds were extremely
sane. Michael had seen several assessing glances roaming
over the library furniture. Big, ornate Georgian might not
suit some of the streamlined life-styles, but it would liqui-
date into very tidy cash. The old man, Michael knew, had
loved every clunky chair and oversize table in the house.
He doubted if any of them had been to the big echo-
ing house in the past ten years. Except for Pandora, he
admitted grudgingly. She might be an annoyance, but
she’d adored Jolley.
At the moment she looked miserable. Michael didn’t
believe he’d ever seen her look unhappy before—furious,
disdainful, infuriated, but never unhappy. If he hadn’t
known better, he’d have gone to sit beside her, offer some
comfort, hold her hand. She’d probably chomp it off at
the wrist.
Still, her shockingly blue eyes were red and puffy. Al-
most as red as her hair, he mused, as his gaze skimmed
over the wild curly mane that tumbled, with little atten-
tion to discipline or style, around her shoulders. She was
so pale that the sprinkling of freckles over her nose stood

16 A Will and A Way
out. Normally her ivory-toned skin had a hint of rose in
it—health or temperament, he’d never been sure.
Sitting among her solemn, black-clad family, she stood
out like a parrot among crows. She’d worn a vivid blue
dress. Michael approved of it, though he’d never say so
to Pandora. She didn’t need black and crepe and lilies to
mourn. That he understood, if he didn’t understand her.
She annoyed him, periodically, with her views on his
life-style and career. When they clashed, it didn’t take
long for him to hurl criticism back at her. After all, she
was a bright, talented woman who was content to play
around making outrageous jewelry for boutiques rather
than taking advantage of her Master’s degree in educa-
tion.
She called him materialistic, he called her idealistic.
She labeled him a chauvinist, he labeled her a pseudo-
intellectual. Jolley had sat with his hands folded and
chuckled every time they argued. Now that he was gone,
Michael mused, there wouldn’t be an opportunity for any
more battles. Oddly enough, he found it another reason
to miss his uncle.
The truth was, he’d never felt any strong family ties
to anyone but Jolley. Michael didn’t think of his parents
very often. His father was somewhere in Europe with
his fourth wife, and his mother had settled placidly into
Palm Springs society with husband number three. They’d
never understood their son who'd opted to work for a liv-
ing in something as bourgeois as television.
But Jolley had understood and appreciated. More, much
more important to Michael, he’d enjoyed Michael’s work.

Nora Roberts 17
A grin spread over his face when he heard Fitzhugh
drone out the bequest for whales. It was so typically Jol-
ley. Several impatient relations hissed through their teeth.
A hundred fifty thousand dollars had just spun out of
their reach. Michael glanced up at the larger-than-life-size
portrait of his uncle. You always said you’d have the last
word, you old fool. The only trouble is you’re not here to
laugh about it.
‘To my son, Carlson...’ All the quiet muttering and
whispers died as Fitzhugh cleared his throat. Without
much interest Pandora watched her relatives come to
attention. The charities and servants had their bequests.
Now it was time for the big guns. Fitzhugh glanced up
briefly before he continued. ‘Whose—aaah—medioc-
rity was always a mystery to me, I leave my entire col-
lection of magic tricks in hopes he can develop a sense
of the ridiculous.’
Pandora choked into her tissue and watched her uncle
turn beet red. First point Uncle Jolley, she thought and
prepared to enjoy herself. Maybe he’d left the whole busi-
ness to the A.S.P.C.A.
‘To my grandson, Bradley, and my granddaughter by
marriage, Lorraine, I leave my very best wishes. They
need nothing more.’
Pandora swallowed and blinked back tears at the ref-
erence to her parents. She’d call them in Zanzibar that
evening. They would appreciate the sentiment even as
she did.
‘To my nephew Monroe who has the first dollar he
ever made, I leave the last dollar I made, frame included.

18 A Will and A Way
To my niece, Patience, I leave my cottage in Key West
without much hope she’ll have the gumption to use it.’
Monroe chomped on his cigar while Patience looked
horrified.
‘To my grand-nephew, Biff, I leave my collection
of matches, with the hopes that he will, at last, set the
world on fire. To my pretty grand-niece, Ginger, who
likes equally pretty things, I leave the sterling silver mir-
ror purported to have been owned by Marie Antoinette.
To my grand-nephew, Hank, I leave the sum of 3528.
Enough, I believe, for a lifetime supply of wheat germ.’
The grumbles that had begun with the first bequest
continued and grew. Anger hovered on the edge of out-
rage. Jolley would have liked nothing better. Pandora
made the mistake of glancing over at Michael. He didn’t
seem so distant and detached now, but full of admiration.
When their gazes met, the giggle she’d been holding back
spilled out. It earned her several glares.
Carlson rose, giving new meaning to the phrase con-
trolled outrage. ‘Mr. Fitzhugh, my father’s will is nothing
more than a mockery. It’s quite obvious that he wasn’t in
his right mind when he made it, nor do I have any doubt
that a court will overturn it.’
“Mr. McVie.’ Again Fitzhugh cleared his throat. The
sun began to push its way through the clouds but no one
seemed to notice. ‘I understand perfectly your sentiments
in this matter. However, my client was perfectly well and
lucid when this will was drawn. He may have worded it
against my advice, but it is legal and binding. You are,

Nora Roberts 19
of course, free to consult with your own counsel. Mean-
while, there’s more to be read.’
‘Hogwash.’ Monroe puffed on his cigar and glared at
everyone. ‘Hogwash, he repeated while Patience patted
his arm and chirped ineffectually.
‘Uncle Jolley liked hogwash,’ Pandora said as she
balled her tissue. She was ready to face them down, al-
most hoped she’d have to. It would take her mind off her
grief. ‘If he wanted to leave his money to the Society for
the Preventioonf Stupidity, it was his right.’
‘Easily said, my dear.’ Biff polished his nails on his
lapel. The gold band of his watch caught a bit of the sun
and gleamed. “Perhaps the old lunatic left you a ball of
twine so you can string more beads.’
“You haven’t got the matches yet, old boy.’ Michael
spoke lazily from his corner, but every eye turned his
way. ‘Careful what you light.’
‘Let him read, why don’t you?’ Ginger piped up, quite
pleased with her bequest. Marie Antoinette, she mused.
Just imagine.
‘The last two bequests are joint, Fitzhugh began be-
fore there could be another interruption. ‘And, a bit un-
orthodox.’ ;.
‘The entire document’s unorthodox,’ Carlson tossed
out, then harrumphed. Several heads nodded in agree-
ment.
Pandora remembered why she always avoided family
gatherings. They bored her to death. Quite deliberately,
she waved a hand in front of her mouth and yawned.

20 A Will and A Way
‘Could we have the rest, Mr. Fitzhugh, before my fam-
ily embarrasses themselves any further?’
She thought, but couldn’t be sure, that she saw a quick
light of approval in the fusty attorney’s eyes. ‘Mr. McVie
wrote this portion in his own words.’ He paused a mo-
ment, either for effect or courage. ‘To Pandora McVie
and Michael Donahue,’ Fitzhugh read. ‘The two mem-
bers of my family who have given me the most pleasure
with their outlook on life, their enjoyment of an old man
and old jokes, I leave the rest of my estate, in entirety,
all accounts, all business interests, all stocks, bonds and
trusts, all real and personal property, with all affection.
Share and share alike.’
Pandora didn’t hear the half-dozen objections that
sprang out. She rose, stunned and infuriated. ‘I can’t
take his money.’ Towering over the family who sat around
her, she strode straight up to Fitzhugh. The lawyer, who’d
anticipated attacks from other areas, braced for the un-
expected. ‘I wouldn’t know what to do with it. It’d just
clutter up my life.’ She waved a hand at the papers on the
desk as if they were a minor annoyance. ‘He should’ve
asked me first.’
“Miss MceVie...’
Before the lawyer could speak again, she whirled on
Michael. ‘You can have it all. You’d know what to do
with it, after all. Buy a hotel in New York, a condo in
L.A., a club in Chicago and a plane to fly you back and
forth, I don’t care.’
Deadly calm, Michael slipped his hands in his pock-
ets. ‘I appreciate the offer, cousin. Before you pull the

Nora Roberts 21
trigger, why don’t we wait until Mr. Fitzhugh finishes
before you embarrass yourself any further?’
She stared at him a moment, nearly nose to nose Or
him in heels. Then, because she’d been taught to do so
at an early age, she took a deep breath and waited for her
temper to ebb. ‘I don’t want his money.’
“You’ve made your point.’ He lifted a brow in the cyni-
cal, half-amused way that always infuriated her. ‘You’re
fascinating the relatives by the little show you’re put-
ting on.’
Nothing could have made her find control quicker. She
angled her chin at him, hissed once, then subsided. ‘All
right then.’ She turned and stood her ground. ‘I apologize
for the interruption. Please finish reading, Mr. Fitzhugh.’
The lawyer gave himself a moment by taking off his
glasses and polishing them on a big white handkerchief.
He’d known when Jolley had made the will the day would
come when he’d be forced to face an enraged family.
He’d argued with his client about it, cajoled, reasoned,
pointed out the absurdities. Then he’d drawn up the will
and closed the loopholes.
‘I leave all of this,’ he continued, ‘the money, which
is a small thing, the stocks and bonds, which are neces-
sary but boring, the business interests, which are inter-
esting weights around the neck. And my home and all
in it, which is everything important to me, the memo-
ries made there, to Pandora and Michael because they
understood and cared. I leave this to them, though it may
annoy them, because there is no one else in my family
I can leave what is important to me. What was mine is

22 A Will and A Way
Pandora and Michael’s now, because I know they’ll keep
me alive. I ask only one thing of each of them in return.’
Michael’s grip relaxed, and he nearly smiled again.
‘Here comes the kicker,’ he murmured.
‘Beginning no more than a week after the reading of
this document, Pandora and Michael will move into my
home in the Catskills, known as Jolley’s Folley. They
will live there together for a period of six months, nei-
ther one spending more than two nights in succession
under another roof. After this six-month period, the es-
tate reverts to them, entirely and without encumbrance,
share and share alike.
‘If one does not agree with this provision, or breaks the
terms of this provision within the six-month period, the
estate, in its entirety, will be given over to all my surviv-
ing heirs and the Institute for the Study of Carnivorous
Plants in joint shares.
“You have my blessing, children. Don’t let an old, dead
man down.’
For a full thirty seconds there was silence. Taking ad-
vantage of it, Fitzhugh began straightening his papers. |
‘The old bastard, Michael murmured. Pandora
would’ve taken offense if she hadn’t agreed so com-
pletely. Because he judged the temperature in the room
to be on the rise, Michael pulled Pandora out, down the
hall and into one of the funny little parlors that could be
found throughout the house. Just before he closed the
door, the first explosion in the library erupted.
Pandora drew out a fresh tissue, sneezed into it, then

Nora Roberts 23
plopped down on the arm of a chair. She was too flab-
bergasted and worn-out to be amused. ‘Well, what now?’
Michael reached for a cigarette before he remembered
he’d quit. ‘Now we have to make a couple of decisions.’
Pandora gave him one of the long lingering stares she’d
learned made most men stutter. Michael merely sat across
from her and stared back. ‘I meant what I said. I don’t
want his money. By the time it’s divided up and the taxes
dealt with, it’s close to fifty million apiece. Fifty million,
she repeated, rolling her eyes. ‘It’s ridiculous.’
‘Jolley always thought so,’ Michael said, and watched
the grief come and go in her eyes.
‘He only had it to play with. The trouble was, every
time he played, he made more.’ Unable to sit, Pandora
paced to the window. “Michael, I’d suffocate with that
much money.’
‘Cash isn’t as heavy as you think.’
With something close to a sneer, she turned and sat
on the window ledge. ‘You don’t object to fifty million
or so after taxes I take it.’
He’d have loved to have wiped that look off her face.
‘I haven’t your fine disregard for money, Pandora, prob-
ably because I was raised with the illusion of it rather
than the reality.’
She shrugged, knowing his parents existed, and al-
ways had, mainly on credit and connections. ‘So, take
it all then.’ ZA
Michael picked up a little blue glass egg and tossed it
from palm to palm. It was cool and smooth and worth
several thousand. ‘That’s not what Jolley wanted.’

24 A Will and A Way
With a sniff, she snatched the egg from his hand. ‘He
wanted us to get married and live happily ever after. I'd
like to humor him....’ She tossed the egg back again.
‘But I’m not that much of a martyr. Besides, aren’t you
engaged to some little blond dancer?’
He set the egg down before he could heave it at her.
‘For someone who turns their pampered nose up at tele-
vision, you don’t have the same intellectual snobbery
about gossip rags.’
‘I adore gossip, Pandora said with such magnificent
exaggeration Michael laughed.
‘All right, Pandora, let’s put down the swords a minute.’
He tucked his thumbs in his pockets and rocked back on
his heels. Maybe they could, if they concentrated, talk
civilly with each other for a few minutes. ‘I’m not en-
gaged to anyone, but marriage wasn’t a term of the will
in any case. All we have to do is live together for six
months under the same roof.’
As she studied him a sense of disappointment ran
through her. Perhaps they’d never gotten along, but she’d
respected him if for nothing more than what she’d seen
as his pure affection for Uncle Jolley. ‘So, you really
want the money?’
He took two furious steps forward before he caught
himself. Pandora never flinched. ‘Think whatever you
like.’ He said it softly, as though it didn’t matter. Oddly
enough, it made her shudder. “You don’t want the money,
fine. Put that aside a moment. Are you going to stand by
and watch this house go to the clan out there or a bunch

Nora Roberts 25
of scientists studying Venus’s-flytraps? Jolley loved this
place and everything in it. I always thought you did, too.’
‘I do.” The others would sell it, she admitted. There
wasn’t one person in the library who wouldn’t put the
house on the market and run with the cash. It would be
lost to her. All the foolish, ostentatious rooms, the ridic-
ulous archways. Jolley might be gone, but he’d left the
house like a dangling carrot. And he still held the stick.
“He’s trying to run our lives still.’
Michael lifted a brow. ‘Surprised?’
With a half laugh, Pandora glanced over. ‘No.’
Slowly she walked around the room while the sun
shot through the diamond panes of glass and lit her hair.
Michael watched her with a sense of detached admira-
tion. She’d look magnificent on the screen. He’d always
thought so. Her coloring, her posture. Her arrogance. The
five or ten pounds the camera would add couldn’t hurt
that too angular, bean-pole body, either. And the fire-
engine-red hair would make a statement on the screen
while it was simply outrageous in reality. He’d often won-
dered why she didn’t do something to tone it down. |
At the moment he wasn’t interested in any of that—just
in what was in her brain. He didn’t give a damn about
the money, but he wasn’t going to sit idly by and watch
everything Jolley had had and built go to the vuitures. If
he had to play rough with Pandora, he would. He might
even enjoy it.
Millions. Pandora cringed at the outrageousness of it.
That much money could be nothing but a headache, she

26 A Will and A Way
was certain. Stocks, bonds, accountants, trusts, tax shel-
ters. She preferred a simpler kind of living. Though no
one would call her apartment in Manhattan primitive.
She’d never had to worry about money and that was
just the way she liked it.A bove or below a certain in-
come level, there were nothing but worries. But if you
found a nice, comfortable plateau, you could just cruise.
She’d nearly found it.
It was true enough that a share of this would help
her tremendously professionally. With a buffer sturdy
enough, she could have the artistic freedom she wanted
and continue the life-style that now caused a bit of a
strain on her bank account. Her work was artistic and
critically acclaimed but reviews didn’t pay the rent. Out-
side of Manhattan, her work was usually considered too
unconventional. The fact that she often had to create
more mainstream designs to keep her head above water
grated constantly. With fifty or sixty thousand to back
her, she could...
Furious with herself, she blocked it off. She was think-
ing like Michael, she decided. She’d rather die. He’d sold
out, turned whatever talent he had to the main chance,
just as he was ready to turn these circumstances to his
own financial advantage. She would think of other areas.
She would think first of Jolley.
As she saw it, the entire scheme was a maze of prob-
lems. How like her uncle. Now, like a chess match, she’d
have to consider her moves.
She’d never lived with a man. Purposely. Pandora liked
running by her own clock. It wasn’t so much that she

Nora Roberts DEA
minded sharing things, she minded sharing space. If she
agreed, that would be the first concession.
- Then there was the fact that Michael was attractive,
attractive enough to be unsettling if he hadn’t been so
annoying. Annoying and easily annoyed, she recalled
with a flash of amusement. She knew what buttons to
push. Hadn’t she always prided herself on the fact that
she could handle him? It wasn’t always easy; he was too
sharp. But that made their altercations interesting. Still,
they’d never been together for more than a week at a time.
But there was one clear, inarguable fact. She’d loved
her uncle. How could she live with herself if she denied
him a last wish? Or a last joke.
-Six months. Stopping, she studied Michael as he stud-
ied her. Six months could be a very long time, especially
when you weren’t pleased with what you were doing.
There was only one way to speed things up. She’d enjoy
herself.
‘Tell me, cousin, how can we live under the same roof
for six months without coming to blows?’
“We can’t.’
He’d answered without a second’s hesitation, so she
laughed again. ‘I suppose I’d be bored if we did. I can
tidy up loose ends and move in in three days. Four at
the most.’
‘That’s fine.’ When his shoulders relaxed, he realized
he’d been tensed for her refusal. At the moment he didn’t
want to question why it mattered so much. Instead he
held out a hand. ‘Deal.’
Pandora inclined her head just before her palm met

28 A Will and A Way
his. ‘Deal,’ she agreed, surprised that his hand was hard
and a bit callused. She’d expected it to be rather soft and
limp. After all, all he did was type. Perhaps the next six
months would have some surprises.
‘Shall we go tell the others?’
‘They’ll want to murder us.’
Her smile came slowly, subtly shifting the angles of
her face. It was, Michael thought, at once wicked and al-
luring. ‘I know. Try not to gloat.’
When they stepped out, several griping relatives had
spilled out into the hallway. They did what they did best
together. They argued.
“You’d blow your share on barbells and carrot juice,’
Biff said spitefully to Hank. ‘At least I know what to do
with money.’
‘Lose it on horses,’ Monroe said, and blew out a stream
of choking cigar smoke. “Invest. Tax deferred.’
“You could use yours to take a course in how to speak
in complete sentences.’ Carlson stepped out of the smoke
and straightened his tie. ‘I’m the old man’s only living
son. It’s up to me to prove he was incompetent.’
‘Uncle Jolley had more competence than the lot of you
put together.’ Feeling equal parts frustration and disgust,
Pandora stepped forward. ‘He gave you each exactly what
he wanted you to have.’
Biff drew out a flat gold cigarette case as he glanced
over at his cousin. “It appears our Pandora’s changed her
mind about the money. Well, you worked for it, didn’t
you, darling?’
Michael put his hand on Pandora’s shoulder and

Nora Roberts 29
squeezed lightly before she could spring. ‘You’d like to
keep your profile, wouldn’t you, cousin?’
‘It appears writing for television’s given you a taste for
violence.’ Biff lit his cigarette and smiled. If he’d thought
he could get in a blow below the belt... ‘I think I’ll de-
cline a brawl,’ he decided.
“Well, I think it’s fair” Hank’s wife came forward,
stretching out her hand. She gave both Pandora and Mi-
chael a hearty shake. ‘You should put a gym in this place.
Build yourself up a little. Come on, Hank.’
Silent, and his shoulders straining the material of his
suit, Hank followed her out.
‘Nothing but muscles between the head,’ Carlson
mumbled. ‘Come, Mona.’ He strode ahead of his wife,
pausing long enough to level a glare at Pandora and Mi-
chael. The inevitable line ran though Michael’s mind
before Carlson opened his mouth and echoed it. “You
haven’t heard the last of this.’
Pandora gave him her sweetest smile. “Have a nice trip
home, Uncle Carlson.’
‘Probate, Monroe said with a grunt, and waddled his
way out behind them.
Patience fluttered her hands. ‘Key West, for heaven’s
sake. I’ve never been south of Palm Beach. My, oh my.’
‘Oh, Michael.’ Fluttering her lashes, Ginger placed a
hand on his arm. ‘When do you think I might have my
mirror?’
He glanced down into her perfectly lovely, heart-shaped
face. Her eyes were as pure a blue as tropical waters. He
thanked God Jolley hadn’t asked that he spend six months

30 A Will and A Way
with Cousin Ginger. ‘I’m sure Mr. Fitzhugh wili have it
shipped to you as soon as possible.’
‘Come along, Ginger, we’ll give you a ride to the air-
port.’ Biff pulled Ginger’s hand through his arm, patted
it and smiled down at Pandora. ‘I’d be worried if I didn’t
know you better. You won’t last six days with Michael
much less six months. Beastly temper, he said confiden-
tially to Michael. “The two of you'll murder each other
before a week’s out.’
‘Don’t spend the old man’s money yet,’ Michael
warned. ‘“We’ll make the six months if for no other reason
than to spite you.’ He smiled when he said it, a chummy,
well-meaning smile that took the arrogance from Biff’s
face.
“We’ll see who wins the game.’ Straight backed, Biff
turned toward the door. His wife walked out behind him
without having said a word since she’d walked in.
‘Biff? Ginger began as they walked out. ‘What are you
going to do with all those matches?’
‘Burn his bridges, I hope,’ Pandora muttered. ‘Well,
Michael, though I can’t say there was a lot of love before,
there’s nearly none lost now.’
‘Are you worried about alienating them?’
With a shrug of her shoulders, she walked toward a
bowl of roses, then gave him a considering look. ‘Well,
I’ve never had any trouble alienating you. Why is that,
do you suppose?’
‘Jolley always said we were too much alike.’
‘Really?’ Haughty, she lifted a brow. ‘I find myself

Nora Roberts of|
disagreeing with him again. You and I, Michael Dona-
hue, have almost nothing in common.’
‘If that’s so we have six months to prove it.’ On im-
pulse he moved closer and put a finger under her chin.
“You know, darling, you might’ve been stuck with Biff.’
‘T’'d’ve given the place to the plants first.’
He grinned. ‘I’m flattered.’
‘Don’t be.’ But she didn’t move away from him. Not
yet. It was an interesting feeling to be this close with-
out snarling. ‘The only difference is you don’t bore me.’
‘That’s enough,’ he said with a hint of a smile. ‘I’m
easily flattered.’ Intrigued, he flicked a finger down
her cheek. It was still pale, but her eyes were direct and
steady. “No, we won’t bore each other, Pandora. In six
months we might experience a lot of things, but boredom
won't be one of them.’
It might be an interesting feeling, she discovered, but
it wasn’t quite a safe one. It was best to remember that
he didn’t find her appealing as a woman but would, for
the sake of his own ego, string her along if she permitted
it. ‘I don’t flatter easily. I haven’t decided exactly what
your reasons are for going through with this farce, but
I’m doing it only for Uncle Jolley. I can set up my equip-
ment here quite easily.’
‘And I can write here quite easily.’
Pandora plucked a rose from the bowl. ‘If you can call
those implausible scripts writing.’
‘The same way you call the bangles you string to-
gether art.’
Color came back to her cheeks and that pleased him.

32 A Will and A Way
‘You wouldn’t know art if it reached up and bit you on
the nose. My jewelry expresses emotion.’
His smile showed pleasant interest. ‘How much is lust
going for these days?’
‘IT would have guessed you’d be very familiar with the
cost.’ Pandora fumbled for a tissue, sneezed into it, then
shut her bag with a click. ‘Most of the women you date
have price tags.’
It amused him, and it showed. ‘I thought we were talk-
ing about work.’
“My profession is a time-honored one, while yours—
yours stops for commercial breaks. And furthermore—
‘I beg your pardon.’
Fitzhugh paused at the doorway of the library. He
wanted nothing more than to be shed of the McVie clan
and have a quiet, soothing drink. ‘Am I to assume that
you’ve both decided to accept the terms of the will?’
Six months, she thought. It was going to be a long,
long winter.
Six months, he thought. He was going to have the first
daffodil he found in April bronzed.
“You can start counting the days at the end of the
week,’ he told Fitzhugh. ‘Agreed, cousin?’
Pandora set her chin. ‘Agreed.’

Chapter 2
Tt was a pleasant trip from Manhattan along the Hud-
son River toward the Catskills. Pandora had always en-
joyed it. The drive gave her time to clear her mind and
relax. But then, she’d always taken it at her own whim,
her own pace, her own convenience. Pandora made it a
habit to do everything just that way. This time, however,
there was more involved than her own wants and wishes.
Uncle Jolley had boxed her in.
He’d known she’d have to go along with the terms
. of the will. Not for the money. He’d been too smart to
think she could be lured into such a ridiculous scheme
with money. But the house, her ties to it, her need for the
continuity of family. That’s what he’d hooked her with.
Now she had to leave Manhattan behind for six
months. Oh, she’d run into the city for a few hours here

34 A Will and A Way
and there, but it was hardly the same as living in the cen-
ter of things. She’d always liked that—being in the cen-
ter, surrounded by movement, being able to watch and
become involved whenever she liked. Just as she’d always
liked long weekends in the solitude of Jolley’s Folley.
She’d been raised that way, to enjoy and make the most
of whatever environment she was in. Her parents were
gypsies. Wealth had meant they’d traveled first class in-
stead of in covered wagons. If there’d been campfires,
there had also been a servant to gather kindling, but the
spirit was the same.
Before she’d been fifteen, Pandora had been to more
than thirty countries. She’d eaten sushi in Tokyo, roamed
the moors in Cornwall, bargained in Turkish markets. A
succession of tutors had traveled with them so that by her
calculations, she’d spent just under two years in a class-
room environment before college.
The exotic, vagabond childhood had given her a taste
for variety—in people, in foods, in styles. And oddly
enough the exposure to widely diverse cultures and mores
had formed in her an unshakable desire for a home and
a sense of belonging.
Though her parents liked to meander through coun-
tries, recording everything with pen and film, Pandora
had missed a central point. Where was home? This year
in Mexico, next year in Athens. Her parents made a name
for themselves with their books and articles on the un-
usual, but Pandora wanted roots. She’d discovered she’d
have to find them for herself.
She’d chosen New York, and in her way, Uncle Jolley.

Nora Roberts 35
Now, because her uncle and his home had become her
central point, she was agreeing to spend six months liv-
ing with a man she could hardly tolerate so that she could
inherit a fortune she didn’t want or need. Life, she’d dis-
covered long ago, never moved in straight lines.
Jolley McVie’s ultimate joke, she thought as she turned
up the long drive toward his Folley. Well, he could throw
them together, but he couldn’t make them stick.
Still, she’d have felt better if she’d been sure of Mi-
chael. Was it the lure of the millions of dollars, or an
affection for an old man that would bring him to the
Catskills? She knew his Logan’s Run was in its very
successful fourth year, and that he’d had other lucrative
ventures in television. But money was a seduction itself.
After all, her Uncle Carlson had more than he could ever
spend, yet he was already taking the steps for a probate
of the will.
That didn’t worry her. Uncle Jolley had believed in
hiring the best. If Fitzhugh had drawn up the will, it was
air-tight. What worried her was Michael Donahue.
Because of the trap she’d fallen into, she’d found her-
self thinking of him a great deal too much over the past
couple of days. Ally or enemy, she wasn’t sure. Either
way, she was going to have to live with him. Or around
him. She hoped the house was big enough.
By the time she arrived, she was worn-out from the
drive and the lingering head cold. Though her equip-
ment and supplies had been shipped the day before, she
still had three cases in the car. Deciding to take one at a

36 A Will and A Way
time, Pandora popped the trunk, then simply looked at
Jolley’s Folley.
He’d built it when he’d been forty, so the house was al-
ready over a half century old. It went in all directions at
once, as if he’d never been able to decide where he wanted
to start and where he wanted to finish. The truth about
Jolley, she admitted, was that he’d never wanted to fin-
ish. The project, the game, the puzzle, was always more
interesting to him before the last pieces were in place.
Without the wings, it might have been a rather somber
and sedate late-nineteenth-century mansion. With them,
it was a mass of walls and corners, heights and widths.
There was no symmetry, yet to Pandora it had always
seemed as sturdy as the rock it had been built on.
Some of the windows were long, some were wide,
some of them were leaded and some sheer. Jolley had
made up his mind then changed it again as he’d gone
along.
The stone had come from one of his quarries, the wood
from one of his lumberyards. When he’d decided to build
a house, he’d started his own construction firm. McVie
Construction, Incorporated was one of the ake biggest
companies in the country.
It struck her suddenly that she owned half of Jolley’s
share in the company and her mind spun at how many
others. She had interests in baby oil, steel mills, rocket
engines and cake mix. Pandora lifted the case and set her
teeth. What on earth had she let herself in for?
From the upstairs window, Michael watched her. The
jacket she wore was big and baggy with three vivid col-

Nora Roberts Si
ors, blue, yellow and pink, patched in. The wind caught
at her slacks and rippled them from thigh to ankle. She
wasn’t looking teary-eyed and pale this time, but grim
and resigned. So much the better. He’d been tempted to
comfort her during their uncle’s funeral. Only the knowl-
edge that too much sympathy for a woman like Pandora
was fatal had prevented him.
He’d known her since childhood and had considered
her a spoiled brat from the word go. Though she’d often
been off for months at a time on one of her parents’ jour-
nalistic safaris, they’d seen enough of each other to feed a
mutual dislike. Only the fact that she had cared for Jolley
had given Michael some tolerance for her. And the fact,
he was forced to admit, that she had more honesty and
humanity in her than any of their other relations.
There had been a time, he recalled, a brief time, during
late adolescence that he’d felt a certain. ..stirring for her.
A purely shallow and physical teenage hunger, Michael
assured himself. She’d always had an intriguing face; it
could be unrelentingly plain one moment and striking the
next, and when she’d hit her teens. ..well, that had been a
natural enough reaction. And it had passed without in-
cident. He now preferred a woman with more subtlety,
more gloss and femininity—and shorter fangs.
Whatever he preferred, Michael left the arranging of
his own office to wander downstairs.
‘Charles, did my shipment come?’ Pandora pulled off
her leather driving gloves and dropped them on a little
round table in the hall. Since Charles was there, the an-

38 A Will and A Way
cient butler who had served her uncle since before she
was born, she felt a certain pleasure in coming.
‘Everything arrived this morning, miss.’ The old man
would have taken her suitcase if she hadn’t waved him
away.
‘No, don’t fuss with that. Where did you have them
put everything?’
‘In the garden shed in the east yard, as you instructed.’
She gave him a smile and a peck on the cheek, both
of which pleased him. His square bulldog’s face grew
slightly pink. ‘I knew I could count on you. I didn’t tell
you before how happy I was that you and Sweeney are
staying. The place wouldn’t be the same without you
serving tea and Sweeney baking cakes.’
Charles managed to pull his back a bit straighter. ‘We
wouldn’t think about going anywhere else, miss. The
master would have wanted us to stay.’
But made it possible for them to go, Pandora mused.
Leaving each of them three thousand dollars for every
year of service. Charles had been with Jolley since the
house was built, and Sweeney had come some ten years
later. The bequest would have been more than enough
for each to retire on. Pandora smiled. Some weren’t made
for retirement.
‘Charles, I’d love some tea,’ she began, knowing if she
didn’t distract him, he’d insist on carrying her bags up
the long staircase.
‘In the drawing room, miss?’
‘Perfect. And if Sweeney has any of those little cakes...’

Nora Roberts 39
“She’s been baking all morning.’ With only the slight-
est of creaks, he made his way toward the kitchen.
Pandora thought of rich icing loaded with sugar. ‘I won-
der how much weight a person can gain in six months.’
‘A steady diet of Sweeney’s cakes wouldn’t hurt you,’
Michael said from above her head. ‘Men are generally
more attracted to flesh than bone.’
Pandora spun around, then found herself in the awk-
ward position of having to arch her neck back to see Mi-
chael at the top of the stairs. ‘I don’t center my life around
attracting men.’
‘I'd be the last one to argue with that.’
He looked quite comfortable, she thought, feeling the
first stirrings of resentment. And negligently, arrogantly
attractive. From several feet above her head, he leaned
against a post and looked down on her as though he was
the master. She’d soon put an end to that. Uncle Jolley’s
will had been very clear. Share and share alike.
‘Since you're already here and settled in, you can come
help me with the rest of my bags.’
He didn’t budge. ‘I always thought the one point we
were in perfect agreement on was feminism.’
Pandora paused at the door to toss a look over her
shoulder. ‘Social and political views aside, if you don’t
help me up with them before Charles comes back, he’ll
insist on doing it himself. He’s too old to do it and too
proud to be told he can’t.’ She walked back out and wasn’t
surprised when she heard his footsteps on the gravel be-
hind her. |

40 A Will and A Way
She took a deep breath of crisp autumn air. All in all,
it was a lovely day. ‘Drive up early?’
‘Actually, I drove up late last night.’
Pandora turned at the open trunk of her car. “So eager
to start the game, Michael?’
If he hadn’t been determined to start off peacefully,
he’d have found fault with the tone of her voice, with the
look in her eyes. Instead he let it pass. ‘I wanted to get
my office set up today. I was just finishing it when you
drove in.’
‘Work, work, work,’ she-said with a long sigh. “You
must put in slavish hours to come up with an hour of
chase scenes and steam a week.’
Peace wasn’t all that important. As she reached for a
suitcase, he closed a hand over her wrist. Later he’d think
about how slim it was, how soft. Now he could only think
how much he wished she were a man. Then he could’ve
belted her. ‘The amount of work I do and what I produce
is of absolutely no concern to you.’
It occurred to Pandora, oddly, she thought, just how
much she enjoyed seeing him on the edge of temper. All
of her other relatives were so bland, so outwardly civi-
lized. Michael had always been a contrast, and there-
fore of more interest. Smiling, she allowed her wrist to
stay limp.
‘Did I indicate that it was? Nothing, I promise you,
could be further from the truth. Shall we get these in and
have that tea? It’s a bit chilly”
He’d always admired, grudgingly, how smoothly she
could slip into the lady-of-the-manor routine. As a writer

Nora Roberts 4]
who wrote for actors and for viewers, he appreciated nat-
ural talent. He also knew how to set a scene to his best ad-
vantage. “Tea’s a perfect idea.’ He hauled one case out and
left the second for her. ‘We’ll establish some guidelines.’
“Will we?’ Pandora pulled out the case, then let the
trunk shut quietly. Without another word, she started
back toward the house, holding the front door open for
him, then breezing by the suitcase she’d left in the main
hall. Because she knew Michael was fond of Charles, she
hadn’t a doubt he’d pick it up and follow.
The room she always took was on the second floor in
the east wing. Jolley had let her decorate it herself, and
she’d chosen white on white with a few startling splashes
of color. Chartreuse and blazing blue in throw pillows, a
long horizontal oil painting, jarring in its colors of sunset,
a crimson waist-high urn stuffed with ostrich plumes.
Pandora set her case by the bed, noted with satisfaction
that a fire had been laid in the small marble fireplace,
then tossed her jacket over a chair.
‘T always feel like I’m walking into Better Homes, he
commented as he let her cases drop.
Pandora glanced down at them briefly, then at him.
‘I’m sure you’re more at home in your own room. It’s
more—Field and Stream. | expect tea’s ready.’
He gave her a long, steady survey. Her jacket had con-
cealed the trim cashmere sweater tucked into the narrow
waist of her slacks. It reminded Michael quite forcibly
just what had begun to attract him all those teenage years
ago. For the second time he found himself wishing she
were a man.

42 A Will and A Way
Though they walked abreast down the stairs, they
didn’t speak. In the drawing room, amid the Mideast
opulence Jolley had chosen there, Charles was setting
up the tea service.
‘Oh, you lit the fire. How lovely.’ Pandora walked over
and began warming her hands. She wanted a moment,
just a moment, because for an instant in her room she
thought she’d seen something in Michael’s eyes. And she
thought she’d felt the same something in response. ‘Til
pour, Charles. I’m sure Michael and I won’t need another
thing until dinner.’
Casually she glanced around the room, at the flow-
ing drapes, the curvy brocade sofas, the plump pillows
and brass urns. “You know, this has always been one of
my favorite rooms.’ Going to the tea set, she began to
fill cups. ‘I was only twelve when we visited Turkey, but
this room always makes me remember it vividly. Right
down to the smells in the markets. Sugar?’
‘No.’ He took the cup from her, plopped a generous
slice of cake on a dish, then chose a seat. He preferred the
little parlor next door with its tidy English country air.
This was the beginning, he thought, with the old butler
and plump cook as witnesses. Six months from today,
they’d all sign a document swearing that the terms of the
will had been adhered to and that would be that. It was
the time in between that concerned him.
‘Rule number one,’ Michael began without preamble.
“We’re both in the east wing because it makes it easier
for Charles and Sweeney. But—’ he paused, hoping to

Nora Roberts 43
emphasize his point ‘—both of us will, at all times, re-
spect the other’s area.’
‘By all means.’ Pandora crossed her legs and sipped
her tea.
‘Again, because of the staff, it seems fair that we eat at
the same time. Therefore, in the interest of survival, we’ll
keep the conversations away from professional matters.’
Pandora smiled at him and nibbled on cake. ‘Oh yes,
let’s do keep things personal.’
“Youre a nasty little package—’
‘See, we’re off to a perfect start. Rule number two.
Neither of us, no matter how bored or restless, will dis-
turb the other during his or her set working hours. I gen-
erally work between ten and one, then again between
three and six.’
‘Rule number three. If one of us is entertaining, the
other will make him or herself scarce.’
Pandora’s eyes narrowed, only for a moment. ‘Oh, and
I so wanted to meet your dancer. Rule number four. The
first floor is neutral ground and to be shared equally
unless specific prior arrangements are made and agreed
upon.’ She tapped her finger against the arm of the chair.
‘If we both play fair, we should manage.’
‘T don’t have any trouble playing fair. As I recall, you’re
the one who cheats.’
Her voice became very cool, her tone very rounded.
‘I don’t know what you’re talking about.’
‘Canasta, poker, gin.’
‘That’s absurd and you have absolutely no proof.’ Ris-
ing, she helped herself to another cup of tea. “Besides,

44 A Will and A Way
cards are entirely different.’ Warmed by the fire, soothed
by the tea, she smiled at him. As Michael recalled, that
particular smile was lethal. And stunning. ‘Are you still
holding a grudge over that five hundred I won from you?’
‘I wouldn’t if you’d won it fairly.’
‘I won it,’ she countered. ‘That’s what counts. If I
cheated and you didn’t catch me, then it follows that I
cheated well enough for it to be legal.’
“You always had a crooked sense of logic.’ He rose
as well and came close. She had to admire the way he
moved. It wasn’t quite a swagger because he didn’t put
the effort into it. But it was very close. ‘If we play again,
whatever we play, you won’t cheat me.’
Confident, she smiled at him. ‘Michael, we’ve known
each other too long for you to intimidate me.’ She reached
a hand up to pat his cheek and found her wrist captured
a second time. And a second time she saw and felt that
same dangerous something she’d experienced upstairs.
There was no Uncle Jolley as a buffer between them
now. Perhaps they’d both just begun to realize it. What-
ever was between them that made them snarl and snap
would have a long, cold winter to surface.
Perhaps neither one of them wanted to face it, but both
were too stubborn to back down.
“Perhaps we’re just beginning to know each other,’
Michael murmured.
She believed it. And didn’t like it. He wasn’t a pos-
turing fool like Biff nor a harmless hulk like Hank. He
might be a cousin by marriage only, but the blood be-
tween them had always run hot. There was violence in

Nora Roberts 45
him. It showed sometimes in a look in his eyes, in the
way he held himself. As though he wouldn’t ward off a
blow but counter it. Pandora recognized it because there
was violence in her, as well. Perhaps that was why she
always felt compelled to shoot darts at him, just to see
how many he could boomerang back at her.
They stood as they were a moment, gauging each other,
reassessing. The wise thing to do was for each to ac-
knowledge a hit and step aside. Pandora threw up her
chin. Michael set for the volley. “We’ll go to the mat an-
other time, Michael. At the moment, I’m a bit tired from
the drive. If you’ll excuse me?’
‘Rule number five,’ he said without releasing her. ‘If
one of us takes potshots at the other, they'll damn well
pay the consequences.’ When he freed her arm, he went
back for his cup. ‘See you at dinner, cousin.’
Pandora awoke just past dawn fully awake, rested and
bursting with energy. Whether it had been the air in the
mountains or the six hours of deep sleep, she was ready
and eager to work. Breakfast could wait, she decided as
she showered and dressed. She was going out to the gar-
den shed, organizing her equipment and diving in.
The house was perfectly quiet and still dim as she
made her way downstairs. The servants would sleep an-
other hour or two, she thought as she stuck her head in
the pantry and chose a muffin. As she recalled, Michael
might sleep until noon.
They had made it through dinner without incident. Per-
haps they’d been polite to each other because of Charles

46 A Will and A Way
and Sweeney or perhaps because both of them had been
too tired to snipe. Pandora wasn’t sure herself.
They’d dined under the cheerful lights of the big chan-
delier and had talked, when they’d talked, about the
weather and the food.
By nine they’d gone their separate ways. Pandora to
read until her eyes closed and Michael to work. Or so
he’d said.
Outside the air was chill enough to cause Pandora’s
skin to prickle. She hunched up the collar of her jacket
and started across the lawn.It crunched underfoot with
the early thin frost. She liked it—the absolute solitude,
the lightness of the air, the incredible smell of mountain
and river.
In Tibet she’d once come close to frostbite because
she hadn’t been able to resist the snow and the swoop of
rock. She didn’t find this slice of the Catskills any less
fascinating. The winter was best, she’d always thought,
when the snow skimmed the top of your boots and your
voice came out in puffs of smoke.
Winter in the mountains was a time for the basics.
Heat, food, work. There were times Pandora wanted only
the basics. There were times in New York she’d argue for
hours over unions, politics, civil rights because the fact
was, she loved an argument. She wanted the stimulation
of an opposing view over broad issues or niggling ones.
She wanted the challenge, the heat and the exercise for
her brain. But...
There were times she wanted nothing more than a quiet
sunrise over frost-crisped ground and the promise of a

Nora Roberts 47
warm drink by a hot fire. And there were times, though
she’d rarely admit it even to herself, that she wanted a
shoulder to lay her head against and a hand to hold. She’d
been raised to see independence as a duty, not a choice.
Her parents had the most balanced of relationships, equal
to equal. Pandora saw them as something rare in a world
where the scales tipped this way or that too often. At age
eighteen, Pandora had decided she’d never settle for less
than a full partnership. At age twenty, she decided mar-
riage wasn’t for her. Instead she put all her passion, her
energy and imagination into her work. _
Straight-line dedication had paid off. She was success-
ful, even prominent, and creatively she was fulfilled. It
was more than many people ever achieved.
Now she pulled open the door of the utility shed. It
was a big square building, as wide as the average barn,
with hardwood floors and paneled walls. Uncle Jolley
hadn’t believed in the primitive. Hitting the switch, she
flooded the building with light.
As per her instructions, the crates and boxes she’d
shipped had been stacked along one wall. The shelves
where Uncle Jolley had kept his gardening tools during
his brief, torrid gardening stage had been packed away.
The plumbing was good, with a full-size stainless-steel
sink and a small but more than adequate bath with shower
enclosed in the rear. She counted five workbenches. The
light and ventilation were excellent.
It wouldn’t take her long, Pandora figured, to turn the
shed into an organized, productive workroom.
It took three hours.

48 A Will and A Way
Along one shelf were boxes of beads in various sizes—
jet, amethyst, gold, polished.wood, coral, ivory. She had
trays of stones, precious and semiprecious, square cut,
brilliants, teardrops and chips. In New York, they were
kept in a safe. Here, she never considered it. She had gold,
silver, bronze, copper. There were solid and hollow drills,
hammers, tongs, pliers, nippers, files and clamps. One
might have thought she did carpentry. Then there were
scribes and drawplates, bottles of chemicals, and miles
of string and fiber cord.
The money she’d investedi n these materials had cost
her every penny of an inheritance from her grandmother,
and a good chunk of savings she’d earned as an appren-
tice. It had been worth it. Pandora picked up a file and
tapped it against her palm. Well worth it.
She could forge gold and silver, cast alloys and string
impossibly complex designs with the use of a few beads
or shells. Metals could be worked into thin, threadlike
strands or built into big bold chunks. Pandora could do
as she chose, with tools that had hardly changed from
those used by artists two centuries earlier.
It was and always had been both the sense of continu-
ity and the endless variety that appealed to her. She never
made two identical pieces. That, to her, would have been
manufacturing rather than creating. At times, her pieces
were elegantly simple, classic in design. Those pieces
sold well and allowed her a bit of artistic freedom. At
other times, they were bold and brash and exaggerated.
Mood guided Pandora, not trends. Rarely, very rarely,

Nora Roberts 49
she would agree to create a piece along specified lines.
If the lines, or the client, interested her.
She turned down a president because she’d found his
ideas too pedestrian but had made a ring at a new fa-
ther’s request because his idea had been unique. Pandora
had been told that the new mother had never taken the
braided gold links off. Three links, one for each of the
triplets she’d given birth to.
At the moment, Pandora had just completed drafting
the design for a three-tiered necklace commissioned to
her by the husband of a popular singer. Emerald. That was
her name and the only requirement given to Pandora. The
man wanted lots of them. And he’d pay, Pandora mused,
for the dozen she’d chosen just before leaving New York.
They were square, three karats apiece and of the sharp,
sharp green that emeralds are valued for.
This was, she knew, her big chance, professionally
and, most importantly, artistically. If the necklace was a
success, there’d not only be reviews for hers crapbook,
but acceptance. She’d be freer to do more of what she
wanted without compromise.
The trick would be to fashion the chain so that it held
like steel and looked like a cobweb. The stones would
hang from each tier as if they’d dripped there.
For the next two hours, she worked in gold.
Between the two heaters at each end of the shed and
the flame from her tools, the air became sultry. Sweat
rolled down under her sweater, but she didn’t mind.
In fact, she barely noticed as the gold became pliable.
Again and again, she drew the wire through the draw-

50 A Will and A Way
plate, smoothing out the kinks and subtly, slowly, chang-
ing the shape and size. When the wire looked like angel
hair she began working it with her fingers, twisting and
braiding until she matched the design in her head and on
her drawing paper.
It would be simple—elegantly, richly simple. The em-
eralds would bring their own flash when she attached
them.
Time passed. After careful, meticulous use of draw-
plate, flame and her own hands, the first thin, gold tier
formed.
She’d just begun to stretch out the muscles in her back
when the door of the shed opened and cool air poured
in. Her face glowing with sweat and concentration, she —
glared at Michael.
‘Just what the hell do you think you’re doing?’
‘Following orders.’ He had his hands stuffed in his
jacket pockets for warmth, but hadn’t buttoned the front.
Nor, she noticed, had he bothered to shave. ‘This place
smells like an oven.’
‘lm working.’ She lifted the hem of the big apron she
wore and wiped at her brow. It was being interrupted that
annoyed her, Pandora told herself. Not the fact that he’d
walked in on her when she looked like a pueiee:
‘Remember rule number three?’
‘Tell that to Sweeney.’ Leaving the door ajar, he wan-
dered in. “She said it was bad enough that you skipped
breakfast, but you’re not getting away with missing
lunch.’ Curious, he poked his finger into a tray that held
brilliant colored stones. ‘I have orders to bring you back.’

Nora Roberts 5]
‘T’m not ready.’
He pickedup a tiny sapphire and held it to the light.
‘I had to stop her from tramping out here herself. If I go
back alone, she’s going to come for you. Her arthritis is
acting up again.’
Pandora swore under her breath. ‘Put that down,’ she
ordered, then yanked the apron off.
‘Some of this stuff looks real,’ he commented. Though
he put the sapphire back, he picked up a round, wink-
ing diamond. —
‘Some of this stuff is real.’ Pandora crouched to turn
the first heater down.
The diamond was in his hand as he scowled down
at her head. “Why in hell do you have it sitting out like
candy? It should be locked up.’
Pandora adjusted the second heater. ‘Why?’
‘Don’t be any more foolish than necessary. Someone
could steal it.’
‘Someone?’ Straightening, Pandora smiled at him.
‘There aren’t many someones around. I don’t think
Charles and Sweeney are a problem, but maybe I should
worry about you.’
He cursed her and dropped the diamond back. “They’re
your little bag of tricks, cousin, but if I had several thou-
sand dollars sitting around that could slip into a pocket,
I'd be more careful.’
Though under most circumstances she fully agreed,
Pandora merely picked up her jacket. After all, they
weren’t in Manhattan but miles away from anyone or
anything. If she locked everything up, she’d just have to

32 A Will and A Way
unlock it again every time she wanted to work. ‘Just one
of the differences between you and me, Michael. I sup-
pose it’s because you write about so many dirty deeds.’
‘I also write about human nature.’ He picked up the
sketch of the emerald necklace she had drawn. It had
the sense of scale that would have pleased an architect
and the flair and flow that would appeal to an artist. ‘If
youre so into making bangles and baubles, why aren’t
you wearing any?’
‘They get in the way when I’m working. If you write
about human nature, how come the bad guy gets caught
every week?’
‘Because I’m writing for people, and people need he-
roes.’
Pandora opened her mouth to argue, then found she
agreed with the essence of the statement. ‘Hmm,’ was
all she said as she turned out the lights and went out
ahead of him.
‘At least lock the door,’ Michael told her.
‘I haven’t a key.’
‘Then we’ll get one.’
‘We don’t need one,’
He shut the door with a snap. ‘You do.’
Pandora only shrugged as she started across the lawn.
‘Michael, have I mentioned that you’ve been more crabby
than usual?’
He pulled a piece of hard candy out of his pocket and
popped it into his mouth. ‘Quit smoking.’
The candy was lemon. She caught just a whiff. ‘So I
noticed. How long?’

Nora Roberts 33
He scowled at some leaves that skimmed across the
lawn. They were brown and dry and seemed to have a
life of their own. “Couple weeks. I’m going crazy.’
She laughed sympathetically before she tucked her
arm into his. “You'll live, darling. The first month’s the
toughest.’
Now he scowled at her. ‘How would you know? You
never smoked.’
‘The first month of anything’s the toughest. You just
have to keep your mind occupied. Exercise. We’ll jog
after lunch,’
“We?’
‘And we can play canasta after dinner.’
He gave a quick snort but brushed the hair back from
her cheek. “You'll cheat.’
‘See, your mind’s already occupied.’ With a laugh, she
turned her face up to his. He looked a bit surly, but on
him, oddly, it was attractive. Placid, good-natured good
looks had always bored her. ‘It won’t hurt you to give up
one of your vices, Michael. You have so many.’
‘T like my vices,’ he grumbled, then turned his head to
look down at her. She was giving him her easy, friendly
smile, one she sent his way rarely. It always made him
forget just how much trouble she caused him. It made
him forget he wasn’t attracted to dramatically bohemian
women with wild red hair and sharp bones. ‘A woman
who looks like you should have several of her own.’
Her mouth was solemn, her eyes wicked. ‘?’m much
too busy. Vices take up a great deal of time.’
‘When Pandora opened the box, vices popped out.’

54 A Will and A Way
She stopped at the back stoop. ‘Among other miseries.
I suppose that’s why I’m careful about opening boxes.’
Michael ran a finger down her cheek. It was the sort
of gesture he realized could easily become a habit. She
was right, his mind was occupied. ‘You have to lift off
the lid sooner or later.’
She didn’t move back, though she’d felt the little tingle
of tension, of attraction, of need. Pandora didn’t believe
in moving back, but in plowing through. ‘Some things
are better off locked up.’
He nodded. He didn’t want to release what was in their
private box any more than she did. ‘Some locks aren’t as
strong as they need to be.’
They were standing close, the wind whistling lightly
between them. Pandora felt the sun on her back and the
chill on her face. If she took a step nearer, there’d be
heat. That she’d never doubted and had always avoided.
He’d use whatever was available to him, she reminded
herself. At the moment, it just happened to be her. She
let her breath come calmly and easily before she reached
for the doorknob.
“We'd better not keep Sweeney waiting.’

Chapter 3
The streets are almost deserted. A car turns a corner and
disappears. It’s drizzling. Neon flashes off puddles. It’s
garish rather than festive. There’s a gray, miserable feel
to this part of the city. Alleyways, cheap clubs, dented
cars. The small, neatly dressed blonde walks quickly.
She’s nervous, out of her element, but not lost. Close-up
on the envelope in her hands. It’s damp from the rain.
Her fingers open and close on it. Tires.squeal offscreen
and she jolts. The blue lights of the club blink off and
on in her face as she stands outside. Hesitates. Shifts the
envelope from hand to hand. She goes in. Slow pan of
the street. Three shots and freeze.
Three knocks sounded at the door of Michael’s office.
Before he could answer, Pandora swirled in. ‘Happy an-
niversary, darling.’

56 A Will and A Way
Michael looked up from his computer. He’d been up
most of the night working the story line out in his mind.
It was nine in the morning, and he’d only had one cup
of coffee to prime him for the day. Coffee and cigarettes
together were too precious a memory. The scene that had
just jelled in his mind dissolved.
‘What the hell are you talking about?’ He reached his
hand into a bowl of peanuts and discovered he’d already
eaten all but two.
‘Two full weeks without any broken bones.’ Pandora
swooped over to him, clucked her tongue at the disor-
der, then chose the arm of a chair. It was virtually the
only free space. She brushed at the dust on the edge of
the table beside her and left a smear. ‘And they said it
wouldn’t last.’
She looked fresh with her wild mane of red pulled back
from her face, comfortable in sweater and slacks that
were too big for her. Michael felt like he’d just crawled out
of a cave. His sweatshirt had ripped at the shoulder seam
two years before, but he still favored it. A few weeks be-
fore, he’d helped paint a friend’s apartment. The paint
smears on his jeans showed her preference for baby pink.
His eyes felt as though he’d slept facedown in the sand.
Pandora smiled at him like some bright, enthusias-
tic kindergarten teacher. She had a fresh, clean, almost
woodsy scent. “We have a rule about respecting the oth-
er’s work space,’ he reminded her.
‘Oh, don’t be cranky.’ It was said with the same posi-
tive smile. ‘Besides, you never gave me any schedule.

Nora Roberts ST
From what I’ve noticed in the past couple of weeks, this
is early for you.’
‘Tm just starting the treatment for a new episode.’
‘Really?’ Pandora walked over and leaned over his
shoulder. ‘Hmm,’ she said, though she wondered who
had shot whom. ‘Well, I don’t suppose that’ll take long.’
“Why don’t you go play with your beads?’
‘Now you're being rude when I came up here to in-
vite you to go with me into town.’ After brushing off the
sleeve of her sweater, she sat on the edge of the desk. She
didn’t know exactly why she was so determined to be
friendly. Maybe it was because the emerald necklace was
nearly finished and was exceeding even her standards.
Maybe it was because in the past two weeks she’d found
a certain enjoyment in Michael’s company. Mild enjoy-
ment, Pandora reminded herself. Nothing to shout about.
Suspicious, Michael narrowed his eyes. “What for?’
‘!’m going in for some supplies Sweeney needs.’ She
found the turtle shell that was his lampshade intriguing,
and ran her fingers over it. ‘I thought you might like to
get out for a while.’
He would. It had been two weeks since he’d seen any-
thing but the house and grounds. He glanced back at the
page on his computer. ‘How long will you be?’
‘Oh, two, three hours I suppose.’ She moved her shoul-
ders. ‘It’s an hour’s round trip to begin with.’
He was tempted. Free time and a change of scene. But
the half-blank page remained on his computer. ‘Can’t. I
have to get this fleshed out.’
‘All right.’ Pandora rose from the desk a bit surprised

58 A Will and A Way
by the degree of disappointment she felt. Silly, she
thought. She loved to drive alone with the radio blaring.
‘Don’t strain your fingers.’
He started to growl something at her back, then be-
cause his bowl of nuts was empty, thought better of it.
‘Pandora, how about picking me up a couple pounds of
pistachios?’
As she stopped at the door, she lifted a brow. “Pista-
chios?’
‘Real ones. No red dye.’ He ran a hand over the bris-
tle on his chin and wished for a pack of cigarettes. One
cigarette. One long deep drag.
She glanced at the empty bowl and nearly smiled.
The way he was nibbling, he’d lose that lean, rangy look
quickly. ‘I suppose I could,’
‘And a copy of the New York Times,
Her brow rose. ‘Would you like to make me a list?’
‘Be a sport, will you? Next time Sweeney needs sup-
plies, [’ll go in’
She thought about it a moment. ‘Very well then, nuts
and news.’
‘And some pencils,’ he called out.
She slammed the door smartly.
Nearly two hours passed before Michael decided he
deserved another cup of coffee. The story line was bump-
ing along just as he’d planned, full of twists and turns.
The fans of Logan’s Run expected the gritty with occa-
sional bursts of color and magic. That’s just the way it
was panning out.
Critics of the medium aside, Michael enjoyed writing

Nora Roberts 59
for the small screen. He liked knowing his stories would
reach literally millions of people every week and that for
an hour, they could involve themselves with the charac-
ter he had created.
The truth was, Michael liked Logan—the reluctant
but steady heroism, the humor and the flaws. He’d made
Logan human and fallible and reluctant because Michael
had always imagined the best heroes were just that.
The ratings and the mail proved he was on target.
His writing for Logan had won him critical acclaim and
awards, just as the one-act play he’d written had won him
critical acclaim and awards. But the play had reached a
few thousand at best, the bulk of whom had been New
Yorkers. Logan’s Run reached the family of four in Des
Moines, the steelworkers in Chicago and the college
crowd in Boston. Every week.
He didn’t see television as the vast wasteland but as
the magic box. Michael figured everyone was entitled
to a bit of magic.
Michael switched off the laptop so that the screen died.
For a moment he sat in silence. He’d known he could work
at the Folley. He’d done so before, but never long-term.
What he hadn’t known was that he’d work so well, so
quickly or be so content. The truth was, he’d never ex-
pected to get along half so well with Pandora. Not that it
was any picnic, Michael mused, absently running the stub
of a pencil between his fingers.
They fought, certainly, but at least they weren’t tak-
ing chunks out of each other. Or not very big ones. All
in all he enjoyed the evenings when they played cards if

60 A Will and A Way
for no other reason than the challenge of trying to catch
her cheating. So far he hadn’t.
Also true was the odd attraction he felt for her. That
hadn’t been in the script. So far he’d been able to ignore,
control or smother it. But there were times... There were
times, Michael thought as he rose and stretched, when
he’d like to close her smart-tongued mouth in a more sat-
isfactory way. Just to see what it’d be like, he told himself.
Curiosity about people was part of his makeup. He’d be
interested to see how Pandora would react if he hauled
her against him and kissed her until she went limp.
He let out a quick laugh as he wandered to the win-
dow. Limp? Pandora? Women like her never went soft.
He might satisfy his curiosity, but he’d get a fist in the
gut for his trouble. Even that might be worth it....
She wasn’t unmoved. He’d been sure of that since the
first day they’d walked back together from her workshop.
He’d seen it in her face, heard it, however briefly in her
voice. They’d both been circling around it for two weeks.
Or twenty years, Michael speculated.
He’d never felt about another woman exactly the way
he felt about Pandora McVie. Uncomfortable, challenged,
infuriated. The truth was that he was almost always at
ease around women. He liked them—their femininity,
their peculiar strengths and weaknesses, their style. Per-
haps that was the reason for his success in relationships,
though he’d carefully kept them short-term.
If he romanced a woman, it was because he was in-
terested in her, not simply in the end result. True enough
he was interested in Pandora, but he’d never considered

Nora Roberts 61
romancing her. It surprised him that he’d caught himself
once or twice considering seducing her.
Seducing, of course, was an entirely different mat-
ter than romancing. But all in all, he didn’t know if at-
tempting a casual seduction of Pandora would be worth
the risk.
If he offered her a candlelight dinner or a walk in the
moonlight—or a mad night of passion—she’d come back
with a sarcastic remark. Which would, inevitably, trig-
ger some caustic rebuttal from him. The merry-go-round
would begin again.
In any case, it wasn’t romance he wanted with Pan-
dora. It was simply curiosity. In certain instances, it was
best to remember what had happened to the intrepid cat.
But as he thought of her, his gaze was drawn toward her
workshop.
They weren’t so very different really, Michael mused.
Pandora could insist from dawn to dusk that they had
nothing in common, but Jolley had been closer to the
mark. They were both quick-tempered, opinionated and
passionately protective of their professions. He closed
himself up for hours at a time with a laptop. She closed
herself up with tools and torches. The end result of both
of their work was entertainment. And after all, that was...
His thoughts broke off as he saw the shed door open.
Odd, he hadn’t thought she was back yet. His rooms were
on the opposite end of the house from the garage, so he
wouldn’t have heard her car, but he thought she’d drop
off what she’d picked up for him.
He started to shrug and turn away when he saw the

62 A Will and A Way
figure emerge from the shed. It was bundled deep in a
coat and hat, but he knew immediately it wasn’t Pan-
dora. She moved fluidly, unselfconsciously. This person
walked with speed and wariness. Wariness, he thought
again, that was evident in the way the head swiveled
back and forth before the door was closed again. With-
out stopping to think, Michael dashed out of the room
and down the stairs.
He nearly rammed into Charles at the bottom. ‘Pan-
dora back?’ he demanded.
‘No, sir.’ Relieved that he hadn’t been plowed down,
Charles rested a hand on the rail. “She said she might stay
in town and do some shopping. We shouldn’t worry if—’
But Michael was already halfway down the hall.
With a sigh for the agility he hadn’t had in thirty years,
Charles creaked his way into the drawing room to lay
a fire.
The wind hit Michael the moment he stepped outside,
reminding him he hadn’t stopped for a coat. As he began
to race toward the shed, his face chilled and his muscles
warmed. There was no one in sight on the grounds. Not
surprising, he mused as he slowed his pace just a bit.
The woods were close at the edge, and there were a half
a dozen easy paths through them.
Some kid poking around? he wondered. Pandora would
be lucky if he hadn’t pocketed half her pretty stones. It
would serve her right.
But he changed his mind the minute he stood in the
doorway of her workshop.
Boxes were turned over so that gems and stones and

Nora Roberts 63
beads were scattered everywhere. Balls of string and
twine had been unraveled and twisted and knotted from
wall to wall. He had to push some out of his way to
step inside. What was usually almost pristine in its order
was utter chaos. Gold and silver wire had been bent and
snapped, tools lay where they’d been carelessly tossed
to the floor.
Michael bent down and picked up an emerald. It glinted
sharp and green in his palm. If it had been a thief, he de-
cided, it had been a clumsy and shortsighted one.
‘Oh, God!’ Pandora dropped her purse with a thud
and stared.
When Michael turned, he saw her standing in the door-
way, ice pale and rigid. He swore, wishing he’d had a
moment to prepare her. ‘Take it easy, he began as he
reached for her arm.
She shoved him aside forcibly and fought her way into
the shed. Beads rolled and bounced at her feet. For a mo-
ment there was pure shock, disbelief. Then came a white
wall of fury. ‘How could you?’ When she turned back
to him she was no longer pale. Her color was vivid, her
eyes as sharp as the emerald he still held.
Because he was off guard, she nearly landed the first
blow. The air whistled by his face as her fist passed. He
caught her arms before she tried again. ‘Just a minute,’ he
began, but she threw herself bodily into him and knocked
them both against the wall. Whatever had been left on
the shelves shuddered or fell off. It took several moments,
and a few bruises on both ends, before he managed to
pin her arms back and hold her still.

64 A Will and A Way
‘Stop it.’ He pressed her back until she glared up at
him, dry-eyed and furious. ‘You’ve a right to be upset,
but putting a hole in me won’t accomplish anything.’
‘I knew you could be low,’ she said between her teeth.
‘But I’d never have believed you could do something so
filthy.’
‘Believe whatever the hell you want,’ he began, but he
felt her body shudder as she fought for control. ‘Pandora,’
and his voice softened. ‘I didn’t do this. Look at me,’ he
demanded with a little shake. “Why would I?’
Because she wanted to cry, her voice, her eyes were
hard. ‘You tell me.’
Patience wasn’t one of his strong points, but he tried
again. “Pandora, listen to me. Try for common sense a
minute and just listen. I got here a few minutes before
you. I saw someone coming out of the shed from my
window and came down. When I got here, this is what
I found.’
She was going to disgrace herself. She felt the tears
backing up and hated them. It was better to hate him.
‘Let go of me’
Perhaps he could handle her anger better than her de-
spair. Cautiously Michael released her arms and stepped
back. ‘It hasn’t been more than ten minutes since I saw
someone coming out of here. I figured they cut through
the woods.’
She tried to think, tried to clear the fury out of her
head. ‘You can go,’ she said with deadly calm. ‘I have to
clean up and take inventory.’
Something hot backed up in his throat at the casual dis-

Nora Roberts 65
missal. Remembering his own reaction when he’d opened
the shed door, he swallowed it. ‘Ill call the police if you
like, but I don’t know if anything was stolen.’ He opened
his palm and showed her the emerald. ‘I can’t imagine
any thief leaving stones like this behind.’
Pandora snatched it out of his hand. When her fingers
closed over it, she felt the slight prick of the hoop she’d
fastened onto it only the day before. The emerald seemed
to grow out of the braided wire.
Her heart was thudding against her ribs as she walked
to her worktable. There was what was left of the necklace
she’d been fashioning for two weeks. The deceptively
delicate tiers were in pieces, the emeralds that had hung
gracefully from them, scattered. Her own nippers had
been used to destroy it. She gathered up the pieces in her
_ hands and fought back the urge to scream.
‘It was this, wasn’t it?’ Michael picked up the sketch
from the floor. It was stunning on paper—at once fanci-
ful and bold. He supposed what she had drawn had some
claim to art. He imagined how he’d feel if someone took -
scissors to one of his scripts. “You’d nearly finished.’
Pandora dropped the pieces back on the table. ‘Leave
me alone.’ She crouched and began to gather up stones
and beads.
‘Pandora.’ When she ignored him, Michael grabbed
her by the shoulders and shook. ‘Dammit, Pandora, I
want to help.’
She sent him a long, cold look. “You’ve done enough,
Michael. Now leave me alone.’
‘All right, fine.’ He released her and stormed out.

66 A Will and A Way
Anger and frustration carried him halfway across the
lawn. Michael stopped, swore and wished bitterly for a
cigarette. She had no right to accuse him. Worse, she had
no right to make him feel responsible. The guilt he was
experiencing was nearly as strong as it would have been
if he’d actually vandalized her shop. Hands in his pock-
ets, he stood staring back at the shed and cursing her.
She really thought he’d done that to her. That he was
capable of such meaningless, bitter destruction. He’d tried
to talk to her, soothe her. Every offer of help had been
thrown back at him. Just like her, he thought with his
teeth gritted. She deserved to be left alone.
He nearly started back to the house again when he re-
membered just how shocked and ill she’d looked in the
doorway of the shed. Calling himself a fool, he went back.
When he opened the door of the shed again, the chaos
was just as it had been. Sitting in the middle of it on the
floor by her workbench was Pandora. She was weeping
quietly.
He felt the initial male panic at being confronted with
feminine tears and surprise that they came from Pandora
who never shed them. Yet he felt sympathy for some-
one who'd been dealt a bull’s-eye blow. Without saying
a word, he went to her and slipped his arms around her.
She stiffened, but he’d expected it. ‘I told you to go
away.’
‘Yeah. Why should I listen to you?’ He stroked her hair.
She wanted to crawl into his lap and weep for hours.
‘I don’t want you here.’

Nora Roberts 67
‘I know. Just pretend I’m someone else.’ He drew her
against his chest.
‘Tm only crying because I’m angry.’ With a sniff, she
turned her face into his shirt.
‘Sure.’ He kissed the top of her head. ‘Go ahead and
be angry for a while. I’m used to it.’
She told herself it was because she was weakened by
shock and grief, but she relaxed against him. The tears
came in floods. When she cried, she cried wholeheart-
edly. When she was finished, she was done.
Tears dry, she sat cushioned against him. Secure. She
wouldn’t question it now. Along with the anger came a
sense of shame she was unaccustomed to. She’d been
filthy to him. But he’d come back and held her. Who’d
have expected him to be patient, or caring? Or strong
enough to make her accept both. Pandora let out a long
breath and kept her eyes shut for just a moment. He
smelled of soap and nothing else.
‘Tm sorry, Michael.’
She was soft. Hadn’t he just told himself she wouldn’t
be? He let his cheek brush against her hair. ‘Okay.’
‘No, I mean it.’ When she turned her head her lips
skimmed across his cheek. It surprised them both. That
kind of contact was for friends—or lovers. ‘I couldn’t
think after I walked in here. I—’ She broke off a moment,
fascinated by his eyes. Wasn’t it strange how small the
world could become if you looked into someone’s eyes?
Why hadn’t she ever noticed that before? ‘I need to sort
all this out.’

68 A Will and A Way
‘Yeah.’ He ran a fingertip down her cheek. She was
soft. Softer than he’d let himself believe. ‘We both do.’
It was so easy to settle herself in the crook of his arm.
‘T can’t think.’
‘No?’ Her lips were only an inch from his—too close to
ignore, too far to taste. ‘Let’s both not think for a minute.’
When he touched his mouth to hers, she didn’t draw
away but accepted, experimented with the same sense
of curiosity that moved through him. It wasn’t an explo-
sion or a shock, but a test for both of them. One they’d
both known would come sooner or later.
She tasted warm, and her sweetness had a bite. He’d
known her so long, shouldn’t he have known that? Her
body felt primed to move, to act, to race. Soft, yes, she
was soft, but not pliant. Perhaps he’d have found pliancy
too easy. When he slipped his tongue into her mouth
hers met it teasingly, playfully. His stomach knotted. She
made him want more, much more of that unapologeti-
cally earthy scent, the taut body. His fingers tangled in
her hair and tightened.
He was as mysterious and bold as she’d always thought
he would be. His hands were firm, his mouth giving.
Sometimes she’d wondered what it would be like to meet
him on these terms. But she’d always closed her mind
before any of the answers could slip through. Michael
Donahue was dangerous simply because he was Michael
Donahue. By turns he’d attracted and alienated her since
they’d been children. It was more than any other man had
been able to do for more than a week.
Now, as her mouth explored his, she began to under-

Nora Roberts . 69
stand why. He was different, for her. She didn’t feel al-
together safe in his arms, and not completely in control.
Pandora had always made certain she was both those
things when it came to a man. The scrape of his un-
shaved cheek didn’t annoy her as she’d thought it would.
It aroused. The discomfort of the hard floor seemed suit-
able, as was the quick rush of cold air through the still-
open door.
She felt quietly and completely at home. Then the quick
nip of his teeth against her lip made her feel as though
she’d just stepped on uncharted land. New territory was
what she’d been raised on, and yet, in all her experience,
she’d never explored anything so unique, so exotic or so
comfortable.
She wanted to go on and knew she had to stop.
Together they drew away.
~ ‘Well.’ She scrambled for composure as she folded her
hands in her lap. Be casual, she ordered herself while her
pulse thudded at her wrists. Be careless. She couldn’t af-
ford to say anything that might make him laugh at her.
‘That’s been coming for a while, I suppose.’
He felt as though he’d just slid down a roller coaster
without a cart. ‘I suppose.’ He studied her a moment, cu-
rious and a bit unnerved. When he saw her fingers twist
together he felt a small sense of satisfaction. ‘It wasn’t
altogether what I’d expected.’
‘Things rarely are.’ Too many surprises for one day,
Pandora decided, and rose unsteadily to her feet. She
made the mistake of looking around and nearly sunk to
the floor again.

70 A Will and A Way
‘Pandora—’
‘No, don’t worry.’ She shook her head as he rose. ‘I’m
not going to fall apart again.’ Concentrating on breathing
evenly, she took one long look at her workshop. ‘It looks
like you were right about the locks. I suppose I should
be grateful you haven’t said I told you so.’
‘Maybe I would if it applied.” Michael picked up the
emeralds scattered on her table. ‘I’m no expert, cousin,
but I’d say these are worth a few thousand.’
‘So?’ She frowned as her train of thought began to
march with his. ‘No thief would’ve left them behind,’
Reaching down, she picked up a handful of stones.
Among them were two top-grade diamonds. “Or these.’
As was his habit, he began to put the steps together in
a sort of mental scenario. Action and reaction, motive and
result. ‘I’d wager once you’ve inventoried, you won’t be
missing anything. Whoever did this didn’t want to risk
more than breaking and entering and vandalism,’
With a huff, she sat down on her table. ‘You think it
was one of the family.’
‘They said it wouldn’t last,” he quoted, and stuck his
hands in his pockets. “You may’ve had something there,
Pandora. Something neither of us considered when we
were setting out the guidelines. None of them believed
we'd be able to get through six months together. The fact
is, we’ve gotten through the first two weeks without a
hitch. It could make one of them nervous enough to want
to throw in a complication. What was your first reaction
when you saw all this?’
She dragged her hand through her hair. ‘That you’d

Nora Roberts 71
done it for spite. Exactly what our kith and kin would
expect me to think. Dammit, I hate to be predictable.’
“You outsmarted them once your mind cleared.’
She sent him a quick look, not certain if she should
thank him or apologize again. It was best to do neither.
‘Biff, Pandora decided with relish. ‘This sort of low-
minded trick would be just up his alley.’
‘Td only vote for Biff if you find a few rocks missing.’
Michael rocked back on his heels. ‘He’d never be able to
resist picking up a few glitters that could be liquidated
into nice clean cash’
“True enough.’ Uncle Carlson—no, it seemed a bit
crude for his style. Ginger would’ve been too fascinated
with the sparkles to have done any more than fondle.
Pulling a hand through her hair, she tried to picture one
of her bland, civilized relations wielding a pair of nip-
pers. “Well, I don’t suppose it matters a great deal which
one of them did it. They’ve put me two weeks behind on
my commission.’ Again she picked up pieces of thin gold.
‘It'll never be quite the same,’ she murmured. “Nothing
is when it’s done over.’
‘Sometimes it’s better.’
With a shake of her head, she walked over to a heater.
If he gave her any more sympathy now, she wouldn’t be
able to trust herself. “One way or the other I’ve got to
get started. Tell Sweeney I won’t make it in for lunch.’
‘T’ll help you clean this up.’
‘No.’ She turned back when he started to frown. ‘No,
really, Michael, I appreciate it. I need to be busy. And
alone.’

72 A Will and A Way
He didn’t like it, but understood. ‘All right. li see
you at dinner.’
‘Michael...’ He paused at the doorway and looked
back. Amid the confusion she looked strong and vivid.
He nearly closed the door and went back to her. ‘Maybe
Uncle Jolley was right.’
‘About what?’
“You may have one or two redeeming qualities.’
He smiled at her then, quick and dashing. ‘Uncle Jol-
ley was always right, cousin. That’s why he’s still pull-
ing the strings.’ |
Pandora waited until the door shut again. Pulling the
strings he was, she mused. ‘But you’re not playing match-
maker with my life, she mumbled. ‘I’m staying free,
single and unattached. Just get that through your head.’
She wasn’t superstitious, but Pandora almost thought
she heard her uncle’s high, cackling laugh. She rolled up
her sleeves and got to work.

Chapter 4
Because after a long, tedious inventory Pandora dis-
covered nothing missing, she vetoed Michael’s notion of
calling in the police. If something had been stolen, she’d
have seen the call as a logical step. As it was, she decided
the police would poke and prod around and lecture on the
lack of locks. If the vandal had been one of the family—
and she had to agree with Michael’s conclusion there—a
noisy, official investigation would give the break-in too
much importance and undoubtedly too much publicity.
Yes, the press would have a field day. Pandora had al-
ready imagined the headlines. ‘Family vs. family in the
battle of eccentric’s will.’ There was, under her indepen-
dent and straightforward nature, a prim part of her that
felt family business was private business.
If one or more of the members of the family were keep-

74 A Will and A Way
ing an eye on Jolley’s Folley and the goings-on there,
Pandora wanted them to think that she’d brushed off the
vandalism as petty and foolish. As a matter of pride, she
didn’t want anyone to believe she’d been dealt a stunning
blow. As a matter of practicality, she didn’t want anyone
to know that she had her eyes open. She was determined
to find out who had broken into her shop and how they’d
managed to pick such a perfect time for it.
Michael hadn’t insisted on calling the police because
his thoughts had run along the same lines as Pandora’s.
He’d managed, through a loto fm aneuvering and silence,
to keep his career totally separate from his family. In his
business, he was known as Michael Donahue, award-
winning writer, not Michael Donahue, relative of Jolley
McVie, multimillionaire. He wanted to keep it that way.
Stubbornly, each had refused to tell the other of their
reasons or their plans for some personal detective work.
It wasn’t so much a matter of trust, but more the fact that
neither of them felt the other could do the job competently.
So instead, they kept the conversation light through one
of Sweeney’s four-star meals and let the vandalism rest.
More important, they carefully avoided any reference that
might trigger some remark about what had happened on
a more personal level in Pandora’s workshop.
After two glasses of wine and a generous portion of
chicken fricassee, Pandora felt more optimistic. It would
have been much worse if any of her stock or tools had
been taken. That would have meant a trip into Manhattan
and days, perhaps weeks of delay. As it was, the worst
crime that she could see was the fact that she’d been spied

Nora Roberts 75
on. Surely that was the only explanation for the break-in
coinciding so perfectly with her trip to town. And that
would be her first order of business.
‘I wonder, Pandora began, probing lightly, ‘if the
Saundersons are in residence for the winter.’
‘The neighbors with the pond.’ Michael had thought of
the Saunderson place himself. There were certain points
on that property where, with a good set of binoculars,
someone could watch the Folley easily. ‘They spend a lot
of time in Europe, don’t they?’
‘Hmm.’ Pandora toyed with her chicken. ‘He’s in ho-
tels, you know. They tend to pop off here or there for
weeks at a time.’
‘Do they ever rent the place out?’
‘Oh, not that I know of. I’m under the impression that
they leave a skeleton staff there even when they fly off.
Now that I think of it, they were home a few months
ago.’ The memory made her smile. “Uncle Jolley and
I went fishing and Saunderson nearly caught us. If we
hadn’t scrambled back to the cabin—’ She broke off as
the thought formed.
‘Cabin.’ Michael picked up where she’d left off. ‘That
old two-room wreck Jolley was going to use as a hunt-
ing lodge during his eat-off-the-land stage? I'd forgot-
ten all about it.’
Pandora shrugged as though it meant nothing while
her mind raced ahead. ‘He ended up eating more beans
than game. In any case, we caught a bundle of trout, ate
like pigs and sent the rest along to Saunderson. He never
sent a thank-you note.’

76 A Will and A Way
‘Poor manners.’
‘Well, I’ve heard his grandmother was a barmaid in
Chelsea. More wine?’
‘No, thanks.’ He thought it best to keep a clear head if
he was going to carry out the plans that were just begin-
ning to form. ‘Help yourself’
Pandora set the bottle down and sent him a sweet
smile. ‘No, I’m fine. Just a bit tired really.’
‘You're entitled.’ It would clear his path beautifully if
he could ship her off to bed early. “What you need is a
good night’s sleep.’
‘Tm sure you're right.’ Both of them were too involved
with their own moves to notice how excruciatingly po-
lite the conversation had become. ‘I'll just skip coffee
tonight and go have a bath.’ She feigned a little yawn.
“What about you? Planning to work late?’
“‘No—no, I think [ll get a fresh start in the morning.’
“Well then.’ Pandora rose, still smiling. She’d give it
an hour, she calculated, then she’d be out and gone. ‘I’m
going up. Good night, Michael.’
‘Good night.’ Once the light in her room was off, he
decided, he’d be on his way.
Pandora sat in her darkened room for exactly fifteen
minutes and just listened. All she had to do was get out-
side without being spotted. The rest would be easy. Open-
ing her door a crack, she held her breath, waited and
listened a little longer. Not a sound. It was now or never,
she decided and bundled into her coat. Into the deep
pockets, she shoved a flashlight, two books of matches

Nora Roberts Ve
and a small can of hair spray. As good as mace, Pandora
figured, if you ran into something unfriendly. She crept
out into the hall and started slowly down the stairs, her
back to the wall.
An adventure, she thought, feeling the familiar pulse of
excitement and anxiety. She hadn’t had one since Uncle
Jolley died. As she let herself out one of the side doors,
she thought how much he’d have enjoyed this one. The
moon was only a sliver, but the sky was full of stars.
The few clouds that spread over them were hardly more
than transparent wisps. And the air—she took a deep
breath—was cool and crisp as an apple. With a quick
glance over her shoulder at Michael’s window, she started
toward the woods.
The starlight couldn’t help her there. Though the trees
were bare, the branches were thick enough to block out
big chunks of sky. She dug out her flashlight and, turn-
ing it side to side, found the edges of the path. She didn’t
hurry. If she rushed, the adventure would be over too
soon. She walked slowly, listened and imagined.
There were sounds—the breeze blew through pine nee-
dles and scattered the dry leaves. Now and again there
was a skuttle in the woods to the right or left. A fox, a
raccoon, a bear not quite settled down to hibernate? Pan-
dora liked not being quite certain. If you walked through
the woods alone, in the dark, and didn’t have some sense
of wonder, it was hardly worth the trip.
She liked the smells—pine, earth, the hint of frost that
would settle on the ground before morning. She liked the

78 A Will and A Way
sense of being alone, and more, of having something up
ahead that warranted her attention.
The path forked, and she swung to the left. The cabin
wasn’t much farther. She stopped once, certain she’d
heard something move up ahead that was too big to be
considered a fox. For a moment she had a few uncomfort-
able thoughts about bears and bobcats. It was one thing
to speculate and another to have to deal with them. Then
there was nothing. Shaking her head, Pandora went on.
What would she do if she got to the cabin, and it wasn’t
dusty and deserted? What would she do if she actually
found one of her dear, devoted relatives had set up house-
keeping? Uncle Carlson reading the Wail Street Jour-
nal by the fire? Aunt Patience fussing around the rocky
wooden table with a dust cloth? The thought was almost
laughable. Almost, until Pandora remembered her work-
shop.
Drawing her brows together, she walked forward. If
someone was there, they were going to answer to her. In
moments, the shadow of the cabin loomed up before her.
It looked as it was supposed to look, desolate, deserted,
eerie. She kept her flashlight low as she crept toward the
porch, then nearly let out a scream when her own weight
caused the narrow wooden stair to creak. She held a hand
to her heart until it no longer felt as though it would break
her ribs. Then slowly, quietly, stealthily, she reached for
the doorknob and twisted it.
The door moaned itself open. Wincing at the sound,
Pandora counted off ten seconds before she took the next
step. With a quick sweep of her light, she stepped in.

Nora Roberts 79
When the arm came around her neck, she dropped the
flashlight with a clatter. It rolled over the floor, sending
an erratic beam over the log walls and brick fireplace.
Even as she drew the breath to scream, she reached in her
pocket for the hair spray. After she was whirled around,
she found herself face-to-face with Michael. His fist was
poised inches from her face, her can inches from his.
Both of them stood just as they were.
‘Dammit!’ Michael dropped his arm. ‘What are you
doing here?’
‘What are you doing here?’ she tossed back. ‘And what
do you mean by grabbing me that way? You may’ve bro-
ken my flashlight.’
‘I almost broke your nose.’
Pandora shook back her hair and walked over to re-
trieve her light. She didn’t want him to see her hands
tremble. “Well, I certainly think you should find out who
someone is before you throw a headlock on them.’
“You followed me.’
She sent him a cool, amused look. It helped to be able
to do so when her stomach was still quaking. ‘Don’t flat-
ter yourself. I simply wanted to see if something was
going on out here, and I didn’t want you to interfere.’
‘Interfere.’ He shone his own light directly in her face
so that she had to throw up a hand in defense. ‘And what
the hell were you going to do if something was going on?
Overpower them?’
She thought of how easily he’d taken her by surprise.
It only made her lift her chin higher. ‘I can take care of
myself.’

80 A Will and A Way
‘Sure.’ He glanced down at the can she still held. ‘What
have you got there?’
Having forgotten it, Pandora looked down herself, then
had to stifle a chuckle. Oh, how Uncle Jolley would’ve
appreciated the absurdity. ‘Hair spray,’ she said very pre-
cisely. ‘Right between the eyes.’
He swore, then laughed. He couldn’t have written a
scene so implausible. ‘I guess I should be glad you didn’t
get a shot off at me.’
‘T look before I pounce.’ Pandora dropped the can back
into her pocket. ‘Well, since we’re here, we might as well
look around.’
‘I was doing just that when I heard your catlike ap-
proach.’ She wrinkled her nose at him, but he ignored
her. ‘It looks like someone’s been making themselves at
home.’ To prove his point, Michael shone his light at the
fireplace. Half-burnt logs still smoldered.
“Well, well” With her own light, Pandora began to
walk around the cabin. The last time she’d been there,
the chair with the broken rung had been by the window.
Jolley had sat there himself, keeping a lookout for Saun-
derson while she’d opened a tin of sardines to ward off
starvation. Now the chair was pulled up near the fire. ‘A
vagrant, perhaps.’
Watching her, Michael nodded. ‘Perhaps.’
‘But not likely. Suppose they’ll be back?’
‘Hard to say.’ The casual glance showed nothing out
of place. The cabin was neat and tidy. Too tidy. The floor
and table surfaces should have had a film of dust. Every-

Nora Roberts 5]
thing had been wiped clean. ‘It could be they’ve done all
the damage they intend to do.’
Disgruntled, Pandora plopped down on the bunk and
dropped her chin in her hands. ‘I’d hoped to catch them.’
‘And what? Zap them with environmentally safe hair
spray?’
She glared up at him. ‘I suppose you had a better plan.’
‘T think I might’ve made them a bit more uncomfort-
able.’
‘Black eyes and broken noses.’ She made an impatient
sound. ‘Really, Michael, you should try to get your mind
out of your fists.’
‘I suppose you just wanted to talk reasonably with
whichever member of our cozy family played search and
destroy with your workshop.’
She started to snap, caught herself, then smiled. It
was the slow, wicked smile Michael could never help
admiring. ‘No,’ she admitted. ‘Reason wasn’t high on
my list. Still, it appears we’ve both missed our chance
for brute force. Well, you write the detective stories—so
to speak—shouldn’t we look for clues?’
His lips curved in something close to a sneer. ‘I didn’t
think to bring my magnifying glass.’
“You can almost be amusing when you put your mind
to it.” Rising, Pandora began to shine her light here and
there. ‘They might’ve dropped something.’
‘A name tag?’
‘Something,’ she muttered, and dropped to her knees
to look under the bunk. ‘Aha!’ Hunkering down, she
grabbed at something.

82 A Will and A Way
‘What is it?’ Michael was beside her before she’d
straightened up.
‘A shoe.’ Feeling foolish and sentimental, she held it in
both hands. ‘It’s nothing. It was Uncle Jolley’s.’
Because she looked lost, and more vulnerable than he’d
expected, Michael offered the only comfort he knew. ‘I
miss him, too.’
She sat a moment, the worn sneaker in her lap. ‘You
know, sometimes it’s as though I can almost feel him.
As though he’s around the next corner, in the next room,
waiting to pop up and laugh at the incredible joke he’s
played.’
With a quick laugh, Michael rubbed a hand over her
back. ‘I know what you mean.’
Pandora looked at him, steady, measuring. ‘Maybe
you do,’ she murmured. Briskly she set the sneaker on
the bunk and rose. ‘Ill have a look in the cupboards.’
‘Let me know if you find any cookies.’ He met the look
she tossed over her shoulder with a shrug. ‘In the early
stages of nonsmoking, you need a lot of oral satisfaction.’
“You ought to try chewing gum.’ Pandora opened a
cupboard and shone her light over jars and cans. There
was peanut butter, chunky, and caviar, Russian. Two of
Jolley’s favorite snacks. She passed over taco sauce and
jumbo fruit cocktail, remembering that her ninety-three-
year-old uncle had had the appetite of a teenager. Then
reaching in, she plucked out a can and held it up.
‘Aha!’
‘Again?’

Nora Roberts , 83
‘Tuna fish, Pandora announced waving the can at Mi-
chael. ‘It’s a can of tuna.’
‘Right you are. Any mayo to go with it?’
‘Don’t be dense, Michael. Uncle Jolley hated tuna.’
Michael started to say something sarcastic, then
stopped. ‘He did, didn’t he?’ he said slowly. ‘And he never
kept anything around he didn’t like,’
‘Exactly.’
‘Congratulations, Sherlock. Now which of the suspects
has an affection for canned fish?’
“You're just jealous because I found a clue and you
didn’t”
‘It’s only a clue, Michael pointed out, a little annoyed
at being outdone by an amateur, ‘if you can do some-
thing with it,
He’d never give her credit, she thought, for anything,
not her craft, her intelligence and never her womanhood.
There was an edge to her voice when she spoke again.
‘If you’re so pessimistic, why did you come out here?’
‘I was hoping to find someone.’ Restless, Michael
moved his light from wall to wall. ‘As it is all we’ve
done is prove someone was here and gone.’
Pandora dropped the can of tuna in disgust. ‘A waste
of time.’
“You shouldn’t’ve followed me out.’
‘T didn’t follow you out.’ She shone her light back at
him. He looked too male, too dangerous in the shadows.
She wished, only briefly, that she had the spectacular
build and stunning style that would bring him whimper-

84 A Will and A Way
ing to his knees. Their breath came in clouds and merged
together. ‘For all I know, you followed me,’
‘Oh, I see. That’s why I was here first.’
‘Beside the point. If you’d planned to come out here
tonight, why didn’t you tell me?’
He came closer. But if he came too close to her, he dis-
covered, he began to feel something, something like an
itch along the skin. Try to scratch it, he reminded him-
self, and she’d rub you raw in seconds. ‘For the same
reason you didn’t tell me. I don’t trust you, cousin. You
don’t trust me.’
‘At least we can agree on something.’ She started to
brush by him and found her arm captured. In one icy
movement, she tilted her head down to look at his hand,
then up to look at his face. “That’s a habit you should try
to break, Michael.’
‘They say when you break one habit, you pick up an-
other.’
The ice in Pandora’s voice never changed, but her blood
was warming. ‘Do they?’
“Youre easier to touch than I’d once thought, Pandora.’
‘Don’t be too sure, Michael.’ She took a step back, not
in retreat, she told herself. It was a purely offensive move.
Still, he moved with her.
‘Some women have trouble dealing with physical at-
traction.’
The temper that flared in her eyes appealed to him as
much as the passion he’d seen there briefly that afternoon.
“Your ego’s showing again. This dominant routine might
work very well with your centerfolds, but—

Nora Roberts 85
“You’ve always had an odd fascination with my sex
life.” Michael grinned at her, pleased to see frustration
flit over her face.
‘The same kind of educated fascination one has with
the sex lives of lower mammals.’ It infuriated her that
her heart was racing. And not from anger. She was too
honest to pretend it was anger. She’d come looking for
an adventure, and she’d found one. ‘It’s getting late,’ she
said, using the tone of a parochial schoolteacher to a dis-
ruptive student. ‘You’ll have to excuse me.’
‘l’ve never asked about your sex life.’ When she took
another step away, he boxed her neatly into a corner.
Pandora’s hand slipped into her pocket and rested on the
can of hair spray. “Let me guess. You prefer a man with a
string of initials after his name who philosophizes about
sex more than he acts on it.’
“Why, you pompous, arrogant—’
Michael shut her mouth the way he’d once fantasized.
With his own.
The kiss was no test this time, but torrid, hot, edging
toward desperate. Whatever she might feel, she’d dissect
later. Now she’d accept the experience. His mouth was
warm, firm, and he used it with the same cocky male
confidence that would have infuriated her at any other
time. Now she met it with her own.
He was strong, insistent. For the first time Pandora felt
herself body to body with a man who wouldn’t treat her
delicately. He demanded, expected and gave a completely
uninhibited physicality. Pandora didn’t have to think her
way through the kiss. She didn’t have to think at all.

86 A Will and A Way
He’d expected her to rear back and take a swing at him.
Her instant and full response left him reeling. Later Mi-
chael would recall that nothing as basic and simple as a
kiss had made his head spin for years.
She packed a punch, but she did it with soft lips. If she
knew just how quickly she’d knocked him out, would she
gloat? He wouldn’t think of it now. He wouldn’t think of
anything now. Without a moment’s hesitation, he buried
his consciousness in her and let the senses rule.
The cabin was cold and dark without even a single
stream of moonlight for romance. It smelled of dying
smoke and settling dust. The wind had kicked up enough
to moan grumpily at the windows. Neither of them no-
ticed. Even when they broke apart, neither of them no-
ticed.
He wasn’t steady. That was something else he’d think
about later. At least he had the satisfaction of seeing she
wasn’t steady, either. She looked as he felt, stunned, off
balance and unable to set for the next blow. Needing some
equilibrium, he grinned at her.
“You were saying?’
She wanted to slug him. She wanted to kiss him again
until he didn’t have the strength to grin. He’d expect her
to fall at his feet as other women probably did. He’d ex-
pect her to sigh and smile and surrender so he’d have one
more victory. Instead she snapped, ‘Idiot.’
‘I love it when you’re succinct.’
‘Rule number six,’ Pandora stated, aiming a killing
look. ‘No physical contact.’

Nora Roberts 87
‘No physical contact,’ Michael agreed as she stomped
toward the doorway, ‘unless both parties enjoy it.’
She slammed the door and left him grinning.
When two people are totally involved in their own
projects, they can live under the same roof for days at a
time and rarely see_each other. Especially if the roof is
enormous and the people very stubborn. Pandora and Mi-
chael brushed together at meals and otherwise left each
other alone. This wasn’t out of any sense of politeness or
consideration. It was simply because each of them was
too busy to heckle the other.
Separately, however, each felt a smug satisfaction when
the first month passed. One down, five to go.
When they were into their second month, Michael
drove into New York for a day to handle a problem with
a script that had to be dealt with personally. He left, cross
as a bear and muttering about imbeciles. Pandora pre-
pared to enjoy herself tremendously in his absence. She
wouldn’t have to keep up her guard or share the Folley for
hours. She could do anything she wanted without wor-
rying about anyone coming to look over her shoulder or
make a caustic remark. It would be wonderful.
She ended up picking at her dinner, then watching for
his car through the heavy brocade drapes. Not because
she missed him, she assured herself. It was just that she’d
become used to having someone in the house.
Wasn’t that one of the reasons she’d never lived with
anyone before? She wanted to avoid any sense of depen-
dence. And dependence, she decided, was natural when

88 A Will and A Way
you shared the same space—even when it was with a
two-legged snake.
So she waited, and she watched. Long after Charles
and Sweeney had gone to bed, she continued to wait and
watch. She wasn’t concerned, and certainly not lonely.
Only restless. She told herself she didn’t go to bed herself
because she wasn’t tired. Wandering the first floor, she
walked into Jolley’s den. Game room would have been a
more appropriate name. The decor was a cross between
video arcade and disco lounge with its state-of-the-art
components and low, curved-back sofas.
She turned on the huge, fifty-four-inch television, then
left it on the first show that appeared. She wasn’t going
to watch it. She just wanted the company.
There were two pinball tables where she passed nearly
an hour trying to beat the high scores Jolley had left
behind. Another legacy. Then there was an arcade-size
video game that simulated an attack on the planet Zarbo.
Under her haphazard defense system, the planet blew up
three times before she moved on. There was computer-
ized chess, but she thought her mind too sluggish to take
it on. In the end she stretched out on the six-foot sofa in
front of the television. Just to rest, not to watch.
Within moments, she was hooked on the late-night
syndication of a cop show. Squealing tires and blasting
bullets. Head pillowed on her arms, one leg thrown over
the top of the sofa, she relaxed and let herself be enter-
tained.
When Michael came to the doorway, she didn’t notice
him. He’d had a grueling day and had hit some nasty

Nora Roberts 8&9
traffic on the drive back. The fact was he’d considered
staying in the city overnight—the sensible thing to do.
He’d found himself making a dozen weak excuses why
he had to go back instead of accepting the invitation of
the assistant producer—a tidily built brunette with big
brown eyes.
He’d intended to crawl upstairs, fall into his bed and
sleep until noon, but he’d seen the lights and heard the
racket. Now, here was Pandora, self-proclaimed critic of
the small screen, sprawled on a sofa watching reruns at
one in the morning. She looked suspiciously as though
she were enjoying herself.
Not a bad show, Michael mused, recognizing the se-
ries. In fact, he’d written a couple of scripts for it in his
early days. The central character had a sly sort of wit and
a fumbling manner that caused the perpetrator to spill out
enough information for an arrest by the end of the show. -
Michael watched Pandora as she shifted comfortably
on the couch. He waited until the commercial break.
“Well, how the mighty have fallen.’
She nearly did, rolling quickly to look back toward the
doorway. She sat up, scowled and searched her mind for
a plausible excuse. ‘I couldn’t sleep,’ she told him, which
was true enough. She wouldn’t add it was because he
hadn’t been home. ‘I suppose television is made for the
insomniac. Valium for the mind.’
He was tired, bone tired, but he realized how glad he
was she’d had a comeback. He came over, plopped down
beside her and propped his feet on a coffee table made

90 A Will and A Way
out of a fat log. ‘Who done it?’ he asked, and sighed. It
was good to be home.
‘The greedy business partner.’ She was too pleased to
have him back to be embarrassed. ‘There’s really very
little challenge in figuring out the answers.’
‘This show wasn’t based on the premise of figuring
out who did the crime, but in how the hero maneuvers
them into betraying themselves.’
She pretended she wasn’t interested, but shifted so that
she could still see the screen. ‘So, how did things go in
New York?’ y
‘They went.’ Michael pried off one shoe with the toe of
the other. ‘After several hours of hair tearing and blame
casting, the script’s intact.’
He looked tired. Really tired, she realized, and unbent
enough to take off his other shoe. He merely let out a
quick grunt of appreciation. ‘I don’t understand why peo-
ple would get all worked up about one silly hour a week.’
He opened one eye to stare at her. ‘It’s the American
way.’
‘What’s there to get so excited about? You have a
crime, the good guys chase the bad guys and catch them
before the final credits. Seems simple enough.’
‘I can’t thank you enough for clearing that up. I’ll point
it out at the next production meeting.’
‘Really, Michael, it seems to me things should run
fairly smoothly, especially since you’ve been on the air
with this thing for years.’
‘Know anything about ego and paranoia?’
She smiled a little. ‘ve heard of them.’

Nora Roberts 9]
“Well, multiply that with artistic temperament, the rat-
ings race and an escalating budget. Don’t forget to drop
in a good dose of network executives. Things haven’t run
smoothly for four years. If Logan goes another four, it
still won’t run smoothly. That’s show biz.’
Pandora moved her shoulders. ‘It seems a foolish way
to make a living.’
‘Ain’t it just, Michael agreed, and fell sound asleep.
She let him doze for the next twenty minutes while
she watched the sly, fumbling cop tighten the ropes on
the greedy business partner. Satisfied that justice had
been done, Pandora rose to switch off the set and dim
the lights.
She could leave him here, she considered as she
watched Michael sleep. He looked comfortable enough
at the moment. She thought about it as she walked over
to brush his hair from his forehead. But he’d probably
wake up with a stiff neck and a nasty disposition. Bet-
ter get him upstairs into bed, she decided, and shook his
shoulder.
‘Michael.’
‘Mmm?’
‘Let’s go to bed.’
‘Thought you’d never ask,’ he mumbled, and reached
halfheartedly for her.
Amused, she shook him harder. ‘Never let your reach
exceed your grasp. Come on, cousin, I’ll help you up-
stairs.’
‘The director’s a posturing idiot, he grumbled as she
dragged him to his feet.

92 A Will and A Way
‘I’m sure he is. Now, see if you can put one foot in front
of the other. That’s the way. Here we go.’ With an arm
around his waist, she began to lead him from the room.
‘He kept screwing around with my script.’
‘Of all the nerve. Here come the steps.’
‘Said he wanted more emotional impact in the sec-
ond act. Bleaches his hair,’ Michael muttered as she half
pulled him up the steps. ‘Lot he knows about emotional
impact.’
‘Obviously a mental midget.’ Breathlessly she steered
him toward his room. He was heavier than he looked.
‘Here we are now, home again.’ With a little strategy
and a final burst of will, she shoved him onto the bed.
‘There now, isn’t that cozy?’ Leaving him fully dressed,
she spread an afghan over him.
‘Aren’t you going to take my pants off?’
She patted his head. ‘Not a chance.’
‘Spoilsport.’
‘If I helped you undress this late at night, I’d probably
have nightmares.’
“You know you're crazy about me.’ The bed felt like
heaven. He could’ve burrowed in it for a week.
“Yowre getting delirious, Michael. ’ll have Charles
bring you some warm tea and honey in the morning.’
‘Not if you want to live.’ He roused himself to open
his eyes and smile at her. ‘Why don’t you crawl in be-
side me? With a little encouragement, I could show you
the time of your life.’
Pandora leaned closer, closer, until her mouth was
inches from his. Their breath mixed quickly, intimately.

Nora Roberts 93
She hovered there a moment while her hair fell forward
and brushed his cheek. ‘In a pig’s eye,’ she whispered.
Michael shrugged, yawned and rolled over. ‘Kay.’
In the dark, Pandora stood for a moment with her
hands on her hips. At least he could’ve acted insulted.
Chin up, she walked out—making sure she slammed the
door at her back.

Chapter 5
Tier by painstaking tier, Pandora had completed the em-
erald necklace. When it was finished, she was pleased
to judge it perfect. This judgment pleased her particu-
larly because she was her own toughest critic. Pandora
didn’t feel emotionally attached or creatively satisfied by
every piece she made. With the necklace, she felt both.
She examined it under a magnifying glass, held it up in
harsh light, went over the filigree inch by inch and found
no flaws. Out of her own imagination she’d conceived
it, then with her own skill created it. With a kind of re-
gret, she boxed the necklace in a bed of cotton. It wasn’t
hers any longer.
With the necklace done, she looked around her work-
shop without inspiration. She’d put so much into that
one piece, all her concentration, her emotion, her skill.

Nora Roberts 95
She hadn’t made a single plan for the next project. Rest-
less, wanting to work, she picked up her pad and began
to sketch.
Earrings perhaps, she mused. Something bold and
chunky and ornate. She wanted a change after the fine,
elegant work she’d devoted so much time to. Circles and
triangles, she thought. Something geometric and blatantly
modern. Nothing romantic like the necklace.
Romantic, she mused, and sketched strong, definite
lines. She’d been working with a romantic piece; perhaps
that’s why she’d nearly made a fool of herself with Mi-
chael. Her emotions were involved with her work, and
her work had been light and feminine and romantic. It
made sense, she decided, satisfied. Now, she’d work with
something strong and brash and arrogant. That should
solve the problem.
There shouldn’t be a problem in the first place. Teeth
gritted, she flipped a page and started over. Her feelings
for Michael had always been very definite. Intolerance. If
you were intolerant of someone, it went against the grain
to be attracted to him.
It wasn’t real attraction in any case. It was more some
sort of twisted...curiosity. Yes, curiosity. The word satis-
fied her completely. She’d been curious, naturally enough,
to touch on the sexuality of a man she’d known since
childhood. Curious, again naturally, to find out what it
was about Michael Donahue that attracted all those poster
girls. She’d found out.
So he had a way of making a woman feel utterly a
woman, utterly involved, utterly willing. It wasn’t some-

96 A Will and A Way
thing that had happened to her before nor something she’d
looked for. As Pandora saw it, it was a kind of skill. She
decided he’d certainly honed it as meticulously as any
craftsman. Though she found it difficult to fault him for
that, she wasn’t about to fall in with the horde. If he knew,
if he even suspected, that she’d had the same reaction to
him that she imagined dozens of other women had, he’d
gloat for a month. If he guessed that from time to time
she’d wished—just for a moment—that he’d think of her
the way he thought of those dozens of other women, he’d
gloat for twice as long. She wouldn’t give him the plea-
sure.
Individuality was part of her makeup. She didn’t want
to be one of his women, even if she could. Now that her
curiosity had been satisfied, they’d get through the next
five months without any more...complications.
Just because she’d found him marginally acceptable as
a human being, almost tolerable as a companion wouldn’t
get in the way. It would, if anything, make the winter
pass a bit easier.
And when she caught herself putting the finishing
touches on a sketch of Michael’s face, she was appalled.
The lines were true enough, though rough. She’d had no
trouble capturing the arrogance around the eyes or the
sensitivity around the mouth. Odd, she realized; she’d
sketched him to look intelligent. She ripped the sheet
from her pad, crumpled it up in a ball and tossed it into
the trash. Her mind had wandered, that was all. Pandora
picked up her pencil again, put it down, then dug the

Nora Roberts 97
‘Sketch out again. Art was art, after all, she told herself
as she smoothed out Michael’s face.
He wasn’t having a great deal of success with his own
work. Michael sat at his desk and typed like a maniac
for five minutes. Then he stared into space for fifteen. It
wasn’t like him. When he worked, he worked steadily,
competently, smoothly until the scene was set.
Leaning back in his chair, he picked up a pencil and
ran his fingers from end to end. Whatever the statis-
tics said, he should never have given up smoking. That’s
what had him so edgy. Restless, he pushed away from the
desk and wandered over to the window. He stared down
at Pandora’s workshop. It looked cheerful under a light
layer of snow that was hardly more than a dusting. The
windows were blank.
That’s what had him so edgy.
She wasn’t what he’d expected. She was softer, sweeter.
Warmer. She was fun to talk to, whether she was arguing
and snipping and keeping you on the edge of temper, or
whether she was being easy and companionable. There
wasn’t an overflow of small talk with Pandora. There
weren’t any trite conversations. She kept your mind work-
ing, even if it was in defense of her next barb.
It wasn’t easy to admit that he actually enjoyed her
company. But the weeks they’d been together at the Fol-
ley had gone quickly. No, it wasn’t easy to admit he liked
being with her, but he’d turned down an interesting in-
vitation from his assistant producer because... Because,
Michael admitted on a long breath, he hadn’t wanted to

98 A Will and A Way
spend the night with one woman when he’d known his
thoughts would have been on another.
Just how was he going to handle this unwanted and
unexpected attraction to a woman who'd rather put on the
gloves and go a few rounds than walk in the moonlight?
Romantic women had always appealed to him because
he was, unashamedly, a romantic himself. He enjoyed
candlelight, quiet music, long, lonely walks. Michael
courted women in old-fashioned ways because he felt
comfortable with old-fashioned ways. It didn’t interfere
with the fact that he was, and had been since college,
a staunch feminist. Romance and sociopolitical views
were worlds apart. He had no trouble balancing equal
pay for equal work against offering a woman a carriage
ride through the park.
And he knew if he sent Pandora a dozen white roses,
she’d complain about the thorns.
He wanted her. Michael was too much a creature of
the senses to pretend otherwise. When he wanted some-
thing, he worked toward it in one of two ways. First, he
planned out the best approach, then took the steps one at
a time, maneuvering subtly. If that didn’t work, he tossed
out subtlety and went after it with both hands. He’d had
just as much success the first way as the second.
As he saw it, Pandora wouldn’t respond to patience
and posies. She wouldn’t go for being swept off her feet,
either. With Pandora, he might just have to toss his two
usual approaches and come up with a whole new third.
An interesting challenge, Michael decided with a slow
smile. He liked nothing better than arranging and rear-

Nora Roberts 99
ranging plot lines and shifting angles. And hadn’t he
always thought Pandora would make a fascinating char-
acter? So, he’d work it like a screenplay.
Hero and heroine living as housemates, he began. At-
tracted to each other but reluctant. Hero is intelligent,
charming. Has tremendous willpower. Hadn’t he given
up smoking—five weeks, three days and fourteen hours
ago? Heroine is stubborn and opinionated, often mis-
takes arrogance for independence. Hero gradually cracks
through her brittle shield to their mutual satisfaction.
Michael leaned back in his chair and grinned. He might
just make it a play. A great deal of the action would be
ad-lib, of course, but he had the general theme. Satisfied,
and looking forward to the opening scene, Michael went
back to work with a vengeance.
Two hours breezed by with Michael working steadily.
He answered the knock at his door with a grunt.
‘I beg your pardon, Mr. Donahue.’ Charles, slightly
out of breath from the climb up the stairs, stood in the
doorway.
Michael gave another grunt and finished typing the
paragraph. ‘Yes, Charles?’
‘Message for you, sir.’
‘Message?’ Scowling, he swiveled around in the chair.
If there was a problem in New York—as there was at least
once a week—the phone was the quickest way to solve
it. ‘Thanks.’ He took the message, but only flapped it
against his palm. ‘Pandora still out in her shop?’
‘Yes, sir.’ Grateful for the chance to rest, Charles ex-
panded a bit. ‘Sweeney is a bit upset that Miss McVie

100 A Will and A Way
missed lunch. She intends to serve dinner in an hour. I
hope that suits your schedule.’
Michael knew better than to make waves where Swee-
ney was concerned. ‘I’ll be down.’
‘Thank you, sir, and if I may say, I enjoy your televi-
sion show tremendously. This week’s episode was par-
ticularly exciting,’
‘I appreciate that, Charles.’
‘It was Mr. McVie’s habit to watch it every week in
my company. He never missed an episode.’
‘There probably wouldn’t have been a Logan's Run
without Jolley,’ Michael mused. ‘I miss him.’
“We all do. The house seems so quiet. But I—’ Charles
reddened a bit at the thought of overstepping his bounds.
‘Go ahead, Charles.’
‘l’d like you to know that both Sweeney and I are
pleased to remain in your service, yours and Miss
McVie’s. We were glad when Mr. McVie left you the
house. The others...’ He straightened his back and
plunged on. ‘They wouldn’t have been suitable, sir. Swee-
ney and I had both discussed resigning if Mr. McVie
had chosen to leave the Folley to one of his other heirs.’
Charles folded his bony hands. ‘Will there be anything
else before dinner, sir?’
‘No, Charles. Thank you.’
Message in hand, Michael leaned back as Charles
went out. The old butler had known him since child-
hood. Michael could remember distinctly when Charles
had stopped calling him Master Donahue. He’d been six-
teen and visiting the Folley during the summer months.

Nora Roberts 101
Charles had called him Mr. Donahue and Michael had
felt as though he’d just stepped from childhood, over ad-
olescence and into adulthood.
Strange how much of his life had been involved with
the Folley and the people who were a part of it. Charles
had served him his first whisky—with dignity if not
approval on his eighteenth birthday. Years before that,
Sweeney had given him his first ear boxing. His parents
had never bothered to swat him and his tutors wouldn’t
have dared. Michael still remembered that after the sting
had eased, he’d felt like part of a family.
Pandora had been both bane and fantasy during his
adolescence. Apparently that hadn’t changed as much as
Michael had thought. And Jolley. Jolley had been father,
grandfather, friend, son and brother.
Jolley had been Jolley, and Michael had spoken no less
than the truth when he’d told Charles he missed the old
man. In some part of himself, he always would. Thinking
of other things, Michael tore open the message.
Your mother is gravely ill. The doctors are not hope-
ful. Make arrangements to fly to Palm Springs im-
mediately. L. J.K EYSER.
Michael stared at the message for nearly a minute. It
wasn’t possible; his mother was never ill. She considered
it something of a social flaw. He felt a moment’s disbe-
lief, a moment’s shock. He was reaching for the phone
before either had worn off.
When Pandora walked by his room fifteen minutes

102 A Will and A Way
later, she saw him tossing clothes into a bag. She lifted
a brow, leaned against the jamb and cleared her throat.
‘Going somewhere?’
‘Palm Springs.’ He tossed in his shaving kit.
‘Really?’ Now she folded her arms. ‘Looking for a
sunnier climate?’
‘It’s my mother. Her husband sent me a message.’
Instantly she dropped her cool, sarcastic pose and came
into the room. ‘Is she ill?’
‘The message didn’t say much, but it doesn’t sound
good.’ :
‘Oh, Michael, I’m sorry. Can I do anything? Call the
airport?’
‘T’ve already done it. I’ve got a flight in a couple of
hours. They’re routing me through half a dozen cities,
but it was the best I could do.’
Feeling helpless, she watched him zip up his bag. ‘ll
drive you to the airport if you like.’
‘No, thanks anyway. He dragged a hand through his
hair as he turned to face her. The concern was there,
though he realized she’d only met his mother once, ten,
perhaps fifteen years before. The concern was for him
and unexpectedly solid. ‘Pandora, it’s going to take
me half the night to get to the coast. And then I don’t
know—’ He broke off, not able to imagine his mother se-
riously ill. ‘I might not be able to make it back in time—
not in forty-eight hours.’
She shook her head. ‘I don’t want you to think about
it. Pll call Fitzhugh and explain. Maybe he’ll be able to

Nora Roberts 103
do something. After all, it’s an emergency. If he can’t,
he can’t.’
He was taking a step that could pull millions of dollars
out from under her. Millions of dollars and the home she
loved. Torn, Michael went to her and rested his hands
on her shoulders. She was so slender. He’d forgotten just
how fragile a strong woman could be. ‘I’m sorry, Pan-
dora. If there was any other way...’
“Michael, I told you I didn’t want the money. I meant
it?
He studied her a moment. Yes, the strength was there,
the stubbornness and the basic goodness he often over-
looked. ‘I believe you did,’ he murmured.
‘As for the rest, well, we'll see. Now go ahead before
you miss your plane.’ She waited until he’d grabbed his
bag then walked with him to the hall. ‘Call me if you get
the chance and let me know how your mother is.’
He nodded, started for the stairs, then stopped. Setting
his bag down, he came back and pulled her against him.
The kiss was hard and long, with hints of a fire barely
banked. He drew her away just as abruptly. ‘See you.’
‘Yeah.’ Pandora swallowed. ‘See you.’
She stood where she was until she heard the front door
slam.
She had a long time to think about the kiss, through a
solitary dinner, during the hours when she tried to read
by the cheery fire in the parlor. It seemed to Pandora that
there’d been more passion concentrated in that brief con-
tact than she’d experienced in any of her carefully struc-

104 A Will and A Way
tured relationships. Was it because she’d always been able
to restrict passion to her temper, or her work?
It might have been because she’d been sympathetic,
and Michael had been distraught. Emotions had a way of
feeding emotions. But for the second time she found her-
self alone in the house, and to her astonishment, lonely.
It was foolish because the fire was bright, the book en-
tertaining and the brandy she sipped warming.
But lonely she was. After little more than a month,
she’d come to depend on Michael’s company. Even to look
forward to it, as strange as that may have been. She liked
sitting across from him at meals, arguing with him. She
especially liked watching the way he fought, exploding
when she poked pins in his work. Perverse? she wondered
with a sigh. Perhaps she was, but life was so boring with-
out a bit of friction. No one seemed to provide it more
satisfactorily than Michael Donahue.
She wondered when she’d see him again. And she won-
dered if now they’d have to forgo spending the winter to-
gether. If the terms of the will were broken, there would
be no reason for them to stay on together. In fact, they’d
have no right to stay at the Folley at all. They’d both go
back to New York where, due to separate life-styles, they
never saw one another. Not until now, when it was a pos-
sibility, did Pandora fully realize how much she didn’t
want it to happen.
She didn’t want to lose the Folley. There were so many
memories, so many important ones. Wouldn’t they begin
to fade if she couldn’t walk into a room and bring them
back? She didn’t want to lose Michael. His companion-

Nora Roberts 105
ship, she amended quickly. It was more satisfying than
she’d imagined to have someone near who could meet you
head to head. If she lost that daily challenge, life would
be terribly flat. Since it was Michael who was adding
that certain spark to the days, it was only natural to want
him around. Wasn’t it?
With a sigh, Pandora shut the book and decided an
early night would be more productive than idle specula-
tion. Just as she reached over to shut out the lamp, it went
out on its own. She was left with the glow of the fire.
Odd, she thought and reached for the switch. After
turning it back and forth, she rose, blaming a defective
bulb. But when she walked into the hall she found it in
darkness. The light she’d left burning was out, along with
the one always left on at the top of the stairs. Again Pan-
dora reached for a switch and again she found itu seless.
Power failure, she decided but found herself hesitating
in the dark. There was no storm. Electricity at the Folley
went out regularly during snow and thunderstorms, but
the back-up generator took over within minutes. Pandora
waited, but the house remained dark. It occurred to her
as she stood there hoping for the best, that she’d never
really considered how dark dark could be. She was al-
ready making her way back into the parlor for a candle
when the rest occurred to her. The house was heated with
electricity, as well. If she didn’t see about the power soon,
the house was going to be very cold as well as very dark
before too long. With two people in their seventies in the
house, she couldn’t let it go.
Annoyed, she found three candles in a silver holder

106 A Will and A Way
and lit them. It wasn’t any use disturbing Charles’s sleep
and dragging him down to the basement. It was probably
only a faulty fuse or two. Holding the candles ahead of
her, Pandora wound her way through the curving halls
to the cellar door.
She wasn’t bothered about going down into the cellar
in the dark. So she told herself as she stood with her hand
on the knob. It was, after all, just another room. And one,
if memory served, which was full of the remains of sev-
eral of Uncle Jolley’s rejected hobbies. The fuse box was
down there. She’d seen it when she’d helped her uncle
cart down several boxes of photographic equipment after
he’d decided to give up the idea of becoming a portrait
photographer. She’d go down, check for faulty fuses and
replace them. After the lights and heat were taken care
of, she’d have a hot bath and go to bed.
But she drew in a deep breath before she opened the
door.
The stairs creaked. It was to be expected. And they
were steep and narrow as stairs were in any self-respect-
ing cellar. The light from her candles set the shadows
dancing over the crates and boxes her uncle had stored
there. She’d have to see if she could talk Michael into
helping her sort through them. On some bright after-
noon. She was humming nervously to herself before she
reached the bottom stair.
Pandora held the candles high and scanned the floor
as far as the light circled. She knew mice had an affec-
tion for dark, dank cellars and she had no affection for
them. When nothing rushed across the floor, she skirted

Nora Roberts 107
around two six-foot crates and headed for the fuse box.
There was the motorized exercise bike that Uncle Jolley
had decided took the fun out of staying fit. There was a
floor-to-ceiling shelf of old bottles. He’d once been fas-
cinated by a ten-dollar bottle cutter. And there, she saw
with a sigh of relief, was the fuse box. Setting the can-
dles on a stack of boxes, she opened the big metal door
and stared inside. There wasn’t a single fuse in place.
“What the hell’s this?’ she muttered. Then as she
shifted to look closer, her foot sent something rattling
over the concrete floor. Jolting, she stifled a scream and
the urge to run. Holding her breath, she waited in the si-
lence. When she thought she could manage it, she picked
up the candles again and crouched. Scattered at her feet
were a dozen fuses. She picked one up and let it lie in her
palm. The cellar might have its quota of mice, but they
weren’t handy enough to empty a fuse box.
She felt a little shudder, which she ignored as she began
to gather up the fuses. Tricks, she told herself. Just silly
tricks. Annoying, but not as destructive as the one played
in her workshop. It wasn’t even a very clever trick, she
decided, as it was as simple to put fuses back as it had
been to take them out.
Working quickly, and trying not to look over her shoul-
der, Pandora put the fuses back in place. Whoever had
managed to get into the basement and play games had
wasted her time, nothing more.
Finished, she went over to the stairs, and though she
hated herself, ran up them. But her sigh of relief was pre-
mature. The door she’d carefully left open was closed

108 A Will and A Way
tightly. For a few moments she simply refused to be-
lieve it. She twisted the knob, pushed, shoved and twisted
again. Then she forgot everything but the fear of being
closed in a dark place. Pandora beat on the door, shouted,
pleaded, then collapsed half sobbing on the top step. No
one would hear her. Charles and Sweeney were on the
other side of the house.
For five minutes she gave in to fear and self-pity. She
was alone, all alone, locked in a dark cellar where no
one would hear her until morning. It was already cold
and getting colder. By morning...her candles would go
out by then, and she’d have no light at all. That was the
worst, the very worst, to have no light.
Light, she thought, and called herself an idiot as she
wiped away tears. Hadn’t she just fixed the lights? Scram-
bling up, Pandora hit the switch at the top of the stairs.
Nothing happened. Holding back a scream, she held the
candles up. The socket over the stairs was empty.
So, they’d thought to take out the bulbs. It had been
a clever trick after all. She swallowed fresh panic and
tried to think. They wanted her to be incoherent, and she
refused to give them the satisfaction. When she found
out which one of her loving family was playing nasty
games...
That was for later, Pandora told herself. Now she was
going to find a way out. She was shivering, but she told
herself it was anger. There were times it paid to lie to
yourself. Holding the candles aloft, she forced herself to
go down the steps again when cowering at the top seemed
so much easier.

Nora Roberts 109
The cellar was twice the size of her apartment in New
York, open and barnlike without any of the ornate deco-
rating Uncle Jolley had been prone to. It was just dark
and slightly damp with concrete floors and stone walls
that echoed. She wouldn’t think about spiders or things
that scurried into corners right now. Slowly, trying to
keep calm, she searched for an exit.
There were no doors, but then she was standing several
feet underground. Like a tomb. That particular thought
didn’t soothe her nerves so she concentrated on other
things. She’d only been down in the cellar a handful
of times and hadn’t given a great deal of thought to the
setup. Now she had to think about it—and pretend her
palms weren’t clammy.
She eased by a pile of boxes as high as her shoulders,
then let out a scream when she ran into a maze of cob-
webs. More disgusted than frightened, she brushed and
dragged at them. It didn’t sit well with her to make a fool
out of herself, even if no one was around to see it. Some-
one was going to pay, she told herself as she fought her
way Clear. ji
Then she saw the window, four feet above her head
and tiny. Though it was hardly the size of a transom,
Pandora nearly collapsed in relief. After setting the can-
dles on a shelf, she began dragging boxes over. Her mus-
cles strained and her back protested, but she hauled and
stacked against the wall. The first splinter had her swear-
ing. After the third, she stopped counting. Out of breath,
streaming with sweat, she leaned against her makeshift
ladder. Now all she had to do was climb it. With the can-

110 A Will and A Way
dles in one hand, she used the other to haul herself up.
The light shivered and swayed. The boxes groaned and
teetered a bit. The thought passed through her mind that
if she fell, she could lie there on the frigid concrete with
broken bones until morning. She pulled herself high and
refused to think at all.
When she reached the window, she found the little
latch rusted and stubborn. Swearing, praying, she bal-
anced the candles on the box under her and used both
hands. She felt the latch give, then stick again. If she’d
only thought to find a tool before she’d climbed up. She
considered climbing back down and finding one, then
made the mistake of looking behind her. The stack of
boxes looked even more rickety from up there.
Turning back to the window, she tugged with all the
strength she had. The latch gave with a grind of metal
against metal, the boxes swayed from the movement.
She saw her candles start to tip and grabbed for them.
Out of reach, they slid from the box and clattered to the
concrete, their tiny flames extinguished as they hit the
ground. She almost followed them, but managed to fight
for balance. Pandora found herself perched nine feet off
the floor in pitch-darkness.
She wouldn’t fall, she promised herself as she gripped
the little window ledge with both hands. Using her touch
to guide her, she pulled the window out and open, then
began to ease herself through. The first blast of cold air
made her almost giddy. After she’d pushed her shoul-
ders through she gave herself a moment to breathe and
adjust to the lesser dark of starlight. From somewhere to

Nora Roberts 111
the west, she heard a hardy night bird call twice and fall
silent. She’d never heard anything more beautiful.
Grabbing the base of a rhododendron, she pulled her-
self through to the waist. When she heard the crash of
boxes behind her, she laid her cheek against the cold
grass. Inch by inch, she wiggled her way out, ignoring
the occasional rip and scratch. At last, she was flat on
her back, looking up at the stars. Cold, bruised and ex-
hausted, she lay there, just breathing. When she was able,
Pandora dragged herself up and walked around to the
east terrace doors.
She wanted revenge, but first, she wanted a bath.
After three layovers and two plane changes, Michael
arrived in Palm Springs. Nothing, as far as he could see,
had changed. He never came to the exclusive little com-
munity but that he came reluctantly. Now, thinking of his
mother lying ill, he was swamped with guilt.
He rarely saw her. True, she was no more interested
in seeing him than he was her. Yet, she was still his
mother. They had been on a different wavelength since
the day he’d been born, but she’d taken care of him. At
least, she’d hired people to take care of him. Affection,
Michael realized, didn’t have to enter into a child’s feel-
ings for his parent. The bond was there whether or not
understanding followed it.
With no more than a flight bag, he bypassed the crowd
at baggage claim and hailed a cab. After giving his moth-
er’s address, he sat back and checked his watch, subtract-
ing time zones. Even with the hours he’d gained, it was

112 A Will and A Way
probably past visiting hours. He’d get around that, but
first he had to know what hospital his mother was in. If
he’d been thinking straight, he would have called ahead
and checked.
If his mother’s husband wasn’t in, one of the servants
could tell him. It might not be as bad as the message made
it sound. After all, his mother was still young. Then it
struck Michael that he didn’t have the vaguest idea how
old his mother was. He doubted his father knew, and cer-
tainly not her current husband. At another time, it might
have struck him as funny.
Impatient, he watched as the cab glided by the gates
and pillars of the elite. His career had caused him to stay
in California for extended lengths of time, but he pre-
ferred L.A. to Palm Springs. There, at least, was some
action, some movement, some edge. But he liked New
York best of all; the pace matched his own and the streets
were tougher.
He thought of Pandora. Both of them lived in New
York, but they never saw each other unless it was miles
north of the city at the Folley. The city could swallow you.
Or hide you. It was another aspect Michael appreciated.
Didn’t he often use it to hide—from his stifling up-
bringing, from his recurring lack of faith in the human
race? It was at the Folley that he felt the easiest, but it was
in New York that he felt the safest. He could be anony-
mous there if he chose to be. There were times he wanted
nothing more. He wrote about heroes and justice, some-
times rough but always human. He wrote, in his own
fashion, about basic values and simple rights.

Nora Roberts 113
He’d been raised with the illusions and hypocrisy of
wealth and with values that were just as unstable. He’d
broken away from that, started on his own. New York had
helped make it possible because in the city backgrounds
were easily erased. So easily erased, Michael mused, that
he rarely thought of his.
The cab cruised up the long semicircle of macadam,
under the swaying palms, toward the towering white
house where his mother had chosen to live. Michael re-
membered there was a lily pond in the back with goldfish
the size of groupers. His mother refused to call them carp.
“Wait,” he told the driver, then dashed up two levels
of stairs to the door. The butler who answered was new.
It was his mother’s habit to change the staff regularly,
before, as she put it, they got too familiar. ‘I’m Michael
Donahue, Mrs. Keyser’s son.’
The butler glanced over his shoulder at the waiting cab,
then back at Michael’s disheveled sweater and unshaven
face. ‘Good evening, sir. Are you expected?’
‘Where’s my mother? I want to go to the hospital di-
rectly.’
‘Your mother isn’t in this evening, Mr. Donahue. If
you'll wait, I'll see if Mr. Keyser’s available.’
Intolerant, as always, of cardboard manners, he stepped
inside. ‘I know she’s not in. I want to go see her tonight.
What’s the name of the hospital?’
The butler gave a polite nod. ‘What hospital, Mr. Do-
nahue?’
‘Jackson, where did that cab come from?’ Wrapped in
a deep-rose smoking jacket, Lawrence Keyser strolled

114 A Will and A Way
downstairs. He had a thick cigar between the fingers of
one hand and a snifter of brandy in the other.
‘Well, Lawrence,’ Michael began over a wave of fury.
‘You look comfortable. Where’s my mother?’
“Well, well, it’s—ah, it’s Matthew.’
‘Tt’s Michael.’
‘Michael, of course. Jackson, pay off Mr. ah, Mr. Do-
navan’s cab.’
‘No, thanks, Jackson.’ Michael held up a hand. Another
time, he’d have been amused at his stepfather’s groping
for his name. ‘I’ll use it to get to the hospital. Wouldn’t
want to put you out.’
‘No trouble at all, not at all.’ Big, round and only par-
tially balding, Keyser gave Michael a friendly grin. ‘Ve-
ronica will be pleased to see you, though we didn’t know
you were coming. How long are you in town?’
‘As long as I’m needed. I left the minute I got the mes-
sage. You didn’t mention the name of the hospital. Since
you're home and relaxing,’ he said with only the slight-
est trace of venom, ‘should I assume that my mother’s
condition’s improved?’
‘Condition?’ Keyser gave a jovial laugh. ‘Well now, I
don’t know how she’d take to that term, but you can ask
her yourself’
‘I intend to. Where is she?’
‘Playing bridge at the Bradleys’. She’ll be coming
along in about an hour. How about a brandy?’
‘Playing bridge!’ Michael stepped forward and grabbed
his surprised stepfather by the lapels. ‘What the hell do
you mean she’s playing bridge?’

Nora Roberts HS
*‘Can’t stomach the game myself, Keyser began warily.
‘But Veronica’s fond of it.’
It came to Michael, clear as a bell. “You didn’t send
me a message about Mother?’
‘A message?’ Keyser patted Michael’s arm, and hoped
Jackson stayed close. ‘No need to send you a message
about a bridge game, boy.’
‘“Mother’s not ill?’
‘Strong as a horse, though I wouldn’t let her hear me
say so just that way.’
Michael swore and whirled around. ‘Someone’s going
to pay,’ he muttered.
“Where are you going?’
“Back to New York,’ Michael tossed over his shoulder
as he ran down the steps.
Relieved, Keyser opted against the usual protests about
his departure. ‘Is there a message for your mother?’
“Yeah.” Michael stopped with a hand on the door of
the cab. ‘Yeah, tell her I’m glad she’s well. And I hope
she wins—in spades.’ Michael slammed the door shut
behind him.
Keyser waited until the cab shot out of sight. ‘Odd boy,
Keyser grumbled to his butler. ‘Writes for television.’

Chapter 6
Pandora, sleeping soundly, was awakened at seven in the
morning when Michael dropped on her bed. The mat-
tress bounced. He snuggled his head into the pillow be-
side her and shut his eyes.
‘Sonofabitch,’ he grumbled.
Pandora sat up, remembered she was naked and
grabbed for the sheets. ‘Michael! You’re supposed to be
in California. What are you doing in my bed?’
‘Getting horizontal for the first time in twenty-four
hours.’
“Well, do that in your own bed,’ she ordered, then saw
the lines of strain and fatigue. “Your mother. Pandora
grabbed for his hand. ‘Oh, Michael, is your mother—
‘Playing bridge.’ He rubbed his free hand over his face.
Even to him it felt rough and seedy. ‘I bounced across

Nora Roberts 7
country, once in a tuna can with propellers, to find out
she was sipping sherry and trumping her partner’s ace.’
‘She’s better then?’
“She was always better. The message was a hoax.’ He
yawned, stretched and settled. ‘God, what a night.’
“You mean...’ Pandora tugged on the sheets and glow-
ered. ‘Well, the rats.’
“Yeah. I plotted out several forms of revenge when
I was laid over in Cleveland. Maybe our friend who
stomped through your workshop figured it was my turn.
Now we each owe them one.’
‘I owe ’em two.’ Pandora leaned back against the head-
board with the sheets tucked under her arms. Her hair fell
luxuriously over her naked shoulders. ‘Last night while
you were off on your wild-goose chase, I was locked in
the cellar.’
Michael’s attention shot away from the thin sheet that
barely covered her. “Locked in? How?’
Crossing one ankle over the other, Pandora told him
what happened from the time the lights went out.
‘Climbed up on boxes? To that little window? It’s
nearly ten feet.’
“Yes, I believe I noticed that at the time.’
Michael scowled at her. The anger he’d felt at being
treated to a sleepless night doubled. He could picture her
groping her way around in the dank cellar all too well.
Worse, he could see her very clearly climbing on shaky
boxes and crates. ‘You could’ve broken your neck.’
‘I didn’t. What I did do was rip my favorite pair of
slacks, scratch both knees and bruise my shoulder.’

118 A Will and A Way
Michael managed to hold back his fury. He’d let it
go, he promised himself, when the time was right. ‘It
could’ve been worse,’ he said lightly, and thought of what
he’d do to whoever had locked her in.
‘It was worse,’ Pandora tossed back, insulted. “While
you were sipping Scotch at thirty thousand feet, I was
locked in a cold, damp cellar with mice and spiders.’
“We might reconsider calling the police.’
‘And do what with them? We can’t prove anything. We
don’t even know whom we can’t prove anything against.’
‘New rule,’ Michael decided. ‘We stick together. Nei-
ther of us leaves the house overnight without the other.
At least until we find out which of our devoted relations
is playing games.’
Pandora started to protest, then remembered how
frightened she’d been, and before the cellar, before the
fear, how lonely. “Agreed. Now...’ With one hand hanging
onto the sheet, she shifted toward him. ‘I vote for Uncle
Carlson on this one. After all, he knows the house better
than any of the others. He lived here.’
‘It’s as good a guess as any. But it’s only a guess.’ Mi-
chael stared up at the ceiling. ‘I want to know. Biff stayed
here for six weeks one summer when we were kids.’
‘That’s right.” Pandora frowned at the ceiling herself.
The mirror across the room reflected them lying compan-
ionably, hip to hip. ‘I’d forgotten about that. He hated it.’
*“He’s never had a sense of humor.’
‘True enough. As I recall he certainly didn’t like you.’
‘Probably because I gave him a black eye.’
Pandora’s brow lifted. ‘You would.’ Then, because the

Nora Roberts 119
image of Biff with a shiner wasn’t so unappealing, she
added: ‘Why did you? You never said.’
‘Remember the frogs in your dresser?’
Pandora sniffed and smoothed at the sheets. ‘I certainly
do. It was quite immature of you.’
“Not me. Biff’
‘Biff?’ Astonished, she turned toward him again. ‘You
mean that little creep put the frogs in my underwear?’
The next thought came, surprisingly pleasing. ‘And you
punched him for it?’
‘Tt wasn’t hard.’
“Why didn’t you deny it when I accused you?’
‘It was more satisfying to punch Biff. In any case,
he knows the house well enough. And I imagine if we
checked up, we’d find most of our happy clan has stayed
here, at least for a few days at a time. Finding a fuse
box in the cellar doesn’t take a lot of cunning. Think it
through, Pandora. There are six of them, seven with the
charity added on. Split a hundred fifty million seven
ways and you end up with plenty of motive. Every one
of them has a reason for wanting us to break the terms of
the will. None of them, as far as I’m concerned, is above
adding a little pressure to help us along.’
‘Another reason the money never appealed to me,’ she
mused. ‘They haven’t done anything but vandalize and
annoy, but, dammit, Michael, I want to pay them back.’
‘The ultimate payback comes in just under five
months.’ Without thinking about it, Michael put his arm
around her shoulders. Without thinking about it, Pandora
settled against him. A light fragrance clung to her skin.

120 — A Will and A Way
‘Can’t you see Carlson’s face when the will holds up and
he gets nothing but a magic wand and a trick hat?’
His shoulder felt more solid than she’d imagined. ‘And
Biff with three cartons of matchbooks.’ Comfortable,
she chuckled. ‘Uncle Jolley’s still having the last laugh’
‘We'll have it with him in a few months.’
‘It’s a date. And you’ve got your shoes on my sheets.’
‘Sorry. With two economical movements, he pried
them off.
‘That’s not exactly what I meant. Don’t you want to
wander off to your own room now?’
‘Not particularly. Your bed’s nicer than mine. Do you
always sleep naked?’
‘No.’
‘My luck must be turning then.’ He shifted to press
his lips to a bruise on her shoulder. ‘Hurt?’
She shrugged and prayed it came off as negligent. ‘A
little.’
‘Poor little Pandora. And to think I always thought you
were tough-skinned.’
‘lam—’
‘Soft, he interrupted, and skimmed his fingers down
her arm. ‘Very soft. Any more bruises?’ He brushed his
lips over the curve of her neck. They both felt her quick,
involuntary shudder.
‘Not so you'd notice.’
‘Tm very observant.’ He rolled, smoothly, so that his
body pressed more intimately into hers as he looked down
on her. He was tired. Yes, he was tired and more than
a little punchy with jet lag, but he hadn’t forgotten he

Nora Roberts 12]
wanted her. Even if he had, the way her body yielded, the
way her face looked rosy and soft with sleep, would’ve
jogged his memory. ‘Why don’t I look for myself?’ He
ran his fingers down to where the sheet lay, neat, prim
and arousing, at her breast.
She sucked in her breath, incredibly moved by his
lightest touch. She couldn’t let it show...could she? She
couldn’t reach out for something that was only an illu-
sion. He wasn’t stable. He wasn’t real. He was with her
now because she was here and no one else was. Why was
it becoming so hard.to remember that?
His face was close, filling her vision. She saw the little
things she’d tried not to notice over the years. The way a
thin ring of gray outlined his irises, the straight, almost
aristocratic line of his nose that had remained miracu-
lously unbroken through countless fistfights. The soft,
sculpted, somehow poetic shape of his mouth. A mouth,
she remembered, that was hot and strong and inventive
when pressed against hers.
‘Michael...’ The fact that she hesitated, then fumbled
before she reached down to take his hand both pleased
and unnerved him. She wasn’t as cool and self-contained
as she’d always appeared. And because she wasn’t, he
could slip his way under her skin. But he might not slip
out again so easily.
Be practical, she told herself. Be realistic. ‘Michael,
we have almost five months more to get through,’
‘Good point.’ He needed the warmth. He needed the
woman. Maybe it was time to risk the consequences. He

122 A Will and A Way
lowered his head and nibbled at her mouth. ‘Why waste
it?’
She let herself enjoy him. For just a moment, she prom-
ised herself. For only a moment. He was warm and his
hands were easy. The night had been long and cold and
frightening. No matter how much she hated to admit it,
she’d needed him. Now, with the sun pouring through
the tiny square panes in the windows, falling bright and
hard on the bed, she had him. Close, secure, comforting.
Her lips opened against his.
He’d had no plan when he’d come into her room. He’d
simply been drawn to her; he’d wanted to lie beside her
and talk to her. Passion hadn’t guided him. Desire hadn’t
pushed him. There’d only been the basic need to be home,
to be home with her. When she’d snuggled against him,
hair tousled, eyes heavy, it had been so natural that the
longing had snuck up on him. He wanted nothing more
than to stay where he was, wrapped around her, slowly
heating.
And for her, passion didn’t bubble wildly, but easily,
like a brew that had been left to simmer through the
day while spices were added. One sample, then another,
and the taste changed, enriched, deepened. With Mi-
chael, there the flavors were only hinted at, an aroma to
draw in and savor. She could have gone on, and on, hour
after hour, until what they made between them was per-
fected. She wanted to give in to the need, the beginnings
of greed. If she did, everything would change. It was a
change she couldn’t predict, couldn’t see clearly, could

Nora Roberts 123
only anticipate. So she resisted him and herself and what
could happen between them.
‘Michael...’ But she let her fingers linger in his hair
for just a minute more. ‘This isn’t smart.’
He kissed her eyes closed. It was something no one
had done before. ‘It’s the smartest thing either of us has
done in years.’
She wanted to agree, felt herself on the edge of agree-
ing. “Michael, things are complicated enough. If we were
lovers and things went wrong, how could we manage
to go on here together? We’ve made a commitment to
Uncle Jolley.’
“The will doesn’t have a damn thing to do with you
and me in this bed.’
How could she have forgotten just how intense he
could look when he was bent on something? How was
it she’d never noticed how attractive it made him? She’d
have to make a stand now or go under. “The will has ev-
erything to do with you and me in this house. If we go
to bed together and our relationship changes, then we’ll
have to deal with all the problems and complications that
go with it.
‘Name some.’
‘Don’t be amusing, Michael.’
‘Giving you a laugh wasn’t my intention.’ He liked the
way she looked against the pillow—hair spread out like
wildfire, cheeks a bit flushed, her mouth on the edge of
forming a pout. Strange he’d never pictured her this way
before. It didn’t take any thought to know he’d picture her

124 A Will and A Way
like this again and again. ‘I want you, Pandora. There’s
nothing amusing about it.’
No, that wasn’t something she could laugh or shrug
off, not when the words brushed over her skin and made
her muscles limp. He didn’t mean it. He couldn’t mean
it. But she wanted to believe it. If she couldn’t laugh it
off, she had to throw up a guard and block it. ‘Becoming
lovers is something that takes a lot of thought. If we’re
going to discuss it—’
‘I don’t want to discuss it.’ He pressed his lips against
hers until he felt her body soften. “We’re not making a
corporate merger, Pandora, we’re making love.’
‘That’s just it.” She fought back an avalanche of long-
ing. Be practical. It was her cardinal rule. “We’re busi-
ness partners. Worse, we’re family business partners, at
least for the next few months. If we change that now it
could—’
‘If, he interrupted. “It could. Do you always need guar-
antees?’
Her brows drew together as annoyance competed with
desire. ‘It’s a matter of common sense to look at all the
angles.’
‘I suppose you have any prospective lover fill out an
application form.’
Her voice chilled. It was, in a distorted way, close to
the truth. ‘Don’t be crude, Michael.’
Pushed to the limit, he glared down at her. ‘I’d rather
be crude than have your brand of common sense.’
“You’ve never had any brand of common sense,’ she
tossed back. ‘Why else would every busty little blonde

Nora Roberts 125
you’ve winked at be public knowledge? You don’t even
have the decency to be discreet.’
‘So that’s it” Shifting, Michael drew her into a sitting
position. There was no soft yielding now. She faced him
with fire in her eyes. ‘Don’t forget the brunettes and the
redheads.’
She hadn’t. She promised herself she wouldn’t. ‘I don’t
want to discuss it.’
“You brought it up, and we’ll finish it. I’ve gone to bed
with women. So put me in irons. I’ve even enjoyed it.’
She tossed her hair behind her shoulder. ‘I’m sure you
have.’
‘And I haven’t had a debate with every one of them
beforehand. Some women prefer romance and mutual
enjoyment.’
‘Romance?’ Her brows shot up under her tousled hair.
‘l’ve always had another word for it.’
“You wouldn’t recognize romance if it dropped on your
head. Do you consider it discreet to take lovers and pre-
tend you don’t? To pledge undying fidelity to one per-
son while you’re looking for another? What you want to
call discretion, I call hypocrisy. I’m not ashamed of any
of the women I’ve known, in bed or out.’
‘I’m not interested in what you are or aren’t ashamed
of. I’m not going to be your next mutual enjoyment. Keep
your passion for your dancers and starlets and chorus
girls.’
“Youre as big a snob as the rest of them.’
That hit home and had her shoulders stiffening. ‘That’s
not true. I’ve simply no intention of joining a crowd.’

126 A Will and A Way
“You flatter me, cousin.’
‘There’s another word for that, too.’
‘Think about this.’ He gave her a shake, harder than
he’d intended. ‘I’ve never made love with a woman I
didn’t care for and respect.’ Before he cut loose and did
more than shake her, he got up and walked to the door
while she sat in the middle of the bed clutching sheets
and looking furious.
‘It appears you give respect easily.’
He turned back to study her. ‘No,’ he said slowly. “But
I don’t make people jump through hoops for it.’
A cold war might not be as stimulating as an active
battle, but with the right participants, it could be equally
destructive. For days Pandora and Michael circled around
each other. If one made a sarcastic comment, the other
reached into the stockpile and used equal sarcasm. Nei-
ther drew out the red flag for full-scale attack, instead
they picked and prodded at each other while the servants
rolled their eyes and waited for bloodshed.
‘Foolishness,’ Sweeney declared as she rolled out the
crust for two apple pies. ‘Plain foolishness.’ She was a
sturdy, red-faced woman, as round as Charles was thin.
In her pragmatic, no-nonsense way, she’d married and —
buried two husbands, then made her way in the world by
cooking for others. Her kitchen was always neat and tidy,
all the while smelling of the sinfully rich food she pre-
pared. ‘Spoiled children,’ she told Charles. ‘That’s what
they are. Spoiled children need the back of the hand.’
‘They’ve over four months to go.’ Charles sat gloomily

Nora Roberts 127,
at the kitchen table, hunched over a cup of tea. ‘They’ll
never make it.’
‘Hah!’ Sweeney slammed the rolling pin onto a fresh
ball of dough. ‘They’ll make it. Too stubborn not to. But
it’s not enough.’
“The master wanted them to have the house. As long
as they do, we won’t lose it,’
“What’ll we be doing in this big empty house when
both of them go back to the city? How often will either of
them be visiting with the master gone?’ Sweeney turned
the crust into a pan and trimmed it expertly. ‘The mas-
ter wanted them to have the house, true enough. And he
wanted them to have each other. The house needs a fam-
ily. It’s up to us to see it gets one.’
“You didn’t hear them over breakfast.’ Charles sipped
his tea and watched Sweeney pour a moist apple mix-
ture into the crust.
‘That has nothing to do with it. /’ve seen the way they
look at each other when they think the other one’s not
noticing. All they need’s a push.’
With quick, economic movements, she filled the sec-
ond crust. ‘We’re going to give ’em one.’
Charles stretched out his legs. ‘We’re too old to push
young people.’
Sweeney gave a quick grunt as she turned. Her hands
were thick, and she set them on her hips. ‘Being old’s the
whole trick. You’ve been feeling poorly lately.’
‘No, to tell you the truth, I’ve been feeling much bet-
ter this week.’
‘You’ve been feeling poorly,’ Sweeney repeated, scowl-

128 A Will and A Way
ing at him. ‘Now here’s our Pandora coming in for lunch.
Just follow my lead. Look a little peaked.’
Snow had come during the night, big fat flakes that
piled on the ground and hung in the pines. As she walked,
Pandora kicked it up, pleased with herself. Her work
couldn’t have been going better. The earrings she’d fi-
nally fashioned had been unique, so unique, she’d de-
signed a necklace to complement them. It was chunky
and oversize with geometric shapes of copper and gold.
Not every woman could wear it, but the one who could
wouldn’t go unnoticed.
It was, to Pandora, a statement of the strong, disci-
plined woman. She was just as pleased with the shoul-
der-brushing earrings she was making with jet and silver
beads. They had been painstakingly strung together and
when finished would be elegantly flirtatious. Another as-
pect of woman. If her pace kept steady, she’d have a solid
inventory to ship off to the boutique she supplied. In time
for the Christmas rush, she reminded herself smugly.
When she opened the kitchen door, she was ravenously
hungry and in the best of moods.
*...1f you’re feeling better in a day or two, Sweeney
said briskly, then turned as if surprised to see Pandora
inside. ‘Oh, time must’ve got away from me. Lunch al-
ready and I’m just finishing up the pies.’
‘Apple pies?’ Grinning, Pandora moved closer. But
Sweeney saw with satisfaction that Pandora was al-
ready studying Charles. ‘Any filling left?’ she began,
and started to dip her fingers into the bowl. Sweeney
smacked them smartly.

Nora Roberts 129
“You’ve been working with those hands. Wash them
up in the sink, and you'll have your lunch as soon as I
can manage it.’
Obediently, Pandora turned on a rush of water. Under
the noise, she murmured to Sweeney. ‘Is Charles not
feeling well?’
‘Bursitis is acting up. Cold weather’s a problem. Just
being old’s a problem in itself’ She pushed a hand at
the small of her back as though she had a pain. ‘Guess
we're both slowing down a bit. Aches and pains,’ Swee-
ney sighed and cast a sidelong look at Pandora. ‘Just part
of being old’
‘Nonsense.’ Concerned, Pandora scrubbed her hands
harder. She told herself she should have been keeping a
closer eye on Charles. “You just try to do too much.’
‘With the holidays coming...’ Sweeney trailed off and
made a business out of arranging a top crust. “Well, dec-
orating the house is a lot of work, but it’s its own reward.
Charles and I'll deal with the boxes in the attic this af-
ternoon.’
‘Don’t be silly.’ Pandora shut off the water and reached
for a towel. ‘I’ll bring the decorations down.’
‘No, now, missy, there’re too many boxes and most of
them are too heavy for a little girl like you. That’s for us
to see to. Isn’t that right, Charles?’
Thinking of climbing the attic stairs a half-dozen
times, Charles started to sigh. A look from Sweeney
stopped him. ‘Don’t worry, Miss McVie, Sweeney and
I will see to it.’ .
‘You certainly will not.’ Pandora hung the towel back

130 A Will and A Way
on the hook. ‘Michael and I will bring everything down
this afternoon, and that’s that. Now I’ll go tell him to
come to lunch.’
Sweeney waited until the door swung shut behind Pan-
dora before she grinned.
Upstairs, Pandora knocked twice on Michael’s office
door, then walked in. He kept on typing. Putting her pride
on hold, Pandora walked over to his desk and folded her
arms. ‘I need to talk to you.’
“Come back later. I’m busy.’
Abuse rose up in her throat. Remembering Sweeney’s
tired voice, she swallowed it. ‘It’s important.’ She ground
her teeth on the word, but said it. ‘Please.’
Surprised, Michael stopped typing in midword. ‘What?
Has one of the family been playing games again?’
‘No, it’s not that. Michael, we have to decorate the
house for Christmas.’
He stared at her a moment, swore and turned back to
his machine. ‘I’ve got a twelve-year-old boy kidnapped
and being held for a million-dollar ransom. That’s im-
portant.’
‘Michael, will you put away fantasyland for a mo-
ment? This is real.’
‘So’s this. Just ask my producer.’
‘Michael!’ Before he could stop her, Pandora grabbed
the laptop. He was halfway out of his chair to retaliate.
‘It’s Sweeney and Charles.’
It stopped him, though he snatched the computer back
from her. ‘What about them?’

Nora Roberts 131
‘Charles’s bursitis is acting up again, and I’m sure
Sweeney’s not feeling well. She sounded, well, old.’
“She is old.’ But Michael tossed the paper on the desk.
‘Think we should call in a doctor?’
“No, they’d be furious.’ She swung around his desk,
trying to pretend she wasn’t reading part of his script.
‘ld rather just keep an eye on them for a few days and
make sure they don’t overdo. That’s where the Christmas
decorations come in.’
‘I figured you’d get to them. Look, if you want to
deck the halls, go ahead. I haven’t got time to fool with
it today.’
‘Neither do I.’ She folded her arms in a manner that
amused him. ‘Sweeney and Charles have it in their heads
that it has to be done. Unless we want them dragging
up and down the attic stairs, we have to take care of it.’
‘Christmas is three weeks away.’
‘I know the date.’ Frustrated, she strode to the win-
dow then back. ‘They’re old and they’re set on it. You
know Uncle Jolley would’ve had them up the day after
Thanksgiving. It’s traditional.’
‘All right, all right.’ Trapped, Michael rose. “Let’s get
started.’
‘Right after lunch.’ Satisfied she’d gotten her way, Pan-
dora swept out.
Forty-five minutes later, she and Michael were pushing
open the attic door. The attic was, in Jolley’s tradition,
big enough to house a family of five. ‘Oh, I’d forgotten
what a marvelous place this is.’ Forgetting herself, Pan-

132 A Will and A Way
dora grabbed Michael’s hand and pulled him in. ‘Look
at this table, isn’t it horrible?’
It was. Old and ornate with curlicues and cupids, it had
been shoved into a corner to hold other paraphernalia
Jolley had discarded. ‘And the bird cage out of Popsicle
sticks. Uncle Jolley said it took him six months to fin-
ish it, then he didn’t have the heart to put a bird inside.’
‘Lucky for the bird, Michael muttered, but found him-
self, as always, drawn to the dusty charm of the place.
‘Spats,’ he said, and lifted a pair from a box. ‘Can’t you
see him in them?’
‘And this hat.’ Pandora found a huge circular straw hat
with a garden of flowers along the brim. ‘Aunt Katie’s.
I’ve always wished I’d met her. My father said she was
just as much fun as Uncle Jolley.’
Michael watched Pandora tip the brim over her eyes. ‘If
that was her hat, I believe it. How about this?’ He found
a black derby and tilted it rakishly.
‘It’s you, Pandora told him with her first easy laugh
in days. ‘All you need’s a high white collar and a walk-
ing stick. Look.’ She pulled him in front of a tall cheval
mirror that needed resilvering. Together, they studied
themselves.
‘An elegant pair, Michael decided, though his sweater
bagged over his hips, and she already had dust on her
nose. ‘All you need is one of those slim little skirts that
sweep the floor and a lace blouse with padded shoulders.’
‘And a cameo on a ribbon,’ she added as she tried to
visualize herself. ‘No, I probably would’ve worn bloom-
ers and picketed for women’s rights.’

Nora Roberts 133
“The hat still suits you.’ He turned to adjust it just a
bit. “Especially with your hair long and loose. I’ve always
liked it long, though you looked appealingly lost and big-
eyed when you had it all chopped short.’
‘I was fifteen.’
‘And you'd just come back from the Canary Islands
with the longest, brownest legs I’d ever seen in my life.
I nearly ate my saucer when you walked into the parlor.’
“You were in college and had some cheerleader hang-
ing on your arm.’
Michael grinned. “You had better legs.’
Pandora pretended little interest. She remembered the
visit perfectly, but was surprised, and pleased, that he did.
‘lm surprised you noticed or remembered.’
‘I told you I was observant.’
She acknowledged the thrust with a slight nod. There
were times when it was best to pad quietly over danger-
ous ground. ‘We’d better start digging out the decora-
tions. Sweeney said the boxes were back along the left
and clearly marked.’ Without waiting for agreement, she
turned and began to look. ‘Oh good grief.’ She stopped
again when she saw the stacks of boxes, twenty, perhaps
twenty-five of them. Michael stood at her shoulder and
stuck his hands in his pockets.
‘Think we can hire some teamsters?’
Pandora blew out a breath. ‘Roll up your sleeves.’
On some trips, they could pile two or three boxes
apiece and maneuver downstairs. On others, it took both
of them to haul one. Somewhere along the way they’d
stopped arguing. It was just too much effort.

134 A Will and A Way
Grimy and sweaty, they dropped the last boxes in the
parlor. Ignoring the dust on her slacks, Pandora collapsed
in the nearest chair. ‘Won’t it be great fun hauling them
all up again after New Year’s?’
‘Couldn’t we’ve settled on a plastic Santa?’
‘Tt’ll be worth it. Drumming up the energy, she knelt
on the floor and opened the first box. ‘Let’s get started.’
Once they did, they went at it with a vengeance. Boxes
were opened, garland strewed and bulbs tested. They
squabbled good-naturedly about what looked best where
and the proper way to drape lights at the windows. When
the parlor, the main hall and the staircase were finished,
Pandora stood at the front door and took a long look.
The garland was white and silver, twisting and twin-
ing down the banister. There were bright red bells, lush
green ribbon and tiny lights just waiting for evening.
‘It looks good,’ she decided. ‘Really good. Of course,
Sweeney and Charles will want to decorate the servants’
quarters and that entire box goes into the dining room,
but it’s a wonderful start.’
‘Start?’ Michael sat on the stairs. “We’re not entering
a contest, cousin.’
‘These things have to be done right. I wonder if my
parents will make it home for Christmas. Well...’ She
brushed that off. They always considered wherever they
were home. ‘I’d say we’re ready for the tree. Let’s go
find one.’
“You want to drive into town now?’
‘Of course not.’ Pandora was already pulling coats out

Nora Roberts 135
of the hall closet. “We’ll go right out in the woods and
dig one up.’
“We?’ .
‘Certainly. I hate it when people cut trees down and
then toss them aside after the new year. The woods are
loaded with nice little pines. We’ll dig one up, then re-
plant it after the holidays.’
“How handy are you with a shovel?’
‘Don’t be a spoilsport.’ Pandora tossed his coat to him,
then pulled on her own. ‘Besides, it’ll be nice to spend
some time outside after being in that stuffy attic. We can
have some hot buttered rum when we’re finished.’
‘Heavy on the rum.’
They stopped at the toolshed for a shovel. Michael
picked two and handed one to Pandora. She took it with-
out a blink, then together they walked through the ankle-
high snow to the woods. The air had a bite and the scent
of pine was somehow stronger in the snow.
‘I love it when it’s like this.’ Pandora balanced the
shovel on her shoulder and plowed through the woods.
‘It’s so quiet, so—separated. You know, sometimes I
think I’d rather live here and visit the city than the other
way around.’
He’d had the same thought, but was surprised to hear
it from her. ‘I always thought you liked the bright lights
and confusion.’
‘I do. But I like this, too. How about this one?’ She
paused in front of a spruce. ‘No, the trunk’s too crooked.’
She walked on. ‘Besides, I wonder if it wouldn’t be more
exciting to go into the city for a week now and again and

136 A Will and A Way
know you had someplace like this to come back to. I seem
to work better here. Here’s one.’
‘Too tall. We’re better off digging up a young one.
Wouldn’t it put a crimp in your social life?’
‘What?’ She studied the tree in question and was
forced to agree with him. ‘Oh. My social life isn’t a pri-
ority, my work is. In any case, I could entertain here.’
He had a picture of her spending long, cozy week-
ends with flamboyant, artsy types who read Keats aloud.
“You don’t have to come all the way to the Catskills to
play house.’
Pandora merely lifted a brow. ‘No, I don’t. This one
looks good.’ She stopped again and took a long study
of a four-and-a-half-foot spruce. Behind her, Michael
worked hard to keep his mouth shut. ‘It’s just the right
size for the parlor.’
‘Fine.’ Michael stuck his shovel into the ground. ‘Put
your back into it,
As he bent over to dig, Pandora scooped up a shovel-
ful of snow and tossed it into his face. ‘Oh, sorry.’ She
smiled and batted her eyes. ‘Looks like my aim’s off,
Digging with more effort, she began to hum.
He let it go, probably because he appreciated the move
and wished he’d thought of it himself. Within fifteen min-
utes, they had the hole dug.
‘There now.’ Only a little out of breath, Pandora leaned
on her shovel. “The satisfaction of.a job well done.’
“We only have to carry it back to the house, set it up
and...damn, we need something to wrap the roots and
dirt in. There was burlap in the shed.’

Nora Roberts 137
They eyed each other blandly.
‘All right, he said after a moment. ‘T’ll go get it, then
you have to sweep up the needles and dirt we trail on
the floor.’
‘Deal.’
Content, Pandora turned away to watch a cardinal
when a snowball slapped into the back of her head.
‘Sorry.’ Michael gave her a companionable smile. ‘Aim
must be off.’ He whistled as he walked back to the shed.
Pandora waited until he was out of sight, then smil-
ing smugly, knelt down to ball snow. By the time he got
back, she calculated, she could have an arsenal at hand.
He wouldn’t havea chance. She took her time, forming
and smoothing each ball into a sophisticated weapon. Se-
cure in her advantage, she nearly fell on her face when
she heard a sound behind her. She had the ball in her hand
and was already set to throw as she whirled. No one was
there. Narrowing her eyes, she waited. Hadn’t she seen a
movement back in the trees? It would be just like him to
skirt around and try to sneak up_on her. She saw the car-
dinal fly up again as if startled and heard the quiet plop
of snow hitting snow as it was shaken from branches.
‘All right, Michael, don’t be a coward.’ She picked up
a ball in her left hand, prepared to bombard.
‘Guarding your flank?’ Michael asked so that this time
when she whirled back around, she slid onto her bottom.
He grinned at her and dropped the burlap sack in her lap.
‘But weren’t you...’ She trailed off and looked behind
her again. How could he be here if he was there? ‘Did
you circle around?’

138 A Will and A Way
‘No, but from the looks of that mound of balls, I
should’ve. Want to play war?’
‘It’s just a defense system,’ she began, then looked over
her shoulder again. ‘I thought I heard you. I would’ve
sworn there was someone just beyond the trees there.’
‘I went straight to the shed and back.’ He looked be-
yond her. “You saw something out there?’
‘Michael, if you’re playing tricks—’
‘No.’ He cut her off and reached down to pull her to
her feet. ‘No tricks. Let’s havea look,’
She moved her shoulders but didn’t remove her hand
from his as they walked deeper into the trees. ‘Maybe I
was a bit jumpy.’
‘Or expecting me to be sneaky?’
‘That, too. It was probably just a rabbit.’
‘A rabbit with big feet,’ he murmured as he looked
down at the tracks. They were clear enough in the snow,
tracks leading to and away from the spot ten yards behind
where they’d dug up the tree. ‘Rabbits don’t wear boots.’
‘So, we still have company. I was beginning to think
they’d given the whole business up.’ She kept her voice
light, but felt the uneasiness of anyone who’d been
watched. ‘Maybe it’s time we talked to Fitzhugh, Mi-
chael.’
‘Maybe, in the meantime—’ The sound of an engine
cut him off. He was off in a sprint with Pandora at his
heels. After a five-minute dash, they came, clammy and
out of breath, to what was hardly more than a logging
trail. Tire tracks had churned up the snow and blackened
it. ‘A Jeep, P’'d guess.’ Swearing, Michael stuck his hands

Nora Roberts 139
in his pockets. If he’d started out right away, he might
have caught someone or at least have caught a glimpse
of someone.
Pandora let out an annoyed breath. Racing after some-
one was one thing, being outmaneuvered another. ‘Who-
ever it is is only wasting his time.’
‘I don’t like being spied on.’ He wanted physical con-
tact. Longed for it. Frustrated, he stared at the tracks that
led back to the main road. ‘I’m not playing cat and mouse
for the next four months.’
“What are we going to do?’ |
His smile spread as he looked at the tracks. “We'll
spread the word through Fitzhugh that we’ve been both-
ered by trespassers. Being as there’s any number of valu-
ables on the premises, we’ve decided to haul out one of
Jolley’s old .30-.30’s.’
‘Michael! They may be a nuisance, but they’re still
family.’ Unsure, she studied him. ‘You wouldn’t treally
shoot at anyone.’
‘T’d rather shoot at family than strangers,’ he countered,
then shrugged. ‘They’re also fond of their own skin. I
can’t think of one of them who wouldn’t hesitate to play
around if they thought they might be picking buckshot
out of embarrassing places.’
‘T don’t like it. Guns, even the threat of guns, are trou-
ble.’
‘Got a better idea?’
‘Let’s buy a dog. A really big, mean dog.’
“Great, then we can let him loose and have him sink

140 A Will and A Way
his teeth into one of our favorite relatives. They’d like
that a lot better than buckshot.’
‘He doesn’t have to be that mean.’
“We'll compromise and do both.’
‘Michael—’
‘Let’s call Fitzhugh,’
‘And take his advice?’ Pandora demanded. -
‘Sure...if I like it.’
Pandora started to object, then laughed. It was all as
silly as a plot of one of his shows. “Sounds reasonable,’
she decided, then tucked her arm through his. ‘Let’s get
the tree inside first.’

Chapter 7
“I know it’s Christmas Eve, Darla.’ Michael picked up
his coffee cup, found it empty and lifted the pot from
his hot plate. Dregs. He bit off a sigh. The trouble with
the Folley was that you had to hike a half a mile to the
kitchen whenever the pot ran dry. ‘I know it’ll be a great
party, but I can’t get away.’
That wasn’t precisely true, Michael mused as he lis-
tened to Darla’s rambles about a celebration in Manhat-
tan. Everyone, according to her estimate, was going to
be there. That meant a loud, elbow-to-elbow party with
plenty of booze. He could have taken a day and driven
into the city to raise a glass or two with friends. He was
well ahead of schedule. So far ahead, he could have taken
off a week and not felt the strain. The precise truth was,
he didn’t want to get away.

142 A Will and A Way
‘I appreciate that...you’ll just have to tell everyone
Merry Christmas for me. No, I like living in the coun-
try, Darla. Weird? Yeah, maybe.’ He had to laugh. Darla
was a top-notch dancer and a barrel of laughs, but she
didn’t believe life went on outside of the island of Man-
hattan. ‘New Year’s if I can manage it. Okay, babe. Yeah,
yeah, ciao.
More than a little relieved, Michael hung up. Darla
was a lot of fun, but he wasn’t used to being clung to by
a woman, especially one he’d only dated casually. The
truth was, she was just as attracted to the influence he
had with certain casting agents as she was interested in
him. He didn’t hold it against her. She had ambition and
talent, a combination that could work in the tough-edged
business of entertaining if a dash of luck was added.
After the holidays he’d make a few calls and see what
he could do.
From the doorway, Pandora watched as Michael ran
a hand along the back of his neck. Darla, she repeated
silently. She imagined the women his taste leaned to-
ward had names like Darla, or Robin and Candy. Sleek,
smooth, sophisticated and preferably empty-headed.
‘Popularity’s such a strain, isn’t it, darling?’
Michael turned in his chair to give her a long, nar-
rowed look. ‘Eavesdropping’s so rude, isn’t it, darling?’
She shrugged but didn’t come in. ‘If you’d wanted pri-
vacy, you should’ve closed your door.’
‘Around here you have to nail it shut for privacy.’
One brow raised, head slightly inclined, Pandora
looked as aloof as royalty. “Your phone conversations

Nora Roberts 143
have absolutely no interest for me. I only came up as a
favor to Charles. You’ve a package downstairs.’
‘Thanks.’ He didn’t bother to hide amusement at her
tone. If he knew Pandora, and he did, she’d listened to
every word. ‘I thought these were your sacred working
hours.’
‘Some of us schedule our work well enough that we can
take some time off during the holidays. No, no, let’s not
bicker, she decided abruptly before he could retaliate. ‘It
is nearly Christmas after all, and we’ve had three weeks
of peace from our familial practical jokers. Truce,’ Pan-
dora offered with a smile Michael wasn’t sure he should
trust. ‘Or a moratorium if you prefer.’
‘Why?’
‘Let’s just say I’m a sucker for holly and ivy. Besides,
I’m relieved we didn’t have to buy a big drooling dog or
a supply of buckshot.’
‘For now.’ Not completely satisfied, Michael tipped
back in his chair. ‘Fitzhugh’s notion of notifying the
local police of trespassers and spreading the rumor of an
official investigation might be working temporarily. Or
maybe our friends and family are just taking a holiday
break themselves. Either way I’m not ready to relax.’
‘You'd rather break someone’s nose than solve things
peaceably,’ Pandora began, then waved a hand. ‘Never
mind. I, for one, am going to enjoy the holidays and not
give any of our dear family a thought.’ She paused a mo-
ment, toying with her braided chain of gold and amethyst.
‘I suppose Darla was disappointed.’

144 A Will and A Way
Michael watched the way the stones caught the thin
winter light and made sparks from it. “She’ll pull through.’
Pandora twisted the chain one way, twisted it back,
then let it go. It was the sort of nervous gesture Michael
hadn’t expected from her. ‘Michael, you know you don’t
have to stay. I really will be fine if you want to run into
New York for the holiday.’
‘Rule number six,’ he reminded her. ‘We stick together,
and you’ve turned down a half-dozen invitations for the
holidays yourself”
‘My choice.’ She reached for the chain again, then
dropped her hands. ‘I don’t want you to feel obligated—’
‘My choice,’ he interrupted. ‘Or have you suddenly
decided I’m chivalrous and unselfish?’
‘Certainly not, she tossed back, but smiled. ‘I prefer
thinking you're just too lazy to make the trip,’
He shook his head, but his lips curved in response.
‘’’m sure you would.’
She hesitated in the doorway until he lifted a brow in
question. ‘Michael, would you become totally obnoxious
if I told you I’m glad you're staying?’
He studied her as she stood, looking slim and neat
in the doorway, her hair a riotous contrast to the trim
sweater and stovepipe pants. ‘I might.’
‘Then I won’t tell you.’ Without another word, she
slipped out of the doorway and disappeared.
Contrary woman, Michael thought. He was close to
being crazy about her. And crazy was the perfect word.
She baited him or, he admitted, he baited her at every
possible opportunity. He could imagine no two people

Nora Roberts 145
less inclined to peaceful coexistence, much less harmony.
And yet...and yet he was close to being crazy about her.
Knowing better than to try to go back to work, he rose
and followed her downstairs.
He found her in the parlor, rearranging packages under
the tree. ‘How many have you shaken?’
‘All of them,’ she said easily. But she didn’t turn be-
cause he might have seen how pleased she was he’d come
downstairs with her. ‘I don’t want to show any preference.
Thing is,’ she added, poking at an elegantly wrapped box,
‘I seem to have missed my present from you.’
Michael gave her a bland smile. “Who says I got you
anything?’
“You would have been terribly rude and insensitive
otherwise.’
“Yep. In any case, you seem to’ve done well enough.’
He crouched down to study the stacks of boxes under the
tree. “‘Who’s Boris?’ Idly he picked up a small silver box
with flowing white ribbon.
‘A Russian cellist who defected. He admires my...gold
links,’
‘I bet. And Roger?’
‘Roger Madison.’
His mouth dropped open, but only for a moment. ‘The
Yankee shortstop who batted .304 last year?’
‘That’s right. You may’ve noticed the silver band he
wears on his right wrist. I made that for him last March.
He seems to think it straightened out his bat or some-
thing.’ She lifted the blue-and-gold box and shook it
gently. ‘He tends to be very generous.’

146 A Will and A Way
‘I see.’ Michael took a comprehensive study of the
boxes. ‘There don’t seem to be a great many packages
here for you from women.’
‘Really?’ Pandora took a scan herself. ‘It appears you
make up for that with your pile. Chi-Chi?’ she asked as
she picked up a box with a big pink bow.
‘She’s a marine biologist, Michael said with his tongue
in his cheek.
‘Fascinating. And I imagine Magda’s a librarian.’
‘Corporate attorney,’ he said blandly.
‘Hmm. Well, whoever sent this one’s obviously shy.’
She picked up a magnum of champagne with a glitter-
ing red ribbon. The tag read ‘Happy Holidays, Michael,’
and nothing more.
Michael scanned the label with approval. ‘Some peo-
ple don’t want to advertise their generosity.’
‘How about you?’ She tilted her head. ‘After all, it is
a magnum. Are you going to share?’
“With whom?’
‘I should’ve known you'd be greedy.’ She picked up a
box with her name on it. ‘Just for that I’m eating this en-
tire box of imported chocolates myself.
Michael eyed the box. “How do you know they’re choc-
olates?’
She only smiled. ‘Henri always gives me chocolate.’
‘Imported?’
‘Swiss.’
Michael put out a hand. ‘Share and share alike.’
Pandora accepted it. ‘I’ll chill the wine,’

Nora Roberts 147
*k *K *
Hours later when there was starlight on the snow and
a fire in the hearth, Pandora lit the tree. Like Michael,
she didn’t miss any of the crowded, frenzied parties in
the city. She was where she wanted to be. It had taken
Pandora only a matter of weeks to discover she wasn’t
as attached to the rush of the city as she’d once thought.
The Folley was home. Hadn’t it always been? No, she no
longer thought of going back to Manhattan in the spring.
But what would it be like to live in the Folley alone?
Michael wouldn’t stay. True, he’d own half of the Fol-
ley in a few months, but his life—including his active
social life—was in the city. He wouldn’t stay, she thought
again, and found herself annoyed with her own sense
of regret. Why should he stay? she asked herself as she
wandered over to poke at the already crackling fire. How
could he stay? They couldn’t go on living together indefi-
nitely. Sooner or later she’d have to approach him about
her decision to remain there. To do so, she’d have to ex-
plain herself. It wouldn’t be easy.
Still, she was grateful to Jolley for doing something
she’d once resented. Boxing her in. She may have been
forced into dealing with Michael on a day-to-day level,
but in the few months she’d done so, her life had had more
energy and interest than in the many months before. It
was that, Pandora told herself, that she hated to give up.
She’d dealt with her attraction to him semisuccessfully.
The fact was, he was no more her type than she was his.
She jammed hard at a log. From all the many reports, Mi-
chael preferred a more flamboyant, exotic sort of woman.

148 A Will and A Way
Actresses, dancers, models. And he preferred them in
droves. She, on the other hand, looked for more intel-
lectual men. The men she spent time with could discuss
obscure French novelists and appreciate small, esoteric
plays. Most of them wouldn’t have known if Logan’s Run
was a television show or a restaurant in SoHo.
The fact that she had a sort of primitive desire for Mi-
chael was only a tempest in a teapot. Pandora smiled as
she replaced the poker. She couldn’t deny she enjoyed a
tempest now and again.
When a small one erupted behind her, Pandora turned
in disbelief. A little white dog with oversize feet scram-
bled into the room, slid on the Aubusson carpet and
rammed smartly into a table. Barking madly, it rolled
over twice, righted itself, then dashed at Pandora to leap
halfheartedly and loll its tongue. Entertained, Pandora
crouched down and was rewarded when the puppy sprang
onto her lap and licked her face.
‘Where’d you come from?’ Laughing, and defending
herself as best she could, Pandora found the card attached
to the red bow around the puppy’s neck. It read:
My name is Bruno. I’m a mean, ugly dog looking
for a lady to defend.
‘Bruno, huh?’ Laughing again, Pandora stroked his
unfortunately long ears. ‘How mean are you?’ she asked
as he contented himself with licking her chin.
‘He especially likes to attack discontented relatives,’
Michael announced as he wheeled in a tray carrying an

Nora Roberts 149
ice bucket and champagne. ‘He’s been trained to go after
anyone wearing a Brooks Brothers suit.’
“We might add Italian loafers.’
‘That’s next.’
Moved, incredibly moved, she concentrated on the
puppy. She hadn’t the least idea how to thank Michael
without making a fool of herself. ‘He isn’t really ugly,’
she murmured.
‘They promised me he would be.’
‘They?’ She buried her face in the puppy’s fur a mo-
ment. ‘Where did you get him?’
‘Pound.’ Watching her, Michael ripped the foil from
the champagne. ‘When we went into town for supplies
last week and I deserted you in the supermarket.’
‘And I thought you’d gone off somewhere to buy por-
nographic magazines.’
‘My reputation precedes me,’ he said half to himself.
‘In any case, I went to the pound and walked through the
kennels. Bruno bit another dog on the—on a sensitive
area in order to get to the bars first. Then he grinned at
me with absolutely no dignity. I knew he was the one.’
The cork came out with a bang and champagne sprayed
up and dripped onto the floor. Bruno scrambled out of
Pandora’s lap and greedily licked it up. ‘Perhaps his man-
ners are lacking a bit, Pandora observed. ‘But his taste is
first class.’ She rose, but waited until Michael had poured
two glasses. ‘It was a lovely thing to do, dammit.’
He grinned and handed her a glass. “You’re welcome.’
‘It’s easier for me when you're rude and intolerable.’
‘I do the best I can.’ He touched his glass to hers.

150 A Will and A Way
‘When you’re sweet, it’s harder for me to stop myself
from doing something foolish.’
He started to lift his glass, then stopped. ‘Such as?’
‘Such as.’ Pandora set down her champagne, then
took Michael’s and set it on the table as well. Watching
him, only him, she put her arms around his neck. Very
slowly—unwise acts done slowly often take on a wisdom
of their own—she touched her mouth to his.
It was, as she’d known it would be, warm and waiting.
His hands came to her shoulders, holding her without
pressure. Perhaps they’d both come to understand that
pressure would never hold her. When she softened, when
she gave, she gave through her own volition, not through
seduction, not through demand. So it was Pandora who
moved closer, Pandora who pressed body to body, offer-
ing hints of intimacy with no submission.
It wasn’t submission he wanted. It wasn’t submission
he looked for, though it was often given to him. He didn’t
look for matching strength, but strength that meshed. In
Pandora, where he’d never thought to search for it, he
found it. Her scent twisted around him, heightening emo-
tions her taste had just begun to stir. Under his hands, her
body was firm with the underlying softness women could
exploit or be exploited by. He thought she’d do neither,
but would simply be. By being alone, she drew him in.
She didn’t resist his touch, not when his hands slipped
down to her hips or skimmed up again. It seemed he’d
done so before, though only in dreams she’d refused to
acknowledge. If this was the time for acceptance, she’d
accept. If this was the time for pleasure, she’d take it.

Nora Roberts 151
If she found both with him, she wouldn’t refuse. Even
questions could come later. Maybe tonight was a night
without questions.
She drew back, but only to smile at him. ‘You know,
I don’t think of you as a cousin when I’m kissing you.” |
‘Really?’ He nipped at her lips. She had an incredibly
alluring mouth—full and pouty. ‘What do you think of
me as?’
She cocked a brow. His arms surrounded her, but didn’t
imprison. Pandora knew she’d have to analyze the differ-
ence later. ‘I haven’t figured that out yet.’
‘Then maybe we should keep working it out.’ He
started to pull her back, but she resisted.
‘Since you’ve broken tradition to give me my Christ-
mas present a few hours early, I’1l do the same.’ Going
to the tree, Pandora reached down and found the square,
flat box. ‘Happy Christmas, Michael.’
He sat down on the arm of a chair to open it while
Pandora picked up her glass of champagne. She sipped,
watching a bit nervously for his reaction. It was only a
token after all, she told herself, as she played with the
stem of her glass. When he ripped off the paper then
said nothing, she shrugged. ‘It’s not as inventive as a
guard dog.’
Michael stared down at the pencil sketch of their uncle
without any idea what to say. The frame she’d made her-
self, he knew. It was silver and busily ornate in a style
Jolley would have appreciated. But it was the sketch that
held him silent. She’d drawn Jolley as Michael remem-
bered him best, standing, a bit bent forward from the

152 A Will and A Way
waist as though he were ready to pop off on a new tan-
gent. What thin hair he’d had left was mussed. His cheeks
were stretched out in a big, wide-open grin. It had been
drawn with love, talent and humor, three qualities Jol-
ley had possessed and admired. When Michael looked
up, Pandora was still twisting the stem of the glass in
her hands.
Why, she’s nervous, he realized. He’d never expected
her to be anything but arrogantly confident about her
work. About herself. The secrets he was uncovering were
just as unnerving to him as-they were to her. A man
tended to get pulled into a woman who had soft spots
in unexpected places. If he was pulled in, how would he
work his way out again? But she was waiting, twisting
the stem of her glass in her hand.
‘Pandora. No one’s ever given me anything that’s
meant more.’
The line between her brows smoothed out as her smile
bloomed. The ridiculous sense of pleasure was difficult
to mask. ‘Really?’
He held a hand out to her. ‘Really.’ He glanced down
at the sketch again and smiled. ‘It looks just like him,’
‘It looks like I remember him.’ She let her fingers link
with Michael’s. Pandora could tell herself it was Jolley
who drew them together, and nothing else. She could
nearly believe it. ‘I thought you might remember him
that way, too. The frame’s a bit gaudy.’
‘And suitable.’ He studied it with more care. The sil-
ver shone dully, set off with the deep curls and lines
she’d etched. It could, he realized, be put in an antique

Nora Roberts 153
shop and pass for an heirloom. ‘I didn’t know you did
this sort of thing.’
‘Now and again. The boutique carries a few of them.’
‘Doesn’t fit in the same category as bangles and beads,’
he mused.
“Doesn’t it?’ Her chin tilted. ‘I thought about making
you a big gold collar with rhinestones just to annoy you.’
‘It would have.’
‘Maybe next year then. Or perhaps Ill make one for
Bruno.’ She glanced around. ‘Where’d he go?’
‘He’s probably behind the tree gnawing on presents.
During his brief stay in the garage, he ate a pair of golf
shoes.’ |
“We’ll put a stop to that,’ Pandora declared, and went
to find him.
“You know, Pandora, I’d no idea you could draw like
this.’ Michael settled against the back of the chair to study
the sketch again. ‘Why aren’t you painting?’
‘Why aren’t you writing the Great American Novel?’
‘Because I enjoy what I’m doing.’
‘Exactly.’ Finding no sign of the puppy around the tree,
Pandora began to search under the furniture. ‘Though
certainly a number of painters have toyed with jewelry
design successfully enough—Dali for one—I feel... Mi-
chael!’
He set his untouched champagne back down and hur-
ried over to where she knelt by a divan. ‘What is it?’ he
demanded, then saw for himself. Eyes closed, breath-
ing fast and heavy, the puppy lay half under the divan.

154 A Will and A Way
Even as Pandora reached for him, Bruno whimpered and
struggled to stand.
‘Oh, Michael, he’s sick. We should get him to a vet.’
_ ‘Tt’ll be midnight before we get to town. We won’t find
a vet at midnight on Christmas Eve.’ Gently Michael laid
a hand on Bruno’s belly and heard him moan. ‘Maybe I
can get someone on the phone.’
‘Do you think it’s something he ate?’
‘Sweeney’s been supervising his feeding like a new
mother.’ On cue Bruno struggled and shuddered and re-
lieved himself of what offended his stomach. Exhausted
from the effort, he lay back and dozed fitfully. ‘Some-
thing he drank,’ Michael murmured.
Pampering and soothing, Pandora stroked the dog.
‘That little bit of champagne shouldn’t have made him
ill’ Because the dog was already resting easier, she re-
laxed a bit. “Charles isn’t going to be pleased Bruno cast
up his accounts on the carpet. Maybe I should—’ She
broke off as Michael grabbed her arm.
‘How much champagne did you drink?’
‘Only a sip. Why—’ She broke off again to stare. ‘The
champagne. You think something’s wrong with it?’
‘T think I’m an idiot for not suspecting an anonymous
present.’ He grabbed her by the chin. “Only a sip. You’re
sure? How do you feel?’
Her skin had gone cold, but she answered calmly
enough. ‘I’m fine. Look at my glass, it’s still full’ She
turned her head to look at it herself. “You—you think it
was poisoned?’
“We'll find out.’

Nora Roberts 155
Logic seeped through, making her shake her head.
‘But, Michael, the wine was corked. How could it have
been tampered with?’
‘The first season on Logan IJ used a device like this.’
He thought back, remembering how he’d tested the the-
ory by adding food coloring to a bottle of Dom Perignon.
“The killer poisoned champagne by shooting cyanide
through the cork with a hypodermic.’
‘Fiction, Pandora claimed, and fought a shiver. ‘That’s
just fiction.’
“Until we find out differently, we’re going to treat it
as fact. The rest of the bottle’s going into New York to
Sanfield Labs for testing.’
Shaky, Pandora swallowed. ‘For testing,’ she said on an
unsteady breath. ‘All right, I suppose we’ll both be eas-
ier when we’re sure. Do you know someone who works
there?’
“We own Sanfield.’ He looked down at the sleeping
puppy. “Or we will own it in a matter of months. That’s
just one of the reasons someone might’ve sent us some
doctored champagne.’
‘Michael, if it was poisoned...’ She tried to imagine it
and found it nearly impossible. ‘If it was poisoned,’ she
repeated, ‘this wouldn’t just be a game anymore.’
He thought of what might have happened if they
hadn’t been distracted from the wine. ‘No, it wouldn’t
be a game.’
‘It doesn’t make any sense.’ Uneasy and fighting to
calm herself, Pandora rose. ‘Vandalism I can see, petty
annoyances I can understand, but I just can’t attribute

156 A Will and A Way
something like this to one of the family. We’re proba-
bly overreacting. Bruno’s had too much excitement. He
could very well have picked up something in the pound.’
‘I had him sent to the vet for his shots before he was
delivered here yesterday.’ Michael’s voice was calm, but
his eyes were hot. ‘He was healthy, Pandora, until he
lapped up some spilled champagne.’
One look at him told her rationalizing was useless.
‘All right. The wine should be tested in any case so we
can stop speculating. We can’t do anything about it until
day after tomorrow. In the meantime, I don’t want to
dwell on it.’
‘Pulling the blinds down, Pandora?’
‘No.’ She picked up Bruno, who whimpered and bur-
rowed into her breast. “But until it’s proven, I don’t want
to consider that a member of my family tried to kill me.
Pll fix him something warm to drink, then I’m going to
take him upstairs. I’ll keep an eye on him tonight.’
‘All right.’ Fighting a combination of frustration and
fury, Michael stood by the fire.
Long after midnight when he couldn’t sleep, couldn’t
work, Michael looked in on her. She’d left a light burning
low across the room so that the white spreads and cov-
ers took on a rosy hue. Outside snow was falling again
in big, festive flakes. Michael could see her, curled in
the wide bed, the blankets up to her chin. The fire was
nearly out. On the rug in front of it, the puppy snored.
She’d put a mohair throw over him and had set a shal-

Nora Roberts 157
low bowl filled with what looked like tea nearby. Michael
crouched beside the dog.
‘Poor fella,’ he murmured. As he stroked, Bruno
stirred, whimpered, then settled again.
‘I think he’s better.
Glancing over, Michael saw the light reflected in Pan-
dora’s eyes. Her hair was tousled, her skin pale and soft.
Her shoulders, gently sloped, rose just above the covers
pooled around her. She looked beautiful, desirable, arous-
ing. He told himself he was mad. Pandora didn’t fit into
his carefully detailed notion of beauty. Michael looked
back at the dog.
‘Just needs to sleep it off. You could use another log
on this fire.’ Needing to keep busy, Michael dug in the
woodbox, then added a log to the coals.
‘Thanks. Can’t sleep?’
‘No.’
‘Me, either.’ They sat in silence a moment, Pandora in
the big bed, Michael on the hearth rug. The fire crackled
greedily at the fresh log and flickered light and shadow.
At length, she drew her knees up to her chest. ‘Michael,
I’m frightened.’
It wasn’t an easy admission. He knew it cost her to tell
him. He stirred at the fire a moment, then spoke lightly
as he replaced the screen. ‘We can leave. We can drive
into New York tomorrow and stay there. Forget this whole
business and enjoy the holidays.’
She didn’t speak for a minute, but she watched him
carefully. His face was turned away toward the fire so

158 A Will and A Way
that she had to judge his feelings by the way he held him-
self. ‘Is that what you want to do?’
He thought of Jolley, then he thought of Pandora. Every
muscle in his body tightened. ‘Sure.’ He tossed it off like
a shrug. ‘I’ve got to think about myself.” He said it as if
to remind himself it had once been true.
‘For someone who earns his living by making up sto-
ries, you’re a lousy liar.’ She waited until he turned to
face her. “You don’t want to go back. What you want is
to gather all our relatives together and beat them up.’
‘Can you see me pounding Aunt Patience?’
‘With a few exceptions,’ Pandora temporized. ‘But the
last thing you want is to give up,’
‘All right, that’s me.’ He rose and, hands in pockets,
paced back and forth in front of the fire. He could smell
the woodsmoke mixed with some light scent from one of
the bottles on Pandora’s dresser. ‘What about you? You
didn’t want to hassle with this whole business from the
beginning. I talked you into it. I feel responsible.’
For the first time in hours she felt her humor return.
‘I hate to dent your ego, Michael, but you didn’t talk me
into anything. No one does. And I’m completely respon-
sible for myself. I don’t want to quit, she added before he
could speak. ‘I said I didn’t want the money, and that was
true. I also said I didn’t need it, and that’s not precisely
true. Over and above that, there’s pride. I’m frightened,
yes, but I don’t want to quit. Oh, stop pacing around and
come sit down.’ The order was cross and impatient, nearly
making him smile. He came over and sat on the bed.
‘Better?’

Nora Roberts 159
She gave him a long, steady look that had the hint of a
smile fading. “Yes. Michael, I’ve been lying here for hours
thinking this thing through. I’ve realized a few things.
You called me a snob once, and perhaps you were right
in a way. I’ve never thought much about money. Never
allowed myself to. When Uncle Jolley cut everyone out,
I thought of it as a cross between a joke and a slap on the
wrist. I figured they’d grumble and complain certainly,
but that was all.’ She lifted her hand palm up. ‘It was only
money, and every one of them has their own.’
‘Ever heard of greed or the lust for power?’
‘That’s just it, I didn’t think. How much do I know
about any of those people? They bore or annoy me from
time to time, but I’ve never thought about them as indi-
viduals.’ Now she ran the hand through her hair so that
the blankets fell to her waist. ‘Ginger must be about the
same age as I am, and I can’t think of two things we have
in common. I’d probably pass Biff’s wife on the street
_ without recognizing her.’
‘I have a hard time remembering her name,’ Michael
put in, and earned a sigh from Pandora.
‘That’s my point. We don’t really know them. The fam-
ily, in a group, is a kind of parlor joke. Separately, who
are they and what are they capable of? I’ve just begun to
consider it. It’s not a joke, Michael.’
‘No, it’s not.’
‘I want to fight back, but I don’t know how.’
‘The surest way is by staying. And maybe,’ he added,
and took her hand. It was cool and soft. ‘Add a little psy-
chological warfare.’

160 A Will and A Way
‘Such as?’
‘What if we sent each one of our relatives a nice bottle
of champagne?’
Her smile came slowly. ‘A magnum.’
‘Naturally. It’d be interesting to see what sort of reac-
tion we get.’
‘It would be a nasty gesture, wouldn’t it?’
‘Uh-hmm.’
‘Maybe I haven’t given your creative brain enough
credit.’ She fell silent as he wound her hair around his
finger. ‘I suppose we should get some sleep.’
‘I suppose.’ But his fingers skimmed down her shoul-
ders.
‘l’m not very tired.’
“We could play canasta.’
“We could.’ But she made no move to stop him when
he nudged the thin straps of her chemise from her shoul-
ders. “There’s always cribbage.’
‘That, too.’
‘Or...’ It was her decision, they both understood that.
‘We might finish playing out the hand we started down-
stairs earlier.’
He lifted her hand and pressed his lips to the palm.
‘Always best to finish what you start before going on. As
I recall, we were...here.’ He lowered his mouth to hers.
Slowly, on a sigh, she wound her arms around his neck.
‘That seems about right.’
Holding fast, they sunk into the bed together.
Perhaps it was because they knew each other well. Per-
haps it was because they’d already waited a lifetime, but

Nora Roberts 161
each moved slowly. Desire, for the moment, was comfort-
able, easy to satisfy with a touch, a taste. Passion curled
inside him then unwound with a sigh. There was inch
after inch of her to explore with his fingertips, with his
lips. He’d waited too long, wanted too long, to miss any
part of what they could give to each other.
She was more generous than he’d imagined, less inhib-
ited, more open. She didn’t ask to be coaxed, she didn’t
pretend to need persuasion. She ran her hands over him
with equal curiosity. Her mouth took from him and gave
again. When his lips parted from hers, her eyes were
on him, clouded with desire, dark with amusement of a
shared joke. They were together, Michael thought as he
buried his face in her hair. About to become lovers. The
joke was on both of them.
Her hands were steady when she pulled his sweatshirt
over his head, steady still as she ran them over his chest.
Her pulse wasn’t. She’d avoided this, refused this. Now
she was accepting it though she knew there would be
consequences she couldn’t anticipate.
The fire crackled steadily. The soft light glowed. Con-
sequences were for more practical times.
Her skin slid over his with each movement. Each move-
ment enticed. With his heartbeat beginning to hammer in
his head, he journeyed lower. With openmouthed kisses
he learned her body in a way he’d only been able to imag-
ine. Her scent was everywhere, subtle at the curve of her
waist, stronger at the gentle underside of her breasts. He
drew it in and let it swim in his head.
He felt the instant her lazy enjoyment darkened with

162 A Will and A Way
power. When her breath caught on a moan, he took her
deeper. They reached a point where he no longer knew
what they did to each other, only that strength met need
and need became desperation.
His skin was damp. She tasted the moistness of it and
craved more. So this was passion. This was the trembling,
churning hunger men and women longed for. She’d never
wanted it. That’s what she told herself as her body shud-
dered. Pleasure and pain mixed, needs and fears tangled.
Her mind was as swamped with sensations as her flesh—
heat and light, ecstasy and terror. The vulnerability over-
whelmed her though her body arched taut and her hands
clung. No one had ever brushed back her defenses so ef-
fortlessly and taken. Taken and taken.
Breathless and desperate, she dragged his mouth back
to hers. They rolled over the bed, rough, racing. Neither
had had enough. While she tugged and pulled at his jeans,
Michael drove her higher. He’d wanted the madness, for
himself and for her. Now he felt the wild strength pour-
ing out of her. No thought here, no logic. He rolled on top
of her again, reveling in her frantic breathing.
She curled around him, legs and arms. When he
plunged into her, they watched the astonishment on each
other’s faces. Not like this—it had never been like this.
They’d come home. But home, each discovered, wasn’t
always a peaceful place.
There was silence, stunned, awkward silence. They
lay tangled in the covers as the log Michael had set to

Nora Roberts 163
fire broke apart and showered sparks against the screen.
They knew each other well, too well to speak of what
had happened just yet. So they lay in silence as their skin
cooled and their pulses leveled. Michael shifted to pull
the spread up over them both.
‘Merry Christmas,’ he murmured.
With a sound that was both sigh and laugh, Pandora
settled beside him.

Chapter 8
They left the Folley in the hard morning light the day
after Christmas. Sun glared off snow, melting it at the
edges and forming icicles down branches and eaves. It
was a postcard with biting wind.
After a short tussle they’d agreed that Pandora would
drive into the city and Michael would drive back. He
pushed his seat back to the limit and managed to stretch
out his legs. She maneuvered carefully down the slushy
mountain road that led from the Folley. They didn’t speak
until she’d reached clear highway.
“What if they don’t let us in?’
“Why shouldn’t they?’ Preferring driving to sitting,
Michael shifted in his seat. For the first time he was im-
patient with the miles of road between the Folley and
New York.

Nora Roberts 165
“‘Isn’t that like counting your chickens?’ Pandora
turned the heat down a notch and loosened the buttons
of her coat. ‘We don’t own the place yet.’
‘Just a technicality,’
‘Always cocky,’
“You always look at the negative angles.’
‘Someone has to.’
‘Look...’ He started to toss back something criti-
cal, then noticed how tightly she gripped the wheel. All
nerves, he mused. Though the scenery was a print by
Currier and Ives, it wasn’t entirely possible to pretend
they were off on a holiday jaunt. He was running on
nerves himself, and they didn’t all have to do with doc-
tored champagne. How would he have guessed he’d wake
up beside her in the cool light of dawn and feel so in-
volved? So responsible. So hungry.
He took a deep breath and watched the scenery for an-
other moment. ‘Look,’ he began again in a lighter tone.
“We may not own the lab or anything else at the moment,
but we’re still Jolley’s family. Why should a lab techni-
cian refuse to do a little analysis?’
‘I suppose we’ll find out when we get there.’ She drove
another ten miles in silence. ‘Michael, what difference is
an analysis going to make?’
‘I have this odd sort of curiosity. I like to know if
someone’s tried to poison me.’
‘So we’ll know if, and we’ll know why. We still won’t
know who.’
‘That’s the next step.’ He glanced over. ‘We can in-

166 A Will and A Way
vite them all to the Folley for New Year’s and take turns
grilling them,’
‘Now you’re making fun of me.’
‘No, actually, I’d thought of it. I just figure the time’s
not quite right.’ He waited a few minutes. In thin leather
gloves, her fingers curled and uncurled on the wheel.
‘Pandora, why don’t you tell me what’s really bother-
ing you?’
‘Nothing is.’ Everything was. She hadn’t been able to
think straight for twenty-four hours.
‘Nothing?’ -
‘Nothing other than wondering if someone wants to
kill me.’ She tossed it off arrogantly. “Isn’t that enough?’
He heard the edge under the sarcasm. ‘Is that why you
hid in your room all day yesterday?’
‘T wasn’t hiding.’ She had enough pride to sound brit-
tle. ‘I was tending to Bruno. And I was tired,’
“You hardly ate any of that enormous goose Sweeney
slaved over.’
‘T’m not terribly fond of goose.’
‘ve had Christmas dinner with you before,’ he cor-
rected. ‘You eat like a horse.’
‘How gallant of you to point it out.’ For no particular
reason, she switched lanes, pumped the gas and passed
another car. ‘Let’s just say I wasn’t in the mood.’
‘How did you manage to talk yourself into disliking
what happened between us so quickly?’ It hurt. He felt the
hurt, but it didn’t mean he had to let it show. His voice,
as hers had been, was cool and hard.
‘T haven’t. That’s absurd.’ Dislike? She hadn’t been able

Nora Roberts 167
to think of anything else, feel anything else. It scared her
to death. “We slept together. She managed to toss it off
with a shrug. ‘I suppose we both knew we would sooner
or later.’
He’d told himself precisely the same thing. He’d lost
count of the number of times. He’d yet to figure out when
he’d stopped believing. For himself. ‘And that’s it?’
The question was deadly calm, but she was too preoc-
cupied with her own nerves to notice. “What else?’ She
had to stop dwelling on a moment of impulse. Didn’t she?
She couldn’t go on letting her common sense be over-
run by an attraction that would lead nowhere. Could she?
‘Michael, there’s no use blowing what happened out of
proportion.’
‘Just what is that proportion?’
The car felt stuffy and close. Pandora switched off the
heat and concentrated on the road. ‘We’re two adults,
she began, but had to swallow twice.
‘And?’
‘Dammit, Michael, I don’t have to spell it out.’
“Yes, you do.’
‘We’re two adults,’ she said again, but with temper re-
placing nerves. ‘We have normal adult needs. We slept
together and satisfied them.’
‘How practical.’
‘I am practical.’ Abruptly, and very badly, she wanted
to weep. ‘Much too practical to weave fantasies about a
man who likes his women in six packs. Too practical,’
she went on, voice rising, ‘to picture myself emotionally
involved with a man I spent one night with. And too prac-

168 A Will and A Way
tical to romanticize what was no more than an exchange
of normal and basic lust.’
‘Pull over.’
‘T will not,’
‘Pull over to the shoulder, Pandora, or I'll do it for you.’
She gritted her teeth and debated calling his bluff.
There was just enough traffic on the road to force her
hand. With only a slight squeal of tires, Pandora pulled
off to the side of the road. Michael turned off the key
then grabbed her by the lapels and pulled her half into
his seat. Before she could struggle away, he closed his
mouth over hers.
Heat, anger, passion. They seemed to twist together
into one emotion. He held her there as cars whizzed by,
shaking the windows. She infuriated him, she aroused
him, she hurt him. In Michael’s opinion, it was too much
for one man to take from one woman. As abruptly as he’d
grabbed her, he released her.
‘Make something practical out of that,’ he challenged.
Breathless, Pandora struggled back into her own seat.
In a furious gesture, she turned the key, gunning the
motor. ‘Idiot.’
“Yeah.” He sat back as she pulled back onto the high-
way. ‘We finally agree on something.’
It was a long ride into the city. Longer still when you
sat in a car in tense silence. Once they entered Manhat-
tan, Pandora was forced to follow Michael’s directions
to the lab.
‘How do you know where it is?’ she demanded after

Nora Roberts 169
they left the car in a parking garage. The sidewalk was
mobbed with people hurrying to exchange what had
been brightly boxed and wrapped the day before. As they
walked, Pandora held her coat closed against the wind.
‘I looked the address up in Jolley’s files yesterday.’
Michael walked the half block hatless, his coat flapping
open, clutching the box with the champagne under one
arm. He wasn’t immune to the cold but found it a relief
after the hot tension of the drive. With a brisk gesture
to Pandora, he pushed through revolving doors and en-
tered the lobby of a steel-and-glass building. ‘He owned
the whole place.’
Pandora looked across the marble floor. It sloped up-
ward and widened into a crowded, bustling area with
men and women carrying briefcases. ‘This whole place?’
‘All seventy-two floors.’
It hit her again just how complicated the estate was.
How many companies operated in the building? How
many people worked there? How could she possibly
crowd her life with this kind of responsibility? If she
could get her hands on Uncle Jolley—Pandora broke
off, almost amused. How he must be enjoying this, she
thought.
‘What am I supposed to do with seventy-two floors
in midtown?’
‘There are plenty of people to do it for you.’ Michael
gave their names to the guard at the elevators. With no
delay, they were riding to the fortieth floor.
‘So there are people to do it for us. Who keeps track
of them?’

170 A Will and A Way
‘Accountants, lawyers, managers. It’s a matter of hir-
ing people to look after people you hire.’
‘That certainly clears that up.’
‘If you’re worried, think about Jolley. Having a for-
tune didn’t seem to keep him from enjoying himself.
For the most part, he looked at the whole business as a
kind of hobby.’
Pandora watched the numbers above the door. ‘A
hobby.’
‘Everyone should have a hobby.’
‘Tennis is a hobby, she muttered.
‘The trick is to keep the ball moving. Jolley tossed it
in our court, Pandora.’
She folded her arms. ‘I’m not ready to be grateful for
that.’
‘Look at it this way then.’ He put a hand on her shoul-
der and squeezed lightly. “You don’t have to know how
to build a car to own one. You just have to drive steady
and follow the signs. If Jolley didn’t think we could fol-
low the signs, he wouldn’t have given us the keys.’
It helped to look at it that way. Still it was odd to con-
sider she was riding on an elevator she would own when
the six months were up. ‘Do we know whom to go to?’
Pandora glanced at the box Michael held, which con-
tained the bottle of champagne.
‘A man named Silas Lockworth seems to be in charge.’
“You did your homework.’
‘Let’s hope it pays off?
When the elevator stopped, they walked into the re-
ception area for Sanfield Laboratories. The carpet was

Nora Roberts 171
pale rose, the walls lacquered in cream. Two huge split-
leaf philodendrons flanked the wide glass doors that slid
open at their approach. A woman behind a gleaming desk
folded her hands and smiled.
‘Good morning. May I help you?’
Michael glanced at the computer terminal resting on
an extension of her desk. Top of the line. ‘We’d like to
see Mr. Lockworth.’
‘Mr. Lockworth’s in a meeting. If I could have your
names, perhaps his assistant can help you.’
‘l’m Michael Donahue. This is Pandora McVie.’
“McVie?’
Pandora saw the receptionist’s eyebrows rise. ‘Yes,
Maximillian McVie was our uncle.’
Already polite and efficient, the receptionist became
gracious. ‘I’m sure Mr. Lockworth would have greeted
you himself if we’d known you were coming. Please have
a seat. I'll ring through.’
It took under five minutes.
The man who strode out into reception didn’t look like
Pandora’s conception of a technician or scientist. He was
six-three, lean as a gymnast with blond hair brushed back
from a tanned, lantern-jawed face. He looked, Pandora
thought, more like a man who’d be at home on the range
than in a lab with test tubes.
‘Ms. McVie.’ He walked with an easy rolling gait, hand
outstretched. ‘Mr. Donahue. I’m Silas Lockworth. Your
uncle was a good friend.’
‘Thank you.’ Michael accepted the handshake. ‘I apol-
ogize for dropping in unannounced.’

172 A Will and A Way
‘No need for that.’ Lockworth’s smile seemed to mean
it. ‘We never knew when Jolley was going to drop in on
us. Let’s go back to my office.’
He led them down the corridor. Lockworth’s office was
the next surprise. It was plush enough, with curvy chairs
and clever lithographs, to make you think of a corporate
executive. The desk was piled high with enough files
and papers to make you think of a harried clerk. It car-
ried the scent from the dozens of leather-bound books on
a floor-to-ceiling shelf. Built into one wall was a round
aquarium teeming with exotic fish.
‘Would you like coffee? I can guarantee it’s hot and
strong.’
‘No.’ Pandora was already twisting her gloves in her
hands. “Thank you. We don’t want to take too much of
your time.’
‘It’s my pleasure, Lockworth assured her. ‘Jolley cer-
tainly spoke often of both of you, Lockworth went on
as he gestured to chairs. ‘There was never a doubt you
were his favorites.’
‘And he was ours,’ Pandora returned.
‘Still you didn’t come to pass the time.’ Lockworth
leaned back on his desk. ‘What can I do for you?’
“We have something we’d like analyzed,’ Michael
began. ‘Quickly and quietly.’
‘I see.’ Silas stopped there, brow raised. Lockworth
was a man who picked up impressions of people right
away. In Pandora he saw nerves under a sheen of polite-
ness. In Michael he saw violence, not so much buried as
thinly coated. He thought he detected a bond between

Nora Roberts 173
them though they hadn’t so much as looked at each other
since entering the room.
Lockworth could have refused. His staff was slimmed
down during the holidays, and work was backlogged.
He was under no obligation to either of them yet. But he
never forgot his obligation to Jolley McVie. ‘We’ll try to
accommodate you.’
In silence, Michael opened the box and drew out the
bottle of champagne. ‘We need a report on the contents
of this bottle. A confidential report. Today.’
Lockworth took it and examined the label. His lips
curved slightly. “Seventy-two. A good year. Were you
thinking of starting a vineyard?’
“We need to know what’s in there other than champagne.’
Rather than showing surprise, Lockworth leaned back
on the desk again. “You’ve reason to think there is?’
Michael met the look. “We wouldn’t be here otherwise.’
Lockworth only inclined his head. ‘All right. Pll run
it through the lab myself’
With a quick scowl for Michael’s manners, Pandora
rose and offered her hand. “We appreciate the trouble, Mr.
Lockworth. I’m sure you have a great many other things
to do, but the results are important to Michael and me.’
‘No problem.’ He decided he’d find out why it was
important after he’d analyzed the wine. “There’s a cof-
fee shop for the staff. I'll show you where it is. You can
wait for me there.’
‘There was absolutely no reason to be rude.’ Pandora
settled herself at a table and looked at a surprisingly var-
ied menu.

174 A Will and A Way
‘I wasn’t rude.’
‘Of course you were. Mr. Lockworth was going out of
his way to be friendly, and you had a chip on your shoul-
der. I think I’m going to have the shrimp salad.’
‘I don’t have a chip on my shoulder. I was being cau-
tious. Or maybe you think we should spill everything to
a total stranger.’
Pandora folded her hands and smiled at the waitress.
‘Td like the shrimp salad and coffee.’
‘Two coffees,’ Michael muttered. ‘And the turkey plat-
(er:
‘T’ve no intention of spilling, as you put it, everything
to a total stranger.’ Pandora picked up her napkin. “How-
ever, if we weren’t going to trust Lockworth, we’d have
been better off to buy a chemistry set and try to handle
it ourselves.’
‘Drink your coffee,’ Michael muttered, and picked up
his own the moment the waitress served it.
Pandora frowned as she added cream. ‘How long do
you think it’ll take?’
‘IT don’t know. I’m not a scientist.’
‘He didn’t look like one, either, did he?’
‘Bronc rider.’ Michael sipped his black coffee and
found it as strong as Lockworth had promised.
‘What?’
‘Looks like a bronc rider. I wonder if Carlson or any
of the others have any interest in this building.’
Pandora set her coffee down before she tasted it. ‘I
hadn’t thought of that.’
‘As I remember, Jolley turned over Tristar Corpora-

Nora Roberts ane 6)
tion to Monroe about twenty-five years ago. I remember
my parents talking about it’
‘Tristar. Which one is that?’
‘Plastics. I know he gave little pieces of the pie out
here and there. He told me once he wanted to give all his
relatives a chance before he crossed them off the list.’
After a moment’s thought, she shrugged and picked
up her coffee again. ‘Well, if he did give a few shares of
Sanfield to one of them, what difference does it make?’
‘I don’t know how much we should trust Lockworth.’
“You'd have felt better if he’d been bald and short with
Coke-bottle glasses and a faint German accent.’
‘Maybe.’
‘See?’ Pandora smiled. “You’re just jealous because
he has great shoulders.’ She fluttered her lashes. “Here’s
your turkey.’
They ate slowly, drank more coffee, then passed more
time with pie. After an hour and a half, both of them were
restless and edgy. When Lockworth came in, Pandora
forgot to be nervous about the results.
‘Thank God, here he comes.’
After maneuvering around chairs and employees on
lunch break, Lockworth set a computer printout on the
table and handed the box back to Michael. ‘I thought
you’d want a copy.’ He took a seat and signaled for cof-
fee. ‘Though it’s technical.’
Pandora frowned down at the long, chemical terms
printed out on the paper. It meant little more than noth-
ing to her, but she doubted trichloroethanol or any of the

176 A Will and A Way
other multisyllabic words belonged in French champagne.
“What does it mean?’
‘I wondered that myself.’ Lockworth reached in his
pocket and drew out a pack of cigarettes. Michael looked
at it for a moment with longing. ‘I wondered why anyone
would put rose dust in vintage champagne.’
‘Rose dust?’ Michael repeated. ‘Pesticide. So it was
poisoned.’
‘Technically, yes. Though there wasn’t enough in the
wine to do any more than make you miserably ill for a
day or two. I take it neither one of you had any?’
‘No.’ Pandora looked up from the report. ‘My puppy
did,’ she explained. ‘When we opened the bottle, some
spilled and he lapped it up. Before we’d gotten around to
drinking it, he was ill.’
‘Luckily for you, though I find it curious that you’d
jumped to the conclusion that the champagne had been
poisoned because a puppy was sick.’
‘Luckily for us, we did.’ Michael folded the report and
slipped it into his pocket.
‘You'll have to pardon my cousin,’ Pandora said. ‘He
has no manners. We appreciate you taking time out to
do this for us, Mr. Lockworth. I’m afraid it isn’t possible
to fully explain ourselves at this point, but I can tell you
that we had good reason to suspect the wine.’
Lockworth nodded. As a scientist he knew how to
theorize. ‘If you find you need a more comprehensive
report, let me know. Jolley was an important person in
my life. We'll call it a favor to him.’

Nora Roberts 177
As he rose, Michael stood with him. ‘I’ll apologize for
myself this time.’ He held out a hand.
‘T’'d be a bit edgy myself if someone gave me pesticide
disguised as Moét et Chandon. Let me know if I can do
anything else.’
“Well, Pandora began when they were alone. ‘What
next?’
‘A little trip to the liquor store. We’ve some presents
to buy.’
They sent, first-class, a bottle of the same to each of
Jolley’s erstwhile heirs. Michael signed the cards simply,
“One good turn deserves another.’ After it was done and
they walked outside in the frigid wind, Pandora huffed
and pulled on her gloves.
‘An expensive gesture.’
‘Look at it as an investment,’ Michael suggested.
It wasn’t the money, she thought, but the sudden futil-
ity she felt. ‘What good will it do really?’
‘Several bottles’ll be wondered over, then appreciated.
But one,’ Michael said with relish. ‘One makes a state-
ment, even a threat.’
‘An empty threat,’ Pandora returned. ‘It’s not as if we'll
be there when everyone gets one to gauge reactions.’
“You're thinking like an amateur.’
Michael was halfway across the street when Pandora
grabbed his arm. ‘Just what does that mean?’
‘When an amateur plays a practical joke, he thinks he
has to be in on the kill.’
Ignoring the people who brushed by them, Pandora

178 A Will and A Way
held her ground. ‘Since when is pesticide poisoning a
practical joke?’
‘Revenge follows the same principle.’
‘Oh, I see. And you’re an expert.’
The light changed. Cars started for them, horns blar-
ing. Gritting his teeth, Michael grabbed her arm and
pulled her to the curb. ‘Maybe I am. It’s enough for me
to know someone’s going to look at the bottle and be
very nervous. Someone’s going to look at it and know
we intend to give as good as we get. Your trouble is you
don’t like to let your emotions loose long enough to ap-
preciate revenge.’
‘Leave my emotions alone.’
‘That’s the plan,’ he said evenly, and started walking
again.
In three strides she’d caught up with him. Her face
was pink from the wind, the anger in her voice came
out in thin wisps. “You’re not annoyed with Lockworth
or about the champagne or over differing views on re-
venge. You’re mad because I defined our relationship in
practical terms.’
He stared at her as her phrasing worked on both his
temper and his humor. ‘Okay,’ he declared, turning to
walk on. Patience straining, he turned back when Pandora
grabbed his arm. ‘You want to hash this out right here?’
‘I won’t let you make me feel inadequate just because
I broke things off before you had a chance to.’
“Before I had a chance to?’ He took her by the coat.
With the added height from the heels on her boots, she
looked straight into his eyes. Another time, another place,

Nora Roberts 179
he might have considered her magnificent. ‘I barely had
the chance to recover from what happened before you
were shoving me out. I wanted you. Dammit, I still want
you. God knows why.’
“Well, I want you, too, and I don’t like it, either.’
‘Looks like that puts us in the same fix, doesn’t it?’
‘So what’re we going to do about it?’
He looked at her and saw the anger. But he looked
closely enough to see confusion, as well. One of them
had to make the first move. He decided it was going to be
him. Taking her hand, he dragged her across the street.
“Where are we going?’
‘ihe Plaza,
‘The Plaza Hotel? Why?’
“We’re going to get a room, put the chain on the door
and make love for the next twenty-four hours. After that,
we'll decide how we want to handle it.’
There were times, Pandora decided, when it was best
to go along for the ride. “We don’t have any luggage.’
‘Yeah. My reputation’s about to be shattered.’
She made a sound that might have been a laugh. When
they walked into the elegant lobby, the heat warmed her
skin and stirred up her nerves. It was all impulse, she
told herself. She knew better than to make any impor-
tant decision on impulse. He could change everything.
That was something she hadn’t wanted to admit but had
known for years. When she started to draw away, his
hand locked on her arm.
‘Coward,’ he murmured. He couldn’t have said any-

180 A Will and A Way
thing more perfectly designed to make her march for-
ward.
‘Good afternoon.’ Michael smiled at the desk clerk.
Pandora wondered briefly if the smile would have been
so charming if the clerk had been a man. ‘Checking in.’
“You have a reservation?’
‘Donahue. Michael Donahue.’
The clerk punched some buttons and stared at her com-
puter screen. ‘I’m afraid I don’t show anything under Do-
nahue for the twenty-sixth.’
‘Katie, Michael said ona breath of impatience. He
sent Pandora a long suffering look. ‘I should never have
trusted her to handle this.’
Catching the drift, Pandora patted his hand. ‘You’re
going to have to let her go, Michael. I know she’s worked
for your family for forty years, but when a person gets
into their seventies...’ She trailed off and let Michael
take the ball.
“We'll decide when we get home.’ He turned back to
the desk clerk. ‘Apparently there’s been a mix-up between
my secretary and the hotel. We'll only be in town over-
night. Is anything available?’
The clerk went back to her buttons. Most people in
her experience raised the roof when there was a mix-
up in reservations. Michael’s quiet request touched her
sympathies. “You understand there’s a problem because
of the holiday.’ She punched more buttons, wanting to
help. ‘We do have a suite available.’
‘Fine.’ Michael took the registration form and filled it
out. With the key in his hand, he sent the clerk another

Nora Roberts 181
smile. ‘I appreciate the trouble.’ Noting the bellhop hov-
ering at his elbow, he handed him a bill. ‘We’ll handle
it, thanks.’
The clerk looked at the twenty in his palm and the lack
of luggage. “Yes, sir!’
“He thinks we’re having an illicit affair, Pandora mur-
mured as they stepped onto the elevator.
“We are.’ Before the doors had closed again, Michael
grabbed her to him and locked her in a kiss that lasted
twelve floors. ‘We don’t know each other,’ he told her as
they stepped into the hallway. ‘We’ve just met. We don’t
have mutual childhood memories or share the same fam-
ily.’ He put the key in the lock. ‘We don’t give a damn
what the other does for a living nor do we have any long-
standing opinions about each other.’
‘Is that supposed to simplify things?’
Michael drew her inside. ‘Let’s find out.’
He didn’t give her a chance to wonder, a chance to de-
bate. The moment the door was shut behind them, he had
her in his arms. He took questions away. He took choice
away. For once, she wanted him to. In a fury of passions,
of hungers, of cravings, they came together. Each fought
to draw more, still more out of the other, to touch faster,
to possess more quickly. They forgot what they knew,
what they thought and reveled in what they felt.
Coats, still chill from the wind, were pushed to the
floor. Sweaters and shirts followed. Hardly more than a
foot inside the door, they slid to the carpet.
‘Damn winter,’ Michael muttered as he fought with
her boots.

182 A Will and A Way
Laughing, Pandora struggled with his, then moaned
when he pressed his lips to her breast.
It was a race, part warring, part loving. Neither gave
the other respite. When their clothes were shed, they
sprinted ahead, hands reaching, lips arousing. There was
none of the dreamy déja vu they’d experienced the first
time. This was new. The fingers tracing her skin had
never been felt before. The lips, hot and searing, had
never been tasted. Fresh, erotically fresh, their mouths
met and clung.
Her heart had never beat so fast. She was sure of it. Her
body had never ached and pulsed so desperately. She’d
never wanted it to. Now she wanted more, everything.
Him. She rolled so that she could press quick, hungry
kisses over his face, his neck, his chest. Everywhere. -
His mind was teeming with her, with every part of her
that he could touch or taste or smell. She was wild in a
way he’d never imagined. She was demanding in a way
any man would desire. His body seemed to fascinate her,
every curve, every angle. She exploited it until he was
half mad, then he groped for her.
She’d never known a man could give so much. Racked
with sensations, she arched under him. Hot and ready,
she offered. But he was far from through. The taste of her
thighs was subtle, luring him toward the heat. He found
her, drove her and kept her helplessly trapped in pas-
sion. Helplessly. The sensation shivered over her. She’d
never known what it had meant to be truly vulnerable
to another. He could have taken anything from her then,

Nora Roberts 183
asked anything and she couldn’t have refused. But he
didn’t ask, he gave.
She crested wave after wave. Between heights and
depths she pinwheeled, delighting in the spin. On the
rug with the afternoon light streaming through the win-
dows, she was locked in blinding darkness without any
wish to see. Make me feel, her mind seemed to shout.
More. Again. Still.
And he was inside her, joined, melded. She found there
was more. Impossibly more.
They stayed where they were, sprawled on scattered
clothes. Gradually Pandora found her mind swimming
back to reality. She could see the pastel walls, the sun-
light. She could smell the body heat that was a mix of hers
and his. She could feel Michael’s hair brushing over her
cheek, the beat of his heart, still fast, against her breast.
It happened so fast, she thought. Or had it taken hours?
All she was certain of was that she’d never experienced
anything like it. Never permitted herself to, she amended.
Strange things could happen to a woman who lifted the
lid from her passion. Other things could sneak in before
the top closed again. Things like affection, understand-
ing. Even love.
She caught herself stroking Michael’s hair and let
her hand fall to the carpet. She couldn’t let love in, not
even briefly. Love took as well as gave. That she’d al-
ways known. And it didn’t always give and take in equal
shares. Michael wasn’t a man a woman could love practi-

184 A Will and A Way
cally, and certainly not wisely. That she understood. He
wouldn’t follow the rules.
She’d be his lover, but she wouldn’t love him. Though
there would be no pretending they could live with each
other for the next three months platonically, she wouldn’t
risk her heart. For an instant Pandora thought she felt it
break, just a little. Foolishness, she told herself. Her heart
was strong and unimpaired. What she and Michael had
together was a very basic, very uncomplicated arrange-
ment. Arrangement, she thought, sounded so much more
practical than romance. ~
But her sigh was quiet, and a little wistful.
‘Figure it all out?’ He shifted a little as he spoke, just
enough so that he could brush his lips down her throat.
“What do you mean?’
‘Have you figured out the guidelines for our relation-
ship?’ Lifting his head, he looked down at her. He wasn’t
smiling, but Pandora thought he was amused.
‘I don’t know what you’re talking about.’
‘I can almost hear the wheels turning. Pandora, I can
see just what’s going on in your head.’
Annoyed that he probably could, she lifted a brow. ‘I
thought we’d just met.’
‘T’m psychic. You’re thinking....’ He trailed off to nib-
ble at her lips. “That there should be a way to keep our...
relationship on a practical level. You’re wondering how
you'll keep an emotional distance when we’re sleeping
together. You’ve decided that there’Il be absolutely no ro-
mantic overtones to any arrangement between us.’
‘All right.” He made her feel foolish. Then he ran a

Nora Roberts 185
hand over her hip and made her tremble. ‘Since you’re
so smart, you'll see that I’ve only been using common
sense.’ .
‘T like it better when your skin gets hot, and you haven’t
any sense at all. But—’ he kissed her before she could an-
swer ‘—we can’t stay in bed all the time. I don’t believe
in practical affairs, Pandora. I don’t believe in emotional
distance between lovers.’
“You've had a great deal of experience there.’
‘That’s right.’ He sat up, drawing her with him. ‘And
P’ll tell you this. You can wall up your emotions all you
want. You can call whatever we have here by any prac-
tical term you can dream up. You can turn up your nose
at candlelight dinners and quiet music. It’s not going to
make any difference.’ He gathered her hair in his hand
and pulled her head back. ‘I’m going to get to you, cousin.
I’m going to get to you until you can’t think of anything,
anyone but me. If you wake up in the middle of the night
and I’m not there, you’ll wish I were. And when I touch
you, any time I touch you, you’re going to want me.’
She had to fight the shudder. She knew, as well as she’d
ever known anything, that he was right. And she knew,
perhaps they both did, that she’d fight it right down to
the end. ‘You’re arrogant, egocentric and simpleminded.’
‘True enough. And you're stubborn, willful and per-
verse. The only thing we can be sure of at this point is
that one of us is going to win,’
Sitting on the pile of discarded clothes, they studied
each other. ‘Another game?’ Pandora murmured.

186 A Will and A Way
‘Maybe. Maybe it’s the only game.’ With that, he stood
and lifted her into his arms.
‘Michael, I don’t need to be carried.’
“Yes, you do.’
He walked across the suite toward the bedroom. Pan-
dora started to struggle, then subsided. Maybe just this
once, she decided, and relaxed in his arms.

Chapter 9
: January was a month of freezing wind, pelting snow
and gray skies. Each day was as bitterly cold as the last,
with tomorrow waiting frigidly in the wings. It was a
month of frozen pipes, burst pipes, overworked furnaces
and stalled engines. Pandora loved it. The frost built up
on the windows of her shop, and the inside temperature
always remained cool even with the heaters turned up.
She worked until her fingers were numb and enjoyed
every moment.
Throughout the month, the road to the Folley was often
inaccessible. Pandora didn’t mind not being able to get
out. It meant no one could get in. The pantry and freezer
were stocked, and there was over a cord of wood stacked
beside the kitchen door. The way she looked at it, they
had everything they needed. The days were short and pro-

188 A Will and A Way
ductive, the nights long and relaxing. Since the incident
of the champagne, it had been a quiet, uneventful winter.
Uneventful, Pandora mused, wasn’t precisely the right
term. With quick, careful strokes, she filed the edges of a
thick copper bracelet. It certainly wasn’t as though noth-
ing had happened. There’d been no trouble from outside
sources, but... Trouble, as she’d always known, was defi-
nitely one of Michael Donahue’s greatest talents.
Just what was he trying to pull by leaving a bunch
of violets on her pillow? She was certain a magic wand
would have been needed to produce the little purple flow-
ers in January. When she’d questioned him about them,
he’d simply smiled and told her violets didn’t have thorns.
What kind of an answer was that? Pandora wondered, and
examined the clasp of the bracelet through a magnifying
glass. She was satisfied with the way she’d designed it to
blend with the design.
Then, there’d been the time she’d come out of the bath
to find the bedroom lit with a dozen candles. When she’d
asked if there’d been a power failure, Michael had just
laughed and pulled her into bed.
He did things like reaching for her hand at dinner and
whispering in her ear just before dawn. Once he’d joined
her in the shower uninvited and silenced her protests by
washing every inch of her body himself. She’d been right.
Michael Donahue didn’t follow the rules. He’d been right.
He was getting to her.
Pandora removed the bracelet from the vise, then ab-
sently began to polish it. She’d made a half a dozen oth-
ers in the last two weeks. Big chunky bracelets, some had

Nora Roberts 189
gaudy stones, some had ornate engraving. They suited her
mood—daring, opinionated and a bit silly. She’d learned
to trust her instincts, and her instincts told her they’d sell
faster than she could possibly make them—and be cop-
ied just as quickly.
She didn’t mind the imitations. After all, there was
only one of each type that was truly a Pandora McVie.
Copies would be recognized as copies because they
lacked that something special, that individuality of the
genuine.
Pleased, she turned the bracelet over in her hand. No
one would mistake any of her work for an imitation. She
might often use glass instead of precious or semiprecious
stones because glass expressed her mood at the time. But
each piece she created carried her mark, her opinion and
her honesty. She never gave a thought to the price of a
piece when she crafted it or its market value. She created
what she needed to create first, then after it was done,
her practical side calculated the profit margin. Her art
varied from piece to piece, but it never lied.
Looking down at the bracelet, Pandora sighed. No, her
_art never lied, but did she? Could she be certain her emo-
tions were as genuine as the jewelry she made? A feeling
could be imitated. An emotion could be fraudulent. How
many times in the past few weeks had she pretended? Not
pretended to feel, Pandora thought, but pretended not to
feel. She was a woman who'd always prided herself on
her honesty. Truth and independence went hand in hand
with Pandora’s set of values. But she’d lied—over and
over again—to herself, the worst form of deception.

190 A Will and A Way
It was time to stop, Pandora told herself. Time to face
the truth of her feelings if only in the privacy of her own
heart and mind.
How long had she been in love with Michael? She
had to stand and move around the shop as the question
formed in her mind. Weeks? Months? Years? It wasn’t
something she could answer because she would never be
sure. But she was certain of the emotion. She loved. Pan-
dora understood it because she loved only a few people,
and when she did, she loved boundlessly. Perhaps that
was the biggest problem. Wasn’t it a sort of suicide to
love Michael boundlessly?
Better to face it, she told herself. No problem resolved
itself without being faced first and examined second.
However much a fool it made her, she loved Michael.
Pandora rubbed at the steam on the windows and looked
out at the snow. Strange, she’d really believed once she
accepted it she’d feel better. She didn’t.
What options did she have? She could tell him. And
have him gloat, Pandora thought with a scowl. He would,
too, before he trotted off to his next conquest. She cer-
tainly wasn’t fool enough to think he’d be interested in a
long-term relationship. Of course, she wasn’t interested
in one either, Pandora told herself as she began to nois-
ily pack her tools.
Another option was to cut and run. What the relatives
hadn’t been able to accomplish with their malice and mis-
chief, her own heart would succeed in doing. She could
get in the car, drive to the airport and fly to anywhere.
Escape was the honest word. Then, she’d not only be a

Nora Roberts 19]
coward, she’d be a traitor. No, she wouldn’t let Uncle
Jolley down; she wouldn’t run. That left her, as Pandora
saw it, with one option.
She’d go on as she was. She’d stay with Michael, sleep
with Michael, share with Michael—share with him ev-
erything but what was in her heart. She’d take the two
months they had left together and prepare herself to walk
away with no regrets.
He’d gotten to her, Pandora admitted. Gotten to her
in places no other man had touched. She loved him for
it. She hated him for it. With her mood as turbulent as
her thoughts, she locked the shop and stomped across
the lawn.
‘Here she comes now.’ With a new plan ready to spring,
Sweeney turned away from the kitchen window and sig-
naled to Charles.
‘It’s never going to work.’
‘Of course it is. We’re going to push those children to-
gether for their own good. Any two people who spat as
much as they do should be married.’
‘We’re interfering where it’s not our place.’
‘What malarkey!’ Sweeney took her seat at the kitchen
table. ‘Whose place is it to interfere if not ours, I’d like
to know? Who’ll be knocking around this big empty
house if they go back to the city if not us? Now pick up
that cloth and fan me. Stoop over a bit and look feeble.’
‘Iam feeble,’ Charles muttered, but picked up the cloth.
When Pandora walked into the kitchen she saw Swee-
ney sprawled back in a chair, eyes closed, with Charles
standing over her waving a dishcloth at her face.

192 A Will and A Way
‘God, what’s wrong? Charles, did she faint?’ Before
he could answer, Pandora had dashed across the room.
‘Call Michael,’ she ordered. ‘Call Michael quickly.’ She
brushed Charles away and crouched. “Sweeney, it’s Pan-
dora. Are you in pain?’ |
Barely suppressing a sigh of satisfaction, Sweeney let
her eyes flutter open and hoped she looked pale. ‘Oh,
missy, don’t you worry now. Just one of my spells is all.
Now and then my heart starts to flutter so that I feel it’s
coming right out of my head.’
‘T’m going to call the doctor.’ Pandora had taken only
one step when her hand was caught in a surprisingly
strong grip.
“No need for that.’ Sweeney made her voice thin and
weary. “Saw him just a few months past and he told me
I'd have to expect one of these now and again.’
‘I don’t believe that,’ Pandora said fiercely. ‘You're just
plain working too hard, and it’s going to stop.’
A little trickle of guilt worked its way in as Sweeney
saw the concern. ‘Now, now, don’t fret.’
“What is it?’ Michael swung through the kitchen door.
‘Sweeney?’ He knelt down beside her and took her other
hand.
‘Now look at all this commotion.’ Mentally she leaped
up and kicked her heels. ‘It’s nothing but one of my little
spells. The doctor said I’d have to watch for them. Just a
nuisance, that’s all.’ She looked hard at Charles when he
came in. Eventually she looked hard enough so that he
remembered his cue.
‘And you know what he said.’

Nora Roberts 193
“Now, Charles—’
“You're to have two or three days of bed rest.’
Pleased that he’d remembered his lines, Sweeney pre-
tended to huff. ‘Pack of nonsense. I’ll be right as rain in
a few minutes. I’ve dinner to cook.’
“You won’t be cooking anything.’ In a way Sweeney
considered properly masterful, Michael picked her up.
‘Into bed with you.’
‘Just who'll take care of things?’ Sweeney demanded.
‘Pll not have Charles spreading his germs around my
kitchen.’
Michael was nearly out of the room with Sweeney be-
fore Charles remembered the next step. He coughed into
his hand, looked apologetic and coughed again.
‘Listen to that!’ Pleased, Sweeney let her head rest
against Michael’s shoulder. ‘I won’t go to bed and let him
infect my kitchen.’
‘How long have you had that cough?’ Pandora de-
manded. When Charles began to mutter, she stood up.
‘That’s enough. Both of you into bed. Michael and I will
take care of everything.’ Taking Charles’s arm, she began
to lead him into the servants’ wing. ‘Into bed and no non-
sense. I’1l make both of you some tea. Michael, see that
Charles gets settled, I'll look after Sweeney.’
Within a half hour, Sweeney had them both where she
wanted them. Together.
‘Well, they’re all settled in and there’s no fever.’ Satis-
fied, Pandora poured herself a cup of tea. ‘I suppose all
they need is a few days’ rest and some pampering. Tea?’
He made a face at the idea and switched on the coffee.

194 A Will and A Way
‘Since the days of house calls are over, I’d think they’d
be better off here in bed than being dragged into town.
We can take turns keeping an eye on them.’
‘Mmm-hmm.’ Pandora opened the refrigerator and
studied. ‘What about meals? Can you cook?’
‘Sure.’ Michael rattled cups in the cupboard. “Badly,
but I can cook. Meat loaf’s my specialty.’ When this was
met with no enthusiasm, he turned his head. ‘Do you?’
‘Cook?’ Pandora lifted a plastic lid hopefully. ‘I can
broil a steak and scramble eggs. Anything else is chancy.’
‘Life’s nothing without a risk.’ Michael joined her in
her rummage through the refrigerator. ‘Here’s almost
half an apple cobbler.’
“That’s hardly a meal.’
‘It'll do for me.’ He took it out and went for a spoon.
Pandora watched as he sat down at the table and dug in.
“Want some?’
She started to refuse on principle, then decided not
to cut off her nose. Going to the cupboard, she found
a bowl. ‘What about the bedridden?’ she asked as she
scooped out cobbler.
‘Soup,’ Michael said between bites. ‘Nothing better
than hot soup. Though I’d let them rest awhile first.’
With a nod of agreement, she sat across from him.
‘Michael...’ She trailed off as she played with her cob-
bler. The steam from her tea rose up between them. She’d
been thinking about how to broach the subject for days.
It seemed the time had come. ‘I’ve been thinking. In two
months, the will should be final. When Fitzhugh wrote

Nora Roberts 195
us last week, he said Uncle Carlson’s lawyers were ad-
vising him to drop the probate.’
‘So?’
‘The house, along with everything else, will be half
yours, half mine.’
‘That’s right.’
She took a bite of cobbler, then set down her spoon.
“What’re you smiling at?’
“You're nice to look at. I find it relaxing to sit here
alone in the kitchen, in the quiet, and look at you.’
It was that sort of thing, just that sort of thing, that left
her light-headed and foolish. She stared at him a moment,
then dropped her gaze to her bowl. ‘I wish you wouldn’t
say things like that.’
‘No, you don’t. So you’ve been thinking,’ he prompted.
“Yes.” She gave herself a moment, carefully spooning
out another bite of cobbler. ‘We’ll have the house between
us, but we won’t be living here together any longer. Swee-
ney and Charles will be here alone. I’ve worried about
that for a while. Now, after this, I’m more concerned than
ever. They can’t stay here alone.’
‘No, I think you're right. Ideas?’
‘I mentioned before that I was considering moving
here on a semipermanent basis.’ She found she had no
appetite after all and switched back to her tea. ‘I think
I’m going to make it permanent all around.’
He heard a trace of nervousness in her voice. ‘Because
of Charles and Sweeney?’
‘Only partly.’ She drank more tea, set the cup down
and toyed with her cobbler again. She wasn’t accus-

196 A Will and A Way
tomed to discussing her decisions with anyone. Though
she found it difficult, Pandora had already resolved that
she had an obligation to do so. More, she’d realized she
needed to talk to him, to be, as she couldn’t be on other
levels, honest. ‘I always felt the Folley was home, but I
didn’t realize just how much of a home. I need it, for my-
self. You see, I never had one.’ She lifted her gaze and
met his. ‘Only here.’
To say her words surprised him was to say too little.
All his life he’d seen her as the pampered pet, the golden
girl with every advantage. ‘But your parents—’
‘Are wonderful, Pandora said quickly. ‘I adore them.
There’s nothing about them I’d change. But...’ How could
she explain? How could she not? ‘We never had a kitchen
like this—a place you could come back to day after day
and know it’d be the same. Even if you changed the wall-
paper and the paint, it would be the same. It sounds silly.’
She shifted restlessly. “You wouldn’t understand.’
‘Maybe I would.’ He caught her hand before she could
rise. ‘Maybe I’d like to.’
‘I want a home,’ she said simply. ‘The Folley’s been
that to me. I want to stay here after the term’s up.’
He kept her hand in his, palm to palm. ‘Why are you
telling me this, Pandora?’
Reasons. Too many reasons. She chose the only one
she could give him safely. ‘In two months, the house be-
longs to you as much as to me. According to the terms
of the will—’
He swore and released her hand. Rising, he stuck his
hands in his back pockets and strode to the window. He’d

Nora Roberts 197
thought for a moment, just for a moment, she’d been ready
to give him more. By God, he’d waited long enough for
only a few drops more. There’d been something in her
voice, something soft and giving. Perhaps he’d just imag-
ined it because he’d wanted to hear it. Terms of the will,
he thought. It was so like her to see nothing else.
“What do you want, my permission?’
Disturbed, Pandora stayed at the table. ‘I suppose I
wanted you to understand and agree.’
‘Fine.’
“You needn’t be so curt about it. After all, you haven’t
any plans to use the house on a regular basis.’
‘I haven’t made any plans,’ he murmured. ‘Perhaps
it’s time I did.’
‘I didn’t mean to annoy you.’
He turned slowly, then just as slowly smiled. ‘No, ’'m
sure you didn’t. There’s never any doubt when you annoy
me intentionally.’
There was something wrong here, something she
couldn’t quite pinpoint. So she groped. “Would you mind
so much if I were to live here?’
It surprised him when she rose to come to him, offer-
ing a hand. She didn’t make such gestures often or casu-
ally. ‘No, why should it?’
‘It would be half yours.’
‘We could draw a line down the middle.’
‘That might be awkward. I could buy you out.’
‘No.’
He said it so fiercely, her brows shot up. “It was only
an offer.’

198 A Will and A Way
‘Forget it.’ He turned to look for soup.
Pandora stood back a moment, watching his back,
the tension in the muscles. ‘Michael...’ With a sigh, she
wrapped her arms around his waist. She felt him stiffen,
but didn’t realize it was from surprise. ‘I seem to be say-
ing all the wrong things. Maybe I have an easier time
when we snap at each other than when I try to be con-
siderate.’
‘Maybe we both do.’ He turned to frame her face with
his hands. For a moment they looked like friends, like
lovers. ‘Pandora....’ Could he tell her he found it impos-
sible to think about leaving her or her leaving him? Would
she understand if he told her he wanted to go on living
with her, being with her? How could she possibly take
in the fact that he’d been in love with her for years when
he was just becoming able to accept it himself? Instead
he kissed her forehead. ‘Let’s make soup.’
They couldn’t work together without friction, but they
discovered over the next few days that they could work
together. They cooked meals, washed up, dusted furni-
ture while the servants stayed in bed or sat, bundled up,
on sofas drinking tea. True, there were times when Swee-
ney itched to get up and be about her business, or when
Charles suffered pangs of conscience, but they were con-
vinced they were doing their duty. Both servants felt jus-
tified when they heard laughter drift through the house.
Michael wasn’t sure there had been another time in
his life when he’d been so content. He was, in essence,
playing house, something he’d never had the time or in-

Nora Roberts 199
clination for. He would write for hours, closed off in his
office, wrapped up in plots and characters and what-ifs.
Then he could break away and reality was the scent of
cooking or furniture polish. He had a home, a woman,
and was determined to keep them.
Late in the afternoon, he always laid a fire in the par-
lor. After dinner they had coffee there, sometimes qui-
etly, sometimes during a hard-fought game of rummy.
It seemed ordinary, Michael admitted. It was ordinary,
unless you added Pandora. He was just setting fire to
the kindling when Bruno raced into the room and upset
a table. Knickknacks went flying.
“We’re going to have to send you to charm school,’ Mi-
chael declared as he rose to deal with the rubble. Though
it had been just over a month, Bruno had nearly doubled
in size already. He was, without a doubt, going to grow
into his paws. After righting the table, he saw the dog
wiggling its way under a sofa. “What’ve you got there?’
Besides being large, Bruno had already earned a repu-
tation as a clever thief. Just the day before, they’d lost a
slab of pork chops. ‘All right, you devil, if that’s tonight’s
chicken, you’re going into solitary confinement in the ga-
rage.’ Getting down on all fours, Michael looked under
the couch. It wasn’t chicken the dog was gnawing nois-
ily on, but Michael’s shoe.
‘Damn!’ Michael made a grab but the dog backed out
of reach and kept on chewing. “That shoe’s worth five
times what you are, you overgrown mutt. Give it here.’
Flattening, Michael scooted halfway under the sofa.

200 A Will and A Way
Bruno merely dragged the shoe away again, enjoying
the game.
‘Oh, how sweet.’ Pandora walked into the parlor and
eyed Michael from the waist down. He did, she decided,
indeed have some redeeming qualities. ‘Are you playing
with the dog, Michael, or dusting under the sofa?’
‘Tm going to make a rug out of him.’
‘Dear, dear, we sound a little cross this evening.
Bruno, here baby.’ Carrying the shoe like a trophy, Bruno
squirmed out from under the couch and pranced over
to her. ‘Is this what you were after?’ Pandora held up
the shoe while petting Bruno with her other hand. ‘How
clever of you to teach Bruno to fetch.’
Michael pulled himself up, then yanked the shoe out
of her hand. It was unfortunately wet and covered with
teeth marks. “That’s the second shoe he’s ruined. And he
didn’t even have the courtesy to take both from one pair.’
She looked down at what had been creamy Italian
leather. “You never wear anything but tennis shoes or
boots anyway.’
Michael slapped the shoe against his palm. Bruno,
tongue lolling, grinned up at him. ‘Obedience school.’
‘Oh, Michael, we can’t send our child away.’ She pat-
ted his cheek. ‘It’s just a phase.’
‘This phase has cost me two pairs of shoes, my din-
ner and we never did find that sweater he dragged off.’
“You shouldn’t drop your clothes on the floor,’ Pandora
said easily. ‘And that sweater was already ratty. I’m sure
Bruno thought it was a rag.’
‘He never chews up anything of yours.’

Nora Roberts 201
Pandora smiled. ‘No, he doesn’t, does he?’
Michael gave her a long look. ‘Just what’re you so
happy about?’
‘I had a phone call this afternoon.’
Michael saw the excitement in her eyes and decided
the issue of the shoe could wait. ‘And?’
‘From Jacob Morison.’
‘The producer?’
‘The producer, Pandora repeated. She’d promised her-
self she wouldn’t overreact, but the excitement threat-
ened to burst inside her. ‘He’s going to be filming a new
movie. Jessica Wainwright’s starring.’
Jessica Wainwright, Michael mused. Grande dame of
the theater and the screen. Eccentric and brilliant, her ca-
reer had spanned two generations. ‘She’s retired. Wain-
wright hasn’t made a film in five years.’
‘She’s making this one. Billy Mitchell’s directing.’
Michael tilted his head in consideration as he studied
Pandora’s face. It made him think of the cat and the ca-
nary. ‘Sounds like they’re pulling out all the stops.’
‘She plays a half-mad reclusive countess who’s dragged
back to reality by a visit from her granddaughter. Cass
Barkley’s on the point of signing for the part of the grand-
daughter.’
‘Oscar material. Now, are you going to tell me why
Morison called you?’
‘Wainwright’s an admirer of my work. She wants me
to design all her jewelry for the movie. All!’ After an at-
tempt to sound businesslike, Pandora laughed and did
a quick spin. ‘Morison said the only way he could talk

202 A Will and A Way
her out of retirement was to promise her the best. She
wants me.’
Michael grabbed her close and spun her around.
Bruno raced around the room barking and shaking ta-
bles. ‘We’ll celebrate,’ he decided. ‘Champagne with our
fried chicken.’
Pandora held on tight. ‘I feel like an idiot.’
“Why?”
‘I’ve always thoughtI was, well, beyond star adora-
tion. I’m a professional.’ Bubbling with excitement, she
clung to Michael. ‘While I was talking to Morison I told
myself it was a great career opportunity, a wonderful
chance to express myself in a large way. Then I hung up
and all I could think was Jessica Wainwright! A Mori-
son production! I felt as silly as any bubble-headed fan.’
‘Proves you're not half the snob you think you are.’
Michael cut off her retort with a kiss. ‘I’m proud of you,’
he murmured.
That threw her off. All of her pleasure in the assign-
ment was dwarfed by that one sentence. No one but Jolley
had ever been proud of her. Her parents loved her, patted
her head and told her to do what she wanted. Pride was
a valued addition to affection. ‘Really?’
Surprised, Michael drew her back and kissed her
again. ‘Of course I am.’
‘But you’ve never thought much of my work.’
“No, that’s not true. I’ve never understood why people
feel the need to deck themselves out in bangles, or why
you seemed content to design on such a small scale. But
as far as your work goes I’m not blind, Pandora. Some

Nora Roberts 203
of it’s beautiful, some of it’s extraordinary and some of
it’s incomprehensible. But it’s all imaginative and ex-
pertly crafted.’
“Well.” She let out a long breath. ‘This is a red-letter
day. I always thought you felt I was playing with beads
because I didn’t want to face a real job. You even said
SO once.’
He grinned. “Only because it made you furious. You’re
spectacular to look at when you’re furious.’
She thought about it a moment, then let out a sigh. ‘I
suppose this is the best time to tell you.’
He tensed, but forced his voice to come calmly. ‘To
tell me what?’
‘I watch the Emmy Awards every time you’re nomi-
nated.’
Tension flowed out in a laugh. There’d been guilt in
every syllable. “What?’
‘Every time, Pandora repeated, amazed that her
cheeks were warm. ‘It made me feel good to watch you
win. And...’ She paused to clear her throat. ‘I’ve watched
a few episodes of Logan's Run,
Michael wondered if she realized she sounded as
though she was confessing a major social flaw. ‘Why?’
‘Uncle Jolley was always going on about it; ’d even
hear it discussed at parties. So I thought I’d see for my-
self. Naturally, it was just a matter of intellectual curi-
osity”
‘Naturally. And?’
She moved her shoulders. “Of its kind—’

204 A Will and A Way
He stopped that line of response by twisting her ear.
‘Some people only tell the truth under duress.’
‘All right.’ Half laughing, she reached to free herself.
‘It’s good!’ she shouted when he held on. ‘I liked it’
‘Why?’
‘Michael, that hurts!’
‘We have ways of making you talk.’
‘I liked it because the characters are genuine, the plots
are intelligent. And—’ she had to swallow hard on this
one ‘—it has style.’
When he let go of her ear to kiss her soundly, she gave
him a halfhearted shove. ‘If you repeat that to anyone,
Pll deny it.’
‘Tt’ll be our little secret.’ He kissed her again, not so
playfully.
Pandora was almost becoming used to the sensation
of having her muscles loosen and feeling as if her bones
were dissolving. She moved closer, delighting in the feel-
ing of having her body mold against his. When his heart
thudded, she felt the pulse inside herself. When his tiny
moan escaped, she tasted it on her tongue. When the need
leaped forward, she saw it in his eyes.
She pressed her mouth to his again and let her own
hunger rule. There would be consequences. Hadn’t she
already accepted it? There would be pain. She was al-
ready braced for it. She couldn’t stop what would happen
in the weeks ahead, but she could direct what would hap-
pen tonight and perhaps tomorrow. It had to be enough.
Everything she felt, wanted, feared, went into the kiss.
It left him reeling. She was often passionate, wildly so.

Nora Roberts 205
She was often demanding, erotically so. But he’d never
felt such pure emotion from her. There was a softness
under the strength, a request under the urgency. He drew
her closer, more gently than was his habit, and let her
take what she wanted.
Her head tilted back, inviting, luring. His grip tight-
ened. His fingers wound into her hair and were lost in
the richness of it. He felt the need catapult through his
body so that he was tense against her sudden, unexpected
yielding. She never submitted, and until that moment
he hadn’t known how stirring it could be to have her do
so. Without a thought to time and place, they lowered to
the sofa.
Because she was pliant, he was tender. Because he
was gentle, she was patient. In a way they’d never expe-
rienced, they made love without rush, without fire, with-
out the whirlwind. Thoroughly, they gave to each other.
A touch, a taste, a murmured request, a whispered an-
swer. The fire sizzled gently behind them as night fell
outside the windows. Fingers brushed, lips skimmed so
that they learned the power of quiet arousal. Though
they’d been lovers for weeks, they brought love to pas-
sion for the first time.
The room was quiet, the light dim. If she’d never
looked for romance, it found her there, wrapped easily
in Michael’s arms. Closer they came, but comfortably.
Deeper they dived, but lazily. As they came together,
Pandora felt her firm line of independence crack to let
him in: But the weakness she’d expected didn’t follow.
Only contentment.

206 A Will and A Way
It was contentment that followed her into that quick
and final burst of pleasure.
They were still wrapped together, half dozing, when
the phone rang. With a murmur of complaint, Michael
reached over his head to the table and lifted the receiver.
‘Hello.’
‘Michael Donahue, please.’
“Yeah, this is Michael.’
‘Michael, it’s Penny.’
He rubbed a hand over his eyes as he tried to put a
face with the name. Penny—the little blonde in the apart-
ment next to his. Wanted to be a model. He remembered
vaguely leaving her the number of the Folley in case
something important was delivered to his apartment. ‘Hi.’
He watched Pandora’s eyes flutter open.
‘Michael, I hate to do this, but I had to call. I’ve al-
ready phoned the police. They’re on their way.’
‘Police?’ He struggled into a half-sitting position.
‘What’s going on?’
“You’ve been robbed.’
‘What?’ He sat bolt upright, nearly dumping Pandora
on the floor. ‘When?’
‘T’m not sure. I got home a few minutes ago and no-
ticed your door wasn’t closed all the way. I thought maybe
you'd come back so I knocked. Anyway, I pushed the door
open a bit. The place was turned upside down. I came
right over here and called the cops. They asked me to
contact you and told me not to go back over.’
‘Thanks.’ Dozens of questions ran through his mind

Nora Roberts 207
but there was no one to answer them. ‘Look, I’ll try to
come in tonight.’
‘Okay. Hey, Michael, I’m really sorry.’
“Yeah. I'll see you.’
‘Michael?’ Pandora grabbed his hand as soon as he
hung up the receiver.
‘Somebody broke into my apartment.’
‘Oh no.’ She’d known the peace couldn’t last. ‘Do you
think it was—’
‘I don’t know.’ He dragged a hand through his hair.
‘Maybe. Or maybe it was someone who noticed no one
had been home for a while.’
She felt the anger in him but knew she couldn’t soothe
it. “You’ve got to go.’
Nodding, he took her hand. ‘Come with me.’
‘Michael, one of us has to be here with Sweeney and
Charles.’
‘T’m not leaving you alone.’
“You have to go,’ she repeated. ‘If it was one of the
family, maybe you can find something to prove it. In any
case, you have to see to this. I’Il be fine.’
‘Just like the last time I was away.’
Pandora lifted a brow. ‘I’m not incompetent, Michael.’
‘But you'll be alone.’
‘I have Bruno. Don’t give me that look,’ she ordered.
‘He may not be ferocious, but he certainly knows how
to bark. I’ll lock every door and window.’
He shook his head. ‘Not good enough.’
‘All right, we’ll call the local police. They have
Fitzhugh’s report about trespassers. We’ll explain that

208 A Will and A Way
I’m going to be alone for the night and ask them to keep
an eye on the place.’
‘Better.’ But he rose to pace. ‘If this is a setup...’
‘Then we’re prepared for it this time.’
Michael hesitated, thought it through, then nodded.
‘T’ll call the police.’

Chapter 10
The moment Michael left, Pandora turned the heavy bolt
on the main door. Though it had taken them the better
part of an hour, she was grateful he’d insisted on check-
ing all the doors and windows with her. The house, with
Pandora safely in it, was locked up tight.
It was entirely too quiet.
In defense, Pandora went to the kitchen and began rat-
tling pots and pans. She had to be alone, but she didn’t
have to be idle. She wanted to be with Michael, to stand
~ by him when he faced the break-in of his apartment. Was
it as frustrating for him to go on alone, she wondered, as
it was for her to stay behind? It couldn’t be helped. There
were two old people in the house who couldn’t be left.
And they needed to eat.
The chicken was to have been a joint effort and a re-

210 A Will and A Way
spite from the haphazard meals they’d managed to date.
Michael had claimed to know at least the basics of deep
frying. While he’d volunteered to deal with the chicken,
she’d been assigned to try her hand at mashing potatoes.
She’d thought competition if nothing else would have im-
proved the end result.
Pandora resigned herself to a solo and decided the effort
of cooking would keep her mind off fresh trouble. Need-
ing company, she switched on the tuner on the kitchen
wall unit and fiddled with the dial until she found a coun-
try-music station. Dolly Parton bubbled out brightly. Sat-
isfied, she pulled one of Sweeney’s cookbooks from the
shelf and began to search the index. Fried chicken went
on picnics, she mused. How much trouble could it be?
She had two counters crowded and splattered, and
flour up to her wrists when the phone rang. Using a dish-
cloth, Pandora plucked the receiver from the kitchen ex-
tension. Her foot was tapping to a catchy rendition of
‘On the Road Again.’
‘Hello.’
‘Pandora McVie?’
Her mind on more immediate matters, Pandora
stretched the cord to the counter and picked up a drum-
stick. Yes.
‘Listen carefully.’
‘Can you speak up?’ Tongue caught between her teeth,
Pandora dipped the drumstick in her flour mixture. ‘I
can’t hear you very well.’
‘I have to warn you and there’s not much time. You’re
in danger. You’re not safe in that house, not alone.’

Nora Roberts 211
The cookbook slid to the floor and landed on her foot.
“What? Who is this?’
‘Just listen. You’re alone because it was arranged.
Someone’s going to try to break in tonight.’
‘Someone?’ She shifted the phone and listened hard.
It wasn’t malice she detected, but nervousness. Whoever
was on the other end was as shaky as she was. She was
certain—almost certain—it was a man’s voice. ‘If you’re
trying to frighten me—’
‘lm trying to warn you. When I found out...’ Al-
ready low and indistinct, the voice became hesitant. “You
shouldn’t have sent the champagne. I don’t like what’s
going on, but it won’t stop. No one was going to be hurt,
do you understand? But I’m afraid of what might hap-
pen next.’
Pandora felt fear curl in her stomach. Outside the
kitchen windows it was dark, pitch-dark. She was alone
in the house with two old, sick servants. ‘If you’re afraid,
tell me who you are. Help me stop what’s going on.’
‘T’m already risking everything by warning you. You
don’t understand. Get out, just get out of the house.’
It was a ploy, she told herself. A ploy to make her
leave. Pandora straightened her shoulders, but her gaze
shifted from blank window to blank window. ‘I’m not
going anywhere. If you want to help, tell me who I should
be afraid of.’
‘Just get out,’ the voice repeated before the line went
dead.
Pandora stood holding the silent receiver. The oil in
the fryer had begun to sizzle, competing with the radio.

212 A Will and A Way
Watching the windows, listening, she hung up the phone.
It was a trick, she told herself. It was only a trick to get
her out of the house in hopes she’d be frightened enough
to stay out. She wouldn’t be shooed away by a quivering
voice on the telephone.
Besides, Michael had already called the police. They
knew she was alone in the house. At the first sign of
trouble, she only had to pick up the phone.
Her hands weren’t completely steady, but she went
back to cooking with a vengeance. She slipped coated
chicken into the fryer, tested the potatoes she had cook-
ing, then decided a little glass of wine while she worked
was an excellent idea. She was pouring it when Bruno
raced into the room to run around her feet.
‘Bruno.’ Pandora crouched and gathered the dog close.
He felt warm, solid. ‘I’m glad you're here,’ she murmured.
But for a moment, she allowed herself to wish desper-
ately for Michael.
Bruno licked her face, made a couple of clumsy leaps
toward the counter, then dashed to the door. Jumping up
against it, he began to bark.
‘Now?’ Pandora demanded. ‘I don’t suppose you could
wait until morning.’
Bruno raced back to Pandora, circled her then raced
back to the door. When he’d gone through the routine
three times, she relented. The phone call had been no
more than a trick, a clumsy one at that. Besides, she told
herself as she turned the lock, it wouldn’t hurt to open
the door and take a good look outside.
The moment she opened it, Bruno jumped out and

Nora Roberts 213
tumbled into the snow. He began to sniff busily while
Pandora stood shivering in the opening and straining her
eyes against the dark. Music and the smells of cooking
poured out behind her.
There was nothing. She hugged herself against the cold
and decided she hadn’t expected to see anything. The
snow was settled, the stars bright and the woods quiet.
It was as it should have been; a very ordinary evening
in the country. She took a deep breath of winter air and
started to call the dog back. They saw the movement at
the edge of the woods at the same time.
Just a shadow, it seemed to separate slowly from a tree
and take on its own shape. A human shape. Before Pan-
dora could react, Bruno began to bark and plow through
the snow.
‘No, Bruno! Come back.’ Without giving herself a
chance to think, Pandora grabbed the old pea coat that
hung beside the door and threw it on. As an afterthought,
she reached for a cast-iron skillet before bolting through
the door after her dog. ‘Bruno!’
He was already at the edge of the woods and hot on the
trail. Picking up confidence as she went, Pandora raced in
pursuit. Whoever had been watching the house had run
at the sight of the clumsy, overgrown puppy. She’d found
she was susceptible to fear, but she refused to be fright-
ened by a coward. With as much enthusiasm as Bruno,
Pandora sprinted into the woods. Out of breath and feel-
ing indestructible, she paused long enough to look around
and listen. For a moment there was nothing, then off to
the right, she heard barking and thrashing.

214 A Will and A Way
‘Get ’em, Bruno!’ she shouted, and headed toward the
chaos. Excited by the chase, she called encouragement to
the dog, changing direction when she heard his answer-
ing bark. As she ran, snow dropped from the branches to
slide cold and wet down the back of her neck. The bark-
ing grew wilder, and in her rush, Pandora fell headlong
over a downed tree. Spitting out snow and swearing, she
struggled to her knees. Bruno bounded out of the woods
and sent her sprawling again.
‘Not me.’ Flat on her back, Pandora shoved at the dog.
‘Dammit, Bruno, if you don’t—’ She broke off when the
dog stiffened and began to growl. Sprawled on the snow,
Pandora looked up and saw the shadow move through
the trees. She forgot she was too proud to fear a coward.
Though her hands were numb from cold, she gripped
the handle of the skillet and, standing, inched her way
along toward the nearest tree. Struggling to keep her
breathing quiet, she braced herself for attack and defense.
Relative or stranger, she’d hold her own. But her knees
were shaking. Bruno tensed and hurled himself forward.
The moment he did, Pandora lifted the skillet high and
prepared to swing.
‘What the hell’s going on?’
‘Michael!’ The skillet landed in the snow with a plop
as she followed Bruno’s lead and hurled herself forward.
Giddy with relief, she plastered kisses over Michael’s
face. ‘Oh, Michael, I’m so glad it’s you.’
“Yeah. You sure looked pleased when you were heft-
ing that skillet. Run out of hair spray?’
‘It was handy.’ Abruptly she drew back and glared at

Nora Roberts 215
him. ‘Dammit, Michael, you scared me to death. You’re
supposed to be halfway to New York, not skulking
around the woods.’
‘And you’re supposed to be locked in the house.’
‘I would’ve been if you hadn’t been skulking in the
woods. Why?’
In an offhanded gesture, he brushed snow from her
face. ‘I got ten miles away, and I couldn’t get rid of this
bad feeling. It was too pat. I decided to stop at a gas sta-
tion and phone my neighbor.’
“But your apartment.’
‘I talked to the police, gave them a list of my valu-
ables. We’ll both run into New York in a day or two.’
Snow was scattered through her hair and matted to her
coat. He thought of what might have happened and re-
sisted the urge to shake her. ‘I couldn’t leave you alone.’
‘T’m going to start believing you're chivalrous after all.’
She kissed him. ‘That explains why you're not in New
York, but what were you doing in the woods?’
‘Just a hunch.’ He bent to retrieve the frying pan. A
good whack with that, he discovered, and he’d have been
_ down for the count.
‘The next time you have a hunch, don’t stand at the
edge of the woods and stare at the house.’
‘I wasn’t.’ Michael took her arm and headed back
toward the house. He wanted her inside again, behind
locked doors.
‘I saw you.’
‘I don’t know who you saw.’ Disgusted, Michael looked
back at the dog. ‘But if you hadn’t let the dog out we’d

216 A Will and A Way
both know. I decided to check around outside before com-
ing in, and I saw footprints. I followed them around, then
cut into the woods.’ He glanced over his shoulder, still
tight with tension. ‘I was just coming up behind whoever
made them when Bruno tried his attack. I started chas-
ing.’ He swore and slapped a palm against the skillet. ‘I
was gaining when this hound ran between my legs and
sent me face first into the snow. About that time, you
started yelling at the dog. Whoever I was chasing had
enough time to disappear.’
Pandora swore and kicked at the snow. ‘If you’d let me
know what was going on, we could’ve worked together.’
‘I didn’t know what was going on until it was already
happening. In any case, the deal was you’d stay inside
with the doors locked.’
‘The dog had to go out,’ Pandora muttered. ‘And I had
this phone call.’ She looked back over her shoulder and
sighed. ‘Someone called to warn me.’
‘Who?’
‘I don’t know. I thought it was a man’s voice, but—
I’m just not sure.’
Michael’s hand tightened on her arm. ‘Did he threaten
you?’
‘No, no it wasn’t like a threat. Whoever it was certainly
seemed to know what’s been going on and isn’t happy
about it. That much was clear. He—she said someone was
going to try to break into the Folley, and I should get out.’
‘And, of course, you handled that by running into the
woods with a skillet. Pandora.’ This time he did shake
her. ‘Why didn’t you call the police?’

Nora Roberts aly
‘Because I thought it was another trick and it made me
mad.’ She sent Michael a stubborn look. ‘Yes, it fright-
ened me at first, then it just plain made me mad. I don’t
like intimidation. When I looked out and saw someone
near the woods, I only wanted to fight back.’
‘Admirable,’ he said but took her shoulders. ‘Stupid.’
“You were doing the same thing.’
‘It’s not the same thing. You’ve got brains, you’ve got
style. ’ll even give you guts. But, cousin, you’re not a
heavyweight. What if you’d caught up with whoever was
out there and they wanted to play rough?’
‘I can play rough, too,’ Pandora muttered.
‘Fine.’ With a quick move, he hooked a foot behind
hers and sent her bottom first into the snow. She didn’t
have the opportunity to complain before he was stand-
ing over her, gesturing with the skillet. Bruno decided it
was a game and leaped on top of her. ‘I might’ve come
back tomorrow and found you half-buried in the snow.’
Before she could speak, he hauled her to her feet again.
‘T’m not risking that.’
“You caught me off balance, she began.
‘Shut up.’ He had her by the shoulders again, and this
time his grip wasn’t gentle. “You’re too important, Pan-
dora, I’m through taking chances. We’re going inside and
calling the cops. We’re going to tell them everything.’
“What can they do?’
“We’ll find out.’
She let out a long breath, then leaned against him. The
chase might have been exciting, but her knees had yet to

218 A Will and A Way
stop shaking. ‘Okay, maybe you're right. We’re no far-
ther along now than when we started.’
‘Calling the police isn’t giving up, it’s just changing
the odds. I might not have come back here tonight, Pan-
dora. The dog may not have frightened anyone off. You'd
have been alone.’ He took both her hands, pressing them
to his lips and warming them. ‘I’m not going to let any-
thing happen to you.’ .
Confused by the sense of pleasure his words gave her,
she tried to draw her hands away. ‘I can take care of my-
self, Michael.’
He smiled but didn’t eaego . ‘Maybe. But you’re not
going to have the chance to find out. Let’s go home. I’m
hungry.’
‘Typical,’ she began, needing to lighten the mood.
“You'd think of your stomach—oh my God, the chicken!’
Breaking away, Pandora loped toward the house.
‘l’m not that hungry.’ Michael sprinted after her. The
relief came again when he scooped her up into his arms.
When he’d heard her shout in the woods, had realized she
was outside and vulnerable, his blood had simply stopped
flowing. ‘In fact,’ he said as he scooped her up, ‘I can
think of more pressing matters than eating.’
‘Michael.’ She struggled, but laughed. ‘If you don’t put
me down, there won’t be a kitchen to eat in.’
“We'll eat somewhere else.’
‘I left the pan on. There’s probably nothing left of the
chicken but charred bones.’
‘There’s always soup.’ With that, he pushed open the
kitchen door.

Nora Roberts 219
Rather than a smoky, splattered mess, they found a
platter piled high with crisp, brown chicken. Sweeney had
wiped up the spills, and had the pans soaking in the sink.
‘Sweeney.’ From her perch in Michael’s arms, Pandora
surveyed the room. ‘What are you doing out of bed?’
‘My job,’ she said briskly, but gave them a quick side-
long look. As far as she was concerned, her plans were
working perfectly. She imagined Pandora and Michael
had decided to take a little air while dinner was cook-
ing, and, as young people would, had forgotten the time.
“You're supposed to be in bed,’ Pandora reminded her.
‘Posh. I’ve been in bed long enough.’ And the days
of little or no activity had nearly bored her to tears. It
was worth it, however, to see Pandora snug in Michael’s
arms. ‘Feeling fit as a fiddle now, I promise you. Wash
up for dinner.’
Michael and Pandora each took separate and careful
studies. Sweeney’s cheeks were pink and round, her eyes
bright. She bustled from counter to counter in her old
businesslike fashion. ‘We still want you to take it easy,”
Michael decided. “No heavy work.’
‘That’s right. Michael and I’ll take care of the wash-
ing up.’ She saw him scowl, just a little, and patted his
shoulder. “We like to do it.’
At Michael and Pandora’s insistence, all four ate in
the kitchen. Charles, sitting next to Sweeney, was left
uncertain how much he should cough and settled on a
middle road, clearing his throat every so often. In an un-
spoken agreement, Pandora and Michael decided to keep
the matter of trespassers to themselves. Both of them felt

220 A Will and A Way
the announcement that someone was watching the house
would be too upsetting for the two old people while they
were recuperating.
On the surface, dinner was an easy meal, but Pandora
kept wondering how soon they could nudge the servants
along to bed and contact the police. More than once,
Pandora caught Sweeney looking from her to Michael
with a smug smile. Sweet old lady, Pandora mused, in-
nocently believing the cook to be pleased to have her
kitchen back. It made Pandora only more determined to
protect her and Charles from any unpleasantness. She
concentrated on cleaning up and packing them off to
bed, and it was nearly nine before she was able to meet
Michael in the parlor.
‘Settled?’
She heard the familiar restlessness in his voice and
merely nodded, pouring a brandy. ‘It’s a bit like cajoling
children, but I managed to find a Cary Grant movie that
interested them.’ She sipped the brandy, waiting for her
muscles to relax with it. ‘I’d rather be watching it myself”
‘Another time.’ Michael took a sip from her snifter.
‘T’ve called the police. They’ll be here shortly.’
She took the glass back. ‘It still bothers me to take the
business to outsiders. After all, anything beyond simple
trespass 1s speculation.’
“We'll let the police speculate.’
She managed to smile. “Your Logan always handles
things on his own.’
‘Someone told me once that that was just fiction.’ He

Nora Roberts 221
poured himself a brandy and toasted her. ‘I discovered I
don’t like having you in the middle of a story line.’
The brandy and firelight gave the evening an illusion
of normalcy. Pandora took his statement with a shrug.
“You seem to have developed a protect-the-woman syn-
drome, Michael. It’s not like you.’
“Maybe not.’ He tossed back a gulp. ‘It’s different when
it’s my woman.’
She turned, brow lifted. It was ridiculous to feel plea-
sure at such a foolish and possessive term. ‘Yours?’
‘Mine.’ He cupped the back of her neck with his hand.
‘Got a problem with that?’
Her heart beat steadily in her throat until she managed
to swallow. Maybe he meant it—now. In a few months
when he was back moving in his own world, with his
own people, she’d be no more than his somewhat annoy-
ing cousin. But for now, just for now, maybe he meant
it. ‘I’m not sure.’
‘Give it some thought, he advised before he lowered
his mouth to hers. ‘We’ll come back to it.’
He left her flustered and went to answer the door.
When he returned, Pandora was sitting calmly enough
in a high-backed chair near the fire. ‘Lieutenant Randall,
Pandora McVie.’
‘How d’you do?’ The lieutenant pulled off a wool muf-
fler and stuck it in his coat pocket. He looked, Pandora
thought, like someone’s grandfather. Comfy, round and
balding. ‘Miserable night, he announced, and situated
himself near the fire.
‘Would you like some coffee, Lieutenant?’

222 A Will and A Way
Randall gave Pandora a grateful look. “Love it.’
‘Please, have a seat. I’ll be back in a minute.’
She took her time heating coffee and arranging cups
and saucers on a tray. Not putting off, Pandora insisted,
just preparing. She’d never had occasion to talk to a po-
liceman on any subject more complex than a parking
ticket. She’d come out on the short end on that one. Now,
she was about to discuss her family and her relationship
with Michael.
Her relationship with Michael, she thought again as
she fussed with the sugar bowl. That’s what really had
her hiding in the kitchen. She hadn’t yet been able to
dull the feeling that had raced through her when he’d
called her his woman. Adolescent, Pandora told herself.
It was absolutely absurd to feel giddy and self-satisfied
and unnerved because a man had looked at her with pas-
sion in his eyes.
But they’d been Michael’s eyes.
She found linen napkins and folded them into trian-
gles. She didn’t want to be anyone’s woman but her own.
It had been the strain and excitement of the evening that
had made her react like a sixteen-year-old being offered
a school ring. She was an adult; she was self-sustaining.
She was in love. Talk yourself out of that one, Pandora
challenged herself. Taking a long breath, she hefted the
tray and went back to the parlor.
‘Gentlemen.’ Pandora set the tray on a low table and
stuck on a smile. “Cream and sugar, Lieutenant?’
‘Thanks. A healthy dose of both.’ He set a dog-eared
notepad on his knee when Pandora handed him a cup.

Nora Roberts 223,
‘Mr. Donahue’s been filling me in. Seems you’ve had a
few annoyances.’
She smiled at the term. Like his looks, his voice was
comfortable. ‘A few.’
‘I’m not going to lecture.’ But he gave them both a
stern look. ‘Still, you should’ve notified the police after
the first incident. Vandalism’s a crime.’
“We'd hoped by ignoring it, it would discourage repeti-
tion.’ Pandora lifted her cup. “We were wrong.’
‘T’ll need to take the champagne with me.’ Again, he
sent them a look of disapproval. “Even though you’ve had
it analyzed, we’ll want to run it through our own lab.’
‘T’ll get it for you.’ Michael rose and left them alone.
‘Miss McVie, from what your cousin tells me, the
terms of Mr. McVie’s will were a bit unconventional.’
‘A bit.’
‘He also tells me he talked you into agreeing to them.’
‘That’s Michael’s fantasy, Lieutenant.’ She sipped her
coffee. ‘I’m doing exactly what I chose to do.’
Randall nodded and noted. “You agree with Mr. Do-
nahue’s idea that these incidents are connected and one
of your relatives is responsible.’
‘T can’t think of any reason to disagree.’
‘Do you have any reason to suspect one more than
another?’
Pandora thought it through as she’d thought it through
before. ‘No. You see, we’re not at all a close family. The
truth is I don’t know any of them very well.’
‘Except Mr. Donahue.’
‘That’s right. Michael and I often visited our uncle, and

224 A Will and A Way
we ran into each other here at the Folley.’ Whether we
wanted to or not, she added to herself in her own private
joke. ‘None of the others came by very often.’
‘The champagne, Lieutenant.’ Michael brought in the
box. ‘And the report from Sanfield Laboratories.’
Randall skimmed the printout, then tucked the sheet
into the box. ‘Your uncle’s attorney...’ He referred quickly
to his notes. ‘Fitzhugh reported trespassing several weeks
ago. We’ve had a squad car cruise the area, but at this
point you might agree to having a man patrol the grounds
once a day.’
‘Td prefer it, Michael told him.
‘T’ll contact Fitzhugh.’ Seeing his cup was empty, Pan-
dora took it and filled it again. ‘Ill also need a list of the
relatives named in the will’
Pandora frowned over her rim. Between her and Mi-
chael, they tried to fill in the lieutenant, as best as they
could. When they had finished, Pandora sent Randall an
apologetic look. ‘I told you we aren’t close.’
‘Tll get the lawyer to fill in the details.’ Randall rose
and tried not to think about the cold drive back to town.
‘We'll keep the inquiries as quiet as possible. If anything
else happens, call me. One of my men will be around to
look things over.’
‘Thank you, Lieutenant.’ Michael helped the pudgy
man on with his coat.
Randall took another look around the room. ‘Ever
think of installing a security system?’
‘No.’
‘Think again,’ he advised, and made his way out.

Nora Roberts DPS.
“We’ve just been scolded, Pandora murmured.
Michael wondered if Logan’s Run had room for a
cranky, well-padded cop. ‘Seems that way.’
“You know, Michael, I have two schools of thought on
bringing in the police.’
“Which are?’
‘It’s either. going to calm things down or stir things up.’
“You pay your money and take your choice.’
She gave him a knowing look. ‘You’re counting on
the second.’
‘I came close tonight.’ He bypassed the coffee and
poured another brandy. ‘I nearly had my hands on some-
thing. Someone.’ When he looked at her, the faint amuse-
ment in his eyes had faded. The recklessness was back.
‘T like my fights in the open, face-to-face.’
‘It’s better if we look at it as a chess game rather than a
boxing match.’ She came close to wrap her arms around
him and press her cheek to his shoulder. It was the kind
of gesture he didn’t think he’d ever get used to from her.
As he rested his head on her hair, he realized that the fact
that he wouldn’t only added to the sweetness of the feel-
ing. When had he stopped remembering that she didn’t fit
into his long-established picture of the ideal woman? Her
hair was too red, her body too thin, her tongue too sharp.
Michael nuzzled against her and found they fit very well.
‘T’ve never had the patience for chess.’
‘Then we'll just leave it to the police.’ She held him
tighter. The need to protect rose as sharply as the desire
to be protected. ‘I’ve been thinking about what might

226 A Will and A Way
have happened out there tonight. I don’t want you hurt,
Michael.’
With two fingers under her chin, he lifted it. ‘Why
not?’
‘Because...’ She looked into his eyes and felt her heart
melt. But she wouldn’t be a fool; she wouldn’t risk her
pride. ‘Because then I’d have to do the dishes by myself’
He smiled. No, he didn’t have a great deal of patience,
but he could call on it when circumstances warranted.
- He brushed a kiss on either side of her mouth. Sooner or
later, he’d have more out of her. Then he’d just have to
decide what to do with it. ‘Any other reason?’
Absorbing the sensations, Pandora searched her mind
for another easy answer. ‘If you were hurt, you couldn’t
work. I’d have to live with your foul temper.’
‘I thought you were already living with it.’
‘T’ve seen it fouler.’
He kissed her eyes closed in his slow, sensuous way.
‘Try one more time.’
‘I care.’ She opened her eyes, and her look was tense
and defiant. “Got a problem with that?’
‘No.’ His kiss wasn’t gentle this time, it wasn’t patient.
He had her caught close and reeling within moments. If
there was tension in her still, he couldn’t feel it. ‘The only
problem’s been dragging it out of you.’
“You're family after all—’
With a laugh, he nipped the lobe of her ear. ‘Don’t try
to back out.’
Indignant, she stiffened. ‘I never back out.’
“Unless you can rationalize it. Just remember this.’

Nora Roberts DERE
He had her molded against him again. ‘The family con-
nection’s distant.’ Their lips met, urgently, then parted.
‘This connection isn’t.’
‘I don’t know what you want from me,’ she whispered.
“You're usually so quick.’
‘Don’t joke, Michael.’
‘It’s no joke.’ He drew her away, holding her by the
shoulders. Briefly, firmly, he ran his hands down to her
elbows, then back. ‘No, I’m not going to spell it out for
you, Pandora. I’m not going to make it easy on you. You
have to be willing to admit we both want the same thing.
And you will.’
‘Arrogant,’ she warned.
‘Confident,’ he corrected. He had to be, or he’d be on
his knees begging. There’d come a time, he’d promised
himself, when she’d drop the last of her restrictions. ‘I
want you.’
A tremor skipped up her spine. ‘I know.’
‘Yeah.’ He linked his fingers with hers. ‘I think you do.’

Chapter 11
Winter raged its way through February. There came a
point when Pandora had to shovel her way from the house
to her workshop. She found herself grateful for the physi-
cal labor. Winter was a long quiet time that provided too
many hours to think.
In using this time, Pandora came to several uncom-
fortable realizations. Her life, as she’d known it, as she’d
guided it, would never be the same. As far as her art
was concerned, she felt the months of concentrated ef-
fort with dashes of excitement had only improved her
crafting. In truth, she often used her jewelry to take her
mind off what was happening to and around her. When
that didn’t work, she used what was happening to and
around her in her work.
The sudden blunt understanding that her health, even

Nora Roberts 229
her life, had been endangered made her take a step away
from her usual practical outlook. It caused her to appre-
ciate little things she’d always taken for granted. Wak-
ing up in a warm bed, watching snow fall while a fire
crackled beside her. She’d learned that every second in
life was vital.
Already she was considering taking a day to drive
back to New York and pack what was important to her.
More than packing, it would be a time of decision mak-
ing. What she kept, what she didn’t, would in some ways
reflect the changes she’d accepted in herself.
Both the lease on her apartment and the lease on the
shop over the boutique were coming up for renewal. She’d
let them lapse. Rather than living alone, she’d have the
company and the responsibility of her uncle’s old ser-
vants. Though she’d once been determined to be respon-
sible only to herself and her art, Pandora made the choice
without a qualm. Though she had lived in the city, in the
rush, in the crowds, she’d isolated herself. No more.
Through it all wove Michael.
In a few short weeks, what they had now would be
over. The long winter they’d shared would be something
to think of during other winters. As she prepared for a
new and different life, Pandora promised herself she’d
have no regrets. But she couldn’t stop herself from hav-
ing wishes. Things were already changing.
The police had come, and with their arrival had been
more questions. Everything in her shop had to be locked
up tightly after dark, and there were no more solitary
walks in the woods after a snowfall. It had become a

230 A Will and A Way
nightly ritual to go through the Folley and check doors
and windows that had once been casually ignored. Often
when she walked back to the house from her shop, she’d
see Michael watching from the window of his room. It
should have given her a warm, comfortable feeling, but
she knew he was waiting for something else to happen.
She knew, as she knew him, that he wanted it. Inactivity
was sitting uneasily on him.
Since they’d driven into New York to deal with the
break-in at his apartment, he’d been distant, with a rest-
lessness roiling underneath. Though they both understood
the wisdom of having the grounds patrolled, she thought
they felt intruded upon.
They had no sense of satisfaction from the police in-
vestigation. Each one of their relatives had alibis for one
or more of the incidents. So far the investigation seemed
to have twin results. Since the police had been called
in, nothing else had happened. There’d been no anony-
mous phone calls, no shadows in the woods, no bogus
messages. It had, as Pandora had also predicted, stirred
things up. She’d dealt with an irate phone call from Carl-
son who insisted they were using the investigation in an
attempt to undermine his case against the will.
On the heels of that had come a disjointed letter from
Ginger who'd had the idea that the Folley was haunted.
Michael had had a two-minute phone conversation with
Morgan who’d muttered about private family business,
overreacting and hogwash. Biff, in his usual style, had
sent a short message:

Nora Roberts Dat
Cops and robbers? Looks like you two are playing
games with each other.
From Hank they heard nothing.
The police lab had confirmed the private analysis of
the champagne; Randall was plodding through the inves-
tigation in his precise, quiet way. Michael and Pandora
were exactly where they’d been weeks before: waiting.
He didn’t know how she could stand it. As Michael
made his way down the narrow path Pandora had shov-
eled, he wondered how she could remain so calm when
he was ready to chew glass. It had only taken him a few
days of hanging in limbo to realize it was worse when
nothing happened. Waiting for someone else to make the
next move was the most racking kind of torture. Until he
was sure Pandora was safe, he couldn’t relax. Until he
had his hands around someone’s throat, he wouldn’t be
satisfied. He was caught in a trap of inactivity that was
slowly driving him mad. Pausing just outside her shop,
he glanced around.
The house looked big and foolish with icicles hang-
ing and dripping from eaves, gutters and shutters. It be-
longed in a book, he thought, some moody, misty gothic.
A fairy tale—the grim sort. Perhaps one day he’d weave
a story around it himself, but for now, it was just home.
With his hands in his pockets he watched smoke puff
out of chimneys. Foolish it might be, but he’d always
loved it. The longer he lived in it, the surer he was that
he was meant to. He was far from certain how Pandora
would take his decision to remain after the term was over.

232 A Will and A Way
His last script for the season was done. It was the only
episode to be filmed before the show wrapped until fall.
He could, as he often did, take a few weeks in the early
spring and find a hot, noisy beach. He could fish, relax
and enjoy watching women in undersize bikinis. Michael
knew he wasn’t going anywhere.
For the past few days, he’d been toying with a screen-
play for a feature film. He’d given it some thought before,
but somehow something had always interfered. He could
write it here, he knew. He could perfect it here with Pan-
dora wielding her art nearby, criticizing his work so that
he was only more determined to make it better. But he
was waiting. Waiting for something else to happen, wait-
ing to find who it was who'd used fear and intimidation
to try to drive them out. And most of all, he was wait-
ing for Pandora. Until she gave him her complete trust,
willingly, until she gave him her heart unrestrictedly, he
had to go on waiting.
His hands curled into fists and released. He wanted
action.
He tried the door and satisfied himself that she’d kept
her word and locked it from the inside. ‘Pandora?’ He
knocked with the side of his fist. She opened the door
with a drill in her hand. After giving her flushed face
and tousled hair a quick look, Michael lifted his hands,
palms out. ‘I’m unarmed.’
‘And I’m busy.’ But her lips curved. There was a light
of pleasure in her eyes. He found it easy to notice such
small things.

Nora Roberts 233
‘I know, I’ve invaded scheduled working hours, but I
have a valid excuse.’
“Youre letting in the cold, she complained. Once, she
might have shut the door in his face without a second
thought. This time she shut it behind him.
‘Not a hell of a lot warmer in here.’
‘It’s fine when I’m working. Which I am.’
‘Blame Sweeney. She’s sending me in for supplies, and
she insisted I take you.’ He sent Pandora a bland look.
“That girl holes herself up in that shed too much. Needs
some sun.”’
‘I get plenty of sun, Pandora countered. Still, the idea
of a drive into town appealed. It wouldn’t hurt to talk to
the jeweler in the little shopping center. She was begin-
ning to think her work should spread out a bit, beyond
the big cities. ‘I suppose we should humor her, but I want
to finish up here first.’
‘T’m in no hurry.’
‘Good. Half an hour then.’ She went to exchange the
drill for a jeweler’s torch. Because she didn’t hear the
door open or shut, she turned and saw Michael examin-
ing her rolling mill. ‘Michael,’ she said with more than
a trace of exasperation.
‘Go ahead, take your time.’
‘Don’t you have anything to do?’
‘Not a thing,’ he said cheerfully.
‘Not one car chase to write?’
‘No. Besides, I’ve never seen you work.’
‘Audiences make me cranky.’
‘Broaden your horizons, love. Pretend I’m an apprentice.’

234 A Will and A Way
‘I’m not sure they can get that broad’
Undaunted, he pointed to her worktable. ‘What is that
thing?’
‘This thing,’ she began tightly, ‘is a pendant. A wa-
terfall effect made with brass wire and some scraps of
silver I had left over from a bracelet.’
‘No waste,’ he murmured. ‘Practical as ever. So what’s
the next step?’
With a long breath, she decided it would be simpler to
play along than to throw him out. ‘I’ve just finished ad-
justing the curves of the wires. I’ve used different thick-
nesses and lengths to give it a free-flowing effect. The
silver scraps I’ve cut and filed into elongated teardrops.
Now I solder them onto the ends of the wires.’
She applied the flux, shifting a bit so that he could
watch. After she’d put a square of solder beside each wire,
she used the torch to apply heat until the solder melted.
Patient, competent, she repeated the procedure until all
twelve teardrops were attached.
‘Looks easy enough, he mused.
‘A child of five could do it.’
He heard the sarcasm and laughed as he took her
hands. “You want flattery? A few minutes ago I saw a
pile of metal. Now I see an intriguing ornament. Ornate
and exotic.’ :
‘It’s supposed to be exotic,’ Pandora replied. ‘Jessica
Wainwright will wear it in the film. It’s to have been
a gift from an old lover. The countess claims he was a
Turkish prince.’
Michael studied the necklace again. ‘Very appropriate.’

Nora Roberts 235.
‘It'll droop down from brass and silver wires twisted
together. The lowest teardrop should hang nearly to
her waist.’ Pleased, but knowing better than to touch
the metal before the solder cooled, Pandora held up her
sketch. ‘Ms. Wainwright was very specific. She wants
nothing ordinary, nothing even classic. Everything she
wears should add to the character’s mystique.’
She set the sketch down and tidied her tools. She’d
solder on the hoop and fashion the neck wire when they
returned from town. Then if there was time, she’d begin
the next project. The gold-plated peacock pin with its
three-inch filigree tail would take her the better part of
two weeks.
‘This thing has potential as a murder weapon,’ Michael
mused, picking up a burnisher to examine the curved,
steel tip.
‘I beg your pardon?’
He liked the way she said it, so that even with her back
turned she was looking down her nose. ‘For a story line.’
‘Leave my tools out of your stories.’ Pandora took the
burnisher from him and packed it away. ‘Going to buy me
lunch in town?’ She stripped off her apron then grabbed
her coat.
‘I was going to ask you the same thing.’
‘T asked first.’ She locked the shop and welcomed the
cold. ‘The snow’s beginning to melt.’
‘In a few weeks, the five dozen bulbs Jolley planted
during his gardening stage will be starting to bloom.’
‘Daffodils,’ she murmured. It didn’t seem possible

236 A Will and A Way
when you felt the air, saw the mounds of snow, but spring
was closing in. ‘The winter hasn’t seemed so long.’
‘No, it hasn’t.’ He slipped an arm around her shoul-
ders. ‘I never expected six months to go so quickly. I fig-
ured one of us would’ve attempted murder by this time.’
With a laugh, Pandora matched her step to his. ‘We’ve
still got a month to go.’
‘Now we have to behave ourselves,’ he reminded her.
‘Lieutenant Randall has his eye on us.’
‘I guess we blew our chance.’ She turned to wind
her arms around his neck. ‘There have been times I’ve
wanted to hit you with a blunt instrument.’
‘Feeling’s mutual,’ he told her as he lowered his mouth.
Her lips were cool and curved.
At the side window, Sweeney drew back the drape.
‘Look at this!’ Cackling, she gestured to Charles. ‘I told
you it would work. In a few more weeks, I’ll be putting
bells on a wedding cake.’
As Charles joined Sweeney at the window, Pandora
scooped a hand into the snow and tossed it in Michael’s
face. ‘Don’t count your chickens,’ he muttered.
In a desperate move to avoid retaliation, Pandora raced
to the garage. She ducked seconds before snow splattered
against the door. “Your aim’s still off, cousin.’ Hefting the
door, she sprinted inside and jumped into his car. Smug,
she settled into the seat. He wouldn’t, she was sure, mar
his spotless interior with a snowball. Michael opened the
door, slid in beside her and dumped snow over her head.
She was still squealing when he turned the key.
‘I’m better at close range.’

Nora Roberts 237.
Pandora sputtered as she wiped at the snow. Because
she’d appreciated the move, it was difficult to sound in-
dignant. ‘One would have thought that a man who drives
an ostentatious car would be more particular with it.’
‘It’s only ostentatious if you buy it for status purposes.’
‘And, of course, you didn’t.’
‘I bought it because it gets terrific gas mileage.’ When
she snorted, he turned to grin at her. ‘And because it looks
great wrapped around redheads.’
‘And blondes and brunettes.’
‘Redheads,’ he corrected, twining her hair around his
finger. ‘I’ve developed a preference.’
It shouldn’t have made her smile, but it did. She was
still smiling when they started down the long, curvy road.
‘We can’t complain about the road crews,’ she said idly.
‘Except for those two weeks last month, the roads’ve been
fairly clear.’ She glanced toward the mounds of snow the
plows had pushed to the side of the road.
‘Too bad they won’t do the driveway.’
‘You know you loved riding that little tractor. Uncle
Jolley always said it made him feel tough and macho.’
‘So much so he’d race it like a madman over the yard.’
As they came to a curve, Michael eased on the brake
and downshifted. Pandora leaned forward and fiddled
with the stereo. ‘Most people have equipment like this
in their den.’
‘I don’t have a den.’
“You don’t have a stereo to put in one, either,’ she re-
membered. ‘Or a television.’

238 A Will and A Way
He shrugged, but mentally listed what he’d lost from
his apartment. ‘Insurance’ll cover it.’
‘The police are handling that as though it were a nor-
mal break-in.’ She switched channels. ‘It might’ve been.’
‘Or it might’ve been a smoke screen. I wish we—’ He
broke off as they approached another curve. He’d pressed
the brake again, but this time, the pedal had gone use-
lessly to the floor.
‘Michael, if you’re trying to impress me with your
skill as a driver, it’s not working.’ Instinctively Pandora
grabbed the door handle as the car careered down the
curve. :
Whipping the steering wheel with one hand, Michael
yanked on the emergency brake. The car continued to
barrel down. He gripped the wheel in both hands and
fought the next curve. ‘No brakes.’ As he told her, Mi-
chael glanced down to see the speedometer hover at sev-
enty.
Pandora’s knuckles turned white on the handle. ‘We
won't make it to the bottom without them.’
He never considered lying. ‘No.’ Tires squealed as he
rounded the next curve. Gravel spit under the wheels as
the car went wide. There was the scrape and scream of
metal as the fender kissed the guardrail.
She lookeda t the winding road spinning in front of
her. Her vision blurred then cleared. The sign before the
S-turn cautioned for a safe speed of thirty. Michael took it
at seventy-five. Pandora shut her eyes. When she opened
them and saw the snowbank dead ahead, she screamed.

Nora Roberts 239
With seconds to spare, Michael yanked the car around.
Snow flew skyward as the car skidded along the bank.
Eyes intense, Michael stared at the road ahead and
struggled to anticipate each curve. Sweat beaded on his
forehead. He knew the road, that’s what terrified him.
In less than three miles, the already sharp incline steep-
ened. At high speed, the car would ram straight through
the guardrail and crash on the cliffs below. The game
Jolley had begun would end violently.
Michael tasted his own fear, then swallowed it. ‘There’s
only one chance; we’ve got to turn off on the lane lead-
ing into the old inn. It’s coming up after that curve.’ He
couldn’t take his eyes from the road to look at her. His
fingers dug into the wheel. ‘Hang on,’
She was going to die. Her mind was numb from the
thought of it. She heard the tires scream as Michael
dragged at the wheel. The car tilted, nearly going over.
She saw trees rush by as the car slid on the slippery edge
of the lane. Almost, for an instant, the rubber seemed to
grip the gravel beneath. But the turn was too sharp, the
speed too fast. Out of control, the car spiraled toward
the trees.
‘I love you,’ she whispered, and grabbed for him be-
fore the world went black.
He came to slowly. He hurt, and fora time didn’t un-
derstand why. There was noise. Eventually he turned his
head toward it. When he opened his eyes, Michael saw
a boy with wide eyes and black hair gawking through
the window.
‘Mister, hey, mister. You okay?’

240 . A Will and A Way
Dazed, Michael pushed open the door. ‘Get help,’ he
managed, fighting against blacking out again. He took
deep gulps of air to clear his head as the boy dashed off
through the woods. ‘Pandora.’ Fear broke through the
fog. In seconds, he was leaning over her.
His fingers shook as he reached for the pulse of her
neck, but he found it. Blood from a cut on her forehead
ran down her face and onto his hands. With his fingers
pressed against the wound, he fumbled in the glove com-
partment for the first-aid kit. He’d stopped the bleeding
and was checking her for broken bones when she moaned.
He had to stop himself from dragging her against him
and holding on.
‘Take it easy, he murmured when she began to stir.
‘Don’t move around.’ When she opened her eyes, he saw
they were glazed and unfocused. ‘You're all right.’ Gen-
tly he cupped her face in his hands and continued to re-
assure her. Her eyes focused gradually. As they did, she
reached for his hand.
‘The brakes...’
“Yeah.” He rested his cheek against hers a moment. ‘It
was a hell of a trip, but it looks like we made it.’
Confused, she looked around. The car was stopped,
leaning drunkenly against a tree. It had been the deep,
slushy snow that had slowed them down enough to pre-
vent the crash from being fatal. ‘We—you’re all right?’
The tears started when she reached out and took his face
in her hands as he had with hers. ‘You're all right.’
‘Terrific.’ His wrist throbbed like a jackhammer and
his head ached unbelievably, but he was alive. When

Nora Roberts 24]
she started to move, he held her still. ‘No, don’t move
around. I don’t know how badly you’re hurt. There was.
a kid. He’s gone for help.’
‘It’s just my head.’ She started to take his hand, and
_ saw the blood. ‘Oh God, you’re bleeding. Where?’ Be-
fore she could begin her frantic search, he gripped her
hands together.
‘It’s not me. It’s you. Your head’s cut. You probably
have a concussion.’
Shaky, she lifted her hand and touched the bandage.
The wound beneath it hurt, but she drew on that. If she
hurt, she was alive. ‘I thought I was dead.’ She closed
her eyes but tears slipped through the lashes. ‘I thought
we were both dead.’
“We’re both fine.’ They heard the siren wail up the
mountain road. He was silent until she opened her eyes
again. “You know what happened?’
Her head ached badly, but it was clear. ‘Attempted
murder.’
He nodded, not turning when the ambulance pulled
into the slushy lane. ‘I’m through waiting, Pandora. I’m
through waiting all around.’
- Lieutenant Randall found Michael in the emergency-
room lounge. He unwrapped his muffler, unbuttoned his
coat and sat down on the hard wooden bench. ‘Looks like
you’ve had some trouble.’
‘Big time.’
Randall nodded toward the Ace bandage on Michael’s
wrist. ‘Bad?’

242 A Will and A Way
‘Just a sprain. Few cuts and bruises and a hell of a
headache. Last time I saw it, my car looked something
like an accordion.’
‘We’re taking it in. Anything we should look for?’
‘Brake lines. It seemed I didn’t have any when I started
the trip down the mountain.’
‘When’s the last time you used your car?’ Randall had
his notepad in hand.
‘Ten days, two weeks.’ Wearily, Michael rubbed a tem-
ple. ‘I drove into New York to talk to police about the
robbery in my apartment.’ ~
“Where do you keep your car?’
‘In the garage.’
‘Locked?’
‘The garage?’ Michael kept his eye on the hallway
where Pandora had been wheeled away. ‘No. My uncle
had installed one of those remote control devices a few
years back. Never worked unless you turned on the tele-
vision. Anyway, he took it out again and never replaced
the lock. Pandora’s car’s in there,’ he remembered sud-
denly. ‘If—’
“We'll check it out, Randall said easily. ‘Miss McVie
was with you?’
“Yeah, she’s with a doctor.’ For the first time in weeks,
Michael found himself craving a cigarette. ‘Her head was
cut.’ He looked down at his hands and remembered her
blood on them. ‘I’m going to find out who did this, Lieu-
tenant, and then I’m going to—’
‘Don’t say anything to me I might have to use later,
Randall warned. There were some people who threatened

Nora Roberts 243
as a means to let off steam or relieve tension. Randall
didn’t think Michael Donahue was one of them. ‘Let me
do my job, Mr. Donahue.’
Michael gave him a long, steady look. ‘Someone’s been
playing games, deadly ones, with someone very impor-
tant to me. If you were in my place, would you twiddle
your thumbs and wait?’
Randall smiled, just a little. “You know, Donahue, I
never miss your show. Great entertainment. Some of this
business sounds just like one of your shows.’
‘Like one of my shows,’ Michael repeated slowly.
‘Problem is, things don’t work the same way out here
in the world as they do on television. But it sure is a plea-
sure to watch. Here comes your lady.’
Michael sprang up and headed for her.
‘T’m fine,’ she told him before he could ask.
‘Not entirely.’ Behind her a young, white-coated doc-
tor stood impatiently. ‘Miss McVie has a concussion.’
‘He put a few stitches in my head and wants to hold me
prisoner.’ She gave the doctor a sweet smile and linked
arms with Michael. “Let’s go home.’
‘Just a minute.’ Keeping her beside him, Michael
turned to the doctor. ‘You want her in the hospital?’
‘Michael—’ ;
‘Shut up.’
‘Anyone suffering from a concussion should be rou-
tinely checked. Miss McVie would be wise to remain
overnight with professional care.’
‘I’m not staying in the hospital because I have a bump
on the head. Good afternoon, Lieutenant.’

244 A Will and A Way
‘Miss McVie.’
Lifting her chin, she looked back at the doctor. ‘Now,
Doctor...’
‘Barnhouse.’
‘Dr. Barnhouse,’ she began. ‘I will take your advice to
a point. I'll rest, avoid stress. At the first sign of nausea
or dizziness, Ill be on your doorstep. I can assure you,
now that you’ve convinced Michael I’m an invalid, I'll
be properly smothered and hovered over. You’ll have to
be satisfied with that.’
Far from satisfied, the doctor directed himself to Mi-
chael. ‘I can’t force her to stay, of course.’
Michael lifted a brow. ‘If you think I can, you’ve got
a lot to learn about women.’
Resigned, Barnhouse turned back to Pandora. ‘I want
to see you in a week, sooner if any of the symptoms we
' discussed show up. You're to rest for twenty-four hours.
That means horizontally.’
“Yes, Doctor. She offered a hand, which he took
grudgingly. “You were very gentle. Thank you.’
His lips twitched. ‘A week,’ he repeated and strode
back down the hall.
‘If I didn’t know better, Michael mused, ‘I’d say he
wanted to keep you here just to look at you.’
‘Of course. I look stunning with blood running down
my face and a hole in my head.’
‘I thought so.’ He kissed her cheek, but used the ges-
ture to get a closer look at her wound. The stitches were
small and neat, disappearing into her hairline. After

Nora Roberts 245
counting six of them, his determination iced. ‘Come on,
we'll go home so I can start pampering you.’
‘Tl take you myself.” Randall gestured toward the
door. ‘I might as well look around a bit while I’m there.’
Sweeney clucked like a mother hen and had Pandora
bundled into bed five minutes after she’d walked in the
door. If she’d had the strength, Pandora would have ar-
gued for form’s sake. Instead she let herself be tucked
under a comforter, fed soup and sweet tea, and fussed
over. Though the doctor had assured her it was perfectly
safe to sleep, she thought of the old wives’ tale and strug-
gled to stay awake. Armed with a sketch pad and pencil,
she whiled away the time designing. But when she began
to tire of that, she began to think.
Murder. It would have been nothing less than murder.
Murder for gain, she mused, an impossible thing for her
to understand. She’d told herself before that her life was
threatened, but somehow it had seemed remote. She had
only to touch her own forehead now to prove just how
direct it had become. —
An uncle, a cousin, an aunt? Which one wanted Jol-
ley’s fortune so badly to murder for it? Not for the first
time, Pandora wished she knew them better, understood
them better. She realized she’d simply followed Jolley’s
lead and dismissed them as boring.
And that was true enough, Pandora assured herself.
She’d been to a party or two with all of them. Monroe
would huff, Biff would preen, Ginger would prattle, and
so on. But boring or not, one of them had slipped over

246 A Will and A Way
the line of civilized behavior. And they were willing to
step over her to do it. Slowly, from memory, she began to
sketch each of her relatives. Perhaps that way, she’d see
something that was buried in her subconscious.
When Michael came in, she had sketches lined in rows
over her spread. ‘Quite a rogues’ gallery.’
He’d come straight from the garage, where he and Ran-
dall had found the still-wet brake fluid on the concrete.
Not all of it, Michael mused. Whoever had tampered
with the brakes had left enough fluid in so that the car
would react normally for the first few miles. And then,
nothing. Michael had already concluded that the police
would find a hole in the lines. Just as they’d find one in
the lines of Pandora’s, to match the dark puddle beneath
her car. It had been every bit as lethal as his.
He wasn’t ready to tell Pandora that whoever had tried
to kill them had been as close as the garage a day, perhaps
two, before. Instead he looked at her sketches.
“What do you see?’ she demanded.
‘That you have tremendous talent and should give se-
rious thought to painting.’
‘I mean in their faces.’ Impatient with herself, she drew
her legs up cross-legged. ‘There’s just nothing there. No
spark, no streak of anything that tells me this one’s ca-
pable of killing.’
‘Anyone’s capable of killing. Oh yes,’ Michael added
when she opened her mouth to disagree. ‘Anyone. It’s
simply that the motive has to fit the personality, the cir-
cumstances, the need. When a person’s threatened, he

Nora Roberts 247
kills. For some it’s only when their lives or the lives of
someone they love are threatened.’
‘That’s entirely different.’
‘No.’ He sat on the bed. ‘It’s a matter of different de-
grees. Some people kill because their home is threatened,
their possessions. Some kill because a desire is threat-
ened. Wealth, power, those are very strong desires.
‘So a very ordinary, even conventional person might
kill to achieve that desire.’
He gestured to her sketches. ‘One of them tried. Aunt
Patience with her round little face and myopic eyes.’
“You can’t seriously believe—’ |
‘She’s devoted to Morgan, obsessively so. She’s never
married. Why? Because she’s always taken care of him.’
He picked up the next sketch. ‘Or there’s Morgan him-
_ self, stout, blunt, hard-nosed. He thought Jolley was mad
and a nuisance.’
“They all did.’
‘Exactly. Carlson, straitlaced, humorless, and Jolley’s
only surviving son.’
‘He tried contesting the will.
‘Going the conventional route. Still, he knew his fa-
ther was shrewd, perhaps better than anyone. Who’s to
say he wouldn’t cover his bases in a more direct way?
Biff...’ He had_a laugh as he looked at the sketch. Pan-
~ dora had drawn him precisely as he was. Self-absorbed.
‘I can’t see him getting his hands dirty,’
‘For a slice of a hundred fifty million? I can. Pretty
little Ginger. One wonders if she can possibly be as sweet
and spacey as she appears. And Hank.’ Pandora had

248 A Will and A Way
drawn him with his arm muscle flexed. “Would he settle
for a couple of thousand when he could have millions?’
‘I don’t know—that’s just the point.’ Pandora shuffled
the sketches. ‘Even when IJ have them all lined up in front
of me, I don’t know.’
‘Lined up,’ Michael murmured. ‘Maybe that is the an-
swer. I think it’s time we had a nice, family party.’
‘Party? You don’t mean actually invite them all here.’
‘It’s perfect.’
- “They won’t come.’
‘Oh yes, they will.’ He was already thinking ahead.
“You can bank on it. A little hint that things aren’t going
well around here, and they’ll jump at the chance to give
us an extra push. You see the doctor in a week. If he
gives you a clean bill of health, we’re going to start a lit-
tle game of our own.’
“What game?’
‘In a week,’ he repeated, and took her face in his hands.
It was narrow, dominated by the mop of hair and sharp
eyes. Not beautiful, but special. It had taken him a long
time to admit it. ‘A bit pale,’
‘Tm always pale with a concussion. Are you going to
pamper me?’
‘At least.’ But his smile faded as he gathered her close.
‘Oh God, I thought I’d lost you,’
The trace of desperation in his voice urged her to
soothe. “We'd both have been lost if you hadn’t handled
the car so well.’ She snuggled into his shoulder. It was
real and solid, like the one she’d sometimes imagined
leaning on. It wouldn’t hurt, just this once, to pretend it

Nora Roberts 249
would always be there. ‘I never thought we’d walk away
from that one.’
“But we did.’ He drew back to look at her. She looked
tired and drawn, but he knew her will was as strong as
ever. ‘And now we’re going to talk about what you said
to me right before we crashed.’
“Wasn’t I screaming?’
‘No,’
‘If I criticized your driving, I apologize.’
He tightened his grip on her chin. ‘You told me you
loved me.’ He watched her mouth fall open in genuine
surprise. Some men might have been insulted. Michael
could bless his sense of humor. ‘It could technically be
called a deathbed confession.’
Had she? She could only remember reaching for him
in those last seconds, knowing they were about to die
together. ‘I was hysterical, she began, and tried to draw
back.
‘It didn’t sound like raving to me.’
‘Michael, you heard Dr. Barnhouse. I’m not supposed
to have any stress. If you want to be helpful, see about
some more tea.’
‘I’ve something better for relaxing the muscles and
soothing the nerves.’ He laid her back against the pillows,
sliding down with her. Sweetly, tenderly, he ran his lips
down the lines of her cheekbones. ‘I want to hear you
tell me again, here.’
‘Michael—’
‘No, lie back.’ And his hands, gentle and calm, stilled

250 A Will and A Way
her. ‘I need to touch you, just touch you. There’s plenty
of time for the rest.’
He was so kind, so patient. More than once she’d won-
dered how such a restive, volatile man could have such
comforting hands. Taking off only his shoes, he slipped
into bed with her. He held her in the crook of his arm
and stroked until he felt her sigh of relief. ‘I’m going to
take care of you,’ he murmured. ‘When you’re well, we'll |
take care of each other.’
‘Tl be fine tomorrow.’ But her voice was thick and
sleepy. a
‘Sure you will. He’d keep her in bed another twenty-four
hours if he had to chain her. “You haven’t told me again.
Are you in love with me, Pandora?’
She was so tired, so drained. It seemed she’d reached
a point where she could fight nothing. ‘What if I am?’
She managed to tilt her head back to stare at him. His
fingers rubbed gently at her temple, easing even the dull
echo of pain. ‘People fall in and out of love all the time.’
‘People.’ He lowered his head so that he could just
skim her lips with his. ‘Not Pandora. It infuriates you,
doesn’t it?’
She wanted to glare but closed her eyes instead. “Yes.
I’m doing my best to reverse the situation.’
He snuggled down beside her, content for now. She
loved him. He still had time to make her like the idea.
‘Let me know how it works out,’ he said, and lulled her
to sleep.

Chapter 12
Michael studied the dark stains on the garage floor with
a kind of grim fascination. Draining the brake fluid from
an intended victim’s car was a hackneyed device, one ex-
pected from time to time on any self-respecting action-
adventure show. Viewers and readers alike developed a
certain fondness for old, reliable angles in the same way
they appreciated the new and different. Though it took
on a different picture when it became personal, the car
careering out of control down a steep mountain road was
as old as the Model T. .
He’d used it himself, just as he’d used the anonymous
gift of champagne. And the bogus-message routine,
he mused as an idea began to stir. Just last season one
of Logan’s heroines of the week had been locked in a
cellar—left in the dark after going to investigate a win-

252 A Will and A Way
dow slamming in the wind. It too was a classic. Each and
every one of the ploys used against himself and Pandora
could have been lifted from one of his own plots. Ran-
dall had pointed it out, though he’d been joking. It didn’t
seem very funny.
Michael cursed himself, knowing he should have seen
the pattern before. Perhaps he hadn’t simply because it
had been a pattern, a trite one by Hollywood standards.
Whether it was accidental or planned, Michael decided he
wasn’t about to be outplotted. He’d make his next move
taking a page from the classic mystery novels. Going
into the house, Michael went to the phone and began to
structure his scene.
He was just completing his last call when Pandora
came down the hall toward him. ‘Michael, you’ve got to
do something about Sweeney.’
Michael leaned back against the newel post and stud-
ied her. She looked wonderful—tested, healthy and an-
noyed. ‘Isn’t it time for your afternoon nap?’
‘That’s just what I’m talking about.’ The annoyance
deepened between her brows and pleased him. ‘I don’t
need an afternoon nap. It’s been over a week since the
accident.’ She pulled a leather thong out of her hair and
began to run it through her fingers. ‘I’ve seen the doc-
tor, and he said I was fine.’
‘I thought it was more something along the lines of
you having a head like a rock.’
She narrowed her eyes. ‘He was annoyed because I
healed perfectly without him. The point is, I am healed,
but if Sweeney keeps nagging and hovering, I’ll have a

Nora Roberts — 253
relapse.’ It came out as a declaration as she stood straight
in front of him, chin lifted, looking as though she’d never
been ill a day in her life.
“What would you like me to do?’
‘She’ll listen to you. For some reason she has the idea
that you’re infallible. Mr. Donahue this, Mr. Donahue
that.’ She slapped the leather against her palm. ‘For the
past week all I’ve heard is how charming, handsome and
strong you are. It’s a wonder I recovered at all.’
His lips twitched, but he understood Sweeney’s flat-
tery could undo any progress he’d made. ‘The woman’s
perceptive. However...’ He stopped Pandora’s retort by
holding up a hand. “Because I’d never refuse you any-
thing—’ when she snorted he ignored it “—and because
she’s been driving me crazy fussing over my wrist, I’m
going to take care of it.’
Pandora tilted her head. ‘How?’
‘Sweeney’s going to be too busy over the next few days
to fuss over us. She’ll have the dinner party to fuss over.’
‘What dinner party?’
‘The dinner party we’re going to give next week for
all our relatives.’
She glanced at the phone, remembering he’d been
using it when she’d come down the hall. “What have
you been up to?’
‘Just setting the scene, cousin.’ He rocked back on his
heels, already imagining. ‘I think we’ll have Sweeney
dig out the best china, though I doubt we’ll have time
to use it.’
‘Michael.’ She didn’t want to seem a coward, but the

254 A Will and AW ay
accident had taught her something about caution and self-
preservation. ‘We won’t just be inviting relatives. One of
them tried to kill us.’
‘And failed.’ He took her chin in his hand. “Don’t you
think he’ll try again, Pandora, and again? The police
can’t patrol the grounds indefinitely. And, he added with
his fingers tightening, ‘I’m not willing to let bygones be
bygones.’ His gaze skimmed up to where her hair just
covered the scar on her forehead. The doctor had said
it would fade, but Michael’s memory of it never would.
‘We’re going to settle this, my way.’
‘T don’t like it.’
‘Pandora.’ He gave her a charming smile and pinched
her cheek. ‘Trust me.’
The fact that she did only made her more nervous.
With a sigh, she took his hand. ‘Let’s tell Sweeney to
kill the fatted calf.’
Right down to the moment the first car arrived, Pan-
dora was certain no one would come. She’d sat through a
discussion of Michael’s plan, argued, disagreed, admired
and ultimately she’d given up. Theatrics, she’d decided.
But there was enough Jolley in her to look forward to the
show, especially when she was one of the leads. And she
had, as they said in the business, her part cold.
She’d dressed for the role in a slim, strapless black
dress. For flair, she’d added a sterling silver necklace
she’d fashioned in an exaggerated star burst. Matching
earrings dripped nearly to her chin. If Michael wanted
drama, who was she to argue? As the night of the din-

Nora Roberts ; 25):
ner party had grown closer, her nerves had steeled into
determination.
When he saw her at the top of the stairs, he was
speechless. Had he really convinced himself all these
years she had no real beauty? At the moment, poised, de-
fiant and enjoying herself, she made every other woman
he’d known look like a shadow. And if he told her so,
she wouldn’t believe it for a moment. Instead he merely
nodded and rocked back on his heels.
‘Perfect, he told her as she walked down the main
stairs. Standing at the base in a dark suit, Michael looked
invincible, and ruthless. ‘The sophisticated heroine.’ He
took her hand. ‘Cool and sexy. Hitchcock would’ve made
you a Star.’
‘Don’t forget what happened to Janet Leigh’
He laughed and sent one of her earrings spinning.
‘Nervous?’
‘Not as much as I’d thought I’d be. If this doesn’t
work—’
‘Then we’re no worse off than we are now. You know
what to do.’
‘We’ve rehearsed it a half-dozen times. I still have the
bruises.’
He leaned closer to kiss both bare shoulders. ‘I always
thought you’d be a natural. When this is over, we have
a scene of our own to finish. No, don’t pull back,’ he
warned as she attempted to. ‘It’s too late to pull back.’
They stood close, nearly mouth to mouth. ‘It’s been too
late all along.’
Nerves she’d managed to quell came racing back, but

256 A Will and A Way
they had nothing to do with plots or plans. “You’re being
dramatic.’
With a nod, he tangled his fingers in her hair. ‘My
sense of drama, your streak of practicality. An interest-
ing combination.’
‘An uneasy one.’
‘If life’s too easy you sleep through it, Michael de-
cided. ‘It sounds like the first of our guests are arriving,
he murmured as they heard the sound of a car. He kissed
her briefly. ‘Break a leg.’
She wrinkled her nose at-his back. ‘That’s what ’m
afraid of.
Within a half hour, everyone who had been at the read-
ing of the will, except Fitzhugh, was again in the library.
No one seemed any more relaxed than they’d been al-
most six months before. Jolley beamed down on them
from the oil painting. From time to time Pandora glanced
up at it almost expecting him to wink. To give everyone
what they’d come for, Pandora and Michael kept argu-
ing about whatever came to mind. Time for the game to
begin, she decided.
Carlson stood with his wife near a bookshelf. He
looked cross and impatient and glowered when Pandora
approached.
‘Uncle Carlson, I’m so glad you could make it. We
don’t see nearly enough of each other.’
‘Don’t soft-soap me.’ He swirled his scotch but didn’t
drink. ‘If you’ve got the idea you can talk me out of con-
testing this absurd will, you’re mistaken.’
‘IT wouldn’t dream of it. Fitzhugh tells me you don’t

Nora Roberts 257
have a chance.’ She smiled beautifully. ‘But I have to
agree the will’s absurd, especially after being forced to
live in the same house with Michael all these months.’
She ran a finger down one of the long, flattened prongs of
her necklace. ‘Pl tell you, Uncle Carlson, there have been
times I’ve seriously considered throwing in the towel.
He’s done everything possible to make the six months
unbearable. Once he pretended his mother was ill, and he
had to go to California. Next thing I knew I was locked
in the basement. Childish games,’ she muttered sending
Michael a look of utter dislike. Out of the corner of her
eye, She saw Carlson take a quick, nervous drink. “Well,
the sentence is nearly up.’ She turned back with a fresh
smile. ‘I’m so glad we could have this little celebration.
Michael’s finally going to open a bottle of champagne
he’s been hoarding since Christmas.’
Pandora watched Carlson’s wife drop her glass on the
Turkish carpet. ‘Dear me,’ Pandora said softly. “We'll
have to get something to mop that up. Freshen your
drink?’
‘No, she’s fine.’ Carlson took his wifed s the elbow.
“Excuse me.’
As they moved away, Pandora felt a quick thrill of ex-
citement. So, it had been Carlson.
‘I quit smoking about six months ago, > Michael told
Hank and his wife, earning healthy approval.
‘You'll never regret it, Hank stated in his slow, delib-
erate way. ‘You’re responsible for your own body.’
‘I’ve been giving that a lot of thought lately, Michael
said dryly. ‘But living with Pandora the past few months

258 A Will and A Way
hasn’t made it easy. She’s made this past winter miser-
able. She had someone send me a fake message so I’d go
flying off to California thinking my mother was ill.’ He
glanced over his shoulder and scowled at Pandora’s back.
‘If you’ve gotten through six months without smok-
ing...’ Meg began, guiding the conversation back to Mi-
chael’s health.
‘It’s a miracle I have living with that woman. But it’s
almost over.’ He grinned at Hank. “We’re having cham-
pagne instead of carrot juice for dinner. I’ve been saving
this bottle since Christmas-for just the right occasion.’
He saw Hank’s fingers whiten around his glass of Per-
rier and Meg’s color drain. ‘We don’t—’ Hank looked
helplessly at Meg. ‘We don’t drink.’
‘Champagne isn’t drinking, Michael said jovially. ‘It’s
celebrating. Excuse me.’ He moved to the bar as if to
freshen his drink and waited for Pandora to join him.
‘It’s Hank.” —
‘No.’ She added a splash of vermouth to her glass. ‘It’s
Carlson.’ Following the script, she glared at him. ‘You’re
an insufferable bore, Michael. Putting up with you isn’t
worth any amount of money.’
‘Intellectual snob.’ He toasted her. ‘I’m counting the
days.’
With a sweep of her skirts, Pandora walked over to
Ginger. ‘I don’t know how I manage to hold my temper
with that man.’ ;
Ginger checked her face in a pretty silver compact.
‘l’ve always thought he was kind of cute.’
“You haven’t had to live with him. We were hardly

Nora Roberts 259
together a week when he broke into my workshop and
vandalized it. Then he tried to pass the whole thing off
as the work of a vagrant.’
Ginger frowned and touched a bit of powder to her
nose. ‘It didn’t seem like something he’d do to me. I
told—’ She caught herself and looked back at Pandora
with a vague smile. ‘Those are pretty earrings.’
Michael steeled himself to listen to Morgan’s terse
opinion on the stock market. The moment he found an
opening, he broke in. ‘Once everything’s settled, I’Il have
to come to you for advice. I’ve been thinking about get-
ting more actively involved with one of Jolley’s chemical
firms. There’s a lot of money in fertilizer—and pesti-
cides.’ He watched Patience flutter her hands and sub-
side at a glare from Morgan.
‘Software, Morgan said briefly.
Michael only smiled. ‘I'll look into it.’
Pandora tried unsuccessfully to pump Ginger. The
five-minute conversation left her suspicious, confused
and with the beginnings of a headache. She decided to
try her luck on Biff.
‘You’re looking well.’ She smiled at him and nodded
at his wife.
‘You're looking a bit pale, cousin.’
‘The past six months haven’t been a picnic.’ She cast a
look at Michael. ‘Of course, you’ve always detested him.’
‘Of course,’ Biff said amiably.
‘T’ve yet to discover why Uncle Jolley was fond of him.
Besides being a bore, Michael has an affection for odd

260 A Will and A Way
practical jokes. He got a tremendous kick out of locking
me in the cellar.’
Biff smiled into his glass. ‘He’s never quite been in
our class.’
Pandora bit her tongue, then agreed. ‘Do you know, he
even called me one night, disguising his voice. He tried
to frighten me by saying someone was trying to kill me.’
Biff’s brows drew together as he stared into Pandora’s
eyes. ‘Odd’
‘Well, things are almost settled. By the way, did you
enjoy the champagne I sent you?’
Biff’s fingers froze on his glass. ‘Champagne?’
‘Right after Christmas.’
‘Oh yes.’ He lifted his glass again, studying her as he
drank. ‘So it was you.’
‘I got the idea when someone sent Michael a bottle at
Christmastime. He promises to finally open it tonight.
Excuse me, I want to check on dinner.’
Her eyes met Michael’s briefly as she slipped from the
room. They’d set his scene, she thought. Now she had to
move the action along. In the kitchen she found Sweeney
finishing up the final preparation for the meal.
‘If they’re hungry, Sweeney began, ‘they’ll just have
to wait ten minutes.’
‘Sweeney, it’s time to turn off the main power switch.’
‘I know, I know. I was just finishing this ham.’
Sweeney had been instructed to, at Pandora’s signal, go
down to the cellar, turn off the power, then wait exactly
one minute and turn it on again. She had been skeptical
about the whole of Michael and Pandora’s plan but had

Nora Roberts 261
finally agreed to participate in it. Wiping her hands on
her apron, the cook went to the cellar door. Pandora took
a deep breath and walked back to the library.
Michael had positioned himself near the desk. He gave
Pandora the slightest of nods when she entered. ‘Dinner
in ten minutes,’ she announced brightly as she swept
across the-room. .
“That gives us just enough time.’ Michael took the
stage and couldn’t resist starting with a tried and true
line. He didn’t have to see Pandora to know she was
taking her position. ‘You all must be wondering why we
brought you here tonight.’ He lifted his glass and looked
from one face to the next. ‘One of you is a murderer.’
On cue, the lights went out and pandemonium struck.
Glasses shattered, women screamed, a table was over-
turned. When the lights blinked on, everyone froze.
Lying half under the desk, facedown, was Pandora. Be-
side her was a letter opener with a curved, ornate hilt
and blood on the blade. In an instant Michael was beside
her, lifting her into his arms before anyone had a chance
to react. Silently, he carried her from the room. Several
minutes passed before he returned, alone. He gazed, hot
and hard, at every face in the room.
‘A murderer, he repeated. ‘She’s dead.’
‘What do you mean she’s dead?’ Carlson pushed his
way forward. ‘What kind of game is this? Let’s have a
look at her.’
‘No one’s touching her.’ Michael effectively blocked
his way. ‘No one’s touching anything or leaving this room
until the police get here.’

262 A Will and A Way
‘Police?’ Pale and shaken, Carlson glanced around.
‘We don’t want that. We’ll have to handle this ourselves.
She’s just fainted.’
‘Her blood’s all over this,’ Michael commented ges-
turing to the bloodstained letter opener.
‘No!’ Meg pushed forward until she’d broken through
the crowd around the desk. ‘No one was supposed to be
hurt. Only frightened. It wasn’t supposed to be like this.
Hank.’ She reached out, then buried her face against his
chest.
‘We were only going to play some tricks, he mur-
mured.
‘First-degree murder isn’t a trick.’
“We never—’ He looked at Michael in shock. “Not
murder, he managed, holding Meg as tightly as she was
holding him.
“You didn’t want to drink the champagne, either, did
you, Hank?’
‘That’s when I wanted to stop.’ Still sobbing, Meg
turned in her husband’s arms. ‘I even called and tried to
warn her. [ thought it was wrong all along, just a mean
trick, but we needed money. The gym’s drained every-
thing we have. We thought if we could make the two of |
you angry enough with each other, you’d break the terms
of the will. But that’s all. Hank and I stayed in the cabin
and waited. Then he went into Pandora’s shop and turned
things upside down. If she thought you did it—’
‘I never thought she would, Ginger piped up. Two
tears rolled down her cheeks. ‘Really, it all seemed silly
and—exciting.’

Nora Roberts 263
Michael looked at his pretty, weeping cousin. ‘So you
were part of it,
“Well, I didn’t really do anything. But when Aunt Pa-
tience explained it to me...’
‘Patience?’ There were patterns and patterns. A new
one emerged.
“Morgan deserved his share.’ The old woman wrung
her hands and looked everywhere but at the bloodstained
letter opener. She’d thought she’d done the right thing. It
all sounded so simple. ‘We thought we could make one
of you leave, then it would all be the way it should be.’
‘Message,’ Morgan said, puffing wide-eyed on his
cigar. “Not murder.’ He turned to Carlson. ‘Your idea.’
‘It’s preposterous.’ Carlson mopped his brow with a
white silk handkerchief. “The lawyers were incompetent.
They haven’t been able to do a thing..I was merely pro-
tecting my rights.’
“With murder.’
‘Don’t be ridiculous.’ He nearly sounded staid and
stuffy again. ‘The plan was to get you out of the house.
I did nothing more than lock—her—in the cellar. When
I heard about the champagne, I had a doubt or two, but
after all, it wasn’t fatal.’
‘Heard about the champagne.’ It was what Michael had
waited for. “From whom?’
‘It was Biff, Meg told him. ‘Biff set it all up, prom-
ised nothing would go wrong.’
‘Just an organizer. Biff gauged the odds, then
shrugged. ‘All’s fair, cousin. Everyone in this room had
their hand in.’ He held his up, examining it. ‘There’s no

264 A Will and A Way
blood on mine. I’d vote for you.’ He gave Michael a cool
smile. ‘After all, it’s no secret you couldn’t abide each
other.’
“You set it up.’ Michael took a step closer. ‘There’s als
a matter of tampering with my car.’
Biff moved his shoulders again, but Michael saw the
sweat bead above his lips. ‘Everyone in this room had
a part in it. Any of you willing to turn yourselves in?’
His breath came faster as he backed away. ‘One of them
panicked and did this. You won’t find my fingerprints
on that letter opener.’ :
“When someone’s attempted murder once,’ Michael
said calmly, ‘it’s easier to prove he tried again,’
“You won’t prove anything. Any of us might have
drained the brake lines in your car. You can’t prove I did.’
‘I don’t need to.’ In a quick move, Michael caught him
cleanly on the jaw and sent him reeling. Before he could
fall, Michael had him by the collar. ‘I never said anything
about draining the lines.’
Feeling the trap close, Biff struck out blindly. Fists
swinging, they tumbled to the floor. A Tiffany lamp shat-
tered in a pile of color. They rolled, locked together, into
a Belker table that shook from the impact. Shocked and
ineffective, the rest stepped back and gave them room.
‘Michael, that’s quite enough.’ Pandora entered the
room, her hair mussed and her clothes disheveled. ‘We
have company.’
Panting, he dragged Biff to his feet. His wrist sang a
bit, but he considered it a pleasure. Charles, looking dig-
nified in his best suit, opened the library doors. ‘Dinner
is served.’

Nora Roberts 265
* kK *
Two hours later, Pandora and Michael shared a small
feast in the library. ‘I never thought it would work,’ Pan-
dora said over a mouthful of ham. ‘It shouldn’t have.’
‘The more predictable the moves, the more predict-
able the end.’
‘Lieutenant Randall didn’t seem too pleased.’
‘He wanted to do it his way.’ Michael moved his shoul-
ders. ‘Since he’d already discovered Biff had been vis-
iting other members of the family and making calls to
them, he was bound to find out something eventually.’
‘The easy way.’ She rubbed the back of her neck. ‘Do
you know how uncomfortable it is to play dead?’
“You were great.’ He leaned over to kiss her. ‘A star.’
‘The letter opener with the stage blood was a nice
touch. Still, if they’d all stuck together...’
“We already knew someone was weakening because of
the warning call. Turned out that Meg had had enough.’
‘T’ve been thinking about investing in their gym.’
‘Tt wouldn’t hurt.’
‘What do you think’s going to happen?’
‘Oh, Carlson’ll get off more or less along with the
rest of them, excluding Biff. I don’t think we have to
worry about going to court over the will. As for our dear
cousin—’ Michael lifted a glass of champagne ‘—he’s
going to be facing tougher charges than malicious mis-
chief or burglary. I may never get my television back, but
he isn’t going to be wearing any Brooks Brothers suits
for a while. Only prison blues.’
“You gave him another black eye,’ Pandora mused.

266 A Will and A Way
‘Yeah.’ With a grin, Michael drank the wine. ‘Now you
and I only have to cruise through the next two weeks.’
‘Then it’s over.’
‘No.’ He took her hand before she could rise. ‘Then
it begins.’ He slipped the glass from her other hand and
pressed her back against the cushions. ‘How long?’
Pandora struggled to keep the tension from showing.
‘How long what?’ :
‘Have you been in love with me?’
She jerked, then was frustrated when he held her back.
‘I’m not sitting here feeding your ego.’
‘All right, we’ll start with me.’ He leaned back com-
panionably and boxed her in. ‘I think I fell in love with
you when you came back from the Canary Islands and
walked into the parlor. You had legs all the way to your
waist and you looked down your nose at me. I’ve never
been the same.’
‘lve had enough games, Michael,’ she said stiffly.
‘So’ve I.’ He traced a finger down her cheek. ‘You said
you loved me, Pandora.’
‘Under duress.’
‘Then I'll just have to keep you under duress because
- Tm not giving you up now. Why don’t we get married
right here?’
She’d started to give him a hefty shove and stopped
with her hands pressed against his chest. ‘What?’
‘Right here in the library. He glanced around, ignor-
ing the overturned tables and broken china. ‘It’d be a
nice touch.’
‘I don’t know what you're talking about.’

Nora Roberts 267
‘It’s very simple. Here’s the plot. You love me, I love you.’
‘That’s not simple, she managed. ‘I’ve just been ac-
cessible. Once you get back to your blond dancers and
busty starlets, you’ II—
“What blond dancers? I can’t stand blond dancers.’
‘Michael, this isn’t anything I can joke about.’
‘Just wait. You buy a nice white dress, maybe a veil.
A veil would suit you. We get a minister, lots of flowers
and have a very traditional marriage ceremony. After
that, we settle into the Folley, each pursuing our respec-
tive careers. In a year, two at the most, we give Charles
and Sweeney a baby to fuss over. See?’ He kissed her ear.
‘People’s lives aren’t screenplays,’ she began.
‘lm crazy about you, Pandora. Look at me.’ He took
her chin and held it so that their faces were close. ‘As an
artist, you’re supposed to be able to see below the sur-
face. That should be easy since you’ve always told me
I’m shallow,’
‘I was wrong.’ She wanted to believe. Her heart al-
ready did. ‘Michael, if you’re playing games with me,
Pll kill you myself?
‘Games are over. I love you, it’s that simple.’
‘Simple,’ she murmured, surprised she could speak at
all. “You want to get married?’
‘Living together’s too easy.’
She was more surprised that she could laugh. ‘Easy?’
‘That’s right.’ He shifted her until she was lying flat
on the sofa, his body pressed into hers. When his mouth
came down, it wasn’t patient, wasn’t gentle, and every-
thing he thought, everything he felt, communicated itself

268 A Will and A Way
through that one contact. As she did rarely, as he asked
rarely, she went limp and pliant. Her arms went around
him. Perhaps it was easy after all.
‘I love you, Michael.’
‘We’re getting married.’
‘It looks that way.’
His eyes were intense when he lifted his head. ‘I’m
going to make life tough on you, Pandora. That’s just to
pay you back for the fact that you’ll be the most exas-
perating wife on record. Do we understand each other?’
Her smile bloomed slowly. ‘I suppose we always have.’
Michael pressed a kiss to her forehead, to the tip of her
nose, then to her lips. ‘He understood both of us.’
She followed his gaze to Jolley’s portrait. “Crazy old
goat has us right where he wants us. I imagine he’s having
a good laugh.’ She rubbed her cheek against Michael’s.
‘I just wish he could be here to see us married.’
Michael lifted a brow. ‘Who says he won’t be?’ He
pulled her up and picked up both glasses. ‘To Maximil-
lian Jolley McVie.’
‘To Uncle Jolley.’ Pandora clinked her ahs to Mi-
chael’s. “To us.’
KKKOK OK

ehye ves
+e
E Ri eee 2
= &
His

The Return of
Rafe MacKade

To bad boys everywhere

Prologue
The MacKade brothers were looking for trouble. They
usually were. In the small town of Antietam, Maryland,
it wasn’t always easy to find, but then, looking was half
the fun.
When they piled into Jared’s secondhand Chevy, they’d
squabbled over who would take the wheel. It was Jared’s
car, and he was the eldest, but that didn’t carry much
weight with his three brothers.
Rafe had wanted to drive. He’d had a need for speed,
a thirst to zip along those dark, winding roads, with his
foot hard on the gas and his foul and reckless mood chas-
ing behind him. He thought perhaps he could outdistance
it, or perhaps meet it head-on. If he met it, bloodied it,
conquered it, he knew he would just keep driving until
he was somewhere else.

274 The Return of Rafe MacKade
Anywhere else.
They had buried their mother two weeks ago.
Perhaps because his dangerous mood showed so clearly
in Rafe’s jade eyes and in the cold set of his mouth, he’d
been outvoted. In the end, Devin had taken the wheel,
with Jared riding shotgun. Rafe brooded in the back seat
with his youngest brother, Shane, beside him.
They were a rough and dangerous group, the MacKade
boys. All of them tall and rangy as wild stallions, with
fists ready and often too eager to find a target. Their eyes,
MacKade eyes, all varying shades of green, could carve
a man into pieces at ten paces. When the dark mood was
on them, a wise man stayed back eleven or more.
They settled on pool and beer, though Shane com-
plained, as he was still shy of twenty-one and wouldn’t
be served in Duff’s Tavern.
Still, the dim, smoke-choked bar suited them. The slam
and crack of the balls had just enough of a violent edge,
the gaze of the scrawny-shouldered Duff Dempsey was
just uneasy enough. The wariness in the eyes of the other
customers, gossiping over their beers, was just flatter-
ing enough.
Nobody doubted the MacKade boys were out for trou-
ble. In the end, they found what they were looking for.
While a cigarette dangled from the corner of his mouth,
Rafe squinted against the smoke and eyed his shot. He
hadn’t bothered to shave in a couple of days, and the rough
stubble mirrored his mood. With a solid smack, a follow-
through smooth as silk, he banked the cue ball, kissed it
off the seven and made his pocket.

Nora Roberts 275,
‘Good thing youre lucky at something.’ At the bar, Joe
Dolin tipped back his beer. He was, as usual after sun-
down, mostly drunk, and mean with it. He’d once been
the star of the high school football team, had competed
with the MacKades for the favors of pretty young girls.
Now, at barely twenty-one, his face had begun to bloat
and his body to sag.
The black eye he’d given his young wife before leav-
ing the house hadn’t really satisfied him.
Rafe chalked his cue and barely spared Joe a glance.
‘Going to take more than hustling pool, MacKade, to
keep that farm going, now that your mama’s gone.’ Dan-
gling his bottle from two fingers, Joe grinned. “Heard
your e going to have to start selling off for back taxes.’
‘Heard wrong.’ Coolly Rafe circled the table to calcu-
late his next shot.
‘Oh, I heard right. You MacKades’ve always been fools,
and liars.’
Before Shane could leap forward, Rafe shot out his cue
to block the way. ‘He’s talking to me,’ he said quietly. He
held his brother’s gaze another moment before he turned.
‘Isn’t that right, Joe? You’re talking to me?’
‘I’m talking to any of you.’ As he lifted his beer again,
Joe’s gaze skimmed over the four of them. At twenty,
Shane was tough from farm work, but still more boy than
man. Then Devin, whose cool, thoughtful gaze revealed
little. Over Jared, who was leaning negligently against
the jukebox, waiting for the next move.
He looked back at Rafe. There was temper, hot and

276 The Return of Rafe MacKade
ready. Recklessness worn like a second skin. ‘But you'll do.
Always figured you for the biggest loser of the lot, Rafe.’
‘That so?’ Rafe crushed out his cigarette, lifted his own
beer. He drank as they completed the ritual before battle,
and customers shifted in their chairs to watch. ‘How’re
things going at the factory, Joe?’
‘Least I get a paycheck, Joe shot back. “I got money
in my pocket. Ain’t nobody going to take my house from
over me.’
‘Not as long as your wife keeps putting in twelve-hour
shifts working tables to pay the rent.’
‘Shut your mouth about my wife. I earn the money in
my house. I don’t need no woman paying my way, like
your mama had to do for your old man. Went through her
inheritance like it was water, then up and died on her.’
‘Yeah, he died on her. Anger and guilt and grief welled
up inside him. ‘But he never laid a hand on her. She never
had to come into town hiding behind scarves and dark
glasses, and saying how she took a fall. Only thing your
mother ever fell over, Joe, was your father’s fist.’
Joe slammed his beer onto the bar, shattering the glass.
‘That’s a lie. I’m going to ram that lie down your throat.’
~ryeat?
‘He’s drunk, Rafe, Jared murmured.
Those lethal green eyes sliced toward his brother. ‘So?’
‘So there isn’t much point in breaking his face when
he’s drunk.’ Jared moved a shoulder. ‘He’s not worth it.’
But Rafe didn’t need a point. He just needed action.
He lifted his cue, studied it, then laid it across the table.
“You want to take me on, Joe?’

Nora Roberts 277
‘Don’t you start in here.” Though he knew it was al-
ready too late, Duff jerked a thumb toward the wall phone.
“You make any trouble in here, I’m calling the sheriff, and
the lot of you can cool off in jail.’
‘Keep your damn hand off the phone,’ Rafe warned
him. His eyes were hard enough to have the bartender
backing off. ‘Outside,’ he said simply.
“You and me.’ Curling his fists, Joe stared at the MacK-
ades. ‘I ain’t having your brothers jumping in on me while
I whip your butt.’
‘I don’t need any help with you.’ To prove it, the mo-
ment they cleared the door Rafe pivoted to avoid Joe’s
swing, rammed his fist into Joe’s face and felt the first
satisfying spill of blood.
He couldn’t even have said why he was fighting. Joe
meant less to him than the dust in the street. But it felt
good. Even when Joe got past his guard and connected,
it felt good. Fists and blood were the only clear solution.
When he felt the satisfying crack of knuckles against
bone, he could forget everything else.
Devin winced, then tucked his hands philosophically in
his pockets when blood spurted from his brother’s mouth.
‘T give it five minutes.’
‘Hell, Rafe’ll take him down in three.’ Grinning, Shane
watched the grunting opponents wrestle to the ground.
‘Ten bucks.’
‘You’re on. Come on, Rafe!’ Shane shouted. “Whip
his sorry butt!’
It took three minutes, plus thirty nasty seconds with
Rafe straddling Joe and methodically pumping a fist into

278 The Return of Rafe MacKade
his face. Since Joe’s eyes had rolled up white and his arms
were limp at his sides, Jared stepped forward to drag his
brother away.
‘He’s finished.’ To decide the matter, Jared rammed
Rafe up against the brick wall of the bar. ‘He’s finished,’
he repeated. ‘Let it go.’
The vicious rage drained slowly, fading from Rafe’s
eyes, uncurling his fists. Emptying him. ‘Let go, Jare.
I’m not going to hit him again.’
Rafe looked to where Joe lay moaning, half-uncon-
scious. Over his battered body, Devin counted out bills
for Shane. ‘I should have factored in how drunk he was,’
Devin commented. ‘If he’d been sober, it would’ve taken
Rafe the five.’
‘Rafe would never waste five full minutes on a punk
like that.’
Jared shook his head. The arm that was restraining
Rafe slipped companionably around Rafe’s shoulders.
“Want another beer?’
‘No.’ He glanced toward the window of the bar, where
most of the patrons had gathered to watch. Absently he
swiped blood from his face. “Somebody better pick him
up and haul him home,’ he called out. ‘Let’s get out of
here.’
When he settled in the car again, the aches and bruises
began to make themselves known. With half an ear, he
listened to Shane’s enthusiastic play-by-play of the bout
and used Devin’s bandanna to mop more blood from his
mouth.
He was going nowhere, he thought. Doing nothing.

Nora Roberts 279
Being nothing. The only difference between him and Joe
Dolin was that Joe was a drunk on top of it.
He hated the damn farm, the damn town, the damn
trap he could feel himself sinking into with every day
that passed.
Jared had his books and studies, Devin his odd and
ponderous thoughts, Shane the land that seemed to de-
light him.
He had nothing.
On the edge of town, where the land began to climb
and the trees to thicken, he saw a house. The old Barlow
place. Dark, deserted and haunted, so it was said. It stood
alone, unwanted, with a reputation that caused most of
the townspeople to ignore it or eye it warily.
Just as they did Rafe MacKade.
“Pull over.’
‘Hell, Rafe, you going to be sick?’ Not concerned so
much as apprehensive, Shane gripped his own door han-
dle.
‘No. Pull over, damn it, Jared.’
The minute the car stopped, Rafe was out and climbing
the rocky slope. Brambles thick with thorns and summer
growth tore at his jeans. He didn’t need to look behind
or hear the curses and mutters to know that his brothers
were following him.
He stood, looking up at three stories of local stone.
Mined, he supposed, from the quarry a few miles out of
town. Some of the windows were broken and boarded,
and the double porches sagged like an old woman’s back.
What had once been a lawn was overgrown with wild

280 The Return of Rafe MacKade
blackberries, thistles and witchgrass. A dead oak rose
from it, gnarled and leafless.
But as the moon wheeled overhead and the breeze sang
chants through the trees and tall grass, there was some-
thing compelling about the place. The way it stood two
hundred years after its foundation had been laid. The way
it continued to stand against time, weather and neglect.
And most of all, he thought, the way it stood against the
distrust and gossip of the town it overlooked.
‘Going to look for ghosts, Rafe?’ Shane stood beside
him, eyes gleaming against the dark.
‘Maybe.’
‘Remember when we spent the night there, on a dare?’
Absently Devin plucked a blade of grass, rolled it between
his fingers. “Ten years ago, I guess it was. Jared snuck
upstairs and started creaking doors. Shane wet his pants.’
“Hell I did,
“Hell you didn’t.’
This incited the predictable shoving match, which the
older brothers ignored.
“When are you leaving?’ Jared said quietly. He’d known
it, saw it now in the way Rafe looked at the house, into
it, beyond it.
‘Tonight. I’ve got to get away from here, Jare. Do some-
thing away from here. If I don’t, I’m going to be like
Dolin. Maybe worse. Mom’s gone. She doesn’t need me
anymore. Hell, she never needed anybody.’
‘Got any idea where you're going?’
‘No. South, maybe. To start.’ He couldn’t take his eyes

Nora Roberts 28]
off the house. He would have sworn it was watching him,
judging him. Waiting. ‘I’ll send money when I can.’
Though he felt as though someone were wrenching off
one of his limbs, Jared merely shrugged. ‘We’ll get by.’
“You have to finish law school. Mom wanted that.’
Rafe glanced behind, to where the shoving match had
progressed to wrestling in the weeds. ‘They’ll handle
themselves okay once they figure out what they want.’
‘Shane knows what he wants. The farm.’
“Yeah.” With a thin smile, Rafe took out a cigarette.
‘Go figure. Sell off some of the land, if you have to, but
don’t let them take it. We have to keep what’s ours. Before
it’s over, this town’s going to remember the MacKades
meant something.’
Rafe’s smile widened. For the first time in weeks, the
gnawing ache inside him eased. His brothers were sit-
ting on the ground, covered with dirt and scratches and
laughing like loons.
He was going to remember them that way, he promised
himself, just that way. The MacKades, holding together
on rocky ground no one wanted.

Chapter 1
The bad boy was back. The town of Antietam was buzz-
ing over it, passing fact, rumor and innuendo from one
to another, the way the guests at a boardinghouse passed
bowls of steaming stew.
It was a rich broth, spiced with scandal, sex and secrets.
Rafe MacKade had come back after ten years.
Some said there would be trouble. Bound to be. Trou-
ble hung around Rafe MacKade like a bell around a bull’s
neck. Wasn’t it Rafe MacKade who’d decked the high
school principal one spring morning and gotten himself
expelled? Wasn’t it Rafe MacKade who'd wrecked his dead
daddy’s Ford pickup before he was old enough to drive?
And surely it was Rafe MacKade who’d tossed a
table—and that fool Manny Johnson—through the plate-
glass window of Duff’s Tavern one hot summer night.

Nora Roberts 283
Now he’d come back, a-riding into town in some fancy
sports car and parking, bold as you please, right in front
of the sheriff’s office.
Of course, his brother Devin was sheriff now, had been
for five years last November. But there’d been a time—
and most remembered—when Rafe MacKade spent more
than a night or two in one of the two cells in the back.
Oh, he was as handsome as ever—so the women
said. With those devil’s good looks the MacKades were
gifted—or cursed—with. If a female had breath in her
body, she’d look twice, maybe even sigh over that long,
wiry build, that loose-legged stride that seemed to dare
anyone to get in the way.
Then there was that thick black hair, those eyes, as
green and hard as the ones in that little Chinese statue
in the window of the Past Times antique store. They did
nothing to soften that tough, sharp-jawed face, with that
little scar along the left eye. God knew where he’d got-
ten that.
But when he smiled, when he curved that beautiful
mouth up and that little dimple winked at the corner, a
woman’s heart was bound to flutter. That sentiment came
directly from Sharilyn Fenniman who’d taken that smile,
and his twenty dollars for gas, at the Gas and Go, just
outside of town.
Before Rafe had his car in gear again, Sharilyn had
been burning up the phone wires to announce the return.
‘So Sharilyn called her mama, and Mrs. Metz got right
on her horse and told Mrs. Hawbaker down at the general
store that Rafe maybe plans to stay.’

284 The Return of Rafe MacKade
As she spoke, Cassandra Dolin topped off Regan’s cof-
fee. The way snow was spitting out of the January sky and
clogging streets and sidewalks, there was little business
at Ed’s Café that afternoon. Slowly Cassie straightened
her back and tried to ignore the ache in her hip where it
had struck the floor after Joe knocked her down.
‘Why shouldn’t he?’ Smiling, Regan Bishop loitered
over her mulligan stew and coffee. ‘He was born here,
wasn’t he?’
Even after three years as a resident and shopkeeper
of Antietam, Regan still didn’t understand the town’s
fascination with comings and goings. It appealed to and
amused her, but she didn’t understand it.
“Well, yeah, but he’s been gone so long. Only came
back for a day or so at a time, once or twice in ten whole
years.’ Cassie looked out the window, where the snow
fell thin and constant. And wondered where he had gone,
what he had seen, what he had done. Oh, she wondered
what there was out there.
“You look tired, Cassie, Regan murmured.
‘Hmm? No, just daydreaming. This keeps up, they’re
going to call school early. I told the kids to come straight
here if they did, but...’
‘Then that’s what they'll do. They’re great kids.’
‘They are.’ When she smiled, some of the weariness
lifted from her eyes.
“Why don’t you get a cup? Have some coffee with me?’
A scan of the café showed Regan there was a customer
in a back booth, dozing over his coffee, a couple at the
counter chatting over the stew special. ‘You're not exactly
overrun with business.’ Seeing Cassie hesitate, Regan

Nora Roberts 285
pulled out her trump. ‘You could fill me in on this Rafe
character.’
“Well.” Cassie nibbled on her lip. ‘Ed, I’m going to take
a break, okay?’
At the call, a bony woman ovat a frizzed ball of red
hair stuck her head out of the kitchen. Sparkling-framed
glasses rested on her scrawny chest, above her bib apron.
“You go ahead, honey.’ Her low voice rasped from two
packs of cigarettes a day. Her face was carefully painted
from red lips to red eyebrows, and glowed from the heat
of the stove. ‘Hey there, Regan. You’re fifteen minutes
over your lunch hour.’
‘I closed at noon,’ Regan told her, well aware that her
clocklike schedule amused Edwina Crump. ‘People aren’t
looking for antiques in this kind of weather.’
‘It’s been a hard winter.’ Cassie brought a cup to the
table and poured coffee for herself. “We’re not even
through January, and the kids are already getting tired
of sledding and making snowmen.’ She sighed, careful
not to wince when the bruise on her hip ached when she
sat. She was twenty-seven, a year younger than Regan.
She felt ancient.
After three years of friendship, Regan recognized the
signs. ‘Are things bad, Cassie?’ Keeping her voice low,
she laid a hand over Cassie’s. ‘Did he hurt you again?’
‘I’m fine.’ But Cassie kept her eyes on her cup. Guilt,
humiliation, fear, stung as much as a backhand slap. ‘I
don’t want to talk about Joe.’
‘Did you read the pamphlets I got you, about spousal
abuse, the women’s shelter in Hagerstown?’

286 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘I looked at them. Regan, I have two children. I have
to think of them first.’
‘But—’
‘Please.’ Cassie lifted her gaze. ‘I don’t want to talk
about it.’
‘All right.’ Struggling to hold back the impatience,
Regan squeezed her hand. ‘Tell me about bad boy Mac-
Kade.’
‘Rafe.’ Cassie’s face cleared. ‘I always had a soft spot
for him. All of them. There wasn’t a girl in town who
didn’t moon a few nights over the MacKade brothers.’
‘T like Devin.’ Regan sipped at her coffee. “He seems
solid, a little mysterious at times, but dependable.’
“You can count on Devin,’ Cassie agreed. “Nobody
thought any of them would turn out, but Devin makes
a fine sheriff. He’s fair. Jared has that fancy law prac-
tice in the city. And Shane, well, he’s rough around the
edges, but he works that farm like two mules. When they
were younger and they came barreling into town, moth-
ers locked up their daughters, and men kept their backs
to the wall.’ .
‘Real upstanding citizens, huh?’
‘They were young, and always seemed angry at some-
thing. Rafe most of all. The night he left town, Rafe and
Joe got into it over something. Rafe broke Joe’s nose and
knocked out a couple of his teeth.’
‘Really?’ Regan decided she might like this Rafe after
all.
“He was always looking for a fight, Rafe was. Their fa-
ther died when they were kids. I’d have been about ten,’

Nora Roberts 287
she mused. ‘Then their mama passed on, right before Rafe
left town. She’d been sick nearly a year. That’s how things
at the farm got so bad around then. Most people thought
the MacKades would have to sell out, but they held on.’
“Well, three of them did.’
‘Mmm...’ Cassie savored the coffee. It was so rare to
have a moment just to sit. ‘They were barely more than
boys. Jared would have been right about twenty-three,
and Rafe’s just ten months behind him. Devin’s about
four years older than me, and Shane’s a year behind him,’
“Sounds like Mrs. MacKade was a busy woman.’
‘She was wonderful. Strong. She held everything to-
gether, no matter how bad it got. I-always admired her.’
‘Sometimes you need to be strong to let things go,’
Regan murmured. She shook her head. She’d promised
herself she wouldn’t push. ‘So, what do you think he’s
come back for?’
‘I don’t know. They say he’s rich now. Made a pile buy-
ing land and houses and selling them again. He’s supposed
to have a company and everything. MacKade. That’s what
he calls it. Just MacKade. My mother always said he’d
end up dead or in jail, but...’
~ Her voice trailed off as she looked through the window.
‘Oh, my,’ she murmured. ‘Sharilyn was right.’
‘Hmm?’
‘He looks better than ever.’
Curious, Regan turned her head just as the door jingled
open. As black sheep went, she was forced to admit, this
one was a prime specimen.
He shook snow from thick hair the color of coal dust

288 The Return of Rafe MacKade
and shrugged off a black leather bomber jacket that wasn’t
meant for East Coast winters. Regan thought he had a
warrior’s face—the little scar, the unshaven chin, the
slightly crooked nose that kept that mouth-watering face
from being too pretty.
His body looked hard as granite, and his eyes, sharp
green, were no softer.
In worn flannel, torn jeans and scarred boots, he didn’t
look rich and successful. But he sure looked dangerous.
It amused and pleased Rafe to see Ed’s place was so
much the same. Those could be the same stools at the
counter that he’d warmed his seat on as a child, anticipat-
ing a sundae or a fountain drink. Surely those were the
same smells—grease, frying onions, the haze from Ed’s
constant cigarettes, an undertone of pine cleaner.
He was sure Ed would be back in the kitchen, flip-
ping burgers or stirring pots. And sure as hell that was
old man Tidas snoring in the back booth while his coffee
went cold. Just as he’d always done.
His eyes, cool, assessing, skimmed over the painfully
white counter, with its clear-plastic-topped plates of pies
and cakes, over the walls, with their black-and-white pho-
tos of Civil War battles, to a booth where two women sat
over coffee.
He saw a stranger. An impressive one. Honey brown
hair cut in a smooth chin-length swing that framed a face
of soft curves and creamy skin. Long lashes over dark and
coolly curious blue eyes. And a sassy little mole right at
the corner of a full and unsmiling mouth.

Nora Roberts — - 289
Picture-perfect, he thought. Just like something cut out
of a glossy magazine.
They studied each other, assessed each other as a man
or woman might assess a particularly attractive trinket
in a shop window. Then his gaze shifted to land on the
fragile little blonde with the haunted eyes and the hesi-
tant smile.
‘Son of a bitch.’ His grin flashed and upped the tem-
perature by twenty degrees. “Little Cassie Connor.’
‘Rafe. I heard you were back.’ The sound of her giggle
as Rafe plucked her from the booth had Regan’s brow lift-
ing. It was rare to hear Cassie laugh so freely.
‘Pretty as ever, he said, and kissed her full on the lips.
‘Tell me you kicked that idiot out and left the path clear
for me.’
She eased back, always fearful of wagging tongues.
‘I’ve got two kids now.’
‘A boy and a girl. I heard.’ He tugged the strap of her
bib apron, and thought with some concern that she’d lost
too much weight. ‘You’re still working here?’
“Yeah. Ed’s in the back.’
‘T’ll go see her in a minute.’ Resting a hand casually
on Cassie’s shoulder, he looked back at Regan. “‘Who’s
your pal?’
‘Oh, sorry. This is Regan Bishop. She owns Past Times,
an antique and decorating store a couple doors down.
Regan, this is Rafe MacKade.’
‘Of the MacKade brothers.’ She offered a hand. “Word’s
already traveled.’
‘I’m sure it has.’ He took her hand, held it, as iise yes

290 The Return of Rafe MacKade
held hers. ‘Antiques? That’s a coincidence. I’m in the
market.’
‘Are you?’ She’d risk her dignity if she tugged her hand
from his. From the gleam in his eye, she was sure he knew
it. ‘Any particular era?’
‘Mid-to-late-1800s—everything from soup to nuts. I’ve
got a three-story house, about twelve hundred square feet
to furnish. Think you can handle it?’
It took a lot of willpower for her to keep her jaw from
dropping. She did well enough with tourists and towns-
people, but a commission like this would easily triple her
usual income.
‘T’m sure I can,’
“You bought a house?’ Cassie said interrupting them.
‘I thought you'd be staying out at the farm.’
‘For now. The house isn’t for living in, not for me.
After some remodeling, restoring, I'll be opening it up
as a bed-and-breakfast. I bought the old Barlow place.’
Stunned, Cassie bobbled the coffeepot she’d fetched.
‘The Barlow place? But it’s—’
‘Haunted?’ A reckless light glinted in his eyes. ‘Damn
right it is. How about a piece of that pie to go with the
coffee, Cassie? I’ve worked up an appetite.’
Regan had left but Rafe had loitered for an hour, en-
tertained when Cassie’s kids burst in out of the snow. He
watched her fuss over them, scold the boy for forgetting
to put on his gloves, listened to the big-eyed little girl sol-
emnly relate the adventures of the day.
There was something sad, and somehow soothing,

Nora Roberts 29]
about watching the girl he remembered settling her two
children at a booth with crayons and books.
A lot had stayed the same over a decade. But a lot had
changed. He was well aware that news of his arrival was
even now singing over telephone wires. It pleased him.
He wanted the town to know he was back—and not with
his tail between his legs, as many had predicted.
He had money in his pocket now, and plans for the
future.
The Barlow place was the heart of his plans. He didn’t
subscribe to ghosts, under most circumstances, but the
house had certainly haunted him. Now it belonged to
him, every old stone and bramble—and whatever else it
held. He was going to rebuild it, as he had rebuilt himself.
One day he would stand at the top window and look
down on the town. He would prove to everyone—even
to Rafe MacKade—that he was somebody.
He tucked a generous tip under his cup, careful to
keep the amount just shy of one that would embarrass
Cassie. She was too thin, he thought, and her eyes were
too guarded. That weary fragility had been thrown into
sharp relief when she sat with Regan.
Now there was a woman, he mused, who knew how
to handle herself. Steady eyes, stubborn chin, soft hands.
She hadn’t so much as blinked when he offered her a shot
at furnishing an entire inn. Oh, he imagined her insides
had jolted, but she hadn’t blinked.
As aman who’d earned his keep on the wheel and deal,
he had to admire her for it. Time would tell if she’d hold
up to the challenge.

292 The Return of Rafe MacKade
And there was no time like the present.
‘That antique place, two doors down?’
‘That’s right.’ Cassie kept one eye on her children as
she brewed a fresh pot of coffee. ‘On the left. I don’t think
she’s open, though.’
Rafe shrugged into his jacket and grinned. ‘Oh, I bet
she is.’
He strolled out, hatless, jacket open, his footsteps muf-
fled by the cushioning snow. As he’d expected, the lights
were on inside Past Times. Instead of seeking shelter in-
side, he studied her window display and found it clever
and effective.
A sweep of blue brocade like a pool of shimmering
water flowed over varying levels. A bright-eyed porce-
lain doll sat on a child-size ladder-back rocker, an artful
tumble of antique toys at her feet. A snarling jade dragon
curled on a pedestal. A glossy mahogany jewelry box
stood open, glittery baubles spilling out of its drawers as
though a woman’s hands had slid through them in search
of just the right piece.
Perfume bottles were arranged in pretty sunbursts of
color on an enameled shelf.
Put the sparkles up front, he thought with a nod, and
rope the customers in.
Sleigh bells hung on the door tinkled musically when
he opened it. The air inside was spiced with cinnamon and
cloves and apples. And, he realized after a deep breath of
it, of Regan Bishop. The subtle and sultry perfume he’d
noted in the café just teased the air.
He took his time wandering. Furniture was meticu-

Nora Roberts 293
lously arranged for traffic patterns. A settee here, an
occasional table there. Lamps, bowls, vases, all doing
double duty as display and decoration. A dining room
table was gracefully set with china and glassware, candles
and flowers, as if guests were expected any moment. An
old Victrola stood open beside a cabinet filled with 78s.
There were three rooms, each as polished and orga-
nized as the last. Nowhere in her inventory did he notice
a single speck of dust. He paused by a kitchen hutch filled
with white stoneware dishes and blue-tinted mason jars.
‘It’s a nice piece,’ Regan said from behind him.
“We have one like this in the kitchen at the farm.’ He
didn’t turn. He’d known she was there. ‘My mother kept
the everyday dishes in it. White ones, like these. And
glasses. Thick ones that didn’t break easy. She threw one
at me once when I sassed her.’
‘Did she hit you?’
‘No. Would have if she’d meant to.’ Now he turned and
flashed that killer grin. ‘She had a hell of an arm. What
are you doing in the middle of nowhere, Regan Bishop?’
‘Selling my wares, Rafe MacKade.’
“Your wares aren’t half-bad. How much for the dragon
in the window?’
“You have excellent taste. It’s five-fifty.’
‘That’s steep, Regan.’ Reaching out, he slipped open
the single gold button of her navy blazer.
She found the little gesture oddly intimate, but refused
to comment on it. “You get what you pay for.’
‘If you’re smart, you can get more.’ He tucked his

294 The Return of Rafe MacKade
thumbs in the front pockets of his jeans and began to
wander again. ‘How long have you been in town?’
‘Three years last summer.’
‘From?’ When she didn’t answer, he glanced back,
lifted one of those sexy black brows. ‘Just making con-
versation, darling. I like to get a handle on the people I’m
doing business with.’
“We haven’t done any business, yet.’ She tucked her
hair behind her ear and smiled. ‘Darling.’
His laugh erupted, quick and charming. Little ripples of
response skidded up her spine. He was, she was sure, the
man every mother had ever warned her daughter about.
As tempting as it was, business was business. And it al-
ways came first.
‘I think I’m going to like you, Regan.’ He tilted his
head. ‘You sure are a looker.’
‘Making conversation again?’
‘An observation.’ With a smile hovering around his
mouth, he glanced down at her hands. She wore rings,
pretty, glittery stones and twists of gold. ‘Any of those
mean anything that’s going to get in my way?’
Her stomach fluttered. Her spine stiffened. ‘I’d say that
depends on which way you're heading.’
‘Nope, he declared. “You’re not married. You’d have
tossed that in my face. So.’ Satisfied, he sat on a red vel-
vet love seat, tossed his arm over the curved back. ‘Want
to sit down?’
‘No, thanks. Did you come in to do business, or to talk
me into bed?’
‘I never talk women into bed.’ He smiled at her.

Nora Roberts 295
No, she thought, he’d just have to flash that smile and
crook his finger.
‘Business, Regan.’ Relaxed, he crossed his booted feet.
‘For now, just business.’
‘All right. Then I'll offer you some hot cider.’
‘Tl take it.’
She moved through a doorway, into the back. Alone,
Rafe brooded for a moment. He hadn’t meant to be so
obvious, hadn’t realized he was quite so attracted. There
had been something about the way she stood there, in her
tailored blazer and tasteful jewelry, her eyes so cool and
amused, her scent just short of hot.
If he’d ever seen a woman who announced a thorny
road, it was Regan Bishop. Though he rarely chose the
smooth path, he had too much on his plate to take the
challenge.
Then she came back in on those long, glamorous legs,
that pretty swing of hair half curtaining her face.
What the hell, he thought, he could always make room
on his plate.
‘Thanks.’ He took the steaming enameled mug she of-
fered. ‘I figured on hiring a firm out of D.C. or Balti-
more, maybe taking some time to hunt through some
shops myself?’
‘I can acquire anything a firm in D.C. or Baltimore
can, and offer a better price.’ She hoped.
‘Maybe. The thing is, I like the idea of keeping the
business close to home. We’ll see what you can do.’ He
sipped the cider, found it hot and pungent. ‘What do you
know about the Barlow place?’

296 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘It’s falling apart. I think it’s a crime that nothing’s been
done to preserve it. This part of the country is usually
careful with its historic areas and buildings. But the town
ignores that place. If I had the means, I’d have bought it
myself.’
‘And you’d have gotten more than you bargained for.
The house is solid as rock. If it wasn’t so well built, it’d
be rubble by now. But, it needs work...’ he mused, and
began to picture it all in his head. ‘Floors to be leveled and
sanded and sealed, walls to be plastered or taken down,
windows replaced. The roof’s a mess.’
He brought himself back, shrugged. “That’s just time
and money. When it’s ready, I want to put it back the
way it looked in 1862, when the Barlows lived there and
watched the Battle of Antietam from their parlor window.’
‘Did they?’ Regan asked with a smile. ‘I’d have thought
they’d have been cowering in the root cellar.’
‘Not the way I imagine it. The rich and privileged
watching the show, maybe annoyed when cannon fire
cracked a window or the screams of the dead and dying
woke the baby from its nap.’
“You're a cynical one. Being rich wouldn’t mean you
wouldn’t feel horror if you had to watch men dying on
your front lawn.’
‘The heart of the battle didn’t get quite that close. Any-
way, that’s what I want—the right colors, trim, wallpaper,
furnishings, doodads. The works.’ He had an urge for a
cigarette and banked it. “How do you feel about redoing
a haunted house?’

Nora Roberts 297
‘Interested.’ She eyed him over the rim of her mug.
‘Besides, I don’t believe in ghosts.’
“You will before it’s done. I spent the night there once,
as a kid, with my brothers.’
‘Creaking doors, rattling chains?’
‘No.’ He didn’t smile now. ‘Except the ones Jared ar-
ranged to scare the guts out of the rest of us. There’s a
spot on the stairway that’ll turn your skin to ice. You
can smell smoke near the living room hearth. And you
can feel something looking over your shoulder when you
walk down the hallways. If it’s quiet enough, and you’re
listening, you can hear sabers clash.’
Despite herself, she couldn’t quite suppress a shud-
der. ‘If you’re trying to scare me off the commission,
you won't.’
‘Just laying out the blueprint. Ill want you to take a
look at the place, go through the rooms with me. We’ll
see what kind of ideas you have. Tomorrow afternoon
suit you? About two?’
‘That'll be fine. P’1l need to take measurements.’
‘Good.’ He set his mug aside, rose. ‘Nice doing busi-
ness with you.’
Again she accepted his hand. “Welcome home.’
‘Youre the first one who’s said it.’ Enjoying the irony,
he lifted her hand to his lips, watching her. “Then again,
you don’t know any better. See you tomorrow. And,
Regan,’ he added on his way to the door, ‘take the dragon
out of the window. I want it,’
On the way out of town, he pulled his car to the side
of the road and stopped. Ignoring the snow and the icy

298 The Return of Rafe MacKade
fingers of the wind, he studied the house on the rise of
the hill.
Its broken windows and sagging porches revealed
nothing, just as Rafe’s shadowed eyes revealed nothing.
Ghosts, he mused, while snow drifted silently around
him. Maybe. But he was beginning to realize that the
only ghosts he was trying to put to rest were inside him.

Chapter 2
The beauty of owning your own shop, as far as Regan
was concerned, was that you could buy and sell what you
chose, your hours were your own to make, and the atmo-
sphere was your own to create.
Still, being the sole proprietor and sole employee of
Past Times didn’t mean Regan Bishop tolerated any slack.
As her own boss, she was tough, often intolerant, and ex-
pected the best from her staff. As that staff, she worked
hard and rarely complained.
She had exactly what she’d always wanted—a home
and business in a small rural town, away from the pres-
sures and headaches of the city where she’d lived the first
twenty-five years of her life.
Moving to Antietam and starting her own business
had been part of her five-year plan after she graduated

300 The Return of Rafe MacKade
from American University. She had degrees in history
and business management tucked under her belt, and by
the time she donned cap and gown she’d already earned
five years experience in antiques.
Working for someone else.
Now she was the boss. Every inch of the shop and the
cozy apartment atop it was hers—and the bank’s. The
MacKade commission was going to go a long way to-
ward making her share a great deal larger.
The minute Rafe left the afternoon before, Regan had
locked up and dashed to the library. She’d checked out
an armload of books to supplement her own research
volumes.
By midnight, when her eyes had threatened to cross,
she had read and taken notes on every detail of life as it
applied to the Civil War era in Maryland.
She knew every aspect of the Battle of Antietam, from
Lee’s march to his retreat across the river, from McClel-
lan’s waffling to President Lincoln’s visit to a farm outside
Sharpsburg. She knew the number of dead and wounded,
the bloody progress over hill and through cornfield.
It was sad and standard information, and she’d stud-
ied it before. Indeed, her fascination with the battle and
the quiet area into which it had exploded had influenced
her choice of a home.
But this time she’d been able to find bits and pieces on
the Barlows—both fact and speculation. The family had
lived in the house on the hill for almost a hundred years
before that horrible day in September of 1862. Prosperous
landowners and businessmen, they had lived like lords.

Nora Roberts 301
Their balls and dinners had enticed guests from as far as
Washington and Virginia.
She knew how they had dressed—the frock coats and
lace and the hooped skirts. Silk hats and satin slippers.
She knew how they had lived, with servants pouring wine
into crystal goblets, their home decorated with hothouse
flowers, their furniture glowing with bee’s wax polish.
Now, negotiating snowy, windy roads under sparkling
sunlight, she could see exactly the colors and fabrics,
the furnishings and knickknacks that would have sur-
rounded them.
Chiffoniers of rosewood, she mused. Wedgwood china
and horsehair settees. The fine Chippendale chest-on-chest
for the master, the graceful cherrywood-and-beveled-glass
secretaire for his lady. Brocade portieres and rich Colo-
nial blue for the walls in the parlor.
Rafe MacKade was going to get his money’s worth.
And, oh, she hoped his pockets were deep.
The narrow, broken lane leading up to the house was
deep in snow. No tire tracks or handy plow had marred its
pretty, pristine—and very inconvenient—white blanket.
Annoyed that Rafe hadn’t taken care of that detail,
Regan eased her car onto the shoulder.
Armed with her briefcase, she began the long trudge
up.
At least she’d thought to wear boots, she told herself
as the snow crept past her ankles. She’d very nearly worn
a suit and heels—before she remembered that impress-
ing Rafe MacKade wasn’t on her agenda. The gray trou-
sers, tailored blazer and black turtleneck were acceptable

302 The Return of Rafe MacKade
business wear for an assignment such as this. And, as she
doubted the place was heated, the red wool coat would
come in handy, inside, as well as out.
It was a fabulous and intriguing place, she decided as
she crested the hill. All those flecks of mica in the stone,
glinting like glass in the sunlight, made up for the boarded
windows. The porches sagged, but the building itself rose
up tall and proud against the bitter blue sky.
She liked the way the east wing jutted off at a stern
angle. The way the trio of chimneys speared from the roof
as if waiting to belch smoke. She even liked the way the
broken shutters hung drunkenly.
It needed tending, she thought, with an affection that
surprised her. Someone to love it, and accept its charac-
ter for what it was. Someone who would appreciate its
strengths and understand its weaknesses.
She shook her head and laughed at herself. It sounded
as though she were thinking of a man—one, perhaps, like
Rafe MacKade—rather than a house.
She walked closer, through the deep, powdery drifts.
Rocks and overgrown brush made uneven lumps in the
snow, like children under blankets waiting to do mischief.
Brambles were sneaky enough to grab at her trousers with
sharp, wiry fingers. But once the lawn had been lush and
green and vivid with flowers.
If Rafe had any vision, it would be again.
Reminding herself that the landscaping was his prob-
lem, she puffed her way to the broken front porch.
He was, she thought with a scowl, late.
Regan looked around, stomped her feet for warmth and

Nora Roberts 303
glanced at her watch. The man could hardly expect her
to stand out in the cold and the wind and wait. Ten min-
utes, tops, she told herself. Then she would leave him a
note, a very firm note on the value of keeping appoint-
ments, and leave.
But it wouldn’t hurt to take a peek in the window.
Maneuvering carefully, she inched her way up the
steps, avoided broken planks. There should be wisteria
or morning glories climbing up the side arbor, she mused,
and for a moment she almost believed she could catch the
faint, sweet scent of spring.
She caught herself moving to the door, closing her hand
over the knob before she realized that had been her in-
tention all along. Surely it was locked, she thought. Even
small towns weren’t immune to vandals. But even as she
thought it, the knob turned freely in her hand.
It was only sensible to go in, out of the wind, begin
to site the job. Yet she pulled her hand back with a jerk.
Her breath was coming in gasps, shockingly loud on the
silent air. Inside her neat leather gloves, her hands were
icy and trembling.
Out of breath from the climb, she told herself. Stiver
ing from the wind. That was all. But the fear was on her
like a cat, hissing through her blood.
Embarrassed, she looked uneasily around. There was
no one to see her ridiculous reaction. Only snow and trees.
She took a deep breath, laughed at herself, and opened
the door.
It creaked, of course. That was to be expected. The
wide main hall gave her such a rush of pleasure, she for-

304 The Return of Rafe MacKade
got everything else. Closing the door, she leaned back
against it and sighed.
There was dust and mold, damp patches on the walls,
baseboards ruined by gnawing mice, spiderwebs draped
like filthy gauze. She saw rich, deep green paint, creamy
ivory trim, the buff and shine of waxed pine floors under
her feet, a runner blooming with cabbage roses.
And there, she thought a hunt table, with a Dresden
bowl spilling more roses, flanked by silver candlesticks.
A little walnut hall chair with a pierced back, a hammered
brass umbrella stand, a gilded mirror.
How it had been, and could be, spun through her mind,
and she didn’t feel the cold that sent her breath ahead of
her in clouds as she wandered.
In the parlor, she marveled over the Adam fireplace.
The marble was filthy, but undamaged. She had twin
vases in the shop that would be perfect for the mantel.
And a needlepoint footstool that was meant for weary
feet in front of this very hearth.
Delighted, she pulled out her notebook and got to work.
Cobwebs dragged through her hair, dirt smudged her
cheek, dust covered her boots, as she measured and plot-
ted. She was in heaven. Her mood was so high that when
she heard the footsteps, she turned with a smile instead
of a complaint.
‘It’s wonderful. I can hardly—’ She was talking to thin
air.
Frowning, she walked out of the parlor and into the
hall. She started to call out, then noted that there were
no footprints in the dust but her own.

Nora Roberts 305
Imagining things, she told herself, and shuddered. Big,
empty houses made all sorts of noises. Settling wood,
wind against the windows...rodents, she thought with a
grimace. She wasn’t afraid of mice or spiders or creak-
ing boards.
But when the floor groaned over her head, she couldn’t
muffle the shriek. Her heart flew straight to her throat
and beat like a bird’s. Before she’d managed to compose
herself again, she heard the unmistakable sound of a door
closing.
She was across the hall in a dash, fumbling for the
knob when it hit her.
_ Rafe MacKade.
Oh, he thought he was clever, she thought furiously.
Sneaking into the house ahead of her, creeping through
the back, she imagined. He was up there right now, dou-
bled over at the idea of her bolting from the house like
some idiotic Gothic heroine with a heaving bosom.
Not on your life, she thought determinedly, and
straightened her shoulders. She thrust her chin up and
marched to the curving stairs.
‘You're not funny, MacKade,’ she called out. ‘Now,
if you’ve finished your pathetic little joke, I’d like to get —
some work done.’
When the cold spot hit her, she was too shocked to
move. The hand she’d gripped on the rail went numb with
it, her face froze with it. There, halfway up the graceful
sweep of stairs, she swayed. It was her own whimper that
broke her free. She was up to the first landing in four
effortless strides.

306 The Return of Rafe MacKade
A draft, she told herself, cursing her own sobbing
breaths. Just a nasty draft.
‘Rafe.’ Her voice broke, infuriating her. Biting her lip,
she stared down the long hallway, at the closed and secre-
tive doors that lined it. ‘Rafe,’ she said again, and strug-
gled to put irritation in her voice, rather than nerves. ‘I
have a schedule to keep, even if you don’t, so can we get
on with this?’
The sound of wood scraping wood, the violent slam of
a door, and a woman’s heartbroken weeping. Pride for-
gotten, Regan flew down thestairs. She’d nearly reached
the bottom when she heard the shot.
Then the door she’d rushed to meet groaned slowly
open.
The room whirled once, twice, then vanished.
‘Come on, darling, snap out of it.’
Regan turned her head, moaned, shivered.
‘All the way out, pal. Open those big blue eyes for me.’
The voice was so coaxing, she did. And found herself
looking into Rafe’s.
‘It wasn’t funny.’
A bit dizzy with relief, he smiled and stroked her cheek.
‘What wasn’t?”
‘Hiding upstairs to scare me.’ She blinked to bring
the world back into sharp focus and discovered she was
cradled on his lap on the window seat in the parlor. ‘Let
me up.’
‘I don’t think so. You're still a little shaky on your pins.

Nora Roberts 307
Just relax a minute.’ He shifted her expertly so that her
head rested in the crook of his arm.
‘l’m fine.’
“You're white as a sheet. If I had a flask, I’d pour some
brandy into you. Never saw a woman faint as gracefully,
though. You sort of drifted down, gave me a chance to
catch you before your head knocked against the floor.’
‘If you expect me to thank you, forget it.’ She shoved,
found him unmovable. ‘It’s your fault.’
‘Thanks. It’s flattering to think the sight of me has a
woman dropping at my feet. There.’ He traced a finger
down her cheek again. ‘That brought some color back.’
‘If this is the way you do business, you can take your
job and—’ She ground her teeth. “Let me up.’
‘Let’s try this.’ Lifting her, he plopped her down on the
seat beside him. ‘Hands off, he added, lifting his. “Now
why don’t you tell me why you're ticked off at me?’
Pouting, she brushed at her smudged trousers. “You
know very well.’
‘All I know is, I walked in the door and saw you doing
a swan dive.’
‘T’ve never fainted in my life.’ And she was thoroughly
mortified that she had done so now—in front of him. ‘If
you want me to work on this house, scaring me into un-
consciousness isn’t the way to do it.’
He studied her, reached into his pocket for the ciga-
rettes he’d given up exactly eight days before. “How did
I scare you?’
‘By walking around upstairs, opening and closing
doors, making those ridiculous noises.’

308 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘Maybe I should start off by telling you I got held up at
the farm. I didn’t leave until fifteen minutes ago.’
‘I don’t believe you.’
‘I don’t blame you.’ If he wasn’t going to smoke, he
had to move. Rising, he strolled over to the hearth. He
thought he caught a whiff of smoke, as from a fire that
had recently died. ‘Shane was there—and so was Cy Mar-
tin. He’s mayor now.’
‘I know who Cy Martin is,’ she said testily.
“You should have known him in high school, Rafe
mused. ‘He was a complete ass. Anyway, Cy dropped
by to see if Shane could plow his lane. He was still there
when I left. Fifteen minutes ago. I borrowed Shane’s four-
wheel to make the hill. Parked it and came to the door in
time to see your eyes roll back in your head.’
He walked back to her, stripped off his coat and tucked
it over her legs. “By the way, how’d you get in?’
‘I— She stared at him, swallowed. ‘I opened the door.’
‘It was locked.’
‘No, it wasn’t.’
Lifting a brow, he jingled the keys in his pocket. “That’s
interesting.’
“You're not lying,’ she said after a moment.
‘Not this time. Why don’t you tell me what you heard?’
‘Footsteps. But there was no one there.’ To warm them,
she tucked her hands under his coat. ‘Boards creaking up-
stairs. I started up. It was cold, bitterly cold, and it fright-
ened me, so I went to the landing.’
“You were scared, so you went up instead of out?’
‘I thought you were up there. I was going to yell at you.’

Nora Roberts 309
Her smile was weak, but it was there. ‘I was furious that
you’d managed to make me jump. Then I looked down
the hallway. I guess I knew you weren’t there. I heard
wood scrape, and a door slam hard and someone crying.
Then I bolted.’
He sat beside her again, put his arm around her shoul-
ders in a friendly squeeze. ‘Who wouldn’t?’
‘A shot,’ she remembered. ‘I was almost down the stairs
when I heard a gunshot. It made my ears ring. Then the
door opened, and lights-out.’
‘I shouldn’t have been late.’ Unexpectedly, he leaned
over and gave her a quick, casual kiss. ‘Sorry.’
‘That’s hardly the point.’
‘The thing is, some people feel things in this place,
some don’t. You struck me as the cool, practical type,’
She folded her arms over her chest. ‘Oh, really?’
‘Single-minded,’ he added with a grin. ‘It seems you
have more imagination than I expected. Feeling better
now?’
‘I’m fine.’
‘Sure you don’t want to sit on my lap again?’
‘Quite sure, thank you.’
With his eyes on hers, he brushed a cobweb from her
hair. ‘Want to get out of here?’
‘Absolutely.’
He picked up his coat. ‘I’d like to take you somewhere.’
‘That isn’t necessary. I said I was...’ She stood and,
as he held his ground, bumped into his chest. ‘Fine,’ she
managed.
‘Business, darling.’ He tucked her hair behind her ear,

310 The Return of Rafe MacKade
flicked a finger over the square-cut aquamarine at the
lobe. ‘For the moment. I think we can find someplace a
little warmer and more hospitable to hash out the details.’
_ That was reasonable, she decided. Perfectly sensible.
‘All right.’
She picked up her briefcase and walked ahead of him
to the door.
‘Regan?’
‘¥es??
“Your face is dirty.’ He laughed at the smoldering look
she shot at him, then scooped her up in his arms. Even
as she stuttered a protest, he carried her over the broken
porch. ‘Got to watch your step,’ he told her, setting her
on her feet next to a Jeep.
‘T make a habit of it.’
‘I bet you do,’ he murmured as he rounded the hood.
He maneuvered his way down the lane, circled a
her car and kept going.
‘I thought I’d follow you,’ she began.
‘Since I don’t think you mean to the ends of the earth,
let’s just take one car. I’ll bring you back,’
‘From?’
‘Home, sweet home, darling.’
In the snow, with the sun glazing the white fields, the
MacKade farm was Currier and Ives pretty. A stone house
with covered porch, an arched roof on the red barn, weath-
ered outbuildings and a pair of golden dogs, barking and
yipping and kicking up snow completed the scene—one
that appealed to Regan.

Nora Roberts Sil
She’d driven past the MacKade place countless times—
when the fields were brown and furrowed from the plow,
when they were high with hay and corn. She’d even
stopped once or twice when Shane was riding his trac-
tor, and thought how completely suited he seemed to be
to the land.
She couldn’t picture Rafe MacKade in the same scene.
“You didn’t come back to farm, I imagine.’
‘Hell, no. Shane loves it, Devin tolerates it. Jared looks
on it as an ongoing enterprise.’
She tilted her head as he parked the Jeep beside his
car. ‘And you?’
‘Hate it.’
‘No ties to the land?’
‘T didn’t say that. I said I hated farming.’ Rafe hopped
out of the Jeep, clucking at the leaping golden retrievers.
Before Regan could step down into the foot-deep snow,
he’d plucked her up.
‘I wish you’d stop that. I’m perfectly capable of walk-
ing through a little snow.’
‘City boots. Pretty enough, though,’ he commented as
he carried her onto the porch. “You’ve got little feet. Stay
out,’ he ordered the dogs. Smoothly he opened the door,
elbowed it aside and carried her in.
‘Hey, Rafe, what you got there?’
Grinning, Rafe shifted Regan in his arms and winked
at Shane. “Got me a female.’
‘Good-looking one, too.’ Shane tossed the log he held
onto the fire, straightened. His eyes, the color of fog over
seawater, warmed in appreciation. ‘Hi there, Regan.’

312 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘Shane.’
‘Any coffee hot?’ Rafe asked.
‘Sure.’ Shane kicked the log into place with his boot.
‘Kitchen’s never closed.’
‘Fine. Now get lost.’
‘Well, that was certainly rude.’ Regan blew her hair
out of her eyes as Rafe carted her down the hall and into
the kitchen.
“You're an only child, right?’
“Yes, but—’
‘Figured.’ He dropped her into one of the cane chairs
at the kitchen table. ‘What do you take in your coffee?’
‘Nothing—black.’
‘What a woman.’ He stripped off his coat, tossed it over
a peg by the back door, where his brother’s heavy work
jacket already hung. From a glass-fronted cupboard, he
chose two glossy white mugs. “Want anything to go with
it? Some hopeful woman’s always baking Shane cookies.
It’s that pretty, innocent face of his.’
‘Pretty, maybe. You're all pretty.’ She shrugged out of
her coat with a murmur of appreciation for the warmth
of the room. ‘And I’ll pass on the cookies.’
He set a steaming mug in front of her. Out of habit, he
turned a chair around and straddled it. ‘So, are you going
to pass on the house, too?’
Biding her time, she studied her coffee, sampled it, and
found it superb. “I have a number of pieces in stock that I
think you'll find more than suitable when you're ready to
furnish. I also did some research on the traditional color
schemes and fabrics from that era.’

Nora Roberts 313
‘Is that a yes or a no, Regan?’
‘No, I’m not going to pass.’ She lifted her gaze to his.
‘And it’s going to cost you.’
“You're not worried?’
‘I didn’t say that, exactly. But now I know what to ex-
pect. I can guarantee I won’t be fainting at your feet a
second time.’
‘T’d just as soon you didn’t. You scared the life out of
me.’ He reached over to play with the fingers of the hand
she’d laid on the table. He liked the delicacy of them, and
the glint of stones and gold. ‘In your research, did you
dig up anything on the two corporals?’
‘The two corporals?’
“You should have asked old lady Metz. She loves tell-
ing the story. What kind of watch is this?’ Curious, Rafe
flicked a finger under the twin black elastic bands.
‘Circa 1920. Elastic and marcasite. What about the cor-
porals?’
‘It seems these two soldiers got separated from their
regiments during the battle. The cornfield east of here
was thick with smoke, black powder exploding. Some of
the troops were engaged in the trees, others just lost or
dying there.’
‘Some of the battle took place here, on your fields?’
she asked.
‘Some of it. The park service has markers up. Any-
way, these two, one Union, one Confederate, got sepa-
rated. They were just boys, probably terrified. Bad luck
brought them together in the woods that form the bound-
ary between MacKade land and Barlow.’

314 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘Oh. Thoughtful, she dragged her hair back. ‘Td for-
gotten the properties border each other.’
‘It’s less than a half mile from this house to the Barlow
place through the trees. Anyway, they came face-to-face.
If either of them had had any sense, they’d have run for
cover and counted their blessings. But they didn’t. He
lifted his mug again. ‘They managed to put holes in each
other. Nobody can say who crawled off first. The Reb
made it as far as the Barlow house. Odds are he was half-
dead already, but he managed to crawl onto the porch.
One of the servants saw him and, being a Southern sym-
pathizer, pulled him inside. Or maybe she just saw a kid
bleeding to death and did what she thought was right.’
‘And he died in the house, Regan murmured, wishing
she couldn’t see it so clearly.
“Yeah. The servant ran off to get her mistress. That was
Abigail O’Brian Barlow, of the Carolina O’Brians. Abi-
gail had just given orders for the boy to be taken upstairs,
where she could treat his wounds. Her husband came out.
He shot the kid, right there on the stairway.’
Sadness jolted straight into horror. ‘Oh, my God!
Why?’
‘No wife of his was going to lay her hands on a Reb.
She herself died two years later, in her room. Story is that
she never spoke a word to her husband again—not that
they had much to say to each other before. It was sup-
posed to be one of those arranged marriages. Rumor was
he liked to knock her around.’
‘In other words,’ Regan said tightly, ‘he was a prince
among men.’

Nora Roberts 315
‘That’s the story. She was delicate, and she was mis-
erable.’
‘And trapped,’ Regan murmured, thinking of Cassie.
‘I don’t suppose people talked much about abuse back
then. Divorce...’ He shrugged. ‘Probably not an option
in her circumstances. Anyway, shooting that boy right
in front of her must have been the straw, you know. The
last cruelty she could take. But that’s only half of it. The
half the town knows.’
‘There’s more.’ She let out a sigh and rose. ‘I think I
need more coffee.’
‘The Yank stumbled off in the opposite direction, Rafe
continued, murmuring a thank you when she poured him
a second cup. ‘My great-grandfather found him passed out
by the smokehouse. My great-grandfather lost his oldest
son at Bull Run—he’d died wearing Confederate gray.’
Regan shut her eyes. ‘He killed the boy.’
‘No. Maybe he thought about it, maybe he thought
about just leaving him there to bleed to death. But he
picked him up and brought him into the kitchen. He and
his wife, their daughters, doctored him on the table. Not
this one,’ Rafe added with a small smile.
‘That’s reassuring.’
‘He came around a few times, tried to tell them some-
thing. But he was too weak. He lasted the rest of that day
and most of the night, but he was dead by morning.’
‘They’d done everything they could’
‘Yeah, but now they had a dead Union soldier in their
kitchen, his blood on their floor. Everyone who knew
them knew that they were staunch Southern sympathiz-

316 The Return of Rafe MacKade
ers who'd already lost one son to the cause and had two
more still fighting for it. They were afraid, so they hid
the body. When it was dark, they buried him, with his
uniform, his weapon, and a letter from his mother in his
pocket.’
He looked at her then, his eyes cool and steady. “That’s
why this house is haunted, too. I thought you’d be inter-
ested.’
She didn’t speak for a moment, set her coffee aside.
“Your house is haunted?’
‘The house, the woods, the fields. You get used to it,
the little noises, the little feelings. We never talked about
it much; it was just there. Maybe you’d get a sense of
something in the woods at night, or in the fields, when
the morning was misty and too quiet.’ He smiled a little
at the curiosity in her eyes. ‘Even cynics feel something
when they’re standing on a battlefield. After my mother
died, even the house seemed...restless. Or maybe it was
just me.’
‘Is that why you left?’
‘T had lots of reasons for leaving.’
‘And for coming back?’
‘One or two. I told you the first part of the story be-
cause I figured you should understand the Barlow place,
since you're going to be involved with it. And I told you
the rest...’ He reached over and loosened the duo of black
buttons on her blazer. “Because I’m going to be staying at
the farm for a while. Now you can decide if you want me
to bring you here, or if you’d rather I come to your place.’
‘My inventory’s at the shop, so—’

Nora Roberts 317
‘Tm not talking about your inventory.’ He cupped her
chin in his hand, kept his eyes open and on hers when
he kissed her.
Softly at first, testing. Then with a murmur of satis-
faction, deeper, so that her lips parted and warmed. He
watched her lashes flutter, felt her breath sigh out and into
his mouth, felt the pulse just under her jaw, just under his
fingers, throb. The smoky scent of her skin was a seduc-
tive contrast to her cool-water taste.
Regan kept her hands gripped tight in her lap. It was
shocking how much she wanted to use them on him. To
drag them through his hair, to test the muscles under that
faded flannel shirt. But she didn’t. Her mind might have
blurred for just an instant with astonished pleasure, even
more astonishing greed, but she managed to hold on to
her focus.
When he leaned back, she kept her hands where they
were and gave herself time to level her voice. “We’re busi-
ness associates, not playmates.’
“We have business,’ he agreed.
‘Would you have pulled that maneuver if ’'d been a
man?’
He stared at her. The chuckle started low, bloomed into
a full laugh while she squirmed at the ridiculous way
she’d phrased the question.
‘I can give you a definite no on that one. I figure in that
case you probably wouldn’t have kissed me back, either.’
‘Look, let’s clear this up. I’ve heard all about the Mack-
ade brothers and how they’re irresistible to women.’
‘It’s been a curse all our lives.’

318 The Return of Rafe MacKade
She would not smile—even if she had to clamp her
teeth together. ‘The point is, I’m not interested in a quick
roll, an affair, or a relationship—which should cover any
and all possibilities.’
Damned if she wasn’t even more alluring when she
went prim. ‘I’m going to enjoy changing your mind. Why
don’t we start with the quick roll and work our way up
from there?’
She rose sharply and pulled her coat on. ‘In your
dreams.’
“You're right about that. Why don’t I take you out to
dinner?’
‘Why don’t you take me back to my car?’
‘All right.” Unoffended, he got up to pluck his coat
from the peg. After he’d shrugged it on, he reached out
and flipped her hair out from the collar of hers. ‘Nights
are long and cold this time of year.’
‘Get a book,’ she suggested on her way down the hall.
‘Sit by the fire,’
‘Is that what you do?’ He shook his head. ‘I’m going
to have to add a little excitement to your life.’
‘T like my life just fine, thanks. Don’t pick me—’ The
order ended with an oath as he scooped her up. ‘Mac-
Kade,’ she said with a sigh as he carried her to the Jeep,
‘Tm beginning to think you’re as bad as everyone says.’
‘Count on it,

Chapter 3
It was a good sound. The thud of hammers, the buzz of
saws, the whir of drills. Through it came the jingle of a
radio set to country music, so that Wynonna wailed over
the clomp of boots and male voices.
It was a noise, the music of labor, that Rafe had known
all of his life. This was different from the clatter of the
milking barn, the hum of a tractor in the field. He pre-
ferred it. He’d chosen it the day he left Antietam.
Construction work had probably saved him. He had
no problem admitting he’d been looking to rumble when
he roared out of Washington County a decade before on
his secondhand Harley. But he’d needed to eat, so he’d
needed to work.
He’d strapped on a tool belt and sweated out the worst —
of the frustration.

320 The Return of Rafe MacKade
He still remembered when he’d stepped back and
looked at the first house he’d had a part in building. It had
come to him in a flash that he could make something that
mattered. And that he could make something of himself.
So he’d saved, and he’d sweated, and he’d learned.
The first place he’d bought, in central Florida, was little
more than a shack. He’d choked on drywall dust, ham-
mered until his muscles wept with the strain. But he’d
made a profit, and used that to buy again. To sell again.
In four years, the tiny shoestring company called
MacKade had earned a reputation for reliable, quality
work.
Still, he’d never stopped looking back. Now, stand-
ing in the parlor of the Barlow place, he understood he’d
come full circle.
He was going to make something in the town he’d
been so hell-bent to escape from. Whether he stayed or
not after he was done was undecided. But he would, at
least, have left his mark.
Hunkered down in front of the fireplace, Rafe studied
the stone hearth. He’d already gone to work on the chim-
ney, and was covered with soot and grime. She’d draw,
he thought with satisfaction. The first thing he was going
to do, when the new lining was installed to bring it up
to code, was build a fire. He wanted to watch the flames
and warm his hands on them.
He wanted just the right andirons, the right screen. He
could depend on Regan for that.
With a little smile, he picked up his trowel to mix a

Nora Roberts 327
bucket of mortar. He had a feeling Regan could be de-
pended on for most anything.
With care, precision and enjoyment, he began to re-
point the stone.
‘I figured the boss would be sitting at a desk, running
figures.’
Rafe glanced back and lifted a brow. Jared stood in the
center of the room, his gleaming black shoes resting on a
spattered drop cloth. For some reason, his black Wayfarer
shades didn’t look out of place with his gray pin-striped
three-piece suit.
‘That stuff’s for lawyers and bookkeepers.’
Jared took off the sunglasses and tucked them into the
pocket of his suit jacket. ‘And think what the world would
be without them.’
‘Simpler.’ Rafe stuck his trowel in the mortar and gave
his brother a once-over. ‘On your way to a funeral?’
‘I had business in town, thought I’d drop by and see
how things are going.’ He glanced around the room, then
back toward the hall when something crashed, someone
cursed. ‘So, how’s it going?’
‘Steady.’ Rafe sighed when Jared took out a slim cigar.
‘Blow some of that over here, will you? I quit ten really
long days ago.’
‘Reforming yourself?’ Obligingly, Jared walked over,
crouched. He smoked lazily as he and Rafe frowned
meaningfully at the stone. “Not too shabby.’
Rafe knocked a fist against the rose-grained marble.
‘An Adam, pal.’

322 The Return of Rafe MacKade
Jared grunted, clamped the cigar between his teeth.
‘Need a hand around here?’
Blandly Rafe looked down. ‘You’re wearing your law-
yer shoes.’
‘I meant over the weekend.’
‘I can always use another back.’ Pleased with the offer,
Rafe picked up the trowel again. ‘How’s yours?’
‘As good as yours.’
‘Still working out?’ He gave Jared’s biceps a testing
punch. ‘I still say gyms are for sissies.’
Jared blew out a stream of smoke. ‘Want to go a round,
bro?’
‘Sure, when you're not dressed so pretty.’ To torture
himself, Rafe sucked in secondhand smoke. ‘I appreciate
you handling the settlement on this place for me.’
“You haven’t got my bill, yet.’ Grinning, Jared straight-
ened. ‘I thought you were crazy when you called and told
me to go after it. Then I did a walk-through.’ He turned,
still grinning. ‘And I knew you were crazy. You practi-
cally stole the place, but I figure it’s got to cost you two
times the purchase price to make it livable.’
‘Three times,’ Rafe said mildly, ‘to make it the way I
want it.’
“How do you want it?’
‘The way it was.’ Rafe scraped the edge of his trowel
over stone, leveling his mortar.
‘That’s always a tough one,’ Jared murmured. ‘You
don’t seem to be having a problem with labor. I wondered
if you would, considering the place’s rep.’
‘Money talks. Lost a plumber’s assistant this morning,

Nora Roberts 323
though.’ Wicked amusement sparkled in his eyes. ‘They
were checking pipes in one of the second-floor johns.
This guy claims someone clamped a hand on his shoul-
der. He was still running when he made it to the road.
Don’t guess he’ll be back.’
‘Any other problems?’
‘Nothing I need a lawyer for. Did you hear the one
about the lawyer and the rattlesnake?’
‘lve heard them all,’ Jared said dryly. ‘I keep a file.’
With a chuckle, Rafe wiped his hands on his jeans. ‘You
did good, Jare. Mom would’ve liked seeing you duded up
like that.’ For a moment, he said nothing. There was only
the scrape of trowel on stone. ‘It’s weird, staying at the
farm. Mostly just me and Shane. Devin spends half his
nights on a cot in the sheriff’s office. You’re in that fancy
little town house in the city. When I hear Shane get up
in the morning, it’s still dark. The idiot’s whistling, like
going out to milk in January’s just a boatload of laughs.’
‘He’s always loved it. He’s kept that place alive.’
‘T know.’ :
~ He recognized the tone, shook his head at it. “You did
your part, Rafe. The money you sent back made a differ-
ence.’ Eyes shadowed, Jared stared out the grimy win-
dow. ‘I’m thinking of selling the place in Hagerstown.’
When Rafe said nothing, Jared moved his shoulders. ‘It
seemed practical to keep it after the divorce. The market
was soft, and we’d only built up a couple years’ equity.
Barbara didn’t want it.’ |
‘Still sore?’

324 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘No. The divorce is three years past, and God knows
it was civilized. We just didn’t like each other anymore.’
‘T never liked her.’
Jared’s lips quirked. ‘I know. Anyway, I’m thinking of
selling, hanging out at the farm for a while, until I find
the right place.’
‘Shane would like that. So would I. I missed you.’ Rafe
swiped a grimy hand over his grimy chin. ‘I didn’t realize
how much until I got back.’ Satisfied with the repointing,
he scraped his trowel on the edge of the bucket. ‘So, you
want to put in some honest labor on Saturday?’
“You buy the beer.’
Rafe nodded, rose. ‘Let’s see your hands, city boy.’
Jared’s response was crude, simple, and uttered just as
Regan stepped into the room.
‘Nice mouth, Counselor, Rafe said with an easy smile.
‘Hello, darling.’
‘Tm interrupting.’
‘No. The guy from the gutter here’s my brother Jared,’
‘I know. He’s my lawyer. Hello, Jared.’
‘Regan.’ Jared found an empty can of soda and doused
the stub of his cigar. ‘How’s business?’
‘Picking up, thanks to your little brother. I have some
estimates, figures, suggestions, paint and fabric samples,’
she said to Rafe. ‘I thought you’d like to look them over,’
“You’ve been busy.’ He crouched again, flipped over
the top of a small cooler. ‘Want a drink?’
‘No, thanks.’
‘Jare?’
‘One for the road. I’ve got another appointment.’ Jared

Nora Roberts 32)
caught the canned soft drink on the fly, then took his
sunglasses out of his pocket. ‘T’ll let you two get down
to business. Nice to see you again, Regan.’
‘Saturday, Rafe called out as Jared left the room.
“Seven-thirty. That’s a.m., pal. And lose the suit.’
‘I didn’t mean to chase him off, Regan began.
“You didn’t. Want to sit down?’
“Where?’
He patted an overturned bucket.
‘That’s very gracious of you, but I can’t stay. I’m on
my lunch hour.’
“The boss isn’t going to dock you.’
‘She certainly will.’ Opening her briefcase, Regan
took out two thick folders. ‘Everything’s in here. Once
you have a chance to look through it, let me know.’ For
lack of anywhere better, she set the files across two saw-
horses. She looked back over her shoulder, toward the
hall. “You’ve certainly jumped right in’
‘When you know what you want, there’s no point in
wasting time. So how about dinner?’
She looked back, narrowed her eyes. ‘Dinner?’
‘Tonight. We can go over your files.’ He tapped a finger
against them, left a smudge of soot. ‘Save time.’
‘Oh.’ Still frowning, she combed her fingers through
her hair. ‘I suppose.’
‘How’s seven? We'll go to the Lamplighter.’
‘The where?’
‘The Lamplighter. The little place off of Main, at
Church Street.’

326 The Return of Rafe MacKade
She tilted her head as she visualized the town. ‘There’s
a video store at Main and Church.’
He jammed his hands in his pockets with an oath.
‘Used to be a restaurant. Your place used to be a hard-
ware store.’
‘I guess even small towns have their changes.’
‘Yeah.’ He couldn’t have said why it annoyed him.
‘Like Italian?’
“Yes. But the closest Italian place is across the river,
into West Virginia. We can just meet at Ed’s,’
‘No. Italian. P’1l come by about six-thirty.’ Needing to
gauge his time, he pulled a watch from his pocket. “Yeah,
I can do six-thirty.’
‘That’s a nice one.’ Without thinking, she crossed over,
took his wrist gingerly in two fingers to get a better look
at the pocket watch. ‘Hmm... American Watch Company,
mid-1800s.’ Already appraising, she turned the watch over
to study the case. ‘Sterling, good condition. I’ll give you
seventy-five for it.’
‘T paid ninety.’
She laughed and shook back her hair. ‘Then you got a
hell of a bargain. It’s worth a hundred and fifty.’ Her gaze
danced up to his. “You don’t look like the pocket-watch
type.’
“Wear one on your wrist on the job, they end up
smashed.’ He wanted to touch her. She looked so neat
and tidy that the idea of mussing her up was enormously
appealing. ‘Damn shame my hands are filthy.’
Alerted, she released his wrist, brushed one hand
against the other. ‘So’s your face. But you’re still pretty,’

Nora Roberts B27
After shifting her briefcase strap more comfortably on
her shoulder, she stepped back. ‘Six-thirty, then. Don’t
forget the files.’
She’d changed three times before she caught herself. A
business dinner, Regan thought as she dropped down on
the padded stool of her vanity, was a business dinner. Her
appearance was certainly important, but it was secondary.
She bit her lip and wondered if she should have gone
with the little black dress, after all.
No, no, no. Annoyed with herself, she snatched up her
brush. Simplicity was best. The restaurant in West Vir-
ginia was casual, family-style. The purpose was profes-
sional. The blazer, slacks and silk blouse in forest green
were right. There was no harm in jazzing it up with the
moonstone lapel pin. But maybe the earrings were wrong.
She could go with plain gold hoops instead of the more
dramatic dangles.
The hell with it. She dropped her brush, then tugged
on her suede ankle boots. She would not fall into the trap
of thinking of this as a date. She didn’t want to date Rafe
MacKade. Just now, with her business showing real prom-
ise, she didn’t want to date anyone.
A relationship, if indeed she decided to cultivate one,
was three years down the road. Minimum. She would
never make the mistake her mother had and depend on
someone else for emotional and financial support. First,
she would make certain she was solvent, solid and se-
cure. And then, if and when she chose, she would think
about sharing her life.

328 The Return of Rafe MacKade
No one was going to tell her if she could work or not.
She would never have to cajole an extra few dollars out of
a man to buy a new dress. Maybe it suited her parents to
live that way—and they’d certainly always seemed happy
enough. But that wasn’t the life Regan Bishop wanted.
It was just too damned bad that Rafe was so danger-
ously attractive. And, she noted when she heard the knock
on the door, prompt.
Confident again after the quick pep talk, she walked
out of the bedroom, through the small, cozily furnished
living room, and opened the door.
And, oh, she thought one last time, it was really too
bad.
He flashed that grin at her, and those wonderful green
eyes swept down, then up. ‘Looking good.’ Before she
could think to avoid it, his mouth brushed hers.
‘lll get my coat,’ she began, then stopped, the door
still open to the wind. “What are those?’
‘These?’ He jostled the bags he carried. ‘These are din-
ner. Where’s your kitchen?’
‘I—’ He was already in, kicking the door behind him.
‘I thought we were going out.’
‘No, I said we were having Italian.’ He took quick stock
of the room. Lady chairs, gleaming tables, pretty little
knickknacks and fresh flowers. All female, he mused.
And the portrait of a gloomy-faced cow above the sofa
added wit. ‘Nice place.’
‘Are you telling me you’re cooking me dinner?’
‘It’s the quickest way, without physical contact, to get
a woman into bed. The kitchen through there?’

Nora Roberts 329
When she’d managed to close her mouth, she followed
him into the galley-style kitchen off the dining el. ‘Doesn’t
that depend on how well you cook?’
Appreciating her response, he smiled as he began pull-
ing ingredients out of the bags. ‘You'll have to tell me.
Got a skillet?’
“Yes, I have a skillet.’ She took a large cast-iron pan
from its cupboard, then lips pursed, tapped it against her
palm.
“You conk me with it, you'll miss out on my ziti with
tomato and basil.’
‘Ziti?’ After running her tongue around her teeth, she
set the skillet on a burner. ‘I’I] wait until after I eat.’ She
got out a second pot for the pasta and handed it to him.
Once he’d added water and set it to boil, she watched
him wash greens for a salad.
‘Where’d you learn to cook?’
“We all cook. Chef’s knife? My mother didn’t believe
there was women’s work and men’s work. Thanks,’ he
added and began chopping with a quick, negligent flair
that had Regan lifting her brows. ‘There was just work,’
he continued.
‘Ziti doesn’t sound like farm food.’
‘She had an Italian grandmother. Can you stand a lit-
tle closer?’
‘Hmm?’
“You smell good. I like to smell you.’
Ignoring that, and the little twist in her stomach, she
picked up the wine he’d brought along. “Why don’t I open
this?’

330 The Return of Rafe MacKade
“Why don’t you?’
After she’d set it on the counter to breathe, she scooted
behind him to reach the cupboard to get a salad bowl.
When he asked for music, she slipped back into the living
room and put Count Basie on low. Why, she wondered,
did a man look so sexy with his sleeves rolled up, grat-
ing carrots into a salad?
‘Don’t open that olive oil,’ she told him. ‘I have some.’
“Extra we
‘Of course.’ She tapped a long-spouted copper pitcher
on the counter.
‘Count Basie, your own olind oil.” His eyes met hers,
laughed. ‘Want to get married?’
‘Sure. I’ve got time on Saturday.’ Amused that he didn’t
have such a quick comeback for that, she reached over-
head for wineglasses.
‘I was planning on working Saturday.’ Watching her,
he set the salad aside.
That’s what they all say.’
Lord, she was one terrific piece of work. He moved
closer as she poured the wine. ‘Tell me you like watch-
ing baseball on TV on hot summer nights, and we’ve got
a deal.’
‘Sorry. I hate sports.’
He moved closer still, and with a wineglass in either
hand, she moved back. ‘It’s a good thing I found this flaw
now, before we had five or six kids and a dog.’
“Youre a lucky guy.’ Heart jittering, she backed up
again.
‘| like this, he murmured, and traced a finger over the

Nora Roberts 33]
little mole beside her mouth. Inching closer, he ran his
finger down to flip open the buttons of her blazer.
“Why are you always doing that?’
“Doing what?’
‘Fooling with my buttons.’
‘Just practicing.’ The grin was quick as lightning, and
just as bold. “Besides, you always look so tidy, I can’t re-
sist loosening you up.’
Her retreat ended with her back between the side of
the refrigerator and the wall.
‘Looks like you’ve backed yourself into a corner, dar-
ling.’
He moved in slowly, slipping his hands around her
waist, fitting his mouth to hers. He took his time sam-
pling, his fingers spread over her rib cage, stopping just
short of the curve of her breasts.
She couldn’t stop her breath from quickening or her lips
from responding. His tongue flicked over them, between
them, met hers. His taste was dark, and rabidly male, and
streaked straight to her center like an arrow on target.
The small part of her mind that could still function
warned her that he knew exactly how he affected women.
All women. Any woman. But her body didn’t seem to
give a damn.
Her blood began to pound, her skin to vibrate, from
the shock of dozens of tiny explosions. She was certain
she could feel her own bones melt.
She was exciting to watch. His eyes were open as he
changed the angle of the kiss, deepened it, degree by pain-
fully slow degree. He found the flutter of her lashes arous-

ga2 The Return of Rafe MacKade
ing, the faint flush desire brought to her cheeks seductive.
And that helpless hitch of breath, that quick shiver when
his fingers skimmed lightly over the tips of her breasts,
utterly thrilling.
With an effort, he stopped himself from taking more.
‘God. It gets better every time.’ Gently he nuzzled his
way to her ear. “Let’s try it again.’
‘No.’ It surprised her that what she said and what she
wanted were entirely different. In defense, she pressed a
wineglass against his chest.
He glanced down at the glass, then back at her face. His
eyes weren’t smiling now, weren’t gently amused. There
was an edge in them now, dark and potentially deadly.
Despite all common sense, she found herself drawn to
this man who would take, and damn all consequences.
“Your hand’s shaking, Regan.’
‘l’m aware of that.’
She spoke carefully, knowing that the wrong word, the
wrong move, and what was in his eyes would leap out
and devour her. And she would let it. She would love it.
That was something she definitely had to think over.
‘Take the wine, Rafe. It’s red. It’ll leave a nasty stain
on that shirt.’
For one humming moment, he said nothing. A need he
hadn’t understood or counted on had him by the throat
with rusty little claws. She was afraid of him, he noted, de-
ciding she was smart to be afraid. A woman like her didn’t
have a clue what a man like him was really capable of.
Taking the glass, he tapped it against hers, making the
crystal ring, then turned back to the stove.

Nora Roberts 333
She felt as though she’d barely avoided a tumble from
a cliff. And realized she already regretted not taking the
plunge. ‘I think I should say something. I, um...’ She took
a deep breath, then an even deeper gulp of wine. ‘I’m not
going to pretend I’m not attracted to you, or that I didn’t
enjoy that, when obviously I am, and I did.’
Trying to relax, he leaned back against the counter,
studied her over the rim of his glass. ‘And?’
‘And.’ She scooped back her hair. ‘And I think com-
plications are...complicated,’ she said lamely. ‘I don’t
want—that is, I don’t think...’ She shut her eyes and drank
again. ‘I’m stuttering.’
‘T noticed. It’s a nice boost to the ego.’
“Your ego doesn’t need any boosting.’ She blew out
a breath, cleared her throat. “You’re very potent. I have
no doubt sex would be memorable— Don’t smile at me
that way.’
‘Sorry.’ But the smile didn’t dim. ‘It must have been
your choice of words. Memorable’s good. I like it. Why
don’t we save time here? I get your point. You want to
mull the idea over, make the next move when you’re
ready.’
She considered, then nodded slowly. “That’s close
enough.’
‘Okay. Now here’s my point.’ He turned on the burner
under the skillet and added oil. ‘I really want you, Regan.
It hit me right off, when I walked into Ed’s and you were
sitting there with little Cassie, looking so pressed and
polished.’

334 The Return of Rafe MacKade
She fought to ignore the flutters in her stomach. ‘Is
that why you offered me the job on the Barlow place?’
“You’re too smart to ask a question like that. This is
sex. Sex is personal.’
‘All right.’ She nodded again. ‘All right.’
He picked up a plump roma tomato, examined it. ‘The
problem here, as I see it, is that I don’t much care for mull-
ing over things like this. No matter how you fancy it up,
sex is still the animal. Smell, touch, taste.’
His eyes were dark again, reckless. He picked up the
knife, tested its point. ‘Take,’ he added. “But that’s just
me, and there are two of us here. So you go on ahead
with your mulling.’
Baffled, she stared at him as he chose a clove of gar-
lic. ‘I’m trying to decide if you expect me to thank you
for that.’
‘Nope.’ Expertly he laid the flat of his knife over the
garlic, gave one quick pound of his fist to crush it. “You’re
just supposed to understand it, like I’m understanding
you.’
“Youre a real nineties man, MacKade.,’
‘No, I’m not. And I’m going to make you stutter again.
You can count on that.’
Challenged, she picked up the wine, topped off their
glasses. ‘Well, you count on this. If and when I decide to
make my move, you’ll do some stuttering of your own.’
He scooped the minced garlic into the oil, where it siz-
zled. ‘I like your style, darling. I really like your style.’

Chapter 4 |
Sunny skies and a southerly breeze brought in a welcome
end-of-January thaw. Icicles dripped prettily from eaves
and shone with rainbows. In front yards and fallow fields,
snowmen began to lose weight. Regan spent a pleasant
week earmarking stock for the Barlow place and hunting
up additions to her supply at auction.
When business was slow, she revised and honed her
room-by-room decorating scheme for what was going to
be the MacKade Inn at Antietam.
Even now, as she described the attributes of a walnut
credenza to a pair of very interested buyers, her mind
was on the house. Though she hadn’t realized it, yet, she
was as haunted by it as Rafe had been.
The front bedroom, second floor, she mused, should
have the four-poster with canopy, the rosebud wallpaper

336 The Return of Rafe MacKade
and the satinwood armoire. A romantic and traditional
bridal suite, complete with little bowls of potpourri and
vases of fresh flowers.
And what had been the gathering room, on the main
level, had that wonderful southern exposure. Of course,
Rafe had to pick the right windows, but it would be spec-
tacular in sunny colors with a trio of ficus trees, hanging
ferns in glazed pots, and pretty little conversation groups
of boldly floral love seats and wingback chairs.
It was perfect for a conservatory, a place to gaze
through the glass into the woods and gardens, with forced
narcissi and hyacinths brightening midwinter gloom.
She couldn’t wait to get her hands on the place, add
those tiny, perfect details that would make it a home again.
An inn, she reminded herself. A business. Comfort-
able, charming, but temporary. And it wasn’t hers. With
an effort, she shook her head clear and concentrated on
the sale at hand.
“You can see the marquetry is high-quality, she contin-
ued, keeping her sales pitch moderate and pleasant. “The
bowfront cupboards on the side are the original glass.’
The woman fingered the discreet tag longingly, and
Regan’s sharp eye caught the hopeful glance she sent her
less enthusiastic husband. |
‘It really is lovely. But it’s just a little more than we
had in mind.’
‘I understand. But in this condition—’
She broke off when the door opened, furious with her-
self for the quick leap, then the quick disappointment
when it wasn’t Rafe who came in. Before she could smile

Nora Roberts 337
a welcome at Cassie, she saw the livid bruises on the side
of her friend’s face.
‘If you’d excuse me for just a moment, I’ll give you
time to talk it over.’
An antique bangle jingling on her wrist, sensible shoes
clacking, she moved swiftly through the shop. Saying
nothing, she took Cassie’s arm and led her into the back
room.
‘Sit down. Come on.’ Gently, she eased Cassie into a
chair at the tiny iron table. ‘How bad are you hurt?’
‘It’s nothing. I just—’
‘Shut up.’ Grinding back the spurt of temper, Regan
slammed a kettle on the hot plate. ‘I’m sorry. I’m going
to make some tea.’ She needed a moment, she realized,
before she could deal with this rationally. ‘While the wa-
ter’s boiling, I'll go finish up with my customers. You sit
here and relax for a minute.’
Shame swimming in her eyes, Cassie stared down at
her hands. “Thanks.’
Ten minutes later, after ruthlessly hacking the price of
the credenza to move the customers along, Regan hur-
ried back. She told herself she’d gotten the anger under
control. She promised herself she would be supportive,
sympathetic.
One look at Cassie, slumped in the chair while the ket-
tle belched steam, had her exploding.
‘Why in the hell do you let him do this to you? When
are you going to get tired of being that sadistic bastard’s
punching bag? Does he have to put you in the hospital
before you walk away?’

338 The Return of Rafe MacKade
In utter defeat, Cassie folded her arms on the table,
then dropped her head on them and wept.
Her own eyes stinging, Regan dropped to her knees be-
side the chair. In the tidy little office, with its ice-cream-
parlor chairs and neat rolltop desk, she struggled to face
the reality of battering.
‘Cassie, I’m sorry. I’m so sorry, Cass. I shouldn’t be
yelling at you.’
‘I shouldn’t have come here.’ Lifting her head, Cassie
covered her face with her hand and fought to get her
breath back. ‘I shouldn’t have come. But I just needed
somebody to talk to.’
‘Of course you should have come here. This is ex-
actly where you should have come. Let me see,’ Regan
murmured, easing Cassie’s hand away. The bruises ran
from temple to jaw, in ugly purple. One of Cassie’s lovely
smoke gray eyes was swollen nearly shut.
‘Oh, Cassie, what happened? Can you tell me?’
‘He... Joe...he hasn’t been feeling well. This flu that’s
been going around.’ Cassie’s voice hitched and jittered.
‘He missed a lot of work, being sick, and yesterday they
laid him off?
Avoiding Regan’s eyes, she fumbled in her bag for a
tissue. ‘He was upset—he’s worked there almost twelve
years now, on and off. The bills. I just bought a new wash-
ing machine on credit, and Connor wanted these new ten-
nis shoes. I knew they were too expensive, but—’
‘Stop,’ Regan said quietly, and laid a hand over Cassie’s.
‘Please stop blaming yourself. I can’t bear it when you do.’
‘I know I’m making excuses.’ With a long, shudder-

Nora Roberts 339
ing breath, Cassie shut her eyes. To Regan, at least, she
could be honest. Because Regan, in the three years they
had known each other, had always been there. ‘He hasn’t
had the flu. He’s been drunk almost day and night for a
week. They didn’t lay him off, they fired him because he
- went to work drunk and mouthed off to his supervisor.’
‘And then he came home and took it out on you.’ Ris-
ing, Regan took the kettle off the hot plate and began to
make the tea. “Where are the kids?’
‘At my mother’s. I went there last night, after. He hurt
me pretty bad this time,’
Unconsciously she touched her hand to her throat. Be-
neath the turtleneck there were more bruises, where Joe’s
hands had held and choked her until she accepted that he
would kill her. Almost wished for it.
‘I got the kids out, and I went to Mama, because I
needed some place to stay.’
‘Okay, that’s good.’ Ready to move step-by-step now,
Regan brought two china cups to the table. “That’s the
best way to start’
‘No.’ Very carefully, Cassie wrapped both hands
around her cup. ‘She expects me to go back today. She
won’t let us stay another night.’
‘After you told her, after she saw you, what he’d done,
she expects you to go back?’
‘A woman belongs with her husband,’ Cassie said sim-
ply. ‘I married him for better or for worse.’
Regan had never understood her own mother, the easy
subservience, the catering. But, while it had infuriated
her often, it had never appalled her like this.

340 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘That’s monstrous, Cassie.’
‘It’s just Mama,’ Cassie murmured, wincing as the tea
stung her puffy lip. ‘She believes a woman should make
a marriage work. It’s her duty to make it work.’
‘Do you believe that? That it’s your responsibility to
take this? Do you believe that means you are supposed
to stay for better or worse, even if worse means being
beaten whenever he has the whim?’
‘T used to. I tried to. I took vows, Regan.’ She took a
shuddering breath, because to her that had always been
the bottom line. She had promised. ‘Maybe I was too
young when I married Joe. Maybe I made a mistake, but
I still took the vows. He didn’t keep them. There were
those other women, he didn’t even care if I knew who
they were. He was never faithful, never kind. But I took
vows and I wanted to keep them.’
She began to cry again, quietly now, because she had
failed. “We’ve been married ten years. We have children
together. Im ake so many mistakes—using my tip money
to buy those shoes for Connor, and letting Emma play
dress-up with my lipstick. And we couldn’t afford that
washing machine. I was never any good in bed, not like
those other women he’d go to. I knew—
She broke off when Regan only continued to watch her.
‘Are you hearing yourself this time?’ Regan said qui-
etly. ‘Are you listening to yourself, Cassie?’
‘I can’t stay with him anymore.’ Her voice broke, shat-
tering like thin, fragile glass. ‘He’s hitting me in front of
the kids. He used to wait until they were in bed, and that
was bad. But now he hits me in front of them, and he says

Nora Roberts 34]
terrible things. Things they shouldn’t hear. It’s not right.
It makes them part of it, and it’s not right.’
‘No, Cass, it’s not right. You need help now.’
‘I thought about it all night.’ She hesitated, then slowly
eased down the neck of her sweater.
At the sight of the raw marks scoring that pale, inno-
cent flesh, Regan’s face went white and cold. ‘Oh, dear
God—he tried to strangle you.’
‘I don’t think he meant to at first. I was crying, and
he wanted me to stop. But then he did.’ Cassie lowered
her hand again. ‘I could see it in his eyes. It wasn’t just
the drinking, or the money, or the other women he seems
to want. He hated me just for being there. He’ll hurt me
again if he gets the chance, and I have to think about the
kids. I have to go to Devin and file charges.’
‘Thank God.’
‘T had to come here first, to get up my nerve.’ Know-
ing there was no more point in them, Cassie wiped at the
tears. ‘It’s hard, being it’s Devin. I’ve known him all my
life. It’s not like it’s a secret. He’s been out to the house I
don’t know how many times when the neighbors called
in. But it’s hard.’ She sighed. “Being it’s Devin.’
‘Tll go with you.’
Cassie closed her eyes. That was why she had come
here, to have someone stand with her. No, she admitted,
ashamed all over again. To have someone hold her up.
‘No, I need to do it myself. I haven’t thought about
after, she said, and soothed her raw throat with a sip of
tea. ‘I can’t take the kids back to the house until I know
what’s going to happen.’

342 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘The shelter—’
Stubbornly, Cassie shook her head. ‘I know it’s pride,
Regan, but I can’t go there. I can’t take my kids there.
Not yet, anyway.’
‘All right, then you'll stay here. Here, Regan repeated
as Cassie protested. ‘I only have one extra bedroom, so
you and the kids will have to rough it.’
“We can’t pile in on you that way.’
“You were the first friend I made when I moved here.
I want to help. So let me help.’
‘I could never ask you that, Regan. I’ve saved some
tip and overtime money. Enough for a motel for a couple
of days.’
“You wouldn’t want to hurt my feelings that way. You’re
going to stay at my place. For the kids, Regan murmured,
knowing that nothing would tilt the scales as heavily.
‘Tll go get them after I see Devin.’ She had no pride
when it came to her children. ‘I’m awfully grateful,
Regan.’
‘So am I. Now.’
‘What’s this? Tea party during business hours?’ Be-
cause his eyes were on Regan, Rafe had stepped into the
office and tossed his coat over the back of a chair before
he saw Cassie’s face.
Regan was stunned to watch charm metamorphize into
pure violence in a split second. The quick, potent grin
sharpened into a snarl. His eyes fired. Her first startled
thought, as that lean body tensed to spring, was wolf.
When his hand shot out, Cassie flinched, and Regan
leapt to her feet. Before Regan could step between them

Nora Roberts 343
with some wild idea of protecting Cassie, Rafe’s fingers
stroked, gentle as a kiss, over the battered face.
‘Joe?’
‘It—it was an accident,’ Cassie stammered.
His opinion of that was one vicious word. He swung
around, blood in his eye. Cassie was on her feet and rac-
ing after him.
‘No, Rafe, please don’t do anything.’ Desperate, she
pulled at his arm, all but jumped on his back. ‘Please
don’t go after him.’
He could have knocked her aside with a shrug. It was
that knowledge that added bitter fuel to the fire. “You stay
here. Stay with Regan,’
‘No, please.’ Cassie began to weep again, helplessly,
as she pulled at him. ‘Please. Don’t make me any more
ashamed than I already am.’
‘The bastard’s going to pay this time.’ He bit the words
out, started to set her aside and looked down. The tears
did what fists and threats could never have done. They
stopped him cold. ‘Cassie.’ Undone, he wrapped his arms
around her and cradled her against his chest. ‘Don’t cry,
baby. Come on now, it’s going to be all right.’
From the doorway of the office, Regan watched him.
How could there be such tenderness, she wondered, side
by side with such savagery? He was holding Cassie as
though she were a child, his head close to hers as he mur-
mured to her.
Regan’s own throat burned, and her own cheeks were
wet when he lifted his head and looked at her.
Yes, the violence was still there, alive and restless in his

344 The Return of Rafe MacKade
eyes. Vital and fierce enoughto steal her breath from her
throat and make her stomach muscles quiver. She swal-
lowed hard before she spoke.
‘Bring her back in here, Rafe. Please.’
Every nerve inside him was tensed for battle. He
craved the hunt, the fight, the blood. But the woman in
his arms was trembling. And the one who watched him
with shocked, frightened eyes was quietly pleading.
‘Come on, baby.’ As if she were a fretful child, Rafe
tucked Cassie under his arm. ‘Come on, let’s go sit down.’
‘l’m sorry.’
‘Don’t apologize to me.’ It took every ounce of control
to lead her back into the office, to keep his voice easy on
the words. “Don’t apologize to anyone.’
‘She’s going to Devin.’ Because her hands were shak-
ing, Regan busied them with the tea and cups. ‘She’s
going to file charges. That’s the right way to handle it,’
‘That’s one way.’ He preferred his own, but he eased
Cassie into a chair, brushed her hair way from her damp
face. ‘Have you got a place to stay?’
Cassie nodded, took the tissues Regan handed her.
“We’re going to stay with Regan for a little while. Just
until...’
‘The kids okay?’
She nodded again. ‘I’m going to get them as soon as
I see Devin,’
“You tell me what you need, and I’ll go by the house
and pick it up for you.’
‘I... I don’t know. I didn’t take anything.’

Nora Roberts 345
“You tell me later. Why don’t I walk you down to the
sheriff’s office?’
She shuddered out a breath, mopped her face. ‘No, I
need to do it by myself. I should go now.’
‘Here.’ Regan pulled open a drawer in her desk. ‘Here’s
a key to the door upstairs. You and the kids settle in.’ She
put the key in Cassie’s hand, closed her fingers over it.
‘And lock it, Cassie.’
‘I will. P’ll go now.’ It was the hardest thing she’d ever
done, just standing, walking to the door. ‘I always thought
it would get better, she said, almost to herself. ‘I always
hoped it would.’ She left, with her head bowed and her
shoulders hunched.
‘Do you know where he is?’ Rafe murmured.
‘No, I don’t.’
“Well, I'll find him.’ As he reached for his coat, Regan
put her hand over his. His eyes lifted slowly to hers and
burned. ‘Don’t get in my way.’
Instinct had her laying her other hand on his cheek,
her mouth on his. The kiss was soft, soothing them both.
“What was that for?’
‘A couple of things.’ She took a deep breath, then put
both hands on his shoulders. ‘For wanting to kick the
bastard’s face in.’ She kissed him again. ‘For not doing
it because Cassie asked you.’ And again. ‘And last, for
showing her that most men, real men, are kind.’
‘Damn.’ Defeated, he laid his brow on hers. “‘That’s a
hell of a way to keep me from killing him.’
‘Part of me would like you to. I’m not proud of it.’ As
the anger stirred again, she turned back to the hot plate.

346 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘Part of me would like to watch while you beat him sense-
less. Even worse, I’d like a shot at him myself,
Rafe stepped over, uncurled the hand she’d balled into
a fist. Thoughtfully, he lifted it, pressed his lips to the
palm. ‘Well, well... And I figured you for a cream puff.
‘I said I’m not proud of it.’ But she smiled a little. ‘It’s
not what she needs now. Violence is just what she needs
to get away from. Even if it’s justified.’
‘lve known her since she was a kid.’ Rafe glanced
down at the tea Regan poured him, shook his head at it.
It smelled like a meadow at springtime, and would un-
doubtedly taste the same.
‘She was always little, pretty and shy. All this sweet-
ness.’ At Regan’s curious look, he shook his head again.
‘No. I never made any moves in that direction. Sweet’s
never been my type.’
‘Thanks,’
‘Don’t mention it.’ He stroked a hand over her hair, let
his fingers drift into it, through it. “You’re taking on a lot,
letting her and the kids stay with you. I can take them out
to the farm. We’ve got plenty of room.’
‘She needs a woman, Rafe, not a bunch of men—how-
ever well-intentioned. Devin will find him, won’t he? And
take care of it?’
“You can count on it,’
Satisfied, she picked up her own tea. ‘Then I will, and
so should you.’ Now that the step had been taken, she eyed
him over her cup. “You must have come by for a reason.’
‘I wanted to look at you for a while.’ Her bland gaze
had his lips curving. ‘And I figured to go over some of

Nora Roberts 347
the wall treatments—and the parlor furniture. I want to
complete that one room, give me a feel for the rest.’
‘That’s a nice idea. I—’ She broke off at the sound of
movement and voices from the shop. ‘I’ve got customers.
Everything’s here—the paint samples and fabrics, item-
ized lists of furnishings.’
‘I picked up some samples of my own.’
‘Oh, well, then...’ She crossed to the desk, booted up
her computer. ‘I have a room-by-room rundown here.
Why don’t you go over it? Several of the pieces I’ve sug-
gested are here. You can take a look at them when you’ve
finished here.’
‘All right.’
Thirty minutes later, flush with three sales, Regan
stepped back into the office. He looked so big, she
thought, so...male, sitting at her lovely little Chippen-
dale desk. She could smell him—wood dust, soot, oil.
His boots were scarred, his shirt was ripped at the
shoulder. There were traces of plaster or drywall dust
in his hair.
She thought he was the most magnificent animal she
had ever seen. And she wanted him with a kind of pri-
mal, mindless lust.
Whoa! To steady herself, she pressed a hand to her
jumpy stomach, took three deep breaths.
‘Well, what do you think?’
‘Youre an efficient woman, Regan.’ Without turning,
he flipped open a file with printouts of her lists. ‘It doesn’t
look like you’ve missed a trick.’
Flattered, she walked over to look over his shoulder.

348 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘I’m sure we’ll need to adjust, add a few details after we
see one of the rooms completed.’
‘T’ve already made some adjustments.’
She straightened again. ‘Oh, really?’
‘This color’s out.’ Briskly he tapped the paint chip,
then located the page on-screen where her colors were
listed. ‘I ditched this pea green here for—what’s it called?
Yeah. Loden,’
‘The original color is accurate.’
‘Tt’s ugly,
Yes, it was, but— ‘It’s aecurate, she insisted. ‘I re-
searched very carefully. The one you’ve chosen is entirely
too modern for the 1800s.’
‘Maybe. But it won’t spoil anyone’s appetite. Don’t get
your panties in a twist, darling.’ When her breath hissed
out at that, he chuckled and turned around in the chair.
‘Listen, you’re doing a hell of a job here. I have to admit,
I didn’t expect this much detail, certainly not so fast.
You’ve got a real feel for it,
She didn’t care to be placated. ‘You hired me to help
you reconstruct a particular era, and that’s what I’m doing.
It was your choice to make the house look the way it did
in the past.’
‘And it’s my choice to make adjustments. We’ve got to
make some room here for aesthetics and modern taste.
I’ve had a look at your place upstairs, Regan. It’s a little
too much on the female side for me—’
‘Fortunately, that’s hardly the issue here,’ she told him,
stiffening all over again.
‘And so neat a man’d be afraid to put his feet up,’ Rafe

Nora Roberts 349
continued smoothly. ‘But you’ve got taste. I’m just asking
you to use it, along with research and accuracy.’
‘It seems to me we’re talking about your taste. If you’re
going to change the guidelines, at least make them clear.’
‘Are you always so rigid, or is it just with me?’
She refused to stoop to answering such an insulting
question. ‘You asked for accuracy. I don’t care to have
rules changed in midstream.’
Considering, Rafe picked up the paint chip that had
started the ball rolling. ‘One question. Do you like this
color?’
‘That’s not the point—’
‘Simple question. Do you like it?’
Her breath whistled between her teeth. “Of course not.
It’s hideous.’
‘There you go. Guidelines are, if you don’t like it, it
doesn’t fly.’
‘I can’t take the responsibility.’
‘I’m paying you to take it.’ Since that settled the matter
as far as he was concerned, he turned back to the screen,
and scanned down the displays. “You got this what-do-
you-call-it in stock, right? Isn’t that what this I.S. stands
for?’
‘Yes. The double chairback settee.’ Her heart dropped
to her feet. She’d bought it the week before at auction, with
his parlor in mind. If he rejected it, her books were going
straight into the red. ‘It’s in the shop,’ she continued, keep-
ing her voice coolly professional. ‘I’ve put a hold on it.’
‘So, let’s take a look. I want to see this fire-screen and
these tables.’

350 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘You’re the boss,’ she muttered under her breath, and
led the way.
Her nerves strained as she stopped by the settee. It was
a gorgeous piece, and it had had a price to match. How-
ever much she coveted it, she would never have made the
bid if she hadn’t had a customer in the wings.
Now, she thought of that customer—the scarred boots,
the ripped shirt, the potent aura of man. What had she
been thinking of, she wondered frantically, imagining
Rafe MacKade approving of an elegant, curvy, and de-
cidedly feminine piece such as this?
‘Ah, it’s walnut...’ she began, running a suddenly icy
hand over the carved arm. ‘Around 1850. It’s been re-
upholstered, of course, but the material is very much
in keeping with the era. You can see the double-shaped
backs are centered by a circular upholstered panel. The
workmanship is first-rate, and the seat is surprisingly
comfortable.’
He grunted and crouched down to peer under the seat.
‘Pricey little thing.’
‘It’s sixty-nine inches wide, and well worth the ex-
pense.’
‘Okay.’
She blinked. ‘Okay?’
“Yeah. If I stay on schedule, I should have the parlor
ready by the weekend. I could take delivery on this by
Monday, unless I tell you different.’ He glanced up at her.
‘That suit you?’
“Yes.” She realized she’d lost all feeling below the
knees. ‘Of course.’

Nora Roberts S51
‘C.O.D. all right? I don’t have my checkbook on me.’
‘That’ll be fine.’
“Let’s see the Pembroke table.’
‘The Pembroke table.’ She looked dizzily around the
shop. ‘Over here.’
He straightened, holding back a grin. He wondered if
she had any idea that, for a few minutes there, she’d been
clear as glass. He doubted it.
“What’s this?’
Distracted, she stopped. ‘Oh, that’s a display table. Sat-
inwood and mahogany.’
‘T like it.’
‘You like it, she repeated.
‘It'd look good in the parlor, wouldn’t it?’
“Yes, I had it down as a possibility.’
‘Send it over with the couch thing. Is this the Pem-
broke here?’
All she could do was nod weakly. When he left, an
hour later, she was still nodding.
Rafe headed straight to the sheriff’s office. He’d have to
put in a couple of hours overtime on the job, but he wasn’t
leaving town until he knew Joe Dolin was in a cage.
When he stepped inside, he found Devin tilted back
in his chair, his feet propped on his battered metal desk.
Devin’s uniform consisted of a cotton shirt, faded jeans
and boots worn down at the heel. His only concession to
his position was the star on his chest.
He was reading a dog-eared copy of The Grapes of Wrath.
‘And you're responsible for law and order in this town.’

352 The Return of Rafe MacKade
In his slow, deliberate way, Devin marked his place and
set the book aside. ‘That’s what they tell me. Always got
a cell waiting for you.’
‘If you’ve got Dolin in one, I wouldn’t mind you put-
ting me in with him for five minutes or so.’
‘He’s back there.’
With a nod, Rafe walked to the coffeemaker. “Have
any trouble with him?’
Devin’s lips curved in a lazy and wicked smile. ‘Just
enough to make it fun. I'll have a cup of that.’
‘How long can you keep him in there?’
‘That’s not up to me.’
Devin reached out for the chipped mug Rafe offered.
Since he insisted on making the coffee himself, it was the
MacKade brew. Hot, strong and black as night.
“We’ll transfer him to Hagerstown,’ Devin went on.
‘He’ll get himself a public defender. If Cassie doesn’t
back down, he’ll have his day in court.’
Rafe sat on the corner of the cluttered desk. “You think
she’l lb ack down?’
Fighting frustration, Devin shrugged. ‘This is the clos-
est she’s ever come to doing anything about things. The
son of a bitch has been pounding on her for years. Proba-
bly started on her on their wedding night. She can’t weigh
more than a hundred pounds. Got bones like a bird.’ His
usually calm eyes went molten. ‘She’s got bruises around
her throat where he choked her.’
‘I didn’t see that.’
‘T got pictures.’
After rubbing a hand over his face, Devin dropped his

.~ Nora Roberts 353
feet to the floor. Tussling with Joe, slapping cuffs on him,
along with a few bruises—in the line of duty—hadn’t
taken the edge off.
‘I had to take her statement, and pictures for evidence,
and she sat there looking at me like she was getting beat
up all over again. God knows how she’Il handle it if she
has to go to court and lay it all out.’
Abruptly he pushed away from his:desk, paced to the
window, where he could look out on the town. He’d given
his word to serve the town, protect its citizens. Not to
relieve his own bitter frustrations by pummeling one of
them into the ground.
‘I gave her the standard lines,’ he continued. “Therapy,
counseling, shelters. And I put just enough pressure on
when she started to waffle, so she’d sign the complaint.
She just sat there crying, and I felt like scum.’
Rafe studied his coffee, frowned. ‘You still have a thing
for her, Dev?’
‘That was high school,’ Devin snapped. With an effort,
he uncurled his fist, turned back to his brother.
They might have been twins, with barely a year sepa-
rating them. The same bold, dark looks, rangy build. Only
Devin’s eyes were cooler, more like moss than jade. And
the scars he carried were on his heart.
‘Sure I care about her,’ he said, calm again. “Hell, Rafe,
we’ve known her all our lives. I’ve hated watching what
he’s been doing to her, not being able to stop it. Every
time I got called out to their place, every time she had a
fresh bruise, she’d just say it was an accident.’
‘Not this time.’

354 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘No, not this time. I sent my deputy with her to get the
kids, whatever stuff she needs.’
“You know she’s going to stay with Regan Bishop.’
‘She told me.’ He drained his coffee, went back for
more. ‘Well, she’s taken the first step. It’s probably the
hardest.’
Since there was nothing more he could do, Devin sat
behind his desk again and put the matter in the corner
of his mind. ‘Speaking of Regan Bishop, word is you’ve
been sniffing around her.’
‘There a law against it?’ -
‘If there is, it wouldn’t be one you haven’t broken be-
fore.’ Devin rose again, rooted through the side drawer of
his deputy’s desk. He confiscated two candy bars, tossed
one to Rafe. ‘She’s not your usual type.’
‘lm upgrading my taste.’
“Bout time.’ Devin bit into chocolate. ‘Serious?’
‘Getting a woman into bed’s always serious, bro.’
Mumbling an agreement over candy, Devin kicked
back again. ‘So is that all there is?’
‘I don’t know. But I’ve got a feeling it’ll be a hell of
a start.” He glanced over and grinned as Regan came
through the door.
She stopped short, as any woman might when faced
with two gorgeous men smiling at her. ‘I’m sorry. I’m
interrupting.’
‘No, ma’am.’ All quiet country charm, Devin unfolded
himself and stood. ‘It’s always a pleasure to see you.’
Angling his head, Rafe put a hand on Regan’s shoul-
der. ‘Dibs,’ he said in a mild warning.

Nora Roberts 355
“Excuse me?’ Regan stepped back and gaped. ‘I beg
your pardon, but did you just say ‘Dibs’?’
“Yeah.” Rafe bit off candy, offered her the rest of the
bar. When she smacked his hand away, he only shrugged
and ate it himself.
‘Of all the ridiculous, outrageous— You’re a grown
man, and you're standing there eating candy and saying
‘Dibs’ as if I were the last ice-cream bar in the freezer.’
‘The way I grew up, it was real important to stake your
claim quick.’ To prove it, he cupped her elbows, lifted
her to her toes and kissed her long and hard. ‘Gotta go,
he said, releasing her just as arrogantly. “See you, Dev.’
‘Yeah.’ Too wise to let the laugh loose, Devin cleared
his throat. Seconds passed, and Regan continued to stare
at the door Rafe had slammed at his back. “You want me
to go after him, haul him into the back room?’
‘Have you got a rubber hose back there?’
‘Afraid not. But I broke his finger once, when we were
kids. I could probably do it again.’
“Never mind.’ She shook herself. She’d deal with Rafe
later, personally. ‘I came here to see if you’d arrested Joe
Dolin,’
‘So did Rafe.’
‘T should have known he would.’
“Want some coffee, Regan?’
‘No, I can’t stay. I just came to see if you had, and to
ask, since Cassie and the children are going to be stay-
ing with me, if there are any precautions | should take.’
Quietly he measured her. He’d known her casually for
three years, admired her looks, enjoyed a few conversa-

356 The Return of Rafe MacKade
tions with her at the café or on the street. Now he saw
what had attracted his brother. Spine, good sense, com-
passion.
He wondered if Rafe understood the difference the
combination could make in his life.
“Why don’t you sit down,’ he told her. “‘We’ll go over
some things.’

Chapter 5
On Monday morning, Regan was up early, a song on
her lips. In a few hours, the first furnishings would be
delivered to the house on the hill. With her payment de-
posited, she would dash to an auction in Pennsylvania
scheduled for that afternoon.
It would be well worth closing the shop for the day.
She put the coffee on, popped bread into the toaster.
Then turned and nearly jumped out of her slippers.
‘Oh, Connor.’ Laughing, she pressed a hand to her
speeding heart. ‘You scared me.’
‘Tm sorry.’ The boy was thin, pale, with big eyes the
color of shadows. His mother’s eyes, Regan thought as
she smiled at him.
‘It’s okay. I didn’t know anyone was up. It’s early, even
for a school day. Want some breakfast?’

358 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘No, thank you.’
She bit back a sigh. No eight-year-old boy should be
so apologetically polite. She lifted a brow and took out a
box of the cereal she’d learned was his favorite. With a
wink, she gave it a shake.
‘How about joining me for a bowl?’
He smiled then, so sweetly shy it broke her heart. ‘I
guess if you’re having some.’
‘Why don’t you get the milk out, put it on the table?’
Because it hurt to see how carefully, how deliberately, he
performed the simple chore, she made her voice bright. ‘I
heard on the radio we’re in for some more snow. Maybe
a big one.’
She carried out bowls and spoons, set them down.
When she lifted a hand to brush it over his tousled hair,
he went very still. Cursing Joe Dolin, she kept the smile
on her face. ‘I bet they close school tomorrow.’
‘T like school, he said then bit his lip.
‘I always did, too.’ Brisk and determinedly cheerful,
she breezed into the kitchen again for her coffee. ‘I never
minded a day off now and again, but I really liked school.
What’s your favorite subject?’
‘English class. I like to write things.’
‘Really? What kind of things?’
‘Stories.’ He hunched his shoulders, looking down.
‘Just stupid stuff?
‘I bet it’s not.’ She could only hope she wasn’t making
a mistake, moving into territory best left to the experts.
But her heart simply moved her hand. She cupped it under
Connor’s chin and lifted it gently as she sat beside him.

Nora Roberts 359
“You should be proud. I know your mother’s proud of
you. She told me you won a prize in your English class
for a story you wrote.’
‘She did?’ He was torn between wanting to smile and
wanting to let his head drop again. But Regan had her
hand on his face. It felt good there, warm. The tears were
in his eyes before he could stop them. ‘She cries at night.’
‘I know, baby.’
‘He was always hitting her. I knew it. I could hear them.
But I never did anything to stop it. I never did anything
to help her.’
“You're not to blame.’ Letting instinct rule, she lifted
him onto her lap, cuddling him close. “You’re not to
blame, Connor. And there was nothing you could have
done. But now you and your mother and your little sister
are safe. You’re all going to look after each other.’
‘IT hate him!
‘Shh...’ Jolted by how such fierceness could spurt from
someone so small, so young, Regan pressed her lips to
his hair and rocked.
In the hallway, Cassie stepped back. Torn in a dozen
different directions, she swayed there a moment, a hand
over her mouth. Then she went back into the little spare
bedroom to wake her daughter for school.
Regan arrived at the Barlow place just ahead of the van
and movers she’d hired. The cheerful noise of construc-
tion blasted her the minute she opened the door. Nothing
could have lifted her mood higher.
The hallway was draped with tarps and drop cloths.

360 The Return of Rafe MacKade
But the spiderwebs and the mustiness were gone. The dust
that lay now was fresh, and somehow clean.
She supposed it was a kind of exorcism. Amused by
the thought, she studied the stairway. As a kind of test,
she walked toward it, started up.
The cold slapped her like a fist, sending her back two
steps. She stood, one hand gripping the rail, the other
pressed to her stomach as she struggled to get back the
breath the icy air had stolen.
“You’ve got guts,’ Rafe murmured from behind her.
Though her eyes were still wide in shock, she looked
down and met his levelly. ‘I wondered if it had just been
my imagination. How do the laborers go up and down
these steps without—?’
‘Not everyone feels it. I’d say the ones who do grit their
teeth and think about their paycheck.’ He walked up the
steps to take her hand. “How about you?’
‘ld never have believed it if I hadn’t experienced it.’
Without protest, she let him lead her down to the main
level. ‘It should make for some interesting breakfast con-
versation among the guests, once you're open.’
‘Darling, I’m counting on it. Give me your coat. We’ve
got the heat for this part of the house up and running.’
He slipped her coat off himself. ‘It’s on low, but it takes
the edge off.’
“You're telling me.’ Pleased that it seemed warm
enough to make shivering unnecessary, she flipped back
her hair. ‘What’s going on upstairs?’
‘A little bit of everything. I’m putting in an extra bath.
I want you to dig up one of those claw-foot tubs, a pedes-

Nora Roberts 361
tal sink. Reproductions’ll do, if you don’t have any luck
finding originals.’
‘Give me a few days. Well.’ She rubbed her hands to-
gether, not from cold, but nerves. ‘Are you going to show
me, or do I have to beg?’
‘’’m going to show you.’ He’d been itching to, look-
ing out the window every five minutes to watch for her.
But now that she was here, he was nervous. He’d slaved
for more than a week, twelve-and fourteen-hour days, to
make that one room, that one spot, that one step, perfect.
‘I think the paint turned out.’ Rather than reach for her
hand, he tucked his in his pockets and walked into the
parlor ahead of her. ‘It’s a nice contrast with the trim and
the floor, I think. Had a little trouble with the windows,
but I just had to diddle with the framing.’
She didn’t speak. For a moment, she merely stood in the
doorway. Then, quietly, her boots clicking on the floor,
she stepped inside.
It gleamed. The tall, elegant windows, with their grace-
ful arches sent sun streaming over the newly polished
floor of lovely old pine. The walls were a deep, warm blue
against creamy carved trim in the most delicate of ivories.
He’d turned the window seat into a charming alcove,
scrubbed the marble on the fireplace until it shone like
glass. The molding along the ceiling bloomed with deli-
cately carved florets that had been smothered and choked
by the grime of decades.
‘It needs furniture, drapes, and that mirror you picked
out for over the mantel.’ He wished she would say some-
thing, anything. ‘I have to replace the pocket doors, yet.’

362 The Return of Rafe MacKade
Scowling, he jammed his hands deeper into his pocket.
‘Well, what’s the problem? Did I miss some vital, au-
thentic detail?’
‘It’s absolutely wonderful.’ Enchanted, she ran a finger
down the glossy trim of a window. ‘Absolutely perfect.
I didn’t realize you were this good.’ With a quick laugh,
she glanced back at him. “That wasn’t meant as an insult.’
‘It wasn’t taken as one. I was pretty surprised myself,
the first time I realized I had a talent for putting some-
thing together.’
‘It’s more than that. It’s bringing something to life. You
must be proud.’
He was, he realized, moved, and just a little embar-
rassed. ‘It’s a job. Hammer and nails and a good eye.’
She angled her head, and he watched the sun beam
through the window and glow golden on her hair. His
mouth watered, then went bone dry.
“You're the last man I’d expect to be modest about any-
thing. You must have killed yourself to get so much ac-
complished in so little time.’
‘It was mostly cosmetic in here.’
“You’ve done something, she murmured, and looked
around, turning a slow, graceful circle. ‘You’ve really
done something.’
Before he could comment, she was on her hands and
knees, running her hands over the floor.
‘It’s like glass.’ She all but crooned over the golden
planks. “Oh, look at the grain in this wood! What did you
use? How many coats?’ When he didn’t answer, she tossed
her head and sat back on her heels. The dazzled smile

Nora Roberts 363
faded when he only stared at her. ‘What is it? What’s
wrong?’
“Stand up.’
His voice was raw. As she rose to her feet, he kept his
distance. He didn’t dare touch her now. If he did, he’d
simply never be able to stop.
“You look right in here. You should see yourself, how
right you look. You’re as polished and perfect as this
room. I want you so much I can’t see anything else but
you.’
Her heart did a long, unsteady cartwheel in her chest.
“You're going to make me stutter again, Rafe.’ She had
to make a conscious effort to pump air in and out of her
lungs.
‘How long are you going to make me wait?’ he de-
manded. ‘We’re not kids. We know what we feel and
what we want.’
‘That’s exactly the point. We’re not kids, and we should
be adult enough to be sensible.’
‘Sensible’s for old lady’s shoes. Sex may have to be re-
sponsible, but it sure as hell doesn’t have to be sensible.’
The thought of wicked, completely insensible sex with
him numbed every nerve ending in her body. ‘I don’t
know how to handle you. | don’t know how to handle
the way you make me feel. I’m usually good at handling
things. I guess we need to talk about this.’
‘I guess you need to. I just said what I needed to say.’
Unbelievably frustrated, irrationally angry at his own
helpless response to her, he turned to the window. ‘Your

364 The Return of Rafe MacKade
truck’s here. I’ve got work upstairs. Put the stuff wher-
ever the hell you want it.’
‘Rafe—’
He stopped her, froze her before her hand could reach
his arm. ‘You wouldn’t want to touch me right now.’ His
voice was quiet, very controlled. ‘It'd be a mistake. You
don’t like to make them.’
‘That’s not fair.’
‘What the hell makes you think I’m fair?’ His eyes
slashed her to ribbons. ‘Ask anybody who knows me.
Your check’s on the mantel.’
With her own temper sizzling, she stomped into the
hall after him. “MacKade.’
He stopped on the steps, turned back. ‘Yeah?’
‘I’m not interested in what anyone else thinks or says.
If I were, you’d never have gotten within three feet of me.’
She glanced up as an interested laborer poked his head
into the stairway. ‘Beat it, she snapped, and had Rafe’s
lips twitching reluctantly. ‘I make up my own mind, in
my own time,’ she continued and turned on her heel to
open the front door for the movers. ‘You ask anybody.’
When she looked back, he was gone, like one of his
ghosts.
Nearly blew it, Rafe thought later. He wasn’t entirely
sure why he’d reacted that way. Anger and demands
weren’t his usual style with women. Maybe that, he mused
as he troweled drywall compound on a seam, was the
problem.
Women had always come easily.

Nora Roberts 365
He liked them, always had. The way they looked,
thought, smelled, spoke. Soft, warm, fragrant, they were
one of the more interesting aspects of life. Frowning, he
slapped on more compound, smoothed it.
Women were important. He enjoyed cultivating them,
the companionship they offered. And the sex, he acknowl-
edged with a thin smile, he enjoyed that, too.
Hell, he was human.
Houses were important, he reflected, coating another
seam of drywall. Repairing them was satisfying, using
your own hands and sweat to turn them into something
that lasted. And the money that came from the end result
was Satisfying, too.
A man had to eat.
But there’d never been a single house that was specifi-
cally important, as this one had come to be.
And there’d never been a single woman who was spe-
cifically important, as Regan had now become.
And he calculated that she would slice him into dog
meat if she knew he was comparing her to stone and
wood.
He doubted she would understand that it was the first
time in his life he’d ever focused on something, and some-
one, so entirely.
The house had haunted him for a lifetime. He hadn’t
set eyes on her a month before. Yet they were both in
his blood. He hadn’t been exaggerating when he told her
that he couldn’t see anything but her. She was haunting
him, just as the restless ghosts haunted these rooms and
hallways.

366 The Return of Rafe MacKade
Seeing her there that morning had turned him on his
head, set his hormones raging, and he’d fumbled. He sup-
posed he could make up ground. But this was the first
time he could remember being tackled by emotion—
emotion double-teamed with desire—and he wasn’t at
all sure of his moves.
Back off, MacKade, he told himself, and scooped more
compound out of the bucket. She wants room, give her
room. It wasn’t as though he didn’t have time—or as
though she were some sort of life-altering encounter.
Maybe she was unique, maybe she was more intrigu-
ing than he’d counted on. But she was still just a woman.
He heard the weeping, felt the stir of chilled air. With
barely a hesitation, he leveled his seam.
“Yeah, yeah, I hear you,’ he muttered. “You might as
well get used to company, ’cause I’m not going anywhere.’
A door slammed. It amused him now, these endless
little dramas. Footsteps and creaks, whispers and weep-
ing. It was almost as though he were part of it all. A care-
taker, he decided. Making the house livable for those who
could never leave.
He thought it was too bad none of the permanent resi-
dents ever made an appearance. It would be quite an ex-
perience to see, as well as hear. An involuntary shudder
worked up his back, as if fingers had trailed along his
spine.
And feel, he thought.
Footsteps echoed down the hall outside as he moved to
the next sheet of drywall. To his surprise and curiosity,
they stopped just outside the door. He watched the knob

Nora Roberts 367
turn, just as the work lamp behind him went out, plung-
ing the room into darkness.
He’d have suffered torments from hell before admitting
that his heart skipped several beats. To cover the lapse,
he muttered oaths under his breath, rubbed his suddenly
damp palms on his spattered jeans. From memory, he
_ fumbled his way toward the door. It swung open fast and
caught him full in the face.
He wasn’t muttering oaths now, but spewing them.
Stars were revolving in front of his eyes. And, with dis-
gust, he felt blood trickle from his nose.
He heard the hoarse scream, saw the ghostly figure
in the shadows of the hall, and didn’t hesitate. Pain and
fury had him shooting forward like a bullet. Ghost or not,
anything that gave him a bloody nose was going to pay.
It took him several furious seconds to realize he had
warm flesh wriggling in his arms, and little more to rec-
ognize the scent.
She was haunting him all right, he thought bitterly.
‘What the hell are you doing?’
‘Rafe?’ Her voice squeaked out. In the dark, she threw
up her arms, one flailing hand catching him sharply on
the chin before she managed the wholehearted embrace.
‘Oh, my God, you scared me to death. I thought— I don’t
know. I heard... I came up. Oh, it’s you.’
‘What’s left of me.’ Swearing, he set her firmly aside.
There was enough light from the lamp hooked at the top
of the stairs for him to see her pale face and huge eyes.
‘What are you doing here?’

368 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘I picked up some things at auction and thought I’d put
them— You’re bleeding.’
‘No kidding.’ Scowling at her, he swiped a hand under
his nose. ‘I don’t think you broke it again. Quite.’
‘I—’ She rubbed a hand over her heart to make sure
it hadn’t exploded from her chest. ‘Did I hit you with the
door? I’m sorry. Here.’ She dug in the pocket of her jacket
and found a tissue. ‘I’m really sorry, she repeated, and
began to dab at the blood herself. “I was just...’ Helpless,
she tried to disguise a laugh as a hiccup. ‘I didn’t real-
ize. She gave up, wrapped her arms around her aching
stomach, and slid to the floor.
‘It’s a real laugh riot.’
‘l’m sorry. I can’t stop. I thought—I don’t know what
I thought. I heard them, or it, or whatever. I just had to
come up and see, well, if I could see. Then you came
barreling out.’
“Youre lucky I didn’t punch you,’ he said, with relish.
‘I know. I know.’
His eyes narrowed as he watched her fold with mirth.
‘T still could’
‘Oh, help me up.’ Still chuckling, she wiped at her eyes.
‘Let’s get some ice on that nose.’
‘I can take care of it myself” But he took hold of her
wrist and hauled her, none too gently, to her feet.
‘Did I scare you?’ She tried to keep her voice meek and
apologetic as she followed him to the stairs.
‘Get real.’
‘But you heard—you heard it, didn’t you?’ She braced,
held her breath as they passed through the cold spot.

Nora Roberts 369
‘Sure, I heard it. Goes on every night. A couple times
during the day.’
‘And it doesn’t...bother you?’
It boosted his ego to be able to flick a disdainful glance
over his shoulder. ‘Why should it bother me? It’s their
house, too.’
‘I suppose.’ She looked around the kitchen. It was all
but bare, and still grimy. There was a small, dented re-
frigerator, a stove that was down to two working burners,
and an old door propped on sawhorses that served as a
table. Rafe went directly to the pitted cast-iron sink and
ran cold water. ‘Do you have a clean rag?’
In lieu of an answer, he bent over and scooped icy water
onto his face. Adopting a shamed pose, Regan folded her
hands.
‘I’m really terribly sorry, Rafe. Does it hurt?’
Byes:
He snatched up a frayed towel and dried his face. With-
out another word, he strode to the refrigerator and pulled
out a beer.
‘It’s stopped bleeding.’
He twisted off the top, tossed it aside, then downed a
third of the bottle. Regan decided that, under the circum-
stances, she could try again.
‘I didn’t see your car. That’s why I didn’t think any-
one was here.’
‘Devin dropped me off.’ He decided that, under the
circumstances, he could give her a break. ‘I’ve been put-
ting in some extra time at night, camping out here. We’re
supposed to get hit with a snowstorm tonight, so it didn’t

370 The Return of Rafe MacKade
make any sense to have the car. I can walk into town if
I need to.’
‘Oh. Well. That explains it.’
“Want a beer?’
‘No thanks, I don’t drink beer.’
‘Fresh out of champagne.’
‘Well, then, I really should be getting back. Actually,
it’s already starting to snow.’ Feeling awkward now, she
pushed at her hair. ‘Ah, there were these candlesticks, and
a really wonderful set of fire irons I bought today. I just
wanted to bring them by, see how they looked,’
He lifted the beer again, watching her. ‘So, how do
they look?’
‘I don’t know. I set everything down in the hall when I
came in and heard the, ah, evening performance.’
“You decided to go ghost hunting instead of decorating.’
‘Looks that way. Well, why don’t I set them up now,
before I take off?’
Taking the beer along, he went with her. ‘I guess you’ve
cooled off since this morning.’
‘Not exactly.’ She spared him a brief look as she headed
to the main hall. ‘Though giving you a bloody nose, even
inadvertently, was satisfying. You acted like a jerk.’
His eyes narrowed as she picked up the box she’d left
in the hall and sailed into the parlor. ‘I was givingi t to
you straight. Some women appreciate honesty.’
‘Some women like jerks.’ She set the box on a drum
table she’d had the movers place at the window. ‘I don’t.
I like simplicity, manners, tact. Which, of course, you’re
completely without.’ Then she turned, and smiled. ‘But I

Nora Roberts 371
think, under the circumstances, a truce is in order. Who
broke your nose before?’
‘Jared, when we were kids and fighting in the hayloft.
He got lucky.’
‘Hmm...’ She supposed she would never understand
why brotherly affection meant bloody noses to the Mac-
Kades. ‘So this is where you’re camping out.’ She ges-
tured toward the sleeping bag tossed in front of the fire.
‘It’s the warmest room in the house right now. And the
cleanest. What circumstances equal a truce?’
‘Don’t set that bottle down without a coaster.’ Heaving
a sigh, she walked over, took one from the silver-plated
basket and offered it. “You can’t treat antiques like...’
‘Furniture?’ he finished, but he used the coaster. ‘What
circumstances, Regan?’
‘Our ongoing business relationship, for one.’ Because
her fingers were tense again, she busied them by unbut-
toning her coat as she walked back to the window. ‘We’re
both trying to accomplish the same thing with this house,
so it doesn’t make sense to be at odds. These are nice,
aren’t they?’ She took the fire irons from the box, stroked
a finger over the curved handle of the coal shovel. ‘They
could use some polish.’
‘It ought to work better than the crowbar I’ve been
using.’ Tucking his thumbs in his pockets, he watched
her carry the irons to the fire, set them carefully and in-
dividually in their stand on the stone hearth.
‘Whatever you used, it’s a nice fire.’ Torn between
courage and doubt, she stared at the flames. ‘I’m still
looking for the right screen. This one doesn’t really suit.

372 The Return of Rafe MacKade
It would be better in one of the rooms upstairs. I imagine
you'll have them all working. The fireplaces.’
‘Eventually.’
He’d only known her for a few weeks, he realized. How
could he be so sure she was arguing with herself? With
the firelight flickering over her, her back so straight, that
sweep of hair curtaining half her face, she looked relaxed,
confident, perfectly at ease. Maybe it was the way she
had her fingers linked together, or the way she wasn’t
looking at him. But he was certain some small inner war
was being waged.
‘Why are you here, Regan?’
‘I told you.’ Dragging her fingers apart, she went back
to the box. ‘I have some other stuff from the auction in
my car, but you’re not ready for it. But these...’ With care,
she unwrapped heavy crystal candlesticks. ‘I could see
them in here, right on this table. You’ll want flowers for
this vase. Even in the winter.’
She fussed with the arrangement, placing the candle-
sticks just so on one side of the Doulton vase she’d al-
ready sold him.
‘Tulips would be lovely, when you can get them,’ she
continued, carefully unwrapping the two white tapers
she’d brought along. ‘But mums would do, and roses, of
course.’ She put a smile on her face again and turned.
‘There, what do you think?’
Saying nothing, he took a box of wooden matches
from the mantel and walked over to light the tapers. And
watched her over the delicate twin flames. ‘They work.’
‘I meant the whole effect, the room.’ It was a good ex-

Nora Roberts 373
cuse to move away from him, wandering the space, run-
ning a finger along the curved back of the settee.
‘It’s perfect. I didn’t expect any less from you.’
‘I’m not perfect.’ The words burst out of her, unex-
pected on both sides. “You make me nervous when you
say so. I was always expected to be perfect, and I’m just
not. I’m not carefully arranged, like this room, with every
piece in place, no matter how much I want to be. I’m a
mess.’ She dragged nervous fingers through her hair. ‘And
I wasn’t, before. I wasn’t. No, stay over there.’ She backed
up quickly when he stepped forward. ‘Just stay over there.’
Frustrated, she waved her hands to ward him off, then
paced. “You scared me this morning. You made me angry,
but more, you scared me.’
It wasn’t easy for Rafe to keep his hands to himself.
‘How?’
‘Because no one’s ever wanted me the way you do. I
know you do.’ She stopped, rubbing her hands over her
arms. ‘You look at me as though you already know how
it’s going to be with us. And I have no control over it.’
‘I figured I was giving you control, laying it out for you.’
‘No. No,’ she repeated, flinging up her arms. ‘I don’t
have any control over the way I’m feeling. You have to
know that. You know exactly the way you affect people.’
‘We’re not talking about people.’
“You know exactly the way you affect me.’ She almost
shouted it before she fisted her hands and fought for com-
posure. ‘You know I want you. Why wouldn’t I? It’s just
as you said, we’re adults who know what we want. And
the more I backpedal, the more stupid I feel.’

374 The Return of Rafe MacKade
His eyes were shadowed in the shifting light. “You’re
going to stand there and say these things to me and ex-
pect me to do nothing about it?’
‘I expect to be able to make a sane and rational deci-
sion. I don’t expect my glands to overwhelm my brain.’
She blew out a breath. “Then I look at you and I want to
rip your clothes off?
He had to laugh. It was the safest way to defuse the
bomb ticking inside of him. ‘Don’t expect me to stop you.’
When he stepped forward, she jumped back like a spring.
‘Just the beer, he muttered, lifting the bottle. ‘I need it.’
He took a long, deep gulp, but it didn’t do much to put
out the fire. ‘So, what have we got here, Regan? Two un-
attached, healthy adults who want pretty much the same
thing from each other.’
‘Who barely know each other,’ she added. ‘Who’ve
barely scratched the surface of any sort of relationship.
Who should have more sense than to jump into sex as if
it was a swimming pool.’
‘I never bother testing the water.’
‘I do. An inch at a time.’ Ordering herself to be calm,
she linked her hands again. ‘It’s important to me to know
exactly what I’m getting into, exactly where I’m going.’
‘No detours?’
‘No. When I plan something, I stick to it. That works
for me.’ She was calmer now, she told herself. Rational
now. ‘I had a lot of time to think, driving to Pennsylva-
nia and back. We need to slow down, take a look at the
whole picture.’

Nora Roberts 375
If she was calm, why couldn’t she stop fiddling with
her blazer, twisting her rings?
‘It’s like this house,’ she continued quickly. “You’ve
finished one room, and it’s beautiful, it’s wonderful. But
you didn’t start this project without a complete plan in
mind for the rest of it. I think intimacy should certainly
be as carefully thought out as the renovation of a house.’
‘Makes sense.’
‘Good.’ She drew in a breath, released it. ‘So, we’ll take
a few steps back, get a clearer view of things.’ Her hand
was still unsteady when she reached for her coat. “That’s
the sensible, the responsible route to take.’
“Yeah.” He set down his beer. ‘Regan?’
She gripped her coat like a lifeline. ‘Yes.’
‘Stay.’
Her fingers went numb. Her breath came out in a long,
shuddering sigh. ‘I thought you’d never ask.’
With a jittery laugh, she threw herself into his arms.

Chapter 6
* This is crazy. Already breathless, she curled her fin-
gers into his hair to drag his mouth to hers. Everything
in her strained into the kiss, the heat of it, the danger, the
promise. ‘I wasn’t going to do this.’
‘That’s okay.’ He dragged his lips from hers to race
over her face. ‘I'll do it.’
‘Td thought it all through.’ When her knees trembled,
she gave a quick, helpless laugh. ‘I had. Everything I just
said made perfect sense. This is just chemistry. It’s just
superficial attraction.’
‘Yeah.’ In one fluid movement, he yanked her blazer
down her shoulders, locking her arms, trapping her body
to his. Her gasp of alarm stirred his blood. The huge, wary
eyes tightened his loins. ‘Stop thinking.’
A smile curved his lips as he tugged the bunched mate-

Nora Roberts S77.
rial, pressing her against him. He watched her eyes glaze,
heard the ragged moan when his mouth fed on hers. Then
his lips rushed down over the line of her throat. It was as
smooth, as scented, as he’d imagined it. So he feasted.
Her hands clutched at his hips, her head falling back
to offer him whatever he chose to take. All the while the
heat coursed through her painfully, forcing her breath out
in harsh, ragged moans.
With a jerk, he freed her arms. Before she could reach
out, his hands, his wide, clever hands, streaked under her
sweater to mold, to possess.
Flesh and lace, curves and shudders. He found every-
thing he wanted, and wanted more. His mouth continued
its relentless assault, while his fingers tortured her skin,
and her skin tortured him.
With a flick of his wrist, he unsnapped her trousers,
then skimmed the tips of his fingers along her quivering
belly, under the edge of more lace. She moved against
him, pressed urgently against him, her teeth scraping
along his neck in greedy bites.
He could take her now, fast and hot, where they stood.
The speed would release this terrible pressure that burned
inside him.
But he wanted more.
He dragged the sweater over her head, tossed it aside
and filled his palms with her breasts. The lace covering
was smooth, delicate, and the flesh beneath already flushed
and warm with desire. Ruthlessly controlling the pound-
ing need to rush, Rafe watched her face, the flicker of light

378 The Return of Rafe MacKade
and shadow over it, while he rubbed his work-roughened
thumbs over the points of her breasts.
‘T’ve imagined you like this.’
‘I know.’
His lips curved again, and his eyes were focused keenly
on hers when he nudged a slim strap down her shoulder. ‘I
don’t think you’ve imagined what I’ve thought of doing to
you. I don’t think you could. So I’m going to show you.’
His eyes stayed on hers, watching, measuring, as he
skimmed a finger along the valley between her breasts,
up over the curve, then back to flick open the center clasp.
So he saw that lovely sky blue gaze darken with the
storm he set off inside her. And he felt it quake, in both
of them.
Her breath caught in her throat when he jerked her
off her feet and set his hungry mouth to work. Shocked,
she arched back, her hands fumbling in his hair, over
his shoulders, tugging desperately at his shirt. His teeth
nipped into her, just short of savage, just short of pain. His
tongue tormented, and aroused needs too violent to bear.
Wild, frantic, she clawed at him. Even as she felt her-
self falling, she tore and ripped at his shirt. She was on
her back, on the thin cushion of the sleeping bag, and
bucking desperately beneath him.
Finally she tugged his shirt away, cursing when she
found yet another layer separating them. She wanted
flesh, craved it with a mindless hunger. The moment he’d
dragged the thin undershirt aside, she sank her teeth into
his shoulder.

Nora Roberts 379
‘Touch me.’ Her words were raw and urgent. ‘I want
your hands on me.’
They were, everywhere at once. Her world became
primitive, dangerously exciting, pumped full to bursting
with unspeakable sensations. Each rough, impatient ca-
ress sent fresh shocks erupting, until her body was noth-
ing but sweaty flesh over sparking nerves.
Beside her, the fire shot hissing embers against the
screen. Inside her, flames leapt and burned.
She could see him through the haze that blurred her vi-
sion. The dark hair, the fierce eyes, the muscles that glis-
tened with sweat in the dance of light. Her moan of protest
when his mouth left hers turned to one of giddy pleasure
as his lips streaked down over throat, over breasts and
torso.
He levered back and, blind with need, she reared up,
her arms circling possessively, her lips searching for each
new taste.
His oath was brief and vicious. ‘Boots,’ he managed,
fighting to pry hers off while his blood screamed. She
was draped around him, that wonderful body sliding over
his, her hands... Those incredible elegant hands.
Boots thudded where he heaved them aside, then, quick
as a snake, turned to take her.
She was tangled around him, all long, silky limbs. He
wanted her naked and writhing beneath him. He wanted to
hear her scream his name and watch the jolts and shocks
of pleasure glaze her eyes. Breath ragged, he dragged the
slacks down her hips. In one reckless swipe, he tore the

380 The Return of Rafe MacKade
lace to shreds. Even as her gasp echoed off the walls, he
shoved her back. And used his mouth.
The climax slammed into her, a bare-knuckled punch
that knocked her senseless. Reeling from it, she sobbed
out his name. And, shuddering, shuddering, hungered
for more.
He gave her more. And took more. Each time she
thought he would end it, must end it, he found some new
way to batter her senses. There was only him, the taste,
the feel, the smell of him. They rolled over the floor ina _
wild, glorious combat, her nails digging ruthlessly into.
his back, his mouth searing hers.
Nearly blinded by need, he gripped her hands, fingers
vised. He thought his own breathing must tear his lungs
apart. Her face was all he could see as he drove himself
into her. Twin groans mixed. A log shattered thunder-
ously in the grate.
They trembled, watching each other as they savored
that timeless instant of mating.
Muscles straining, he lowered his head, covered her
mouth. When the kiss was at its deepest, when her flavor
filled him as intimately as he was filling her, they began
to move together.
It was the cold that finally roused Regan. Though it
seemed impossible, she thought she must have fallen
asleep. As she struggled to orient herself, she discovered -
her back was against the cold, hard wood of the floor,
pressed firmly against it by the weight of Rafe’s body.

Nora Roberts 38]
She looked around dazedly. Somehow or other, they’d
gotten themselves several feet from the fire.
“You awake now?’ Rafe’s voice was thick, a little
sleepy.
‘I guess.’ She tried a deep breath, was relieved to find
she could accomplish it. ‘I can’t really tell.’
He shifted his head, skimmed his lips over the curve
of her breast. Her exhausted body quivered in response.
‘I guess I can tell after all, she said.
“You're cold.’ He shifted, hauled her up and put her
back on the sleeping bag. Wished, for her, that it was a
feather bed. ‘Better?’
‘Yeah.’ Not quite sure of her moves, she tugged a corner
of the bag up to her chin. She’d never been so exposed,
so completely naked, body and soul, before anyone. ‘I
must have dozed off.’
‘Just a couple minutes.’ He grinned at her. He felt as
though he’d climbed a mountain. And could climb ten
more. ‘I'll put another log on.’
Naked and easy, he rose to go to the woodbox. The
scratches scoring his shoulders had Regan’s mouth fall-
ing open. She’d done that. She’d actually... Good God.
‘I, ah, should go. Cassie’ll be worried.’
Rafe set the screen back in place. Without a word, he
reached into the duffel bag beside the woodbox and took
out a cell phone. ‘Call her.’
‘T...didn’t realize you had a phone.’
‘It’s a tool on a job like this.’ He handed it to her, then
sat down beside her. ‘Call her, he repeated. ‘And stay.’
She was sure there were reasons why she should go.

382 The Return of Rafe MacKade
But she dialed her own number, watching Rafe as the
phone rang.
‘Cassie, it’s Regan. Yes, everything’s fine. Snow?’ Baf-
fled for a moment, she pushed her hair away from her
face. ‘Oh, yes, it’s really coming down. That’s why I’m ~
calling. I got, um, involved, and I think...’
She trailed off as Rafe tugged the corner of the bag
out of her hand, as his fingers trailed down the curve of
her breast.
‘What?’ She swallowed, then bit back a moan. His
mouth had replaced his fingers. She slid bonelessly to
her back. ‘Pennsylvania?’ she murmured. ‘No, I’m not
in Pennsylvania.’
Rafe took the phone from her limp fingers. ‘She’s with
me. She’s staying with me. No kidding? She’ll call you
tomorrow. Right.’
He clicked the phone off, set it aside. ‘Cassie says we’ve
got over a foot out there, the streets are a mess, and you
should stay put.’
‘Oh.’ She closed her eyes, lifted her arms. ‘That’s very
sensible.’
The candles had guttered out and the fire had burned to
embers when she awoke. The house was so still, so quiet,
she could hear her own heartbeat. The room was filled
with shadows and darkness, but it was oddly peaceful.
Perhaps the ghosts slept, she mused. Or perhaps she felt
at ease with them because Rafe slept beside her.
She turned her head and studied his face in the dying
firelight. Asleep or not, she mused, there was no inno-

Nora Roberts 383
cent-little-boy look about him. All that power, and the po-
tential for violence, were still there, carved into his face.
She knew he could be gentle, caring. She’d seen that
in the way he was with Cassie. But as a lover, he was de-
manding, relentless and rough.
And, for the first time in her life, she’d been the same.
Now, with the quiet like a blanket over her, she found
it hard to believe she had done what she’d done, had al-
lowed him—wanted him—to do what he had done.
Her body ached from bruises, and she wondered if in
the full light of day she would wince at the memory of
how she’d come by them. Of how she’d ached and trem-
bled and hungered under those big, hard hands.
Even more, of how she’d used her own.
Of how, she realized with a jolt, she wanted to use
them now.
Taking a shallow breath, she eased out from under
_Rafe’s possessive arm. She moved as quietly as she could,
settled on slipping on his flannel shirt for covering. But-
toning it as she went, she padded toward the kitchen.
A cold drink of water, she told herself. A few moments
to evaluate the situation.
At the sink, she filled a glass. As her eyes adjusted,
she watched the drift of snow falling outside the window.
She didn’t regret. That, she mused, would be foolish.
Fate had placed an extraordinary lover in her path. The
kind of man few women ever knew. She could, and would,
be content with the physical thrill of it. She could, and
would, prevent it, and him, from complicating her life.
They were both adults, as he had said. They both

384 The Return of Rafe MacKade
knew what they wanted. When the house was finished,
he would probably grow restless and move on. Meanwhile
they would enjoy each other. And when it was over, it
would end with mutual understanding, and, she hoped,
affection.
It would probably be wise to discuss those expectations,
or the lack of them, before things went any further. But
she found herself torn at the very idea of voicing them.
From the doorway, Rafe studied her, the way she stood,
leaning a little on the counter, her eyes on the window.
Her face reflected in it. His shirt skimmed her thighs,
worn flannel against creamy skin.
It struck him, hard, that he’d never in his life seen any-
thing more beautiful. He had the words to tell her; he was
good with them. But he found there were none this time,
none good enough to show how much she mattered.
So he chose easy ones, casual ones, and ignored the
ache just looking at her had spreading around his heart.
‘T like your dress, darling.’
She jolted, nearly bobbled the glass before she turned.
He’d tugged on jeans, but hadn’t bothered to fasten them.
Grinning, he leaned against the unframed doorway.
‘It was handy,’ she said, matching his tone.
‘That old shirt’s never had it so good. Restless?’
‘I was thirsty.’ But she set the glass down without tak-
ing so much as a sip. ‘I guess the quiet woke me. It’s odd,
don’t you think, how quiet it is?’
‘The snow always makes it quiet.’
‘No, I mean the house. It seems different. Settled.’
‘Even dead soldiers and unhappy women have to sleep

Nora Roberts 385
sometime.’ He crossed the room to pick up the glass and
drink himself. ‘It’s almost dawn,’ he murmured. ‘My
brothers and I spent the night here once when we were
kids. I guess I told you that already.’
‘Jared rattling chains. And all of you telling ghost sto-
ries and smoking stolen cigarettes.’
“You got it. |c ame into this room then, too. It was just
about this time of day, but it was late summer. Everything
was so green, and the woods were so dense and thick
they made you wonder what was in them. There was a
mist over the ground like a river. It was beautiful, and I
thought—’ He broke off, shrugged.
‘No.’ She laid a hand on his arm. “Tell me.’
‘I thought I could hear the drums, slowly, the sounds
of camps breaking to prepare for battle. I could smell
the fear, the excitement, the dread. I thought I could hear
the house waking around me, the whispers and creaks. I
was petrified, paralyzed. If I could have moved, I’d have
hauled my butt out of here. The guys would’ve rubbed
my nose in it for years, but I’d have run like a rabbit if
my legs had moved.’
“You were just a boy.’
“You’ve never been a boy, so you don’t know that made
it ten times worse. I’d gotten through the night, even got-
ten a kick out of it. And here it was morning, dawn break-
ing, and I stood here with my teeth chattering. When
it passed, I just stood looking out this window. And I
thought, no damn house is going to get the better of me.
Nothing’s going to get the better of me. I’1l own this house
before I’m finished.’

386 The Return of Rafe MacKade
He smiled then, set the glass down. ‘I don’t know how
many times I came back here, alone, after that. Waiting
for something to happen, wishing it would, just so I could
stand up to it. I crept through every room of this place at
one time or another. I heard things, saw things, felt things.
The night I left town, I promised myself I’d come back.’
‘Now you have it,’ she said quietly.
‘Yeah.’ Faintly embarrassed, he looked down at her. ‘I
never told anyone that.’
‘Then neither will I.’ She lifted a hand, touched his
cheek. ‘Whatever your reasons, you’re doing something
important. This house has been neglected too long.’
‘Were you frightened, staying here through the night?’
‘No. Not of the house.’
His brow lifted. ‘Of me?’
“Yes. I’m frightened of you.’
The humor faded from his eyes. ‘I was rough with you,’
he said carefully. .
‘I don’t mean that.’ She turned away. Out of habit, she
set a kettle on the stove, flicked on the burner. ‘I’ve never
been the way I was last night, with anyone. So out of con-
trol. So...needy. I’m a little surprised when I think back
and... Well.’ She let out a shaky breath, searched out a
filter for the drip cone.
‘Surprised? Or sorry?’
‘Not sorry, Rafe. Making the effort, she turned back
and met his eyes. ‘No, not sorry at all. Uneasy, because I
know now exactly what you can do to me. I knew making
love with you would be exciting. I didn’t know it would

Nora Roberts 387
be so shattering. Nothing about you is tidy or predictable.
The way I like things to be.’
‘I want you now. That should be predictable.’
‘My heart jumps,’ she managed. ‘Literally, when you
_ say things like that. But I do need things to be tidy,
Opening the can of coffee, she deliberately measured
out scoops. ‘I imagine your men will be coming along
in an hour or so. This probably isn’t the best time to talk
this out.’
‘Nobody’s coming today. There’s better than two feet
of snow out there, on top of what we already had.’
‘Oh.’ Her hand faltered, spilling ground coffee on the
stove.
“‘We’re snowbound for a while, darling. You can talk
all you want.’
“Well. After clearing her throat, she faced him again.
‘T just think it’s best if we both understood things.’
“What things?’
‘Things.’ She bit the word off, furious at herself for
hesitating. “Things that we didn’t quite finish outlining
last night. That what we’re having is a mutual satisfying
and physical affair, no strings, no entanglements, no...’
‘Complications?’
“Yes.” Relieved, she nodded. ‘Exactly.’
Surprised to find himself annoyed with her coolheaded
description—one that should have mirrored his own
wishes—he scratched his head. ‘That’s tidy enough. But
if that means you’re planning on seeing somebody else,
it’1l get messy when I break him in half,’
‘Oh, of all the ridiculous—’

388 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘And cut off his—’
‘Stop that.’ She blew out a heated breath. “I have no
intention of seeing someone else while we’re involved,
but if I—’
‘Smarter to stop there, he said quietly. “Let’s just say
we have a mutually satisfying and exclusive physical re-
lationship. That suit you?’
Calmer, she turned back to pour boiling water through
the filter. “Yes, I can agree to that.’
“Yow’re a piece of work, Regan. You want the contract
in triplicate?’
‘I only want to make sure we expect the same things.’
She concentrated hard on covering the grounds with
water, on being sure not to pour too much water, or too
little. “We haven’t taken time to really get to know each
other. Now we’re lovers. I don’t want you to think ’'m
looking for any more than that.’
‘And if I’m looking for more?’
Her fingers whitened on the handle of the kettle. ‘Are
you?’
He looked away from her, toward the window and the
softly falling snow. ‘No.’
She closed her eyes, telling herself it was relief she felt
at his answer. Only relief. ‘Well, then there’s no problem,
‘No, everything’s dandy.’ His voice was as cool and
detached as hers. “You don’t want romance, saves me the
trouble. You don’t want promises, I don’t have to lie. We
want each other in bed.” He reached for two mugs. “That
keeps it simple.’
‘I want you in bed.’ Pleased with her casual tone, she

Nora Roberts 389
took the mugs from him. ‘But if I didn’t like who you are,
we wouldn’t have gotten there. I’ve wanted other men.’
In a deceptively calm gesture, he flicked her hair be-
hind her ear. ‘Now you’re trying to make me mad.’
The fact that he couldn’t see how difficult it was for
her to be so open, to keep things simple, made it easier.
Oddly enough, this kind of openness seemed completely
natural with him. ‘I’m trying to give you a compliment. I
wouldn’t have come here last night, hoping you’d be here,
if I hadn’t cared about you.’
“You came to drop off candlesticks.’
“Youre an idiot.’ Amused at both of them, she poured
coffee. She hadn’t realized sexual frankness could be fun.
“You didn’t really buy that, did you?’
Intrigued, he took the mug she offered. “Yeah, I did.’
She sipped, smiled. ‘Sucker.’
‘Maybe I don’t like sneaky, aggressive women.’
‘Yes, you do. In fact, you’re hoping I’ll seduce you
right now.’
‘Think so?’
‘I know so. But I want my coffee first.’
He watched her take another delicate sip. ‘Maybe I
want my shirt back. You didn’t ask if you could borrow it.’
‘Fine.’ With one hand, she undid the buttons. ‘Take it.’
He nipped the coffee from her hand, set both mugs
aside. Her smug smile had him scooping her off her feet.
She was laughing and assaulting his ear as he carried her
back down the hall. The front door swung open, letting in
cold and blowing snow and a figure crusted with white.
Shane dragged off his cap and shook himself like a

390 The Return of Rafe MacKade
dog. ‘Hey.’ Casually he kicked the door closed. “Your
car’s buried to the wheel wells, Regan.’
‘Oh.’ With a fumbling hand, she clutched the shirt to-
gether and tried to mirror his easy tone. ‘We got a lot of
snow.’
‘Over two feet.’ Unabashed, he grinned at his brother.
‘Figured you’d need someone to plow you out.’
‘Does it look like I want you to rescue me?’ Disgusted,
Rafe strode into the parlor and dumped Regan on the set-
tee. ‘Stay right there.’
‘Rafe!’ Futilely she tried to tug the hem of the shirt
down over her legs. “For heaven’s sake!’
‘Right there, he repeated, and headed back into the
hall.
‘That coffee I smell?’ Shane asked conversationally.
‘I could use some.’
‘Give me one reason why I shouldn’t break your neck.’
Shane took off his gloves, blew on his chilled fingers.
“Cause I rode over here in a blizzard to save yours.’ He
leaned forward, but couldn’t quite see into the parlor.
‘She’s sure got legs.’
“Where do you want to die?’
‘Just an observation.’ His grin only widened, the
MacKade dimple flashing. ‘Hey, who knew? I figured
you were stuck here, without transportation. Alone. Then,
when I saw her car, I thought maybe she needed a lift
into town.’ Again he inched forward, hopeful. any I
should ask her.’
‘One more step and they won’t find your body till spring.’
‘If I win, can I keep her?’ When Rafe snarled, Shane

Nora Roberts 39]
erupted with laughter. “Don’t hit me, I’m frozen. I'll
break.’
Muttering threats, Rafe grabbed Shane by the collar
and dragged him down the hall. ‘Eyes front, MacKade.’
In the kitchen, he found a thermos, filled it with coffee.
‘Now beat it.’
‘I’m going.’ But Shane drank straight from the ther-
mos. ‘The wind’s a bitch.’ Grateful for the heat, he drank
again. ‘Look, I didn’t mean to horn in on your little love
nest,’ he began, then stopped, lowered the thermos when
he read quick fury in Rafe’s eyes. ‘Hey, are you serious
about her?’
‘Mind your own damn business.’
Shane whistled out a breath, screwed the top on the
thermos. ‘You’ve always been my business. Regan’s a
real lady. I mean that.’
‘So?’
‘So nothing.’ Embarrassed now, Shane shifted position.
‘T like her, always have. I thought about...’ Realizing he’d
taken a wrong turn, he pulled out his gloves again and
whistled a cheerful tune.
‘Thought about what?’
Cautious, Shane ran his tongue around his teeth. He
really wanted to keep all of them. ‘Just what you think I
thought. Hell, look at her. A man’s bound to think.’ Agile,
he evaded Rafe’s lunging arm. ‘Think is all I did. I’m not
going to fight you over thinking.’ In a gesture of peace,
he threw up his hands. ‘What I’m saying is, it’s great.
You hit the jackpot.’

392 The Return of Rafe MacKade
Temper vanished. Rafe reached for the pot again.
‘We’re sleeping together. That’s all.’
“You gotta start somewhere.’
‘She’s different, Shane.’ He hadn’t been able to admit it
to himself, but it came easily brother to brother. ‘I haven’t
sorted it out, but she’s different. She matters a lot.’
‘Everybody’s got to take the big fall sometime.’ Shane
slapped a hand on Rafe’s bare shoulder. ‘Even you.’
‘I didn’t say anything about falling,’ Rafe muttered.
He knew the implications of that. Falling in love. Being
in love.
“You didn’ t have to. Look, I’ll plow the lane, just in
case. You got any food around here?’
- *Yeah, there’s enough.’
‘Pll take off, then. It’s supposed to let up by midmorn-
ing. I have animals to tend to, so if you need something,
try Devin first. I might be out.’
‘Thanks. Shane?’ He turned, eyeing his brates ‘Tf
you so much as glance in that parlor on your way out,
Pll have to kill you.’
‘T already got a good look at her legs.’ Whistling cheer-
fully, Shane ambled down the hall. ‘See you, Regan.’ It
cost him, but he kept his eyes averted on his way to the
door.
The minute she heard it ae: Regan pressed her face
on her updrawn knees. Stepping into the parlor, Rafe
winced at her defensive posture, her trembling shoulders.
‘Look, darling, I’m sorry. I should have locked the
damn door.’ Gently he patted her shoulder and sat down

‘Nora Roberts 393
beside her. ‘Shane doesn’t mean to be an idiot. He was
born that way. He doesn’t mean any harm. Don’t be upset.’
She made a strangled sound, and when she lifted her
face, it was wet with tears. Her laughter bubbled out like
wine. ‘Can you imagine what we looked like, the three
of us, in that hall?’ She pressed her hand over her mouth
and rocked. “The two of us half-naked, Shane looking
like the abominable snowman.’
“You think that’s funny?’
‘No, I think it’s hysterical.’ Weak with laughter, she
collapsed against him. “The MacKade brothers. Oh, God,
what have I gotten myself into?’
Delighted with her, he hauled her into his lap. ‘Give
me back my shirt, darling, and I'll show you.’

Chapter 7
Cozy in the sleeping bag, Regan dozed by the fire. It siz-
zled, logs crackling, and brushed heat over her face and
her outflung arm. She sighed, cruising with the dream,
shifting toward her lover.
Her dreams were nearly as erotic as the reality of the
past hours, vivid enough to have her stirring, and yearn-
ing. When she reached out and found herself alone, she
sighed again, in disappointment.
The fire was lively, so she knew Rafe had built it up
once more before he left her. The room was quiet enough
that she could hear the ticking of the mantel clock mark-
ing time. Evidence of the night’s activities was all around
her, in the hastily strewn clothes littering the floor, the
torn bits of lace and the jumbled boots. And the evidence

Nora Roberts 395
was within her as she stretched, feeling the warm glow
of desire. .
She wished he was there, so that he could stoke it as
he had stoked the fire.
Still, tt was a wonderful shock to realize she could lay
claim to such a bottomless well of passion.
It had never been so before, she reflected, sitting up to
exercise her stiff and sore muscles. Physical relationships
had always been far down on her list of priorities. She
wondered if, after her recent behavior, Rafe would be sur-
prised to know that before him, she had considered her-
self hesitant, even a little shy, when it came to intimacy.
With a yawn, she reached for her sweater and pulled
it over her head.
Knowing him, she decided, he’d just be smug.
It was a pity she couldn’t blame her celibacy of the
past few years for her wildfire response to him. It felt as
though her libido had been nothing more than dry tim-
ber set to the torch the moment he put his hands on her.
But using abstinence as the major reason for her response
would be far from honest.
Whatever her life had been before, he’d changed it just
by stepping into her path. It was certain she would never
look at cozy nights by a fire in the same way again. It
was doubtful she would look at anything in quite the same
way again, she mused, now that she knew what she was
capable of with the right...mate.
Just how, she wondered, did a woman go back to a
quiet, settled life once she’d had a taste of Rafe MacKade?

396 The Return of Rafe MacKade
That was something she was going to have to deal with,
one cautious day at a time.
At the moment, the only thing she wanted was to find
him.
In her stocking feet, she began to wander the house.
He could be anywhere, and the challenge of hunting him
down, finding him busy with some chore—one she was
determined to distract him from—amused her.
The chill of the bare floors seeped through and had her
rubbing her hands together for a little warmth. But curi-
osity far overweighed a little discomfort.
She’d been through the first-floor rooms only twice
before. First on her initial viewing to take notes and mea-
surements. The second time to recheck them. But there
were no workmen now, no sounds of voices or hammer-
ing.
She slipped into the room beyond the parlor, dream-
ing a bit.
This would be the library—glossy shelves filled with
books, deep-cushioned chairs inviting a guest to curl up
to read. A library table would stand there, she mused, a
Sheraton if she could find one, with a decanter of brandy,
a vase of seasonal flowers, an old pewter inkwell.
Library steps, of course, she continued visualizing, see-
ing it all perfectly, almost to the grain of wood. And the
wide-backed chairs near the crackling fire would need
cozy footstools.
She wanted a reading stand in the far corner, one with
a cabriole base. She’d set a big, old Bible with gilt-edged
pages open on it.

Nora Roberts 397
Abigail O'Brian, married to Charles Richard Bar-
low, April 10, 1856
Catherine Anne Barlow, born June 5, 1857
Charles Richard Barlow, Junior, born November
22, 1859
Robert Michael Barlow, born February 9, 1861
Abigail Barlow, died September 18, 1864
Regan shivered, swayed. She came back to herself
slowly, her arms wrapped tight to ward off the sudden,
bitter cold, her heart pounding as the vision faded from
in front of her eyes.
How had she known that? she wondered, running a
shaky hand over her face. Where had those names and
dates come from?
She’d read them somewhere, she assured herself, but
shuddered again. All the research she’d done, of course
she’d read them. Very slowly, she backed out of the room
and stood in the hall to catch her breath.
Of course she’d known the Barlows of that time had
had three children. She’d looked it up. The dates must
have been there, as well—she’d retained them for some
reason, that was all.
Not for anything would she have admitted that she had
thought, just for a moment, that she’d actually seen the
thick white page of a Bible opened, and the names and
dates written there in a carefully formal hand.
She walked to the stairs and climbed them.
He’d left the door open this time. When she reached

398 The Return of Rafe MacKade
the landing, she heard the scrape of his trowel against the
wall. Letting out a relieved breath, she crossed the hall.
And was warm again, just looking at him.
‘Need a hand?’
He glanced back, saw her standing there in her clas-
sic sweater and pleated trousers. ‘Not in that outfit. I just
wanted to get this coat finished, and I thought you needed
some sleep.’
She contented herself with leaning against the door-
way to watch him. ‘Why is it that manual labor is so
attractive on some men?’
‘Some women like to see guys sweat.’
‘Apparently I do. Thoughtfully she studied his tech-
nique, the slide of the trowel, the flick of the wrist. ‘You
know, you're better at this than the guy who did my place
over the shop. Very tidy.’
‘| hate drywall work.’
‘Then why are you doing it?’
‘I like when it’s finished. And I’m faster than the team
I hired.’
‘How did you learn?’
“We were always having to fix something out at the
farm.’ He twisted his neck, cracking out kinks. ‘When I
left, I did a lot of handyman stuff’
‘Then started your own company.’
‘I don’t like working for somebody else.’
“Neither do I’ She hesitated, waiting while he scraped
off his tools. “Where did you go? When you left?’
‘South.’ He stooped to bang the top back on the bucket
of compound. “Picked up some jobs here and there. Fig-

Nora Roberts 399
ured out I was better at swinging a hammer than running
a plow.’ Out of habit, he reached into his shirt pocket,
found it empty. Swore. ‘Quit smoking,’ he muttered.
‘Good for you.’
‘It’s driving me nuts.’ To keep himself busy, he walked
over to check a seam he’d finished the night before.
“You went to Florida,’ she said prompting him.
“Yeah, that’s where I ended up. Lots of construction
work in Florida. I started buying houses—dumps—fixing
them up, turning them over. Did pretty well. So I came
back.’ He turned to her. “That’s about it.’
‘I wasn’t prying, she began.
‘I didn’t say you were. There just isn’t much to it,
Regan. I had a rep when I left here. Spent my last night
in town in a bar fight. With Joe Dolin,
‘I wondered if there was history there,’ she murmured.
‘Not much of one.’ He slipped off the bandanna he’d
twisted at his forehead to keep the hair out of his eyes,
stuffed it in his pocket. “We just hated each other’s guts.’
‘l’'d say your taste in enemies is excellent.’
Restless again, he moved his shoulders. ‘If it hadn’t
been him, it would have been somebody else. I was in
the mood that night.’ His grin flashed, but there wasn’t
much humor in it. ‘Hell, I was usually in the mood to
cause trouble. Nobody ever figured I’d amount to any-
thing, not even me.’
If he was trying to tell her something, she wasn’t sure
she quite understood it. ‘It looks as though they were
wrong. Even you.’
‘People are going to talk, about us.’ He’d thought about

400 The Return of Rafe MacKade
it, as he watched her sleep, finding himself restless and
edgy and needing to move. ‘You’re going to walk into Ed’s
or Kingston’s Market, and conversation’s going to take a
hitch. And when you walk out again, people are going to
start talking about what that nice Bishop woman is doing
with that troublemaker Rafe MacKade.’
‘I’ve been here three years, Rafe. I know how it works.’
He needed something to do with his hands, so he picked
up sandpaper and attacked the first dry seam. ‘I don’t
imagine you’ve given them much to gossip about up to
now.’
He worked as if the devil were looking over his shoul-
der, she thought. It seemed he did everything with that
controlled urgency just under the surface.
‘I was pretty hot news when I opened the shop. What’s
this flatlander doing taking over old Leroy’s place, sell-
ing antiques instead of screws and pipe fittings?’ She
smiled a little. ‘That got me a lot of browsers, and a good
many browsers became customers.’ She angled her head,
watching him. ‘Something like this should pick business
up dramatically for a few weeks.’
‘I want you to understand what you're getting into.’
‘It’s a little late for that.’ Because she sensed he needed
some prodding, she obliged. ‘Maybe you’re worried about
your reputation.’
‘Right.’ Dust flew as he sanded. ‘I was thinking of
running for mayor.’
‘No, your bad-boy rep. ‘“MacKade must be getting soft,
hanging around that nice Bishop woman. Next thing you

Nora Roberts 40]
know, he’ll be buying flowers instead of a six-pack. Bet
she’ll whip him into shape.”’
Curious, he tossed the sandpaper aside, tucked his
thumbs in his front pockets and turned to look at her.
‘Is that what you’re going to try to do, Regan? Whip me
into shape?’
‘Is that what you’re worried about, MacKade? That I
could?’
It wasn’t a comfortable thought. ‘Legions have tried.’
He walked over, skimmed a dusty finger down her cheek.
‘It'd be easier for me to corrupt you, darling. I could have
you playing nine-ball at Duff’s Tavern in no time.’
‘I could have you quoting Shelley.’
‘Shelley who?’
With a chuckle, she rose on her toes to give him a
friendly kiss. ‘Percy Bysshe Shelley. Better watch your-
Selim
The idea of that was so ridiculous, his tensed shoul-
ders relaxed. ‘Darling, the day I start spouting poetry’s
the day Shane’s prize hog sprouts wings and flies down
Main Street.’
She smiled again, kissed him again. “You don’t want
to make it a bet. Come on, I’d like to take a look at the
work in progress.’
He snatched her hand. ‘What kind of bet?’
She laughed, tugged him into the hall. ‘Rafe, ’m jok-
ing. Give me a tour.’
‘Just hold on. MacKades never back down from a dare.’
‘T’m daring you to quote Shelley?’ She sighed, shook
her head. ‘Okay, I dare you.’

402 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘No, that’s not how it works.’ Considering, he lifted her
hand, nibbled on her fingers. The flicker of arousal in her
eyes inspired him. ‘I say I can have you so crazy about me
within a month that you’ll wiggle into a leather miniskirt.
A red one. Walk into the tavern for beer and nine-ball.’
Arousal turned quickly into amusement. ‘What odd
fantasies you have, MacKade. Can you actually see me
in some tarty little skirt, playing pool?’
The smile turned wicked. ‘Oh, yeah. I can see that just
fine. Make sure you wear those really high heels, too.
The skinny ones.’
‘I never wear leather without stilettos. Anything less
would be tacky.’
‘And no bra.’
Her laughed puffed out. ‘Really into this, aren’t you?’
‘Tm getting there. You'll do it, too.” He cupped a hand
on her hip to nudge her closer. ‘Because you'll be crazy
about me.’
‘It’s obvious one of us has already lost his mind. Okay.’
Not one to refuse a challenge, she put a hand on his chest,
pushed him back. ‘I say within that same period of time,
P’ll have you on your knees, clutching a bouquet of...
ah.. .lilacs—’
‘Lilacs?’
“Yes, I’m very fond of lilacs. You’ll quote Shelley like
a champ.’
“What’s the winner get?’
‘Satisfaction.’
He had to smile. ‘That ought to be enough. Deal.’
They shook hands on it. ‘Am I going to get that tour now?”
‘Sure.’ He draped an arm around her shoulders and

Nora Roberts 403
entertained himself with the vision of those very fine
legs beneath a tight red skirt. ‘We went with your idea
of a kind of bridal suite.’ He led the way down the hall,
opened a six-paneled door. ‘Just about ready for trim work
in here.’
‘Rafe.’ Delighted, she stepped inside.
The delicate floral wallpaper was nearly all hung. The
coffered ceiling gleamed with fresh paint. French doors
were in place, and would one day open onto the wide
porch, overlook gardensin riotous bloom. The floor was
covered with drop cloths, but she could imagine it glossy
and accented with a lovely faded tapestry rug.
She stepped around buckets and ladders, already ar-
ranging furniture in her head. ‘It’s going to be beautiful,’
she murmured.
‘It’s coming along.’ He lifted a tarp from the fireplace.
‘The mantel was shot. I couldn’t fix it. Found a good
piece of yellow pine, though. The woodworker’s using
the original as a guide.’
‘That rose-colored trim is going to be wonderful in
here.’ She looked through an adjoining doorway. ‘And
this is the bath”
‘Mmm...’ He studied the room over her shoulder. It was
good-sized, and the plumbers had roughed it in. “Used to
be.a dressing room.’
She reached for his hand, gripped it. ‘Can you smell
it?’
‘Roses.’ Absently he rubbed his cheek over her hair. ‘It
always smells like roses in here. One of the paper hang-
ers accused his partner of wearing perfume.’

404 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘This was her room, wasn’t it? Abigail’s. She died in here.’
‘Probably. Hey.’ He tipped up her face, watched un-
comfortably as a tear trailed down her cheek. “Don’t.’
‘It’s so sad. She must have been terribly unhappy.
Knowing the man she’d married, the father of her chil-
dren, was capable of such cold-blooded cruelty. How did
he treat her, Rafe? Did he love her, or did he only own
ner?
‘There’s no way to know. Don’t cry.” Awkward, he
brushed the tear away. ‘It makes me feel like I have six
thumbs. I mean it.’ For lack of something better to do, he
patted her head. ‘There’s no use crying over something
that happened more than a hundred years ago.’
‘But she’s still here.’ Wrapping her arms around him,
Regan snuggled into his chest. ‘I feel so sorry for her,
for all of them.’
“You're not going to do yourself, or me, any good if you
get tangled up every time you come in here.’
‘I know.’ She sighed, comforted by the way his heart
beat strong and steady against her. ‘It’s odd how you get
used to it, a little bit at a time. Rafe, when I was down-
Stairs alone...’
‘What?’ Uneasy, he tilted her face toward his again.
‘It’s nothing.’
‘What?’ he repeated, giving her chin a little shake.
“Well, I walked into the library. What was the library,’
she went on, torn between the need to tell him and em-
barrassment. “What will be the library. And I— Rafe, I
could see it.’

Nora Roberts 405
His eyes were sharp, narrowed, totally concentrated.
“See what?’
‘The room. Not the stained floors and the new wiring
you’ve put in. The room. Books on the wall, flowers on
the table, drapes at the windows. I could really see it,
she repeated, her own brow creasing. ‘Not the way I do
in my head when I’m planning things out. Not exactly
like that. I was thinking to myself, sort of projecting, I
suppose. I imagined this, well, I thought I was imagin-
ing a Bible stand, with an old family Bible opened on it.
And I could read the page, almost touch it. Marriage and
births and death.’
She took time to catch her breath. “You’re not saying
anything.’
‘Because I’m listening to you.’
‘T know it sounds crazy.’
‘Not in this house, it doesn’t.’
‘It was so real, so sad. The way the scent of roses in
this room is real, and sad. Then it was so cold, bitter, like
a window had been flung open to the weather.’
She moved her shoulders, laid her head on his chest
again. “That’s all.’
‘That’s a lot for one day.’ Wanting to soothe, he stroked
his hand over her hair. ‘I can give Devin a call, have him
come get you.’
‘No, I don’t want to leave. It shook me for a moment,
but it’s just as I said before. You get to accept it. I can
handle it.’
‘I shouldn’t have left you alone,’

406 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘Don’t be silly. I don’t need to be guarded against griev-
ing ghosts.’
But he wanted to guard her. He wished she had called
for him. It surprised him just how much he wished she
had needed him enough to call out for him.
‘Next time you want to go in the library, let me know.
I'll go with you.’
‘The house is already changing,’ she said quietly.
“You’ve done that by caring for it. I like feeling I’ve had
a part in that, too.’
“You have.’ He pressed his lips to her hair.
“When people live in it, make love in it, laugh in it, it’ll
change again. The house needs people.’
She shifted, lifted her mouth to his. ‘Make love with
me.’
He cupped her face in his hands, deepened the kiss.
When he picked her up, carried her from the room, the
scent of roses followed. She looped her arms around him,
pressed her lips to his throat. Already her blood was heat-
ing, already her pulse was pounding.
‘It’s like a drug,’ she murmured.
‘I know.’ He stopped at the top of the stairs, found her
mouth again.
‘l’ve never been like this before.” Swamped with emo-
tions, she turned her face into his shoulder.
Neither had he, he thought.
As he carried her down, neither noticed that the air had
remained warm and calm.
He laid her in front of the fire. Levering himself up on
his elbow, he traced the shape of her face with a finger-

Nora Roberts 407
tip. Something kindled inside her, simmered with desire
and flamed around her heart.
‘Rafe.’
“Shh...
To quiet her, he brushed his lips over her brow. She
didn’t know what she would have said, was grateful he’d
stopped her. The wanting was more than enough. She
could be relieved that neither of them needed words.
She should have been relieved.
Her mouth was ready for his, and it warmed beauti-
fully under the pressure of lips and tongue. Though de-
sire remained, poised and trembling, everything in her
seemed to soften.
Here was tenderness, so sweet, so unexpected. Her sigh
whispered out like a secret.
He felt the change, in her, in himself. Marveled at it.
Why had they always been in such a hurry? he wondered.
Why had he hesitated to savor, and be savored, when there
was so much here?
He loved the flavor of her, that quietly seductive taste
that clung to her skin. The feel of her, soft curves, long
lines. The smell of her hair, her clothes, her shoulders.
So he savored it now, all of it, with long, slow kisses
that clouded his mind and made him forget there was
anything beyond this room for either of them.
His hands were careful this time as he drew her sweater
off, slipped the trousers down her hips. Rather than touch,
rather than take, he kissed her again, drawing out the sim-
ple meeting of lips until her body went limp.
‘Let me.’ With a dreamy murmur, she shifted until they

408 The Return of Rafe MacKade
were both kneeling. Already clouded, her eyes stayed on
his while she unbuttoned his shirt. Trapped in the silky
mood, she slipped it away and, with her hands resting
lightly on his shoulders, swayed to him.
They held each other, moving only for quiet, sipping
tastes, soft, gentle caresses. She smiled when his lips
brushed her shoulder, sighed when hers tasted his throat.
When they were naked, he drew her down so that she
lay over him, so that her hair fell to curtain them both.
She could have floated on this whisper-thin cloud of
sensations endlessly, with the winter sun slanting cold
light through the windows, the fire crackling, his body
strong and hard beneath hers.
The feel of his hands on her, stroking, soothing even
as they aroused, was like a gift. She felt the wonder of it
in every pore, in every nerve, with every pulse.
There was no clash and fury now, no desperation, no
vicious drive to mate. Now she was aware of everything—
the dust motes spinning in the sunbeam that rayed over
the floor, the sedate hiss of flame on wood, the scent of
roses and man.
She could count his heartbeats, quicker, stronger, as
her lips trailed over his chest. The bunching and quiver-
ing of a muscle beneath her hand, the sound of her own
thickening breath.
With a sigh that caught in her throat, she wrapped
around him as he rolled her to her back.
Time spun out, stretched, quivered. The clock on the
mantel ticked the seconds away, and the minutes. But that

Nora Roberts 409
was another world. Here there were only needs lazily sat-
isfied, and hearts quietly lost.
For pleasure—his as well as hers—he eased hen gently
to the edge and over. His name was only a murmur on her
lips as she arched, tensed, softened to silk. She opened
for him, drawing him close with a velvety moan as he
slipped into her.
Overwhelmed by her, by the simplicity of it, he bur-
rowed his face in her hair. The tenderness shattered them
both.
They didn’t speak of it. When they parted in the morn-
ing, both of them were determinedly casual. But they
thought of it. And they worried.
Rafe watched her drive off as the sun struggled over
the mountains to the east. When she was gone, when
there was no one to see, he rubbed the heel of his hand
over his heart.
There was an ache there that he couldn’t quite will
away. He had a very bad feeling that she was the cause
of it, and that somehow, in a matter of hours, he’d gotten
in over his head.
God, he missed her already.
He swore at himself for that, then swore again for
reaching like a trained dog for the cigarettes that weren’t
there. Both were just habits, he assured himself. If he
wanted, he could just go buy a pack of cigarettes and
smoke his brains out. Just as he could snatch her back
anytime.

410 The Return of Rafe MacKade
Sex was a powerful bond. It wasn’t surprising it had
caught him, as well.
It didn’t have to be any more than that. They’d tidied
that up, hadn’t they? A man was entitled to be a little
shaky after thirty-odd hours of sex and solitude with a
gorgeous woman.
He didn’t want anything more. Neither did she.
It was a relief and a pleasure to find a lover who wanted
no more and no less than he did himself. A woman who
didn’t expect him to play games, make promises neither
expected to be kept, say words that were only words,
after all.
Scowling, he grabbed a shovel and began to deal with
the snow that piled the walk. The sun was strengthen-
ing, and he worked fast, so that even with the bite of the
northern wind he sweated satisfactorily under his coat.
She’d probably head straight for the shower, he mused,
tossing heavy snow off the path. Wash that pretty doe-
colored hair of hers.
He wondered what it looked like wet.
She’d dig some of those neat, classy clothes out of her
closet. Nope, he thought, correcting himself. Regan would
never dig. She’d select. Quiet colors, simple lines. One
of those professional-woman’s jackets, with a pin on the
lapel.
She’d fix her face, nothing too obvious. Just hints of
blush along the cheekbones, a touch of color above those
ridiculously long lashes. Then lipstick—not red, not pink,
a kind of rose that accented those full lips and that sassy
little mole beside them.

Nora Roberts 4]]
Halfway down the walk, he stopped, leaned against the
shovel and wondered if he was losing his mind. He was
actually thinking about her makeup.
What the hell did he care what paint she slapped on
before she went down to open the shop?
She’d put on the kettle for tea, or have cider simmer-
ing so that the place smelled of apples and spices. Then
she’d go through the day without giving him a thought.
Snow flew as he attacked it. Well, he had plenty to do
himself, and no time to brood about her.
He’d reached the end of the walk, and the end of his
patience, when Devin rattled up the lane in the sheriff’s
cruiser.
“What the hell do you want?’ Rafe shouted. ‘Haven’t
you got somebody to arrest?’
‘Funny how a little blizzard quiets things down.’ Lean-
ing on the open car door, Devin watched his brother with
amusement. ‘Saw Regan’s car was gone, figured it was
safe to drop by.’
‘ve got men due any minute. I don’t have time to chat.’
‘In that case, I'll take my doughnuts and go.’
Rafe swiped a hand over his chilled face. ‘What kind?’
‘Apple and brown sugar.’
Some things were sacred, and an apple doughnut on a
cold morning topped the list.
‘Well, are you going to stand there all morning with
that idiot grin on your face? Give me a damn doughnut.’
Obligingly, Devin took the bag out of the car and saun-
tered over. ‘Had three fender benders in town yesterday
from people not smart enough to stay put.’

412 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘Antietam’s a wild town, all right. Have to shoot any-
body?’
‘Not lately.’ Devin took out a doughnut for himself
before passing the bag to Rafe. ‘Broke up a fistfight,
though.’
‘Down at the tavern?’
‘Nope, at the market. Millie Yeader and Mrs. Metz
were going at it over the last pack of toilet paper.’
Rafe’s lips twitched. ‘People get a little nervous over
necessities when a big snow hits.’
‘Tell me about it. Miz Metz-conked Millie with a bunch
of bananas. Took a lot of diplomacy to keep Millie from
filing charges.’
‘Assault with tropical fruit. Could’ve done hard time
for that.’ Calm again, Rafe licked apple from his thumb.
‘Did you come by to give me the latest trials and tribula-
tions of Antietam?’
‘That’s just a bonus.’ Devin polished off his doughnut,
reached for a cigarette. His grin was wide and unsympa-
thetic when Rafe groaned. He lit it, inhaled lavishly. ‘I
hear food tastes better when you quit.’
‘Nothing’s better, Rafe shot back. ‘But some of us have
real willpower. Blow it over here, you bastard.’
‘Secondhand smoke’s the real killer, Devin told him,
and blew a stream in Rafe’s direction. ‘You look a little
out of sorts, Rafe. Trouble in paradise?’
Rafe gave some thought to beating his brother to death
with the snow shovel and stealing all his cigarettes. Re-
minding himself it was all a matter of self-control, he
leaned on the shovel, instead.

Nora Roberts 413
‘How long did it take Shane to open his big mouth?’
‘Let’s see.’ Considering, Devin smoked and studied
the landscape. “The way the roads were yesterday, I’d say
it took him, oh, about seven minutes to get from here to
my office.’ He flicked ash aside. ‘Let’s say seven minutes
and ten seconds.’
‘Now you’re here to offer your sage advice?’
“Hey, it was pretty sage to talk those two snarling
women into splitting the six-pack of pink toilet paper.
But no.’ With a self-deprecating smile, he took a last drag,
then flicked the cigarette away.
Rafe watched it wistfully as it hissed in the snow.
‘T’m not exactly the expert on romance in the MacKade
family.’ Devin’s grin was crooked, and didn’t last long. ‘I
thought you might like the latest on Joe Dolin.’
“He’s locked up.’
‘For now. I got word he’s copping to second-degree
assault. If he listens to his lawyer, he’ll agree to alco-
hol counseling. He’ll get a fine, suspended sentence with
probation, and a stern warning not to hit his wife again.’
‘What the hell kind of deal is that?’
‘Prisons are crowded. Domestic disputes don’t usu-
ally equal tough sentencing. He says “Yeah, I did it, I’m
sorry. I lost my temper, I was drunk, I lost my job. My
self-esteem is really low.’ The judge says “Get yourself
into counseling, my boy, and sin no more.”
Rafe studied his brother’s face. Beneath the calm, he
caught the twitches of fury and frustration. “You’re just
going to let it go at that?’
‘I don’t sentence.’ Devin struggled to bite back on his

414 The Return of Rafe MacKade
sense of anger and impotence. ‘There’s nothing I can
do except talk Cassie into letting me issue a restraining
order, and make sure he doesn’t get near her or the kids.’
‘Meanwhile, they’re bunked down at Regan’s. That
puts her in the middle.’
‘T don’t like it any better than you do. I’ve got the law
to work around.’
‘T don’t.
Devin’s gaze was cool and level. “No, you don’t. But
you start something with Dolin, and it’s going to come
down in his favor. He’ll makea mistake, Rafe. All it takes
is one, and I’ll have him caged again. Until I do... I don’t
know where things stand between you and Regan, but if
you were staying there, it’d hold a lot more weight with
me than some useless restraining order.’
“You want me to ask Regan to let me move in with her?’
‘And Cassie, and the kids.’
The idea was surprisingly appealing. Waking up be-
side her, sharing that first cup of coffee. “You going to
deputize me, Dev?’
‘Not on your life.’
‘Too bad. Well, P’ll run it by Regan and let you know,’

Chapter 8
‘A bsolutely not.’ Regan planted her feet, folded her arms
over her chest. ‘You are not sleeping in my bed with two
little children in the next room,’
‘This isn’t about sex,’ Rafe said patiently. ‘That’s just
a bonus. I’m telling you, this is an official request from
the sheriff.’
‘Who just happens to be your brother. No.’ She turned
away to set glassware back on the shelf she’d been dust-
ing. ‘It would make Cassie uncomfortable and set a poor
example for the children,’
And if they weren’t there? He found the question leap-
ing to the tip of his tongue like a frog. He was barely in
time to prevent himself from letting it jump out.
‘It’s Cassie and the kids who are the issue,’ he insisted.

416 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘You think Dolin’s just going to leave them alone because
Cassie signs some paper telling him to?’
‘I have no idea what he’ll do, but he’ll have to get past
me first.’
The thought of it, just the thought of it, had his blood
icing over. ‘Now you listen...’
She jerked his hand from her shoulder and whirled
back. ‘No, you listen. The man is a bully and a drunk. I’m
not afraid of drunken bullies. I offered Cassie my home,
and she’s welcome to stay there as long as she wants. I
have a good solid lock on the door, which I'll use. I know
the number for the sheriff’s office, which I'll use, as well,
if it’s necessary.’
‘There’s no lock on that door.’ Rafe jerked a thumb
toward the front of the shop. “‘What’s to stop him from
walking in here during business hours and harassing you?
Or worse.’
‘lam,
‘Right.’ He wondered if shaking her would rattle her
brains back into place. ‘Putting Dolin on the receiving end
of that stubborn chin of yours isn’t going to stop him. In
case you haven’t figured it out, he likes hurting women.’
‘Tl take a moment to remind you that for the past three
years I’ve been here and you haven't. I’ve seen exactly
what he’s done to Cassie.’
‘And you figure because you’re not married to him,
you're safe?’ He did shake her. “You can’t be that stupid.’
‘Tm not stupid,’ she shot back. ‘I’m competent. I don’t
need or want you for a bodyguard.’

Nora Roberts 417
His eyes changed, going from full heat to slow burn.
On her shoulders, his hands tensed, then lifted away.
‘I guess that’s the bottom line, isn’t it? You don’t need
or want my help.’
Ego, she thought with a muffled sigh. There was no
monster so fierce or so vulnerable as a man’s ego. “The
sheriff’s office is five minutes away, if I need to call out
troops.’ Hoping to calm them both, Regan put her hands
on his shoulders. ‘Rafe, I appreciate your concern, really
I do. But I can take care of myself, and Cassie, too, if it
comes to that.’
‘I bet you can.’
‘I worked a shop in D.C. for years. One memorable eve-
ning, I was robbed at gunpoint. I know how to be sensible,
how not to take chances and how to defend myself. I ap-
preciate the fact that you’re worried, but I’m not Cassie.
He can’t frighten or intimidate me.’
‘Regan—’
‘Wait, let me finish. Cassie is so fragile right now, and
the children are too quiet. I’m not sure how they would
handle having a man around. The kids don’t know you.’
He jammed his hands in his pockets. ‘I’m not going to
kick them around.’
‘They don’t know that. Little Emma sits at Cassie’s feet
with her doll and barely says a word. And the boy— God,
Rafe, he breaks my heart. They need time to feel safe
again. You’re too big, you’re too strong, you're too...male.’
Stubbornly he ignored the fact that she’d hurt him—
that he could be hurt—and concentrated on the situation
~ at hand. ‘You’re being pigheaded.’

418 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘I’m doing what seems right to me. That’s the only way
I know how to handle things. Believe me, ’ve thought
this through, weighed the options. Having you move in
just isn’t one of them.’
‘Invite me to dinner, he said abruptly.
“You want to come to dinner?’
‘Ask me to dinner, so I can get to know the kids, so
they’ll get used to me being around.’
‘Now who’s pigheaded?’ But she sighed. It was a rea-
sonable compromise. ‘All right, seven-thirty, and you’re
out by ten.’
‘Can we neck on the couch after the kids go to bed?’
“Maybe. Now go away.’
‘Aren’t you going to kiss me goodbye?’
She huffed out a breath, then kissed him primly on the
cheek. “Business hours,’ she said, then laughed when he
grabbed her. ‘Rafe, we’re right in front of the window.
fo
The rest was lost as he crushed his mouth to hers.
‘Might as well give them something to talk about.’ And .
give her something to think about, he told himself. She
was damn well going to do a lot of thinking about Rafe
MacKade.
He nipped her lip, let her go, then sauntered out the
door.
A block away, Cassie sat in Devin’s office, twisting her
hands together. She knew it should be easier because it
was Devin, someone she’d known all her life. But it only
made the shame worse.

Nora Roberts 419
‘l’m sorry, we got busy, and I couldn’t take my break
until now.’
‘That’s all right, Cassie.’ It had become habit to keep
his voice quiet when he spoke to her, as a man might
speak to a wounded bird. ‘I’ve got the paperwork filled
out for you. You just have to sign it.’
‘He’s not going to go to jail.’
A fist squeezed his heart at the emptiness in her tone.
‘No.’
‘Is it because I let him hit me?’
‘No.’ He wished he could reach out to soothe those ner-
vous hands. But the desk was between them, an official
barrier. ‘He admitted that he hurt you, but the court took
other things into consideration. His drinking problem,
his loss of a longtime job. He’ll have to go into counsel-
ing, report to his probation officer. Stay out of trouble.’
‘It could be good for him.’ She looked up, then, just as
quickly, down again. “The counseling. If he stops drink-
ing, maybe everything would be all right.’
“Yeah.” And he could run a Popsicle stand in hell, Devin
thought. ‘In the meantime, you need to protect yourself.
That’s what the restraining order’s for.’
She lifted her gaze again, and this time her eyes held
his. ‘That paper is going to keep him from coming back?’
Devin grabbed a cigarette out of his pack, then tossed
it down. When he spoke, his voice was cool and official.
‘This bars him from coming near you. He can’t come into
the diner when you’re working there. He can’t approach
you on the street, or come to Regan’s house as long as
you're staying there. If he breaks any one of the regula-

420 The Return of Rafe MacKade
tions set down here, he’ll void his parole and serve the
eighteen months.’
‘He knows about this?’
‘He’s been notified.’
She moistened her lips. He couldn’t come near her. The
idea whirled around in her head. If he couldn’t come near
her, he couldn’t hit her.
‘I only have to sign it’
‘Yes, you only have to sign it.’ Devin rose then, came
around the desk to offer her a pen. When she made no
move to take it, he bit back an oath. “Cassie, what do you -
want? Can you just tell me what you want?’
She shook her head, took the pen. She signed her name
quickly, as though it hurt. ‘I know I’ve put you through
a lot of trouble, Devin.’
‘It’s my job,’ he said shortly.
“You're a good sheriff.” When he glanced back, obvi-
ously surprised, she tried to smile. “You are quiet and
competent and good with people. Everyone knows they
can count on you. My mother always said you and your
brothers would end up behind bars.’ She flushed and
stared down at the floor. ‘I’m sorry. That was stupid.’
‘No, it wasn’t. I used to think the same myself’ He |
smiled then, because just for a moment she’d sounded like
the girl he remembered. ‘You know, Cass, that’s about
the longest little speech I’ve heard out of you in close to
ten years.’
‘T’m always putting my foot in my mouth.’
‘Don’t do that.’ He’d taken her chin to lift her head
before he realized he meant to—before she flinched like

Nora Roberts 42]
a startled doe. Moving with care, he dropped his hand,
eased a hip on the corner of the desk. ‘How are the kids?’
‘They’re all right. Better.
‘Getting along all right at Regan’s?’
‘She’s wonderful. I forget I’m imposing, because she
makes everything so normal. She and Rafe—’ She broke
off, her color rising again. “You’ve got better things to do
than listen to me gossip.’
‘No, I don’t.’ He’d have done anything to keep her talk-
ing. To keep her there. ‘What do you think about them?
Regan and Rafe?’
‘I— She looked happy when she came home this morn-
ing.’
‘He looked miserable when I dropped by the house
this morning.’
Her smile was slow and shy. “That’s a good sign. Rafe
always needed a woman who could make him unhappy.
It was always too easy for him. For all of you.’
‘Was it?’ Thoughtful, he picked up his cigarette again,
ran it through his fingers. ‘I remember you turned me
down.’
‘Oh.’ Fumbling, she rose. “That was a hundred years
ago.’
‘Not quite twelve. You were sweet sixteen.’
‘I was going with Joe.’ As she tugged on her coat, she
wondered if she’d really ever been sixteen. ‘I can’t even
remember who we were then, or what we were looking
for. Thanks, Devin, for taking care of this.’
‘That’s what I’m here for, to take care of things.’
At the door, she paused, but didn’t look back. It was

422 The Return of Rafe MacKade
easier to speak if she didn’t have to look into those cool,
pitying eyes. “You asked me what I wanted, Devin. I just
want to feel safe.’ She said it so quietly, he barely heard.
‘That’s really all’
In a coat that was too thin to fight off the biting wind,
she walked back to the café.
Rafe arrived ten minutes early for dinner and squirmed
on Regan’s doorstep like a nervous suitor. He had a bottle
of wine in one hand and a bakery box of cookies designed
to win the kids over in the other.
He wished he’d remembered before his brainstorm that
he knew nothing about people under the age of sixteen.
As a test, he turned the knob. It was somewhat satisfy-
ing to find it locked tight. He knocked sharply, stepped
back. It was Regan who opened it, as far as the thick se-
curity chain allowed.
‘Okay, so far you’re passing. But you should have asked
_ who it was first.’
‘I looked out the window.’ She shut the door in his
face, then, after a rattle of chain, opened it. ‘I had the
feeling there’d be a quiz.’ Smiling, she studied the offer-
ings. “No lilacs?’
‘No chance.’ He would have kissed her if he hadn’t no-
ticed the solemn gray eyes watching him from the cush-
ions of the sofa. ‘Looks like you’ve got a mouse in the
house.’
Regan jerked, then smiled when she saw Emma. ‘She’s
quiet as one, but prettier. Emma, this is Mr. MacKade.

Nora Roberts 423
You met him at Ed’s, remember?’ Regan held out a hand.
Eyeing him warily, Emma slipped from the couch.
She was five, Rafe knew, and tiny as a fairy princess,
with her mother’s pale hair and smoky eyes.
‘I knew your mama when she was your age,’ he told
her.
Emma darted behind Regan’s legs and peered up at
him.
Knowing it was a shameless bribe, he shook the bak-
ery box. “Want a cookie, honey?’
That earned him the faintest of smiles, but Regan took
the box out of his hands. ‘Not before dinner.’
‘Spoilsport. But dinner smells good.’
‘Cassie’s chicken and dumplings. I had to practically
tie her down to keep her from taking the kids and eating
at the diner. We compromised and had her cook dinner.
Come on, Emma, we’ll take the cookies in the kitchen.’
With one hand clutching Regan’s slacks, Emma darted
looks over her shoulder.
She thought he was big, but his eyes weren’t mean.
She’d already learned how to read eyes. And he looked
a lot like the sheriff, who sometimes picked her up and
gave her lemon drops.
But Emma watched her mother carefully to gauge her
reaction to the man.
Cassie looked up from the stove and smiled. ‘Hi, Rafe.’
He moved to her, lightly kissed her bruised cheek.
“How’s it going?’
‘Fine, everything’s fine.’ She laid a hand on the shoul-

424 The Return of Rafe MacKade
der of the boy beside her. ‘Connor, you remember Mr.
MacKade.’
‘Nice to see you again, Connor.’ Rafe offered a hand.
The little boy with the pale hair and the dusky blue eyes
shook hands hesitantly. ‘You’d be, what, in third, fourth
grade?’
‘Third, yes, sir.
Rafe lifted a brow and passed the bottle of wine to
Regan. That would make him about eight, Rafe figured,
and the kid spoke as quietly as an old priest. ‘Miz Witt
still teaching there?’
“Yess sit,
“We used to call her Miz Dimwit.’ When the boy’s eyes
widened, Rafe plucked a carrot from beside the salad
bowl. ‘Bet you still do.’
“Yes, sir, Connor mumbled, slanting a look at his
mother. ‘Sometimes.’ Screwing up the courage he’d
worked on building ever since he’d been told Rafe Mac-
Kade was coming, Connor drew in his breath. “You
bought the Barlow Place.’
‘That’s right.’
‘It’s haunted.’
Rafe bit off some carrot and grinned. ‘You bet.’
‘I know all about the battle and everything,’ Connor
said in one quick burst. ‘It was the bloodiest day of the
Civil War, and nobody really won, because—’ He broke
off, embarrassed. This, he thought miserably, was why
some of the kids called him nerdhead in school.
‘Because nobody went for the final push, Rafe fin-
ished for him. ‘Maybe you'd like to come by the house

Nora Roberts 425
sometime, take a look. I could use somebody who knows
all about the battle.’
‘T’ve got a book. With pictures.’
“Yeah?’ Rafe took the wine Regan offered him. ‘Let’s
see.’
It was simple enough to draw the boy out, as long as
they were discussing McClellan’s flawed strategy or the
Battle of Burnside Bridge. Rafe saw a bright, needy boy,
too bookish to fit neatly with his contemporaries, too shy
to showcase his own brain.
The girl, a miniature of her mother, never strayed far
from Cassie or Regan, ate her dinner in small, neat bites.
And watched him like a baby hawk.
‘Ed would be better off having you in the kitchen than
waiting tables, Rafe commented after he’d polished off a
second helping. ‘Her business would double in a month.’
Off guard, Cassie blinked at him. No one had compli-
mented her cooking in too many years to count. ‘I’m glad
you liked it. Ic ould put some of the leftovers in a dish for
you. You'd just have to heat them up.’
‘T ll take them.’
When Cassie rose and began to clear, Regan held up a
hand. ‘No, you don’t. You cooked, I clear.’
‘But—
‘That was the deal. And since Rafe ate enough for two
growing boys, he can help.’
The Dolins looked on, awed, as Rafe cheerfully stacked
plates. The men they knew would have belched, loosened
their belts and plopped down in front of the TV with a
six-pack.

426 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘Daddy says girls and sissies do dishes, Emma an-
nounced, in a surprisingly clear voice.
‘Emma!’ Paling, Cassie stared at Rafe and waited for
the retribution.
He considered making a comment about her father’s
brains but decided against it. ‘My mama always said a
meal has to be earned.’ He said it lightly and winked at
her. ‘And if I do the dishes with Regan, I'll probably be
able to kiss her.’
‘Why?’
‘Because she tastes almost as good as your mama’s
chicken and dumplings.’
Satisfied with that, Emma nibbled solemnly on her
cookie.
‘T’ll just give Emma her bath, then.’ Flustered, Cassie
shooed her children along. ‘I have to turn in early. I have
the breakfast shift in the morning.’
‘Thanks for dinner, Cassie.’
“You handled that very well, Regan murmured. ‘That’s
probably the first time in years they’ve sat at the dinner
table with a man and had a civilized conversation.’
‘Dolin’s not only a swine, he’s a fool.’ Rafe set stacked
plates on the kitchen counter. ‘Sweet woman like that,
beautiful kids. Any man would be lucky to have them.’
A home of your own, Rafe mused. A woman who loved
you. Kids racing out to meet you at the end of the day.
Family meals around a table. Noise in the kitchen.
Funny, he’d never thought that was something he’d
wanted, or needed.
“You made an impression, Regan went on as she filled

Nora Roberts 427
the sink with hot, soapy water. ‘A good one. I can’t think
of anything better for all of them than seeing a strong,
intelligent man behaving in a strong, intelligent way.’
She glanced back, and her smile faltered at the look in
his eye. She was used to the way he stared at her, or she
nearly was. But this was different, deeper.
“What is it?’
‘Hmm?’ He caught himself, realized he felt like a man
who had nearly skidded hard and landed on very thin ice.
‘Nothing. It’s nothing.’ Good God, he’d actually been
thinking about marriage and kids and picket fences. ‘The
boy, Connor. He’s awfully bright, isn’t he?’
‘Straight As,’ Regan said, as proudly as if he were her
own. ‘He’s bright, sensitive and sweet—which made him
a perfect target for Joe. The man bullied the poor kid
mercilessly.’
‘He hit him?’ The question was mild, but the fire was
already burning.
‘No, I don’t think so. Cassie’s fiercely protective of her
children. But emotional abuse doesn’t leave bruises.’ She
shrugged. ‘Well, they’re out of it now.’ She handed him a
plate to dry. ‘Did your father do dishes?’
‘Only on Thanksgiving.’ Rafe polished off the plate,
set it aside. ‘Buck MacKade was a man’s man.’
‘Buck?’ Impressed, Regan pursed her lips. “Sounds
formidable.’
‘He was tough. Had eyes that could drill holes in you if
you messed up. Devin got his eyes. I got his hands.’ Be-
mused, Rafe stared down at his palms, flexed his fingers.

428 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘It was a hell of a surprise to me when I looked down one
day and saw my father’s hands on the end of my arms.’
She couldn’t have said why it touched her so to see
him smiling down at his hands, a dishcloth tossed over
his shoulder. ‘You were close to him?’
‘Not close enough. Not for long enough.’
“When did you lose him?’
‘I was fifteen. Tractor rolled on him. It took him a
‘week to die.’
She plunged her hands into the water again, struggled
with tears. ‘Is that why you hate the farm?’
‘Yeah, I guess it is.’ Odd, he’d never realized it was that
simple, that direct. The farm had taken his father, so he
had to hate the farm. ‘He loved it, every rocky acre. The
way Shane does.’
‘What did Jared get from him?’
‘The mouth—Jared can horse-trade just like the old
man, and make you think you got the best end of the deal.’
‘Then I’m relieved he’s my lawyer.’ She offered another
plate. ‘My father never did a dish in his life. I’m sure my
mother would be horrified if he tried. The kitchen is a
woman’s domain,’ she said dryly. “They agree on that
completely. She brings him his first cup of coffee every
morning before he goes to the hospital. He’s a surgeon.’
‘Hard feelings?’
‘I used to have them,’ she admitted. ‘She made her-
self into exactly the woman he wanted her to be. If she
was ever anything else, wanted to be anything else, any-
thing more, it doesn’t show. She’s Dr. Bishop’s wife, and
that’s all,

Nora Roberts 429
He began to see just why she was so set on marking
her own boundaries, taking her own stands. ‘Maybe that’s
all she wants to be.’
‘Apparently. It just infuriated me to see the way she
catered to him, the way he patted her on the head. He
actually gives her an allowance and calls her ‘the little
woman.”
It still made her grit her teeth. ‘She loved living in D.C.,
but a few years ago when he decided that he wanted to
_ relocate to Arizona, she packed up without a murmur.’
Regan sighed. ‘But they’re blissfully happy. I baffle them
as much as they baffle me.’
“Because you don’t have a rich husband, a big house
and a membership at the country club.’
‘Exactly.’ Surprised and amused, she glanced at him.
“Have you met them?’
‘I think I just did.’ And, in doing so, caught a fresh
new glimpse of her. ‘So, darling, why don’t you have a
rich husband, a big house and a membership at the coun-
try club?’
“Because I like independence, my own space and my
golf game is dreadful.’ She shook back her hair. ‘Actually,
my mother had high hopes for me when she met Jared.’
The bowl he was drying clattered when he set it down.
‘Run through that again.’
‘They came to visit right after the settlement. He took
us out to dinner.’
‘Jared, Rafe said carefully, ‘took you out to dinner.’
‘Mmm-hmm... A couple of times. My mother really

430 The Return of Rafe MacKade
liked the idea that I was seeing a lawyer. Next-best thing
to a doctor, in her mind.’
‘Seeing. As in dating. You dated Jared?’
‘We went out a few times. It was right after his divorce’
She held out another bowl, lifting a brow when he made
no move to take it. ‘Is there a problem?’
“You dated my brother?’
‘I believe we just established that.’ She decided it was a
better idea to bite the inside of her lip than to let it curve.
‘Didn’t he mention it?’
‘No. I think I’d like your definition of date.’
“You mean, did I sleep with him?’ Struggling to keep
her face composed, she tilted her head. ‘Are you going to
go beat him up, big guy? Can I come watch?’
Obviously she didn’t know how close she was to havy-
ing her pretty face dumped in dishwater. ‘It’s a simple
question.’
“You’ve got a muscle twitching in your jaw, Rafe. It
looks good on you. No,’ she said, and then she did laugh.
‘Of course I didn’t sleep with him.’ Enjoying herself, she
shoved the bowl into his hands. ‘I did kiss him good-night.
A couple of times. I’m now in the position to state, un-
equivocally, that at least fifty percent of the MacKade
brothers are champion kissers.’
‘Think twice before you try for a hundred percent—or
even seventy-five.’ He set the bowl aside, picked up his
wine. ‘Why didn’t you sleep with him?’
‘Really, Rafe.’ She rolled her eyes. ‘In the first place,
he didn’t ask me. And in the second, I didn’t ask him. We
were more comfortable being friends. Satisfied?’

Nora Roberts 43]
“Maybe I'll beat him up anyway. On principle.’
After setting his wine aside, he took her by the shoul-
ders, turned her to face him. Even as she grinned at him,
he pressed her back into the sink.
Hard, possessive, his mouth covered hers. The little
purr that sounded in her throat enticed him to draw the
kiss out, soften it, until all points of pleasure narrowed
and centered just there.
When her head fell back in surrender, her hands slid
limply down his arms, he eased back.
‘That’s so you remember which MacKade you're with
now.’
She had to remind herself to breathe. ‘What was your
name again?’
He grinned, then closed his teeth over her sensitized
bottom lip. ‘Tell you what. Why don’t we skip necking on
the couch and go try out the back seat of my car?’
‘That’s quite an offer.’ It was fascinating to feel her
own head spin. ‘I think Ill take you up on it.’
Rafe let himself into the Barlow house at midnight.
He’d recognized the car at the top of the lane, and he
wasn’t surprised to find Jared in the parlor, brooding over
a beer.
‘Foreclosing already, Lawyer MacKade?’
Instead of rising to the bait, Jared stared down at his
beer. ‘I put my house on the market today. Didn’t feel
like staying there.’
Rafe grunted, sat down on his sleeping bag to pull off
his boots. He knew the dark moods, often had them him-

432 The Return of Rafe MacKade
self. Either he’d manage to shake Jared out of it, or they’d
both ride through it.
‘Never liked that house, no personality. Just like your
ex-wife.’
It was so cold, and so true, Jared had to laugh. ‘Decent
investment, though. Ill make a profit.’
Rafe shook his head at the beer Jared held out. “They
don’t taste the same without a smoke. Besides, I gotta be
up in six and a half hours. I was going to come look for
you, he added.
‘Oh? Why?’ e;
‘To beat the hell out of you.’ With a yawn, Rafe lay
back. ‘It’ll have to wait till tomorrow. I’m too relaxed.’
‘Okay. Any particular reason?’
_ “You kissed my woman.’ Rafe figured he had just about
enough energy to strip off his pants.
‘I did?’ Jared tossed his legs up over the settee. A
slow smile curved his lips. ‘Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah...’ he
said again, with more feeling. ‘It’s all coming back to me.
When’d she get to be your woman?’
Rafe heaved his jeans aside, started on his shirt. ‘That’s
what comes from living in the city. You’re out of the loop,
bro. She’s mine now.’
“Does she know that?’
‘I know.’ With his eyes closed, he dragged the sleeping
bag over him. ‘I’m thinking about keeping her,’
Jared choked on his beer. “You mean like a wife?’
‘I mean like keeping her, Rafe repeated. No way was
he going to try to get his tongue around a word like wife.
‘Keeping things the way they are now.’

Nora Roberts 433
This was interesting, Jared mused. And even more fun
than brooding. ‘And how are things now?’
‘Things are good.’ Rafe could smell her on the quilted
material of the sleeping bag. ‘I’m still going to have to
break your face. It’s the principle.’
‘Understood.’ Jared stretched out, settled back. ‘Then
again, I never did pay you back for talking Sharilyn
Bester, now Fenniman, into riding out to the quarry with
you to skinny-dip.’
‘I was just easing her broken heart after you’d dumped
her.’
“Yeah. But it’s the principle.’
Considering, Rafe scratched his face. “You got a point.
But Sharilyn, pretty as she is, is no Regan Bishop.’
‘I never got to see Regan naked.’
‘That’s why you’re still breathing.’ Rafe shifted, folded
his arms under his head. ‘Maybe we’ll call it even.’
‘I can sleep easy now.’
Rafe’s lips twitched at the dry tone. ‘I’m sorry about
your house, Jared, if you are.’
‘T’m not sorry about it, really. It just brought a lot of
things back. I screwed up as much as Barbara did, Rafe.
It would have been easier if we’d yelled at each other,
threw things.’ He took a last swig and set the empty bottle
on the floor. “There’s nothing more demoralizing than a
civilized divorce between two people who couldn’t care
less about each other.’
‘It’s got to be better than getting your heart broken.’
‘T don’t know. I kind of wish I’d had the chance.’

434 The Return of Rafe MacKade
They were both silent as the sound of weeping drifted
down the stairs.
‘Ask her,’ Rafe suggested. ‘I’d bet she’d tell you you’re
better off?
‘Maybe you should start thinking exorcism,’ Jake said,
smiling at the idea as his eyes drooped and he settled
himself for sleep.
‘No. I like having them around. I’ve had plenty of time
to be alone.’

Chapter 9
Tt was rare for Rafe to dream. He preferred his fantasies
during waking hours, so that his consciousness could
appreciate them.
But he dreamed that night, as the fire burned low and
the moon rose over drifts of snow, if you could call it a
dream...
He was running, terror and smoke at his heels. His eyes
were burning from fatigue, and from the horror he’d al-
ready seen.
Men blown apart before they could scream from the
shock and agony. The ground exploding, hacked by mor-
tar fire, drenched with blood. The smell of death was in
his nostrils, and he knew he’d never be free of it.
Oh, and he longed for the scent of magnolias and roses,
for the lush green hills and rich brown fields of his home.

436 The Return of Rafe MacKade
If he had had tears left, he would have wept them for the
quiet gurgling of the river that wound through his family’s
plantation, the bright laughter of his sisters, the crooning
songs of the field hands.
He was afraid, mortally afraid, that everything he’d
known and treasured was already gone. His most des-
perate wish was to get back, to see it again.
He wanted to see his father again, to tell him his son
had tried to be a man.
The battle raged everywhere. In the fields, through the
corn, in his heart. So manyo f his comrades lay dead on
these godforsaken rocky hills of Maryland.
He’d lost his way. He hadn’t been able to see through
the choking smoke, or hear through the thunder of guns
and the horrible shrieks of men. Suddenly he was run-
ning, running as a coward runs for any hole to crawl in.
Mixed with the horror now was a shame just as ter-
rible. He’d forgotten his duty, and lost his honor. Now,
somehow, he must find them both again.
The woods were thick, carpeted with the dying leaves
that fell, brilliant in golds and russets, from the trees. He
had never been so far north, seen such color, or smelled
the poignant decay of autumn.
He was only seventeen.
A movement ahead had him fumbling his rifle onto
his shoulder. The blue uniform was all he could see, and
he fired too quickly, and poorly. The answering shot had
fire singeing his arm. Driven by pain and terror, he gave
a wild Rebel yell and charged.
He wished he hadn’t seen the eyes, the eyes of the

Nora Roberts 437
enemy, as wide and terror-glazed and young as his own.
Their bayonets crashed, point to point. He smelled the
blood, and the stinking scent of fear.
He felt the steel of his blade slice into flesh, and his
stomach roiled. He felt the rip of his own, and cried out in
agony. He fought, blindly, bitterly, recklessly, until there
was nothing inside him but the battle. And when they
both lay in their own blood, he wondered why.
He was crawling, delirious with pain. He needed to
get home for supper, he thought. Had to get home. There
was the house, he could see it now. He dragged himself
over rocks and dying summer flowers, leaving his blood
staining the grass.
Hands were lifting him. Soft voices. He saw her stand-
ing over him, an angel. Her hair like a halo, her eyes
warm, her voice filled with the music of the South he
yearned for. .
Her face was so beautiful, so gentle, so sad.
She stroked his head, held his hand, walking beside
him as others carried him up curving steps.
I’m going home, he told her. I have to go home.
You'll be all right, she promised. — ll go home as
soon as you're well again.
She looked away from him, up, and her lovely face
went pale as a ghost’s.
No. He’s hurt. He’s just a boy. Charles, you can't.
He saw the man, saw the gun, heard the words.
I'll have no Confederate scum in my house. No wife of
mine will put her hands on a Rebel.
Rafe jolted awake with the sound of a gunshot ringing

438 The Return of Rafe MacKade
in his ears. He sat where he was while it echoed away,
until all that was left was his brother’s quiet breathing.
Chilled, he rose, added logs to the fire. Then he sat,
watching the flames and waiting for dawn.
Regan slept like a baby. With the kids off to school and
Cassie taking the early shift at the diner, she indulged her-
self with a second cup of coffee. She still prized her pri-
vacy, but she’d discovered she liked having the company.
It was nice having the children pad around the house
in the morning, having Emma offer one of her solemn
kisses or Connor one of his rare smiles.
She liked beating Cassie to the kitchen so that she could
fix breakfast and smooth down pale, sleep-tousled hair.
Motherhood had never been one of her ambitions, but
she was beginning to wonder if she wouldn’t be good at it.
She picked up a crayon Emma had left on the table.
She smelled it, and smiled. It was funny, she thought, how
quickly a house could smell like children. Crayons and
white paste, hot chocolate and soggy cereal.
And it was funny how quickly she’d come to look for-
ward to finding them there after work.
Absently she tucked the crayon in her pocket. Work
was exactly where she had to go.
Out of habit, she rinsed her coffee cup in the sink, set
it on the drain. After a last glance around, she opened the
door in the kitchen and headed down the stairs to open
the shop for the day.
She’d barely turned the Open sign around, unlocked

Nora Roberts 439
the door and moved behind the counter to unlock the till
when Joe Dolin walked in.
The quick spurt of alarm came first. Then she soothed it
by reminding herself that he was here, and Cassie wasn’t.
He’d put on weight even in the three years she’d known
him. There was muscle there still, but it was cushioned
by too many six-packs. She imagined he’d been an attrac-
tive man once, before his square face had bloated and his
moody brown eyes had sunken behind bags.
He had a chipped front tooth she didn’t know was cour-
tesy of a younger Rafe’s fist, and a nose that had been
broken by Rafe, and several others.
With disgust, she remembered that he had tried, once
or twice, to touch her. Had watched her, more than once
or twice, with greedy eyes and a knowing smile.
Regan hadn’t even told Cassie that. And never would.
She braced herself for the altercation, but he shut the
door quietly, took off his billed cap and held it humbly in
his hands, like a peasant before the queen.
‘Regan. I’m sorry to bother you.’
The penitent sound of his voice and bowed head almost
softened her. But she remembered the bruises on Cassie’s
neck. ‘What do you want, Joe?’
‘I heard Cassie’s staying with you.’
Just Cassie, she noted. Nothing about his children.
‘That’s right.’
‘I guess you know about the trouble.’
“Yes, I know. You beat her, and you were arrested.’
‘I was awful drunk.’
‘The court may find that an excuse. I don’t’

440 The Return of Rafe MacKade
His eyes narrowed and flashed, but he kept his head
down. ‘I feel terrible about it. Done nothing but worry
about her for days. Now they’ve fixed it so I can’t even
go near her to tell her so. I come to ask you a favor.’
He lifted his head then, and his eyes were moist. ‘Cassie
sets a lot of store by you.’
‘I set a lot of store by her, Regan said evenly. She
would not let the sight of a man’s tears blur her judgment.
“Yeah, well. I was hoping you'd talk to her for me. See
that she gives me another chance. I can’t ask her myself,
long as there’s that damn restraining order. But she’lI lis-
ten to you.’
“You're giving me credit for influence over Cassie I
don’t have, Joe.’
‘No, she’ll listen to you,’ he insisted. ‘She’s always run-
ning off at the mouth about how smart you are. You tell
her to come on home, and she’!1 do it.’
Very slowly, Regan placed her palms on the countertop.
‘If she’d listened to me, she would have left you years ago.’
His unshaven jaw tightened. ‘Now, you look. A man’s
got a right—’
‘To beat his wife?’ she snapped. ‘Not in my book, he
doesn’t, and not in the law’s. No, I won’t tell her to come
back to you, Joe. And if that’s all you came in for, you’ll
have to leave.’
His lips peeled back, showing clenched teeth, his eyes
hardened like marbles. ‘Still ail high-and-mighty. You
think youre better than me,’
‘No, I don’t. I know I’m better than you. Get out of my

Nora Roberts 44]
shop or [ll have Sheriff MacKade throw you in jail for
harassment.’
‘A woman belongs to her husband.’ He crashed his
fist on the counter, hard enough to have a crack split-
ting through the glass. ‘You tell her to get her skinny
butt home, if she knows what’s good for her. And what’s
good for you.’
Fear trembled in Regan’s throat, and was swallowed,
hard. As if it were a talisman, she closed a hand around
the crayon in her pocket. ‘Is that a threat?’ she asked
coolly. ‘I don’t believe your parole officer would approve.
Shall I call him and ask?’
‘Bitch. You’re nothing but a frigid, dried-up bitch who
can’t get herself a real man.’ He wanted to hit her, to feel
his fist pound into that ice-queen face. “You get between
me and my wife and both of you'll find out what it’s like.
When I finish with her, I’ll come after you. We’ll see if
you're so high and mighty when I’m finished.’
He jammed his hat back on his head, spun to the door.
“You tell her what I said. You tell her I’m waiting. She’d
better have that bastard MacKade tear up those papers
and be home by suppertime.’
The instant the door slammed behind him, Regan
slumped against the counter. Her hands were shaking,
and she hated it, hated being afraid, hated being vulner-
able. She grabbed the phone, had nearly followed through
on her first instinct to call Rafe when she stopped herself.
That was wrong, she thought, carefully replacing the
receiver. For so many reasons it was wrong. Wouldn’t his
first reaction be to hunt Joe down, to fight? He’d prob-

442 The Return of Rafe MacKade
ably get hurt and certainly more fighting wasn’t going
to solve anything.
She straightened and drew a few calming breaths.
Where was her pride, her sense of control? She had al-
ways handled herself and any situation that came her
way. Her feelings for Rafe shouldn’t—couldn’t change
that intrinsic part of her. She wouldn’t allow it. So, she
would do what was right, what was practical, and what
was necessary. Regan picked up the phone and dialed the
sheriff’s office.
‘He was almost pitiful at first.’ The tea sloshed in her
cup. With a grimace, Regan set it down again. ‘I guess
he spooked me more than I’d thought.’
‘Shake all you want,’ Devin told her, and frowned at
the crack in her counter. It could have been worse, he
thought grimly. A lot worse. ‘I have to say, I didn’t think
he was fool enough to pull a stunt like this.’
‘I don’t think he’d been drinking.’ Regan cleared her
throat. ‘At least he wasn’t drunk. He got steadily more
angry, steadily more abusive.’ She reached for her tea
again. ‘I don’t have any witnesses. It was just him and me.’
“You file charges, I’ll go after him.’
Her lips trembled upward. ‘It sounds like you’re look-
ing forward to it.
“You don’t know the half of it,
‘T’ll file charges. Cassie?’
‘I had one of my deputies go to the diner as soon as
you called. He’ll hang out there and get paid for drinking

Nora Roberts 443
coffee and flirting with Ed. I’ve got another one driving
by the school.’
‘The kids.’ Her blood ran cold. ‘You don’t think he’d
go after the kids?’
‘No, I don’t think he gives two damns about them.’
“You're right.’ She tried to feel relieved. ‘He never said
a word about them. Only Cassie. It was as if his children
didn’t exist. Well, Pll lock up and go with you now, if
that’s all right.’
‘The sooner the better. Odds are he’s at home, knock-
ing back a bottle and waiting for her.’
Once the complaint was official, Regan detoured to the
market. She had a feeling both she and Cassie were going
to need a lift that evening. Comfort food was in order.
Spaghetti and meatballs, she decided, and double-fudge
brownies.
While she waited for her purchases to be bagged, she
tried not to chuckle at the darting looks and whispers. The
gossip brigade, she thought, was in full march.
Mrs. Metz, all two hundred and twenty pounds of her,
waddled over. ‘Why, Regan Bishop, I thought that was
you.’
‘Hello, Mrs. Metz.’ Here, Regan thought, was the bri-
gade’s head scout. ‘Do you think we’re going to get hit
with snow again?’
‘Ice storm,’ she said with a shake of her head. ‘Heard
on the radio. Into February now, and don’t look like this
winter’s ever going to end. Surprised to see you in here
this time of day.’

444 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘Business is slow.’ Regan counted out bills for the gro-
ceries. ‘Everybody’s hibernating.’
‘Know what you mean. Still, you got yourself some
business over at the old Barlow place, don’t you?’
‘Yes, indeed.’ Willing to play, Regan set the bag on her
hip. ‘It’s really coming along, too. It’ll be a showplace
when it’s finished.’
‘Never thought to see the day anybody’d bother fix-
ing her up. Never thought to see Rafe MacKade come
riding back into town, neither.’ Her curious eyes bright-
ened. ‘Guess he did pretty well for himself down South,’
‘Apparently.’
“You can’t tell about those MacKade boys. They fool
you every time. You know that Rafe crashed his daddy’s
Ford pickup on Marble Quarry Road before he so much
as had a license. That was right after Buck died, as I re-
call. He was wild as wild can be, that Rafe. Chasing girls,
picking fights, flying around on the back roads on that
noisy motorcycle of his. Time was, when you found trou-
ble, there was always a MacKade boy in the middle of it.
‘Times change, I suppose.’
‘Not that much, they don’t.’ Her chins wagged as she
chuckled. ‘I seen him around town. He’s still got that look
in his eye. Little bird told me he had that eye on you.’
‘Well, your little bird’s right. And I’ve got mine right
back on him,’
Mrs. Metz laughed so hard she had to put down her
box of Ho-Hos to hold her belly. “With a boy like that,
you'd better keep it there. He’d be harder to keep down

Nora Roberts 445
than spit on a hot griddle. He was a bad one, Regan. Bad
boys turn into dangerous men.’
‘I know.’ Regan winked. ‘That’s why I like him. You
come in and browse real soon, Mrs. Metz.’
‘T’ll do that.’ Chuckling to herself, she emptied her cart.
‘Stop gawking, boy,’ she snapped at the skinny clerk, who
was still watching Regan’s retreat, ‘and ring me up here.
You ain’t never going to be dangerous enough to reel in
that kind of woman.’
Amused by the encounter, Regan strolled down the
sidewalk. It was a good town, she thought, lifting a hand
in response to a greeting from across the street. The side-
walks were uneven, heaved up by tree roots and frost, the
library was only open three days a week, and the post of-
fice was closed for a full hour every afternoon.
But despite that, or perhaps because of it, it was a good
town. She didn’t think Rafe realized he’d been welcomed
home.
No fatted calf, she mused, crossing at the corner and
turning down Main. That wasn’t their style. The prodigal
son just slipped back into the town’s rhythm with neither
a hitch nor fanfare.
When he left again, his departure would be just as un-
heralded. A few comments over the counter at the post of-
fice, some speculation at the diner. Then the town would
move along, as easy as ever.
She hoped she would.
Shifting her bag, she circled around the side of the
shop. Enjoy the moment, she reminded herself. Don’t proj-

446 The Return of Rafe MacKade
ect into the future. Those were the rules; she’d stated them
herself. All she had to do was follow them.
And if she found an excuse to slip by his house later,
steal an hour with him, so much the better.
Bolstered by the idea, she took her keys from her
pocket. She jingled them as she climbed the stairs with
her groceries.
If she’d been paying attention, if she hadn’t been think-
ing about Rafe, perhaps she would have noticed sooner.
But her hand was already reaching for the door when she
saw that it wasn’t on its hinges, but was propped there.
Her mind stayed blank for an instant too long.
Even as she spun around to run, Joe hauled the door
aside. The crash dragged a shriek from her. It was choked
off to a gurgle when his arm jerked around her neck.
‘Wondered which one of you’d come first. This is
good.’ His breath panted out, sour with whiskey and ex-
citement. ‘Been wanting to get my hands on you for a
long time.’
He pressed his mouth to her ear, excited by the way she
tried to curl away from him. ‘I’m going to show you what
a real man’s all about. Going to get you out of those prim
and proper clothes and show you real good.’
He panted as his free hand came around to squeeze
hard on her breast. Her skin crawled, and for one hid-
eous moment the fear was so bright it blinded her eyes,
and her reason.
‘’m going to get me some of what I hear that bastard
Rafe MacKade’s been getting. Then I’m going to fix your
face so nobody thinks it’s so pretty anymore.’

Nora Roberts 447
As he started to drag her over the broken door and in-
side, the horror of what he would do flashed through her.
She swung back. Groceries flew, smashing into the little
alley below. Her heels skidded back over the door.
‘Cassie gets here, I’m going to give her the same. But
first I’m going to enjoy taking you down a few pegs.’
With his free hand, he yanked her hair, darkly pleased
when she whimpered.
Then she remembered the keys that were still gripped
in her frozen fist. With prayers screaming in her head,
she flung her hand back, hacking with the point she’d
pushed between her clenched fingers.
He howled like a wild dog, and the vicious grip re-
leased. Dragging in air, she flew down the steps, certain
he would be on her again in an instant. At the bottom,
she stumbled, went down hard on her hands and knees.
Prepared to scream, she looked back.
And saw him crumpled on the landing, holding a hand
to his face, while blood dripped.through his fingers. Like
a woman in a trance, she rose to her feet, put one foot
slowly in front of the other until she reached the diner.
The buzzing in her ears warned her to take deep, care-
ful breaths.
She stepped inside, closed the door behind her, unaware
that her coat was hanging by one sleeve and the knees of
her slacks were torn and bloody.
Cassie dropped the tray she was holding, shattering
dishes. ‘Regan! My God!’
‘T think you should call Devin, Regan said, testing
each word as she spoke it. ‘Joe’s on the landing of my

448 The Return of Rafe MacKade
apartment. I think I hurt him.’ When the room revolved,
she braced a hand on the back of a booth. ‘I have to sit
down now.’
‘Go call Devin,’ Ed snapped, and rushed over to ease
Regan into a booth. ‘Head down.’ In a quick movement,
she had Regan’s head between her knees. “Long, deep
breaths, that’sa girl.” Eyes sharp, she scanned the room,
where a half a dozen customers sat staring. “Well, what
are you waiting for? One of you big strong men get on
over there and hold that son of a bitch for the sheriff.
You, Horace, get up off your lard butt and get this girl a
glass of water.’
Ed’s rasped orders had everyone moving at once. Sat-
isfied, she eased Regan up again. ‘Got a little color back,’
she declared, and sat back on her haunches. She took a
cigarette from the pack in her apron pocket, lit it with a
wooden match. After one long drag, she smiled. ‘Hope
to hell you hurt him bad, honey. Real bad.’
Sitting in Devin’s office, with the coffee Shane had
poured for her warming her hands, Regan was sure she
was over the worst of it. Everything had happened too
fast for anything but pure emotion. But the rabbity fear
had passed now, and she could think.
Beside her, Cassie sat saying nothing. Shane paced,
like a boxer revving up for a match. At his desk, Devin
coolly filled out a report.
‘Tm sorry to ask you to go through it again, Regan,’
he began. ‘The clearer your statement, the easier it’ll be
to close it all up.’

Nora Roberts 449
‘That’s all right. I’m fine now, really.” Absently she
picked at her torn slacks. The knees beneath still burned.
As much, she thought, from Ed’s liberal application of
antiseptic as from their abrupt meeting with asphalt. ‘I’d
like to get it over with. I can—’
She broke off when the door burst open. For an instant,
she saw nothing but Rafe’s face—pale, hard as rock, lit
with eyes green enough, sharp enough, to murder in one
vicious slice.
The rabbit pulse pounded in her throat. Before she
could get to her feet, he was on her, dragging her up,
crushing her in an embrace that bruised ribs.
“You're all right? Are you hurt?’ His voice was raw,
brittle as broken glass. He couldn’t think. There’d been
nothing inside him but bright terror from the moment he
got word of the attack. His body was ice, enveloping hers
as he buried his face in her hair.
Perhaps that was why she began to tremble helplessly.
‘Tm okay. Really, ’m—’ But her voice shuddered off.
If she could have burrowed inside him, she would have.
‘Did he hurt you?’ With a hand he was fighting to
steady, he stroked her hair, eased her face back so that
he could see for himself. ‘Did he touch you?’
She could only shake her head and press her face
against his shoulder.
With his arms tight, as possessive as they were protec-
tive, he stared at Devin over Regan’s head. His eyes fired
like torches. ‘Where is he?’
‘He’s in custody.’
Rafe’s gaze whipped toward the cells in the back.

450 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘He’s not here, Rafe.’ Though his voice was calm,
Devin was braced for the attack. ‘You’re not going to be
able to get to him.’
“You think you can stop me?’
From behind, where he’d stood since he’d followed Rafe
in, Jared laid a hand on his brother’s shoulder. ‘Why don’t
you sit down?’
With a snarl humming in his throat, Rafe jerked the
restraining hand aside. ‘Back off.’
‘This is the law’s pain now, Devin told him, ris-
ing slowly.
‘The hell with the law, nas you with it. I want to know
where he is.’
“You find him, Rafe, I'll hold your coat.’ Primed for
action, Shane smiled thinly. ‘If you had a coat. Always
hated the son of a bitch.’
‘Shut up,’ Jared muttered, glancing down at the silent
Cassie.
“You can stick your lawyer talk, Shane told him, fists
already bunched. ‘I’m with Rafe on this.’
‘I don’t need you or anybody else with me. Don’t get
in my way, Devin.’
‘T’m already in your way. Now sit down, or I'll throw
your ass ina cell.
He moved so fast, Regan had time only to squeak while
Rafe lunged over the desk and had Devin by the shirt-
front. She’d never considered herself sheltered, but the
things they shouted at each other, the echo of the senti-
ments from the two MacKades behind her, had her al-
ready shocked system shuddering.

Nora Roberts 45]
There was no doubt in her mind that blood would flow
any moment.
‘Stop it, she said, but the order was shaky and weak
under the vicious words hurling through the room. ‘I said
stop it, she repeated, hugging herself. Something crashed
behind her, and shot her pulse to critical. “Stop it this min-
ute!’ she bellowed.
The surprising power in her voice halted Rafe’s fist
and put a stop to the shoving match behind her. Four
hard-eyed men stared at her, like statues frozen in battle.
“Yow’re acting like children. Worse than children. What
good is it going to do anyone for the four of you to punch
each other out? It’s just typical, she said, more disgusted
now than frightened. ‘Just the sort of typical behavior I’d
expect from a bunch of boneheaded baboons. Real he-
roes.’ With a sniff, she grabbed her coat. “Well, I’m cer-
tainly not going to stand here and watch the four of you
beat one another to a pulp.’
‘Sit down, Regan.’ When she continued toward the
door, Rafe swore and went after her. “Sit down,’ he re-
peated, holding back his rage and turning her gently.
‘God, look at your hands.’
Shaken all over again, he gathered them carefully in
his, pressed his lips to the abraded palms. It was a ges-
ture that had the remaining MacKades shifting in em-
barrassment.
‘What do you expect me to do?’ The rest of the anger
drained and left him helpless. “What do you expect me
to feel?’
‘I don’t know.’ She no longer knew exactly what she

452 The Return of Rafe MacKade
was feeling herself, not with those eyes so concentrated
on her face. ‘I just want to get this over with, Rafe. Please,
let me tell Devin what he needs to know, so I can get this
over with.’
‘Fine.’ He let her go, stepped back. ‘Do what you have.
to do.’
She walked back to her chair, accepted the fresh mug
Jared offered. Devin questioned, she answered. Rafe lis-
tened. Then he left, without a word.
She tried not to be hurt by it, tried to understand it.
‘Devin, can you tell me what to expect now?’
‘My deputy will call in once they’re finished with Joe
at the hospital. He’ll be transferred. He broke parole, and
the restraining order, so he’ll serve his full time on the
earlier charges.’
It was a small satisfaction, Devin thought with a quick
look at Cassie. She hadn’t moved or spoken in thirty min-
utes.
‘Now he’ll face additional charges,’ Devin went on.
‘Breaking and entering, assault, attempted rape. We’ll
toss in the property damage. There may be a trial, and
you'd have to testify.’
‘!’m prepared for that.’
“Under the circumstances, his lawyer may advise him
to deal and plead guilty.’
At Devin’s questioning glance, Jared nodded. ‘That’s
what I’d do.’
‘Yeah, well’ It was hard not to hate the system, Devin
mused, when it got personal. ‘Either way, he’s going away

Nora Roberts 453
for a good while. I figure three to five. He won’t be both-
ering you again. Either of you.’
“Well, then.’ Regan drew in a deep breath. ‘It’s done.
Cassie and I can go home now?’
‘Sure. P’Il be in touch.’
‘I can’t go home with you.’ For the first time since
she’d come into the office, Cassie tried her voice. It was
small and rusty.
‘Of course you can.’
“How can I?’ She stared at the lovely smoke gray slacks
Regan wore, at the nasty tears in the soft material. ‘How
could you even want me after what he’s done to you?’
‘What he’s done,’ Regan said quietly. “Not you, Cassie.
You're not responsible.’
‘Of course I am.’ It cost Cassie to lift her head, to look
into Regan’s eyes. ‘I know what he might have done to you
if you hadn’t been strong enough to stop him. Done to you
to get to me, Regan. You're the best friend I’ve ever had.’
‘Then let me keep being your friend.’
‘I want that, and I know you’ve already forgiven me.’
‘Cassie, there’s nothing to forgive. Don’t take this on,
Regan murmured, covering Cassie’s hands with hers.
‘I have to, because I have to start figuring out how to
forgive myself now. I’m going to start by taking my kids
home and finding a way to make the kind of life for them
they deserve. I need to start taking care of myself and
them. I need to do that.’
‘In a few more days,’ Regan protested.
‘No, now.’ She closed her eyes, steadied herself, then

454 The Return of Rafe MacKade
opened them and looked at Jared. “Can you help me,
Jared?’
‘Of course I can. Whatever you need, honey. There are
plenty of programs—’
‘No.’ She pressed her lips together hard. It was time,
she told herself, long past time, that she took a stand.
‘I want to file for divorce. Today. I need you to tell me
what to do.’
‘All right.’ He took her hand to help her up, then slipped
an arm gently around her shoulders, “Why don’t you come
with me now? We’ll take care of everything.’
“Bout time,’ Shane muttered, the minute the door
closed behind them. He shrugged at the blazing look
Devin aimed at him. ‘Hey, we all know she should have
ditched that bastard years ago.’
“You won’t get any argument there.’ Regan rose, sur-
prised she wasn’t as steady as she’d believed. ‘But that
was hard for her. It’s going to be hard for her to follow
through.’
‘She wouldn’t have done it if he hadn’t hurt somebody
else, Devin mumbled. “‘That’s the kind of thing it would
take for her.’
‘Then I’m glad he did. And I’m glad I hurt him right
back.’ Regan took a deep breath, then asked the ques-
tion that had been hovering in a corner of her mind. ‘His
eye, Devin?’
_‘Tcan let you know when I find out. If you want me to.’
‘T think I have to know.’ She held out a hand for his,
~ not to shake, but to hold. “You’ve been wonderful. I know
Rafe was upset, but he was wrong in the things he said

Nora Roberts 455
to you. You did everything you could. You did every-
thing right.’
‘If I'd done everything right, it wouldn’t have hap-
pened.’
“You know better than that.’ She squeezed, then winced
as her hand throbbed. ‘I’m going home, take a bottle of
aspirin, and crawl into bed for a few hours. Please call
when you hear anything.’
‘T will. Shane?’
‘Ahead of you, like always.’ He already had Regan’s
coat, and he helped her into it. ‘P’ll drive you home and
fix that door for you.’
‘Thanks.’ With a smile, she kissed his cheek. ‘Baboons
or not, the MacKade brothers aren’t half-bad.’
“‘Baby—’ he put an arm around her waist to lead her
out ‘—we’re all bad. Later, Dev.” When he’d helped her
into his truck, he paused. ‘Rafe’ll come around. He just
needs to go punch something.’
‘That’s the answer?’
‘Hey, it works.’ He slammed her door, then circled the
truck to climb behind the wheel.
“You’d have gone with him. After Joe,’
“We'd have all gone with him.’ Shane glanced in the
rearview, then whipped the truck into a quick and ille-
gal U-turn. ‘Dev and Jared would have spouted off for a
while about law and order. We’d have shoved each other
around. Then we’d have gone with him.’ With some re-
gret, he shook his head. ‘It would’ve been fun.’
‘Fun.’ She could almost laugh as she let her head sink
back on the seat.

456 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘Nobody messes with a MacKade woman.’
‘Oh, really? And is that my status at this point?’
He caught the tone, and then, with a wary glance, the
martial look in her eyes. ‘I just meant...seeing as you and
Rafe... That is, the way he’s...’ Even a MacKade knew
the value of retreat. ‘I ain’t touching this one.’
He pulled up at the base of her stairs and looked up
to study the door. ‘Looks like somebody beat me to it.’
‘What?’ She was still simmering. ;
‘T'll check it, but it looks from here like it’s already
been fixed.’ He got out of the truck, climbed the stairs.
‘Yep. Few nicks and scratches, but it’s back on its hinges.’
As a precaution, he tried the lock, gave it a good shove.
‘Solid. Rafe probably took care of it.’
‘T see.’ It did nothing to appease her. ‘Ill have to be
sure to thank him, won’t I?’
“Yeah.” Shane retreated again, backing down the stairs.
‘Are you going to be all right? Want me to get you any-
thing, or hang around?’
‘No, no, I’m fine. Just fine.’ It wasn’t pleasant to take
out her keys, but she did it, turned the lock. ‘I appreci-
ate the ride.’
‘No problem.’ As he hurried back to his truck, Shane
decided Rafe had a problem. A big one. It gave him a rea-
son to smile all the way through town.

Chapter 10
Te fett good to beat on something. Even if it was only a
nail. To prevent himself beating on something, or some-
one else, Rafe had closed himself inside the east-wing
bedroom. The look in his eye had warned any and all of
his men to keep their distance—if they wanted to keep
their teeth.
The sounds of construction bumped against the walls,
a sound just violent enough to suit his black mood. Rafe
ignored the nail gun at his disposal and beat in nails with
hammer and muscle. Every new stud that he secured with
nails and a swing of his arm was Joe Dolin’s face.
When the door opened behind him, Rafe bared his
teeth without looking around. ‘Get the hell out. Stay out
or you're fired.’
‘Go ahead and fire me.’ Regan slammed the door at her

458 The Return of Rafe MacKade
back. ‘Then I can say what I have to say to you without
damaging our professional relationship.’
He looked over his shoulder now, briefly. She’d
changed, he noted. Not just the slacks, but everything—
shirt, blazer, jewelry. From her hair to her shoes, she was
neat as a pin.
But he remembered exactly how she’d looked, frazzled,
pale, with blood on her clothes.
“You don’t want to be here right now.’ He set another
nail, shot it home.
“You couldn’t be more accurate on that, MacKade, but
I’m here.’
She’d had to shower first, had to scrub herself every-
where and throw out every stitch she’d been wearing when
Joe touched her. But she was steady again, and ready to
deal with Rafe MacKade.
‘I want to know what the hell is wrong with you.’
If he told her, she was liable to laugh in his face. And
that, he was dead sure, would push him over that final
edge.
‘lm busy, Regan. Weather’s cost me a full day.’
‘Don’t hand me that. Look at me when I’m talking to
you, damn it.” When he didn’t, just kept battering nails
into wood, she fisted her hands on her hips. ‘Why did you
leave Devin’s office that way? Just leave?’
‘T had things to do.’
To illustrate her opinion of that, she kicked at a tool-
box. ‘I suppose I’m to thank you now for fixing my door,
‘Tl bill you,

Nora Roberts 459
“Why are you mad at me?’ she demanded. ‘I didn’t do
anything to—’
Her breath sucked in as the hammer sailed across the
room and crashed into a newly framed wall.
‘No, you didn’t do a damn thing. You just got your-
self tossed around, bruised, bloodied up and damn near
raped. Why the hell should that bother me?’
Someone had to be calm, she told herself. Obviously,
the way his eyes were glowing, it was going to have to be
her. ‘I know you’re upset about what happened.’
“Yeah, I’m upset.’ He picked up the toolbox, heaved it,
because it made more sense than throwing her around.
Metal and steel crashed and scattered like small bombs.
‘I’m just a little upset. Now get out.’
‘I won't.’ Instead she angled her chin. ‘Go ahead, big
guy, throw something else. When you’ve got it out of your
system, we'll have a civilized conversation.’
“You'd better get it through that thick head that there’s
nothing civilized about me.’
‘Oh, that’s coming through loud and clear,’ she tossed
back. ‘What’s next? You want to take a shot at me? That
should prove you're a bigger man than Joe Dolin.’
His eyes went black. For an instant, a heartbeat, she
thought she saw hurt mixed with the rage. And it shamed
her. ‘I’m sorry.’ Fumbling, she lifted her hands. “You
didn’t deserve that. I didn’t mean that.’
Now there was only rage, viciously controlled. “You
usually say what you mean.’ He held up a hand before
_ she could speak again. ‘You want to have a conversation,
fine. We’ll have a damn conversation.’

460 The Return of Rafe MacKade
He strode to the door, simmering when she flinched.
Yanking it open, he bellowed to every corner of the ram-
bling house. ‘Out! Everybody out, now!’
He slammed the door again, satisfied by the scrambie
of feet and the clatter of tools.
‘There’s no need for the work to stop,’ she began. ‘I’m
sure this will only take a few minutes.’
‘Sometimes it just can’t be your way.’
‘I don’t know what you mean.’
‘No, I don’t guess you do.’ Disgusted, he hauled open
the door again. ‘Somebody give me a damn cigarette,’
he shouted. But as there was no one brave enough to
approach, he ended up slamming the door again.
Regan watched, quietly fascinated, while he paced and
swore. His shirt was shoved up to the elbows, a tool belt
was slung at his hips like a holster. He’d wrapped a ban-
danna around his forehead to catch the sweat. He looked,
she thought, like a bandit who would just as soon kill as
steal.
And it was certainly ridiculous to be aroused.
‘IT could make coffee,’ she began, then let out a breath
at the razor-edged look he shot her. ‘Maybe not. Rafe—
‘Just shut up.’
Her back jammed straight as a poker. ‘I don’t care to
be spoken to that way.’
‘Get used to it. I’ve held back long enough with you.’
‘Held back?’ Her eyes went wide. If he hadn’t looked
like a maniac, she might have laughed. ‘You’ve been hold-
ing back? I'd like to see what you consider cutting loose.’
“Youre about to.’ He gnawed off the words like stringy

Nora Roberts 46]
meat from a bone. ‘You're ticked off that I left? Well, now
youre going to be treated to what would have happened
if I'd stayed.’
‘Don’t you touch me.’ Her arms shot up, hands fisted
like those of a boxer ready to spar. ‘Don’t you dare.’
Eyes simmering, he closed a hand over her fist and used
his leverage to push her back to the door. ‘Same goes,
darling. I gave you a chance to walk, you didn’t take it.’
‘Don’t call me darling in that tone of voice.’
The way his lips peeled back, she wouldn’t have been
surprised to see fangs. “God, you’re a piece of work.’ He
tossed her hand down and walked away, because it was
safer for both of them. ‘You want to know why [ left.
That’s the big, burning question, isn’t it? That’s what had
you coming over here? Coming to me?’
EYES?
‘But you didn’t come to me this morning when he
threatened you. You didn’t come to me when he hurt
you.’ And that, Rafe thought, however it devastated him,
was that.
‘T had to tell Devin,’ she began.
“Yeah. You had to tell Devin.’ Bitterly calm now, he
turned back. ‘You know what I heard in that nice and de-
tailed statement you made, Regan? Dolin came into your
place this morning, just like I thought he would.’
‘And I handled it, she countered. ‘Just like I told you
I would.’
‘Sure, you’re great at handling things. He threatened
you. He scared you.’
‘Yes, all right, he scared me.’ And she was scared now,

462 The Return of Rafe MacKade
too, she realized, of where this was leading. ‘That’s why
I called Devin.’
‘But not me. You went down to Devin’s office, filed
your charges.’
‘Yes, of course. I wanted Joe arrested.’
‘Nice and tidy. Then you went grocery shopping.’
‘J...’ She linked her hands together, pulled them apart.
‘I thought—I knew Cassie was going to be upset, and I
wanted... I just thought if I fixed a meal it would make
us both feel better,’
‘And in all that time, going to Devin’s, to the market,
walking there and back, you never stopped to call me. It
never even occurred to you, did it?’
‘I was—’ She opened her mouth, closed it again. ‘All
right, yes. It was my first reaction, but I calmed down
and decided against it.’
“You calmed down?’
“Yes, I realized it was my problem, and my responsi-
bility to handle it.
Her simple honesty sliced through him like a blade.
He could almost see himself split in half, one part rage,
one part misery. ‘And after he had you, after he had his
hands on you, and hurt you, tried to—’
He couldn’t say it. If he did, he’d fall to pieces.
“You didn’t think to call me then, either. I only heard it
from Shane because he was in with Devin when the call
came through, and he figured I’d be interested.’
Somehow, she realized, she had hurt him. She’d never
meant to. Hadn’t known he could be hurt. ‘Rafe, I wasn’t
thinking at all.’ She started forward, stopped, knowing

Nora Roberts 463
it would do no good to go farther. ‘I was numb. By the
time I could really think again, I was in Devin’s office.
It all happened so fast,’ she said hurriedly, desperate now
to make him see. To understand. ‘And part of the time it
seemed as if I wasn’t really there at all.’
“You were handling it.’
‘T had to. It wouldn’t have done any good to fall apart.’
“You're real good at keeping yourself together.’ He
walked over, picked up the hammer. ‘All by yourself.’
‘I have to be. I expect myself to be, because—’
“You don’t want to be like your mother,’ he finished
for her.
It sounded so callous, and so foolish. ‘All right, yes,
that’s partially true. It’s important for me to be a certain
way, but that really doesn’t apply to this. If I didn’t call
you, it was only because...’
“You didn’t need me.’ His eyes were level, and no lon-
ger hot. He had very little heat left inside him. “You don’t
need me.’
A new kind of panic was twisting through her. ‘That’s
not true.’
‘Oh, the sex is great.’ He smiled then, coolly, humor-
lessly. ‘That’s a need we handle together real well. It’s
my problem that I let it get personal. I won’t make the
mistake again.’
‘It’s not about sex.’
‘Sure it is.’ He plucked a nail out of his pouch, set it in
place. ‘It’s been about sex right from the get-go. That’s
all we’ve got. It’s plenty.’ He rammed the nail home. “You
know where to find me when you’ve got the itch.’

464 The Return of Rafe MacKade
The blood drained from her cheeks and froze around
her heart. ‘That’s a horrible thing to say.’
‘Your rules, darling. Why complicate a good thing,
right?’
‘I don’t want things to be this way between us, Rafe.’
‘Well, now I do. Take it or leave it.’ He rammed another
nail into wood. She wasn’t going to get the chance to hurt
him again, he told himself. No woman hurt him like this.
She opened her mouth, primed to tell him she’d leave
it. Leave him. And couldn’t. Tears burned in her eyes, in
her throat. Could there have been a worse possible time,
she wondered, for her to realize she was in love with him?
‘Is that the way you really feel?’
‘I try to say what I mean, too.’
Unwilling to humiliate herself, she swallowed the tears.
‘And all this is because you’re angry about what hap-
pened. About how I dealt with it.’
‘Let’s just say it made everything clear. You don’t want
to clutter up your life, right?’
‘No, I—’
‘Hell, neither do I. Call it ego— I’ve got one. I didn’t
like you running to my brother instead of me. Like you
said, I’ve got it out of my system. We can just go back to
the way things were. The way things are.’
She hadn’t realized how much she could prefer that
lethal temper over this calculated disinterest. ‘I’m not
sure that’s possible. I can’t give you an answer right at
the moment.’
“You mull it over, Regan. You do that real well, too.’
‘Would you rather—’ She pressed a hand to her lips,

Nora Roberts 465
waited until she could steady her voice. ‘If you’d rather
suspend our business relationship, I can give you the
* names of some other dealers in the area.’
“No reason for that. I’m already behind.’ When he
turned to her, all he saw was that her eyes were dry, her
face was composed. ‘I can take shipment on this room
in about a week, if you’ve got a problem with storage.’
‘That'll be fine. ?’'1l make the arrangements.’ She
turned and reached blindly for the doorknob. Terrified
she’d crumble, she walked away quickly. She didn’t start
to run until she was outside, with the wind slapping her
wet cheeks.
When he heard the door close below, Rafe sat down
on the floor. At the sound of weeping shimmering in the
air, he rubbed his hands hard over his face.
‘I know just how you feel,’ he muttered.
It was the first time in his checkered career that any-
one had managed to break his heart. His only solace was
that he’d make damn sure it was the last.
The predicted ice storm raged through, glazing the
snow, turning the streets to glass. It was days before the
temperature inched up enough to soften it. Each night the
thermometer would plunge again, hardening and slicken-
ing every coated surface.
It didn’t mean a damn thing to Rafe. The lousy weather
gave him an excuse to stay just where he was, work twenty
out of every twenty-four hours. With every nail he ham-
mered, every wall he sanded, the house became more his.

466 The Return of Rafe MacKade
When he couldn’t sleep, even after exhausting himself,
he wandered the house with the other ghosts.
He was too busy to think about Regan. Or so he tried
to convince himself.
Whenever he did, whenever she snuck through his well-
fortified defenses, he just worked harder, longer.
‘You look a little ragged, pal.’ Devin lit a cigarette and
watched Rafe hammer freshly painted baseboard into
place. ‘Remember that book—Dorian Gray? The way
it’s starting to look, you’re the picture in the closet, and
this house is old Dorian.’
‘Pick up a hammer, or beat it.’
Instead, Devin crouched, ran a fingertip over the wide,
carved trim. ‘Sure is pretty as a picture. What’d you call
this color?’
‘Rose dust.’ He framed the words like a dare.
“Yep, sure is pretty.’ Devin used an empty coffee can
as an ashtray. ‘If you’re into pink.’
Rafe spared him a look. ‘You trying to start something?’
‘Nope, just making conversation. They transferred Joe
from the hospital today.’
Rafe’s eyes iced over before he turned away. ‘None of
my business.’
‘He didn’t lose his eye, Devin went on easily. ‘Be
wearing a patch for a while though. They can’t tell yet if
there’ll be permanent damage.’
‘She should have aimed between his legs.’
“Yeah, too bad about that. Well, I thought you’d want
to know, he pleaded guilty to the B and E, the assault,
on advice of counsel. They dumped the attempted rape

Nora Roberts 467
charges to get the guilty plea and avoid trial, but he’s not
going to pass Go.’
Rafe didn’t want to care. ‘How long?’
‘My guess is three, solid. Before you say it’s not
enough, I’m going to the sentencing tomorrow myself,
and adding weight. When he’s up for parole, in a year or
so, I'll go back and add more.’
‘I said it’s none of my business.’ Rafe toed in the last
piece of baseboard. ‘How’s Cassie holding up?’
‘Okay, I guess. Jared’s pushing through the divorce.
With the spousal abuse and adultery, it won’t take the
usual year. Joe’s not in much of a position to contest it.
The quicker it’s done, the quicker she and the kids can
get on with things.’
Thoughtfully he tapped his cigarette out in the can.
‘Aren’t you going to ask how Regan’s holding up?’
‘No.’
“Well, I'll tell you.’ Ignoring Rafe’s snarl, Devin folded
his legs and sat. ‘She doesn’t look like she’s been getting
a lot of sleep, if you ask me.’
‘T didn’t.’
‘Ed says she hasn’t been coming in for lunch, so I guess
her appetite’s off, too. I could figure that experience with
Joe shook her up enough to interfere with her sleeping
and eating. But I got a hunch it’s something else.’
‘She’ll handle it. She’s good at taking care of herself.
‘Good thing, too. Odds are, if Joe had managed to drag
her inside that day, somebody would’ve seen the door
quick enough, heard the ruckus. Still, he could’ve done
a lot of damage in a short time.’

468 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘Don’t you think I know that?’ Rafe shot out. “Do you
think I don’t know what he could have done to her?’
‘Yeah, I think you know it. I think it’s eating at you,
and I’m sorry. Are you ready to listen to me?’
‘No,’ .
But there wasn’t any heat behind the denial, so Devin
prepared to say his piece. ‘Witnesses in the diner said
they thought she was drunk at first when she came in, the
way she was walking. She’d have passed out if Ed hadn’t
gotten her down first.’
‘I don’t need to hear this.’
“Yeah, Devin murmured, watching Rafe’s knuckles
whiten on the hilt of the hammer, ‘you do. When I got
to her, Rafe, she was in shock. Are you getting this? Her
pupils were as narrow as the point of one of those nails. I
was set to have her taken into Emergency, but she pulled
herself together. I watched her do it. It was impressive.’
‘So she’s tough.’ The image projecting into his mind
scraped him raw. “Tell me something I don’t know.’
‘Okay. I don’t figure you were in any shape to see the
way she looked at you when you walked into my office.
She’d pulled herself together because she had to, because
that’s the way she’s made, I guess. Then you walked in.
A man could go his whole life without having a woman
look at him the way she looked at you.’
‘She doesn’t need me.’
‘That’s bull. You may be stupid, but you should know
that.’
‘I know I was stupid enough to let her matter. To let
what she thought of me, what she wanted from me, mat-

Nora Roberts 469
ter. I’m not doing it again.’ He rose, hooked his hammer
in his tool belt. ‘I don’t need her, either.’
With a sigh, Devin unfolded himself and stood. ‘You’re
cross-eyed in love with her.’
‘No, I’m not. I got soft on her for a while, then I got
over it.’
Devin pursed his lips. There was one quick, potentially
painful way to handle this. “You’re sure?’
‘I just said so, didn’t I?’
‘Good.’ Devin smiled. ‘That clears the way. When I
thought you had a thing for her, I didn’t want to muscle
in. Since you don’t, I’ll go see if I can...stimulate her
appetite.’
He was expecting the punch, and took the fist on the
jaw philosophically. It was always satisfying to make a
point. He lifted a hand, wiggled his jaw, mildly relieved
it wasn’t broken.
“Yeah, I can see how you got over it.’
‘T ought to hit you again, Rafe said between his teeth.
It was infuriating, humiliating, to know how neatly he’d
been conned.
‘I wouldn’t. That one was free.’ Cautious, Devin moved
his jaw again. ‘Damn, Rafe, you’ve still got a nice right
jab.’
Almost amused, Rafe flexed his aching fingers. ‘You’ve
still got a face like a rock. You son of a bitch.’
‘T love you, too.” Cheered, Devin draped an arm over
his brother’s shoulders. ‘Feel better now?’
‘No.’ Then he paused. ‘Maybe.’
“You want to go find her and straighten this mess out?’

470 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘I’m not crawling after some woman, Rafe mumbled.
You will, Devin thought. Sooner or later. “Well then,
I got the night off. Want to get drunk and disorderly?’
‘Yeah.’ They walked into the hall, started down the
steps. ‘Why don’t I meet you at the tavern? Ten o’clock.’
‘Suits me. I'll see if I can round up Shane and Jared’
‘Just like old times. When Duff sees us coming, it’ll
scare the—’ Rafe broke off, felt his heart skip. Regan
stood straight-backed and cool-eyed at the base of the
stairs.
‘T’ve got your delivery.’ She’d worked very hard on
being able to speak without inflection. ‘Your message
said you’d be ready for it by three.’
‘Just.’ His stomach quivered, infuriating him. “You can
have it hauled up.’
‘All right. Hello, Devin.’
‘Hello, Regan. I’m just on my way out. See you to-
night, Rafe.’
‘Yeah.’ Rafe kept his eyes on Regan’s as he came down
the last few steps. ‘Have any trouble on the roads?’
‘No. They’re mostly clear now.’ She wondered that he
couldn’t see her heart bleeding. ‘I was able to get that
feather mattress you wanted for the four-poster. I’ll be
happy to set it up so you can be sure you want to go with
it.’
‘Appreciate it. Pll get out of your way. I’ve got—’ Noth-
ing, he realized. He had nothing. ‘Work,’ he said finally.
‘Give a yell when you're ready. I’ll have your check.’
She wanted to say something, anything, but he was

Nora Roberts 47]
already walking away. Squaring her shoulders, she went
back to the door to instruct the movers.
It was nearly five when she finished arranging things
exactly as she wanted them. She hadn’t noticed the quiet
that drifted in to replace the steady bang and buzz of
labor. But as the light changed, she switched on the rose-
patterned globe lamp by the button-backed chair she’d
angled toward the fireplace.
There was no mantel there yet, no flames crackling.
Faintly the scent of paint stirred in the air. But she thought
the room was waiting to be lived in.
And the scent of roses hung like tears in the air.
A wedding-ring quilt, she mused, running her hand
over one of the posts of the bed. A few pillows edged with
lace to match the canopy that would drape overhead. A
cedar chest, a hope chest, at the foot of the bed, filled with
sweet-smelling linens and net bags of lavender sachet.
Yes, she thought, those would be just the right touches
to finish it off. Perhaps some Irish lace at the windows, a
silver-backed brush for the vanity.
It would be beautiful. It would be perfect.
She wished to God she’d never seen the room, the
house, or Rafe MacKade.
He stood in the doorway, saying nothing, watching her
move through the room, as graceful as any ghost.
Then her back stiffened. She turned and faced him.
Seconds passed, though it could have been eons for both
of them.
‘T was just finishing up,’ she managed to say.

472 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘So I see.’ He stayed where he was, tore his gaze from
hers and scanned the room. ‘It looks terrific.’
‘I have some tintypes and antique silver frames. I think
they’d add a nice touch to the mantel when it’s in place.’
‘Great.’
The strain of manners was tearing at her stomach. ‘I
noticed you’ve made a lot of progress on the next bed-
room.’
‘It’s coming along. I’ve got a couple more ready for
drywall.’
“You work fast.’ .
“Yeah, that’s what they always say.’ He pulled a check
out of his pocket, stepped forward. ‘Payment on delivery.’
‘Thank you.’ Very deliberately, she opened the purse
she’d set on a table, slipped the check inside. And damned
him to hell. ‘ll be going, then,’ she said briskly. She
turned back and bumped solidly into him. ‘Excuse me.’
She took a step around. He shifted, blocked her. Made
her heart pound like a drum. ‘You’re in my way.’
‘That’s right.” And since he was, he took a good long
look. ‘You look lousy.’
‘Thank you so much.’
“You’ve got shadows under your eyes.’
So much for cosmetics, she thought in disgust. ‘It’s
been a long day. I’m tired.’
‘How come you haven’t been eating over at Ed’s?’
She wondered why she’d ever thought she liked small
towns. “Despite what you and the Antietam grapevine
might think, what I do on my lunch hour is my business.’
‘Dolin’s locked up. He’s not going to bother you again.’

Nora Roberts 473
‘I’m not afraid of Joe Dolin.’ She tossed back her hair,
proud of her own bravado. ‘I’m thinking about buying
a gun.’
‘Think again.’
She hadn’t really thought of it the first time, but it
grated to have him dictate to her. ‘That’s right, you’re the
only one who can defend himself, or anyone else. Back
off, MacKade. I’m finished here.’
When he grabbed her arm, she swung out without
thinking. Her hand cracked against his cheek before she
could stop it. Appalled, she stumbled back.
“Now look what you’ve made me do.’ Enraged and
close to tears, she tossed down her purse. ‘I can’t be-
lieve you goaded me into that. I’ve never struck anyone
in my life.’
“You did a pretty good job on your debut.’ Watch-
ing her, he ran his tongue over the inside of his stinging
cheek. “You want to put your shoulder into it next time.
Not much of a crack if you swing from the wrist.’
‘There won’t be a next time. Unlike you, I don’t have to
hit people to make a point.’ She took a steadying breath.
‘T apologize.’
‘If you head for the door again, I’m going to get in your
way again, and we’re going to start this all over.’
‘All right.’ She left her purse where it lay. “Obviously
there’s something you want to say.’
‘If you keep aiming that chin at me, you’re going to
make me mad. I’m being civilized, asking how you are.
Civilized is how you like it, isn’t it?”
‘T’m fine.’ She bit the words off. ‘And how are you?’

474 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘Good enough. You want some coffee, a beer?’
‘No, thank you so much.’ Who the hell was this man,
she thought, making uselessly polite conversation while
her insides tangled into dozens of frayed knots? ‘I don’t
want coffee or beer.’
“What do you want, Regan?’
Now she recognized him. It took only that sharp, im-
patient tone to bring him back. And to make her yearn.
‘I want you to leave me alone.’
He said nothing at all, just stepped out of her way.
Once more she picked up her purse. Once more she set
it down again. ‘That’s not true.’ The hell with her pride,
with sense, even with her heart. It couldn’t be any more
battered than it already was.
“You’d never have made it to the door, he said quietly.
“You probably knew that.’
‘I don’t know anything except I’m tired of fighting
with you.’
‘T’m not fighting. I’m waiting,’
She nodded, sure she understood. If it was all he was
willing to give her now, she would accept that. And she
would make it enough. She stepped out of her shoes, un-
buttoned her blazer.
‘What are you doing?’
‘Answering your ultimatum of last week.’ She tossed
the blazer on the chair and unbuttoned her blouse. “You
said take it or leave it. I’m taking it.’

Chapter 11
It was a curve he hadn’t been expecting. By the time he
could speak, she was wearing nothing but two scraps of
black silk. And all the blood had drained out of his head.
‘Just like that?’
‘It was always just like that, wasn’t it, Rafe? Chemis-
try, pure and simple?’
He’d want her, she promised herself. By God, when she
was done with him, he’d never stop wanting her. Keeping
her eyes locked on his, she walked slowly toward him.
‘Take it or leave it, MacKade.’ She put her hands on
his shirt and stunned them both by ripping it open and
sending buttons flying. “Because I’m about to take you.”
Her mouth was fire on his, burning, flashing, shoot-
ing dozens of wild blazes into him. Rocked to the core,
he gripped her hips, fingers digging through silk to flesh.

476 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘Put your hands on me.’ She sank her teeth into his
shoulder. ‘I want your hands on me.’ Hers were dragging
at his jeans, closing around him.
‘Wait.’ But the bombs erupting inside him drowned
out everything but pulsing, grappling need. With only his
wounded heart as a pitiful weapon, he was defenseless
against the spear thrust of desire. Against her.
He kicked himself free of clothes, lifted her off the
floor.
He was deep inside her before they fell onto the bed.
It was all sweat and speed and blind sex. The hard slap
of flesh against flesh, the raspy gasps of labored breath-_
ing. Teeth and nails and tangled tongues drove them both
over the sumptuous mattress, rolling and riding.
It was a battle both had already surrendered to. Hot
and hard and hurried, fast and frenzied and frantic, they
pounded together. Wanting more, accepting less. The
scent of roses choked the air with strong, sad perfume.
She straddled him, bowed back as his hands streaked
over her. She wanted him to take her to that tenuous edge
between pleasure and pain. There she would be alive, as
she hadn’t been since he’d turned from her.
She had to know that here, at least here, he was as help-
less as she, as unable to resist, as pathetically needy. She
could feel that need riot through him, taste it each time
he dragged her mouth back to his with a ravenous hunger. |
While her heart screamed at him to love her, just a lit-
tle, her quivering body greedily devoured, fueling itself
with whatever scraps he would give.
No room for pride, no time for tenderness.

Nora Roberts 477
When she sank toward him, limp as water, he rolled
her ruthlessly onto her back and drove her on.
He couldn’t breathe, didn’t think, just battered himself
into her. He had to fill her, to empty her, to claim her in
the only way he knew she would accept. With a jerk of
his head, he tossed the hair out of his eyes. It was vital
that he see her, every flicker of shock and pleasure on her
face, every tremble of her lips.
Love for her swamped him. All but destroyed him.
‘Look at me.’ He grated the words out. ‘You look at me.’
Her eyes opened, but remained blind with passion. He
felt her body quake under his, saw those eyes glaze as
her head fell back.
He was powerless to stop himself from following her
recklessly over the edge. But he cursed her, then him-
self, as he fell.
It didn’t seem possible to have been so completely
aroused, and to feel so utterly empty. He’d never under-
stood how vitally entwined the heart and the body were,
until now. And now, staring at the ceiling, with Regan
silent beside him, he understood it would never be pos-
sible to separate his again.
Not with her.
And he wanted only her.
She’d taken something from him that he’d struggled for
years to build. His self-respect. How odd that he hadn’t
realized that, either, until this moment.
He wasn’t sure he could forgive either of them for it.
She desperately wanted him to reach out to her, to fold

478 The Return of Rafe MacKade
her to him as he had in the past. It was miserable to be
left like this, so cold, so alone, even as she was still quiv-
ering from him.
Yet how could she reach out for him, when she was the
one who had taken the step, made the stand, and agreed to
take him on his own terms? His own terms, she thought,
closing her eyes against the lovely rosy glow of the lamp.
Bad Rafe MacKade had returned, she thought bitterly,
and taken it all.
“Well, we managed to have sex in a bed for a change.’
She sat up, kept her back to him. She could control her
voice, but was certain her face would show him that she
was shattered. ‘It’s always firsts with us, isn’t it, Mac-
Kade?’
“Yeah.” He wanted to stroke that back, but it was so stiff
and straight. “We’ll have to try it with sheets sometime.’
“Why not?’ Her hands trembled as she slid off the bed,
reached down for her underwear. ‘We could even throw
in a couple of pillows, and a pretense of affection. Just
for a change of pace.’
His eyes sharpened, narrowed, as she snapped her bra
into place. Hurt and fury bubbled together in a messy
stew. Rising, he snatched his jeans, jammed his legs in
them.
‘I don’t like pretenses much.’
‘Oh, that’s right.’ She grabbed her shirt. Silk whipped
through the air and onto her back. ‘Everything’s up-front
with you. No frills, no spills.’
“What the hell’s wrong with you? You got what you
wanted.’

Nora Roberts 479
“You don’t know diddly about what I want.’ Terrified
she might weep, she jerked on her slacks. ‘Apparently
neither do I.’
“Youre the one who took off your clothes, darling.’ His
voice was entirely too smooth. ‘You’re the one putting
them right back on so you can move right along.’
‘And yow’re the one who rolled off me the minute you
were done, as if your twenty bucks was up.’ Rushing now,
she jammed her feet into her shoes.
She might have had a chance if she’d been looking
at him. A slim one. But he moved fast, and she was six
inches off the ground, his hands like a vise on her, his eyes
drilling holes in hers before she drew a second breath.
‘Don’t say that. I’ve never treated you that way. I’ve
never thought that way.’
“Youre right.’ Oddly enough, it was the lash of his tem-
per that calmed her. Stopped her, she hoped, from being a
perfect fool. ‘I’m sorry, Rafe. That was unfair and untrue.’
Very slowly, he set her back on her feet. He realized
his fingers were digging hard enough into her flesh to
meet bone, and dropped his hands. ‘Maybe I moved too
fast, but you caught me off guard.’
‘No.’ Yes, she felt very calm, she thought as she turned
to pick up her blazer. Very calm, and very, very fragile. If
he touched her again, she would crack like flawed glass.
‘I initiated things, and I agreed to your terms.’
‘My terms—’
‘Are clear, she said, finishing for him. ‘And acceptable.
I suppose the problem is that we’re both volatile person-
alities under the right circumstances. Any circumstances,

480 The Return of Rafe MacKade
as far as you’re concerned. And as for me, the past few
days have been difficult. That doesn’t mean I should take
it out on you.’
‘Do you have to be reasonable, Regan?’
‘No, but I’m going to be.’ Though her lips curved
brightly, she couldn’t move the smile into her eyes. ‘I
don’t know what we’re fighting about, when we’ve found
the perfect solution. A simple, physical relationship. It’s
perfect, because the rest of our common ground is nar-
row to nonexistent. So, I’ll apologize again for picking a
fight. I’m just a little tired and out of sorts.’
She made herself rise on her toes and kiss him lightly.
‘If you’d like to come by tomorrow after work, I’ll make
it up to you.’
“Yeah, maybe.’ Why the hell couldn’t he read her eyes?
He could always read her eyes if he looked hard enough.
‘lll take you home.’
‘No, really.’ She had to will herself not to run to the
door and escape. Instead, she picked up her purse. ‘I’ve
got my car,’ she added. ‘And I really am tired. I could use
an early night.’
He just wanted to hold her, to fold her into his arms
and keep her there. “Whatever you say. I’m supposed to
meet my brothers at the tavern in a few hours, anyway.’
‘Good, then we’ll try for tomorrow.’ She made it to the
door without stumbling. He didn’t offer a goodbye, and
neither did she. Her coat was a bright red slash over the
newel post, or she might have walked outside without it.
She put in on, buttoned it carefully.
Outside, she got into her car, turned the key in the ig-

Nora Roberts 48]
nition. She concentrated on backing down the lane as if
her life depended on it. She took the turn toward town,
drove a half mile.
Then she pulled over to the side of the road, carefully
put the car in gear, turned the engine off. And cried like
a baby.
Twenty minutes later, exhausted, she let her head fall
back against the seat. It was freezing, but she didn’t have
the energy to turn the car on again and pump up the
heater.
She was a competent woman, Regan thought. Every-
one said so. She was bright, well-organized, moderately
successful, and levelheaded.
So why, if she was indeed all of those fine, admirable
things, had she managed to mess up her life so miserably?
Rafe MacKade was responsible, of course. She hadn’t
had a full day’s easy running since he’d swaggered back
into town. He was messy, arrogant, angry. Oh, so angry.
And charming, she thought with a sigh, with all those
unexpected sweet spots mixed with the rough.
She should never have fallen for him. She certainly
shouldn’t have deluded herself that she could have an af-
fair with him and stay objective.
He hadn’t been completely objective, either, she re-
membered. He’d had feelings tangling him up, too. Be-
fore she’d ruined it. If she had been just a little more of
what he needed, if she hadn’t been so dead set on doing
it all her way, he might have stayed tangled. Until he’d
fallen in love.
Oh, that was wrong, she thought, and banged her fist

482 The Return of Rafe MacKade
against the steering wheel. That was her mother’s kind
of thinking. Make everything pretty, everything perfect
for the man. Stroke his ego, cater to his whims. Play the
game and win the prize.
Well, she wouldn’t. She was appalled she’d even con-
sidered it. She would not squash her own needs, her own
personality, her own ego, to lure a man into love.
But hadn’t she just done that? She shuddered, but not
from the cold. Hadn’t she just done that, up in that bed-
room?
At a loss, she braced her elbows on the wheel, her head
in her hands. She wasn’t sure of anything any longer. Ex-
cept that she loved him. She loved him, and in her stub-
born stance against luring him into love with her, she had
blocked, perhaps even rejected his feelings. And humili-
ated herself in the bargain.
That, Regan concluded, made her an idiot.
So what if she had to make some changes in herself?
Hadn’t he, in his way, done the same?
He’d been hurt, she remembered. She had hurt him, in-
furiated him. Yet he had gone off to pound nails, instead
of picking a fight. It was she who was the coward, who
had been unwilling to trust, refusing to bend. He’d never
tried to run her life, or her thoughts, or tried to change
her. No, he’d given her room, he’d given her affection, and
he’d given her the kind of passion a woman dreamed of.
But she’d held back anyway, foolishly, in a knee-jerk
response rooted in her upbringing.
Why hadn’t she thought of his needs, his pride? Wasn’t
it time she did so? She could be flexible, couldn’t she?
Compromise wasn’t capitulation. It couldn’t be too late

Nora Roberts 483
to show him she was willing. She wouldn’t let it be too
late to...
The thought that came into her mind was so simple,
and so ridiculous, she knew it had to be right. Without
giving herself a moment to think it through, she revved
up the car and hit the gas. In minutes, she was on Cassie’s
doorstep, banging.
‘Regan.’ With Emma on her hip, Cassie dragged a hand
through her tousled hair. ‘I was just—you’ve been cry-
ing.’ Alarm sprinted through her. ‘Joe—’
‘No, no. I’m sorry. I didn’t mean to scare you. I need
help.’
‘What is it?’ In a flash, Cassie had closed the door and
locked it. ‘What’s wrong?’
“What’s nine-ball?’
“‘What—?’ Baffled, Cassie set Emma down, gave her a
little pat on the bottom to send her along. “What’s nine-ball?’
“Yes. And where am I going to find a red leather mini-
‘skirt at this hour?’
Cassie thought for a moment, brushing a hand over the
wet spot on her sweater that was courtesy of Emma’s bath.
‘If that’s what you want, we’ll have to call Ed’
‘Suck it in, sweetie.’
‘Tam.’ Valiantly Regan gritted her teeth and held her
breath as Ed tugged at the zipper of a skirt the size of a
place mat.
‘Trouble is, you’ve got a figure. I’ve got bones.’ Mouth
clamped tight in determination, Ed hauled, and tugged.

484 The Return of Rafe MacKade
Then, with a wheeze of triumph, sat back on Cassie’s
bed. ‘She’s on, but I wouldn’t make any sudden moves.’
‘I don’t think I can make any moves.’ Testing, Regan
took a step. The skirt, already dangerously high, snuck
up another fraction.
‘You got a little height on me, too,’ Ed announced, and
pulled out a cigarette. Her eyes sparkled with amusement
as she let her rhinestone glasses fall to her chest. ‘If it was
much shorter on you, Devin would have to arrest you.’
‘I can’t see.’ Though she rose on her toes and turned
carefully, Cassie’s mirror offered nothing but a view from
the waist up.
“You don’t have to, honey. Take my word, he will.’
‘I got the kids settled, Cassie said as she walked in.
She stopped short, her mouth forming a shocked circle.
‘Oh, my...’
‘It’s a hot little number, Ed agreed. When she’d worn
it last time, at the Legion dance, eyes had popped loose.
The way Regan was filling it out, Ed imagined they’d not
only pop, but go flying across the room.
“Try those shoes with it now,’ she ordered. ‘I stuffed
some tissue in the toes to bring °em down to size.’
Regan braced a hand on Cassie’s dresser, stepped gin-
gerly into the four-inch spikes. ‘T’ll get a nosebleed in
these.’
‘Honey, you’ll cause nosebleeds.’ Ed gave a raspy
laugh. “Now let’s try some war paint.’ Happily she up-
ended her enormous purse onto the bed.
‘I’m not sure I can go through with this. It’s a crazy idea.’
‘Don’t go chicken on me now.’ Ed riffled her hand

Nora Roberts 485
through a department-store array of cosmetics. ‘You want
that man, don’t you?’
“Yes, but—’
‘Then sit down here on the bed and let me buff you
up. This here red’s a killer, she murmured fondly as she
unscrewed a lipstick.
‘I can’t sit,’ Regan stated after a single attempt. ‘I’d
damage an internal organ.’
‘Then stand.’ After making her choices, Ed rose and
went to work. ‘Now, you said nine-ball, right?’
“Yeah.’
In her forty-two years—forty-five, if God was listen-
ing—she’d never seen a woman less likely to chalk a stick
than Regan Bishop. “Ever play pool, honey?’
‘Billiards.’ Regan uttered a silent prayer as Ed ad-
vanced with eyeliner. ‘With my father. Several times.’
‘Hell, honey, billiards ain’t nothing. Why, nine-ball’s
the second-best thing you can do on a pool table.’ She
cackled when Cassie flushed scarlet. ‘Now listen up while
I explain how it works.’
Balls smacked and clattered when Rafe shot his cue.
The five ball thumped satisfactorily into the corner
pocket.
‘Luck,’ Jared said, and lazily chalked his cue.
Rafe only snorted. ‘Six off the nine and in the side,’
He made his shot, lined up the next.
‘Never could beat Rafe at nine-ball.’ More interested in
the little redhead at the bar than the game, Shane leaned

486 The Return of Rafe MacKade
on the juke. She was all alone, and looked as cuddly as a
new down pillow. ‘Seen her around before, Dev?’
Devin glanced up, over. “‘Holloway’s niece, from up on
Mountain View. She’s got a boyfriend the size of a semi
who'll break you in half if you breathe on her.’
It was all the challenge Shane needed. He sauntered
over, leaned on the bar and turned on the charm.
Devin gave a resigned smile. If the boyfriend came
in, Devin would have to use his badge. And that would
blow his night.
‘My game.’ Rafe held out his hand for the ten dollars
Jared owed him. ‘You're up, Dev.’
‘I need a beer.’
‘Jared’s buying.’ Rafe grinned at his older brother.
‘Right, bro?’
‘T bought last round.’
“You lost the last game.’
‘So be a gracious winner. His tab, Jared told the bar-
tender, and held up three fingers. -
“Hey, what about me?’
Jared flicked a glance at Shane. The redhead was
clutching his arm like a fast-growing vine. ‘You're driv-
ing, kid.’
‘Flip for it,
Obligingly, Jared took a coin from his pocket. ‘Call it.’
‘Heads.’
He flipped the coin, caught it neatly. ‘Tails. You’re
driving.’
With a philosophical shrug, Shane turned back to the
redhead.

Nora Roberts 487
“Does he have to hit on everything in a skirt?’ Rafe
muttered while Devin racked the balls.
“Yep. Somebody had to take up where you left off.’
Devin stepped back, chose his cue. ‘And since you’re
spoken for...’
“Nobody said I was spoken for.’ Rafe gave the curvy
redhead a long look, felt nothing more than a low-level
tug of basic appreciation. And thought of Regan, just
thought of her and his heart shattered. ‘We’ve got an un-
derstanding.’ He bit the words off, but still tasted bitter-
ness. ‘Nothing serious.’
‘He’s hooked.’ Jared grinned and lifted his beer. ‘And
his heart looks so pretty, right there on his sleeve.’
No way he was going to take the bait, Rafe thought. It
was bad enough having your heart broken without hav-
ing your family watch you fumble with the pieces. ‘You
want to eat this cue?’ Rafe executed his break, smugly
pleased when two balls rolled into pockets.
“She came into the house today,’ Devin said conversa-
tionally, ‘and that hook in his mouth dragged him right
down the stairs like a trout on a fly. I think there were
stars in his eyes, too.’ Devin met Rafe’s steely look equa-
bly. ‘Yep, I’m sure of it.’
‘Pretty soon he’s going to start shaving regular and
wearing clean shirts.’ Jared shook his head, as if in
mourning. “Then we’ll know we’ve lost him.’
‘Then it’ll be antique shows and ballets.’ Devin heaved
a heavy sigh. ‘Poetry readings.’
Because that hit entirely too close to home, Rafe jerked
the cue and missed his shot. He wasn’t going to think of

488 The Return of Rafe MacKade
her. Damn it, he wasn’t going to give Regan or the hole
in his gut a single thought. ‘Keep it up and [’ll take both
of you on.’
‘Well, I’m shaking.’ After lining up his shot, Devin
leaned over the table. He made his ball cleanly. As he
circled the table, he sniffed at Rafe. ‘That cologne, lover-
boy?’
‘Tm not wearing any damn—’ Rafe hissed out a breath.
“Youre just jealous cause you're sleeping alone on some
cot outside a cell every night.’
“You got me there.’
Enjoying himself, Jared plugged coins into the jukebox.
“What time do you have to be home, Rafe? We wouldn’t
want you getting conked with a rolling pin for missing
curfew.’
‘How long have you been a practicing ass?’ It was some
small satisfaction to note that Duff was shooting them un-
easy glances. A man didn’t like to lose his touch. ‘What’s
the fine for breaking up a couple of chairs?’
Nostalgia swam sweetly along with the beer in Devin’s
bloodstream. Unless he counted breaking his brothers up,
and you could hardly count that, he hadn’t been in a de-
cent fight in years.
‘Can’t let you do it, he said, with mildly drunk regret.
‘I carry a badge.’
‘Take it off’ Rafe grinned. ‘And let’s beat hell out of
Shane. For old times’ sake.’
Jared tapped his fingers on the juke in time to the
music. He eyed their youngest brother, who was definitely

Nora Roberts 489
making progress with the redhead. That alone was reason
enough to punch him a few times.
‘ve got enough on me to post bond,’ Jared told them.
‘And a little extra to bribe the sheriff, if we have to.’
Devin sighed, straightened from the table. With broth-
erly affection, he studied the unsuspecting Shane. ‘Hell,
he’s going to get his butt whipped before the night’s over,
anyway, if he keeps playing with that girl. We might as
well do it first.’ :
“We'll be more humane,’ Jared agreed.
The bartender watched them move together, recog-
nized, with despair, the look in each eye. ‘Not in here.
Come on now, Devin, you’re the law.’ :
‘Just doing my brotherly duty.’
‘What’s the idea?’ Scenting trouble, Shane danced
back from the bar. He scanned his brothers, shifted as
they moved to flank him. ‘Three against one?’ His mouth
curved in a wide, reckless grin as other customers moved
to safety. ‘Come on, then.’
He crouched, braced, then made the mistake of glanc-
ing over as the door opened. His mouth had already fallen
open in surprise when Rafe caught him low and sent them
both crashing into a table.
“You make it too easy.’ Laughing, Rafe turned and
caught him in a cheerful headlock. Then he went numb,
right down to his toes.
The skirt barely made it past the legal limit. It wasn’t
tight. It went beyond tight as it squeezed possessively
over curvy hips in an eye-popping fire-engine red. The
legs went on. And on. Rafe’s dazzled gape followed them

490 The Return of Rafe MacKade
down to the razor-sharp skyscraper heels in that same
bold color.
When he managed to lift his gaze, he saw that the
skinny black top was as snug as the skirt, and dipped
down low over firm, unfettered breasts. It took him a full
ten seconds to get to her face.
Her mouth was red and wet and curved. Beside it, the
little mole was a bold exclamation of sex. Her hair was
tousled, and her eyes were shadowed and heavy. She
looked like a woman who’d just climbed out of bed, and
was willing to climb right back in.
‘Holy hell’ It was Shane’s strained muttering that jolted
him out of shock. ‘Is that Regan in there? She is hot.’
Rafe didn’t have the strength to put much behind the
punch. When he gained his feet and moved to the door,
his head was still buzzing, as if he’d been the one to take
the blow.
“What are you doing?’
She moved a shoulder, causing the excuse for a blouse
to follow her stretch. ‘I thought I’d play a little nine-ball.’
There was something stuck in his throat. “Nine-ball?’
“Yeah.” She sauntered over to the bar, leaned an elbow
on it. ‘Going to buy me a beer, MacKade?’

Chapter 12
Ir he kept staring at her, she was going to lose it, Regan
thought. She was already so nervous that if her clothes
hadn’t been girdled on, she’d have jumped out of them.
Because she’d wanted to make an entrance, she’d left
her coat in the car. Only the heat of possible humiliation
kept her teeth from chattering.
Her feet were killing her.
When Rafe didn’t answer, she scanned the room and
tried not to swallow audibly at the stares. Gathering cour-
age, she flashed a smile at the bartender. Even the weary-
eyed Duff was goggling at her.
‘T’ll have what he’s having.’ When she had the beer in
her hand, she turned back. No one had moved a muscle.
It was either run or play it out, Regan told herself, taking
a quick swallow of beer.

492 The Return of Rafe MacKade
She hated beer.
‘Are you going to rack them, MacKade, or am I?’
‘T’ll rack them,’ Jared interjected helpfully. His hands
were still a little sweaty, but he’d gotten over the worst of
the shock. Rafe’s face was almost as much of a pleasure
to watch as the sway of Regan’s hips, as she sauntered
over to study the arsenal of cues.
Rafe heard the clatter of balls, and blinked. ‘You said
you wanted an early night.’
‘Changed my mind.’ Her voice was breathy from ne-
cessity, rather than design. The leather and Spandex were
cutting off her air supply. ‘I had all this...energy all of
a sudden.” She walked slowly to the table, resisting the
urge to tug at the hem of the skirt. ‘Who wants to play?’
Half a dozen men moved with scraping chairs and clat-
tering boots. Rafe’s snarl was the low, vicious sound of
a wild dog guarding his bone. Half a dozen men decided
they weren’t in the mood for pool after all.
‘This is a joke, right?’
Regan took the cue Devin offered, smiled and Sidhe
her fingertips from the tip down the shaft. Someone
moaned. ‘I felt like some action, that’s all.’
With her confidence building, she passed the bottle of
beer to Jared. This, at least, she thought, she knew how
to do. Planting her feet, bending one knee for balance,
she leaned over the table. Leather strained.
Rafe’s elbow plowed into Shane’s gut. ‘Keep looking
where you're looking, and you'll be blind for a week.’
‘Jeez, Rafe.” Shane tucked his hands in his pockets
and prepared to watch the show. ‘Where’s a guy sup-
posed to look?’

Nora Roberts 493
She broke cleanly, even managed to sink a ball. With
the rules of the game Ed had drilled into her flipping
through her head, she circled the table. She had to stop,
smile, as Devin was still rooted in her path.
“You’re blocking the table, Sheriff: )
‘Oh. Yeah, right. Sorry. When she draped herself over
the felt this time, his eyes met Jared’s. They grinned at
each other like two kids over a shiny new bike.
She managed to sink one more. That made her cocky
enough to try a complicated shot that required a little
English. Her hips wiggled as she set her position. From
behind her, Jared stuck a hand under his shirt and mimed
a thumping heart.
“You think what you’re thinking again, and I'll rip your
lungs out, Rafe muttered.
As the ball missed the pocket by a good six inches,
Regan pouted with that red-slicked mouth. ‘Oops.’ She
straightened, batted thickly mascaraed eyes at Rafe. “Your
turn.’ She put her weight on one foot and ran a hand down
his shirtfront. ‘Want me to...chalk your cue?’
The room exploded with whoops and whistles. Some
brave soul made a suggestion that had Rafe’s lips peeling
back in a growl. ‘That does it.’
He grabbed her cue, tossed it at Devin, then clamped
a hand over hers to drag her toward the door.
‘But we haven’t finished the game,’ she protested,
forced to scramble on the skinny heels to keep up with
him.
He yanked his jacket from the hook by the door and
bundled it around her. ‘Put this on before I have to kill

494 The Return of Rafe MacKade
somebody.’ She was still struggling with it when he
shoved her through the door.
Devin let out a long, appreciative sigh. “He’s a dead
man.’
‘Yeah.’ Shane rubbed a hand over his stomach. “Did
you ever notice her—’
In Rafe’s stead, Jared rapped him with a cue.
‘I have my car, Regan began, while Rafe towed her
along.
He dragged open the door of his own. ‘Get in. Now.’
‘T could follow you.’
‘Now.’
‘All right.’ It wasn’t a simple operation to get into his
car. Snug red leather rode higher as she tried for graceful
and dignified as she lowered herself into the seat. Rafe
ground his teeth audibly. ‘Where are we going?’
‘lm taking you home.’ He slammed her door, stormed
around the hood, then slammed his own hard enough to
rock the car. ‘And if you’re smart, you won’t talk to me.’
She was smart. When his brakes squealed at the base
of her steps, she stayed where she was. There was no
possible way she could maneuver herself out of the tiny
sports car without help.
He gave it to her, though no one would have called the
hard yank a gentlemanly gesture. ‘Keys, he snapped,
then snatched them out of her hand and unlocked the
door himself.
Miffed, she strode in ahead of him. ‘I assume you’re
coming in, so—
She was rapped back against the door, his mouth hotly

Nora Roberts 495
devouring hers. The heels put them head-to-head, heat
to heat, with a pressure that fried his already overheated
brain. Both his mouth and his hands were hard, posses-
sive. He could only think of branding her his.
His breath was ragged when he jerked back. He’d be
damned if she’d work him this way again, make him a
victim of his own needs.
He tugged his jacket off her shoulders, tossed it aside.
‘Get out of those clothes.’
Something in her sank. With her lashes lowered, she
reached around for the zipper of the skirt.
‘No, I didn’t mean— God.’ If she peeled herself out
of that leather in front of him, he was lost. It was the
confusion in her eyes that had him leveling his voice.
‘I meant I’d appreciate it if you changed into something
else. Please.’
‘I thought you—’
‘I know what you thought.’ He was dying here. ‘Just
change, so I can talk to you.’
‘All right.’
He knew it was a mistake to watch her walk toward
the bedroom. But he was only human.
Inside, Regan stepped out of the ankle-breaking shoes,
stripped off the red leather. It was good to breathe again.
She wanted to be amused, at both of them, but she felt
so incredibly stupid. She’d made a spectacle of herself,
thrown aside every scrap of dignity. For nothing.
No, she thought as she fastened on pleated trousers.
For him. She’d done it for him, and he didn’t even have
the sense to appreciate it.

496 The Return of Rafe MacKade
When she came back in, face washed, her hair brushed
back into place, an ivory sweater tucked neatly into the
waistband of black slacks, he was pacing.
‘I want to know what you were thinking of, he said
without preamble. ‘Just what you were thinking of, walk-
ing into a bar dressed like that?’
‘It was your idea,’ she tossed back, but he was too busy
clenching his jaw and muttering to himself to listen.
‘Five more minutes in there, and we’d have had a riot.
I'd have started it myself. I’ve seen you naked, and I’m
not sure I knew you were built like that. Now everybody
in town’s going to know.’
“You said you wanted—’
‘I don’t give a damn what they say about me, but no-
body’s going to talk behind their hands about you. Where
the hell did you get that skirt?’ he exploded. “Tarts R Us?’
“Well, really...’
“Yeah, really. And leaning over the pool table that way,
so everyone was looking at your—’
Her eyes narrowed to slits. “Watch it, MacKade.’
‘Now I’m going to have to go bash all of my brothers’
brains in for what they were thinking.’
“You like bashing their brains in,’ she retorted.
‘That’s beside the point.’
‘T’ll give you a point.’
She picked up her favorite Milton vase and tossed it to
the floor. Rather than smashing satisfactorily, it bounced
and rolled on the dainty floral rug. But the gesture shut
him up.
‘I humiliated myself for you. It nearly took a crowbar

Nora Roberts 497
to get me into that ridiculous skirt, and I think I bruised
my intestines. I’ll probably never get all this makeup out
of my pores, my arches are screaming, and I have not an
ounce of dignity left. I hope you’re satisfied.’
ae
‘Shut up. This time you just shut up. You wanted me
to be that way, so I tried. I was willing to be what you
wanted, and now all you can do is stand there and criti-
cize and worry about gossip. Well, go to hell!’
She plopped down in a chair, because her feet were
cramping painfully.
He waited until he was sure she’d run down, watched
her sniffle and rub her bare feet. “You did that for me?’
‘No, I did it because I like teetering on four-inch heels
and going around half-naked in the middle of winter. I
live for it,’ she said nastily.
“You did it to get to me.’
The bout of temper had drained her. She sat back,
closed her eyes. ‘I did it because I’m crazy about you.
Just like you said I’d be. Now go away and leave me alone.
You’ll have to wait till tomorrow to beat your chest and
drag me off by the hair. I’m too tired.’
He studied her a moment, then walked to the door and
shut it quietly behind him.
She didn’t bother to get up, or even to move. She
didn’t feel like crying. If she’d been ridiculous, she would
weather it. She’d given him everything now, and there was
no taking it back. Why should she bother? She’d never
stop loving him.

498 The Return of Rafe MacKade
She heard the door open again, and kept her eyes closed.
‘T really am tired, Rafe. Can’t you gloat tomorrow?’
Something fell into her lap. Regan blinked her eyes
open and stared at the bouquet of lilacs.
‘They’re not real,’ he told her. “You can’t get them in
February. I’ve had them in the trunk of my car for a few
days, so they’re cold.’ :
‘They’re lovely.’ Slowly she ran her fingers over the
chilly silk blooms. ‘A few days,’ she murmured, and
looked up again.
“Yeah, so?’ He scowled, jammed his hands in his pock-
ets, shifted. ‘Man.’ He thought facing a noose would be
easier than what he was about to do. It certainly couldn’t
burn his throat any less.
He got down on his knees.
“What are you doing?’
‘Just keep quiet, he warned her. ‘And if you laugh,
you pay.’ Mortified, he swore under his breath, dragged
a hand through his hair. And bit the bullet.
“When I arose and saw the dawn, I sighed for thee.’
‘Katey
‘Don’t interrupt me.’ Miserably embarrassed, he glared
at her. ‘Now I have to start over.’
‘But you don’t have to—’
‘Regan.’
She drew in a breath, wondered if there was another
woman in the world who had ever had Shelley quoted to
her with eyes that threatened murder. ‘Sorry. You were
saying?’ :
He shifted his weight. ‘Okay. ‘When I arose and saw

Nora Roberts 499
the dawn, I sighed for thee; When the light rode high,
and the dew was gone, and...’ Oh, hell.’ He raked his fin-
gers through his hair and tried to concentrate. ‘I got it.
‘And noon lay heavy on flower and tree, And the weary
Day turned to her rest, lingering like an unloved guest,
I sighed for thee.”’
His breath came out on a huff of tremendous relief.
‘That’s all I’ve got. It took me more than a week to mem-
orize it. If you mention this to anyone—’
‘I wouldn’t dream of it.’ Incredibly moved, she laid a
hand on his cheek. ‘That was very sweet of you.’
‘It kind of fits the way I feel about you.’ And now that
it was over—thank God—it hadn’t been as bad as he’d
feared. ‘I think about you, Regan, all day. Every day. So
if you want poetry—’
‘No.’ With a quick shake of her head, she reached out
and laid her cheek on his shoulder. ‘No, I don’t need po-
etry, Rafe’
‘I haven’t bothered to give you much romance.’ And
he knew now, by the way her eyes had gone soft and
dreamy, that he should have. ‘Now it’s fake flowers and
somebody else’s words.’
She had to cry now, but they were lovely tears, sooth-
ing ones. ‘I love the flowers, and I loved the words. But I
don’t need them. I don’t want you to change for me, Rafe.
There’s nothing about you I’d want to change. I said I’d
take you as you are and I mean it.’
‘I like you the way you are, Regan, all neat and tidy.
Not that I didn’t appreciate the way you filled out that
leather.’

500 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘T’m sure I could borrow it from Ed again.’
‘Ed?’ He rolled his eyes and chuckled weakly. ‘No won-
der it fit you like skin.’ Then he felt the warm drops on
his neck. ‘Oh, don’t do that, baby. Please don’t.’
‘T’m not really crying. I’m just touched that you’d mem-
orize Shelley for me. That you’d care enough.’ She gave
him a hard squeeze before leaning back. ‘I guess we both
won the bet, or lost it, depending on your viewpoint.’ She
dried off her cheeks with the back of her hand. ‘Of course,
you didn’t lose yours in public.’
‘If you think you can talmke into giving that little re-
cital down at the tavern, you really are crazy. I’d never
get out alive.’
She drew in a deep breath. ‘I think we should both stick
with who and what we are. I do like who and what you
are, Rafe. And I need you more than you think. I needed
you when Joe came into the shop and frightened me. I just
didn’t want you to know it. I was afraid to let you know
how much I count on you.’
He picked up her hand, kissed it, and felt dozens of
wounds heal. “You didn’t have to be.’
‘I figured that out for myself. I like figuring things
out for myself,
‘Tell me about it.’ He smiled and no longer felt foolish
being on his knees. ‘I like the way you figure things out
for yourself. The way you handle yourself, Regan. Even
when it ticks me off, I like your style.’
‘T like yours, too.’ She leaned forward and kissed him
lightly. ‘I’m going to get something to put these in.’

Nora Roberts 50]
He reached behind him and picked up the vase she’d
thrown. ‘How about this?’
‘That'll be fine.’ She took it from him and rose to ar-
range the silk bouquet on the table. ‘I can’t believe I ac-
tually threw it.’
‘It’s been an eventful evening. So far.’
She glanced back, smiled. ‘It certainly has. Would you
like to stay, and see what happens next?’
“There we are, on the same wavelength again. You
know, Regan, I think we’ve got more common ground
than either one of us realized. You shoot decent pool, I
like antiques.’ He stood, moving restlessly, picked up a
china cat in suddenly nerveless fingers, then set it down
again. ‘So, you want to get married?’
She tucked a sprig of lilacs into place. ‘Hmm... You
asked me that before, as Ir emember. And never took me
up on it, because I won’t watch baseball.’
‘I mean it.’
She twirled to face him, and her limp hand knocked
against the table. ‘Excuse me?’
‘Look, we haven’t known each other very long.’ He
stepped toward her, stopped cold. She was staring at him
as though he’d lost his mind. He was certain he had. ‘But
we’ve got something going here. I know we said it was
just going to be sex, and we’ve just finished deciding we
really like each other.’
‘Rafe, I can’t—’
‘If you’d just let me fumble through this.’ His tone
went from quiet to testy in an instant. ‘I know how you
are with having to weigh your options and think things

502 The Return of Rafe MacKade
through. But the least you can do is look at this from my
perspective for one damn minute. It’s not just sex for me,
and it never was. I’m in love with you.’
She stared into those sharp, angry eyes, heard the trea-
sured phrase delivered in a furious snarl. And felt her
heart swell like a rose blooming in her chest. “You’re in
love with me,’ she repeated.
It had always been easy to say the words when it didn’t
count—when they were just words, and not these tiny,
razor-edged little pellets in his throat. ‘I’m in love with
you, he said again. ‘It probably happened five minutes
after I met you, maybe five minutes before. I don’t know.
It’s never happened to me before.’
‘Me, either, she murmured.
He didn’t hear her, didn’t hear anything but the roaring
in his head. “No one’s ever needed me. I’ve never wanted
anyone to need me. It gets in the way. But I want that from
you. I have to ask that from you.’ He paused, fought to
steady himself. ‘I don’t like asking.’
‘I know. You don’t have to.’ She walked to him, framed
his face in her hands. ‘Rafe, you don’t have to ask.’
‘If you’d give me a chance—’ he gripped her wrists
‘—I could make it work. We could make it work. Come
on, Regan, take a risk. Live dangerously.’
yess
His grip on her wrists went lax. ‘Yes, what?’
“Why do we have such a hard time hearing each other?’
she asked. “Listen up,’ she ordered, and kissed him firmly.
“Yes, Pll marry you.’

Nora Roberts 503
‘Just like that? You’re not going to think about it?’
‘Nope.’
‘Good. Great.’ A little dazed, he stepped back. ‘We
could, ah, t-take care of...it. Take care of it tomorrow.
The license. Whatever. You want a ring...or something?’
“Yes, I do. Rafe, you’re stuttering.’
‘No, I’m not.’ He stepped back when she stepped for-
ward. ‘I just didn’t expect you to take the jump so quick.’
‘If youre trying to change your mind, forget it. Was
it the skirt?’
His eyes went blank and baffled. ‘What skirt?’
No answer could have pleased her more. ‘I think you
should tell me you love me again.’ Before he could evade
her, she wrapped her arms around his neck, linked her
fingers. ‘I think you should get used to saying it.’
‘I do love you.’
‘And you were in love with me that first night, when
we were alone, in the house on the hill?’
‘T guess I was.’
‘I didn’t know, didn’t have a clue. I wonder if the house
did. I remember how quiet it got that night—how settled
it all seemed. Would you like to go back there, tonight?’
‘Yes.’ He rested his brow on hers. ‘I would.’ |
‘There’s something I should tell you first, Rafe. Some-
thing I think we should clear up between us.’
‘Regan, if you’re going to slap down more rules and
parameters—’
‘I think I should tell you,’ she said interrupting him,

504 The Return of Rafe MacKade
‘that as attracted as I was to you, as aroused as I was by
you,I could have slept with you without loving you.’
‘I know.’ He refused to be hurt by it. ‘It’s okay.’
‘I could have done that because you’re the most incred-
ibly attractive man I’ve ever met, all the way through. But
there’s no way I would have squeezed myself into that
ridiculous outfit tonight unless I’d been wildly, stupidly
and completely in love with you.’ Her eyes shimmered
and smiled. ‘Is that okay?’
‘Say it again.’ He took her face in his hands. “Look at
me straight-on and say it again,’
‘T love you. I’m so very much in love with you, Rafe.
There’s nothing I want more than to go on loving you,
and needing you for the rest of my life.’
The thrill of it sprinted through him, then settled, warm
and easy. “You could get used to saying it, too.’
‘Tm a very quick study. I love you,’ she murmured
against his mouth, then poured the words into the kiss.
‘It’s going to get complicated.’ He gathered her close
and held her. Just held her. ‘Life’s going to be messy.’
‘I hope so.’ Eyes closed, she pressed her cheek against
his. “Oh, I hope so. Why was I so scared?’ she whispered.
‘Why was I so afraid to let you know?’
‘Probably for the same reason I was.’ He tilted her head
back. ‘It happened so fast, and it matters so much. And
it always will?
‘It always will, she agreed.
Later, when they were curled together in the deep
feather bed, she laid her hand on his heart and smiled.

Nora Roberts 505
‘T’m awfully glad you came back to town, MacKade.
Welcome home.’
The house was quiet around them, and slept as they
slept.
* kK KK

Whatat?’ s on your Christmas list?
Interna
B
t
es
i
t
o
s
n
e
a
l
l
l ing 4

LLS& 8 B 0O nN-
LET'S TALK
OM ane
Follow us:
Ei millsandboon
@millsandboonuk
VY @millsandboon
Reeves e eee eet ee Hee eaeeeseeet Bete eH Res eeteeseraereeeseoeneneee
For all the latest titles and special
: offers, sign up to our newsletter:
Millsandboon.co.uk
-
*
eeeeeaneneeseereeee SCORER ESCHR HEHEHE HHH EHH ESHER HEH EEO HEHE

=
f an
4 4
~e

Second chances at Christmas
Pandora McVie and Michael Donahue are named beneficiaries
of their Uncle Jolley’s will, if they live together in Jolley's home
for six months! They've known each other since childhood, with
no love lost between them. However, as they spend the winter
together, they discover that they have more in common than
they believed...
Hiring antique shop owner Regan Bishop to restore his inn,
wild-boy Rafe MacKade did not expect the immediate attraction
that draws them into a passionate affair. But will Regan’s fierce
independence come between the couple, or can Rafe convince ©
her to trust him?
‘The most successful novelist
on Planet Earth’
Washington Post
Q* ISBN 978-0-2 LET’S TALK ROMANCE
MillsandBoon.co.uk
po gsemmendse d
~|j |i i’ Fi facebook.com/millsandboon
780263°27652 @millsandboonuk
2 ree VY e@millsandboon
Cover Design by Mills & Boon UK