
JULIEN GRACQ (1910–2007) was born Louis Poirier in Saint-Florent-le-Vieil,
a small village in western France. An excellent student and a voracious
reader, he studied in Paris in the early 1930s, where he encountered the
work of André Breton and the surrealists. His first book, Au Château
d’Argol (The Castle of Argol, 1938) was praised by Breton as the first
surrealist novel. In 1940, as a lieutenant in the French army, Gracq was
captured by the Germans and sent to a prisoner-of-war camp in Silesia.
Following the war and his release, he became a geography and history
teacher at a lycée in Paris, where he remained for more than twenty years.
He taught as Louis Poirier and wrote as Julien Gracq, a name that combined
his favorite Stendhal character, Julien Sorel, and the Roman Gracchus
brothers. Opposed to publicity and self-promotion, Gracq declined three
requests from François Mitterand to dine at the president’s residence and
refused the Prix Goncourt when he was awarded it for his 1951 novel Le
Rivage des Syrtes (The Opposing Shore). Unmarried, in 1970 he retired
from teaching and returned to his hometown, where he lived with his sister
until her death in 1996. He continued writing throughout his life, publishing
novels, plays, poetry, and literary criticism.
RICHARD HOWARD is the author of seventeen volumes of poetry and has
published more than one hundred fifty translations from the French,
including, for NYRB, Marc Fumaroli’s When the World Spoke French,
Balzac’s Unknown Masterpiece, and Maupassant’s Alien Hearts. He has
received a National Book Award for his translation of Les Fleurs du mal
and a Pulitzer Prize for Untitled Subjects, a collection of poetry.
OceanofPDF.com

BALCONY IN THE FOREST
JUL IEN GR ACQ
Translated from the French and with a foreword by
RICHARD HOWARD
NEW YORK REVIEW BOOKS
New York
OceanofPDF.com

THIS IS A NEW YORK REVIEW BOOK
PUBLISHED BY THE NEW YORK REVIEW OF BOOKS
435 Hudson Street, New York, NY 10014
www.nyrb.com
Copyright © 1958 by Éditions Corti
Translation copyright © 1959 by George Braziller, Inc.
Foreword copyright © 1987 by Columbia University Press
All rights reserved.
Cover image: Peter Doig, from Ten Etchings, Concrete Cabin, 1996;
photograph © 2017 by Tate, London
Cover design: Katy Homans
Published in French as Un Balcon en forêt by Éditions Corti.
Translation published by arrangement with The Permissions Company, Inc.,
on behalf of George Braziller, Inc.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Names: Gracq, Julien, 1910–2007, author. | Howard, Richard, translator.
Title: Balcony in the forest / Julien Gracq ; translated and with a
foreword by Richard Howard.
Other titles: Balcon en forêt. English
Description: New York : NYRB Classics, 2017.
Identifiers: LCCN 2017024489 | ISBN 9781681371399 (paperback) | ISBN
9781681371405 (epub)
Subjects: LCSH: World War, 1939–1945—Fiction. | BISAC: FICTION /
War & Military. | FICTION / Psychological. | FICTION / Literary. |
GSAFD: War stories. | Love stories.
Classification: LCC PQ2613.R124 B3513 2017 | DDC 843/.914—dc23
LC record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2017024489
ISBN 978-1-68137-140-5
v1.0

For a complete list of titles, visit www.nyrb.com or write to:
Catalog Requests, NYRB, 435 Hudson Street, New York, NY 10014
OceanofPDF.com

TRANSLATOR’S FOREWORD
NEITHER document nor testimony (Gracq’s own experiences in World War
II were on an entirely different front, and in altogether other circumstances),
Balcony in the Forest, Gracq’s fourth novel, and actually the precipitate of
the encounter between a certain historical situation, one that was very
unstable and indeed fugitive, and the inclination of the author’s fantasy, is
the only one of this author’s fictions—among so many legends, romances,
gestes—which can be presumed to be realistic. In the little forest outpost at
the beginning of World War II, Lieutenant Grange has a passionate yet
detached affair, during the fall and winter months, with Mona, a lovely
child-widow whom he encounters in the forest much the way Golaud
encounters Mélisande. Then spring comes, and with it the murderous reality
of the German avalanche. History, for an interval, becomes a kind of pure
awaiting, in which Gracq is enabled to feel, for the first time, what he calls
“imaginative communication with reality.” All his other novels—The Castle
of Argol (1938), A Dark Stranger (1945), and The Opposing Shore (1951,
translated in 1986)—are so many myths of abeyance and interregnum in
which the characters, or rather the figures (as we might say of any human
silhouettes moving in darkness against a sanguinary light, within a singular
silence) expunge each other’s energies during a period of suspense, of
transgressive daring, until the Unspeakable Event engulfs them in a longed-
for yet deferred catastrophe. For this novelist has what might be called a
Parsifal Complex (indeed, Balcony in the Forest opens with the adjuration
by which Gurnemanz begins that music-drama: “Forest Guardians,
guardians of sleep as well—waken at least with the dawn!”), an imagination
so structured that any action is merely the delusive interlude, the masque of
misapprehension, before a ravaging revelation. For Gracq, of course, the
Grail is indeed revealed as a cup of trembling, a ruinous chalice—but
perhaps we never did put much credence in Wagner’s stagey salvation.
Hadn’t Nietzsche warned us that with Amfortas, with Kundry, with Parsifal
himself, we were only two steps away from the hospital? The astonishing
thing about Gracq’s novel, the last full-length fiction he was to write (in
1958, some eighteen years after the occurrences it is concerned to
adumbrate), is that it has been able to transcribe in terms of contemporary
life, of contemporary death, precisely those images and incidents which in

all of Gracq’s other works are assigned the distancing labels “gothic” or
“surreal” or certainly “magical.” Such a transformation has come about not
because Gracq has changed—for he has not: no novelist ever remained so
true to his esoteric inspirations as Monsieur Poirier, a geography professor
who chooses to create his poems, his play, his essays, and his fictions, even
his translation of Kleist’s Penthesilea and his study of André Breton, under
that mysterious, Breton-sounding pseudonym Gracq. But because reality
changed.
In English we called it the “phony war.” In France it was called, with
varying degrees of validity, the drôle de guerre. For nine months after the
declaration of war between Germany and the Allies, hostilities were
suspended, were not engaged. And in that gestation, there was a great
silence, a terrible holding of a continent’s breath until the blow fell in the
easy June of 1940, and France fell with it, as if there were no such fierce
thing as combat—only surrender, only collapse, only defeat. But in the
bated September of 1939 there was no knowing, no telling: the mobilized
troops were sent to the various frontiers—those famous and “impregnable”
lines that were to be so readily erased—where they waited in a
demoralizing silence for month after month. This is the interval Gracq
chose; it took him nearly two decades to write his way into it, to let reality
speak in the terms of his somber enchantment. As he says:
Things were suspended, but there was no clearing, no perspective. It
was not impossible (or so people thought) that things might end
without hostilities. There might, then, be a “white” peace. And there
were also all kinds of catastrophic possibilities, including the one that
came to pass. We found ourselves, truly, on the brink of a sort of mist-
filled chasm, out of which it was very difficult to see what would
emerge. It is, I think, quite an original situation, that of a declared war
that does not get itself fought, that cannot begin.
Hence it is this novel of the phony war, of the inauthentic peace and the
inactual hostilities, which is the least oneiric of Gracq’s works. It is the least
oneiric book because the period it treats was itself a kind of waking dream.
The France of 1939 and 1940 was living as if there had been no military
necessity. “There was,” Gracq observed in 1971, “the sentiment of a void,
the sense of an enormous blank. Nothing occurred: there was an utterly

somnambulistic aspect to everything. For everything continued as if nothing
had happened. There was a paralysis, a putting-in-parenthesis, a prelude—
to what? No one knew. It was pure anticipation.” The story of Lieutenant
Grange (lieu-tenant, place-saving: even his rank is a kind of mystery, a
holding action), assigned to command the isolated French blockhouse at
Hautes Falizes, in the middle of the forest—the Forest of Arden!—and,
closer still, the Ardennes of the last Great War, near the Belgian border and
the Meuse river. The story of Lieutenant Grange is nothing but the story of
Anyman in a vacant moment whereof the true occurrences are the vast
metamorphoses of nature (the turn of the seasons, the sullen erosion of rock
to sand, the woodland murmurs of sprouting and decay), and the miniscule
transformations within a single body (“When he put his weight on his heel,
a sharp spear of pain leaped up to his hips. . . . Against the harsh cloth that
bound his skin, he felt the faint velvety shudder of fever, still almost
voluptuous”).
It is of interest to note that this is Gracq’s one novel to have been “made
into” a movie, whereas The Opposing Shore, for example, has been
produced as an opera: opera is of course the apposite “realization” for
Gracq’s work. Yet in the film of Balcony in the Forest, the author was
amused to discover that the soldiers, the other soldiers, have much more
continuous presence than in his book itself, though that presence has no
effect on the process of the narrative. “Simply,” as Gracq is pleased to say,
“because in a scene in a novel, a character about whom the author has
ceased to speak immediately becomes an absent presence, while in the film
such a character remains caught in the camera field—he is still there.”
Gracq was astonished to find the others dragged into the visual field, for in
his text, his imaginative substance, there are never others unless they are
named, unless they are audible as language. However capital the images,
however striking the visions, Gracq is the purest of novelists, and there is a
sense in which he cannot be reduced, transferred, or even translated into
other versions, other forms of art.
He can, of course, be translated, in the absolute sense; the coincidence of
Gracq’s privileged fantasmatics with an actual historical sequence affords
his (third) translator a particular opportunity, one of which Gracq himself
appears to be quite conscious, as in this passage where Lieutenant Grange
studies a pamphlet describing the German offensive weapons:

The ponderous gray silhouettes . . . seemed curiously exotic—another
world—with their simultaneously baroque, theatrical and sinister
quality of German war machines which, despite all the requirements of
technology, still managed to remind him of Fafnir. “Unheimlich,” he
thought: there was no French word; he studied them with a mixture of
repugnance and fascination. Outside, the heavy rain of the Ardennes
was beginning to fall with the darkness, its drumming muffled by the
snow. Unconsciously, he strained to hear the occasional noises from
the crew room, afraid of being surprised, as if he were poring over
obscene photographs.
Grange, then, is a kind of Amfortas, a Fisher King (the title of Gracq’s
play of 1948), wishing for, yet reading against, the arrival of the Germans.
As Kundry says: I await the conqueror. “Never before,” muses Grange as
he wonders over the war’s suspension, “never before had France pulled the
sheet over her head with this feverish hand, this taste of nausea in her
mouth.” And what a boon to the translator of 1958, then, in what became
the novel’s final sentence, suggesting the kind of overdetermined, lyric
necessity of this musical, mysterious text: “He lay for a moment more with
his eyes wide open in the darkness. . . . Then he pulled the blanket up over
his head and went to sleep.”
—RICHARD HOWARD
1987
OceanofPDF.com

CONTENTS
Biographical Notes
Title Page
Copyright and More Information
Translator’s Foreword
BALCONY IN THE FOREST
OceanofPDF.com

BALCONY IN THE FOREST
OceanofPDF.com

He! ho! Waldhuter ihr
Schlafhuter mitsammen
So wacht doch mindest am Morgen.
Heigh! Ho! Forest Guardians!
Guardians of Sleep as well—
Waken at least with the dawn.
WAGNER: Parsifal
OceanofPDF.com

EVER since his train had outdistanced the smoke and the suburbs of
Charleville, it seemed to Lieutenant Grange that the world’s ugliness was
disappearing with them: he discovered there was no longer a single house in
sight. The train, following the slow river’s course, had at first plunged
between the gentle slopes of wooded hills. Then, at each bend of the river,
the valley had grown deeper, while the train’s racket echoed from the empty
cliffs and a raw wind, already piercing in the late autumn afternoon, scoured
his face when he put his head out the compartment door. The track changed
banks capriciously, crossing the Meuse on single-span bridges of iron
girders, suddenly rushing into short tunnels across the neck of a bend. Each
time the valley reappeared, its poplars shimmering in the golden light, the
gorge seemed deeper between its forest curtains and the Meuse seemed
slower and darker, as if it had been flowing over a bed of rotten leaves.
The train was empty: it appeared to serve these solitudes for the mere
pleasure of passing through the cool evening, running between slopes of
yellow woodland that reached ever higher into the clear blue October
afternoon; at the river’s edge, the trees revealed only a narrow ribbon of
meadow, as smooth as an English lawn.
“A train for the Domain of Arnheim,” thought the lieutenant, a great Poe
enthusiast, and as he lit a cigarette he leaned his head back against the serge
upholstery so his gaze could follow the crest of the high, shaggy cliffs
aureoled by the low sun. Down the sudden corridors of tributary gorges, the
distant foliage vanished behind a haze as blue as cigar smoke; you felt that
the earth was crimped beneath this thick and knotty forest as naturally as a
Negro’s scalp. Yet even here ugliness was not to be forgotten altogether:
from time to time the train stopped at scaling, mud-colored little stations
that clung to the embankment between the river and the cliff; against the
military blue of the already dim windowpanes, soldiers in khaki were
dozing on the mail wagons—then the green valley grew almost desolate for
a moment: the train passed lugubrious yellow houses sliced out of the earth
and apparently powdering the surrounding greenness with dust from the

gypsum quarries—and, when his disillusioned gaze returned to the Meuse,
it now discerned here and there the jerry-built cabins of raw brick and
concrete, and along the bank the barbwire emplacements where the river’s
spate had hung a litter of rotten weeds: even before the first cannonfire, the
war’s rust and ruin, its odor of scorched earth, its spoiled wasteland, had
already dishonored this still intact canton of luxuriant Gaul.
When he got off at the Moriarmé station, the shadow of the enormous
cliff was already darkening the little town; it had suddenly grown cold; a
siren roared in his ears at point-blank range, and he felt a cold shudder run
down his back, but it was only a factory whistle that released a dreary
crowd of North African workers into the little square. He remembered how
during his vacation, at night, he sometimes strained to hear the town fire-
engine’s siren: one blast was a flue fire, two a fire in the village, three a fire
on a remote farm. The third blast produced a sigh of relief at many
windows. “Here it would be just the reverse,” he thought: “one blast for
peace, three for bombs—what matters is to know how to tell the
difference.” Everything in this war turned out oddly. He had the
stationmaster show him where the regimental combat post was. Now he
was strolling down a wretched gray street that descended to the Meuse; the
sudden October twilight soon emptied it of civilians, but everywhere from
the yellow house fronts leaked a murmur of soldiery: the clank of helmets
and messkits, the clatter of hobnailed boots on tiles: “if you close your eyes
for a second,” Grange thought, “a modern regiment makes more racket than
all the armor of the Hundred Years’ War.”
The command post was at the river’s edge, a dingy, suburban pavilion
separated from the quay by a railing and a starved-looking flower bed
already trampled by soldiers, where motorcycles leaned against the naked
stalks of the lilac bushes: two months of billeting had scratched the corridor
floor and walls to the raw wood as high as a man could reach, like a hive’s
too-narrow entrance. Grange waited for some time in a dusty room where a
typewriter clattered in the half-darkness, the shutters only partly folded
back: occasionally the quartermaster sergeant, without raising his head,
stubbed out a cigarette against a corner of the drafting table: originally the
pavilion must have been the foundry engineer’s office. Between the
shutters, the wall of trees seemed pasted against the window from the
ceiling down to the Meuse, which looked very dark now alongside its slag
bank; from time to time cries of children rose from the street, muffled by

the war’s weight and insignificant as a rabbit’s screams. When he clicked
his heels in the colonel’s office, light still, Grange was struck by the look in
the man’s sea-gray eyes and the lipless mouth beneath the hard bristles of
his mustache: the colonel looked like von Moltke. There was a lunge of
abrupt and piercing life in that look, then the eyes were immediately veiled
by a kind of whitish film and withdrew under the heavy lids; the expression
became that of fatigue, but cunning withal, and concessive: behind this
hooded falcon’s immobility, the talons were clearly in readiness.
Grange handed over his orders specifying his final destination; the
colonel checked his schedule. In front of him lay several sheets which he
indifferently brushed aside. Grange sensed that these papers concerned
himself: there was probably a dossier on him in the files of military
security.
“I’m assigning you to the blockhouse at Hautes Falizes,” the colonel said
a few seconds later, still speaking in the neutral tone of the service—yet he
communicated a secret intention to his words, for his eyes momentarily
contracted to hard points. “You will go up there tomorrow morning with
Captain Vignaud. As for today, you’ll mess with the quartermaster corps.”
Grange regarded a dinner with the corps as less than promising; launched
into this war that had started so quietly, at the zero point, he did not dream
of flinching before whatever task might be asked of him, but he did not
participate—instinctively, whenever possible, he kept his reserve and a
certain distance. When he had left his gear in the truck that was to take him
up to Les Falizes, he ordered some ham and eggs in a worker’s cafe whose
shutters were drawn early, and then, crossing streets already immured and
echoing to the march of patrols, he reached his quarters for the night.
The room was a rather narrow attic whose windows overlooked the
Meuse; in the corner opposite the iron bed some fruit was drying on an old
newspaper spread over a rickety commode: the insistent, sweetish odor of
the crab-apples were so strong that he suddenly felt sick. He opened the
windows wide and sat down on a trunk, completely disenchanted. The
sheets, the blankets smelled of rotten apples, like an old cider press; he
pulled the bed in front of the open window. The candle flame trembled in
the slow draft of air from the river; between the eaves, he could see the
heavy slabs of the Meuse floor, the schist a strange wine-lees color. He
undressed, his mood extremely somber: this foundry town, these sooty

back-streets, the colonel, the apples, everything in this initiation to a
billeted life, was distasteful to him.
“A blockhouse,” he wondered, “what does that mean?” He ransacked his
already remote memory of the regulations concerning campaign
fortifications: no, he could recall nothing at all. It must be under the code of
military justice instead; the word itself offered him little reassurance,
reminding him of both a house of detention and a prison block. When he
had blown out the candle, everything changed. Lying on his side, his gaze
plunged down over the Meuse; the moon had risen above the cliff; the only
sound was the calm murmur of water slipping over a submerged weir and
the cries of the screech owls perched quite near him, in the trees on the
opposite bank. The little town had vanished with its smoke; the odor of the
great forests glided off the cliffs with the fog and drowned it to the depths
of its factory alleys; nothing was left save the starry night and around him
these miles and miles of forest. The afternoon’s enchantment returned.
Grange realized that half his life was going to be restored to him: in
wartime, the night is inhabited. “Under the stars . . .” he mused, and thought
vaguely of narrow white roads beneath the moon, the round apple trees in
black pools of shadow, tents pitched in woods full of wild animals and
surprises. He fell asleep, one hand hanging out of his bed over the Meuse as
if across the gunwale of a boat: tomorrow was already very far away.
OceanofPDF.com

AS SOON as they had passed the last houses of Moriarmé, the tar pavement
stopped and they began taking the first zigzag turns. It was as if the stony
roadbed had been plowed up for its whole width, becoming a kind of
Saharan reg, a river of pebbles with neither gutter nor shoulder between the
two walls of trees. Grange consulted his map between jolts: they were
getting into the forest part of the route. At each hairpin turn, the valley grew
deeper, a wisp of fog appeared above the river which drained faster toward
the delta now, quickened by eddies like water emptying from a bath. The
morning was gay with sunlight, fresh and transparent, but Grange was
amazed by the silence of these woods where no birds sang. Leaning out of
the window, he half turned his back to the captain and raised himself on his
arms to look down to the valley floor: no matter where he was, perspectives
had always fascinated him to the point of rudeness. In the back of the truck
there were two sacks of biscuits, a side of beef wrapped in a piece of jute
sacking, a machine-gun tripod, and a few rolls of barbed wire.
“Let’s stop a minute at l’Eclaterie, since this is your first time up,”
Captain Vignaud said, smiling. “The view is worth the trouble.”
Almost at the top of the slope, a small roadside platform furnished with
two benches had been built out over the valley. From here you could see the
summit of the somewhat lower opposite slope and the woods stretching to
the horizon, thick and matted like a wolfskin, enormous as a stormy sky. At
his feet there was the slow, slender Meuse, fettered by the distance to its
floor, and Moriarmé burrowed into the hollow of the huge forest shell like
an ant lion at the bottom of its pit. The town consisted of three convex
streets that followed the meander’s curve, and ran in terraces above the
Meuse like contour lines; between the lowest street and the river a block of
houses had disappeared, leaving an empty oblong barred in the slanting
light by a sundial’s neat gnomon: the church square. The whole landscape,
its ample masses of shadow, its thread of open meadows perfectly legible,
had a dry and military precision, an almost geodetic beauty: these eastern
sectors were made for war, Grange thought. He had been on maneuvers

only in the jumbled west, where even the trees were never quite round,
never quite vertical.
“That certainly looks like a good, clean cut,” he said politely: the captain
was wearing a staff-college ribbon.
The captain shook out his pipe with a look of disgust. “The front is thirty
kilometers long, the river’s sixty,” he said abruptly. “A line like that eats up
everything.”
Grange felt like a novice: he must have violated some taboo of the
general-staff mess. They got back into the truck in silence.
The truck climbed quite slowly up the bumpy path. As soon as the
zigzags stopped and they had lumbered onto the plateau, the truck turned
into a straight road that seemed to run on through the underbrush as far as
the eye could reach. The forest was stunted—the trees were mostly birches,
dwarf beech, ash, and pin oaks, all gnarled like pear trees—but seemed
extraordinarily dense, without a rent or clearing anywhere; on each side of
the ribbon of river it was as if this earth had been shaggy with trees for all
eternity, had exhausted ax and saber alike by the resurgence of its greedy
fleece. Occasionally, a service path ran through the trees, as narrow as an
animal trail. The solitude was complete, and yet the possibility of a meeting
did not seem altogether unlikely; sometimes, in the distance, there seemed
to be a man standing by the roadside in a long pilgrim’s cape: at close
range, this turned out to be a small fir, its shoulders black and square
against the curtain of bright leaves. The road they were on must have
followed the plateau’s watershed, for there was never the sound of a stream,
though two or three times Grange noticed a stone trough, half-buried in a
recess of trees, from which a thread of clear water ran: it added to the
silence of the fairy-tale forest.
Where am I being taken, he wondered. He calculated that they must have
gone a good twelve kilometers since leaving the Meuse: Belgium couldn’t
be far away. But his mind floated in a comfortable obscurity: he asked for
nothing better than to go on driving through the calm morning, between
these moist thickets that smelled of squirrels’ nests and fresh mushrooms.
As they were about to take a turn, the truck slowed down, then, all its
springs protesting, plunged left beneath the branches across a grass-grown
breach. Among the trees, Grange made out a house with a peculiar-looking
silhouette as if a kind of Savoyard chalet were caught in the branches, fallen
like a meteorite among these forgotten thickets.

“This is where you live,” Captain Vignaud said.
OceanofPDF.com

THE Hautes Falizes blockhouse was one of a series constructed in the heart
of the forest to prevent enemy armored units from penetrating into the
Belgian Ardennes toward the Meuse line. The structure consisted of a squat
concrete cube with an armored door opening at the rear onto a zigzag path
across a small barbwire emplacement that surrounded the blockhouse like a
cabbage patch. The concrete had been perfunctorily daubed with faded
olive-green paint that smelled of mold: fungus growths encouraged by the
suffocating heat of the undergrowth caused damp patches to suppurate on
the sides, as if wet sheets had been hung there every day. Two embrasures
pierced the front of the blockhouse: one, narrow, for a machine gun; the
other, a little larger, for an anti-tank gun. On top of this squat cube, as if on
a pedestal too small for it, rested the projecting story of a little house,
entered from one side by a perforated iron staircase, like an American
tenement fire escape: this was the quarters of the tiny garrison. Its ugliness
was that of the poorest mining cabin or frontier hut; the dripping forest
winters had pitted the exposed surfaces, torn off patches of plaster, and
blackened the windows under the staircase with long streaks of rust that ran
over onto the concrete. On cords hung under the eaves from the windows to
the nearby branches, underwear and towels were drying. Against the
blockhouse leaned the brand-new, galvanized-wire netting of a henroost and
a crude plank rabbit hutch; tin cans that must have been thrown out of the
windows and half-loaves of rotting bread were scattered all over the
barbwire emplacement. The bizarre coupling of this prehistoric mastaba
with a ramshackle suburban cottage, surrounded by such hobo’s bric-a-brac
in the heart of the forest, had something perfectly improbable about it.
Through the open windows, a cast-iron throat was making the woods ring
with a barroom song which broke off at the sound of the truck.
On va guincher dans tous les caboulots
Sur le plancher des va-ches. . . .

There was no doubt about it, Grange thought, this war wasn’t beginning
the way he had thought it would. There were all kinds of surprises. The men
came down the staircase one by one, their boots clattering, buckling their
belts—clumsy, circumspect, and squinting like suspicious Berber tribesmen
at their new commanding officer.
OceanofPDF.com

FOR a long while Grange clung to the half-sleep that kept him tossing on his
camp bed, though the dawn was already pale at every window; since
childhood, no sensation had been so purely delicious: he was free, in sole
command of this Little Red Riding Hood hut, lost in the heart of the
wilderness. On the other side of his door, the placid bustle of a waking farm
added to his happiness: he connected it with long-familiar sounds; for the
first time, Grange realized with a shock of incredulous delight that he was
going to live here—that perhaps the war had its desert islands. The forest
branches brushed against his windowpanes. A heavy clatter shook the
staircase; Grange jumped off his bed and looked out the window: two
soldiers, Hervouët and Gourcuff, were already disappearing between the
trees, straightening their rifles with a shrug of the shoulder, their overcoat
collars raised against the piercing chill. Behind the partition, someone was
stirring up the stove; the sound of tinware promised hot coffee.
He stretched out on his bed a minute, wrapped in his coat. The day was
gray and overcast; an atmosphere of foggy mornings, the idleness of
Sundays in the country, filled the blockhouse; and a silence, so rare in
military life, falling at intervals between the sounds on the other side of the
wall, settled down in the middle of the room like a contented cat. The cold
itself was not uncomfortable; and even in their absence, he felt that the air
here was stirred only by young and well-fed bodies. For a moment Grange
stared vacantly at the pale fume his breath left on the air, then turned over
and gave a perplexed chuckle: the notion that this was an outpost
completely bewildered him. The orders Captain Vignaud had passed on to
him were simple. In case of attack, the engineers would fall back to a
position in front of Les Falizes and blow up the road. The mission of the
blockhouse was to destroy the tanks trapped by this demolition and to
provide information as to the enemy’s movements. The enemy was to be
halted “with no thought of retreat.” An underground tunnel into the woods
was supposed to permit the garrison to leave the blockhouse without being

seen and, in the last extremity, to withdraw toward the Meuse through the
forest.
On the general-staff map, hanging down over the edge of his table, he
could see from his bed the route of orderly withdrawal which Captain
Vignaud had drawn in red pencil, and which he was to start reconnoitering
today. But his imagination found little stimulus in these improbable events.
In front of him he had the woods reaching to the horizon, and then beyond
that came the sheltering corner of Belgium that dropped down like a fold of
curtain. The war was little by little falling asleep, the army yawning like a
class that has handed in its papers, waiting for the bell and the end of
maneuvers. Nothing would happen. Perhaps nothing would happen. Grange
leafed absent-mindedly through the file of official communications, the
combat orders, the munitions accounts: a fine rain of learned paragraphs
engendered by an ingenious and polemical madness, which seemed to take
account of earthquakes in advance; then he put them in an envelope and
locked them away in his drawer with a gesture that was an exorcism. Such
things belonged to the order of events which, too minutely foreseen, did not
happen. These were the notarized archives of the war; they slept here
waiting for confirmation; reading these pages that tracked down the
unpredictable from comma to comma, Grange felt inexpressibly reassured:
it was as though the war were already over. A finger scratched at the door
with a timidity surprising after the powerful racket of boots that had
preceded it.
“Coffee, mon yeutenant.”
Grange jumped off his bed and pulled on his boots: all the same, it wasn’t
an ordinary house. The iron-soled boots made a dull sound against the bare
concrete, with no vibration or resonance, as if he were walking on a new
road or a bridge abutment. Grange felt he was welded to that cool dark
cavern underneath, which his ear unconsciously questioned—a snail en
promenade outside its shell. And suddenly the fairy-tale house didn’t quite
reassure him any more. They slept here like sailors in the lull of hot nights,
making for gray seas and trying to forget that the wind would be rising one
of these days.
OceanofPDF.com

IT SEEMED as if the rhythm of the blockhouse regime had been determined
once and for all. It was something of a peasant life they led, slowly
vegetating at one of the least sensitive nerve endings within the war’s great
body: the season, the wind, the rain, the moment’s inclination, and the
round of household tasks created much more of a stir than the general-staff
bulletins, whose echoes died away on these somnolent frontiers as
sluggishly as ripples on a beach. From this perspective it was easy to
understand that the war depended on violent movements, like a man pulling
himself out of a quicksand limb by limb: paralyzed as they were, the earth
reclaimed them for its own, they sent down roots, the garrison returned to
peasantry.
The blockhouse at Les Falizes sheltered a marginal clan like men living
in isolated moorland shanties: as seldom seen in towns as highlanders in the
valleys, living off the land by individual craft, half charcoal burners, half
poachers. Four times a week, Hervouët and Gourcuff left for their
lumberyard, a little clearing the division’s engineers had made in the Braye
forest two kilometers from Les Falizes; here stakes were cut for the
barbwire emplacements being completed along the front. There was reason
to believe the men cut few enough, for the Braye forest gullies were full of
game, and allowances for the trip there and back were generously
calculated during these shortening days. Often Grange, awake before
daylight and musing in his bed, surprised a wary footstep on the dripping
stairs: he knew it was Hervouët, a knapsack on his back, leaving with
Gourcuff to make the rounds of his traps. Grange found he liked both men:
their passion for outdoor living left him all the more time to himself, and he
was pleased by their discretion and reserve, the silent manners of
woodsmen and scouts accustomed to keeping their mouths closed and their
ears open and not inclined to discuss private matters. Hervouët was tall and
spare, a duckhunter from La Brière whom nights of lying in wait had made
as day-blind as a cat. Gourcuff, an almost illiterate day laborer from
Questembert, was stocky and redfaced: he was not a gifted man and his

only natural aptitudes seemed to be those of a remarkable drinker. As in
most such cases, the sedentary man had become the nomad’s serf: Hervouët
had pressed his seal on this soft wax—where everything he uttered was
engraved as if it were scripture—and Gourcuff had become his sword-
bearer, his beater, his hunt servant. When they slipped into the overgrown
service paths, Hervouët, who liked having his arms free, would hang his
rifle on Gourcuff’s shoulder as if on a hat peg. They disappeared early in
the morning between the trees, taciturn and long-striding, like the Amazon
seringueiros.
“Where have Hervouët and Gourcuff gone this time?”
“They’re at their yard, mon yeutenant. There’s no more meat.”
They emerged from the thickets at the afternoon’s end, smelling of game
and breathing hard, like wet dogs, their knapsacks full of dead animals,
empty bottles, and Belgian cigarettes. They brought news as well, for these
desolate forests, wakened by the war and full of hideouts and refuges,
hummed louder than telegraph wires.
Once Hervouët and Gourcuff had gone, Corporal Olivon retired to the
common room, engrossed in mysterious domestic tasks, and Grange had the
whole day empty before him. Mornings, he usually read and wrote at the
deal table in front of the foggy little window facing the forest, until the
moment, every other day, when he heard the truck blowing its horn on the
road up to Les Falizes, bringing supplies, mail, newspapers, various
clandestine substances Olivon ordered from Moriarmé to “stuff” his
chickens on, and occasionally materiel for the upkeep of the blockhouse
and its nearby defenses: cans of paint, pruning tools, cartridges for signals,
or rolls of barbed wire. When Grange had signed the receipts, the curtain
fell for two days more on the inhabited world: in this forest wilderness
perched high above the Meuse, it was as if they were on a roof and the
ladder taken away.
With two men requisitioned almost daily for woodcutting, the blockhouse
service, except for keeping the materiel in repair, was reduced to almost
nothing more than maintaining a permanent watch. Grange played the role
of a janitor, his empty concrete block visited every now and then by some
official commission that scowled because the embrasures were not yet fitted
with their regulation funnels, unceremoniously replaced for the moment by
sandbags (when he took them into the block, keys in his hand, Grange acted
almost contrite: he felt the reproving, somewhat disgusted stare of the

Engineers’ officers upon him, eying him as if he were a hobo filling his
broken windowframes with newspaper; he always felt obliged to lead them
out with a vaguely apologetic gesture toward the vaulting, as if to say
something like: “The walls are good!”).
In good weather, he often went down to the hamlet of Les Falizes for the
afternoon. Half a mile from the blockhouse, the tiny white road came to an
end in a fresh upland meadow where a dozen cottages basked in the solitude
of high stubble and the encircling firs. Grange turned left at the Bihoreau
farm, a rest home whose shutters were closed now, and sat down at the Cafe
des Platanes, which lodged whatever improbable guests might appear out of
this wilderness. In front of the one-story house, on a tidy little paved terrace
overlooking the road, were a table, two red-and-white-striped iron chairs,
and even—a surprising touch of modernity—an orange parasol folded
around its pole; not long past noon, the shadow of a huge chestnut tree fell
across the terrace. After exchanging a few compliments with Madame
Tranet, who appeared, smiling, behind her curtain of glass beads like a
figurine on a barometer (“here’s my lieutenant back with the good
weather”), and commiserating with her on the war’s uncertainties and the
demands of rationing, Grange installed himself in his garden chair, sipped
his coffee, and plunged into a kind of dreamy beatitude. At this time of the
afternoon, the village was usually quite empty; the houses scattered across
the meadow, the black-and-white cows grazing here and there in the
clearing, the yellower sun of the last autumn days, the rest home with its
closed shutters—everything reminded him of the sweetness of high
mountain meadows, of the season when the herds gather and the little
summer hotels, the last tourist gone, close well ahead of the first snow.
Behind this timid and still golden beauty, this snug, late-season peace, he
could feel the cold rising, reaching across the land, a cutting chill that was
not winter’s: the clearing was like an island in the vague intimidation that
seemed to rise from these black woods. “That’s it. I’m the season’s last
summer visitor: it’s over,” Grange thought, with a shrinking feeling around
his heart, looking at the freshly painted table, the parasol, the chestnut tree,
the sunny meadow. “Ten years of childhood in vacationland: the years of fat
cows. Now it’s done with.” When he closed his eyes, he could hear only
two faint sounds: the cracked bells of the little black cows harnessed in
pairs to make it easy finding them when they wandered off into the woods,
and another sound that seemed to rise out of the depths of his past: the

recitation of some ten children in the tiny school-house down the road that
must have been a blacksmith shop once. He felt something like a tide rising
in him at that, something inert and despairing which was close to the brink
of tears.
As soon as the sun started sinking, the villagers emerged one by one from
the edge of the woods and came home along the road with their carts and
bundles of firewood: chopping down trees and raising piebald cows seemed
to be their only occupation. As they passed beneath the chestnut tree they
greeted Grange with weather-wise observations—there was never any
mention of the war—and sometimes the Bihoreau boy would have a drink
with him, though it was up to Grange to make conversation. His
melancholy soon passed, and he began to feel almost important here: it was
as if he were some good-natured vidame coming down from his castle keep
to enjoy the evening’s cool with the peasants of his manor.
When he returned before nightfall, he rarely failed to climb down into the
concrete block for a brief inspection; this was what he called “keeping an
eye on the blockhouse.” As a matter of fact, there was no need for an eye
there—the concrete cell remained locked up all day long—but Grange had
developed a strange compulsion: he liked to stay inside it for a few minutes
at sundown. In good moods, he mocked himself about it: wasn’t he like
those ship’s engineers too long in the service who preferred smoking down
in the hold? When he had closed the vault’s heavy door behind him, he
stood on the threshold for a moment, glanced around the walls and up at the
low ceiling, never without apprehension: he was assailed by a sudden sense
of being out of his element, at a loss. It was the room’s diminunitiveness
that first affected him: it was hard to co-ordinate what he saw with the
structure’s over-all dimensions; the feeling of confinement became
oppressive: his body moved here like the dry kernel inside a nutshell. Then
came the vivid sensation—Grange marveled how expressive the word was
—of the hermetic block sealed around him—a sensation produced by the
musty coolness that fell on his shoulders, the stale, aseptic dryness of the
air, the tiny drops of concrete spattering the framework that articulated the
redoubt in delicate ribs, sealing the floor to the walls, the walls to the
ceiling. “A concrete dice-block,” Grange mused, tapping the wall
unconsciously—“a crate that might topple over: someone ought to paste on
labels reading top and bottom—let’s hope fragile will be unnecessary.”

The room was bare, crude, with something violently uninhabitable about
it. In a far corner, the hatchway that opened into the escape tunnel was half
covered by a mattress hung against the wall. To the left were piled
munitions boxes and machine-gun belts—oilcans, jars of grease, and filthy
rags made greenish blurs which looked like the smears on garage floors. To
the right a red fire extinguisher and a white-enameled first-aid box with a
red cross on it were attached to the wall. The middle of the room was
empty; there was no place to stand in preference to any other; mechanically,
Grange took a few steps toward the brutal shaft of light that cut through the
gloom and stretched out for a second or two in the gun-layer’s position
beside the anti-tank gun. Through the narrow embrasure he saw only the
road rising gently toward the horizon—constricted by the forest walls—the
harsh color of broken slag, with a line of sugar-white, crystalline gravel on
each side. Five hundred yards away, the road sank down behind a rise in the
terrain; its flat bed and the double palisade of trees formed a battlement so
sharply etched that its edges seemed silvered against the empty sky. Putting
an eye to the sight, Grange could readily distinguish each twig along the
battlement’s edge, each sharp pebble in the road, and even the thin, shallow
tracks the wheels had made. Unthinkingly he turned the aiming screw:
slowly the sight-wires’ slender black cross came to rest on the center of the
battlement, a little above the road’s surface at the horizon. In the curve of
the crescent that brought together the vague white sky and the empty road,
the least twig’s motionlessness became fascinating: the great round eye with
its two crossed hairs seemed to open on another world, silent, intimidating,
and bathed in a white light, a soundless evidence. Grange realized he had
been holding his breath for a moment and quickly stood up, shrugging his
shoulders.
“Stupid!” he mumbled—but he noticed his hand was trembling.
At Les Falizes dinner was served early: for Grange this was always an
agreeable moment. They sat down, all four together, around the little deal
table Grange worked at during the day and which they dragged into the
common room for dinner. Gourcuff usually fell asleep before the meal’s
end, but Hervouët, Olivon, and Grange often sat talking long afterwards
near the stove, where a pot of harsh yet tasteless coffee was always
steaming, as on the stoves of Flemish farms: “this is where the penates of
Les Falizes are,” Grange thought, when Olivon set down the cups and

uncovered the pot with a ritual gesture; he was surprised at having found a
hearth and home for himself so effortlessly.
The conversation flowed easily: Olivon, who had been a foreman in the
shipyards of Penhoët, had friends in common with Hervouët, since half the
men of La Brière worked in Saint-Nazaire. Both men were leftists and
political discussions ran high: the strikes of ’36, the Popular Front, rolled
through the little room with the sound of the Grande Armée in the
memories of soldiers on half pay; it was as if the war were only a technical
incident, as they said on the radio, a curtain accidentally dropped by a
remote stagehand at the play’s most exciting moment. Then Hervouët
would tell stories of his hunting adventures, of nights spent lying in wait
while an image of the old singing, lascivious, poaching Briéron flickered
before them, a kind of legendary hero who amused Grange because of his
resemblance to Father Ierochka in The Cossacks. Sometimes, when the talk
had lasted late, they listened to the broadcasts of the Stuttgart Traitor, who
had once mentioned their regiment. After a long sputtering, all the war’s
unreality melted through the static into this thin, piercing voice, which
lingered over its words, hissing like the villain of a melodrama. In the
silences, they heard the branches dripping around the blockhouse, and
sometimes, quite near, the sound of some large animal digging in the
woods, which sent Hervouët running to look outside. Through the open
window came a long, sumptuous rustle that seemed to dissolve into the
breathing forest and the cry of the screech owls perched on the barbed wire,
lured by the rodents that came to eat the rotten bread. The men were at ease
together, good-humored and relaxed in the comforting warmth, only a little
disquieted by this murmur from the wild, this window open to the
troublesome darkness. It was the moment Gourcuff always chose to wake
up: the jokes that greeted his childish yawns were the signal for going to
bed.
“A hell of a war!” Olivon remarked, stretching as he filled the empty pot.
The men said good night and went back to their quarters, which over-
looked the barbwire emplacement; Grange called it the crew room. Leaning
out, he noticed the sudden glow of Hervouët’s cigarette at the next window
—before leaving to set his traps, the soldier was sniffing the wet woods like
a hound.
Back in his own room, Grange read for a few moments by the weak light
of a lantern, but too many cups of coffee after dinner set his nerves on edge,

and if the weather was dry and there was a moon, he took a short walk
before going to bed. The forest night was never completely dark. In the
direction of the distant Meuse, the opposite slope, in the gaps between the
trees, whitened vaguely with a sort of momentary false dawn, a silky
palpitation of soft, sluggish flashes, like the great bubbles of light that
regularly burst over valleys of blast furnaces: these gleams were the
concrete casemates being constructed on accelerated schedules, poured at
night under arc lights. Toward the frontier, where the plateau rose to meet
the horizon, he could see tiny beads of light forming one by one and sliding
for a few seconds down the night, noiselessly broadening and sweeping the
treetops with a sudden beam: the Belgian automobiles driving toward the
peace of another world, flashing across the wider clearings where the
Ardennes gradually petered out.
Between these two fringes which suddenly disturbed the night in this
vague fashion, the Roof (this was Grange’s name for the high forest plateau
hung above the valley) remained plunged in profound darkness. The road
stretched out as far as the eye could reach like a phantom path, its
powdering of white gravel half-phosphorescent between the trees. The air
was soft and warm, heavy with the smell of plants; it was good to walk on
this loud, crunching path, hidden by the shadow of the branches, with over
his head this streak of paler sky that was somehow alive, occasionally
wakening to the reflection of distant lights. Grange walked on, his sense of
physical well-being marred by troubled thoughts: the night protected him,
gave him this easy breathing and this prowler’s freedom of movement, but
it was the night that brought the war closer: as if a fiery sword were writing
great pure characters above the world that cowered in primordial fear;
roused, the sky over the woods watched dark France, dark Germany, and
between the two the strange, calm scintillation of Belgium, whose lights
died away at the horizon’s edge. The night was not sleeping; he felt as if the
vigilant earth had assumed the darkness like a camouflage; his eyes
automatically followed the searchlights’ distant pencils that intersected now
and then, seeming to grope their way through the air, cautious as insect
antennae behind the vast and disquieting horizon.
Grange left the road, turning off on a service path toward Hill 457, a
sharp rise of ground recently cleared, from which a view extended far
across the plateau; he sat down on a stump, lit a cigarette, and stared for a
long time into the night torn by sudden flashes and gleams. From here the

glowworms suddenly became more numerous, forming against the horizon
almost a half-circle of sudden winks that seemed to warn, to wonder; they
were like a populous coast seen from the open sea on a clear night: he felt
as if a question it had become urgent to understand were being asked—but
Grange did not understand: he merely felt a certain feverishness rising
within him after a little while, and around his eyes the faint constrictions of
insomnia; he wanted to walk in this overwakeful night until exhaustion
came, until morning.
By the time he returned to the road, everything was calm again: the night
breathed gently in the shadow of the trees; noiselessly he climbed the stairs
to the house. Before going to bed he stood for a moment in front of the
crew-room door which the men left open at night to catch the stove’s last
warmth; out of the darkness came the sound of heavy, healthy breathing that
made him smile in spite of himself: the world around him was troubled and
uncertain, but there was this sleep as well. “All four,” he thought as he
closed the door, and felt something like a desire to whistle. He was amazed
to realize that two weeks before he hadn’t even known their names.
OceanofPDF.com

OFTEN, on Sundays, Captain Varin, who was in command of the company,
invited Grange to lunch at Moriarmé. Sometimes the lieutenant rode down
in the provisions truck; but on clear days, rather than borrow a bicycle from
Les Falizes and be jolted for seven miles down the torrential bed of rough
gravel, he preferred to walk; besides, he was grateful for this bad road
which left him a free hand and virtually cut off the Roof from the inhabited
world.
He started out early; as he approached l’Eclaterie, he listened for the
sound of Moriarmé’s bells rising from the valley after High Mass: their
high-pitched chime fading into the great circle of the woods pleased him
like a half-forgotten sign of welcome: it was a sound that never reached the
silent Roof.
He found the officers of both companies—the 1st and 3rd took their mess
together—already started on their apéritifs; from one window he could see
the Meuse, a deep oily color at the foot of its overhanging forests, and from
the other the church square where civilians in Sunday clothes were already
lining up in front of the pastryshop. Around the table reigned a noisy and
virtually continuous cordiality: it was evident that Captain Varin’s Sundays,
which now and then collected the rangers scattered in the wilderness
blockhouses, had something to do with the maintenance of esprit de corps.
Grange soon saw what kind of man was in command of the 3rd
Company: Captain Magnard was a petulant blond—perhaps too consciously
handsome—with the tender blue eyes of a womanizer, as carefully groomed
as if he were wearing a corset, like officers during the Dreyfus Affair, and
with the capricious condescension of a chasseur transferred to a camp
behind the lines; he published occasional patriotic verses in l’Echo du
Front, the corps paper circulated by the Army, and if asked once or twice,
he would start reciting over the dessert. Grange supposed that the day war
was declared the man had assumed his old-campaigner’s tone the way he
might put a flower in his buttonhole the morning of the happiest day of his
life—the marriage had not been consummated, and the flower looked dead

to all eyes but his own. “A ribbon clerk who’s just left his whore’s bed,”
Grange decided, supremely irritated when the man minutely described some
village conquest in his crude terms.
Captain Varin was distant and rather unconcerned, but occasionally his
eyes unhooded themselves behind his wineglass and glowed for a second
like the bulb in a target when some particular oafishness roused him;
evidently he was having to bear with the luncheon, and with Magnard more
than all the rest. “As for us, he doesn’t miss a thing, he keeps track,”
Grange told himself, a little stung, but deciding that the restraint Varin
imposed on the meal was not unpleasant: it was like the curé’s presence at a
wedding breakfast, it warded off the worst. The conversation was of a
pitiful simplicity; the humor that of a compartment full of traveling
salesmen; after glasses had been clinked and a few choruses brayed, there
were several moments of silence when the high spirits evaporated. Captain
Magnard patronized the reservists and the young officers with a comic
broadness; it was by slaps on the shoulder and clay pipes pushed familiarly
under their noses that he “gave them confidence.”
“At the colonel’s? You’ll get a queer name for yourself, if you don’t
watch out, fellow,” his nasal drawl suddenly cut through the other voices,
with a familiarity all too recently assumed. There was a lot of drinking.
“Every man here is worth more than he looks, Grange thought, exasperated:
“the paterfamilias at the brothel.” Outside the window, the Meuse slowly
darkened, dimmed by the cliff shadow; the vacant boredom of a provincial
Sunday leaked through the casements despite the war; the air smelled of
pernod, stale cigar smoke, and heavy food. Obviously something was being
simulated here, but what? In the moments of silence, the guests looked out
the window at the catechism class lining up in the square for vespers.
“That’s enough about the service!” drawled Captain Magnard’s affected,
slightly drunk voice. “Had any ass lately?”
Sometimes, after lunch, Grange accompanied a fellow officer through the
dozing Sunday streets to the Charleville train, then stopped at the Company
office to settle some service details. Captain Varin was always there,
smoking his cigarette behind stacks of papers. His face was heavy and
somewhat carnivorous-looking, the hard mustache still black, the raked
nostril flaring, the jaw massive; at first glance, he seemed only a rather
heavily turned-out old trooper, but a trooper who never drank, never joked,
never even laughed, and, since the division had been in the sector, never

once set foot in the Charleville whorehouse the other officers took turns
visiting on Sundays. He commanded his company with icy competence,
holding men and officers alike on short rein, announced his decisions
briefly, his voice harsh, listened attentively, and never argued. He was born
to the “I give orders or I keep still” manner—he must have chosen the
wrong war or else the wrong army, Grange thought (the captain intrigued
him)—always astonished by this bare office where everything breathed
regulations, as harshly scrubbed as a convent parlor, with no chair for a
visitor, not even a bottle of apéritif. Yet on Sundays there was something
else. Alone with the captain, Grange occasionally, for a few seconds, felt
him come closer, almost to the point of openness—not that he relaxed: he
worked all day long; not that he became more human: his confidence was
impersonal to the point of coldness—Varin’s attitude had nothing to do with
putting Grange at ease. The captain spoke of the war. Grange decided that
Varin talked about it with him because he, too, had never asked leave for
Charleville, which caused talk—and perhaps because he was still young:
the captain’s secret vice was to scandalize his colleagues.
“Look at this for a minute, Grange. The Second Office is spoiling us.”
The document, to which was clipped a red card reading “To be
communicated only to the officers’ units,” was a complete series of
photographs showing the different kinds of casemates in the Siegfried line.
Most were in forest emplacements, like Les Falizes—the angle of the
excellent shots revealed the dark embrasures with their paler circular
flanges. The whole thing, consisting of loose-leaf sheets of glossy paper in
a ringed notebook, with measurements of the structures and reference
numbers, reminded him of the careful presentation of spring collections at a
tailor’s shop.
“Which does Monsieur prefer—this one, or perhaps this?” The captain
grimaced slightly; it was evident that the glossy paper in particular aroused
his sovereign antipathy; he was probably thinking that the general-staff
puppies were putting on airs. . . . “Pretty, aren’t they?”
He winked, rubbing his finger over the shiny paper, indicating a heavy
model that had three embrasures and looked rather unwieldy beneath the
overhanging pines.
“Pretty or not, in any case, I advise you to get them into your head,
lieutenant.”
“Because . . . we’re going to attack?”

“Because neither you nor I will ever see these music boxes any closer
than this. You know what this means?” The captain began walking up and
down, spurred by a cunning daemon. “It’s an old trick. GHQ sends us its
travel souvenirs with postmarks attached. There are bridegrooms like that—
they invent a honeymoon for the audience. It makes you more important
with your friends, or the boys at the office. I suppose the Poles found this
reassuring.”
“The Germans aren’t moving either,” hazarded Grange, always
exhilarated by this pessimistic strategy: he liked encouraging people to
follow their inclinations. “Perhaps they’ll never attack.”
The captain fixed him with his leaden look. His nostrils quivered. “It’s
strange,” Grange thought. “He doesn’t even see me. He’s shooting down an
objection. He may not be an intellectual, but at least he can keep an idea in
his head with a certain amount of irony.”
“Then what are you waiting for here, young fellow—post cards?”
“Here?”
“ ‘Here’? . . .” The captain gave a worn, rather sinister laugh. “ ‘Here’?
What do you mean ‘here’? Here just the same as anywhere else. And it’ll be
a kind of lark, won’t it . . . a stroll with a cane in your hand!”
After these sudden outbursts, the captain dismissed him rather dryly and
plunged back into his papers: there was no use trying to strike fire again for
another week. Grange emerged from these consultations half diverted, half
disturbed. It was like a bloodletting: it relieved you, he told himself;
however strange he found it—for he himself followed the war’s progress
with great indifference—Grange understood that the captain was suffering.
When he was outside in the street again, it seemed as if the light had faded;
a great dark crescent cast by the cliff was already gnawing at the other bank
of the Meuse. He decided he had nothing else to do in these blank, empty
streets where bicycles were piled in front of the cafes and a few soldiers,
already drunk, were staggering toward the railway station: he was eager to
get back to the shelter of his woods. The captain’s remarks were spoiling
his day; not that he believed them, but they landed in the silent, muffled life
Grange had created for himself like a stone thrown into a pond that had
seemed so inviting beneath its watery lens: in a second you saw how black
the water was, and your nostrils filled with an obstinate rotten odor you
couldn’t forget again. “The war? he wondered, shrugging his shoulders

peevishly, “who knows if there even is a war? If there were, we’d hear
about it.”
But his nerves bothered him nevertheless; he thought about this army
dozing around him like a man napping on the grass who even in his sleep
turns and brushes away the wasp buzzing about his head. Walking along the
river bank, the lieutenant glanced—already suspiciously—at the little
blockhouses whose embrasures surveyed the Meuse at long intervals: he
found them paltry, shabby, their concrete substructure and brick tops
looking as if they had begun as casemates and ended up as provincial bus
stations. Of course, this isn’t the Maginot Line, Grange thought, raising his
eyes unconsciously towards the bushy eagles’ nests that bristled high over
the river—in fact this indolent fortification was somehow reassuring:
obviously nothing serious was expected here. Behind these forests . . .
And then the winter was coming: in a few weeks there would be snow.
There would be days when the truck wouldn’t come up any more: with a
thrill of pleasure Grange contemplated the prospect of being imprisoned at
Les Falizes, cloistered in his mountain retreat around the red-hot stove,
snowbound for long days in the fairy-tale forest. In April, the Ardennes
slope was still white with snow while the valley apple trees were in
bloom. . . .
“Varin’s angry because they’ve stuck him here on this make-believe
front: everyone in the regular army wants promotion.” As soon as the road’s
zigzags penetrated the forest, he felt himself breathing more easily; at each
turn he saw Moriarmé shrinking back into the valley. Grange walked on in
the moist silence that closed over him: he felt light, young again: merely
vanishing into this forest that surrounded him as far as the eye could reach
revived a sense of well-being that swelled his lungs. The air smelled as it
does after a shower: before nightfall, it would rain on the Roof; at Les
Falizes, the world was different. Then suddenly, at a turn in the road, the
sting returned, the pinprick that made him frown.
“Then what are you waiting for here, young fellow—post cards?”
•
One day when he was climbing up to the blockhouse this way—it was
one of the last Sundays in November—the rain surprised Grange at the first
turn, and he had scarcely reached the plateau when it became a regular

downpour. The light was already fading from the sky, and the clouds rolled
along the edge of the Roof, clinging occasionally to the rises of the plateau
which then vanished, wrapped in the lingering mist: this was the herald of
one of those long rains that wrung out the soft clouds for whole days over
the Roof. Whenever the rain settled in like this, Grange felt alert and good-
humored; the sharper sense that he was on his way home flowed through his
limbs like a warm draught: already he saw his men sitting around the stove
in the common-room where the wet overcoats were steaming on their
hooks. He walked on through the downpour at a steady pace, conscious
only of a slight fatigue, his left hand holding his sopping coat collar away
from his chin and the cold drops sliding down his neck one by one.
Glancing down a service path, he saw that a cottony fog walled him in
twenty feet away; he advanced in a clearing of the fog which moved as he
moved—only the road before him, where the branches held the fog off the
ground, showed paler in the gloom. This stretch through the fogbound
forest gradually lulled Grange into his favorite daydream; in it he saw an
image of his life: all that he had, he carried with him; twenty feet away, the
world grew dark, perspectives blurred, and there was nothing near him but
this close halo of warm consciousness, this nest perched high above the
vague earth.
On the plateau, where the roadbed drained badly, puddles stretched
across the pebbly surface, puckered by the raindrops’ bouncing gray
bubbles. When he raised his eyes to the horizon, he noticed a figure some
distance ahead of him splashing from puddle to puddle, still nebulous in the
curtain of rain. In silhouette it looked like a little girl wearing a long,
hooded cloak much too big for her and knee-high rubber boots; watching
her pick her way along the uneven road, her back a little bent, as if she were
lugging a leather satchel over her shoulder, he first thought it was a
schoolgirl on her way home, though he knew there were no houses for at
least two miles, and suddenly he remembered that it was Sunday; he began
observing the diminutive figure more attentively. There was something that
intrigued him in her way of walking; beneath the continuous patter of the
downpour, to which she seemed quite oblivious, she certainly looked like a
child playing truant. Sometimes she would jump over a puddle, feet
together, sometimes she would stop beside the road and break off a branch
—once she half turned round and seemed to glance behind her, as if to
measure how much nearer Grange had come, then started hopping on one

foot, kicking a pebble in front of her, ran a few steps, making the puddles
dance—and once or twice, in spite of the distance, Grange even thought he
could hear her whistling. The road grew lonelier still, the enveloping
downpour making the forest rustle from one end to the other.
“She must be a rain-sprite,” Grange thought, smiling unconsciously
behind his streaming collar, “a naiad—a little forest witch.” He began to
slow down despite the rain; he didn’t want to catch up with her too quickly
—he was afraid the sound of his steps might alarm the girl, keep her from
her graceful, solitary wild-creature’s games. Now that he had come a little
nearer, she was no longer quite a little girl: when she ran a few steps, her
hips were almost a woman’s; her childlike, playful neck movements were
those of a runaway colt, but every now and then appeared a provocative
curve that suddenly suggested something quite different, as if her head
remembered of its own accord having rested on a man’s shoulder. Grange
wondered, a trifle annoyed, if she had really noticed he was walking behind
her: sometimes she stopped beside the road and gave a happy laugh, as you
might address a friend roped behind you on a mountain-climbing
expedition; then, for minutes at a time, she seemed to have forgotten him,
resuming her romping, tomboy gait—and suddenly she seemed utterly
alone, about her own business, like a kitten that ignores you for a ball of
string. They went on this way for a moment. Despite the noise of the rain,
the road’s pale trough seemed to Grange to run through a clearing: he was
merely a man walking behind a woman, all pounding blood and violent
curiosity. “A little girl!” he told himself uneasily—but unconsciously his
heart beat faster each time the silhouette stopped at the roadside and a hand
half opened the long cape’s hood for a moment. Suddenly the figure planted
itself in the middle of the road and, standing in a puddle that reached to her
ankles, the girl began washing the sides of her rubber boots in the water;
when he reached her, Grange discovered under the hood tilted in his
direction two bright blue eyes as sharp and warm as a spring thaw—and,
deep inside, as if in a crib, the soft straw of her yellow hair.
“You keep your woods p-pretty wet, don’t you?” asked a fresh, abrupt
little voice, while the person in the cloak shook herself with puppyish
unconcern, showering Grange—then all at once the chin rose gently,
tenderly holding up the face to the rain as if for a kiss, the eyes dancing.
“Let’s walk together,” she continued, in a voice that admitted no
contradiction. “It’s more fun.”

She began laughing again—her fresh, rainy laugh. Now that he had
caught up with her, she walked beside him at a good speed. From time to
time Grange glanced at her surreptitiously; around the edge of the hood he
could see only her glistening nose and mouth and the short chin set against
the rain, but he was stirred to feel her near him, young and vital, supple as a
fawn in the warm scent of wet wool. She had fallen in step with him of her
own accord: it was as if she had taken his arm. Sometimes she turned her
head slightly and the dark hood’s edge revealed eyes the color of a
brightening sky; whenever their eyes met they laughed a little without
speaking, a laugh of pure delight. She had thrust her hands deep into the
pockets of her cloak with the simple gesture of a farm girl afraid of
frostbite. “But she’s not a country girl,” Grange decided, his heart leaping,
“and she’s not really a girl at all. How old is she? Where is she going?”
Merely walking beside her was so delightful he dared not question her: he
was afraid of breaking the spell.
“I was waiting for you back there on the hill. You didn’t walk fast then!”
she said suddenly, tossing her offended head and at the same time glancing
at him obliquely. There was a kind of conscious mockery in her voice that
exposed Grange’s stratagem. The tone of voice indicated that she hadn’t
been deceived about such things for a long time. She was quite aware how
attractive she was.
“I wanted an escort,” she added quickly, apparently repeating a lesson not
quite understood. “Sunday nights, there are often soldiers on the road. They
say they misbehave themselves,” she added, gravely nodding her head again
—but he felt that she wasn’t very frightened.
“And you weren’t afraid of me?”
“Oh, I know you!”
She skipped ahead down the road: life seemed released in this graceful
body like a colt in a meadow.
“. . . I’ve seen you from my house. Every day you come to Les Platanes
for coffee. . . . It’s ostentatious!” she added, emphasizing the word with a
meaningful look, as if she had just learned it—but again the chin held up
her mouth to him and her eyes danced, while her neck curved in a way
Grange found disturbing. At each word, at each movement of her head and
shoulders, his notion of her changed decisively.
They walked on again in silence for a moment. The rain was not so heavy
now, but fell straight down, good for several hours. The wind had dropped

and the light was beginning to fade: the mist-choked woods around them
dripped heavily.
“And you’re—you’re vacationing here?” Grange asked suddenly, quite
Machiavellian. Yes, that was it—she must be a schoolgirl. And he
remembered she had said “your woods.”
“Oh no! . . . I’m a widow!” she said after a moment, in a reasonable little
voice that was quite sure of itself. “I have a family ration book!” she
continued with childish glee; rummaging in the inside pocket of her cape,
she pulled out a yellowish booklet with an official seal and dog-eared
pages. Grange, startled, blinked for a moment: every second he felt a new
gust of wind take his breath away.
“It’s very sad!” she concluded, nodding with comic gravity, like a little
girl playing “visits.” And then, standing in the rain in the middle of the
road, they both burst into helpless laughter.
Through her disconnected sentences, Grange began to see her situation a
little less fancifully. Early in the year she had married a young doctor who,
probably dazzled by her beauty, had carried her off from her classrooms
without a moment’s hesitation: two months later he had left her a widow. At
least that must be what her sudden confidences meant him to infer, for in
her account the doctor appeared only as “Jacquot,” which seemed to be a
sufficient identification for him. After his death, her father—who passed in
her remarks for a remote and rather absent-minded providence—had rented
a house for her at Les Falizes. “Jacquot,” before abandoning her so
suddenly, had been worried about her because of a shadow on one lung,
which seemed to have assumed for her afterwards the purely poetic
significance of a deathbed wish rather than a disease. She had come up here
to cure herself, or rather to obey his last request, in the forest, where the war
had found her like a bird on a branch. She had stayed on.
“It’s good for you!” she declared, energetically shaking her head, which
looked quite tiny inside the hood.
Grange listened to her, but such details remained peculiarly vague for
him. The words “father” and “husband” had no hold over her; they rested
on her for a moment like a garment put on and taken off, but did not involve
her. Wherever she was, you felt, she was complete. How dense, how
concrete the present became, in her shadow. With what force of conviction,
with what energy she was here! She had taken his arm to cross a puddle and
kept it now; he felt the grip of her light fingers through his coat; her skin

glistening in the rain, her step firm, she was anything but unsubstantial;
suddenly she leaned against him, as round and perfect as a pebble on the
road.
“You must take me home,” she said, when they reached the path. “It’s
gallant. Julia will make us tea (more riddles, Grange thought, vexed by the
appearance of another character on the scene). I’m always so frightened in
the big oaks!”
When they took the narrow path to Les Falizes, night suddenly seemed to
fall with the shadow of the great trees. The rain had stopped for a moment:
turning to look down the road toward the Meuse where the sky was
clearing, they saw a streak of dull red disappearing on the horizon, the same
western glow that fades on snowy nights. Here the path entered a grove of
high trees; the night’s chill fell on their shoulders from a thick dome of wet
branches. Grange noticed she was shivering and pressed his arm around her
without speaking: suddenly his gaiety vanished and he was overcome by a
grave, tender pity: it was dark now, and here was this defenseless girl beside
him, lost in the war’s forest: he wanted to speak her name.
“My name is Mona,” she said, her voice a little hoarse. He saw her head
bending and suddenly felt her lips on the back of his hand. “I like you,” she
added suddenly, with a rather ambiguous gentleness, and once again Grange
felt disturbed, uncertain. She was spontaneous, but she was not clear: like
spring freshets full of earth and leaves. Her words were a child’s, but their
boldness was not at all naïve; there, suddenly, on his hand, was a fleshy
mouth with lips that already knew how to find what they wanted.
When they came out of the woods, night had already extinguished the
village in the clearing; only one square of light shone from the open door of
Les Platanes onto the little terrace, disengaging the low branches of the
chestnut tree from the darkness; then, faintly at first, the cluster of low
cottages appeared around them in the grass, their roofs barely showing
above the garden fences. Grange had never come to Les Falizes at night:
here, they were suddenly very far away; lying at full length upon the
ground, a forgotten life paused in the clearing and drew its quiet breath,
immersed up to its nostrils in the odor of plants, the creeping emanations of
wet earth. Mona released his arm, and, running ahead on the path, began to
shout toward one of the dark houses at the top of her lungs, using her hands
as a megaphone.

“Julia! Tea! Bring tea, my love, lots of tea, darling! We have
company. . . . An officer. A handsome officer! . . .” A few seconds later a
little bell rang wildly behind the hedge, a gate creaked, doors slammed,
rousing the clearing’s echoes with a housewifely din.
The rather large room Grange stepped into gave an impression of
comfortable warmth and almost of luxury, surprising in this forgotten
village after the muddy billets of the Meuse. To judge from the heavy
rafters, the great, rough chimney with its slate hearthstone, the peasant-style
double door with its leaves opening one above the other and its wrought-
iron bolts and latches, this was an old farm that had been remodeled for
summer visitors or for the boar hunters who came up here in the fall. The
floor was covered with a thick carpet; the light from a raffia-shaded lamp
and the bramble fire crackling on the hearth drew several pieces of heavily-
waxed, pot-bellied country furniture out of the shadows. In one corner he
could see a day bed, and above it shelves stuffed with books; in the middle
of the room stood a low Moroccan table made out of a great embossed brass
tray. It was evident that the taste in charge of this refurnishing was strict in
its own way, even severe; yet over these massive pieces, this foursquare
arrangement, was cast the charming disorder of a nursery. Records in torn
covers and open books lay piled on the carpet, glass marbles rolled behind
the armchair cushions, salacious post cards were thumbtacked to the walls
with pictures of actors and newspaper clippings. On a cord stretched from
the cupboard keyhole to the window latch hung various articles of feminine
underwear—a heavy stable lantern was suspended over the bed by a
complicated system of string and clothespins. Between the two wrought-
iron brackets in the corner opposite the bed was slung a hammock, in which
lay a litter of fashion magazines, a harmonica, a pair of read leather
slippers, nail scissors, a fan, and a huge, carved Spanish tortoise-shell
comb. Above this gypsy-camp disorder floated a faint stimulating odor, a
morning scent—more distinctly than on the road, Grange smelled the forest
around him here.
As soon as they were inside, Mona had wriggled out of her cloak, which
flew across the room and landed on the clothesline. A flood of wheat-
colored hair fell down her shoulders, reaching to the small of her back.
Beneath her cloak she was wearing a blue, ink-stained blouse and a skirt.
Her neck, once she had let down the burden of her hair, assumed a more
languid bend, and when she shifted her shoulders a little to caress them with

this heavy curtain of hair, she was entirely a woman again, as warm as an
unmade bed.
“Come and warm yourself,” she said, taking his hand and drawing him
before the crackling thorns with boyish brusqueness, but the “tu” did not
surprise Grange at all: it was obvious that in her speech “vous” was more
unaccustomed and strained. “Say hello to Julia—she takes care of me,” and,
turning around, he discovered a pair of inquisitive, circumspect eyes staring
at him behind the tea tray, a maid as childish-looking as Mona, whose
manners she evidently imitated, save that she wore her hair short and curly
and used lipstick. Tied around her waist was a white lace apron so small
that it seemed purely emblematic, but in Julia, who had only the natural
beauty of her youth, the somewhat disturbing quality of Mona’s looks
turned to downright suggestiveness: despite the innocence of her eyes,
Julia’s mascara and lipstick, her small, bold breasts, and the tiny excuse for
an apron gave her the air of a soubrette in a magazine for men.
“Let me fix your hair, dear,” Mona said, handing Grange her cup,
throwing her arm around Julia’s neck, and pulling her in front of the mirror.
Her mouth full of hairpins, she rummaged among Julia’s curls, the girl
laughing beneath her tickling fingers and swaying her hips a little as she
glanced over her shoulder at Grange. Amid too-shrill laughter, a sudden red
flare from the hearth revealed two laughing witches somehow at liberty in
the chaotic household of a sorcerer’s apprentice.
When Julia had disappeared with the tea tray, there were several
moments’ silence. Outside the half-open window, behind the closed shutters
with their heart-shaped perforations, Grange heard the forest dripping, and
sometimes, quite close, the creak of branches rising again after the
downpour. Mona sat on the edge of the divan, heaving a little sigh of
fatigue, and then, with that thrust of her chin already familiar, once again
threw back her hair and lifted her eyes and her mouth to Grange, with the
movement of a plant turning to the sun.
“Take off my boots for me,” she said in a low, almost hoarse voice. “My
feet are so cold—they’re all wet.”
Under her rubber boots, each with a puddle of water inside, she wore
heavy men’s wool socks, now completely soaked. Grange slipped them off.
His eyes were smarting, a painful tenderness filled his throat, and he
realized he was clenching his teeth to keep them from chattering. He
touched the wet toes curling under with cold, then the smooth sole: a few

shreds of wool had caught at the edge of the slightly bluish toenails;
suddenly an overwhelming sense of pity flooded through him: he pressed
his mouth against the icy toes until he felt the wool against his teeth.
Suddenly Mona wrenched her body backward with the furious thrust of a
trapped animal, and, throwing herself flat on the day bed, pulled him
against her with both hands; he felt his mouth upon hers, and her entire
woman’s body against him, heavy and full, open as the furrowed earth. In a
matter of seconds she was naked, her clothes torn off by a violent storm that
pasted them against the furniture like washing blown into a thorn bush, but
at the cyclone’s center was this mouth that clung to his own so frankly, so
greedily; he discovered he was within her without knowing when it had
happened. “You’re a paradise!” he gasped with a kind of calm stupefaction;
and he was astonished at his own words. When her finger tips had groped
toward the lamp and put it out, the room seemed plunged in a pool of dim
water; only the transom over the door and the heart-shaped holes in the
shutters made pale spots in the darkness; the woods had stopped dripping,
the moon must have risen over the forest; he took her again, gently, and
from the soles of her feet to the roots of her hair she trembled—not
feverishly, but almost solemnly, like a young tree answering the wind with
all its leaves. He felt neither strain nor anxiety: as if a river murmured in the
shade of trees, at noon. “Like a fish in its stream,” he thought. “I’ve found
my element; it’s easy, I can always be happy here.” From time to time, he
took between his lips first one and then the other nipple of her breasts,
which slipped a little to each side of her chest: he felt the long nocturnal
thrust from deep within her that raised them again his lips.
“How good you are!” he told her in that undeceitful language he was
beginning to discover, in which “good” no longer had any other meaning in
the mind but ‘good to take.’
“I have seduced you!” she whispered in a tiny, complacent voice, taking
his head between her hands and pulling it a little away from hers to look at
him with both eyes; then she pushed her headstrong mouth against his once
more, and went on browsing. . . .
He walked back to the blockhouse in a cloud; when he wakened the next
morning, bright sunshine was already moving across the room; even in his
sleep he had heard the tiny, clear voice, already familiar as the fountain
heard all night in the garden, parleying under his window with Olivon; he

jumped out of bed and ran to the window, looking down at the blue hood
planted there beneath his shutters as matter-of-fact as any mushroom.
“How wonderful!” he thought, blinking in the raw light—“it’s starting
again!” A moment afterwards, she was in his room: already the chin was
lifting her fresh wet face to him; he looked at her, amazed, incredulous, as if
she had come down the chimney.
OceanofPDF.com

THE cavalry’s tanks and units of the mounted dragoons were maneuvering
along the road. These were small units, for there was not enough room to
spread out between the Meuse and the frontier, and the armored formations
—if the rumors were to be believed—were being kept quite far behind the
lines, in the Champagne camps; but the Meuse cavalry, in any case, was to
operate in the Ardennes, strung out along these threadlike forest roads
which the service paths connected so fragmentarily: apparently the essence
of these exercises that sometimes awakened Les Falizes with the sudden
roar of motors was to set the comb’s teeth along the same line. On these
days, when Olivon knocked early at Grange’s door (“The Tour de France
has started, mon yeutenant”), the men left their hermitage and in fine
weather sat for hours beside the road, like woodsmen of a manorial forest
watching the great hunt processions pass; furthermore, the cavalrymen they
chatted with during the halts, and who traveled far and fast in their cars,
constituted almost a port of call: they brought news of friends who had
vanished into the regular army corps beyond the Meuse, a wind from
abroad, a further echo of the great world. Grange liked the cavalrymen:
officers and soldiers alike seemed younger to him than the worn reservists
he encountered at Moriarmé: an eagerness circulated among them, like the
atmosphere that fills a stadium, a kind of swaggering that was not
disagreeable—there was also a certain consolation, which he did not try to
explain too clearly to himself, in seeing troops and materiel pass in good
condition, destined to be engaged far ahead of them the day the Germans
attacked. The automatic machine guns, the half-tracks, the dragoons’ cars,
paraded up the long slope toward Belgium with the thunder of great herds
of cattle, the sound of the caterpillar treads on the rough gravel almost
drowning out the whine of the motors in low gear. Sometimes Grange
would close his eyes and discover, astonished, how the war, even in its most
somnolent moments, roused the ear so much more intimately than the eye
by this giant harrow’s clatter passing over the broken earth. He was struck
too by the forest’s facile adaptation to these fierce and arrogant cavalcades.

The long perspectives of its roads, the tunnels running for miles through the
trees toward a mysterious disc of daylight at the horizon, were not made for
the colorless lives of woodcutters and charcoal burners who had vegetated
here waiting for the curtain to rise. The forest breathed, more ample now,
awakened, alert, its remotest hiding places suddenly stirred by the
enigmatic signs of time’s reversion—an age of great hunts, of proud
cavalcades—as if the old Merovingian lair were quickened by a forgotten
scent in the air that made it live again.
Grange and Olivon were sitting not far from the road on empty gasoline
tins, watching the armored units pass. They were not quite interested—the
spectacle was hardly a new one—but they were not quite bored. Grange
thought of the concierges straddling their kitchen chairs on summer
evenings beside the boulevard traffic: in their way, Olivon and he were also
escaping their airless porter’s lodge: a free wind from far away passed over
the road with these fast-moving troops.
Grange was fascinated by the tanks: he wondered what new kind of soul
the lurching inhabitants of these heavy machines might unexpectedly
develop: a fellow officer had spoken to him once of the strange, irrational
security you felt, suddenly, just rolling along inside that way, your helmet
lining pressed up against the armor plate in that colossal racket. Officers
constantly doubled the column in their command cars along the road’s
shoulders; the convoy flowed on as far as the eye could reach in a grinding
of gears, enveloped by a heavy cocoon of gray smoke that hung above the
road, powdering every twig with a thick layer of grayish-brown flour that
resembled the dust on a limekiln road. The machinery slid over the gravel
like a river in spate, very dirty and very gray, with bottlenecks and eddies, a
clatter of stones and a lashing of branches, almost as if it were a
phenomenon of nature: Grange felt that the war had installed its furniture in
the landscape with the—exhausting—casualness of those overprovided
tenants who never see the end of the trunks they are expecting.
“It’s just the same,” Olivon remarked, shrugging his shoulders when he
had watched the clattering procession for a long time without saying a word
—“they don’t have it any easier in the cavalry. That’s no road to drag tanks
over.”
“There’s not much chance of doing them any harm.”
“Oh, that’s not it, mon yeutenant.” Olivon shrugged again. “It’s the
treads. They wear out. . . .”

Grange stared at him, nonplussed. Olivon always staggered him. “There’s
no doubt about it,” he thought, “you see everything in a war. Even soldiers
trying to economize.”
“See if you can find us something to drink,” he said. He sensed that
Olivon wanted to talk. It was one of those days when he made up the war,
as Grange said: the passing cavalry always suggested his own notions of
strategy. Grange handed him the key to the concrete block: they kept their
bottles cool in the escape tunnel. Once they had glasses in their hands, each
vehicle behind its dust cloud offered a salvo of heavy-handed jokes and
thirsty noises as it passed. When Olivon occasionally toasted the convoy,
holding the bottle at arm’s length, the cries redoubled, as when Punch lifts
the curtain.
“They’re not thirsty,” Grange decided grudgingly. “They’re saluting a
fetish.”
“They’ll do anything for it, mon yeutenant.” Olivon shook his head with
an aggrieved expression. “In this army, all they care about is drinking.”
“What’s the matter, Olivon?”
“Some days . . .” He shrugged his shoulders. “I’m not saying we don’t
have it easy. Sometimes I’d almost . . .” He shook the bottle over the gravel
with an air of pretended indifference. “They talk big in the cavalry. They
say if there’s a heavy attack, they’re supposed to fall back to Liège. It takes
them four hours.”
“Maybe.”
Grange liked to discourage curiosity, his own first of all. Instinctively, he
reacted to all war news—whatever snatches of information managed to
reach him, rumors about the turn the campaign might take one day or the
next—the way skin tautens and shrinks before a needle’s point. These
provinces of the phony war were habitable, even comfortable, provided you
lived in them as if the air’s oxygen content were lowered, as if the light had
imperceptibly dimmed: it was a world where there was no longer any good
news: you survived by ignoring all extremities, concealed by guilty
stratagems that shifted with every wind, from minute to minute, at the
thought of what might happen; a world, in fact, of diseases that were
painless but annoyingly prone to take a turn for the worse—a world of
prognosis reserved.
“There are farms, down at Les Falizes; the mayor went round there the
day before yesterday. Told them to send their kids inland,” Olivon

continued. He always managed not to look at Grange, fixing his eyes on the
road where the wheels were churning up the gravel as fast as they could go.
“There’s been no evacuation order.”
“No? . . .” Olivon weighed the news gravely, but did not seem completely
reassured. “Even so, someone big went through Moriarmé yesterday.
Hervouët heard about it at the yard.”
“Someone big?”
“Yes, big: generals,” Olivon said, with a bored grimace. “For inspection.
Even went up to the border. Around the blockhouse at Les Buttés.”
Grange was always surprised by this subtle network of intelligence that
circulated among the men, carefully short-circuiting the officers as if they
were settlers isolated among native hordes.
“Then we won’t have them here, at least.”
“That’s for sure!” This time Olivon turned to Grange with a relieved,
momentary smile. “All the same,” he resumed, gloomy again, “it’s a bad
sign. They’ve been putting the heavy stuff behind the Meuse for eight days.
It might be for this week. . . .”
“What do you mean ‘it’?”
“Oh, well, mon yeutenant .  .  .” Olivon turned his head away with an
embarrassment that was almost scandalized .  .  . “The big push, you
know. . . .”
“And the sun is unmentioned, but his power is among us,” Grange
thought. A prickling sensation ran between his neck and his shirt collar. His
mind was so constituted that a logical idea of his own rarely unsettled it, but
someone else’s premonition penetrated there with almost no resistance:
what had merely irritated him coming from Varin now attacked his nerves
in a subtler fashion: it was like the smell of lightning in the air, the cattle’s
contagious fear before the storm.
“The Germans aren’t crazy,” he said, shrugging his shoulders. “In
November! Once it’s snowed, the roads around here . . .”
He prodded unenthusiastically with the end of his switch at the litter of
dead leaves the wind had heaped beside the road. They fluttered a moment
in the eddying wake of the tanks, already dry and gray. On each side of the
road, between the naked branches, a paler sky now appeared over the
diminished forest. Far away, against the shaggy surface of the trees, a
slender coil of dust rose slowly above the branches: the cavalry was
maneuvering on the road to Les Houches as well. The war was settling in,

not steadily or fast, but by sudden, almost imperceptible touches taking
possession of the earth, like a gray season: when they stopped speaking,
they could hear nothing but the hum of motors and, from the valley, the
distant whine of a training plane gently poised above the mist of the Meuse.
The day was clear, but already cold: sounds carried very far.
“The Germans are clever, mon yeutenant.” Olivon tossed his head with
the stubborn, sullen look of a man who knows what he knows. “They have
their tricks!”
They finished the bottle without much more talk. The tanks were now
passing at longer intervals; the silence of the dim winter twilight fell on the
forest again. As they stood up to return to the blockhouse, a motor behind
them coughed and came to a stop: a light machine-gun tank pulled over to
the side of the road, almost beside them, its artillery-gray outlines massive
in the failing light. The driver and the officer in command jumped out, and,
after poking around in the motor and gauging the gas supply, headed toward
Grange, who had stopped to watch them under cover of the trees.
“We’re out of gas,” the sublieutenant said. “Is there a telephone around
here we can use? I don’t think anyone else will be coming this way,” he
added, making a face as he glanced behind him down the empty road.
There was no telephone line to Les Falizes. Grange sent Gourcuff, just
returned, by bicycle to Moriarmé. The repair truck would not be up before
two o’clock. Grange invited the stranded crew in and brought out a new
bottle. In this army thirty years behind the times, motorization revived a
whole forgotten hierarchy. With their diving helmets, their big goggles,
their grease-stained monkey-suits, the cavalrymen somehow impressed
Grange; he felt like a peasant before these turn-of-the-century chauffeurs
who had stopped their thundering chariots at his roadside cottage for a
drink.
“Not a bad little bungalow you’ve got here,” the lieutenant remarked,
whistling admiringly when they had climbed up the staircase. “And what do
you do down there—raise mushrooms?”
The cavalrymen stared around the room and looked out the windows
walled in by branches with a somewhat baffled expression.
Grange explained. The mystery of the blockhouses was an open secret,
but the apathy of this army asleep on its feet somehow shielded the fact of
their existence nevertheless: he knew that behind the Meuse no one, or

almost no one, had heard of them. When he was through, there was a
moment of silence in the room.
“Not bad, not bad at all,” the lieutenant said rather coldly, obviously
looking for something to say. He drew near the window and began to talk
about hunting: the week before, at Les Houches, a man in his company had
shot a boar that was about to charge his tank.
“I only hope you won’t have bigger game to shoot at,” Grange remarked
politely.
They exchanged a few commonplaces, emptying the bottle. Grange felt
uncomfortable; the lieutenant remained standing, and his eyes slipped
toward the windows: a sickroom visitor suddenly tormented by his desire to
escape to the fresh air outside. It had grown quite dark now.
“Why don’t you show me the block,” the lieutenant said suddenly, in a
tone that seemed to ask for a moment of confidential conversation.
The steps were wet and slippery: the drizzle had begun at nightfall. The
flashlights made the blockhouse look still less appealing than by day. A
cavelike suppuration trickled down the walls in great shiny sheets:
occasionally in the humid darkness their boots cracked open the shell of one
of the wood-snails that had crawled in through the embrasures. From the
forest rose a heavy, viscous odor that stuck in Grange’s throat—the moldy
smell of walled-up cellars and mushroom beds.
“Quite a den you’ve got down here!” the lieutenant said, grimacing. He
shuddered in the stagnant chill of the place and sniffed the exhausted air.
His hand slid along the cannon’s slender barrel and lifted the canvas hood
off the breech. “It’s like a mausoleum, isn’t it? I hope the joke isn’t too
close for comfort,” he said, his smile a trifle embarrassed.
“You get used to it,” Grange said dryly, shrugging his shoulders. He no
longer felt in a very good humor and was beginning to regret having invited
the cavalrymen. “In your tanks, when the oil starts getting hot . . .”
“Yes, of course, it all depends on what you’re used to,” the lieutenant
interrupted, his tone conciliatory. He glanced with interest at the embrasure.
All the irony in his face was concentrated in the nostrils and the upper lip,
which trembled slightly but continuously, like a rabbit’s nose: this constant,
creaturely sniffing irritated Grange: it was as if the man had scented a
suspicion on the heavy air, something less material than an odor. From time
to time the lieutenant glanced sidelong at Grange with a friendly wink that
the place made vaguely sinister.

“What’s that?” he asked, pointing to the tunnel hatchway.
Grange raised it: his flashlight revealed the first steps descending into the
darkness; a faint smell of roots and wet earth rose from the opening.
“And you expect to stop the panzers like this?” the lieutenant resumed,
thrusting his hands into his pockets and puffing out his cheeks, as if he
found the notion prodigiously funny.
“I don’t see how the tanks would get through the woods,” Grange said,
raising a hostile eyebrow. “And this will do some damage, anyway.” He
indicated the cannon breech with the tip of his boot.
“You won’t have only tanks.”
The lieutenant’s voice had become crisp and precise, curiously impartial.
“You can keep your stovepipe and all that goes with it. Along with the
first armored units you’ll have engineers and motorized sections right away
—and tough ones. And those bastards won’t come by the road, either:
they’ll go around. They’ll come and knock very politely at your bank-vault
door, but after a couple of hand grenades you can say good night.”
He glanced up at the ceiling again and tapped the wall with his fingernail,
whistling ominously.
“We’ll have to put mines around the blockhouse. And besides, what can I
do about it?” Grange asked, shrugging his shoulders.
“Are you a reservist?”
Grange nodded.
“There’s only one thing for you to do, my friend. . . .” He rested his hand
lightly on Grange’s shoulder and stared into his eyes, no longer joking.
“Some good advice in return for your good wine: if I were you I’d arrange
to get a transfer. You know what I’d call this little place they’ve rented for
you out here in the woods? Don’t let it upset you, but I’d call it a real
hellhole. You’ll be caught in here like a rat in a trap.”
There was a moment of silence.
“I’m only telling you what I think.” He smiled a little, almost
courteously. “After all, you’re out in the open here. You can always pray the
good Lord they won’t come.”
A horn blew noisily on the road and they climbed out of the block. The
repair truck had arrived; the cavalrymen said good-bye.
“I’ll burn some sulphur in the block,” Grange thought, exasperated.
Fortunately no one else had been there. He felt deceived rather than in

danger, like a man who discovers he has just lent all his money to a
swindler.
OceanofPDF.com

THE autumn lingered on the heights of Les Falizes much longer than
Grange had expected; after days of rain that turned the underbrush to jelly
and stuck rafts of rotten leaves to their shoes, suddenly a dry, clear east
wind swept the sky and hardened the roads, crackling the pin-oak leaves
that still hung from the branches; it was as if a brisk and biting St. Martin’s
summer, already hemstitched with frost, had ventured into the very heart of
December.
When Grange came downstairs to smoke his first cigarette outside after
the morning coffee, there was a pearl of white frost on each blade of grass,
but the branches were already dripping heavily onto the roadside shoulders.
Above the forest, which looked, because of its oaks, as if it were still in
leaf, a cold glassy sky hardened under the freshening wind. Grange liked
this frost that made the roads firm again and carried all the way up to the
blockhouse the whine of the little sawmill at Les Falizes and the crack of
trees falling beneath the ax: on the road, where his steel-soled boots struck
sparks from the gravel, the day smelled of fresh wood and flint—for a few
minutes, he unconsciously breathed the morning’s penetrating air with that
almost ecstatic gaiety of wartime wakenings, the result of a renewed victory
over fatigue, the tonic cold of the outdoors, the liberty of roads passable
again. All the signs of approaching winter delighted him; he loved this
sheltered season of deep sleep and short days: this was time embezzled with
a bad conscience, but dearer than any other, like the magical vacations fire
or epidemic grants to schoolboys.
On his way to Les Falizes now, Grange left the road where the clearing
began and took a dirt path that ran between the forest and the thorn hedges
of the little gardens: nothing pleased him more, when he had the whole day
free, than to waken Mona, arriving in her house with the scent of the dewy
morning still upon him. When he started very early, a pool of fog still
lingered on the meadows, out of which emerged only the houses
themselves, the hedge tops, and the clumps of the round apple trees. A
thread of smoke already rose from the chimneys; sometimes a woman,

wading through the fog along some invisible path, was hanging out her
wash between the gardens at this first daylight hour. Grange had always
associated happiness with an image of garden paths, and the war made it
only all the more vivid: this night-washed alley, choked with fresh growth
and edible abundance, now led to Mona too; he approached the clearing as
if it were one of the Islands of the Blessed.
Mona’s door was never locked—not so her lover could enter her house
without wakening her, but because she belonged to that race of nomads
tortured by the sound of a key in a lock: wherever she was, she always
pitched her tent in the open air. When Grange came in, the square of grayish
light from the open door fell on the brass table and the contents of her
pockets which she had emptied there before going to bed: a jumble of keys,
mint pastilles covered with lint, an agate marble, a tiny flask of perfume, a
gnawed pencil stub, and seven or eight one-franc pieces. The rest of the
room was very dim. Grange did not open the shutters right away, but
noiselessly sat down near the bed, which emerged from the shadow, huge
and dim, lit from below by the coals in the fireplace and the vague
reflections from the brass andirons. When Mona awakened (she could also
pass instantly from light to shadow, or from speech to sleep, falling asleep
in the middle of a sentence, like a very young child), her wild caresses, her
blows and bites, made Grange feel as though he were under an April
shower; he was dispossessed of himself for the day; but this moment when
he watched her still sleeping was more serious: sitting beside her, he had the
feeling he was protecting her. The room grew chilly despite the dying fire;
through the ill-fitting shutters filtered a gray dawn; for a moment he felt
drawn into the heart of an extinguished world, ravaged by opposing stars,
entirely controlled by some dark design: he glanced around him as if to look
for the mortal wound that made the morning so pale, draining this dim
chamber to the point of death. “Don’t let her die,” he murmured
superstitiously, and the word wakened a vague echo in the shuttered room:
the world had made its appeal and lost: as if, during its sleep, a listening ear
had turned away.
Mona was lying flat on her belly, the covers heaped around her, her arms
stretched out at full length, hands thrust beneath the pillow and gripping the
bed on both sides; leaning over her, Grange smiled unconsciously, always
amazed that even in its sleep this little body should cling so greedily to
what it had already recognized as its need and comfort. Often she fell asleep

naked; pulling up the sheet to cover her shoulders, Grange realized that this
sudden, annihilating, childlike sleep of hers that astonished him so had
mingled the recollection of a sweet subjection with the last moment of her
exhaustion: it was as if a certain haste had borne her toward him across the
long winter night, and something stirred within him at the thought: he
quickly undressed without making a sound, and lay down beside her.
Sometimes he slipped one arm beneath her, and curving the other around
the pit of her belly, held her for a moment sleeping in his arms, wrapped in
her roll of blankets: for moments at a time, feeling the warmth of his full
hands rise to his shoulders along his tingling arms, he watched her,
marveling and intimidated, as if she were some baby kidnapped in its
swaddling clothes. He pressed his mouth against her shoulder: she wakened
in a second, clutched him with both hands, and suddenly offered her
insistent forehead to his lips: she was a rain of tireless kisses, a storm of
tender gaiety, prodigal caresses.
He leaped naked from the bed to open the shutters on a morning that had
cleared now, where the fog was already rising off the garden, and a great
sheet of sunshine fell upon the sheets; drained, their bodies did not separate:
for hours together, drenched in the yellow sun that stretched a shadowy
network of branches across the ceiling she lived and grew against him like a
tree espaliered on a wall. A sly finger scratched at the door, and without
waiting for a reply Julia appeared with the steaming breakfast tray. Grange
hurriedly pulled up the sheet but Mona remained naked, sitting up in the
tangled bed, and Julia, leaning over to set down the tray, gave a little throaty
giggle at the sight of those delicate breasts and that young belly emerging
from the foam of sheets as from the sea. “Her mistress,” he thought
distractedly, and the word suddenly dissolved all his feelings into a wild
confusion: the bold eyes and the smile on this other young and knowing
mouth gave Mona’s kisses a kind of frenzy, a certain disorder . . . Nothing
puzzled him more than his hunger for her, in which there was never satiety,
nor weariness, and which her first appearance, disturbing, ironic, so
meagerly sensual, had utterly belied: he was obsessed with the idea that she
had captured him, thrown him on her bed with this wild haste which left
him breathless still; he read in it the signs of a genius for passion.
“In love,” he told her, “you use Napoleon’s tactics: you join battle, and
see what happens afterwards.” With one finger he played with the little gold
cross she wore around her neck; he remembered how she said her prayers

before going to sleep, like a good convent girl, and made Julia read aloud
passages from the Golden Legend which she herself knew by heart. The
first time he slept with her, while they were resting in the darkness, she had
begun telling him quite spontaneously, with a kind of childish grace, the
story of Saint Benedict and his sister Scholastica, who rejoiced because a
storm had kept her brother near her and allowed her to profit by his
conversation and his lessons. Outside, the heavy rain of the Ardennes
battered the forest for miles and miles. It was all so unexpected, yet so
charming. The extraordinarily childish tone was that of schoolgirls huddling
together in some shelter against the downpour, telling each other stories
until the storm had passed.
“But how did you know?” he asked sometimes with entranced perplexity,
pressing her tiny head with its blue eyes and blond hair against his shoulder.
“You’re not stupid,” she answered, making her wise matron’s face. She
leaned back on one elbow and stared at him closely, shrewdly, putting a
finger on his lips. “You’re not stupid—but you’re a little simple.”
Even when they ate their lunch, she wound her legs in his, nibbled at his
hand that stirred the coffee or reached for the sugar. “You’re like a parrot,”
he told her, laughing and plunging his hand into the long mane that flowed
like water down her back—“always hanging on by its beak and one foot.”
Then the nibbling became a bite; he pressed her against him, his nails
digging into her flesh with a touch of madness that roused the taste for
blood within him—at the same time that he watched the yellow spot of
sunlight already sinking down the wall to the level of the bed. “So little
time,” he reminded himself with a kind of stupefaction—“I’ve so little
time.” He leaped out of the bed and hurriedly dressed: it was time for the
truck to be at Les Falizes. The war always plunged Mona into an
incredulous, indulgent astonishment.
“What can you do about it, chéri, in that house that’s so ugly?” she would
sometimes ask him while he was dressing. She watched him, her brows
furrowed over a difficult idea, lying across the bed with both elbows
propped on its edge, her chin deep in her hands, and suddenly these words
separated him from her, disengaged him from his moorings: he felt as if a
giant hull were floating beneath him, a vessel nothing could stop on its
aimless course, already washed beyond recovery by the rhythm of the sea’s
breathing.

Back at Les Falizes, the rest of Grange’s day loomed empty and exposed
before him; even when he had no rendezvous with Mona, he never quite
lost sight of the possibility that she might be there from one moment to the
next: either she hitched a ride in the truck down to Moriarmé, or she took a
walk in the woods with Julia—suddenly he would hear the light footsteps
rushing up the blockhouse stairs: it was as if the slack had gone out of his
life. Even her absence was easy for him to bear: he advanced into each of
his days as down those airy seaside avenues where at each corner one
unconsciously glances up to see if the vista still leads to the sea.
As well as supplies and mail, the truck also brought the newspapers from
Moriarmé: often on the afternoons when he was expecting Mona in the
blockhouse, Grange would sit at the window where he could lean out and
look down the path, eager to see her a long way off, and while he was
waiting he would examine the bundle of papers on his lap. His reasons for
this interest were uncertain, and the result of his reading was like a well-
mannered tedium; it was as if the dog days were being yawned away, the
summer’s orchestra relieved by an unexpected yet discreet entrance of the
brasses, combining a taste for Sporting Events with the last sighs of Advice
to the Lovelorn: a group commander drowned in Lorient harbor while
making a tour of inspection.——Until 38, a love story, after 38, a life of
glory: the heroic and legendary life of Kosciusko.——Why not play a few
bars of La Marseillaise after God Save the King, General Spears asks the
House of Commons. This sickroom gossip circled a void that became
almost dizzying: all at once a mysteriously allusive sentence gaping at the
end of a paragraph made him wonder if a page had been torn out.
Here and there the war sputtered and smoked like an imperfectly
extinguished forest fire; a breath of wind suddenly leaped over hundreds of
miles, spreading sparks into the remotest Karelian forests. What could the
war possibly be doing in Finland? Somewhere in the distance, under
another sky, the world was listlessly continuing on its way, perhaps, and the
reports of its progress did not seem very different from what they usually
were; it was surprising, in fact, that a war should be so inhabitable—its
gesticulation remained wordless, as if observed through plate glass, as if an
enormous bell jar had been lowered over the heart of Europe, over the
world’s heart; he felt himself trapped beneath this bell, the exhausted air
tight against his temples and his ears ringing.

From time to time Grange looked up from these papers heavy with
lacunae and stared into the forest: he remembered the yellowed papers of
1914 which as a child he loved poring over in the attic—all full of that
brutal, swaggering parade to the starting line, set off in front of an audience
stunned by the starter’s gun: how could this war infect the world with such
a sleeping sickness? From time to time a dry leaf let go its hold and slipped
noiselessly to the path, trivial in the cold, clear air, but what was coming
was not winter’s sleep but something more like the world that had collapsed
at the approach of the millennium, sick at heart and everywhere abandoning
its plows and harrows, waiting for signs. Not, Grange decided, that they
were expecting the horsemen of the Apocalypse this time; as a matter of
fact, they anticipated nothing at all, unless, already vaguely apprehended,
that final sensation of falling free that cuts through the stomach in bad
dreams and which, if you had tried to determine it more clearly—but you
didn’t really want to—might have been called the end of the reel: best, now,
was the drunken sleep on the brink; never before had France pulled the
sheet over her head with this feverish hand, this taste of nausea in her
mouth.
When he had finished reading the papers, Grange poured himself a little
coffee out of the pot on the stove and lit a cigarette. He did not settle down
to reading at once (he had brought in his gear, along with a few detective
novels—already devoured, but he reread them—a pocket Shakespeare,
Gide’s Journal which had just been published, and an English edition of
Swedenborg’s Memorabilia), but tried for a moment to conceive of the
coming war, that is, forced himself to construct a somewhat plausible image
of events which would involve the indefinite continuation of his
encampment in the forest. It was not so much the danger of a real war that
preoccupied him as it was movement: the worst disaster would be to have to
leave the blockhouse. But, on the whole, chances were reasonably in his
favor. The invasion of Belgium was unlikely: once was enough. Perhaps the
Germans would attack through Switzerland—or else directly invest the
Maginot Line: that would take a long time: a rather academic artillery duel,
something like the siege of Paris in 1870, when families in their Sunday
best would make a tour of the ramparts to collect shell splinters after Mass.
Or else the question would be settled by the aviators. Sometimes he
imagined two armies of sentinels indefinitely continuing their guard duty on
each side of a border grown into a jungle of briars: this was the idea that

pleased him the most; the recollection of The Cossacks provided a kind of
poetry: it would be a primitive life, long drinking bouts, the companionship
of forest vagabonds, nights in ambush among the wild beasts passing so
close you could reach out and touch them. A certain measure of normal
existence, in the long run, would not become impossible; but it would be
more dangerous, wider awake, and the sound of gunfire would not
necessarily mean someone hunting game. He would live here, with Mona.
“Yes, who knows?” he told himself, squinting a little against this surge of
blind joy he had never experienced before. It alarmed him—and he
hurriedly rapped his fingers on the raw wood table: several weeks ago he
had started becoming superstitious. Yet even this dream did not comfort
him long: it was the body’s pseudo-sleep when the rhythm of the night train
rocks it back and forth in its seat.
From his post at the window, he caught sight of Mona at the turn of the
path from Les Falizes, half a mile away—a tiny black speck that seemed to
hesitate a moment in the distance, then changed its course and glided
toward the blockhouse: he was certain it was Mona—there were people on
the road only at certain hours and Grange knew them all. Sometimes
another black speck, which was Julia, kept her company: from as far off as
possible he tried to make out which was Mona, and even before any detail
was discernible he recognized her by her freer, lighter step, her way of
slipping along the path like a boat surrendering itself to the current’s
pressure. On each side of the white road stretched the empty woods that
glowed now as far as the eye could reach with a tawny cast beneath the
huge sky: around him, he felt the world disturbed and dark, in the image of
this troubled forest, but before him lay that road: it seemed as if she were
coming to him by a road opened in the sea.
Nights in the forest were not always so calm now. Orders had come from
Moriarmé to check all clandestine crossings of the frontier between the
blockhouses; a series of night patrols was instituted, and the blockhouse at
Les Falizes was often alerted for this duty by the morning supply truck. All
the men had volunteered for these nocturnal excursions; they were pleased
that the service had become more active; too dead a calm was ominous, but
this night watch officially established them in an inoffensive war: it was
reassuring. Grange preferred taking Hervouët along because of his taciturn
disposition and his almost feline agility. They slipped out of the blockhouse
on a night so calm that as they walked down the road they heard a distant

church in the valley strike eleven, the notes rich and heavy despite the
distance, then, distinctly nearer, the slightly cracked chimes of a Belgian
steeple. They followed the road for half a mile; beyond a turn, the trees
suddenly clustered around and above the road, plunging it into a deep
hollow where an odor of moss and stagnant water floated on the darkness.
The outer rim of this shadowy thicket marked the frontier; they stopped
here to light a cigarette and smoke in silence for a moment at the brim of
sleeping Belgium, like strollers whose path ends at the cliff’s edge. The
grove was pitch dark—a few steps from Grange everything vanished into
the black underbrush which cast still thicker shadows; he noticed only the
glowing tip of a cigarette next to him, and heard the click of the cartridge
Hervouët was slipping into his pistol. Then the silence of the place became
almost magical. A strange feeling ran through him each time he lit a
cigarette in this forgotten wilderness; it was as if he were slipping his
moorings; he entered a world redeemed, rid of men, pressed against its
starry sky with that same dizzying swell of the empty sea. “I’m alone in the
world,” he told himself rapturously.
Sometimes the two men stood there for a long time, saying nothing.
Beyond the frontier the forest emitted a few vague noises—which they
unconsciously strained to hear—like the uninterpretable flotsam the sea
washes up on a beach and which the eye mechanically fixes on: this dimly
wakened border where the patrolled forests of the war harbored a fabulous,
enchanted silence that was somehow alive and alert fascinated Grange,
intrigued him. Hervouët threw away his cigarette and drank a few
mouthfuls from his canteen: they left the road and turned down a service
path that closely paralleled the frontier for some distance. From this
moment on, they ceased speaking entirely, advancing, hunched over, along
what seemed an improvised though already ancient trail carpeted with
rotten leaves that muffled their footsteps. When Grange pointed his
flashlight ahead of him and turned it on, the cone of light suddenly revealed
the low branches that wove themselves into a vault of slender twigs above
the path: they trudged on, as lost here as a flea in the roots of a fur pelt;
when Grange switched off the flashlight a long, faintly phosphorescent
streak appeared in the treetops overhead, where the darkness had been
thickest. As they advanced, the night changed: the midnight sluggishness
gradually mounted above the trees, and a lighter atmosphere infused the
underbrush with a vapory blue incense; the moon was rising and made the

land passable as far as the eye could reach, as gently as the sun, appearing
among clouds, dries the rainy roads. Behind him, Grange heard only
Hervouët’s footsteps, occasionally making the dry branches snap, and the
regular clicking of his bayonet sheath which resumed each time he released
it to drink out of his canteen. Shining his flashlight left toward the heart of
the forest, Grange could see the gleaming wires beaded with dew and the
stakes of the low network that ran along the frontier at ground level—
several pairs of eyes shone for a second, caught in the beam of light, and
they heard the rabbits’ tiny thunder rush across the leaves. To the right, his
eyes followed a long reach of the forest descending in ravines toward the
Meuse; a shy moon sailed high above the black woods; burdened by the
cold, circles of smoke from the charcoal burners’ fires floated in large gray
puddles that gently revolved over the trees, their edges rising with the slow,
circular motion of jellyfish. Grange watched, his forehead lined with
concentration and a mysterious expectancy. There was a powerful charm in
standing here, so long after midnight had sounded from the earth’s
churches, deep in this placeless gelatin masked by pools of fog and steeped
in the vague sweat of dreams, at the hour when the mist floated out of the
forest like spirits. Grange gestured to Hervouët and both men held their
breath for a moment, listening to the great respiration of the woods around
them that made a kind of low and intermittent music, the long, deep
murmur of an undertow that came from the groves of firs near Les
Fraitures; over this tidal undulation they could hear the crackle of branches
along some nocturnal creature’s course, the trickling of a spring, or
sometimes a dog’s high-pitched howl roused by the moon, such sounds
rising at one moment or another out of the smoking vat of the forest. As far
as the eye could reach a fine blue vapor floated over the forest—not the
dense fumes of sleep but rather a lucid, quickening exhalation that
disengaged the mind, making all the paths of insomnia dance before it. The
dry and sonorous night slept with its eyes wide open; the secretly wakened
earth was full of portents once again, as in the age when shields were hung
in the branches of oaks.
Behind the pine grove of Les Fraitures, they followed a ravine back to
the highway and sat down on the roadside grass, smoking in silence until
they heard footsteps on the asphalt beyond the bend: the patrol from the
blockhouse of Les Buttés. Grange’s mind felt marvelously clear; a marrow-
piercing cold rose from the earth in the small hours of the morning;

squatting on the grass in his overcoat, he concentrated entirely on the aroma
of the hot coffee Lieutenant Lavaud, a man of prudence, would pour him
out of his thermos. There was a certain fitness that the war should announce
itself this way, in a clash of raw sensations. Sometimes, when the patrol was
late, Grange dozed off a little despite his hunger, and almost at once began
dreaming where he crouched on the frozen grass. It was almost always a
dream of roads. He dreamed of tanks rolling toward the blockhouse down
the long forest road in front of the embrasure. He dreamed of what was to
happen.
When the night was clear and the roads dry, Grange left Hervouët where
the service path turned off under the great oaks and sent him back to the
blockhouse; he kept on straight ahead, taking a short cut through a grove of
young pines to Les Falizes: from this side, he reached the clearing through
cherry orchards and alfalfa beds where the stone rollers lying in the grass
raised their shafts to the moon. Grange jumped over the stiles and crossed
the gardens to the door of Mona’s little house; before opening it, he
wrapped his handkerchief around the old wrought-iron lock in order not to
waken her; even from the threshold, crouching deep in the shadows where
the moonlight struck steely reflections from the furniture, he could hear the
long, light breathing that rose to meet his own fatigue. The pot-bellied
wardrobes smelled of lavender; through the open door he could see the first
few pear trees that lined the alley, their branches stiff as corals in the
moonlight. He sat down beside Mona’s sleeping body and covered her
shoulders with the red patchwork quilt which had slipped to the floor: like a
sleeping kitten sharpening its claws on the rags in its basket, Mona could
sleep comfortably only after creating terrible carnage among the bedclothes.
He did not awaken her as she lay hidden by the darkness, submerged in a
mysterious, remote comfort; he did not even look at her. Pressed against her
hip, he heard only her long breathing, and through the open door the great
tidal murmur of the pines at Les Fraitures fading away in the distance. It
seemed as if his life were no longer divided, partitioned, as if everything
were of a piece because of one door left ajar that blurred the hours of sleep
with those of daylight and cast him upon Mona from the heart of the war’s
watchful night. He closed his eyes a second and listened in the darkness to
their mingled breathing, rising and falling against the long, low rustle of the
forest: it was like the sound of ripples deep in a cave, the backwash against
the clamor of the breakers; the same enormous impulse of the tide that

swept the earth raised them in its swell, bearing sleep and waking onward
together. Before leaving, Grange brushed his finger tips across the moist
hollow of Mona’s hand which lay open in her sleep, palm upward in the
darkness, seeking some blind acquiescence, an acknowledgment that left
him appeased.
Returning to the blockhouse along the road, he saw the spotlights above
the Meuse valley still bright against the first gleams of dawn: the work
continued by day as well as by night. The casements were further along
now. An advance unit of the Engineers had been encamped near Les Buttés,
and Moriarmé sent word that during the month following road blocks would
be installed and mine fields laid around the blockhouse, as provided for.
OceanofPDF.com

IT WAS toward the end of December that the first snow fell on the Ardennes.
When Grange awakened, a white and sourceless light oozed up from the
earth, blurring the shadow of the windowframes against the ceiling; but his
first impression was less that of unaccustomed brightness than of an
abnormal suspension of time itself: at first he thought his alarm clock had
stopped; the room, the whole house, seemed to be soaring down a long
landslide of silence—a delicious, downy, cloistral silence that would never
be broken. He got up, saw the forest white as far as the eye could reach, and
lay down again in his noiseless room with a joy so great it made him blink.
The silence around him was even subtler in this luxuriant light. Time came
to a stop: for the inhabitants of the Roof, this magical snow that closed the
roads opened the long vacation.
Communications with Moriarmé were soon severed almost entirely. The
wheezing supply truck, despite the chains on its tires, after floundering once
or twice in the drifts, rarely risked crossing the icy slopes of l’Eclaterie.
Every two days, Gourcuff, ballasted with a canteen of brandy and armed
with knapsacks, trudged down to the battalion headquarters: he came back
very late, very red, very drunk, his knapsacks bulging with mail, cans of
food, and bags of biscuits. The blockhouse crew, field glasses trained on his
premonitory zigzags in the failing light, encouraged him up the last few
hundred yards with an anticipatory concert of mugs and canteens clashed
together.
“Come on, Gourcuff, give it the gas!” Hervouët shouted, while the black
shape staggered through the snow, magically increasing its speed. In the
Meuse army, almost all the slang was motorized.
They hoisted him up the iron staircase into the common room, where
Olivon pushed him into a chair with its back to the glowing stove and
“defrosted” him with a mugful of the hot grog that now replaced the coffee
in the pot. A cloud of vapor rose from Gourcuff’s clothes while a pool
spread under his chair—then he sneezed with a kind of majesty, and a
rainbow of curious distillations volatilized in the room.

“Worse than a locomotive, with all that steam,” Olivon declared with an
admiring whistle, clapping him on the back. “But you’ve got to admit he
burns up a lot. . . .”
•
In his office in Moriarmé, the snow made Varin increasingly gloomy. The
first bad weather clogged the joints of this wheezing army, stalled the
rattletrap engines that were scarcely serviceable for summer maneuvers.
Over six inches of snow and construction, convoys, maneuvers, transport,
communications, target practice—all the daily grindings and gnashings of
machinery stopped as though bewitched: the roof garrison became a horde
stupefied by hibernation, little groups burrowing into the warm holes of
their stoves and igloos. The orders slept, unopened, on the captain’s desk.
After having asked without much conviction for “ski troops” and “high-
altitude materiel,” Varin threw up his arms and began talking with glum
distaste of “living off the country.” The captain’s tone comprised a whole
Retreat from Moscow. The men, divining their present freedom, were
ecstatic. They had not enjoyed the image of what lay before them, that last,
all too likely battle they advanced toward with all the slow enthusiasm of a
Percheron between its shafts: as soon as they felt the reins slacken, they too
thrust their noses into the roadside grass, looking for the ostrich’s sand-
buried dreams. And beneath this soft snow which smoothed the earth and
masked all roads, they nursed a vague illusion of making themselves
invisible, of giving fate the slip.
The snow conferred on this low and shaggy Ardennes forest a charm
which even the lofty mountain treetops or the Vosges firs do not possess for
all their ice candles. Across these short, stiff twigs, the white ropes of snow
hung unbroken for weeks at a time, welded to the bark by tiny wads of ice
that were the melted drops seized in their fall by the long night’s cold: for
whole days at a time, in air decanted by the freeze, the Roof covered itself
with dust-sheets, pale bundles, gossamers, and the long white lace of frosty
mornings. A violent blue sky glistened over this holiday landscape. The air
was piercing but almost warm; at noon, from each patch of sun that made
the snow sparkle, you could hear the slow gurgle rising from the thaw’s
entrails, but as soon as the short twilight reddened the horizon toward the
Meuse, the cold again brought a magical suspense to the Roof: the sealed

forest became a snare of silence, a winter garden whose barricades yielded
only to the comings and goings of ghosts. For the snow clung to the faintest
gleams of light, and even by night the uplands of the Meuse seemed alive;
often, now, behind the aureoles of the concrete mixers, the anti-aircraft
searchlights swept the forest sky beyond the frontier with their quadruple
bars of light, and a phosphorescence glowed and faded across the snow
between the coal-black trunks, like the sudden gentle flames that devour a
wad of cotton. These northern lights, this glory of glacial illumination
which explored the empty night and seemed to sharpen the cold, made place
and season alike look unfamiliar. Sometimes the beams crossing his
uncurtained window wakened Grange during the night, like the lighthouse
that had brushed across his panes on that Breton island where he had slept
so badly; he got up, leaned on the sill, and for a moment watched the
strange columns of light slowly, warily wheeling in the winter sky; then an
image from his childhood reading occurred to him; he remembered H. G.
Wells’ sick Martian giants screaming their incomprehensible woes across
the stupefied landscape.
But as soon as these signs had faded with the darkness from the sky, the
Roof returned to its rude activities. Before the sun was up, Grange heard
outside his window the crackling of a great fire of brambles Olivon lit
beneath the washtub to melt the morning ice; the men soon gathered around
its sudden heat; sometimes a woodcutter stopped on his way to work from
Les Falizes to warm his hands before the blaze. Grange liked hearing this
murmur beneath his window, when his house began to hum for the whole
day: ever since the snow, his relations with Moriarmé had become more and
more those of a vassal who has chosen to raise his drawbridge and keep his
distance. The blockhouse no longer lived on the valley: the cans of food and
the biscuits Gourcuff brought up from Moriarmé had accumulated in the
concrete block below, constituting a kind of private siege stock whose
arrangement Grange and Olivon went down to inspect from time to time.
“We’re pretty well fixed,” Olivon said, nodding at the heaped larder: and
his tone was that of a steward checking the storeroom of a ship caught in an
ice floe. There was a suggestion in it of the magical wish that they might be
forgotten here for a long time—forever.
Grange had arrived at Moriarmé with quite a lot of money in his wallet
which the blockhouse life and his accumulated pay had increased month by
month: Les Falizes replaced the Commissariat, though it had neither bakery

nor grocery; the farms, provisioned for the long plateau winter and still
baking their own bread, furnished all the food they needed, and there was
no lack of wine either. The money slipped happily between his fingers.
“The hell with saving,” he decided with a shrug of the shoulders. “We’ll see
later on. In the spring .  .  .” and against the back of his neck—half-
apprehension, half-excitement—he felt a faint prickle, like the roller-coaster
rider who sees, not far ahead, the curve of the big plunge approaching.
Never before had he felt his life so open and warm as it seemed this
winter on the Roof, free of ties, isolated from past and future alike by
crevasses as deep as those that separate the pages of a book. However
lightly he might have felt himself committed to his life, the war had severed
the few links he recognized: in 1914 for the last time, perhaps, men had left
home with the idea of returning for the harvest; in 1939 they had exchanged
their country dances for the movies, but it was without looking back that
they left, knowing in their heart of hearts they would see only a land the fire
had passed over. No sooner had they abandoned it than the life which still
enveloped them in all its warmth seemed tainted with a swift, an
irremediable aging—withered in the stalk, already too white for harvest.
Before him stretched this curtain—lowered still but stirred now by
mysterious currents, pierced by sudden beams, and he sensed the footlights
were about to come up. Until then, between the old life and whatever was
behind the curtain, the time to come was comforting. The earth had grown
buoyant again; once winter had come, the sick and the old, in the wake of
the evacuated rest home, had one after the other decamped from the forest
villages, disappearing behind the lines in the smoke of the wheezing little
Meuse trains: the Roof was rejuvenated, like a city after a siege during
which it has abandoned its useless mouths. However little martial spirit he
thought he possessed, Grange nevertheless sensed—obscurely, powerfully
—the war’s bitter, rousing spring in this brutal sweep of the broom that
cleared the earth of its offal: the air that bathed these outposts now was
livelier than a forecastle breeze.
The snow, cutting off the blockhouse from the Meuse, brought it closer to
Les Falizes. Now that the ancients of the tribe had left the plateau, which
the war had already emptied of its able-bodied men, only the freest, shrillest
feminine laughter sounded on the snowy slopes from morning to night, and
matters were arranged simply. The tastes of the blockhouse occupants
tended on the whole toward consistency and stability, and the Christmas

landscape, the long nights, the uncertainty of the time to come, as well as a
certain peasant seriousness of character apparent in both Olivon and
Hervouët, gave the men a kind of nostalgia for a woman by the fireside.
Olivon could generally be found at Les Platanes, where Gourcuff
occasionally helped him with the bottling, actually quite infrequent now
that Grange had become almost the only customer. When he came in for his
afternoon coffee, he often surprised Olivon sitting under the Byrrh calendar
and wearing a jute apron (the apron of the deceased, Grange reflected: the
café-owner was a rather heavy-set though still agreeably cheerful widow),
explaining the morning paper to Madame Tranet—an occupation of
considerable significance, since it was Olivon who decoded the second page
of the Communiqués de la Prefecture, which set subtle traps for winesellers
in these difficult times.
Hervouët replaced chasseur alpin in the house of a farm woman so pale
and so thin, so overwhelmed by her large family and hard times, that the
public opinion of Les Falizes had not taken the family’s new provider in
bad part, and Hervouët’s appearance at Les Mazures was regarded as the
mission of a heaven-sent paladin who consecrated himself to the protection
of widows and orphans.
Grange, whom this exemplary interim sometimes perplexed a little, grew
calm again at the thought that his orders—beyond the service itself—
prescribed after all the most generous use of the garrison for agricultural
work. Seen early in the morning chopping the day’s wood, breaking the ice
in the well and shoveling the snow away from the door long before the rest
of the household was up, his functions—rather serious and dignified ones
on the whole, marked with the character of necessity—so far outstripped
more playful suggestions that order was somehow re-established and
readjusted of its own accord: it might be said that Hervouët was justified by
his works. In thinking about the avatars of his little world, Grange, vaguely
touched, was not far from feeling that he was on the whole well settled. It
was only Gourcuff who gave him any concern now, crippled by Hervouët’s
secession and flaunting a strangely arrogant alcoholic chastity around the
blockhouse. During his hours of liberty, he would disappear down some
snow-clogged path, always alone, always sweating, and always very red,
furiously punching his helmet down on his head and muttering Breton oaths
into the raised collar of his overcoat.

“He’s hunting,” Olivon said, winking mysteriously and assuming the
complacent tone of a retired family man.
What astonished Grange was that these haphazard couples created an
image that was quite the contrary of licentiousness; surprisingly, the
domestic routine of the blockhouse, the sort of liberal discipline which had
been established there, did not suffer from it in any way. The blockhouse, in
fact, filled a place left empty; it restored, in the village—surrendered
entirely to the vagaries of women—a male order that involved an
unaccustomed severity of behavior, for if it included the bed, it did not
extend to the evening paper and slippers. As soon as the abrupt winter
twilight set in, the members of the little crew buckled their belts, shook the
dust out of their overcoats onto their women’s doorsteps, and returned for
the night, their own masters, to the men’s house, as in the Carib villages,
where everything belonged to another order: language, mood, topics, jokes.
It was a fragile world, hanging over the void on all sides, but somehow its
machinery managed to function nevertheless. Occasionally Grange was
reminded of a stopped clock set running again by an earthquake, though
sounding only on the quarter-hour: he had always delighted in such
mechanisms, costing a penny or lasting a day, delicate and absurd, where
chance momentarily made necessity flourish once again. When he was
entirely honest with himself, he reflected that these almost creaturely
romances of their billetings, winter-hatched and blooming quite apart in the
warm comfort of the houses, reassured him: they made his feeling for Mona
turn toward a peaceable order, gave it a certain solidity, even a kind of hope.
He got up early now to finish off the few tasks the curbed life of the
blockhouse still required, well before a light the color of dirty water, grayer
than the ground, began to filter through the woods ahead of the sun: an
image of Mona’s house taking its dust-bath in the still-dark morning
sharpened his appetite. He left Olivon in charge and started down the road,
almost the whole day ahead of him. The white earth crackled again beneath
its frozen crust; night withdrew from the forest without a breath of wind, as
if swallowed by the snow; before he reached the path to Les Falizes, a great
red sun rose in front of him down the road’s long vista. This moment
always seemed fresh and marvelous to Grange: the air was even more alive
and tingling than his own coursing blood; it was as if the day had never
dawned so young before. He rapped his iron-tipped stick against Mona’s
door, feeling as good-humored as if he had swallowed a flask of brandy

before setting off on his expedition. With her short sheepskin-lined jacket,
her heavy rubber boots, her yellow hair that looked as tangled as if she had
been sleeping on the ground and still seemed to have bits of straw in its
meshes, as fresh as the scrubbed red tiles of the house itself, Mona gave off
a rough, wholesome smell, reminding him of the grass broom and the
currycomb, or washing in the horse trough. Outside, nothing could be heard
but the thaw’s great drops drumming from the eaves and the cocks crowing
in the already sun-drenched morning. Mona was always on time; each
morning she emerged from the darkness as fresh and pale as a beach when
the tide recedes.
“How old are you?” he would ask her sometimes, stroking her eyebrows
with his finger, staggered by her beauty, blinking as if into too bright a light
while she laughed her throaty laugh and lightly ruffled his hair—but he
realized that his question had no meaning, that youth, here, had nothing to
do with age; she belonged to a fabulous species, like unicorns. “I found her
in the woods,” he mused, and a certain wonder touched his heart; there was
a sign upon her: the sea had floated her to him on a stone slab; he felt how
precariously she was granted; the waves that had brought her would take
her back again.
They turned into a path behind the naked gardens and frozen cabbage
patches leading to Les Fraitures. As soon as they had left Les Falizes
behind, the landscape revealed itself; the path followed the lip of the great
slope of woods that dipped toward Belgium. At the end of the forest, black
against the snow, that reached the horizon without one house, without one
column of smoke, they could see a town clinging to a peak over a gorge, its
white houses sparkling in the sun above the mauve fog. The light reflected
from the snow gave it the phosphorescence of a forbidden city and a
promised land. The sun mounted higher, sending a rain of drops from every
branch, but for a long time, as they walked toward Les Fraitures, the town
on the brink of its gorge sparkled gloriously between the white and the blue.
Mona was sure it was Spa: ever since she had read the name, which
enchanted her, on the waiting-room posters, she could not believe there
were any other towns in the Belgian Ardennes.
“Why don’t you take me?” she asked, shaking his arm with that
insistence of desire that seemed to turn the world new again each time. And
nodding with a knowing housewifely precocity, added: “Julia could come
with us. In Belgium, you know, it’s not very expensive.”

Beyond the gorge of Les Fraitures, they shoveled the night’s accumulated
snow away from the door of an abandoned charcoal burner’s cottage and
pulled out the luge, a kind of heavy sleigh or schlitte used to haul logs
through the forest. The Bihoreau boy, whose proficiencies ranged from
electrical repairs to pottery mending, had fitted it with cane-bottomed seats;
though it was clumsy and quite heavy, they pulled the sleigh through the
pines as far as the Fraitures Light, a pylon made of unbarked tree trunks
standing in a clearing at the top of the hill. The ten o’clock sun spangled the
frozen snow, and Grange and Mona laughed at the two great clouds of
breath they puffed before them as they walked. When they reached the
pylon, they ate some of the food Julia had prepared and which Mona was
carrying in a knapsack. Mona always tied the sleigh to the pylon, like a
horse: it was one of her eccentricities—like unlocked doors and sudden
signs of the cross made with her thumb—which Grange dared not question;
in his moments of enthusiasm, he was not far from believing she possessed
the secret of certain half-magical practices of primitive life. Admitted to her
intimacy, he was far from knowing everything about her: there were still
moments when she frightened him.
On the steep flank of the hill, a clearing in the woods opened ahead of
them, wide and rectangular. The sleigh started gradually over the fresh
snow, then, with the acceleration of an avalanche, plunged straight down,
scraping its bottom on the black roots of the roughly cleared hillside: the
sun, the powdery snow, the treacherous snags, the nearby cliff of black
pines, everything in Grange’s vision was swallowed up in the wake of a
violent wind that tore at his ears and seemed to purge the earth of all
weight; he felt Mona’s breasts—she was lying upon him—lightly crushed
against his back, then released at every jolt of the sleigh; she clung to his
shoulders, light and warm as the troll children you carry across the ford and
whose weight suddenly buckles your legs. Sometimes the sport became
stranger still: he felt Mona’s cold teeth close on the nape of his neck and her
hands slide along his arms to his wrists, which were steering. The sleigh
tumbled them gently into a snowbank which the stream at the bottom of the
ravine was undermining; rolled into the drift, weak with laughter, they
struggled, arms and knees pressed together, and suddenly he felt Mona’s
teeth against his nape a second time: a sudden weakness ran through his
body, like that of a cat lifted off the ground by the skin of its neck—the
snow, which slipped into the hollow of his shoulders and down his arms,

became a soft burning. When they shook themselves and sat down a
moment on the sleigh to catch their breath, he glanced at her, her waist so
slender in her close-fitting blouse, with a shadow of anxiety; he thought of
those wasps which instinctively know where to sting in order to paralyze
their prey. As soon as they had stopped talking, their eyes closed, they
heard only the faint gurgle of the thaw, and sometimes, far away, a lonely
cock shrilled to the noonday sun: his head against Mona’s shoulder, Grange
felt the world come to him crammed with a tender profusion.
By the time they returned to the hut and ate what remained of their food
sitting side by side on the sleigh, the afternoon was already getting on; the
forest horizon darkened, surmounted by a band of mauve. The cold
increased, and a touch of mournfulness appeared in the slanting light. Mona
shivered beneath her short furred jacket: she clouded over as suddenly as
any mountain sky, immediately exposed to the warnings of the hour and the
season.
“I don’t like this time of day,” she said, shaking her head when he
questioned her. And when he asked what she was thinking about: “I don’t
know. About death. . . .” Then she would lean her head on his shoulder, and
momentarily give herself up to strange, hurried sobs, as sudden as an April
shower. He felt the cold seize him roughly now. He did not like the words
that rose to this child-sibyl’s mouth, suddenly so full of darkness.
When they reached Les Falizes, a cold blue shadow lay across the walls;
threads of ice, already frozen again at the gutter rims, silenced the alleys
between houses. Even before the sun had set, the snow turned gray. The
earth around them suddenly seemed so dim, so frozen, that Mona’s
forebodings spread to Grange: he felt the day collapse at the bottom of a
black pit, and a gray, cold liquid rose within him, its taste stale in his mouth.
As soon as Julia had served tea, they undressed with anxious haste; in the
great darkened room, weighted with the evening’s sadness, they embraced
without speaking a word. Sometimes Grange half sat up between the cold
sheets, and letting go Mona’s fingers, stared, his eyes wide open, toward the
thick clumps of shadow that invaded the room. “What’s the matter with
me?” he wondered, his heart heavy. “Who knows? It’s twilight nerves,” but
he was surprised never to have had them before. When he came back to the
blockhouse at nightfall, his solitude depressed him; often he would call for
Hervouët at Les Mazures before returning. They set out along the wet snow
path that sponged up all sounds. As soon as they turned into the road, the

glow from the other side of the Meuse, which outshone the twilight now,
released across the sheets of snow a sickly phosphorescence, a kind of false
dawn. It seemed to Grange that the earth itself was yellowing with disease,
that time was working there, underneath, with a slow fever: they walked
upon it as on a corpse that was beginning to smell.
OceanofPDF.com

OFTEN, back in his room, he found on his desk the mail which Gourcuff or
the occasional supply truck had brought up from battalion headquarters, and
this prospect darkened his returns: he did not enjoy the news any more: he
was like those solitary creatures who have left a mother or an older sister
somewhere and who slyly avoid the postman every day. If Grange came in
late, the silence from the crew room, a silence not that of sleep, told him
even before going into his room that the newspapers had come up from
Moriarmé, and scarcely more than a minute passed before Olivon knocked
at his door, supposedly to report (according to the evidence of an
unaccustomed and hypocritical heel-clicking that Grange found cheering)
but in fact only to return to the crew room with the pacifying news that “the
lieutenant seemed in a good mood.”
But there seemed, in fact, to be no cause for alarm. Apparently nothing in
the official communications indicated that a change in the Roof sector was
imminent. With a little optimism, one could occasionally pick up hints that
were frankly reassuring; for example that communication from the
engineers—already promising a long spring lull—which ordered the anti-
tank mines to be removed after the thaw for checking and stocking. Yet
something filtered through this grayish logorrhea—more abundant each
week—which spoiled his calm a little: as if a mind given over to sleep were
still obsessed with its heavy thoughts, occasionally rousing the nerve ends
with tiny twinges. Now that the winter was advancing, it was the cavalry
maneuvers that seemed to worry him, for everyone knew (the cavalrymen
themselves made no secret of it) that in case of a German attack the cavalry
was to deploy its units far ahead of the lines in Belgium. But when he tried
to decipher the extremely fragmentary orders that reached Les Falizes,
Grange was astonished by the perspective that appeared: obviously the
cavalry’s advance ahead of the lines mattered less than its manner of retreat
behind them. Week after week a hail of detailed orders on this point alerted
the Meuse unit-commanders in their snowbound posts, specifying retreat
itineraries, the order of flow of the columns, and the units authorized to set

off the detonations. The transfer of the blockhouses to the command of the
retreating cavalry crossing the frontier was spelled out with special
precision. Grange received diagrams indicating in red pencil on the master
plans the fire zone of the advanced artillery provided to cover the cavalry
retreat behind the Meuse. “The Meuse?” Grange reflected—and it was as if
a long, sly brush had touched the blockhouse in the obscurity of its forest,
making it gleam with a dangerous phosphorescence—“the Meuse?” This
had something to do with them.
He leaned on the table and drummed his finger tips against the black
window, quite bewildered. After this disagreeable shock, a reflex system of
compensatory speculations began to function. He could hardly conceive
that the war would knock at the blockhouse door one of these days: in this
ponderous military machinery, every cog frozen solid in the earth, action of
any kind assumed for the imagination the abnormal aspect, prepared for in
advance, of a moving day. “Besides, who even wants to talk about it?”
Grange asked himself, shrugging his shoulders. “No one takes such things
seriously. Why, even in conversations at Moriarmé . . .” and here he stopped
short, remembering Varin (“But Varin! .  .  .” he thought). Unfortunately,
shrugging his shoulders did not get rid of everything; something remained:
an anxiety he could neither localize nor reduce, the same disturbance, he
decided, that kept his men from falling asleep on the nights there were
“papers” on his desk. When he had finished reading Le Petit Ardennais and
the newspapers from Paris, Grange sometimes wondered what accounted
for his stubborn impression that “the newspapers were so bad.” Nothing
was happening. The war in Finland was obviously drawing to a close. In the
east, which had caused a lot of talk for a while, everything seemed calm:
the Caucasus oil wells still refused to go up in flames. These alarms had
been so many backfires which, after having briefly reddened the horizon,
burnt down and went out one after the other. And now, on the northeast
front, the silence was beginning to grow a little ominous—broken only by
discreet coughs and sounds of chairs being moved, by which guests indicate
that time is weighing heavily, almost indecorously, between the hors-
d’oeuvre and the appearance of a more substantial course. For this silence,
now distinctly irritating, was a hunger, and yawning made him think not so
much of boredom as of the fearful gape of jaws which meant something
quite different. The winter was growing old—he felt its peace cracking like
the floating island in Jules Verne which, day by day, the thaw diminished.

When he had wrestled a while with these joyless thoughts the night
provoked—his Larvae, as he called them—he would glance at the map of
Belgium tacked over his bed—compliments of the Petit Ardennais—printed
in three colors and surrounded by a fringe of French, German, and Belgian
flags with perforated outlines, to be used at the appropriate moment for
marking the fronts: it was as if, Grange thought, frowning with surprise
each time it occurred to him—as if a circle of flies were waiting around a
cheese for the glass bell to be raised. Soberly he measured a few distances,
using his nail file and the scale at the corner of the map. On the whole, the
Belgian buffer wasn’t very thick. From the German frontier to the Meuse, it
was probably little less than a hundred kilometers: three hours on the road,
driving slowly. Luckily, these were Ardennes kilometers, allergic to armies,
as anyone could see: in 1914 Joffre had come to grief over them and the
lesson had not been wasted. Grange observed with satisfaction the
enormous green stain which thrust its tentacles from Liége to beyond the
Meuse; as far as forests went, it was about as serious an obstacle as you
could find; he noticed, moreover, that nowhere was it more compact than
opposite Les Falizes. “Not a single clearing!” he sighed with a secret
satisfecit that drew up the corners of his mouth. Besides, there were
references. “An enormous forest of small trees,” Michelet had written: an
army did not go counter to such great, placid evidences. Worse than a
forest, really: a jungle. And there was the Belgian army to reckon with
besides: seventeen divisions. They must have prepared formidable defenses.
“The forest roads,” he dreamed on, scowling. “With a few barbwire
emplacements! . . .”; the trouble was, he suddenly realized, that the trees
were so small—but you couldn’t have all the luck on your side. He thought
for another moment, under his blankets, about the Belgian army, about the
forest, about the tank traps and barbwire emplacements, about the lessons of
history. If someone had reminded him of the curious forgetfulness that put
the Army of the Meuse between parentheses, he would have been rather
shocked. He never thought of it, that was all, strange as it seemed—and
probably he would not have enjoyed exploring his motives. Half dozing
already, he listened calmly to the forest growing.
OceanofPDF.com

TOWARD the middle of January, after snowfalls which rendered the roads
entirely impracticable, the weather cleared and a German reconnaissance
plane appeared at lunchtime over the Meuse valley. It was only a tiny silver
speck, occasionally glistening in the sun as the distance slowed its progress
to a crawl across the sky; a languid trail of globular puffs followed behind
at some distance, blooming in its wake with a cottony “plop.” The spectacle
seemed not in the least warlike to Grange, but rather ornamental, graceful:
the bursts were as regularly spaced one behind the other as if the clear
morning sky had been neatly planted by some celestial dibble. The airplane
returned almost every day for a week. Grange decided the snow showed up
the earthworks under construction along the Meuse more clearly: the
Germans were profiting by this condition to take photographs. As the coffee
was served in the blockhouse, the odd, irregular buzzing made every head
turn toward the windows.
“What a trick!” Gourcuff murmured, winking broadly toward the plane.
He sheltered his eyes comically with his helmet, as if against the sun,
actually protecting himself against the shell splinters that sometimes tinkled
off the roof slates. But the anti-aircraft crews never hit the plane: they were
using the same .75 caliber that had taken pot shots at the Taubes during the
last war.
“Old equipment!” Olivon sighed, impartial and bored, lifting his cup
again. Again they heard, for a moment, the heavy oily “plop” exploding
gently in the calm blue air with the prudent rhythm of an official salute.
Varin must be going out of his mind, Grange thought. After the
reconnaissance, he must be expecting the attack any day now. Grange
imagined the captain prowling up and down his office, his hands behind his
back, with that insolent way he had of suddenly planting himself in front of
his interlocutor, nostrils flaring, his mouth a little twisted: “You still don’t
see?” On certain days, the world back of the blockhouse melted into the fog
altogether, but never Varin: he remained terribly distinct, perhaps because
of the shiny nickel-plated telephone on his desk and the nervous hand,

quicker than a cat’s paw, that picked up the receiver, cutting off the first
ring; Grange could imagine the big push only vaguely save for one image
that was extraordinarily precise: Varin’s thin hand on the telephone and the
avid, nervous twitch of his lips which were all that moved in his face as he
bent over the phone. He wondered why this picture was so precise and so
remarkably disagreeable. Sometimes he dreamed with childish satisfaction
about what would happen—during a war, after all, bombs were not out of
the question—if one day, far behind the blockhouse lost on the brink of a
world a prey to spirits and surprises, Varin’s telephone were cut.
Toward the end of the week, a warm fog covered the Roof; the German
reconnaissance planes stopped coming. Then the weather cleared again, dry
and very bright now, and two days of brutal cold paralyzed the plateau: the
ice on the road virtually severed the blockhouse from Les Falizes, and the
men sulked in the bitter humor of sailors becalmed. The morning of the
third day, Grange, shivering as he put on his clothes, was surprised to look
out his window and see a man from the blockhouse at Les Buttés making
his way through the waist-high snow. Les Buttés was relaying an urgent
message from Moriarmé: it was the alerting order—number one alert.
“Still there’s nothing on the radio,” he repeated incredulously. “And
besides, with snow like this! . . .” But suddenly the snow meant nothing
beside the little square of white paper on Grange’s desk, and the radio’s
silence smelled of a trap; in wartime an order, a piece of news, a simple
rumor, suddenly casts the ominous light of an eclipse over everything, and
the world swings into a new season. Behind the partition (to make
assurance doubly sure, he had ordered a review of their arms) the sound of
gun breaches against the raw wood sent the men’s bad humor through
Grange’s nerves. They didn’t put much stock in these alerts but found them
supremely annoying. It was a kind of forfeit: a whole capital of mild,
comfortable daydreams, of security measures saved up and consolidated
from week to week, gone up in a puff of smoke: they were starting again
from zero. Then, even to its distant heart behind the Meuse, the army
shuddered, wondered, seethed with all its awakened antennas. Toward
noon, Captain Varin himself appeared in front of the blockhouse.
“Olivon will heat some coffee for you,” Grange said, when they had sat
down. “Les Buttés relayed the alert this morning,” he continued, coughing
and grimacing indiscreetly. The captain shrugged his shoulders.

“I don’t know any more about it than you do, my friend. But even so, this
time, I’d be surprised. . . . We got stuck three times on the way up from
l’Eclaterie.” He gestured wearily toward the snow-choked road.
“Everything in order here?” he continued, almost absentmindedly.
“Those embrasure funnels still haven’t come.”
The captain shrugged again. Everyone in Moriarmé knew he had been
furious for three months over missing equipment: he suffered from these
lidless blockhouses as from a mutilation.
“I know,” he said, with a bitter twitch of his lips. “I can’t make them
myself.”
He sipped his coffee in silence. “There’s something up his sleeve,”
Grange thought. “Something he’s not in a hurry to get out.”
The captain put down his cup and unconsciously glanced out the window,
like all visitors to the blockhouse; at once the silence of the forest, so
difficult to dispel, flowed into the room as calmly as water fills a wreck
gone to the bottom.
“Let’s go down,” Varin said suddenly. The thaw’s humid chill became
almost intolerable inside the block itself. A few empty bottles rolled across
the cement floor near the escape hatch. Through the embrasure, a thin dust-
colored shaft of light reflected from the snow outside fell across the raw
concrete.
“You should have put something under those munition cases before the
thaw,” the captain said in his bored tone. “The concrete breeds rust in the
winter. God knows what would happen if that alert meant anything!” His
eyes fixed on the road through the embrasure, he continued as if he were
dreaming aloud: “Everyone’s asleep. The less they do, the less they want to
do—and as for keeping things greased, the hell with it. There’s not one gun
in two ready to fire in the whole blockhouse line after this rotten snow.”
Grange opened, then closed the breach of the antitank gun, which
engaged with a delicate, brutal click.
“I’m not saying that for you,” Varin snapped. Then, reflectively: “A
percentage. And if it were only the guns that were rusting . . .” The captain
slapped his soft leather gloves against his leggings, and insolently raised his
chin toward Grange, his nostrils flaring. “A hell of an army, my friend, and
it looks to me as if it wants to be an army in hell, before long. All right, it’s
none of our business,” he broke off, resuming the fierce gaiety of tone so
characteristic of the man. “Another thing, Grange,” he continued after a

moment’s silence, pulling on his gloves, his eyes lowered: “how would you
feel about being transferred to regimental headquarters?”
“Headquarters?”
“To the auxiliary company that’s being brought up to strength. It seems
I’m more than well supplied with lieutenants since you’ve come. And
they’ve been nice enough to leave the choice of hara-kari up to me.”
Grange looked at the captain and suddenly felt himself blushing. The
auxiliary company was one of the best-known soft spots in the service. “It’s
a little embarrassing,” he said after a moment, his voice harsh. “If at least I
knew what it was that made you . . .”
“No, Grange,” the captain said, putting one hand on his shoulder for a
moment. “You don’t see what I’m getting at. If the choice were up to me,
I’d keep you.”
“Then the answer is no,” Grange replied, making a sweeping gesture with
his finger tips.
“Definitely?”
“Definitely.”
The captain frowned and coughed. With the tip of his shoe he rolled an
empty bottle toward the trap door. He seemed embarrassed, undecided.
“There’s no point of honor in this business,” he said, suddenly turning
back toward Grange. “No point of honor. An administrative transfer, that’s
all. This isn’t a post for you, here. You’d be replaced by a non-
commissioned officer.”
“No,” Grange said again, his voice slightly muffled.
There was another silence.
“A woman?” Varin asked, his face producing the wintry grimace that
must have been, Grange decided, his libidinous expression.
“No,” Grange continued after a moment. “Not really.”
“Well, then?”
“I prefer staying under your orders.”
“No,” the captain said, tapping his revolver holster and staring at Grange
with a mocking curiosity that melted him a little. “No, not that. . . . That
would surprise me.”
After inspecting the block, they climbed back up to Grange’s room for a
moment. The captain gave him a number of documents which he glanced at
in passing: for the most part it was the usual singsong, what Grange called
“customs”: upkeep of blockhouse materiel, tightening of the frontier

patrols, installation of the mines and barbwire emplacements. There was
one novelty, however: a booklet on how to identify the silhouettes of the
German armored units; Grange leafed through it for a moment, suddenly
thoughtful again. This time there could be no question of the Siegfried Line:
the war was fast growing overripe behind the unchanged official phrases—
imperceptibly, with the year, it had changed direction.
“There it is, all right,” the captain said, looking over Grange’s shoulder.
“They’re starting to get serious now. . . .” In the captain’s vocabulary, they
never meant the Germans, but merely the stormy peaks of power, the big
chiefs, against whom he whetted his own mental secession. At heart, he’s on
Lucifer’s side, Grange realized, startled by the sympathy that impelled him
toward the captain, only he’s a specialist: he sees God with stars on his
shoulders.
“I’m sure you know how late in the day it is,” he said. He smiled
clumsily; the old pique between them suddenly started up again, once more
rubbed him against the grain.
“More or less,” the captain said, lighting his cigarette with mock
calmness. He brushed the notebook off the desk. “And believe me, I’m not
sticking my neck out: you’ll see them coming with the swallows.” They
looked out the window for a moment, at loose ends, and drank some more
coffee. The noonday sun was already recovering a little strength; the road
was mottled with brown puddles. They could hear the snow melting, drop
by drop, onto the hencoop.
“Why do you want to stay here?” Varin suddenly asked again. “No,” he
waved his hand, “please . . . I don’t like volunteers, and I know what I’m
talking about. If you tell me you want to fight in the front lines, I’ll think
less of you, and I won’t believe you.”
“No,” Grange said. “It’s something else. I like it here.” He felt as if he
were hearing the words for the first time, astonished to have known the
truth so long.
“Yes, that must be it,” the captain said after a moment’s silence. He
looked fixedly down the road again. “You’re a strange man!” he said with
an uncertain smile, then stood up to say good-bye and snapped his helmet’s
chin strap. The mask of his face became handsome and hard again,
sharpened by fatigue, the great nose hawklike, the eyes heavily ringed.
“Well, then, I’ve said what I had to say,” he concluded, holding out his
hand with something that for the first time resembled cordiality. “ ‘Having

reread, continue,’ as they say in indoctrination courses.”
“ ‘Continue,’ ” Grange said. “I’m not sure you’re particularly pleased.”
“You’re wrong, my friend,” Varin said seriously, lighting another
cigarette. “I have no objection to fighting the war with men who have found
their own way of deserting.”
That evening, Grange went out for a short walk. His conversation with
the captain had disturbed him, he needed air. What astonished him was the
sudden realization he had come to, talking with Varin, of how little Mona
counted in his sudden, almost animal desire to stay.
“To live here?” he said, almost aloud. He looked back through the
network of bare trunks at the wretched structure with its long streaks of rust
running down the concrete, the little garden littered with tin cans, the
rickety chicken coop, and shrugged his shoulders. Here or somewhere else
—any quarters were good enough for him. No, it was something else. What
most reminded him of his exaltation at Les Falizes, where he seemed to
breathe as never before, was the beginning of summer vacations in his
childhood—the fever seizing him as soon as he could look out the train
windows, still miles away from the coast, and see the trees gradually shrink,
stunted by the salt wind—the anxiety suddenly filling his throat at the mere
thought that his room in the hotel might not overlook the sea. And the next
day there would be the sand castles too, when his heart beat stronger than
anywhere else just standing next to them, because he knew, and at the same
time could not believe, that the tide would soon cover them.
Evenings, once he had sent off several letters, which became more and
more of a chore—there were too many barriers to cross to make himself
understood—and signed his daily report, Grange went to bed early. He liked
to read in bed during the long winter evenings, accompanied by the snores
that penetrated the thin partition between him and the crew; its key hanging
at the head of his bed, he enjoyed feeling the blockhouse around him
drifting through the night in marching order, watertight, closed in on itself
like a ship that shuts its hatches. But this evening, instead of his book, he
leaned down and picked up the pamphlet Varin had brushed to the floor and
turned its pages for a long time. The ponderous gray silhouettes, which he
had never seen reproduced before, seemed curiously exotic—another world
—with that simultaneously baroque, theatrical, and sinister quality of
German war machines which, despite all the requirements of technology,
still managed to remind him of Fafnir. “Unheimlich,” he thought: there was

no French word; he studied them with a mixture of repugnance and
fascination. Outside, the heavy rain of the Ardennes was beginning to fall
with the darkness, its drumming muffled by the snow. Unconsciously, he
strained to hear the occasional noises from the crew room, afraid of being
surprised, as if he were poring over obscene photographs.
OceanofPDF.com

TOWARD the winter’s end, Grange’s leave came up. Paris, in its brief wet
dawn, seemed gray and dirty, unwelcoming. At the hotel he had directed his
driver to, the blue-daubed lamps cast a lonely and clinical light across the
bed, making the feel of things uncertain. Warmth could be recovered only
where bodies were pressed against each other, in the luminous caves of bars
and theaters; it was as if the zone of life had gradually, imperceptibly, gone
to earth, as in the ice age. Grange ran across a few vague friends here and
there, accidental encounters in cafés, but his heart wasn’t in it, nor the city’s
either: Paris was nothing but a great railroad station, a slamming of doors
between trains, where all night long the smoky signal lamps winked
between the coal-colored rows of houses. At the first signs of spring, no
matter how chilly, people were sitting on the café terraces; hands folded in
their laps, they watched the city with that idle yet anxious glance one gives
one’s own house on moving day. Now that the lights were dimmed
throughout the city, Paris had lost its bloom, and Grange felt he was
touching the hard core: this knot of roads which had been here forever and
which shrank, now, between the armies and the country villas, to a city of
the Late Empire—its blood thinned to supernumeraries, official stand-ins,
and hearing in its own empty streets the murmur of the ambiguous storm
that drifted over the frontiers.
Grange was bored: he took another train, this time for the country. The
Vienne was swollen by the sudden thaw; a sour spittle flooded the low
fields that were already turning green; through the Chinon valley the pale
blue of the Touraine was already daubed across every hill; in the naked
woods that covered the tufa slopes, flakes and fireworks of yellowish
verdure zigzagged across the bare boughs of winter. He left the inn early in
the morning, the Vienne visible on his right, between the still leafless
poplars, beneath its long scarves of fog. Suddenly turning into the valley the
crisp little town out of the book of hours was revealed at the end of its
bridge, its blue-tiled roofs mounting out of the morning’s mist more pearly
than a school of minnows, and the enormous curtain of the château unfurled

above its houses like a royal scroll stretched out at arm’s length. He crossed
the bridge with the first peasant carts on their way to market, and early in
the morning, sometimes on an empty stomach, drank the light rosé of
Vienne in a tiny dim cafe, listening to the iron-sheathed cartwheels and the
casks rolling over the round cobbles of its steep, narrow streets.
The town did not oppress him: it seemed detached from time, refreshed
by some fabulous primitive imagery. A strange unfamiliar light hesitated a
moment on this corner of the fifteenth century. The portcullis of the château
of Chinon rose: to the sound of trumpets, a great cortège paraded out of its
vaults like some fascinating hand from a tarot pack: “le Prince d’Aquitaine
à la tour abolie,” flanked by Bluebeard and the Maid. The world had come
apart at some of its principal seams; suddenly his heart leaped up,
possibility exploded: the highways, for a moment, lay open to the “great
undesirables.”
What also pleased him was the stone of this countryside, a micaceous
chalk that was white and porous, sometimes parched and fissured by the
sun, sometimes soft and exfoliated, scaling in the clear pools of water that
stood in its declivities, mottled with delicate, smoky grays, gritty blotterlike
impregnations, its rough seams scarred with the tiny hardened mildewings
of Roquefort. The stone was like a pulpy feminine substance, its skin deep
and sensitive, downy with all the subtle impressions of the air. Returning
from Chinon, he lingered along the paved bank of the Vienne, his spirits
high from his heady breakfast of wine and potted pork, discovering the
secret manors of the countryside, safe and sound behind their closed gates,
their ancient lawns pierced by deflowered hollyhock stalks—houses
wedded supremely to their time, placidly yielding to the gentle, mossy light,
like a woman in a garden.
Moreover, the country people never mentioned the war, even pretended
not to be particularly interested in it. The stifling atmosphere of Paris, its
overparticular anxiety, grew airy here, diverted by those inevitable and
inevitably ending natural inclemencies of which peasant wisdom had taken
the measure. This war with neither soul nor songs, which had never created
a popular mentality, which in each man discreetly murmured I and never
we, imprisoning only the private universe, disoriented the country infinitely
less than the city, for here it did not function contrary to the mind’s habits:
the egoistic, short-run calculation, and the resigned, somewhat magical
frequentation of a future evasive by nature. There was nothing changed

here, one might have said, beyond a curious rarefaction of manpower;
instead of the eve of battle, a mortal conflict, one thought of a country
which, in view of a long-term reinforcement, had slowly, ponderously,
transported and grafted a massive migration of youth to borderlands a little
too exposed. “Odd,” Grange thought, “that in this age of lightning wars it
should be not an army but a colony that settles on our frontiers. Another
year or two and this army will send down roots: it was a sign that already, at
Moriarmé and elsewhere, a third of the officers have sent for their wives; I
myself . . .”
Sitting at loose ends beside the little wicker table in his bright, sunny
room, looking out over the poplars of the Vienne, he fell back into one of
his favorite daydreams about the Roof. Nothing in this war was like any of
the others; it was a soft degeneration, a dying twilight of peace indefinitely
prolonged—so prolonged that one could dream in spite of oneself, after this
strange half-season, this plunge into sleepless nights, each new day
attaching itself to the old without any break in continuity. Perhaps for many
years now the country would transplant, secrete on its frontiers, a
population de luxe, a violent, idle military caste depending for its daily
bread on the civilians and finally demanding it of them, as the desert
nomads levy tribute on the cultivated regions. Frontier prowlers, idlers of
the apocalypse, living without material cares on the brink of their sociable
abyss, familiars of signs and presages, having no commerce save with a few
cloudy and catastrophic grand incertitudes, as in those ancient watchtowers
one comes upon at the sea’s edge. And after all, Grange reminded himself,
sinking deeper into his dream, that too would be a way of living.
From time to time he wrote Mona short, rather childish letters. Her
resemblance to a plant in the sun, her characteristic openness, her way of
growing firm and straight within the grain of life, had straightened him out
despite himself: in her radiance, he was no more ashamed of his secret
withdrawals than a tree in sunlight of its twisted branches. There was only
that strange sensation of falling free, that drifting nausea which became his
vice, which he never mentioned to her, from which she remained excluded,
and which was yet perhaps the essential thing about her. This was what he
called, whenever the faint dizziness began again, “going down into the
blockhouse.” But when the mere suspicion of the military censors’ opening
his letters paralyzed him, he understood how nakedly he lived with her.

The last night of his leave, he had a remarkable erotic dream about her.
He was hanging on a gallows or a high branch—in any case, at a great
height—the sun was shining, yet this posture, though certainly
uncomfortable, did not seem to involve any immediate inconvenience, since
he was taking particular pleasure in contemplating the sun-flooded
landscape and the globed treetops far below. But the heart of the sensual joy
that filled him was much nearer: beneath him—so close that at times his
bare feet almost brushed against her blond hair—a thin cord suspended
Mona by the neck from his ankles. The wind swung both of them gently
through the balmy, pleasant air, and from the rope that was strangling
Mona, especially when she was shaken by faint convulsions that raised her
shoulders, he received—at his bound ankles and also at his neck where the
cord took another turn—so exquisite a communication of her naked living
weight searching, stretching, piercing his body, that he experienced a
physical pleasure he had never known before, this ending in the final
indecency attributed to hanged men.
The whole morning that followed this strange ecstasy of his dream left
Grange floating in a kind of consuming heat, exhausted. And yet it was a
dream of love, he decided, strange and poignant, of a really astounding
intimacy. The silence and the height, the sea’s murmur, were those of the
craggy uplands where the wind begins despoiling the trees, or of high cliffs
with a view plunging down into the heart of a city.
When he got off the train at Moriarmé, the Roof no longer seemed the
same to him. All along the Meuse, new concrete blocks had been poured:
here and there, the naked raw gray of their masonry irritated and obsessed
the eye. The little town swarmed with more troops than ever. The Meuse
front was becoming populous: wherever billetings had interrupted the
Roof’s solitudes, the cavalry now crossed the river and pushed ahead to the
line of blockhouses. On the Roof too, the spring had come, noticeably later
than in Touraine, but already brilliant. On the road to the blockhouse, the
cool air, washed by the west wind, was delicious: Grange walked between
two banks of fresh grass already spreading into the stones of the road,
sending up little jets of leaves and birds. Yet this was an odd, unwholesome
spring: watching it spread over the Roof scarcely dry from the thaw, he felt
it was already jostled, abused by a torrid summer full of the crackle of
burning forests that raze the shriveled earth to ash. The spring was coming
ahead of time, exotic as an Easter out of season beneath this sky that was

still cold. Grange looked around him, astonished by the forest’s panic haste;
he seemed to have arrived in an unknown town whose balconies bloomed
helter-skelter, whose streets since dawn were covered with rugs. It was as if
someone were expected.
He found his men glum. The spring was a little too violent. An almost
luxurious divisional rifle range had been set up behind the Meuse, with
moving targets that rolled along on trucks. Hervouët and Gourcuff practiced
there twice a week with the teams of anti-tank crews from the blockhouses.
“It’s something to do!” Olivon said, his voice sharp and hard. Grange had
scarcely returned when the front was again alerted for several days: the
Germans were invading Norway: this time, there was certainly a thaw! The
telephone, which had now been connected to the blockhouse, summoned
him more frequently to Moriarmé. From early in the afternoon, the
precocious heat rose from the sidewalks in waves along the yellow walls;
the little town steamed in the rancid hollow of its valley. With its offices
humming now, its troubled rumors, Moriarmé became insupportable to
Grange; it was a town breeding pestilence; he found a little fresh air only on
the climb back up to the Roof, where the shadow of the trees suddenly
swallowed the road. When he reached l’Eclaterie, he stepped off the road
for a moment and walked to the cliff’s edge. Before continuing, he sat for a
moment on the stone bench in the already yellowing light. In the center of
the forest’s tremendous funnel, clammy with leaden heat and the glaucous
light of an aquarium, he could see the little town squatting at the bottom of
its valley, incubating in the heat of its grayish stones, and the Meuse
moving gently in the green penumbra, like a carp at the bottom of a
fishpond.
“What are we waiting for here?” he wondered, and the familiar taste of
tepid, stagnant water filled his mouth again. All at once the world seemed
inexpressibly alien, indifferent, separated from him by miles and miles. It
was as if everything were dissolving under his eyes, disappearing,
cautiously evacuating its still intact appearance down the cloudy, sluggish
river, and desperately, endlessly going away—going away.
OceanofPDF.com

MAY came, and its first hot days immediately burst upon them in ominous,
aborted storms that prowled above the Roof all afternoon, caught in the
shaggy treetops. Although Varin telephoned him every other minute (the
captain played his post commanders like hooked fish—sometimes he even
gave them line), Grange no longer enjoyed staying in the blockhouse; it
weighed on his mind, and he felt free only in the open air. Afternoons, he
went more frequently to inspect the progress of the work at Les Fraitures,
where the barbwire emplacements were almost finished. As soon as he had
the clearing of the upland bogs around him, after climbing the hillside that
overhung the last pine groves, the air moving now, and full of high clouds,
he felt the sudden relief of the sailor coming on deck from the cramped
forecastle. The bog was a thin meadow of peat moss and marsh tea, its
rising edges ragged beneath the yellow flames of gorse; occasional puddles
of cloudy water lay among the bald patches of this lichen-colored area that
smelled of rotting straw. At the end of the bog, where the curtain of low
trees closed again, some soldiers in shirt sleeves were driving stakes and
laboriously unrolling great bales of barbed wire: faint in the distance came
the same spiritless commotion of mattocks, spades, and wire-clippers that
clicks and clatters in suburban gardens on a summer night until the darkness
falls. Mists drifting across the huge, heavy sky created an emptiness, a
strange silence around the tiny amateur putterers pegging out their bean
trellises in this Sunday wasteland.
For a long time, Grange stood watching their docile farniente in this
disproportionate setting against this enormous sky, this endless, oppressive
forest horizon, and a vague doubt stirred in the pit of his stomach, an animal
suspicion that oppressed him as if some calculation of faces, suddenly
conspicuous, had grossly, inexplicably erred as to scale. “They’re beginning
the siege of Alésia all over again!” he told himself, puzzled. Then he
shrugged his shoulders, but unconsciously thought of Varin, and a
disagreeable feeling settled somewhere under his stomach, where
forebodings knit: as if he must spread a warning, set off an alarm. At one

side of the emplacement, a machine gun was hanging from a stake driven
into the middle of the bog—stretched out on the grass, his hands under his
head, the gunner was whistling happily, his feet at right angles to each
other. “They don’t have any idea,” Grange reflected, glum again and
scandalized, and for a moment Varin, the cavalry lieutenant, Norway, the
funnels that never came—all coursed together through his mind like the
sibilant rout of water flushing down a drain.
One evening, toward the end of the first week in May, when they had
finished dinner early, Grange took Hervouët with him to inspect Hill 403,
where the engineers had just opened a new cut. The evening was clear, but
heavy; there was not a breath of air in the forest. They followed a winding
service path bordered with wild strawberry plants, and when they stopped
talking they unconsciously strained their ears, surprised by this empty
twilight that was open as dead eyes are: it would last until the forest animals
awakened. Hervouët scarcely spoke at all: instinctively, through the rank
undergrowth, where patches of heavy sunlight fell on grass that was already
black, they adopted the long strides and silences of their patrols, when the
only noise was the eternal rustle of cold grass against their knees. A curious
image occurred to Grange: it seemed as though he were walking in this
unfamiliar forest as if through his own life. The world had gone to sleep
like another Olivet, exhausted by fear and foreboding, intoxicated with
anxiety and weariness, but the day had not disappeared with it: there
remained this cold, abundant light which survived all human caring and
seemed to glow upon the empty world for itself alone—this abandoned
nocturnal eye that opened before its time and somehow seemed to be
looking elsewhere. It was still daytime here—a strange daylight limbo laved
by fear and desire, a barren brightness that did not warm: the light of a dead
moon.
When they drew near the hillock where the cut began, the sky was still
quite pale. Along the ruts in the road, filled by the last rainstorm, the
slanting light silvered the rails of cloudy water; a smell of sated earth, the
coolness of the water-cress pond rose from the banks of new grass. The
cuckoo’s solitary call came at intervals from the curtain of trees at the other
end of the clearing. High up, against the great clouds that stirred the sky,
Hervouët pointed to a buzzard slowly circling, barely moving, borne on the
exhalation of the warm forest like a piece of burnt paper above a great fire.
This motionless vigil added a drop of venom to the forest’s ponderous

silence. Grange saw that Hervouët was sliding his rifle sling off his
shoulder.
“No nonsense!” he said, touching Hervouët’s arm: heard anywhere in the
forest, a rifle shot brought a mountain of papers down on their heads from
Moriarmé.
Hervouët shoved back his rifle with a shrug and carefully spit into the
rut. “Gamekeepers!” he said, with a dejected scowl.
“After the war, you can hunt as much as you want. After all, they do
leave us pretty much alone here.”
“It’s not that,” Hervouët replied. He seemed hesitant and puzzled, the
look of a whipped dog in his eyes. “Just the opposite.”
“You want to get into action?”
“I’m in no hurry, mon lieutenant.” He shrugged again and looked Grange
directly in the eyes. “No hurry at all. Only after a while, it’s funny
here. . . .” He gestured toward the empty forest and shook his head. “No
one’s behind us. . . .”
They quickly crossed the cut. The trees were too young here: virtually
none of the rough stakes already cut were the proper size—besides, the
work was obviously going forward with extreme nonchalance. Near a pile
of skeletal branches, a makeshift hut leaned against a tree. They went
inside. Three or four quartered logs served as benches: on one was laid,
almost emblematically, a deck of cards and two empty bottles, a still life of
a war hibernating now in broad sunlight. Grange put his hands in his
pockets and glanced around the hut with one of Varin’s grimaces.
“The National Workshops,” he whistled between his teeth. “After all,
when you think what they pay their men! . . .”
He made a dismissive gesture with one hand, feeling quite unperturbed
by this sleeping army in its enchanted forest. And in some obscure corner of
his thoughts he even recognized a certain complicity. There was a confused
but powerful charm in sprawling in this besotted boat that had thrown its
helm, then its oars overboard—the curious charm of drifting with the
current.
They sat on the logs and lit their cigarettes without speaking. A heavy
barrage of storm clouds had gathered in the west, where the sun had almost
set. From the hut, they could hear only an occasional rustle of leaves, a
sparrow flying to its roost, and then quite near a rabbit bolting into the
brake. Toward Belgium, the bluish distances were already darkening. A

heavy dome of clouds gradually slipped across the sky; at the horizon, a
palpitation of heat lightning flashed across the darkness. The evening’s
calm was not that of sleep: fanned by this distant trembling, it was as if the
earth was waiting only for this heavy lid which reached further into the sky
at every moment. A few drops splattered on the tin roof, then stopped; a
powdery, scorched odor rose from the earth, filling their nostrils with all the
heat’s intensity.
“Funny kind of spring,” Grange said, unbuttoning his collar. “I feel like
sleeping out here on the grass.”
“I know,” Hervouët answered. “I don’t feel like going back either.”
“We’ll go as far as Les Censes de Braye. Take a look at the
emplacements there.”
As soon as they had turned onto the new path that led to the frontier—a
smuggler’s trail—they plunged into a green and bitter savor that the
oncoming night crushed from the earth, headier than the smell of new-
mown hay. Occasionally a cold mist rose as high as their faces, brutally
chilling their temples: puddles from the last storm still flooded all the
hollows of the path. Above them, the branches divided to reveal a streak of
yellow sky; the storm clouds had begun to devour it. With the zigzags of the
path, Grange’s sense of direction quickly vanished. A familiar sense of
well-being filled his mind; he slipped into the forest night as if into a kind
of freedom.
“We must be there, mon lieutenant.”
They heard a tin can clatter. The emplacement cut across the path here:
they had bumped into the wire before they had guessed it was there.
Beyond the frontier, the path ran down toward a shallow ravine; a wisp of
fog was already oozing up, as deliberate as cigar smoke. The Belgian side
rose abruptly, a grass-grown, deforested slope with a few scattered pine
saplings. The moon had risen, and what the clouds had not yet obscured of
its light clung to this smooth slope, still touched by a vestige of daylight,
and made the clearing beyond the pool of fog, beyond the dark cones of the
saplings, a forbidden and magical site, half fairy ring and half witches’
circle. Behind the hilltop, towards which the meadow sloped up, there was
silhouetted between the trees the ridge of a low roof—probably a
woodcutter’s hut.
“Things are pretty quiet now,” Hervouët said, nodding toward the roof.
“The wire gets in their way.”

“That cabin?”
“Smugglers. It’s a hideout.”
Grange had come to understand why he liked taking Hervouët along on
his night rounds: the frontier fascinated him, and he had learned all its
secrets, from the minutest detail of its crude, ingenious hiding places to the
sudden commotion of the forest creatures. Nothing, Grange felt, bound
them closer to each other than these whispered conversations, these long
silences while their gloved hands groped along the invisible thread of
barbed wire, the lifeline that stretched across the leaden night.
“There’s no money in it any more,” Hervouët said, scowling. “And
besides, they’re busy other places.”
“Called up?” Grange asked mildly, raising his head: he had heard from
Moriarmé that frontier crossings were quite rare now.
“Yes,” Hervouët answered. “The smugglers, and then the rest. Probably
because it looks bad. They’ve called up a lot recently. Just at Waregnies
. . .”
“There still hasn’t been an alert,” Grange said, without conviction.
“If you ask me, they know something all the same, mon lieutenant.”
Hervouët shook his head. “They’re closer than we are. And besides, it’s
bound to happen. It’s the time of year.”
They smoked for a moment in silence. The air was lighter now; the
clouds disappeared; one or two long rolls of thunder faded behind the
Belgian horizon with a pacified grumble. The moon had risen over the
forest now: beyond the clearing in the woods, the slope was frosted with a
cold, mineral light, spotted by the inky shadow of the saplings on the grass.
This evening, as never before, Grange felt he was living in a forgotten
wilderness: the whole immensity of the Ardennes throbbed in this ghostly
clearing like the heart of a magic forest pounding around its fountain. This
slumbering vigil of the treetops disturbed him. He reflected on the strange
expression Hervouët had just used: “No one’s behind us.” What they had
left behind, what they were supposed to protect, no longer mattered very
much: the lines were cut; in this darkness full of forebodings all raisons
d’être had lost their hold. Perhaps for the first time, Grange told himself, he
was mobilized in a dream army. “I’m dreaming here—we’re all dreaming—
but of what?” Everything around him was anxiety and vacillation, as if the
world men had woven was unraveling stitch by stitch. There remained only
a pure, blind waiting: the starry night, the forgotten forest, the enormous

tide that swelled behind the horizon brutally stripped them all, as the sound
of waves breaking behind dunes creates a sudden nakedness.
They talked for a moment about Hervouët’s leave—his turn was coming
up. The sea would have fallen now at La Brière, Grange decided. He
conjured up quite clearly the wide cinder towpaths between the canals, the
everlasting mist that hung over the peat fires. He remembered the
mysterious sickness, the slow fever that came with the summer, burning
deep under the grass with neither flame nor heat, so that you could stir up
showers of sparks just by dragging a stick across the peat—the earth was
like a dog showing its teeth.
“All that! . . .” Hervouët concluded, almost with indifference. They were
unconsciously speaking of the place as if it were some primitive Africa,
pleasant to dream of exploring but not to be taken very seriously.
“And you won’t be sad about leaving Les Mazures?” Grange asked,
touching him lightly on the shoulder.
“There’s no one left at Les Mazures any more,” Hervouët said, not
looking at him. “They were evacuated yesterday.” And with a shrug of the
shoulders he added, “It’s just as well. It’s no time for women now.”
They walked back in silence as far as the cut. The moon, turning the fog
into steam, made it into a vague jungle; on the other side of the widened
clearing, the rampart of the forest stood in the cold light, motionless and
upright like a man.
“Go on back,” Grange said to Hervouët. “I have to stop at Les Falizes.”
Mona’s light was still on. Grange drummed noisily two or three times on
the grating latch; this was his usual way of announcing himself when she
wasn’t asleep yet. Mona was reading, lying barefoot on the bed, wearing
blue jeans and one of Julia’s blouses.
“Come sit down.” Without getting up, she moved over to make room for
him on the bed. Nothing seemed so intimate, so binding, as these blind-
man’s gestures of hers. “What’s the matter, poppy?” she asked, leaning on
one elbow, her eyes suddenly troubled.
“The war,” he said with an exhausted sigh, familiarly hooking his helmet
onto the cupboard key. He felt his heart give a little start: where his helmet
always swung for a moment on its chin strap, a tiny curved rut had been
worn in the polished wood.
“How silly you are,” she cried, pulling him against her mouth. But they
quickly broke apart: against hers, his lips tasted of fever, a sour, faded taste.

“Darling, you’re sick. It must be marsh fever,” she said, seizing his wrist
and nodding knowingly. “Julia always says it’s so bad to go into those bogs
on your patrols the way you do.”
“No, Mona, I mean it. The war—seriously. You must leave,” he said,
turning his head, his tone less firm than he would have liked.
“How boring you are, darling!” Mona heaved a little premonitory sigh
which he knew quite well by now. It was the sandman’s hour: sleep
suddenly threw her across the bed, as defenseless as a lamb with its legs
tied together. For Mona, sleep was sometimes a subtle form of escape, like
animals that play dead in the face of danger.
He seized her shoulder and shook her a little. “You must leave, Mona, do
you understand?” he repeated, his voice serious.
“But why—what’s the matter?” With a sudden thrust of her hips Mona
sat up and stared at him, her eyes wild, as if waking from a nightmare.
“Tell Julia.” He took her fingers in his, mechanically. “Tomorrow.” His
eyes were hard and abstracted; he felt time weighing on his shoulders and
thought of railroad stations early in the morning, when farewells have a
taste of ashes, but when the early wind is so fresh. He dared not tell her that,
light as she was, she encumbered his life, and that he wanted to be alone
now.
Mona cried for a long time; heavily shaken against Grange’s shoulder,
her head was quite sticky with her tears. When the sobbing stopped, they
listened together to the noises of the wakened forest that came through the
open door, and he felt her gentle plantlike breathing begin again, as if the
storm were dripping from her leaves now. “A whole season,” he thought,
and wondered if he had loved her. It was less and more than that: there had
been room only for her.
OceanofPDF.com

THE night of May ninth, Lieutenant Grange slept badly. He had gone to bed
with a headache, all his windows open, though even the forest night could
not prevail against the precocious heat. When he awoke at dawn, it seemed
at first as if he had been dreaming heavily: his head was full of a peculiar
insistent buzzing. He was aware of a sudden current of cool, wet air
streaming over him from the nearby window, but this draft slipped over his
face with a particular tonality, musical and vibrant, as if it were woven of a
crackling of wing cases. For a moment in his bewilderment he had the
pleasant sensation that time had somehow run together, that the forest dawn
had mingled with the torrid noon, electrified by the hum of cicadas. The
image vanished as he realized that a pane of his window, where the putty
had fallen out of the frame, was rattling near his cheek. “It’s the window,”
he told himself as he buried his head in the pillow again, “I’ll have to tell
Olivon about it.” Yet somewhere in his fog, without quite connecting it with
this rattling, he also felt a shrill note of panic urgency rising from second to
second in the morning air, a kind of gleaming weight in the light, and he
also became curiously aware of the fragility, the grotesque thinness of the
roof over him which seemed to be flying away. He nestled into his bed,
uncomfortable, naked, and exposed to the sound that streamed from the sky,
swelling as it approached. Two knocks at his door wakened him completely
this time.
“They’re going over, mon yeutenant,” Olivon called from behind the
partition. His voice was strangely throaty, its indifference a little choked,
pitched somewhere between incredulity and panic.
The men were already at the windows, barefoot, tousled, hastily buckling
their belts. The sun had not yet appeared, but the night was pale in the east,
already graying the vast horizon of the Belgian forests. The wet dawn was
cold—the soles of his feet were freezing on the raw cement. A great whine
slowly rising to its zenith came in through the open windows. The sound
did not seem earthly; it involved, rather, the whole vault of the sky, which
suddenly became a solid firmament and began to vibrate like a sheet of tin:

at first he thought of some strange meteorological phenomenon, an aurora
borealis in which sound had inexplicably been substituted for light. What
reinforced this impression was the response of the night-drenched earth,
where nothing human stirred yet which grew troubled, the voices of its
creatures raised in confused alarm; toward Les Buttés, in the darkness
where sounds carried far, dogs howled continually, as if at the full moon,
and from time to time over the low, even whine he could hear rising from
the nearby underbrush a muffled, cautious cackle of alarm. At the horizon, a
new throbbing wave began to swell, rising slowly toward its calm
culmination, flowing majestically across the sky, and this time, suddenly,
the dogs were still: there was nothing but that one sound. Then the whine
fell, losing its powerful unison, its quality of a seamless wave, leaving
behind a trail of coughs, isolated, wandering murmurs, and some cocks
crowed in the empty forest across the stupefied and vacant earth, as after a
storm: the sun was beginning to rise.
The men felt suddenly chilled, but did not think to close the windows;
they waited, ears straining to catch the faint sounds the wind was beginning
to carry over the forest. Olivon made coffee. They began a rather heated
discussion: Olivon was the only one to maintain that they had been English
planes returning from Germany.
“They’re after Hitler’s fleet, mon yeutenant. That’s all the English care
about—they don’t give a damn for anything else.”
Grange was always struck by the broad winks the men exchanged
whenever English tactics were mentioned. For them, perfidious Albion was
still the master of cunning, exemplar of sly double-dealing.
“We’ll read about it in the papers,” Gourcuff concluded, who, when in
doubt, uncorked his bottle of red wine early.
But it was soon clear that the day was not to return so easily to its
customary somnolence. Once more a hum swelled on the horizon, less
powerful this time, apparently shifting toward the north; suddenly the slow
stream of black specks that glided over the forest began to caper about: two,
three, four huge explosions shook the morning, and from the belly of the
broken earth, in the direction of the distant cavalry billetings, rose the
furious cough of machine guns. And this time there was silence in the crew
room. A wisp of paltry gray smoke, almost disappointing after such racket,
slowly unraveled far above the woods. They stared at it a long time without
speaking a word.

“Better get dressed,” Gourcuff concluded sagely. The telephone rang.
“Is that you, Grange?” The voice was low, a little muffled, less ironic
than Grange would have supposed, despite the commotion in the
background: the captain’s office was unusually noisy this morning. “I’m
sending on the orders for number one alert. . . .” Varin’s voice emphasized
the word with humorous relish. “It’ll be confirmed in writing.” The voice
grew more familiar, almost bantering now: the captain must have got rid of
some official visitor. “That was one, you know, not two—we’ve still got
some discipline around here, even if we fight like customs inspectors. But
of course this is only an installment. You’ve got a radio?”
“No, ours is broken.”
“Too bad, my friend, too bad. It’s fascinating this morning. They’ve gone
into Holland, Belgium, and Luxembourg.” The captain’s tone changed to
one of advice: “Better send two of your men to the frontier. With tools. The
Belgians will lift their barricade this morning. Maybe they’ll need a hand.”
“I’ll send them right away.”
The captain did not hang up. “Are you all right?” he asked after a
moment’s silence, in a new tone in which there was a note of timidity.
“Why shouldn’t I be?”
“I mean .  .  .” The captain suddenly seemed embarrassed, confused. “I
mean, after all, this time, it has something to do with you.”
Grange felt the news had little effect on his men. The fog of the phony
war was lifting now, partially revealing a perspective that was not a pretty
one, and all too foreseeable. But there still remained a margin of uncertainty
where things could still get stuck, bogged down, extinguished. They would
live on that. Belgium, Holland—they were much closer than Norway. But
with a little ingenuity they could still keep things vague enough for comfort.
“At least we keep quiet about it,” Olivon said, glancing around the room
with a proprietary look. “It’s not like the cavalry,” he added hypocritically.
“They’ll be slobbering over it all day.”
During the first hours of the morning, the morale of the crew room began
to rise noticeably. Hervouët and Gourcuff came back from the frontier with
canteens of gin and pockets stuffed with cigarettes and little Belgian flags.
The burgomaster of Waregnies himself had come to raise the barricade.
There were a lot of women. The sentiments of the Belgians strongly
impressed the men. The news of the great distant shock had left them

stunned: they measured it by the recoil which almost instantaneously struck
along the frontier.
“The Boches—they’re going to get what’s coming to them!” Gourcuff
proclaimed, already red, sweaty, and optimistic with wine.
Toward eight, the traffic began to be heavy. Two sidecars and a
motorcycle went by, heading toward the frontier at top speed. Then a signal
truck and an engineer’s detachment. Behind the blockhouse, toward the
cavalry billetings, rose the whine of motors. Grange, Olivon, Gourcuff, and
Hervouët were sitting on the window sills, their legs dangling against the
wall, as if it were Bastille Day. The sun burned brightly, the morning was
cloudless. Toward nine, they heard a tremendous series of backfires in the
west which slowly turned into a low drone: the cavalry had begun to move.
It was the noise that triumphed over everything; a heavy, terebrating
commotion of armor plate, chains, canteens, caterpillar treads, and
shuddering metal that snatched at the nape of the neck and did not let go
again. The little groups of civilians standing at the roadside—appearing by
magic out of the empty woods to watch the procession—raised a few cheers
when the first tanks passed, but they soon left off, discouraged: now they
were waiting as if for a long freight train to pass; the men on the tanks rode
by, mute, indifferent, and almost allegorical, like firemen sitting in rows
along their ladders. The sun was already hot on armor plates; the crews
were in shirt sleeves, some naked to the waist—beneath their heavy
visorless helmets, the sweating faces seemed strangely young, but their
youth was worn, feverish, devoured from within, like the young men on
threshing machines or mine cars, thrown by loose handfuls into the maw of
the machine: rather than the roses on the rifles of 1914, one was reminded
of the railroad engineer lifting his goggles from his hollow, too brilliant
eyes, of the coal stoker in the bunker. And, as much as the tremendous
racket, it was this workmanlike, frightening taciturnity that froze the
roadside groups to silence before the strange grease-stained human stream
caught in steel up to the waist.
The caravan took a long time passing, its gray dust rolling heavily over
the treetops, with whistles, jams, squealing of brakes, and sudden stops that
roughly shook the tanks, making the armor plating clatter. And for a long
time, the blockhouse crew had not said a word: there was only the hard sun,
the stale, dry dust in their throats, the racket of hot steel and the grinding
stones of the road. By ten, the tanks passed at longer intervals: the supply

and service vehicles, as well as the liaison cars from behind the lines, had to
keep to the main highways, which were more practicable. From time to
time a few isolated sidecars passed, faster than tanks on the empty road.
Grange felt as if the show was over: the civilian groups were ragged now,
slowly moving off down the road, still in a daze; as the last tanks passed
they waved distractedly, not even stopping, as if to stragglers in a race.
Then there were two long, empty hours. Toward noon, an infantry
company came up the road toward Belgium. The men were marching in
Indian file on one side of the road, hugging the shade in widely spaced
detachments: they looked, Grange thought, much more as if they were
setting out on an adventure. The airplane put the infantry back in an earlier
age, reviving the convoy of salt-smugglers, the gay chouannerie of the
hedge-wars, the warpath of the Last of the Mohicans.
Grange offered the second lieutenant of the last section and his already
sweating men something to drink; he was suddenly a little ashamed of his
too-plentiful cellar. This morning, moreover, he wanted to exchange news
with everyone who passed: the road fastened its rumors upon him like
leeches. The infantry battalion was to cover the cavalry division: according
to the second lieutenant, they would be replacing the latter at the bridges.
“Only they’re on wheels and we’ve got our legs,” he added, his glass in
his hand, pink and smiling and a little out of breath. “There’s a mess up
there, believe me. We’re not anywhere near where we’re supposed to be.”
The men moved on. Their Meuse encampments had been machine-
gunned that morning. They disappeared with a curious movement, edging
along the trees, their helmets a little lopsided from glancing up so often at
the streak of open sky above the road.
During the afternoon, another procession appeared on the road, moving
in the opposite direction: the last inhabitants of Les Falizes were leaving to
be immediately evacuated from the Meuse stations. There was a gloomy,
almost military rhythm in this column with nothing of the sordid pathos of
farms abandoned in panic, barnyards full of feathers split from slashed
eiderdowns. Besides, there were very few people left at Les Falizes now:
the old men and the children had left at the beginning of winter with the
heavy baggage—and these last frontiersmen were like the population of an
empire’s disputed marches for whom the calendar held in store other risks
than frost or hail. They withdrew after notice had been given—rather
sternly, decorously, without calling the Heavens to witness, without balking,

accustomed to abrupt warnings, like men to whom the military authorities
have granted a few patches of ground in a rifle range. The women, almost
all young, wept quietly, sitting on neat packets of linen wrapped in sheets;
the men walked in silence, but with a firm expression, beside their carts;
even the Bihoreau boy limped after his donkey, fiercely hammering the road
with his wooden leg. Madame Tranet rode in his cart, her hair bound up in a
red kerchief: leaning against the side, already soiled by sweat and the jolts
of the road, she looked like a Russian baba; a veil of affliction and dust the
color of the road floated around the thin procession, and it was not only
anxiety which suddenly aged their faces; a powerful hand was shaking the
dice, they were entering the world of short farewells and vague separations;
already the countryside was slipping before their eyes in the faded colors of
recollection. Olivon embraced Madame Tranet, but the place and the
watching eyes embarrassed him: at the last moment he merely gave her a
great smack on the cheek. “The key’s next to the door,” she said in a low
voice, making a sign with one hand. “You know, for coffee. . . .”
Grange shook hands with her in silence.
“After the war, when we’ve hung old Hitler!” Gourcuff shouted without
conviction, but the words sounded like an obscenity and roused neither
echoes nor laughter. The procession moved off. Madame Tranet had untied
her kerchief; from farther and farther away, leaning against the cartrail, she
waved at them. The men walked on without turning back, their shoulders
heavy, their gait reconciled to long roads.
The exodus from Les Falizes suddenly cast a pall over the blockhouse,
which the cavalry’s splendid array had so excited only that morning.
Toward the end of the afternoon, a series of muffled, almost subterranean
explosions came from the south, very far away; the shock, instead of
shaking the window glass, seemed this time to rise from the concrete floor
which shuddered like an anvil under their feet: obscure messages, heavy
with significance, were passing deep in the bowels of the troubled earth.
The men in the crew room ate to pass the time, munching on bread and
pieces of chocolate: you could tell the war had actually begun by the sound
of grinding jaws that filled the silences. But at the impact of the explosions,
they stopped eating and immediately raised their heads toward the sound
with an expression of dull anxiety, like a horse looking up from its manger
and suddenly pricking up its ears. When the silence returned, after the
diminutive earthquake, they heard the birds cheeping in the trees quite near

the windows and beneath them the clatter of the empty bottles rolling across
the blockhouse floor—and for a long time they listened to the troubled
murmurs of the distance with that new ear they discovered deep within
themselves.
During the evening, Grange decided to go up to Les Falizes for some
bales of wire the engineers had left there: Moriarmé sent orders for the
immediate reinforcement of the blockhouse’s little emplacement. The last
hum of the airplanes had died away; there was a vacant sweetness in the
evening air, as if the day were secretly unclasping its armor, relieved of its
excessive tension; from far away came the dull hammering of a woodpecker
against the oak trunks, and its whinnying call as it flew off into the thickets.
The war’s tide had withdrawn, but leaving its gray foam hanging from the
bushes; on the path to Les Falizes, empty bottles, gasoline tins, and tin cans
littered the roadside—the soft asphalt, rolled by the caterpillar treads, was
corrugated with tiny gleaming ridges. When Grange stepped into the
clearing, the edge of the forest cast long shadows over the meadow; every
pane of the rest home’s windows gleamed in the warm light. When he
reached the first houses, Grange stopped for a moment, suddenly
uncomfortable, sat down on a boulder that had rolled into the roadside
grass, and held his breath a few seconds. He listened to the silence. It was a
flat, stale silence that fell across the honeyed sunlight and seemed to stuff
his ears with a soft wadding, like snow. When you took the road here, you
suddenly penetrated this silence the way you might fall on the other side of
a fence, a little stunned, disoriented, vaguely expecting a hand to be laid on
your shoulder.
“Is it possible I’m alone here?” Grange wondered stupidly, and
unconsciously turned around, his back tingling with an unpleasant shudder.
He looked at the tall, dark, already cool grass in which the boulder was
half-buried, the tiny empty road—palisaded with its closed, hostile doors
and windows—where the wind noiselessly raised tiny cones of dust. The
windows of the rest home darkened now, and the light suddenly seemed to
have fallen; a fine powder sanded the gray of the walls: the colors of tiles,
shutters, and doors had already faded.
Grange left the road and turned into the alley that ran behind the houses;
he walked to Mona’s house between cabbage beds, tiny haystacks, and bean
poles. He had not been back to Les Falizes since she had left; mechanically
he drummed two or three times against the latch. Again he turned around,

seized by a stronger foreboding: a half-dozen white hens had stopped
scratching at the haystack and were staring at him, one foot raised,
fastening their red eyes on him with a low cackle: it was as if these ignorant
creatures, at this twilight moment between night and day, lamented their
separation from man in the tones of a secret, wary council. When he raised
the latch and pushed the door, it opened easily. With the shutters closed the
room was very dark at this late hour; he could see only the little brass table
gleaming in the dim air, and the waxed panels of the cupboards barely
awakened by the light from the half-open door. The room’s incredible
disorder was gone: the hammock was folded, the complicated network of
string too; an ageless cloistral sadness flowed from these severe furnishings,
from the bare walls that smelled of the long winter’s dry rot, mingled with
the waxy odor of the rough linen piled in the cupboards. A great blue fly
wakened on a curtain, surprised by the ray of light, and began to buzz
noisily in the heavy air.
“Well, it was here.  .  .  .” Grange thought, frightened. He wanted to go
away; the silence pressed strangely against his temples. He was nauseated
by this close air, this ancient chalky light that slipped between the blinds
and the windowframe. He opened the door wide; a hen appeared on the sill,
thrusting her head forward to inspect the half-darkness, but the rug seemed
to bewilder her; after a moment of perplexity she disappeared toward her
hay with a cluck of disdain. Through the limpid air he could still hear, at
increasing intervals, the cries of the birds gathering for the night in the cafe
chestnut tree. Grange sat on the bed for a moment dreaming: the bed
yielded to his weight with a familiar creak of its springs; a sudden desire to
lie down here seized him, to turn his face to the wall, forever abandoning
thoughts and dreams. In an hour, the forest night would come in through the
open door with its wild aromas, its wary noises, absolving this feverish
world; he eagerly imagined the pool of calm, the cool darkness that would
filter into the hollow of the closed house with the night; he felt as if
something inside himself had been desperately choked off, stopped flowing.
His throat closed; he shrugged his shoulders nervously. The key was still in
the lock; he closed the door, locked it, and put the key in his pocket.
Outside it was still light, but already chilly; a tender, delicate network of
yellow light slipped across the vegetable beds through the peach and cherry
trees.

He easily found the rolls of wire in a padlocked lean-to behind the rest
home. There was nothing more to do at Les Falizes, but he had no desire to
return to the blockhouse: the night would be heavy and uncertain, and the
idea that Varin might have telephoned the blockhouse depressed him again.
He set out on the little road once more, climbing back up toward Les
Platanes, walking hesitantly. Several windows that overlooked the road had
no curtains now; their mute stare both embarrassed and attracted him: he
zigzagged from one to the next across the empty street. When he pressed
his face against one, he could see, through the uneven little panes set with
green bottle ends, the red tiles of the bare floor, the sheetless walnut bed,
and on the smoky walls the pale rectangles where the fly-specked mirrors
and family photographs had been taken down; sometimes, over the bed,
where there was a pale cross, the Easter palm, still fresh, was hanging on a
nail or trailing across the gray-striped cotton mattress cover. It was these
pale areas on the walls that gave a particular impression of dilapidation: the
houses seemed to have surrendered, capitulated altogether, as if a tiny night
light had just gone out here, in broad daylight. Occasionally Grange stopped
in spite of himself to listen: the birds were no longer scolding now, he could
hear only a gentle cheeping in the cafe chestnut tree, and, far behind the
house, the thrushes calling at the forest’s edge.
From the little gardens, in the motionless air, the odor of syringa, lilac,
and wisteria drifted across the road, each perfectly distinct. When he
reached the Café des Platanes, Grange remembered Madame Tranet’s last
words.
“After all, it was an invitation,” he decided, plucking up his courage. The
umbrella had disappeared, but the garden table and chairs were still there.
The chestnut tree, drowned in its diminishing racket of birds, threw a deep
shadow across the little terrace, which looked like a scene from a play; the
door at the back was only waiting for the moonlight in order to open.
Grange went in and after searching the glazed cupboard with his flashlight,
picked out a bottle of cognac. Suddenly he felt terribly thirsty; he went to
the well and filled a bucket with water. In the abandoned silence, the pulley
made a tremendous, incongruous racket: a disapproving cackle awakened in
the chestnut tree, but muffled, already nocturnal. “If I stayed here, I’d begin
talking to the birds,” Grange thought. The western sky remained luminous
and yellow; below him, through the blacksmith-shop windows, the
schoolroom desks glowed in the watery light like so many little mirrors. He

sat back in his chair and comfortably stretched his legs out on the table. A
black cat crossed the road, carefully setting down its paws one after the
other, stared at him slyly a moment, then, after due consideration, jumped
onto the terrace. Grange picked it up by the back of the neck; once on his
lap, the animal, which at first tried to escape, began to purr lewdly, like a
tiny captive city. Grange drank slowly, feeling a vague exaltation,
something of the uneasy ecstasy of “anything goes,” a suppressed desire for
night plunder and broken crockery, as well as the pure well-being that
streamed from the cool evening, and, far beneath, a muffled animal anguish
born of this silence that promised the trumpets of Judgment. But the warm
little life that slept on his knees reassured him.
“Mon lieutena-ant! . . .”
He heard Hervouët shouting for him at the first houses of the village as
though from the depths of a dark forest. Together they searched the houses,
sometimes using their flashlights in the late twilight, and finally discovered
an old wheelbarrow onto which they loaded the rolls of barbed wire. Now
that there were two of them, the solitude of the phantom village became
quite pleasant: they felt free and bold, ready for adventure, glad to be
carrying with them whatever they had. Before leaving, they took another
cognac under the chestnut tree. The night had fallen, calm and very clear;
above their heads, the tree against the sky was a heavy, irregular cloud of
ink casting a darker shadow on the terrace, but through its fringe of leaves
and even in its rents twinkled a swarm of stars; they spoke in low voices,
peacefully, with intervals of silence; the solitude, the odor of the forest, the
velvet shadow of the chestnut tree, the ghostly royalty of this dead village,
gave Grange an impression of singular luxury. The earth was wild once
more, rejuvenated by an aroma of high grass and night campfires, restoring
the fierce moods of an outdoor life; there was a silence that filled his ears;
something in man was avenged here, and cheered: it was as if the sky were
full of new stars. Hidden in the shadow of the trees, only the red tips of
their cigarettes moving, they stared into the blue darkness at the road, the
roofs that were beginning to soften in the moonlight. The bats had stopped
fluttering around the chestnut tree; from the edge of the nearby forest rose
the wood owl’s strange challenge.
OceanofPDF.com

THE morning of the next day was very still. The road from Les Falizes was
empty; the forest returned to its solitude. But the Roof’s calm was no longer
the same. The time hung heavily; a weight had formed beneath the men’s
stomachs, a turbulence seized hands and feet alike. No one wanted to sit
down—they ate their lunch standing at the window. The air was warm and
heavy. The dust of the day before still whitened the motionless leaves; only
a film of heat trembled over the road.
Toward the middle of the afternoon, the look of things suddenly changed.
A heavy whine rose with the heat from the Meuse, and one after another,
almost simultaneously, bouquets of huge explosions burst around the arc of
the western horizon. And this time smoke rose over the forest horizon—
gray and slow: first three columns, than seven, eight, ten, fifteen. They were
not disturbing, not even really sinister. But they were there, unavoidably
inflecting the landscape, like a new season; come what might, they would
no longer be living without them. A swift hand had run along the Roof’s
edge, lighting the footlights. “The theater of war,” Grange reflected. “Not a
bad description.” What astonished him was this brutal crescendo, this
thundering, rattling way of setting the scene, and then, suddenly, this
oblivion, this void—a drunkard who pounds on the table hard enough to
break it in two, then foggily tries to remember what he was so angry about.
“Well, still, it’s only the Meuse they’re bombing,” he told himself later,
disturbed all the same. “What could be more normal than a bombardment?
Why, it would be surprising if they didn’t bomb it. The roads, and the
Belgian railway—everything’s over that way.” Puzzled, he looked out of his
window at the smoke on the horizon; two or three columns were already
fraying out, fading. While he watched an idea stirred in his mind—vague
still, but troublesome, stubborn as an odor. He had noticed with some
surprise that there had been no troops passing toward Belgium after the
infantry battalion. Since the night before, the road had been empty:
apparently there was to be no infantry support behind the cavalry.

“That’s funny,” he reflected. “What are they waiting for? Then .  .  .
Maybe Varin and the battalion have been bombed out.” With his compass
Grange tried to take bearings on Moriarmé, which seemed to coincide
behind the woods with one of the heaviest columns of smoke, but to his
surprise he realized he was doing this only for form’s sake, almost absent-
mindedly. His horizon of awareness was shrinking: from that too he could
tell the war had really come.
The men finished laying the rolls of wire. The bombardment had made
them sullen, but the work went on all the faster: it kept them from thinking.
Between the blows of his wooden mallet, Gourcuff was muttering furiously
through clenched teeth. The wire had no barbs on it: the engineers had left
only the dregs at Les Falizes; the great nickel-plated rolls, spread in zigzags
around the blockhouse, looked like a playground.
“There’s something missing, mon yeutenant, don’t you think?” Olivon
asked, when the job was through. He had stepped back a few yards to get a
better look, squinting at the shabby structure with a curious expression. “We
ought to hang up a sign: beware of the dog.”
Toward evening, Moriarmé called to confirm the barbwire emplacement,
and ordered them to check whether munitions stocks, rockets, and reserve
supplies were at full strength.
“I’m sending up the truck with a replacement rocket-gun,” Varin added.
“Rocket-guns never work. Nev-er.”
In spite of himself Grange imagined the inimitable flaring of the nostrils
at the other end of the wire. But the captain must have been interrupted, for
Sergeant Prinet took the receiver.
“Did you get bombed?” Grange inquired politely.
“Not much damage, mon lieutenant. Some horses. And a few houses. Les
Verreries . . .”
“Any news?” Grange’s voice was somewhat less detached than he would
have liked.
“Nothing definite,” Prinet said, after a second’s hesitation. “The radio
says the Germans have crossed the Albert Canal.”
It was strange to discover how much or how little names could mean
now. The Albert Canal was far away, in the north. The lower reaches of the
Scheldt. The others. . . .
“And toward our lines?”
“No one knows,” Prinet answered. “The cavalry is in Belgium.”

“All by itself?”
“Well . . . yes, I think so, mon lieutenant.” Prinet seemed surprised. “No
one’s ready to move down here. They’re all waiting.”
Behind Prinet’s voice, he could just hear a radio in the office playing La
Brabançonne. Suddenly, mysteriously, the planet’s spasm was exploding
here: the sound of the sea when you hold a shell to your ear. Outside, the
feathery shadow of a little cloud crossed the road, climbed the wall of trees
like a squirrel—and through the open window Grange could hear birds
chirping peacefully.
At nightfall, after dinner, the crew sat outside, smoking on the grass near
the road: in the blockhouse these days they felt like fish stranded on a
beach. Grange remembered how on August 2, 1914, his whole town had
gathered on the quay with their dinners on their laps, for a gigantic picnic.
Everyone brought chairs outdoors—to be within reach of signs. Some one
saw a flag in the moon, someone else mentioned a tidal wave that was
moving up the river: it was some experiment with a mysterious explosive:
Turpin powder. The memory was one of the delights of his childhood. They
had forgotten to send him to bed that night; the world was in its second
childhood.
The conversation turned to the bombings. During the afternoon Hervouët
had met a man from Les Buttés who had come back up from the Meuse.
There was more damage than they had supposed. Blockhouses along the
river had been attacked. The man from Les Buttés said that the planes dived
straight toward their target with some kind of terrible siren sounding at the
same time. Grange could tell from their faces that the men were particularly
affected by the siren. They were scandalized. That hoax, a dirty, nasty trick
at such a moment conflicted with some innate, obscure code of honor. It
was the symbol of a depraved character, the quintessence of cunning, the
one hold not allowed.
“They must be rotten clear through to the bone,” Gourcuff said, nodding.
Now, with the darkness, the planes returned over the Meuse, not bombing
this time, but on a lingering prowl, probably photographing the afternoon’s
fires. Lying on their elbows in the dim, already dewy grass, they lit
cigarettes and silently watched the battle for a moment. It was like the last
lights of a fair going out on the far horizon beneath the cold stars. From the
valley rose a chain of tracer bullets—great, slow bubbles of light that

mounted one after another into the night’s darkness. Then the short burst of
anti-aircraft guns, like the clicking of a roulette wheel.
OceanofPDF.com

AS THEY were going back inside, the truck from Moriarmé stopped and
switched off its lights. The driver cursed the road, which had been cut up by
the cavalry. He was still shaken by the afternoon’s bombing, but from the
snatches of news he dropped they could guess that the atmosphere in
Moriarmé had grown heavier. The engineers had pulled all the boats to the
left bank of the Meuse; the barges for blowing up the bridge had been put in
position; the refugees were camped in front of the station and in the streets,
waiting for a train that didn’t come, already hungry.
“When the civilians clear out . . .” the driver said, with a grimace. “And
even so, in a way, it isn’t the refugees so much. Up here, mon lieutenant,
you don’t have any idea. You haven’t seen the cavalry wounded go
through.”
The truck drove off down the road, its headlights on now as it jolted
noisily along the service path to Les Buttés. They could follow it far into
the calm night from all the clatter it made. The darkness of the forest where
its little lights bounced along seemed suddenly greater, vaguer, as
bewildering as the sea itself.
Just as Grange was about to get into bed, Moriarmé telephoned,
reminding them that all blockhouse garrisons were now under cavalry
orders.
“I know,” Grange said, a little surprised. “Of course.”
“You still haven’t received orders?”
“No.”
There was a dumfounded silence at the other end of the wire. “All right,”
the voice said at last, crossly and with great precision. “Call tomorrow
morning early if nothing comes through. Call without fail.”
Grange stretched out on his bed, bewildered. Something in the unknown
voice warned him not to take off his clothes. “What’s going on?” he
wondered, his head throbbing—“and why does everyone in Moriarmé have
insomnia?” At the same time a phrase ran through his mind, a bitter little
phrase with a hint of poison in it: “the cavalry wounded.” Neither the planes

nor the bombs had stirred his imagination—even the Roof suddenly
blooming with its columns of smoke still looked a little like a natural
phenomenon to him. But with “the cavalry wounded” he was suddenly
touched; the words opened a valve somewhere, unlocked a door that led to
a new country. “Will that be coming through here?” he wondered, dazed
and slightly scandalized at the same time. He glanced toward the forest and
shrugged his shoulders. “The Ardennes?” he repeated to himself,
incredulous, as if the word could have reassured him, warded off danger
—“The Ardennes! . . .” They would have to be crazy to try. . . .
Toward two in the morning he awakened, shivering in a draft; he got up
to close the window. The night was perfectly calm, and yet not quite asleep:
looking hard at the slightly darker line of the forest horizon, he could see
the sky above waken at long intervals with a sudden, unidentifiable blink of
light. It was a quick, isolated flash, with nothing of the soft palpitation of
heat lightning; instead it was as if a heavy hammer behind the horizon were
pounding out red-hot iron on an enormous anvil with regular strokes.
Grange strained his ears for a few minutes to hear the noises of the night: a
gentle wind stirred the high branches; from the Meuse came the faint rolling
sound of a distant train. Now another blink was alternating with the first,
veering toward the right; his heart stirred with vague apprehension, Grange
stared at the strange sky that reddened slightly as its lights sparkled over the
forest. He turned on his lamp; then, using the outside ladder, he climbed
into the half-attic and raised the trap door to the roof.
His eyes swept across the treetops, and the source of the reddish glow
suddenly became perceptible: a tiny, very distinct point of light which
appeared at long intervals at the limit of the horizon. The languid rhythm,
the air’s motionlessness, and the silence made him think of a slow drop
falling at intervals from the night’s vaults in exactly the same place, with
that tiny explosion spattering against the tip of a stalagmite—when he
looked very carefully, he could see a faint pinkish foam stirring for a
moment around the point of the flame. The night was soft and calm; Grange
no longer felt the cold; leaning on the edge of the wide-open trap door, his
chin in both hands, he watched, spellbound, as slow flame mysteriously
oozed up out of the earth.
“It’s very far away,” he mused, “toward Bouillon, maybe Florenville. But
what is it?” From time to time he pulled his blanket closer around his
shoulders. Toward two-thirty, the flashes grew rarer, then the strange meteor

stopped altogether: the night seemed suddenly close, stifling with the
exhalations of its growth. Grange suddenly felt the cold; he climbed down
to bed, his mind in a daze. Passing the open door of the crew room, he
listened to the men’s breathing for a moment. It seemed to make the overly
calm night where the sinister lights prowled easier to bear. He felt
comforted that they were sleeping so well.
OceanofPDF.com

THERE are hours when it seems as if a heavy palm were pressing hard upon
the earth, full of darkness, like the butcher’s hand as he quickly, gently,
strokes the calf’s frontal bone before bringing down the felling-ax; and at
its touch, the earth itself senses the blow and shrinks: as though the very
light had turned sour, the morning winds blowing hot and heavy. No
interpretable sign has come, but the anxiety is there, in the suddenly
thickened sickroom air: all at once a man feels neither hunger nor thirst, but
only his courage draining away, and he begins to breathe heavily, as if the
world were weighing on his heart.
“It’s Sunday,” Grange realized with a joyless yawn, seeing the dawn pale
at his window. He had slept badly. The blockhouse steeped in a silence that
was a little oppressive, a silence of stagnant water. Mechanically Grange
glanced down the empty road. He felt ill at ease. This emptiness, these
sleeping roads unoccupied even by behind-the-lines preparation—it was
strange, improbable, somehow magical: a road to the Sleeping Beauty’s
castle. As he came down the iron staircase he lit a cigarette. The morning
seemed mild and aqueous, but on the grass the dew was already very cold;
the thought of Olivon’s hot coffee almost made him turn back, but he had
decided to walk as far as the bend of the road where the engineers had
installed a mine field. He thought he would find a sappers’ guard post there:
perhaps there would be news.
There was no one at all. The road had sagged a little above the mine
field, banked with dirt that was too soft; in the caterpillar ruts little puddles
had accumulated, darkened now by the overhanging foliage. The two bare
ends of the detonating wire, sticking out of the ground, led a little farther
and came to an end on a heap of gravel.
“That’s funny,” Grange thought, puzzled. He sat down on the gravel,
distinctly out of sorts. It was as if there were no sounds in the forest for a
mile around; he strained his ears toward the birdless treetops, vaguely
troubled by this suspect disappearance of man and animal, this site
suggestive of desertion. Suddenly, as he was lighting his cigarette again,

there was a rent in the motionless air, high above his head: a long, shrill
clatter, as if a celestial express train were rushing along its tracks, rattling at
top speed around curves: the heavy artillery of the Meuse was opening fire
on Belgium.
Then it seemed to Grange that things happened very quickly. He was
scarcely halfway back to the blockhouse when a powerful whine of motors
began to burrow and thunder through the forest on all sides at once, with the
unceremoniousness of a troop of beaters going into a thicket, and suddenly
the whole Roof shivered with the tremendous racket of bombs and machine
guns. Grange stood for a moment amazed: the forest was vibrating like a
street shaken by the uproar of a pneumatic drill; he felt himself shaken by
the vehement, incomprehensible tremors that ran through him, from the
soles of his feet and from his ears as well. He rushed off the road down a
path where the arches of thick-leaved branches showed only a tiny streak of
white sky. As soon as he felt himself out of sight, the racket seemed less
overpowering: he realized that it was caused by motors rather than by
explosions: there were long quiet spells. Reassured, Grange immediately set
out for the blockhouse again beneath the roaring sky, but some ten yards
ahead the worn asphalt that paved the road here began to fry strangely: it
took him a second or two to realize that he was being machine-gunned: he
ran back to where the service path turned off. He lit another cigarette, much
more comfortable: the noise relieved him. From time to time the sky
overhead, in a roar of motors, was crossed by a sudden flight of black
shapes; there was nothing else to be discovered—when Grange went as far
as the road to peer out, he saw flattened against the sky, which was lighter
overhead, clusters of thinly scattered planes flying high and quite slowly, as
if they were swimming against a current. What he noticed was their
peaceful, easy movement of fish in water, the way they had of spreading out
so comfortably high in the air, ignoring one another, like schools of fish that
cross without noticing it, each going about its business at different levels in
the transparency of the deeps. It suggested a serene, nonchalant occupation
of the elements, except that from time to time the brutal racket suddenly
broke out again and rose toward its high point, tearing through the shoals of
air where these soft constellations were floating.
The planes disappeared as they had come, carried away by a shift of
wind. A stale smell of dust wafted over the forest. Out of the road, scarred
now with a tiny whiplash, Grange picked a great round bullet. The idea that

he had been under fire was disconcerting, a little preposterous. The
blockhouse had not been attacked: he found his men, a little pale, sitting on
boxes, glasses in hand.
“Well now, well now!” Gourcuff was saying, shaking his head. Olivon
filled Grange’s glass without a word; the bullet passed from hand to hand,
weighed in their palms, shiny and heavy. Grange picked up the telephone.
Moriarmé did not answer. He shook the lifeless receiver for a moment
against his ear, incredulous, and quickly hung up, for the men were staring
at him. The line had been cut.
“All right. Clean-up time!” he said, his voice suddenly harsh. “We’re
moving downstairs.”
There was little combustible material in the fireproof upper story. They
moved two straw mattresses and some blankets to the blockhouse below,
then began carrying down a few pieces of furniture by the iron stairway, but
this took too long: tables, chairs, even a little chest, flew out of the windows
over the barbed wire. The sound of splintering wood gave them heart to
finish the job.
“It’s good and empty now,” Olivon remarked officiously. “And it looks
more natural—for the camouflage, I mean. As though we’d cleared out.”
When they had moved into the concrete block, they opened some tin cans
and ate a little, but with small appetite. From time to time they looked up,
feeling out of place, and sniffed the stale air, dank with the odor of roots
and earth that rose from the open hatchway. The black cat Grange had
brought back from Les Falizes tentatively rested its paws on the cold
concrete before disdainfully taking refuge on a crate. They quickly
reopened the armored door and went back out into the air. As they were
sitting down on the grass, a sidecar appeared, leading a cyclone of tanks
rolling at top speed along the road from Belgium, followed by infantry
trucks, mounted guns, half-tracks, and machine-gun tanks, the paint chipped
where bullets had hit; hanging on to bumpers, fenders, wherever there was a
place to catch hold, rode a swarm of furiously peddling cyclists apparently
standing on the dust of the road, while clusters of refugees crowded the
running boards and hoods—even an old butcher’s van had been caught up
in this wild cavalcade, its rack of swaying carcasses covered by a filthy
mustard gray. The procession was heading for the Meuse—an avalanche in
a tunnel of dust, the muddy, rumbling stream roaring like a herd of water
buffalo running from a jungle fire toward a ford in the river.

“Hey, cavalry—you pulling out?” Hervouët shouted, but his voice was
not even meant to carry. The men sat there on the tanks, not turning their
heads, not speaking, only twisting the corners of their mouths in the slow,
tired grin of a boxer hanging from the ropes.
Suddenly the stream dried up, and then, before the dust had settled, a
single machine-gun tank, not moving so fast, its barrel pointing to the rear,
lurched by the blockhouse. As it was about to pass, the tank stopped with a
squeal of brakes and out of the tower appeared a helmet with a leather strap,
then a face with hands cupped around the mouth, shouting in stupefaction
toward the blockhouse, “It’s no time to show off in there! The Germans are
ten minutes behind us.”
The tank started up again. Grange turned toward his men: it seemed to
him their faces had turned quite gray—suddenly he felt a heavy blow land
on his nape—and he mechanically raised his wrist at the man’s words;
“what time is it?” he wondered quite stupidly—“eleven?” For the first time
that day he looked at his watch.
It was four in the afternoon. Behind the forest, with the dry click of a
circuit being cut, the bridges over the Meuse were exploding, one after
another.
OceanofPDF.com

THEY dashed into the blockhouse and slammed the armored door behind
them. There was a moment of panic: their fingers trembled, fumbling, as
they opened the ammunition boxes. When the clatter of greased steel
stopped for a moment, the only sound was a deep breathing that hissed like
soup in a caldron. Grange felt a little faint, his eyes were burning; at the
same time, a hard little laugh as dry as it was annoying rose under his ribs,
and Grange felt his spirits rise with it.
“This is real army slapstick,” he muttered to himself, “and we’re all part
of it”—unconsciously a scowl of grim hilarity wrinkled his cheeks. “With
the meat van! Now what do they think I’m going to do here?” He felt like
putting his hands on his hips. “With my three anabaptists! .  .  . And the
mines didn’t even go off!” Somehow this scandalized him more than
anything else: vengefully he kicked the instruction folders removed from
his files. “Asses!” he thought again, with disgusted impartiality. “Stupid
asses!” He would have been unable to say just what he meant: the words
were a kind of doting absolution that dismissed the world from all appeal,
consigned it once and for all to its old chaos.
When the weapons were ready, Gourcuff filled their glasses from his
canteen. Hervouët lit his cigarette, which had gone out, from Grange’s: each
mouth felt the other suck in the smoke with short, greedy puffs. Then, with
the sandbags that were piled in one corner, they finished stuffing the gun
embrasure as well as they could. The redoubt suddenly grew very dim; they
could no longer hear the noises of the forest; only a thin ray of light flashed
down the barrel of the gun: it was as if the blockhouse were sinking into the
ground. Grange opened the door wide again: the darkness had become more
oppressive than their fear; again they heard the calm sounds of the woods.
“We can see them coming, after all,” he said, blinking in the sudden
brightness. They listened for a moment to the murmurs that slipped through
the open door, as gentle to hear as a cool wind against their faces.
“Can’t hear a thing,” Hervouët declared, shaking his head. “Not a thing.”

The light began to grow yellower. Through the door they could see only
the underbrush which reached almost to the blockhouse on this side: a
moist, writhing chaos of growth.
“Eagle ferns,” Grange thought, “those are eagle ferns.” It was as if he
were seeing them for the first time. He felt a curious joy at having identified
the plant: as if he had called an animal by its name. Again they listened for
a long time to the silence that flowed through the door, as warming as a lull
in the wind.
“We should fall back,” Grange mused, giddy with indecision. “If we stay
here waiting for orders! . . . The cavalry that was supposed to pick us up
must have swallowed its assignment, that’s for sure.” But he felt no desire
to leave: the sun-drenched silence pleased him, and just the thought of
Moriarmé with its uproar of sweating and exhausted troops, the merciless
grinding of machinery, gave him a fit of nausea. And now that the fog of
terror was beginning to dissolve, a tiny, bracing idea began to fill his mind:
what luck—after all, what really amazingly good luck—that the telephone
was cut.
“After all, it couldn’t be clearer,” he decided, suddenly relieved. “There
are no orders: they will have to make a move to send them up to me. No
orders, no falling back.”
Somewhat hypocritically he added, to comfort himself further, “Besides,
if I don’t see anything coming, what’s to stop me from sending Gourcuff
down to Moriarmé?”
He looked at his watch again. It was almost five. The men were now
slipping out of the blockhouse one by one, basking in the sun against the
warm concrete. The end of the afternoon was very calm; a warm, ripening
light already stretched shadows across the road.
“They don’t give a damn about us, those cavalry guys,” Hervouët said,
and spat on the ground.
Grange took a few steps down the road, sniffing at the wind. Toward
Moriarmé, as toward Belgium, there was nothing in sight. But once he had
passed the blockhouse, it was like emerging from a zone of silence:
suddenly, far off but very distinctly, came the heavy roll of cannonfire,
rising behind him to the north, from the direction of the valley. Toward
Belgium, the silence was absolute, and almost magical: the sun, as far as the
eye could reach, gilded the soft undulations of the forest with a stormy
yellow that rose, range after range, to the horizon. Grange gestured toward

the blockhouse: the four men stood clustered in the middle of the road,
slowly turning their heads and listening for the sounds in the wind.
“It’s over the Meuse,” Hervouët said at last, in a tone of voice that
rendered homage to the facts. “From around Les Braux, I think.”
And the fear returned, no longer the hot, brutal breath of panic that had
catapulted them inside the blockhouse, but a marvelous, almost appealing
terror that Grange felt rising from the depths of his childhood—from fairy
tales: the terror of children lost in the woods at twilight, listening to the
faraway branches crack beneath the dreadful heels of the seven-league
boots.
They waited. Once they had picked it out, the rumble of cannonfire filled
their ears wherever they were: there was nothing else to hear; it was as if all
life in this corner of the earth were escaping, leaking toward that one
awakened site. On each side of the road, the forest walls hid the columns of
smoke: when Grange put his fingers in his ears for a second, all he could
see down the road was a gentle May afternoon already warm under the
golden haze, marvelously flowing toward the blue distances. As the
moments passed, Grange felt braced by unreal security, a paradoxical result
of the battle’s giant strides which had overstepped them. The air grew
deliciously cool; the filmy light, slanting through the late-afternoon forest,
was so rich, so unaccustomed, that he had a sudden, irresistible desire to
bathe in it, to steep his limbs in the coppery glow.
“What’s to stop me?” he asked himself, with another burst of vague
jubilation. “The bridges are cut. I’m alone here. I can do what I want. . . .”
He lit a cigarette and with his hands in his pocket began to walk down the
middle of the road. “Stay there,” he shouted back at the blockhouse. “I’ll
take a look.” The cannon had begun rumbling from farther away now; there
were long silences when they could hear the crows resuming their racket in
the oak trees. “There’s probably not more than one French soldier east of
the Meuse by now,” Grange thought as he walked along. “Who knows
what’s happening? Maybe nothing at all!” But at this notion, which seemed
almost plausible to him, Grange’s heart beat with dim excitement; he felt
his mind floating high on the waters of catastrophe. “Maybe nothing at all!”
The earth seemed fair and pure to him, as it must have been after the flood;
two magpies alighted together beside the road ahead, looking like fabled
creatures, carefully smoothing their long tails on the grass. “How far could I
walk like this?” he wondered with astonishment, and it seemed to him that

his eyes pressed against their sockets to the point of pain: there must be
faults, unknown veins in the earth, into which he could vanish for once and
all. At moments he stopped and listened: he could hear nothing for several
minutes; the world seemed to go back to sleep, having shaken itself free of
men with a sluggish wriggle of its shoulders. “Maybe I’m on the other
side,” he mused happily; never had he felt so close to himself. He began to
whistle and took off his helmet which he swung beside him from its chin
strap, like a basket; now and then he touched his pistol butt in its unbuckled
holster; all sense of danger had faded, but the touch of the weapon cooled
his finger tips; he encouraged this strange new sense of self-sufficiency, of
carrying everything he possessed on his back. “With a cane in your hand!
. . .” He thought of Varin with a burst of gaiety, then the memory of Mona
surged through his mind with the perfume of the May forest: he was
beginning to understand what Varin had guessed in his own way, what she
had released in him without knowing it: this need to cast off his moorings
one by one, this sense of unburdening, of profound frivolity that made his
heart leap up—a command to drop everything. “I’ve been tied by a rotten
thread all this time,” he decided with a low laugh. From time to time he
kicked a stone ahead of him. “The forest,” he thought again. “I’m in the
forest.” He couldn’t have said anything more than that: it was as if his mind
were yielding to a better kind of light. Walking was enough: the world
opened gently before him as he advanced, like a ford through a river.
“There are no Germans,” he suddenly said aloud, shrugging his shoulders
and raising his index finger before him, his voice ripe with the wisdom of
drunkards. He felt a little like a drunkard, in fact, staggering now because
suddenly every axis passed through him at once: legislator and judge,
invulnerable, redeemed.
He passed near the mine field and continued on toward the frontier. The
slope of the road now concealed the blockhouse. The cannonfire had
stopped; the silence was complete. Here, where the forest grew higher,
shadows already covered the road, but above the treetops the bright sky ran
on, more inviting in its soft escape than anything on earth. Between the ruts,
a patch of grass had invaded the road: the forest seemed to close over it
more densely. Grange felt pressing against his shoulders an unknown wind
that rose over this uncertain, lawless earth, open wider than the night’s
imaginings.

“I’d just have to keep going,” he mused, his head whirling, with a gesture
that was almost an assent. Again his gaze plunged down the road; this time
he thought he saw a tiny shadow moving in the distance and then
disappearing again: a man, or an animal, had just disappeared into the
underbrush with a timid, agile hop.
He cocked his pistol and walked on. The man had not run any further:
probably at the end of fear and courage, he was crouched behind an ash-
bole almost at the edge of the road, chin on knees. On the other side of the
tree that half concealed him he stuck out his head and stared in Grange’s
eyes without even making a gesture of escape, his squirrellike eyes
inflamed and watery. There was a terror so naked in these round, red,
apparently lidless eyes that the man seemed tiny and imponderable: one
might have picked him out from behind that tree trunk with one hand.
Judging from his face, he was a tramp, a poacher, or perhaps one of those
Flemish laborers who carry their lunch over their shoulders in a sack
through the beet fields of Picardy; the sack, the patched jacket, the old
hobnailed boots, certainly indicated that he was no stranger to the life of the
roads. Grange realized that the retreat must have forced out of its dens a
whole curious tribe who found themselves homeless without making much
of a fuss—the way the rain floods out the snails. The Belgian seemed only
half-reassured by Grange’s uniform: evidently fear of the enemy coincided
with another, older, fear of the police. This somewhat disquieting survivor
of the fogs did not displease Grange: at such a moment he had no desire to
listen to anyone’s whimpering.
The man had run away from his village, near Marche, the morning
before. A German armored detachment had set fire to it soon after.
“With rapid-fire cannons!” the man declared, his throat dry and his
Adam’s apple bobbing up and down. The use of such an astounding weapon
seemed to take his breath away. But the rest of his story was uncertain; his
professional discretion revealed only traces of what must have been a
private, game-stocked route, a cross-country circuit strewn with chicken
feathers. It seemed he had met no one.
“Fantastic!” Grange wondered, astonished. The touch of the
incomprehensible void that widened around him made him even more
enthusiastic: he flung himself into it. Deep within himself, he admitted to
doing so a little complacently: he was combatting what was agonizing with
what was unheard-of.

They walked back to the blockhouse, talking calmly. The sun had set
now; the night was already gathering in the shadows. Grange did not want
to let his Belgian go; impulsively, he offered to put him up for the night.
“It’s quiet around here,” he declared with a briskness less and less assumed,
“and thank God we’ve more than enough. Besides, it’s getting dark.” As
they walked on, he made a number of remarks to his Belgian companion
full of a detached optimism, slightly light-headed: the war, Grange said, had
its ups and its downs, but what mattered was knowing “how to take it or
leave it”—here, anyway, everyone was in a good mood.
“It takes more than what’s happened around here to shake up old
soldiers!” he whispered in his companion’s ear, winking and pinching his
arm. The Belgian began to glance at him sidelong with an odd expression.
As they walked on in the gathering darkness, Grange waved his
handkerchief toward the blockhouse, fearing a random shot; at the end of
the path he could guess three pairs of eyes keener than those in a crow’s-
nest were watching, and this notion stirred him. “I’m bringing something
back,” he thought, “but neither crow nor dove.” The darkness around them
was beginning to black out the ground altogether. Occasionally he glanced
at his companion, who seemed to be floating rather than walking beside him
on the road, his gait singularly light. It was a scarcely human presence—
rather that of a peculiar bat fluttering here in the twilight that rose over the
earth. Grange felt perfectly calm. The world seemed no longer inhabited
save by dead souls—faint and light as the tongues of fire hovering over the
marshes; the time for questions had come to an end, the day had died away.
“It’s really very late,” he thought, almost placidly. “Between night and day
. . . but it’s not such a bad time. You can see better than you’d think.”
He found his garrison not so much nervous as hungry. It seemed to
Grange that Gourcuff was already almost drunk. They took advantage of the
remaining light that still floated beneath the trees to eat their dinner. An
unsteady table and two or three chairs had survived the shipwreck of the
house above; they fished them out of the underbrush and dragged them
behind the blockhouse, where the branches shadowed a tiny weedy lawn,
almost within arm’s reach of the road. The silence of the forest had become
ghostly—for a long time now the rumbling of the cannons had stopped
entirely—above them, the foliage grew heavier and darker; but from the cut
of the road, to the right, where the gravel gleamed in the last twilight,
filtered a strange gray light the color of stone. When night had fallen, they

set two empty bottles on the table and stuck candles in them: the air was so
still that a thin thread of smoke rose straight up into the branches over the
flame; masses of leaves lit from below emerged vaguely from the darkness;
a vestige of ashen light still floated over the road, like the midnight twilight
of the North.
When the meal was over, they sat around the table smoking over their
empty glasses. It was beginning to grow cooler now. Only the Belgian
continued to scrape at his plate; at intervals, astonished by the silence, he
glanced up at one or another of the men with his rodent’s eyes, as if he were
expecting a kick while his mouth kept busy at its own work. Grange
supposed there was not one light in the forest from here to the Meuse; he lit
one of the candles that had gone out with his lighter; the tiny oval of flame
formed again around its dark heart. The gleam must be visible from far
away down the road, he mused, and darkness would be much safer; they
wanted no one to come now. But he had no desire to put out the candles that
drew the four naked faces out of the night, long, ashen shadows moving
across them as though they were running down a corridor of wind-blown
curtains. Grange liked these faces.
“The hell with it,” he repeated to himself almost careless now. He knew
that a ground swell had just swept over the earth beyond them, but beneath
him he felt only the gentle backwash and the sudden intoxication of his own
lightness—they were beached here, a little dazed, in the silence of a
forbidden garden. Again he felt an almost voluptuous, dizzying nausea.
“I’m not answerable for anything now,” he told himself, and his eyelids
flickered two or three times. He thrust his hand into his pocket and felt the
key of Mona’s house. A great livid moon rose slowly over the forest as he
watched; its slanting beams glowed on the road, the rough gravel bristled
with sharp shadows, becoming a stream bed once again. Nothing seemed
more important now than to be sitting beside such a stream, at the heart of
the earth’s deep labor. He felt a sudden revulsion at the pit of his stomach,
as if he had run into the sea across a cold beach: he recognized the fear of
being killed; but a part of himself stood aside, floating on the current of the
buoyant night: he felt something of what the passengers in the ark must
have felt when the waters first lifted it off the ground.
OceanofPDF.com

GRANGE took his turn on guard toward three in the morning: he decided that
dawn would be the critical hour, and he wanted to have some time to
prepare for it. The blockhouse door was still ajar: here the dark concrete
face opened on a crack of ashen night that seemed to be painted on the wall.
Gourcuff and Olivon were sleeping side by side on the straw mattress—in
the corner where the escape hatch was, the glowworm of Hervouët’s
cigarette gleamed near the floor; at regular intervals the dull tap of an
invisible finger knocked off the invisible ash. Grange felt cheated: he did
not want anyone to be awake beside him in the darkness. The silence was
like a night stop in a railroad station sonorous with frost; It was very cold.
He pushed his shoulder against the door, which swung open noiselessly, and
deep in his throat tasted the fog like clean linen: the night, steeped in this
heavy mist, dissolved gently, motionlessly, toward the dawn.
He unscrewed the top of the thermos standing on a cartridge case and
poured himself some hot coffee: the gleam of his flashlight awakened long
shiny ovals on the anti-tank shells standing against the gun carriage; it
looked as if he had emptied out a basket full of bottles. The flashlight beam
traveled over the low ceiling, the dust, the oozing walls. The bitter fog that
slipped in from the forest hung in drops on the faint light; his tongue stirred
—his mouth tasted of rot. “It’s a funny kind of den!” he thought, surprised
afresh by the look of their cellar; he squinted his eyes and pressed his lips
together: his stomach was turning and he felt the sweetish, muddy dregs,
the low tides of courage, slosh within him. He put out the flashlight: at once
his anxiety faded a little; he realized that the night still held around the
blockhouse, as a heavy snowfall holds—but the black chill made his teeth
chatter: he was seized with a panic urge to bury himself deep in the warm
mattress, his shoulder close beside Gourcuff’s.
“That’s a good start!” he murmured, and sat down warily on a crate: he
felt a kind of soft dizzying undulations sliding through his brain. “The best
thing is to breathe deeply a few times,” he decided, throwing back his head
with ponderous gravity, and he began exercising, when a sudden, terrifying

thought began whirling through his mind: Twelve kilometers. Twelve
kilometers this side of the Meuse! . . . A tide had washed over him that
snapped his every hope: it was impossible—with lunatic precision he
reviewed the events of the day before; certainly somewhere there must be a
gap—an order misunderstood—a paper misplaced: “A court martial on top
of everything,” he thought, shivering as if he were naked. “That’s a good
one!” He wanted to cry, to run away. But he felt it was not so easy. Deep in
his heart he heard a tiny, cheerful—impertinent—wind blowing, the wind
that makes the dead leaves dance on the roads at the beginning of winter.
He switched on his flashlight again and made a quick inspection of the
blockhouse. Everything seemed to be in order: the gun was pointed toward
its night marks—on a crate next to the automatic rifle were piled some
thirty refills; in a corner, the shiny heap of cartridges glistened helter-
skelter, as if a wheelbarrow had been knocked over. He decided to check the
escape tunnel for the last time. Noiselessly, he moved back the hatchway:
the dirt steps were hard, reinforced with boards whose edges caught on his
heels; at the bottom of the tiny flight of stairs he plunged along a short
gallery clean-swept beneath its wooden coffering; some twenty yards
farther began an inclined ramp leading to the open air, its opening
camouflaged by pine branches: he needed to be alone now, at this hour of
the dawn. “I’ve got to wake up Olivon in twenty minutes,” he reminded
himself soberly—“two of us will hardly be too many: chances are the
Germans will come through early.” Yet the image of the war did not fill his
mind; he might have been hidden in a tranquil convent, wakening in a sea
of white veils and the unreal fog of ground-glass windows; he was only a
man crouching at the mouth of a forgotten lair watching the dawn slowly
fade the darkness of the forest—again he wondered why staying seemed so
extraordinarily important to him.
“What is there between the war and me?” he wondered, and felt himself
engulfed for a moment in a strange abstraction. “That isn’t the question.”
His mind grew aware of a fresh, daybreak murmur: as if suddenly a noise, a
hum, imperceptible as long as it was habitual, had stopped confusing his
life. “It began last night,” he reflected, “when I started walking down the
middle of the road with my hands in my pockets. The Germans are going to
come, but I’m not really answerable to anyone. Who could have thought it
was so easy to get back to the sea again?” He raised his coat collar against
the piercing chill: drops streamed from the branches down the back of his

neck. “But it’s still a bad spot to be in,” he murmured, with a grimace that
pursed his lips. Grange realized now that the end of his adventure was fast
ripening behind the curtain of fog, that the silence of the forest was
becoming more improbable from minute to minute. He had not stopped
being afraid. Yet if French troops had appeared on the road just then, if
some reinforcement had come to the rescue, he would have felt cheated.
Grange came out of the tunnel and took a few steps as far as the edge of
the road, ducking to avoid being lashed by the branches. The night was
gradually losing its walnut-husk color; the road ahead of him stretched out
in a soft milky way that seemed to float between the trees. When he was
standing in the middle of the road, the silence became even more obsessive
than that of the underbrush, suspended, it seemed, over a bottomless void,
almost ceremonial. Grange began to understand why a lost troop of men
instinctively marches into cannonfire: the emptiness of a field of battle was
a kind of disequilibrium, like an affliction of the ears; the world without
sight or sound lost its moorings, sinking, deaf and blind, through layers of
soft sargasso weed.
“The Meuse!” he thought suddenly. “What’s happening on the Meuse?
The Germans must be farther than Moriarmé by now!” In his imagination,
the war continued on its own momentum, following in the furious wake of
the routed cavalry. “We must be in a kind of pocket here. . . . Maybe the war
is over,” he thought. All these possibilities jostled together at once, but
gently; he felt scarcely concerned, watching the thread of yellow smoke
from his cigarette separate itself from the pale cotton wool of the fog. “This
must be the dawn,” he decided with a tiny prickle of delight: he
remembered that the day begins when a soldier can tell a white thread from
a black one. The earth still swam in a greenish pool of oil that was over a
man’s head, but the treetops were sharp now against the pale sky; a few feet
away, he made out a denser clot of darkness, which was the outline of the
blockhouse. The calm was absolute—the silence and the chill at the dawn’s
heart gave the light a strangely solemn tinge: this was not daylight
penetrating the earth, but a pure anticipation not of this world, the gaze of a
half-open eye across which floated the hint of an intelligible meaning. “A
house,” he mused, as if he were seeing it for the first time, “a single
window looking down a road where something is supposed to happen.”
OceanofPDF.com

“IT MUST be almost five,” Grange decided even before looking at his watch.
The shadow of the clustered oaks now reached all the way across the path.
The waning day’s first stir of air did nothing to cool the blockhouse, which
continued steeping in its rancid humidity, but the day itself grew heavy,
hesitating at the moment of its decline. When they looked out through the
embrasure, there was nothing but the road’s rough ribbon of slag to see,
beneath shadows that were already longer. Silence had seized the forest
again; every now and then a faint breeze rustled the branches.
“It’s like a railroad with the tracks taken up,” Grange thought. “We’ve
been cut off. . . .”
He remembered hearing of outlaws who gave themselves up, a need
stronger than hunger luring them out of hiding to buy the newspaper. For
hours now the men had been prowling inside the blockhouse like caged
animals.
“You take over,” he said to Olivon, handing him the strap of his field
glasses. “No one outside till I come back. I’m going to take a look toward
Les Houches.”
As soon as he stepped out of the concrete block, he was struck by a
wakened, vibrant animation of the air which did not penetrate through the
narrow embrasures. Grange walked half bent over under the arching
branches across a stretch of grass and thick moss, trying not to step on
branches that would crack; he began to hurry. The sunny afternoon was
much less asleep than they thought in the blockhouse; the forest itself
cocked its ears for a distant murmur from the low crest to the north—the
ground, though padded by moss, reverberated at intervals with a faint
shudder. Every ten yards or so, Grange turned and glanced suspiciously at
the empty thickets: this pocket of calm half-light around him was becoming
venomous, like the shadow of the manchineel tree.
“If only you could see something!” he thought. Suddenly this shadowy
solitude made him feverish; he would have given a year of his life to tear

away the curtain of branches, spread the bars of the green cage, around
which the earth was catching fire.
Before turning down toward Les Houches, the path paralleled the crest of
the plateau for about a hundred yards, running toward Les Buttés through a
grove of pine saplings where the forest seemed to spread a little. The
horizon was still hidden behind the branches, but a lively, already cool
breeze from the north swept the crest and carried sounds with it. Despite the
sun, the place was dark and gloomy—at the foot of a pine, water dripped
from one of those moss-grown stone troughs that recalled Shakespeare’s
Arden, restoring the Roof to a still more primitive savagery. Once he was
on the plateau itself, the wind carried through the pines a kind of broad,
dark murmur, a confusion of heavy vehicles interminably lurching down
torn roads, that seemed to fill the whole of the northwest horizon.
“It’s not so far from the blockhouse as I thought,” Grange decided. “It
even might be . . .” He strained to hear, curiously stirred. The open space,
the long slope of the plateau that tilted, he guessed, behind the vault of
branches, toward the north, for the first time gave the battle a panoramic
character: the sense of danger, the fear of solitude disappeared in the feeling
of a new scale: a face of the earth was at grips with the fire of heaven. What
he might think of it was not very important. Only, if you listened carefully,
above the ground base of massive corrosion—that collapsing cliff attacked
by the waves—you could distinguish a nearer sound that cut across the
forest toward the road from Les Houches: a continual throbbing of motors
and behind that a jolting dance of clashing metal, as if enormous plates of
tin were slowly being dragged over a rough pavement. The caterpillars.
“There they are!” Grange told himself, growing pale and stepping behind
a tree. He felt a little dizzy; incredulously he stared around him at the
forest’s absurd opera decor. A bewildering feeling of let it go at that
paralyzed his arms and legs. The stream of iron crawled on its way,
peaceful, lulling, interminable: in a kind of daze, he watched the cavalcade
pass.
Walking back to the blockhouse, he whistled to warn his men. As soon as
he stepped off the crest, the clatter of machines, the battle’s racket, stopped
as if by magic. A faint mist of heat still trembled over the road where a
dozen crows were pecking in the sunlight, laced now by the shadows of
branches. The image of the enchanted castle, the sheltered island, occurred
to him again, unconsciously comforting him with a wild hope.

“You can’t tell much,” he said, back inside the blockhouse. “They’re
bombarding along the Meuse. Anyway,” he added a little too quickly,
shrugging his shoulders, “we’ll know before nightfall.”
Soberly, they took turns drinking from Gourcuff’s canteen and resumed
their posts. Without a word Olivon shook the last drops out onto the
concrete. “They know,” Grange realized, startled. “Or they’ve guessed. My
voice.” Despite himself, his heart felt a little lighter.
Another half hour passed. There was a subtle silence in the blockhouse
now, the silence of keen eyes, which weighs less than that of straining ears
—it was the silence of a workroom absorbed in delicate needlework. Every
now and then, Grange, finding it difficult to focus his binoculars through
the narrow embrasure, nudged Hervouët and put his eye for a second to the
gun sight: nothing stirred in the block’s half-darkness save this sly, childish
war of elbows. The light was turning yellow. The road slag, which had
glared during the afternoon through the tiny aperture, now became quite
soft and pulpy in the distance, like sand on a beach; the evening’s nuances
appeared one after another with an almost Chinese delicacy, as if in a
darkroom. A thin hyphen drawn by an agile, cursive hand, crossed the white
road and disappeared into the grass: a marten. There was another moment
of calm silence. Then, all together, the crows flew off, like Wotan’s crows,
and a clear rumble, gay in the gentle evening air, wakened down the road.
“Ready!” Gourcuff shouted, almost bayed, at Hervouët.
The noise was in no hurry to reveal its source: it took its time. They
could hear the driver changing gears as he took the invisible slope of the
rise, and something unexpected in the sound, something too light, too fast,
made Grange slip his hand into his pocket, nervously fumbling for the
booklet of silhouettes.
The truck suddenly appeared, much farther away than they expected: a
dark, slender silhouette half swallowed up by the trembling of the road.
Slender and delicate—delicate. At first it grew larger though remaining
perfectly immobile, then, as it gradually descended the slope, it headed for
the side of the road and stopped in front of the mined trench with the
somewhat comical perplexity of an ant testing the danger of a plank’s
underside.
“The bastards!” Olivon whispered, dumfounded.
“Ready!” Hervouët breathed; his eye glued to the sight, he stroked the
range finder wickedly. “It’s a green.”

The truck, having satisfied itself as to the obstacle, began moving very
slowly, and suddenly lurched into the ditch more heavily than they
expected. “No sightseeing bus,” Grange thought. On smooth terrain now,
the truck rapidly grew larger, straight and dark in a kind of bellicose, bullish
charge—levantando—as if it were breathing fire. “Now!” Grange thought.
A last terrible hesitation twisted his stomach, but two inches from his cheek
he saw Hervouët’s mouth slowly opening.
“Fire!” he whispered.
The shot left the gun with such brutal force that Grange, lying alongside
the barrel, thought the impact had crushed his shoulder. A kind of cough
shook the truck, which suddenly spat out of its hood a bouquet of long
paper streamers, then turned off toward the shoulder at the right, digging up
the ground a little as it plunged but not overturning, coming to a dead stop
against the trees.
“Right in the kisser!” Gourcuff growled, his teeth clenched, and with the
furious explosion of a motorcycle warming up in a tiny garage, he emptied
half a machine-gun belt into the wreck.
In the circle of the binoculars, behind the smashed windshield, the seat
seemed empty, but the branches hanging down over the road kept Grange
from seeing it distinctly. One of the front tires had been torn open. In any
case, the first glance settled all questions: the truck was dead, dead the way
a man can be dead, already a prey to the weeds, subject to a livid
discoloration that must have been the dust of the shattered windshield; it
looked like a fly wrapped up in a spiderweb. The carnage left Grange with
sweating palms; he felt a cold bar against the back of his neck and smelled
the bitter fume of sweat that rose from Hervouët’s jacket. Gunpowder
prickled sharply in his nose and the clichés told the truth: it was
intoxicating.
“Go take a look,” Grange ordered Olivon. “Out the hatch and through the
woods. We’ll cover you.”
Soundless behind their reloaded weapons, they followed Olivon’s
silhouette which threaded its way between the branches, moving with a
dreadful slowness: they felt like giving him a push. The air had grown
cooler; the splotches of sunshine disappeared from the road one by one. The
silence that had fallen now was the petrified silence after the explosion of a
slap: they sensed that a cold, enormous rage was gathering somewhere
before exploding.

“It’s not so much as if we were going to be killed,” Grange reflected,
moistening his dry gums with his tongue. “It’s strange—it’s more as if we
were going to be punished.”
Through the binoculars he saw Olivon jump into the rear of the truck and
then run back to the blockhouse along the road.
“There are two men,” he gasped, out of breath. “Young . . .”
He tossed two gray-green shoulder tabs onto the cartridge case and two
heavy, old-fashioned revolvers and a few pale gray lumps the color of
cardboard: rye knackebrot that crunched in their jaws with a stale, sharp
taste—sorry food.
“No,” he added, a little shamefully, “there weren’t any papers.”
“And the stuff in back?”
“They must be account books, mon yeutenant,” he answered, looking
embarrassed. “Boxes full of account books.” In a lifeless tone he added:
“There must be enough for a whole division, that’s for sure.” They stared at
each other, dumfounded.
“Shit!” Hervouët finally whispered, furious. A vague, appalling ghost of
the sacred suddenly appeared in the forest, conjured out of the depths of the
army barracks: they had laid hands on the arcana. No one could foresee the
consequences.
They uncorked a bottle of the réserve and went back to their posts. The
atmosphere was heavy now, the red wine weighed in their stomachs. The
bitter smell of powder filled the humid air of the block. The last slanting ray
of sunlight climbed up the forest wall on the left side of the road and
disappeared; suddenly the whole landscape shifted in the cool evening air.
Then, once again, without hurrying, like a wasp’s nest slowly wakening, the
distant hollow of the road sent up a second rumble. And this time a terrible
shudder seized them all. The invisible humming filled the evening—even
the woods around them seemed to become uncertain, hostile, suddenly
swarming along all the hidden paths.
The sound of the motor died before it reached the crest, but almost at
once another picked it up. Behind the short rise of the road, sometimes
shrill, sometimes deep, the venomous humming of the secret meeting did
not stop again.
“Maybe they’ve set up a cross-country shuttle. That’s what they must
have done—cross-country .  .  .” Grange strained to hear, stupidly,
desperately, trying to convince himself that the rumble was heading off

toward the left. All at once a heavy, brutal hail lashed against the concrete,
and Grange, staring through the embrasure, suddenly saw a cluster of sparks
rise out of the earth and spread in all directions through the branches,
dragging a scratchy, agonized caterwauling behind them.
“God!” Olivon said in a hollow voice, “tracer bullets,” and again they
heard nothing in the block but their own harsh breathing.
“Send out a squirt,” Grange snapped nervously at Gourcuff.
Gourcuff shook his head. In the half-light, he was steaming in front of his
machine gun, like an old horse. “Can’t see. . . !” His voice was a childish,
terrified whimper.
“The trees in back—spray there!”
There was no time. A dim shock that echoed in their chests, a dry,
massive combustion smashed against the blockhouse, followed by cascades
of tinkling broken glass. In a second, the sandbags stuffing the embrasures
fell away and a sudden sinister whiteness swept across the whole concrete
block. Facing the naked daylight that burst in upon them, the last thing
Grange saw was Hervouët, a little pale, edging backward step by step
toward the rear wall, as if an angel were pushing him by the shoulders
against his will.
“Time to b——”
“It’s inside!” Grange thought. “No, it’s outside. . . . No, it’s inside.” There
wasn’t that much smoke. When a violent whiplash had wrapped around his
calf and thigh, he had instinctively thrown himself to the ground, almost
gently, like a boxer rolling with the blow. He didn’t feel very seriously hurt.
He looked up through the dust that filled his throat at the grayish concrete
roof, pitted now with clear round holes, as if a mattock had struck between
its ridges. He felt only an emptiness in his head and a coolness at his
temples—he was very near fainting, wanted to faint, and then, strangely
beyond fainting, experienced a relief which was the comfort of a page
turned, and the day over.
OceanofPDF.com

GRANGE pushed Gourcuff toward the hatchway; halfway down the stairway,
he turned for a last look around the blockhouse. Since the shell had
exploded, there had not been one moment of panic. He felt somehow
invulnerable. Olivon and Hervouët were laid out on the mattress; the
overcoat thrown over them was too short: rather than leave the faces
covered and the feet showing, which seemed to Grange like some hideous
joke, they had pulled the coat down over the feet. And in order not to see
the faces any more, they had turned the bodies on their flank, side by side,
faces toward the concrete wall. Grange felt the two identity tags in his
pocket—he had taken them off their wrists and could hear them clinking
against another piece of metal: Mona’s key. The blockhouse was a chalky
wreck where Grange’s feet stumbled over pieces of twisted iron; the plaster
dust was already whitening the folds of the overcoat, filling the hollows
with a sordid snow. Something about it infuriated Grange: he hoisted
himself out of the hatchway again, shook the coat furiously, and laid it over
the bodies up to the shoulders. Then he slipped into the tunnel without
turning back and pulled the hatch closed over his head.
As they came out of the tunnel, there still seemed to be light in the
undergrowth. They used Grange’s compass and plunged through the forest
toward the west. The sound of motors had started on the road again—
behind them, toward the blockhouse, loud voices shouted to each other
through the woods, calm and relaxed, like hunters when the shoot is over.
They walked on, bent double, through the dense tangle of May branches,
leaving a noisy wake of broken boughs. But they paid no attention: the
voices behind them gradually faded out; the sense of strange, almost
intoxicating immunity that fills prisoners and wounded men persisted.
Occasionally they stopped for breath and drank a mouthful out of
Gourcuff’s canteen. All their thoughts now began to flow of their own
accord down another slope. The war was continuing, but was already
moving far away, with the diminishing sound of the last drops of a squall
that dry up on the windowpanes.

“What are you going to do, after the war?” Grange asked, almost without
thinking.
They talked as men talk on a railroad platform in wartime, their minds
elsewhere, when a change of trains will break off indifferent farewells.
The terrain ahead of them began to slope gently: they were approaching
the ravines of Braye, which ran out not far from the blockhouse after
gashing into the plateau above. The forest in this area was a thick tangle of
chestnut saplings; walking here, brushing aside the rubbery stems, became
exhausting; Gourcuff’s rifle continually caught on the branches; he swore;
their coats hooked on brambles; the bayonet sheath clanked against the
canteens with the muffled ring of a herd coming down from the upland
pastures.
“We’ll never get there,” Grange thought, almost casually. “Besides . . .”
His leg was beginning to swell and grow heavy. He stopped to change the
bandage and threw the bloody rag into the bushes. When he put his weight
on his heel, a sharp spear of pain leaped up to his hips; he drew a long
breath, his eyes closed, and wiped the tickling sweat off his icy brow; two
or three stars were already twinkling in the treetops. The sounds of voices
and motors had stopped. The blood he had lost left him floating,
lightheaded, in the calm night. They were walking toward the Meuse. But it
didn’t matter now whether they reached the Meuse. It didn’t matter where
they were. Against the harsh cloth that bound his skin, he felt the faint
velvety shudder of fever, still almost voluptuous.
“Stop,” he murmured to Gourcuff, tugging at his bayonet sheath. The
clanking gave him gooseflesh. “I’m thirsty.”
There was nothing but red wine in their canteens: scarcely had he tasted
the sharp stuff this time when a fit of nausea twisted his stomach, as though
he had swallowed sawdust. He tried to stand up but his leg gave beneath
him, suddenly filled with needles. He lifted his trouser leg above his hard,
swollen knee that was mottled with pale bluish spots. “Probably a splinter I
didn’t even feel,” he thought. He leaned against a chestnut sapling, his leg
straight out before him on the moss. Another stream of icy sweat trickled
down his forehead. Putting his hand under his belt to unbuckle it, he pulled
it away sticky with blood: he had been hit in the hip as well.
“It’s bad,” he said sharply. “Leave me here.”
He looked at Gourcuff planted before him, his legs wide apart as he
corked his canteen, his mouth wide in a perplexity so comical than Grange

felt a ghost of laughter slip across his face without moving it, as if at a
distance. The clumsiness of a man dealing with wounds suddenly struck
him, yet at this moment he would not have wanted a woman with him. “Go
on,” he continued, angry now. “It’ll be night soon.” He held out the
compass. Gourcuff stood motionless before him, his head down; with the
toe of his shoe he kicked at twigs on the moss, his expression undecided.
The darkness was falling fast now, their faces were already indistinct.
“I’d just as soon stay here,” Gourcuff said at last, with a grimace that
looked as if he wanted to cry. He was holding the compass at arm’s length,
clumsily, like the saucer under a cup of coffee.
“Don’t be stupid. Get out of here. You’ll get caught here without doing
any good at all. That’s an order,” Grange added, and felt that in spite of
himself his tone was vaguely burlesqued. Again he had the sense that this
war, in its least detail, was imitating something without being able to decide
what it was.
After a few seconds, Gourcuff shook his head, filled a canteen with wine,
and left it on the moss next to Grange; he poured several handfuls of
biscuits out of his knapsack onto a piece of newspaper. Then he leaned
Grange comfortably against the chestnut tree and spread his blanket over
his legs. Grange guessed that he was delaying on purpose. When he found
nothing else to do, he sat down beside the chestnut tree, his legs crossed.
They lit their cigarettes with Gourcuff’s lighter. The darkness was upon
them; for precaution’s sake, they held their helmets over the tiny red points
that glowed already in the darkness.
“All right, mon lieutenant, if that’s the way you want it,” Gourcuff said,
after they had wished each other good luck. “If I find any of the guys over
there, we’ll come back for you,” he added modestly.
He began moving off behind the trees—a floundering, noisy mass
gradually vanishing into the dimness of the thicket. From time to time he
stopped and turned around, and Grange guessed that he was glancing back
with the panic look of a dog that is frightened at no longer being called
back.
He listened for a long time to the crackling of the underbrush that grew
fainter now, swallowed up by the forest like a stone in a well. As long as he
kept completely still, his leg hurt him very little. The coolness that followed
the twilight was not yet unpleasant. Mechanically, he chewed a piece of
biscuit, then spat it out: the pasty flour stuck to his tongue: he was thirsty

again. Above him a trace of greenish light still lingered between the
branches: over the forest fell the stupefied calm of the first moment of
darkness, before the night birds wakened. At this moment, the animals were
not yet aroused—only the woods: occasionally a branch moved after the
heat of the day, drawing after it a languid feathery rustling, the sound of
gardens after rain.
“How empty it is!” he thought. Memories turned in his mind, images of a
strange earth without men—winter wanderings in the forest, afternoons in
the blockhouse when all he could see from his window were the warm
drops of the thaw swelling one by one at the tips of the branches. The earth
slipped away beneath him, alien and incongruous, like a night train whose
clatter suddenly rises, rushes toward the horizon, and fades into the
landscape. Lying at almost full length on the ground, the cold began to take
him, but at the same time an inexpressible calm filled his mind.
“I’m really here,” he told himself. It occurred to him that the war was
lost, but the thought came calmly, listlessly. “I’m demobilized,” he mused
again. Suddenly he realized that Les Falizes was close by. The image of a
lair, a hiding place, became an obsessive one; he remembered that all
wounded men drag themselves toward a house. There was a well of fresh
water, a deep well, near Mona’s house. The anticipation of that black water
moistened his throat; he felt the cold, delicious touch on his mouth. “I’ll try
in a little while,” he decided. “But not now, not right away. I have to get
back my strength.”
He nodded once or twice in the darkness, pleased with having reasoned
so well. The path to Les Falizes must pass nearby, somewhere to the east.
But where was the east? He remembered that he had given his compass to
Gourcuff: a sudden, wild, stubborn anger made him tremble against his tree:
two or three great tears of rage ran down his cheeks. But his mind drifted
despite himself, slipped its moorings: he supposed Olivon and Hervouët
would be decorated: no one could say—no one—that they hadn’t defended
the blockhouse.
Posthumously, he reflected. The formula mechanically turned round and
round in his mind: it seemed somewhat abstruse, but important, imposing,
like those seals on old official documents that fastened down a bow of silk
ribbon. His fever seized him again; he realized that if he waited any longer
he wouldn’t be able to stand up any more. He drank a little wine out of
Gourcuff’s canteen and stuffed some biscuits in his pocket; then he cut a

branch overhead with his pocketknife and made it into a cane. After a few
moments’ effort, he managed to stand up: so long as he did not bend his
knee, he could use his wounded leg, as if it were a wooden leg. A dog
bayed to his right; he moved toward the sound through the thicket, and, a
hundred steps farther, came out into the path to Les Falizes.
A haste, a childish anxiety, drew him onward now, forcing one step after
another, his stiff leg stumbling in the holes of the dark path. He was making
for the house as if he were expected there. When he stopped, his forehead
throbbing with fever, dripping with sweat, he cocked his ears again in the
silence of the forest, surprised at this world that would let a man escape like
water through a pile of sand. When his neck began to feel weak, he threw
away his helmet: the fresh air did him good.
“No one here!” he repeated to himself. “No one!” Once again he felt like
crying; his heart contracted. “Maybe I’m going to die,” he thought. His
mind wandered despite himself, burdened by an increasing heaviness: now
he remembered that gangrene began in infected wounds; the maddening
certainty seized him that his leg was turning black: he stopped, lay down on
the ground, and began to roll back his trouser leg. “I’ve forgotten my
flashlight,” he suddenly realized, and again a furious, impotent rage shook
him with sobs: leaning forward in the darkness with oxlike stubbornness, he
tried to bring his eye closer to his leg, straining his aching hips. He felt he
was about to faint—the cold sweat trickled down his forehead—and lying
on one side he vomited tiny mouthfuls of the red wine and biscuit he had
swallowed. Yet as soon as he was prone and motionless again, he felt only a
little pain, his strength returned—a sense of tranquility, of stupid happiness,
filled him, as though he were floating. “Or as if I were convalescent,” he
mused. “But from what?”
He remained lying on the ground for at least an hour. There was no hurry
to start off again; he looked at the branches above him that stretched over
the path against the paler sky: it was as if the night that lay ahead of him
down this corridor was inconceivably long and peaceful—he felt lost, really
lost, far from all paths: no one was expecting him any more—ever—
anywhere. This moment seemed delicious to him. When the cold began to
be unbearable, he stood up almost easily. The path grew harder beneath his
feet now, wakening the deep muffled echo of an empty room; he was in the
village before he noticed it: here the long, blind walls of the barns fused
with the forest. Turning into the little alley where Mona’s house was, he

stopped to listen a last time. The stiff rooftrees of the houses silhouetted
against the night seemed to make it clearer, emptier. The silence was
absolute, but it was no longer the silence of the forest. It was a widowed
silence, full of the sad, sealed nuance which the overhang of stone walls
gives the night. Only to the right, where the clearing opened a little between
the hamlet and the forest, the gardens roused by the froth of May seethed
against the dark houses in a slow, breathing tide that stirred the dark air and
seemed to swell beneath the starry sky; at intervals, from the other end of
the village, the dog began baying again—the sense of gentle, magical
tranquility that had filled him on the path seized him once more.
In the alley, he suddenly felt at the end of his strength—he had thrown
away his cane and was clinging with one hand to the fence posts, with the
other he was already holding the key wrapped in his handkerchief; the odor
of the gardens made him dizzy. “I’m coming,” he thought, “I’m coming
back!” His teeth were chattering, the key trembled in his hand less from
fever than his wild haste; from time to time he seized his wrist with his left
hand, trying to suppress the continuing jerks. “I couldn’t open it,” he
thought, and supported his heavy head with one hand. “I couldn’t.” Yet he
had strength enough to close and lock the door behind him, and then, in the
thick darkness, he moved into the room, hands held out before him, struck
his knee against the side of the bed and fell backwards upon it, his legs
wide.
He lay motionless for a long time waiting for his breath to come back; his
heartbeats grew calmer. A faint gray light filtered into the room now,
through the transom over the door and the hearts cut in the shutters. The
counterpane yielded softly under his weight; he felt he could snuggle here
as if inside a womb; the silence seemed marvelous to him, varnished with a
faint odor of wax, purified by the salubrious, bitter perfume of lavender. His
body gradually revived in this black silence—his strength was restored.
“What a business!” he thought. He still felt a little dazed, but he tried to
pull his thoughts together; he realized that once he had closed this door a
line was drawn, an epilogue had been pronounced: his brief wartime
adventure had come to an end. What surprised him was the void created
around him: a ghostly, yawning, stale void that drew him in. He had sent
Mona away. Olivon and Hervouët were dead. Gourcuff had gone. The war
was shifting far away, very insignificant now, already devoured by these
dim, heavy shadows that came back to crouch around him. He looked about

him, still stunned by the shock of his wound, watching the heavy waters of
the closed room floating beneath the moon, crushed by the silence of the
countryside. “What a move!” he thought. He tried to remember, wrinkling
his forehead, what it was he had watched for from his window, waited for
all winter long down the distances of the road so feverishly, with such
morbid curiosity. “I was afraid, and yet I wanted it,” he decided. “I was
expecting something to happen. I had made room for something. . . .” He
knew something had happened, but he felt it had not been real: the war
continued to hide behind its ghosts, the world around him went on draining
away in silence. Now he remembered the night patrols along the silent
frontier, from which he had returned so many times to this bed, to Mona.
Nothing had taken shape. The world remained evasive, kept the cottony,
limp feel of hotel rooms under the dim blue night light. Lying on the bed in
the darkness, in the hollow of the empty house, he became again the blind
prowler he had been all winter, gliding still over a vague twilight border, the
way you walked along a beach at night. “Only now I’m touching bottom,”
he reminded himself with a sense of security. “There’s nothing else to wait
for. Nothing else. I’m back.”
“I mustn’t strike a light,” he remembered. He stood up, groped for the
table, found the pitcher in the bowl and took a long drink; he felt the fine,
stale film of dust slipping over his tongue and remembered that it was less
than a week ago that he had left Mona. Then he stretched out on the carpet
and washed his wound. The water flowed onto the floor without a sound,
vanishing into the thick pile. The cold liquid burned, but once he had bathed
the wound it seemed as if the pain had dulled a little: he stood up again and
drank some more. A faint gray shadow seemed to come toward him from
across the room and make him a sign; he raised his hand: the shadow in the
mirror repeated the gesture with a drawn-out slowness, as if it were floating
in layers of water; he leaned over until his nose was almost pressing against
the mirror—but the shadow remained vague, eaten away by the darkness:
life did not connect with itself: there was nothing but this approximate
confrontation with a dim shadow he could not really make out. Yet thoughts
occasionally drifted through his mind which now seemed infinitely remote:
he wondered if Gourcuff had reached the Meuse. “Varin was right about the
funnels,” he decided impartially. But all that didn’t matter to him. Nothing
was happening. There was no one. Only this stubborn, dim, intimidating

shadow that gloated toward him without meeting his own limbo—this ear-
splitting silence.
Fatigue throbbed through his skull; his mind reeled with heavy
somnolence. He stretched out again on the counterpane without undressing,
one leg bare: the silence closed over him like a pool of water. He
remembered how he used to listen, sometimes, lying next to Mona while
she slept: he thought about her for a moment more; saw again the rainy road
where he had met her, where they had laughed so when she said “I’m a
widow.” But even this image faded: it was as if it were rising despite
himself, into more buoyant waters. “Lower,” he told himself, “much
lower. . . .” He heard the dog bay two or three times, then the cry of the
screech owl at the nearby edge of the forest, then nothing more: the earth
around him was as dead as a plain of snow. Life fell back to this sweetish
silence, the peace of a field of asphodels, only the faint rustle of blood
within the ear, like the sound of the unattainable sea in a shell. As he turned
over heavily, Grange heard the identity tags clink in his pockets; he
wondered what Olivon and Hervouët had bought with such mortuary coin.
“Nothing, probably,” he decided. He lay for a moment more with his eyes
wide open in the darkness, staring toward the ceiling, perfectly still,
listening to the buzzing of the blue fly that butted heavily against the walls
and the windows. Then he pulled the blanket up over his head and went to
sleep.
OceanofPDF.com
