
 
 
Dog Star
 
a story by
 
Jeffrey A. Carver
 
 
*****
OceanofPDF.com

 
 
Originally published in Diamonds in the Sky
edited by Mike Brotherton
 
"Dog Star" and Afterword
Copyright 2007 by Jeffrey A. Carver
 
A Starstream Publications Short Story
Discover other ebooks by Jeffrey A. Carver at
http://www.starrigger.net/ebooks.htm/
 
Smashwords Edition, License Notes
 
This ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This ebook may
not be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this
book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each
recipient. If you’re reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not
purchased for your use only, then please return to Smashwords.com and
purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the hard work of this
author.
 
*****
OceanofPDF.com

Dog Star
 
"Don't you think we're coming in just a little fast?" asked a husky voice
behind Jake in the tiny spaceboat.
"There's a critic on every ship," Jake muttered, without breaking his
concentration.
"Just doing my job, I'm just—whooo, that asteroid's really coming at us!"
Jake didn't argue. The gray, potato-shaped object was indeed getting large
quickly—which was exactly according to his plan. Its orbit was less than
ideal, and he had only one day to make a survey before it caromed off
another asteroid. He wanted to find out: Was it a candidate for mining? Was
it worth chasing if it got knocked out of the cluster?
"Like I said, we want to get in fast and get out, before it bounces off
NEA-238," Jake said. If he was right and this rock turned out to have
mining potential, his tagging it could be just what he needed to break out of
the ranks of the junior surveyors. A lot of Earth-approaching asteroids had
been nudged by robot boosters together into this Near-Earth cluster, but not
many of them had been studied in detail yet. He had a feeling about this
one. "Look—haven't I logged, like two hundred asteroid landings? What are
you worried abou—oh crap, what's that?"
An alarm honked, the spaceboat jerked, and there was suddenly a much-
too-bright flare of rocket exhaust in his peripheral vision. Jake glanced at
the control board, then outside—and was horrified to see a bright jet of
flame shooting sideways out of the boat. Sideways! He slapped the cutoff,
checked for signs of fire—there were none—then hastily rechecked his
approach speed. He'd been okay before, but not any longer. He'd just lost
his main engine. Without that for braking, he was definitely approaching
too fast.
"Rrrr, you just shut off our rocket," Sam said, squirming around behind
him. "Why'd you do that?"
"Had to," Jake said with a gulp, trying not to betray the fear that was
rising in his throat. Think fast now! "Looks like we've got to use the attitude
thrusters for braking."
"But they're—isn't that just for emerg—"
"This is an emergency!" Jake disengaged the computer from the
thrusters. He needed them all firing in the same direction to brake. "Okay—

almost—hold on now!" The thrusters sputtered, and he felt a push, slowing
them. But not nearly enough.
"You aren't doing this to impress me, are you?" cried Sam.
"No!" He shut up and focused on the asteroid swelling before them. Oh
jeez, too fast! Trying not to panic, he kicked in thrust to the right. The
asteroid mushroomed before them, and they glanced in with a bone-jarring
crack. They bounced in a flat arc, sending a cloud of dust spraying from the
surface—and for a moment, he thought they'd skip off entirely. But no . . .
they bounced twice again, before skidding and shuddering to a stop. The
dust they'd kicked up arced slowly back down in the feeble gravity.
Jake gasped and slumped in relief. Then he put out a spacesuit-gloved
hand to check the readouts on the console—and got a jolt of electricity
through his spacesuit glove. "Yow!" He rocked back as sparks shot from the
console. "What the—?" He punched the master cutoff—but too late, his
console was smoking. It must have been the dust, carrying an electrostatic
charge—powerful enough to short out his instruments. "I need to vent! Are
you sealed in?" he yelled. As soon as he heard Sam's yes, he popped the
canopy and pushed it open. The cockpit atmosphere puffed out, taking the
smoke with it.
"Rrr, I'm okay. Are you okay?" came a muffled voice behind him.
He blinked. "Yeah, I'm all right. Dunno about the boat, though." He
poked tentatively at the console and switched the master back on. Nothing.
At all. No power, no comm, no nav, no thrusters. Air in his suit was still
flowing, at least. Looking out the cockpit window at the surface of the
asteroid, he was grateful that the dust had cushioned their impact. But they
needed help—and soon. He keyed his spacesuit comm. "Mayday, Mayday,
Mayday. This is scout EX-71, can anyone hear me?" He repeated the call
half a dozen times. But there was no answer, and he knew perfectly well
there wasn't going to be one. His suit comm didn't have the range.
Turning his head, he squinted through his helmet visor. Earth was about
the size of a tennis ball, white and blue against the black of space. It was
about ten days away by direct flight, if they had a ship designed and fueled
for such a trip, which they didn't. He turned his head the other way to pick
out the Big Dipper and Cassiopeia. A bit of directional calculation
confirmed that their sightline to the mining survey base was presently
blocked by the asteroid. Well, it was sixteen hours away under normal
thrust, with a working rocket—which they didn't have, anymore.

And just under two days from here—without any rocket power at all—
was asteroid NEA-238, on a collision course. "I wish I'd listened to you," he
muttered to Sam. Sam had wanted him to stick to his filed flight plan,
instead of detouring to follow his "instinct" on this new rock.
"Me, too. Am I being a bad dog if I suggest we get out and check for
damage?" Sam said, nudging him in the back of the helmet.
Releasing his harness, he floated out onto the step-down ledge. He
bounced a little to gauge the gravity—not much—then turned to help Sam
with his harness. The smartmutt's black-and-white face was just visible
through the helmet faceplate. When Jake released the buckle, the border
collie launched himself up and out of the cockpit, gliding in a graceful arc
to the asteroid surface. In his spacesuit with the air and power pack on his
back, he looked less like a dog than a small cargo pod with legs.
Nonetheless, he managed well in microgravity, and he swung his head
around now, assessing the local conditions. He reared up momentarily on
his hind legs. "Not much to hold us here. We should move carefully." He
started nosing around the outside of the broken spaceship.
Jake followed.
 
***
 
It didn't take long to tally up the bad news. The main rocket had burned
through the side of its combustion chamber and was useless. It was a
miracle it hadn't blown up. The thrusters were dead. So there was no way
they could fly back to base under their own power. Also, the hard landing
had cracked the hull casing under the electronics, and the short caused by
the electrically charged dust had indeed taken out all communications, as
well as computer and nav.
"Bones," Sam said, sitting disconsolately by Jake.
"Well," Jake said, "at least we know the transmitter's beyond repair, so
we won't waste time with it."
Sam cocked his head inside the helmet. "Oofff. Are you saying that to
reassure me?"
"Not really. Just saying . . . we need to think of another approach. And
we don't have much time. What—two days? No, eighteen hours."
"But—rrfffff—people will come looking?" Sam's encased tail slapped
once, hopefully, in the silence.

Jake's face burned. "When we don't report in, yeah. But they'll look in
the wrong place. I feel really dumb now, not calling in the course change."
"Why didn't you?"
"I just wanted to get this first look, without anyone yelling at me, before
it was too late. I know it was stupid, but you have no idea how much I want
to—"
"Get promoted, so they don't treat you like a kid. I know." Sam swung
his head around, pointing with his nose at the flank of the survey boat.
"What else have we got in there? Anything that can make a signal?"
"Let's look." Jake started opening the side compartments. "We need to
pull the sled out first. Stand back." He yanked a couple of levers to free the
cradle arms holding the large sample sled, then slid the unit out until the flat
sled stuck out from the hull, a foot off the ground, like a wide gangplank. "I
wonder if this thing still has power."
"Thought all the power was dead," Sam said.
"This is separate. It's got a small zeep converter, for its levitator."
"You mean one of those quantum vacuum thingies?"
"Zero point energy. Yeah." Jake switched the unit on and released it from
its cradle. The sled—a flat, rectangular pallet with an opening and some
gear in the center—sank until it floated, bobbing slightly, about six inches
off the ground. A flat plate on the underside provided the levitation, drawing
energy for its repulsive force from the virtual particles that flickered
continuously in and out of existence in the apparently empty vacuum of
space.
"If that thing can float like that, can't we use it somehow to get off this
rock?" The border collie lifted his elongated faceplate-covered nose, as
though to sniff the thing.
"Thing is," Jake explained, "this is the only thing it's good for—floating
just off the ground. It's great for that, because it doesn't need batteries or
fuel. But it's strictly a local effect—close to that levitator plate. As soon it
gets more than a few inches off the ground, the effect disappears."
"So if we tried to ride it—"
"It'd be a really short flight. We can jump higher than this thing can
float." Jake turned the unit off and it settled to the ground.
"Rrmmf. Squirrels and bones." Sam started to raise his spacesuited leg to
the sled, then apparently thought better of it.

"Anyway, we're wasting time." Jake stuck his head into the
compartment. "There must be something in here we could signal home
with." There wasn't. He opened the next compartment. "A laser of some
kind would be nice, like a torch laser. But I don't see anything. This
prospecting scanner has a laser inside it, but we'd have to tear it apart to get
at it. There ought to be some flares or something."
"Any spare communicators?" the dog asked.
"I wish. You know how in the old days, there used to be redundancy?"
"I wasn't there."
"Well, that was the old days. Wait! Here are some flares!" With a rush of
hope, he pulled the box out and examined the contents. His heart sank. "For
marking landing areas. Probably not bright enough for anyone to see back
at base. We can try, though." He set the box aside and pulled out everything
that looked as though it could possibly be useful. "We'd better take stock . . .
"
 
***
 
The shadows were already long; soon, the sun set and they paused to
rest. The inventory was bleak. The little boat was meant for short-range
surveys, close to the base-station. Jake had taken them a little further afield
than the boat really was equipped for—which would have been all right if
the crash landing hadn't taken out so many of the onboard systems. They
not only had to worry about a collision in fifteen hours with asteroid NEA-
238, they also had dwindling power. Oxygen and water weren't immediate
worries, but their power was limited mostly to the packs that recharged their
suits. The boat's fuel cell was producing only a trickle, which put the last
nail in the coffin of any hope of getting away on the boat.
"We're going to have to tap whatever power we can get from the sled,"
Jake muttered, "and see if we can cannibalize that laser." The asteroid had a
slow rotation rate, and they had some time yet before the base-station would
come up over the horizon. At that point they would try to signal with the
flares, with a makeshift laser, or with anything else they could manage.
While Jake worked by the light of a small lantern, Sam, with his border-
collie can-do spirit, determinedly kept at his job; he was going to keep
Jake's morale up by pummeling him with questions. At first he quizzed Jake
on what he was doing, but Jake growled at that, and the dog switched

tactics. "So, is that nice girl in Analysis ever going to notice that you like
her? She treats me real nice. Wufff."
Jake looked up from a tangle of wire and glared. "If we get back alive,
you can introduce us." He cursed at the useless hardware in his hands.
"Sometimes I think you dogs were more useful before we gave you speech."
The dog bobbed his head away and looked out at the stars. He coughed
as if he'd gotten something stuck in his throat. "Okay, no talk about girls.
And you don't want me to ask what you're going to do with that wire, even
if you do get it hooked up . . . "
"I'm trying to feed power to the batteries, and hope it keeps us from
freezing, and maybe lets us fire up a laser."
"Oh." Sam didn't sound convinced.
"Talk about something else. Distract me."
"Hoo—hmmm. You want to talk about the elections coming up back
home?"
"No!"
"Okay, then." Sam turned his head, as if searching the dark of space
around them for ideas. "All right, I got it. I got it. This thing's been on my
mind ever since I heard about it."
"Oh yeah, what's that?"
The dog made a whuffing noise. "Well . . . it's about space. You know
how space is big? Really, really big?"
"Ya-a-ah."
"Listen, you asked to be distracted  .  .  . and there's something that's
always bothered me. About the universe."
"The universe!" Jake looked up. "What about the universe?"
The dog sighed. "It's such a mind-boggling concept, you know? The
universe. It's so huge. We sit here and look out at it, and I can't even wrap
my mind around it."
"Maybe dogs weren't meant to think of such lofty things."
Sam snorted in derision. "Like you understand it so well. I may just be a
gene-spliced mutt with a chip in my head, but that doesn't mean I can't
wonder about the awesome grandeur of space."
"I—"
"Don't even start. Like this crazy business about the universe expanding
—"
"It is expanding."

"I know that. And it's expanding faster all the time. What's that all about,
anyway? Even though gravity's sucking on the universe, trying to make it
crunch back down?"
Jake glanced up again, frowning. "Well, yeah. That's because there's a
force—"
"I know, I know. I read about it. Dark something. Dark emissary? Dark
—"
"Energy. Dark energy," Jake said.
"No, that's not it. Wouldn't make any sense. Dark enigma?"
"No. I mean, yes—it's an enigma. That's not what it's called, though."
"Dark matter," the dog guessed.
"Dark matter doesn't push the universe apart. In fact, dark matter helps
hold the galaxies together."
"Grrrr. I thought that was strings."
Jake squinted in the dim light at the lengthening line of half-untangled
wire in his hand. I really don't know what I'm doing, he thought. Finally he
reacted to what the dog had said. "No, string theory's different."
"Grrrrrr. Maybe dark superglue holds the galaxies together, then."
Jake laughed. "Okay, I'll buy that."
"So what is it that's pushing everything apart?"
"I told you. Dark energy."
"Wullll . . . what kind of name is that? Isn't energy supposed to be light?
Like glowing stuff? And fire?"
"Yeah, usually. But—"
"Bombs. They make a lot of light. And noise. Ka-boom!" The dog
sneezed. "So how can this other energy be dark?"
Jake finally had the wire untangled. He began stretching it from the sled
to the battery bay. "I guess that's the point. They called it dark because
nobody can see it. They can't even measure it directly. It's too subtle, I
guess." Should he connect this wire straight to the battery?
Sam was shaking his head, his ears flapping inside his helmet. "If I say
black is white, is that subtle?"
"Um—"
"Subtle as a screen door on a submarine."
"Whoa, boy. Did you just learn that?" The regulator. He should attach the
wire to the regulator.

"Never mind. You're trying to get energy out of that wire. If we see a
spark, we'll know it's real. But how do we know this 'dark energy' is real,
for Pete's sake? I'll bet even Pete doesn't believe it."
"Pete wouldn't believe it if I told him the sun rose in the east."
"It doesn't, on the station. Okay, bad example. But if you're going to give
something a crazy name like dark energy, don't you at least have to know
it's there? Know something about it?"
"We do know something about it. Can you shove those pliers towards
me? We know something's pushing the universe to expand."
"But how?" The dog nudged the pliers. "How do we know?"
"Because of supernovas, I think."
"Supernovas are pushing the universe apart? I love supernovas! They're
so bright!" The dog's face widened in a toothy grin inside his helmet.
"Supernovas aren't causing it. Supernovas are how we know." He
paused; Sam looked crestfallen. "They're like measuring sticks."
"Okay. Next fable, please."
"Really—astronomers use this special kind of supernova as what they
call standard candles. By observing them carefully, they can tell how bright
they are."
"Well, rruff. What's so hard about that?"
"Nothing, if the supernova were right next door. Of course, then we'd be
toast. But they're not, they're off in distant galaxies. Thing is, there's this
special kind of supernova that astronomers know are all pretty much the
same brightness really—not just how bright they look in our telescopes—
and that lets them figure out how far away the galaxy is."
"Woofee! They know how far away the galaxy is. I'm so excited I can
hardly breathe. Can you see me fogging up my faceplate?" Sam was
breathing fast, and actually was fogging his faceplate a little.
"It's not that easy to measure, you know. They can't just, like, shine a
laser-finder on it."
"Speaking of lasers, how's that thing coming? I've been watching our
rotation, and I think the base will be over the horizon soon."
Jake flexed his gloved fists, which were starting to cramp up. He wasn't
just wishing he hadn't taken the detour; he was wishing he'd paid more
attention in his electrical classes. He had the laser awkwardly hanging out
of the survey scanner. It needed juice from the boat's batteries, and right

now it wasn't strong enough. "I'm doing my best here. I'm just hoping we
can pull enough extra power from that sled to make this laser work."
The border collie leaned in and licked at him—catching only the inside
of his faceplate. "You can do it. Anyway, you're not fooling me."
Disconcerted, Jake said, "I'm not trying to fool you."
"About the galaxy distances, I mean. They could figure it out from the
red shift, right? So these astronomers have learned zip, the way I see it."
Jake sighed, reaching to loosen a connector. "Dummy. Why'd we ever
give you dogs voices, anyway? How can you say they've learned zip.
They've learned a lot—"
"Don't call me a dummy. Or I'll call you worse."
"I doubt you even know anything worse."
"Oh yeah? You pink and pukle son of a Jack Russell—"
"All right. You're not a dummy. But the thing is, they get a different
answer from the red shift. Different from the one they get from the
brightness, I mean." Jake gestured, making a stirring motion. "They put the
two numbers in a big equation pot—"
"What equations? You know I don't like equations."
"Equations for how fast space expands—from the Big Bang and stuff.
They stir these numbers all around, and what they come up with is—" He
paused, and squinted at the terminal on the battery regulator. Did he have
the right one?
"I'm waiting. Earth to Jake. Please continue."
"Huh?" The wire slipped out of his hand, and he swore. "Well, it turns
out the galaxies are farther apart than they should be, based on how fast
space was expanding a zillion years ago, according to the red-shift." He
caught the wire again, and started twisting it around the terminal.
"So?" the dog prompted.
"Soooo . . . after looking at all this, which at first made no sense, they
concluded that the universe isn't just expanding, it's expanding faster now
than it was before! That's why the galaxies are farther away than they
should be." He tightened the terminal nut and looked at the spacesuited dog.
"So how could that be? How could the universe be speeding up, when
gravity is trying to slow it down?"
"Arrr, that's what I'm trying to ask you—how could it be?" asked the
dog.

Jake shook his head. "It's been half a century now, and they still don't
know for sure. They call it dark energy, but they don't understand it."
"Who is this they person, anyway?" Sam asked, with a little yip in his
voice. "It could be aliens behind it all, making us think this stuff is true. Are
aliens the they?"
"I don't think so. Not unless aliens have taken over all the astronomy
departments on Earth and the Moon and Mars."
"Could happen."
"I suppose it could, yes. But I don't think it has. Are you keeping track of
our rotation for me?"
The dog snapped to attention and peered at the constellations. He hopped
up on top of the cockpit. The inertia of his oxygen pack nearly carried him
right on over to the other side. "Yes. My friend, if you have laser light, I
think we may have a sightline to base." The dog's tail wagged slowly in its
encasement.
"All right. I need a little more time. Tell me when it's coming near to
overhead." Jake worked in earnest now, testing the connections with gentle
tugs. He took a deep breath and turned on the zeep generator on the mining
sled. A meter on the battery indicated a slight charge coming in. Good. Jake
turned his attention to the laser dangling out of the scanner housing. It was
going to be really hard to aim . . .
"Shine your light now," Sam said.
Jake gripped the unit and aimed the laser up. The base should be one of
those points of light just south of Altair. He squeezed the switch. A faint
sparkle of green laser light shone through floating dust. When the dust
cleared from the path, he couldn't see the beam at all. Determinedly, he
swept it around the patch of sky the best he could. "I don't know if this is
—" he began. The power light on the unit went out. He swore.
"Aww," Sam said. "Grrr. Can you fix it?"
Jake pursed his lips and sighed. "Not enough juice. I guess this quantum-
energy thing isn't really made to be an electrical generator. It makes enough
for its own controls, but mostly it just levitates." He looked up into the
black sky, with its sprinkling of stars. "I wonder if anyone saw the laser."
He shook his head and picked up the flares. "We'd better light a couple of
these." Taking two flares, he hiked far enough to place them on a mound for
maximum visibility. He lit the flares and then, unimpressed by their red
sparkle, trudged back to the boat.

"We'd better keep thinking," he said, mulling the approaching NEA-238.
 
***
 
While they were pondering, Jake swapped fresh oxygen and power
packs into their suits. He thought briefly of trying to tap power from one of
the suit packs. But he was too afraid of draining or blowing the packs. It
wouldn't do any good for them to be seen if they couldn't last long enough
for rescue. They had a quiet meal, of the pasty stuff you ate right inside
your helmet. It tasted incredibly good to him right now.
"I've been thinking," Sam said, hopping down from the boat in a graceful
arc. He swung his space-helmeted snout toward Jake. "Finish telling me
about dark energy, please."
"Look, I don't really think right now is—"
"Please. It won't hurt."
Jake rolled his eyes. "What do you want to know?"
"Tell me what dark energy is," said the dog.
"Nobody knows—except that it's an energy field that's pushing against
gravity."
"Okay, so it's a sort of antigravity, right?"
"I guess."
"And this energy is coming from . . . ?"
"Well, it seems to come from space itself."
"Like that zero-point stuff you were talking about? Like the levitator
uses?"
"I guess. Maybe."
"Uh-huh." The border collie cocked his head and grinned. "Rrrrffff! You
know something? I think we'll get to see the sun rise in the west tomorrow,
after all."
"What's that supposed to mean?"
The dog padded over to the sled and put a paw on it. "Zeep—zero—
energy. The levitator pushes things apart—just like dark energy. Right?"
"R-r-right. I guess."
"Are you thinking what I'm thinking?"
Jake stared at the dog open-mouthed for a moment. "Well, we've been
through that. It can't levitate against space. It needs something to repel. And

as soon as it gets a few inches off the ground, its power falls way off." He
shook his head at the dog. "It just doesn't work at a distance."
"Rrrr. It pushes real hard up close, though, doesn't it?" The dog was
gazing at him intently.
"Yeah, I guess so."
"Can we try something?" the border collie asked.
Jake shrugged. "All right."
"Raise that sled up as far as it will go, then throw some sand or
something up under it. Right up against the levitator plates."
"Um—okay." Frowning, Jake adjusted the sled controls until it was
floating six or eight inches off the surface of the asteroid.
"Good. Let's test Newton's laws. Got a shovel?"
He looked around and found a small, flat spade. "All right. Let me get
some dirt here." He scooped up some loose dust, then maneuvered close to
the sled. "Here goes." Feeling very awkward, he flung the dirt under the
sled, trying to angle it up.
The dirt never touched the levitator plates. Instead, it ricocheted down
with a force that made Jake hop back in alarm, and sent a cloud of dust out
the sides. The sled bounced up a few feet from the reaction force, then sank
slowly back down, bobbing as though on a sudden wave.
"Holy freakin'—" Jake began.
"That's it! Rruffff! That's what we have to do! It's just like a rocket!"
"That's amazing! But—"
"There's plenty of dust and loose stuff here."
"True. But we can't just stand beside it shoveling sand under, can we?"
Jake whispered.
"Maybe we can. Now bear with me on this . . . "
 
***
 
Loading the sled with loose dirt was a time-consuming and extremely
messy business. But the sled was built for carrying dirt samples, and it came
equipped with side panels to hold the loose stuff, and even a transparent
tarp to go over it to keep samples from floating away in the microgravity. It
had a pulverizing auger aimed down through the square hole in the center of
the sled, but the boat's dying fuel cells didn't have enough power to drive it.

In the end, Jake shoveled. Fortunately, there was plenty of loose stuff on
the surface. The dirt had almost no weight, but it did have mass and inertia,
and when he got it moving upward, it tended to keep moving upward. He
lost quite a few shovelfuls before he got the hang of lifting and then
redirecting it down into the sled. After a while, he clanged onto rock and
metal. Metal! He was right about this asteroid! He moved the sled to a fresh
patch of loose dirt. Gradually, the sled began to fill up with asteroid dust.
"I couldn't dig better myself," Sam said with a woof.
"You'll get your chance," Jake muttered, panting from the exertion. He
eyed the slowly growing pile inside the sled. They had a long way to go.
 
***
 
By the time the sled was piled high with asteroid dirt, Jake needed a rest
and some food. The sled looked like a loaded cart without wheels, and with
a funny-looking post at one end, holding the controls. "Spare supplies next,"
Jake said, sucking food paste and water from his helmet dispensers.
"And a name," said Sam. "It needs a name."
"You think about that, while I do this." Jake got busy bringing spacesuit
recharge-packs from the boat. He used vacuum-grade duct tape to hold
everything to the control post, including the remaining flares. Then he
levitated the sled again and used a lot of duct tape to secure a couple of
clipboards and his shovel at an angle to the unused auger, where it extended
downward through the square hole. Jake stood with his hands on his hips,
studying his handiwork. The shovel and clipboards were pretty crude; but
they only had to withstand comparatively minor forces, deflecting the dirt
sideways under the levitator.
"All we really need to do, right, is get off this rock and get headed in the
right direction toward base. When we get closer to home, they'll be able to
pick up our suit-comms and flares. Right?"
"Right," answered the dog. "And you found iron and nickel here, so
maybe they'll forgive you for being so boneheaded." He paused. "Get it?
Boneheaded?"
"Yah," Jake said wearily.
"Wouldn't it be funny," Sam said, "if, after all this, they came right here
and rescued us?"

"I wouldn't mind a bit," Jake said, yawning. He needed some sleep. They
only had about eight hours until asteroid NEA-238 would loom very fast.
But they couldn't try anything until this asteroid had rotated to the proper
launch position, with the base-station above the horizon. So in their urgency
to get off this rock, they had four hours to kill.
"I don't know about you," Jake said, "but I'm bone tired. Let's get some
sleep, okay?"
"Bone-tired, rrrff," said Sam. "All right, let's rest." That said, he turned
around a few times before settling down. A minute or two later, he was
sound asleep.
It took Jake a little longer.
 
***
 
In the "morning," they woke to the stars circling overhead, and the sun
disappearing behind the asteroid horizon. They ate a brief breakfast of
spacesuit-grade paste. "You look like you've been through a mud-bath,"
Sam said.
"We're not going to be a pretty ship," Jake said, wiping them both down
as well as he could. He didn't care so much if the suits looked dirty, but they
needed to see clearly through their faceplates. They were depending on the
stars for navigation.
"Beauty is in the eye of the beholder, right?" Sam said.
"True. Have you thought of a name yet?"
"Yep."
 
***
 
Sam grew nervous, when the time came to be strapped into place. The
dog's tail twitched, as Jake tested the straps, then clipped the tarp down, and
finally tightened the cords securing himself to the control post. "It'll work,"
Jake assured him. "It was your idea, remember?"
The dog was looking around through the clear tarp. "I don't want to go
flying off into space."
"You'll be fine. Just do what comes naturally." He surveyed the sled and
shook his head. Sam was strapped onto the top of the dirt pile, under the
tarp containment. Behind the dog was the opening in the sled.

Jake looked up. The correct star groups were almost overhead. Their
trajectory was going to be, to say the least, approximate. But they just
needed to get close enough to the base-station for somebody to triangulate
on their signals. "Ready?"
"Woof."
"Ready to launch space-sled Dog Star. Zero!" He switched full power to
the levitators. "Dig, Sam—dig!"
The sled lurched up from the surface of the asteroid on the levitator's
repulsion field. Sam dug ferociously, spraying pebbles and dust down
through the opening—where it deflected off the clipboards and flew directly
under the levitator. The instant it entered the levitator-field, the dust shot
downward with a silent whoosh, creating a crude rocket blast that billowed
out as it hit the surface. The thrust came in gentle bumps and lurches, as the
dog shoveled with his feet. The sled wobbled alarmingly and threatened to
careen to one side. Jake shifted his weight like a windsurfer. It was
precarious, and he nearly overbalanced, but finally he managed to steady it.
"Keeping digging!"
Sam didn't answer, but kept digging. The sled continued wobbling
upward—inch by inch, it seemed. "It's working!" They were climbing,
really climbing, up over and away from the wrecked spaceboat. It couldn't
possibly work—and wouldn't have, in stronger gravity. But it did work. As
the border collie dug, panting audibly, spraying dirt into the repulsion field,
they continued their slow, bobbing climb away from the asteroid. Beneath
them was a rocket contrail of asteroid dirt.
"We're away!" Jake cried. "We're away, Sam!" Peering past his feet, he
could see the spaceboat shrinking. The rounded shape of the asteroid was
becoming visible. The sun blazed around the edge, then came into view,
forcing him to look away. He craned his neck to focus on the star-patterns
above them, and the few recognizable glints of light that were other
asteroids in the Near-Earth cluster. "A little more to your left, Sam!"
"Woof!" the dog said, panting happily.
There was a lot of space to cross between here and the base station. But
if Sam kept digging, and they didn't run out of dirt, and they managed to
steer this thing, and their suit-comms worked, and nothing else went wrong
—why, they could be in radio range of rescue by dinner time. Jake felt a
rush of confidence. "Good dog!" he crowed.

"Hree-haw!" Sam barked, digging as he'd never dug before. And why
not? The fate of the Dog Star was riding on him.
 
*****
 
OceanofPDF.com

Preview of Neptune Crossing
 
I hope you enjoyed "Dog Star." This story had its genesis in the
Launchpad Astronomy Workshop for writers, conducted by astronomer/SF
writer Mike Brotherton. While securing funding for the workshop series,
Mike also received a grant to create an anthology of SF stories that in some
way illustrate astronomical principles. I wrote "Dog Star" for that
collection, which is called Diamonds in the Sky and is free online at
http://www.mikebrotherton.com/diamonds/.
Another story that had its genesis in science is my novel series, The
Chaos Chronicles, published by Tor Books. It's still a work in progress; I'm
writing the fifth novel now, and will conclude it with a sixth. The spark for
this story was chaos theory, especially as it applied to movements of bodies
in the solar system. What follows is a bonus preview of Neptune Crossing,
volume one of The Chaos Chronicles. If you like the sample, you can
download the book for free, pretty much anywhere ebooks are sold.
Please allow me to introduce you to the quarx...
 
 
Prelude
Awakening in Deep Time
 
The cavern was cold, even in the slow energy flux of the translator's
alien mechanisms. The quarx did not feel the near-absolute-zero cold, but
was aware of it, as it awakened to the silence of a still world. Its first
impression was not of place but of time, vast corridors of time through
which it had floated in an almost coffinlike existence.
What did millions of years mean when one was asleep, when one's life
process was held like a cup of electrons in the hands of an angel? What did
the passage of time mean—except that once more, all the mortal lives it had
known were gone?
The awakening was difficult and confusing. There was so much to
remember...and so much more to learn. The quarx's translator had
anticipated its confusion and was ready with information and explanations
—not too much at once, but enough. They were in the planetary system of a
yellow sun, though at such a remove that the sun was a mere fleck of light

in the sky. But there were other planets, closer to the sun; and there was life
there, venturing outward.
The quarx and its translator watched, and listened, with growing interest.
There was much to know, but always with the mission to be considered.
The mission. The quarx trusted that the translator knew what the mission
was. The quarx, who had known the translator for millions of years, still did
not entirely understand the mind of the thing...or the minds of its creators. It
might have understood those things once; but much of what the quarx had
once known, it had forgotten. How many worlds had it visited, how many
suns, how many life-forms? It didn't know, couldn't remember.
But it knew enough to trust. It was the translator that swept the skies
with its tendrils of awareness, the translator that computed the almost
infinitely complex algorithms of chaos...the translator that recalled in its
deepest memories just what it was they had been sent here to do.
*
Footsteps! Visitors! It had been only a short wait—no time at all,
compared to the eons that had passed before. The translator had seen to it
that remnants of the moon's past had convected upward to its icy surface,
where traces might be noticed. Once the visitors were nearby, the quarx and
its translator kept their hushed silence, but began searching...for the right
individual, for one who would be willing to sacrifice everything for the sake
of the mission.
The mission. The quarx already felt a sense of urgency. The
computations were proceeding, but not yet complete. But it knew that lives
were at stake—as ever—more lives than it could count. And it knew that its
own life—as ever—was expendable.
And it knew that it could not act alone.
There were few enough candidates with the right combination of
qualities—the right potential. But they needed just one. And soon. They had
grown accustomed to the glacial slowness of geologic time, but things were
about to change drastically; things were about to happen with lightning
speed...
*
One individual came into sharper focus. The more the quarx and its
translator watched this one, the more hopeful they became. Here was one
who knew the presence of others in his mind, who felt at home with the
tidal movement of dataflow and the slow seep of intermingled

consciousnesses. This one had recently lost that presence, and suffered for
the loss.
He was drawing near now—unwittingly near. There might be no better
opportunity to try. He was in a period of disruptive suffering; but perhaps
that would help—make it easier to draw him in, like an animal into a snare.
*
Sometimes the quarx wished that it didn't always have to happen this
way.
OceanofPDF.com

 
Chapter 1
Triton Survey
 
John Bandicut couldn't have said exactly what made him drive his buggy
past the invisible STOP HERE line, east of navpoint Wendy. It was almost
as if the stately blue crescent of Neptune, overhead, were beckoning him
onward, a deity calling him toward some mystical assignation among the
rills and ravines of Triton. It was almost as if he had no choice.
That was lunacy, of course. Bandicut took the rover across into the
unsurveyed sector because he was half out of his mind with silence-fugue.
Though he was still perfectly capable of operating the equipment, he was
hallucinating intermittently; and in some small corner of his mind he was
aware that there was no way he should be out on the Triton surface risking
his life, or for that matter the company's equipment. Now, Bandicut cared
about company equipment the way he cared about cockroaches; but where
his own life was concerned, he generally—in more lucid moments—had a
pretty strong survival instinct.
But with each passing second, a little more of that lucidity was being
swept away by the silence-fugue, by the terrible emptiness that was
devouring the inside of his head. It was not that there wasn't plenty of
information pouring through his senses: a clear view of the Triton landscape
through his visor, occasional comm chatter in his helmet, the metallic stink
of recycled air in his nostrils, the taste of bile in his throat, the bouncing of
the buggy under his seat. But inside, deep in his thoughts, there lurked a
dark, echoing, reverberating silence. This was the worst he had ever had the
fugue; it felt as if some outside power were sucking his mind dry of even
the memory of the flow and chatter and swarm of the neuro, stretching the
inner silence as taut as a wire. He felt as if there were a black hole in his
skull, and the only way to escape its awful hold was to flee physically
across the Triton landscape.
He twitched the joystick and steered the rover down a shallow ravine,
racing away from the sector that he was supposed to be detail-mapping. It
was not a visibly hazardous direction; he was not looking for danger but for
escape. He should have known, of course, that he was escaping nothing; but
he wasn't thinking, he was just responding—to a desperate siren call in his

mind, in the awful silence, a call to drive his buggy toward the planet
Neptune, floating before him.
In time, he became aware of the exo-op calling him. The voice clanged
in his headset like a hammer striking a metal pole. "UNIT ECHO, UNIT
ECHO—DO YOU COPY? UNIT ECHO, BASE CAMP—WHAT IS
YOUR PRESENT LOCATION? ECHO—BANDICUT, ARE YOU THERE?
FOR CHRISSAKE, ANSWER—"
He reached for the comm control, as if to respond. Then he watched his
hand turn the volume down to inaudibility. Now why had he done that? The
thought and the question were carried away on the waves of emptiness and
silence. He was riding on a tide, and there was no denying its mastery now.
He nudged the joystick over and steered around a hump of ice and kept on
rolling.
Neptune hung huge and majestic in the sky, her crescent a great blue
scythe, her presence unsoftened by the tenuous nitrogen and methane
atmosphere of Triton. Forget the old guy with the trident; this planet was a
lady, seductive in her blue gown, beckoning him on. As he peered up at her
through the scratches in his visor, he couldn't help reflecting how much
more real she seemed in person than in the telepresence holos—more real,
yet more remote. He had his light-augment turned off, so she appeared dim,
ghostly, almost watery in the dark sky. The sun, not quite overhead, was
little more than a bright star, viewed here from the edge of the solar system.
The Triton surface was a grayish-orangish brown, a frozen composite of
nitrogen and methane ice and oxides barely illumined by the pale sunlight.
This moon of Neptune was a buckled and broken place, ravaged by time, by
impact, by gravity. It was impossible to gaze across Triton's face without
wondering what stories were hidden in its history, what beings had once
walked its surface, eons in the past. Beings had, of course; that was why
humans were here with their mining encampment now. But as for who or
what they had been, that remained a matter for speculation...and
imagination.
John Bandicut's imagination was indeed racing now, as he nudged the
joystick for another burst of power. With a disconnected part of his mind he
recognized the approaching peak of the fugue; visions of aliens danced just
beyond reach, their voices garbled and faint as they tried to communicate
with him, tried to cross over that impregnable boundary of the missing

neurolink. It was hopeless, of course; he was in silence, cut off from the
datanet forever.
The buggy crested a rise and jerked over a ridged surface before nosing
downward again into a low, narrow valley. He eased back on the power and
coasted bumpily down the slope of the frozen terrain, almost relieved by the
physical sensation. Off to his left, a soft dark plume rose into the thin air. It
was a cryogeyser, dirty ice vapors erupting from beneath the surface, to be
gently carried along by the thin Triton winds. Bandicut felt himself fixated
on the eruption; it was an explosion of alien data, swept away by the winds
before it could be drawn into the net. Madness: he knew it was all madness,
but there was no stopping it. The alien datastorm hissed like static in the
center of his mind, defying interpretation.
He felt a sickening lurch, followed by a floating sensation, then a thump
back down in the seat of his pants. He blinked rapidly and pulled the power
off. Too late. The lurch was a shifting of the ice beneath his buggy, and he
knew he was already caught: he could feel one or more wheels mushing
into a sinkhole. The underframe shuddered as it ground into the pebbly ice.
He flicked the joystick into reverse, and the two right wheels chewed
uselessly into snowy dust while the left two bit and slewed the buggy
around. He was only digging the right side in even deeper.
Damn damn damn... His mind whirled in the void. He rocked the power
forward and back, hoping that in the weak Triton gravity he would be able
to dislodge the buggy. The effort was futile; a gravity of one-thirteenth gee
meant poor traction, as well. More madness: how could there be a sinkhole
in this frozen wasteland?
Cursing into the emptiness, he killed the power and unbuckled his
harness. The alien hiss was gone. All he heard now was a choir of accusing
voices, telling him how badly he had screwed up. The silence-fugue was
fading; his thoughts were returning, shakily, to cold reality. He glanced at
his suit's reserves, then disconnected from the buggy's life support. He
raised the bubble canopy and stumbled out of the rover—to the left, to
avoid the soft rut that had swallowed his right wheels. Peering around
cautiously in his bulky suit and helmet, he only half wondered if alien
shapes would loom over the horizon. He blinked hard, and with a silent
curse, set about taking stock. He shuffled forward to inspect the vehicle
from the front, to see how badly he had ground himself in.

His intention was to kneel carefully and peer beneath the buggy. He
planted his modest weight on his left foot, on a solid patch of ice, and lifted
his right foot to take a step past the bumper. With a sudden implosion, the
ice collapsed beneath him. His body, the ice, everything twisted, and before
he could even gasp in alarm, he felt himself falling through a glittering
cloud of snow...falling into a hole that had not been there a moment
ago...tumbling in slow motion, head over heels, falling.
He seemed to fall a long, long way into the thundering, silent darkness
before he lost consciousness.
 
*
 
He awoke with his head pounding, wheeling with dizziness. The
headache was almost welcome; whatever else had happened, the silence-
fugue episode was over. The dizziness was another matter. He took several
slow breaths, and finally realized that he was not just dizzy, but the world
actually seemed to be spinning around him, in a strange, carousellike
movement. He blinked and shifted his gaze around. He was underground,
lying on his back in some sort of cavern. His visor's light-augmentation had
kicked on automatically. An arched, translucent nitrogen-ice ceiling glowed
faintly overhead. Around him, glinting back icily, were solid walls...solid,
except for the great, ponderous, inexorable movement with which they were
wheeling around him.
He took a deep breath and moved his head—or tried. He felt a sharp stab
of pain in his neck, and his helmet did not budge. Terrified, he froze,
moving only his eyes for a moment. He wiggled his fingers and toes, and
felt them move painlessly inside his suit. Next he lifted his arms, then his
legs. No problem there. But when he attempted to push himself up to a
sitting position, he found that he was glued in place, stuck to the ice. The
pain hit him in the neck, as before, but this time it seemed an ache rather
than a stabbing pain. A bruise, probably, from the suit collar. Good. Bruises
he could handle; it was broken bones and spinal damage that scared him.
He scissored his legs, trying to roll over. He might as well have tried rolling
out from under an anvil.
He gazed up at the ceiling, trying to evaluate his predicament. He had
never been in a cavern quite like this before. The ceiling was a flawed
bluish ice with a tinge of reddish-orange methane coloration. It was at least

fifteen or twenty meters above him. The walls, also ice, were steep and
slick. They were still wheeling around him, and it made him dizzy to try to
focus on them for longer than a moment or two. Nevertheless, he glimpsed,
as it revolved past, an almost vertical trough in the wall, which was
probably where he'd slid down. Directly over that trough was a dark shadow
on the ceiling, perhaps the buggy atop the ice. He could not see the opening
he'd fallen through. He hoped it was visible from the surface, because if it
wasn't, search parties from the base would never find him. Not unless he
could think of a way to climb out of here unaided.
The thought made him shiver. He didn't much care for the idea of lying
here in a near-absolute-zero environment, waiting for his lifepack to expire.
He pictured himself as a part of the moon's lifeless deposits, one day to be
revealed by the vaporizing heat of the company's mining lasers. He
shuddered, not just with fear but with fury at himself for the insanity that
had led him to this. The damn silence-fugue. Prior to this, he'd had some
episodes of loss of concentration and fleeting, moderate hallucination, when
the neural silence became too great—but never anything he couldn't control
by effort of will. It had never hit him like this before, never actually put his
life in jeopardy.
He shut his eyes, trying to think. He wondered how long he could safely
lie flat on this supercold surface. The suit was not intended for prolonged
contact in that position. How long had he been unconscious? How much
longer would the power unit hold out?
With the neuro, he would already have had the answers pouring directly
into his thoughts. But in the silence, he could not ask the questions merely
by thinking them. Blinking his eyes open, he squinted at the tiny red
numbers glowing in the corner of his faceplate. Either his eyes were
watering or the numbers themselves were swimming; he couldn't read a
thing. He tried to speak his questions, but all that came out of his throat was
a thin, desperate rasp.
He struggled not to panic. He drew several deep breaths.
He knew this much: he could have been unconscious for as little as a few
seconds, or as long as a few hours. But given the absence of warning
flashers in his visor, he figured that at worst he had another forty-five
minutes, and at best several hours more—assuming that he hadn't broken
anything mechanical in his fall. That was a risky assumption, of course,

considering that he had plowed his way to a landing, ending up flat on his
back.
Flat on his back...
Covering up his exhaust ports.
Christ—all this time he'd been lying here, his heat exhaust had been
slowly melting into the ice, embedding him!
No time to panic! he thought. No time to panic. He tried to think calmly.
There were no datanet voices to help him; he would have to find his own
answers.
Think, damn you.
The silence in his head echoed like a tomb. But in his ears, he heard the
sound of his suit ventilator. He wasn't entirely alone. He cleared his throat
carefully and tried his voice again. "Hello!" he grunted. "Suit control."
Beep.
"Thank God," he whispered. "Suit control—what are my power
reserves?"
Beep. "Forty-two percent," chirped the suit.
He cleared his throat again. Could have been better, could have been
worse. He had a couple of hours left. A couple of hours to get free, call for
help, be rescued. "Suit control—transmit." He heard the click of the comm
switch and drew a tight breath. "Base Camp, Echo Unit. Base Camp, Echo
Unit. Do you read?" He listened to the hiss of static; he swallowed with
difficulty. "Base camp? Bandicut. Can you hear me? Anyone?"
He exhaled, and tried hard not to be upset. It would have been
miraculous for any signal to have gotten out of this deep cavern, especially
with his antenna buried in the ice under his back. Nevertheless, it frightened
him not to get a response. He felt himself starting to hyperventilate, and he
fought to control his breathing—slow and shallow. He took a sip of water
from his feeder tube, then spoke again. "Mayday, Mayday, Mayday! This is
Unit Echo. Bandicut. I've fallen through ice and am trapped underground.
My location—" he struggled to remember "—two klicks east of position
Wendy. Does anyone hear me?"
The only answer was a hiss of static.
He scissored his legs again, trying to roll; then he scissored the other
way. He rocked just enough to give him some hope. Probably there was
some melted ice directly beneath his heat exhaust. But even a few
centimeters out from it, the nitrogen was almost certainly refrozen, binding

him in place. If only there were some way of melting it again...but he was
as helpless as a turtle on its back, kicking and thrashing. He had hands and
tools, all of which were useless to him. His mind spun, ratcheting in the
silent emptiness. What would the voices of the datanet have said to him?
What could this lone, struggling mind come up with?
Suddenly he blinked furiously. Perhaps there was a way.
"Suit control," he murmured. "Raise internal temperature to maximum."
He waited, holding his breath. An instant later, he felt heat pouring in
around his torso, then his extremities. He waited for the heat to taper off. It
seemed to take forever; sweat ran into his eyes, and he felt like a fool
cooking in a sauna. He began moving his arms and legs in fast chops,
adding body heat. Finally he heard a beep, and the influx of heat stopped.
"Suit control," he grunted, "reduce internal temperature to minimum.
Fast." He felt a change in the suit's mechanical hum, and drew a sharp,
painful breath as a blast of icy air flashed down his front. Within seconds,
he was shuddering, his teeth chattering. He counted to three—then began
scissoring his legs violently from side to side. Something creaked, and he
felt a breath of hope. He wasn't free yet, but his suit was pumping all that
excess heat out through the port beneath his back, and he could feel the ice
melting.
He hoped he wasn't just melting himself in deeper.
He kept rolling, heedless of his bruises. Something kept catching,
keeping him from going all the way over. The icy blast was tapering off; he
had only seconds before it would all refreeze. He swung his left leg over
hard, and dug his right elbow down sharply and levered himself up with the
last of his strength. Something broke free, and he lurched, and suddenly was
partway up, supported on his right elbow. Before he could fall backward
again, he pitched himself forward to his hands and knees. He was free.
"S-suit c-control," he gasped. "Temperature...n-normal! Fast!" Heat
poured back into the suit, sending new shudders down his spine.
For a moment he didn't even try to move. Then, as he caught his breath
he struggled to his feet, supporting himself on an outcropping of ice. The
low gravity helped, but he was fighting dizziness as much as weight. When
he felt steadier, he told his suit to turn on his helmet lamp, and he played it
over the cavern walls.
He nearly threw up at the sight of the walls spinning through the
spotlight. He lowered the beam hastily and found that the movement

stopped, closer to him. The spinning occurred only beyond a certain radius,
about four meters from where he stood. Though he was sure that it must be
only a visual illusion, he knew he had to keep from looking at it. He stared
at the ground instead. In his headlight beam, the ice under his feet appeared
solid and stable. Thank God. He turned around slowly to see what was
behind him. He raised his gaze cautiously.
His headlight flashed crazily among some darkened ice formations—and
his breath went out with a shuddering gasp, as he saw it. It. A machine of
some sort.
A machine made by no one human.
Bandicut blinked hard and felt an almost overpowering urge to rub his
eyes behind his visor. The artifact, a few meters from his outstretched hand,
seemed to be squirming in his headlight beam. It seemed to consist of a
great many spheres, some jet black and some iridescent, intersecting like
clusters of soap bubbles. They were moving and sinking through one
another, disappearing and reemerging in different positions, at various rates
of speed. Beneath their mirror sheens, the spheres appeared to be spinning.
The assemblage was about as tall as he was, standing on the ice floor,
balanced on a single spinning bubble. It was strangely hard to focus his
eyes upon.
It looked almost...alive.
In the silence of his mind, one word reverberated in his thoughts. Alien.
And he knew, despite the violence of the silence-fugue that had brought him
to this place, that the fugue had passed, and that this object, and its
alienness, were no hallucination of the fugue-state.
It hurt his eyes to stare at it. He glanced away, and that was when he
realized that it was at the center of the visual disturbance that made the
cavern seem to spin. He clutched again at the ice outcropping, fiercely
trying to suppress a new wave of dizziness.
It was at that moment that he felt something new pass through the
silence—a whisper of something in his mind. He felt it for just a moment,
then it was gone. A tingle ran up his spine, and for an instant it reawakened
the blinding headache that he'd felt at the end of his fugue episode. But the
tingle ended in a quick shiver, and the headache was gone as suddenly as it
had appeared.
But the inner awareness was not.

He didn't know whether this object was alive or not, but one thing he did
know—he felt it in his bones, like a creeping chill that had nothing to do
with temperature.
He was not alone in this cavern.
 
(End of preview)
 
If you would like to read more, please visit your favorite ebook store for a
copy of Neptune Crossing. (Also available in the omnibus The Chaos
Chronicles Books 1-3.)
 
For a complete guide to Jeffrey A. Carver's ebooks, visit:
http://www.starrigger.net/ebooks.htm
 
 
OceanofPDF.com

About the Author
 
Jeffrey A. Carver was a Nebula Award finalist for his novel Eternity's
End. He also authored Battlestar Galactica, a novelization of the critically
acclaimed television miniseries. His novels combine thought-provoking
characters with engaging storytelling, and range from the adventures of the
Star Rigger universe (Star Rigger's Way, Dragons in the Stars, and others)
to the ongoing, character-driven hard SF of The Chaos Chronicles—which
begins with Neptune Crossing and continues with Strange Attractors, The
Infinite Sea, and Sunborn.
A native of Huron, Ohio, Carver lives with his family in the Boston area.
He has taught writing in a variety of settings, from educational television to
conferences for young writers to MIT, as well as his ongoing Ultimate
Science Fiction Workshop with Craig Shaw Gardner. He has created a free
web site for aspiring authors of all ages at http://www.writesf.com. Learn
more about the author and his work at http://www.starrigger.net.
*
OceanofPDF.com

Books by Jeffrey A. Carver
 
Seas of Ernathe
Star Rigger's Way
Panglor
The Infinity Link
The Rapture Effect
Roger Zelazny's Alien Speedway: Clypsis
From a Changeling Star
Down the Stream of Stars
Dragons in the Stars
Dragon Rigger
Eternity's End
Battlestar Galactica: the Miniseries
 
The Chaos Chronicles
Neptune Crossing
Strange Attractors
The Infinite Sea
Sunborn
The Reefs of Time*
 
*forthcoming
 
*****
 
 
 
OceanofPDF.com
