

TABLE OF CONTENTS
I  Beyle, or Love is a Madness Most Discreet
II All'estero
III Dr. K. Takes the Waters at Riva
IV II ritorno in patria
************************
EPub Addendum
Beyle, or Love is a Madness Most Discreet


In mid-May of the year 1800 Napoleon and a force of 36,000
men crossed the Great St Bernard Pass, an undertaking that
had been regarded until that time as next to impossible. For
almost a fortnight, an interminable column of men, animals
and equipment proceeded from Martigny via Orsières
through the Entremont valley and from there moved, in a
seemingly never-ending serpentine, up to the pass two and a
half thousand metres above sea level, the heavy barrels of
the cannon having to be dragged by the soldiery, in hollowed-
out tree trunks, now across snow and ice and now over bare
outcrops and rocky escarpments.
Among those who took part in that legendary transalpine
march, and who were not lost in nameless oblivion, was one
Marie Henri Beyle. Seventeen years old at the time, he could
now see before him the end of his profoundly detested

childhood and adolescence

and, with some enthusiasm, was embarking on a career in
the armed services which was to take him the length and
breadth of Europe. The notes in which the 53-year-old Beyle,
writing during a sojourn at Civitavecchia, attempted to relive
the tribulations of those days afford eloquent proof of the
various difficulties entailed in the act of recollection. At times
his view of the past consists of nothing but grey patches,
then at others images appear of such extraordinary clarity he
feels he can scarce credit them - such as that of General
Marmont, whom he believes he saw at Martigny to the left of
the track along which the column was moving, clad in the
royal- and sky-blue robes of a Councillor of State, an image
which he still beholds precisely thus, Beyle assures us,
whenever he closes his eyes and pictures that scene,
although he is well aware that at that time Marmont must
have been wearing his general's uniform and not the blue
robes of state.
Beyle, who claims at this period, owing to a wholly
misdirected education which had aimed solely at developing
his mental faculties, to have had the constitution of a
fourteen-year-old girl, also writes that he was so affected by
the large number of dead horses lying by the wayside, and
the other detritus of war the army left in its wake as it moved
in a long-drawn-out file up the mountains, that he now has no
clear idea whatsoever of the things he found so horrifying
then. It seemed to him that his impressions had been erased
by the very violence of their impact. For that reason, the
sketch below should be considered as a kind of aid by means
of which Beyle sought to remember how things were when
the part of the column in which he found himself came under
fire near the village and fortress of Bard. B is the village of
Bard. The three Cs on the heights

to the right signify the fortress cannon, firing at the points
marked with Ls on the track that led across the steep slope,
P. Where the X is, at the bottom of the valley and beyond all
hope of rescue, lie horses that plunged off the track in a
frenzy of fear. H stands for Henri and marks the narrator's
own position. Yet, of course, when Beyle was in actual fact
standing at that spot, he will not have been viewing the
scene in this precise way, for in reality, as we know,
everything is always quite different.
Beyle furthermore writes that even when the images
supplied by memory are true to life one can place little
confidence in them. Just as the magnificent spectacle of
General Marmont at Martigny before the ascent remained
fixed in his mind, so too, after the most arduous portion of
the journey was done, the beauty of the descent from the
heights of the pass, and of the St Bernard valley unfolding
before him in the morning sun, made an indelible impression
on him. He gazed and gazed upon it, and all the while his
first words of Italian, taught him the day before by a priest
with whom he was billeted - quante miglia sono di qua a
Ivrea and donna cattiva - were going through his head. Beyle
writes that for years he lived in the conviction that he could
remember every detail of that ride, and particularly of the
town of Ivrea, which he beheld for the first time from some
three-quarters of a mile away, in light that was already

fading. There it lay, to the right, where the valley gradually
opens out into the plain, while on the left, in the far distance,
the mountains arose, the Resegone di Lecco, which was later
to mean so much to him, and at the furthest remove, the
Monte Rosa.
It was a severe disappointment, Beyle writes, when some
years ago, looking through old papers, he came across an
engraving entitled Prospetto d'Ivrea and was obliged to
concede that his recollected picture of the town in the
evening sun was nothing but a copy of that very engraving.
This being so, Beyle's advice is not to purchase engravings of
fine views and prospects seen on one's travels, since before
very long they will displace our memories completely, indeed
one might say they destroy them. For instance, he could no
longer recall the wonderful Sistine Madonna he had seen in
Dresden, try as he might, because Midler's engraving after it
had become superimposed in his mind; the wretched pastels
by Mengs in the same gallery, on the other hand, of which he
had never set eyes on a copy, remained before him as clear
as when he first saw them.
At Ivrea, where the bivouacing army occupied every building
and public square, he contrived to find quarters in the
storehouse of a dyeing works for himself and Capitaine
Burelvillers, in whose company he had ridden into the town.
Their billet was amid all manner of barrels and copper vats,
there was a curious acidic tang in the air, and Beyle had
barely dismounted but he had to defend their quarters
against a band of marauders bent on ripping off the shutters
and doors for the camp fire they had lit in the yard. It was
not only on account of this but indeed by virtue of all that
had happened to him of late that Beyle felt he had come of
age and, in a spirit of adventure, disregarding his hunger
and weariness and the objections of the Capitaine, he set
forth for the Emporeum, where that evening, as he knew
from several public notices, Il Matrimonio Segreto was being
performed.
Beyle's imagination, already in turmoil owing to the

abnormal conditions then prevailing everywhere, was now
further agitated by the music of Cimarosa. At the point in the
first act where the secretly married Paolino and Caroline join
their voices in the apprehensive duet Cara, non dubitar:
pietade troveremo, se il ciel barbaro non è, he imagined
himself not only on the boards of that rudimentary stage but
indeed actually in the house of the deaf-eared merchant of
Bologna, holding his youngest daughter in his arms. So
profoundly was his heart stirred that, as the performance
continued, tears came repeatedly to his eyes, and on leaving
the Emporeum he was convinced that the actress who had
played Caroline and who, he felt certain, had more than once
bent her gaze most particularly on him, would be able to
afford him the bliss promised by the music. He was not in the
least troubled by the circumstance that when the soprano
was grappling with the more difficult of the coloraturas, her
left eye swivelled a little to the outerward, nor that her right
upper canine was missing; quite the contrary, his exalted
feelings seized upon these very defects. He knew now where
happiness was to be sought: not in Paris, where he had
supposed it dwelt when he was still in Grenoble, nor in the
mountains of the Dauphiné, where on occasion he had longed
to be when in Paris, but here in Italy, in this musical realm, in
the beholding of such a divine actress. This conviction
remained unshaken by the obscene jokes about the dubious
morals of theatre ladies with which the Capitaine teased him
the following morning as, leaving Ivrea behind, they rode on
towards Milan and Beyle felt the emotion in his heart
expanding to embrace the broad, rich landscape of early
summer and the countless trees with their fresh green
leafage that greeted him on all sides.
On the 23rd of September, 1800, some three months after his
arrival in Milan, Henri Beyle, who until then had been
performing clerical duties in the offices of the Embassy of
the Republic in the Casa Bovara, was assigned to the 6th
Dragoon Regiment with the rank of sub-lieutenant. Acquiring
what was necessary in order to be correctly uniformed
rapidly depleted his resources, since the cost of buck-leather
breeches, of a helmet adorned from tip to nape with

horsehair, of boots, spurs, belt buckles, breast straps,
epaulettes, buttons and his insignia of rank far exceeded all
his other expenses. This notwithstanding, it was with some
satisfaction that Beyle now observed the figure he cut in his
mirror, and, as he supposed, in the eyes of the Milanese
women. He felt transformed, as if the high embroidered
collar had lengthened his all too short neck and he had at
last succeeded in shedding his unprepossessing body. Even
his eyes, set somewhat far
apart, on account of which, to his chagrin, he had often been
called Le Chinois, suddenly seemed bolder, more focused on
some imaginary midpoint. And once fully apparelled in the
uniform of a dragoon, this seventeen-and-a-half-year-old went
around for days on end with an erection, before he finally
dared disburden himself of the virginity he had brought with
him from Paris. Afterwards, he could no longer recall the
name or face of the donna cattiva who had assisted him in
this task. The overpowering sensation, he wrote, blotted out
the memory entirely. So thoroughly did Beyle serve his
apprenticeship in the weeks that followed that in retrospect
his entry into the world became a blur of the city's brothels,
and before the year was out he was suffering the pains of
venereal infection and was being treated with quicksilver
and iodide of potassium; although this did not prevent him
from working on a passion of a more abstract nature. The
object of his craving was Angela

Pietragrua, the mistress of his fellow-soldier Louis Joinville.
She, however, merely gave the ugly young dragoon the
occasional pitying look.

It was not until eleven years later, when Beyle returned to
Milan after a long absence and visited the unforgettable
Angela once again, that he plucked up the courage to tell her
of his exalted feelings. She scarcely remembered him.
Somewhat discomfited by the passion of her unorthodox
admirer, she attempted to ease the tension by proposing an
excursion to the Villa Simonetta, where a widely famed echo
would repeat a pistol shot up to fifty times. But this delaying
tactic was of no avail. Lady Simonetta, as Beyle called Angela
Pietragrua from that time on, at length felt compelled to
capitulate before what seemed to her the insane loquacity
Beyle displayed in her presence. All the same, she succeeded
in exacting from him the promise that once he had enjoyed
her favours he would depart Milan forthwith. Beyle accepted
this condition without demur and left Milan, which he had
missed for so long, that very same day, though not without
recording, on his braces, the date and time of his conquest:
21 September at half past eleven in the morning. When the
perennial traveller was once again seated in the diligence
and the fine scenery was passing by, he wondered whether
he would ever again carry off another such victory. As
darkness fell, the now familiar melancholy stole upon him,
feelings of guilt and inferiority very similar to those that had
first given him real and lasting anguish at the close of 1800.
That whole summer, the general euphoria that had followed
upon the Battle of Marengo had borne him up as if on wings;
utterly fascinated, he had read the continuing reports in the
intelligencers of the campaign in upper Italy; there had been
open-air performances, balls and illuminations, and, when
the day had come for him to don his uniform for the first
time, he had felt as if his life finally had its proper place in a
perfect system, or at least one that was aspiring to
perfection, and in which beauty and terror bore an exact
relation to each other. Late autumn, however, had brought
dejection with it. Garrison duties increasingly oppressed him,
Angela seemed to have little time for him, his disease

recurred, and over and over again, with the aid of a mirror,
he examined the inflammations and ulcers in his mouth and
at the back of his throat and the blotches on his inner thighs.
At the start of the new year, Beyle saw IL Matrimonio
Segreto for the second time, at La Scala, but although the
theatrical setting was perfect and the actress playing
Caroline a great beauty, he was unable to imagine himself
among the protagonists as he had in Ivrea. Indeed, he was
now so far removed from it all that the music well-nigh broke
his heart. The thunderous applause which shook the opera
house at the close of the performance struck him as the final
act in a process of destruction, like the crackling caused by a
tremendous conflagration, and for a long time he remained
in his seat, numbed by his hope that the fire might consume
him. He was one of the last to quit the cloakroom, and in
leaving he gave a parting glance at his reflection in the
mirror and, thus confronting himself, posed for the first time
the question that was to occupy him over the ensuing
decades: what is it that undoes a writer? In view of the
circumstances it seemed to him of particular significance
when, a few days after that signal evening, he read in a
gazette that on the eleventh of the month, in Venice, while
working on his new opera, Artemisia, Cimarosa had suddenly
died. On the 17th of January, Artemisia was given its
première at the Teatro La Fenice. It was a huge success.
Subsequently, strange rumours began circulating, to the
effect that Cimarosa, who had been involved in the
revolutionary movement in Naples, had been poisoned on the

orders of Queen Caroline. Others speculated that Cimarosa
had died as a result of the maltreatment he had suffered in
the Neapolitan gaols. These rumours gave Beyle nightmares
in which everything he had experienced in recent months
was most horribly mixed up. They persisted undiminished,
nor were they laid to rest when the Pope's personal
physician, having especially conducted a post-mortem
examination of Cimarosa's corpse, declared the cause of
death to have been gangrene.
It was some considerable time before Beyle regained his
peace of mind after these events. Throughout the early
months of the year he suffered fevers and gastric cramps,
which were treated partly with quinquina, partly with
ipecacuanha and a paste of potash and antimony, whereupon
his condition deteriorated to the extent that he more than
once thought his end was nigh. When the summer arrived his
fears, and with them the fever and the terrible stomach
pains, gradually subsided. As soon as he was restored to a
reasonable degree of health, Beyle, who had never been in
any engagement except for his baptism of fire at Bard, set
about visiting the places where the great battles of recent
years had been fought. Time after time he traversed the
landscape of Lombardy, of which he came to realise he had
become exceedingly fond, with the grey and blue of distance
lying in ever more delicately nuanced bands until at the
horizon they dissolved into something resembling the haze
that hangs over the high mountains.
So it was that Beyle, on the way from Tortone, stopped in the
early morning of the 27th of September, 1801, on the vast
and silent terrain - only the larks could be heard as they
climbed the heavens - where on the 25th of Prairial the
previous year, exactly fifteen months and fifteen days before,
as he noted, the Battle of Marengo had been fought. The
decisive turn in the battle, brought about by Kellermann's
ferocious cavalry charge, which tore open the flank of the
main Austrian force at a time when the sun was setting and
all already seemed lost, was familiar to him from many and
various tellings, and he had himself pictured it in numerous

forms and hues. Now, however, he gazed upon the plain,
noted the few stark trees, and saw, scattered over a vast
area, the bones of perhaps 16,000 men and 4,000 horses that
had lost their lives there, already bleached and shining with
dew. The difference between the images of the battle which
he had in his head and what he now saw before him as
evidence that the battle had in fact taken place occasioned in
him a vertiginous sense of confusion such as he had never
previously experienced. It may have been for that reason that
the memorial column that had been erected on the battlefield
made on him what he describes as an extremely mean
impression. In its shabbiness, it fitted neither with his
conception of the turbulence of the Battle of Marengo nor
with the vast field of the dead on which he was now standing,
alone with himself, like one meeting his doom.
Later, thinking back to that September day on the field of
Marengo, it often seemed to Beyle as if he had foreseen the
years which lay ahead, all the campaigns and disasters, even
the fall and exile of Napoleon, and as if he had realised then
that he would not find his fortune serving in the army. At all
events, it was in the autumn that he resolved to become the
greatest writer of all time. He did not, however, take any
decisive steps towards the fulfilment of that ambition until
Napoleon's empire


began to crumble, nor did he make a first real advance into
the world of literature until in the spring of 1820 he wrote
De l'Amour, a kind of resumé of the hopeful yet disconcerting
years that had gone before.
In March 1818, Beyle, who at that period often travelled to
and fro between France and Italy, as indeed he did at other
times in his life, met Métilde Dembowski Viscontini at her
salon in Milan. Métilde, married to a Polish officer almost
thirty years her senior, was twenty-eight and a woman of
great, melancholy beauty. After about a year had passed,
during which time he was one of the regular visitors at the
houses on Piazza delle Galline and Piazza Belgioioso, Beyle's
unspoken, discreet passion was on the point of winning the
affection of Métilde, when he himself, as he later admitted,
dashed his hopes by committing a blunder for which he could
never make amends.
Métilde had gone to Volterra to visit her two sons, who were
at the monastery school of San Michele there, and Beyle,
unable to endure even a few days without seeing her,
followed incognito. He was simply incapable of putting out of
his mind his last glimpse of Métilde, on the eve of her
departure from Milan. She had bent down in the hallway of
her house to adjust her footwear, and, suddenly oblivious to
everything else, he had beheld, in a profound darkness, as if
through drifting smoke, a crimson desert behind her. This
vision left him in a kind of trance, and it was in that state
that he purchased the clothing he meant to wear as a
disguise. He bought a new buff jacket, dark blue breeches,
black patent leather boots, a velours hat with a more than
usually high crown, and a pair of green spectacles, and in
this attire he sauntered about Volterra, endeavouring to
catch sight of Métilde at least from a distance as often as he
possibly could. At first Beyle supposed himself unrecognised,
only to realise, to his still greater satisfaction, that Métilde
was giving him meaningful looks. He congratulated himself
on this ingenious arrangement and from time to time, to a
tune of his own devising, intoned the words Je suis le

compagnon secret et familier, which struck him somehow as
particularly amusing. Métilde, for her part, felt compromised
by Beyle's conduct, as can readily be imagined, and, when
his unaccountable behaviour finally became too vexatious,
she sent him a dry note that put a fairly abrupt end to his
hopes as a paramour.
Beyle was inconsolable. For months he reproached himself,
and not until he determined to set down his great passion in
a meditation on love did he recover his emotional
equilibrium. On his writing desk, as a memento of Métilde,
he kept a plaster cast of her left hand which he had contrived
to obtain shortly before the débàcle - providentially, as he
often reflected while writing. That hand now meant almost as
much to him as Métilde herself could ever have done. In
particular, the slight crookedness of the ring finger
occasioned in him emotions of a vehemence he had not
hitherto experienced.

In De l'Amour he describes a journey he claims to have made
from Bologna in the company of one Mme Gherardi, whom
he sometimes refers to simply as La Ghita. La Ghita, who
reappears a number of times on the periphery of Beyle's later
work, is a mysterious, not to say unearthly figure. There is
reason to suspect that Beyle used her name as a cipher for
various lovers such as Adèle Rebuffel, Angéline Bereyter and
not least for Métilde Dembowski, and that Mme Gherardi,
whose life would easily furnish a whole novel, as Beyle writes
at one point, never really existed, despite all the
documentary evidence, and was merely a phantom, albeit
one to whom Beyle remained true for decades. It is
furthermore unclear at what time in his life Beyle made the
journey with Mme Gherardi, always supposing that he made
it at all. However, since there is much about Lake Garda in
the opening pages of the narrative, it seems probable that
some of what Beyle experienced in September 1813, when he
was convalescing by the lakes of upper Italy, went into his
account of the journey with Mme Gherardi.
In the autumn of 1813, Beyle was in a continuously elegiac
frame of mind. The previous winter he had taken part in the
terrible retreat from Russia, and afterwards had spent some
time dealing with administrative business at Sagan in Silesia,
where at the height of the summer he succumbed to a
serious illness, during the course of which his senses were
often confounded by images of the great fire of Moscow and
of climbing the Schneekopf, which he had been planning to
do immediately before the fever came upon him. Time after
time Beyle found himself on a mountaintop, cut off from the
rest of the world and surrounded by great squalls of snow
driven horizontally through the tempestuous air and by the
flames breaking from the roofs of burning houses.
The leave he took in upper Italy after recovering was marked
by a sensation of debility and quietude, which caused him to
view the natural world around him, and the longing for love
which he continued to feel, in a wholly new way. A curious
lightness such as he had never known took hold of him, and
it is the recollection of that lightness which informs the

account he wrote seven years later of a journey that may
have been wholly imaginary, made with a companion who
may likewise have been a mere figment of his own mind.
The narrative begins in Bologna, where the heat was so
unbearable - in the early July of a year we cannot date
precisely - that Beyle and Mme Gherardi decided to spend a
few weeks breathing the fresher air of the mountains.
Resting by day and travelling by night, they crossed the hilly
country of Emilia-Romagna and the Mantuan marshes,
shrouded in sulphurous vapours, and on the morning of the
third day arrived in Desenzano on Lake Garda. Never in his
entire life, writes Beyle, had the beauty and solitude of those
waters made so profound an impression on him. Because of
the oppressive heat, he and Mme Gherardi spent the
evenings in a barque out on the lake, observing, during hours
of unforgettable tranquillity, the most extraordinary
gradations of colour as night fell. It was on one of those
evenings, Beyle writes, that they talked of the pursuit of
happiness. Mme Gherardi maintained that love, like most
other blessings of civilisation, was a chimaera which we
desire the more, the further removed we are from Nature.
Insofar as we seek Nature solely in another body, we become
cut off from Her; for love, she declared, is a passion that
pays its debts in a coin of its own minting, and thus a purely
notional transaction which one no more needs for one's
fulfilment than one needs the instrument for trimming goose-
quills that he, Beyle, had bought in Modena. Or do you
imagine (thus, according to Beyle, she continued) that
Petrarch was unhappy merely because he never knew the
taste of coffee?
A few days after this conversation, Beyle and Mme Gherardi
continued on their journey. Since the breezes traverse Lake
Garda from north to south around midnight but from south to
north in the hours before dawn, they first rode along the
bank as far as Gargnano, halfway up the lake shore, and from
there took a boat aboard which, as day broke, they entered
the small port of Riva, where two boys were already sitting
on the harbour wall playing dice.

Beyle drew Mme Gherardi's attention to an old boat, its
mainmast fractured two-thirds of the way up, its buff-
coloured sails hanging in folds. It appeared to have made fast
only a short time ago, and two men in dark silver-buttoned
tunics were at that moment carrying a bier ashore on which,
under a large, frayed, flower-patterned silk cloth, lay what
was evidently a human form. The scene affected Mme
Gherardi so adversely that she insisted on quitting Riva
without delay.
The further they penetrated into the mountains, the cooler
and greener the landscape became, much to the delight of
Mme Gherardi, for whom the dust-laden summers of her
native city were so often an ordeal. That sombre moment in
Riva, which crossed her memory like a shadow several times,
was presently forgotten, and gave way to such high spirits
that in Innsbruck, for the sheer pleasure of it, she bought a
broad-brimmed Tyrolean hat of the kind familiar to us from
pictures showing Andreas Hofer's rebellion, and persuaded
Beyle, who had been meaning to turn back at this point, to
continue further down the Inn valley with her, past Schwaz
and Kufstein and onwards to Salzburg. There they stayed for
several days, visiting the famed underground galleries of the
Hallein salt mines, where one of the miners made Mme
Gherardi a present of a twig which was encrusted with
thousands of crystals. When they returned to the surface of
the earth once again, Beyle writes, the rays of the sun set off
in it a manifold glittering such as he had only seen flashing
from diamonds as ladies revolved with their partners in a
ballroom blazing with light.
The protracted crystallisation process, which had
transformed the dead twig into a truly miraculous object,
appeared to Beyle, by his own account, as an allegory for the
growth of love in the salt mines of the soul. He expounded
this idea at length to Mme Gherardi. She for her part,
however, was not prepared to sacrifice the childish bliss that
filled her that day in order to explore with Beyle the deeper
meaning of what was doubtless a very pretty allegory, as she
sardonically put it. Beyle took this as another example of the

obstacles that so often appeared in his path as he continued
his quest for a woman who might accord with his intellectual
life, and he remarks that it was then he realised how even his
most extravagant efforts would never be able to overcome
those obstacles. In noting this, he broached a subject that
was to occupy him as a writer for years to come. And so now,
in 1826, approaching forty, he sat alone on a bench in the
shade of two fine trees, enclosed by a low wall in the garden
of the monastery of the Minori Osservanti high above Lake
Albano and, with the cane he
now generally carried with him, slowly inscribed the initials
of his former lovers in the dust, like the enigmatic runes of
his life. The initials stand for Virginie Kubly, Angela

Pietragrua, Adèle Rebuffel, Mélanie Guilbert, Mina de
Griesheim, Alexandrine Petit, Angéline {qui je n’ ai jamais
aimé) Bereyter, Métilde Dembowski, and for Clémentine,
Giulia, and Mme Azur, whose first name he no longer
remembered. Just as he no longer understood the names of
these stars now unfamiliar to him, as he phrases it, so too it
seemed ultimately incomprehensible to him, when he wrote
De l'Amour, that whenever he tried to persuade Mme
Gherardi to believe in love, she made him replies now of a
melancholy sort, and now quite tart. It especially pained
Beyle, however, at a time when he was beginning to accept
with some reluctance the foundations of her philosophy, to
find Mme Gherardi, as occurred often enough, according a
certain value after all to the illusions of love he associated
with the crystallisation of salt. At such moments he was
horrified by a sudden awareness of his own insufficiency and
a profound sense of failure. Beyle distinctly recalls that this
horror came upon him on one occasion in the autumn of the
year in which they had made their journey to the Alps
together, when they were riding on the Cascata del Reno and
discussing the torments the painter Oldofredi underwent in
the name of love, which were then the talk of the town. Beyle
had still not abandoned hope of winning the favour of Mme
Gherardi, who was usually well disposed to his quick-witted
conversation, and when she began to speak of a divine
happiness beyond comparison with anything else in life,
quite to herself as it seemed to him, a feeling of dread
overcame him, and he described Oldofredi, doubtless
thinking more of himself than of the painter, as a wretched
foreigner. Thereupon he fell back, allowing the gap between
his horse and that of Mme Gherardi - who, as has been

remarked, may have existed only in his imagination -to widen
steadily, and they rode the remaining three miles to Bologna
without exchanging another word.
Beyle wrote his great novels between 1829 and 1842,
plagued constantly by the symptoms of syphilis. Difficulties
in swallowing, swellings in his armpits, and pains in his
atrophying testicles troubled him especially. Having now
become a meticulous observer, he kept a minute record of
the fluctuating state of his health and in due course noted
that his sleeplessness, his giddiness, the roaring in his ears,
his palpitating pulse, and the shaking that was at times so
bad that he could not use a knife and fork, were related not
so much to the disease itself as to the extremely toxic
substances with which he had dosed himself for years. His
condition improved as little by little he stopped taking
quicksilver and iodide of potassium; but he realised that his
heart was gradually failing. As had long been his habit, Beyle
calculated, with growing frequency, the age to which he
might expect to live in cryptographic forms which, in their
scrawled, ominous abstraction, seem like harbingers of
death. Six years

of arduous work still remained to him when he jotted down
this impenetrable note. On the evening of the 22nd of March,
1842, with the approach of spring already in the air, he fell to
the pavement in rue Neuve-des-Capucines in an apoplectic
fit. He was taken to his apartments in what is now rue
Danielle-Casanova, and there, in the early hours of the
following morning, without regaining consciousness, he died.
All'estero

In October 1980 I travelled from England, where I had then
been living for nearly twenty-five years in a county which
was almost always under grey skies, to Vienna, hoping that a
change of place would help me get over a particularly
difficult period in my life. In Vienna, however, I found that
the days proved inordinately long, now they were not taken
up by my customary routine of writing and gardening tasks,
and I literally did not know where to turn. Early every
morning I would set out and walk without aim or purpose
through the streets of the inner city, through the
Leopoldstadt and the Josefstadt. Later, when I looked at the

map, I saw to my astonishment that none of my journeys had
taken me beyond a precisely defined sickle-or crescent-
shaped area, the outermost points of which were the
Venediger Au by the Praterstern and the great hospital
precincts of the Alsergrund. If the paths I had followed had
been inked in, it would have seemed as though a man had
kept trying out new tracks and connections over and over,
only to be thwarted each time by the limitations of his
reason, imagination or will-power, and obliged to turn back
again. My traversing of the city, often continuing for hours,
thus had very clear bounds, and yet at no point did my
incomprehensible behaviour become apparent to me: that is
to say, my continual walking and my reluctance to cross
certain lines which were both invisible and, I presume,
wholly arbitrary. All I know is that I found it impossible even
to use public transport and, say, simply take the 41 tram out
to Potzleinsdorf or the 58 to Schònbrunn and take a stroll in
the Potzleinsdorf Park, the Dorotheerwald or the
Fasangarten, as I had frequently done in the past. Turning in
to a coffee house or bar, on the other hand, presented no
particular problem. Indeed, whenever I was somewhat
fortified and refreshed I regained a sense of normality for a
while and, buoyed up by a touch of confidence, there were
moments when I supposed that I could put an end to the
muted condition I had been in for days, and make a
telephone call. As it happened, however, the three or four
people I might have cared to talk to were never there, and
could not be induced to pick up the receiver no matter how
long I let the phone ring. There is something peculiarly
dispiriting about the emptiness that wells up when, in a
strange city, one dials the same telephone numbers in vain. If
no one answers, it is a disappointment of huge significance,
quite as if these few random ciphers were a matter of life or
death. So what else could I do, when I had put the coins that
jingled out of the box back into my pocket, but wander
aimlessly around until well into the night. Often, probably
because I was so very tired, I believed I saw someone I knew
walking ahead of me. Those who appeared in these
hallucinations, for that is what they were, were always
people I had not thought of for years, or who had long since

departed, such as Mathild Seelos or the one-armed village
clerk Fürgut. On one occasion, in Gonzagagasse, I even
thought I recognised the poet Dante, banished from his home
town on pain of being burned at the stake. For some
considerable time he walked a short distance ahead of me,
with the familiar cowl on his head, distinctly taller than the
people in the street, yet he passed by them unnoticed. When
I walked faster in order to catch him up he went down
Heinrichsgasse, but when I reached the corner he was
nowhere to be seen. After one or two turns of this kind I
began to sense in me a vague apprehension, which
manifested itself as a feeling of vertigo.
The outlines on which I tried to focus dissolved, and my
thoughts disintegrated before I could fully grasp them.
Although at times, when obliged to lean against a wall or
seek refuge in the doorway of a building, I feared that mental
paralysis was beginning to take a hold of me, I could think of
no way of resisting it but to walk until late into the night, till
I was utterly worn out. In the ten days or so that I spent in
Vienna I visited none of the sights and spoke not a word to a
soul except for waiters and waitresses. The only creatures I
talked to, if I remember correctly, were the jackdaws in the
gardens by the city hall, and a white-headed blackbird that
shared the jackdaws' interest in my grapes. Sitting for long
periods on park benches and aimlessly wandering about the
city, tending increasingly to avoid coffee houses and
restaurants and take a snack at a stand wherever I happened
to be, or simply eat something out of paper -all of this had
already begun to change me without my being aware of it.
The fact that I still lived in a hotel was at ever increasing
variance with the woeful state I was now in. I began to carry
all kinds of useless things around with me in a plastic bag I
had brought with me from England, things I found it more
impossible to part with as every day went by. Returning from
my excursions at a late hour, I felt the eyes of the night
porter at my back subjecting me to a long and questioning
scrutiny as I stood in the hotel lobby waiting for the lift,
hugging the bag to my chest. I no longer dared switch on the
television in my room, and I cannot say whether I would ever

have come out of this decline if one night as I slowly
undressed, sitting on the edge of the bed, I had not been
shocked by the sight of my shoes, which were literally falling
apart. I felt queasy, and my eyes dimmed as they had once
before on that day, when I reached the Ruprechtplatz after a
long trail round the Leopoldstadt that had finally brought me
through Ferdinandstrasse and over the Schwedenbrücke into
the first district. The windows of the Jewish community
centre, on the first floor of the building which also houses
the synagogue and a kosher restaurant, were wide open, it
being an unusually fine, indeed summery autumn day, and
there were children within singing, unaccountably, "Jingle
Bells" and "Silent Night" in English. The voices of singing
children, and now in front of me my tattered and, as it
seemed, ownerless shoes. Heaps of shoes and snow piled
high - with these words in my head I lay down. When I awoke
the next morning from a deep and dreamless sleep, which
not even the surging roar of traffic on the Ring had been able
to disturb, I felt as if I had crossed a wide stretch of water
during the hours of my nocturnal absence. Before I opened
my eyes I could see myself descending the gangway of a
large ferry, and hardly had I stepped ashore but I resolved to
take the evening train to Venice, and before that to spend the
day with Ernst Herbeck in Klosterneuburg.
Ernst Herbeck has been afflicted with mental disorders ever
since his twentieth year. He was first committed to an
institution in 1940. At that time he was employed as an
unskilled worker in a munitions factory. Suddenly he could
hardly eat or sleep any more. He lay awake at night,
counting aloud, his body was racked with cramps. Life in the
family, and especially his father's incisive thinking, were
corroding his nerves, as he put it. In the end he lost control
of himself, knocked his plate away at mealtimes or tipped his
soup under the bed. Occasionally his condition would
improve for a while. In October 1944 he was even called up,
only to be discharged in March 1945. One year after the war
was over he was committed for the fourth and final time. He
had been wandering the streets of Vienna at night, attracting
attention by his behaviour, and had made incoherent and

confused statements to the police. In the autumn of 1980,
after thirty-four years in an institution, tormented for most of
that time by the smallness of his own thoughts and
perceiving everything as though through a veil drawn over
his eyes, Ernst Herbeck was, so to speak, discharged from
his illness and allowed to move into a pensioners' home in
the town, among the inmates of which he was scarcely
conspicuous. When I arrived at the home shortly before half
past nine he was already standing waiting at the top of the
steps that ran up to the entrance. I waved to him from the
other side of the street, whereupon he raised his arm in
welcome and, keeping it outstretched, came down the steps.
He was wearing a glencheck suit with a hiking badge on the
lapel. On his head he wore a narrow-brimmed hat, a kind of
trilby, which he later took off when it grew too warm for him
and carried beside him, just as my grandfather often used to
do on summer walks. At my suggestion we took the train to

Altenberg, a few kilometres up the Danube. We were the only
passengers in the carriage. Outside in the flood plain there
were willows, poplars, alders and ash trees, allotment
gardens and occasionally a little house raised on pillars
against the water. Now and then we caught a glimpse of the
river. Ernst let it all go by without venturing a word. The
breeze that came in at the open window played about his
forehead. His lids were half closed over his large eyes. When
we arrived in Altenberg we walked back along the road a
little in the direction we had come and then, turning off to
the right, climbed the shady path to Burg Greifenstein, a
medieval fortress that plays a significant part not only in my

own imagination but also, to this day, in that of the people of
Greifenstein who live at the foot of the cliff. I had first visited
the castle in the late 1960s, and from the terrace of the
restaurant had looked down across the gleaming river and
the waterlands, on which the shadows of evening were
falling. Now, on that bright October day when Ernst and I,
sitting beside each other, savoured that wonderful view,

a blue haze lay upon the sea of foliage that reaches right up
to the walls of the castle. Currents of air were stirring the
tops of the trees, and stray leaves were riding the breeze so
high that little by little they vanished from sight. At times,
Ernst was very far away. For minutes on end he left his fork
sticking upright in his pastry. In the old days, he observed at
one point, he had collected postage stamps, from Austria,
Switzerland and the Argentine. Then he smoked another
cigarette in silence, and when he stubbed it out he repeated,
as if in amazement at his entire past life, that single word
"Argentine", which possibly struck him as far too outlandish.
That morning, I think, we were both within an inch of
learning to fly, or at least I might have managed as much as
is required for a decent crash. But we never catch the
propitious moment. - I only know that the view from Burg
Greifenstein is no longer the same. A dam has been built
below the castle. The course of the river was straightened,

and the sad sight of it now will soon extinguish the memory
of what it once was.
We made our way back on foot. For both of us the walk
proved too long. Downcast we strode on in the autumn
sunshine, side by side. The houses of Kritzendorf seemed to
go on forever. Of the people who lived there not a sign was to
be seen. They were all having lunch, clattering the cutlery
and plates. A dog leapt at a green-painted iron gate, quite
beside itself, as if it had taken leave of its senses. It was a
large black Newfoundland, its natural gentleness broken by
ill-treatment, long confinement or even the crystal clarity of
the autumn day. In the villa behind the iron fence nothing
stirred. Nobody came to the window, not even a curtain
moved. Again and again the animal ran up and hurled itself
at the gate, only occasionally pausing to eye us where we
stood as if transfixed. As we walked on I could feel the chill
of terror in my limbs. Ernst turned to look back once more at
the black dog, which had now stopped barking and was
standing motionless in the midday sun. Perhaps we should
have let it out. It would probably have ambled along beside
us, like a good beast, while its evil spirit might have stalked
among the people of Kritzendorf in search of another host,
and indeed might have entered them all simultaneously, so
not one of them would have been able to lift a spoon or fork
again.
We finally reached Klosterneuburg by way of Albrecht-
strasse at the upper end of which there is a gruesome
building banged together out of breezeblocks and prefab
panels. The ground-floor windows are boarded up. Where the

roof should be, only a rusty array of iron bars protrude into
the sky. Looking at it was like witnessing a hideous crime.
Ernst put his best foot forward, averting his eyes from this
fearful monument. A little further on, the children inside the
primary school were singing, the most appealing sounds
coming from those who could not quite manage to hit the
right notes. Ernst stood still, turned to me as though we were
both actors on a stage, and in a theatrical manner uttered a
statement which appeared to me as if he had committed it to
memory a long time ago: That is a very fine sound, borne
upon the air, and uplifts one's heart. Some two years
previously I had stood once before outside that school. I had
gone to Klosterneuburg with Clara to visit her grandmother,
who had been taken into the old people's home in
Martinsstrasse. On the way back we went down
Albrechtstrasse and Clara gave in to the temptation to visit
the school she had attended as a child. In one of the
classrooms, the very one where she had been taught in the
early 1950s, the selfsame schoolmistress was still teaching,
almost thirty years later, her voice quite unchanged - still
warning the children to keep at their work, as she had done
then, and also not to chatter. Alone in the entrance hall,
surrounded by closed doors that had seemed at one time like
mighty portals, Clara was overcome by tears, as she later
told me. At all events, when she came out she was in such a
state of distress as I had never seen her in before. We
returned to her grandmother's flat in Ottakring, and neither
on the way there nor that entire evening did she regain her
composure following this unexpected encounter with her
past.

The St Martin's home is a large, rectangular building with
massive stone walls dating from the seventeenth or
eighteenth century. Clara's grandmother, Anna Goldsteiner,
who was afflicted with that extreme kind of forgetfulness
which soon renders even the simplest of everyday tasks
impossible to perform, shared a dormitory on the fourth
floor. Through the barred, deeply recessed windows there
was a view down onto the tops of the trees on the steeply
sloping ground to the rear of the house. It was like looking
upon a heaving sea. The mainland, it seemed to me, had
already sunk below the horizon. A foghorn droned. Further
and further out the ship plied its passage upon the waters.
From the engine room came the steady throb of the turbines.
Out in the corridor, stray passengers went past, some of
them on the arm of a nurse. It took an eternity, on these
slow-motion walks, for them to cross from one side of the
doorway to the other. How strange it is, to be standing

leaning against the current of time. The parquet floor shifted
beneath my feet. A low murmuring, rustling, dragging,
praying and moaning filled the room. Clara was sitting
beside her grandmother, stroking her hand. The semolina
was doled out. The foghorn sounded again. A little way
further out in the green and hilly water landscape, another
steamer passed. On the bridge, his legs astride and the
ribbons on his cap flying, stood a mariner, signalling in
semaphore with two colourful flags. Clara held her
grandmother close as they parted, and promised to come
again soon. But barely three weeks later Anna Goldsteiner,
who in the end, to her own amazement, could no longer even
remember the names of the three husbands she had
survived, died of a slight cold. At times it does not take
much. For weeks after we learned of her death I could not
put out of my mind the blue, half-empty pack of Bad Ischi salt
under the sink in her council flat in Lorenz Mandi Gasse and
which she would never now be able to use up.
Footsore from our walk, Ernst and I emerged from
Albrechtstrasse onto the town square, which sloped slightly
to one side. For a while we stood irresolute on the curb in the
dazzling midday sun before trying, like two strangers, to
cross the road amid the infernal traffic, almost being run
down by a gravel truck. Once we were on the shady side of
the street we dived into a bar. At first the dark that
enveloped us as we entered was so impenetrable for eyes
accustomed to the glare outside that we were obliged to sit
down at the first table we came to. Only gradually and
partially did our sight return and other people become
apparent in the gloom, some of them bent low over their
plates, others sitting curiously upright or leaning back, but
all of them without exception on their own, a silent
gathering, the shadow of the waitress threading among
them, as if she were the bearer of secret messages between
the several guests and the corpulent landlord. Ernst declined
to eat anything, and instead took one of the cigarettes I
offered him. A time or two he appreciatively turned the
packet with its English wording in his hands. He inhaled the
smoke deeply, with the air of a connoisseur. The cigarette, he

had written in one of his poems, is a monopoly and must be
smoked. So that it goes up in flames.
And, putting down his beer glass after taking a first draught,
he observed that he had dreamed about English Boy Scouts
last night. What I then told him about England, about the
county in East Anglia where I live, the great wheatfields
which in the autumn are transformed into a barren brown
expanse stretching further than the eye can see, the rivers
up which the incoming tide drives the sea water, and the
times when the land is flooded and one can cross the fields in
boats, as the Egyptians once did - all of this Ernst listened to
with the patient lack of interest of a man who has long been
familiar with every detail he is being told. I then asked if he
would write something in my notebook, and this he did
without the slightest hesitation with the ballpoint which he
took from his jacket pocket, resting his left hand on the open
page. His head to one side, his brow furrowed in
concentration, his eyelids half-closed, he wrote:

England. England, as is well known, is an island unto itself.
Travelling to England takes an entire day. 30 October 1980.
Ernst Herbeck. - We left. It was not far now to the St Agnes
home. When we parted, Ernst, standing on tiptoe and bowing
slightly, took his hat from his head and with it, as he turned
away, executed a sweeping motion which ended with him
putting the hat back on; a performance which seemed to be,
at the same time, both childishly easy and an astonishing feat
of artistry. This gesture, like the manner in which he had
greeted me that morning, put me in mind of someone who
had travelled with a circus for many years.
The train journey from Vienna to Venice has left scarcely any
trace in my memory. For what may have been an hour I
watched the lights of the southwestern metropolitan sprawl
pass by, till at length, lulled by the speed of the train, which
was like an analgesic after the never-ending tramping
through Vienna, I fell asleep. And it was in that sleep, with
everything outside long since plunged into darkness, that I
beheld a landscape that I have never forgotten. The lower
portion of the scene was almost immersed in the
approaching night. A woman was pushing a pram along a
field track towards a group of buildings, on one of which, a
dilapidated pub, the name Josef Jelinek was painted in large
letters over the gabled entrance. Mountains dark with forests
rose above the rooftops, the jagged black summits
silhouetted against the evening light. Higher than them all,
though, was the tip of the Schneeberg, glowing, translucent,
throwing out fire and sparks, towering into the dying
brightness of a sky across which the strangest of greyish-
pink cloud formations were moving, while visible between
them were the winter planets and a crescent moon. In my
dream I was in no doubt that the volcano was the
Schneeberg, any more than I doubted that the countryside,
above which I presently rose through a glittering shower of
rain, was Argentina, an infinitely vast and deep green
pastureland with clumps of trees and countless herds of
horses. I awoke only as the train, which for so long had been
threading the valleys at a steady pace, was racing out of the
mountains and down to the plains below. I pulled down the

window. Swathes of mist were ripping past me. We were
hurtling onwards at breakneck speed. Pointed wedges of
blue-black rock thrust up against the train. I leaned out and
looked upwards, trying in vain to make out the tops of the
fearful formations. Dark, narrow, ragged valleys opened up,
mountain streams and waterfalls threw up white spray in a
night on the edge of dawn, so close that their cold breath
against my face made me shiver. It occurred to me that this
was the Friaul, and with that thought came naturally the
memory of the destruction which that region had suffered
some few months before. Gradually the daybreak revealed
landslides, great boulders, collapsed buildings, mounds of
rubble and piles of stones, and here and there encampments
of people living in tents. Scarcely a light was burning
anywhere in the entire area. The low-lying cloud drifting in
from the Alpine valleys and across that desolated country
was conjoined in my mind's eye with a Tiepolo painting
which I have often looked at for hours. It shows the plague-
ravaged town of Este on the plain, seemingly unscathed. In
the background are mountains, and a smoking summit. The
light diffused through the picture seems to have been
painted as if through a veil of ash. One could almost suppose
it was this light that drove the people out of the town into the
open fields, where, after reeling about for some time, they
were finally laid low by the scourge they carried within them.
In the centre foreground of the painting lies a mother dead
of the plague, her child still alive in her arms. Kneeling to the
left is St Thecla, interceding for the inhabitants of the town,
her face upturned to where the heavenly hosts are traversing
the aether. Holy Thecla, pray for us, that we may be safely
delivered from all contagion and sudden death and most
mercifully saved from perdition. Amen.
When the train had arrived in Venice, I first went to the
station barber's for a shave, and then stepped out into the
forecourt of Ferrovia Santa Lucia. The dampness of the
autumn morning still hung thick among the houses and over
the Grand Canal. Heavily laden, the boats went by, sitting
low in the water. With a surging rush they came from out of
the mist, pushing ahead of them the aspic-green waves, and

disappearing again in the white swathes of the air. The
helmsmen stood erect and motionless at the stern. Their
hands on the tiller, they gazed fixedly ahead. I walked from
the Fondamenta across the broad square, up Rio Terrà Lista
di Spagna and across the Canale di Cannaregio. As you enter
into the heart of that city, you cannot tell what you will see
next or indeed who will see you the very next moment.
Scarcely has someone made an appearance than he has quit
the stage again by another exit. These brief exhibitions are of
an almost theatrical obscenity and at the same time have an
air of conspiracy about them, into which one is drawn
against one's will. If you walk behind someone in a deserted
alleyway, you have only to quicken your step slightly to instill
a little fear into the person you are following. And equally,
you can feel like a quarry yourself. Confusion and ice-cold
terror alternate. It was with a certain feeling of liberation,
therefore, that I came upon the Grand Canal once again,
near San Marcuola, after wandering about for the best part
of an hour below the tall houses of the ghetto. Hurriedly, like
the native Venetians on their way to work, I boarded a
vaporetto. The mist had now dispersed. Not far from me, on
one of the rear benches, there sat, and in fact very nearly lay,
a man in a worn green loden coat whom I immediately
recognised as King Ludwig II of Bavaria. He had grown
somewhat older and rather gaunt, and curiously he was
talking to a dwarfish lady in the strongly nasal English of the
upper classes, but otherwise everything about him was right:
the sickly pallor of the face, the wide-open childlike eyes, the
wavy hair, the carious teeth. Il re Lodovico to the life. In all
likelihood, I thought to myself, he had come by water to the
città inquinata Venezia merda. After we had alighted I
watched him walk away down the Riva degli Schiavoni in his
billowing Tyrolean cloak, becoming smaller and smaller not
only on account of the increasing distance but also because,
as he went on talking incessantly, he bent down deeper and
deeper to his diminutive companion. I did not follow them,
but instead took my morning coffee in one of the bars on the
Riva, reading the Gazzettino, making notes for a treatise on
King Ludwig in Venice, and leafing through Grillparzer's
Italian Diary, written in 1819. I had bought it in Vienna,

because when I am travelling I often feel as Grillparzer did
on his journeys. Nothing pleases me, any more than it did
him; the sights I find infinitely disappointing, one and all; and
I sometimes think that I would have done far better to stay at
home with my maps and timetables. Grillparzer paid even
the Doge's Palace no more than a distinctly grudging
respect. Despite its delicately crafted arcades and turrets, he
wrote, the Doge's palace was inelegant and reminded him of
a crocodile. What put this comparison into his head he did
not know. The resolutions passed here by the Council of
State must surely be mysterious, immutable and harsh, he
observed, calling the palace an enigma in stone. The nature
of that enigma was apparently dread, and for as long as he
was in Venice Grillparzer could not shake off a sense of the
uncanny. Trained in the law himself, he dwelt on that palace
where the legal authorities resided and in the inmost cavern
of which, as he put it, the Invisible Principle brooded. And
those who had faded away, the persecutors and the
persecuted, the murderers and the victims, rose up before
him with their heads enshrouded. Shivers of fever beset the
poor hypersensitive man.
One of the victims of Venetian justice was Giacomo
Casanova. His Histoire de mafuite des prisons de la
République de Venise qu'on appelle Les Plombs écrite a Dux
en Bohème l'année 1787, first published in Prague in 1788,
affords an excellent insight into the inventiveness of penal
justice at the time. For example, Casanova describes a type
of garrotte. The victim is positioned with his back to a wall
on which a horseshoe-shaped brace is mounted, and his head
is jammed into this brace in such a way that it half encloses
the neck. A silken band is passed around the neck and
secured to a spool which a henchman turns slowly till at
length the last throes of the condemned man are over. This
strangulating apparatus is in the prison chambers below the
lead roofs of the Doge's Palace. Casanova was in his thirtieth
year when he was taken there. On the morning of the 26th of
July, 1755, the Messergrande entered his room. Casanova
was ordered to surrender any writings by himself or others
that he possessed, to get dressed and to follow the

Messergrande. The word "tribunal", he writes, completely
paralysed me and left me only such physical strength as was
essential if I were to obey. Mechanically he performed his
ablutions and donned his best shirt and a new coat that had
only just left the tailor's hands, as if he were off to a
wedding. Shortly after he found himself in the loft space of
the palace, in a cell measuring twelve feet by twelve. The
ceiling was so low that he could not stand, and there was not
a stick of furniture. A plank no more than a foot wide was
fixed to the wall, to serve as both table and bed, and on it he
laid his elegant silk mantle, the coat, inaugurated on so
inauspicious an occasion, and his hat adorned with Spanish
lace and an egret's plume. The heat was appalling. Through
the bars, Casanova could see rats as big as hares scuttling
about. He crossed to the window sill, from which he could
see but a patch of sky. There he remained motionless for a
full eight hours. Never in his life, he recorded, had the taste
in his mouth been as bitter. Melancholy had him in its grip
and would not let go. The dog days came. The sweat ran
down him. For two weeks he did not move his bowels. When
at last the stone-hard excrement was passed, he thought the
pain would kill him. Casanova considered the limits of human
reason. He established that, while it might be rare for a man
to be driven insane, little was required to tip the balance. All
that was needed was a slight shift, and nothing would be as
it formerly was. In these deliberations, Casanova likened a
lucid mind to a glass, which does not break of its own accord.
Yet how easily it is shattered. One wrong move is all that it
takes. This being so, he resolved to regain his composure and
find a way of comprehending his situation. It was soon
apparent that the condemned in that gaol were honourable
persons to a man, but for reasons which were known only to
their Excellencies, and were not disclosed to the detainees,
they had had to be removed from society. When the tribunal
seized a criminal, it was already convinced of his guilt. After
all, the rules by which the tribunal proceeded were
underwritten by senators elected from among the most
capable and virtuous of men. Casanova realised that he
would have to come to terms with the fact that the standards
which now applied were those of the legal system of the

Republic rather than of his own sense of justice. Fantasies of
revenge of the kind he had entertained in the early days of
his detention - such as rousing the people and, with himself
at their head, slaughtering the government and the
aristocracy - were out of the question. Soon he was prepared
to forgive the injustice done to him, always providing he
would some day be released. He found that, within certain
limits, he was able to reach an accommodation with the
powers who had confined him in that place. Everyday
necessities, food and a few books were brought to his cell, at
his own expense. In early November the great earthquake hit
Lisbon, raising tidal waves as far away as Holland. One of the
sturdiest roof joists visible through the window of Casanova's
gaol began to turn, only to move back to its former position.
After this, with no means of knowing whether his sentence
might not be life, he abandoned all hope of release. All his
thinking was now directed to preparing his escape from
prison, and this occupied him for a full year. He was now
permitted to take a daily walk around the attics, where a
good deal of lumber lay about, and contrived to obtain a
number of things that could serve his purpose. He came
across piles of old ledgers with records of trials held in the
previous century. They contained charges brought against
confessors who had extorted penances for improper ends of
their own, described in detail the habits of schoolmasters
convicted of pederasty, and were full of the most
extraordinary accounts of transgressions, evidently detailed
for the delectation solely of the legal profession. Casanova
observed that one kind of case that occurred with particular
frequency in those old pages concerned the deflowering of
virgins in the city's orphanages, among them the very one
whose young ladies were heard every day in Santa Maria
della Visitazione, on the Riva degli Schiavoni, uplifting their
voices to the ceiling fresco of the three cardinal virtues, to
which Tiepolo had put the finishing touches shortly after
Casanova was arrested. No doubt the dispensation of justice
in those days, as also in later times, was largely concerned
with regulating the libidinous instinct, and presumably not a
few of the prisoners slowly perishing beneath the leaden roof
of the palace will have been of that irrepressible species

whose desires drive them on, time after time, to the very
same point.
In the autumn of his second year of imprisonment,
Casanova's preparations had reached the stage at which he
could contemplate an escape. The moment was propitious,
since the inquisitors were to cross to the terra firma at that
time, and Lorenzo, the warder, always got drunk when his
superiors were away. In order to decide on the precise day
and hour, Casanova consulted Ariosto's Orlando Furioso,
using a system comparable to the Sortes Virgilianae. First he
wrote down his question, then he derived numbers from the
words and arranged these in an inverse pyramid, and finally,
in a threefold procedure that involved subtracting nine from
every pair of figures, he arrived at the first line of the
seventh stanza of the ninth canto of Orlando Furioso, which
runs: Tra il fin d'ottobre e il capo di novembre. This
instruction, pinpointing the very hour, was the all-decisive
sign Casanova had wanted, for he believed that a law was at
work in so extraordinary a coincidence, inaccessible to even
the most incisive thought, to which he must therefore defer.
For my part, Casanova's attempt to plumb the unknown by
means of a seemingly random operation of words and
numbers later caused me to leaf back through my own diary
for that year, whereupon I discovered to my amazement, and
indeed to my considerable alarm, that the day in 1980 on
which I was reading Grillparzer's journal in a bar on the Riva
degli Schiavoni between the Danieli and Santa Maria della
Visitazione, in other words near the Doge's Palace, was

the very last day of October, and thus the anniversary of the
day (or rather, night) on which Casanova, with the words E
quindi uscimmo a rimirar le stelle on his lips, broke out of

the lead-plated crocodile. Later that evening I returned to
the bar on the Riva and fell into conversation with a Venetian
by the name of Malachio, who had studied astrophysics at
Cambridge and, as shortly transpired, saw everything from a
great distance, not only the stars. Towards midnight we took
his boat, which was moored outside, up the dragon's tail of
the Grand Canal, past the Ferrovia and the Tronchetto, and
out onto the open water, from where one has a view of the
lights of the Mestre refineries stretching for miles along the
coast. Malachio turned off the engine. The boat rose and fell
with the waves, and it seemed to me that a long time passed.
Before us lay the fading lustre of our world, at which we
never tire of looking, as though it were a celestial city. The
miracle of life born of carbon, I heard Malachio say, going up
in flames. The engine started up once more, the bow of the
boat lifted in the water, and we entered the Canale della
Giudecca in a wide arc. Without a word, my guide pointed
out the Inceneritore Comunale on the nameless island
westward of the Giudecca. A deathly silent concrete shell
beneath a white pall of smoke. I asked whether the burning
went on throughout the night, and Malachio replied: Si, di
continuo. Brucia continuamente. The fires never go out. The
Stucky flour mill entered our line of vision, built in the
nineteenth century from millions of bricks, its blind windows
staring across from the Giudecca to the Stazione Marittima.
The structure is so enormous that the Doge's Palace would fit
into it many times over, which leaves one wondering if it was
really only grain that was milled in there. As we were
passing by the facade, looming above us in the dark, the
moon came out from behind the clouds and struck a gleam
from the golden mosaic under the left gable, which shows
the female figure of a reaper holding a sheaf of wheat, a
most disconcerting image in this landscape of water and
stone. Malachio told me that he had been giving a great deal
of thought to the resurrection, and was pondering what the
Book of Ezekiel could mean by saying that our bones and
flesh would be carried into the domain of the prophet. He
had no answers, but believed the questions were quite
sufficient for him. The flour mill dissolved into the darkness,
and ahead of us appeared the tower of San Giorgio and the

dome of Santa Maria della Salute. Malachio steered the boat
back to my hotel. There was nothing more to be said. The
boat docked. We shook hands. I stepped ashore. The waves
slapped against the stones, which were overgrown with
shaggy moss. The boat turned about in the water. Malachio
waved one more time and called out: Ci vediamo a
Gerusalemme. And, a little further out, he repeated
somewhat louder: Next year in Jerusalem! I crossed the
forecourt of the hotel. There was not a soul about. Even the
night porter had abandoned his post and was lying on a
narrow bed in a kind of doorless den behind the reception
desk, looking as if his body had been laid out. The test card
was flickering softly on the television. Machines alone have
realised that sleep is no longer permitted, I thought as I
ascended to my room, where tiredness soon overcame me
too.
Waking up in Venice is unlike waking up in any other place.
The day begins quietly. Only a stray shout here and there
may break the calm, or the sound of a shutter being raised,
or the wing-beat of the pigeons. How often, I thought to
myself, had I lain thus in a hotel room, in Vienna or Frankfurt
or Brussels, with my hands clasped under my head, listening
not to the stillness, as in Venice, but to the roar of the traffic,
with a mounting sense of panic. That, then, I thought on such
occasions, is the new ocean. Ceaselessly, in great surges, the
waves roll in over the length and breadth of our cities, rising
higher and higher, breaking in a kind of frenzy when the roar
reaches its peak and then discharging across the stones and
the asphalt even as the next onrush is being released from
where it was held by the traffic lights. For some time now I
have been convinced that it is out of this din that the life is
being born which will come after us and will spell our
gradual destruction, just as we have been gradually
destroying what was there long before us. Thus it was that
the silence which hung over the city of Venice that All Saints'
morning seemed wholly unreal, as if it were about to be
shattered, while I lay submerged in the white air that drifted
in at my half-open window. The village of W., where I spent
the first nine years of my life, I now remember, was always

shrouded in the densest fog on All Saints' Day and on All
Souls'. And the villagers, without exception, wore their black
clothes and went out to the graves which they had put in
order the day before, removing the summer planting, pulling
up the weeds, raking the gravel paths, and mixing soot in
with the soil. Nothing in my childhood seemed to possess
more meaning than those two days of remembrance devoted
to the suffering of the sainted martyrs and poor unredeemed
souls, days on which the dark shapes of the villagers moved
about in the mist, strangely bent-over, as if they had been
banished from their houses. What particularly affected me
every year was eating the Seelenwecken, the special rolls
that Mayrbeck baked on those commemorative days only,
precisely one apiece, for every man, woman and child in the
village. These Seelenwecken were made of white bread
dough and were so tiny that they could easily be hidden in a
small fist. There were four to a row on the baking tray. They
were dusted with flour, and I remember one occasion when
the flour-dust that remained on my fingers after I had eaten
one of these Seelenwecken seemed like a revelation. That
evening, I spent a long time digging in the flour barrel in my
grandparents' bedroom with a wooden spoon, hoping to
fathom the mystery which I supposed to be hidden there.
On that first day of November in 1980, preoccupied as I was
with my notes and the ever widening and contracting circles
of my thoughts, I became enveloped by a sense of utter
emptiness and never once left my room. It seemed to me
then that one could well end one's life simply through
thinking and retreating into one's mind, for, although I had
closed the windows and the room was warm, my limbs were
growing progressively colder and stiffer with my lack of
movement, so that when at length the waiter arrived with the
red wine and sandwiches I had ordered, I felt as if I had
already been interred or laid out for burial, silently grateful
for the proffered libation, but no longer capable of
consuming it. I imagined how it would be if I crossed the
grey lagoon to the island of the departed, to Murano or
further still to San Erasmo or to the Isola San Francesco del
Deserto, among the marshes of St Catherine. With these

thoughts, I drifted into a light sleep. The fog lifted and I
beheld the green lagoon outspread in the May sunshine and
the green islets like clumps of herbage surfacing from out of
the placid expanse of water. I saw the hospital island of La
Grazia with its circular panoptic building, from the windows
of which thousands of madmen were waving, as though they
were aboard a great ship sailing away. St Francis lay face
down in the water of a trembling reed-bed, and across the
swamps St Catherine came walking, in her hand a model of
the wheel on which she had been broken. It was mounted on
a stick and went round in the wind with a humming sound.
The crimson dusk gathered above the lagoon, and when I
awoke I lay in deep darkness. I thought about what Malachio
had meant by Ci vediamo a Gerusalemme, tried in vain to
recall his face or his eyes, and wondered whether I should go
back to the bar on the Riva, but the more I deliberated, the
less was I able to make any move at all. The second night in
Venice went by, then All Souls' Day, and a third night, and not
until the Monday morning did I come round, in a curious
condition of weightlessness. A hot bath, yesterday's
sandwiches and red wine, and a newspaper I had asked for,
restored me sufficiently to be able to pack my bag and be on
my way again.
The buffet at Santa Lucia station was surrounded by an
infernal upheaval. A steadfast island, it held out against a
crowd of people swaying like a field of corn in the wind,
passing in and out of the doors, pushing against the food
counter, and surging on to the cashiers who sat some way off
at their elevated posts. If one did not have a ticket, one had
to shout up to these enthroned women, who, clad only in the
thinnest of overalls, with curled-up hair and half-lowered
gaze, appeared to float, quite unaffected by the general
commotion, above the heads of the supplicants and would
pick out at random one of the pleas emerging from this
crossfire of voices, repeat it over the uproar with a loud
assurance that denied all possibility of doubt, and then,
bending down a little, indulgent and at the same time
disdainful, hand over the ticket together with the change.
Once in possession of this scrap of paper, which had by now

come to seem a matter of life and death, one had to fight
one's way out of the crowd and across to the middle of the
cafeteria, where the male employees of this awesome
gastronomic establishment, positioned behind a circular food
counter, faced the jostling masses with withering contempt,
performing their duties in an unperturbed manner which,
given the prevailing panic, gave an impression of a film in
slow motion. In their freshly starched white linen jackets,
this impassive corps of attendants, like their sisters, mothers
and daughters at the cash registers, resembled some strange
company of higher beings sitting in judgement, under the
rules of an obscure system, on the endemic greed of a
corrupted species, an impression that was reinforced by the
fact that the buffet reached only to the waists of these
earnest, white-aproned men, who were evidently standing on
a raised platform inside the circle, whereas the clients on the
outside could barely see over the counter. The staff,
remarkably restrained as they appeared, had a way of setting
down the glasses, saucers and ashtrays on the marble
surface with such vehemence, it seemed they were
determined to all but shatter them. My cappuccino was
served, and for a moment I felt that having achieved this
distinction constituted the supreme victory of my life. I
surveyed the scene and immediately saw my mistake, for the
people around me now looked like a circle of severed heads.
I should not have been surprised, and indeed it would have
seemed justified, even as I expired, if one of the white-
breasted waiters had swept those severed heads, my own not
excepted, off the smooth marble top into a knacker's pit,
since every single one of them was intent on gorging itself to
the last. A prey to unpleasant observations and far-fetched
notions of this sort, I suddenly had a feeling that, amid this
circle of spectres consuming their colazione, I had attracted
somebody's attention. And indeed it transpired that the eyes
of two young men were on me. They were leaning on the bar
across from me, the one with his chin propped in his right
hand, the other in his left. Just as the shadow of a cloud
passes across a field, so the fear passed across my mind that
these two men who were looking at me now had already
crossed my path more than once since my arrival in Venice.

They had also been in the bar on the Riva where I had met
Malachio. The hands of the clock moved towards half past
ten. I finished my cappuccino, went out to the platform,
glancing back over my shoulder now and then, and boarded
the train for Milan as I had intended.
I travelled as far as Verona, and there, having taken a room
at the Golden Dove, went immediately to the Giardino Giusti,
a long-standing habit of mine. There I spent the early
hours of the afternoon lying on a stone bench below a cedar
tree. I heard the soughing of the breeze among the branches
and the delicate sound of the gardener raking the gravel
paths between the low box hedges, the subtle scent of which
still filled the air even in autumn. I had not experienced such
a sense of well-being for a long time. Nonetheless, I got up
after a while. As I left the gardens I paused to watch a pair of
white Turkish doves soaring again and again into the sky
above the treetops with only a few brisk wing-beats,
remaining at those blue heights for a small eternity, and
then, dropping with a barely audible gurgling call, gliding
down on the air in sweeping arcs around the lovely
cypresses, some of which had been growing there for as long
as two hundred years. The everlasting green of the trees put
me in mind of the yews in the churchyards of the county
where I live. Yews grow more slowly even than cypresses.
One inch of yew wood will often have upwards of a hundred

annual growth rings, and there are said to be trees that have
outlasted a full millennium and seem to have quite forgotten
about dying. I went out into the forecourt, washed my face
and hands at the fountain set in the ivy-covered garden wall,
as I had done before going in, cast a last glance back at the
garden and, at the exit, waved a greeting to the keeper of the
gate, who nodded to me from her gloomy cabin. Across the
Ponte Nuovo and by way of the Via Nizza and the Via Stelle I
walked down to the Piazza Bra. Entering the arena, I
suddenly had a sense of being entangled in some dark web of
intrigue. The arena was deserted but for a group of late-
season excursionists to whom an aged cicerone was
describing the unique qualities of this monumental theatre in
a voice grown thin and cracked. I climbed to the topmost
tiers and looked down at the group, which now appeared
very small. The old man, who could not have been more than

four feet, was wearing a jacket far too big for him, and, since
he was hunchbacked and walked with a stoop, the front hem
hung down to the ground. With a remarkable clarity, I heard
him say, more clearly perhaps than those who stood around
him, that in the arena one could discern, grazie a un'acustica
perfetta, l'assolo più impalpabile di un violino, la mezza voce
più eterea di un soprano, il gemito più intimo di una Mimi
morente sulla scena. The excursionists were not greatly
impressed by the enthusiasm for architecture and opera
evinced by their misshapen guide, who continued to add this
or that point to his account as he moved towards the exit,
pausing every now and then as he turned to the group, which
had also stopped, and raising his right forefinger like a tiny
schoolmaster confronting a pack of children taller by a head
than himself. By now the evening light came in very low over
the arena, and for a while after the old man and his flock had
left the stage I sat on alone, surrounded by the reddish
shimmer of the marble. At least I thought I was alone, but as
time went on I became aware of two figures in the deep
shadow on the other side of the arena. They were without a
doubt the same two young men who had kept their eyes on
me that morning at the station in Venice. Like two watchmen
they remained motionless at their posts until the sunlight
had all but faded. Then they stood up, and I had the
impression that they bowed to each other before descending
from the tiers and vanishing in the darkness of the exit. At
first I could not move from the spot, so ominous did these
probably quite coincidental encounters appear to me. I could
already see myself sitting in the arena all night, paralysed by
fear and the cold. I had to muster all my rational powers
before at length I was able to get up and make my way to the
exit. When I was almost there I had a compulsive vision of an
arrow whistling through the grey air, about to pierce my left
shoulderblade and, with a distinctive, sickening sound,
penetrate my heart.
Over the days that followed I was occupied more or less
exclusively with my study of Pisanello, on whose account I
had in fact decided to travel to Verona. It is many years now
since the paintings of Pisanello instilled in me the desire to

forfeit everything except my sense of vision. What appealed
to me was not only the highly developed realism of his art,
extraordinary for the time, but also the way in which he
succeeded in creating the effect of the real, without
suggesting a depth dimension, upon an essentially flat
surface, in which every feature, the principals and the extras
alike, the birds in the sky, the green forest and every single
leaf of it, are all granted an equal and undiminished right to
exist. It was this long-standing affection for Pisanello which
took me once more to the Chiesa Sant'Anastasia to look at
the fresco which he had painted over the entrance to the
Pellegrini chapel in the year 1435. The Pellegrini chapel, in
the left transept, is no longer what it once was. The archway
has been closed up with boards of wood that have been
painted brown in a careless manner; and there behind a door
the verger has her retreat, or perhaps even the room in
which she lives. At all events, it was into that room that the
verger, a woebegone woman who had well-nigh faded away
from long years of silence and solitude, disappeared without
a word after she had unlocked the heavy iron-studded main
door at a little past four o'clock and had led me, the sole
visitor to the church, down the nave, wraithlike and
somewhat unsteady on her feet. During the time I spent
looking at the fresco she reappeared at regular intervals, as
if she were making a perpetual circuit, venturing a little way
off into the darkness, only to return again, as she completed
her orbit, into her snug. Very little daylight enters the
transept of Sant' Anastasia. Even on the brightest of
afternoons, the profoundest gloom prevails. Pisanello's
painting over the archway of the former chapel languishes
deep in the shadows, but by dropping a thousand-lire coin
into a metal box it can be illuminated for a certain period
which can sometimes seem very long and sometimes
extremely short. Then one sees St George setting off to fight
the dragon, taking his leave of the principessa. All that
remains in the left half of the painting is the somewhat faded
monster and two as yet flightless young. Bones and skeletons
of animals and humans sacrificed to placate the dragon lie
strewn around. The vacancy into which the fragment
dissolves still conveys something of the terror which, long

ago, must have filled the people of the Palestinian city of
Lydda, according to the legend. The right portion of the
fresco, the other principal part, is almost completely
preserved. A landscape of a more northerly character rises
(the word is suggested by the nature of the depiction) into a
blue sky. A ship with billowing sails, making headway on an
inlet, is the only element in the composition hinting at
remoteness and distance; everything else is very much of the
present and of this world, the undulating land, the ploughed
fields, the hedgerows and hills, the city with its roofs, towers
and battlements, and - a favourite motif at that time - the
gallows with the hanged men dangling from it, which
paradoxically imparts something lifelike to the scene. The
bushes, bosquets and foliage are painted meticulously, and
the animals, to which Pisanello always gave the closest
attention, are also rendered with great care: the stork flying
inland, the dogs, the ram, and the mounts of the seven
horsemen, among them a Kalmuck archer with a painfully
intense expression on his face. In the centre of the painting
is the principessa in a gown of feathers and St George, the
silver of whose armour has peeled off, though his reddish
gold hair still glows about him. It is astounding how Pisanello
contrived to set the wide

open eyes of the knight, already wandering sideways to the
hard and bloody battle ahead, against the self-contained
expression of the woman indicated by little more than a
slight

lowering of her gaze. On the third day of my stay in Verona, I
took my evening meal in a pizzeria in the Via Roma. I do not
know how I go about choosing the restaurants where I eat in
unfamiliar cities. On the one hand I am too fastidious and
wander the streets broad and narrow for hours on end before
I make up my mind; on the other hand I generally finish up
turning in simply anywhere, and then, in dreary
surroundings and with a sense of discontent, select some
dish that does not in the least appeal. That was how it was on
that evening of the 5th of November. If I had heeded my first
inclination, I would never have crossed the threshold of that
establishment, which even from the outside made a
disreputable impression. But now there I sat, on a kitchen
chair with a cover of red marbled plastic, at a rickety table,
in a grotto festooned with fishing nets. The decor of the floor
and walls was a hideous marine blue which put an end to all
hope I might have entertained of ever seeing dry land again.
The sense of being wholly surrounded by water was rendered
complete by a sea piece that hung right below the ceiling
opposite me, in a frame painted a golden bronze. As is

commonly the case with such sea pieces, it showed a ship, on
the crest of a turquoise wave crowned with snow-white foam,
about to plunge into the yawning depths that gaped beneath
her bows. Plainly this was the moment immediately before a
disaster. A mounting sense of unease took possession of me. I
was obliged to push aside the plate, barely half of the pizza
eaten, and grip the table edge, as a seasick man might grip a
ship's rail. I sensed my brow running cold with fear, but was
quite unable to call the waiter over and ask for the bill.
Instead, in order to focus on reality once more, I pulled the
newspaper I had bought that afternoon, the Venice
Gazzettino, out of my jacket pocket and unfolded it on the
table as best I could. The first article that caught my
attention was an editorial report to the effect that yesterday,
the 4th of November, a letter in strange runic writing had
been received by the newspaper, in which a hitherto
unknown group by the name of
claimed responsibility for a number of murders that had been
committed in Verona and other northern Italian cities since
1977. The article brought these as yet unsolved cases back to
the memories of its readers. In late August 1977, a romany
named Guerrino Spinelli had died in a Verona hospital of
severe burns sustained when the old Alfa in which he
customarily spent the night on the outskirts of the city was
set on fire by persons unknown. A good year later, a waiter,
Luciano Stefanato, was found dead in Padua with two 25-
centimetre stab wounds in the neck, and another year after
that a 22-year-old heroin addict, Claudio Costa, was found
dead with thirty-nine knife wounds. It was now the late
autumn of 1980. The waiter brought me the bill. It was
folded and I opened it out. The letters and numbers blurred
before my eyes. The 5th of November, 1980. Via Roma.
Pizzeria Verona. Di Cadavero Carlo e Patierno Vittorio.

Patierno and Cadavero. -
The telephone rang. The waiter wiped a glass dry and held it
up to the light. Not until I felt I could stand the ringing no
longer did he pick up the receiver. Then, jamming it between
his shoulder and his chin, he paced to and fro behind the bar
as far as the cable would let him. Only when he was speaking
himself did he stop, and at these times he would lift his eyes
to the ceiling. No, he said, Vittorio wasn't there. He was
hunting. Yes, that was right, it was him, Carlo. Who else
would it be? Who else would be in the restaurant? No,
nobody. Not a soul all day. And now there was only one diner.
Un inglese, he said, and looked across at me with what I took
to be a touch of contempt. No wonder, he said, the days were
getting shorter. The lean times were on the way. L'inverno è
alle porte. si, si, l'inverno, he shouted once more, looking

over at me again. My heart missed a beat. I left 10,000 lire
on the plate, folded up the paper, hurried out into the street
and across the piazza, went into a brightly lit bar and had
them call a taxi, returned to my hotel, packed my things in a
rush, and fled by the night train to Innsbruck. Prepared for
the very worst, I sat in my compartment unable to read and
unable to close my eyes, listening to the rhythm of the
wheels. At Rovereto an old Tyrolean woman carrying a
shopping bag made of leather patches sewn together joined
me, accompanied by her son, who might have been forty. I
was immeasurably grateful to them when they came in and
sat down. The son leaned his head back against the seat.
Eyelids lowered, he smiled blissfully most of the time. At
intervals, though, he would be seized by a spasm, and his
mother would then make signs in the palm of his left hand,
which lay in her lap, open, like an unwritten page. The train
hauled onwards, uphill. Gradually I began to feel better. I
went out into the corridor. We were in Bolzano. The Tyrolean
woman and her son got out. Hand in hand the two of them
headed towards the underpass. Even before they had
vanished from sight, the train started off again. It was now
beginning to feel distinctly colder. The train moved more
slowly, there were fewer lights, and the darkness was thicker.
Franzensfeste station passed. I saw scenes of a bygone war:
the assault on the pass - Vall'Inferno - the 26th of May, 1915.
Bursts of gunfire in the mountains and a forest shot to
shreds. Rain hatched the window-panes. The train changed
track at points. The pallid glow of arc-lamps suffused the
compartment. We stopped at the Brenner. No one got out and
no one got in. The frontier guards in their grey greatcoats
paced to and fro on the platform. We remained there for at
least a quarter of an hour. Across on the other side were the
silver ribbons of the rails. The rain turned to snow. And a
heavy silence lay upon the place, broken only by the
bellowing of some nameless animals waiting in a siding to be
transported onwards.
In the summer of 1987, seven years after I fled from Verona,
I finally yielded to a need I had felt for some time to repeat
the journey from Vienna via Venice to Verona, in order to

probe my somewhat imprecise recollections of those fraught
and hazardous days and perhaps record some of them. On
this occasion in the midst of the holiday season, the night
train from Vienna to Venice, on which in the late October of
1980 I had seen nobody except a pale-faced schoolmistress
from New Zealand, was so overcrowded that I had to stand
in the corridor all the way or crouch uncomfortably among
suitcases and rucksacks, so that instead of drifting into sleep
I slid into my memories. Or rather, the memories (at least so
it seemed to me) rose higher and higher in some space
outside of myself, until, having reached a certain level, they
overflowed from that space into me, like water over the top
of a weir. Once I had begun to write, the time passed more
swiftly than I should ever have thought possible, and it was
not until the train was rolling slowly from Mestre over the
railway causeway, crossing the lagoon which stretched out
on either side in the gleam of the night, that I came to. At
Santa Lucia I was one of the last to get out. With my blue
canvas bag slung as ever across my shoulder, I slowly walked
down the platform to the station hall, where a veritable army
of backpackers were lying on the stone floor in sleeping-bags
on straw mats, close to each other like an alien people
resting on their way through the desert. Out in the station
forecourt, too, countless young men and women lay in
groups or couples or singly, on the steps and all around. I sat
on the Riva and took out my writing materials, the pencil and
the fine-ruled paper. The red glow of dawn was already
breaking over the eastward roofs and domes of the city. Here
and there, sleepers stirred in the no man’s land where they
had spent the night, propped themselves up and began to
rummage through their belongings, eating a bite or drinking
a little and then stowing it all carefully away again. Presently,
bowed under heavy packs, which reached a full head above
them, several began moving among their brothers and sisters
still lying on the ground, as if they were preparing for the
next stage of an arduous and never-ending journey.
I sat on the Fondamenta Santa Lucia until half the morning
was gone. The pencil flew across the paper, and from time to
time a cockerel crowed from its cage on the balcony of a

house across the canal. When I looked up once again from
my work, the shadowy forms of the sleepers on the station
forecourt had all vanished, or had faded away, and the
morning traffic had begun. At one point a barge laden with
heaps of rubbish came by. A large rat scuttled along its
gunnel and, having reached the bow, plunged head first into
the water. I cannot say whether it was the sight of this that
made me decide not to stay in Venice but to travel on to
Padua instead, without delay, and seek out Enrico
Scrovegni's Arena Chapel. Hitherto all I knew of it was an
account that described the undiminished intensity of the
colours in Giotto's frescoes, and the certainty which governs
every stride and feature of the figures represented. Once I
entered the chapel, from the heat that already prevailed in
the city even in the early morning of that day, and stood
before the three rows of frescoes that cover the walls up to
the ceiling, I was overwhelmed by the silent lament of the
angels, who have kept their station above our endless
calamities for nigh on seven centuries. Their lament
resounded in the very silence of the chapel and their
eyebrows were drawn so far together in their grief that one
might have supposed them blindfolded. And are not their
white wings, I thought, with those few
bright green touches of Veronese earth, the most wondrous
of all the things we have ever conceived of? Gli angeli
visitano la scena della disgrazia - with these words on my lips

I returned through the roaring traffic to the station, not far
from the chapel, to take the very next train to Verona, where
I hoped to learn something not only relating to my own
abruptly broken-off stay in that city seven years before but
also about the disconcerting afternoon, as he himself
described it, that Dr K. spent there in September 1913 on his
way from Venice to Lake Garda. After barely an hour of
breezy travel, with the windows open upon the radiant
landscape, the Porta Nuova came into view and as I beheld
the city lying in the semicircle of the distant mountains, I
found myself incapable of alighting. Strangely transfixed, I
remained seated, and when the train had left Verona and the
guard came down the corridor once more I asked him for a
supplementary ticket to Desenzano, where I knew that on
Sunday the 21st of September, 1913, Dr K., filled with the
singular happiness of knowing that no one suspected where
he was at that moment, but otherwise profoundly
disconsolate, had lain alone in the grass on the lakeside and
gazed out at the waves in the reeds.
The railway station at Desenzano, which cannot have been
completed much before 1913 and which, at least externally,
had changed little since, lay 'deserted in the midday sun
when the departing train had shrunk to the size of the
westerly vanishing point. Above the tracks, which ran
towards the horizon in a straight line as far as the eye could
see, the air shimmered. To the south were open fields. The
station building, deserted though it seemed, gave a decidedly
purposeful impression. Engraved in elegant lettering into the
glass panels over the doors which faced the platform were
the official designations of the station staff. Capo stazione
titulare. Capo di statione superiore. Capi stazione aggiunti.
Manovratori manuali. I waited in the hope that at least one
representative of this bygone hierarchy, say, the
stationmaster with a glinting monocle or a porter with a
walrus moustache and long apron, would emerge from one of
those doors and bid me welcome, but there was no sign of
life. The building was deserted inside as well. For some time
I wandered upstairs and down until I found the pissoir, where
scarcely a thing had been altered since the turn of the

century, as in the rest of the building. The wooden stalls in a
military shade of green, the heavy stoneware basins and the
white tiles had aged, were chipped and netted with hairline
cracks, but otherwise everything was unchanged, except for
the graffiti, all of which dated from the last twenty years. As
I washed my hands I looked in the mirror and wondered
whether Dr K., travelling from Verona, had also been at this
station and found himself contemplating his face in this
mirror. It would not have been surprising. And one of the
graffiti beside the mirror seemed indeed to suggest as much.
Il cacciatore, it read, in awkwardly formed letters. When I
had dried my hands, I added the words nella selva nera.
Later on, I sat on a bench in the square outside the station

for about half an hour, and had an espresso and a mineral
water. It was good to sit in the shade, at peace in the middle
of the day. But for a few taxi drivers dozing in their cabs and
listening to their radios, there was no one in sight, until a
carabiniere drove up, left his vehicle in the no parking zone
immediately in front of the entrance, and disappeared into
the station. When he emerged again, all the drivers got out
of their taxis, as if at a signal, surrounded the somewhat
undersized and slightly built policeman, whom they had
perhaps known at school, and upbraided him on account of
the illegal way he had parked. Barely had one said his piece
but the next one began. The carabiniere could not get a word
in, and whenever he tried he was promptly talked down.
Helplessly, and even with a certain panic in his eyes, he
stared at the accusing forefingers pointed at his chest. But
since the entire performance merely served the taxi drivers
as a timely diversion to dispel the midday boredom, their
victim, for whom these accusations plainly went against the
grain, could make no serious objection, not even when they
set about faulting his posture and putting his uniform to
rights, solicitously brushing the dust off his collar,
straightening his tie and cap, and even adjusting his
waistband. At length one of the drivers opened the police car
door, and the guardian of the law, his dignity somewhat
impaired, had no option but to climb in and drive off, tyres
squealing, around the circle and down Via Cavour. The taxi
drivers waved him off and stood around long after he was out
of sight, reliving this or that part of the comedy, quite beside
themselves with merriment.
Punctually, at a quarter past one, the blue bus I was to take
to Riva arrived. I boarded it and took one of the seats in the
middle. A few other passengers got on too, some of them
locals, others travellers like myself. Not long before the bus
departed at twenty-five past, a boy of about fifteen climbed
aboard who bore the most uncanny resemblance imaginable
to pictures of Franz Kafka as an adolescent schoolboy. And as
if that were not enough, he had a twin brother who, so far as
I could tell in my perplexed state of mind, did not differ from
him in the slightest. The hairlines of both boys began well

down their foreheads, they had the same dark eyes and thick
brows, the same large and unequal ears, with the lobes
growing into the skin of the neck. They were with their
parents, and sat some way behind me. The bus started off,
down Via Cavour. The branches of the trees lining the avenue
scraped on the roof. My heart pounded, and a vertiginous
feeling came over me as it used to in my childhood, when any
car journey would make me feel sick. I leaned my head
against the window frame, in the breeze, and for a long time
did not dare look around. Not until we had left Salò far
behind and were approaching Gargnano was I able to master
the fright which had frozen my limbs and glance back over
my shoulder. The two lads had not vanished, as I had partly
feared and partly hoped they would have, but were half
concealed behind an outspread newspapers, the Siciliano. A
while later, summoning up all my courage, I tried to get into
a conversation with them. Their only response to this was to
grin witlessly at each other. Nor did I have any success,
when I approached their parents, an exceptionally reserved
couple who had already been watching my strange advances
to their sons with mounting concern, in order to explain what
the nature of my interest in these two sniggering boys
actually was. The story I told them about a scrittore ebreo
from the city of Praga who took the waters at Riva in the
month of September 1913 and as a young man looked exactly
- esatto, esatto, I hear myself repeating in despair, time after
time - like their two sons, who were now and then peeping
maliciously out from behind the Siciliano, evidently struck
them, so their gestures conveyed, as pretty much the most
incomprehensible nonsense they had ever heard. When at
length, to dispel any suspicions they might have regarding
my person, I said that I should be perfectly happy if they
would send me, without revealing their name, a photograph
of their sons to my English address once they had returned
home from their holiday to Sicily, I realised that they were
now quite certain that I must be an English pederast
travelling Italy for his so-called pleasure. They informed me
in no uncertain terms that they would not under any
circumstances comply with my improper request and that
they would appreciate it if I would return to my own seat

right away. I realised that, if I did not, they would have been
prepared to stop the bus in the next village and hand over
this nuisance of a fellow passenger to the authorities.
Grateful for every tunnel we had to pass through on the
steep west bank of Lake Garda, I remained motionless on
that bus seat from then on, embarrassed to the utmost
degree and consumed with an impotent rage at the fact that I
would now have no evidence whatsoever to document this
most improbable coincidence. Continually I heard the
sniggering of the two lads behind me, and in the end it was
affecting me so badly that, when the bus stopped in Limone
sul Garda, I took my bag down from the luggage net and got
out.
It will have been close on four in the afternoon when, weary
and rather the worse for wear after the long journey from
Vienna via Venice to Padua and then on to Limone, during
which I had not slept at all, I entered the Hotel Sole on the
lakeside, which at that time of day was deserted. One solitary
visitor was sitting beneath a sunshade on the terrace, and
inside, in the darkness behind the desk, stood the
proprietress, Luciana Michelotti, also alone, jangling a small
silver spoon absent-mindedly in an espresso cup that she had
just drained. On that day, which as I later learned was her
forty-fourth birthday, this woman whom I remember as
resolute and zestful made a melancholy and even
inconsolable impression. With a noticeable lack of urgency
she dealt with my registration, leafing through my passport,
perhaps intrigued at my being the same age as herself,
repeatedly comparing my face with the photograph and at
one point gazing long into my eyes, before finally locking the
document carefully away in a drawer and handing me my
room key I was planning to stay for several days, do some
writing, and rest a little. In the early hours of the evening,
having found a suitable boat in the harbour with the help of
Lucianas son Mauro, I rowed a good way out onto the lake.
On the westerly side, everything was already sinking into the
shadows that billowed down the steep cliff faces of the Dosso
dei Ròveri like dark curtains, and on the opposite east bank
to the radiant evening light climbed the heights steadily, till

all that could be seen was a pale pink glow over the peak of
the Monte Altissimo. The whole of the darkly gleaming lake
lay silently about me. The nocturnal noise of the
loudspeakers on the hotel terraces and in the bars and discos
of Limone, which had now begun, reached me as a mere dull
pulsation, and seemed a negligible disturbance, measured
against the huge bulk of the mountain that towered so high
and steep above the quivering lights of the town that I
thought it was inclining towards me and might tumble into
the lake the very next moment. I lit the lamp in the stern of
my boat and set myself rowing again, half towards the
western shore and half against the cooling northerly breeze
that passes over the lake every night. When I had reached
the deep shadow of the rock wall, I shipped the oars, and
drifted back slowly in the direction of the harbour. I
extinguished the lamp, lay down in the boat and looked up
into the vault of the heavens, where the stars were coming
out over the glowering crags in such vast numbers that they
appeared to touch one another. The rowing had left me
aware of the blood coursing through my hands. The boat
floated past the steep terraces of the derelict orchards where
once upon a time lemons had been grown. In the darkness of
these abandoned gardens, step by step scaling the heights
stood hundreds of square stone pillars which once supported
wooden cross-beams and the straw mats outstretched
between them to protect the tender evergreen trees from the
cold.
It was almost midnight in Limone when I got back into
harbour again and walked round to my hotel. Holidaymakers
were everywhere, in couples or family groups, a gaudy crowd
moving like a cortège in procession through the narrow
streets of the small resort locked between the lake and the
sheer side of the mountain. Their sunburnt, painted faces
swaying over the solid mass of their bodies were those of the
wandering dead. Unhappy they seemed, every one of them,
condemned to haunt these streets night after night. Back at
my hotel I lay down on my bed and folded my arms under my
head. There could be no prospect of sleep. From the terrace
came the noise of the music and the confused blathering of

the revellers, most of whom, as I realised with some dismay,
were compatriots of mine. I heard Swabians, Franconians
and Bavarians saying the most unsavoury things, and, if I
found their broad, uninhibited dialects repellent, it was a
veritable torment to have to listen to the loud-mouthed
opinions and witticisms of a group of young men who clearly
came from my home town. How I wished during those
sleepless hours that I belonged to a different nation, or,
better still, to none at all. Around two in the morning the
music was turned off, but the last shouts and fragments of
conversation did not die away until the first grey streaks of
dawn were visible over the heights of the far shore. I took a
couple of aspirin and fell asleep when the pain behind my
forehead began to ease off, like the darkness that drains
from the sand as the water recedes after high tide.
August the 2nd was a peaceful day. I sat at a table near the
open terrace door, my papers and notes spread out around
me, drawing connections between events that lay far apart
but which seemed to me to be of the same order. I wrote with
an ease that astonished me. Line by line I filled the pages of
the ruled notepad I had brought with me from home.
Luciana, at work behind the bar, threw me repeated
sideways glances, as if to check that I had not lost my thread.
She also brought me an espresso and a glass of water at
regular intervals, as I had requested, and from time to time a
toasted sandwich wrapped in a paper napkin. Often she
would stand beside me for a while, making a little
conversation, her eyes wandering over the written pages. On
one occasion she asked if I was a journalist or writer. When I
said that neither the one nor the other was quite right, she
asked what it was that I was working on, to which I replied
that I did not know for certain myself, but had a growing
suspicion that it might turn into a crime story, set in upper
Italy, in Venice, Verona and Riva. The plot revolved around a
series of unsolved murders and the reappearance of a person
who had long been missing. Luciana asked whether Limone
featured in the story too, and I said that not only Limone but
indeed the hotel and herself would be part of it. At this she
beat a hasty retreat behind the bar, where she continued her

work with that absent-minded precision that was peculiarly
hers. Now she would prepare a cappuccino or hot chocolate,
now pour a beer or glass of wine or grenadine for one of the
few hotel guests sitting on the terrace during the daytime.
Occasionally she would make entries in a large ledger, her
head inclined to one side, looking for all the world as if she
were still at school. More and more frequently I felt impelled
to look over towards her, and whenever our eyes met she
laughed as if at some silly inadvertence. On the wall behind
the bar, between the colourful, shiny rows of spirits bottles,
there was a large mirror, so I was able to watch both Luciana
and her reflection, which gave me a curious satisfaction.
Around midday the guests disappeared from the terrace, and
Luciana too left her post. The writing was becoming
increasingly difficult, and soon it all seemed to be the most
meaningless, empty, dishonest scrawl. I was greatly relieved
when Mauro appeared, bringing the newspapers I had asked
him to get me. Most of them were English and French, but
there were also two Italian papers, the Gazzettino and the
Alto Adige. By the time I was reading the last of them, the
Alto Adige, the afternoon was almost over. A breeze was
stirring the sunshades on the terrace, the guests were
gradually returning, and Luciana had long since been busy
behind the bar again. For a long while I puzzled over an
article the heading of which, Fedeli a Riva, seemed to me to
suggest some dark mystery, though the piece was merely
about a couple by the name of Hilse, from Lünen near
Dortmund, who had spent their vacations on Lake Garda
every year since 1957. However, in the arts section of the
paper I came across a report which did have a special
meaning for me. It was a brief preview of a play that was due
to be performed the next day

in Bolzano. I had just finished reading this short article,
underlining a thing or two, when Luciana brought me a
Fernet. Once again she lingered, looking at the newspaper
spread out before me. Una fantesca, I heard her say quietly,
and I thought I felt her hand on my shoulder. It occurred to
me then how few and far between in my life were the
moments when I had been touched in this way by a woman
with whom I was barely acquainted, and, thinking back, it
seemed to me that about such unwonted gestures there had
always been something disembodied and ghoulish,
something that went quite through me! For example, I
remember an occasion years ago, sitting in the darkened
consulting room of a Manchester optometrist's and gazing
through the lenses inserted into those strange eye-test
frames at the letters in the illuminated box, which were in
clear focus one moment, completely blurred the next. Beside
me stood a Chinese optician whose name, so a small badge
on her white overall told me, was Susi Ahoi. She said very

little, but every time she leaned towards me to change the
lenses I was aware of the cool aura of solicitude that
surrounded her. Time and again she adjusted the heavy
frame, and once she touched my temples, which as so often
were throbbing with pain, with her fingertips, for rather
longer than was necessary, I thought, though it was probably
only in order to position my head better. Luciana's hand,
which surely rested on my shoulder unintentionally, if it did
so at all, as she leaned to take the espresso cup and the
ashtray from the table, had a similar effect on me, and as on
that distant occasion in Manchester I now suddenly saw
everything out of focus, as if through lenses not made for my
eyes.
On the following morning - I had decided to go over to
Verona after all - it turned out that my passport, which
Luciana had placed in a locker in the reception desk when I
arrived, had gone astray. The girl who made up my bill,
repeatedly stressing that she helped out at the hotel only in
the mornings, rummaged in vain through all the drawers and
compartments. At length she went to wake Mauro, who spent
a quarter of an hour turning everything upside down and
inside out and leafing through every one of the various
passports kept at reception without finding mine, before
fetching his mother down. Luciana gave me a long look when
she appeared behind the desk, as if to say this was a fine way
to take one's leave. Taking up the search for my lost
passport, she said that the passports of all guests were kept
in the same drawer, and not a single one had ever been
mislaid since the hotel had been in existence. So the
passport must be here in the drawer, and it was only a
question of using one's eyes. But then, she told Mauro, he
had never been any good at using his eyes, presumably
because she, Luciana, had always used hers for him. Ever
since he was small, if he couldn't find something right away -
a schoolbook, his pencil case, his tennis racquet, his
motorbike keys - he simply claimed it wasn't there, and
whenever she, Luciana, had come to look, of course it tuas
there. Mauro objected that she could say what she liked but
this passport, at any rate, had vanished -spa-ri-to, he said,

emphasising the individual syllables as if for someone hard of
hearing. Il passaporto scomparso mocked Luciana. One
remark led to another, and before long the argument started
by my passport had escalated into a family drama. The
padrone, too, whom till that moment I had not set eyes on
and who was half a head shorter than Luciana, now arrived
on the scene. Mauro told the entire story from the start, for
the third time at least. The girl stood there without saying a
word, continuously smoothing her pinafore with an
embarrassed air. Luciana had turned away and, shaking her
head and running her fingers through the curls in her hair,
kept saying strano, strano, as if the disappearance of the
passport, which could no longer be doubted, were the most
extraordinary thing that had happened in all her life. The
padrone, who had promptly embarked on a systematic
search, placing all the Austrian, all the Dutch and all the
German passports together, pushing the Austrian and Dutch
ones aside with a definitive gesture, and examining the
German ones closely, concluded from this operation that
while my passport was indeed not among them, there was, in
its stead so to speak, one which belonged to a certain Herr
Doll who, if he remembered correctly, had left yesterday and
must inadvertently have been given my passport — I still
hear him calling out inavvertitamente, striking his forehead
with the flat of his hand in despair at such negligence - and
that this Herr Doll had simply pocketed my passport without
checking whether it really was his own. Germans, declared
the padrone, concluding his account of these incredible
occurrences, were always in far too much of a hurry.
Doubtless Herr Doll was now somewhere on the motorway,
and my passport on his person. The question was now how I
was to be provided with provisional papers proving my
identity, in the absence of the passport, so that I could
continue my journey and leave Italy. Mauro, who appeared to
be responsible for the mix-up, apologised most profusely to
me, while Luciana, who now took his side, ventured that
after all he was still little more than a child. A child,
exclaimed the padrone, casting his eyes up to heaven as
though requiring support from that quarter in this hour in
which his patience was sorely tried - a child, he exclaimed

again, but this time to Mauro, a child he certainly is not, just
mindless, and so, without the least regard, he compromises
the good reputation of our hotel. What will the signore think
of Limone and Italy when he departs, the padrone demanded
of Mauro, pointing to me, and, with the question still hanging
in the air as quasi-irrefutable proof of my discomfiture, he
added that I must now be taken without delay to the police
station, where the police chief, Dalmazio Orgiu, would issue
me with papers which would at least be valid for leaving the
country. I put in that I could obtain a new passport at the
German consulate in Milan and that there was no need to go
to any further lengths on my account, but the padrone had
already pressed the car keys into his wife's hand, picked up
my bag and taken my arm. Before I knew what was
happening I was sitting beside Luciana in the blue Alfa and
we were driving up the steep streets to the main road, where
the police station stood somewhat set back behind tall iron
railings. The brigadiere, who wore an immense Rolex watch
on his left wrist and a heavy gold bracelet on the right,
listened to our tale, sat down at a huge, old-fashioned
typewriter with a carriage practically a metre across, put in a
sheet of paper and, half murmuring and half singing the text
as he typed, dashed off the following document, which he
tore out of the rollers with a flourish the moment he had
completed it and read it over once more for good measure,
handing it


first to me, who was rendered speechless by this virtuoso
performance, and then to Luciana for signature before
endorsing it himself and, by way of completing the business,
rubber-stamping it first with a circular and then with a
rectangular stamp. When I asked the brigadiere if he were
certain that the document he had drawn up would enable me
to cross the border he replied, faintly irritated by the doubt
implied in my question: Non siamo in Russia, signore.
When I was in the car with Luciana once again, the
document in my hand, I felt as if we had just been married by
the brigadiere and might now drive off together wherever we
desired. But this notion, which filled me with intense
pleasure, was short-lived, and once I had recovered my
equilibrium I asked Luciana to drop me at the bus stop down
the road. There I got out, and, my bag already slung over my
shoulder, I exchanged a few more words with her through
the open window of the car and belatedly wished her a happy
forty-fourth birthday She beamed as if at an unexpected
present. Then, her head slightly inclined, she said addio,
engaged the gears, and drove off. The Alfa glided slowly
down the street and vanished around a bend which seemed
to me to lead to another world. It was already midday. The
next bus was not due till three o'clock. I went into a bar near
the bus stop, ordered an espresso, and soon became so
deeply absorbed in recasting my notes that I have not the
faintest recollection either of the hours of waiting or of the
bus journey to Desenzano. Not until I am on the train to
Milan do I become visible again to my mind's eye. Outside, in
the slanting sunlight of late afternoon, the poplars and fields
of Lombardy went by. Opposite me sat a Franciscan nun of
about thirty or thirty-five and a young girl with a colourful
patchwork jacket over her shoulders. The girl had got on at
Brescia, while the nun had already been on the train at
Desenzano. The nun was reading her breviary, and the girl,
no less immersed, was reading a photo story. Both were
consummately beautiful, both very much present and yet
altogether elsewhere. I admired the profound seriousness
with which each of them turned the pages. Now the
Franciscan nun would turn a page over, now the girl in the

colourful jacket, then the girl again and then the Franciscan
nun once more. Thus the time passed without my ever being
able to exchange a glance with either the one or the other. I
therefore tried to practise a like modesty, and took out Der
Beredte Italiener, a handbook published in 1878 in Berne, for
all who wish to make speedy and assured progress in
colloquial Italian. In this little booklet, which had belonged to
a maternal great-uncle of
mine, who spent some time working as an office clerk in
northern Italy towards the end of the last century, everything
seemed arranged in the best of all possible ways, quite as
though the world was made up purely of letters and words
and as if, through this act of transformation, even the
greatest of horrors were safely banished, as if to each dark
side there were a redeeming counterpart, to every evil its
good, to every pain its pleasure, and to every lie a measure
of truth. Soon

the outlying districts of Milan came into view. Satellite
developments with twenty-storey residential blocks. Then the
suburbs, factory yards and older tenement buildings. The
train changed to another track. The low rays of the setting
sun passed through the compartment. The girl in the
colourful jacket inserted a bookmark into her photo story,
and the Franciscan sister also slipped a green ribbon into her

breviary. Both now sat leaning back in the fullness of the
evening glow, until at length we entered the darkness of the
Central Station, and were all changed into amorphous
shadows. As the train ground to a halt, the screeching of the
brakes reached an excruciating pitch before it finally cut out
and gave way to a moment of complete silence into which,
almost at once, the heaving noise that prevailed under the
great iron vaults flowed back. Filled by a sense of having
been abandoned, I remained standing for a while on the
platform. The girl in the many-coloured jacket and the
Franciscan nun had long since disappeared. What connection
could there be, I then wondered and now wonder again,
between those two beautiful female readers and this
immense railway terminus which, when it was built in 1932,
outdid all other train stations in Europe; and what relation
was there between the so-called monuments of the past and
the vague longing, propagated through our bodies, to people
the dust-blown expanses and tidal plains of the future. My
bag slung over my shoulder, I strolled down the platform, the
last of the passengers, and at a kiosk bought myself a map of
the city. How many city maps have I not bought in my time? I
always try to find reliable bearings at least in the space that
surrounds me. The map of Milan I had purchased seemed a
curiously apt choice, because while I was waiting for the
quietly rumbling photo-booth where I had had some pictures
taken to yield up the prints, I noticed on the front of the
map's cardboard cover the black and white image of a
labyrinth, and on the back an

affirmation that must seem promising and indeed auspicious
for anyone who knows what it is to err on one's way:

I emerged from the station hall into the leaden evening air.
Yellow taxis came drifting towards their rank from every
quarter, only to set off once again with more weary home-
comers in the back. I walked through the colonnades to the
eastern side, the wrong side of the station. Under the
archway that gives onto the Piazza Savoia was a Hertz
advertisement bearing the words LA PROSSIMA COINCIDENZA. I
was still gazing up at this message, thinking it might possibly
be meant for me, when two young men, talking to each other
in a state of great agitation, came straight at me. It was quite
impossible to get out of their way: their breath was already
upon my face, already I was seeing the knotty scar on the
one's cheek and the veins in the other's eye and feeling their
hands beneath my jacket, grabbing, tugging and pulling. Not
until I turned on my heel and swung the bag off my shoulder

into the pair of them did I manage to disengage myself and
retreat to one of the pillars in the archway, LA PROSSIMA
COINCIDENZA. None of the passers-by had taken any notice of
the incident. I, however, watched my two assailants, jerking
curiously as if they were out of an early motion picture,
vanish in the half-light under the colonnades. In the taxi, I
clutched my bag with both hands. To my remark that Milan
was dangerous territory, ventured in as casual a tone as I
could muster, the driver responded with a gesture of
helplessness. His nearside window was protected by a metal
grille, and he had a multi-coloured medallion of Our Lady on
the dashboard. We drove along the Via N. Torriani, across the
Piazza Cincinnato, turned left into the Via San Gregorio and
left again into the Via Lodovico, and drew up outside the
Hotel Boston, which looked an unprepossessing, ill-omened
house. The driver took the fare without a word and the taxi
vanished in the distance. Nowhere in all the Via Lodovico
was there a living soul to be seen. I climbed the few steps to
the unappealing hostelry and waited in the dimly lit hallway
until the signora, a wizen-faced creature of some sixty or
seventy years, appeared from the television room.
Suspiciously she kept her beady eye on me while I explained,
in my halting Italian, that I was unable to show any papers
because my passport had gone astray and I was in Milan to
obtain a new one from the German consulate. As soon as I
had finished my sorry tale she called her husband, who
answered to the name of Orlando and who now also emerged
unsteadily from the television room, where he had
languished, like the signora, in something of a stupor. He
took what seemed an age to cross the small lobby and take
up his position beside his wife behind the reception desk,
which came up nearly to their shoulders. When I told my
story all over again, it no longer sounded plausible, even to
me. Half in pity and half in contempt I was at length handed
an old iron key bearing the number 513. The room was right
at the top, but the lift, a cramped and clattering metal cage,
went only as far as the fourth floor, from where I had to
climb up two back stairs. A long corridor, far too long for that
narrow building, led past a row of doors barely more than
two metres apart down a slight incline, as it seemed to me.

Poor travellers, I thought, seeing myself among them: always
somewhere else. The key turned in the lock. An oppressive
heat that had been building up for days and perhaps even
weeks hit me. I pulled up the blinds. There were rooftops as
far as the eye could see in the gathering dusk, and a forest of
aerials stirred faintly in a breeze. Below, a chasm of
backyards yawned. I turned away from this view and without
undressing lay down on the bed, which was covered with a
fringed, floral-patterned, damask spread, folded my arms
under my head, and stared up at the ceiling, which appeared
to be miles away. Stray voices drifted up from below and
came in at the open window. A cry, as from someone swept
out to sea, a shrieking laugh in an empty theatre. Time
passed and it grew gradually darker. Little by little, the
sounds subsided and there was silence. Hours went by,
never-ending hours, but rest eluded me. In the middle of the
night, or it may even have been towards morning, I got up,
undressed and climbed into the shower cabin, which jutted
into the room and was concealed behind a mildewed plastic
curtain. For a long while I let the water run down me. And
then, wet as I was, I lay down again on the fringed bedspread
and waited for dawn to touch the tips of the aerials. At last I
thought I could make out the first glimmer, I heard the call of
a blackbird and shut my eyes. A pulsating glow spread under
my lowered lids. Ecco l'arcobaleno. Behold the rainbow in
the heavens. Ecco l'arco celeste. Sleep came and I dreamed
of a green field of corn and floating above it, with
outstretched arms, a convent nun from my childhood, Sister
Mauritia, quite as if it were the most natural thing in the
world.
At nine next morning I was in the waiting room of the
German consulate in the Via Solferino. At that early hour
there were already a considerable number of travellers who
had been robbed and people with other concerns, among
them a family of artistes who seemed to me to belong to an
era that ended at least half a century ago. The head of this
small troupe — for that was undoubtedly what they were —
was wearing a white summer suit and extremely elegant
canvas shoes with a brown leather trim. In his hands he was

twirling a broad-brimmed straw hat of exquisite form, now
clockwise, now anticlockwise. From the precision of his
movements one knew that preparing an omelette on the
high-wire, that sensational trick performed by the legendary
Blondel, would have been mere child's play for this grounded
tightrope-walker whose true home, one felt, was the freedom
of the air. Next to him sat a remarkably Nordic-looking young
woman in a tailor-made suit, she too straight out of the
1930s. She sat quite still and bolt upright, her eyes shut the
whole time. Not once did I see her glance up or notice the
slightest twitch at the corners of her mouth. She held her
head always in the same position and not a hair was out of
place in her painstakingly crimped coiffure. With these two
somnambulists, whose names proved to be Giorgio and Rosa
Santini, there were three girls, all of about the same age,
wearing summer frocks of the finest cambric, who resembled
each other very closely. Now they would sit quietly, now
wander about among the chairs and tables in the waiting
room almost as if they were trying to make their
meanderings into intricate, beautiful loops. One of them had
a brightly coloured whirligig, one a collapsible telescope
which she tended to hold to her eye the wrong way round,
and the third a parasol. At times all three, with their sundry
emblems, would sit at the window and gaze out at the
Milanese morning, where the shimmering daylight was
breaking through the heavy grey air. Sitting apart from the
Santinis, though plainly with them, in her affections and by
relation, was the nonna in a black silk dress. She was busy
with crocheting and looked up only occasionally to cast what
seemed to me a worried look at the silent couple or the three
sisters. Although it took a long while until my identity had
been established, by several phone calls to the relevant
authorities in Germany and London, the time passed lightly
in the company of these people. At length, a short, not to say
dwarfish consular official settled himself on a sort of bar-
stool behind an enormous typing machine in order to enter in
dotted letters the details I had given concerning my person
into a new passport. Emerging from the consulate building


with this newly issued proof of my freedom to come and go
as I pleased in my pocket, I decided to take a stroll around
the streets of Milan for an hour or so before travelling on,
although of course I might have known that any idea of the
kind, in a city so filled with the most appalling traffic, will
end in aimless wandering and bouts of distress. On that day,
the 4th of August, 1987,1 walked down the Via Moscova,
past San Angelo, through the Giardini Pubblici, along the Via
Palestro, the Via Marina, the Via Senato, the Via della Spiga,
the Via Gesù, into the Via Monte Napoleone and the Via
Alessandro Manzoni, by way of which I finally reached the
Piazza della Scala, from where I crossed to the cathedral
square. Inside the cathedral I sat down for a while, untied my
shoe-laces, and, as I still remember with undiminished
clarity, all of a sudden no longer had any knowledge of where
I was. Despite a great effort to account for the last few days
and how I had come to be in this place, I was unable even to
determine whether I was in the land of the living or already
in another place. Nor did this lapse of memory improve in
the slightest after I climbed to the topmost gallery of the
cathedral and from there, beset by recurring fits of vertigo,
gazed out upon the dusky, hazy panorama of a city now
altogether alien to me. Where the word "Milan" ought to
have appeared in my mind there was nothing but a painful,
inane reflex. A menacing reflection of the darkness spreading
within me loomed up in the west where an immense bank of
cloud covered half the sky and cast its shadow on the
seemingly endless sea of houses. A stiff wind came up, and I
had to brace myself so that I could look down to where the
people were crossing the piazza, their bodies inclined
forwards at an odd angle, as though they were hastening
towards their doom - a spectacle which brought back to me
an epitaph I had seen years before on a tombstone in the
Piedmont. And as I remembered the words Se il vento s'alza,
Correte, Correte! Se il vento s'alza, non v'arrestate!, so I
knew, in that instant, that the figures hurrying over the
cobbles below were none other than the men and women of
Milan.
That evening I was on my way to Verona once again. The

train raced through the dark countryside at an alarming
speed. This time I alighted at my destination without a
second thought and, once I had had a double Fernet in the
station bar and browsed through the Verona newspapers, I
took a taxi to the Golden Dove, where, contrary to all
expectation, at the height of the season, a room perfectly
suited to my needs was made available and where I was
treated with exquisite courtesy, both by the porter, who
reminded me of Ferdinand Bruckner, and by the hotel
manageress, who seemed to be waiting in the foyer for the
express purpose of welcoming me as a long expected guest
of honour who had finally arrived. Rather than asking for my
passport, she simply handed me the register, and I entered
my name as Jakob Philipp Fallmerayer, historian, of Landeck,
Tyrol. The porter picked up my bag and preceded me to the
room, where I gave him a tip that far exceeded my means, at
which he left with a deep bow. That night under the roof of
the Golden Dove, I felt safe as if under the wing of a bird
whose plumage I saw in the finest shades of brown and
brick-red, a well-nigh miraculous reprieve, as was the
breakfast next morning, which I recall as a very dignified
occasion. Confidently, as if from now on I could not put a foot
wrong, I set off shortly before ten through the city streets,
and soon found myself outside the Biblioteca Civica, where I
proposed to spend the day working. A notice on the main
entrance advised the public that the library was closed
during the holiday period, but the door stood ajar. Inside, it
was so gloomy that at first I had to feel my way forwards. In
vain I tried a number of door handles, all of which seemed
curiously high to me, before at last I found one of the
librarians in a reading room flooded with the mild light of the
early morning. He was an old gentleman with carefully
trimmed hair and beard, who had just settled down to the
days task behind his desk. He wore black satin armlets and
gold-rimmed half-moon spectacles, and was ruling lines on
one sheet of paper after another. Once he had prepared a
batch, he looked up from the business in hand and enquired
what it was I had come for. Having listened to my protracted
explanation, he went to fetch what I wanted and before long
I was sitting near one of the windows leafing through the

folio volumes in which the Verona newspapers dating from
August and September 1913 were bound. The edges were by
now so brittle that the pages needed to be turned with much
care. All manner of silent movie scenes began to be enacted
before my eyes. In Via Alberto Mario I beheld divers
gentlemen walking up and down and, at the very moment
they supposed themselves unobserved, deftly side-stepping,
with lightning alacrity, into the doorway of the building that
housed the establishment of Dr Ringger, graduate of the
medical schools of Paris and Vienna. Each of the many
chambers within was
already occupied by an impeccably suited gentleman of the
sort that continued to leap in from the street, while Dr
Ringger, for his part, was to be seen in the great salon on the
mezzanine floor perusing, in preparation for his surgery
hours, a range of outsize pictorial reproductions of the
inflorescences caused by diseases of the skin, spread out
before him on a huge table like the multi-coloured ordnance
maps at a war council of the general staff. And then I
witnessed Dr Pesavento, whose practice was in the Via
Stella, not far from the Biblioteca Civica, performing one of
his painless

extractions. The pale countenance of the patient under Dr
Pesavento did indeed seem perfectly relaxed, but her body
twisted and turned in the dentist's chair as if she were
undergoing the most agonising discomforts. There were
revelations of a different kind, too, such as the pyramid of
ten million bottles of Ferro-China table water (to reconstitute
the blood), gleaming and glinting in the sun like a promise of
eternal

life: a lion roared soundlessly, and soundlessly the pyramid
shattered into a myriad little pieces tumbling down slowly in
a crystal cascade. They were soundless and weightless, these
images and words of times gone by, flaring up briefly and
instantly going out, each of them its own empty enigma. The
Tyrolese missionary Giuseppe Ohrwalder was reported from

Khartoum to have been missing for several weeks at
Omdurman in the Sudan. According to telegrams from
Danzig, a Colonnello Stern of the 6th Field Artillery
Regiment had been arrested there on suspicion of spying:
stories with neither beginning nor end, I reflected, which
ought to be looked into more closely. 1913 was a peculiar
year. The times were changing, and the spark was racing
along the fuse like an adder through the grass. Everywhere
there were great effusions of feeling. The people were trying
out a new role. The sacred and righteous wrath of the nation
was invoked. The accounts in the Veronese newspapers of
the first festival in the anfiteatro romano sought to surpass
each other in their enthusiasm. According to one of my
notes, an article in the Fedele was entitled Apoteosi dei
titani, in Gothic type. It concluded with the assurance that
this headline was no hollow assertion, since the arena was a
titanic example of Roman architecture and Giuseppe Verdi
the Titan of the melopoea italiana. The true Titan of all art
and beauty, however, the writer proclaimed with a final
flourish, was il popolo nostro, and all the rest were nothing
but pygmies. For a long time my eyes remained fixed on the
six letters of the word pigmei, the announcement of a
destruction that had already taken place. It was as if I could
hear the voice of the people, as it welled up, the violent
inflection in the syllables: pig-me-i, pig-me-i, pig-me-i. The
shouting roared within my ear, in reality doubtless the
drumming of my own blood, amplified and distorted by my
imagination. At all events, it seemed to prompt no response
in the librarian. Calmly he sat bent over his work, filling the
lines he had ruled with an even hand. The manner in which
he paused at the end of every line suggested that he was
writing a list. And plainly he had every detail he needed for
the composition of this visibly lengthening register in his
head, for he continued his writing without ever referring to
any source. Our eyes met on one occasion when he had
completed another page and looked up from his work as he
reached for the tin that contained the blotting sand. That
gesture, which was so out of time, seemed so wholly right at
that moment, and so meaningful, that, reassured, I was able
to continue my trail through the papers, and as I went on

reading and turning the pages, well into the afternoon, I
happened on one thing or another that might well be worth
retelling some time, such as the report headed ucciso SUL
BANCO ANATOMIco, which began with the truly novelistic
words: Ieri sera nella cella mortuaria de cimitero di Nogara,
and which dealt with the murder of a carabiniere named
Muzio. The story, which did not lack gruesome details,
remained in my memory not least because in one of the
tomes I was going through I found an old postcard showing
the Cimitero di Staglieno in Genoa. I pocketed the picture
and subsequently examined every square inch of it through a
magnifying glass. The pale light over the dark hills, the
viaduct which appears to lead out of the picture and into a
tunnel, the deep shadows near it, the numerous tombs in the
shapes of towers or pagodas to the right, the cypress grove,
the perspective alignment of the walls, the black field in the
foreground, and the white villa at the left end of the main
colonnaded walk, all of this, particularly the white villa,
seemed so familiar to me that I could easily have found my
way around that site blindfolded. In the latter part of the

afternoon I walked along the Adige, beneath the trees of the
riverside promenade, to the Castelvecchio. A sandy-coloured
dog with a black mark like a patch over its left eye, that
appeared like all stray dogs to run at an angle to the
direction it was moving in, had attached itself to me outside
the duomo, and now kept a steady distance ahead of me. If I
paused to gaze down at the river, it paused as well and
looked pensively at the flowing water. If I continued on my
way, it too went on. But when I crossed the Corso Cavour by
the Castelvecchio, it remained on the curb, and when I
turned in the middle of the Corso to see where it was I
narrowly escaped being run over. Once I was on the other
side I wondered whether I should carry straight on through
the Via Roma to the Piazza Bra, where I was meeting
Salvatore Altamura, or should instead make the short detour
through the Via San Silvestro and the Via dei Mutilati. All at
once the dog, which had kept its eyes on me from the other
side of the Corso, was gone, and so I turned down the Via

Roma. I took my time, drifting along with the tide of people
in the street, going into this shop and that and at length
found myself opposite the Pizzeria Verona, from which I had
fled headlong that November evening seven years before.
The lettering over Carlo Cadavero's restaurant was still the
same, but the entrance was boarded up, and the blinds on
the upper floors were drawn, much as I had expected, as I
realised in that instant. The image that had lodged in my
mind when I fled Verona, and which had recurred time after
time, with extreme clarity, before I was at last able to forget
it, now presented itself to me again, strangely distorted - two
men in black silver-buttoned tunics, who were carrying out
from a rear courtyard a bier on which lay, under a floral-
patterned drape, what was plainly the body of a human
being. Whether this dark apparition was superimposed on
reality for a mere moment or for much longer, I could not
have said when my senses returned to the daylight and the
people, quite unconcerned, passing the pizzeria, which had
evidently been shut for some time. When I asked the
photographer in the shop next door why the business had
closed down, he was unwilling to say anything, nor could I
persuade him to photograph the front of the building for me.
To my questions and requests he merely responded by
shaking his head, as if he did not understand me or was
unable to speak. As I was turning to leave, imagining this
deaf mute photographer at work in his dark room, I heard
him utter a screed of savage curses behind my back, curses
which seemed directed less at myself than at some incident
which had happened in the restaurant next door. Out on the
pavement I wandered irresolutely to and fro before at length
I approached a passer-by who seemed suitable for my
purpose, a young tourist who came from the Erlangen area,
and asked him to take a photograph of the pizzeria for me,
which he did, after some hesitation and after I had given him
a ten mark note to cover the cost of sending the picture to
England in due course. When,

however, I added an urgent request to photograph the flock

of pigeons that had just flown from the piazza into the Via
Roma, and had settled on the balcony rail and the roof of the
building, the young Erlanger, who, as I now thought, might
have been on honeymoon, was not prepared to oblige me a
second time, probably, I suspected, because his newly-wed
bride, who had been eyeing me the whole time with a
distrusting and even hostile air and had not budged from his
side even when he was taking the picture, was plucking
impatiently at his sleeve.
When I arrived at the piazza, Salvatore was already sitting
reading outside the bar with the green awning, his glasses
pushed up onto his forehead and holding the book so close to
his face that it was quite impossible to believe he could
decipher anything at all. Taking care not to disturb him, I sat
down. The book he was reading had a pink dust jacket
bearing the portrait of a woman, in dark colours. Below the
portrait, in lieu of a title, were the numbers ipi2+i. A waiter
came to the table. He was wearing a long green apron. I
ordered a double Fernet on the rocks. Salvatore had
meanwhile laid his book aside and restored his glasses to
their proper place. He explained apologetically that in the
early evening when he had at last escaped the pressures of
the daily round he would always turn to a book, even if he
had left his reading glasses in the office, as he had today.
Once I am at leisure, said Salvatore, I take refuge in prose as
one might in a boat. All day long I am surrounded by the
clamour on the editorial floor, but in the evening I cross over
to an island, and every time, the moment I read the first
sentences, it is as if I were rowing far out on the water. It is
thanks to my evening reading alone that I am still more or
less sane. He was sorry he had not noticed me right away, he
said, but being short-sighted and also absorbed in Sciascias
story had cut him off almost completely from what was going
on around him. The story Sciascia was telling, he continued,
as it were returning to the real world, was a fascinating
synopsis of the years immediately before the First World War.
At the centre of the narrative, which was more like an essay
in form, was one Maria Oggioni nata Tiepolo, wife of a
Capitano Ferrucio Oggioni, who on the 8th of November,

1912, shot her husband's batman, a bersagliere by the name
of Quintilio Polimanti, in self-defence according to her own
statement. At the time the newspapers naturally made a meal
of the story, and the trial, which gripped the nation's
imagination for weeks - since after all the accused was of the
famous Venetian painter's family, as the press tirelessly
repeated - this trial, which kept the entire nation on the edge
of its seat, finally revealed no more than a truth familiar to
everyone: that the law is not equal for all, and justice not
just. Since Polimanti was no longer able to speak for himself,
Signora Oggioni, whom everyone was soon calling Contessa
Tiepolo, found it easy to win over the judges with that
enigmatic smile of hers, a smile that promptly reminded
journalists of the Mona Lisa's, as one can imagine, the more
so since in 1913 La Gioconda was also in the headlines,
having been discovered under the bed of a Florentine
workman who had liberated her from her exile in the Louvre
two years before and returned her to her native country. It is
curious to observe, added Salvatore, how in that year
everything was moving towards a single point, at which
something would have to happen, whatever the cost. But you,
he went on, were interested in a quite different story. And
that story, to tell you the end of it first, has now almost
reached its conclusion. The trial has been held. The verdict
was thirty years. The appeal is due to be heard in Venice in
the autumn. I do not think we can expect any new
developments. Recently on the phone you said that you were
more or less familiar with the story up to the autumn of
1980. The series of ghastly crimes continued after that time.
That same autumn in Vicenza, a prostitute by the name of
Maria Alice Beretta was killed with a hammer and an axe. Six
months later, Luca Martinotti, a grammar school pupil from
Verona, succumbed to injuries sustained when an Austrian
casemate on the banks of the Etsch, used as a shelter by
drug addicts, was torched. In July 1982, two monks, Mario
Lovato and Giovanni Pigato, both of advanced years, on their
customary walk of an evening round the quiet streets near
their monastery, had their skulls smashed in with a heavy-
duty hammer. After that killing, a Milan news agency
received a letter from the Organizzazione Ludwig, which had

already claimed responsibility for the crimes in the autumn
of 1980, as you know. If I remember correctly, in the second
letter the group claimed that their purpose in life was to
destroy those who had betrayed God. In February, the body
of a priest, Armando Bison, was found in the Trentino. He lay
bludgeoned in his own blood, and a crucifix had been driven
into the back of his neck. A further letter proclaimed that the
power of Ludwig knew no bounds. In mid-May of the same
year, a cinema in Milan, which showed pornographic films,
went up in flames. Six men died. Their last picture show bore
the title Lyla, profumo di femmina. The group claimed
responsibility for what they described as a blazing pyre of
pricks. In early 1984, on the day after Epiphany, a further
arson attack, which also remained unsolved, was made on a
discotheque near Munich's main station. It was not until two
weeks later that Furlan and
Abel were apprehended. Wearing clowns' costumes, they
were carrying open petrol canisters in perforated sports bags
through the Melamare disco at Castiglione delle Stiviere, not
far from the southern shore of Lake Garda, where that
evening four hundred young people had come together for
the carnival. It was only by a hair's breadth that the two
escaped being lynched by the crowd on the spot. So much for
the principal points of the story. Apart from providing
irrefutable evidence, the investigation produced nothing that
might have made it possible to comprehend a series of
crimes extending over almost seven years. Nor did the
psychiatric reports afford any real insight into the inner
world of the two young men. Both were from highly
respected families. Furlan's father is a well-known specialist
in burn injuries, and consultant in the plastic surgery
department at the hospital here. Abel's father is a retired
lawyer, from Germany, who was head of the Verona branch of
a Dusseldorf insurance company for years. Both sons went to
the Girolamo Fracastro grammar school. Both were highly
intelligent. After the school-leaving examinations, Abel went
on to study maths and Furlan chemistry. Beyond that, there
is little to be said. I think they were like brothers to each
other and had no idea how to free themselves from their

innocence. I once saw Abel, who was an outstanding guitar
player, on a television programme. I think it was in the mid-
1970s. He would have been fifteen or sixteen then. And I
remember that his whole appearance and his wonderful
playing affected me deeply.
Salvatore had come to the end of his account, and night had
fallen. Crowds of festival-goers released from their tour
buses were gathered outside the arena. The opera, said
Salvatore, is not what it used to be. The audience no longer
understand that they are part of the occasion. In the old days
the carriages used to drive down the long wide road to the
Porta Nuova in the evenings, out through the gateway, and
westward under the trees along the glacis, skirting the city,
till nightfall. .Then everyone turned back. Some drove to the
churches for the "Ave Maria della Sera", some stopped here
on the Bra and the gentlemen stepped up to the carriages to
converse with the ladies, often till well into the dark. The
days of stepping up to a carriage are over, and the days of
the opera also. The festival is a travesty. That is why I cannot
bring myself to go into the arena on an evening liKe this,
despite the fact that opera, as you are aware, means a great
deal to me. For more than thirty years, said Salvatore I have
been working in this city, and not once have I seen a
production in the arena. I sit out here on the Bra, where you
cannot hear the music. Neither the orchestra nor the choir
nor the soloists. Not a sound. I listen, as it were, to a
soundless opera. La spettacolosa Aida, a fantastic night on
the Nile, as a silent film from the days before the Great War.
Did you know, Salvatore continued, that the sets and
costumes for the Aida being performed in the arena today
are exact replicas of those designed by Ettore Fagiuoli and
Auguste Mariette for the inauguration of the festival in 1913?
One might suppose no time had passed at all, though in fact
history is now nearing its close. At times it really does seem
to me as if the whole of society were still in the Cairo opera
house to celebrate the inexorable advance of Progress.
Christmas Eve, 1871. For the first time the strains of the
Aida overture are heard. With every bar, the incline of the
stalls becomes a fraction steeper. The first ship glides

through the Suez Canal. On the bridge stands a motionless
figure in the white uniform of an admiral, observing the
desert through a telescope. You will see the forests again, is
Amanoroso's promise. Did you also know that in Scipio's day
it was still possible to travel from Egypt to Morocco under
the shade of trees? The shade of trees! And now, fire breaks
out in the opera house. A crackling conflagration. With a
crash the seats in the stalls, together with all their
occupants, vanish into the orchestra pit. Through the
swathes of smoke beneath the ceiling an unfamiliar figure
comes floating down. Di morte l'angelo a noi s'appressa. Già
veggo il ciel discindersi. But I digress. With these words,
Salvatore stood up. You know how I am, he said as he took
his leave, when it is getting late. I for my part, however,
remained on the piazza for a long time with that image of the
descending angel before my eyes. It must have been after
midnight, and
the waiter in the green apron had just made his last rounds,

when I imagined I heard a horse's hooves on the cobbled
square and the sound of carriage wheels; but the carriage
itself did not materialise. Instead, there came to my mind
pictures of an open-air performance of Aida that I had seen
in Augsburg as a boy, accompanied by my mother, and of
which hitherto I had not had the slightest recollection. The
triumphal procession, consisting of a paltry contingent of
horsemen and a few sorrow-worn camels and elephants on
loan from Circus Krone, as I have recently discovered,
passed before me several times, quite as if it had never been
forgotten, and, much as it had then in my boyhood, lulled me
into a deep sleep from which - though to this day I cannot
really explain how - I did not awake till the morning after, in
my room at the Golden Dove.
By way of a postscript, I should perhaps add that in April
1924 the writer Franz Werfel visited his friend Franz Kafka

in Hajek's laryngological clinic in Vienna, bearing a bunch of
roses and a copy of his newly published and universally
acclaimed novel, with a personal dedication. The patient,
who at this point weighed a mere 45 kilograms and was
shortly to make his final journey to a private nursing home at
Klosterneuburg, was probably no longer able to read the
book, which may not have been the greatest loss he had to
bear. That at least was my own feeling when I leafed

through this operatic tale a few months ago. For me, the only
remarkable thing about it was the fact that the copy that had
come into my hands, by a circuitous route, had in it the ex
libris plate of one Dr Hermann Samson, who must have loved
Aida so dearly that he had chosen the pyramids, monuments
of death, as his insignia.

Dr K. Takes the Waters at Riva


On Saturday the 6th of September, 1913, Dr K., the Deputy
Secretary of the Prague Workers' Insurance Company, is on
his way to Vienna to attend a congress on rescue services
and hygiene. Just as the fate of a man wounded on the
battlefield depends upon the quality of the first dressing, he
reads in a newspaper he has bought at the border-post of
Gmünd, so too the first aid administered at everyday
accidents is of the greatest importance for the casualty's
recovery. Dr K. finds this statement almost as disquieting as
the reference to the social events which will accompany the
congress. Outside, Heiligenstadt already: an ominous,
deserted station, the trains empty. Dr K. feels he has reached
the end of the line and realises that he should have begged
the Director on his knees to let him stay in Prague. But of
course it is too late now.
In Vienna Dr K. takes a room at the Hotel Matschakerhof, out
of sympathy with Grillparzer, who always dined there. It is a
gesture of reverence which sadly has no good effect. For
most of the time, Dr K. is extremely unwell. He is suffering
from dejectedness, and his sight is troubling him. Though he
cancels whatever appointments he can, he has a sense of
being continually among an alarming number of people. At
such times he sits like a ghost at table, suffers bouts of
claustrophobia, and imagines that every fleeting glance sees
right through him. By his side, close enough to touch, as it
were, sits Grillparzer, a man now so ancient that he has
almost faded away. He indulges in all sorts of tomfoolery and
on one occasion even lays a hand on Dr K.'s knee. During the
following night, Dr K. is in a wretched state. His Berlin
misadventures are haunting him. He tosses and turns in bed
to no avail, puts cold compresses on his head, and stands at
the window for a long time gazing down into the street and
wishes he lay buried there, a few storeys deeper, in the
ground. It is impossible, he notes the following day, to lead
the only possible life, to live together with a woman, each
one free and independent, married neither in outer
appearance nor in reality, to be merely together; and even
more impossible to take the only possible step beyond a

friendship withe men for there, on the other side of the
prescribed boundary, the boot is already upraised that will
crush you under its heel.
The most disconcerting part of it, perhaps, is that life
nonetheless always goes on, somehow or other. Thus, for
instance, in the course of the morning Dr K. is persuaded by
Otto Pick to accompany him out to Ottakring to visit Albert
Ehrenstein, whose verses he, Dr K., cannot make any sense
of, not with the best will in the world. You, however, take
delight in the ship, despoiling the lake with sails. I will go
down to the deep. Plunge, thaw, go blind, become ice. In the
tram, Dr K. is suddenly convulsed by a violent aversion to
Pick, because the latter has a small, unpleasant hole in his
nature through which he sometimes creeps forth in his
entirety, as Dr K. now observes. Dr K.'s fretful state of mind
is exacerbated when Ehrenstein proves to have a black
moustache, exactly like Pick, whom he so resembles he could
be his twin brother. As like as two eggs, Dr K. keeps on
thinking compulsively. On the way to the Prater he finds the
company of the two others increasingly unnerving, and on
the gondola pond he feels himself to be a prisoner of their
whims. When at last he is returned to dry land, it is small
consolation. They might just as well have struck him dead
with an oar. Lise Kaznelson, who has also come on the
outing, now takes a carousel ride, through the jungle. Dr K.
notes how helplessly she sits up there in her billowy, well-cut
but ill-worn dress. He experiences a surge of sociable feeling
in her presence, as he so often does in the company of
women, but otherwise is constantly plagued by one of his
headaches. When as a jest they have their photograph taken
as passengers in an aeroplane which appears to be flying
above the big Ferris wheel and the spires of the Votivkirche,
Dr K. is himself bemused to find that he is the only one who
can still manage some kind of smile at such dizzy heights. On
the 14th of September Dr K. travels

to Trieste. He spends the best part of eight hours on
Southern Railways, ensconced in a corner of his
compartment. He is seized by a creeping paralysis. Outside
the country slips by, in a series of seamlessly changing views,
bathed in an altogether improbable autumn light. Although
he barely moves a limb, that evening at ten past nine Dr K.,
incomprehensibly, really is in Trieste. The city lies in
darkness. Dr K. is being driven to a harbour-front hotel, and
sitting in the horse-drawn hackney-cab, with the broad back
of the coachman before him, he has a vision of himself as a
most mysterious figure. It seems to him that people are

stopping in the street, following him with their eyes, as if to
say: there he is at last.
In the hotel he reclines on the bed, hands clasped behind his
head, and looks up at the ceiling. Stray cries from outside
drift into the room through curtains stirred by a breeze. Dr
K. is aware that in this city there is an iron angel who kills
travellers from the north, and he longs to go out. On the
borderline between grinding weariness and half-sleep he
wanders through the lanes of the harbour quarter, sensing
under his skin how it is to be a free man waiting on the kerb,
hovering an inch above the ground. The circling reflections
of the streetlights on the ceiling above him are signs that any
moment now it will break open and something will be
revealed. Already cracks are appearing in the smooth
surface, and then, in a cloud of plaster dust, gradually
showing itself against the half-light, a figure descends on
great silk-white wings, swathed in bluish-violet vestments
and bound with golden cords, the upraised arm with the
sword pointing forwards. A veritable angel, thought Dr K.
when he could breathe again, all day long it has flown
towards me and I of little faith knew nothing of it. Now he
will speak to me, he thought, and lowered his gaze. But when
he looked up again, the angel, though it was still there,
suspended quite low under the ceiling, was no longer a living
angel but a garishly painted ship's figurehead, such as hang
from the ceilings of sailors' taverns. The sword guard was
fashioned to hold candles and catch the dripping tallow.
The next morning Dr K. crossed the Adriatic in somewhat
stormy weather, afflicted with slight seasickness. For a
considerable time after he had made land, if that is the right
expression, in Venice, the waves were still breaking within
him. From the Sandwirth Hotel, where he was staying, he
wrote to Felice in Berlin, in an optimistic mood that probably
came upon him as his queasiness receded, saying that
however tremulous he might feel, he now proposed to plunge
into the city and all that it could offer a traveller such as
himself. Even the pouring rain, which veiled every outline
and shape in an even grey-green, would not deter him; no,

quite the contrary, he averred, for the days in Vienna would
be washed away all the better. However, there is no evidence
to suggest that Dr K. did leave the hotel on that 15th of
September. If, as he believed, it was impossible to be here at
all, how much more was it impossible for him, on the brink of
disintegration, to venture out beneath this watery sky under
which the very stones dissolved. So Dr K. remains in the
hotel. Towards evening, in the sombre lobby, he writes once
more to Felice. Now he no longer makes any reference to
exploring the city. Instead, set down in hasty lines
underneath the hotel's letterhead with its pretty steam
yachts, there are references to his mounting despair. That he
was alone
and exchanged not a word with a living soul excepting the

staff, that the misery within him was almost overflowing, and
that - this much he could say with certainty - he was in a
condition in keeping with his nature and ordained for him by
a justice not of this world, a condition that he could not
transcend and which he would have to endure till the very
last of his days.
How Dr K. passed his few days in Venice in reality, we do not
know. At all events, his sombre mood does not appear to have
lifted. Indeed, he felt it was only this state of mind that
sustained him when confronted with such a city as Venice, a
city which must have made a deep impression upon him,
despite there being newly wedded couples everywhere
whose very presence seemed to make a mockery of his
mournfulness. How it is beautiful, he wrote, with an
exclamation mark, in one of those somewhat awry
formulations in which language for a moment gives free rein
to the emotions. How it is beautiful, and how we undervalue
it! But more precise details Dr K. does not disclose. We know,
as I have said, nothing of what he really saw. There is not
even a reference to the Doge's Palace, the prison chambers
of which were to play so prominent a part in the evolution of
his own fantasies of trial and punishment some months later.
All we know is that he spent those four days in Venice and
that he then took the train from Santa Lucia to Verona.
On the afternoon of his arrival in Verona he walked from the
station along the Corso into town, and then wandered among
its narrow streets until, in weariness, he went into the
Church of Sant'Anastasia. After resting in the cool, shadowy
interior for a while, with feelings of both gratitude and
distaste, he set off once more, and as he left, just as one
might ruffle the hair of a son or younger brother, he ran his
fingers over the marble locks of a dwarfish figure which, at
the foot of one of the mighty columns, had been bearing the
immense weight of a holy-water font for centuries. Nowhere
is there anything to suggest that he saw the fine mural of St
George painted by Pisanello over the entrance to the
Pellegrini chapel. It might be shown, though, that when Dr K.
stood in the porch once again, on the threshold between the

dark interior and the brightness outside, he felt for a moment
as if the selfsame church were replicated before him, its
entrance fitting directly with that of the church he had just
left, a mirroring effect he was familiar with from his dreams,
in which everything was forever splitting and multiplying,
over and again, in the most terrifying manner.
With the approach of evening, Dr K. began to be aware of the
growing numbers of people out on the streets, apparently
solely for their pleasure, all of them arm-in-arm in couples or
groups of three or even more. Perhaps it was the bills, still
posted throughout the city, announcing the spettacoli lirici
all'Arena that August and the word AIDA displayed in large
letters which persuaded him that the Veronese show of
carefree togetherness had something of a theatrical
performance about it, staged especially to bring home to
him, Dr K., his solitary, eccentric condition — a thought he
could not get out of his head and which he was only able to
escape by seeking refuge in a cinema, probably the Cinema
Pathé di San Sebastiano. In tears, so Dr K. recorded the
following day in Desenzano, he sat in the surrounding
darkness, observing the transformation into pictures of the
minute particles of dust glinting in the beam of the projector.
However, there is nothing in Dr K.'s Desenzano notes to tell
us of what he saw on that 20th of September in Verona. Was
it the Pathé newsreel, featuring the review of the cavalry in
the presence of His Majesty Vittorio Emanuele III, and La
Lezione dell'abisso, which, as I discovered in the Biblioteca
Civica, were shown that day at the Pathé and which are both
now untraceable? Or was it, as I initially supposed, a story
that ran with some success in the cinemas of Austria in 1913,
the story of the unfortunate Student of Prague, who cut
himself off from love and life when, on the 13th of May, 1820,
he sold his soul to a certain Scapinelli? The extraordinary
exterior shots in this film, the silhouettes of his native city
flickering across the screen, would doubtless have sufficed to
move Dr K. deeply, most of all perhaps the fate of the
eponymous hero, Balduin, since in him he would have
recognised a kind of doppelgànger, just as Balduin
recognises his other self in the dark-coated brother whom he

could never and nowhere escape. In one of the very first
scenes, Balduin, the finest swordsman in all Prague,
confronts his own image in the mirror, and presently, to his
horror, that unreal figure steps out of the frame, and
henceforth follows him as the ghostly shadow of his own
restlessness. Would this sort of scenario not have struck Dr
K. as the description of a struggle in which, as in the contest
he himself had set against the backdrop of the Laurenziberg,
the principal character and his opponent are in the most
intimate and self-destructive of relationships, such that,
when the hero is driven into a corner by his companion he is
forced to declare: I am betrothed, I admit it. And what
alternative does a man so cornered have but to try and rid
himself of his dumb attendant by means of a shot from a

pistol? - a shot which, in the silent film, is visible as a puff of
smoke. In that moment, in which time itself seems to
dissolve, Balduin is released from his delusions. He breathes
freely once more and, realising in the same instant that the
bullet has penetrated his own heart, dies a dramatic, not to
say ostentatious death, the whole scene like a flickering light
about to be extinguished, representing the soundless aria of
the hero's demise. Final contortions of this kind, which
regularly occur in opera when, as Dr K. once wrote, the
dying voice aimlessly wanders through the music, did not by
any means seem ridiculous to him; rather he believed them
to be an expression of our, so to speak, natural misfortune,
since after all, as he remarks elsewhere, we lie prostrate on
the boards, dying, our whole lives long.
On the 21st of September Dr K. is in Desenzano on the
southern shore of Lake Garda. Most of the townspeople have
gathered in the market square to welcome the Deputy
Secretary of the Prague Workers' Insurance Company. Dr K.,
however, is reclining on the grass down by the lake, before

him the waves lapping the reeds, to his right the promontory
of Sirmione, to his left the shore towards Manerba. Simply to
lie in the grass is one of Dr K.'s favourite ways of passing the
time, when reasonably well disposed. If at such a moment, as
once happened in Prague, a gentleman of some distinction
with whom he has occasionally had official dealings rides by
in a two-horse carriage, Dr K. relishes the pleasures (but
only, as he notes himself, the pleasures) of being declassed
and freed from all social standing. In Desenzano, however,
even this modest happiness eludes him. Rather he feels ill,
sick, as he puts it, at every point of the compass. There
remains only the one consolation that nobody knows where
he is. We have no record of how long the people of
Desenzano continued their watch for the Deputy Secretary
from Prague that afternoon, nor when, disappointed, they
finally dispersed.

One of them is reported to have observed that those in whom
we invest our hopes only ever make their appearance when
they are no longer needed.
Following this failed encounter, which was as disheartening
for him as it was for the people of Desenzano, Dr K. spends
three weeks in Riva at Dr von Hartungen's hydropathic
establishment, arriving by steamer just before nightfall that
day. A porter wearing a long green apron fastened at the
back with a brass chain shows Dr K. to his room, from the
balcony of which he gazes out over the lake, serenely
peaceful in the gathering darkness. All is now blue on blue,
and nothing appears to move, not even the steamer, already
some way out upon the water. In the morning, the daily

routine of the hydro begins. In the intervals between the
various cold douches and the electrical treatment prescribed
for him, Dr K. tries as far as possible to immerse himself
entirely in quiet and tranquillity, but the woes he endured
with Felice, and she with him, continually come over him,
like a living thing, usually when he


awakes, though also at mealtimes when he often feels quite
paralysed and unable to pick up his knife and fork. At table,
as it happens, the place to Dr K.'s right is occupied by an old
general who remains silent for the most part, but now and
then will venture a cryptic yet penetrating observation. Thus
on one occasion, looking up abruptly from the book which
always lies open beside him, he remarks that, when one
thinks about it, a vast range of unfathomable contingencies
come between the logic of the battleplan and that of the final
despatches, both of which he knew inside out. Tiny details
imperceptible to us decide everything! Even the greatest
battles in the history of the world were won or lost like that.
Tiny details, but they weigh as heavy as the 50,000 dead
soldiers and horses at Waterloo. The fact is that ultimately it

all comes down to the question of specific gravity. Stendhal
had a clearer grasp of this than any high command, he says,
and now, in my old age, I have apprenticed myself to that old
master, so that I may not die quite without understanding. It
is a fundamentally insane notion, he continues, that one is
able to influence the course of events by a turn of the helm,
by will-power alone, whereas in fact all is determined by the
most complex interdependencies.
Although he is aware that the remarks of his dining
companion are not directed at himself, Dr K. experiences a
slight surge of confidence and a species of tacit solidarity as
he listens. The girl to his left, whom he takes to be unhappy
on account of the silent gentleman to her right, that is, on
account of himself, now begins interestingly to acquire
definition in his mind. She is somewhat short of stature,
comes from Genoa, looks very Italian, but is in fact from
Switzerland, and, it now transpires, has a voice of a curiously
dark timbre. Whenever she speaks to him in that voice, an
infrequent enough occurrence, it seems to Dr K. like an
extraordinary expression of confidence and trust. In her frail
condition she becomes most precious to him, and before long
he is rowing out a short way onto the lake with her in the
afternoons. The crags rise from the water in the mellow
autumn light, nuanced in shades of green, as if the entire
location were an album and the mountains had been drawn
on an empty page by some sensitive dilettante, as a
remembrance for the lady to whom the album belongs.
Out there they tell each other their ailments, both of them, as
one would like to believe, buoyed up by an ephemeral
improvement in their condition and sense of peaceable
quiescence. Dr K. evolves a fragmentary theory of
disembodied love, in which there is no difference between
intimacy and disengagement. If only we were to open our
eyes, he says, we would see that our happiness lies in our
natural surroundings and not in our poor bodies which have-
long since become separated from the natural order of
things. That was the reason why all false lovers (and all
lovers, he adds, are false) closed their eyes while lovemaking

or else, which came to the same thing, kept them wide open
with craving. Never were we more helpless or lacking in
rational sense than in that condition. Our dreams could then
be constrained no longer and we became subject to the
compulsion of constantly going through the whole gamut of
variations and repetitions which, as he himself had often
enough found, extinguished everything, even the image of
the lover one so wished to preserve. Curiously, when he
became caught up in such states, which he considered
bordered on madness, the only thing that helped was to clap
an imaginary black Napoleonic tricorne over his thoughts. At
present, however, there was nothing he had less need of than
such a hat, for out here on the lake they were indeed almost
disembodied, and possessed of a natural understanding of
their own scant significance.
In accordance with the expressed hopes of Dr K., they
agreed that neither would divulge the other's name, that
they would exchange no pictures, nor a shred of paper, nor
even a single written word, and that once the few days that
remained to them were over they must simply let each other
go. In the event though it was not easy. When the hour of
their parting arrived, Dr K. had to create all manner of
comical diversions to prevent the girl from Genoa from
sobbing in front of the leave-taking party. When at last Dr K.
accompanied her down to the steamer jetty, and she mounted
the little gangplank to board the ship, with an unsteady step,
he recalled how a few evenings previously they had joined
some other residents and a young, extremely wealthy, very
elegant Russian woman had told their fortunes from the
cards, out of boredom and desperation - for elegant persons
are more often alone among the unstylish than vice versa.
Nothing of any consequence emerged out of this purely
frivolous and foolish charade. Not until it was the turn of the
girl from Genoa did an unambiguous constellation come up,
which caused the Russian lady to inform her that she would
never enter the so-called state of matrimony. For Dr K. it was
uncanny in the extreme to hear a solitary life foretold from
the cards for this girl of all people, the object of his
affections, whom he had thought of as the mermaid ever

since he had first seen her, on account of her water-green
eyes; for there was nothing of a spinster about her at all,
except perhaps the way she wore her hair, as he now thought
to himself on seeing her for the last time, her right hand on
the rail, while the left described, somewhat awkwardly, a
sign in the air which betokened the end.
The steamer cast off and, sounding its horn a number of
times, slipped out onto the lake at an oblique angle. Undine
was still standing at the rail. After a while he could barely
distinguish her outline, and then the ship itself had become
almost invisible. Only the white wake which it trailed
through the water was still to be seen until this was also
smoothed over. As for the tarot cards, Dr K., walking back to
the sanatorium, had to acknowledge that in his own case too
they had resulted in quite unequivocal constellations,
inasmuch as all the cards which showed not merely numbers
but kings, queens and knaves were, invariably, as far as
possible removed from his person, to the very limits of the
game, so to speak. Indeed, on one occasion when the cards
were laid, only two figures appeared at all, and another time
none whatsoever, evidently a most unusual distribution and
one which prompted the Russian lady to look upwards into
his eyes and declare that he must surely be the strangest
guest in Riva in a long time.
In the early afternoon of the day following the mermaid's
departure, Dr K. lay resting as the establishment's rules
required when he heard hurried footsteps in the corridor
outside his room, and the customary silence had hardly
returned than they were heard again, this time going in the
other direction. When Dr K. looked out into the passage, to
see what had occasioned this to-ing and fro-ing in breach of
all the hydro's practices, he glimpsed Dr von Hartungen, his
white coat flying and attended by two nurses, just turning
the corner. Later that afternoon the mood in all of the
reception rooms was curiously subdued, and at tea the staff
were noticeably monosyllabic. The sanatorium patients
exchanged glances in embarrassed consternation, like
children forbidden to speak by their parents. At dinner, Dr

K.'s right-hand table companion, retired General of Hussars
Ludwig von Koch, whom he had come to look upon as an
amiable permanent fixture and to whom he had hoped to
turn for consolation after the loss of the girl from Genoa, was
not in his place. Dr K. now had no neighbour at table at all,
and sat quite alone at dinner, like a man with a contagious
disease. The next morning the sanatorium management
announced that Major General Ludwig von Koch, of Neusiedl
in Hungary, had passed away in the early afternoon of the
previous day. In answer to his concerned enquiries, Dr K.
learned from Dr von Hartungen that General von Koch had
taken his own life, with his old army pistol. In some
incomprehensible way, Dr von Hartungen added with a
nervous gesture, he had contrived to shoot himself both in
the heart and in the head. He was found in his armchair, the
novel he had always been reading lying open in his lap.
The funeral, which took place on the 6th of October in Riva,
was a desolate affair. It had not proved possible to notify the
only relative of the General, who had neither wife nor
children. Dr von Hartungen, one of the nurses, and Dr K.
were the only mourners. The priest, reluctant to bury a
suicide, performed the office in the most cursory manner.
The funeral oration was confined to an appeal to the
Almighty Father in his infinite goodness to grant everlasting
peace to this taciturn and oppressed soul - quest'uomo più
taciturno e mesto, said the priest, his gaze upturned with a
reproachful expression. Dr K. seconded this meagre wish
and, once the ceremony had been concluded with a few more
mumbled words, he followed Dr von Hartungen, at some
distance, back to the sanatorium. The October sun shone so
warm that day that Dr K. was obliged to take off his hat and
carry it in his hand.
Over the years that followed, lengthy shadows fell upon
those autumn days at Riva, which, as Dr K. on occasion said
to himself, had been so beautiful and so appalling, and from
these shadows there gradually emerged the silhouette of a
barque with masts of an inconceivable height and sails dark

and hanging in folds. Three whole years it takes until the
vessel, as if it were being borne across the waters, gently
drifts into the little port of Riva. It berths in the early hours
of the morning. A man in blue overalls comes ashore and
makes fast the ropes. Behind the boatmen, two figures in
dark tunics with silver buttons carry a bier upon which lies,
under a large floral-patterned cover, what was clearly the
body of a human being. It is Gracchus the huntsman. His
arrival was announced at midnight to Salvatore, the podestà
of Riva, by a pigeon the size of a cockerel, which flew in at

his bedroom window and then spoke in his ear. Tomorrow,
the pigeon said, the dead hunter Gracchus will arrive.
Receive him in the name of the town. After some
deliberation, Salvatore arose and set the necessary
preparations in train. Now, entering the lord mayor's office in
the light of dawn, his cane and top hat with its mourning
band in his black-gloved right hand, he finds to his
satisfaction that his instructions have been followed
correctly. Fifty boys forming a guard of honour stand in the
long hallway, and in one of the rear rooms on the upper
storey, as he hears from the ship's master, who meets him at
the entrance, Gracchus the huntsman lies upon his bier, a
man, it now transpires, of wild, tangled hair and beard, his
ravaged skin darkened to the colour of bronze.
We the readers, the sole witnesses of what was said between
the huntsman and the deputy of the community of Riva, learn
little of the fate of Gracchus, except that many, many years
before, in the Black Forest, where he was on guard against
the wolves which still prowled the hills at that time, he went
in pursuit of a chamois - and is this not one of the strangest
items of misinformation in all the tales that have ever been
told? - he went in pursuit of a chamois and fell to his death
from the face of a mountain; and that because of a wrong
turn of the tiller, a moment of inattention on the part of the
helmsman, distracted by the beauty of the huntsman's dark
green country, the barque which was to have ferried him to
the shore beyond failed to make the crossing, so that he,
Gracchus, has been voyaging the seas of the world ever
since, without respite, as he says, attempting now here and
now there to make land. The question of who is to blame for
this undoubtedly great misfortune remains unresolved, as
indeed does the matter of what his guilt, the cause of his
misfortune, consists in. But as it was Dr K. who conjured up
this tale, it seems to me that the meaning of Gracchus the
huntsman's ceaseless journey lies in a penitence for a
longing for love, such as invariably besets Dr K., as he
explains in one of his countless Fledermaus-letters to Felice,
precisely at the point where there is seemingly, and in the
natural and lawful order of things, nothing to be enjoyed.

The better to elucidate this somewhat impenetrable
observation, Dr K. adduces an episode from "the evening
before last", in which the son - now surely aged forty - of the
owner of a Jewish bookshop in Prague becomes the focus of
the illicit emotion described in this letter. This man, in no
way attractive, indeed repulsive, who has had almost nothing
but misfortune in life, spends the entire day in his father's
tiny store, dusting off the prayer stoles or peeking out at the
street through gaps between books which, Dr K. expressly
notes, are mostly of an obscene nature; this wretched
creature, who feels himself (as Dr K. knows) to be German
and for that reason goes to the Deutsches Haus every
evening after supper to nurture his delusion of grandeur as a
member of the German Casino Club, becomes for Dr K., in
that episode which occurred the day before yesterday, as he
tells Felice, an object of fascinated interest in a way he
cannot entirely explain even to himself. Quite by chance,
writes Dr K., I noticed him leaving the shop yesterday
evening. He walked ahead of me, every inch the young man I
had in my memory. His back is strikingly broad, and he bears
himself so curiously upright that it is hard to tell whether he
is indeed straight as a ramrod or malformed. Do you now
understand, my dearest, writes Dr K., can you understand
(please tell me!) why it was that I followed this man down
Zeltnergasse, veritably lusting, turned into the Graben
behind him, and watched him enter the gates of the
Deutsches Haus with a feeling of unbounded pleasure?
At this point Dr K. surely came within an inch of admitting to
a desire which we must assume remained unstilled. But
instead, remarking that it is already late, he hastily
concludes his letter, one which he had begun with comments
on a photograph of a niece of Felice's, writing: Yes, this little
child deserves to be loved. That fearful gaze, as if all the
terrors of the earth had been revealed to her in the studio.
But what love could have been sufficient to spare the child
the terrors of love, which for Dr K. stood foremost among all
the terrors of the earth? And how are we to fend off the fate
of being unable to depart this life, lying before the podestà,
confined to a bed in our sickness, and, as Gracchus the

huntsman does, touching, in a moment of distraction, the
knee of the man who was to have been our salvation.
Il ritorno in patria
In November 1987, after spending the last weeks of the
summer in Verona, working on my various tasks, and the
month of October, because I could not bear to wait any
longer for the onset of winter, in a hotel high above Bruneck,
near the tree line, I decided one afternoon, when the

Großvenediger emerged from behind a grey snow cloud in an
especially ominous way, that I should return to England, but
before that go to W. for a while, where I had not been since
my childhood. As there was only one bus a day from
Innsbruck to Schattwald, and that, as far as I could discover,
at seven in the morning, I had no alternative but to take the
night express across the Brenner, a train with unpleasant
associations for me, which arrives in Innsbruck at about half
past four. At Innsbruck, as always when I arrive there, no
matter what the time of year, the weather was quite
atrocious. It cannot have been more than five or six degrees
above zero, and the clouds were hanging so low that the tops
of the houses disappeared in them and the dawn could not
break through. Moreover, it rained incessantly. So there was
no question of walking into town or taking a stroll along the
river Inn. I looked out across the deserted station forecourt.
Now and then some vehicle would crawl slowly along the
gleaming black roads, the last of an amphibian species close
to extinction, retreating now to the deeper waters. The ticket
hall was also deserted, apart from a small chap with a goitre
wearing a green loden cape. Holding his folded, dripping
umbrella against his shoulder with its tip upwards like a rifle,
he was walking back and forth with measured tread and
making such precise about-turns that he might have been
guarding the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. The down-and-
outs then appeared, one after the other, though from where
was uncertain, till there were a dozen of them, a lively group
gathered around a crate of Gòsser beer which had made a
sudden miraculous appearance in their midst, seemingly out
of thin air. United by the inveterate alcoholism of the Tyrol
which is known for its extremism far beyond the region,
these Innsbruck dossers, some of whom appeared to have
only recently dropped our of ordered life, while others were
already in a completely ruinous state, and every single one of
whom had something of the philosopher or even of the
preacher about him, were holding forth on current events as
well as the most fundamental questions. It was remarkable in
their disputations that those who chimed in at the top of
their voices were invariably the ones who left off in mid-
sentence, suddenly silenced as if by a stroke. Whatever

happened to be the topic, every point was underscored by
highly theatrical, apodictic gestures, and even when one of
their number, no longer able to put into words the thought
which had just come into his head, turned away with a wave
of contempt, it seemed to me as if their manner derived from
a distinctive dramatic repertoire completely unknown on the
stage. Possibly this was because all of them were holding
their beer bottles in their right hands, and were thus in a
sense acting out one-armed, left-handed roles. And perhaps,
I concluded from this observation, it might be a good ploy to
tie the right hands of all drama students behind their backs
for a year at the start of their training. With reflections such
as these I passed the time until increasing numbers of
commuters began traversing the hall, and the dossers made
themselves scarce. At six o'clock on the dot, the so-called
Tiroler Stuben opened, and I took a seat in a restaurant
which for sheer dreariness far surpassed every other station
bar I had ever been in, ordered a coffee and leafed through
the Tiroler Nachrichten. Neither of these, the Tyrolean
morning coffee nor the Tiroler Nachrichten, did anything to
improve my state of mind. It therefore did not surprise me in
the slightest when things took an even worse turn, and the
waitress, to whom I had made a joking remark about the
corrosive properties of the Tyrolean chicory coffee, gave me
the benefit of her sharp tongue in the most ill-tempered
manner imaginable.
Frozen through and bleary-eyed from lack of sleep as I was,
the insolence of this Innsbruck waitress like a noxious poison
went right under my skin. The words in the newspaper
jittered and swam before my eyes, and more than once I felt
as though my insides had seized up. Not until the bus was
leaving town did I gradually begin to feel somewhat better. It
was still pouring with rain, so heavily that the houses close
to the road could hardly be made out, and the mountains not
at all. Now and then the bus stopped so that one of the old
women standing at intervals along the roadside beneath
their black umbrellas could get on. Soon quite a number of
these Tyrolean women were aboard. In the dialect I was
familiar with from childhood, croakily articulated at the back

of the throat like some bird language, they talked mainly or
indeed exclusively about the never-ending rain, which in
many places had already caused whole mountainsides to
slide into the valleys. They spoke of the hay rotting in the
fields and the potatoes rotting in the ground; of the
redcurrants which had come to nothing for a third year in a
row; of the elder, which this year had not flowered until the
beginning of August and had then been completely ruined by
the rain; and of the fact that not a single eatable apple had
been picked far and wide. As they went on discussing the
effects of the ever-worsening weather, complaining that
there was neither sunlight nor warmth, the scene outside
brightened up, a little at first and then more and more. One
could now see the river Inn, its waters meandering through
broad stony reaches, and soon beautiful green meadows
came into view. The sun came out, the entire landscape was
radiant, and the Tyrolean women fell silent one after the
other and simply looked out at the miracle passing by. I felt
much the same myself. The countryside seemed freshly
varnished - we were now driving out of the Inn valley in the
direction of the Fern Pass - and the steaming forests and blue
skies above, though I had come up from the south and had
had to endure the Tyrolean darkness for only a couple of
hours, were like a revelation even to me. Once I noticed a
dozen hens right out in the middle of a green field. For some
reason that I still cannot fathom, the sight of this small flock
that had ventured so far out into the open affected me
deeply. I do not know what it is about certain things or
creatures that sometimes moves me like this. The road
climbed steadily upwards. The flame-red stands of larch
trees were blazing on the sides of the mountains, and I saw
that snow had fallen a long way down. We crossed the Fern
Pass. I marvelled at the screes which reached from the
mountains down into the forests like pale fingers into dark
hair, and I was astonished again at the mysterious slow
motion quality of the water-falls which, for as long as I could
remember, had been cascading, unchanged, over the rock
faces. At a hatpin bend I looked out of the turning bus down
into the depths below and could see the turquoise surfaces of
the Fernstein and Samaranger lakes, which, even when I was

a child, on our first excursions into the Tyrol, had seemed to
me the essence of all conceivable beauty.
Around noon — the Tyrolean women had long since got out
at Reutte, WeiEenbach, Haller, Tannheim and Schattwald -
the bus, with me as its last passenger, reached the Oberjoch
customs post. Meanwhile, the weather had changed once
again. A dark layer of cloud, verging on the black, lay across
the entire Tannheim valley, which made a lightless and
godforsaken impression. There was not the slightest sign of
movement anywhere. Not even a single car could be seen on
the stretch of road disappearing far into the remoter depths
of the valley. On one side the mountains rose up into the
mists; on the other lay wet boggy grassland, and behind it,
from out of the Vilsgrund, arose the wedge of the Pfronten
forests, consisting solely of blackish-blue spruce. The
customs officer on duty, who told me he lived in Maria Rain,
promised to drop off my bag at the Engelwirt inn when he
finished work, on his way home through W., which left me
free, once I had exchanged a few generalities with him about
the dreadfulness of this time of year, to set off carrying
nothing but my small leather rucksack over my shoulder,
through the boggy meadows bordering the no man's land and
down through the Alpsteig gorge to Krummenbach, and from
there to Unterjoch, past the Pfeiffermühle and through the
Enge Piatt to W. The gorge was sunk in a darkness that I
would not have thought possible in the middle of the day.
Only, to my left, above the brook invisible from the path,
there hung a little meagre light. Spruce trees, a good seventy
to eighty years old, stood on the slopes. Even on those
growing up from the depths of the ravine, the evergreen tops
did not appear until far above the level of the path. Time and
again, whenever there was a movement in the air above, the
drops of water caught in the countless pine needles came
raining down. In places where the spruce stood further
apart, grew isolated beech trees that had long since shed
their leaves, their branches and trunks blackened by the
persistent wet. It was quite still in the gorge save for the
sound of the water at the bottom, no birdsong, nothing.
Increasingly a sense of trepidation oppressed me, and it

seemed as if the further down I walked, the colder and
gloomier it became. At one of the few more open places,
where a vantage-point afforded a view both down onto a
waterfall and a deep rockpool and upwards into the sky,
without my being able to say which was the more eerie, I saw
through the apparently-infinite loftiness of the trees, flurries
of snow high up in the leaden greyness, but none of it had
yet found its way down into the gorge. After a further half-
hour's walk, when the gorge opened out and the meadows of
Krummenbach lay before me, I stopped for a long time
beneath the last trees, watching from out of the darkness as
the whitish-grey snow fell, its silence completely
extinguishing what little pallid colour there was in those wet
deserted fields. Not far from the margin of the forest stands
the Krummenbach chapel, so small that it can surely not
have been possible for more than a dozen to attend a service
or worship there at the same time. In that walled cell I sat
for a while. Outside, snowflakes were drifting past the small
window, and presently it seemed to me as if I were in a boat
on a voyage, crossing vast waters. The moist smell of lime
became sea air; I could feel the spray on my forehead and
the boards swaying beneath my feet, and I imagined myself
sailing in this ship out of the flooded mountains. But what I
remember most about the Krummenbach chapel, apart from
this transformation of the stone walls into the hull of a
wooden boat, is the Stations of the Cross, painted by some
unskilled hand around the mid-eighteenth century, and half
already covered and eaten by mould. Even on the somewhat
better preserved scenes, little could be made out with any
degree of certainty - faces distorted in pain and anger,
dislocated limbs, an arm raised to strike. The garments,
painted in dark colours, had merged beyond recognition with
the background, which was equally unrecognisable. Insofar
as anything was still visible at all, it was like looking at some
ghostly battle of faces and hands suspended in the gloom of
decay. I could not then and cannot now recall whether I was
ever in the Krummenbach chapel as a child with my
grandfather, who took me with him everywhere. But there
were many chapels like that of Krummenbach around W., and
much of what I saw and felt in them at the time will have

stayed with me - a fear of the acts of cruelty depicted there
no less than the wish, in all its impossibility, that the perfect
tranquility prevailing within them might sometime be
recaptured. When the snow had eased off, I started on my
way again, through the Brànte and along the Krummenbach
as far as Unterjoch, where I ate bread soup and drank half a
litre of Tyrolean wine at the Hirschwirt inn, to warm myself
and prepare for the next stretch, which would be twice the
distance. Perhaps prompted by the pitiful pictures in the
Krummenbach chapel, my mind turned to Tiepolo once
again, and the belief I had held for a long time that, when he
travelled with his sons Lorenzo and Domenico from Venice
across the Brenner in the autumn of 1750, he decided at Ziri
that, contrary to the advice he had been given to leave the
Tyrol via Seefeld, he instead made his way westward via
Telfs, following the salt wagons across the Gaicht Pass,
through the Tannheim valley, over the Oberjoch and through
the Iller valley into the lowlands. And I beheld Tiepolo, who
must have been approaching sixty by that time and already
suffered badly from gout, lying in the cold of the winter
months at the top of the scaffolding half a metre below the
ceiling of the grand stairway in the palace at Würzburg, his
face splattered with lime and distemper, applying the colours
with a steady hand, despite the pain in his right arm, onto
the wet plaster of the immense, miraculous painting he was
creating little by little. With imaginings such as these, and
thinking about the Krummenbach painter who had, perhaps
in the very same winter, toiled just as hard to represent the
fourteen small Stations of the Cross as Tiepolo with his
magnificent fresco, I walked on, the time being now about
three o'clock, through the fields below the Sorgschrofen and
the Sorgalpe, till I struck the road shortly before reaching
the Pfeiffermühle. From there it was another hour to W. The
last of the daylight was fading by the time I got to the Enge
Piatt. To my left was the river, to the right the dripping rock
faces through which the road had been blasted at the turn of
the century. Above, in front and presently behind me there
was nothing but the unstirring black pine forests. The last
stretch of the journey was as never-ending as I remembered
it from the old days. In the Enge Piatt in April 1945, a so-

called last skirmish took place, in which, as it says on the
iron memorial cross which still stands in the cemetery in W.,
24-year-old Alois Thimet of Rosenheim, 41-year-old Erich
Daimler of Stuttgart, 17-year-old Rudolf Leitenstorfer (place
of birth unknown), and Werner Hempel (year of birth
unknown) of Bòrneke, died for their Fatherland. In the
course of my childhood in W. I heard people speak of that last
skirmish on various occasions,

and imagined the combatants with soot-blackened faces,
crouching behind tree trunks with their rifles at the ready or
leaping from rock to rock across the deepest chasms,
suspended motionless in mid-air, for at least as long as I
could hold my breath or keep my eyes shut.
It was dusk by the time I had passed through the Piatt. White

mists were rising from the meadows, and below, by the river,
now a good distance away, stood the black sawmill, which,
together with its timberyard, burned to the ground in the
1950s, a few days after I started school, in a huge fire that lit
up the whole of the valley. Darkness now descended on the
road. In former times, when it was made up with crushed
limestone, it had been easier to walk on, I remembered, and
almost the colour of white. Like a luminous ribbon, it had
stretched out before one even on a starless night, I recalled,
realising at the same time that I could scarcely lift my feet
for weariness. Also, it seemed strange that not a single
vehicle had overtaken me, or had come from the other
direction, on the whole stretch from the Unterjoch. I stood
for a long time on the stone bridge a short distance before
the first houses of W., listening to the steady murmur of the
river and looking into the blackness which now enveloped
everything. On a piece of waste land beside the bridge,
where willows, deadly nightshade, burdock, mulleins,
verbena and mugwort used to grow, there had always been a
gypsy camp in the summer months after the war. Whenever
we went to the swimming pool, which the council had built in
1936 to promote public health, we would pass the gypsies,
and every time as we did so my mother picked me up and
carried me in her arms. Across her shoulder I saw the
gypsies look up briefly from what they were about, and then
lower their eyes again as if in revulsion.
I do not believe that any of the locals ever spoke to them, nor
as far as I know did the gypsies come into the village to hawk
goods or tell fortunes. Where they came from, how they had
managed to survive the war, and why of all places they had
chosen that cheerless spot by the Ach bridge for their
summer camp, are questions that occur to me only now - for
example, when I leaf through the photo album which my
father bought as a present for my mother for the first so-
called Kriegsweihnacht. In it are pictures of the Polish
campaign, all neatly captioned in white ink. Some of these
photographs show gypsies who had been rounded up and put
in detention. They are looking out, smiling, from behind the
barbed wire, somewhere in a far corner of the

Slovakia where my father and his vehicle repairs unit had
been stationed for several weeks before the outbreak of war.
A good thirty years had gone by since I had last been in W. In
the course of that time - by far the longest period of my life -
many of the localities I associated with it, such as the
Altachmoos, the parish woods, the tree-lined lane that led to
Haslach, the pumping station, Petersthal cemetery where the
plague dead lay, or the house in the Schray where Dopfer the
hunchback lived, had continually returned in my dreams and
daydreams and had become more real to me than they had
been then, yet the village itself, I reflected, as I arrived at
that late hour, was more remote from me than any other
place I could conceive of. In a certain sense it was
reassuring, on my first walk around the streets in the pale
glow of the lamps, to find that everything was completely
changed. The house of the head forester, a small shingled

villa with a pair of antlers and the inscription "1913" above
the front door, together with its small orchard, had made way
for a holiday home; the fire station and its handsome slatted
tower, where the fire brigade's hoses hung in silent
anticipation of the next conflagration, were no longer there;
the farmhouses had without exception been rebuilt, with
added storeys; the vicarage, the curate's lodge, the school,
the town hall where Fürgut the one-armed clerk went in and
out of with a regularity that my grandfather could set his
watch by, the cheese dairy, the poorhouse, Michael Meyer's
grocery and haberdashery - all had been thoroughly
modernised or had disappeared altogether. Not even when I
entered the Engelwirt inn did I have any sense of knowing
my way around, for here too, where we had lived in rented
accommodation on the first floor for several years, the whole
house had been rebuilt and converted from the foundations
up to the very rafters, not to mention the changes to the
furnishings and fittings. What now presented itself, in the
pseudo-Alpine style which has become the new vernacular
throughout the Federal Republic, as a house offering refined
hospitality to its patrons, in those distant days was a hostelry
of disrepute where the village peasants sat around until deep
into the night and, particularly in winter, often drank
themselves senseless. The Engelwirt inn owed its local
standing, which remained unassailable despite everything, to
the fact that, in addition to the smoke-filled bar beneath the
ceiling of which ran the longest and most crooked stove-pipe
I have ever seen, it had a large function room in which long
tables could be set up for weddings and funerals, with
enough seating for half the village. Every fortnight the
newsreel would be shown there and feature films such as
Piratenliebe, Niccolò Paganini, Tomahawk and Monche,
Màdchen und Panduren. The cavalry irregulars referred to in
this this last title could be seen charging through dappled
birch woods; Indians rode across limitless plains; the
crippled violinist reeled off a cadenza at the base of a prison
wall while his companion filed through the iron bars of his
cell window; General Eisenhower, on his return from Korea,
got out of an aeroplane, the propeller of which was still
revolving slowly; a hunter whose chest had been torn open

by a bear's paw staggered down into the valley; politicians
were seen in front of the new parliament, climbing out of the
back of a Volkswagen; and almost every week we saw the
mountains of rubble in places like Berlin or Hamburg, which
for a long time I did not associate with the destruction
wrought in the closing years of the war, knowing nothing of
it, but considered them a natural condition of all larger
cities. Of all the events ever put on in the Engelwirt function
room, it was an amateur production of Schiller's The
Robbers, staged there several times during the winter of
1948 or 1949 which made the greatest impression on me.
Half a dozen times, at least, I must have sat in the darkened
Engelwirt hall among an audience some of whom had come
over from neighbouring villages. Scarcely ever has anything
that I have seen in the theatre since affected me as much as
the The Robbers - Old Moor in the ice-cold exile


of his bleak house, the gruesome Franz with his deformed
shoulder, the return of the prodigal son from the forests of
Bohemia, or that curious slight movement of the body, never
failing to excite me, with which the deathly pale Amalia said:
Hark, hark! Did I not hear the gate? And there, before her, is
Moor the robber, and she speaks of how her love made the
burning sand green and the thorn bushes blossom, without
ever knowing that the man from whom she still supposed
herself to be separated by mountains, oceans and horizons
had come home and was standing beside her. Always then I
would wish to intervene in the proceedings and in a single
word tell Amalia that she had only to reach out her hand in
order to move from her dusty prison to that paradise of love
she so desired. But since I could not bring myself to call out
in this way, the turn that the events might otherwise have
taken was never revealed to me. Towards the end of the
play's run, in early February, it was given an open-air
performance, in the paddock next to the postmaster's house,
mainly, I suppose, so that a series of photographs could be
taken. The winter's tale that resulted was notable not only on
account of the snow which covered the ground in this open-
air production even in the scenes set indoors, but mainly
because Moor the robber now entered the action on
horseback, which had of course not been possible in the
function room. I believe it was on this occasion that I first
noticed that horses often have a

somewhat crazed look in their eyes. At all events, that
performance on the postmaster's paddock was the last of The
Robbers, and indeed the last theatre performance of any kind
in W. Only during carnival time did the actors don their
costumes once more, to join the carnival procession and take
their places in a group photograph together with the fire
brigade and the clowns.

Behind the reception desk in the Engelwirt, after I had rung
the bell several times to no avail, a tight-lipped woman
eventually materialised. I had not heard a door open
anywhere, not seen her come in, and yet there she suddenly
was. She scrutinised me with open disapproval, perhaps on
account of my outward appearance, which was none the
better for my long walk, or because I betrayed an absent-
mindedness that must have been unaccountable to her. I
asked for a room on the first floor facing on to the street,
initially for an indefinite period. Although it must have been
possible to comply readily with my request, since November,
in the hotel trade too, is the month of the dead, during which
time the reduced service staff in the now vacant houses
mourn the departed guests as if they had taken leave for
ever - although a room on the first floor facing on to the
street must without doubt have been available, the
receptionist endlessly leafed back and forth in her register
before handing the keys to me. She held her cardigan

together with her left hand, as if she were cold, awkwardly
and clumsily performing her tasks using only her other hand,
so that it seemed to me as if she were marking time in order
to make up her mind about this odd November guest. She
studied the completed registration form, on which I had
given "foreign correspondent" as my occupation and written
my complicated English address, with raised eyebrows, for
when and for what purpose had an English foreign
correspondent ever come to W., on foot, in November, and
unshaven to boot, and taken a room in the Engelwirt inn for
an indefinite period! This woman, who was doubtless most
efficient at all other times, seemed positively disturbed
when, in reply to her enquiry after my luggage, I told her
that it would be brought along that evening by an officer
from the Oberjoch customs post.
Insofar as I could tell with any certainty, given the structural
changes that had been made in the Engelwirt, the room
allocated to me was approximately where our living room
had once been, the room which was furnished with all the
pieces my parents had bought in 1936 when, after two or
three years of continuous upturn in the country's fortunes, it
seemed assured that my father, who at the calamitous close
of the Weimar era had enlisted in the so-called army of the
One Hundred Thousand and was now about to be promoted
to quartermaster, could not only look forward to a secure
future in the new Reich but could even be said to have
attained a certain social position. For my parents, both of
whom came from provincial backwaters, my mother from W.
and my father from the Bavarian Forest, the acquisition of
living room furniture befitting their station, which, as the
unwritten rule required, had to conform in every detail with
the tastes of the average couple representative of the
emerging classless society, probably marked the moment
when, in the wake of their in some respects rather difficult
early lives, it must have seemed to them as if there were,
after all, something like a higher justice. This living room,
then, boasted a ponderously ornate armoire, in which were
kept the tablecloths, napkins, silver cutlery, Christmas
decorations and, behind the glass doors of the upper half, the

bone china tea service which, as far as I can remember, was
never brought out on a single occasion; a sideboard on which
an earthenware punchbowl glazed in peculiar hues and two
so-called lead crystal flower vases were placed symmetrically
on crocheted doilies; the draw-leaf dining table with a set of
six chairs; a sofa with an assortment of embroidered
cushions; on the wall behind it two small Alpine landscapes
in black varnished frames, the one hung a little higher than
the other; a smokers' table with gaudily coloured ceramic
cigar and cigarette containers and matching candlestick, an
ashtray made of horn and brass, and an electric smoke
absorber in the shape of an owl. In addition, apart from the
drapes and net curtains, ceiling lights and standard lamp,
there was a flower étagère made of bamboo cane, on the
various levels of which an Araucaria, an asparagus fern, a
Christmas cactus and a passion flower led their strictly
regulated plant lives. It should also be mentioned that on the
top of the armoire stood the living room clock which counted
out the hours with its cold and loveless chimes, and that in
the upper half of the armoire, next to the bone china tea
service, was a row of clothbound dramatic works by
Shakespeare, Schiller, Hebbel and Sudermann. These were
inexpensive editions published by the Volksbühnenverband,
which my father, who would probably never have taken it
into his head to go to the theatre, and less still to read a play,
had bought one day, in a passing moment of aspiration to
higher ideals, from a travelling salesman. The guest room
through the window of which I now looked down into the
street was a world away from all of that; I myself, though,
was no more than a breath away, and if the living room clock
had started chiming in my sleep, I would not have been in
the least surprised.
Like most of the houses in W., the Engelwirt was separated
lengthwise into two sections by a broad passageway on both
floors. On the ground floor, the function room was on one
side, on the other the public bar, the kitchen, the ice store,
and the pissoir. On the upper floor, the one-legged landlord
Sallaba, who had turned up in W. after the war to take over
the tenancy together with his beautiful wife, who regarded

the village always as an odious place, had set up his
household. Sallaba possessed a large number of stylish suits
and ties with tie-pins; but it was not so much his wardrobe,
which was indeed exceptional for W., as his one-leggedness
and the astonishing speed and virtuosity with which he
moved about on his crutches that gave him the air of a man
of the world in my eyes. Sallaba was said to be a
Rhinelander, a term which remained a mystery to me for a
long time and which I supposed to be a character trait. Apart
from the Sallabas and ourselves, the erstwhile landlady of
the Engelwirt, Rosina Zobel, also lived on the first floor; she
had given up running the inn several years ago and ever
since had spent the entire day in her partially darkened
parlour. She either sat in her wing chair, or walked back and
forth, or lay on the sofa. No one knew whether it was red
wine that had made her melancholy or whether it was
because of her melancholy that she had turned to red wine.
She was never seen doing any work; she did not shop, or
cook, nor was she to be seen laundering clothes or tidying
the room. Only once did I see her in the garden with a knife
in her hand and a bunch of chives, looking up into the pear
tree which had recently come into leaf. The door to the
Engelwirt landlady's room was usually left slightly ajar, and I
frequently went in to her and would spend hours looking at
the collection of postcards she kept in three large folio
volumes. The landlady, wine glass in hand, sometimes sat
next to me at the table as I browsed, but only ever spoke to
tell me the name of the town I happened to be pointing to. As
the minutes passed by this resulted in a long topographical
litany of place names such as Chur, Bregenz, Innsbruck,
Altaussee, Hallstatt, Salzburg, Vienna, Pilsen, Marienbad,
Bad Kissingen, Würzburg, Bad Homburg and Frankfurt am
Main. There were also numerous Italian cards from Merano,
Bolzano, Riva, Verona, Milan, Ferrara, Rome and Naples.
One of these postcards, showing the smoking peak of
Vesuvius, somehow or other got into an album belonging to
my parents, and so has come into my

possession. The third volume contained pictures from
overseas, particularly from the Far East, from Dutch South
East Asia, and from China and Japan. This collection of
postcards, which ran to several hundred in all, had been put
together by Rosina Zobel's husband, old Engelwirt, who
before marrying Rosina had travelled far and wide, spending
the greater part of a considerable inheritance, and who had
now been bedridden for a number of years. People said that
he lay in the room adjoining Rosina's and had a large wound
in his hip which would not heal. They said that as a
youngster he had tried to hide a cigar, which he had been
secretly smoking, from his father, and had put it in his
trouser pocket. The burn he had sustained had soon mended,
but later, when he was nearly fifty, it opened up again and
now refused to close at all, indeed it became larger every
year, and he might well, so they said, end up dying of
gangrene. I considered this statement, which I could not

understand, to be some sort of judgement, and I envisioned
the Engelwirt's martyrdom in all the colours of hellfire. I
never saw him in person, though, and, as far as I can
remember, the landlady, who in any case spoke very little,
never once mentioned him. On a couple of occasions,
however, I thought I heard him wheezing in the other room.
Later on, as time went by, it seemed to me less and less likely
that the Engelwirt landlord had existed at all, and I
wondered if I had not simply imagined him. However, further
enquiries in W. left no room for doubt in the matter. It also
transpired that the children of the Engelwirt couple,
Johannes and Magdalena, who were not much older than I,
had been brought up elsewhere by an aunt, as the Engelwirt
landlady had started drinking heavily after the birth of
Magdalena and had no longer been capable of looking after
the children. Towards me, perhaps because I was otherwise
not in her charge, the landlady showed endless patience. Not
infrequently I sat in bed with her, she at the head and I at the
foot, and recited everything to her that I knew by heart,
including of course the Lord's Prayer, the Angelus and other
orisons which had not passed her lips for a very long time. I
can still see her as she listened to me, head inclined against
the bedstead, eyes closed, the glass and bottle of Kalterer
wine on the marble top of the table beside her, expressions of
pain and relief crossing her face in turn. It was also from her
that I learned how to tie a bow; and whenever I left the room
she laid her hand upon me. To this day I can sometimes feel
her thumb against my forehead.
Across the street from the Engelwirt inn was the Seelos
house, where the Ambrose family lived. My mother was often
there because she was very close to the Ambrose children
who, some ten years younger than she, had frequently been
looked after by her when they were growing up. The
Ambroses had come to W. during the last century from Imst
in the Tyrol, and whenever there was fault to be found with
them, they were still referred to as the Tyroleans. Otherwise,
though they were named after the house that they had taken
over, and were generally not called the Ambroses, but Seelos
Maria, Seelos Lena, Seelos Benedikt, Seelos Lukas and

Seelos Regina. Seelos Maria was a large, slow-moving
woman who had worn black since the death, several years
before, of her husband Baptist, and spent her days making
coffee in the Turkish fashion, perhaps in memory of Baptist,
who had been a master builder and had been employed in
that capacity in Constantinople for eighteen months before
the First World War, from where, no doubt, he brought with
him the true art of coffee-making. Nearly all the larger
buildings in W. and the surrounding area, the school, the
railway station in Haslach and the turbine powerhouse,
which supplied the entire district with electricity, had been
designed on the drawing board of Ambrose and constructed
under his supervision. He had died of a stroke, much too
young as they always used to say, on May Day, 1933. He was
found in his workplace, collapsed over the blueprint
apparatus, a pencil behind his ear and a pair of compasses
still in his hand. The Seelos family lived on what Baptist had
left, and on the income from the fields and the two houses
that he had acquired during his lifetime. Baptist's workplace
was later rented out, curiously enough to a Turk of about
twenty-five named Ekrem, who, from God knows where, had
arrived in W. after the "Umsturz", as the end of the War was
referred to, and who spent his time making large quantities
of Turkish delight in the kitchen, which he then sold at fairs.
Perhaps it was Ekrem who taught Seelos Maria how to brew
mocha, and who found ways of procuring the precious black
beans of which Maria always had a supply, even in the
hardest of times. One day Seelos Lena was delivered of a
child of Ekrem's, but fortunately, as I heard people say, it
lived for only a week. I well remember the tiny white infants
coffin on the heavy black hearse being drawn to the
cemetery by our neighbour's pair of black horses, and the
rainwater running down off the pile of clay into the small
grave during the interment. Soon afterwards, if not even
before, Ekrem disappeared from W., to Munich as rumour
had it, where he was said to have set up as a tropical fruit
merchant, and Lena emigrated to California, where she
married a telephone engineer, with whom she was killed in a
car accident.

The Seelos family also included the three unmarried sisters
of Baptist, the Aunts Babett, Bina and Mathild, who lived in
the house next door, and bachelor Uncle Peter, who had been
a wheelwright with his workshop at the back of the Seelos
house. In the years after the war, when he would have been
about sixty, he took to walking around the village and would
watch people at their work. Only rarely did he pick up a hoe
or a fork himself and poke about with it in the yard or the
garden. I never knew Peter to be any different, for it was
already many a year since, little by little, he had begun to
lose his mind. At first he neglected his business as a
wheelwright, taking on commissions but only half finishing
them, and then he turned to producing complicated pseudo-
architectural plans, such as one for a water house built over
the river Ach, or another for a forest pulpit, a sort of spiral
stairs-cum-platform, which was to have encircled one of the
tallest pines in the parish woods, and from the top of which
the parish priest was to have made a speech to his trees on a
certain day every year. Most of these plans, unfortunately
lost, of which Peter drew up page after page, he never
seriously tackled. The only one actually realised was what he
called the Salettl, which was built into the roof of the Seelos
house, a wooden platform being erected about a metre below
the ridge, and raised upon this, once the tiles were removed,
a timber framework for a glass observatory that reached
through and above the ridge. From this vantage-point one
could see over the rooftops of the village far out into the high
moors and the fields and right across to the dark shadowy
mountains rising up from the valley. The completion of the
Salettl took some time, and after he had held a solitary
topping-out ceremony all on his own, Peter did not come
down from his observation post for weeks. It was said that he
spent a large part of the first years of the war up there,
sleeping by day and watching the stars by night, drawing the
constellations on large deep blue sheets of card, or
alternatively perforating them by means of bradawls of
varying sizes so that, when he attached the sheets to the
wooden frames of his glass house, he could actually enjoy the
illusion, as in a planetarium, that the star-lit heavens were
vaulted above his head. Towards the end of the war, when

Seelos Benedikt, who had always been a timorous child, was
sent to a school for non-commissioned officers at Rastatt,
Peter's condition deteriorated noticeably. At times he would
wander about the village with a cape cut from his charts of
the night sky, talking of how one could see the stars by day
both from the bottom of a well and from the peaks of the
highest mountains, which was probably the consolation he
offered himself for the circumstance that now, every evening
at the onset of darkness which formerly he had always
welcomed, he was beset with so great a fear that he had to
cover his ears with his hands or flail about wildly. It was
because of this condition that a sort of closet was built for
him on the half-landing where his bed was installed, and
which he soon went into of his own accord in the late
afternoons. From that time

onwards, the salettl was no longer used. Not till tne sawmill
burned down did anyone think of the lookout again. Then we
all climbed up to the Salettl, with the whole of the Seelos
family and most of their neighbours, to watch the enormous
fire blazing into the sky and lighting from below the pall of
smoke drifting a long way out. But Uncle Peter was not with
us. That same year when the sawmill burned down, he was
admitted to the hospital in Pfronten, for suddenly no one, not
even Regina, the most beautiful of the Seelos children and

the one whom he liked the best, could get him to eat a thing.
Peter would not stay in the hospital, though, but was up and
away the very first night, leaving a note which read: My dear
Doctor! I have gone to the Tyrol. Yours most sincerely, Peter
Ambrose. The ensuing search failed to find him, and to this
day he has not been heard of again.
For the first week of my sojourn in W. I did not leave the
Engelwirt inn. Troubled by dreams at night and getting no
peace till the first light of dawn, I slept through the entire
morning. I spent the afternoons sitting in the empty bar
room, turning over my recollections and writing up my notes,
and in the evenings when the regulars came in, whom I
recognised, almost to a man, from my schooldays and who all
appeared to have grown older at a stroke, I listened to their
talk while pretending to read the newspaper, never tiring of
it and ordering one glass of Kalterer after the other. Hunched
over the long table they sat, most as in the old days with
their hats on their heads, under an enormous picture of
woodcutters at work. This painting, which had hung in the
same place in the old Engelwirt inn, had by now become so
blackened that it was scarcely possible to make out what it
actually portrayed. Not till one had looked at it for some time
did the phantom shapes of the woodcutters become
apparent. They were in the process of stripping and clamping
the timber, and were painted in the powerful, energetic
postures characteristic of images that glorify work and
warfare. The artist Hengge, by whom, without any doubt,
this picture was done, had produced many such woodcutter
scenes in his time. His fame reached its peak in the 1930s,
when he was known as far afield as Munich. His murals,
always in dark shades of brown, were to be seen on the walls
of buildings all around W. and the surrounding area, and
were always of his favoured motifs of woodcutters, deer
poachers and rebellious peasants carrying the Bundschuh-
banner unless a particular theme had been requested of him.
On the Seefelders house, for example, where my grandfather
lived and where I was born, a motor race was depicted,
because it had seemed to old Seefelder, a blacksmith by
trade, to go with the machine workshop he had set up a

couple of years before the war, and appropriate
also to the new age which was then dawning in W., and the
transformer station on the edge of the village was adorned
with an allegorical representation of the taming of the power
of water. For me there was something most unsettling about

all of these Hengge pictures. One especially, on the
Raiffeisen Bank, showing a tall reaper woman, sickle in hand,
standing


in front of a field at harvest time, always looked to me like a
fearful battle scene, and frightened me so that whenever I
passed, I had to avert my eyes. Hengge the painter was
perfectly capable of extending his repertoire. But whenever
he was able to follow his own artistic inclination, he would
paint only pictures of woodcutters. Even after the war, when
for a variety of reasons his monumental works were no
longer much in demand, he continued in the same vein. In
the end, his house was said to have been so crammed with
pictures of woodcutters that there was scarcely room for
Hengge himself, and death, so the obituary said, caught him
in the midst of a work showing a woodcutter on a sledge
hurtling down into the valley below. On reflection, it had
occurred to me that those Hengge paintings, apart from the
frescoes in the parish church, were pretty much the only
pictures I had seen until I was seven or eight years old, and I
now have the feeling that these woodcutters and the
crucifixions and the large canvas of the Battle of the
Lechfeld, where Prince Bishop Ulrich, astride his grey
charger, rides over one of the Huns lying prostrate on the
ground - and here again all the horses have this crazed look
in their eyes - made a devastating impression on me. For that
reason, when I had reached a certain point in my notes, I left
my post in the Engelwirt bar to see the Hengge murals once
more, or those that were still there. I cannot say that their
effect on me on re-acquaintance was any less devastating,
rather the contrary. At all events I found that as I went from
one of his works to another I was drawn onward, and I
walked through the fields and towards the outlying hamlets


on the surrounding mountainsides and hills. I made my way
up to Bichl and walked on to the Adelharz, to Enthalb der
Ach, to Bàrenwinkel and Jungholz, into the Vordere and the
Hintere Reutte, out to Haslach and Oy, into the Schrey and
from there on to Elleg, all of them paths that I had walked in
my childhood at my grandfather's side and which had meant
so much to me in my memory, but, as I came to realise,
meant nothing to me now. From every one of these
excursions I returned dispirited to the Engelwirt and to the
writing of my notes, which had afforded me a degree of
comfort of late, even as the example of Hengge the artist,
and the questionable nature of painting as an enterprise in
general, remained before me as a warning.
I had learned that the only member of the Seelos family still
living in W. was Lukas. The Seelos house had been sold, and
Lukas lodged in the smaller house next door, where once
Babett, Bina and Mathild had dwelt. I had been in W. for
about ten days before I finally decided to go over and call on
Lukas. He had seen me coming out of the Engelwirt several
times, he told me straight away, but although I had somehow
seemed familiar, he had not quite been able to place me,
perhaps because I reminded him not so much of the child I
once was as of my grandfather who had the same gait and,
whenever he stepped out of the house, would pause for a
moment to peer up into the sky to see what the weather was
doing, just as I always did. I felt my visit pleased Lukas, for
after working as a tin-roofer until his fiftieth year he had
been forced into retirement by the arthritis that was
gradually crippling him, and now spent his days sitting at
home on the sofa, while his wife continued to run the little
stationer's shop belonging to old Specht. He would never
have believed, he observed, how long the days, and time, and
life itself could be when one had been shunted aside.
Moreover, he was troubled by the fact that, apart from
Regina, who was married to an industrialist in northern
Germany, he was the last of the Ambrose clan. He told me
the story of how Uncle Peter disappeared in the Tyrol, and of
the death of his mother soon afterwards, who during the last
weeks of her life had lost so much of her considerable weight

that nobody had recognised her any more; and he expatiated
at length on the strange circumstance that Aunts Babett and
Bina, who had done everything together since they were
children, had died on the same day, one of heart failure and
the other of grief. No one had ever been able to find out
much, he said, about the car accident in America in which
Lena and her husband were killed. It seemed that the two of
them simply left the road in their Oldsmobile, which as he
knew from a photo had whitewall tyres, and plunged into the
depths. Mathild had lasted a long time, until she was well
over eighty, perhaps because she had the most alert mind of
any of them. She had died a quiet death in her own bed in
the middle of the night. His wife, Lukas said, had found her
the next day, lying just as she always did when she retired in
the evening. But Benedikt, unwilling to go further into the
subject, had been consumed by ill fortune and now, he
added, it was his own turn. Having brought to an end his
chronicle of the Ambrose family with this remark, not
without satisfaction as it seemed to me, Lukas wanted to
know what had brought me back to W. after so many years,
and in November of all times. To my surprise, he understood
my rather complicated and sometimes contradictory
explanations right away. He particularly agreed when I said
that over the years I had puzzled out a good deal in my own
mind, but in spite of that, far from becoming clearer, things
now appeared to me more incomprehensible than ever. The
more images I gathered from the past, I said, the more
unlikely it seemed to me that the past had actually happened
in this or that way, for nothing about it could be called
normal: most of it was absurd, and if not absurd, then
appalling. To which Lukas replied that now, laid up as he was
on his sofa for much of the day or at best performing
pointless little tasks about the house, it was quite
unthinkable that he had once been a good goalkeeper and
that he, who was ever more frequently assailed by dark
moods, had in his time played the clown round the village -
had indeed held for years, as I perhaps remembered, the
honorary office of carnival jester since a successor was not to
be found who could hold a candle to him. As he recalled that
glorious time, Lukas's gouty hands began to move more

freely, demonstrating how one grasped the great carnival
shears, which he said required exceptional strength and
poise, and how he had stuck his fool's staff up the women's
skirts at the very moment when they least expected it. Just as
they imagined themselves safe, behind locked doors on the
top floor, and were leaning out of the windows to watch as
the carnival floats passed by, he had climbed up at the back
through the hay loft, or up an espalier, and given them the
fright they were hoping for all along, though they would
never admit as much. Often he had ducked into the kitchen
and filched the freshly baked doughnuts in order to
distribute them in the street to the applause of the women
until, seeing the empty plates, they realised it was their own
doughnuts that had been handed out.
From such carnival exploits, our talk turned to Specht the
printer, whose stationer's shop Lukas's wife was now
running. For Specht, as Lukas said, had invariably still had
his Christmas tree in his shop window when carnival week
came round; indeed, that tree, which he had put up during
the last week of Advent and which was now quite bare of
needles, remained in the window not only until carnival but
frequently until Easter, and on one occasion Specht even had
to be reminded to remove the tree from the window in time
at least for the Corpus Christi procession. Specht, who since
the 1920s had written, edited, set and printed the fortnightly
four-page newspaper Der Landbote, was an extremely
introverted fellow, as is not infrequently the case

with printers. Moreover, the constant handling of lead type
had made him ever smaller and greyer. I had a clear memory
of Specht, from whom I had bought my first slate pencils and
later the pens and the exercise books made of pulp paper on
which the nibs constantly stuck when one was writing. Year
in, year out he wore a grey calico coat which almost reached
down to the floor, and round steel spectacles, and, whenever
you entered the shop beneath the jingling bell, he would
emerge from the printroom at the back with an oil rag in his
hand. In the evenings, though, he could be seen sitting in the
lamplight at the kitchen table, writing the articles and
reports which were to be included in Der Landbote. Lukas
claimed that much of what Specht wrote week after week for
Der Landbote was rejected by him in his capacity as editor as
not being up to the standards of the paper. Later on, when
we had run out of Kalterer wine, Lukas took me around the
house, showed me where Babett's and Bina's café, the
Alpenrose, had been, where Dr Rambousek had his surgery,
and where the bedrooms and the living room of the three
sisters once were. As I was leaving, Lukas clutched my hand
in the birdlike grasp of his gouty fingers for a long time, and

I said that I would be glad to come over to see him more
often so that we might talk further about the past, if he did
not mind. Yes, said Lukas, there was something strange
about remembering. When he lay on the sofa and thought
back, it all became blurred as if he was out in a fog.
That same evening, over a second bottle of Kalterer in the
Engelwirt, I was able to assemble some of my recollections of
the Alpenrose. Whether it was Babett and Bina who had the
idea of opening the café, or whether Baptist thought that it
would support his unmarried sisters, was a part of the story
that nobody could recall any more. At all events, there had
been a Café Alpenrose, and it had continued until the deaths
of Babett and Bina, although nobody had ever set foot in it.
In summer, a small green metal table and three green folding
chairs stood in the front garden under a pollarded lime tree
which afforded a fine broad canopy of leaves. The door of the
house was always open, and every couple of minutes Bina
would appear in order to look out for the guests who would,
surely, be arriving sometime. There is no way of telling what
kept visitors away. Probably it was not simply because
strangers, as summer guests were referred to in those days,
hardly ever came to stay in W., but rather because the coffee
house was run by Babett and Bina as a sort of spinsters'
parlour which had nothing to offer the men of the village. I
do not know, nor did Lukas know, what-sort of figure the two
sisters had made at the beginning of their business venture.
The only thing that could be said with any certainty was that
whatever Babett and Bina had been at one time, or had
wanted to be, was eventually destroyed by the years of
continuous disappointment and perennially revived hope.
The impairment to their lives which that destruction and
their unending dependency on each other entailed ultimately
led to their being regarded as no more than a pair of dotty
old maids. Of course it did not help that Bina, smoothing
down her apron with her hands, spent the hours running
around the house and the front garden, while Babett sat in
the kitchen all day long folding tea towels, only to unfold and
refold them again. It was with the greatest effort that the
two of them managed to keep their small household in order,

and what they would have done if one day a guest had
actually crossed the threshold is quite inconceivable. Even
when making a pot of soup they were more of a hindrance
than a help to each other, and the weekly creation of a cake
for Sunday, Lukas told me, was always a major operation that
took them the whole of Saturday. Nonetheless, whenever the
end of the week was approaching, Babett would prevail upon
Bina, as much as Bina prevailed upon Babett, that a cake
should be baked once again, alternately either an apple cake
or a so-called Guglhupf. Once the task was accomplished, the
cake would be carried with some ceremony into the front
room and there, virginal and freshly dusted with icing sugar,
as it was, placed under a glass dome on the sideboard, next
to the apple cake, or else the Guglhupf, that had been baked
the previous Saturday, so that any guest who had happened
by on the Saturday afternoon would have had a choice of two
cakes - a stale apple cake and a fresh Guglhupf or a stale
Guglhupf and a fresh apple cake. On the Sunday afternoon
that choice ceased to be available, for it was always on
Sunday afternoons that Babett and Bina consumed either the
stale apple cake or the stale Guglhupf with their Sunday
afternoon coffee, Babett eating the cake with a cake fork
while Bina would be dunking hers, a habit which Babett
deplored and which she had never been able to correct in her
sister. After consuming the stale cake the two of them would
sit for an hour or two, sated and silent, in the gloom of their
parlour. On the wall over the sideboard hung a picture of two
lovers in the act of committing suicide. It was a winter night
and the moon had emerged from behind the clouds to
witness this final moment. The pair, out on a narrow landing
stage, were about to take their last decisive step. Together,
the foot of the girl and that of the man were suspended over
the dark waters, and one could sense with relief how both
were now in the grip of gravity. I remember that the girl had
a thin, viridescent veil draped over her head, while the man's
coat was taut against the wind. Below this picture stood the
cake intended for the coming week; the clock on the wall
ticked, and whenever it was about to strike it gave a long-
drawn-out wheeze, as if it could not bring itself to announce
the loss of another quarter of an hour. In summer, the light of

late afternoon entered through the curtains, in winter the
falling dusk, and on the table in the centre, biding its time,
stood the enormous aspidistra which the long years had left
untouched and around which, in some mysterious manner,
everything at the Alpenrose seemed to revolve.
My grandfather went across to the Alpenrose once a week to
call upon Mathild. The two of them usually played several
games of cards together and conversed at some length, as
there was always plenty to talk about. They would sit in the
front parlour, for Mathild did not allow anyone, not even
Grandfather, up to her room; Babett and Bina, who respected
Mathild as a higher authority, had become accustomed to
remain in the kitchen during these visits. I often
accompanied my grandfather to the Alpenrose, just as I
accompanied him almost everywhere, and there I sat with a
diluted raspberry syrup as the cards were shuffled, cut,
dealt, played, placed to one side, counted and shuffled again.
My grandfather was in the habit of wearing his hat while
playing cards, and not until the last game was finished and
Mathild had gone out into the kitchen to brew the coffee did
he take off the hat and then wipe his forehead with his
handkerchief. Of the matters discussed over coffee, there
were few I had any notion of, and for that reason, once they
started talking together, I generally went out into the front
garden, sat on one of the chairs by the green metal table and
looked at the old atlas which Mathild put out for me every
time. In this atlas there was a page on which the longest
rivers and the highest elevations on the surface of the



Earth were arranged by length or height, and there were
wonderfully coloured maps, even of the most distant,
scarcely discovered continents, with legends in tiny lettering
which, perhaps because I could decipher them only in part
just like the early cartographers were able to picture only
parts of the world, appeared to me to hold in them all
conceivable mysteries. During the colder months of the year
I would sit with the atlas on my knees on the top landing,
where the light came in through the staircase window and an
oleograph hung on the wall showing a wild boar making a
gigantic leap out of the gloom of the forest to scatter hunters
at their breakfast in a clearing. The scene, in which, quite
apart from the boar and the frightened green-coated hunters,
the plates and sausages flying through the air were depicted
with great attention to detail, was inscribed Im
Ardennerwald, and this caption, innocent in itself, evoked for
me something far more dangerous, unknown and profound
than the picture by itself could ever have conjured up. The
secret contained in the word "Ardennerwald" was deepened
by the fact that Mathild had expressly forbidden me to open
any of the doors on the top floor. Above all, I was not to climb
up into the attic which, as Mathild had given me to
understand in her peculiarly persuasive manner, was the
dwelling of someone she referred to as the grey chasseur,
about whom she would not tell me any more. So on the
landing to the first floor I was, as it were, on the borderline
of what was permissible, at the point where the lure of
temptation could be most keenly sensed. For that reason I
always felt as though I had been rescued when my
grandfather at last emerged from the coffee room, put his
hat on his head, and shook hands with Mathild in farewell.
When I next saw Lukas, we went up to the attic which I must
have mentioned in our conversations. Lukas was of the
opinion that not much could have changed up there since
those days. He had never cleared out the attic when he took
over the house after his aunts died, he said, for this, even
then, would have been beyond his powers, given that the
whole space was cluttered to the rafters with all manner of

implements and miscellaneous lumber and one thing piled on
top of another. The attic was indeed a daunting sight. Boxes
and baskets were stacked high, sacks, leather gear,
doorbells, ropes, mousetraps, beehive frames and cases for
all kinds of instruments were hanging from the beams. In a
corner a bass tuba still glinted from beneath the layer of dust
covering it, and next to it, on an eiderdown that had once
been red, lay an enormous, long abandoned wasps' nest, both
of them - the brass tuba and the fragile grey paper shell -
tokens of the slow disintegration of all material forms in the
complete silence of this attic. And yet that silence was not to
be trusted. Out of trunks, chests, and wardrobes, some with
their lids, drawers and doors half open, all conceivable kinds
of utensils and garments were bursting forth. It was easy to
imagine that this entire assemblage of the most diverse
objects had been moving, in some sort of secret evolution,
until the moment we entered, and that it was only because of
our presence that these things now held their breath as if
nothing had happened. On a shelf that immediately attracted
my attention was Mathild's library, comprising almost a
hundred volumes, which have since come into my possession
and are proving ever more important to me. Besides various
literary works from the last century, accounts of expeditions
to the polar regions, textbooks on geometry and structural
engineering, and a Turkish dictionary complete with a
manual for the writing of letters, which had probably once
belonged to Baptist, there were numerous religious works of
a speculative character, and prayer-books dating back two or
three hundred years, with illustrations, some of them
perfectly gruesome, showing the torments and travails that
await us all. In among the devotional works, to my
amazement, there were several treatises by Bakunin, Fourier,
Bebel, Eisner, and Landauer, and an autobiographical novel
by the socialist Lily von Braun. When I enquired

about the origins of the books, Lukas was able to tell me only
that Mathild had always been a great reader, and because of
this, as I might perhaps remember, was thought of by the
villagers as peculiar, if not deranged. Just before the First
World War she had entered the convent of the Englische

Fràulein in Regensburg, but had left there, for reasons which
were never made clear to Lukas, before the end of the war,
and subsequently had spent several months in Munich
during the time of the ill-fated Red Republic, returning home
to W. in a seriously disturbed and almost speechless state. He
himself, Lukas said, had of course not been born by then, but
he well remembered his mother making a remark about how
Mathild had been quite unhinged when she came back to W.
from the convent and from Communist Munich. Occasionally,
when his mother was in a bad mood, she even called Mathild
a bigoted Bolshevik. Mathild for her part, however, once she
had regained something of her equilibrium, did not allow
herself to be put out in the slightest by such remarks. To the
contrary, said Lukas, she evidently came to feel quite
comfortable in her detachment, and indeed the way in which,
year after year, she went about among the villagers whom
she despised, forever dressed in a black frock or a black
coat, and always in a hat and never, even in the finest
weather, without an umbrella, had, as I might remember
from my own childhood days, something blissful about it.
As I continued to look around in the attic, picking up this and
that, a hairless china doll, a goldfinch cage, a target rifle, or
an old calf-hide knapsack, and discussing the possible
provenance and history of these items with Lukas, I became
aware of something like an apparition, a uniformed figure,
which now could be seen more clearly, now more faintly
behind the blade of light that slanted through the attic
window. On closer inspection it revealed itself as an old
tailor's dummy, dressed in pike-grey breeches and a pike-
grey jacket, the collar, cuffs and edgings of which must once
have been grass green, and the buttons a golden yellow. On
its wooden headpiece the dummy was wearing a hat, also
pike-grey, with a bunch of cockerel's tail feathers in it.
Perhaps because it had been concealed behind the shaft of
light that cut through the darkness of the attic and in which
swirled the glinting particles of matter dissolving into
weightlessness, the grey figure instantly made a most
uncanny impression on me, an impression which was only
intensified by the smell of camphor exuding from it. But

when I stepped closer, not entirely trusting my eyes, and
touched one of the uniform sleeves that hung down empty, to
my utter horror it crumbled into dust. From what I have been
able to discover since, that uniform, trimmed in the colours
pike-grey and green, almost certainly belonged to one of the
Austrian chasseurs who fought against the French as
irregulars around 1800, a conjecture that gained in
plausibility when Lukas told me a story which also went back
to Mathild. It seems that one of the more distant Seelos
forebears led a contingent of one thousand men levied in the
Tyrol across the Brenner Pass, down the Adige, past Lake
Garda and onto the upper Italian plains, and there, with all
his troops, was killed in the terrible Battle of Marengo. The
significance for me of this tale of a Tyrolean chasseur who
had fallen at Marengo lay not least in the realisation that, in
the attic of the Café Alpenrose, which, on my childhood
visits, I had been forbidden to go up into on account of it
being the haunt of the grey chasseur, there had truly been
such a chasseur, even if he did not correspond in every
respect to the picture I had formed of him while sitting on
the landing. What I had fantasised at the time, and what later
often appeared to me in my dreams, was a tall stranger with
a high round cap of astrakhan fur set low on his forehead,
dressed in a brown greatcoat fastened with broad straps
reminiscent of a horse's harness. Lying in his lap he had a
short curved sabre with a sheath that gleamed faintly. His
feet were encased in spurred jackboots. One foot was on an
overturned wine bottle, the other he rested up-angled on the
floor, the heel and spur rammed into the wood. Time and
again I dreamed, and occasionally still do, that this stranger
reaches out his hand to me and I, in the teeth of my fear,
venture ever closer to him, so close that, at last, I can touch
him. And every time, I then see before me the fingers of my
right hand, dusty and even blackened from that one touch,
like the token of some great woe that nothing in the world
will ever put right.
Until the end of the 1940s Dr Rudolf Rambousek had his
practice in the Alpenrose, in the ground floor room opposite
the coffee and wine bar. Dr Rambousek had come to W. not

long after the end of the war, from a Moravian town, I believe
from Nikolsburg, with his pallid wife and his two adolescent
daughters Felicia and Amalia, and for him, and no less for his
women, this must have been banishment to the ends of the
earth. It was no surprise that this short, corpulent man, who
was always dressed like a man about town, was unable to
gain a foothold in W. His melancholy and foreign-seeming
features, perhaps best described as Levantine, the way his
lids were always lowered over his large, dark eyes, and his
entire somehow distant demeanour, left little doubt that he
was one of those who are born to lead inconsolable lives. To
my knowledge Dr Rambousek did not befriend a single
person during the years he spent in W. He was said to be
withdrawn, and it is true that I cannot remember ever having
seen him in the street, although he did not live in the
Alpenrose but in the teacher's house and must therefore
occasionally have been on his way either from the teacher's
house to the Alpenrose or from the Alpenrose to the
teacher's house. It was not least by virtue of his positively
conspicuous absence that he was altogether different from
Dr Piazolo, who must already have been approaching seventy
and could be seen at every hour of the day and night riding
his 750 Zündapp around the village or up and downhill to the
outlying hamlets. In winter and summer alike Dr Piazolo,
who in emergencies was willing to take on veterinary work
without thinking twice about it and who had evidently
resolved to die in the saddle, wore an old aviator's cap with
earflaps, enormous motorcycling goggles, a leather outfit
and leather gaiters. It is also worth mentioning that Dr
Piazolo had a double or shadow rider in the priest Father
Wurmser, who was also no longer one of the youngest, and
who for a good while had been making his visits to the dying
on his motorcycle carrying all that was necessary to perform
the last rites, the consecrated oil, holy water, salt, a small
silver crucifix and the holy sacrament, with him in an old
rucksack which was exactly the same as the one belonging to
Dr Piazolo. On one occasion the two of them, the priest and
Dr Piazolo, mistook each other's rucksacks when they were
sitting side by side at the Adlerwirt, and Dr Piazolo drove off
to his next patient equipped for the last rites while Father

Wurmser brought the doctor's instruments to the next
member of his congregation who was about to expire. The
similarity not only of the rucksacks belonging to Father
Wurmser and Dr Piazolo but also of their general appearance
was such that if you saw a dark motorcyclist somewhere in
the village or on the roads outside the village, it would have
been impossible to say whether it was the doctor or the
parson, had it not been for the doctor's habit, while riding his
motorcycle, of letting his feet, on which he wore hobnailed
boots, drag through the gravel or snow on the road rather
than placing them on the foot-rests, which meant that, at
least when seen from the front or behind, he cut a different
figure from the parson. It is easy to imagine how difficult it
must have been for Dr Rambousek to take on his well-
established competitors, and to see why he preferred, in
contrast to these two as it were omnipresent emissaries, the
priest and the physician, not to leave the house at all. Yet, it
would be wrong to suggest that Dr Rambousek did not enjoy
the esteem of those who went to him. I more than once heard
my mother extolling the medical skills of Dr Rambousek in
the highest possible terms, particularly when talking to
Valerie Schwarz, the milliner, who came not from Moravia
like Dr Rambousek but from Bohemia, and who, despite her
shortness, had a bosom of a size that I have only seen on one
occasion since, on the tobacconist in Fellini's film Amarcord.
But while my mother and Valerie could not praise Dr
Rambousek highly enough, the other villagers would never
have dreamed of going to his surgery. If something was the
matter, you simply sent for Dr Piazolo, and that was why Dr
Rambousek spent most of his time, day after day, month after
month and year after year, sitting alone in his surgery in the
Alpenrose. At any rate, when I went across to Mathild with
my grandfather I always saw him through the half-open door
in the sparsely furnished room, sitting in his swivel chair and
writing or reading or simply staring out of the window. Once
or twice I quietly stepped onto the threshold and waited for
him to look across at me or ask me to come closer, but either
he never noticed my presence or he did not feel able to
address the strange child. One exceptionally hot day in the
midsummer of 1949, when - Grandfather and Mathild were

conversing in the front room, I sat for a long time on the
topmost step of the stairs that led up to the attic, listening to
the creaking of the roof timbers and the few other noises,
such as the rising and falling screech of a circular saw or the
solitary crowing of a cockerel, that came into the house from
outside. Before my grandfather's visiting time was ended, I
went down into the hall passageway, having determined to
ask Dr Rambousek if he was not perhaps capable of healing
the old Engelwirt landlord's open sore that grew larger by
the day, and to my bewilderment, found the door to the
surgery closed. Cautiously, I pressed down the handle.
Inside, everything was bathed in the deep green summer
light that filtered through the leaves of the lime tree outside
the window. The silence that surrounded me seemed
boundless. As was his wont, Dr Rambousek was sitting on his
swivel chair, except that his body was leaning forwards onto
the desk. The left shirt sleeve was rolled halfway up, and in
the crook of the elbow, turned sideways at an odd angle,
rested the doctor's head, seeming somehow outsize, with its
dark, slightly protruding but still beautiful eyes staring
fixedly into the void. I left the surgery on tiptoe and climbed
back up to my station right at the top of the attic stairs,
where I waited until I heard my grandfather coming out of
the parlour with Mathild. Not a word about Dr Rambousek
did I breathe to my grandfather, both out of fear and because
I myself could scarcely believe what I had seen. On the way
home we had to pick up the fob watch he had left to be
repaired at Ebentheuer's the watchmaker. The doorbell
clanged, and there we were, standing in the small shop in
which a host of long-case clocks, wall-mounted regulators,
kitchen and living room clocks, alarm clocks, pocket and
wrist watches were all ticking at once, just as if one clock on
its own could not destroy enough time. While Grandfather
talked to Ebentheuer, who, as always, had his watchmaker's
glass jammed into his left eye, about what had been wrong
with his fob watch, I looked across the shop counter into the
half-lit living room where the youngest of the Ebentheuer
children, who was called Eustach and had water on the
brain, was sitting on a high chair, rocking gently back and
forth. As for Dr Rambousek, he was found the same evening

lifeless and cold in the surgery of the Alpenrose by his wife,
who shortly afterwards moved away from W. together with
her two daughters. Later I once overheard Valerie Schwarz
whisper to my mother that Dr Rambousek had been a
morphine addict or morphinist, as she put it, and that hence
his skin was often tainted yellow. Because of this to me
incomprehensible remark, I believed for a long time that
people born in Moravia were called morphinists and that
they came from a country quite as far away as Mongolia or
China.
During the years when we lived above the Engelwirt, I would
unfailingly, in the early evenings, be seized by the desire to
go down to the taproom to help Romana wipe the tables and
benches, sweep the floor or dry the glasses. It was not, of
course, these chores but Romana herself who drew me and
in whose company I conspired to spend as much time as I
possibly could. Romana was the elder of two daughters of a
family of small-holders who, in the hamlet of Bàrenwinkel,
rented a few patches of land and a crooked, timber-framed
house which, toysized in comparison with the other
farmsteads, stood all by itself on a hillock and always
reminded me of the story of Noah, especially as in and
around it there appeared to be two of every kind - apart from
the parents and the two sisters, Romana and Lisabeth, there
was a cow and a bull, two goats, two pigs, two geese, and so
on. There were larger numbers only of cats and hens, and
they sat or scratched about way into the surrounding fields.
There were also a sizeable flock of white doves which, when
they were not clambering back and forth over the ridge,
soared above and around the little house which, with its
shingled and much-mended hipped roof, unusual for the
area, looked for all the world like the biblical Ark stranded
on the brow of a hill. And every time I passed by there,
Romana's father, who was a canny old rogue, would be
peering out of one of the tiny windows like Noah himself,
smoking a cheroot. Romana came over from the Barenwinkel
every afternoon at five, and I often walked to meet her at the
bridge. She was then twenty-five at most, and everything
about her seemed to me to be of exceptional beauty. She was

tall, with a broad, open face and water-grey eyes and as
much flaxen hair as a Haflinger pony. She differed in every
respect from the womenfolk of W., who were almost without
exception small, dark, thin-haired and mean. She was so
unlike the other women and maids that no one, despite her
conspicuous beauty, ever made a proposal of marriage to her.
If, later in the evening, I was allowed down into the taproom
again to fetch a packet of Zuban cigarettes for my father,
Romana would be sailing through the throng of peasants and
woodcutters, who would regularly be sozzled by nine, as if
she came from another world. At night the taprooms made a
fearsome impression, and if it had not been for Romana I
would probably not have dared enter that dreadful place
where the menfolk sat hunched on the long benches with a
vacant look in their eyes. Occasionally one of these
motionless figures would rise and sway, as if he were on a
raft, towards the door that opened onto the hallway. There
were pools of beer and melted snow on the oiled floorboards,
and the smoke, drifting through the bar in dense swathes
towards the rattling ventilator, joined with the sour reek of
wet leather and loden cloaks and spilled gentian schnapps.
Mounted on the walls above the brown-painted panelling,
stuffed martens, lynxes, capercaillies, vultures and other
exterminated creatures were awaiting the time until they
could take their long overdue revenge. The peasants and
woodcutters almost always sat together in groups at the top
or bottom ends of the bar. In the middle stood the large iron
stove, which quite often in the winter months was stoked and
poked so much that it started to glow. The only one who sat
alone, unheeded by all the others, was Hans Schlag the
huntsman of whom it was said that he hailed from other
parts, from KoEgarten on the Neckar in fact, and that he had
managed extensive hunting grounds in the Black Forest for
several years before moving from there to the district around
W., nobody knew precisely why. He had been out of work for
over a year until he had been taken on by the Bavarian
forestry commission. Schlag the hunter was a fine figure of a
man, with dark, curly hair and beard and uncommonly deep-
set, brooding eyes. For hours, frequently until far into the
night, he would sit with his half-emptied tankard without

exchanging a word with anyone. His dog, Waldmann, slept at
his feet, tied to the rucksack hanging from the back of the
chair. Whenever I went down into the taproom to fetch a
packet of Zuban for my father, Schlag the hunter would be
sitting at his table like that. His eyes were always lowered,
looking at the gold pocket-watch, an exceptionally fine piece,
which he had placed in front of him, as if there were some
important appointment he had to keep; but in between times
he would look across through his half-closed eyes at Romana,
who would be standing behind the high bar filling the
schnapps and beer glasses. On one evening that has
remained stardingly clear in my memory, at the beginning of
December, when snow had fallen as far down as the valley
for the first time, the hunter was not sitting in his place when
I came into the taproom after supper, and Romana,
inexplicably, was nowhere to be seen either. Intending to
fetch the packet of five Zuban from the Adlerwirt, I went
through the rear of the house out into the yard. A myriad
minute crystals glittered in the snow all around me and in
the sky above glittered the stars. The headless giant Orion
with his short shimmering sword was just rising from behind
the black-blue shadow of the mountains. I remained standing
for a long time amid that winter splendour, listening to the
ringing of the cold and the sound the heavenly lights made in
their slow orbits. I suddenly had a feeling then that
something was moving in the open doorway of the woodshed.
It was Schlag the hunter, who, holding onto the slatted frame
of the shed with one hand, stood there in the darkness like a
man leaning into the wind, his entire body moving to a
strange, consistent and undulating rhythm. Between him and
the slatting he gripped with his left hand, Romana lay on a
heap of cut turf, and her eyes, as I could make out in the
light reflected from the snow, were turned sideways and as
wide open as those of Dr Rambousek when his head had lain
lifeless on the top of his desk.
From deep in the hunter's chest came a heavy moaning and
panting, his frosty breath rose from his beard, and time after
time, when the wave surged through the small of his back, he
thrust into Romana, while she, for her part, clung closer and

closer to him, until the hunter and Romana were but one
single indivisible form. I do not think that Romana or Schlag
had any idea that I was there. Only Waldmann saw me.
Fastened as always to his master's rucksack, he stood quietly
behind him on the ground and looked across at me. That
same night, around one or two o'clock, the one-legged
Engelwirt landlord Sallaba destroyed the entire furnishings
and fittings of the bar. When I went to school the following
morning, the whole floor was ankle-deep in broken glass. It
was a scene of utter devastation. Even the new revolving
display cabinet for the Waldbaur chocolates, which reminded
me of the tabernacle in church because it could be rotated,
had been ripped from the bar and hurled right across the
room. Things were not much better outside in the passage.
Frau Sallaba was sitting on the cellar steps, crying her eyes
out. All the doors were wide open, even the enormous door,
fit for a bank vault, that led into the ice store, inside which
the ice, stacked in big blocks one on top of the other for the
summer, glinted a pale shade of blue. At the sight of the open
ice store, or rather at the memory of this sight, it suddenly
came to me that, whenever I stepped into the ice store with
Romana, I imagined us being locked in there by accident and
that, holding each other tight, we would freeze to death, life
ebbing out of our bodies as slowly and silently as ice melts in
the warmth of the sun.
At school Fràulein Rauch, who meant no less to me than
Romana, wrote up on the blackboard in her even handwriting
the chronicle of the calamities which had befallen W. over the
ages and underneath it drew a burning house in coloured
chalk. The children in the class sat bent over their exercise
books, looking up every so often to decipher the faint,
faraway letters with screwed-up eyes as they copied, line by
line, the long list of terrible events which, when recorded in
this way, had something reassuring and comforting about
them. In 1511 the Black Death claimed 105 lives. In 1530,
100 houses went up in flames. 1569: the whole settlement
devastated in a blaze. 1605: another fire reduced 140 houses
to ashes. 1633: W. burned down by the Swedes. 1635: 700
inhabitants died of the plague. 1806-14: 19 volunteers from

W. fell in the wars of liberation. 1816-17: years of famine in
consequence of unprecedented rainfall. 1870-71: 5 fusiliers
from W. lost their lives in battle. 1893: on the 16th of April a
great conflagration destroyed the entire village. 1914-18: 68
of our sons laid down their lives for the fatherland. 1939-45:
125 from our ranks did not return home from the Second
World War. In the quiet of the classroom the nibs of our pens
scratched across the paper. Fràulein Rauch walked along the
rows in her tight-fitting green skirt. Whenever she came
close to me, I could feel my heart pounding in my throat.
That day it never grew light outside. The greyness of the
early hours lasted almost until noon and was followed
immediately by a gradual nightfall. Even now, at one o'clock,
half an hour before school ended for the day, the lights had
to be on in the classroom. The white luminous globes
hanging from the ceiling and the rows of children bent over
their work were reflected in the darkened window-panes
through whose mirrored surface the just discernible tops of
the apple trees were like black coral in the depths of the
ocean. All day an unwonted silence had spread out and taken
possession of us. Not even when the caretaker at the end of
the last lesson rang the bell in the hall did we break into our
customary uproar; rather, we got up without a sound and
packed our things away in an orderly fashion without so
much as a murmur. Fràulein Rauch helped this or that child,
struggling in thick winter clothes, to straighten the satchel
on his back.
The schoolhouse stood on a rise at the edge of the village,
and, as always when we came out at lunchtime, on that, for
me, memorable day too, I looked over the open valley to my
left across the rooftops to the forested foothills, behind
which arose the jagged rocky ridge of the Sorgschrofen. The
houses and farmsteads, the fields, the empty roads and
tracks - all was deadened and still under a thin dusting of
white. Above us hung the leaden sky, as low and heavy as it
only ever is before a great fall of snow. If you put your head
right back and stared long enough into that
incomprehensible void, you could believe you saw the first
flurries of snow swirling out of it. My way took me past the

teacher's house and the curate's house and by the high
cemetery wall, at the end of which St George was forever
driving a spear through the throat of the griffin-like winged
creature lying at his feet. From there I had to go down
Church Hill and along the so-called Upper Street. A smell of
burnt horn
came from the smithy. The forge fire had died down, and the
tools, the heavy hammers, tongs and rasps were lying
abandoned all round. In W., noon was the hour of things
deserted. The water in the tub, into which the blacksmith,
when working at his anvil would plunge the red-hot iron so
that it hissed, was so calm, and shone so darkly in the pale
light that fell on its surface from the open gateway, it was as
though no one had ever disturbed it, as though it were
destined to remain preserved in this inviolate state for ever.
In the shop where Kòpf the barber practised his trade, the
padded chair with its extendable headrest stood abandoned.
The cut-throat razor lay open on the marbled top of the
washstand. Since father had returned home from the war, I
was sent once a month to have my hair cut, and nothing
frightened me more than old Kòpf setting about shaving the
fuzz from my neck with that freshly stropped knife. The fear

became so deeply engrained in me that many years later,
when I first saw a representation of the scene in which
Salome bears in the severed head of John the Baptist on a
silver platter, my thoughts immediately turned to Kòpf. To
this day I cannot bring myself to enter a barber's, and that I
should have gone of my own accord a few years ago at Santa
Lucia station in Venice to have my overnight stubble
removed still strikes me as a bizarre aberration. The fear
that seized me at the sight of Kòpf's cabinet gave way to
feelings of hope when I paused in front of the small co-op to
gaze into the display window at the golden pyramid
constructed by Frau Unsinn, the shopkeeper, entirely of
Sanella margarine cubes, a sort of pre-Christmas miracle
which, every day on my way home from school, touched me
like a beacon heralding the new age which was now about to
begin even in W. In contrast to the golden sheen on the
Sanella cubes, everything else you could buy in Frau
Unsinn's shop, the flour in the barrel, the soused herrings in
the large tin drum, the pickled gherkins, the massive block of
ersatz honey which resembled an iceberg, the blue patterned
packets of chicory coffee, and the Emmental cheese wrapped
in a damp cloth, seemed to have passed into oblivion. The
Sanella pyramid, I knew, towered into the future, and while,
before my mind's eye, it grew higher and higher, so high that
it almost reached up to the heavens, a vehicle such as I had
never seen appeared at the far end of the deserted Long
Road which I had now reached. It was a lilac limousine with
a lime-green roof and huge tail fins. Infinitely slow and quite
soundless it came gliding towards me. Inside, at the ivory-
coloured steering wheel, sat a black man who showed me his
teeth, also ivory-coloured, grinning as he went past, perhaps
because I was the only living soul he had seen while driving
through this remote place. Since among the little clay figures
assembled round our Christmas manger, it was the black-
faced one of the three Magi who wore a purple cloak with a
lime-green border, there was no doubt in my mind that the
driver of the car that had drifted past me at that sombre
midday hour was none other than King Melchior, and that he
bore with him in the vast boot of his streamlined lilac
limousine several ounces of gold, a frankincense caddy and

an ebony box filled with myrrh. It may well be that I became
quite convinced of this only later when, in the afternoon, I re-
imagined that scene in the minutest detail as the snow began
to fall more and more heavily and I sat at the window
watching it twirl down without cease from on high and
covering everything by nightfall, the stacks of firewood, the
chopping block, the roof of the shed, the redcurrant bushes,
the water trough and the kitchen garden in the nunnery next
door.
On the following morning, the light still burning in the
kitchen, my grandfather came in from clearing paths and
told us that word had just reached him from Jungholz that
Schlag the hunter had been found dead a good hour's walk
beyond his hunting ground, on the Tyrolean side of the
border, at the bottom of a ravine. He had evidently fallen
while crossing by the narrow footbridge which was
dangerous even in summer, and as good as impassable in
winter, said my grandfather, waiting as he did every day till
my mother was not watching to pour down the sink the milky
coffee which was always kept for him on the hotplate of the
range. In my grandfather's opinion it was out of the question
that Schlag, who must have known his own territory like the
back of his hand, should have ended up on the other side
purely by mistake. By the same token, nobody knew what the
hunter, if he had deliberately gone out of his way, had been
doing there, over the Austrian border, at this time of year of
all times and with the weather closing in. Whichever way you
looked at it, concluded my grandfather, it was a queer and
perplexing business. I, for my part, was not able to get the
matter out of my mind all day long. When I was at my
schoolwork, all I had to do was lower my eyelids a little and I
beheld Schlag the hunter lying dead at the bottom of the
ravine. And so it was no surprise to me when, at midday, I
came upon him on my way home from school. I had heard the
jingling of a horse's harness for some time before, out of the
grey air and the gently swirling snow, a woodcutters' sledge
drawn by the heavy bay belonging to the proprietor of the

sawmill, appeared, bearing upon it what was plainly the body
of a man under a wine-coloured horse blanket. The sledge,
led by the saw-mill proprietor and accompanied by the
Jungholz gendarme, halted at the crossroads at the very
moment when Dr Piazolo approached, as if by
prearrangement, ploughing through the knee-deep snow
astride his Ztindapp. Dr Piazolo, who had evidently already
been informed of the tragedy that had occurred, switched
the engine off and walked over to the sledge. He drew the
blanket down halfway, and beneath it, in what one might say
was a peculiarly relaxed posture, there indeed lay the body
of the hunter Hans Schlag from KoEgarten on the Neckar.
His grey-green attire was hardly disturbed, quite as though
nothing had happened. One might have supposed that Schlag
had simply fallen asleep, had it not been for the dreadful
pallor of his face and the wild hair and beard, streaked with
frost and hard as ice. Dr Piazolo had taken off his black
motorcycle gloves and, with a cautiousness uncharacteristic
in him, was feeling different parts of the body, gone rigid
with the cold and rigor mortis, which had set in some time
ago. He voiced a suspicion that the hunter, who did not seem
to have been injured, had to all appearances initially survived
the fall from the footbridge. It was quite possible, he said,
that the hunter had lost consciousness through sheer fright
at the moment when he slipped, and that his fall had been
broken by the saplings growing in the ravine. Death probably
did not occur until some time afterwards, as a result of
exposure. The gendarme, who had followed Dr Piazolo's
conjectures and concurred with them, now reported for his
part that the unfortunate Waldmann, who now lay as stiff as
a poker at the feet of the hunter, had in point of fact still
been alive when the tragedy was discovered. In his opinion,
the gendarme said, the hunter had put the dachshund in his
rucksack before crossing the bridge, and the rucksack had
somehow been dislodged during the fall, for it was found a
short distance away, with a trail leading from it across to
Schlag, by whose side the dachshund had dug through the-
snow into the forest floor, which was frozen only on the
surface. Strangely enough, as soon as the hunter and his dog
had been approached, Waldmann had suddenly gone raving

mad, even though there was little more than a breath of life
left in him, and he had to be shot there and then. Dr Piazolo
bent down once more over the hunter, fascinated, it seemed,
by the fact that the snowflakes lay on his face without
melting. Then he carefully pulled the horse blanket up over
the motionless figure, whereupon, triggered by God knows
what slight touch or movement, the repeating watch in the
hunter's waistcoat pocket played a bar or so of the song "Ob
immer Treu und Redlichkeit". The men looked at each other
with expressions of bewilderment. Dr Piazolo shook his head
and climbed onto his motorcycle. The sledge moved on and,
still unobserved, I slowly walked the rest of my way home. I
have since learned that an autopsy was carried out on the
body of Schlag the hunter, who apparently had no relatives of
any sort, at the district hospital; it did not, however, yield any
further insight beyond the cause of death already established
by Dr Piazolo, except for the fact, described in the post-
mortem report as curious, that a sailing ship was tattooed on
the left upper arm of the dead man.
Shortly before Christmas, a few days after the encounter
with the dead hunter, I succumbed to a grave illness which
Dr Piazolo and a physician from the nearest town, whom he
consulted, diagnosed as diphtheria. Confined to my bed, I lay
there, my throat becoming increasingly sore until at length it
felt raw and torn open inside and I was fearfully convulsed
every few minutes by a cough that racked my chest and my
whole body. My limbs, once the illness had me in its grip,
seemed so heavy to me that I could no longer raise either my
head or my legs or arms, indeed not even my hands. Deep
within my body I felt an immense pressure, as if my organs
were being put through a mangle.
Again and again I saw before me the village blacksmith with
his tongs pulling my heart, licked by blue flames like St
Elmo's fire, out of the glowing embers and plunging it into a
bucket of ice-cold water. The headache alone forced me
sometimes to the limits of consciousness, but it was not until
the illness reached its climax, when my temperature had
risen to a fraction below the critical point, that delirium

saved me from the worst extremes of pain. As though in the
middle of a desert I lay in a shimmer of heat, my lips cracked
and grey and flaking and in my mouth the foul taste of the
rotting skin in my throat. My grandfather dripped luke-warm
water into my mouth, and I felt it slowly trickling down
across the scorched patches inside my throat. Time and
again, in my delirium, I saw myself gingerly stepping past
Frau Sallaba, who sat weeping on the stairs that led down
into the cellar, and there, in the furthermost, darkest corner,
opening the door of the cupboard where preserved eggs
were kept for winter months in a large earthenware crock. I
put my hand and forearm through the chalky surface of the
water almost to the bottom of the container, and to my horror
I felt that what was stored in this pot was not eggs safely
sequestered, each one of them, in its shell, but something
soft, something that slipped through my fingers and which I
instantly knew could only be eyeballs gouged from their
sockets. Dr Piazolo, who at the onset of my illness had
ordered my room to be turned into a quarantine ward which
only my grandfather and mother were allowed to enter, had
me swathed from head to toe in dampened warm sheets,
which at first proved beneficial, but, because of the
constriction, soon gave rise in me to panic and fear. Twice a
day my mother had to wash the floor with vinegar water, and
until dusk fell the windows of my sickward were kept wide
open so that at times the snow drifted in almost as far as the
middle of the room, and my grandfather would sit by my bed
in his overcoat with his hat on his head. The illness ran its
course over two weeks, until after Christmas, even when
Epiphany had come round I could scarcely eat anything other
than spoonfuls of bread and milk. The door to the quarantine
ward was now left ajar, and some of those who lived and
worked in our house took turns to put in an appearance at
the threshold, including Romana a couple of times, gaping at
this boy who, by dint of a miracle, had just escaped with his
life. It was already Lent before I was allowed to go into the
garden occasionally. For the time being, a return to school
was ruled out. In the spring, for two hours a day, I was
placed in the care of my teacher, Fràulein Rauch. Fràulein
Rauch was the daughter of the chief forester, so every

afternoon I went across to the shingled villa which stood in a
small arboretum and was both the forestry commission's
district office and the chief forester's home. There, when the
weather was cold, I would sit with my teacher on the bench
by the stove and on sunny days outside in the revolving
summer-house under the trees, completely devoted to the
tasks I was set, filling my exercise books with a web of lines
and numbers in which I hoped to entangle Fràulein Rauch
for ever.
I had spent the better part of a month, till the beginning of
December, in W., and for more or less the entire time I had
been the only guest at the Engelwirt inn. Only occasionally
did one of those solitary commercial travellers appear, who
spend the evenings in the bar room finishing off their day's
work, calculating percentages and rates of commission. As I
too was forever bent over my papers, they may well, at first,
have taken me for another salesman but, after a closer look
at my outward appearance, they probably decided that mine
was a different and perhaps more dubious profession.
Disturbed not so much by this scrutiny as by the first
preparations that were being made in the house for the
beginning of the winter season, I resolved to leave,
particularly as my writing had reached the point at which I
either had to continue for ever or break off. The following
day, after changing several times and spending lengthy
periods waiting on the platforms of draughty provincial
stations - I cannot remember anything about this journey
other than the grotesque figure of a middleaged chap of
gigantic proportions who was wearing a hideous, modishly
styled Trachten suit and a broad tie with multi-coloured bird
feathers sewn onto it, which were ruffled by the wind - on
that day, with W. already far behind me, I sat in the Hook of
Holland express travelling through the German countryside,
which has always been alien to me, straightened out and
tidied up as it is to the last square inch and corner.
Everything appeared to be appeased and numbed in some
sinister way, and this sense of numbness soon came over me
also. I did not care to open the newspapers that I had
bought, or to drink the mineral water that was there before

me. Stretches of grassland swept past on either side and
ploughed fields in which the pale green winter wheat had
emerged according to schedule; neatly delineated fir-tree
plantations, gravel pits, football pitches, industrial estates,
and the ever-expanding colonies of family homes behind their
rustic fences and privet hedges, all of them painted in that
slightly greyish shade of white which has become the
preferred colour of the nation. As I looked out, it made me
uneasy that not a soul was to be seen anywhere, though
enough vehicles were speeding along the wet roads veiled in
dense mists of spray. Even in the streets of the towns, there
were far more cars than people. It was as if mankind had
already made way for another species, or had fallen under a
kind of curfew. The silence of my fellow passengers sitting
motionless in the air-conditioned express carriage did
nothing to dispel such conjectures, but as I looked out at the
passing landscape which had been so thoroughly parcelled
up and segmented, the words "south-west Germany", "south-
west Germany" were running over and over in my mind, till
after a couple of hours of mounting irritation I came to the
conclusion that something like an eclipse of my mental
faculties was about to occur.
The compulsive fixation did not wear off until the train pulled
into Heidelberg station, where there were so many people
crowding the platforms that I feared they were fleeing from a
city doomed or already laid waste. The last to come into my
compartment of those passengers who had just boarded was
a young woman wearing a beret of brown velvet whom I
instantly recognised, without a shadow of a doubt, as
Elizabeth, daughter of James I, who according to the
chronicles travelled to Heidelberg as the bride of the Elector
Palatine and, during the short period in which she held court
there in great splendour, became known as the Winter
Queen. No sooner had she sat down and settled herself into
her corner than this young woman was deeply immersed in a
book entitled The Seas of Bohemia, written by an authoress
unknown to me by the name of Mila Stern. Only when we
were travelling alongside the Rhine did she occasionally look
up from her reading and glance out through the window at

the river and the steep slopes of the opposite bank. A stiff
northerly wind must have sprung up, because the flags on
the barges that were ploughing their way upstream through
the grey waters were not flying backwards from the stern
but forwards, as in a child's drawing, and this lent the scene
something that was at once touching and awry. The light
outside had steadily diminished, and the great river valley
was now filled with a faint luminescence. I stepped out into
the corridor. The slate- and violet-coloured vineyards,
hatched into the hillsides, were covered here and there with
turquoise bird-netting. Snow now began to drift by, scoring
delicate slanting lines over a view which was constantly
changing as we slid past yet always remained the same.
Suddenly I felt we were on our way to the far north,
approaching the furthermost tip of the island of Hokkaido.
The Winter Queen, who I believed had brought about this
transformation of the Rhine landscape, had also come out
into the corridor, and had already been standing watching
the beautiful scene for some time at my side before I heard
her reciting, entirely to herself, as it seemed to me, the
following lines, with a long-lost inflexion in her voice:
Grasses white as driven snow
Veils far blacker than a crow
Gloves as tender as the rose
Masks for faces no one knows.
That I did not know what to respond at the time, did not
know how this winter verse continued, and, despite the
feelings within me, could not say a word but merely stood
there stupid and mute, looking out onto a world that was
now almost gone in the fading twilight, is something which,
since that day, I have often much regretted. Presently the
Rhine valley opened out, gleaming apartment blocks
appeared on the plain, and the train drew into Bonn, where
the Winter Queen, without my having been able to say even a
word to her, got out. Time and again since then, I have
attempted to find that book, The Seas of Bohemia, but
though it is undoubtedly of the greatest importance for me, it
is, alas, not listed in any bibliography, in any catalogue, or

indeed anywhere at all.
The following afternoon, back in London, my first port of call
was the National Gallery. The painting by Pisanello that I
wanted to see was not in its usual place, but owing to
renovation work had been hung in a poorly lit room in the
basement into which few of the visitors who wandered the
gallery every day found their way. It is a small painting,
measuring about 30 by 50 centimetres, lamentably
imprisoned in a far too heavy Victorian frame. The upper half
of the picture is almost completely filled by a golden disc,
radiant against the blue of the sky and serving as a
background for the Virgin and her Redeemer Child. Lower
down runs a line of dark green treetops from one side to the
other. On the left stands the patron saint of herds, herdsmen
and lepers, St Anthony. He is wearing a dark red cowled
habit and a capacious earthen-brown cloak. In his hand he
holds a bell. Beside him lies a tame boar, close against the
ground in kindly submission. The hermit with a stern
expression surveys the shining knight who stands before
him, and who, for his part, is all of this world, almost heart-
rendingly so. The dragon, a ringed and winged creature, has
already breathed its last. The ornate armour, wrought of
white metal, draws the evening light unto it. Not the
slightest shadow of guilt shows on the youthful face of St
George. His neck and throat are bared to us, unprotected.
The most remarkable feature, however, is the very finely
worked broad-brimmed straw hat adorned with a large
feather which the knight wears on his head. I wish I could
know how Pisanello conceived the idea of furnishing St
George with such inappropriate and positively extravagant
headgear. San Giorgio con cappello di paglia -most odd
indeed, as the two trusty horses gazing across the knight's
shoulder may well be thinking too.
I made my way back from the National Gallery to Liverpool
Street station on foot. As I did not want to walk along the
Strand and then down Fleet Street, I negotiated the labyrinth
of smaller streets above these busy thoroughfares; Chandos
Place, Maiden Lane and Tavistock Street took me to Lincoln's

Inn Fields and from there, via Holborn Circus and the
Holborn Viaduct, I reached the western perimeter of the City.
I cannot have covered much more than three miles, yet I felt
as if I had never walked so far in my life than on that
afternoon. I became fully aware of my fatigue, however, only
as I paused at the threshold of an underground station, from
which came the familiar sweetish, dusty warmth of the
subterranean world, and, as I stood there, detected, like a
scent which might stir the imaginings of an oarsman far out
to sea, the faint perfume of the white, pink and russet-red
chrysanthemums being sold at the entrance by a man with
something of Prospero about him. I then realised that this
was the station where, on my frequent journeys by tube, no
one ever embarked or alighted. The train would stop, the
doors open; one looked out onto the deserted platform and
heard the warning "Mind the gap"; the doors would close
again, and the train move off. Whenever I had travelled
through that station it had been the same, and on not one
occasion did any of the other passengers so much as raise an
eyebrow. Evidently it was only I who found this strange
circumstance unnerving. So now I stood on the pavement
before the entrance to that very station and, if I were not to
walk that last tiring stretch, I had only to enter the dark
ticket hall where, apart from a black woman sitting in her
inspector's box, there was no sign of life. Although I stood
there for a considerable time, on the very brink so to speak,
and even exchanged a few glances with the black inspector, I
did not dare to take the final step.
The train rolled slowly out of Liverpool Street station, past
the soot-stained brick walls the recesses of which have
always seemed to me like parts of a vast system of
catacombs that comes to the surface there. In the course of
time a multitude of buddleias, which thrive in the most
inauspicious conditions, had taken root in the gaps and
cracks of the nineteenth-century brickwork. The last time I
went past those black walls, on my way to Italy in the
summer, the sparse shrubs were just flowering. And I could
hardly believe my eyes, as the train was waiting at a signal,
to see a yellow brimstone butterfly flitting about from one

purple flower to the other, first at the top, then at the
bottom, now on the left, constantly moving. But that was
many months ago, and this butterfly memory was perhaps
prompted only by a wishful thought. There was no room for
doubt, however, about the reality of my poor fellow
travellers, who had all set off early that morning neatly
turned out and spruced up, but were now slumped in their
seats like a defeated army and, before they turned to their
newspapers, were staring out at the desolate forecourts of
the metropolis with fixed unseeing eyes. Soon, where the
wilderness of buildings thinned out a little, three tall blocks
of flats entirely boxed in scaffolding and surrounded by
uneven patches of grass became visible at some distance,
while much further off, before the blazing strip of sky on the
western horizon, rain fell like a great funeral pall from the
dark-blue cloud that hung over the entire city. When the train
changed track, I was able to glance back at the great towers
of the City, rising far above everything around them, the
topmost storeys gilded by the rays of the sun slanting in from
the west. The suburbs swept past - Arden, Forest Gate,
Maryland - before we reached the open countryside. The
light over the western horizon was gradually extinguished.
The shadows of evening were already settling on the fields
and hedgerows. Idly I turned the pages of an India paper
edition of Samuel Pepys's diary, Everyman's Library 1913,
which I had purchased that afternoon, and read passages at
random in this 1,500-page account, until drowsiness
overcame me and I found myself going over the same few
lines again and again without any notion what they meant.
And then I dreamed that I was walking through a
mountainous terrain. A white roadway of finely crushed
stone stretched far ahead and in endless hairpins went on
and up through the woods and finally, at the top of the pass,
led through a deep cutting across to the other side of the
high range, which I recognised in my dream as the Aips.
Everything I saw from up there was of the same chalky
colour, a bright, glaring grey in which a myriad of quartz
fragments glimmered, as if the rocks, by a force deep inside
them, were being dissolved into radiant light. From my
vantage-point the road continued downward, and in the

distance a second range of mountains at least as lofty as the
first one arose, which I feared I would not be able to cross.
To my left there was a drop into truly vertiginous depths. I
walked to the edge of the road, and knew that I had never
gazed down into such chasms before. Not a tree was there to
be seen, not a bush, not even a stunted shrub or a tussock of
grass: there was nothing but ice-grey shale. The shadows of
the clouds scudded across the steep slopes and through the
ravines. The silence was absolute, for even the last traces of
plant life, the last rustling leaf or strip of bark, were long
gone, and only "the stones lay unmoved upon on the ground.
Into that breathless void, then, words returned to me as an
echo that had almost faded away - fragments from the
account of the Great Fire of London as recorded by Samuel
Pepys. We saw the fire grow. It was not bright, it was a
gruesome, evil, bloody flame, sweeping, before the wind,
through all the City. Pigeons lay destroyed upon the
pavements, in hundreds, their feathers singed and burned. A
crowd of looters roams through Lincoln's Inn. The churches,
houses, the woodwork and the building stones, ablaze at
once. The churchyard yews ignited, each one a lighted torch,
a shower of sparks now tumbling to the ground. And Bishop
Braybrooke's grave is opened up, his body disinterred. Is this
the end of time? A muffled, fearful, thudding sound, moving,
like waves, throughout the air. The powder house exploded.
We flee onto the water. The glare around us everywhere, and
yonder, before the darkened skies, in one great arc the
jagged wall of fire. And, the day after, a silent rain of ashes,
westward, as far as Windsor Park.
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

EPub Addendum
A Gallery of Covers



