
Contents
Introduction The Second Coming of Aphrodite
Suggestions for Further Reading
A Note on the Text
The Awakening
Emancipation: A Life Fable
At the ’Cadian Ball
Désirée’s Baby
La Belle Zoraïde
At Chênière Caminada
The Story of an Hour
Lilacs
Athénaïse
A Pair of Silk Stockings
Nég Créol
Elizabeth Stock’s One Story

The Storm A Sequel to “The ’Cadian Ball”
OceanofPDF.com

PENGUIN BOOKS
 
Published by the Penguin Group:
Penguin Books Ltd, 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL, England
Penguin Putnam Inc., 375 Hudson Street, New York, New York 10014, USA
Penguin Books Australia Ltd, Ringwood, Victoria, Australia
Penguin Books Canada Ltd, 10 Alcorn Avenue, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M4V
3B2
Penguin Books India (P) Ltd, 11 Community Centre, Panchsheel Park, New
Delhi - 110 017, India
Penguin Books (NZ) Ltd, Cnr Rosedale and Airborne Roads, Albany, Auckland,
New Zealand
Penguin Books (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd, 5 Watkins Street, Denver Ext 4,
Johannesburg 2094, South Africa
 
Penguin Books Ltd, Registered Offices: 80 Strand, WC2R 0RL
 
First published 1899
Published as electronic edition 2002
 
Copyright © Kate Chopin, 2002
All rights reserved
 
The moral right of the author(s) has been asserted
 
Making or distributing electronic copies of this book constitutes copyright
infringement and could subject the infringer to civil and/or criminal liability,
where applicable. No part of this book may be reproduced by any means
without the prior written permission of the publisher.

 
All rights reserved.
 
US:
ISBN 978-1-1012-0077-3
OceanofPDF.com

The Awakening
—and—
Selected Stories
—by—
Kate Chopin
 
Edited with an Introduction by
SANDRA M. GILBERT
 
PENGUIN BOOKS
OceanofPDF.com

 
Introduction
The Second Coming of Aphrodite
The radiant ancient Venus, the Aphrodite born from the white foam of
the sea, has not traversed the horrifying darkness of the Middle Ages
with impunity . . . . She has retired into the depths of a cave, . . . lighted
up by fires which are not those of the benign Phoebus.
—Charles Baudelaire (1861)
I was born under the star of Aphrodite, Aphrodite who was also born on
the sea, and when her star is in the ascendant, events are always
propitious to me.
—Isadora Duncan (1927)
Swiftly re-light the flame,
Aphrodite, holy name, . . .
—H.D. (1945)
In February 1899, while The Awakening was in press, Kate
Chopin wrote a poem called “The Haunted Chamber,” in
which a male speaker tells the tale “Of a fair, frail,
passionate woman who fell.” Narrated in neat couplets, the
story seems at first merely an item for masculine
delectation, an after-dinner diversion:
It may have been false, it may have been true.
That was nothing to me—it was less to you.
But with bottle between us, and clouds of smoke
From your last cigar, ’twas more of a joke
Than a matter of sin or a matter of shame

That a woman had fallen, and nothing to blame,
So far as you or I could discover,
But her beauty, her blood and an ardent lover.
But surprisingly, as the night wears on, the speaker, left
alone with his thoughts, finds himself haunted by this fallen
woman’s fate. When “the lights were low,” he confesses,
And the breeze came in with the moon’s pale glow
The fair, faint voice of a woman, I heard,
’Twas but a wail, and it spoke no word.
It rose from the depths of some infinite gloom
And its tremulous anguish filled the room.
Unspoken and unspeakable, the destiny of one lost lady
symbolizes the wordless wail of every woman whose
passion for self-fulfillment has been forbidden or forgotten.
That such forbidden passion was a major theme for
Kate Chopin became clear to American readers two months
later, when The Awakening—a novel that might be seen as
a book-length vindication of the rights of women like the
“fair, frail” heroine of “The Haunted Chamber”—was
published on April 22 by Herbert S. Stone & Company. But
the irony and urbanity of Chopin’s poem suggest that she
was hardly prepared for the outrage that greeted her novel
on the same subject. Beginning with the remark that he has
“an excellent story to tell,” the sardonically sketched
narrator of “The Haunted Chamber” concludes with a sort
of impatient sympathy:

So now I must listen the whole night through
To the torment with which I had nothing to do—
But women forever will whine and cry
And men forever must listen—and sigh—
From the first, however, reviewers of The Awakening made
it very clear that they did not consider Kate Chopin’s
masterwork “an excellent story,” that they felt no
compassion for “the torment” of her Edna Pontellier, and
that, indeed, they intended neither to “listen” nor “sigh.”
The novel “leaves one sick of human nature,” complained
one critic; “it is not a healthy book,” declared another; “the
purport of the story can hardly be described in language fit
for publication,” asserted a third. Even a sister novelist like
Willa Cather, who admired Chopin’s art and who was
eventually to produce her own tales of lost ladies, deplored
the fact that the author had “devoted so exquisite and
sensitive . . . a style to so trite and sordid a theme.” Within
a few more months, the libraries of St. Louis, Chopin’s
native city, had banned the book; Chopin was shunned by a
number of acquaintances; and, according to her biographer
Per Seyersted, she was refused membership in the St.
Louis Fine Arts Club.
At first the novelist attempted an insouciant self-
defense:
Having a group of people at my disposal, I thought it might be
entertaining (to myself) to throw them together and see what would
happen. I never dreamed of Mrs. Pontellier making such a mess of
things and working out her own damnation as she did. If I had had the
slightest intimation of such a thing I would have excluded her from the
company. But when I found out what she was up to, the play was half
over and it was then too late.

But as time passed, the wound to Chopin’s aesthetic
morale apparently caused her ever more pain. Her royalties
from the book were minimal ($102 in 1899, $40 in 1900,
and $3 in 1901), and her third collection of short stories,
perhaps coincidentally but perhaps not, was rejected by
The Awakening’s publisher. The “moving procession of
human energy,” Chopin finally confided in a sorrowful essay
entitled “A Reflection,” “has left me by the roadside!” As if
to confirm this point, she wrote only a few poems and short
stories (and published even fewer) between 1899, the year
of The Awakening’s disastrous failure, and 1904, the year
when she died. For almost three decades after her death,
moreover, the novel that had created such a scandal was
virtually ignored by a critical establishment that
maintained its stony indifference to the “torment” of both
the author and her heroine, a “torment” with which most
seem smugly to have felt that they had, in the words of the
speaker of “The Haunted Chamber,” “nothing to do.”
The daughter of a distinguished St. Louis family,
Katherine O’Flaherty Chopin was a surprising candidate for
such controversy. Her mother, Eliza Faris, was the
descendant of French Creole aristocrats; her father,
Thomas O’Flaherty, was an ambitious Irish immigrant who
had become a prosperous and prominent merchant before
his untimely death in an 1855 railway accident. Born in
1851, Kate herself received a strict Catholic education at
the St. Louis Academy of the Sacred Heart, learned early to
speak fluent French (partly at school but mostly from her
formidable Creole grandmother, Madame Victoria
Charleville), played the piano with exceptional elegance,
read voraciously both the French and British classics, and
passionately supported the Confederacy during the Civil
War. In 1868, after graduating from the academy, she
“came out” in society, where, according to a contemporary
reporter, she was quickly defined as “one of the

acknowledged belles of St. Louis, a favorite not only for her
beauty, but also for her amiability of character and her
cleverness.” In 1870 she married Oscar Chopin, a twenty-
five-year-old Creole cotton trader, with whom she moved
first to New Orleans and then, in 1879, when Chopin’s
business failed, to a plantation near Cloutierville, on the
Cane River, in the part of Natchitoches (pronounced Nack-
uh-tush) Parish called “La Côte Joyeuse.”
The “conscientious mother” of six children, Chopin
loved her husband and led a “happy and industrious” life.
Indeed, like the model nineteenth-century woman
described by the British conduct-book writer Mrs. Sara
Ellis, young Mrs. Chopin was, her daughter later
remembered, the “Lady Bountiful of the neighborhood,
dispensing advice and counsel, medicines, and, when
necessary, food to the simple people around her, and in this
way learning to know and to love them too . . . .” When her
husband died of swamp fever in 1883, she was at first
“inconsolable,” writes Seyersted. Returning to St. Louis
with her children, she began to compose what a reviewer
from the Chicago Times-Herald called “delightful sketches”
of her life in “Old Natchitoches,” partly to supplement her
income and partly to distract herself from her grief. Modest
but charming, her early works must have seemed as
blameless as her life had been. It is no wonder, therefore,
that in June 1899 the same Chicago journalist protested in
a review of The Awakening that “It was not necessary for a
writer of so great refinement and grace to enter the
overworked field of sex fiction.”
Behind Kate Chopin’s exemplary façade as devout girl
and devoted wife, however, there seems always to have
been another Kate Chopin, a young woman of
independence and irony who was haunted, as Edna
Pontellier is, by vague dreams of spiritual liberation.

Complaining about the round of parties at which an
“acknowledged belle” was expected to appear, she worried
when she was seventeen that “my dear reading and writing
that I love so well have suffered much neglect,” and a year
later, even more forcefully, she protested against having to
“dance with people I despise; amuse myself with men
whose only talent lies in their feet . . . .” At around this
time, moreover, she took a trip to New Orleans, where she
learned to smoke cigarettes—then a daring gesture for
well-bred young ladies—and, even more daringly, she wrote
the fable called “Emancipation,” in which she reimagined
herself as a “handsome” (male) beast escaping from a
comfortable cage on a “mad flight” into “the Unknown.”
The following year, as she and Oscar began their wedding
journey, she quite fortuitously met one “Miss Claflin” on the
train to New York. Soon to achieve notoriety as the feminist
and free-love advocate Mrs. Victoria Woodhull, this “fussy,
pretty, talkative little woman,” wrote Chopin in her diary,
“entreated me not to fall into the useless degrading life of
most married ladies—but to elevate my mind [and] I
assured her I would do so . . . .” Living in New Orleans, she
followed Miss Claflin’s advice in her own way,
adventurously exploring the city on foot or by streetcar and
taking notes on scenes that impressed her, attending the
theater and the opera, and continuing her copious reading
during long summers at Grand Isle, the vacation resort on
the Gulf of Mexico where The Awakening is set.
When Chopin returned to St. Louis after her husband’s
death, her family doctor, Frederick Kolbenheyer, became
one of her closest friends. A radical intellectual and,
according to Per Seyersted, a “determined agnostic,” he
persuaded her to read Darwin, Huxley, and Spencer; to
abandon in all but name the faith of her Catholic girlhood;
and to begin writing fiction in earnest. As Seyersted
observes, therefore, even her earliest stories were far more

than “delightful sketches.” From the first, they were
studies of “emancipation” and often specifically of female
emancipation. Stylistically, moreover, they were rather
more advanced than the works of a conscientious “Lady
Bountiful” might have been expected to be. For besides the
scientific and philosophical treatises Dr. Kolbenheyer
recommended to her, this newly liberated St. Louis widow
had begun to read much of the most influential fiction of
her day—the works of women regionalists like Sarah Orne
Jewett and Mary E. Wilkins Freeman, the novels of
naturalists like Zola and Howells, and, above all, what she
called the “direct and simple” stories of Maupassant, whom
she defined as “a man who had escaped from tradition and
authority, who had entered into himself and looked out
upon life through his own being and with his own eyes.”
Significantly, that description of Maupassant, written
two years before the composition of The Awakening but
recounting an insight Chopin claimed to have had eight
years earlier, sounds not only like a description of her own
literary program but also like a summary of Edna
Pontellier’s emancipatory quest in The Awakening. For an
escape “from tradition and authority,” as much as a
liberation from the comfortable cage of bourgeois
matrimony, was to be both problem and solution for Kate
Chopin and her most famous heroine. In their
concentration on such issues, moreover, author and
character alike became representative late-nineteenth-
century figures; even more dramatically, they became
representative women of the fin de siècle.
 
By the turn of the century, both moral and literary
escapes “from tradition and authority” were matters of
major concern to writers of both sexes, but perhaps

especially to literary women. Kate Chopin was born, after
all, only four years after the publication of Charlotte
Brontë’s surprisingly radical Jane Eyre and Emily Brontë’s
shockingly passionate Wuthering Heights, two years before
the appearance of Harriet Beecher Stowe’s revolutionary
Uncle Tom’s Cabin, and six years before the publication of
Elizabeth Barrett Browning’s openly feminist epic poem,
Aurora Leigh. As for male artists, just four years after
Chopin’s birth Walt Whitman was to publish his first
version of Leaves of Grass, a work whose sensual frankness
and stylistic freedom made it at least as daring in 1855 as
The Awakening was in 1899. By 1851, moreover, Richard
Wagner’s epochal Tannhäuser, with its shocking depiction
of a fiery Venusberg, had already premiered in Germany,
and within little more than a decade it was to be performed
in Paris, where it would be defended by Charles Baudelaire,
whose own controversial masterwork, Les Fleurs du Mal,
had appeared a few years earlier, in 1857.
It seems important to review these scattered names
and dates because, just as The Awakening has lately been
defined primarily as a political romance, Kate Chopin
herself has often in recent years been detached from the
rich intellectual fabric of the age that produced and
nurtured her. Originally seen by her most sympathetic
critics as a “local colorist,” she was later upgraded by
keener enthusiasts to a sort of feminist sociologist but still
defined as an artist whose principal sources of energy were
empirical observation and political theorizing.
Paradoxically enough, however, in their instinctive dislike
of the novel’s erotic boldness and their willful refusal to
sympathize with what we can now understand as Edna’s
social and metaphysical “torment,” some of the earliest
reviews of The Awakening came closer to understanding
the complex aesthetic content and radical origins of its
author’s art. The novel “is like one of Aubrey Beardsley’s

hideous but haunting pictures with their disfiguring leer of
sensuality,” declared a reviewer for the Los Angeles Sunday
Times, for instance. Three decades later the writer of the
first full-length study of Kate Chopin elaborated upon this
position. “The Awakening follows the current of erotic
morbidity that flowed strongly through the literature of the
last two decades of the nineteenth century,” observed
Daniel Rankin, adding that Kate Chopin shared in “the
prevailing artistic vertigo,” and “the mania for the exotic”
that turned so many fin de siècle imaginations toward
femmes fatales like Salomé, Cleopatra, and Salammbô.
Rankin was thinking in terms that would be explored in
Mario Praz’s The Romantic Agony (1935), but his
descriptive phrases, like those of the Los Angeles
Timesreviewer, had a distinctly Victorian moral cast.
Beneath the judgmental surface, however, we can discern
an accurate definition of who and what Kate Chopin was: a
woman of the nineties, a writer of the fin de siècle.
What did it mean, though, to be a female artist of the
fin de siècle, with all that such a voluptuously apocalyptic
French phrase implied? Superficially, at least, the phrase
fin de siècle meant, for literary women as for literary men,
a kind of drawing-room sophistication—smoking Turkish
cigarettes, subscribing to the avant garde London
periodical The Yellow Book, reading (and translating)
French fiction, all of which Kate Chopin did, especially in
the St. Louis years of her widowhood, the years of her
major literary activity. More integrally, the fin de siècle was
associated, for women as for men, with artistic and
intellectual revolutionaries like Aubrey Beardsley and
Oscar Wilde, together with their most significant
precursors: Swinburne, Pater, Whitman, Wagner,
Baudelaire. For women, however, the nineties also meant
the comparatively new idea of “free love” as well as the
even newer persona of the “New Woman,” a woman who

chose to be politically, professionally, and emotionally
autonomous. In addition, to be a woman of the nineties
meant to have come of age in a new kind of literary age, an
era whose spirit was, if not dominated by literary women,
at least shared and shaped by significant female
imaginations.
Kate Chopin, like many of her female contemporaries,
began quite early to read the masterworks of the quartet
Virginia Woolf calls “the four great novelists”—Jane Austen,
Charlotte Brontë, Emily Brontë, and George Eliot. Early
and late, moreover, she admired the writings of the famous
French iconoclast George Sand, after one of whose
heroines, significantly, she named her only daughter, Lélia.
In addition, she belonged to a literary circle in St. Louis
where the writings of such figures, as well as the works of
their American contemporaries and descendants, were
actively discussed. Like the fictions of so many women,
however, her earliest full-length narrative—the 1890 novel
At Fault—bears most clearly the mark of that most
inescapable of women’s novels, Jane Eyre. Indeed, like a
number of other nineteenth-century female fictions,
Chopin’s At Fault depends for its drama on crucial elements
of the Jane Eyre plot: specifically, on a husband helplessly
shackled to a mentally “incompetent” wife (in this case an
alcoholic rather than a madwoman), a “pure” woman who
insists on the holiness of wedlock, a fire that destroys much
of the husband’s property, and a providential death that
happily resolves the unhappy triangle.
Unfortunately, though, what had worked so well in
1847 for Charlotte Brontë helped the apprentice Kate
Chopin not at all. The splitting of her female protagonist
into a sober and noble heroine, on the one hand, and a
drunken ignoble double, on the other, seemed actually to
block the sort of feminist speculation such a strategy had

made possible in Brontë’s novel. Equally hampering were
the Gothic elements of fire and providential death that had
given intensity to Jane Eyre. In the forties, Brontë had used
these plot devices to dramatize her heroine’s
unprecedented quest for autonomy. By the nineties,
however, with New Women making both social and literary
history, it had become clear that the “mad” rebellious
woman and the “sane” dutiful woman were really
inhabitants of the same body, and their conflicts had to be
depicted not through a series of theatrical events but
through an exploration of the troubled female
consciousness itself, along with an examination of the
culture that had shaped that consciousness. How, though,
could such psychological and cultural analyses be given
enough force so that they would be interesting to readers?
After the failure of At Fault, Chopin must have realized that
her most pressing task was to learn how to depict the
relationship between the individual and society in fictions
that would have both the dramatic vitality of Jane Eyre and
the apparently objective, analytical restraint of Madame
Bovary. But how could she negotiate the passage from the
clumsily derivative At Fault to such works? To put the
question another way, how could she move, and move as a
woman writer, from the often melodramatic or sentimental
conventions that characterized even the most “realistic”
nineteenth-century novels in England and America to the
more elliptical structures of twentieth-century fiction?
At first, for Chopin, as for many other so-called
regionalists, “local color” writing offered both a mode and a
manner that could mediate between the literary structures
she had inherited and those she had begun, if only dimly, to
envision. Because the “local color” writer is in a sense a
sort of anthropologist, the recounting of tales based on
idiosyncratic customs, folk character, and regional behavior
could let her learn to create and narrate stories with almost

scientific detachment. More important, by reporting odd
events and customs that were part of a region’s “local
color” she could tell what would ordinarily be rather
shocking or even melodramatic tales in an unmelodramatic
way and without fear of the kind of moral outrage that a
more “mainstream” work like The Awakening would evoke.
Most important, by detaching herself from a specific set of
customs she could learn to detach herself from all customs;
like a few other regionalists—Mark Twain, for instance,
comes to mind—she could move from theorizing about a
particular subcultural group to theorizing about culture
itself.
Modest as they may seem, for instance, the stories
collected here reveal that large issues had always been
implicit in Chopin’s “delightful sketches” at the same time
that the stylistic and thematic variety of these tales reveals
the range of her narrative talents. “At the ’Cadian Ball,” for
example, dramatizes the hierarchies that structure even so
apparently simple a society as that of “La Côte Joyeuse.”
“Désirée’s Baby” and “La Belle Zoraïde” go further and
interrogate the arbitrary race distinctions that could divide
man from wife, child from parent, in such a culture. “At
Chênière Caminada,” set at the summer resort that was to
play so crucial a part in The Awakening, and “Nég Créol,”
set in a very different New Orleans from the quartier
inhabited by either Edna Pontellier or Kate Chopin herself,
offer poignant portraits of southern ladies from the
sympathetically delineated point of view of working-class
men—one white, one black—into whose consciousness a
decorous lady like Chopin herself might not have been
expected to enter. “A Pair of Silk Stockings” and “Elizabeth
Stock’s One Story” sketch similarly poignant portraits of
ladies—one a genteel widow, the other an impoverished
spinster—as they see themselves. “The Story of an Hour,”
“Athénaïse,” and “The Storm”—the last so revolutionary in

its implications that its author never attempted to publish it
in her lifetime—question the very institution of marriage.
“Lilacs” movingly delineates the love between two
strikingly dissimilar women while telling a tale notably
different from The Awakening or “The Haunted Chamber”
of a “fair, frail, passionate woman who fell.” In all these
pieces, although she appears to begin by setting herself a
comparatively limited narrative task, Chopin ultimately
presses herself to confront large, even (as in “Désirée’s
Baby,” “Lilacs,” and “The Storm”) apocalyptic questions
that many fin de siècle artists were approaching from other
directions.
In a useful essay on “The Decadent and the New
Woman,” Linda Dowling has suggested that both these
turn-of-the-century intellectual “types” shared “the
fundamental desire of the fin de siècle avant garde: the
dream of living beyond culture”—the dream, that is, of
living beyond patriarchal Victorian culture. To say this,
however, is to say that artists like Aubrey Beardsley and
Oscar Wilde, with literary styles and goals quite distinct
from Chopin’s, had also begun to speculate on the nature of
culture as well as on the nature of nature itself, especially
on the nature of impulses that might transcend the
imperatives of nineteenth-century “morality.” Confronting
such questions because of her quasi-anthropological work
as a local colorist, Chopin must also have been influenced
by related speculations she would have encountered in
French literature and in The Yellow Book as well as in
contemporary “New Woman” novels. Of course, however, as
they dreamed of living beyond the strictures and structures
of their own culture, two such different beings as the
“decadent” and the New Woman yearned for radically
different versions of a revitalized world. On the one hand,
the New Woman characteristically dreamed of a
transfigured society where all “sex distinction” had

dissolved away. On the other hand, the so-called decadents
dreamed of a society transfigured not beyond but through
sex, and specifically through a reimagining of the erotic
that would return men and women to the Eden of sexuality
from which Protestant morality had expelled them.
As a woman writer, Kate Chopin clearly had a New
Womanly distaste for the oppressions associated with
patriarchal “sex distinction.” But because she had come to
cultural theory through readings of publications like The
Yellow Book, as well as through the antipuritanical
tradition of French literature and the observations of
literary anthropology, she was disinclined even to try to
imagine a gender-free Eden. Rather, she dreamed of a
specifically sexual culture “beyond culture.” At the same
time, however, she must have seen that such an erotic Eden
often might involve a misogynistic exploitation of the
female. Aubrey Beardsley’s The Story of Venus and
Tannhäuser, for instance, depicts a pornographic paradise
dominated by a nymphomaniac “Madam Venus” whose
sensuality is often as perverse as the troop of satyrs,
cherubs, dwarfs, and sexually “doubtful creatures” who
serve her. Without denying or deriding the erotic, as many
New Women tended to do, Chopin strove to purify it of such
decadent misogyny.
To do this, as we shall see, she dreamed of yet a third
Eden, a sacramental rather than a sacrilegious garden of
earthly delights, a culture “beyond culture” whose energy
would arise from the liberation and celebration of female
desire. And she insisted that this Eden should be ruled by a
Venus who would be as regal as Beardsley’s was degraded.
Her vision of such a goddess probably gained its strength
from the theology of feminist contemporaries who were
revising traditional religious ideas to create woman-
centered creeds. In addition, her sense of the goddess’s

sacramental sexuality must have been fortified by the
revisionary erotics of feminist free-love advocates as well
as by the radical sexual politics of men like Walt Whitman.
Most important, however, was the female aesthetic Chopin
constructed as, in striving to imagine the healthy eroticism
of a transformed culture, she searched through the myths
she had inherited from patriarchal history itself. For in
reexamining such myths, she began, if only half-consciously
and tentatively, to create a narrative structure in which she
might coherently dramatize the female struggle for identity
that was her central subject. As her son sketched it in
1899, not long after the publication of The Awakening, the
room in which she worked seems to have been emblematic
of her philosophical as well as literary goals. “There were
hardly any ornamentations in it,” her biographer tells us,
“apart from a few paintings on the wall and a candle and a
naked Venus on the bookshelf.” Abandoning both formal
Catholicism and conventional “morality,” Chopin must have
understood her own desire to tell a new kind of story about
a woman’s life, a story that would revitalize and vindicate
the pagan presence of the goddess of love.
 
Toward the end of The Awakening there is a dinner
party scene that has been ignored by many critics, though
it has fascinated and puzzled a few. On the verge of leaving
her husband’s house for a nearby cottage that she hopes
will become both a spiritual and material room of her own,
Edna Pontellier has invited a group of friends to join her at
a birthday dinner that will also be a ceremonial celebration
of her departure from one household and her entrance into
another. Splendid in gold satin and lace “the color of her
skin,” she presides over an equally splendid table, lit by
“wax candles in massive brass candelabra,” and heaped
with “full, fragrant roses.” The “ordinary stiff dining chairs”

have been “discarded for the occasion and replaced by the
most commodious and luxurious which could be collected
throughout the house” while “before each guest [stands] a
tiny glass that [sparkles] like a garnet gem,” containing a
special, magical-looking cocktail. Enthroned at the head of
the table, Edna herself appears equally magical, for there is
“something in her attitude, in her whole appearance . . .
which [suggests] the regal woman, the one who rules, who
looks on, who stands alone.” At the same time, however—
even in the midst of merrymaking that climaxes in one of
the women guests weaving a pagan garland of roses to
crown the curls of the handsome young man beside her—
we are told that Edna feels an “old ennui overtaking
her . . . . a chill breath that seemed to issue from some vast
cavern wherein discords wailed” (Chapter XXX).
Perhaps it is because so many recent critics would
agree with Lawrence Thornton’s description of The
Awakening as a “political romance” that few have paid
close attention to this scene. Though in the last decade The
Awakening has become one of the most persistently
analyzed American novels, writers about the book
commonly describe Edna’s party as just one more occasion
on which Chopin’s half-mad housewife experiences
“unfocused yearning” for romantic transfiguration or social
liberation. Besides occupying an exceptionally elaborate
chapter in a novel of economical episodes, however, Edna’s
dinner party is described in a scene whose images and
allusions suggest rich veins of symbolism. What does it
mean, after all, when the narrator of this apparently
“realistic” work suddenly calls her heroine “the regal
woman, the one who rules, who looks on, who stands
alone”? The vocabulary of such a description seems more
appropriate to a fantasy or a fairy tale, and yet this
mysterious definition seems also to evoke the narrator’s
next perception of the “chill breath” her queenly heroine

feels, together with Edna’s equally mysterious sense of
“acute longing which always summoned into her spiritual
vision the presence of the beloved one . . . .” Who or what,
indeed, is the oddly vague “beloved one”? And why, finally,
does the enigmatically wise Mademoiselle Reisz take her
leave of Edna with a French sentence—“Bonne nuit, ma
reine; soyez sage”—that seems to confirm our feeling that
this magical hostess is clothed in a paradoxical veil of
power and vulnerability?
As a speculative explanation of these puzzles I want to
suggest that The Awakening is a female fiction that both
draws upon and revises fin de siècle hedonism to propose a
feminist myth of Aphrodite/Venus as an alternative to the
patriarchal myth of Jesus. In the novel’s unfolding of this
implicit myth, the dinner party scene is crucial, for here, as
she presides over a Swinburnian Last Supper, Edna
Pontellier in a sense “becomes” the powerful goddess of
love and art into whose shape she was first “born” in the
Gulf near Grand Isle and in whose image she will be borne
back into the sea at the novel’s end. Thus when Victor, the
young man who was ritually garlanded at the climax of the
feast, tells his friend Mariequita that “Venus rising from the
foam could have presented no more entrancing a spectacle
than Mrs. Pontellier, blazing with beauty and diamonds at
the head of the board,” he is speaking what is in a strange
way the truth about Kate Chopin’s heroine.
To see The Awakening in these terms is not, of course,
to deny that it is also the work most readers have thought it
is: a “Creole Bovary,” a feminist “critique of the identity of
‘mother–women,’ ” a New Orleans version of “the familiar
transcendentalist fable of the soul’s emergence, or ‘lapse’
into life,” “a eulogy on sex and a muted elegy on the female
condition,” a turn-of-the-century “existentialist” epiphany,
and “a tough-minded critique of the Victorian myths of

love.” Taken together, all of these definitions of the novel
reveal the range of political, moral, and philosophical
concerns on which Chopin meditates throughout this brief
but sophisticated work. What unifies these issues, however,
is the way in which, for all its surface realism, The
Awakening is organized by Kate Chopin’s half-secret (and
perhaps only half-conscious) fantasy of the second coming
of Aphrodite.
To be sure, Chopin’s “Creole Bovary” has always been
seen, like its French precursor, as a novel that both uses
fantasy and comments upon fantasy in order to establish
the character of its heroine and the nature of her character.
From the severest early reviewers to the most enthusiastic
recent writers, however, most critics consider such
fantasies, as they do Emma Bovary’s, symptoms of an
“over-idealization of love” and a “susceptibility to romantic
codes.” People like Edna Pontellier and Emma Bovary,
wrote Willa Cather in her 1899 review, “are the spoil of the
poets, the Iphigenias of sentiment.” Despite Cather’s
censoriousness, however, a careful reading of The
Awakening suggests that the details of desire it records
shape a tale of romantic transfiguration that not only
comments upon fantasy but actually becomes a fantasy, if
only a shadowy one. Both seriously and ironically this
fantasy of Kate Chopin’s shows, from a female point of
view, just what would “really” happen to a mortal, turn-of-
the-century woman who tried to claim the erotic freedom
that Greek mythology attributed to the classical queen of
love.
Appropriately enough, Kate Chopin’s portrait of
Aphrodite as a Creole Bovary begins and ends at a seaside
resort where a lucky few may be given the chance to
witness the birth of such mythic freedom in the foam. To
start with, however, despite the nearness of the sea and the

incessant sound of its “seductive” voice, Chopin offers
scenes that seem determinedly realistic, landbound. In
addition, as if acknowledging Flaubert’s influence, she
opens her novel about a woman’s fateful transformation by
examining her heroine from a male perspective. Madame
Bovary begins with a brief summary of Charles Bovary’s
history, including a description of the way Emma Rouault
looks to the young physician whom she will soon marry.
Similarly, The Awakening’s author-omniscient first chapter
emphasizes the point of view of Edna Pontellier’s
conventional husband, Léonce. In both cases, the woman
appears first as an object, and Edna in particular is
presented as she seems to Léonce: valuable, even
treasured, but nevertheless, a thing to be possessed rather
than a person to be heard or heeded. Even this early in her
novel, however, and even while acknowledging her debt to
Flaubert, Chopin swerves from him by emphasizing this
last point. For where the French novelist creates sympathy
for Charles with his devastating portrait of the first
Madame Bovary, Chopin immediately characterizes Léonce
as an impatient businessman who scrutinizes his wife for
sunburn “as one looks at a valuable piece of personal
property which has suffered some damage” (Chapter I).
Most of The Awakening is told from Edna’s perspective,
with occasional editorial interpolations from the narrator,
but despite its unrepresentative point of view and its air of
almost impressionistic improvisation, this opening chapter
includes many of the major motifs of the work to follow:
symbolic objects (houses, clothing, jewelry, food); symbolic
activities (piano playing, swimming, housecleaning,
gambling); symbolic figures, both human and inhuman (the
birds, the lady in black, the twins, Edna and Robert, Mr.
Pontellier, Madame Lebrun); symbolic places (the Gulf, the
beach, the city, the summer colony on Grand Isle), and
crucial relationships (husbands and wives, mothers and

children). First encountered here, most of these elements
seem ordinary enough, or rather they seem as vividly literal
as objects in a painting by Renoir or Seurat. It is only as
one scene dissolves into another, as the narrative point of
view gradually enters Edna’s consciousness, and as objects
and activities recur like elements of a protracted dream,
that they begin to gain what eventually becomes an almost
uncanny power. Porches and pianos, mothers and children,
skirts and sunshades—all these are the props and
properties of domesticity, the key elements of what in the
nineteenth century was called “woman’s sphere,” and it is
in this sphere, on the edge of a blue gulf, that Edna
Pontellier is caged when she first appears in the novel that
will tell her story. In a larger sense, however, she is
confined in what is not only literally a “woman’s sphere”
but, symbolically speaking, the Woman’s House—the place
to which in many cultures women are ritually assigned at
crucial times in their lives. Here, therefore, every object
and figure has a distinctively female symbolic significance.
The “mother-women” who “prevail that summer at
Grand Isle” (Chapter IV), the young lovers who always
appear in the neighborhood of the sepulchral lady in black,
Edna’s own children trailed by their quadroon nurse with
her “faraway, meditative air” (Chapter I), imperious
Mademoiselle Reisz in her “rusty black lace” and artificial
violets (Chapter IX), the Farival twins “always clad in the
Virgin’s colors” (Chapter IX), the skirt-dancing little girl in
black tulle, even Edna herself sharing out her husband’s
gift of friandises—all seem like faintly grotesque variations
on the figures from “La Vie d’une Femme” who appear in
Charlotte Brontë’s Villette: the young girl, the bride, the
mother, the widow. That the pension in which all these
women have gathered is ruled by the pretty widow
Madame Lebrun, who sews and oversees in a light airy
room with a view at the top of the house, seems quite

appropriate. At the same time, however, it also seems quite
right that the novel begins with the comical curse of the
caged parrot—“Allez vous-en! Allez vous-en! Sapristi!”—
and with the information that this same bird also speaks “a
language which nobody understood, unless it was the
mocking-bird that hung on the other side of the door . . . .”
(Chapter I). For these birds together prefigure Edna’s
restlessness and her irony, her desire for freedom and her
sense that freedom may ultimately be meaningless, her
yearning for solitude and her worries about loneliness.
Before these desires and fears become fully conscious,
however, and even while it is slowly becoming clear that
the domesticity of these early chapters is symbolically as
well as literally important, Chopin begins to dramatize her
heroine’s summer of discontent through a series of
traditionally “realistic” interactions between Edna and her
husband. Though these scenes may be partly influenced by
the style of French writers like Flaubert and Maupassant,
they are most thematically indebted to the female literary
tradition in English of which Kate Chopin was also an heir.
Depicting Léonce’s casual self-absorption and Edna’s mild
rebelliousness, the narrator of The Awakening at first
seems mainly concerned to represent with Austenian
delicacy a marriage on the edge of Eliotian fissures. To
begin with, therefore, Edna’s “awakening” is both domestic
and prosaic. Like Dorothea Brooke in George Eliot’s
Middlemarch and Gwendolen Harleth in Eliot’s Daniel
Deronda, she awakens from the romantic dreams of
girlhood first to find herself a married woman and then to
find that the meaning of marriage is very different from
what she had supposed. Like another nineteenth-century
heroine—Catherine Earnshaw Linton in Emily Brontë’s
Wuthering Heights—she experiences what Chopin calls “an
indescribable oppression” that seems to come at least in
part from her sense of herself as, in Brontë’s words, “the

wife of a stranger; an exile, and outcast . . . from what had
been [her] world.” For when, like the subject of one of
Emily Dickinson’s poems, she rises to “his requirements”
and takes on “the honorable work of woman and of wife,”
she seems to have accepted a spiritual confinement that
excludes all visions of “amplitude and awe.”
For George Eliot’s comparatively docile Dorothea and
her chastened Gwendolen, even for Emily Brontë’s fierce
Catherine, such a recognition of domestic entrapment is
the climax of a long process of social reconciliation that
must end in these heroines accepting their own
comparative powerlessness. For Edna, however, this
recognition of “her position in the universe as a human
being, and . . . her relations as an individual to the world
within and about her” (Chapter VI) is only the beginning of
a more metaphysical awakening to the implications of her
own femaleness. Like Emily Dickinson, Chopin wants to
record not only the body’s rebellion at confinement but also
the soul’s “moments of escape” along with the visions of
power that motivate such escapes. In addition, because she
is a fiction writer, she wants to create a narrative that will
dramatize those visions. After her first discoveries of
spiritual uneasiness, therefore, Edna’s “awakenings”
become increasingly fantastic and poetic, stirrings of the
imagination’s desire for “amplitude and awe” rather than
protests of the reason against unreasonable constraint.
Paradoxically, however, it is just Edna’s domestic
confinement itself that makes possible these later, more
visionary awakenings. Specifically, Edna awakens to the
possibilities as well as the problems of “her position in the
universe” not only because she finds herself enclosed in
“woman’s sphere” but also because she has come to spend
the summer in what is in a sense a female colony. In fact,
Madame Lebrun’s pension on Grand Isle is very much a

woman’s land not only because it is owned and run by a
single woman and dominated by “mother-women” but also
because (as in so many summer colonies today) its
principal inhabitants are actually women and children
whose husbands and fathers visit only on weekends. No
wonder, then, that, as Chopin observes, “That summer at
Grand Isle [Edna] began to loosen a little the mantle of
reserve that had always enveloped her” (Chapter VII) and
had begun to do so under the influence, first, of beautiful
and sensual Adèle Ratignolle and, later, of more severe and
spiritual Mademoiselle Reisz. Responding to Adèle’s
questions in Chapter VII, for instance, she begins to
describe the search for meaning that has shaped her life.
Similarly, responding in Chapter IX to Mademoiselle Reisz’s
music, she becomes conscious that “the very passions
themselves were aroused within her soul, swaying it,
lashing it, as the waves daily beat upon her . . . body.”
The oceanic imagery Chopin uses to illustrate Edna’s
feelings about Mademoiselle Reisz’s music suggests yet
another way in which Madame Lebrun’s predominantly
female summer colony on Grand Isle awakens this Creole
Bovary. Chopin’s Aphrodite, like Hesiod’s, is born from the
sea, and born specifically because the colony where she
comes to consciousness is situated, like so many places that
are significant for women, outside patriarchal culture,
beyond the limits and limitations of the city where men
make history, on a shore that marks the margin where
nature intersects with culture. Here the sea can speak in a
seductive voice, “never ceasing, whispering, clamoring,
murmuring, inviting the soul to wander for a spell in
abysses of solitude; to lose itself in mazes of inward
contemplation” (Chapter VI). It is significant, then, that not
only Edna’s silent dialogue with Mademoiselle Reisz but
also her confessional conversation with Adèle Ratignolle
employs much sea imagery. Reconstructing her first

childhood sense of selfhood for her friend, Edna
remembers “a meadow that seemed as big as the ocean” in
which as a little girl she “threw out her arms as if
swimming when she walked, beating the tall grass as one
strikes out in the water” (Chapter VII). Just as significantly,
she speculates that, as she journeyed through this
seemingly endless meadow, she was most likely “running
away from prayers . . . read in a spirit of gloom by my
father that chills me yet to think of.” She was running away,
that is, from patriarchal theology, and running into the wild
openness of nature. Even so early, the story implies, her
search for an alternative religion, or at least for an
alternative mythology, had begun. In the summer of her
awakening on Grand Isle, that quest is extended into the
process of learning not to run but to swim.
Edna’s education in swimming is, of course, obviously
symbolic, representing both a positive political lesson in
staying afloat and an ambiguously valuable sentimental
education in the consequences of getting in over one’s
head. More important, however, is the fact that swimming
immerses Edna in an other element, an element in whose
baptismal embrace she is mystically and mythically reborn.
That Chopin wants to emphasize this aspect of Edna’s
education in swimming is made clear by the magical
occasion on which her heroine’s first independent swim
takes place. Following Mademoiselle Reisz’s evocative
concert, “someone, perhaps it was Robert [Edna’s lover-to-
be], thought of a bath at that mystic hour and under that
mystic moon” (Chapter IX). On this night that sits “lightly
upon the sea and the land,.” then, the previously timid
Edna begins for the first time to swim, feeling “as if some
power of significant import had been given her” and
aspiring “to swim far out, where no woman had swum
before” (Chapter X). Her new strength and her new
ambition are fostered by the traditionally female mythic

associations of moonlight and water, as well as by the
romantic attendance of Robert Lebrun and the “heavy
perfume of a field of white blossoms somewhere near”
(Chapter X). At the same time, however, Chopin’s
description of the waves breaking on the beach “in little
foamy crests . . . like slow, white serpents” (Chapter X)
suggests that Edna is swimming not only with new powers
but into a paradise that depends on deliberate reversals of
conventional theological images, while her frequent
reminders that this sea is a gulf reinforce our sense that its
waters are in some sense metaphysical. Thus, even more
important than Edna’s swim are both its narrative and its
aesthetic consequences. For in swimming away from the
beach where her prosaic husband watches and waits, Edna
swims away from the shore of her old life, where she had
lingered for twenty-eight years, hesitant and ambivalent. As
she swims, moreover, she swims not only toward a female
paradise but out of one kind of novel—the work of Eliotian
or Flaubertian “realism” she had previously inhabited—and
into a new kind of work, a distinctively female fantasy of
paradisal fulfillment.
In a literal sense, of course, the scenes that follow
Edna’s first independent swim merely seem to record
playful fantasies expressed by Robert and Edna as part of a
“realistically” rendered courtship. As one reads the novel,
though, they come to have a surprising metaphorical
intensity, even a mythic power, and thus they create a kind
of ghostly story that begins with Edna’s baptismal
swimming scene in Chapter X and ends with her last,
suicidal swim in Chapter XXXIX. For when Edna says, “I
wonder if any night on earth will ever again be like this
one,” she is starting to place herself in a tale that comes
poetically “true.” Her dialogue with Robert, as the two
return from their moonlit midnight swim in the Gulf, opens
this story. “It is like a night in a dream,” she says. “The

people about me are like some uncanny, half-human beings.
There must be spirits abroad to-night” (Chapter X).
Robert’s reply develops her idea. It is the twenty-eighth of
August, he observes, and then explains fancifully that on
that date, “at the hour of midnight, and if the moon is
shining . . . a spirit that has haunted these shores for ages
rises up from the Gulf . . . . [and] seeks some one mortal
worthy to hold him company . . . . to-night he found Mrs.
Pontellier. Perhaps he will never wholly release her from
the spell.” Fanciful as it seems, this fantasy of Edna’s and
Robert’s is associated, first, with a real change in their
relationship, and, then, with a real change in Edna. Sitting
on the porch in the moonlight, the two fall into an erotic
silence that seems to be a consequence of the tale they
have jointly told. And the next day, when Edna awakens,
she finds herself “blindly following whatever impulse
moved her, as if she had placed herself in alien hands for
direction, and freed her soul of responsibility” (Chapter
XII).
The scenes that follow—Edna’s awakening of Robert (in
Chapter XII), their voyage (in the same chapter) to the
nearby island called the Chênière Caminada (the island of
live oaks), their attendance at church (in Chapter XIII),
Edna’s nap at Madame Antoine’s cottage (again in Chapter
XIII) and their return to Grand Isle (in Chapter XIV)—
constitute a wistful adult fairy tale. Journeying across the
Gulf to mass on the Chênière Caminada, Edna feels “as if
she were being borne away from some anchorage which
had held her fast, whose chains had been loosening”
(Chapter XII), and together with Robert she dreams of
“pirate gold” and of yet another voyage. Then, when she
finally arrives at the “quaint little Gothic church of Our
Lady of Lourdes,” she is overcome by “a feeling of
oppression and drowsiness,” so that she struggles—as she
did when “running away from prayers” through the

Kentucky meadow—to escape its “stifling atmosphere . . .
and reach the open air.” Everything that happens after she
leaves the church further implies that she has abandoned
the suffocation of traditional Christian theology for the
rituals of an alternative religion. Attended by Robert, she
strolls to “Madame Antoine’s cot,” where, almost
ceremonially, she undresses, bathes, lies down “in the very
center of [a] high, white bed,” and, like a revisionary
Sleeping Beauty, sleeps for almost a whole day. When she
awakens, for the fifth or sixth but most crucial time in this
novel of perpetual “awakening,” she wonders, “How many
years have I slept? . . . A new race of beings must have
sprung up . . . .” (Chapter XIII). Again she bathes, almost
ceremonially, and then she eats what appear to be two
ritual meals, after which she and Robert sit at the feet of
fat matriarchal Madame Antoine, who tells them “legends
of the Baratarians and the sea.”
Having bathed, slept, feasted, communed, and received
a sort of religious instruction, Edna seems to have entered
a realm where extraordinary myths are real and ordinary
reality is merely mythical. Yet of course this imaginary
world is quite incompatible with the fictions of gentility and
Christianity by which her “real” world lives. Metaphorically
speaking, Edna has become Aphrodite, or at least a devotee
of that goddess. But what can be—must be—her fate?
Shadowing her earlier “realism” with the ghostly romance
she has developed in these fairy-tale chapters, Chopin
devotes the rest of her novel to examining the difficulty of
the struggles for autonomy that she imagines would have
engaged any nineteenth-century woman who experienced
such a fantastic transformation. If Aphrodite—or at least
Phaedra—were reborn as a fin de siècle New Orleans
housewife, says Chopin, Edna Pontellier’s fate would be her
fate.

Because it mainly dramatizes the results of Edna’s
metamorphosis, the rest of The Awakening can be
discussed quite briefly. Having awakened to her “true” self,
Edna begins “daily casting aside that fictitious self which
we assume like a garment with which to appear before the
world.” Yet as the self-consciously fictive episode on the
Chênière Caminada reveals, neither she nor her author has
rejected fantasy altogether. Rather, Chopin has allowed the
moon, the sea, the female summer colony, and Madame
Antoine to recreate Edna Pontellier as a character in
search of a story that can contain her and her power. That
such a tale will be both hard to find and hard to tell,
however, is revealed almost at once by Robert Lebrun’s
abrupt departure from Grand Isle. As the would-be lover of
a proper “lady,” he strives to do what is both morally and
fictionally “right,” accurately perceiving that because he is
a “good” man and not a seducer, the traditional plot in
which he imagines himself enmeshed now calls for
renunciation. By the end of the novel, Edna will have
created a different story, one in which Robert plays Adonis
to her Venus, and, “no longer one of Mr. Pontellier’s
possessions to dispose of or not,” she can declare that, like
the Queen of Love, “I give myself where I choose” (Chapter
XXXVI). But in Chapter XV, as she struggles toward such an
ambitious self-definition, she finds herself incapable of
deciding on any serious action. Significantly, she retires to
her cottage to tell her children a story which she does not,
perhaps cannot, end, so that “instead of soothing it excited
them.”
The tale of Edna’s own life moves just as haltingly to its
strange conclusion. As she becomes aware that she is
“seeking herself and finding herself,” she seeks to discard
and even destroy the conventions by which she has lived—
her wedding ring, her “reception day” for visitors, even her
“charming home” that has been so well-stocked with Mr.

Pontellier’s “household gods.” Her painting, her gambling,
and her visits to the races as well as her relationships with
Mademoiselle Reisz and Adèle Ratignolle, with Alcée
Arobin and his friends Mr. and Mrs. Highcamp, represent
similar attempts to create a new identity. Yet none of these
efforts succeeds in yielding what we might call an open
space in the plot where Edna finds herself, and none is
equal to the intensity of what is by now quite clearly the
metaphysical desire that has made this heroine into, as
Chopin’s original title put it, “a solitary soul.” Having been
visited by the Holy Ghost of the allegorical-sounding “Gulf,”
who rarely offers so much “ponderous” wisdom “to any
woman,” Edna can only struggle to express her needs by
making up stories like the one she tells at a party about “a
woman who paddled away with her lover one night in a
pirogue and never came back” (Chapter XXIII). As she
eventually realizes, however, such a fiction risks
descending into the banalities of second-rate romance, so
that ultimately the dinner party she gives in Chapter XXX is
her most authentic act of self-definition. Here, she actually
plays the part of the person she has metaphorically
become: “the regal woman, the one who rules, who looks
on, who stands alone.” Yet of course, as we saw earlier,
Edna’s dinner party is in a sense a Last Supper, a final
transformation of will and desire into bread and wine, flesh
and blood, before the “regal woman’s” inevitable betrayal
by a culture in which a regenerated Aphrodite has no
meaningful role.
Finally, therefore, Edna can think of only one way “to
elude” a society that keeps trying to put her back in her
proper domestic place, and that is through her much-
debated suicidal last swim. Once again, however, our
feelings about this action depend on our understanding of
the myth that enriches it. Certainly if we see Edna’s
decision to swim into the sea’s “abysses of solitude” as

simply a “realistic” action, we are likely to disapprove of it,
to consider it, in the words of Suzanne Wolkenfeld, “a
defeat and a regression, rooted in a self-annihilating
instinct, in a romantic incapacity to accommodate . . . to
the limitations of reality.” It is possible, though, to
speculate that Edna’s last swim is not a true suicide—that
is, a death—at all, or, if it is a death, it is a death that points
toward a resurrection, a pagan female Good Friday that
promises a Venusian Easter. Certainly, because of the way it
is presented to us, Edna’s suicide expresses not a refusal to
accommodate to reality but a subversive questioning of
both reality and “realism.” For, swimming away from the
white beach of Grand Isle, from the empty summer colony
and the equally empty fictions of marriage and maternity,
Edna swims, as the novel’s last sentences tell us, not into
death but back into her own life, back into her own vision,
back into the imaginative openness of her childhood.
Interestingly, in depicting Edna’s last swim Chopin
seems to have revised precursors like Flaubert and Pierre
Louÿs as well as such a descendant as Edith Wharton, all of
whom not only show the deaths of “fair, frail, passionate
[women] who fell” but also linger over the unpleasant
details of those deaths. Flaubert, for instance, records
horrifying visions of Emma Bovary’s dead mouth “like a
black hole at the bottom of her face,” pouring forth “black
liquid . . . as if she were vomiting.” Similarly, in Aphrodite
Pierre Louÿs undercuts his Chrysis’s triumphant
impersonation of Aphrodite with a ghastly picture of her
dead body, a “thread of blood” flowing from one
“diaphanous nostril” and “some emerald-colored spots . . .
softly [tinting] the relaxed belly.” Even Wharton, in The
House of Mirth, though she depicts the dead “semblance of
Lily Bart” more gently, imagines her heroine’s “estranged
and tranquil face” definitively motionless and, through that
motionlessness, offering her watching lover “the word

which made all clear.” By contrast, Kate Chopin never
allows Edna Pontellier to become immobilized. Neither
estranged nor corrupted, she is still swimming when we
last see her, nor does she ever—in Emily Dickinson’s phrase
—“stop for death.” To be sure, we are told that “her arms
and legs were growing tired,” that “exhaustion was
pressing upon and overpowering her” (Chapter XXXIX). It
is clear enough that both reality and realism will contain
her by fatiguing her, drowning her. Yet Chopin seems
determined to regenerate Edna through a regeneration of
myth.
No wonder, then, that as she enters the water for her
last swim, this transformed heroine finally divests herself of
“the unpleasant, pricking garments” of her old life as a
“real” woman—a wife, mother, and mistress—and stands
“naked under the sky! . . . like some new-born creature,
opening its eyes in a familiar world that it had never
known.” Together, her ceremonial nakedness, the
paradoxically unknown familiarity of the world she is
entering, and the “foamy wavelets [that curl and coil] like
serpents about her ankles” (Chapter XXXIX) tell us that she
is journeying not just toward rebirth but toward an
imaginary world beyond the restrictive culture of the
nineteenth century, a world in which women might be as
free as the mythic Aphrodite was. Even in the last
sentences of Chopin’s novel, Edna Pontellier is still
swimming. And how, after all, do we know that she ever
dies? What critics have called her “suicide” may be simply
our interpretation of her motion, our realistic idea about
the direction in which she is swimming. Yet as Chopin’s last
words tell us, that direction is toward the pagan, the
paradisal: “There was the hum of bees, and the musky odor
of pinks filled the air.” Defeated, even crucified, by the
“reality” of nineteenth-century New Orleans, Chopin’s
resurrected Venus is returning to Cyprus or Cythera.

Kate Chopin may not, of course, have consciously
intended to structure her daring novel of a woman’s sexual
and spiritual awakening around a myth of the second
coming of Aphrodite. Yet it seems more than coincidental
that this novelist sat in a drawing room decorated by “a
naked Venus” and imagined her Edna Pontellier as a
goddess rising from the foam of a ceremonial dinner party
in the same year that another American artist, Isadora
Duncan, was beginning to dance the dances of Aphrodite in
London salons while the feminist classicist, Jane Ellen
Harrison, who would soon recover the matriarchal origins
of ancient Greek religion, chanted Greek lyrics in the
background. As Elizabeth Kendall has pointed out, Duncan
was the daughter of a “bold-minded St. Louis Irish girl
about the same age as . . . Kate Chopin,” and she had
always been affected by her own birth “under the star of
Aphrodite.” On her first trip to Europe, she tells us in her
autobiography, she mused “for days before the Primavera,
the famous painting of Botticelli,” dreaming of the “sweet,
half-seen pagan life, where Aphrodite gleamed through the
form of the gracious but more tender mother of Christ.”
Like Chopin, she was trying to imagine what Linda Dowling
calls “a culture beyond [patriarchal] culture,” to see the
power of the pagan through the constraints of the Christian
and the triumph of the female through the power of the
pagan. And like Chopin, she was striving, as the poet H.D.
later would, to “relight the flame” of “Aphrodite, holy
name.” At one time or another, all three of these artists
were to be excoriated as “fair, frail, passionate [women]
who fell.” Yet the myths they made from their desire to
relight a lost flame are still resonant. Certainly, despite the
critical torment that put an end to Kate Chopin’s literary
career, her tale of Edna Pontellier’s ambiguously
triumphant awakening will continue to haunt the chambers
of many readers. For even Edna’s final swim can be seen in
terms of a metaphor Florence Nightingale had used in her

visionary Cassandra, decades before Chopin had begun to
imagine this heroine’s “solitary soul”: “rather, ten times,
die in the surf, heralding the way to [a] new world, than
stand idly on the shore.”
—Sandra M. Gilbert
OceanofPDF.com

 
Suggestions for Further Reading
 
THE WORKS OF KATE CHOPIN
Seyersted, Per, ed. The Complete Works of Kate Chopin.
Two volumes. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University
Press, 1969.
 
BIOGRAPHY
Rankin, Daniel S. Kate Chopin and Her Creole Stories.
Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1932.
Seyersted, Per. Kate Chopin: A Critical Biography. Baton
Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1969.
 
CRITICISM
Allen, Priscilla. “Old Critics and New: The Treatment of
Chopin’s The Awakening.” In The Authority of
Experience: Essays in Feminist Criticism, ed. Arlyn
Diamond and Lee R. Edwards. Amherst: University of
Massachusetts Press, 1977, pp. 224–38.
Arms, George. “Kate Chopin’s The Awakening in the
Perspective of Her Literary Career.” In Essays on
American Literature in Honor of Jay B. Hubbell, ed.
Clarence Gohdes. Durham: Duke University Press,
1967, pp. 215–28.

Cantwell, Robert. “The Awakening by Kate Chopin.”
Georgia Review, 10 (1956), 489–94.
Culley, Margaret. “Edna Pontellier: ‘A Solitary Soul.’ ” In
The Awakening: A Norton Critical Edition, ed. Margaret
Culley. New York: W. W. Norton & Co., 1976, pp. 224–
28.
Dowling, Linda. “The Decadent and the New Woman in the
1890s.” Nineteenth-Century Fiction, 33 (1979).
Eaton, Clement. “Breaking a Path for the Liberation of
Women in the South.” Georgia Review, 28 (Summer
1974), 187–99.
Eble, Kenneth. “A Forgotten Novel: Kate Chopin’s The
Awakening.” Western Humanities Review, 10 (1956),
261–69.
Fletcher, Marie. “The Southern Woman in the Fiction of
Kate Chopin.” Louisiana History, 7 (1966), 117–32.
Gilbert, Sandra M. “The Second Coming of Aphrodite: Kate
Chopin’s Fantasy of Desire.” Kenyon Review, 5 (1983),
42–56.
____, and Susan Gubar. The Madwoman in the Attic: The
Woman Writer and the Nineteenth-Century Literary
Imagination. New Haven: Yale University Press, 1979.
Jones, Anne Goodwyn. “Kate Chopin: The Life Behind the
Mask.” In Anne Goodwyn Jones, Tomorrow Is Another
Day: The Woman Writer in the South, 1859–1936. Baton
Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1981, pp.
135–82.

Kendall, Elizabeth. “Before the World Began.” Ballet
Review, 6 (1977–78), 21–32.
Koloski, Bernard J. “The Structure of Kate Chopin’s At
Fault.” Studies in American Fiction, 3 (1975), 89–95.
____. “The Swinburne Lines in The Awakening.” American
Literature, 45 (1974), 608–10.
Leary, Lewis. Southern Excursions: Essays on Mark Twain
and Others. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University
Press, 1971, Chapters 9 and 10.
May, John R. “Local Color in The Awakening.” The Southern
Review, 6 (1970), 1031–40.
Moers, Ellen. Literary Women. New York: Doubleday, 1976.
Ringe, Donald A. “Cane River World: Kate Chopin’s At Fault
and Related Stories.” Studies in American Fiction, 3
(1975), 157–66.
____. “Romantic Imagery in Kate Chopin’s The Awakening.”
American Literature, 43 (1972), 580–88.
Scott, Anne Firor. “The ‘New Woman’ in the New South.”
South Atlantic Quarterly, 61 (1962), 473–83.
Showalter, Elaine. A Literature of Their Own: British
Women Novelists from Brontë to Lessing. Princeton:
Princeton University Press, 1977.
Skaggs, Peggy. “ ‘The Man-Instinct of Possession’: A
Persistent Theme in Kate Chopin’s Stories.” Louisiana
Studies, 14 (1975), 277–85.

____. “Three Tragic Figures in Kate Chopin’s The
Awakening.” Louisiana Studies, 13 (1974), 345–64.
Spangler, George. “Kate Chopin’s The Awakening: A Partial
Dissent.” Novel, 3 (1970), 249–55.
Springer, Marlene. Edith Wharton and Kate Chopin: A
Reference Guide. Boston: G. K. Hall, 1976.
Sullivan, Ruth, and Stewart Smith. “Narrative Stance in
Kate Chopin’s The Awakening.” Studies in American
Fiction, 1 (1973), 62–75.
Thornton, Lawrence. “The Awakening: A Political
Romance.” American Literature, 52, 1 (March 1980),
50–66.
Tompkins, Jane P. “The Awakening: An Evaluation.”
Feminist Studies, 3 (1976), 22–29.
Toth, Emily. “The Independent Woman and ‘Free’ Love.”
Massachusetts Review, 16 (1975), 647–64.
____. “Kate Chopin’s The Awakening as Feminist Criticism.”
Louisiana Studies, 15 (1976), 241–51.
____. “Timely and Timeless: The Treatment of Time in The
Awakening and Sister Carrie.” Southern Studies, 16
(1977), 271–76.
Watson, Barbara Bellow. “On Power and the Literary Text.”
Signs, 1 (1976), 111–18.
Webb, Bernice Larson. “The Circular Structure of Kate
Chopin’s Life and Writing.” New Louisiana Review, 6
(1976), 5–14.

Wheeler, Otis B. “The Five Awakenings of Edna Pontellier.”
The Southern Review, 11 (1975), 118–28.
Wolff, Cynthia Griffin. “Kate Chopin and the Fiction of
Limits: ‘Désirée’s Baby.’ ” The Southern Literary
Journal, 10 (1978), 123–33.
____. “Thanatos and Eros: Kate Chopin’s The Awakening.”
American Quarterly, 25 (1973), 449–72.
Wolkenfeld, Suzanne. “Edna’s Suicide: The Problem of the
One and the Many.” In The Awakening: A Norton
Critical Edition,ed. Margaret Culley. New York: W. W.
Norton & Co., 1976, pp. 218–24.
Ziff, Larzer. “An Abyss of Inequality: Sarah Orne Jewett,
Mary Wilkins Freeman, Kate Chopin.” In Larzer Ziff,
The American 1890s: The Life and Times of a Lost
Generation. New York: The Viking Press, 1966.
OceanofPDF.com

 
A Note on the Text
 
The texts of The Awakening and of the stories reprinted
here are taken from Per Seyersted’s definitive The
Complete Works of Kate Chopin, published in two volumes
by Louisiana State University Press in 1969. A number of
the stories appeared first in periodicals, and The
Awakening itself was first printed by Herbert S. Stone &
Co., Chicago and New York, in April 1899; further
bibliographical information can be found in the useful
appendix to Seyersted’s The Complete Works.
OceanofPDF.com

 
The Awakening
—and—
Selected Stories
OceanofPDF.com

 
The Awakening
 
I
A green and yellow parrot, which hung in a cage outside
the door, kept repeating over and over:
“Allez vous-en! Allez vous-en! Sapristi! That’s all right!”
He could speak a little Spanish, and also a language
which nobody understood, unless it was the mocking-bird
that hung on the other side of the door, whistling his fluty
notes out upon the breeze with maddening persistence.
Mr. Pontellier, unable to read his newspaper with any
degree of comfort, arose with an expression and an
exclamation of disgust. He walked down the gallery and
across the narrow “bridges” which connected the Lebrun
cottages one with the other. He had been seated before the
door of the main house. The parrot and the mocking-bird
were the property of Madame Lebrun, and they had the
right to make all the noise they wished. Mr. Pontellier had
the privilege of quitting their society when they ceased to
be entertaining.
He stopped before the door of his own cottage, which
was the fourth one from the main building and next to the
last. Seating himself in a wicker rocker which was there, he
once more applied himself to the task of reading the
newspaper. The day was Sunday; the paper was a day old.
The Sunday papers had not yet reached Grand Isle. He was
already acquainted with the market reports, and he

glanced restlessly over the editorials and bits of news
which he had not had time to read before quitting New
Orleans the day before.
Mr. Pontellier wore eye-glasses. He was a man of forty,
of medium height and rather slender build; he stooped a
little. His hair was brown and straight, parted on one side.
His beard was neatly and closely trimmed.
Once in a while he withdrew his glance from the
newspaper and looked about him. There was more noise
than ever over at the house. The main building was called
“the house,” to distinguish it from the cottages. The
chattering and whistling birds were still at it. Two young
girls, the Farival twins, were playing a duet from “Zampa”
upon the piano. Madame Lebrun was bustling in and out,
giving orders in a high key to a yard-boy whenever she got
inside the house, and directions in an equally high voice to
a dining-room servant whenever she got outside. She was a
fresh, pretty woman, clad always in white with elbow
sleeves. Her starched skirts crinkled as she came and went.
Farther down, before one of the cottages, a lady in black
was walking demurely up and down, telling her beads. A
good many persons of the pension had gone over to the
Chênière Caminada in Beaudelet’s lugger to hear mass.
Some young people were out under the water-oaks playing
croquet. Mr. Pontellier’s two children were there—sturdy
little fellows of four and five. A quadroon nurse followed
them about with a far-away, meditative air.
Mr. Pontellier finally lit a cigar and began to smoke,
letting the paper drag idly from his hand. He fixed his gaze
upon a white sunshade that was advancing at snail’s pace
from the beach. He could see it plainly between the gaunt
trunks of the water-oaks and across the stretch of yellow
camomile. The gulf looked far away, melting hazily into the

blue of the horizon. The sunshade continued to approach
slowly. Beneath its pink-lined shelter were his wife, Mrs.
Pontellier, and young Robert Lebrun. When they reached
the cottage, the two seated themselves with some
appearance of fatigue upon the upper step of the porch,
facing each other, each leaning against a supporting post.
“What folly! to bathe at such an hour in such heat!”
exclaimed Mr. Pontellier. He himself had taken a plunge at
daylight. That was why the morning seemed long to him.
“You are burnt beyond recognition,” he added, looking
at his wife as one looks at a valuable piece of personal
property which has suffered some damage. She held up her
hands, strong, shapely hands, and surveyed them critically,
drawing up her lawn sleeves above the wrists. Looking at
them reminded her of her rings, which she had given to her
husband before leaving for the beach. She silently reached
out to him, and he, understanding, took the rings from his
vest pocket and dropped them into her open palm. She
slipped them upon her fingers; then clasping her knees, she
looked across at Robert and began to laugh. The rings
sparkled upon her fingers. He sent back an answering
smile.
“What is it?” asked Pontellier, looking lazily and
amused from one to the other. It was some utter nonsense;
some adventure out there in the water, and they both tried
to relate it at once. It did not seem half so amusing when
told. They realized this, and so did Mr. Pontellier. He
yawned and stretched himself. Then he got up, saying he
had half a mind to go over to Klein’s hotel and play a game
of billiards.
“Come go along, Lebrun,” he proposed to Robert. But
Robert admitted quite frankly that he preferred to stay

where he was and talk to Mrs. Pontellier.
“Well, send him about his business when he bores you,
Edna,” instructed her husband as he prepared to leave.
“Here, take the umbrella,” she exclaimed, holding it out
to him. He accepted the sunshade, and lifting it over his
head descended the steps and walked away.
“Coming back to dinner?” his wife called after him. He
halted a moment and shrugged his shoulders. He felt in his
vest pocket; there was a ten-dollar bill there. He did not
know; perhaps he would return for the early dinner and
perhaps he would not. It all depended upon the company
which he found over at Klein’s and the size of “the game.”
He did not say this, but she understood it, and laughed,
nodding good-by to him.
Both children wanted to follow their father when they
saw him starting out. He kissed them and promised to
bring them back bonbons and peanuts.
 
II
Mrs. Pontellier’s eyes were quick and bright; they were
a yellowish brown, about the color of her hair. She had a
way of turning them swiftly upon an object and holding
them there as if lost in some inward maze of contemplation
or thought.
Her eyebrows were a shade darker than her hair. They
were thick and almost horizontal, emphasizing the depth of
her eyes. She was rather handsome than beautiful. Her
face was captivating by reason of a certain frankness of

expression and a contradictory subtle play of features. Her
manner was engaging.
Robert rolled a cigarette. He smoked cigarettes
because he could not afford cigars, he said. He had a cigar
in his pocket which Mr. Pontellier had presented him with,
and he was saving it for his after-dinner smoke.
This seemed quite proper and natural on his part. In
coloring he was not unlike his companion. A clean-shaved
face made the resemblance more pronounced than it would
otherwise have been. There rested no shadow of care upon
his open countenance. His eyes gathered in and reflected
the light and languor of the summer day.
Mrs. Pontellier reached over for a palm-leaf fan that lay
on the porch and began to fan herself, while Robert sent
between his lips light puffs from his cigarette. They chatted
incessantly: about the things around them; their amusing
adventure out in the water—it had again assumed its
entertaining aspect; about the wind, the trees, the people
who had gone to the Chênière; about the children playing
croquet under the oaks, and the Farival twins, who were
now performing the overture to “The Poet and the
Peasant.” Robert talked a good deal about himself. He was
very young, and did not know any better. Mrs. Pontellier
talked a little about herself for the same reason. Each was
interested in what the other said. Robert spoke of his
intention to go to Mexico in the autumn, where fortune
awaited him. He was always intending to go to Mexico, but
some way never got there. Meanwhile he held on to his
modest position in a mercantile house in New Orleans,
where an equal familiarity with English, French and
Spanish gave him no small value as a clerk and
correspondent.

He was spending his summer vacation, as he always
did, with his mother at Grand Isle. In former times, before
Robert could remember, “the house” had been a summer
luxury of the Lebruns. Now, flanked by its dozen or more
cottages, which were always filled with exclusive visitors
from the “Quartier Français,” it enabled Madame Lebrun to
maintain the easy and comfortable existence which
appeared to be her birthright.
Mrs. Pontellier talked about her father’s Mississippi
plantation and her girlhood home in the old Kentucky blue-
grass country. She was an American woman, with a small
infusion of French which seemed to have been lost in
dilution. She read a letter from her sister, who was away in
the East, and who had engaged herself to be married.
Robert was interested, and wanted to know what manner of
girls the sisters were, what the father was like, and how
long the mother had been dead.
When Mrs. Pontellier folded the letter it was time for
her to dress for the early dinner.
“I see Léonce isn’t coming back,” she said, with a
glance in the direction whence her husband had
disappeared. Robert supposed he was not, as there were a
good many New Orleans club men over at Klein’s.
When Mrs. Pontellier left him to enter her room, the
young man descended the steps and strolled over toward
the croquet players, where, during the half-hour before
dinner, he amused himself with the little Pontellier
children, who were very fond of him.
 
III

It was eleven o’clock that night when Mr. Pontellier
returned from Klein’s hotel. He was in an excellent humor,
in high spirits, and very talkative. His entrance awoke his
wife, who was in bed and fast asleep when he came in. He
talked to her while he undressed, telling her anecdotes and
bits of news and gossip that he had gathered during the
day. From his trousers pockets he took a fistful of crumpled
bank notes and a good deal of silver coin, which he piled on
the bureau indiscriminately with keys, knife, handkerchief,
and whatever else happened to be in his pockets. She was
overcome with sleep, and answered him with little half
utterances.
He thought it very discouraging that his wife, who was
the sole object of his existence, evinced so little interest in
things which concerned him, and valued so little his
conversation.
Mr. Pontellier had forgotten the bonbons and peanuts
for the boys. Notwithstanding he loved them very much,
and went into the adjoining room where they slept to take a
look at them and make sure that they were resting
comfortably. The result of his investigation was far from
satisfactory. He turned and shifted the youngsters about in
bed. One of them began to kick and talk about a basket full
of crabs.
Mr. Pontellier returned to his wife with the information
that Raoul had a high fever and needed looking after. Then
he lit a cigar and went and sat near the open door to smoke
it.
Mrs. Pontellier was quite sure Raoul had no fever. He
had gone to bed perfectly well, she said, and nothing had
ailed him all day. Mr. Pontellier was too well acquainted

with fever symptoms to be mistaken. He assured her the
child was consuming at that moment in the next room.
He reproached his wife with her inattention, her
habitual neglect of the children. If it was not a mother’s
place to look after children, whose on earth was it? He
himself had his hands full with his brokerage business. He
could not be in two places at once; making a living for his
family on the street, and staying at home to see that no
harm befell them. He talked in a monotonous, insistent way.
Mrs. Pontellier sprang out of bed and went into the
next room. She soon came back and sat on the edge of the
bed, leaning her head down on the pillow. She said nothing,
and refused to answer her husband when he questioned
her. When his cigar was smoked out he went to bed, and in
half a minute he was fast asleep.
Mrs. Pontellier was by that time thoroughly awake. She
began to cry a little, and wiped her eyes on the sleeve of
her peignoir. Blowing out the candle, which her husband
had left burning, she slipped her bare feet into a pair of
satin mules at the foot of the bed and went out on the
porch, where she sat down in the wicker chair and began to
rock gently to and fro.
It was then past midnight. The cottages were all dark.
A single faint light gleamed out from the hallway of the
house. There was no sound abroad except the hooting of an
old owl in the top of a water-oak, and the everlasting voice
of the sea, that was not uplifted at that soft hour. It broke
like a mournful lullaby upon the night.
The tears came so fast to Mrs. Pontellier’s eyes that the
damp sleeve of her peignoir no longer served to dry them.
She was holding the back of her chair with one hand; her

loose sleeve had slipped almost to the shoulder of her
uplifted arm. Turning, she thrust her face, steaming and
wet, into the bend of her arm, and she went on crying
there, not caring any longer to dry her face, her eyes, her
arms. She could not have told why she was crying. Such
experiences as the foregoing were not uncommon in her
married life. They seemed never before to have weighed
much against the abundance of her husband’s kindness and
a uniform devotion which had come to be tacit and self-
understood.
An indescribable oppression, which seemed to generate
in some unfamiliar part of her consciousness, filled her
whole being with a vague anguish. It was like a shadow,
like a mist passing across her soul’s summer day. It was
strange and unfamiliar; it was a mood. She did not sit there
inwardly upbraiding her husband, lamenting at Fate, which
had directed her footsteps to the path which they had
taken. She was just having a good cry all to herself. The
mosquitoes made merry over her, biting her firm, round
arms and nipping at her bare insteps.
The little stinging, buzzing imps succeeded in dispelling
a mood which might have held her there in the darkness
half a night longer.
The following morning Mr. Pontellier was up in good
time to take the rockaway which was to convey him to the
steamer at the wharf. He was returning to the city to his
business, and they would not see him again at the Island till
the coming Saturday. He had regained his composure,
which seemed to have been somewhat impaired the night
before. He was eager to be gone, as he looked forward to a
lively week in Carondelet Street.

Mr. Pontellier gave his wife half of the money which he
had brought away from Klein’s hotel the evening before.
She liked money as well as most women, and accepted it
with no little satisfaction.
“It will buy a handsome wedding present for Sister
Janet!” she exclaimed, smoothing out the bills as she
counted them one by one.
“Oh! we’ll treat Sister Janet better than that, my dear,”
he laughed, as he prepared to kiss her good-by.
The boys were tumbling about, clinging to his legs,
imploring that numerous things be brought back to them.
Mr. Pontellier was a great favorite, and ladies, men,
children, even nurses, were always on hand to say good-by
to him. His wife stood smiling and waving, the boys
shouting, as he disappeared in the old rockaway down the
sandy road.
A few days later a box arrived for Mrs. Pontellier from
New Orleans. It was from her husband. It was filled with
friandises, with luscious and toothsome bits—the finest of
fruits, patés, a rare bottle or two, delicious syrups, and
bonbons in abundance.
Mrs. Pontellier was always very generous with the
contents of such a box; she was quite used to receiving
them when away from home. The patés and fruit were
brought to the dining-room; the bonbons were passed
around. And the ladies, selecting with dainty and
discriminating fingers and a little greedily, all declared that
Mr. Pontellier was the best husband in the world. Mrs.
Pontellier was forced to admit that she knew of none better.
 

IV
It would have been a difficult matter for Mr. Pontellier
to define to his own satisfaction or any one else’s wherein
his wife failed in her duty toward their children. It was
something which he felt rather than perceived, and he
never voiced the feeling without subsequent regret and
ample atonement.
If one of the little Pontellier boys took a tumble whilst
at play, he was not apt to rush crying to his mother’s arms
for comfort; he would more likely pick himself up, wipe the
water out of his eyes and the sand out of his mouth, and go
on playing. Tots as they were, they pulled together and
stood their ground in childish battles with doubled fists and
uplifted voices, which usually prevailed against the other
mother-tots. The quadroon nurse was looked upon as a
huge encumbrance, only good to button up waists and
panties and to brush and part hair; since it seemed to be a
law of society that hair must be parted and brushed.
In short, Mrs. Pontellier was not a mother-woman. The
mother-women seemed to prevail that summer at Grand
Isle. It was easy to know them, fluttering about with
extended, protecting wings when any harm, real or
imaginary, threatened their precious brood. They were
women who idolized their children, worshiped their
husbands, and esteemed it a holy privilege to efface
themselves as individuals and grow wings as ministering
angels.
Many of them were delicious in the rôle; one of them
was the embodiment of every womanly grace and charm. If
her husband did not adore her, he was a brute, deserving of
death by slow torture. Her name was Adèle Ratignolle.

There are no words to describe her save the old ones that
have served so often to picture the bygone heroine of
romance and the fair lady of our dreams. There was
nothing subtle or hidden about her charms; her beauty was
all there, flaming and apparent: the spun-gold hair that
comb nor confining pin could restrain; the blue eyes that
were like nothing but sapphires; two lips that pouted, that
were so red one could only think of cherries or some other
delicious crimson fruit in looking at them. She was growing
a little stout, but it did not seem to detract an iota from the
grace of every step, pose, gesture. One would not have
wanted her white neck a mite less full or her beautiful arms
more slender. Never were hands more exquisite than hers,
and it was a joy to look at them when she threaded her
needle or adjusted her gold thimble to her taper middle
finger as she sewed away on the little night-drawers or
fashioned a bodice or a bib.
Madame Ratignolle was very fond of Mrs. Pontellier,
and often she took her sewing and went over to sit with her
in the afternoons. She was sitting there the afternoon of
the day the box arrived from New Orleans. She had
possession of the rocker, and she was busily engaged in
sewing upon a diminutive pair of night-drawers.
She had brought the pattern of the drawers for Mrs.
Pontellier to cut out—a marvel of construction, fashioned to
enclose a baby’s body so effectually that only two small
eyes might look out from the garment, like an Eskimo’s.
They were designed for winter wear, when treacherous
drafts came down chimneys and insidious currents of
deadly cold found their way through key-holes.
Mrs. Pontellier’s mind was quite at rest concerning the
present material needs of her children, and she could not
see the use of anticipating and making winter night

garments the subject of her summer meditations. But she
did not want to appear unamiable and uninterested, so she
had brought forth newspapers, which she spread upon the
floor of the gallery, and under Madame Ratignolle’s
directions she had cut a pattern of the impervious garment.
Robert was there, seated as he had been the Sunday
before, and Mrs. Pontellier also occupied her former
position on the upper step, leaning listlessly against the
post. Beside her was a box of bonbons, which she held out
at intervals to Madame Ratignolle.
That lady seemed at a loss to make a selection, but
finally settled upon a stick of nougat, wondering if it were
not too rich; whether it could possibly hurt her. Madame
Ratignolle had been married seven years. About every two
years she had a baby. At that time she had three babies,
and was beginning to think of a fourth one. She was always
talking about her “condition.” Her “condition” was in no
way apparent, and no one would have known a thing about
it but for her persistence in making it the subject of
conversation.
Robert started to reassure her, asserting that he had
known a lady who had subsisted upon nougat during the
entire—but seeing the color mount into Mrs. Pontellier’s
face he checked himself and changed the subject.
Mrs. Pontellier, though she had married a Creole, was
not thoroughly at home in the society of Creoles; never
before had she been thrown so intimately among them.
There were only Creoles that summer at Lebrun’s. They all
knew each other, and felt like one large family, among
whom existed the most amicable relations. A characteristic
which distinguished them and which impressed Mrs.
Pontellier most forcibly was their entire absence of prudery.

Their freedom of expression was at first incomprehensible
to her, though she had no difficulty in reconciling it with a
lofty chastity which in the Creole woman seems to be
inborn and unmistakable.
Never would Edna Pontellier forget the shock with
which she heard Madame Ratignolle relating to old
Monsieur Farival the harrowing story of one of her
accouchements, withholding no intimate detail. She was
growing accustomed to like shocks, but she could not keep
the mounting color back from her cheeks. Oftener than
once her coming had interrupted the droll story with which
Robert was entertaining some amused group of married
women.
A book had gone the rounds of the pension. When it
came her turn to read it, she did so with profound
astonishment. She felt moved to read the book in secret
and solitude, though none of the others had done so—to
hide it from view at the sound of approaching footsteps. It
was openly criticised and freely discussed at table. Mrs.
Pontellier gave over being astonished, and concluded that
wonders would never cease.
 
V
They formed a congenial group sitting there that
summer afternoon—Madame Ratignolle sewing away, often
stopping to relate a story or incident with much expressive
gesture of her perfect hands; Robert and Mrs. Pontellier
sitting idle, exchanging occasional words, glances or smiles
which indicated a certain advanced stage of intimacy and
camaraderie.

He had lived in her shadow during the past month. No
one thought anything of it. Many had predicted that Robert
would devote himself to Mrs. Pontellier when he arrived.
Since the age of fifteen, which was eleven years before,
Robert each summer at Grand Isle had constituted himself
the devoted attendant of some fair dame or damsel.
Sometimes it was a young girl, again a widow; but as often
as not it was some interesting married woman.
For two consecutive seasons he lived in the sunlight of
Mademoiselle Duvigné’s presence. But she died between
summers; then Robert posed as an inconsolable,
prostrating himself at the feet of Madame Ratignolle for
whatever crumbs of sympathy and comfort she might be
pleased to vouchsafe.
Mrs. Pontellier liked to sit and gaze at her fair
companion as she might look upon a faultless Madonna.
“Could any one fathom the cruelty beneath that fair
exterior?” murmured Robert. “She knew that I adored her
once, and she let me adore her. It was ‘Robert, come; go;
stand up; sit down; do this; do that; see if the baby sleeps;
my thimble, please, that I left God knows where. Come and
read Daudet to me while I sew.’ ”
“Par example! I never had to ask. You were always
there under my feet, like a troublesome cat.”
“You mean like an adoring dog. And just as soon as
Ratignolle appeared on the scene, then it was like a dog.
‘Passez! Adieu! Allez vous-en!’ ”
“Perhaps I feared to make Alphonse jealous,” she
interjoined, with excessive naïveté. That made them all
laugh. The right hand jealous of the left! The heart jealous
of the soul! But for that matter, the Creole husband is never

jealous; with him the gangrene passion is one which has
become dwarfed by disuse.
Meanwhile Robert, addressing Mrs. Pontellier,
continued to tell of his one time hopeless passion for
Madame Ratignolle; of sleepless nights, of consuming
flames till the very sea sizzled when he took his daily
plunge. While the lady at the needle kept up a little
running, contemptuous comment:
“Blagueur—farceur—gros bête va!”
He never assumed this serio-comic tone when alone
with Mrs. Pontellier. She never knew precisely what to
make of it; at that moment it was impossible for her to
guess how much of it was jest and what proportion was
earnest. It was understood that he had often spoken words
of love to Madame Ratignolle, without any thought of being
taken seriously. Mrs. Pontellier was glad he had not
assumed a similar rôle toward herself. It would have been
unacceptable and annoying.
Mrs. Pontellier had brought her sketching materials,
which she sometimes dabbled with in an unprofessional
way. She liked the dabbling. She felt in it satisfaction of a
kind which no other employment afforded her.
She had long wished to try herself on Madame
Ratignolle. Never had that lady seemed a more tempting
subject than at that moment, seated there like some
sensuous Madonna, with the gleam of the fading day
enriching her splendid color.
Robert crossed over and seated himself upon the step
below Mrs. Pontellier, that he might watch her work. She
handled her brushes with a certain ease and freedom which
came, not from long and close acquaintance with them, but

from a natural aptitude. Robert followed her work with
close attention, giving forth little ejaculatory expressions of
appreciation in French, which he addressed to Madame
Ratignolle.
“Mais ce n’est pas mal! Elle s’y connait, elle a de la
force, oui.”
During his oblivious attention he once quietly rested his
head against Mrs. Pontellier’s arm. As gently she repulsed
him. Once again he repeated the offense. She could not but
believe it to be thoughtlessness on his part; yet that was no
reason she should submit to it. She did not remonstrate,
except again to repulse him quietly but firmly. He offered
no apology.
The picture completed bore no resemblance to Madame
Ratignolle. She was greatly disappointed to find that it did
not look like her. But it was a fair enough piece of work,
and in many respects satisfying.
Mrs. Pontellier evidently did not think so. After
surveying the sketch critically she drew a broad smudge of
paint across its surface, and crumpled the paper between
her hands.
The youngsters came tumbling up the steps, the
quadroon following at the respectful distance which they
required her to observe. Mrs. Pontellier made them carry
her paints and things into the house. She sought to detain
them for a little talk and some pleasantry. But they were
greatly in earnest. They had only come to investigate the
contents of the bonbon box. They accepted without
murmuring what she chose to give them, each holding out
two chubby hands scoop-like, in the vain hope that they
might be filled; and then away they went.

The sun was low in the west, and the breeze soft and
languorous that came up from the south, charged with the
seductive odor of the sea. Children, freshly befurbelowed,
were gathering for their games under the oaks. Their
voices were high and penetrating.
Madame Ratignolle folded her sewing, placing thimble,
scissors and thread all neatly together in the roll, which
she pinned securely. She complained of faintness. Mrs.
Pontellier flew for the cologne water and a fan. She bathed
Madame Ratignolle’s face with cologne, while Robert plied
the fan with unnecessary vigor.
The spell was soon over, and Mrs. Pontellier could not
help wondering if there were not a little imagination
responsible for its origin, for the rose tint had never faded
from her friend’s face.
She stood watching the fair woman walk down the long
line of galleries with the grace and majesty which queens
are sometimes supposed to possess. Her little ones ran to
meet her. Two of them clung about her white skirts, the
third she took from its nurse and with a thousand
endearments bore it along in her own fond, encircling
arms. Though, as everybody well knew, the doctor had
forbidden her to lift so much as a pin!
“Are you going bathing?” asked Robert of Mrs.
Pontellier. It was not so much a question as a reminder.
“Oh, no,” she answered, with a tone of indecision. “I’m
tired; I think not.” Her glance wandered from his face away
toward the Gulf, whose sonorous murmur reached her like
a loving but imperative entreaty.
“Oh, come!” he insisted. “You mustn’t miss your bath.
Come on. The water must be delicious; it will not hurt you.

Come.”
He reached up for her big, rough straw hat that hung
on a peg outside the door, and put it on her head. They
descended the steps, and walked away together toward the
beach. The sun was low in the west and the breeze was soft
and warm.
 
VI
Edna Pontellier could not have told why, wishing to go
to the beach with Robert, she should in the first place have
declined, and in the second place have followed in
obedience to one of the two contradictory impulses which
impelled her.
A certain light was beginning to dawn dimly within her,
—the light which, showing the way, forbids it.
At that early period it served but to bewilder her. It
moved her to dreams, to thoughtfulness, to the shadowy
anguish which had overcome her the midnight when she
had abandoned herself to tears.
In short, Mrs. Pontellier was beginning to realize her
position in the universe as a human being, and to recognize
her relations as an individual to the world within and about
her. This may seem like a ponderous weight of wisdom to
descend upon the soul of a young woman of twenty-eight—
perhaps more wisdom than the Holy Ghost is usually
pleased to vouchsafe to any woman.
But the beginning of things, of a world especially, is
necessarily vague, tangled, chaotic, and exceedingly

disturbing. How few of us ever emerge from such
beginning! How many souls perish in its tumult!
The voice of the sea is seductive; never ceasing,
whispering, clamoring, murmuring, inviting the soul to
wander for a spell in abysses of solitude; to lose itself in
mazes of inward contemplation.
The voice of the sea speaks to the soul. The touch of the
sea is sensuous, enfolding the body in its soft, close
embrace.
 
VII
Mrs. Pontellier was not a woman given to confidences,
a characteristic hitherto contrary to her nature. Even as a
child she had lived her own small life all within herself. At a
very early period she had apprehended instinctively the
dual life—that outward existence which conforms, the
inward life which questions.
That summer at Grand Isle she began to loosen a little
the mantle of reserve that had always enveloped her. There
may have been—there must have been—influences, both
subtle and apparent, working in their several ways to
induce her to do this; but the most obvious was the
influence of Adèle Ratignolle. The excessive physical charm
of the Creole had first attracted her, for Edna had a
sensuous susceptibility to beauty. Then the candor of the
woman’s whole existence, which every one might read, and
which formed so striking a contrast to her own habitual
reserve—this might have furnished a link. Who can tell
what metals the gods use in forging the subtle bond which
we call sympathy, which we might as well call love.

The two women went away one morning to the beach
together, arm in arm, under the huge white sunshade. Edna
had prevailed upon Madame Ratignolle to leave the
children behind, though she could not induce her to
relinquish a diminutive roll of needlework, which Adèle
begged to be allowed to slip into the depths of her pocket.
In some unaccountable way they had escaped from Robert.
The walk to the beach was no inconsiderable one,
consisting as it did of a long, sandy path, upon which a
sporadic and tangled growth that bordered it on either side
made frequent and unexpected inroads. There were acres
of yellow camomile reaching out on either hand. Further
away still, vegetable gardens abounded, with frequent
small plantations of orange or lemon trees intervening. The
dark green clusters glistened from afar in the sun.
The women were both of goodly height, Madame
Ratignolle possessing the more feminine and matronly
figure. The charm of Edna Pontellier’s physique stole
insensibly upon you. The lines of her body were long, clean
and symmetrical; it was a body which occasionally fell into
splendid poses; there was no suggestion of the trim,
stereotyped fashion-plate about it. A casual and
indiscriminating observer, in passing, might not cast a
second glance upon the figure. But with more feeling and
discernment he would have recognized the noble beauty of
its modeling, and the graceful severity of poise and
movement, which made Edna Pontellier different from the
crowd.
She wore a cool muslin that morning—white, with a
waving vertical line of brown running through it; also a
white linen collar and the big straw hat which she had
taken from the peg outside the door. The hat rested any

way on her yellow-brown hair, that waved a little, was
heavy, and clung close to her head.
Madame Ratignolle, more careful of her complexion,
had twined a gauze veil about her head. She wore dogskin
gloves, with gauntlets that protected her wrists. She was
dressed in pure white, with a fluffiness of ruffles that
became her. The draperies and fluttering things which she
wore suited her rich, luxuriant beauty as a greater severity
of line could not have done.
There were a number of bath-houses along the beach,
of rough but solid construction, built with small, protecting
galleries facing the water. Each house consisted of two
compartments, and each family at Lebrun’s possessed a
compartment for itself, fitted out with all the essential
paraphernalia of the bath and whatever other conveniences
the owners might desire. The two women had no intention
of bathing; they had just strolled down to the beach for a
walk and to be alone and near the water. The Pontellier and
Ratignolle compartments adjoined one another under the
same roof.
Mrs. Pontellier had brought down her key through
force of habit. Unlocking the door of her bath-room she
went inside, and soon emerged, bringing a rug, which she
spread upon the floor of the gallery, and two huge hair
pillows covered with crash, which she placed against the
front of the building.
The two seated themselves there in the shade of the
porch, side by side, with their backs against the pillows and
their feet extended. Madame Ratignolle removed her veil,
wiped her face with a rather delicate handkerchief, and
fanned herself with the fan which she always carried
suspended somewhere about her person by a long, narrow

ribbon. Edna removed her collar and opened her dress at
the throat. She took the fan from Madame Ratignolle and
began to fan both herself and her companion. It was very
warm, and for a while they did nothing but exchange
remarks about the heat, the sun, the glare. But there was a
breeze blowing, a choppy, stiff wind that whipped the water
into froth. It fluttered the skirts of the two women and kept
them for a while engaged in adjusting, readjusting, tucking
in, securing hair-pins and hatpins. A few persons were
sporting some distance away in the water. The beach was
very still of human sound at that hour. The lady in black
was reading her morning devotions on the porch of a
neighboring bath-house. Two young lovers were
exchanging their hearts’ yearnings beneath the children’s
tent, which they had found unoccupied.
Edna Pontellier, casting her eyes about, had finally kept
them at rest upon the sea. The day was clear and carried
the gaze out as far as the blue sky went; there were a few
white clouds suspended idly over the horizon. A lateen sail
was visible in the direction of Cat Island, and others to the
south seemed almost motionless in the far distance.
“Of whom—of what are you thinking?” asked Adèle of
her companion, whose countenance she had been watching
with a little amused attention, arrested by the absorbed
expression which seemed to have seized and fixed every
feature into a statuesque repose.
“Nothing,” returned Mrs. Pontellier, with a start,
adding at once: “How stupid! But it seems to me it is the
reply we make instinctively to such a question. Let me see,”
she went on, throwing back her head and narrowing her
fine eyes till they shone like two vivid points of light. “Let
me see. I was really not conscious of thinking of anything;
but perhaps I can retrace my thoughts.”

“Oh! never mind!” laughed Madame Ratignolle. “I am
not quite so exacting. I will let you off this time. It is really
too hot to think, especially to think about thinking.”
“But for the fun of it,” persisted Edna. “First of all, the
sight of the water stretching so far away, those motionless
sails against the blue sky, made a delicious picture that I
just wanted to sit and look at. The hot wind beating in my
face made me think—without any connection that I can
trace—of a summer day in Kentucky, of a meadow that
seemed as big as the ocean to the very little girl walking
through the grass, which was higher than her waist. She
threw out her arms as if swimming when she walked,
beating the tall grass as one strikes out in the water. Oh, I
see the connection now!”
“Where were you going that day in Kentucky, walking
through the grass?”
“I don’t remember now. I was just walking diagonally
across a big field. My sun-bonnet obstructed the view. I
could see only the stretch of green before me, and I felt as
if I must walk on forever, without coming to the end of it. I
don’t remember whether I was frightened or pleased. I
must have been entertained.
“Likely as not it was Sunday,” she laughed; “and I was
running away from prayers, from the Presbyterian service,
read in a spirit of gloom by my father that chills me yet to
think of.”
“And have you been running away from prayers ever
since, ma chère?” asked Madame Ratignolle, amused.
“No! oh, no!” Edna hastened to say. “I was a little
unthinking child in those days, just following a misleading
impulse without question. On the contrary, during one

period of my life religion took a firm hold upon me; after I
was twelve and until—until—why, I suppose until now,
though I never thought much about it—just driven along by
habit. But do you know,” she broke off, turning her quick
eyes upon Madame Ratignolle and leaning forward a little
so as to bring her face quite close to that of her companion,
“sometimes I feel this summer as if I were walking through
the green meadow again; idly, aimlessly, unthinking and
unguided.”
Madame Ratignolle laid her hand over that of Mrs.
Pontellier, which was near her. Seeing that the hand was
not withdrawn, she clasped it firmly and warmly. She even
stroked it a little, fondly, with the other hand, murmuring in
an undertone, “Pauvre chérie.”
The action was at first a little confusing to Edna, but
she soon lent herself readily to the Creole’s gentle caress.
She was not accustomed to an outward and spoken
expression of affection, either in herself or in others. She
and her younger sister, Janet, had quarreled a good deal
through force of unfortunate habit. Her older sister,
Margaret, was matronly and dignified, probably from
having assumed matronly and housewifely responsibilities
too early in life, their mother having died when they were
quite young. Margaret was not effusive; she was practical.
Edna had had an occasional girl friend, but whether
accidentally or not, they seemed to have been all of one
type—the self-contained. She never realized that the
reserve of her own character had much, perhaps
everything, to do with this. Her most intimate friend at
school had been one of rather exceptional intellectual gifts,
who wrote fine-sounding essays, which Edna admired and
strove to imitate; and with her she talked and glowed over
the English classics, and sometimes held religious and
political controversies.

Edna often wondered at one propensity which
sometimes had inwardly disturbed her without causing any
outward show or manifestation on her part. At a very early
age—perhaps it was when she traversed the ocean of
waving grass—she remembered that she had been
passionately enamored of a dignified and sad-eyed cavalry
officer who visited her father in Kentucky. She could not
leave his presence when he was there, nor remove her eyes
from his face, which was something like Napoleon’s, with a
lock of black hair falling across the forehead. But the
cavalry officer melted imperceptibly out of her existence.
At another time her affections were deeply engaged by
a young gentleman who visited a lady on a neighboring
plantation. It was after they went to Mississippi to live. The
young man was engaged to be married to the young lady,
and they sometimes called upon Margaret, driving over of
afternoons in a buggy. Edna was a little miss, just merging
into her teens; and the realization that she herself was
nothing, nothing, nothing to the engaged young man was a
bitter affliction to her. But he, too, went the way of dreams.
She was a grown young woman when she was
overtaken by what she supposed to be the climax of her
fate. It was when the face and figure of a great tragedian
began to haunt her imagination and stir her senses. The
persistence of the infatuation lent it an aspect of
genuineness. The hopelessness of it colored it with the lofty
tones of a great passion.
The picture of the tragedian stood enframed upon her
desk. Any one may possess the portrait of a tragedian
without exciting suspicion or comment. (This was a sinister
reflection which she cherished.) In the presence of others
she expressed admiration for his exalted gifts, as she
handed the photograph around and dwelt upon the fidelity

of the likeness. When alone she sometimes picked it up and
kissed the cold glass passionately.
Her marriage to Léonce Pontellier was purely an
accident, in this respect resembling many other marriages
which masquerade as the decrees of Fate. It was in the
midst of her secret great passion that she met him. He fell
in love, as men are in the habit of doing, and pressed his
suit with an earnestness and an ardor which left nothing to
be desired. He pleased her; his absolute devotion flattered
her. She fancied there was a sympathy of thought and taste
between them, in which fancy she was mistaken. Add to
this the violent opposition of her father and her sister
Margaret to her marriage with a Catholic, and we need
seek no further for the motives which led her to accept
Monsieur Pontellier for her husband.
The acme of bliss, which would have been a marriage
with the tragedian, was not for her in this world. As the
devoted wife of a man who worshiped her, she felt she
would take her place with a certain dignity in the world of
reality, closing the portals forever behind her upon the
realm of romance and dreams.
But it was not long before the tragedian had gone to
join the cavalry officer and the engaged young man and a
few others; and Edna found herself face to face with the
realities. She grew fond of her husband, realizing with
some unaccountable satisfaction that no trace of passion or
excessive and fictitious warmth colored her affection,
thereby threatening its dissolution.
She was fond of her children in an uneven, impulsive
way. She would sometimes gather them passionately to her
heart; she would sometimes forget them. The year before
they had spent part of the summer with their grandmother

Pontellier in Iberville. Feeling secure regarding their
happiness and welfare, she did not miss them except with
an occasional intense longing. Their absence was a sort of
relief, though she did not admit this, even to herself. It
seemed to free her of a responsibility which she had blindly
assumed and for which Fate had not fitted her.
Edna did not reveal so much as all this to Madame
Ratignolle that summer day when they sat with faces
turned to the sea. But a good part of it escaped her. She
had put her head down on Madame Ratignolle’s shoulder.
She was flushed and felt intoxicated with the sound of her
own voice and the unaccustomed taste of candor. It
muddled her like wine, or like a first breath of freedom.
There was the sound of approaching voices. It was
Robert, surrounded by a troop of children, searching for
them. The two little Pontelliers were with him, and he
carried Madame Ratignolle’s little girl in his arms. There
were other children beside, and two nurse-maids followed,
looking disagreeable and resigned.
The women at once rose and began to shake out their
draperies and relax their muscles. Mrs. Pontellier threw the
cushions and rug into the bath-house. The children all
scampered off to the awning, and they stood there in a line,
gazing upon the intruding lovers, still exchanging their
vows and sighs. The lovers got up, with only a silent
protest, and walked slowly away somewhere else.
The children possessed themselves of the tent, and
Mrs. Pontellier went over to join them.
Madame Ratignolle begged Robert to accompany her to
the house; she complained of cramp in her limbs and

stiffness of the joints. She leaned draggingly upon his arm
as they walked.
 
VIII
“Do me a favor, Robert,” spoke the pretty woman at his
side, almost as soon as she and Robert had started on their
slow, homeward way. She looked up in his face, leaning on
his arm beneath the encircling shadow of the umbrella
which he had lifted.
“Granted; as many as you like,” he returned, glancing
down into her eyes that were full of thoughtfulness and
some speculation.
“I only ask for one; let Mrs. Pontellier alone.”
“Tiens!” he exclaimed, with a sudden, boyish laugh.
“Voilà que Madame Ratignolle est jalouse!”
“Nonsense! I’m in earnest; I mean what I say. Let Mrs.
Pontellier alone.”
“Why?” he asked; himself growing serious at his
companion’s solicitation.
“She is not one of us; she is not like us. She might make
the unfortunate blunder of taking you seriously.”
His face flushed with annoyance, and taking off his soft
hat he began to beat it impatiently against his leg as he
walked. “Why shouldn’t she take me seriously?” he
demanded sharply. “Am I a comedian, a clown, a jack-in-the-
box? Why shouldn’t she? You Creoles! I have no patience
with you! Am I always to be regarded as a feature of an

amusing programme? I hope Mrs. Pontellier does take me
seriously. I hope she has discernment enough to find in me
something besides the blagueur. If I thought there was any
doubt—”
“Oh, enough, Robert!” she broke into his heated
outburst. “You are not thinking of what you are saying. You
speak with about as little reflection as we might expect
from one of those children down there playing in the sand.
If your attentions to any married women here were ever
offered with any intention of being convincing, you would
not be the gentleman we all know you to be, and you would
be unfit to associate with the wives and daughters of the
people who trust you.”
Madame Ratignolle had spoken what she believed to be
the law and the gospel. The young man shrugged his
shoulders impatiently.
“Oh! well! That isn’t it,” slamming his hat down
vehemently upon his head. “You ought to feel that such
things are not flattering to say to a fellow.”
“Should our whole intercourse consist of an exchange
of compliments? Ma foi!”
“It isn’t pleasant to have a woman tell you—” he went
on, unheedingly, but breaking off suddenly: “Now if I were
like Arobin—you remember Alcée Arobin and that story of
the consul’s wife at Biloxi?” And he related the story of
Alcée Arobin and the consul’s wife; and another about the
tenor of the French Opera, who received letters which
should never have been written; and still other stories,
grave and gay, till Mrs. Pontellier and her possible
propensity for taking young men seriously was apparently
forgotten.

Madame Ratignolle, when they had regained her
cottage, went in to take the hour’s rest which she
considered helpful. Before leaving her, Robert begged her
pardon for the impatience—he called it rudeness—with
which he had received her well-meant caution.
“You made one mistake, Adèle,” he said, with a light
smile; “there is no earthly possibility of Mrs. Pontellier ever
taking me seriously. You should have warned me against
taking myself seriously. Your advice might then have
carried some weight and given me subject for some
reflection. Au revoir. But you look tired,” he added,
solicitously. “Would you like a cup of bouillon? Shall I stir
you a toddy? Let me mix you a toddy with a drop of
Angostura.”
She acceded to the suggestion of bouillon, which was
grateful and acceptable. He went himself to the kitchen,
which was a building apart from the cottages and lying to
the rear of the house. And he himself brought her the
golden-brown bouillon, in a dainty Sèvres cup, with a flaky
cracker or two on the saucer.
She thrust a bare, white arm from the curtain which
shielded her open door, and received the cup from his
hands. She told him he was a bon gargon, and she meant it.
Robert thanked her and turned away toward “the house.”
The lovers were just entering the grounds of the
pension. They were leaning toward each other as the
water-oaks bent from the sea. There was not a particle of
earth beneath their feet. Their heads might have been
turned upside-down, so absolutely did they tread upon blue
ether. The lady in black, creeping behind them, looked a
trifle paler and more jaded than usual. There was no sign of
Mrs. Pontellier and the children. Robert scanned the

distance for any such apparition. They would doubtless
remain away till the dinner hour. The young man ascended
to his mother’s room. It was situated at the top of the
house, made up of odd angles and a queer, sloping ceiling.
Two broad dormer windows looked out toward the Gulf,
and as far across it as a man’s eye might reach. The
furnishings of the room were light, cool, and practical.
Madame Lebrun was busily engaged at the sewing-
machine. A little black girl sat on the floor, and with her
hands worked the treadle of the machine. The Creole
woman does not take any chances which may be avoided of
imperiling her health.
Robert went over and seated himself on the broad sill
of one of the dormer windows. He took a book from his
pocket and began energetically to read it, judging by the
precision and frequency with which he turned the leaves.
The sewing-machine made a resounding clatter in the
room; it was of a ponderous, by-gone make. In the lulls,
Robert and his mother exchanged bits of desultory
conversation.
“Where is Mrs. Pontellier?”
“Down at the beach with the children.”
“I promised to lend her the Goncourt. Don’t forget to
take it down when you go; it’s there on the bookshelf over
the small table.” Clatter, clatter, clatter, bang! for the next
five or eight minutes.
“Where is Victor going with the rockaway?”
“The rockaway? Victor?”

“Yes; down there in front. He seems to be getting ready
to drive away somewhere.”
“Call him.” Clatter, clatter!
Robert uttered a shrill, piercing whistle which might
have been heard back at the wharf.
“He won’t look up.”
Madame Lebrun flew to the window. She called
“Victor!” She waved a handkerchief and called again. The
young fellow below got into the vehicle and started the
horse off at a gallop.
Madame Lebrun went back to the machine, crimson
with annoyance. Victor was the younger son and brother—a
tête montée, with a temper which invited violence and a
will which no ax could break.
“Whenever you say the word I’m ready to thrash any
amount of reason into him that he’s able to hold.”
“If your father had only lived!” Clatter, clatter, clatter,
clatter, bang! It was a fixed belief with Madame Lebrun
that the conduct of the universe and all things pertaining
thereto would have been manifestly of a more intelligent
and higher order had not Monsieur Lebrun been removed
to other spheres during the early years of their married
life.
“What do you hear from Montel?” Montel was a middle-
aged gentleman whose vain ambition and desire for the
past twenty years had been to fill the void which Monsieur
Lebrun’s taking off had left in the Lebrun household.
Clatter, clatter, bang, clatter!

“I have a letter somewhere,” looking in the machine
drawer and finding the letter in the bottom of the work-
basket. “He says to tell you he will be in Vera Cruz the
beginning of next month”—clatter, clatter!—“and if you still
have the intention of joining him”—bang! clatter, clatter,
bang!
“Why didn’t you tell me so before, mother? You know I
wanted—” Clatter, clatter, clatter!
“Do you see Mrs. Pontellier starting back with the
children? She will be in late to luncheon again. She never
starts to get ready for luncheon till the last minute.”
Clatter, clatter! “Where are you going?”
“Where did you say the Goncourt was?”
 
IX
Every light in the hall was ablaze; every lamp turned as
high as it could be without smoking the chimney or
threatening explosion. The lamps were fixed at intervals
against the wall, encircling the whole room. Some one had
gathered orange and lemon branches, and with these
fashioned graceful festoons between. The dark green of the
branches stood out and glistened against the white muslin
curtains which draped the windows, and which puffed,
floated, and flapped at the capricious will of a stiff breeze
that swept up from the Gulf.
It was Saturday night a few weeks after the intimate
conversation held between Robert and Madame Ratignolle
on their way from the beach. An unusual number of
husbands, fathers, and friends had come down to stay over
Sunday; and they were being suitably entertained by their

families, with the material help of Madame Lebrun. The
dining tables had all been removed to one end of the hall,
and the chairs ranged about in rows and in clusters. Each
little family group had had its say and exchanged its
domestic gossip earlier in the evening. There was now an
apparent disposition to relax; to widen the circle of
confidences and give a more general tone to the
conversation.
Many of the children had been permitted to sit up
beyond their usual bedtime. A small band of them were
lying on their stomachs on the floor looking at the colored
sheets of the comic papers which Mr. Pontellier had
brought down. The little Pontellier boys were permitting
them to do so, and making their authority felt.
Music, dancing, and a recitation or two were the
entertainments furnished, or rather, offered. But there was
nothing systematic about the programme, no appearance of
prearrangement nor even premeditation.
At an early hour in the evening the Farival twins were
prevailed upon to play the piano. They were girls of
fourteen, always clad in the Virgin’s colors, blue and white,
having been dedicated to the Blessed Virgin at their
baptism. They played a duet from “Zampa,” and at the
earnest solicitation of every one present followed it with
the overture to “The Poet and the Peasant.”
“Allez vous-en! Sapristi!” shrieked the parrot outside
the door. He was the only being present who possessed
sufficient candor to admit that he was not listening to these
gracious performances for the first time that summer. Old
Monsieur Farival, grandfather of the twins, grew indignant
over the interruption and insisted upon having the bird
removed and consigned to regions of darkness. Victor

Lebrun objected; and his decrees were as immutable as
those of Fate. The parrot fortunately offered no further
interruption to the entertainment, the whole venom of his
nature apparently having been cherished up and hurled
against the twins in that one impetuous outburst.
Later a young brother and sister gave recitations,
which every one present had heard many times at winter
evening entertainments in the city.
A little girl performed a skirt dance in the center of the
floor. The mother played her accompaniments and at the
same time watched her daughter with greedy admiration
and nervous apprehension. She need have had no
apprehension. The child was mistress of the situation. She
had been properly dressed for the occasion in black tulle
and black silk tights. Her little neck and arms were bare,
and her hair, artificially crimped, stood out like fluffy black
plumes over her head. Her poses were full of grace, and
her little black-shod toes twinkled as they shot out and
upward with a rapidity and suddenness which were
bewildering.
But there was no reason why every one should not
dance. Madame Ratignolle could not, so it was she who
gaily consented to play for the others. She played very well,
keeping excellent waltz time and infusing an expression
into the strains which was indeed inspiring. She was
keeping up her music on account of the children, she said;
because she and her husband both considered it a means of
brightening the home and making it attractive.
Almost every one danced but the twins, who could not
be induced to separate during the brief period when one or
the other should be whirling around the room in the arms

of a man. They might have danced together, but they did
not think of it.
The children were sent to bed. Some went
submissively; others with shrieks and protests as they were
dragged away. They had been permitted to sit up till after
the ice-cream, which naturally marked the limit of human
indulgence.
The ice-cream was passed around with cake—gold and
silver cake arranged on platters in alternate slices; it had
been made and frozen during the afternoon back of the
kitchen by two black women, under the supervision of
Victor. It was pronounced a great success—excellent if it
had only contained a little less vanilla or a little more sugar,
if it had been frozen a degree harder, and if the salt might
have been kept out of portions of it. Victor was proud of his
achievement, and went about recommending it and urging
every one to partake of it to excess.
After Mrs. Pontellier had danced twice with her
husband, once with Robert, and once with Monsieur
Ratignolle, who was thin and tall and swayed like a reed in
the wind when he danced, she went out on the gallery and
seated herself on the low window-sill, where she
commanded a view of all that went on in the hall and could
look out toward the Gulf. There was a soft effulgence in the
east. The moon was coming up, and its mystic shimmer was
casting a million lights across the distant, restless water.
“Would you like to hear Mademoiselle Reisz play?”
asked Robert, coming out on the porch where she was. Of
course Edna would like to hear Mademoiselle Reisz play;
but she feared it would be useless to entreat her.

“I’ll ask her,” he said. “I’ll tell her that you want to hear
her. She likes you. She will come.” He turned and hurried
away to one of the far cottages, where Mademoiselle Reisz
was shuffling away. She was dragging a chair in and out of
her room, and at intervals objecting to the crying of a baby,
which a nurse in the adjoining cottage was endeavoring to
put to sleep. She was a disagreeable little woman, no
longer young, who had quarreled with almost every one,
owing to a temper which was self-assertive and a
disposition to trample upon the rights of others. Robert
prevailed upon her without any too great difficulty.
She entered the hall with him during a lull in the dance.
She made an awkward, imperious little bow as she went in.
She was a homely woman, with a small weazened face and
body and eyes that glowed. She had absolutely no taste in
dress, and wore a batch of rusty black lace with a bunch of
artificial violets pinned to the side of her hair.
“Ask Mrs. Pontellier what she would like to hear me
play,” she requested of Robert. She sat perfectly still before
the piano, not touching the keys, while Robert carried her
message to Edna at the window. A general air of surprise
and genuine satisfaction fell upon every one as they saw
the pianist enter. There was a settling down, and a
prevailing air of expectancy everywhere. Edna was a trifle
embarrassed at being thus singled out for the imperious
little woman’s favor. She would not dare to choose, and
begged that Mademoiselle Reisz would please herself in
her selections.
Edna was what she herself called very fond of music.
Musical strains, well rendered, had a way of evoking
pictures in her mind. She sometimes liked to sit in the room
of mornings when Madame Ratignolle played or practiced.
One piece which that lady played Edna had entitled

“Solitude.” It was a short, plaintive, minor strain. The name
of the piece was something else, but she called it
“Solitude.” When she heard it there came before her
imagination the figure of a man standing beside a desolate
rock on the seashore. He was naked. His attitude was one
of hopeless resignation as he looked toward a distant bird
winging its flight away from him.
Another piece called to her mind a dainty young woman
clad in an Empire gown, taking mincing dancing steps as
she came down a long avenue between tall hedges. Again,
another reminded her of children at play, and still another
of nothing on earth but a demure lady stroking a cat.
The very first chords which Mademoiselle Reisz struck
upon the piano sent a keen tremor down Mrs. Pontellier’s
spinal column. It was not the first time she had heard an
artist at the piano. Perhaps it was the first time she was
ready, perhaps the first time her being was tempered to
take an impress of the abiding truth.
She waited for the material pictures which she thought
would gather and blaze before her imagination. She waited
in vain. She saw no pictures of solitude, of hope, of longing,
or of despair. But the very passions themselves were
aroused within her soul, swaying it, lashing it, as the waves
daily beat upon her splendid body. She trembled, she was
choking, and the tears blinded her.
Mademoiselle had finished. She arose, and bowing her
stiff, lofty bow, she went away, stopping for neither thanks
nor applause. As she passed along the gallery she patted
Edna upon the shoulder.
“Well, how did you like my music?” she asked. The
young woman was unable to answer; she pressed the hand

of the pianist convulsively. Mademoiselle Reisz perceived
her agitation and even her tears. She patted her again upon
the shoulder as she said:
“You are the only one worth playing for. Those others?
Bah!” and she went shuffling and sidling on down the
gallery toward her room.
But she was mistaken about “those others.” Her playing
had aroused a fever of enthusiasm. “What passion!” “What
an artist!” “I have always said no one could play Chopin
like Mademoiselle Reisz!” “That last prelude! Bon Dieu! It
shakes a man!”
It was growing late, and there was a general
disposition to disband. But some one, perhaps it was
Robert, thought of a bath at that mystic hour and under
that mystic moon.
 
X
At all events Robert proposed it, and there was not a
dissenting voice. There was not one but was ready to follow
when he led the way. He did not lead the way, however, he
directed the way; and he himself loitered behind with the
lovers, who had betrayed a disposition to linger and hold
themselves apart. He walked between them, whether with
malicious or mischievous intent was not wholly clear, even
to himself.
The Pontelliers and Ratignolles walked ahead; the
women leaning upon the arms of their husbands. Edna
could hear Robert’s voice behind them, and could
sometimes hear what he said. She wondered why he did
not join them. It was unlike him not to. Of late he had

sometimes held away from her for an entire day, redoubling
his devotion upon the next and the next, as though to make
up for hours that had been lost. She missed him the days
when some pretext served to take him away from her, just
as one misses the sun on a cloudy day without having
thought much about the sun when it was shining.
The people walked in little groups toward the beach.
They talked and laughed; some of them sang. There was a
band playing down at Klein’s hotel, and the strains reached
them faintly, tempered by the distance. There were strange,
rare odors abroad—a tangle of the sea smell and of weeds
and damp, new-plowed earth, mingled with the heavy
perfume of a field of white blossoms somewhere near. But
the night sat lightly upon the sea and the land. There was
no weight of darkness; there were no shadows. The white
light of the moon had fallen upon the world like the
mystery and the softness of sleep.
Most of them walked into the water as though into a
native element. The sea was quiet now, and swelled lazily in
broad billows that melted into one another and did not
break except upon the beach in little foamy crests that
coiled back like slow, white serpents.
Edna had attempted all summer to learn to swim. She
had received instructions from both the men and women; in
some instances from the children. Robert had pursued a
system of lessons almost daily; and he was nearly at the
point of discouragement in realizing the futility of his
efforts. A certain ungovernable dread hung about her when
in the water, unless there was a hand near by that might
reach out and reassure her.
But that night she was like the little tottering,
stumbling, clutching child, who of a sudden realizes its

powers, and walks for the first time alone, boldly and with
over-confidence. She could have shouted for joy. She did
shout for joy, as with a sweeping stroke or two she lifted
her body to the surface of the water.
A feeling of exultation overtook her, as if some power of
significant import had been given her to control the
working of her body and her soul. She grew daring and
reckless, overestimating her strength. She wanted to swim
far out, where no woman had swum before.
Her unlooked-for achievement was the subject of
wonder, applause, and admiration. Each one congratulated
himself that his special teachings had accomplished this
desired end.
“How easy it is!” she thought. “It is nothing,” she said
aloud; “why did I not discover before that it was nothing.
Think of the time I have lost splashing about like a baby!”
She would not join the groups in their sports and bouts, but
intoxicated with her newly conquered power, she swam out
alone.
She turned her face seaward to gather in an impression
of space and solitude, which the vast expanse of water,
meeting and melting with the moonlit sky, conveyed to her
excited fancy. As she swam she seemed to be reaching out
for the unlimited in which to lose herself.
Once she turned and looked toward the shore, toward
the people she had left there. She had not gone any great
distance—that is, what would have been a great distance
for an experienced swimmer. But to her unaccustomed
vision the stretch of water behind her assumed the aspect
of a barrier which her unaided strength would never be
able to overcome.

A quick vision of death smote her soul, and for a second
of time appalled and enfeebled her senses. But by an effort
she rallied her staggering faculties and managed to regain
the land.
She made no mention of her encounter with death and
her flash of terror, except to say to her husband, “I thought
I should have perished out there alone.”
“You were not so very far, my dear; I was watching
you,” he told her.
Edna went at once to the bath-house, and she had put
on her dry clothes and was ready to return home before the
others had left the water. She started to walk away alone.
They all called to her and shouted to her. She waved a
dissenting hand, and went on, paying no further heed to
their renewed cries which sought to detain her.
“Sometimes I am tempted to think that Mrs. Pontellier
is capricious,” said Madame Lebrun, who was amusing
herself immensely and feared that Edna’s abrupt departure
might put an end to the pleasure.
“I know she is,” assented Mr. Pontellier; “sometimes,
not often.”
Edna had not traversed a quarter of the distance on her
way home before she was overtaken by Robert.
“Did you think I was afraid?” she asked him, without a
shade of annoyance.
“No; I knew you weren’t afraid.”
“Then why did you come? Why didn’t you stay out there
with the others?”

“I never thought of it.”
“Thought of what?”
“Of anything. What difference does it make?”
“I’m very tired,” she uttered, complainingly.
“I know you are.”
“You don’t know anything about it. Why should you
know? I never was so exhausted in my life. But it isn’t
unpleasant. A thousand emotions have swept through me
to-night. I don’t comprehend half of them. Don’t mind what
I’m saying; I am just thinking aloud. I wonder if I shall ever
be stirred again as Madeemoiselle Reisz’s playing moved
me to-night. I wonder if any night on earth will ever again
be like this one. It is like a night in a dream. The people
about me are like some uncanny, half-human beings. There
must be spirits abroad to-night.”
“There are,” whispered Robert. “Didn’t you know this
was the twenty-eighth of August?”
“The twenty-eighth of August?”
“Yes. On the twenty-eighth of August, at the hour of
midnight, and if the moon is shining—the moon must be
shining—a spirit that has haunted these shores for ages
rises up from the Gulf. With its own penetrating vision the
spirit seeks some one mortal worthy to hold him company,
worthy of being exalted for a few hours into realms of the
semi-celestials. His search has always hitherto been
fruitless, and he has sunk back, disheartened, into the sea.
But to-night he found Mrs. Pontellier. Perhaps he will never
wholly release her from the spell. Perhaps she will never

again suffer a poor, unworthy earthling to walk in the
shadow of her divine presence.”
“Don’t banter me,” she said, wounded at what
appeared to be his flippancy. He did not mind the entreaty,
but the tone with its delicate note of pathos was like a
reproach. He could not explain; he could not tell her that
he had penetrated her mood and understood. He said
nothing except to offer her his arm, for, by her own
admission, she was exhausted. She had been walking alone
with her arms hanging limp, letting her white skirts trail
along the dewy path. She took his arm, but she did not lean
upon it. She let her hand lie listlessly, as though her
thoughts were elsewhere—somewhere in advance of her
body, and she was striving to overtake them.
Robert assisted her into the hammock which swung
from the post before her door out to the trunk of a tree.
“Will you stay out here and wait for Mr. Pontellier?” he
asked.
“I’ll stay out here. Good-night.”
“Shall I get you a pillow?”
“There’s one here,” she said, feeling about, for they
were in the shadow.
“It must be soiled; the children have been tumbling it
about.”
“No matter.” And having discovered the pillow, she
adjusted it beneath her head. She extended herself in the
hammock with a deep breath of relief. She was not a
supercilious or an overdainty woman. She was not much
given to reclining in the hammock, and when she did so it

was with no cat-like suggestion of voluptuous ease, but
with a beneficent repose which seemed to invade her whole
body.
“Shall I stay with you till Mr. Pontellier comes?” asked
Robert, seating himself on the outer edge of one of the
steps and taking hold of the hammock rope which was
fastened to the post.
“If you wish. Don’t swing the hammock. Will you get my
white shawl which I left on the window-sill over at the
house?”
“Are you chilly?”
“No; but I shall be presently.”
“Presently?” he laughed. “Do you know what time it is?
How long are you going to stay out here?”
“I don’t know. Will you get the shawl?”
“Of course I will,” he said, rising. He went over to the
house, walking along the grass. She watched his figure
pass in and out of the strips of moonlight. It was past
midnight. It was very quiet.
When he returned with the shawl she took it and kept it
in her hand. She did not put it around her.
“Did you say I should stay till Mr. Pontellier came
back?”
“I said you might if you wished to.”
He seated himself again and rolled a cigarette, which
he smoked in silence. Neither did Mrs. Pontellier speak. No

multitude of words could have been more significant than
those moments of silence, or more pregnant with the first-
felt throbbings of desire.
When the voices of the bathers were heard
approaching, Robert said good-night. She did not answer
him. He thought she was asleep. Again she watched his
figure pass in and out of the strips of moonlight as he
walked away.
 
XI
“What are you doing out here, Edna? I thought I should
find you in bed,” said her husband, when he discovered her
lying there. He had walked up with Madame Lebrun and
left her at the house. His wife did not reply.
“Are you asleep?” he asked, bending down close to look
at her.
“No.” Her eyes gleamed bright and intense, with no
sleepy shadows, as they looked into his.
“Do you know it is past one o’clock? Come on,” and he
mounted the steps and went into their room.
“Edna!” called Mr. Pontellier from within, after a few
moments had gone by.
“Don’t wait for me,” she answered. He thrust his head
through the door.
“You will take cold out there,” he said, irritably. “What
folly is this? Why don’t you come in?”

“It isn’t cold; I have my shawl.”
“The mosquitoes will devour you.”
“There are no mosquitoes.”
She heard him moving about the room; every sound
indicating impatience and irritation. Another time she
would have gone in at his request. She would, through
habit, have yielded to his desire; not with any sense of
submission or obedience to his compelling wishes, but
unthinkingly, as we walk, move, sit, stand, go through the
daily treadmill of the life which has been portioned out to
us.
“Edna, dear, are you not coming in soon?” he asked
again, this time fondly, with a note of entreaty.
“No; I am going to stay out here.”
“This is more than folly,” he blurted out. “I can’t permit
you to stay out there all night. You must come in the house
instantly.”
With a writhing motion she settled herself more
securely in the hammock. She perceived that her will had
blazed up, stubborn and resistant. She could not at that
moment have done other than denied and resisted. She
wondered if her husband had ever spoken to her like that
before, and if she had submitted to his command. Of course
she had; she remembered that she had. But she could not
realize why or how she should have yielded, feeling as she
then did.
“Léonce, go to bed,” she said. “I mean to stay out here.
I don’t wish to go in, and I don’t intend to. Don’t speak to
me like that again; I shall not answer you.”

Mr. Pontellier had prepared for bed, but he slipped on
an extra garment. He opened a bottle of wine, of which he
kept a small and select supply in a buffet of his own. He
drank a glass of the wine and went out on the gallery and
offered a glass to his wife. She did not wish any. He drew
up the rocker, hoisted his slippered feet on the rail, and
proceeded to smoke a cigar. He smoked two cigars; then he
went inside and drank another glass of wine. Mrs.
Pontellier again declined to accept a glass when it was
offered to her. Mr. Pontellier once more seated himself with
elevated feet, and after a reasonable interval of time
smoked some more cigars.
Edna began to feel like one who awakens gradually out
of a dream, a delicious, grotesque, impossible dream, to
feel again the realities pressing into her soul. The physical
need for sleep began to overtake her; the exuberance
which had sustained and exalted her spirit left her helpless
and yielding to the conditions which crowded her in.
The stillest hour of the night had come, the hour before
dawn, when the world seems to hold its breath. The moon
hung low, and had turned from silver to copper in the
sleeping sky. The old owl no longer hooted, and the water-
oaks had ceased to moan as they bent their heads.
Edna arose, cramped from lying so long and still in the
hammock. She tottered up the steps, clutching feebly at the
post before passing into the house.
“Are you coming in, Léonce?” she asked, turning her
face toward her husband.
“Yes, dear,” he answered, with a glance following a
misty puff of smoke. “Just as soon as I have finished my
cigar.”

 
XII
She slept but a few hours. They were troubled and
feverish hours, disturbed with dreams that were intangible,
that eluded her, leaving only an impression upon her half-
awakened senses of something unattainable. She was up
and dressed in the cool of the early morning. The air was
invigorating and steadied somewhat her faculties. However,
she was not seeking refreshment or help from any source,
either external or from within. She was blindly following
whatever impulse moved her, as if she had placed herself in
alien hands for direction, and freed her soul of
responsibility.
Most of the people at this early hour were still in bed
and asleep. A few, who intended to go over to the Chênière
for mass, were moving about. The lovers, who had laid
their plans the night before, were already strolling toward
the wharf. The lady in black, with her Sunday prayer-book,
velvet and gold-clasped, and her Sunday silver beads, was
following them at no great distance. Old Monsieur Farival
was up, and was more than half inclined to do anything that
suggested itself. He put on his big straw hat, and taking his
umbrella from the stand in the hall, followed the lady in
black, never overtaking her.
The little negro girl who worked Madame Lebrun’s
sewing-machine was sweeping the galleries with long,
absent-minded strokes of the broom. Edna sent her up into
the house to awaken Robert.
“Tell him I am going to the Chênière. The boat is ready;
tell him to hurry.”

OceanofPDF.com

He had soon joined her. She had never sent for him
before. She had never asked for him. She had never
seemed to want him before. She did not appear conscious
that she had done anything unusual in commanding his
presence. He was apparently equally unconscious of
anything extraordinary in the situation. But his face was
suffused with a quiet glow when he met her.
They went together back to the kitchen to drink coffee.
There was no time to wait for any nicety of service. They
stood outside the window and the cook passed them their
coffee and a roll, which they drank and ate from the
window-sill. Edna said it tasted good. She had not thought
of coffee nor of anything. He told her he had often noticed
that she lacked forethought.
“Wasn’t it enough to think of going to the Chênière and
waking you up?” she laughed. “Do I have to think of
everything?—as Léonce says when he’s in a bad humor. I
don’t blame him; he’d never be in a bad humor if it weren’t
for me.”
They took a short cut across the sands. At a distance
they could see the curious procession moving toward the
wharf—the lovers, shoulder to shoulder, creeping; the lady
in black, gaining steadily upon them; old Monsieur Farival,
losing ground inch by inch, and a young barefooted Spanish
girl, with a red kerchief on her head and a basket on her
arm, bringing up the rear.
Robert knew the girl, and he talked to her a little in the
boat. No one present understood what they said. Her name
was Mariequita. She had a round, sly, piquant face and
pretty black eyes. Her hands were small, and she kept them
folded over the handle of her basket. Her feet were broad

and coarse. She did not strive to hide them. Edna looked at
her feet, and noticed the sand and slime between her
brown toes.
Beaudelet grumbled because Mariequita was there,
taking up so much room. In reality he was annoyed at
having old Monsieur Farival, who considered himself the
better sailor of the two. But he would not quarrel with so
old a man as Monsieur Farival, so he quarreled with
Mariequita. The girl was deprecatory at one moment,
appealing to Robert. She was saucy the next, moving her
head up and down, making “eyes” at Robert and making
“mouths” at Beaudelet.
The lovers were all alone. They saw nothing, they heard
nothing. The lady in black was counting her beads for the
third time. Old Monsieur Farival talked incessantly of what
he knew about handling a boat, and of what Beaudelet did
not know on the same subject.
Edna liked it all. She looked Mariequita up and down,
from her ugly brown toes to her pretty black eyes, and back
again.
“Why does she look at me like that?” inquired the girl
of Robert.
“Maybe she thinks you are pretty. Shall I ask her?”
“No. Is she your sweetheart?”
“She’s a married lady, and has two children.”
“Oh! well! Francisco ran away with Sylvano’s wife, who
had four children. They took all his money and one of the
children and stole his boat.”

“Shut up!”
“Does she understand?”
“Oh, hush!”
“Are those two married over there—leaning on each
other?”
“Of course not,” laughed Robert.
“Of course not,” echoed Mariequita, with a serious,
confirmatory bob of the head.
The sun was high up and beginning to bite. The swift
breeze seemed to Edna to bury the sting of it into the pores
of her face and hands. Robert held his umbrella over her.
As they went cutting sidewise through the water, the
sails bellied taut, with the wind filling and overflowing
them. Old Monsieur Farival laughed sardonically at
something as he looked at the sails, and Beaudelet swore at
the old man under his breath.
Sailing across the bay to the Chênière Caminada, Edna
felt as if she were being borne away from some anchorage
which had held her fast, whose chains had been loosening
—had snapped the night before when the mystic spirit was
abroad, leaving her free to drift whithersoever she chose to
set her sails. Robert spoke to her incessantly; he no longer
noticed Mariequita. The girl had shrimps in her bamboo
basket. They were covered with Spanish moss. She beat the
moss down impatiently, and muttered to herself sullenly.
“Let us go to Grande Terre to-morrow?” said Robert in
a low voice.

“What shall we do there?”
“Climb up the hill to the old fort and look at the little
wriggling gold snakes, and watch the lizards sun
themselves.”
She gazed away toward Grande Terre and thought she
would like to be alone there with Robert, in the sun,
listening to the ocean’s roar and watching the slimy lizards
writhe in and out among the ruins of the old fort.
“And the next day or the next we can sail to the Bayou
Brulow,” he went on.
“What shall we do there?”
“Anything—cast bait for fish.”
“No; we’ll go back to Grande Terre. Let the fish alone.”
“We’ll go wherever you like,” he said. “I’ll have Tonie
come over and help me patch and trim my boat. We shall
not need Beaudelet nor any one. Are you afraid of the
pirogue?”
“Oh, no.”
“Then I’ll take you some night in the pirogue when the
moon shines. Maybe your Gulf spirit will whisper to you in
which of these islands the treasures are hidden—direct you
to the very spot, perhaps.”
“And in a day we should be rich!” she laughed. “I’d give
it all to you, the pirate gold and every bit of treasure we
could dig up. I think you would know how to spend it.
Pirate gold isn’t a thing to be hoarded or utilized. It is

something to squander and throw to the four winds, for the
fun of seeing the golden specks fly.”
“We’d share it, and scatter it together,” he said. His
face flushed.
They all went together up to the quaint little Gothic
church of Our Lady of Lourdes, gleaming all brown and
yellow with paint in the sun’s glare.
Only Beaudelet remained behind, tinkering at his boat,
and Mariequita walked away with her basket of shrimps,
casting a look of childish ill-humor and reproach at Robert
from the corner of her eye.
 
XIII
A feeling of oppression and drowsiness overcame Edna
during the service. Her head began to ache, and the lights
on the altar swayed before her eyes. Another time she
might have made an effort to regain her composure; but
her one thought was to quit the stifling atmosphere of the
church and reach the open air. She arose, climbing over
Robert’s feet with a muttered apology. Old Monsieur
Farival, flurried, curious, stood up, but upon seeing that
Robert had followed Mrs. Pontellier, he sank back into his
seat. He whispered an anxious inquiry of the lady in black,
who did not notice him or reply, but kept her eyes fastened
upon the pages of her velvet prayer-book.
“I felt giddy and almost overcome,” Edna said, lifting
her hands instinctively to her head and pushing her straw
hat up from her forehead. “I couldn’t have stayed through
the service.” They were outside in the shadow of the
church. Robert was full of solicitude.

“It was folly to have thought of going in the first place,
let alone staying. Come over to Madame Antoine’s; you can
rest there.” He took her arm and led her away, looking
anxiously and continuously down into her face.
How still it was, with only the voice of the sea
whispering through the reeds that grew in the salt-water
pools! The long line of little gray, weather-beaten houses
nestled peacefully among the orange trees. It must always
have been God’s day on that low, drowsy island, Edna
thought. They stopped, leaning over a jagged fence made of
sea-drift, to ask for water. A youth, a mild-faced Acadian,
was drawing water from the cistern, which was nothing
more than a rusty buoy, with an opening on one side, sunk
in the ground. The water which the youth handed to them
in a tin pail was not cold to taste, but it was cool to her
heated face, and it greatly revived and refreshed her.
Madame Antoine’s cot was at the far end of the village.
She welcomed them with all the native hospitality, as she
would have opened her door to let the sunlight in. She was
fat, and walked heavily and clumsily across the floor. She
could speak no English, but when Robert made her
understand that the lady who accompanied him was ill and
desired to rest, she was all eagerness to make Edna feel at
home and to dispose of her comfortably.
The whole place was immaculately clean, and the big,
four-posted bed, snow-white, invited one to repose. It stood
in a small side room which looked out across a narrow
grass plot toward the shed, where there was a disabled
boat lying keel upward.
Madame Antoine had not gone to mass. Her son Tonie
had, but she supposed he would soon be back, and she
invited Robert to be seated and wait for him. But he went

and sat outside the door and smoked. Madame Antoine
busied herself in the large front room preparing dinner.
She was boiling mullets over a few red coals in the huge
fireplace.
Edna, left alone in the little side room, loosened her
clothes, removing the greater part of them. She bathed her
face, her neck and arms in the basin that stood between
the windows. She took off her shoes and stockings and
stretched herself in the very center of the high, white bed.
How luxurious it felt to rest thus in a strange, quaint bed,
with its sweet country odor of laurel lingering about the
sheets and mattress! She stretched her strong limbs that
ached a little. She ran her fingers through her loosened
hair for a while. She looked at her round arms as she held
them straight up and rubbed them one after the other,
observing closely, as if it were something she saw for the
first time, the fine, firm quality and texture of her flesh. She
clasped her hands easily above her head, and it was thus
she fell asleep.
She slept lightly at first, half awake and drowsily
attentive to the things about her. She could hear Madame
Antoine’s heavy, scraping tread as she walked back and
forth on the sanded floor. Some chickens were clucking
outside the windows, scratching for bits of gravel in the
grass. Later she half heard the voices of Robert and Tonie
talking under the shed. She did not stir. Even her eyelids
rested numb and heavily over her sleepy eyes. The voices
went on—Tonie’s slow, Acadian drawl, Robert’s quick, soft,
smooth French. She understood French imperfectly unless
directly addressed, and the voices were only part of the
other drowsy, muffled sounds lulling her senses.
When Edna awoke it was with the conviction that she
had slept long and soundly. The voices were hushed under

the shed. Madame Antoine’s step was no longer to be heard
in the adjoining room. Even the chickens had gone
elsewhere to scratch and cluck. The mosquito bar was
drawn over her; the old woman had come in while she slept
and let down the bar. Edna arose quietly from the bed, and
looking between the curtains of the window, she saw by the
slanting rays of the sun that the afternoon was far
advanced. Robert was out there under the shed, reclining
in the shade against the sloping keel of the overturned
boat. He was reading from a book. Tonie was no longer
with him. She wondered what had become of the rest of the
party. She peeped out at him two or three times as she
stood washing herself in the little basin between the
windows.
Madame Antoine had laid some coarse, clean towels
upon a chair, and had placed a box of poudre de riz within
easy reach. Edna dabbed the powder upon her nose and
cheeks as she looked at herself closely in the little distorted
mirror which hung on the wall above the basin. Her eyes
were bright and wide awake and her face glowed.
When she had completed her toilet she walked into the
adjoining room. She was very hungry. No one was there.
But there was a cloth spread upon the table that stood
against the wall, and a cover was laid for one, with a crusty
brown loaf and a bottle of wine beside the plate. Edna bit a
piece from the brown loaf, tearing it with her strong, white
teeth. She poured some of the wine into the glass and
drank it down. Then she went softly out of doors, and
plucking an orange from the low-hanging bough of a tree,
threw it at Robert, who did not know she was awake and
up.
An illumination broke over his whole face when he saw
her and joined her under the orange tree.

“How many years have I slept?” she inquired. “The
whole island seems changed. A new race of beings must
have sprung up, leaving only you and me as past relics.
How many ages ago did Madame Antoine and Tonie die?
and when did our people from Grand Isle disappear from
the earth?”
He familiarly adjusted a ruffle upon her shoulder.
“You have slept precisely one hundred years. I was left
here to guard your slumbers; and for one hundred years I
have been out under the shed reading a book. The only evil
I couldn’t prevent was to keep a broiled fowl from drying
up.”
“If it has turned to stone, still will I eat it,” said Edna,
moving with him into the house. “But really, what has
become of Monsieur Farival and the others?”
“Gone hours ago. When they found that you were
sleeping they thought it best not to awake you. Any way, I
wouldn’t have let them. What was I here for?”
“I wonder if Léonce will be uneasy!” she speculated, as
she seated herself at table.
“Of course not; he knows you are with me,” Robert
replied, as he busied himself among sundry pans and
covered dishes which had been left standing on the hearth.
“Where are Madame Antoine and her son?” asked
Edna.
“Gone to Vespers, and to visit some friends, I believe. I
am to take you back in Tonie’s boat whenever you are
ready to go.”

He stirred the smoldering ashes till the broiled fowl
began to sizzle afresh. He served her with no mean repast,
dripping the coffee anew and sharing it with her. Madame
Antoine had cooked little else than the mullets, but while
Edna slept Robert had foraged the island. He was childishly
gratified to discover her appetite, and to see the relish with
which she ate the food which he had procured for her.
“Shall we go right away?” she asked, after draining her
glass and brushing together the crumbs of the crusty loaf.
“The sun isn’t as low as it will be in two hours,” he
answered.
“The sun will be gone in two hours.”
“Well, let it go; who cares!”
They waited a good while under the orange trees, till
Madame Antoine came back, panting, waddling, with a
thousand apologies to explain her absence. Tonie did not
dare to return. He was shy, and would not willingly face any
woman except his mother.
It was very pleasant to stay there under the orange
trees, while the sun dipped lower and lower, turning the
western sky to flaming copper and gold. The shadows
lengthened and crept out like stealthy, grotesque monsters
across the grass.
Edna and Robert both sat upon the ground—that is, he
lay upon the ground beside her, occasionally picking at the
hem of her muslin gown.
Madame Antoine seated her fat body, broad and squat,
upon a bench beside the door. She had been talking all the

afternoon, and had wound herself up to the story-telling
pitch.
And what stories she told them! But twice in her life
she had left the Chênière Caminada, and then for the
briefest span. All her years she had squatted and waddled
there upon the island, gathering legends of the Baratarians
and the sea. The night came on, with the moon to lighten it.
Edna could hear the whispering voices of dead men and the
click of muffled gold.
When she and Robert stepped into Tonie’s boat, with
the red lateen sail, misty spirit forms were prowling in the
shadows and among the reeds, and upon the water were
phantom ships, speeding to cover.
 
XIV
The youngest boy, Etienne, had been very naughty,
Madame Ratignolle said, as she delivered him into the
hands of his mother. He had been unwilling to go to bed
and had made a scene; whereupon she had taken charge of
him and pacified him as well as she could. Raoul had been
in bed and asleep for two hours.
The youngster was in his long white nightgown, that
kept tripping him up as Madame Ratignolle led him along
by the hand. With the other chubby fist he rubbed his eyes,
which were heavy with sleep and ill humor. Edna took him
in her arms, and seating herself in the rocker, began to
coddle and caress him, calling him all manner of tender
names, soothing him to sleep.
It was not more than nine o’clock. No one had yet gone
to bed but the children.

Léonce had been very uneasy at first, Madame
Ratignolle said, and had wanted to start at once for the
Chênière. But Monsieur Farival had assured him that his
wife was only overcome with sleep and fatigue, that Tonie
would bring her safely back later in the day; and he had
thus been dissuaded from crossing the bay. He had gone
over to Klein’s, looking up some cotton broker whom he
wished to see in regard to securities, exchanges, stocks,
bonds, or something of the sort, Madame Ratignolle did not
remember what. He said he would not remain away late.
She herself was suffering from heat and oppression, she
said. She carried a bottle of salts and a large fan. She
would not consent to remain with Edna, for Monsieur
Ratignolle was alone, and he detested above all things to
be left alone.
When Etienne had fallen asleep Edna bore him into the
back room, and Robert went and lifted the mosquito bar
that she might lay the child comfortably in his bed. The
quadroon had vanished. When they emerged from the
cottage Robert bade Edna good-night.
“Do you know we have been together the whole
livelong day, Robert—since early this morning?” she said at
parting.
“All but the hundred years when you were sleeping.
Good-night.”
He pressed her hand and went away in the direction of
the beach. He did not join any of the others, but walked
alone toward the Gulf.
Edna stayed outside, awaiting her husband’s return.
She had no desire to sleep or to retire; nor did she feel like
going over to sit with the Ratignolles, or to join Madame

Lebrun and a group whose animated voices reached her as
they sat in conversation before the house. She let her mind
wander back over her stay at Grand Isle; and she tried to
discover wherein this summer had been different from any
and every other summer of her life. She could only realize
that she herself—her present self—was in some way
different from the other self. That she was seeing with
different eyes and making the acquaintance of new
conditions in herself that colored and changed her
environment, she did not yet suspect.
She wondered why Robert had gone away and left her.
It did not occur to her to think he might have grown tired
of being with her the livelong day. She was not tired, and
she felt that he was not. She regretted that he had gone. It
was so much more natural to have him stay when he was
not absolutely required to leave her.
As Edna waited for her husband she sang low a little
song that Robert had sung as they crossed the bay. It began
with “Ah! Si tu savais,” and every verse ended with “si tu
savais.”
Robert’s voice was not pretentious. It was musical and
true. The voice, the notes, the whole refrain haunted her
memory.
 
XV
When Edna entered the dining-room one evening a
little late, as was her habit, an unusually animated
conversation seemed to be going on. Several persons were
talking at once, and Victor’s voice was predominating, even
over that of his mother. Edna had returned late from her

bath, had dressed in some haste, and her face was flushed.
Her head, set off by her dainty white gown, suggested a
rich, rare blossom. She took her seat at table between old
Monsieur Farival and Madame Ratignolle.
As she seated herself and was about to begin to eat her
soup, which had been served when she entered the room,
several persons informed her simultaneously that Robert
was going to Mexico. She laid her spoon down and looked
about her bewildered. He had been with her, reading to her
all the morning, and had never even mentioned such a
place as Mexico. She had not seen him during the
afternoon; she had heard some one say he was at the
house, upstairs with his mother. This she had thought
nothing of, though she was surprised when he did not join
her later in the afternoon, when she went down to the
beach.
She looked across at him, where he sat beside Madame
Lebrun, who presided. Edna’s face was a blank picture of
bewilderment, which she never thought of disguising. He
lifted his eyebrows with the pretext of a smile as he
returned her glance. He looked embarrassed and uneasy.
“When is he going?” she asked of everybody in general,
as if Robert were not there to answer for himself.
“To-night!” “This very evening!” “Did you ever!” “What
possesses him!” were some of the replies she gathered,
uttered simultaneously in French and English.
“Impossible!” she exclaimed. “How can a person start
off from Grand Isle to Mexico at a moment’s notice, as if he
were going over to Klein’s or to the wharf or down to the
beach?”

“I said all along I was going to Mexico; I’ve been saying
so for years!” cried Robert, in an excited and irritable tone,
with the air of a man defending himself against a swarm of
stinging insects.
Madame Lebrun knocked on the table with her knife
handle.
“Please let Robert explain why he is going, and why he
is going to-night,” she called out. “Really, this table is
getting to be more and more like Bedlam every day, with
everybody talking at once. Sometimes—I hope God will
forgive me—but positively, sometimes I wish Victor would
lose the power of speech.”
Victor laughed sardonically as he thanked his mother
for her holy wish, of which he failed to see the benefit to
anybody, except that it might afford her a more ample
opportunity and license to talk herself.
Monsieur Farival thought that Victor should have been
taken out in mid-ocean in his earliest youth and drowned.
Victor thought there would be more logic in thus disposing
of old people with an established claim for making
themselves universally obnoxious. Madame Lebrun grew a
trifle hysterical; Robert called his brother some sharp, hard
names.
“There’s nothing much to explain, mother,” he said;
though he explained, nevertheless—looking chiefly at Edna
—that he could only meet the gentleman whom he intended
to join at Vera Cruz by taking such and such a steamer,
which left New Orleans on such a day; that Beaudelet was
going out with his lugger-load of vegetables that night,
which gave him an opportunity of reaching the city and
making his vessel in time.

“But when did you make up your mind to all this?”
demanded Monsieur Farival.
“This afternoon,” returned Robert, with a shade of
annoyance.
“At what time this afternoon?” persisted the old
gentleman, with nagging determination, as if he were
cross-questioning a criminal in a court of justice.
“At four o’clock this afternoon, Monsieur Farival,”
Robert replied, in a high voice and with a lofty air, which
reminded Edna of some gentleman on the stage.
She had forced herself to eat most of her soup, and now
she was picking the flaky bits of a court bouillon with her
fork.
The lovers were profiting by the general conversation
on Mexico to speak in whispers of matters which they
rightly considered were interesting to no one but
themselves. The lady in black had once received a pair of
prayer-beads of curious workmanship from Mexico, with
very special indulgence attached to them, but she had
never been able to ascertain whether the indulgence
extended outside the Mexican border. Father Fochel of the
Cathedral had attempted to explain it; but he had not done
so to her satisfaction. And she begged that Robert would
interest himself, and discover, if possible, whether she was
entitled to the indulgence accompanying the remarkably
curious Mexican prayer-beads.
Madame Ratignolle hoped that Robert would exercise
extreme caution in dealing with the Mexicans, who, she
considered, were a treacherous people, unscrupulous and
revengeful. She trusted she did them no injustice in thus
condemning them as a race. She had known personally but

one Mexican, who made and sold excellent tamales, and
whom she would have trusted implicitly, so soft-spoken was
he. One day he was arrested for stabbing his wife. She
never knew whether he had been hanged or not.
Victor had grown hilarious, and was attempting to tell
an anecdote about a Mexican girl who served chocolate one
winter in a restaurant in Dauphine Street. No one would
listen to him but old Monsieur Farival, who went into
convulsions over the droll story.
Edna wondered if they had all gone mad, to be talking
and clamoring at that rate. She herself could think of
nothing to say about Mexico or the Mexicans.
“At what time do you leave?” she asked Robert.
“At ten,” he told her. “Beaudelet wants to wait for the
moon.”
“Are you all ready to go?”
“Quite ready. I shall only take a hand-bag, and shall
pack my trunk in the city.”
He turned to answer some question put to him by his
mother, and Edna, having finished her black coffee, left the
table.
She went directly to her room. The little cottage was
close and stuffy after leaving the outer air. But she did not
mind; there appeared to be a hundred different things
demanding her attention indoors. She began to set the
toilet-stand to rights, grumbling at the negligence of the
quadroon, who was in the adjoining room putting the
children to bed. She gathered together stray garments that
were hanging on the backs of chairs, and put each where it

belonged in closet or bureau drawer. She changed her
gown for a more comfortable and commodious wrapper.
She rearranged her hair, combing and brushing it with
unusual energy. Then she went in and assisted the
quadroon in getting the boys to bed.
They were very playful and inclined to talk—to do
anything but lie quiet and go to sleep. Edna sent the
quadroon away to her supper and told her she need not
return. Then she sat and told the children a story. Instead
of soothing it excited them, and added to their wakefulness.
She left them in heated argument, speculating about the
conclusion of the tale which their mother promised to finish
the following night.
The little black girl came in to say that Madame Lebrun
would like to have Mrs. Pontellier go and sit with them over
at the house till Mr. Robert went away. Edna returned
answer that she had already undressed, that she did not
feel quite well, but perhaps she would go over to the house
later. She started to dress again, and got as far advanced as
to remove her peignoir. But changing her mind once more
she resumed the peignoir, and went outside and sat down
before her door. She was overheated and irritable, and
fanned herself energetically for a while. Madame
Ratignolle came down to discover what was the matter.
“All that noise and confusion at the table must have
upset me,” replied Edna, “and moreover, I hate shocks and
surprises. The idea of Robert starting off in such a
ridiculously sudden and dramatic way! As if it were a
matter of life and death! Never saying a word about it all
morning when he was with me.”
“Yes,” agreed Madame Ratignolle. “I think it was
showing us all—you especially—very little consideration. It

wouldn’t have surprised me in any of the others; those
Lebruns are all given to heroics. But I must say I should
never have expected such a thing from Robert. Are you not
coming down? Come on, dear; it doesn’t look friendly.”
“No,” said Edna, a little sullenly. “I can’t go to the
trouble of dressing again; I don’t feel like it.”
“You needn’t dress; you look all right; fasten a belt
around your waist. Just look at me!”
“No,” persisted Edna; “but you go on. Madame Lebrun
might be offended if we both stayed away.”
Madame Ratignolle kissed Edna good-night, and went
away, being in truth rather desirous of joining in the
general and animated conversation which was still in
progress concerning Mexico and the Mexicans.
Somewhat later Robert came up, carrying his hand-bag.
“Aren’t you feeling well?” he asked.
“Oh, well enough. Are you going right away?”
He lit a match and looked at his watch. “In twenty
minutes,” he said. The sudden and brief flare of the match
emphasized the darkness for a while. He sat down upon a
stool which the children had left out on the porch.
“Get a chair,” said Edna.
“This will do,” he replied. He put on his soft hat and
nervously took it off again, and wiping his face with his
handkerchief, complained of the heat.
“Take the fan,” said Edna, offering it to him.

“Oh, no! Thank you. It does no good; you have to stop
fanning some time, and feel all the more uncomfortable
afterward.”
“That’s one of the ridiculous things which men always
say. I have never known one to speak otherwise of fanning.
How long will you be gone?”
“Forever, perhaps. I don’t know. It depends upon a good
many things.”
“Well, in case it shouldn’t be forever, how long will it
be?”
“I don’t know.”
“This seems to me perfectly preposterous and uncalled
for. I don’t like it. I don’t understand your motive for silence
and mystery, never saying a word to me about it this
morning.” He remained silent, not offering to defend
himself. He only said, after a moment:
“Don’t part from me in an ill-humor. I never knew you
to be out of patience with me before.”
“I don’t want to part in any ill-humor,” she said. “But
can’t you understand? I’ve grown used to seeing you, to
having you with me all the time, and your action seems
unfriendly, even unkind. You don’t even offer an excuse for
it. Why, I was planning to be together, thinking of how
pleasant it would be to see you in the city next winter.”
“So was I,” he blurted. “Perhaps that’s the—” He stood
up suddenly and held out his hand. “Good-by, my dear Mrs.
Pontellier; good-by. You won’t—I hope you won’t completely
forget me.” She clung to his hand, striving to detain him.

“Write to me when you get there, won’t you, Robert?”
she entreated.
“I will, thank you. Good-by.”
How unlike Robert! The merest acquaintance would
have said something more emphatic than “I will, thank you;
good-by,” to such a request.
He had evidently already taken leave of the people over
at the house, for he descended the steps and went to join
Beaudelet, who was out there with an oar across his
shoulder waiting for Robert. They walked away in the
darkness. She could only hear Beaudelet’s voice; Robert
had apparently not even spoken a word of greeting to his
companion.
Edna bit her handkerchief convulsively, striving to hold
back and to hide, even from herself as she would have
hidden from another, the emotion which was troubling—
tearing—her. Her eyes were brimming with tears.
For the first time she recognized anew the symptoms of
infatuation which she had felt incipiently as a child, as a
girl in her earliest teens, and later as a young woman. The
recognition did not lessen the reality, the poignancy of the
revelation by any suggestion or promise of instability. The
past was nothing to her; offered no lesson which she was
willing to heed. The future was a mystery which she never
attempted to penetrate. The present alone was significant;
was hers, to torture her as it was doing then with the biting
conviction that she had lost that which she had held, that
she had been denied that which her impassioned, newly
awakened being demanded.
 

XVI
“Do you miss your friend greatly?” asked Mademoiselle
Reisz one morning as she came creeping up behind Edna,
who had just left her cottage on her way to the beach. She
spent much of her time in the water since she had acquired
finally the art of swimming. As their stay at Grand Isle drew
near its close, she felt that she could not give too much
time to a diversion which afforded her the only real
pleasurable moments that she knew. When Mademoiselle
Reisz came and touched her upon the shoulder and spoke
to her, the woman seemed to echo the thought which was
ever in Edna’s mind; or, better, the feeling which constantly
possessed her.
Robert’s going had some way taken the brightness, the
color, the meaning out of everything. The conditions of her
life were in no way changed, but her whole existence was
dulled, like a faded garment which seems to be no longer
worth wearing. She sought him everywhere—in others
whom she induced to talk about him. She went up in the
mornings to Madame Lebrun’s room, braving the clatter of
the old sewing-machine. She sat there and chatted at
intervals as Robert had done. She gazed around the room
at the pictures and photographs hanging upon the wall, and
discovered in some corner an old family album, which she
examined with the keenest interest, appealing to Madame
Lebrun for enlightenment concerning the many figures and
faces which she discovered between its pages.
There was a picture of Madame Lebrun with Robert as
a baby, seated in her lap, a round-faced infant with a fist in
his mouth. The eyes alone in the baby suggested the man.
And that was he also in kilts, at the age of five, wearing
long curls and holding a whip in his hand. It made Edna

laugh, and she laughed, too, at the portrait in his first long
trousers; while another interested her, taken when he left
for college, looking thin, long-faced, with eyes full of fire,
ambition and great intentions. But there was no recent
picture, none which suggested the Robert who had gone
away five days ago, leaving a void and wilderness behind
him.
“Oh, Robert stopped having his pictures taken when he
had to pay for them himself! He found wiser use for his
money, he says,” explained Madame Lebrun. She had a
letter from him, written before he left New Orleans. Edna
wished to see the letter, and Madame Lebrun told her to
look for it either on the table or the dresser, or perhaps it
was on the mantelpiece.
OceanofPDF.com

The letter was on the bookshelf. It possessed the
greatest interest and attraction for Edna; the envelope, its
size and shape, the post-mark, the handwriting. She
examined every detail of the outside before opening it.
There were only a few lines, setting forth that he would
leave the city that afternoon, that he had packed his trunk
in good shape, that he was well, and sent her his love and
begged to be affectionately remembered to all. There was
no special message to Edna except a postscript saying that
if Mrs. Pontellier desired to finish the book which he had
been reading to her, his mother would find it in his room,
among other books there on the table. Edna experienced a
pang of jealousy because he had written to his mother
rather than to her.
Every one seemed to take for granted that she missed
him. Even her husband, when he came down the Saturday
following Robert’s departure, expressed regret that he had
gone.
“How do you get on without him, Edna?” he asked.
“It’s very dull without him,” she admitted. Mr.
Pontellier had seen Robert in the city, and Edna asked him
a dozen questions or more. Where had they met? On
Carondelet Street, in the morning. They had gone “in” and
had a drink and a cigar together. What had they talked
about? Chiefly about his prospects in Mexico, which Mr.
Pontellier thought were promising. How did he look? How
did he seem—grave, or gay, or how? Quite cheerful, and
wholly taken up with the idea of his trip, which Mr.
Pontellier found altogether natural in a young fellow about
to seek fortune and adventure in a strange, queer country.

Edna tapped her foot impatiently, and wondered why
the children persisted in playing in the sun when they
might be under the trees. She went down and led them out
of the sun, scolding the quadroon for not being more
attentive.
It did not strike her as in the least grotesque that she
should be making of Robert the object of conversation and
leading her husband to speak of him. The sentiment which
she entertained for Robert in no way resembled that which
she felt for her husband, or had ever felt, or ever expected
to feel. She had all her life long been accustomed to harbor
thoughts and emotions which never voiced themselves.
They had never taken the form of struggles. They belonged
to her and were her own, and she entertained the
conviction that she had a right to them and that they
concerned no one but herself. Edna had once told Madame
Ratignolle that she would never sacrifice herself for her
children, or for any one. Then had followed a rather heated
argument; the two women did not appear to understand
each other or to be talking the same language. Edna tried
to appease her friend, to explain.
“I would give up the unessential; I would give my
money, I would give my life for my children; but I wouldn’t
give myself. I can’t make it more clear; it’s only something
which I am beginning to comprehend, which is revealing
itself to me.”
“I don’t know what you would call the essential, or
what you mean by the unessential,” said Madame
Ratignolle, cheerfully; “but a woman who would give her
life for her children could do no more than that—your Bible
tells you so. I’m sure I couldn’t do more than that.”
“Oh, yes you could!” laughed Edna.

She was not surprised at Mademoiselle Reisz’s question
the morning that lady, following her to the beach, tapped
her on the shoulder and asked if she did not greatly miss
her young friend.
“Oh, good morning, Mademoiselle; is it you? Why, of
course I miss Robert. Are you going down to bathe?”
“Why should I go down to bathe at the very end of the
season when I haven’t been in the surf all summer,” replied
the woman, disagreeably.
“I beg your pardon,” offered Edna, in some
embarrassment, for she should have remembered that
Mademoiselle Reisz’s avoidance of the water had furnished
a theme for much pleasantry. Some among them thought it
was on account of her false hair, or the dread of getting the
violets wet, while others attributed it to the natural
aversion for water sometimes believed to accompany the
artistic temperament. Mademoiselle offered Edna some
chocolates in a paper bag, which she took from her pocket,
by way of showing that she bore no ill feeling. She
habitually ate chocolates for their sustaining quality; they
contained much nutriment in small compass, she said. They
saved her from starvation, as Madame Lebrun’s table was
utterly impossible; and no one save so impertinent a
woman as Madame Lebrun could think of offering such
food to people and requiring them to pay for it.
“She must feel very lonely without her son,” said Edna,
desiring to change the subject. “Her favorite son, too. It
must have been quite hard to let him go.”
Mademoiselle laughed maliciously.
“Her favorite son! Oh, dear! Who could have been
imposing such a tale upon you? Aline Lebrun lives for

Victor, and for Victor alone. She has spoiled him into the
worthless creature he is. She worships him and the ground
he walks on. Robert is very well in a way, to give up all the
money he can earn to the family, and keep the barest
pittance for himself. Favorite son, indeed! I miss the poor
fellow myself, my dear. I liked to see him and to hear him
about the place—the only Lebrun who is worth a pinch of
salt. He comes to see me often in the city. I like to play to
him. That Victor! hanging would be too good for him. It’s a
wonder Robert hasn’t beaten him to death long ago.”
“I thought he had great patience with his brother,”
offered Edna, glad to be talking about Robert, no matter
what was said.
“Oh! he thrashed him well enough a year or two ago,”
said Mademoiselle. “It was about a Spanish girl, whom
Victor considered that he had some sort of claim upon. He
met Robert one day talking to the girl, or walking with her,
or bathing with her, or carrying her basket—I don’t
remember what;—and he became so insulting and abusive
that Robert gave him a thrashing on the spot that has kept
him comparatively in order for a good while. It’s about time
he was getting another.”
“Was her name Mariequita?” asked Edna.
“Mariequita—yes, that was it; Mariequita. I had
forgotten. Oh, she’s a sly one, and a bad one, that
Mariequita!”
Edna looked down at Mademoiselle Reisz and
wondered how she could have listened to her venom so
long. For some reason she felt depressed, almost unhappy.
She had not intended to go into the water; but she donned
her bathing suit, and left Mademoiselle alone, seated under

the shade of the children’s tent. The water was growing
cooler as the season advanced. Edna plunged and swam
about with an abandon that thrilled and invigorated her.
She remained a long time in the water, half hoping that
Mademoiselle Reisz would not wait for her.
But Mademoiselle waited. She was very amiable during
the walk back, and raved much over Edna’s appearance in
her bathing suit. She talked about music. She hoped that
Edna would go to see her in the city, and wrote her address
with the stub of a pencil on a piece of card which she found
in her pocket.
“When do you leave?” asked Edna.
“Next Monday; and you?”
“The following week,” answered Edna, adding, “It has
been a pleasant summer, hasn’t it, Mademoiselle?”
“Well,” agreed Mademoiselle Reisz, with a shrug,
“rather pleasant, if it hadn’t been for the mosquitoes and
the Farival twins.”
 
XVII
The Pontelliers possessed a very charming home on
Esplanade Street in New Orleans. It was a large, double
cottage, with a broad front veranda, whose round, fluted
columns supported the sloping roof. The house was painted
a dazzling white; the outside shutters, or jalousies, were
green. In the yard, which was kept scrupulously neat, were
flowers and plants of every description which flourishes in
South Louisiana. Within doors the appointments were
perfect after the conventional type. The softest carpets and

rugs covered the floors; rich and tasteful draperies hung at
doors and windows. There were paintings, selected with
judgment and discrimination, upon the walls. The cut glass,
the silver, the heavy damask which daily appeared upon the
table were the envy of many women whose husbands were
less generous than Mr. Pontellier.
Mr. Pontellier was very fond of walking about his house
examining its various appointments and details, to see that
nothing was amiss. He greatly valued his possessions,
chiefly because they were his, and derived genuine
pleasure from contemplating a painting, a statuette, a rare
lace curtain—no matter what—after he had bought it and
placed it among his household gods.
On Tuesday afternoons—Tuesday being Mrs.
Pontellier’s reception day—there was a constant stream of
callers—women who came in carriages or in the street
cars, or walked when the air was soft and distance
permitted. A light-colored mulatto boy, in dress coat and
bearing a diminutive silver tray for the reception of cards,
admitted them. A maid, in white fluted cap, offered the
callers liqueur, coffee, or chocolate, as they might desire.
Mrs. Pontellier, attired in a handsome reception gown,
remained in the drawing-room the entire afternoon
receiving her visitors. Men sometimes called in the evening
with their wives.
This had been the programme which Mrs. Pontellier
had religiously followed since her marriage, six years
before. Certain evenings during the week she and her
husband attended the opera or sometimes the play.
Mr. Pontellier left his home in the mornings between
nine and ten o’clock, and rarely returned before half-past

six or seven in the evening—dinner being served at half-
past seven.
He and his wife seated themselves at table one Tuesday
evening, a few weeks after their return from Grand Isle.
They were alone together. The boys were being put to bed;
the patter of their bare, escaping feet could be heard
occasionally, as well as the pursuing voice of the quadroon,
lifted in mild protest and entreaty. Mrs. Pontellier did not
wear her usual Tuesday reception gown; she was in
ordinary house dress. Mr. Pontellier, who was observant
about such things, noticed it, as he served the soup and
handed it to the boy in waiting.
“Tired out, Edna? Whom did you have? Many callers?”
he asked. He tasted his soup and began to season it with
pepper, salt, vinegar, mustard—everything within reach.
“There were a good many,” replied Edna, who was
eating her soup with evident satisfaction. “I found their
cards when I got home; I was out.”
“Out!” exclaimed her husband, with something like
genuine consternation in his voice as he laid down the
vinegar cruet and looked at her through his glasses. “Why,
what could have taken you out on Tuesday? What did you
have to do?”
“Nothing. I simply felt like going out, and I went out.”
“Well, I hope you left some suitable excuse,” said her
husband, somewhat appeased, as he added a dash of
cayenne pepper to the soup.
“No, I left no excuse. I told Joe to say I was out, that
was all.”

“Why, my dear, I should think you’d understand by this
time that people don’t do such things; we’ve got to observe
les convenances if we ever expect to get on and keep up
with the procession. If you felt that you had to leave home
this afternoon, you should have left some suitable
explanation for your absence.
“This soup is really impossible; it’s strange that woman
hasn’t learned yet to make a decent soup. Any free-lunch
stand in town serves a better one. Was Mrs. Belthrop
here?”
“Bring the tray with the cards, Joe. I don’t remember
who was here.”
The boy retired and returned after a moment, bringing
the tiny silver tray, which was covered with ladies’ visiting
cards. He handed it to Mrs. Pontellier.
“Give it to Mr. Pontellier,” she said.
Joe offered the tray to Mr. Pontellier, and removed the
soup.
Mr. Pontellier scanned the names of his wife’s callers,
reading some of them aloud, with comments as he read.
“ ‘The Misses Delasidas.’ I worked a big deal in futures
for their father this morning; nice girls; it’s time they were
getting married. ‘Mrs. Belthrop.’ I tell you what it is, Edna;
you can’t afford to snub Mrs. Belthrop. Why, Belthrop could
buy and sell us ten times over. His business is worth a
good, round sum to me. You’d better write her a note. ‘Mrs.
James Highcamp.’ Hugh! the less you have to do with Mrs.
Highcamp, the better. ‘Madame Laforcé.’ Came all the way
from Carrolton, too, poor old soul. ‘Miss Wiggs,’ ‘Mrs.
Eleanor Boltons.’ ” He pushed the cards aside.

“Mercy!” exclaimed Edna, who had been fuming. “Why
are you taking the thing so seriously and making such a
fuss over it?”
“I’m not making any fuss over it. But it’s just such
seeming trifles that we’ve got to take seriously; such things
count.”
The fish was scorched. Mr. Pontellier would not touch
it. Edna said she did not mind a little scorched taste. The
roast was in some way not to his fancy, and he did not like
the manner in which the vegetables were served.
“It seems to me,” he said, “we spend money enough in
this house to procure at least one meal a day which a man
could eat and retain his self-respect.”
“You used to think the cook was a treasure,” returned
Edna, indifferently.
“Perhaps she was when she first came; but cooks are
only human. They need looking after, like any other class of
persons that you employ. Suppose I didn’t look after the
clerks in my office, just let them run things their own way;
they’d soon make a nice mess of me and my business.”
“Where are you going?” asked Edna, seeing that her
husband arose from table without having eaten a morsel
except a taste of the highly-seasoned soup.
“I’m going to get my dinner at the club. Good night.”
He went into the hall, took his hat and stick from the stand,
and left the house.
She was somewhat familiar with such scenes. They had
often made her very unhappy. On a few previous occasions
she had been completely deprived of any desire to finish

her dinner. Sometimes she had gone into the kitchen to
administer a tardy rebuke to the cook. Once she went to
her room and studied the cookbook during an entire
evening, finally writing out a menu for the week, which left
her harassed with a feeling that, after all, she had
accomplished no good that was worth the name.
But that evening Edna finished her dinner alone, with
forced deliberation. Her face was flushed and her eyes
flamed with some inward fire that lighted them. After
finishing her dinner she went to her room, having
instructed the boy to tell any other callers that she was
indisposed.
It was a large, beautiful room, rich and picturesque in
the soft, dim light which the maid had turned low. She went
and stood at an open window and looked out upon the deep
tangle of the garden below. All the mystery and witchery of
the night seemed to have gathered there amid the
perfumes and the dusky and tortuous outlines of flowers
and foliage. She was seeking herself and finding herself in
just such sweet, half-darkness which met her moods. But
the voices were not soothing that came to her from the
darkness and the sky above and the stars. They jeered and
sounded mournful notes without promise, devoid even of
hope. She turned back into the room and began to walk to
and fro down its whole length, without stopping, without
resting. She carried in her hands a thin handkerchief,
which she tore into ribbons, rolled into a ball, and flung
from her. Once she stopped, and taking off her wedding
ring, flung it upon the carpet. When she saw it lying there,
she stamped her heel upon it, striving to crush it. But her
small boot heel did not make an indenture, not a mark upon
the little glittering circlet.

In a sweeping passion she seized a glass vase from the
table and flung it upon the tiles of the hearth. She wanted
to destroy something. The crash and clatter were what she
wanted to hear.
A maid, alarmed at the din of breaking glass, entered
the room to discover what was the matter.
“A vase fell upon the hearth,” said Edna. “Never mind;
leave it till morning.”
“Oh! you might get some of the glass in your feet,
ma’am,” insisted the young woman, picking up bits of the
broken vase that were scattered upon the carpet. “And
here’s your ring, ma’am, under the chair.”
Edna held out her hand, and taking the ring, slipped it
upon her finger.
 
XVIII
The following morning Mr. Pontellier, upon leaving for
his office, asked Edna if she would not meet him in town in
order to look at some new fixtures for the library.
“I hardly think we need new fixtures, Léonce. Don’t let
us get anything new; you are too extravagant. I don’t
believe you ever think of saving or putting by.”
“The way to become rich is to make money, my dear
Edna, not to save it,” he said. He regretted that she did not
feel inclined to go with him and select new fixtures. He
kissed her good-by, and told her she was not looking well
and must take care of herself. She was unusually pale and
very quiet.

She stood on the front veranda as he quitted the house,
and absently picked a few sprays of jessamine that grew
upon a trellis near by. She inhaled the odor of the blossoms
and thrust them into the bosom of her white morning gown.
The boys were dragging along the banquette a small
“express wagon,” which they had filled with blocks and
sticks. The quadroon was following them with little quick
steps, having assumed a fictitious animation and alacrity
for the occasion. A fruit vender was crying his wares in the
street.
Edna looked straight before her with a self-absorbed
expression upon her face. She felt no interest in anything
about her. The street, the children, the fruit vender, the
flowers growing there under her eyes, were all part and
parcel of an alien world which had suddenly become
antagonistic.
She went back into the house. She had thought of
speaking to the cook concerning her blunders of the
previous night; but Mr. Pontellier had saved her that
disagreeable mission, for which she was so poorly fitted.
Mr. Pontellier’s arguments were usually convincing with
those whom he employed. He left home feeling quite sure
that he and Edna would sit down that evening, and possibly
a few subsequent evenings, to a dinner deserving of the
name.
Edna spent an hour or two in looking over some of her
old sketches. She could see their shortcomings and defects,
which were glaring in her eyes. She tried to work a little,
but found she was not in the humor. Finally she gathered
together a few of the sketches—those which she considered
the least discreditable; and she carried them with her
when, a little later, she dressed and left the house. She
looked handsome and distinguished in her street gown. The

tan of the seashore had left her face, and her forehead was
smooth, white, and polished beneath her heavy, yellow-
brown hair. There were a few freckles on her face, and a
small, dark mole near the under lip and one on the temple,
half-hidden in her hair.
As Edna walked along the street she was thinking of
Robert. She was still under the spell of her infatuation. She
had tried to forget him, realizing the inutility of
remembering. But the thought of him was like an
obsession, ever pressing itself upon her. It was not that she
dwelt upon details of their acquaintance, or recalled in any
special or peculiar way his personality; it was his being, his
existence, which dominated her thought, fading sometimes
as if it would melt into the mist of the forgotten, reviving
again with an intensity which filled her with an
incomprehensible longing.
Edna was on her way to Madame Ratignolle’s. Their
intimacy, begun at Grand Isle, had not declined, and they
had seen each other with some frequency since their return
to the city. The Ratignolles lived at no great distance from
Edna’s home, on the corner of a side street, where
Monsieur Ratignolle owned and conducted a drug store
which enjoyed a steady and prosperous trade. His father
had been in the business before him, and Monsieur
Ratignolle stood well in the community and bore an
enviable reputation for integrity and clear-headedness. His
family lived in commodious apartments over the store,
having an entrance on the side within the porte cochère.
There was something which Edna thought very French,
very foreign, about their whole manner of living. In the
large and pleasant salon which extended across the width
of the house, the Ratignolles entertained their friends once
a fortnight with a soirée musicale, sometimes diversified by
card-playing. There was a friend who played upon the

’cello. One brought his flute and another his violin, while
there were some who sang and a number who performed
upon the piano with various degrees of taste and agility.
The Ratignolles’ soirées musicales were widely known, and
it was considered a privilege to be invited to them.
Edna found her friend engaged in assorting the clothes
which had returned that morning from the laundry. She at
once abandoned her occupation upon seeing Edna, who
had been ushered without ceremony into her presence.
“ ’Cité can do it as well as I; it is really her business,”
she explained to Edna, who apologized for interrupting her.
And she summoned a young black woman, whom she
instructed, in French, to be very careful in checking off the
list which she handed her. She told her to notice
particularly if a fine linen handkerchief of Monsieur
Ratignolle’s, which was missing last week, had been
returned; and to be sure to set to one side such pieces as
required mending and darning.
Then placing an arm around Edna’s waist, she led her
to the front of the house, to the salon, where it was cool
and sweet with the odor of great roses that stood upon the
hearth in jars.
Madame Ratignolle looked more beautiful than ever
there at home, in a negligé which left her arms almost
wholly bare and exposed the rich, melting curves of her
white throat.
“Perhaps I shall be able to paint your picture some
day,” said Edna with a smile when they were seated. She
produced the roll of sketches and started to unfold them. “I
believe I ought to work again. I feel as if I wanted to be
doing something. What do you think of them? Do you think

it worth while to take it up again and study some more? I
might study for a while with Laidpore.”
She knew that Madame Ratignolle’s opinion in such a
matter would be next to valueless, that she herself had not
alone decided, but determined; but she sought the words of
praise and encouragement that would help her to put heart
into her venture.
“Your talent is immense, dear!”
“Nonsense!” protested Edna, well pleased.
“Immense, I tell you,” persisted Madame Ratignolle,
surveying the sketches one by one, at close range, then
holding them at arm’s length, narrowing her eyes, and
dropping her head on one side. “Surely, this Bavarian
peasant is worthy of framing; and this basket of apples!
never have I seen anything more lifelike. One might almost
be tempted to reach out a hand and take one.”
Edna could not control a feeling which bordered upon
complacency at her friend’s praise, even realizing, as she
did, its true worth. She retained a few of the sketches, and
gave all the rest to Madame Ratignolle, who appreciated
the gift far beyond its value and proudly exhibited the
pictures to her husband when he came up from the store a
little later for his midday dinner.
Mr. Ratignolle was one of those men who are called the
salt of the earth. His cheerfulness was unbounded, and it
was matched by his goodness of heart, his broad charity,
and common sense. He and his wife spoke English with an
accent which was only discernible through its un-English
emphasis and a certain carefulness and deliberation.
Edna’s husband spoke English with no accent whatever.
The Ratignolles understood each other perfectly. If ever the

fusion of two human beings into one has been
accomplished on this sphere it was surely in their union.
As Edna seated herself at table with them she thought,
“Better a dinner of herbs,” though it did not take her long
to discover that it was no dinner of herbs, but a delicious
repast, simple, choice, and in every way satisfying.
Monsieur Ratignolle was delighted to see her, though
he found her looking not so well as at Grand Isle, and he
advised a tonic. He talked a good deal on various topics, a
little politics, some city news and neighborhood gossip. He
spoke with an animation and earnestness that gave an
exaggerated importance to every syllable he uttered. His
wife was keenly interested in everything he said, laying
down her fork the better to listen, chiming in, taking the
words out of his mouth.
Edna felt depressed rather than soothed after leaving
them. The little glimpse of domestic harmony which had
been offered her, gave her no regret, no longing. It was not
a condition of life which fitted her, and she could see in it
but an appalling and hopeless ennui. She was moved by a
kind of commiseration for Madame Ratignolle,—a pity for
that colorless existence which never uplifted its possessor
beyond the region of blind contentment, in which no
moment of anguish ever visited her soul, in which she
would never have the taste of life’s delirium. Edna vaguely
wondered what she meant by “life’s delirium.” It had
crossed her thought like some unsought, extraneous
impression.
 
XIX

Edna could not help but think that it was very foolish,
very childish, to have stamped upon her wedding ring and
smashed the crystal vase upon the tiles. She was visited by
no more outbursts, moving her to such futile expedients.
She began to do as she liked and to feel as she liked. She
completely abandoned her Tuesdays at home, and did not
return the visits of those who had called upon her. She
made no ineffectual efforts to conduct her household en
bonne ménagère, going and coming as it suited her fancy,
and, so far as she was able, lending herself to any passing
caprice.
Mr. Pontellier had been a rather courteous husband so
long as he met a certain tacit submissiveness in his wife.
But her new and unexpected line of conduct completely
bewildered him. It shocked him. Then her absolute
disregard for her duties as a wife angered him. When Mr.
Pontellier became rude, Edna grew insolent. She had
resolved never to take another step backward.
“It seems to me the utmost folly for a woman at the
head of a household, and the mother of children, to spend
in an atelier days which would be better employed
contriving for the comfort of her family.”
“I feel like painting,” answered Edna. “Perhaps I shan’t
always feel like it.”
“Then in God’s name paint! but don’t let the family go
to the devil. There’s Madame Ratignolle; because she keeps
up her music, she doesn’t let everything else go to chaos.
And she’s more of a musician than you are a painter.”
“She isn’t a musician, and I’m not a painter. It isn’t on
account of painting that I let things go.”
“On account of what, then?”

“Oh! I don’t know. Let me alone; you bother me.”
It sometimes entered Mr. Pontellier’s mind to wonder if
his wife were not growing a little unbalanced mentally. He
could see plainly that she was not herself. That is, he could
not see that she was becoming herself and daily casting
aside that fictitious self which we assume like a garment
with which to appear before the world.
Her husband let her alone as she requested, and went
away to his office. Edna went up to her atelier—a bright
room in the top of the house. She was working with great
energy and interest, without accomplishing anything,
however, which satisfied her even in the smallest degree.
For a time she had the whole household enrolled in the
service of art. The boys posed for her. They thought it
amusing at first, but the occupation soon lost its
attractiveness when they discovered that it was not a game
arranged especially for their entertainment. The quadroon
sat for hours before Edna’s palette, patient as a savage,
while the house-maid took charge of the children, and the
drawing-room went undusted. But the house-maid, too,
served her term as model when Edna perceived that the
young woman’s back and shoulders were molded on classic
lines, and that her hair, loosened from its confining cap,
became an inspiration. While Edna worked she sometimes
sang low the little air, “Ah! si tu savais!”
It moved her with recollections. She could hear again
the ripple of the water, the flapping sail. She could see the
glint of the moon upon the bay, and could feel the soft,
gusty beating of the hot south wind. A subtle current of
desire passed through her body, weakening her hold upon
the brushes and making her eyes burn.

There were days when she was very happy without
knowing why. She was happy to be alive and breathing,
when her whole being seemed to be one with the sunlight,
the color, the odors, the luxuriant warmth of some perfect
Southern day. She liked then to wander alone into strange
and unfamiliar places. She discovered many a sunny, sleepy
corner, fashioned to dream in. And she found it good to
dream and to be alone and unmolested.
There were days when she was unhappy, she did not
know why,—when it did not seem worth while to be glad or
sorry, to be alive or dead; when life appeared to her like a
grotesque pandemonium and humanity like worms
struggling blindly toward inevitable annihilation. She could
not work on such a day, nor weave fancies to stir her pulses
and warm her blood.
 
XX
It was during such a mood that Edna hunted up
Mademoiselle Reisz. She had not forgotten the rather
disagreeable impression left upon her by their last
interview; but she nevertheless felt a desire to see her—
above all, to listen while she played upon the piano. Quite
early in the afternoon she started upon her quest for the
pianist. Unfortunately she had mislaid or lost Mademoiselle
Reisz’s card, and looking up her address in the city
directory, she found that the woman lived on Bienville
Street, some distance away. The directory which fell into
her hands was a year or more old, however, and upon
reaching the number indicated, Edna discovered that the
house was occupied by a respectable family of mulattoes
who had chambres garnies to let. They had been living
there for six months, and knew absolutely nothing of a

Mademoiselle Reisz. In fact, they knew nothing of any of
their neighbors; their lodgers were all people of the highest
distinction, they assured Edna. She did not linger to discuss
class distinctions with Madame Pouponne, but hastened to
a neighboring grocery store, feeling sure that
Mademoiselle would have left her address with the
proprietor.
He knew Mademoiselle Reisz a good deal better than
he wanted to know her, he informed his questioner. In
truth, he did not want to know her at all, or anything
concerning her—the most disagreeable and unpopular
woman who ever lived in Bienville Street. He thanked
heaven she had left the neighborhood, and was equally
thankful that he did not know where she had gone.
Edna’s desire to see Mademoiselle Reisz had increased
tenfold since these unlooked-for obstacles had arisen to
thwart it. She was wondering who could give her the
information she sought, when it suddenly occurred to her
that Madame Lebrun would be the one most likely to do so.
She knew it was useless to ask Madame Ratignolle, who
was on the most distant terms with the musician, and
preferred to know nothing concerning her. She had once
been almost as emphatic in expressing herself upon the
subject as the corner grocer.
Edna knew that Madame Lebrun had returned to the
city, for it was the middle of November. And she also knew
where the Lebruns lived, on Chartres Street.
Their home from the outside looked like a prison, with
iron bars before the door and lower windows. The iron bars
were a relic of the old régime, and no one had ever thought
of dislodging them. At the side was a high fence enclosing
the garden. A gate or door opening upon the street was

locked. Edna rang the bell at this side garden gate, and
stood upon the banquette, waiting to be admitted.
It was Victor who opened the gate for her. A black
woman, wiping her hands upon her apron, was close at his
heels. Before she saw them Edna could hear them in
altercation, the woman—plainly an anomaly—claiming the
right to be allowed to perform her duties, one of which was
to answer the bell.
Victor was surprised and delighted to see Mrs.
Pontellier, and he made no attempt to conceal either his
astonishment or his delight. He was a dark-browed, good-
looking youngster of nineteen, greatly resembling his
mother, but with ten times her impetuosity. He instructed
the black woman to go at once and inform Madame Lebrun
that Mrs. Pontellier desired to see her. The woman
grumbled a refusal to do part of her duty when she had not
been permitted to do it all, and started back to her
interrupted task of weeding the garden. Whereupon Victor
administered a rebuke in the form of a volley of abuse,
which, owing to its rapidity and incoherence, was all but
incomprehensible to Edna. Whatever it was, the rebuke
was convincing, for the woman dropped her hoe and went
mumbling into the house.
Edna did not wish to enter. It was very pleasant there
on the side porch, where there were chairs, a wicker
lounge, and a small table. She seated herself, for she was
tired from her long tramp; and she began to rock gently
and smooth out the folds of her silk parasol. Victor drew up
his chair beside her. He at once explained that the black
woman’s offensive conduct was all due to imperfect
training, as he was not there to take her in hand. He had
only come up from the island the morning before, and
expected to return next day. He stayed all winter at the

island; he lived there, and kept the place in order and got
things ready for the summer visitors.
But a man needed occasional relaxation, he informed
Mrs. Pontellier, and every now and again he drummed up a
pretext to bring him to the city. My! but he had had a time
of it the evening before! He wouldn’t want his mother to
know, and he began to talk in a whisper. He was scintillant
with recollections. Of course, he couldn’t think of telling
Mrs. Pontellier all about it, she being a woman and not
comprehending such things. But it all began with a girl
peeping and smiling at him through the shutters as he
passed by. Oh! but she was a beauty! Certainly he smiled
back, and went up and talked to her. Mrs. Pontellier did not
know him if she supposed he was one to let an opportunity
like that escape him. Despite herself, the youngster amused
her. She must have betrayed in her look some degree of
interest or entertainment. The boy grew more daring, and
Mrs. Pontellier might have found herself, in a little while,
listening to a highly colored story but for the timely
appearance of Madame Lebrun.
That lady was still clad in white, according to her
custom of the summer. Her eyes beamed an effusive
welcome. Would not Mrs. Pontellier go inside? Would she
partake of some refreshment? Why had she not been there
before? How was that dear Mr. Pontellier and how were
those sweet children? Had Mrs. Pontellier ever known such
a warm November?
Victor went and reclined on the wicker lounge behind
his mother’s chair, where he commanded a view of Edna’s
face. He had taken her parasol from her hands while he
spoke to her, and he now lifted it and twirled it above him
as he lay on his back. When Madame Lebrun complained
that it was so dull coming back to the city; that she saw so

few people now; that even Victor, when he came up from
the island for a day or two, had so much to occupy him and
engage his time; then it was that the youth went into
contortions on the lounge and winked mischievously at
Edna. She somehow felt like a confederate in crime, and
tried to look severe and disapproving.
There had been but two letters from Robert, with little
in them, they told her. Victor said it was really not worth
while to go inside for the letters, when his mother
entreated him to go in search of them. He remembered the
contents, which in truth he rattled off very glibly when put
to the test.
One letter was written from Vera Cruz and the other
from the City of Mexico. He had met Montel, who was
doing everything toward his advancement. So far, the
financial situation was no improvement over the one he had
left in New Orleans, but of course the prospects were vastly
better. He wrote of the City of Mexico, the buildings, the
people and their habits, the conditions of life which he
found there. He sent his love to the family. He inclosed a
check to his mother, and hoped she would affectionately
remember him to all his friends. That was about the
substance of the two letters. Edna felt that if there had
been a message for her, she would have received it. The
despondent frame of mind in which she had left home
began again to overtake her, and she remembered that she
wished to find Mademoiselle Reisz.
Madame Lebrun knew where Mademoiselle Reisz lived.
She gave Edna the address, regretting that she would not
consent to stay and spend the remainder of the afternoon,
and pay a visit to Mademoiselle Reisz some other day. The
afternoon was already well advanced.

Victor escorted her out upon the banquette, lifted her
parasol, and held it over her while he walked to the car
with her. He entreated her to bear in mind that the
disclosures of the afternoon were strictly confidential. She
laughed and bantered him a little, remembering too late
that she should have been dignified and reserved.
“How handsome Mrs. Pontellier looked!” said Madame
Lebrun to her son.
“Ravishing!” he admitted. “The city atmosphere has
improved her. Some way she doesn’t seem like the same
woman.”
 
XXI
Some people contended that the reason Mademoiselle
Reisz always chose apartments up under the roof was to
discourage the approach of beggars, peddlars and callers.
There were plenty of windows in her little front room. They
were for the most part dingy, but as they were nearly
always open it did not make so much difference. They often
admitted into the room a good deal of smoke and soot; but
at the same time all the light and air that there was came
through them. From her windows could be seen the
crescent of the river, the masts of ships and the big
chimneys of the Mississippi steamers. A magnificent piano
crowded the apartment. In the next room she slept, and in
the third and last she harbored a gasoline stove on which
she cooked her meals when disinclined to descend to the
neighboring restaurant. It was there also that she ate,
keeping her belongings in a rare old buffet, dingy and
battered from a hundred years of use.

When Edna knocked at Mademoiselle Reisz’s front
room door and entered, she discovered that person
standing beside the window, engaged in mending or
patching an old prunella gaiter. The little musician laughed
all over when she saw Edna. Her laugh consisted of a
contortion of the face and all the muscles of the body. She
seemed strikingly homely, standing there in the afternoon
light. She still wore the shabby lace and the artificial bunch
of violets on the side of her head.
“So you remembered me at last,” said Mademoiselle. “I
had said to myself, ‘Ah, bah! she will never come.’ ”
“Did you want me to come?” asked Edna with a smile.
“I had not thought much about it,” answered
Mademoiselle. The two had seated themselves on a little
bumpy sofa which stood against the wall. “I am glad,
however, that you came. I have the water boiling back
there, and was just about to make some coffee. You will
drink a cup with me. And how is la belle dame? Always
handsome! always healthy! always contented!” She took
Edna’s hand between her strong wiry fingers, holding it
loosely without warmth, and executing a sort of double
theme upon the back and palm.
“Yes,” she went on; “I sometimes thought: ‘She will
never come. She promised as those women in society
always do, without meaning it. She will not come.’ For I
really don’t believe you like me, Mrs. Pontellier.”
“I don’t know whether I like you or not,” replied Edna,
gazing down at the little woman with a quizzical look.
The candor of Mrs. Pontellier’s admission greatly
pleased Mademoiselle Reisz. She expressed her
gratification by repairing forthwith to the region of the

gasoline stove and rewarding her guest with the promised
cup of coffee. The coffee and the biscuit accompanying it
proved very acceptable to Edna, who had declined
refreshment at Madame Lebrun’s and was now beginning
to feel hungry. Mademoiselle set the tray which she
brought in upon a small table near at hand, and seated
herself once again on the lumpy sofa.
“I have had a letter from your friend,” she remarked, as
she poured a little cream into Edna’s cup and handed it to
her.
“My friend?”
“Yes, your friend Robert. He wrote to me from the City
of Mexico.”
“Wrote to you?” repeated Edna in amazement, stirring
her coffee absently.
“Yes, to me. Why not? Don’t stir all the warmth out of
your coffee; drink it. Though the letter might as well have
been sent to you; it was nothing but Mrs. Pontellier from
beginning to end.”
“Let me see it,” requested the young woman,
entreatingly.
“No; a letter concerns no one but the person who
writes it and the one to whom it is written.”
“Haven’t you just said it concerned me from beginning
to end?”
“It was written about you, not to you. ‘Have you seen
Mrs. Pontellier? How is she looking?’ he asks. ‘As Mrs.
Pontellier says,’ or ‘as Mrs. Pontellier once said.’ ‘If Mrs.

Pontellier should call upon you, play for her that
Impromptu of Chopin’s, my favorite. I heard it here a day
or two ago, but not as you play it. I should like to know how
it affects her,’ and so on, as if he supposed we were
constantly in each other’s society.”
“Let me see the letter.”
“Oh, no.”
“Have you answered it?”
“No.”
“Let me see the letter.”
“No, and again, no.”
“Then play the Impromptu for me.”
“It is growing late; what time do you have to be home?”
“Time doesn’t concern me. Your question seems a little
rude. Play the Impromptu.”
“But you have told me nothing of yourself. What are
you doing?”
“Painting!” laughed Edna. “I am becoming an artist.
Think of it!”
“Ah! an artist! You have pretensions, Madame.”
“Why pretensions? Do you think I could not become an
artist?”
“I do not know you well enough to say. I do not know
your talent or your temperament. To be an artist includes

much; one must possess many gifts—absolute gifts—which
have not been acquired by one’s own effort. And, moreover,
to succeed, the artist must possess the courageous soul.”
“What do you mean by the courageous soul?”
“Courageous, ma foi! The brave soul. The soul that
dares and defies.”
“Show me the letter and play for me the Impromptu.
You see that I have persistence. Does that quality count for
anything in art?”
“It counts with a foolish old woman whom you have
captivated,” replied Mademoiselle, with her wriggling
laugh.
The letter was right there at hand in the drawer of the
little table upon which Edna had just placed her coffee cup.
Mademoiselle opened the drawer and drew forth the letter,
the topmost one. She placed it in Edna’s hands, and
without further comment arose and went to the piano.
Mademoiselle played a soft interlude. It was an
improvisation. She sat low at the instrument, and the lines
of her body settled into ungraceful curves and angles that
gave it an appearance of deformity. Gradually and
imperceptibly the interlude melted into the soft opening
minor chords of the Chopin Impromptu.
Edna did not know when the Impromptu began or
ended. She sat in the sofa corner reading Robert’s letter by
the fading light. Mademoiselle had glided from the Chopin
into the quivering love-notes of Isolde’s song, and back
again to the Impromptu with its soulful and poignant
longing.

The shadows deepened in the little room. The music
grew strange and fantastic—turbulent, insistent, plaintive
and soft with entreaty. The shadows grew deeper. The
music filled the room. It floated out upon the night, over
the housetops, the crescent of the river, losing itself in the
silence of the upper air.
Edna was sobbing, just as she had wept one midnight
at Grand Isle when strange, new voices awoke in her. She
arose in some agitation to take her departure. “May I come
again, Mademoiselle?” she asked at the threshold.
“Come whenever you feel like it. Be careful; the stairs
and landings are dark; don’t stumble.”
Mademoiselle reëntered and lit a candle. Robert’s
letter was on the floor. She stooped and picked it up. It was
crumpled and damp with tears. Mademoiselle smoothed the
letter out, restored it to the envelope, and replaced it in the
table drawer.
 
XXII
One morning on his way into town Mr. Pontellier
stopped at the house of his old friend and family physician,
Doctor Mandelet. The Doctor was a semi-retired physician,
resting, as the saying is, upon his laurels. He bore a
reputation for wisdom rather than skill—leaving the active
practice of medicine to his assistants and younger
contemporaries—and was much sought for in matters of
consultation. A few families, united to him by bonds of
friendship, he still attended when they required the
services of a physician. The Pontelliers were among these.

Mr. Pontellier found the Doctor reading at the open
window of his study. His house stood rather far back from
the street, in the center of a delightful garden, so that it
was quiet and peaceful at the old gentleman’s study
window. He was a great reader. He stared up
disapprovingly over his eye-glasses as Mr. Pontellier
entered, wondering who had the temerity to disturb him at
that hour of the morning.
“Ah, Pontellier! Not sick, I hope. Come and have a seat.
What news do you bring this morning?” He was quite
portly, with a profusion of gray hair, and small blue eyes
which age had robbed of much of their brightness but none
of their penetration.
“Oh! I’m never sick, Doctor. You know that I come of
tough fiber—of that old Creole race of Pontelliers that dry
up and finally blow away. I came to consult—no, not
precisely to consult—to talk to you about Edna. I don’t
know what ails her.”
“Madame Pontellier not well?” marveled the Doctor.
“Why, I saw her—I think it was a week ago—walking along
Canal Street, the picture of health, it seemed to me.”
“Yes, yes; she seems quite well,” said Mr. Pontellier,
leaning forward and whirling his stick between his two
hands; “but she doesn’t act well. She’s odd, she’s not like
herself. I can’t make her out, and I thought perhaps you’d
help me.”
“How does she act?” inquired the doctor.
“Well, it isn’t easy to explain,” said Mr. Pontellier,
throwing himself back in his chair. “She lets the
housekeeping go to the dickens.”

“Well, well; women are not all alike, my dear Pontellier.
We’ve got to consider—”
“I know that; I told you I couldn’t explain. Her whole
attitude—toward me and everybody and everything—has
changed. You know I have a quick temper, but I don’t want
to quarrel or be rude to a woman, especially my wife; yet
I’m driven to it, and feel like ten thousand devils after I’ve
made a fool of myself. She’s making it devilishly
uncomfortable for me,” he went on nervously. “She’s got
some sort of notion in her head concerning the eternal
rights of women; and—you understand—we meet in the
morning at the breakfast table.”
The old gentleman lifted his shaggy eyebrows,
protruded his thick nether lip, and tapped the arms of his
chair with his cushioned fingertips.
“What have you been doing to her, Pontellier?”
“Doing! Parbleu!”
“Has she,” asked the Doctor, with a smile, “has she
been associating of late with a circle of pseudo-intellectual
women—super-spiritual superior beings? My wife has been
telling me about them.”
“That’s the trouble,” broke in Mr. Pontellier, “she hasn’t
been associating with any one. She has abandoned her
Tuesdays at home, has thrown over all her acquaintances,
and goes tramping about by herself, moping in the street-
cars, getting in after dark. I tell you she’s peculiar. I don’t
like it; I feel a little worried over it.”
This was a new aspect for the Doctor. “Nothing
hereditary?” he asked, seriously. “Nothing peculiar about
her family antecedents, is there?”

“Oh, no, indeed! She comes of sound old Presbyterian
Kentucky stock. The old gentleman, her father, I have
heard, used to atone for his week-day sins with his Sunday
devotions. I know for a fact, that his race horses literally
ran away with the prettiest bit of Kentucky farming land I
ever laid eyes upon. Margaret—you know Margaret—she
has all the Presbyterianism undiluted. And the youngest is
something of a vixen. By the way, she gets married in a
couple of weeks from now.”
“Send your wife up to the wedding,” exclaimed the
Doctor, foreseeing a happy solution. “Let her stay among
her own people for a while; it will do her good.”
“That’s what I want her to do. She won’t go to the
marriage. She says a wedding is one of the most
lamentable spectacles on earth. Nice thing for a woman to
say to her husband!” exclaimed Mr. Pontellier, fuming anew
at the recollection.
“Pontellier,” said the Doctor, after a moment’s
reflection, “let your wife alone for a while. Don’t bother her,
and don’t let her bother you. Woman, my dear friend, is a
very peculiar and delicate organism—a sensitive and highly
organized woman, such as I know Mrs. Pontellier to be, is
especially peculiar. It would require an inspired
psychologist to deal successfully with them. And when
ordinary fellows like you and me attempt to cope with their
idiosyncrasies the result is bungling. Most women are
moody and whimsical. This is some passing whim of your
wife, due to some cause or causes which you and I needn’t
try to fathom. But it will pass happily over, especially if you
let her alone. Send her around to see me.”
“Oh! I couldn’t do that; there’d be no reason for it,”
objected Mr. Pontellier.

“Then I’ll go around and see her,” said the Doctor. “I’ll
drop in to dinner some evening en bon ami.”
“Do! by all means,” urged Mr. Pontellier. “What evening
will you come? Say Thursday. Will you come Thursday?” he
asked, rising to take his leave.
“Very well; Thursday. My wife may possibly have some
engagement for me Thursday. In case she has, I shall let
you know. Otherwise, you may expect me.”
Mr. Pontellier turned before leaving to say:
“I am going to New York on business very soon. I have
a big scheme on hand, and want to be on the field proper to
pull the ropes and handle the ribbons. We’ll let you in on
the inside if you say so, Doctor,” he laughed.
“No, I thank you, my dear sir,” returned the Doctor. “I
leave such ventures to you younger men with the fever of
life still in your blood.”
“What I wanted to say,” continued Mr. Pontellier, with
his hand on the knob; “I may have to be absent a good
while. Would you advise me to take Edna along?”
“By all means, if she wishes to go. If not, leave her
here. Don’t contradict her. The mood will pass, I assure
you. It may take a month, two, three months—possibly
longer, but it will pass; have patience.”
“Well, good-by, à jeudi,” said Mr. Pontellier, as he let
himself out.
The Doctor would have liked during the course of
conversation to ask, “Is there any man in the case?” but he
knew his Creole too well to make such a blunder as that.

He did not resume his book immediately, but sat for a
while meditatively looking out into the garden.
 
XXIII
Edna’s father was in the city, and had been with them
several days. She was not very warmly or deeply attached
to him, but they had certain tastes in common, and when
together they were companionable. His coming was in the
nature of a welcome disturbance; it seemed to furnish a
new direction for her emotions.
He had come to purchase a wedding gift for his
daughter, Janet, and an outfit for himself in which he might
make a creditable appearance at her marriage. Mr.
Pontellier had selected the bridal gift, as every one
immediately connected with him always deferred to his
taste in such matters. And his suggestions on the question
of dress—which too often assumes the nature of a problem
—were of inestimable value to his father-in-law. But for the
past few days the old gentleman had been upon Edna’s
hands, and in his society she was becoming acquainted
with a new set of sensations. He had been a colonel in the
Confederate army, and still maintained, with the title, the
military bearing which had always accompanied it. His hair
and mustache were white and silky, emphasizing the
rugged bronze of his face. He was tall and thin, and wore
his coats padded, which gave a fictitious breadth and depth
to his shoulders and chest. Edna and her father looked very
distinguished together, and excited a good deal of notice
during their perambulations. Upon his arrival she began by
introducing him to her atelier and making a sketch of him.
He took the whole matter very seriously. If her talent had
been ten-fold greater than it was, it would not have

surprised him, convinced as he was that he had bequeathed
to all of his daughters the germs of a masterful capability,
which only depended upon their own efforts to be directed
toward successful achievement.
Before her pencil he sat rigid and unflinching, as he
had faced the cannon’s mouth in days gone by. He resented
the intrusion of the children, who gaped with wondering
eyes at him, sitting so stiff up there in their mother’s bright
atelier. When they drew near he motioned them away with
an expressive action of the foot, loath to disturb the fixed
lines of his countenance, his arms, or his rigid shoulders.
Edna, anxious to entertain him, invited Mademoiselle
Reisz to meet him, having promised him a treat in her
piano playing; but Mademoiselle declined the invitation. So
together they attended a soirée musicale at the
Ratignolles’. Monsieur and Madame Ratignolle made much
of the Colonel, installing him as the guest of honor and
engaging him at once to dine with them the following
Sunday, or any day which he might select. Madame
coquetted with him in the most captivating and naïve
manner, with eyes, gestures, and a profusion of
compliments, till the Colonel’s old head felt thirty years
younger on his padded shoulders. Edna marveled, not
comprehending. She herself was almost devoid of coquetry.
There were one or two men whom she observed at the
soirée musicale; but she would never have felt moved to
any kittenish display to attract their notice—to any feline or
feminine wiles to express herself toward them. Their
personality attracted her in an agreeable way. Her fancy
selected them, and she was glad when a lull in the music
gave them an opportunity to meet her and talk with her.
Often on the street the glance of strange eyes had lingered
in her memory, and sometimes had disturbed her.

Mr. Pontellier did not attend these soirées musicales.
He considered them bourgeois, and found more diversion
at the club. To Madame Ratignolle he said the music
dispensed at her soirées was too “heavy,” too far beyond
his untrained comprehension. His excuse flattered her. But
she disapproved of Mr. Pontellier’s club, and she was frank
enough to tell Edna so.
“It’s a pity Mr. Pontellier doesn’t stay home more in the
evenings. I think you would be more—well, if you don’t
mind my saying it—more united, if he did.”
“Oh! dear no!” said Edna, with a blank look in her eyes.
“What should I do if he stayed home? We wouldn’t have
anything to say to each other.”
She had not much of anything to say to her father, for
that matter; but he did not antagonize her. She discovered
that he interested her, though she realized that he might
not interest her long; and for the first time in her life she
felt as if she were thoroughly acquainted with him. He kept
her busy serving him and ministering to his wants. It
amused her to do so. She would not permit a servant or one
of the children to do anything for him which she might do
herself. Her husband noticed, and thought it was the
expression of a deep filial attachment which he had never
suspected.
The Colonel drank numerous “toddies” during the
course of the day, which left him, however, imperturbed. He
was an expert at concocting strong drinks. He had even
invented some, to which he had given fantastic names, and
for whose manufacture he required diverse ingredients that
it devolved upon Edna to procure for him.

When Doctor Mandelet dined with the Pontelliers on
Thursday he could discern in Mrs. Pontellier no trace of
that morbid condition which her husband had reported to
him. She was excited and in a manner radiant. She and her
father had been to the race course, and their thoughts
when they seated themselves at table were still occupied
with the events of the afternoon, and their talk was still of
the track. The Doctor had not kept pace with turf affairs.
He had certain recollections of racing in what he called
“the good old times” when the Lecompte stables flourished,
and he drew upon this fund of memories so that he might
not be left out and seem wholly devoid of the modern spirit.
But he failed to impose upon the Colonel, and was even far
from impressing him with this trumped-up knowledge of
bygone days. Edna had staked her father on his last
venture, with the most gratifying results to both of them.
Besides, they had met some very charming people,
according to the Colonel’s impressions. Mrs. Mortimer
Merriman and Mrs. James Highcamp, who were there with
Alcée Arobin, had joined them and had enlivened the hours
in a fashion that warmed him to think of.
Mr. Pontellier himself had no particular leaning toward
horse-racing, and was even rather inclined to discourage it
as a pastime, especially when he considered the fate of that
blue-grass farm in Kentucky. He endeavored, in a general
way, to express a particular disapproval, and only
succeeded in arousing the ire and opposition of his father-
in-law. A pretty dispute followed, in which Edna warmly
espoused her father’s cause and the Doctor remained
neutral.
He observed his hostess attentively from under his
shaggy brows, and noted a subtle change which had
transformed her from the listless woman he had known into
a being who, for the moment, seemed palpitant with the

forces of life. Her speech was warm and energetic. There
was no repression in her glance or gesture. She reminded
him of some beautiful, sleek animal waking up in the sun.
The dinner was excellent. The claret was warm and the
champagne was cold, and under their beneficent influence
the threatened unpleasantness melted and vanished with
the fumes of the wine.
Mr. Pontellier warmed up and grew reminiscent. He
told some amusing plantation experiences, recollections of
old Iberville and his youth, when he hunted ’possum in
company with some friendly darky; thrashed the pecan
trees, shot the grosbec, and roamed the woods and fields in
mischievous idleness.
The Colonel, with little sense of humor and of the
fitness of things, related a somber episode of those dark
and bitter days, in which he had acted a conspicuous part
and always formed a central figure. Nor was the Doctor
happier in his selection, when he told the old, ever new and
curious story of the waning of a woman’s love, seeking
strange, new channels, only to return to its legitimate
source after days of fierce unrest. It was one of the many
little human documents which had been unfolded to him
during his long career as a physician. The story did not
seem especially to impress Edna. She had one of her own to
tell, of a woman who paddled away with her lover one night
in a pirogue and never came back. They were lost amid the
Baratarian Islands, and no one ever heard of them or found
trace of them from that day to this. It was a pure invention.
She said that Madame Antoine had related it to her. That,
also, was an invention. Perhaps it was a dream she had
had. But every glowing word seemed real to those who
listened. They could feel the hot breath of the Southern
night; they could hear the long sweep of the pirogue

through the glistening moonlit water, the beating of birds’
wings, rising startled from among the reeds in the salt-
water pools; they could see the faces of the lovers, pale,
close together, rapt in oblivious forgetfulness, drifting into
the unknown.
The champagne was cold, and its subtle fumes played
fantastic tricks with Edna’s memory that night.
Outside, away from the glow of the fire and the soft
lamplight, the night was chill and murky. The Doctor
doubled his old-fashioned cloak across his breast as he
strode home through the darkness. He knew his fellow-
creatures better than most men; knew that inner life which
so seldom unfolds itself to unanointed eyes. He was sorry
he had accepted Pontellier’s invitation. He was growing
old, and beginning to need rest and an imperturbed spirit.
He did not want the secrets of other lives thrust upon him.
“I hope it isn’t Arobin,” he muttered to himself as he
walked. “I hope to heaven it isn’t Alcée Arobin.”
 
XXIV
Edna and her father had a warm, and almost violent
dispute upon the subject of her refusal to attend her
sister’s wedding. Mr. Pontellier declined to interfere, to
interpose either his influence or his authority. He was
following Doctor Mandelet’s advice, and letting her do as
she liked. The Colonel reproached his daughter for her lack
of filial kindness and respect, her want of sisterly affection
and womanly consideration. His arguments were labored
and unconvincing. He doubted if Janet would accept any
excuse—forgetting that Edna had offered none. He doubted

if Janet would ever speak to her again, and he was sure
Margaret would not.
Edna was glad to be rid of her father when he finally
took himself off with his wedding garments and his bridal
gifts, with his padded shoulders, his Bible reading, his
“toddies” and ponderous oaths.
Mr. Pontellier followed him closely. He meant to stop at
the wedding on his way to New York and endeavor by every
means which money and love could devise to atone
somewhat for Edna’s incomprehensible action.
“You are too lenient, too lenient by far, Léonce,”
asserted the Colonel. “Authority, coercion are what is
needed. Put your foot down good and hard; the only way to
manage a wife. Take my word for it.”
The Colonel was perhaps unaware that he had coerced
his own wife into her grave. Mr. Pontellier had a vague
suspicion of it which he thought it needless to mention at
that late day.
Edna was not so consciously gratified at her husband’s
leaving home as she had been over the departure of her
father. As the day approached when he was to leave her for
a comparatively long stay, she grew melting and
affectionate, remembering his many acts of consideration
and his repeated expressions of an ardent attachment. She
was solicitous about his health and his welfare. She bustled
around, looking after his clothing, thinking about heavy
underwear, quite as Madame Ratignolle would have done
under similar circumstances. She cried when he went away,
calling him her dear, good friend, and she was quite certain
she would grow lonely before very long and go to join him
in New York.

But after all, a radiant peace settled upon her when she
at last found herself alone. Even the children were gone.
Old Madame Pontellier had come herself and carried them
off to Iberville with their quadroon. The old madame did
not venture to say she was afraid they would be neglected
during Léonce’s absence; she hardly ventured to think so.
She was hungry for them—even a little fierce in her
attachment. She did not want them to be wholly “children
of the pavement,” she always said when begging to have
them for a space. She wished them to know the country,
with its streams, its fields, its woods, its freedom, so
delicious to the young. She wished them to taste something
of the life their father had lived and known and loved when
he, too, was a little child.
When Edna was at last alone, she breathed a big,
genuine sigh of relief. A feeling that was unfamiliar but
very delicious came over her. She walked all through the
house, from one room to another, as if inspecting it for the
first time. She tried the various chairs and lounges, as if
she had never sat and reclined upon them before. And she
perambulated around the outside of the house,
investigating, looking to see if windows and shutters were
secure and in order. The flowers were like new
acquaintances; she approached them in a familiar spirit,
and made herself at home among them. The garden walks
were damp, and Edna called to the maid to bring out her
rubber sandals. And there she stayed, and stooped, digging
around the plants, trimming, picking dead, dry leaves. The
children’s little dog came out, interfering, getting in her
way. She scolded him, laughed at him, played with him. The
garden smelled so good and looked so pretty in the
afternoon sunlight. Edna plucked all the bright flowers she
could find, and went into the house with them, she and the
little dog.

Even the kitchen assumed a sudden interesting
character which she had never before perceived. She went
in to give directions to the cook, to say that the butcher
would have to bring much less meat, that they would
require only half their usual quantity of bread, of milk and
groceries. She told the cook that she herself would be
greatly occupied during Mr. Pontellier’s absence, and she
begged her to take all thought and responsibility of the
larder upon her own shoulders.
That night Edna dined alone. The candelabra, with a
few candles in the center of the table, gave all the light she
needed. Outside the circle of light in which she sat, the
large dining-room looked solemn and shadowy. The cook,
placed upon her mettle, served a delicious repast—a
luscious tenderloin broiled à point. The wine tasted good;
the marron glacé seemed to be just what she wanted. It
was so pleasant, too, to dine in a comfortable peignoir.
She thought a little sentimentally about Léonce and the
children, and wondered what they were doing. As she gave
a dainty scrap or two to the doggie, she talked intimately to
him about Etienne and Raoul. He was beside himself with
astonishment and delight over these companionable
advances, and showed his appreciation by his little quick,
snappy barks and a lively agitation.
Then Edna sat in the library after dinner and read
Emerson until she grew sleepy. She realized that she had
neglected her reading, and determined to start anew upon
a course of improving studies, now that her time was
completely her own to do with as she liked.
After a refreshing bath, Edna went to bed. And as she
snuggled comfortably beneath the eiderdown a sense of
restfulness invaded her, such as she had not known before.

 
XXV
When the weather was dark and cloudy Edna could not
work. She needed the sun to mellow and temper her mood
to the sticking point. She had reached a stage when she
seemed to be no longer feeling her way, working, when in
the humor, with sureness and ease. And being devoid of
ambition, and striving not toward accomplishment, she
drew satisfaction from the work in itself.
On rainy or melancholy days Edna went out and sought
the society of the friends she had made at Grand Isle. Or
else she stayed indoors and nursed a mood with which she
was becoming too familiar for her own comfort and peace
of mind. It was not despair; but it seemed to her as if life
were passing by, leaving its promise broken and unfulfilled.
Yet there were other days when she listened, was led on
and deceived by fresh promises which her youth held out to
her.
She went again to the races, and again. Alcée Arobin
and Mrs. Highcamp called for her one bright afternoon in
Arobin’s drag. Mrs. Highcamp was a worldly but
unaffected, intelligent, slim, tall blonde woman in the
forties, with an indifferent manner and blue eyes that
stared. She had a daughter who served her as a pretext for
cultivating the society of young men of fashion. Alcée
Arobin was one of them. He was a familiar figure at the
race course, the opera, the fashionable clubs. There was a
perpetual smile in his eyes, which seldom failed to awaken
a corresponding cheerfulness in any one who looked into
them and listened to his good-humored voice. His manner
was quiet, and at times a little insolent. He possessed a
good figure, a pleasing face, not overburdened with depth

of thought or feeling; and his dress was that of the
conventional man of fashion.
He admired Edna extravagantly, after meeting her at
the races with her father. He had met her before on other
occasions, but she had seemed to him unapproachable until
that day. It was at his instigation that Mrs. Highcamp called
to ask her to go with them to the Jockey Club to witness the
turf event of the season.
There were possibly a few track men out there who
knew the race horse as well as Edna, but there was
certainly none who knew it better. She sat between her two
companions as one having authority to speak. She laughed
at Arobin’s pretensions, and deplored Mrs. Highcamp’s
ignorance. The race horse was a friend and intimate
associate of her childhood. The atmosphere of the stables
and the breath of the blue grass paddock revived in her
memory and lingered in her nostrils. She did not perceive
that she was talking like her father as the sleek geldings
ambled in review before them. She played for very high
stakes, and fortune favored her. The fever of the game
flamed in her cheeks and eyes, and it got into her blood and
into her brain like an intoxicant. People turned their heads
to look at her, and more than one lent an attentive ear to
her utterances, hoping thereby to secure the elusive but
ever-desired “tip.” Arobin caught the contagion of
excitement which drew him to Edna like a magnet. Mrs.
Highcamp remained, as usual, unmoved, with her
indifferent stare and uplifted eyebrows.
Edna stayed and dined with Mrs. Highcamp upon being
urged to do so. Arobin also remained and sent away his
drag.

The dinner was quiet and uninteresting, save for the
cheerful efforts of Arobin to enliven things. Mrs. Highcamp
deplored the absence of her daughter from the races, and
tried to convey to her what she had missed by going to the
“Dante reading” instead of joining them. The girl held a
geranium leaf up to her nose and said nothing, but looked
knowing and noncommittal. Mr. Highcamp was a plain,
bald-headed man, who only talked under compulsion. He
was unresponsive. Mrs. Highcamp was full of delicate
courtesy and consideration toward her husband. She
addressed most of her conversation to him at table. They
sat in the library after dinner and read the evening papers
together under the droplight; while the younger people
went into the drawing-room near by and talked.
Miss Highcamp played some selections from Grieg
upon the piano. She seemed to have apprehended all of the
composer’s coldness and none of his poetry. While Edna
listened she could not help wondering if she had lost her
taste for music.
When the time came for her to go home, Mr. Highcamp
grunted a lame offer to escort her, looking down at his
slippered feet with tactless concern. It was Arobin who
took her home. The car ride was long, and it was late when
they reached Esplanade Street. Arobin asked permission to
enter for a second to light his cigarette—his match safe
was empty. He filled his match safe, but did not light his
cigarette until he left her, after she had expressed her
willingness to go to the races with him again.
Edna was neither tired nor sleepy. She was hungry
again, for the Highcamp dinner, though of excellent quality,
had lacked abundance. She rummaged in the larder and
brought forth a slice of Gruyère and some crackers. She
opened a bottle of beer which she found in the ice-box.

Edna felt extremely restless and excited. She vacantly
hummed a fantastic tune as she poked at the wood embers
on the hearth and munched a cracker.
She wanted something to happen—something,
anything; she did not know what. She regretted that she
had not made Arobin stay a half hour to talk over the
horses with her. She counted the money she had won. But
there was nothing else to do, so she went to bed, and
tossed there for hours in a sort of monotonous agitation.
In the middle of the night she remembered that she had
forgotten to write her regular letter to her husband; and
she decided to do so next day and tell him about her
afternoon at the Jockey Club. She lay wide awake
composing a letter which was nothing like the one which
she wrote next day. When the maid awoke her in the
morning Edna was dreaming of Mr. Highcamp playing the
piano at the entrance of a music store on Canal Street,
while his wife was saying to Alcée Arobin, as they boarded
an Esplanade Street car:
“What a pity that so much talent has been neglected!
but I must go.”
OceanofPDF.com

When, a few days later, Alcée Arobin again called for
Edna in his drag, Mrs. Highcamp was not with him. He said
they would pick her up. But as that lady had not been
apprised of his intention of picking her up, she was not at
home. The daughter was just leaving the house to attend
the meeting of a branch Folk Lore Society, and regretted
that she could not accompany them. Arobin appeared
nonplused, and asked Edna if there were any one else she
cared to ask.
She did not deem it worth while to go in search of any
of the fashionable acquaintances from whom she had
withdrawn herself. She thought of Madame Ratignolle, but
knew that her fair friend did not leave the house, except to
take a languid walk around the block with her husband
after nightfall. Mademoiselle Reisz would have laughed at
such a request from Edna. Madame Lebrun might have
enjoyed the outing, but for some reason Edna did not want
her. So they went alone, she and Arobin.
The afternoon was intensely interesting to her. The
excitement came back upon her like a remittent fever. Her
talk grew familiar and confidential. It was no labor to
become intimate with Arobin. His manner invited easy
confidence. The preliminary stage of becoming acquainted
was one which he always endeavored to ignore when a
pretty and engaging woman was concerned.
He stayed and dined with Edna. He stayed and sat
beside the wood fire. They laughed and talked; and before
it was time to go he was telling her how different life might
have been if he had known her years before. With
ingenuous frankness he spoke of what a wicked, ill-
disciplined boy he had been, and impulsively drew up his
cuff to exhibit upon his wrist the scar from a saber cut

which he had received in a duel outside of Paris when he
was nineteen. She touched his hand as she scanned the red
cicatrice on the inside of his white wrist. A quick impulse
that was somewhat spasmodic impelled her fingers to close
in a sort of clutch upon his hand. He felt the pressure of
her pointed nails in the flesh of his palm.
She arose hastily and walked toward the mantel.
“The sight of a wound or scar always agitates and
sickens me,” she said. “I shouldn’t have looked at it.”
“I beg your pardon,” he entreated, following her; “it
never occurred to me that it might be repulsive.”
He stood close to her, and the effrontery in his eyes
repelled the old, vanishing self in her, yet drew all her
awakening sensuousness. He saw enough in her face to
impel him to take her hand and hold it while he said his
lingering good night.
“Will you go to the races again?” he asked.
“No,” she said. “I’ve had enough of the races. I don’t
want to lose all the money I’ve won, and I’ve got to work
when the weather is bright, instead of—”
“Yes; work; to be sure. You promised to show me your
work. What morning may I come up to your atelier? To-
morrow?”
“No!”
“Day after?”
“No, no.”

“Oh, please don’t refuse me! I know something of such
things. I might help you with a stray suggestion or two.”
“No. Good night. Why don’t you go after you have said
good night? I don’t like you,” she went on in a high, excited
pitch, attempting to draw away her hand. She felt that her
words lacked dignity and sincerity, and she knew that he
felt it.
“I’m sorry you don’t like me. I’m sorry I offended you.
How have I offended you? What have I done? Can’t you
forgive me?” And he bent and pressed his lips upon her
hand as if he wished never more to withdraw them.
“Mr. Arobin,” she complained, “I’m greatly upset by the
excitement of the afternoon; I’m not myself. My manner
must have misled you in some way. I wish you to go,
please.” She spoke in a monotonous, dull tone. He took his
hat from the table, and stood with eyes turned from her,
looking into the dying fire. For a moment or two he kept an
impressive silence.
“Your manner has not misled me, Mrs. Pontellier,” he
said finally. “My own emotions have done that. I couldn’t
help it. When I’m near you, how could I help it? Don’t think
anything of it, don’t bother, please. You see, I go when you
command me. If you wish me to stay away, I shall do so. If
you let me come back, I—oh! you will let me come back?”
He cast one appealing glance at her, to which she made
no response. Alcée Arobin’s manner was so genuine that it
often deceived even himself.
Edna did not care or think whether it were genuine or
not. When she was alone she looked mechanically at the
back of her hand which he had kissed so warmly. Then she
leaned her head down on the mantelpiece. She felt

somewhat like a woman who in a moment of passion is
betrayed into an act of infidelity, and realizes the
significance of the act without being wholly awakened from
its glamour. The thought was passing vaguely through her
mind, “What would he think?”
She did not mean her husband; she was thinking of
Robert Lebrun. Her husband seemed to her now like a
person whom she had married without love as an excuse.
She lit a candle and went up to her room. Alcée Arobin
was absolutely nothing to her. Yet his presence, his
manners, the warmth of his glances, and above all the
touch of his lips upon her hand had acted like a narcotic
upon her.
She slept a languorous sleep, interwoven with
vanishing dreams.
 
XXVI
Alcée Arobin wrote Edna an elaborate note of apology,
palpitant with sincerity. It embarrassed her; for in a cooler,
quieter moment it appeared to her absurd that she should
have taken his action so seriously, so dramatically. She felt
sure that the significance of the whole occurrence had lain
in her own self-consciousness. If she ignored his note it
would give undue importance to a trivial affair. If she
replied to it in a serious spirit it would still leave in his
mind the impression that she had in a susceptible moment
yielded to his influence. After all, it was no great matter to
have one’s hand kissed. She was provoked at his having
written the apology. She answered in as light and bantering
a spirit as she fancied it deserved, and said she would be

glad to have him look in upon her at work whenever he felt
the inclination and his business gave him the opportunity.
He responded at once by presenting himself at her
home with all his disarming naïveté. And then there was
scarcely a day which followed that she did not see him or
was not reminded of him. He was prolific in pretexts. His
attitude became one of good-humored subservience and
tacit adoration. He was ready at all times to submit to her
moods, which were as often kind as they were cold. She
grew accustomed to him. They became intimate and
friendly by imperceptible degrees, and then by leaps. He
sometimes talked in a way that astonished her at first and
brought the crimson into her face; in a way that pleased
her at last, appealing to the animalism that stirred
impatiently within her.
There was nothing which so quieted the turmoil of
Edna’s senses as a visit to Mademoiselle Reisz. It was then,
in the presence of that personality which was offensive to
her, that the woman, by her divine art, seemed to reach
Edna’s spirit and set it free.
It was misty, with heavy, lowering atmosphere, one
afternoon, when Edna climbed the stairs to the pianist’s
apartments under the roof. Her clothes were dripping with
moisture. She felt chilled and pinched as she entered the
room. Mademoiselle was poking at a rusty stove that
smoked a little and warmed the room indifferently. She was
endeavoring to heat a pot of chocolate on the stove. The
room looked cheerless and dingy to Edna as she entered. A
bust of Beethoven, covered with a hood of dust, scowled at
her from the mantelpiece.
“Ah! here comes the sunlight!” exclaimed
Mademoiselle, rising from her knees before the stove.

“Now it will be warm and bright enough; I can let the fire
alone.”
She closed the stove door with a bang, and
approaching, assisted in removing Edna’s dripping
mackintosh.
“You are cold; you look miserable. The chocolate will
soon be hot. But would you rather have a taste of brandy? I
have scarcely touched the bottle which you brought me for
my cold.” A piece of red flannel was wrapped around
Mademoiselle’s throat; a stiff neck compelled her to hold
her head on one side.
“I will take some brandy,” said Edna, shivering as she
removed her gloves and overshoes. She drank the liquor
from the glass as a man would have done. Then flinging
herself upon the uncomfortable sofa she said,
“Mademoiselle, I am going to move away from my house on
Esplanade Street.”
“Ah!” ejaculated the musician, neither surprised nor
especially interested. Nothing ever seemed to astonish her
very much. She was endeavoring to adjust the bunch of
violets which had become loose from its fastening in her
hair. Edna drew her down upon the sofa, and taking a pin
from her own hair, secured the shabby artificial flowers in
their accustomed place.
“Aren’t you astonished?”
“Passably. Where are you going? to New York? to
Iberville? to your father in Mississippi? where?”
“Just two steps away,” laughed Edna, “in a little four-
room house around the corner. It looks so cozy, so inviting
and restful, whenever I pass by; and it’s for rent. I’m tired

looking after that big house. It never seemed like mine,
anyway—like home. It’s too much trouble. I have to keep
too many servants. I am tired bothering with them.”
“That is not your true reason, ma belle. There is no use
in telling me lies. I don’t know your reason, but you have
not told me the truth.” Edna did not protest or endeavor to
justify herself.
“The house, the money that provides for it, are not
mine. Isn’t that enough reason?”
“They are your husband’s,” returned Mademoiselle,
with a shrug and a malicious elevation of the eyebrows.
“Oh! I see there is no deceiving you. Then let me tell
you: It is a caprice. I have a little money of my own from my
mother’s estate, which my father sends me by driblets. I
won a large sum this winter on the races, and I am
beginning to sell my sketches. Laidpore is more and more
pleased with my work; he says it grows in force and
individuality. I cannot judge of that myself, but I feel that I
have gained in ease and confidence. However, as I said, I
have sold a good many through Laidpore. I can live in the
tiny house for little or nothing, with one servant. Old
Celestine, who works occasionally for me, says she will
come stay with me and do my work. I know I shall like it,
like the feeling of freedom and independence.”
“What does your husband say?”
“I have not told him yet. I only thought of it this
morning. He will think I am demented, no doubt. Perhaps
you think so.”
Mademoiselle shook her head slowly. “Your reason is
not yet clear to me,” she said.

Neither was it quite clear to Edna herself; but it
unfolded itself as she sat for a while in silence. Instinct had
prompted her to put away her husband’s bounty in casting
off her allegiance. She did not know how it would be when
he returned. There would have to be an understanding, an
explanation. Conditions would some way adjust themselves,
she felt; but whatever came, she had resolved never again
to belong to another than herself.
“I shall give a grand dinner before I leave the old
house!” Edna exclaimed. “You will have to come to it,
Mademoiselle. I will give you everything that you like to eat
and to drink. We shall sing and laugh and be merry for
once.” And she uttered a sigh that came from the very
depths of her being.
If Mademoiselle happened to have received a letter
from Robert during the interval of Edna’s visits, she would
give her the letter unsolicited. And she would seat herself
at the piano and play as her humor prompted her while the
young woman read the letter.
The little stove was roaring; it was red-hot, and the
chocolate in the tin sizzled and sputtered. Edna went
forward and opened the stove door, and Mademoiselle
rising, took a letter from under the bust of Beethoven and
handed it to Edna.
“Another! so soon!” she exclaimed, her eyes filled with
delight. “Tell me, Mademoiselle, does he know that I see his
letters?”
“Never in the world! He would be angry and would
never write to me again if he thought so. Does he write to
you? Never a line. Does he send you a message? Never a
word. It is because he loves you, poor fool, and is trying to

forget you, since you are not free to listen to him or to
belong to him.”
“Why do you show me his letters, then?”
“Haven’t you begged for them? Can I refuse you
anything? Oh! you cannot deceive me,” and Mademoiselle
approached her beloved instrument and began to play.
Edna did not at once read the letter. She sat holding it in
her hand, while the music penetrated her whole being like
an effulgence, warming and brightening the dark places of
her soul. It prepared her for joy and exultation.
“Oh!” she exclaimed, letting the letter fall to the floor.
“Why did you not tell me?” She went and grasped
Mademoiselle’s hands up from the keys. “Oh! unkind!
malicious! Why did you not tell me?”
“That he was coming back? No great news, ma foi. I
wonder he did not come long ago.”
“But when, when?” cried Edna, impatiently. “He does
not say when.”
“He says ‘very soon.’ You know as much about it as I
do; it is all in the letter.”
“But why? Why is he coming? Oh, if I thought—” and
she snatched the letter from the floor and turned the pages
this way and that way, looking for the reason, which was
left untold.
“If I were young and in love with a man,” said
Mademoiselle, turning on the stool and pressing her wiry
hands between her knees as she looked down at Edna, who
sat on the floor holding the letter, “it seems to me he would
have to be some grand esprit; a man with lofty aims and

ability to reach them; one who stood high enough to attract
the notice of his fellow-men. It seems to me if I were young
and in love I should never deem a man of ordinary caliber
worthy of my devotion.”
“Now it is you who are telling lies and seeking to
deceive me, Mademoiselle; or else you have never been in
love, and know nothing about it. Why,” went on Edna,
clasping her knees and looking up into Mademoiselle’s
twisted face, “do you suppose a woman knows why she
loves? Does she select? Does she say to herself: ‘Go to!
Here is a distinguished statesman with presidential
possibilities; I shall proceed to fall in love with him.’ Or, ‘I
shall set my heart upon this musician, whose fame is on
every tongue?’ Or, ‘This financier, who controls the world’s
money markets?’ ”
“You are purposely misunderstanding me, ma reine.
Are you in love with Robert?”
“Yes,” said Edna. It was the first time she had admitted
it, and a glow overspread her face, blotching it with red
spots.
“Why?” asked her companion. “Why do you love him
when you ought not to?”
Edna, with a motion or two, dragged herself on her
knees before Mademoiselle Reisz, who took the glowing
face between her two hands.
“Why? Because his hair is brown and grows away from
his temples; because he opens and shuts his eyes, and his
nose is a little out of drawing; because he has two lips and
a square chin, and a little finger which he can’t straighten
from having played baseball too energetically in his youth.
Because—”

“Because you do, in short,” laughed Mademoiselle.
“What will you do when he comes back?” she asked.
“Do? Nothing, except feel glad and happy to be alive.”
She was already glad and happy to be alive at the mere
thought of his return. The murky, lowering sky, which had
depressed her a few hours before, seemed bracing and
invigorating as she splashed through the streets on her way
home.
She stopped at a confectioner’s and ordered a huge box
of bonbons for the children in Iberville. She slipped a card
in the box, on which she scribbled a tender message and
sent an abundance of kisses.
Before dinner in the evening Edna wrote a charming
letter to her husband, telling him of her intention to move
for a while into the little house around the block, and to
give a farewell dinner before leaving, regretting that he
was not there to share it, to help her out with the menu and
assist her in entertaining the guests. Her letter was
brilliant and brimming with cheerfulness.
 
XXVII
“What is the matter with you?” asked Arobin that
evening. “I never found you in such a happy mood.” Edna
was tired by that time, and was reclining on the lounge
before the fire.
“Don’t you know the weather prophet has told us we
shall see the sun pretty soon?”

“Well, that ought to be reason enough,” he acquiesced.
“You wouldn’t give me another if I sat here all night
imploring you.” He sat close to her on a low tabouret, and
as he spoke his fingers lightly touched the hair that fell a
little over her forehead. She liked the touch of his fingers
through her hair, and closed her eyes sensitively.
“One of these days,” she said, “I’m going to pull myself
together for a while and think—try to determine what
character of a woman I am; for, candidly, I don’t know. By
all the codes which I am acquainted with, I am a devilishly
wicked specimen of the sex. But some way I can’t convince
myself that I am. I must think about it.”
“Don’t. What’s the use? Why should you bother
thinking about it when I can tell you what manner of
woman you are.” His fingers strayed occasionally down to
her warm, smooth cheeks and firm chin, which was
growing a little full and double.
“Oh, yes! You will tell me that I am adorable;
everything that is captivating. Spare yourself the effort.”
“No; I shan’t tell you anything of the sort, though I
shouldn’t be lying if I did.”
“Do you know Mademoiselle Reisz?” she asked
irrelevantly.
“The pianist? I know her by sight. I’ve heard her play.”
“She says queer things sometimes in a bantering way
that you don’t notice at the time and you find yourself
thinking about afterward.”
“For instance?”

“Well, for instance, when I left her to-day, she put her
arms around me and felt my shoulder blades, to see if my
wings were strong, she said. ‘The bird that would soar
above the level plain of tradition and prejudice must have
strong wings. It is a sad spectacle to see the weaklings
bruised, exhausted, fluttering back to earth.’ ”
“Whither would you soar?”
“I’m not thinking of any extraordinary flights. I only
half comprehend her.”
“I’ve heard she’s partially demented,” said Arobin.
“She seems to me wonderfully sane,” Edna replied.
“I’m told she’s extremely disagreeable and unpleasant.
Why have you introduced her at a moment when I desired
to talk of you?”
“Oh! talk of me if you like,” cried Edna, clasping her
hands beneath her head; “but let me think of something
else while you do.”
“I’m jealous of your thoughts to-night. They’re making
you a little kinder than usual; but some way I feel as if they
were wandering, as if they were not here with me.” She
only looked at him and smiled. His eyes were very near. He
leaned upon the lounge with an arm extended across her,
while the other hand still rested upon her hair. They
continued silently to look into each other’s eyes. When he
leaned forward and kissed her, she clasped his head,
holding his lips to hers.
It was the first kiss of her life to which her nature had
really responded. It was a flaming torch that kindled desire.

 
XXVIII
Edna cried a little that night after Arobin left her. It
was only one phase of the multitudinous emotions which
had assailed her. There was with her an overwhelming
feeling of irresponsibility. There was the shock of the
unexpected and the unaccustomed. There was her
husband’s reproach looking at her from the external things
around her which he had provided for her external
existence. There was Robert’s reproach making itself felt
by a quicker, fiercer, more overpowering love, which had
awakened within her toward him. Above all, there was
understanding. She felt as if a mist had been lifted from her
eyes, enabling her to look upon and comprehend the
significance of life, that monster made up of beauty and
brutality. But among the conflicting sensations which
assailed her, there was neither shame nor remorse. There
was a dull pang of regret because it was not the kiss of love
which had inflamed her, because it was not love which had
held this cup of life to her lips.
 
XXIX
Without even waiting for an answer from her husband
regarding his opinion or wishes in the matter, Edna
hastened her preparations for quitting her home on
Esplanade Street and moving into the little house around
the block. A feverish anxiety attended her every action in
that direction. There was no moment of deliberation, no
interval of repose between the thought and its fulfillment.
Early upon the morning following those hours passed in
Arobin’s society, Edna set about securing her new abode

and hurrying her arrangements for occupying it. Within the
precincts of her home she felt like one who has entered and
lingered within the portals of some forbidden temple in
which a thousand muffled voices bade her begone.
Whatever was her own in the house, everything which
she had acquired aside from her husband’s bounty, she
caused to be transported to the other house, supplying
simple and meager deficiencies from her own resources.
Arobin found her with rolled sleeves, working in
company with the house-maid when he looked in during the
afternoon. She was splendid and robust, and had never
appeared handsomer than in the old blue gown, with a red
silk handkerchief knotted at random around her head to
protect her hair from the dust. She was mounted upon a
high step-ladder, unhooking a picture from the wall when
he entered. He had found the front door open, and had
followed his ring by walking in unceremoniously.
“Come down!” he said. “Do you want to kill yourself?”
She greeted him with affected carelessness, and appeared
absorbed in her occupation.
If he had expected to find her languishing, reproachful,
or indulging in sentimental tears, he must have been
greatly surprised.
He was no doubt prepared for any emergency, ready for
any one of the foregoing attitudes, just as he bent himself
easily and naturally to the situation which confronted him.
“Please come down,” he insisted, holding the ladder
and looking up at her.
“No,” she answered; “Ellen is afraid to mount the
ladder. Joe is working over at the ‘pigeon house’—that’s the

name Ellen gives it, because it’s so small and looks like a
pigeon house—and some one has to do this.”
Arobin pulled off his coat, and expressed himself ready
and willing to tempt fate in her place. Ellen brought him
one of her dust-caps, and went into contortions of mirth,
which she found it impossible to control, when she saw him
put it on before the mirror as grotesquely as he could. Edna
herself could not refrain from smiling when she fastened it
at his request. So it was he who in turn mounted the ladder,
unhooking pictures and curtains, and dislodging ornaments
as Edna directed. When he had finished he took off his
dust-cap and went out to wash his hands.
Edna was sitting on the tabouret, idly brushing the tips
of a feather duster along the carpet when he came in again.
“Is there anything more you will let me do?” he asked.
“That is all,” she answered. “Ellen can manage the
rest.” She kept the young woman occupied in the drawing-
room, unwilling to be left alone with Arobin.
“What about the dinner?” he asked; “the grand event,
the coup d’état?”
“It will be day after to-morrow. Why do you call it the
‘coup d’état?’ Oh! it will be very fine; all my best of
everything—crystal, silver and gold, Sèvres, flowers, music,
and champagne to swim in. I’ll let Léonce pay the bills. I
wonder what he’ll say when he sees the bills.”
“And you ask me why I call it a coup d’état?” Arobin
had put on his coat, and he stood before her and asked if
his cravat was plumb. She told him it was, looking no
higher than the tip of his collar.

“When do you go to the ‘pigeon house?’—with all due
acknowledgment to Ellen.”
“Day after to-morrow, after the dinner. I shall sleep
there.”
“Ellen, will you very kindly get me a glass of water?”
asked Arobin. “The dust in the curtains, if you will pardon
me for hinting such a thing, has parched my throat to a
crisp.”
“While Ellen gets the water,” said Edna, rising, “I will
say good-by and let you go. I must get rid of this grime, and
I have a million things to do and think of.”
“When shall I see you?” asked Arobin, seeking to detain
her, the maid having left the room.
“At the dinner, of course. You are invited.”
“Not before?—not to-night or to-morrow morning or to-
morrow noon or night? or the day after morning or noon?
Can’t you see yourself, without my telling you, what an
eternity it is?”
He had followed her into the hall and to the foot of the
stairway, looking up at her as she mounted with her face
half turned to him.
“Not an instant sooner,” she said. But she laughed and
looked at him with eyes that at once gave him courage to
wait and made it torture to wait.
 
XXX

Though Edna had spoken of the dinner as a very grand
affair, it was in truth a very small affair and very select, in
so much as the guests invited were few and were selected
with discrimination. She had counted upon an even dozen
seating themselves at her round mahogany board,
forgetting for the moment that Madame Ratignolle was to
the last degree souffrante and unpresentable, and not
foreseeing that Madame Lebrun would sent a thousand
regrets at the last moment. So there were only ten, after
all, which made a cozy, comfortable number.
There were Mr. and Mrs. Merriman, a pretty, vivacious
little woman in the thirties; her husband, a jovial fellow,
something of a shallow-pate, who laughed a good deal at
other people’s witticisms, and had thereby made himself
extremely popular. Mrs. Highcamp had accompanied them.
Of course, there was Alcée Arobin; and Mademoiselle Reisz
had consented to come. Edna had sent her a fresh bunch of
violets with black lace trimmings for her hair. Monsieur
Ratignolle brought himself and his wife’s excuses. Victor
Lebrun, who happened to be in the city, bent upon
relaxation, had accepted with alacrity. There was a Miss
Mayblunt, no longer in her teens, who looked at the world
through lorgnettes and with the keenest interest. It was
thought and said that she was intellectual; it was suspected
of her that she wrote under a nom de guerre. She had come
with a gentleman by the name of Gouvernail, connected
with one of the daily papers, of whom nothing special could
be said, except that he was observant and seemed quiet
and inoffensive. Edna herself made the tenth, and at half-
past eight they seated themselves at table, Arobin and
Monsieur Ratignolle on either side of their hostess.
Mrs. Highcamp sat between Arobin and Victor Lebrun.
Then came Mrs. Merriman, Mr. Gouvernail, Miss Mayblunt,

Mr. Merriman, and Mademoiselle Reisz next to Monsieur
Ratignolle.
There was something extremely gorgeous about the
appearance of the table, an effect of splendor conveyed by
a cover of pale yellow satin under strips of lace-work. There
were wax candles in massive brass candelabra, burning
softly under yellow silk shades; full, fragrant roses, yellow
and red, abounded. There were silver and gold, as she had
said there would be, and crystal which glittered like the
gems which the women wore.
The ordinary stiff dining chairs had been discarded for
the occasion and replaced by the most commodious and
luxurious which could be collected throughout the house.
Mademoiselle Reisz, being exceedingly diminutive, was
elevated upon cushions, as small children are sometimes
hoisted at table upon bulky volumes.
“Something new, Edna?” exclaimed Miss Mayblunt,
with lorgnette directed toward a magnificent cluster of
diamonds that sparkled, that almost sputtered, in Edna’s
hair, just over the center of her forehead.
“Quite new; ‘brand’ new, in fact; a present from my
husband. It arrived this morning from New York. I may as
well admit that this is my birthday, and that I am twenty-
nine. In good time I expect you to drink my health.
Meanwhile, I shall ask you to begin with this cocktail,
composed—would you say ‘composed?’ ” with an appeal to
Miss Mayblunt—“composed by my father in honor of Sister
Janet’s wedding.”
Before each guest stood a tiny glass that looked and
sparkled like a garnet gem.

“Then, all things considered,” spoke Arobin, “it might
not be amiss to start out by drinking the Colonel’s health in
the cocktail which he composed, on the birthday of the
most charming of women—the daughter whom he
invented.”
Mr. Merriman’s laugh at this sally was such a genuine
outburst and so contagious that it started the dinner with
an agreeable swing that never slackened.
Miss Mayblunt begged to be allowed to keep her
cocktail untouched before her, just to look at. The color was
marvelous! She could compare it to nothing she had ever
seen, and the garnet lights which it emitted were
unspeakably rare. She pronounced the Colonel an artist,
and stuck to it.
Monsieur Ratignolle was prepared to take things
seriously: the mets, the entre-mets, the service, the
decorations, even the people. He looked up from his
pompono and inquired of Arobin if he were related to the
gentleman of that name who formed one of the firm of
Laitner and Arobin, lawyers. The young man admitted that
Laitner was a warm personal friend, who permitted
Arobin’s name to decorate the firm’s letterheads and to
appear upon a shingle that graced Perdido Street.
“There are so many inquisitive people and institutions
abounding,” said Arobin, “that one is really forced as a
matter of convenience these days to assume the virtue of
an occupation if he has it not.”
Monsieur Ratignolle stared a little, and turned to ask
Mademoiselle Reisz if she considered the symphony
concerts up to the standard which had been set the
previous winter. Mademoiselle Reisz answered Monsieur

Ratignolle in French, which Edna thought a little rude,
under the circumstances, but characteristic. Mademoiselle
had only disagreeable things to say of the symphony
concerts, and insulting remarks to make of all the
musicians of New Orleans, singly and collectively. All her
interest seemed to be centered upon the delicacies placed
before her.
Mr. Merriman said that Mr. Arobin’s remark about
inquisitive people reminded him of a man from Waco the
other day at the St. Charles Hotel—but as Mr. Merriman’s
stories were always lame and lacking point, his wife seldom
permitted him to complete them. She interrupted him to
ask if he remembered the name of the author whose book
she had bought the week before to send to a friend in
Geneva. She was talking “books” with Mr. Gouvernail and
trying to draw from him his opinion upon current literary
topics. Her husband told the story of the Waco man
privately to Miss Mayblunt, who pretended to be greatly
amused and to think it extremely clever.
Mrs. Highcamp hung with languid but unaffected
interest upon the warm and impetuous volubility of her left-
hand neighbor, Victor Lebrun. Her attention was never for
a moment withdrawn from him after seating herself at
table; and when he turned to Mrs. Merriman, who was
prettier and more vivacious than Mrs. Highcamp, she
waited with easy indifference for an opportunity to reclaim
his attention. There was the occasional sound of music, of
mandolins, sufficiently removed to be an agreeable
accompaniment rather than an interruption to the
conversation. Outside the soft, monotonous splash of a
fountain could be heard; the sound penetrated into the
room with the heavy odor of jessamine that came through
the open windows.

The golden shimmer of Edna’s satin gown spread in
rich folds on either side of her. There was a soft fall of lace
encircling her shoulders. It was the color of her skin,
without the glow, the myriad living tints that one may
sometimes discover in vibrant flesh. There was something
in her attitude, in her whole appearance when she leaned
her head against the high-backed chair and spread her
arms, which suggested the regal woman, the one who
rules, who looks on, who stands alone.
But as she sat there amid her guests, she felt the old
ennui overtaking her; the hopelessness which so often
assailed her, which came upon her like an obsession, like
something extraneous, independent of volition. It was
something which announced itself; a chill breath that
seemed to issue from some vast cavern wherein discords
wailed. There came over her the acute longing which
always summoned into her spiritual vision the presence of
the beloved one, overpowering her at once with a sense of
the unattainable.
The moments glided on, while a feeling of good
fellowship passed around the circle like a mystic cord,
holding and binding these people together with jest and
laughter. Monsieur Ratignolle was the first to break the
pleasant charm. At ten o’clock he excused himself. Madame
Ratignolle was waiting for him at home. She was bien
souffrante, and she was filled with vague dread, which only
her husband’s presence could allay.
Mademoiselle Reisz arose with Monsieur Ratignolle,
who offered to escort her to the car. She had eaten well;
she had tasted the good, rich wines, and they must have
turned her head, for she bowed pleasantly to all as she
withdrew from table. She kissed Edna upon the shoulder,
and whispered: “Bonne nuit, ma reine; soyez sage.” She

had been a little bewildered upon rising, or rather,
descending from her cushions, and Monsieur Ratignolle
gallantly took her arm and led her away.
Mrs. Highcamp was weaving a garland of roses, yellow
and red. When she had finished the garland, she laid it
lightly upon Victor’s black curls. He was reclining far back
in the luxurious chair, holding a glass of champagne to the
light.
As if a magician’s wand had touched him, the garland
of roses transformed him into a vision of Oriental beauty.
His cheeks were the color of crushed grapes, and his dusky
eyes glowed with a languishing fire.
“Sapristi!” exclaimed Arobin.
But Mrs. Highcamp had one more touch to add to the
picture. She took from the back of her chair a white silken
scarf, with which she had covered her shoulders in the
early part of the evening. She draped it across the boy in
graceful folds, and in a way to conceal his black,
conventional evening dress. He did not seem to mind what
she did to him, only smiled, showing a faint gleam of white
teeth, while he continued to gaze with narrowing eyes at
the light through his glass of champagne.
“Oh! to be able to paint in color rather than in words!”
exclaimed Miss Mayblunt, losing herself in a rhapsodic
dream as she looked at him.
“ ‘There was a graven image of Desire
   Painted with red blood on a ground of gold.’ ”

murmured Gouvernail, under his breath.
The effect of the wine upon Victor was to change his
accustomed volubility into silence. He seemed to have
abandoned himself to a reverie, and to be seeing pleasing
visions in the amber bead.
“Sing,” entreated Mrs. Highcamp. “Won’t you sing to
us?”
“Let him alone,” said Arobin.
“He’s posing,” offered Mr. Merriman; “let him have it
out.”
“I believe he’s paralyzed,” laughed Mrs. Merriman. And
leaning over the youth’s chair, she took the glass from his
hand and held it to his lips. He sipped the wine slowly, and
when he had drained the glass she laid it upon the table
and wiped his lips with her little filmy handkerchief.
“Yes, I’ll sing for you,” he said, turning in his chair
toward Mrs. Highcamp. He clasped his hands behind his
head, and looking up at the ceiling began to hum a little,
trying his voice like a musician tuning an instrument. Then,
looking at Edna, he began to sing:
“Ah! si tu savais!”
“Stop!” she cried, “don’t sing that. I don’t want you to
sing it,” and she laid her glass so impetuously and blindly
upon the table as to shatter it against a caraffe. The wine
spilled over Arobin’s legs and some of it trickled down upon
Mrs. Highcamp’s black gauze gown. Victor had lost all idea

of courtesy, or else he thought his hostess was not in
earnest, for he laughed and went on:
“Ah! si tu savais
  Ce que tes yeux me disent”—
“Oh! you mustn’t! you mustn’t,” exclaimed Edna, and
pushing back her chair she got up, and going behind him
placed her hand over his mouth. He kissed the soft palm
that pressed upon his lips.
“No, no, I won’t, Mrs. Pontellier. I didn’t know you
meant it,” looking up at her with caressing eyes. The touch
of his lips was like a pleasing sting to her hand. She lifted
the garland of roses from his head and flung it across the
room.
“Come, Victor; you’ve posed long enough. Give Mrs.
Highcamp her scarf.”
Mrs. Highcamp undraped the scarf from about him
with her own hands. Miss Mayblunt and Mr. Gouvernail
suddenly conceived the notion that it was time to say good
night. And Mr. and Mrs. Merriman wondered how it could
be so late.
Before parting from Victor, Mrs. Highcamp invited him
to call upon her daughter, who she knew would be charmed
to meet him and talk French and sing French songs with
him. Victor expressed his desire and intention to call upon
Miss Highcamp at the first opportunity which presented
itself. He asked if Arobin were going his way. Arobin was
not.

The mandolin players had long since stolen away. A
profound stillness had fallen upon the broad, beautiful
street. The voices of Edna’s disbanding guests jarred like a
discordant note upon the quiet harmony of the night.
 
XXXI
“Well?” questioned Arobin, who had remained with
Edna after the others had departed.
“Well,” she reiterated, and stood up, stretching her
arms, and feeling the need to relax her muscles after
having been so long seated.
“What next?” he asked.
“The servants are all gone. They left when the
musicians did. I have dismissed them. The house has to be
closed and locked, and I shall trot around to the pigeon
house, and shall send Celestine over in the morning to
straighten things up.”
He looked around, and began to turn out some of the
lights.
“What about upstairs?” he inquired.
“I think it is all right; but there may be a window or two
unlatched. We had better look; you might take a candle and
see. And bring me my wrap and hat on the foot of the bed
in the middle room.”
He went up with the light, and Edna began closing
doors and windows. She hated to shut in the smoke and the

fumes of the wine. Arobin found her cape and hat, which he
brought down and helped her to put on.
When everything was secured and the lights put out,
they left through the front door, Arobin locking it and
taking the key, which he carried for Edna. He helped her
down the steps.
“Will you have a spray of jessamine?” he asked,
breaking off a few blossoms as he passed.
“No; I don’t want anything.”
She seemed disheartened, and had nothing to say. She
took his arm, which he offered her, holding up the weight of
her satin train with the other hand. She looked down,
noticing the black line of his leg moving in and out so close
to her against the yellow shimmer of her gown. There was
the whistle of a railway train somewhere in the distance,
and the midnight bells were ringing. They met no one in
their short walk.
The “pigeon-house” stood behind a locked gate, and a
shallow parterre that had been somewhat neglected. There
was a small front porch, upon which a long window and the
front door opened. The door opened directly into the
parlor; there was no side entry. Back in the yard was a
room for servants, in which old Celestine had been
ensconced.
Edna had left a lamp burning low upon the table. She
had succeeded in making the room look habitable and
homelike. There were some books on the table and a
lounge near at hand. On the floor was a fresh matting,
covered with a rug or two; and on the walls hung a few
tasteful pictures. But the room was filled with flowers.
These were a surprise to her. Arobin had sent them, and

had had Celestine distribute them during Edna’s absence.
Her bedroom was adjoining, and across a small passage
were the dining-room and kitchen.
Edna seated herself with every appearance of
discomfort.
“Are you tired?” he asked.
“Yes, and chilled, and miserable. I feel as if I had been
wound up to a certain pitch—too tight—and something
inside of me had snapped.” She rested her head against the
table upon her bare arm.
“You want to rest,” he said, “and to be quiet. I’ll go; I’ll
leave you and let you rest.”
“Yes,” she replied.
He stood up beside her and smoothed her hair with his
soft, magnetic hand. His touch conveyed to her a certain
physical comfort. She could have fallen quietly asleep there
if he had continued to pass his hand over her hair. He
brushed the hair upward from the nape of her neck.
“I hope you will feel better and happier in the
morning,” he said. “You have tried to do too much in the
past few days. The dinner was the last straw; you might
have dispensed with it.”
“Yes,” she admitted; “it was stupid.”
“No, it was delightful; but it has worn you out.” His
hand had strayed to her beautiful shoulders, and he could
feel the response of her flesh to his touch. He seated
himself beside her and kissed her lightly upon the shoulder.

“I thought you were going away,” she said, in an
uneven voice.
“I am, after I have said good night.”
“Good night,” she murmured.
He did not answer, except to continue to caress her. He
did not say good night until she had become supple to his
gentle, seductive entreaties.
 
XXXII
When Mr. Pontellier learned of his wife’s intention to
abandon her home and take up her residence elsewhere, he
immediately wrote her a letter of unqualified disapproval
and remonstrance. She had given reasons which he was
unwilling to acknowledge as adequate. He hoped she had
not acted upon her rash impulse; and he begged her to
consider first, foremost, and above all else, what people
would say. He was not dreaming of scandal when he
uttered this warning; that was a thing which would never
have entered into his mind to consider in connection with
his wife’s name or his own. He was simply thinking of his
financial integrity. It might get noised about that the
Pontelliers had met with reverses, and were forced to
conduct their ménage on a humbler scale than heretofore.
It might do incalculable mischief to his business prospects.
But remembering Edna’s whimsical turn of mind of
late, and foreseeing that she had immediately acted upon
her impetuous determination, he grasped the situation with
his usual promptness and handled it with his well-known
business tact and cleverness.

The same mail which brought to Edna his letter of
disapproval carried instructions—the most minute
instructions—to a well-known architect concerning the
remodeling of his home, changes which he had long
contemplated, and which he desired carried forward during
his temporary absence.
Expert and reliable packers and movers were engaged
to convey the furniture, carpets, pictures—everything
movable, in short—to places of security. And in an
incredibly short time the Pontellier house was turned over
to the artisans. There was to be an addition—a small
snuggery; there was to be frescoing, and hardwood flooring
was to be put into such rooms as had not yet been
subjected to this improvement.
Furthermore, in one of the daily papers appeared a
brief notice to the effect that Mr. and Mrs. Pontellier were
contemplating a summer sojourn abroad, and that their
handsome residence on Esplanade Street was undergoing
sumptuous alterations, and would not be ready for
occupancy until their return. Mr. Pontellier had saved
appearances!
Edna admired the skill of his maneuver, and avoided
any occasion to balk his intentions. When the situation as
set forth by Mr. Pontellier was accepted and taken for
granted, she was apparently satisfied that it should be so.
The pigeon-house pleased her. It at once assumed the
intimate character of a home, while she herself invested it
with a charm which it reflected like a warm glow. There
was with her a feeling of having descended in the social
scale, with a corresponding sense of having risen in the
spiritual. Every step which she took toward relieving
herself from obligations added to her strength and

expansion as an individual. She began to look with her own
eyes; to see and to apprehend the deeper undercurrents of
life. No longer was she content to “feed upon opinion”
when her own soul had invited her.
After a little while, a few days, in fact, Edna went up
and spent a week with her children in Iberville. They were
delicious February days, with all the summer’s promise
hovering in the air.
How glad she was to see the children! She wept for
very pleasure when she felt their little arms clasping her;
their hard, ruddy cheeks pressed against her own glowing
cheeks. She looked into their faces with hungry eyes that
could not be satisfied with looking. And what stories they
had to tell their mother! About the pigs, the cows, the
mules! About riding to the mill behind Gluglu; fishing back
in the lake with their Uncle Jasper; picking pecans with
Lidie’s little black brood, and hauling chips in their express
wagon. It was a thousand times more fun to haul real chips
for old lame Susie’s real fire than to drag painted blocks
along the banquette on Esplanade Street!
She went with them herself to see the pigs and the
cows, to look at the darkies laying the cane, to thrash the
pecan trees, and catch fish in the back lake. She lived with
them a whole week long, giving them all of herself, and
gathering and filling herself with their young existence.
They listened, breathless, when she told them the house in
Esplanade Street was crowded with workmen, hammering,
nailing, sawing, and filling the place with clatter. They
wanted to know where their bed was; what had been done
with their rocking-horse; and where did Joe sleep, and
where had Ellen gone, and the cook? But, above all, they
were fired with a desire to see the little house around the
block. Was there any place to play? Were there any boys

next door? Raoul, with pessimistic foreboding, was
convinced that there were only girls next door. Where
would they sleep, and where would papa sleep? She told
them the fairies would fix it all right.
The old Madame was charmed with Edna’s visit, and
showered all manner of delicate attentions upon her. She
was delighted to know that the Esplanade Street house was
in a dismantled condition. It gave her the promise and
pretext to keep the children indefinitely.
It was with a wrench and a pang that Edna left her
children. She carried away with her the sound of their
voices and the touch of their cheeks. All along the journey
homeward their presence lingered with her like the
memory of a delicious song. But by the time she had
regained the city the song no longer echoed in her soul.
She was again alone.
 
XXXIII
It happened sometimes when Edna went to see
Mademoiselle Reisz that the little musician was absent,
giving a lesson or making some small necessary household
purchase. The key was always left in a secret hiding-place
in the entry, which Edna knew. If Mademoiselle happened
to be away, Edna would usually enter and wait for her
return.
When she knocked at Mademoiselle Reisz’s door one
afternoon there was no response; so unlocking the door, as
usual, she entered and found the apartment deserted, as
she had expected. Her day had been quite filled up, and it

was for a rest, for a refuge, and to talk about Robert, that
she sought out her friend.
She had worked at her canvas—a young Italian
character study—all the morning, completing the work
without the model; but there had been many interruptions,
some incident to her modest housekeeping, and others of a
social nature.
OceanofPDF.com

Madame Ratignolle had dragged herself over, avoiding
the too public thoroughfares, she said. She complained that
Edna had neglected her much of late. Besides, she was
consumed with curiosity to see the little house and the
manner in which it was conducted. She wanted to hear all
about the dinner party; Monsieur Ratignolle had left so
early. What had happened after he left? The champagne
and grapes which Edna sent over were too delicious. She
had so little appetite; they had refreshed and toned her
stomach. Where on earth was she going to put Mr.
Pontellier in that little house, and the boys? And then she
made Edna promise to go to her when her hour of trial
overtook her.
“At any time—any time of the day or night, dear,” Edna
assured her.
Before leaving Madame Ratignolle said:
“In some way you seem to me like a child, Edna. You
seem to act without a certain amount of reflection which is
necessary in this life. That is the reason I want to say you
mustn’t mind if I advise you to be a little careful while you
are living here alone. Why don’t you have some one come
and stay with you? Wouldn’t Mademoiselle Reisz come?”
“No; she wouldn’t wish to come, and I shouldn’t want
her always with me.”
“Well, the reason—you know how evil-minded the world
is—some one was talking of Alcée Arobin visiting you. Of
course, it wouldn’t matter if Mr. Arobin had not such a
dreadful reputation. Monsieur Ratignolle was telling me
that his attentions alone are considered enough to ruin a
woman’s name.”

“Does he boast of his successes?” asked Edna,
indifferently, squinting at her picture.
“No, I think not. I believe he is a decent fellow as far as
that goes. But his character is so well known among the
men. I shan’t be able to come back and see you; it was very,
very imprudent to-day.”
“Mind the step!” cried Edna.
“Don’t neglect me,” entreated Madame Ratignolle;
“and don’t mind what I said about Arobin, or having some
one to stay with you.”
“Of course not,” Edna laughed. “You may say anything
you like to me.” They kissed each other good-by. Madame
Ratignolle had not far to go, and Edna stood on the porch a
while watching her walk down the street.
Then in the afternoon Mrs. Merriman and Mrs.
Highcamp had made their “party call.” Edna felt that they
might have dispensed with the formality. They had also
come to invite her to play vingt-et-un one evening at Mrs.
Merriman’s. She was asked to go early, to dinner, and Mr.
Merriman or Mr. Arobin would take her home. Edna
accepted in a half-hearted way. She sometimes felt very
tired of Mrs. Highcamp and Mrs. Merriman.
Late in the afternoon she sought refuge with
Mademoiselle Reisz, and stayed there alone, waiting for
her, feeling a kind of repose invade her with the very
atmosphere of the shabby, unpretentious little room.
Edna sat at the window, which looked out over the
housetops and across the river. The window frame was
filled with pots of flowers, and she sat and picked the dry
leaves from a rose geranium. The day was warm, and the

breeze which blew from the river was very pleasant. She
removed her hat and laid it on the piano. She went on
picking the leaves and digging around the plants with her
hat pin. Once she thought she heard Mademoiselle Reisz
approaching. But it was a young black girl, who came in,
bringing a small bundle of laundry, which she deposited in
the adjoining room, and went away.
Edna seated herself at the piano, and softly picked out
with one hand the bars of a piece of music which lay open
before her. A half-hour went by. There was the occasional
sound of people going and coming in the lower hall. She
was growing interested in her occupation of picking out the
aria, when there was a second rap at the door. She vaguely
wondered what these people did when they found
Mademoiselle’s door locked.
“Come in,” she called, turning her face toward the door.
And this time it was Robert Lebrun who presented himself.
She attempted to rise; she could not have done so without
betraying the agitation which mastered her at sight of him,
so she fell back upon the stool, only exclaiming, “Why,
Robert!”
He came and clasped her hand, seemingly without
knowing what he was saying or doing.
“Mrs. Pontellier! How do you happen—oh! how well you
look! Is Mademoiselle Reisz not here? I never expected to
see you.”
“When did you come back?” asked Edna in an unsteady
voice, wiping her face with her handkerchief. She seemed
ill at ease on the piano stool, and he begged her to take the
chair by the window. She did so, mechanically, while he
seated himself on the stool.

“I returned day before yesterday,” he answered, while
he leaned his arm on the keys, bringing forth a crash of
discordant sound.
“Day before yesterday!” she repeated, aloud; and went
on thinking to herself, “day before yesterday,” in a sort of
an uncomprehending way. She had pictured him seeing her
at the very first hour, and he had lived under the same sky
since day before yesterday; while only by accident had he
stumbled upon her. Mademoiselle must have lied when she
said, “Poor fool, he loves you.”
“Day before yesterday,” she repeated, breaking off a
spray of Mademoiselle’s geranium; “then if you had not met
me here to-day you wouldn’t—when—that is, didn’t you
mean to come and see me?”
“Of course, I should have gone to see you. There have
been so many things—” he turned the leaves of
Mademoiselle’s music nervously. “I started in at once
yesterday with the old firm. After all there is as much
chance for me here as there was there—that is, I might find
it profitable some day. The Mexicans were not very
congenial.”
So he had come back because the Mexicans were not
congenial; because business was as profitable here as
there; because of any reason, and not because he cared to
be near her. She remembered the day she sat on the floor,
turning the pages of his letter, seeking the reason which
was left untold.
She had not noticed how he looked—only feeling his
presence; but she turned deliberately and observed him.
After all, he had been absent but a few months, and was
not changed. His hair—the color of hers—waved back from

his temples in the same way as before. His skin was not
more burned than it had been at Grand Isle. She found in
his eyes, when he looked at her for one silent moment, the
same tender caress, with an added warmth and entreaty
which had not been there before—the same glance which
had penetrated to the sleeping places of her soul and
awakened them.
A hundred times Edna had pictured Robert’s return,
and imagined their first meeting. It was usually at her
home, whither he had sought her out at once. She always
fancied him expressing or betraying in some way his love
for her. And here, the reality was that they sat ten feet
apart, she at the window, crushing geranium leaves in her
hand and smelling them, he twirling around on the piano
stool, saying:
“I was very much surprised to hear of Mr. Pontellier’s
absence; it’s a wonder Mademoiselle Reisz did not tell me;
and your moving—mother told me yesterday. I should think
you would have gone to New York with him, or to Iberville
with the children, rather than be bothered here with
housekeeping. And you are going abroad, too, I hear. We
shan’t have you at Grand Isle next summer; it won’t seem—
do you see much of Mademoiselle Reisz? She often spoke of
you in the few letters she wrote.”
“Do you remember that you promised to write to me
when you went away?” A flush overspread his whole face.
“I couldn’t believe that my letters would be of any
interest to you.”
“That is an excuse; it isn’t the truth.” Edna reached for
her hat on the piano. She adjusted it, sticking the hat pin
through the heavy coil of hair with some deliberation.

“Are you not going to wait for Mademoiselle Reisz?”
asked Robert.
“No; I have found when she is absent this long, she is
liable not to come back till late.” She drew on her gloves,
and Robert picked up his hat.
“Won’t you wait for her?” asked Edna.
“Not if you think she will not be back till late,” adding,
as if suddenly aware of some discourtesy in his speech,
“and I should miss the pleasure of walking home with you.”
Edna locked the door and put the key back in its hiding-
place.
They went together, picking their way across muddy
streets and sidewalks encumbered with the cheap display
of small trades-men. Part of the distance they rode in the
car, and after disembarking, passed the Pontellier mansion,
which looked broken and half torn asunder. Robert had
never known the house, and looked at it with interest.
“I never knew you in your home,” he remarked.
“I am glad you did not.”
“Why?” She did not answer. They went on around the
corner, and it seemed as if her dreams were coming true
after all, when he followed her into the little house.
“You must stay and dine with me, Robert. You see I am
all alone, and it is so long since I have seen you. There is so
much I want to ask you.”
She took off her hat and gloves. He stood irresolute,
making some excuse about his mother who expected him;
he even muttered something about an engagement. She

struck a match and lit the lamp on the table; it was growing
dusk. When he saw her face in the lamp-light, looking
pained, with all the soft lines gone out of it, he threw his
hat aside and seated himself.
“Oh! you know I want to stay if you will let me!” he
exclaimed. All the softness came back. She laughed, and
went and put her hand on his shoulder.
“This is the first moment you have seemed like the old
Robert. I’ll go tell Celestine.” She hurried away to tell
Celestine to set an extra place. She even sent her off in
search of some added delicacy which she had not thought
of for herself. And she recommended great care in dripping
the coffee and having the omelet done to a proper turn.
When she reëntered, Robert was turning over
magazines, sketches, and things that lay upon the table in
great disorder. He picked up a photograph, and exclaimed:
“Alcée Arobin! What on earth is his picture doing
here?”
“I tried to make a sketch of his head one day,”
answered Edna, “and he thought the photograph might
help me. It was at the other house. I thought it had been
left there. I must have packed it up with my drawing
materials.”
“I should think you would give it back to him if you
have finished with it.”
“Oh! I have a great many such photographs. I never
think of returning them. They don’t amount to anything.”
Robert kept on looking at the picture.

“It seems to me—do you think his head worth drawing?
Is he a friend of Mr. Pontellier’s? You never said you knew
him.”
“He isn’t a friend of Mr. Pontellier’s; he’s a friend of
mine. I always knew him—that is, it is only of late that I
know him pretty well. But I’d rather talk about you, and
know what you have been seeing and doing and feeling out
there in Mexico.” Robert threw aside the picture.
“I’ve been seeing the waves and the white beach of
Grand Isle; the quiet, grassy street of the Chênière; the old
fort at Grande Terre. I’ve been working like a machine, and
feeling like a lost soul. There was nothing interesting.”
She leaned her head upon her hand to shade her eyes
from the light.
“And what have you been seeing and doing and feeling
all these days?” he asked.
“I’ve been seeing the waves and the white beach of
Grand Isle; the quiet, grassy street of the Chênière
Caminada; the old sunny fort at Grande Terre. I’ve been
working with a little more comprehension than a machine
and still feeling like a lost soul. There was nothing
interesting.”
“Mrs. Pontellier, you are cruel,” he said, with feeling,
closing his eyes and resting his head back in his chair. They
remained in silence till old Celestine announced dinner.
 
XXXIV

The dining-room was very small. Edna’s round
mahogany would have almost filled it. As it was there was
but a step or two from the little table to the kitchen, to the
mantel, the small buffet, and the side door that opened out
on the narrow brick-paved yard.
A certain degree of ceremony settled upon them with
the announcement of dinner. There was no return to
personalities. Robert related incidents of his sojourn in
Mexico, and Edna talked of events likely to interest him,
which had occurred during his absence. The dinner was of
ordinary quality, except for the few delicacies which she
had sent out to purchase. Old Celestine, with a bandana
tignon twisted about her head, hobbled in and out, taking a
personal interest in everything; and she lingered
occasionally to talk patois with Robert, whom she had
known as a boy.
He went out to a neighboring cigar stand to purchase
cigarette papers, and when he came back he found that
Celestine had served the black coffee in the parlor.
“Perhaps I shouldn’t have come back,” he said. “When
you are tired of me, tell me to go.”
“You never tire me. You must have forgotten the hours
and hours at Grand Isle in which we grew accustomed to
each other and used to being together.”
“I have forgotten nothing at Grand Isle,” he said, not
looking at her, but rolling a cigarette. His tobacco pouch,
which he laid upon the table, was a fantastic embroidered
silk affair, evidently the handiwork of a woman.
“You used to carry your tobacco in a rubber pouch,”
said Edna, picking up the pouch and examining the
needlework.

“Yes; it was lost.”
“Where did you buy this one? In Mexico?”
“It was given to me by a Vera Cruz girl; they are very
generous,” he replied, striking a match and lighting his
cigarette.
“They are very handsome, I suppose, those Mexican
women; very picturesque, with their black eyes and their
lace scarfs.”
“Some are; others are hideous. Just as you find women
everywhere.”
“What was she like—the one who gave you the pouch?
You must have known her very well.”
“She was very ordinary. She wasn’t of the slightest
importance. I knew her well enough.”
“Did you visit at her house? Was it interesting? I should
like to know and hear about the people you met, and the
impressions they made on you.”
“There are some people who leave impressions not so
lasting as the imprint of an oar upon the water.”
“Was she such a one?”
“It would be ungenerous for me to admit that she was
of that order and kind.” He thrust the pouch back in his
pocket, as if to put away the subject with the trifle which
had brought it up.
Arobin dropped in with a message from Mrs. Merriman,
to say that the card party was postponed on account of the

illness of one of her children.
“How do you do, Arobin?” said Robert, rising from the
obscurity.
“Oh! Lebrun. To be sure! I heard yesterday you were
back. How did they treat you down in Mexique?”
“Fairly well.”
“But not well enough to keep you there. Stunning girls,
though, in Mexico. I thought I should never get away from
Vera Cruz when I was down there a couple of years ago.”
“Did they embroider slippers and tobacco pouches and
hatbands and things for you?” asked Edna.
“Oh! my! no! I didn’t get so deep in their regard. I fear
they made more impression on me than I made on them.”
“You were less fortunate than Robert, then.”
“I am always less fortunate than Robert. Has he been
imparting tender confidences?”
“I’ve been imposing myself long enough,” said Robert,
rising, and shaking hands with Edna. “Please convey my
regards to Mr. Pontellier when you write.”
He shook hands with Arobin and went away.
“Fine fellow, that Lebrun,” said Arobin when Robert
had gone. “I never heard you speak of him.”
“I knew him last summer at Grand Isle,” she replied.
“Here is that photograph of yours. Don’t you want it?”

“What do I want with it? Throw it away.” She threw it
back on the table.
“I’m not going to Mrs. Merriman’s,” she said. “If you
see her, tell her so. But perhaps I had better write. I think I
shall write now, and say that I am sorry her child is sick,
and tell her not to count on me.”
“It would be a good scheme,” acquiesced Arobin. “I
don’t blame you; stupid lot!”
Edna opened the blotter, and having procured paper
and pen, began to write the note. Arobin lit a cigar and
read the evening paper, which he had in his pocket.
“What is the date?” she asked. He told her.
“Will you mail this for me when you go out?”
“Certainly.” He read to her little bits out of the
newspaper, while she straightened things on the table.
“What do you want to do?” he asked, throwing aside
the paper. “Do you want to go out for a walk or a drive or
anything? It would be a fine night to drive.”
“No; I don’t want to do anything but just be quiet. You
go away and amuse yourself. Don’t stay.”
“I’ll go away if I must; but I shan’t amuse myself. You
know that I only live when I am near you.”
He stood up to bid her good night.
“Is that one of the things you always say to women?”
“I have said it before, but I don’t think I ever came so
near meaning it,” he answered with a smile. There were no

warm lights in her eyes; only a dreamy, absent look.
“Good night. I adore you. Sleep well,” he said, and he
kissed her hand and went away.
She stayed alone in a kind of reverie—a sort of stupor.
Step by step she lived over every instant of the time she
had been with Robert after he had entered Mademoiselle
Reisz’s door. She recalled his words, his looks. How few
and meager they had been for her hungry heart! A vision—
a transcendently seductive vision of a Mexican girl arose
before her. She writhed with a jealous pang. She wondered
when he would come back. He had not said he would come
back. She had been with him, had heard his voice and
touched his hand. But some way he had seemed nearer to
her off there in Mexico.
 
XXXV
The morning was full of sunlight and hope. Edna could
see before her no denial—only the promise of excessive joy.
She lay in bed awake, with bright eyes full of speculation.
“He loves you, poor fool.” If she could but get that
conviction firmly fixed in her mind, what mattered about
the rest? She felt she had been childish and unwise the
night before in giving herself over to despondency. She
recapitulated the motives which no doubt explained
Robert’s reserve. They were not insurmountable; they
would not hold if he really loved her; they could not hold
against her own passion, which he must come to realize in
time. She pictured him going to his business that morning.
She even saw how he was dressed; how he walked down
one street, and turned the corner of another; saw him
bending over his desk, talking to people who entered the

office, going to his lunch, and perhaps watching for her on
the street. He would come to her in the afternoon or
evening, sit and roll his cigarette, talk a little, and go away
as he had done the night before. But how delicious it would
be to have him there with her! She would have no regrets,
nor seek to penetrate his reserve if he still chose to wear it.
Edna ate her breakfast only half dressed. The maid
brought her a delicious printed scrawl from Raoul,
expressing his love, asking her to send him some bonbons,
and telling her they had found that morning ten tiny white
pigs all lying in a row beside Lidie’s big white pig.
A letter also came from her husband, saying he hoped
to be back early in March, and then they would get ready
for that journey abroad which he had promised her so long,
which he felt now fully able to afford; he felt able to travel
as people should, without any thought of small economies—
thanks to his recent speculations in Wall Street.
Much to her surprise she received a note from Arobin,
written at midnight from the club. It was to say good
morning to her, to hope she had slept well, to assure her of
his devotion, which he trusted she in some faintest manner
returned.
All these letters were pleasing to her. She answered the
children in a cheerful frame of mind, promising them
bonbons, and congratulating them upon their happy find of
the little pigs.
She answered her husband with friendly evasiveness,—
not with any fixed design to mislead him, only because all
sense of reality had gone out of her life; she had abandoned
herself to Fate, and awaited the consequences with
indifference.

To Arobin’s note she made no reply. She put it under
Celestine’s stove-lid.
Edna worked several hours with much spirit. She saw
no one but a picture dealer, who asked her if it were true
that she was going abroad to study in Paris.
She said possibly she might, and he negotiated with her
for some Parisian studies to reach him in time for the
holiday trade in December.
Robert did not come that day. She was keenly
disappointed. He did not come the following day, nor the
next. Each morning she awoke with hope, and each night
she was a prey to despondency. She was tempted to seek
him out. But far from yielding to the impulse, she avoided
any occasion which might throw her in his way. She did not
go to Mademoiselle Reisz’s nor pass by Madame Lebrun’s,
as she might have done if he had still been in Mexico.
When Arobin, one night, urged her to drive with him,
she went—out to the lake, on the Shell Road. His horses
were full of mettle, and even a little unmanageable. She
liked the rapid gait at which they spun along, and the
quick, sharp sound of the horses’ hoofs on the hard road.
They did not stop anywhere to eat or to drink. Arobin was
not needlessly imprudent. But they ate and they drank
when they regained Edna’s little dining-room—which was
comparatively early in the evening.
It was late when he left her. It was getting to be more
than a passing whim with Arobin to see her and be with
her. He had detected the latent sensuality, which unfolded
under his delicate sense of her nature’s requirements like a
torpid, torrid, sensitive blossom.

There was no despondency when she fell asleep that
night; nor was there hope when she awoke in the morning.
 
XXXVI
There was a garden out in the suburbs; a small, leafy
corner, with a few green tables under the orange trees. An
old cat slept all day on the stone step in the sun, and an old
mulatresse slept her idle hours away in her chair at the
open window, till some one happened to knock on one of
the green tables. She had milk and cream cheese to sell,
and bread and butter. There was no one who could make
such excellent coffee or fry a chicken so golden brown as
she.
The place was too modest to attract the attention of
people of fashion, and so quiet as to have escaped the
notice of those in search of pleasure and dissipation. Edna
had discovered it accidentally one day when the high-board
gate stood ajar. She caught sight of a little green table,
blotched with the checkered sunlight that filtered through
the quivering leaves overhead. Within she had found the
slumbering mulatresse, the drowsy cat, and a glass of milk
which reminded her of the milk she had tasted in Iberville.
She often stopped there during her perambulations;
sometimes taking a book with her, and sitting an hour or
two under the trees when she found the place deserted.
Once or twice she took a quiet dinner there alone, having
instructed Celestine beforehand to prepare no dinner at
home. It was the last place in the city where she would
have expected to meet any one she knew.

Still she was not astonished when, as she was partaking
of a modest dinner late in the afternoon, looking into an
open book, stroking the cat, which had made friends with
her—she was not greatly astonished to see Robert come in
at the tall garden gate.
“I am destined to see you only by accident,” she said,
shoving the cat off the chair beside her. He was surprised,
ill at ease, almost embarrassed at meeting her thus so
unexpectedly.
“Do you come here often?” he asked.
“I almost live here,” she said.
“I used to drop in very often for a cup of Catiche’s good
coffee. This is the first time since I came back.”
“She’ll bring you a plate, and you will share my dinner.
There’s always enough for two—even three.” Edna had
intended to be indifferent and as reserved as he when she
met him; she had reached the determination by a laborious
train of reasoning, incident to one of her despondent
moods. But her resolve melted when she saw him before
her, seated there beside her in the little garden, as if a
designing Providence had led him into her path.
“Why have you kept away from me, Robert?” she asked,
closing the book that lay open upon the table.
“Why are you so personal, Mrs. Pontellier? Why do you
force me to idiotic subterfuges?” he exclaimed with sudden
warmth. “I suppose there’s no use telling you I’ve been
very busy, or that I’ve been sick, or that I’ve been to see
you and not found you at home. Please let me off with any
one of these excuses.”

“You are the embodiment of selfishness,” she said. “You
save yourself something—I don’t know what—but there is
some selfish motive, and in sparing yourself you never
consider for a moment what I think, or how I feel your
neglect and indifference. I suppose this is what you would
call unwomanly; but I have got into a habit of expressing
myself. It doesn’t matter to me, and you may think me
unwomanly if you like.”
“No; I only think you cruel, as I said the other day.
Maybe not intentionally cruel; but you seem to be forcing
me into disclosures which can result in nothing; as if you
would have me bare a wound for the pleasure of looking at
it, without the intention or power of healing it.”
“I’m spoiling your dinner, Robert; never mind what I
say. You haven’t eaten a morsel.”
“I only came in for a cup of coffee.” His sensitive face
was all disfigured with excitement.
“Isn’t this a delightful place?” she remarked. “I am so
glad it has never actually been discovered. It is so quiet, so
sweet, here. Do you notice there is scarcely a sound to be
heard? It’s so out of the way; and a good walk from the car.
However, I don’t mind walking. I always feel so sorry for
women who don’t like to walk; they miss so much—so many
rare little glimpses of life; and we women learn so little of
life on the whole.
“Catiche’s coffee is always hot. I don’t know how she
manages it, here in the open air. Celestine’s coffee gets
cold bringing it from the kitchen to the dining-room. Three
lumps! How can you drink it so sweet? Take some of the
cress with your chop; it’s so biting and crisp. Then there’s

the advantage of being able to smoke with your coffee out
here. Now, in the city—aren’t you going to smoke?”
“After a while,” he said, laying a cigar on the table.
“Who gave it to you?” she laughed.
“I bought it. I suppose I’m getting reckless; I bought a
whole box.” She was determined not to be personal again
and make him uncomfortable.
The cat made friends with him, and climbed into his lap
when he smoked his cigar. He stroked her silky fur, and
talked a little about her. He looked at Edna’s book, which
he had read; and he told her the end, to save her the
trouble of wading through it, he said.
Again he accompanied her back to her home; and it
was after dusk when they reached the little “pigeon-house.”
She did not ask him to remain, which he was grateful for,
as it permitted him to stay without the discomfort of
blundering through an excuse which he had no intention of
considering. He helped her to light the lamp; then she went
into her room to take off her hat and to bathe her face and
hands.
When she came back Robert was not examining the
pictures and magazines as before; he sat off in the shadow,
leaning his head back on the chair as if in a reverie. Edna
lingered a moment beside the table, arranging the books
there. Then she went across the room to where he sat. She
bent over the arm of his chair and called his name.
“Robert,” she said, “are you asleep?”
“No,” he answered, looking up at her.

She leaned over and kissed him—a soft, cool, delicate
kiss, whose voluptuous sting penetrated his whole being—
then she moved away from him. He followed, and took her
in his arms, just holding her close to him. She put her hand
up to his face and pressed his cheek against her own. The
action was full of love and tenderness. He sought her lips
again. Then he drew her down upon the sofa beside him
and held her hand in both of his.
“Now you know,” he said, “now you know what I have
been fighting against since last summer at Grand Isle; what
drove me away and drove me back again.”
“Why have you been fighting against it?” she asked.
Her face glowed with soft lights.
“Why? Because you were not free; you were Léonce
Pontellier’s wife. I couldn’t help loving you if you were ten
times his wife; but so long as I went away from you and
kept away I could help telling you so.” She put her free
hand up to his shoulder, and then against his cheek,
rubbing it softly. He kissed her again. His face was warm
and flushed.
“There in Mexico I was thinking of you all the time, and
longing for you.”
“But not writing to me,” she interrupted.
“Something put into my head that you cared for me;
and I lost my senses. I forgot everything but a wild dream
of your some way becoming my wife.”
“Your wife!”
“Religion, loyalty, everything would give way if only you
cared.”

“Then you must have forgotten that I was Léonce
Pontellier’s wife.”
“Oh! I was demented, dreaming of wild, impossible
things, recalling men who had set their wives free, we have
heard of such things.”
“Yes, we have heard of such things.”
“I came back full of vague, mad intentions. And when I
got here—”
“When you got here you never came near me!” She was
still caressing his cheek.
“I realized what a cur I was to dream of such a thing,
even if you had been willing.”
She took his face between her hands and looked into it
as if she would never withdraw her eyes more. She kissed
him on the forehead, the eyes, the cheeks, and the lips.
“You have been a very, very foolish boy, wasting your
time dreaming of impossible things when you speak of Mr.
Pontellier setting me free! I am no longer one of Mr.
Pontellier’s possessions to dispose of or not. I give myself
where I choose. If he were to say, ‘Here, Robert, take her
and be happy; she is yours,’ I should laugh at you both.”
His face grew a little white. “What do you mean?” he
asked.
There was a knock at the door. Old Celestine came in to
say that Madame Ratignolle’s servant had come around the
back way with a message that Madame had been taken sick
and begged Mrs. Pontellier to go to her immediately.

“Yes, yes,” said Edna, rising; “I promised. Tell her yes—
to wait for me. I’ll go back with her.”
“Let me walk over with you,” offered Robert.
“No,” she said; “I will go with the servant.” She went
into her room to put on her hat, and when she came in
again she sat once more upon the sofa beside him. He had
not stirred. She put her arms about his neck.
“Good-by, my sweet Robert. Tell me good-by.” He kissed
her with a degree of passion which had not before entered
into his caress, and strained her to him.
“I love you,” she whispered, “only you; no one but you.
It was you who awoke me last summer out of a life-long,
stupid dream. Oh! you have made me so unhappy with your
indifference. Oh! I have suffered, suffered! Now you are
here we shall love each other, my Robert. We shall be
everything to each other. Nothing else in the world is of any
consequence. I must go to my friend; but you will wait for
me? No matter how late; you will wait for me, Robert?”
“Don’t go; don’t go! Oh! Edna, stay with me,” he
pleaded. “Why should you go? Stay with me, stay with me.”
“I shall come back as soon as I can; I shall find you
here.” She buried her face in his neck, and said good-by
again. Her seductive voice, together with his great love for
her, had enthralled his senses, had deprived him of every
impulse but the longing to hold her and keep her.
 
XXXVII

Edna looked in at the drug store. Monsieur Ratignolle
was putting up a mixture himself, very carefully, dropping a
red liquid into a tiny glass. He was grateful to Edna for
having come; her presence would be a comfort to his wife.
Madame Ratignolle’s sister, who had always been with her
at such trying times, had not been able to come up from the
plantation, and Adèle had been inconsolable until Mrs.
Pontellier so kindly promised to come to her. The nurse had
been with them at night for the past week, as she lived a
great distance away. And Dr. Mandelet had been coming
and going all the afternoon. They were then looking for him
any moment.
Edna hastened upstairs by a private stairway that led
from the rear of the store to the apartments above. The
children were all sleeping in a back room. Madame
Ratignolle was in the salon, whither she had strayed in her
suffering impatience. She sat on the sofa, clad in an ample
white peignoir, holding a handkerchief tight in her hand
with a nervous clutch. Her face was drawn and pinched,
her sweet blue eyes haggard and unnatural. All her
beautiful hair had been drawn back and plaited. It lay in a
long braid on the sofa pillow, coiled like a golden serpent.
The nurse, a comfortable looking Griffe woman in white
apron and cap, was urging her to return to her bedroom.
“There is no use, there is no use,” she said at once to
Edna. “We must get rid of Mandelet; he is getting too old
and careless. He said he would be here at half-past seven;
now it must be eight. See what time it is, Joséphine.”
The woman was possessed of a cheerful nature, and
refused to take any situation too seriously, especially a
situation with which she was so familiar. She urged
Madame to have courage and patience. But Madame only
set her teeth hard into her under lip, and Edna saw the

sweat gather in beads on her white forehead. After a
moment or two she uttered a profound sigh and wiped her
face with the handkerchief rolled in a ball. She appeared
exhausted. The nurse gave her a fresh handkerchief,
sprinkled with cologne water.
“This is too much!” she cried. “Mandelet ought to be
killed! Where is Alphonse? Is it possible I am to be
abandoned like this—neglected by every one?”
“Neglected, indeed!” exclaimed the nurse. Wasn’t she
there? And here was Mrs. Pontellier leaving, no doubt, a
pleasant evening at home to devote to her? And wasn’t
Monsieur Ratignolle coming that very instant through the
hall? And Joséphine was quite sure she had heard Doctor
Mandelet’s coupé. Yes, there it was, down at the door.
Adèle consented to go back to her room. She sat on the
edge of a little low couch next to her bed.
Doctor Mandelet paid no attention to Madame
Ratignolle’s upbraidings. He was accustomed to them at
such times, and was too well convinced of her loyalty to
doubt it.
He was glad to see Edna, and wanted her to go with
him into the salon and entertain him. But Madame
Ratignolle would not consent that Edna should leave her
for an instant. Between agonizing moments, she chatted a
little, and said it took her mind off her sufferings.
Edna began to feel uneasy. She was seized with a vague
dread. Her own like experiences seemed far away, unreal,
and only half remembered. She recalled faintly an ecstasy
of pain, the heavy odor of chloroform, a stupor which had
deadened sensation, and an awakening to find a little new

life to which she had given being, added to the great
unnumbered multitude of souls that come and go.
She began to wish she had not come; her presence was
not necessary. She might have invented a pretext for
staying away; she might even invent a pretext now for
going. But Edna did not go. With an inward agony, with a
flaming, outspoken revolt against the ways of Nature, she
witnessed the scene of torture.
She was still stunned and speechless with emotion
when later she leaned over her friend to kiss her and softly
say good-by. Adèle, pressing her cheek, whispered in an
exhausted voice: “Think of the children, Edna. Oh think of
the children! Remember them!”
 
XXXVIII
Edna still felt dazed when she got outside in the open
air. The Doctor’s coupé had returned for him and stood
before the porte cochère. She did not wish to enter the
coupé, and told Doctor Mandelet she would walk; she was
not afraid, and would go alone. He directed his carriage to
meet him at Mrs. Pontellier’s, and he started to walk home
with her.
Up—away up, over the narrow street between the tall
houses, the stars were blazing. The air was mild and
caressing, but cool with the breath of spring and the night.
They walked slowly, the Doctor with a heavy, measured
tread and his hands behind him; Edna, in an absent-minded
way, as she had walked one night at Grand Isle, as if her
thoughts had gone ahead of her and she was striving to
overtake them.

“You shouldn’t have been there, Mrs. Pontellier,” he
said. “That was no place for you. Adèle is full of whims at
such times. There were a dozen women she might have had
with her, unimpressionable women. I felt that it was cruel,
cruel. You shouldn’t have gone.”
“Oh, well!” she answered, indifferently. “I don’t know
that it matters after all. One has to think of the children
some time or other; the sooner the better.”
“When is Léonce coming back?”
“Quite soon. Some time in March.”
“And you are going abroad?”
“Perhaps—no, I am not going. I’m not going to be
forced into doing things. I don’t want to go abroad. I want
to be let alone. Nobody has any right—except children,
perhaps—and even then, it seems to me—or it did seem—”
She felt that her speech was voicing the incoherency of her
thoughts, and stopped abruptly.
“The trouble is,” sighed the Doctor, grasping her
meaning intuitively, “that youth is given up to illusions. It
seems to be a provision of Nature; a decoy to secure
mothers for the race. And Nature takes no account of moral
consequences, of arbitrary conditions which we create, and
which we feel obliged to maintain at any cost.”
“Yes,” she said. “The years that are gone seem like
dreams—if one might go on sleeping and dreaming—but to
wake up and find—oh! well! perhaps it is better to wake up
after all, even to suffer, rather than to remain a dupe to
illusions all one’s life.”

“It seems to me, my dear child,” said the Doctor at
parting, holding her hand, “you seem to me to be in
trouble. I am not going to ask for your confidence. I will
only say that if ever you feel moved to give it to me,
perhaps I might help you. I know I would understand, and I
tell you there are not many who would—not many, my
dear.”
“Some way I don’t feel moved to speak of things that
trouble me. Don’t think I am ungrateful or that I don’t
appreciate your sympathy. There are periods of
despondency and suffering which take possession of me.
But I don’t want anything but my own way. That is wanting
a good deal, of course, when you have to trample upon the
lives, the hearts, the prejudices of others—but no matter—
still, I shouldn’t want to trample upon the little lives. Oh! I
don’t know what I’m saying, Doctor. Good night. Don’t
blame me for anything.”
“Yes, I will blame you if you don’t come and see me
soon. We will talk of things you never have dreamt of
talking about before. It will do us both good. I don’t want
you to blame yourself, whatever comes. Good night, my
child.”
She let herself in at the gate, but instead of entering
she sat upon the step of the porch. The night was quiet and
soothing. All the tearing emotion of the last few hours
seemed to fall away from her like a somber, uncomfortable
garment, which she had but to loosen to be rid of. She went
back to that hour before Adèle had sent for her; and her
senses kindled afresh in thinking of Robert’s words, the
pressure of his arms, and the feeling of his lips upon her
own. She could picture at that moment no greater bliss on
earth than possession of the beloved one. His expression of
love had already given him to her in part. When she

thought that he was there at hand, waiting for her, she
grew numb with the intoxication of expectancy. It was so
late; he would be asleep perhaps. She would awaken him
with a kiss. She hoped he would be asleep that she might
arouse him with her caresses.
Still, she remembered Adèle’s voice whispering, “Think
of the children; think of them.” She meant to think of them;
that determination had driven into her soul like a death
wound—but not to-night. To-morrow would be time to think
of everything.
Robert was not waiting for her in the little parlor. He
was nowhere at hand. The house was empty. But he had
scrawled on a piece of paper that lay in the lamplight:
“I love you. Good-by—because I love you.”
Edna grew faint when she read the words. She went
and sat on the sofa. Then she stretched herself out there,
never uttering a sound. She did not sleep. She did not go to
bed. The lamp sputtered and went out. She was still awake
in the morning, when Celestine unlocked the kitchen door
and came in to light the fire.
 
XXXIX
Victor, with hammer and nails and scraps of scantling,
was patching a corner of one of the galleries. Mariequita
sat near by, dangling her legs, watching him work, and
handing him nails from the tool-box. The sun was beating
down upon them. The girl had covered her head with her
apron folded into a square pad. They had been talking for
an hour or more. She was never tired of hearing Victor
describe the dinner at Mrs. Pontellier’s. He exaggerated

every detail, making it appear a veritable Lucullean feast.
The flowers were in tubs, he said. The champagne was
quaffed from huge golden goblets. Venus rising from the
foam could have presented no more entrancing a spectacle
than Mrs. Pontellier, blazing with beauty and diamonds at
the head of the board, while the other women were all of
them youthful houris, possessed of incomparable charms.
She got it into her head that Victor was in love with
Mrs. Pontellier, and he gave her evasive answers, framed so
as to confirm her belief. She grew sullen and cried a little,
threatening to go off and leave him to his fine ladies. There
were a dozen men crazy about her at the Chênière; and
since it was the fashion to be in love with married people,
why, she could run away any time she liked to New Orleans
with Célina’s husband.
Célina’s husband was a fool, a coward, and a pig, and
to prove it to her, Victor intended to hammer his head into
a jelly the next time he encountered him. This assurance
was very consoling to Mariequita. She dried her eyes, and
grew cheerful at the prospect.
They were still talking of the dinner and the
allurements of city life when Mrs. Pontellier herself slipped
around the corner of the house. The two youngsters stayed
dumb with amazement before what they considered to be
an apparition. But it was really she in flesh and blood,
looking tired and a little travel-stained.
“I walked up from the wharf,” she said, “and heard the
hammering. I supposed it was you, mending the porch. It’s
a good thing. I was always tripping over those loose planks
last summer. How dreary and deserted everything looks!”

It took Victor some little time to comprehend that she
had come in Beaudelet’s lugger, that she had come alone,
and for no purpose but to rest.
“There’s nothing fixed up yet, you see. I’ll give you my
room; it’s the only place.”
“Any corner will do,” she assured him.
“And if you can stand Philomel’s cooking,” he went on,
“though I might try to get her mother while you are here.
Do you think she would come?” turning to Mariequita.
Mariequita thought that perhaps Philomel’s mother
might come for a few days, and money enough.
Beholding Mrs. Pontellier make her appearance, the
girl had at once suspected a lovers’ rendezvous. But
Victor’s astonishment was so genuine, and Mrs. Pontellier’s
indifference so apparent, that the disturbing notion did not
lodge long in her brain. She contemplated with the greatest
interest this woman who gave the most sumptuous dinners
in America, and who had all the men in New Orleans at her
feet.
“What time will you have dinner?” asked Edna. “I’m
very hungry; but don’t get anything extra.”
“I’ll have it ready in little or no time,” he said, bustling
and packing away his tools. “You may go to my room to
brush up and rest yourself. Mariequita will show you.”
“Thank you,” said Edna. “But, do you know, I have a
notion to go down to the beach and take a good wash and
even a little swim, before dinner?”

“The water is too cold!” they both exclaimed. “Don’t
think of it.”
“Well, I might go down and try—dip my toes in. Why, it
seems to me the sun is hot enough to have warmed the
very depths of the ocean. Could you get me a couple of
towels? I’d better go right away, so as to be back in time. It
would be a little too chilly if I waited till this afternoon.”
Mariequita ran over to Victor’s room, and returned with
some towels, which she gave to Edna.
“I hope you have fish for dinner,” said Edna, as she
started to walk away; “but don’t do anything extra if you
haven’t.”
“Run and find Philomel’s mother,” Victor instructed the
girl. “I’ll go to the kitchen and see what I can do. By
Gimminy! Women have no consideration! She might have
sent me word.”
Edna walked on down to the beach rather mechanically,
not noticing anything special except that the sun was hot.
She was not dwelling upon any particular train of thought.
She had done all the thinking which was necessary after
Robert went away, when she lay awake upon the sofa till
morning.
She had said over and over to herself: “To-day it is
Arobin; to-morrow it will be some one else. It makes no
difference to me, it doesn’t matter about Léonce Pontellier
—but Raoul and Etienne!” She understood now clearly
what she had meant long ago when she said to Adèle
Ratignolle that she would give up the unessential, but she
would never sacrifice herself for her children.

Despondency had come upon her there in the wakeful
night, and had never lifted. There was no one thing in the
world that she desired. There was no human being whom
she wanted near her except Robert; and she even realized
that the day would come when he, too, and the thought of
him would melt out of her existence, leaving her alone. The
children appeared before her like antagonists who had
overcome her; who had overpowered and sought to drag
her into the soul’s slavery for the rest of her days. But she
knew a way to elude them. She was not thinking of these
things when she walked down to the beach.
The water of the Gulf stretched out before her,
gleaming with the million lights of the sun. The voice of the
sea is seductive, never ceasing, whispering, clamoring,
murmuring, inviting the soul to wander in abysses of
solitude. All along the white beach, up and down, there was
no living thing in sight. A bird with a broken wing was
beating the air above, reeling, fluttering, circling disabled
down, down to the water.
Edna had found her old bathing suit still hanging,
faded, upon its accustomed peg.
She put it on, leaving her clothing in the bath-house.
But when she was there beside the sea, absolutely alone,
she cast the unpleasant, pricking garments from her, and
for the first time in her life she stood naked in the open air,
at the mercy of the sun, the breeze that beat upon her, and
the waves that invited her.
How strange and awful it seemed to stand naked under
the sky! how delicious! She felt like some new-born
creature, opening its eyes in a familiar world that it had
never known.

The foamy wavelets curled up to her white feet, and
coiled like serpents about her ankles. She walked out. The
water was chill, but she walked on. The water was deep,
but she lifted her white body and reached out with a long,
sweeping stroke. The touch of the sea is sensuous,
enfolding the body in its soft, close embrace.
She went on and on. She remembered the night she
swam far out, and recalled the terror that seized her at the
fear of being unable to regain the shore. She did not look
back now, but went on and on, thinking of the blue-grass
meadow that she had traversed when a little child,
believing that it had no beginning and no end.
Her arms and legs were growing tired.
She thought of Léonce and the children. They were a
part of her life. But they need not have thought that they
could possess her, body and soul. How Mademoiselle Reisz
would have laughed, perhaps sneered, if she knew! “And
you call yourself an artist! What pretensions, Madame! The
artist must possess the courageous soul that dares and
defies.”
Exhaustion was pressing upon and overpowering her.
“Good-by—because I love you.” He did not know; he did
not understand. He would never understand. Perhaps
Doctor Mandelet would have understood if she had seen
him—but it was too late; the shore was far behind her, and
her strength was gone.
She looked into the distance, and the old terror flamed
up for an instant, then sank again. Edna heard her father’s
voice and her sister Margaret’s. She heard the barking of
an old dog that was chained to the sycamore tree. The
spurs of the cavalry officer clanged as he walked across the

porch. There was the hum of bees, and the musky odor of
pinks filled the air.
OceanofPDF.com

 
Emancipation:
A Life Fable
There was once an animal born into this world, and
opening his eyes upon Life, he saw above and about him
confining walls, and before him were bars of iron through
which came air and light from without; this animal was
born in a cage.
Here he grew, and throve in strength and beauty under
care of an invisible protecting hand. Hungering, food was
ever at hand. When he thirsted water was brought, and
when he felt the need of rest, there was provided a bed of
straw upon which to lie: and here he found it good, licking
his handsome flanks, to bask in the sun beam that he
thought existed but to lighten his home.
Awaking one day from his slothful rest, lo! the door of
his cage stood open: accident had opened it. In the corner
he crouched, wondering and fearingly. Then slowly did he
approach the door, dreading the unaccustomed, and would
have closed it, but for such a task his limbs were
purposeless. So out the opening he thrust his head, to see
the canopy of the sky grow broader, and the world waxing
wider.
Back to his corner but not to rest, for the spell of the
Unknown was over him, and again and again he goes to the
open door, seeing each time more Light.
Then one time standing in the flood of it; a deep in-
drawn breath—a bracing of strong limbs, and with a bound

he was gone.
On he rushes, in his mad flight, heedless that he is
wounding and tearing his sleek sides—seeing, smelling,
touching of all things; even stopping to put his lips to the
noxious pool, thinking it may be sweet.
Hungering there is no food but such as he must seek
and ofttimes fight for; and his limbs are weighted before he
reaches the water that is good to his thirsting throat.
So does he live, seeking, finding, joying and suffering.
The door which accident had opened is open still, but the
cage remains forever empty!
OceanofPDF.com

 
At the ’Cadian Ball
Bobinôt, that big, brown, good-natured Bobinôt, had no
intention of going to the ball, even though he knew Calixta
would be there. For what came of those balls but
heartache, and a sickening disinclination for work the
whole week through, till Saturday night came again and his
tortures began afresh? Why could he not love Ozéina, who
would marry him tomorrow; or Fronie, or any one of a
dozen others, rather than that little Spanish vixen?
Calixta’s slender foot had never touched Cuban soil; but
her mother’s had, and the Spanish was in her blood all the
same. For that reason the prairie people forgave her much
that they would not have overlooked in their own daughters
or sisters.
Her eyes,—Bobinôt thought of her eyes, and weakened,
—the bluest, the drowsiest, most tantalizing that ever
looked into a man’s; he thought of her flaxen hair that
kinked worse than a mulatto’s close to her head; that
broad, smiling mouth and tiptilted nose, that full figure;
that voice like a rich contralto song, with cadences in it
that must have been taught by Satan, for there was no one
else to teach her tricks on that ’Cadian prairie. Bobinôt
thought of them all as he plowed his rows of cane.
There had even been a breath of scandal whispered
about her a year ago, when she went to Assumption,—but
why talk of it? No one did now. “C’est Espagnol, ça,” most
of them said with lenient shoulder-shrugs. “Bon chien tient
de race,” the old men mumbled over their pipes, stirred by
recollections. Nothing was made of it, except that Fronie
threw it up to Calixta when the two quarreled and fought

on the church steps after mass one Sunday, about a lover.
Calixta swore roundly in fine ’Cadian French and with true
Spanish spirit, and slapped Fronie’s face. Fronie had
slapped her back; “Tiens, cocotte, va!” “Espèce de lionèse;
prends ça, et ça!” till the curé himself was obliged to
hasten and make peace between them. Bobinôt thought of
it all, and would not go to the ball.
But in the afternoon, over at Friedheimer’s store,
where he was buying a trace-chain, he heard some one say
that Alcée Laballière would be there. Then wild horses
could not have kept him away. He knew how it would be—
or rather he did not know how it would be—if the
handsome young planter came over to the ball as he
sometimes did. If Alcée happened to be in a serious mood,
he might only go to the card-room and play a round or two;
or he might stand out on the galleries talking crops and
politics with the old people. But there was no telling. A
drink or two could put the devil in his head,—that was what
Bobinôt said to himself, as he wiped the sweat from his
brow with his red bandanna; a gleam from Calixta’s eyes, a
flash of her ankle, a twirl of her skirts could do the same.
Yes, Bobinôt would go to the ball.
 
That was the year Alcée Laballière put nine hundred
acres in rice. It was putting a good deal of money into the
ground, but the returns promised to be glorious. Old
Madame Laballière, sailing about the spacious galleries in
her white volante, figured it all out in her head. Clarisse,
her goddaughter, helped her a little, and together they built
more air-castles than enough. Alcée worked like a mule
that time; and if he did not kill himself, it was because his
constitution was an iron one. It was an everyday affair for
him to come in from the field well-nigh exhausted, and wet

to the waist. He did not mind if there were visitors; he left
them to his mother and Clarisse. There were often guests:
young men and women who came up from the city, which
was but a few hours away, to visit his beautiful kinswoman.
She was worth going a good deal farther than that to see.
Dainty as a lily; hardy as a sunflower; slim, tall, graceful,
like one of the reeds that grew in the marsh. Cold and kind
and cruel by turn, and everything that was aggravating to
Alcée.
He would have liked to sweep the place of those
visitors, often. Of the men, above all, with their ways and
their manners; their swaying of fans like women, and
dandling about hammocks. He could have pitched them
over the levee into the river, if it hadn’t meant murder. That
was Alcée. But he must have been crazy the day he came in
from the rice-field, and, toil-stained as he was, clasped
Clarisse by the arms and panted a volley of hot, blistering
love-words into her face. No man had ever spoken love to
her like that.
“Monsieur!” she exclaimed, looking him full in the eyes,
without a quiver. Alcée’s hands dropped and his glance
wavered before the chill of her calm, clear eyes.
“Par exemple!” she muttered disdainfully, as she turned
from him, deftly adjusting the careful toilet that he had so
brutally disarranged.
That happened a day or two before the cyclone came
that cut into the rice like fine steel. It was an awful thing,
coming so swiftly, without a moment’s warning in which to
light a holy candle or set a piece of blessed palm burning.
Old madame wept openly and said her beads, just as her
son Didier, the New Orleans one, would have done. If such
a thing had happened to Alphonse, the Laballière planting

cotton up in Natchitoches, he would have raved and
stormed like a second cyclone, and made his surroundings
unbearable for a day or two. But Alcée took the misfortune
differently. He looked ill and gray after it, and said nothing.
His speechlessness was frightful. Clarisse’s heart melted
with tenderness; but when she offered her soft, purring
words of condolence, he accepted them with mute
indifference. Then she and her nénaine wept afresh in each
other’s arms.
A night or two later, when Clarisse went to her window
to kneel there in the moonlight and say her prayers before
retiring, she saw that Bruce, Alcée’s negro servant, had led
his master’s saddle-horse noiselessly along the edge of the
sward that bordered the gravel-path, and stood holding him
near by. Presently, she heard Alcée quit his room, which
was beneath her own, and traverse the lower portico. As he
emerged from the shadow and crossed the strip of
moonlight, she perceived that he carried a pair of well-
filled saddle-bags which he at once flung across the
animal’s back. He then lost no time in mounting, and after
a brief exchange of words with Bruce, went cantering away,
taking no precaution to avoid the noisy gravel as the negro
had done.
Clarisse had never suspected that it might be Alcée’s
custom to sally forth from the plantation secretly, and at
such an hour; for it was nearly midnight. And had it not
been for the telltale saddle-bags, she would only have crept
to bed, to wonder, to fret and dream unpleasant dreams.
But her impatience and anxiety would not be held in check.
Hastily unbolting the shutters of her door that opened upon
the gallery, she stepped outside and called softly to the old
negro.

“Gre’t Peter! Miss Clarisse. I was n’ sho it was a ghos’
o’ w’at, stan’in’ up dah, plumb in de night, dataway.”
He mounted halfway up the long, broad flight of stairs.
She was standing at the top.
“Bruce, w’ere has Monsieur Alcée gone?” she asked.
“W’y, he gone ’bout he business I reckin,” replied
Bruce, striving to be non-committal at the outset.
“W’ere has Monsieur Alcée gone?” she reiterated,
stamping her bare foot. “I won’t stan’ any nonsense or any
lies; mine, Bruce.”
“I don’ ric’lic ez I eva tole you lie yit, Miss Clarisse.
Mista Alcée, he all broke up, sho.”
“W’ere—has—he gone? Ah, Sainte Vierge! faut de la
patience! butor, va!”
“W’en I was in he room, a-breshin’ off he clo’es to-day,”
the darkey began, settling himself against the stair-rail, “he
look dat speechless an’ down, I say, ‘You ’pear to me like
some pussun w’at gwine have a spell o’ sickness, Mista
Alcée.’ He say, ‘You reckin?’ I dat he git up, go look hisse’f
stiddy in de glass. Den he go to de chimbly an’ jerk up de
quinine bottle an’ po’ a gre’t hoss-dose on to he han’. An’
he swalla dat mess in a wink, an’ wash hit down wid a big
dram o’ w’iskey w’at he keep in he room, aginst he come all
soppin’ wet outen de fiel’.
“He ’lows, ‘No, I ain’ gwine be sick, Bruce.’ Den he
square off. He say, ‘I kin mak out to stan’ up an’ gi’ an’ take
wid any man I knows, lessen hit’s John L. Sulvun. But w’en
God A’mighty an’ a ’oman jines fo’ces agin me, dat ’s one
too many fur me.’ I tell ’im, ‘Jis so,’ whils’ I’se makin’ out to

bresh a spot off w’at ain’ dah, on he coat colla. I tell ’im,
‘You wants li’le res’, suh.’ He say, ‘No, I wants li’le fling; dat
w’at I wants; an’ I gwine git it. Pitch me a fis’ful o’ clo’es in
dem ’ar saddle-bags.’ Dat w’at he say. Don’t you bodda,
missy. He jis’ gone a-caperin’ yonda to de Cajun ball. Uh—
uh—de skeeters is fair’ a-swarmin’ like bees roun’ yo’
foots!”
The mosquitoes were indeed attacking Clarisse’s white
feet savagely. She had unconsciously been alternately
rubbing one foot over the other during the darkey’s recital.
“The ’Cadian ball,” she repeated contemptuously.
“Humph! Par exemple! Nice conduc’ for a Laballière. An’
he needs a saddlebag, fill’ with clothes, to go to the ’Cadian
ball!”
“Oh, Miss Clarisse; you go on to bed, chile; git yo’ soun’
sleep. He ’low he come back in couple weeks o’ so. I kiarn
be repeatin’ lot o’ truck w’at young mans say, out heah face
o’ young gal.”
Clarisse said no more, but turned and abruptly
reentered the house.
“You done talk too much wid yo’ mouf a’ready, you ole
fool nigga, you,” muttered Bruce to himself as he walked
away.
Alcée reached the ball very late, of course—too late for
the chicken gumbo which had been served at midnight.
The big, low-ceiled room—they called it a hall—was
packed with men and women dancing to the music of three
fiddles. There were broad galleries all around it. There was
a room at one side where sober-faced men were playing
cards. Another, in which babies were sleeping, was called

le parc aux petits. Any one who is white may go to a
’Cadian ball, but he must pay for his lemonade, his coffee
and chicken gumbo. And he must behave himself like a
’Cadian. Grosbœuf was giving this ball. He had been giving
them since he was a young man, and he was a middle-aged
one, now. In that time he could recall but one disturbance,
and that was caused by American railroaders, who were
not in touch with their surroundings and had no business
there. “Ces maudits gens du raiderode,” Grosbœuf called
them.
Alcée Laballière’s presence at the ball caused a flutter
even among the men, who could not but admire his “nerve”
after such misfortune befalling him. To be sure, they knew
the Laballières were rich—that there were resources East,
and more again in the city. But they felt it took a brave
homme to stand a blow like that philosophically. One old
gentleman, who was in the habit of reading a Paris
newspaper and knew things, chuckled gleefully to
everybody that Alcée’s conduct was altogether chic, mais
chic. That he had more panache than Boulanger. Well,
perhaps he had.
But what he did not show outwardly was that he was in
a mood for ugly things to-night. Poor Bobinôt alone felt it
vaguely. He discerned a gleam of it in Alcée’s handsome
eyes, as the young planter stood in the doorway, looking
with rather feverish glance upon the assembly, while he
laughed and talked with a ’Cadian farmer who was beside
him.
Bobinôt himself was dull-looking and clumsy. Most of
the men were. But the young women were very beautiful.
The eyes that glanced into Alcée’s as they passed him were
big, dark, soft as those of the young heifers standing out in
the cool prairie grass.

But the belle was Calixta. Her white dress was not
nearly so handsome or well made as Fronie’s (she and
Fronie had quite forgotten the battle on the church steps,
and were friends again), nor were her slippers so stylish as
those of Ozéina; and she fanned herself with a
handkerchief, since she had broken her red fan at the last
ball, and her aunts and uncles were not willing to give her
another. But all the men agreed she was at her best to-
night. Such animation! and abandon! such flashes of wit!
“Hé, Bobinôt! Mais w’at ’s the matta? W’at you standin’
planté là like ole Ma’ame Tina’s cow in the bog, you?”
That was good. That was an excellent thrust at Bobinôt,
who had forgotten the figure of the dance with his mind
bent on other things, and it started a clamor of laughter at
his expense. He joined good-naturedly. It was better to
receive even such notice as that from Calixta than none at
all. But Madame Suzonne, sitting in a corner, whispered to
her neighbor that if Ozéina were to conduct herself in a like
manner, she should immediately be taken out to the mule-
cart and driven home. The women did not always approve
of Calixta.
Now and then were short lulls in the dance, when
couples flocked out upon the galleries for a brief respite
and fresh air. The moon had gone down pale in the west,
and in the east was yet no promise of day. After such an
interval, when the dancers again assembled to resume the
interrupted quadrille, Calixta was not among them.
She was sitting upon a bench out in the shadow, with
Alcée beside her. They were acting like fools. He had
attempted to take a little gold ring from her finger; just for
the fun of it, for there was nothing he could have done with
the ring but replace it again. But she clinched her hand

tight. He pretended that it was a very difficult matter to
open it. Then he kept the hand in his. They seemed to
forget about it. He played with her earring, a thin crescent
of gold hanging from her small brown ear. He caught a
wisp of the kinky hair that had escaped its fastening, and
rubbed the ends of it against his shaven cheek.
“You know, last year in Assumption, Calixta?” They
belonged to the younger generation, so preferred to speak
English.
“Don’t come say Assumption to me, M’sieur Alcée. I
done yeard Assumption till I ’m plumb sick.”
“Yes, I know. The idiots! Because you were in
Assumption, and I happened to go to Assumption, they
must have it that we went together. But it was nice—hein,
Calixta?—in Assumption?”
They saw Bobinôt emerge from the hall and stand a
moment outside the lighted doorway, peering uneasily and
searchingly into the darkness. He did not see them, and
went slowly back.
“There is Bobinôt looking for you. You are going to set
poor Bobinôt crazy. You ’ll marry him some day; hein,
Calixta?”
“I don’t say no, me,” she replied, striving to withdraw
her hand, which he held more firmly for the attempt.
“But come, Calixta; you know you said you would go
back to Assumption, just to spite them.”
“No, I neva said that, me. You mus’ dreamt that.”

“Oh, I thought you did. You know I ’m going down to
the city.”
“W’en?”
“To-night.”
“Betta make has’e, then; it ’s mos’ day.”
“Well, to-morrow ’ll do.”
OceanofPDF.com

“W’at you goin’ do, yonda?”
“I don’t know. Drown myself in the lake, maybe; unless
you go down there to visit your uncle.”
Calixta’s senses were reeling; and they well-nigh left
her when she felt Alcée’s lips brush her ear like the touch
of a rose.
“Mista Alcée! Is dat Mista Alcée?” the thick voice of a
negro was asking; he stood on the ground, holding to the
banister-rails near which the couple sat.
“W’at do you want now?” cried Alcée impatiently.
“Can’t I have a moment of peace?”
“I ben huntin’ you high an’ low, suh,” answered the
man. “Dey—dey some one in de road, onda de mulbare-
tree, want see you a minute.”
“I would n’t go out to the road to see the Angel Gabriel.
And if you come back here with any more talk, I’ll have to
break your neck.” The negro turned mumbling away.
Alcée and Calixta laughed softly about it. Her
boisterousness was all gone. They talked low, and laughed
softly, as lovers do.
“Alcée! Alcée Laballière!”
It was not the negro’s voice this time; but one that went
through Alcée’s body like an electric shock, bringing him to
his feet.
Clarisse was standing there in her riding-habit, where
the negro had stood. For an instant confusion reigned in

Alcée’s thoughts, as with one who awakes suddenly from a
dream. But he felt that something of serious import had
brought his cousin to the ball in the dead of night.
“W’at does this mean, Clarisse?” he asked.
“It means something has happen’ at home. You mus’
come.”
“Happened to maman?” he questioned, in alarm.
“No; nénaine is well, and asleep. It is something else.
Not to frighten you. But you mus’ come. Come with me,
Alcée.”
There was no need for the imploring note. He would
have followed the voice anywhere.
She had now recognized the girl sitting back on the
bench.
“Ah, c’est vous, Calixta? Comment ça va, mon enfant?”
“Tcha va b’en; et vous, mam’zélle?”
Alcée swung himself over the low rail and started to
follow Clarisse, without a word, without a glance back at
the girl. He had forgotten he was leaving her there. But
Clarisse whispered something to him, and he turned back
to say “Good-night, Calixta,” and offer his hand to press
through the railing. She pretended not to see it.
 
“How come that? You settin’ yere by yo’se’f, Calixta?” It
was Bobinôt who had found her there alone. The dancers

had not yet come out. She looked ghastly in the faint, gray
light struggling out of the east.
“Yes, that’s me. Go yonda in the parc aux petits an’ ask
Aunt Olisse fu’ my hat. She knows w’ere ’t is. I want to go
home, me.”
“How you came?”
“I come afoot, with the Cateaus. But I’m goin’ now. I
ent goin’ wait fu’ ’em. I ’m plumb wo’ out, me.”
“Kin I go with you, Calixta?”
“I don’ care.”
They went together across the open prairie and along
the edge of the fields, stumbling in the uncertain light. He
told her to lift her dress that was getting wet and
bedraggled; for she was pulling at the weeds and grasses
with her hands.
“I don’ care; it’s got to go in the tub, anyway. You been
sayin’ all along you want to marry me, Bobinôt. Well, if you
want, yet, I don’ care, me.”
The glow of a sudden and overwhelming happiness
shone out in the brown, rugged face of the young Acadian.
He could not speak, for very joy. It choked him.
“Oh well, if you don’ want,” snapped Calixta, flippantly,
pretending to be piqued at his silence.
“Bon Dieu! You know that makes me crazy, w’at you
sayin’. You mean that, Calixta? You ent goin’ turn roun’
agin?”

“I neva tole you that much yet, Bobinôt. I mean that.
Tiens,” and she held out her hand in the business-like
manner of a man who clinches a bargain with a hand-clasp.
Bobinôt grew bold with happiness and asked Calixta to kiss
him. She turned her face, that was almost ugly after the
night’s dissipation, and looked steadily into his.
“I don’ want to kiss you, Bobinôt,” she said, turning
away again, “not to-day. Some other time. Bonté divine! ent
you satisfy, yet!”
“Oh, I ’m satisfy, Calixta,” he said.
 
Riding through a patch of wood, Clarisse’s saddle
became ungirted, and she and Alcée dismounted to
readjust it.
For the twentieth time he asked her what had
happened at home.
“But, Clarisse, w’at is it? Is it a misfortune?”
“Ah Dieu sait! It ’s only something that happen’ to me.”
“To you!”
“I saw you go away las’ night, Alcée, with those saddle-
bags,” she said, haltingly, striving to arrange something
about the saddle, “an’ I made Bruce tell me. He said you
had gone to the ball, an’ wouldn’ be home for weeks an’
weeks. I thought, Alcée—maybe you were going to—to
Assumption. I got wild. An’ then I knew if you did n’t come
back, now, tonight, I could n’t stan’ it,—again.”

She had her face hidden in her arm that she was
resting against the saddle when she said that.
He began to wonder if this meant love. But she had to
tell him so, before he believed it. And when she told him, he
thought the face of the Universe was changed—just like
Bobinôt. Was it last week the cyclone had well-nigh ruined
him? The cyclone seemed a huge joke, now. It was he, then,
who, an hour ago was kissing little Calixta’s ear and
whispering nonsense into it. Calixta was like a myth, now.
The one, only, great reality in the world was Clarisse
standing before him, telling him that she loved him.
In the distance they heard the rapid discharge of pistol-
shots; but it did not disturb them. They knew it was only
the negro musicians who had gone into the yard to fire
their pistols into the air, as the custom is, and to announce
“le bal est fini.”
OceanofPDF.com

 
Désirée’s Baby
As the day was pleasant, Madame Valmondé drove over to
L’Abri to see Désirée and the baby.
It made her laugh to think of Désirée with a baby. Why,
it seemed but yesterday that Désirée was little more than a
baby herself; when Monsieur in riding through the gateway
of Valmondé had found her lying asleep in the shadow of
the big stone pillar.
The little one awoke in his arms and began to cry for
“Dada.” That was as much as she could do or say. Some
people thought she might have strayed there of her own
accord, for she was of the toddling age. The prevailing
belief was that she had been purposely left by a party of
Texans, whose canvas-covered wagon, late in the day, had
crossed the ferry that Coton Maïs kept, just below the
plantation. In time Madame Valmondé abandoned every
speculation but the one that Désirée had been sent to her
by a beneficent Providence to be the child of her affection,
seeing that she was without child of the flesh. For the girl
grew to be beautiful and gentle, affectionate and sincere,—
the idol of Valmondé.
It was no wonder, when she stood one day against the
stone pillar in whose shadow she had lain asleep, eighteen
years before, that Armand Aubigny riding by and seeing
her there, had fallen in love with her. That was the way all
the Aubignys fell in love, as if struck by a pistol shot. The
wonder was that he had not loved her before; for he had
known her since his father brought him home from Paris, a
boy of eight, after his mother died there. The passion that

awoke in him that day, when he saw her at the gate, swept
along like an avalanche, or like a prairie fire, or like
anything that drives headlong over all obstacles.
Monsieur Valmondé grew practical and wanted things
well considered: that is, the girl’s obscure origin. Armand
looked into her eyes and did not care. He was reminded
that she was nameless. What did it matter about a name
when he could give her one of the oldest and proudest in
Louisiana? He ordered the corbeille from Paris, and
contained himself with what patience he could until it
arrived; then they were married.
Madame Valmondé had not seen Désirée and the baby
for four weeks. When she reached L’Abri she shuddered at
the first sight of it, as she always did. It was a sad looking
place, which for many years had not known the gentle
presence of a mistress, old Monsieur Aubigny having
married and buried his wife in France, and she having
loved her own land too well ever to leave it. The roof came
down steep and black like a cowl, reaching out beyond the
wide galleries that encircled the yellow stuccoed house.
Big, solemn oaks grew close to it, and their thick-leaved,
far-reaching branches shadowed it like a pall. Young
Aubigny’s rule was a strict one, too, and under it his
negroes had forgotten how to be gay, as they had been
during the old master’s easy-going and indulgent lifetime.
The young mother was recovering slowly, and lay full
length, in her soft white muslins and laces, upon a couch.
The baby was beside her, upon her arm, where he had
fallen asleep, at her breast. The yellow nurse woman sat
beside a window fanning herself.
Madame Valmondé bent her portly figure over Désirée
and kissed her, holding her an instant tenderly in her arms.

Then she turned to the child.
“This is not the baby!” she exclaimed, in startled tones.
French was the language spoken at Valmondé in those
days.
“I knew you would be astonished,” laughed Désirée, “at
the way he has grown. The little cochon de lait! Look at his
legs, mamma, and his hands and fingernails,—real finger-
nails. Zandrine had to cut them this morning. Is n’t it true,
Zandrine?”
The woman bowed her turbaned head majestically,
“Mais si, Madame.”
“And the way he cries,” went on Désirée, “is deafening.
Armand heard him the other day as far away as La
Blanche’s cabin.”
Madame Valmondé had never removed her eyes from
the child. She lifted it and walked with it over to the
window that was lightest. She scanned the baby narrowly,
then looked as searchingly at Zandrine, whose face was
turned to gaze across the fields.
“Yes, the child has grown, has changed,” said Madame
Valmondé, slowly, as she replaced it beside its mother.
“What does Armand say?”
Désirée’s face became suffused with a glow that was
happiness itself.
“Oh, Armand is the proudest father in the parish, I
believe, chiefly because it is a boy, to bear his name;
though he says not,—that he would have loved a girl as
well. But I know it is n’t true. I know he says that to please
me. And mamma,” she added, drawing Madame Valmondé’s

head down to her and speaking in a whisper, “he has n’t
punished one of them—not one of them—since baby is born.
Even Négrillon, who pretended to have burnt his leg that
he might rest from work—he only laughed, and said
Négrillon was a great scamp. Oh, mamma, I ’m so happy; it
frightens me.”
What Désirée said was true. Marriage, and later the
birth of his son had softened Armand Aubigny’s imperious
and exacting nature greatly. This was what made the gentle
Désirée so happy, for she loved him desperately. When he
frowned she trembled, but loved him. When he smiled, she
asked no greater blessing of God. But Armand’s dark,
handsome face had not often been disfigured by frowns
since the day he fell in love with her.
When the baby was about three months old, Désirée
awoke one day to the conviction that there was something
in the air menacing her peace. It was at first too subtle to
grasp. It had only been a disquieting suggestion; an air of
mystery among the blacks; unexpected visits from far-off
neighbors who could hardly account for their coming. Then
a strange, an awful change in her husband’s manner, which
she dared not ask him to explain. When he spoke to her, it
was with averted eyes, from which the old love-light
seemed to have gone out. He absented himself from home;
and when there, avoided her presence and that of her child,
without excuse. And the very spirit of Satan seemed
suddenly to take hold of him in his dealings with the slaves.
Désirée was miserable enough to die.
She sat in her room, one hot afternoon, in her peignoir,
listlessly drawing through her fingers the strands of her
long, silky brown hair that hung about her shoulders. The
baby, half naked, lay asleep upon her own great mahogany
bed, that was like a sumptuous throne, with its satin-lined

half-canopy. One of La Blanche’s little quadroon boys—half
naked too—stood fanning the child slowly with a fan of
peacock feathers. Désirée’s eyes had been fixed absently
and sadly upon the baby, while she was striving to
penetrate the threatening mist that she felt closing about
her. She looked from her child to the boy who stood beside
him, and back again; over and over. “Ah!” It was a cry that
she could not help; which she was not conscious of having
uttered. The blood turned like ice in her veins, and a
clammy moisture gathered upon her face.
She tried to speak to the little quadroon boy; but no
sound would come, at first. When he heard his name
uttered, he looked up, and his mistress was pointing to the
door. He laid aside the great, soft fan, and obediently stole
away, over the polished floor, on his bare tiptoes.
She stayed motionless, with gaze riveted upon her
child, and her face the picture of fright.
Presently her husband entered the room, and without
noticing her, went to a table and began to search among
some papers which covered it.
“Armand,” she called to him, in a voice which must
have stabbed him, if he was human. But he did not notice.
“Armand,” she said again. Then she rose and tottered
towards him. “Armand,” she panted once more, clutching
his arm, “look at our child. What does it mean? tell me.”
He coldly but gently loosened her fingers from about
his arm and thrust the hand away from him. “Tell me what
it means!” she cried despairingly.
“It means,” he answered lightly, “that the child is not
white; it means that you are not white.”

A quick conception of all that this accusation meant for
her nerved her with unwonted courage to deny it. “It is a
lie; it is not true, I am white! Look at my hair, it is brown;
and my eyes are gray, Armand, you know they are gray. And
my skin is fair,” seizing his wrist. “Look at my hand; whiter
than yours, Armand,” she laughed hysterically.
“As white as La Blanche’s,” he returned cruelly; and
went away leaving her alone with their child.
When she could hold a pen in her hand, she sent a
despairing letter to Madame Valmondé.
“My mother, they tell me I am not white. Armand has
told me I am not white. For God’s sake tell them it is not
true. You must know it is not true. I shall die. I must die. I
cannot be so unhappy, and live.”
The answer that came was as brief:
“My own Désirée: Come home to Valmondé; back to
your mother who loves you. Come with your child.”
When the letter reached Désirée she went with it to her
husband’s study, and laid it open upon the desk before
which he sat. She was like a stone image: silent, white,
motionless after she placed it there.
In silence he ran his cold eyes over the written words.
He said nothing. “Shall I go, Armand?” she asked in tones
sharp with agonized suspense.
“Yes, go.”
“Do you want me to go?”
“Yes, I want you to go.”

He thought Almighty God had dealt cruelly and unjustly
with him; and felt, somehow, that he was paying Him back
in kind when he stabbed thus into his wife’s soul. Moreover
he no longer loved her, because of the unconscious injury
she had brought upon his home and his name.
She turned away like one stunned by a blow, and
walked slowly towards the door, hoping he would call her
back.
“Good-by, Armand,” she moaned.
He did not answer her. That was his last blow at fate.
Désirée went in search of her child. Zandrine was
pacing the sombre gallery with it. She took the little one
from the nurse’s arms with no word of explanation, and
descending the steps, walked away, under the live-oak
branches.
It was an October afternoon; the sun was just sinking.
Out in the still fields the negroes were picking cotton.
Désirée had not changed the thin white garment nor
the slippers which she wore. Her hair was uncovered and
the sun’s rays brought a golden gleam from its brown
meshes. She did not take the broad, beaten road which led
to the far-off plantation of Valmondé. She walked across a
deserted field, where the stubble bruised her tender feet,
so delicately shod, and tore her thin gown to shreds.
She disappeared among the reeds and willows that
grew thick along the banks of the deep, sluggish bayou;
and she did not come back again.
 

Some weeks later there was a curious scene enacted at
L’Abri. In the centre of the smoothly swept back yard was a
great bonfire. Armand Aubigny sat in the wide hallway that
commanded a view of the spectacle; and it was he who
dealt out to a half dozen negroes the material which kept
this fire ablaze.
A graceful cradle of willow, with all its dainty
furbishings, was laid upon the pyre, which had already
been fed with the richness of a priceless layette. Then there
were silk gowns, and velvet and satin ones added to these;
laces, too, and embroideries; bonnets and gloves; for the
corbeille had been of rare quality.
The last thing to go was a tiny bundle of letters;
innocent little scribblings that Désirée had sent to him
during the days of their espousal. There was the remnant of
one back in the drawer from which he took them. But it
was not Désirée’s; it was part of an old letter from his
mother to his father. He read it. She was thanking God for
the blessing of her husband’s love:—
“But, above all,” she wrote, “night and day, I thank the
good God for having so arranged our lives that our dear
Armand will never know that his mother, who adores him,
belongs to the race that is cursed with the brand of
slavery.”
OceanofPDF.com

 
La Belle Zoraïde
The summer night was hot and still; not a ripple of air
swept over the marais. Yonder, across Bayou St. John, lights
twinkled here and there in the darkness, and in the dark
sky above a few stars were blinking. A lugger that had
come out of the lake was moving with slow, lazy motion
down the bayou. A man in the boat was singing a song.
The notes of the song came faintly to the ears of old
Manna-Loulou, herself as black as the night, who had gone
out upon the gallery to open the shutters wide.
Something in the refrain reminded the woman of an
old, half-forgotten Creole romance, and she began to sing it
low to herself while she threw the shutters open:—
“Lisett’ to kité la plaine,
  Mo perdi bonhair à moué;
  Ziés à moué semblé fontaine,
  Dépi mo pa miré toué.”
And then this old song, a lover’s lament for the loss of
his mistress, floating into her memory, brought with it the
story she would tell to Madame, who lay in her sumptuous
mahogany bed, waiting to be fanned and put to sleep to the
sound of one of Manna-Loulou’s stories. The old negress
had already bathed her mistress’s pretty white feet and
kissed them lovingly, one, then the other. She had brushed
her mistress’s beautiful hair, that was as soft and shining as

satin, and was the color of Madame’s wedding-ring. Now,
when she reëntered the room, she moved softly toward the
bed, and seating herself there began gently to fan Madame
Delisle.
Manna-Loulou was not always ready with her story, for
Madame would hear none but those which were true. But
to-night the story was all there in Manna-Loulou’s head—
the story of la belle Zoraïde—and she told it to her mistress
in the soft Creole patois, whose music and charm no
English words can convey.
“La belle Zoraïde had eyes that were so dusky, so
beautiful, that any man who gazed too long into their
depths was sure to lose his head, and even his heart
sometimes. Her soft, smooth skin was the color of café-au-
lait. As for her elegant manners, her svelte and graceful
figure, they were the envy of half the ladies who visited her
mistress, Madame Delarivière.
“No wonder Zoraïde was as charming and as dainty as
the finest lady of la rue Royale: from a toddling thing she
had been brought up at her mistress’s side; her fingers had
never done rougher work than sewing a fine muslin seam;
and she even had her own little black servant to wait upon
her. Madame, who was her godmother as well as her
mistress, would often say to her:—
“ ‘Remember, Zoraïde, when you are ready to marry, it
must be in a way to do honor to your bringing up. It will be
at the Cathedral. Your wedding gown, your corbeille, all
will be of the best; I shall see to that myself. You know,
M’sieur Ambroise is ready whenever you say the word; and
his master is willing to do as much for him as I shall do for
you. It is a union that will please me in every way.’

“M’sieur Ambroise was then the body servant of Doctor
Langlé. La belle Zoraïde detested the little mulatto, with
his shining whiskers like a white man’s, and his small eyes,
that were cruel and false as a snake’s. She would cast down
her own mischievous eyes, and say:—
“ ‘Ah, nénaine, I am so happy, so contented here at your
side just as I am. I don’t want to marry now; next year,
perhaps, or the next.’ And Madame would smile indulgently
and remind Zoraïde that a woman’s charms are not
everlasting.
“But the truth of the matter was, Zoraïde had seen le
beau Mézor dance the Bamboula in Congo Square. That
was a sight to hold one rooted to the ground. Mézor was as
straight as a cypress-tree and as proud looking as a king.
His body, bare to the waist, was like a column of ebony and
it glistened like oil.
“Poor Zoraïde’s heart grew sick in her bosom with love
for le beau Mézor from the moment she saw the fierce
gleam of his eye, lighted by the inspiring strains of the
Bamboula, and beheld the stately movements of his
splendid body swaying and quivering through the figures of
the dance.
“But when she knew him later, and he came near her to
speak with her, all the fierceness was gone out of his eyes,
and she saw only kindness in them and heard only
gentleness in his voice; for love had taken possession of
him also, and Zoraïde was more distracted than ever. When
Mézor was not dancing Bamboula in Congo Square, he was
hoeing sugar-cane, barefooted and half naked, in his
master’s field outside of the city. Doctor Langlé was his
master as well as M’sieur Ambroise’s.

“One day, when Zoraïde kneeled before her mistress,
drawing on Madame’s silken stockings, that were of the
finest, she said:
“ ‘Nénaine, you have spoken to me often of marrying.
Now, at last, I have chosen a husband, but it is not M’sieur
Ambroise; it is le beau Mézor that I want and no other.’ And
Zoraïde hid her face in her hands when she had said that,
for she guessed, rightly enough, that her mistress would be
very angry. And, indeed, Madame Delarivière was at first
speechless with rage. When she finally spoke it was only to
gasp out, exasperated:—
“ ‘That negro! that negro! Bon Dieu Seigneur, but this
is too much!’
“ ‘Am I white, nénaine?’ pleaded Zoraïde.
“ ‘You white! Malheureuse! You deserve to have the
lash laid upon you like any other slave; you have proven
yourself no better than the worst.’
“ ‘I am not white,’ persisted Zoraïde, respectfully and
gently. ‘Doctor Langlé gives me his slave to marry, but he
would not give me his son. Then, since I am not white, let
me have from out of my own race the one whom my heart
has chosen.’
“However, you may well believe that Madame would
not hear to that. Zoraïde was forbidden to speak to Mézor,
and Mézor was cautioned against seeing Zoraïde again. But
you know how the negroes are, Ma’zélle Titite,” added
Manna-Loulou, smiling a little sadly. “There is no mistress,
no master, no king nor priest who can hinder them from
loving when they will. And these two found ways and
means.

“When months had passed by, Zoraïde, who had grown
unlike herself,—sober and preoccupied,—said again to her
mistress:—
“ ‘Nénaine, you would not let me have Mézor for my
husband; but I have disobeyed you, I have sinned. Kill me if
you wish, nénaine: forgive me if you will; but when I heard
le beau Mézor say to me, “Zoraïde, mo l’aime toi,” I could
have died, but I could not have helped loving him.’
“This time Madame Delarivière was so actually pained,
so wounded at hearing Zoraïde’s confession, that there was
no place left in her heart for anger. She could utter only
confused reproaches. But she was a woman of action rather
than of words, and she acted promptly. Her first step was to
induce Doctor Langlé to sell Mézor. Doctor Langlé, who
was a widower, had long wanted to marry Madame
Delarivière, and he would willingly have walked on all fours
at noon through the Place d’Armes if she wanted him to.
Naturally he lost no time in disposing of le beau Mézor,
who was sold away into Georgia, or the Carolinas, or one of
those distant countries far away, where he would no longer
hear his Creole tongue spoken, nor dance Calinda, nor hold
la belle Zoraïde in his arms.
“The poor thing was heartbroken when Mézor was sent
away from her, but she took comfort and hope in the
thought of her baby that she would soon be able to clasp to
her breast.
“La belle Zoraïde’s sorrows had now begun in earnest.
Not only sorrows but sufferings, and with the anguish of
maternity came the shadow of death. But there is no agony
that a mother will not forget when she holds her first-born
to her heart, and presses her lips upon the baby flesh that
is her own, yet far more precious than her own.

“So, instinctively, when Zoraïde came out of the awful
shadow she gazed questioningly about her and felt with her
trembling hands upon either side of her. ‘Où li, mo piti a
moin?’ (‘Where is my little one?’) she asked imploringly.
Madame who was there and the nurse who was there both
told her in turn, ‘To piti à toi, li mouri’ (‘Your little one is
dead’), which was a wicked falsehood that must have
caused the angels in heaven to weep. For the baby was
living and well and strong. It had at once been removed
from its mother’s side, to be sent away to Madame’s
plantation, far up the coast. Zoraïde could only moan in
reply, ‘Li mouri, li mouri,’ and she turned her face to the
wall.
“Madame had hoped, in thus depriving Zoraïde of her
child, to have her young waiting-maid again at her side
free, happy, and beautiful as of old. But there was a more
powerful will than Madame’s at work—the will of the good
God, who had already designed that Zoraïde should grieve
with a sorrow that was never more to be lifted in this
world. La belle Zoraïde was no more. In her stead was a
sad-eyed woman who mourned night and day for her baby.
‘Li mouri, li mouri,’ she would sigh over and over again to
those about her, and to herself when others grew weary of
her complaint.
“Yet, in spite of all, M’sieur Ambroise was still in the
notion to marry her. A sad wife or a merry one was all the
same to him so long as that wife was Zoraïde. And she
seemed to consent, or rather submit, to the approaching
marriage as though nothing mattered any longer in this
world.
“One day, a black servant entered a little noisily the
room in which Zoraïde sat sewing. With a look of strange
and vacuous happiness upon her face, Zoraïde arose

hastily. ‘Hush, hush,’ she whispered, lifting a warning
finger, ‘my little one is asleep; you must not awaken her.’
“Upon the bed was a senseless bundle of rags shaped
like an infant in swaddling clothes. Over this dummy the
woman had drawn the mosquito bar, and she was sitting
contentedly beside it. In short, from that day Zoraïde was
demented. Night nor day did she lose sight of the doll that
lay in her bed or in her arms.
“And now was Madame stung with sorrow and remorse
at seeing this terrible affliction that had befallen her dear
Zoraïde. Consulting with Doctor Langlé, they decided to
bring back to the mother the real baby of flesh and blood
that was now toddling about, and kicking its heels in the
dust yonder upon the plantation.
“It was Madame herself who led the pretty, tiny little
“griffe” girl to her mother. Zoraïde was sitting upon a stone
bench in the courtyard, listening to the soft splashing of the
fountain, and watching the fitful shadows of the palm
leaves upon the broad, white flagging.
“ ‘Here,’ said Madame, approaching, ‘here, my poor
dear Zoraïde, is your own little child. Keep her; she is
yours. No one will ever take her from you again.’
“Zoraïde looked with sullen suspicion upon her
mistress and the child before her. Reaching out a hand she
thrust the little one mistrustfully away from her. With the
other hand she clasped the rag bundle fiercely to her
breast; for she suspected a plot to deprive her of it.
“Nor could she ever be induced to let her own child
approach her; and finally the little one was sent back to the
plantation, where she was never to know the love of mother
or father.

“And now this is the end of Zoraïde’s story. She was
never known again as la belle Zoraïde, but ever after as
Zoraïde la folle, whom no one ever wanted to marry—not
even M’sieur Ambroise. She lived to be an old woman,
whom some people pitied and others laughed at—always
clasping her bundle of rags—her ‘piti.’
“Are you asleep, Ma’zélle Titite?”
“No, I am not asleep; I was thinking. Ah, the poor little
one, Man Loulou, the poor little one! better had she died!”
But this is the way Madame Delise and Manna-Loulou
really talked to each other:—
“Vou pré droumi, Ma’zélle Titite?”
“Non, pa pré droumi; mo yapré zongler. Ah, la pauv’
piti, Man Loulou. La pauv’ piti! Mieux li mouri!”
OceanofPDF.com

 
At Chênière Caminada
 
I
There was no clumsier looking fellow in church that
Sunday morning than Antoine Bocaze—the one they called
Tonie. But Tonie did not really care if he were clumsy or
not. He felt that he could speak intelligibly to no woman
save his mother; but since he had no desire to inflame the
hearts of any of the island maidens, what difference did it
make?
He knew there was no better fisherman on the
Chênière Caminada than himself, if his face was too long
and bronzed, his limbs too unmanageable and his eyes too
earnest—almost too honest.
It was a midsummer day, with a lazy, scorching breeze
blowing from the Gulf straight into the church windows.
The ribbons on the young girls’ hats fluttered like the wings
of birds, and the old women clutched the flapping ends of
the veils that covered their heads.
A few mosquitoes, floating through the blistering air,
with their nipping and humming fretted the people to a
certain degree of attention and consequent devotion. The
measured tones of the priest at the altar rose and fell like a
song: “Credo in unum Deum patrem omnipotentem” he
chanted. And then the people all looked at one another,
suddenly electrified.

Some one was playing upon the organ whose notes no
one on the whole island was able to awaken; whose tones
had not been heard during the many months since a
passing stranger had one day listlessly dragged his fingers
across its idle keys. A long, sweet strain of music floated
down from the loft and filled the church.
It seemed to most of them—it seemed to Tonie standing
there beside his old mother—that some heavenly being
must have descended upon the Church of Our Lady of
Lourdes and chosen this celestial way of communicating
with its people.
But it was no creature from a different sphere; it was
only a young lady from Grand Isle. A rather pretty young
person with blue eyes and nut-brown hair, who wore a
dotted lawn of fine texture and fashionable make, and a
white Leghorn sailor-hat.
Tonie saw her standing outside of the church after
mass, receiving the priest’s voluble praises and thanks for
her graceful service.
She had come over to mass from Grand Isle in Baptiste
Beaudelet’s lugger, with a couple of young men, and two
ladies who kept a pension over there. Tonie knew these two
ladies—the widow Lebrun and her old mother—but he did
not attempt to speak with them; he would not have known
what to say. He stood aside gazing at the group, as others
were doing, his serious eyes fixed earnestly upon the fair
organist.
Tonie was late at dinner that day. His mother must have
waited an hour for him, sitting patiently with her coarse
hands folded in her lap, in that little still room with its

“brick-painted” floor, its gaping chimney and homely
furnishings.
He told her that he had been walking—walking he
hardly knew where, and he did not know why. He must
have tramped from one end of the island to the other; but
he brought her no bit of news or gossip. He did not know if
the Cotures had stopped for dinner with the Avendettes;
whether old Pierre François was worse, or better, or dead,
or if lame Philibert was drinking again this morning. He
knew nothing; yet he had crossed the village, and passed
every one of its small houses that stood close together in a
long jagged line facing the sea; they were gray and
battered by time and the rude buffets of the salt sea winds.
He knew nothing though the Cotures had all bade him
“good day” as they filed into Avendette’s, where a steaming
plate of crab gumbo was waiting for each. He had heard
some woman screaming, and others saying it was because
old Pierre François had just passed away. But he did not
remember this, nor did he recall the fact that lame Philibert
had staggered against him when he stood absently
watching a “fiddler” sidling across the sunbaked sand. He
could tell his mother nothing of all this; but he said he had
noticed that the wind was fair and must have driven
Baptiste’s boat, like a flying bird, across the water.
Well, that was something to talk about, and old Ma’me
Antoine, who was fat, leaned comfortably upon the table
after she had helped Tonie to his courtbouillon, and
remarked that she found Madame was getting old. Tonie
thought that perhaps she was aging and her hair was
getting whiter. He seemed glad to talk about her, and
reminded his mother of old Madame’s kindness and
sympathy at the time his father and brothers had perished.

It was when he was a little fellow, ten years before, during
a squall in Barataria Bay.
Ma’me Antoine declared that she could never forget
that sympathy, if she lived till Judgment Day; but all the
same she was sorry to see that Madame Lebrun was also
not so young or fresh as she used to be. Her chances of
getting a husband were surely lessening every year;
especially with the young girls around her, budding each
spring like flowers to be plucked. The one who had played
upon the organ was Mademoiselle Duvigné, Claire Duvigné,
a great belle, the daughter of the famous lawyer who lived
in New Orleans, on Rampart street. Ma’me Antoine had
found that out during the ten minutes she and others had
stopped after mass to gossip with the priest.
“Claire Duvigné,” muttered Tonie, not even making a
pretense to taste his courtbouillon, but picking little bits
from the half loaf of crusty brown bread that lay beside his
plate. “Claire Duvigné; that is a pretty name. Don’t you
think so, mother? I can’t think of anyone on the Chênière
who has so pretty a one, nor at Grand Isle, either, for that
matter. And you say she lives on Rampart street?”
It appeared to him a matter of great importance that he
should have his mother repeat all that the priest had told
her.
 
II
Early the following morning Tonie went out in search of
lame Philibert, than whom there was no cleverer workman
on the island when he could be caught sober.

Tonie had tried to work on his big lugger that lay
bottom upward under the shed, but it had seemed
impossible. His mind, his hands, his tools refused to do
their office, and in sudden desperation he desisted. He
found Philibert and set him to work in his own place under
the shed. Then he got into his small boat with the red
lateen-sail and went over to Grand Isle.
There was no one at hand to warn Tonie that he was
acting the part of a fool. He had, singularly, never felt those
premonitory symptoms of love which afflict the greater
portion of mankind before they reach the age which he had
attained. He did not at first recognize this powerful impulse
that had, without warning, possessed itself of his entire
being. He obeyed it without a struggle, as naturally as he
would have obeyed the dictates of hunger and thirst.
Tonie left his boat at the wharf and proceeded at once
to Mme. Lebrun’s pension, which consisted of a group of
plain, stoutly built cottages that stood in mid island, about
half a mile from the sea.
The day was bright and beautiful with soft, velvety
gusts of wind blowing from the water. From a cluster of
orange trees a flock of doves ascended, and Tonie stopped
to listen to the beating of their wings and follow their flight
toward the water oaks whither he himself was moving.
He walked with a dragging, uncertain step through the
yellow, fragrant camomile, his thoughts traveling before
him. In his mind was always the vivid picture of the girl as
it had stamped itself there yesterday, connected in some
mystical way with that celestial music which had thrilled
him and was vibrating yet in his soul.

But she did not look the same to-day. She was returning
from the beach when Tonie first saw her, leaning upon the
arm of one of the men who had accompanied her yesterday.
She was dressed differently—in a dainty blue cotton gown.
Her companion held a big white sunshade over them both.
They had exchanged hats and were laughing with great
abandonment.
Two young men walked behind them and were trying to
engage her attention. She glanced at Tonie, who was
leaning against a tree when the group passed by; but of
course she did not know him. She was speaking English, a
language which he hardly understood.
There were other young people gathered under the
water oaks—girls who were, many of them, more beautiful
than Mlle. Duvigné; but for Tonie they simply did not exist.
His whole universe had suddenly become converted into a
glamorous background for the person of Mlle. Duvigné, and
the shadowy figures of men who were about her.
Tonie went to Mme. Lebrun and told her he would
bring her oranges next day from the Chênière. She was
well pleased, and commissioned him to bring her other
things from the stores there, which she could not procure
at Grand Isle. She did not question his presence, knowing
that these summer days were idle ones for the Chênière
fishermen. Nor did she seem surprised when he told her
that his boat was at the wharf, and would be there every
day at her service. She knew his frugal habits, and
supposed he wished to hire it, as others did. He intuitively
felt that this could be the only way.
And that is how it happened that Tonie spent so little of
his time at the Chênière Caminada that summer. Old
Ma’me Antoine grumbled enough about it. She herself had

been twice in her life to Grand Isle and once to Grand
Terre, and each time had been more than glad to get back
to the Chênière. And why Tonie should want to spend his
days, and even his nights, away from home, was a thing she
could not comprehend, especially as he would have to be
away the whole winter; and meantime there was much
work to be done at his own hearthside and in the company
of his own mother. She did not know that Tonie had much,
much more to do at Grand Isle than at the Chênière
Caminada.
He had to see how Claire Duvigné sat upon the gallery
in the big rocking chair that she kept in motion by the
impetus of her slender, slippered foot; turning her head this
way and that way to speak to the men who were always
near her. He had to follow her lithe motions at tennis or
croquet, that she often played with the children under the
trees. Some days he wanted to see how she spread her
bare, white arms, and walked out to meet the foam-crested
waves. Even here there were men with her. And then at
night, standing alone like a still shadow under the stars, did
he not have to listen to her voice when she talked and
laughed and sang? Did he not have to follow her slim figure
whirling through the dance, in the arms of men who must
have loved her and wanted her as he did. He did not dream
that they could help it more than he could help it. But the
days when she stepped into his boat, the one with the red
lateen sail, and sat for hours within a few feet of him, were
days that he would have given up for nothing else that he
could think of.
 
III

There were always others in her company at such
times, young people with jests and laughter on their lips.
Only once she was alone.
She had foolishly brought a book with her, thinking she
would want to read. But with the breath of the sea stinging
her she could not read a line. She looked precisely as she
had looked the day he first saw her, standing outside of the
church at Chênière Caminada.
She laid the book down in her lap, and let her soft eyes
sweep dreamily along the line of the horizon where the sky
and water met. Then she looked straight at Tonie, and for
the first time spoke directly to him.
She called him Tonie, as she had heard others do, and
questioned him about his boat and his work. He trembled,
and answered her vaguely and stupidly. She did not mind,
but spoke to him anyhow, satisfied to talk herself when she
found that he could not or would not. She spoke French,
and talked about the Chênière Caminada, its people and its
church. She talked of the day she had played upon the
organ there, and complained of the instrument being
woefully out of tune.
Tonie was perfectly at home in the familiar task of
guiding his boat before the wind that bellied its taut, red
sail. He did not seem clumsy and awkward as when he sat
in church. The girl noticed that he appeared as strong as an
ox.
OceanofPDF.com

As she looked at him and surprised one of his shifting
glances, a glimmer of the truth began to dawn faintly upon
her. She remembered how she had encountered him daily
in her path, with his earnest, devouring eyes always
seeking her out. She recalled—but there was no need to
recall anything. There are women whose perception of
passion is very keen; they are the women who most inspire
it.
A feeling of complacency took possession of her with
this conviction. There was some softness and sympathy
mingled with it. She would have liked to lean over and pat
his big, brown hand, and tell him she felt sorry and would
have helped it if she could. With this belief he ceased to be
an object of complete indifference in her eyes. She had
thought, awhile before, of having him turn about and take
her back home. But now it was really piquant to pose for an
hour longer before a man—even a rough fisherman—to
whom she felt herself to be an object of silent and
consuming devotion. She could think of nothing more
interesting to do on shore.
She was incapable of conceiving the full force and
extent of his infatuation. She did not dream that under the
rude, calm exterior before her a man’s heart was beating
clamorously, and his reason yielding to the savage instinct
of his blood.
“I hear the Angelus ringing at Chênière, Tonie,” she
said. “I didn’t know it was so late; let us go back to the
island.” There had been a long silence which her musical
voice interrupted.
Tonie could now faintly hear the Angelus bell himself. A
vision of the church came with it, the odor of incense and

the sound of the organ. The girl before him was again that
celestial being whom our Lady of Lourdes had once offered
to his immortal vision.
It was growing dusk when they landed at the pier, and
frogs had begun to croak among the reeds in the pools.
There were two of Mlle. Duvigné’s usual attendants
anxiously awaiting her return. But she chose to let Tonie
assist her out of the boat. The touch of her hand fired his
blood again.
She said to him very low and half-laughing, “I have no
money tonight, Tonie; take this instead,” pressing into his
palm a delicate silver chain, which she had worn twined
about her bare wrist. It was purely a spirit of coquetry that
prompted the action, and a touch of the sentimentality
which most women possess. She had read in some romance
of a young girl doing something like that.
As she walked away between her two attendants she
fancied Tonie pressing the chain to his lips. But he was
standing quite still, and held it buried in his tightly-closed
hand; wanting to hold as long as he might the warmth of
the body that still penetrated the bauble when she thrust it
into his hand.
He watched her retreating figure like a blotch against
the fading sky. He was stirred by a terrible, an
overmastering regret, that he had not clasped her in his
arms when they were out there alone, and sprung with her
into the sea. It was what he had vaguely meant to do when
the sound of the Angelus had weakened and palsied his
resolution. Now she was going from him, fading away into
the mist with those figures on either side of her, leaving
him alone. He resolved within himself that if ever again she
were out there on the sea at his mercy, she would have to

perish in his arms. He would go far, far out where the
sound of no bell could reach him. There was some comfort
for him in the thought.
But as it happened, Mlle. Duvigné never went out alone
in the boat with Tonie again.
 
IV
It was one morning in January. Tonie had been
collecting a bill from one of the fishmongers at the French
Market, in New Orleans, and had turned his steps toward
St. Philip street. The day was chilly; a keen wind was
blowing. Tonie mechanically buttoned his rough, warm coat
and crossed over into the sun.
There was perhaps not a more wretched-hearted being
in the whole district, that morning, than he. For months the
woman he so hopelessly loved had been lost to his sight.
But all the more she dwelt in his thoughts, preying upon his
mental and bodily forces until his unhappy condition
became apparent to all who knew him. Before leaving his
home for the winter fishing grounds he had opened his
whole heart to his mother, and told her of the trouble that
was killing him. She hardly expected that he would ever
come back to her when he went away. She feared that he
would not, for he had spoken wildly of the rest and peace
that could only come to him with death.
That morning when Tonie had crossed St. Philip street
he found himself accosted by Madame Lebrun and her
mother. He had not noticed them approaching, and,
moreover, their figures in winter garb appeared unfamiliar
to him. He had never seen them elsewhere than at Grand

Isle and the Chênière during the summer. They were glad
to meet him, and shook his hand cordially. He stood as
usual a little helplessly before them. A pulse in his throat
was beating and almost choking him, so poignant were the
recollections which their presence stirred up.
They were staying in the city this winter, they told him.
They wanted to hear the opera as often as possible, and the
island was really too dreary with everyone gone. Madame
Lebrun had left her son there to keep order and
superintend repairs, and so on.
“You are both well?” stammered Tonie.
“In perfect health, my dear Tonie,” Madame Lebrun
replied. She was wondering at his haggard eyes and thin,
gaunt cheeks; but possessed too much tact to mention
them.
“And—the young lady who used to go sailing—is she
well?” he inquired lamely.
“You mean Mlle. Favette? She was married just after
leaving Grand Isle.”
“No; I mean the one you called Claire—Mamzelle
Duvigné—is she well?”
Mother and daughter exclaimed together: “Impossible!
You haven’t heard? Why, Tonie,” madame continued, “Mlle.
Duvigné died three weeks ago! But that was something sad,
I tell you . . . Her family heartbroken . . . Simply from a cold
caught by standing in thin slippers, waiting for her carriage
after the opera . . . . What a warning!”
The two were talking at once. Tonie kept looking from
one to the other. He did not know what they were saying,

after madame had told him, “Elle est morte.”
As in a dream he finally heard that they said good-by to
him, and sent their love to his mother.
He stood still in the middle of the banquette when they
had left him, watching them go toward the market. He
could not stir. Something had happened to him—he did not
know what. He wondered if the news was killing him.
Some women passed by, laughing coarsely. He noticed
how they laughed and tossed their heads. A mockingbird
was singing in a cage which hung from a window above his
head. He had not heard it before.
Just beneath the window was the entrance to a
barroom. Tonie turned and plunged through its swinging
doors. He asked the bartender for whisky. The man thought
he was already drunk, but pushed the bottle toward him
nevertheless. Tonie poured a great quantity of the fiery
liquor into a glass and swallowed it at a draught. The rest
of the day he spent among the fishermen and Barataria
oystermen; and that night he slept soundly and peacefully
until morning.
He did not know why it was so; he could not
understand. But from that day he felt that he began to live
again, to be once more a part of the moving world about
him. He would ask himself over and over again why it was
so, and stay bewildered before this truth that he could not
answer or explain, and which he began to accept as a holy
mystery.
One day in early spring Tonie sat with his mother upon
a piece of drift-wood close to the sea.

He had returned that day to the Chênière Caminada. At
first she thought he was like his former self again, for all
his old strength and courage had returned. But she found
that there was a new brightness in his face which had not
been there before. It made her think of the Holy Ghost
descending and bringing some kind of light to a man.
She knew that Mademoiselle Duvigné was dead, and all
along had feared that this knowledge would be the death of
Tonie. When she saw him come back to her like a new
being, at once she dreaded that he did not know. All day the
doubt had been fretting her, and she could bear the
uncertainty no longer.
“You know, Tonie—that young lady whom you cared for
—well, some one read it to me in the papers—she died last
winter.” She had tried to speak as cautiously as she could.
“Yes, I know she is dead. I am glad.”
It was the first time he had said this in words, and it
made his heart beat quicker.
Ma’me Antoine shuddered and drew aside from him. To
her it was somehow like murder to say such a thing.
“What do you mean? Why are you glad?” she
demanded, indignantly.
Tonie was sitting with his elbows on his knees. He
wanted to answer his mother, but it would take time; he
would have to think. He looked out across the water that
glistened gem-like with the sun upon it, but there was
nothing there to open his thought. He looked down into his
open palm and began to pick at the callous flesh that was
hard as a horse’s hoof. Whilst he did this his ideas began to
gather and take form.

“You see, while she lived I could never hope for
anything,” he began, slowly feeling his way. “Despair was
the only thing for me. There were always men about her.
She walked and sang and danced with them. I knew it all
the time, even when I didn’t see her. But I saw her often
enough. I knew that some day one of them would please
her and she would give herself to him—she would marry
him. That thought haunted me like an evil spirit.”
Tonie passed his hand across his forehead as if to
sweep away anything of the horror that might have
remained there.
“It kept me awake at night,” he went on. “But that was
not so bad; the worst torture was to sleep, for then I would
dream that it was all true.
“Oh, I could see her married to one of them—his wife—
coming year after year to Grand Isle and bringing her little
children with her! I can’t tell you all that I saw—all that
was driving me mad! But now”—and Tonie clasped his
hands together and smiled as he looked again across the
water—“she is where she belongs; there is no difference up
there; the curé has often told us there is no difference
between men. It is with the soul that we approach each
other there. Then she will know who has loved her best.
That is why I am so contented. Who knows what may
happen up there?”
Ma’me Antoine could not answer. She only took her
son’s big, rough hand and pressed it against her.
“And now, ma mére,” he exclaimed, cheerfully, rising, “I
shall go light the fire for your bread; it is a long time since I
have done anything for you,” and he stooped and pressed a
warm kiss on her withered old cheek.

With misty eyes she watched him walk away in the
direction of the big brick oven that stood open-mouthed
under the lemon trees.
OceanofPDF.com

 
The Story of an Hour
Knowing that Mrs. Mallard was afflicted with a heart
trouble, great care was taken to break to her as gently as
possible the news of her husband’s death.
It was her sister Josephine who told her, in broken
sentences; veiled hints that revealed in half concealing. Her
husband’s friend Richards was there, too, near her. It was
he who had been in the newspaper office when intelligence
of the railroad disaster was received, with Brently
Mallard’s name leading the list of “killed.” He had only
taken the time to assure himself of its truth by a second
telegram, and had hastened to forestall any less careful,
less tender friend in bearing the sad message.
She did not hear the story as many women have heard
the same, with a paralyzed inability to accept its
significance. She wept at once, with sudden, wild
abandonment, in her sister’s arms. When the storm of grief
had spent itself she went away to her room alone. She
would have no one follow her.
There stood, facing the open window, a comfortable,
roomy armchair. Into this she sank, pressed down by a
physical exhaustion that haunted her body and seemed to
reach into her soul.
She could see in the open square before her house the
tops of trees that were all aquiver with the new spring life.
The delicious breath of rain was in the air. In the street
below a peddler was crying his wares. The notes of a
distant song which some one was singing reached her

faintly, and countless sparrows were twittering in the
eaves.
There were patches of blue sky showing here and there
through the clouds that had met and piled one above the
other in the west facing her window.
She sat with her head thrown back upon the cushion of
the chair, quite motionless, except when a sob came up into
her throat and shook her, as a child who has cried itself to
sleep continues to sob in its dreams.
She was young, with a fair, calm face, whose lines
bespoke repression and even a certain strength. But now
there was a dull stare in her eyes, whose gaze was fixed
away off yonder on one of those patches of blue sky. It was
not a glance of reflection, but rather indicated a suspension
of intelligent thought.
There was something coming to her and she was
waiting for it, fearfully. What was it? She did not know; it
was too subtle and elusive to name. But she felt it, creeping
out of the sky, reaching toward her through the sounds, the
scents, the color that filled the air.
Now her bosom rose and fell tumultuously. She was
beginning to recognize this thing that was approaching to
possess her, and she was striving to beat it back with her
will—as powerless as her two white slender hands would
have been.
When she abandoned herself a little whispered word
escaped her slightly parted lips. She said it over and over
under her breath: “free, free, free!” The vacant stare and
the look of terror that had followed it went from her eyes.
They stayed keen and bright. Her pulses beat fast, and the
coursing blood warmed and relaxed every inch of her body.

She did not stop to ask if it were or were not a
monstrous joy that held her. A clear and exalted perception
enabled her to dismiss the suggestion as trivial.
She knew that she would weep again when she saw the
kind, tender hands folded in death; the face that had never
looked save with love upon her, fixed and gray and dead.
But she saw beyond that bitter moment a long procession
of years to come that would belong to her absolutely. And
she opened and spread her arms out to them in welcome.
There would be no one to live for her during those
coming years; she would live for herself. There would be no
powerful will bending hers in that blind persistence with
which men and women believe they have a right to impose
a private will upon a fellow-creature. A kind intention or a
cruel intention made the act seem no less a crime as she
looked upon it in that brief moment of illumination.
And yet she had loved him—sometimes. Often she had
not. What did it matter! What could love, the unsolved
mystery, count for in face of this possession of self-assertion
which she suddenly recognized as the strongest impulse of
her being!
“Free! Body and soul free!” she kept whispering.
Josephine was kneeling before the closed door with her
lips to the keyhole, imploring for admission. “Louise, open
the door! I beg; open the door—you will make yourself ill.
What are you doing, Louise? For heaven’s sake open the
door.”
“Go away. I am not making myself ill.” No; she was
drinking in a very elixir of life through that open window.

Her fancy was running riot along those days ahead of
her. Spring days, and summer days, and all sorts of days
that would be her own. She breathed a quick prayer that
life might be long. It was only yesterday she had thought
with a shudder that life might be long.
She arose at length and opened the door to her sister’s
importunities. There was a feverish triumph in her eyes,
and she carried herself unwittingly like a goddess of
Victory. She clasped her sister’s waist, and together they
descended the stairs. Richards stood waiting for them at
the bottom.
Some one was opening the front door with a latchkey. It
was Brently Mallard who entered, a little travel-stained,
composedly carrying his grip-sack and umbrella. He had
been far from the scene of accident, and did not even know
there had been one. He stood amazed at Josephine’s
piercing cry; at Richards’ quick motion to screen him from
the view of his wife.
But Richards was too late.
When the doctors came they said she had died of heart
disease—of joy that kills.
OceanofPDF.com

 
Lilacs
Mme. Adrienne Farival never announced her coming; but
the good nuns knew very well when to look for her. When
the scent of the lilac blossoms began to permeate the air,
Sister Agathe would turn many times during the day to the
window; upon her face the happy, beatific expression with
which pure and simple souls watch for the coming of those
they love.
But it was not Sister Agathe; it was Sister Marceline
who first espied her crossing the beautiful lawn that sloped
up to the convent. Her arms were filled with great bunches
of lilacs which she had gathered along her path. She was
clad all in brown; like one of the birds that come with the
spring, the nuns used to say. Her figure was rounded and
graceful, and she walked with a happy, buoyant step. The
cabriolet which had conveyed her to the convent moved
slowly up the gravel drive that led to the imposing
entrance. Beside the driver was her modest little black
trunk, with her name and address printed in white letters
upon it: “Mme. A Farival, Paris.” It was the crunching of the
gravel which had attracted Sister Marceline’s attention.
And then the commotion began.
White-capped heads appeared suddenly at the
windows; she waved her parasol and her bunch of lilacs at
them. Sister Marceline and Sister Marie Anne appeared,
fluttered and expectant at the doorway. But Sister Agathe,
more daring and impulsive than all, descended the steps
and flew across the grass to meet her. What embraces, in
which the lilacs were crushed between them! What ardent

kisses! What pink flushes of happiness mounting the cheeks
of the two women!
Once within the convent Adrienne’s soft brown eyes
moistened with tenderness as they dwelt caressingly upon
the familiar objects about her, and noted the most trifling
details. The white, bare boards of the floor had lost nothing
of their luster. The stiff, wooden chairs, standing in rows
against the walls of hall and parlor, seemed to have taken
on an extra polish since she had seen them, last lilac time.
And there was a new picture of the Sacré-Coeur hanging
over the hall table. What had they done with Ste. Catherine
de Sienne, who had occupied that position of honor for so
many years? In the chapel—it was no use trying to deceive
her—she saw at a glance that St. Joseph’s mantle had been
embellished with a new coat of blue, and the aureole about
his head freshly gilded. And the Blessed Virgin there
neglected! Still wearing her garb of last spring, which
looked almost dingy by contrast. It was not just—such
partiality! The Holy Mother had reason to be jealous and to
complain.
But Adrienne did not delay to pay her respects to the
Mother Superior, whose dignity would not permit her to so
much as step outside the door of her private apartments to
welcome this old pupil. Indeed, she was dignity in person;
large, uncompromising, unbending. She kissed Adrienne
without warmth, and discussed conventional themes
learnedly and prosaically during the quarter of an hour
which the young woman remained in her company.
It was then that Adrienne’s latest gift was brought in
for inspection. For Adrienne always brought a handsome
present for the chapel in her little black trunk. Last year it
was a necklace of gems for the Blessed Virgin, which the
Good Mother was only permitted to wear on extra

occasions, such as great feast days of obligation. The year
before it had been a precious crucifix—an ivory figure of
Christ suspended from an ebony cross, whose extremities
were tipped with wrought silver. This time it was a linen
embroidered altar cloth of such rare and delicate
workmanship that the Mother Superior, who knew the
value of such things, chided Adrienne for the extravagance.
“But, dear Mother, you know it is the greatest pleasure
I have in life—to be with you all once a year, and to bring
some such trifling token of my regard.”
The Mother Superior dismissed her with the rejoinder:
“Make yourself at home, my child. Sister Thérése will see
to your wants. You will occupy Sister Marceline’s bed in the
end room, over the chapel. You will share the room with
Sister Agathe.”
There was always one of the nuns detailed to keep
Adrienne company during her fortnight’s stay at the
convent. This had become almost a fixed regulation. It was
only during the hours of recreation that she found herself
with them all together. Those were hours of much harmless
merrymaking under the trees or in the nuns’ refectory.
This time it was Sister Agathe who waited for her
outside of the Mother Superior’s door. She was taller and
slenderer than Adrienne, and perhaps ten years older. Her
fair blonde face flushed and paled with every passing
emotion that visited her soul. The two women linked arms
and went together out into the open air.
There was so much which Sister Agathe felt that
Adrienne must see. To begin with, the enlarged poultry
yard, with its dozens upon dozens of new inmates. It took
now all the time of one of the lay sistes to attend to them.

There had been no change made in the vegetable garden,
but—yes there had; Adrienne’s quick eye at once detected
it. Last year old Philippe had planted his cabbages in a
large square to the right. This year they were set out in an
oblong bed to the left. How it made Sister Agathe laugh to
think Adrienne should have noticed such a trifle! And old
Philippe, who was nailing a broken trellis not far off, was
called forward to be told about it.
He never failed to tell Adrienne how well she looked,
and how she was growing younger each year. And it was
his delight to recall certain of her youthful and mischievous
escapades. Never would he forget that day she
disappeared; and the whole convent in a hubbub about it!
And how at last it was he who discovered her perched
among the tallest branches of the highest tree on the
grounds, where she had climbed to see if she could get a
glimpse of Paris! And her punishment afterwards!—half of
the Gospel of Palm Sunday to learn by heart!
“We may laugh over it, my good Philippe, but we must
remember that Madame is older and wiser now.”
“I know well, Sister Agathe, that one ceases to commit
follies after the first days of youth.” And Adrienne seemed
greatly impressed by the wisdom of Sister Agathe and old
Philippe, the convent gardener.
A little later when they sat upon a rustic bench which
overlooked the smiling landscape about them, Adrienne
was saying to Sister Agathe, who held her hand and
stroked it fondly:
“Do you remember my first visit, four years ago, Sister
Agathe? and what a surprise it was to you all!”
“As if I could forget it, dear child!”

“And I! Always shall I remember that morning as I
walked along the boulevard with a heaviness of heart—oh,
a heaviness which I hate to recall. Suddenly there was
wafted to me the sweet odor of lilac blossoms. A young girl
had passed me by, carrying a great bunch of them. Did you
ever know, Sister Agathe, that there is nothing which so
keenly revives a memory as a perfume—an odor?”
“I believe you are right, Adrienne. For now that you
speak of it, I can feel how the odor of fresh bread—when
Sister Jeanne bakes—always makes me think of the great
kitchen of ma tante de Sierge, and crippled Julie, who sat
always knitting at the sunny window. And I never smell the
sweet scented honeysuckle without living again through
the blessed day of my first communion.”
“Well, that is how it was with me, Sister Agathe, when
the scent of the lilacs at once changed the whole current of
my thoughts and my despondency. The boulevard, its
noises, its passing throng, vanished from before my senses
as completely as if they had been spirited away. I was
standing here with my feet sunk in the green sward as they
are now. I could see the sunlight glancing from that old
white stone wall, could hear the notes of birds, just as we
hear them now, and the humming of insects in the air. And
through all I could see and could smell the lilac blossoms,
nodding invitingly to me from their thick-leaved branches.
It seems to me they are richer than ever this year, Sister
Agathe. And do you know, I became like an enragée;
nothing could have kept me back. I do not remember now
where I was going; but I turned and retraced my steps
homeward in a perfect fever of agitation: “Sophie! my little
trunk—quick—the black one! A mere handful of clothes! I
am going away. Don’t ask me any questions. I shall be back
in a fortnight.’ And every year since then it is the same. At

the very first whiff of a lilac blossom, I am gone! There is
no holding me back.”
“And how I wait for you, and watch those lilac bushes,
Adrienne! If you should once fail to come, it would be like
the spring coming without the sunshine or the song of
birds.
“But do you know, dear child, I have sometimes feared
that in moments of despondency such as you have just
described, I fear that you do not turn as you might to our
Blessed Mother in heaven, who is ever ready to comfort
and solace an afflicted heart with the precious balm of her
sympathy and love.”
“Perhaps I do not, dear Sister Agathe. But you cannot
picture the annoyances which I am constantly submitted to.
That Sophie alone, with her detestable ways! I assure you
she of herself is enough to drive me to St. Lazare.”
“Indeed, I do understand that the trials of one living in
the world must be very great, Adrienne; particularly for
you, my poor child, who have to bear them alone, since
Almighty God was pleased to call to himself your dear
husband. But on the other hand, to live one’s life along the
lines which our dear Lord traces for each one of us, must
bring with it resignation and even a certain comfort. You
have your household duties, Adrienne, and your music, to
which, you say, you continue to devote yourself. And then,
there are always good works—the poor—who are always
with us—to be relieved; the afflicted to be comforted.”
“But, Sister Agathe! Will you listen! Is it not La Rose
that I hear moving down there at the edge of the pasture? I
fancy she is reproaching me with being an ingrate, not to

have pressed a kiss yet on that white forehead of hers.
Come, let us go.”
The two women arose and walked again, hand in hand
this time, over the tufted grass down the gentle decline
where it sloped toward the broad, flat meadow, and the
limpid stream that flowed cool and fresh from the woods.
Sister Agathe walked with her composed, unlike tread;
Adrienne with a balancing motion, a bounding step, as
though the earth responded to her light footfall with some
subtle impulse all its own.
They lingered long upon the foot-bridge that spanned
the narrow stream which divided the convent grounds from
the meadow beyond. It was to Adrienne indescribably
sweet to rest there in soft, low converse with this gentle-
faced nun, watching the approach of evening. The gurgle of
the running water beneath them; the lowing of cattle
approaching in the distance, were the only sounds that
broke upon the stillness, until the clear tones of the
angelus bell pealed out from the convent tower. At the
sound both women instinctively sank to their knees, signing
themselves with the sign of the cross. And Sister Agathe
repeated the customary invocation, Adrienne responding in
musical tones:
“The Angel of the Lord declared unto Mary,
  And she conceived by the Holy Ghost—”
and so forth, to the end of the brief prayer, after which they
arose and retraced their steps toward the convent.
It was with subtle and naïve pleasure that Adrienne
prepared herself that night for bed. The room which she
shared with Sister Agathe was immaculately white. The
walls were a dead white, relieved only by one florid print

depicting Jacob’s dream at the foot of the ladder, upon
which angels mounted and descended. The bare floors, a
soft yellow-white, with two little patches of gray carpet
beside each spotless bed. At the head of the white-draped
beds were two bénitiers containing holy water absorbed in
sponges.
Sister Agathe disrobed noiselessly behind her curtains
and glided into bed without having revealed, in the faint
candlelight, as much as a shadow of herself. Adrienne
pattered about the room, shook and folded her garments
with great care, placing them on the back of a chair as she
had been taught to do when a child at the convent. It
secretly pleased Sister Agathe to feel that her dear
Adrienne clung to the habits acquired in her youth.
But Adrienne could not sleep. She did not greatly
desire to do so. These hours seemed too precious to be cast
into the oblivion of slumber.
“Are you not asleep, Adrienne?”
“No, Sister Agathe. You know it is always so the first
night. The excitement of my arrival—I don’t know what—
keeps me awake.”
“Say your ‘Hail, Mary,’ dear child, over and over.”
“I have done so, Sister Agathe; it does not help.”
“Then lie quite still on your side and think of nothing
but your own respiration. I have heard that such
inducement to sleep seldom fails.”
“I will try. Good night, Sister Agathe.”

“Good night, dear child. May the Holy Virgin guard
you.”
An hour later Adrienne was still lying with wide,
wakeful eyes, listening to the regular breathing of Sister
Agathe. The trailing of the passing wind through the
treetops, the ceaseless babble of the rivulet were some of
the sounds that came to her faintly through the night.
The days of the fortnight which followed were in
character much like the first peaceful, uneventful day of
her arrival, with the exception only that she devoutly heard
mass every morning at an early hour in the convent chapel,
and on Sundays sang in the choir in her agreeable,
cultivated voice, which was heard with delight and the
warmest appreciation.
When the day of her departure came, Sister Agathe was
not satisfied to say good-by at the portal as the others did.
She walked down the drive beside the creeping old
cabriolet, chattering her pleasant last words. And then she
stood—it was as far as she might go—at the edge of the
road, waving good-by in response to the fluttering of
Adrienne’s handkerchief. Four hours later Sister Agathe,
who was instructing a class of little girls for their first
communion, looked up at the classroom clock and
murmured: “Adrienne is at home now.”
Yes, Adrienne was at home. Paris had engulfed her.
At the very hour when Sister Agathe looked up at the
clock, Adrienne, clad in a charming negligé was reclining
indolently in the depths of a luxurious armchair. The bright
room was in its accustomed state of picturesque disorder.
Musical scores were scattered upon the open piano.

Thrown carelessly over the backs of chairs were puzzling
and astonishing-looking garments.
OceanofPDF.com

In a large gilded cage near the window perched a
clumsy green parrot. He blinked stupidly at a young girl in
street dress who was exerting herself to make him talk.
In the centre of the room stood Sophie, that thorn in
her mistress’s side. With hands plunged in the deep
pockets of her apron, her white starched cap quivering
with each emphatic motion of her grizzled head, she was
holding forth, to the evident ennui of the two young
women. She was saying:
“Heaven knows I have stood enough in the six years I
have been with Mademoiselle; but never such indignities as
I have had to endure in the past two weeks at the hands of
that man who calls himself a manager! The very first day—
and I, good enough to notify him at once of Mademoiselle’s
flight—he arrives like a lion; I tell you, like a lion. He insists
upon knowing Mademoiselle’s whereabouts. How can I tell
him any more than the statue out there in the square? He
calls me a liar! Me, me—a liar! He declares he is ruined.
The public will not stand La Petite Gilberta in the role
which Mademoiselle has made so famous—La Petite
Gilberta, who dances like a jointed wooden figure and sings
like a traînée of a café chantant. If I were to tell La Gilberta
that, as I easily might, I guarantee it would not be well for
the few straggling hairs which he has left on that miserable
head of his!
“What could he do? He was obliged to inform the public
that Mademoiselle was ill; and then began my real torment!
Answering this one and that one with their cards, their
flowers, their dainties in covered dishes! which, I must
admit, saved Florine and me much cooking. And all the
while having to tell them that the physician had advised for

Mademoiselle a rest of two weeks at some watering-place,
the name of which I had forgotten!”
Adrienne had been contemplating old Sophie with
quizzical, half-closed eyes, and pelting her with hot-house
roses which lay in her lap, and which she nipped off short
from their graceful stems for that purpose. Each rose
struck Sophie full in the face; but they did not disconcert
her or once stem the torrent of her talk.
“Oh, Adrienne!” entreated the young girl at the parrot’s
cage. “Make her hush; please do something. How can you
ever expect Zozo to talk? A dozen times he has been on the
point of saying something! I tell you, she stupefies him with
her chatter.”
“My good Sophie,” remarked Adrienne, not changing
her attitude, “you see the roses are all used up. But I
assure you, anything at hand goes,” carelessly picking up a
book from the table beside her. “What is this? Mons. Zola!
Now I warn you, Sophie, the weightiness, the heaviness of
Mons. Zola are such that they cannot fail to prostrate you;
thankful you may be if they leave you with energy to regain
your feet.”
“Mademoiselle’s pleasantries are all very well; but if I
am to be shown the door for it—if I am to be crippled for it
—I shall say that I think Mademoiselle is a woman without
conscience and without heart. To torture a man as she
does! A man? No, an angel!
“Each day he has come with sad visage and drooping
mien. ‘No news, Sophie?’
“ ‘None, Monsieur Henri.’ ‘Have you no idea where she
has gone?’ ‘Not any more than the statue in the square,

Monsieur.’ ‘Is it perhaps possible that she may not return at
all?’ with his face blanching like that curtain.
“I assure him you will be back at the end of the
fortnight. I entreat him to have patience. He drags himself,
désolé, about the room, picking up Mademoiselle’s fan, her
gloves, her music, and turning them over and over in his
hands. Mademoiselle’s slipper, which she took off to throw
at me in the impatience of her departure, and which I
purposely left lying where it fell on the chiffonier—he
kissed it—I saw him do it—and thrust it into his pocket,
thinking himself unobserved.
“The same song each day. I beg him to eat a little good
soup which I have prepared. ‘I cannot eat, my dear Sophie.’
The other night he came and stood long gazing out of the
window at the stars. When he turned he was wiping his
eyes; they were red. He said he had been riding in the dust,
which had inflamed them. But I knew better; he had been
crying.
“Ma foi! in his place I would snap my finger at such
cruelty. I would go out and amuse myself. What is the use of
being young!”
Adrienne arose with a laugh. She went and seizing old
Sophie by the shoulders shook her till the white cap
wobbled on her head.
“What is the use of all this litany, my good Sophie? Year
after year the same! Have you forgotten that I have come a
long, dusty journey by rail, and that I am perishing of
hunger and thirst? Bring us a bottle of Château Yquem and
a biscuit and my box of cigarettes.” Sophie had freed
herself, and was retreating toward the door. “And, Sophie!
If Monsieur Henri is still waiting, tell him to come up.”

 
It was precisely a year later. The spring had come
again, and Paris was intoxicated.
Old Sophie sat in her kitchen discoursing to a neighbor
who had come in to borrow some trifling kitchen utensil
from the old bonne.
“You know, Rosalie, I begin to believe it is an attack of
lunacy which seizes her once a year. I wouldn’t say it to
everyone, but with you I know it will go no further. She
ought to be treated for it; a physician should be consulted;
it is not well to neglect such things and let them run on.
“It came this morning like a thunder clap. As I am
sitting here, there had been no thought or mention of a
journey. The baker had come into the kitchen—you know
what a gallant he is—with always a girl in his eye. He laid
the bread down upon the table and beside it a bunch of
lilacs. I didn’t know they had bloomed yet. ‘For Mam’selle
Florine, with my regards,’ he said with his foolish simper.
“Now, you know I was not going to call Florine from her
work in order to present her the baker’s flowers. All the
same, it would not do to let them wither. I went with them
in my hand into the dining room to get a majolica pitcher
which I had put away in the closet there, on an upper shelf,
because the handle was broken. Mademoiselle, who rises
early, had just come from her bath, and was crossing the
hall that opens into the dining room. Just as she was, in her
white peignoir, she thrust her head into the dining room,
snuffling the air and exclaiming, ‘What do I smell?’
“She espied the flowers in my hand and pounced upon
them like a cat upon a mouse. She held them up to her,

burying her face in them for the longest time, only uttering
a long ‘Ah!’
“Sophie, I am going away. Get out the little black trunk;
a few of the plainest garments I have; my brown dress that
I have not yet worn.”
“ ‘But, Mademoiselle,’ I protested, ‘you forget that you
have ordered a breakfast of a hundred francs for
tomorrow.’
“ ‘Shut up!’ she cried, stamping her foot.
“ ‘You forget how the manager will rave,’ I persisted,
‘and vilify me. And you will go like that without a word of
adieu to Monsieur Paul, who is an angel if ever one trod the
earth.’
“I tell you, Rosalie, her eyes flamed.
“ ‘Do as I tell you this instant,’ she exclaimed, ‘or I will
strangle you—with your Monsieur Paul and your manager
and your hundred francs!’ ”
“Yes,” affirmed Rosalie, “it is insanity. I had a cousin
seized in the same way one morning, when she smelled
calf’s liver frying with onions. Before night it took two men
to hold her.”
“I could well see it was insanity, my dear Rosalie, and I
uttered not another word as I feared for my life. I simply
obeyed her every command in silence. And now—whiff, she
is gone! God knows where. But between us, Rosalie—I
wouldn’t say it to Florine—but I believe it is for no good. I,
in Monsieur Paul’s place, should have her watched. I would
put a detective upon her track.

“Now I am going to close up; barricade the entire
establishment. Monsieur Paul, the manager, visitors, all—all
may ring and knock and shout themselves hoarse. I am
tired of it all. To be vilified and called a liar—at my age,
Rosalie!”
 
Adrienne left her trunk at the small railway station, as
the old cabriolet was not at the moment available; and she
gladly walked the mile or two of pleasant roadway which
led to the convent. How infinitely calm, peaceful,
penetrating was the charm of the verdant, undulating
country spreading out on all sides of her! She walked along
the clear smooth road, twirling her parasol; humming a gay
tune; nipping here and there a bud or a waxlike leaf from
the hedges along the way; and all the while drinking deep
draughts of complacency and content.
She stopped, as she had always done, to pluck lilacs in
her path.
As she approached the convent she fancied that a
whitecapped face had glanced fleetingly from a window;
but she must have been mistaken. Evidently she had not
been seen, and this time would take them by surprise. She
smiled to think how Sister Agathe would utter a little
joyous cry of amazement, and in fancy she already felt the
warmth and tenderness of the nun’s embrace. And how
Sister Marceline and the others would laugh, and make
game of her puffed sleeves! For puffed sleeves had come
into fashion since last year; and the vagaries of fashion
always afforded infinite merriment to the nuns. No, they
surely had not seen her.

She ascended lightly the stone steps and rang the bell.
She could hear the sharp metallic sound reverberate
through the halls. Before its last note had died away the
door was opened very slightly, very cautiously by a lay
sister who stood there with downcast eyes and flaming
cheeks. Through the narrow opening she thrust forward
toward Adrienne a package and a letter, saying, in confused
tones: “By order of our Mother Superior.” After which she
closed the door hastily and turned the heavy key in the
great lock.
Adrienne remained stunned. She could not gather her
faculties to grasp the meaning of this singular reception.
The lilacs fell from her arms to the stone portico on which
she was standing. She turned the note and the parcel
stupidly over in her hands, instinctively dreading what their
contents might disclose.
The outlines of the crucifix were plainly to be felt
through the wrapper of the bundle, and she guessed,
without having courage to assure herself, that the jeweled
necklace and the altar cloth accompanied it.
Leaning against the heavy oaken door for support,
Adrienne opened the letter. She did not seem to read the
few bitter reproachful lines word by word—the lines that
banished her forever from this haven of peace, where her
soul was wont to come and refresh itself. They imprinted
themselves as a whole upon her brain, in all their seeming
cruelty—she did not dare to say injustice.
There was no anger in her heart; that would doubtless
possess her later, when her nimble intelligence would begin
to seek out the origin of this treacherous turn. Now, there
was only room for tears. She leaned her forehead against

the heavy oaken panel of the door and wept with the
abandonment of a little child.
She descended the steps with a nerveless and dragging
tread. Once as she was walking away, she turned to look
back at the imposing façade of the convent, hoping to see a
familiar face, or a hand, even, giving a faint token that she
was still cherished by some one faithful heart. But she saw
only the polished windows looking down at her like so
many cold and glittering and reproachful eyes.
In the little white room above the chapel, a woman
knelt beside the bed on which Adrienne had slept. Her face
was pressed deep in the pillow in her efforts to smother the
sobs that convulsed her frame. It was Sister Agathe.
After a short while, a lay sister came out of the door
with a broom, and swept away the lilac blossoms which
Adrienne had let fall upon the portico.
OceanofPDF.com

 
Athénaïse
 
I
Athénaïse went away in the morning to make a visit to her
parents, ten miles back on rigolet de Bon Dieu. She did not
return in the evening, and Cazeau, her husband, fretted not
a little. He did not worry much about Athénaïse, who, he
suspected, was resting only too content in the bosom of her
family; his chief solicitude was manifestly for the pony she
had ridden. He felt sure those “lazy pigs,” her brothers,
were capable of neglecting it seriously. This misgiving
Cazeau communicated to his servant, old Félicité, who
waited upon him at supper.
His voice was low pitched, and even softer than
Félicité’s. He was tall, sinewy, swarthy, and altogether
severe looking. His thick black hair waved, and it gleamed
like the breast of a crow. The sweep of his mustache, which
was not so black, outlined the broad contour of the mouth.
Beneath the under lip grew a small tuft which he was much
given to twisting, and which he permitted to grow,
apparently for no other purpose. Cazeau’s eyes were dark
blue, narrow and overshadowed. His hands were coarse
and stiff from close acquaintance with farming tools and
implements, and he handled his fork and knife clumsily. But
he was distinguished looking, and succeeded in
commanding a good deal of respect, and even fear
sometimes.

He ate his supper alone, by the light of a single coal-oil
lamp that but faintly illuminated the big room, with its bare
floor and huge rafters, and its heavy pieces of furniture
that loomed dimly in the gloom of the apartment. Félicité,
ministering to his wants, hovered about the table like a
little, bent, restless shadow.
She served him with a dish of sunfish fried crisp and
brown. There was nothing else set before him beside the
bread and butter and the bottle of red wine which she
locked carefully in the buffet after he had poured his
second glass. She was occupied with her mistress’s
absence, and kept reverting to it after he had expressed his
solicitude about the pony.
“Dat beat me! on’y marry two mont’, an’ got de head
turn’ a’ready to go ’broad. C’est pas Chrétien, tenez!”
Cazeau shrugged his shoulders for answer, after he had
drained his glass and pushed aside his plate. Félicité’s
opinion of the unchristianlike behavior of his wife in leaving
him thus alone after two months of marriage weighed little
with him. He was used to solitude, and did not mind a day
or a night or two of it. He had lived alone ten years, since
his first wife died, and Félicité might have known better
than to suppose that he cared. He told her she was a fool. It
sounded like a compliment in his modulated, caressing
voice. She grumbled to herself as she set about clearing the
table, and Cazeau arose and walked outside on the gallery;
his spur, which he had not removed upon entering the
house, jangled at every step.
The night was beginning to deepen, and to gather black
about the clusters of trees and shrubs that were grouped in
the yard. In the beam of light from the open kitchen door a
black boy stood feeding a brace of snarling, hungry dogs;

further away, on the steps of a cabin, some one was playing
the accordion; and in still another direction a little negro
baby was crying lustily. Cazeau walked around to the front
of the house, which was square, squat and one-story.
A belated wagon was driving in at the gate, and the
impatient driver was swearing hoarsely at his jaded oxen.
Félicité stepped out on the gallery, glass and polishing
towel in hand, to investigate, and to wonder, too, who could
be singing out on the river. It was a party of young people
paddling around, waiting for the moon to rise, and they
were singing Juanita, their voices coming tempered and
melodious through the distance and the night.
Cazeau’s horse was waiting, saddled, ready to be
mounted, for Cazeau had many things to attend to before
bed-time; so many things that there was not left to him a
moment in which to think of Athénaïse. He felt her
absence, though, like a dull, insistent pain.
However, before he slept that night he was visited by
the thought of her, and by a vision of her fair young face
with its drooping lips and sullen and averted eyes. The
marriage had been a blunder; he had only to look into her
eyes to feel that, to discover her growing aversion. But it
was a thing not by any possibility to be undone. He was
quite prepared to make the best of it, and expected no less
than a like effort on her part. The less she revisited the
rigolet, the better. He would find means to keep her at
home hereafter.
These unpleasant reflections kept Cazeau awake far
into the night, notwithstanding the craving of his whole
body for rest and sleep. The moon was shining, and its pale
effulgence reached dimly into the room, and with it a touch
of the cool breath of the spring night. There was an

unusual stillness abroad; no sound to be heard save the
distant, tireless, plaintive notes of the accordion.
 
II
Athénaïse did not return the following day, even though
her husband sent her word to do so by her brother,
Montéclin, who passed on his way to the village early in the
morning.
On the third day Cazeau saddled his horse and went
himself in search of her. She had sent no word, no message,
explaining her absence, and he felt that he had good cause
to be offended. It was rather awkward to have to leave his
work, even though late in the afternoon,—Cazeau had
always so much to do; but among the many urgent calls
upon him, the task of bringing his wife back to a sense of
her duty seemed to him for the moment paramount.
The Michés, Athénaïse’s parents, lived on the old
Gotrain place. It did not belong to them; they were
“running” it for a merchant in Alexandria. The house was
far too big for their use. One of the lower rooms served for
the storing of wood and tools; the person “occupying” the
place before Miché having pulled up the flooring in despair
of being able to patch it. Upstairs, the rooms were so large,
so bare, that they offered a constant temptation to lovers of
the dance, whose importunities Madame Miché was
accustomed to meet with amiable indulgence. A dance at
Michés’ and a plate of Madame Miché’s gumbo filé at
midnight were pleasures not to be neglected or despised,
unless by such serious souls as Cazeau.

Long before Cazeau reached the house his approach
had been observed, for there was nothing to obstruct the
view of the outer road; vegetation was not yet abundantly
advanced, and there was but a patchy, straggling stand of
cotton and corn in Miché’s field.
Madame Miché, who had been seated on the gallery in
a rocking-chair, stood up to greet him as he drew near. She
was short and fat, and wore a black skirt and loose muslin
sack fastened at the throat with a hair brooch. Her own
hair, brown and glossy, showed but a few threads of silver.
Her round pink face was cheery, and her eyes were bright
and good humored. But she was plainly perturbed and ill at
ease as Cazeau advanced.
Montéclin, who was there too, was not ill at ease, and
made no attempt to disguise the dislike with which his
brother-in-law inspired him. He was a slim, wiry fellow of
twenty-five, short of stature like his mother, and resembling
her in feature. He was in shirt-sleeves, half leaning, half
sitting, on the insecure railing of the gallery, and fanning
himself with his broad-rimmed felt hat.
“Cochon!” he muttered under his breath as Cazeau
mounted the stairs,—“sacré cochon!”
“Cochon” had sufficiently characterized the man who
had once on a time declined to lend Montéclin money. But
when this same man had had the presumption to propose
marriage to his well-beloved sister, Athénaïse, and the
honor to be accepted by her, Montéclin felt that a
qualifying epithet was needed fully to express his estimate
of Cazeau.
Miché and his oldest son were absent. They both
esteemed Cazeau highly, and talked much of his qualities of

head and heart, and thought much of his excellent standing
with city merchants.
Athénaïse had shut herself up in her room. Cazeau had
seen her rise and enter the house at perceiving him. He
was a good deal mystified, but no one could have guessed it
when he shook hands with Madame Miché. He had only
nodded to Montéclin, with a muttered “Comment ça va?”
“Tiens! something tole me you were coming to-day!”
exclaimed Madame Miché, with a little blustering
appearance of being cordial and at ease, as she offered
Cazeau a chair.
He ventured a short laugh as he seated himself.
“You know, nothing would do,” she went on, with much
gesture of her small, plump hands, “nothing would do but
Athénaïse mus’ stay las’ night fo’ a li’le dance. The boys
wouldn’ year to their sister leaving.”
Cazeau shrugged his shoulders significantly, telling as
plainly as words that he knew nothing about it.
“Comment! Montéclin didn’ tell you we were going to
keep Athénaïse?” Montéclin had evidently told nothing.
“An’ how about the night befo’,” questioned Cazeau,
“an’ las’ night? It isn’t possible you dance every night out
yere on the Bon Dieu!”
Madame Miché laughed, with amiable appreciation of
the sarcasm; and turning to her son, “Montéclin, my boy, go
tell yo’ sister that Monsieur Cazeau is yere.”
Montéclin did not stir except to shift his position and
settle himself more securely on the railing.

“Did you year me, Montéclin?”
“Oh yes, I yeard you plain enough,” responded her son,
“but you know as well as me it’s no use to tell ’Thénaïse
anything. You been talkin’ to her yo’se’f since Monday; an’
pa’s preached himse’f hoa’se on the subject; an’ you even
had uncle Achille down yere yesterday to reason with her.
W’en ’Thénaïse said she wasn’ goin’ to set her foot back in
Cazeau’s house, she meant it.”
This speech, which Montéclin delivered with thorough
unconcern, threw his mother into a condition of painful but
dumb embarrassment. It brought two fiery red spots to
Cazeau’s cheeks, and for the space of a moment he looked
wicked.
What Montéclin had spoken was quite true, though his
taste in the manner and choice of time and place in saying
it were not of the best. Athénaïse, upon the first day of her
arrival, had announced that she came to stay, having no
intention of returning under Cazeau’s roof. The
announcement had scattered consternation, as she knew it
would. She had been implored, scolded, entreated, stormed
at, until she felt herself like a dragging sail that all the
winds of heaven had beaten upon. Why in the name of God
had she married Cazeau? Her father had lashed her with
the question a dozen times. Why indeed? It was difficult
now for her to understand why, unless because she
supposed it was customary for girls to marry when the
right opportunity came. Cazeau, she knew, would make life
more comfortable for her; and again, she had liked him,
and had even been rather flustered when he pressed her
hands and kissed them, and kissed her lips and cheeks and
eyes, when she accepted him.

Montéclin himself had taken her aside to talk the thing
over. The turn of affairs was delighting him.
“Come, now, ’Thénaïse, you mus’ explain to me all
about it, so we can settle on a good cause, an’ secu’ a
separation fo’ you. Has he been mistreating an’ abusing
you, the sacré cochon?” They were alone together in her
room, whither she had taken refuge from the angry
domestic elements.
“You please to reserve yo’ disgusting expressions,
Montéclin. No, he has not abused me in any way that I can
think.”
“Does he drink? Come ’Thénaïse, think well over it.
Does he ever get drunk?”
“Drunk! Oh, mercy, no,—Cazeau never gets drunk.”
“I see; it’s jus’ simply you feel like me; you hate him.”
“No, I don’t hate him,” she returned reflectively; adding
with a sudden impulse, “It’s jus’ being married that I detes’
an’ despise. I hate being Mrs. Cazeau, an’ would want to be
Athénaïse Miché again. I can’t stan’ to live with a man; to
have him always there; his coats an’ pantaloons hanging in
my room; his ugly bare feet—washing them in my tub, befo’
my very eyes, ugh!” She shuddered with recollections, and
resumed, with a sigh that was almost a sob: “Mon Dieu,
mon Dieu! Sister Marie Angélique knew w’at she was
saying; she knew me better than myse’f w’en she said God
had sent me a vocation an’ I was turning deaf ears. W’en I
think of a blessed life in the convent, at peace! Oh, w’at
was I dreaming of!” and then the tears came.
Montéclin felt disconcerted and greatly disappointed at
having obtained evidence that would carry no weight with a

court of justice. The day had not come when a young
woman might ask the court’s permission to return to her
mamma on the sweeping ground of a constitutional
disinclination for marriage. But if there was no way of
untying this Gordian knot of marriage, there was surely a
way of cutting it.
“Well, ’Thénaïse, I’m mighty durn sorry you got no
better groun’s ’an w’at you say. But you can count on me to
stan’ by you w’atever you do. God knows I don’ blame you
fo’ not wantin’ to live with Cazeau.”
And now there was Cazeau himself, with the red spots
flaming in his swarthy cheeks, looking and feeling as if he
wanted to thrash Montéclin into some semblance of
decency. He arose abruptly, and approaching the room
which he had seen his wife enter, thrust open the door after
a hasty preliminary knock. Athénaïse, who was standing
erect at a far window, turned at his entrance.
She appeared neither angry nor frightened, but
thoroughly unhappy, with an appeal in her soft dark eyes
and a tremor on her lips that seemed to him expressions of
unjust reproach, that wounded and maddened him at once.
But whatever he might feel, Cazeau knew only one way to
act toward a woman.
“Athénaïse, you are not ready?” he asked in his quiet
tones. “It’s getting late; we havn’ any time to lose.”
She knew that Montéclin had spoken out, and she had
hoped for a wordy interview, a stormy scene, in which she
might have held her own as she had held it for the past
three days against her family, with Montéclin’s aid. But she
had no weapon with which to combat subtlety. Her
husband’s looks, his tones, his mere presence, brought to

her a sudden sense of hopelessness, an instinctive
realization of the futility of rebellion against a social and
sacred institution.
Cazeau said nothing further, but stood waiting in the
doorway. Madame Miché had walked to the far end of the
gallery, and pretended to be occupied with having a
chicken driven from her parterre. Montéclin stood by,
exasperated, fuming, ready to burst out.
Athénaïse went and reached for her riding skirt that
hung against the wall. She was rather tall, with a figure
which, though not robust, seemed perfect in its fine
proportions. “La fille de son pére,” she was often called,
which was a great compliment to Miché. Her brown hair
was brushed all fluffily back from her temples and low
forehead, and about her features and expression lurked a
softness, a prettiness, a dewiness, that were perhaps too
childlike, that savored of immaturity.
She slipped the riding-skirt, which was of black alpaca,
over her head, and with impatient fingers hooked it at the
waist over her pink linen-lawn. Then she fastened on her
white sunbonnet and reached for her gloves on the
mantelpiece.
“If you don’ wan’ to go, you know w’at you got to do,
’Thénaïse,” fumed Montéclin. “You don’ set yo’ feet back on
Cane River, by God, unless you want to,—not w’ile I’m
alive.”
Cazeau looked at him as if he were a monkey whose
antics fell short of being amusing.
Athénaïse still made no reply, said not a word. She
walked rapidly past her husband, past her brother; bidding
good-bye to no one, not even to her mother. She descended

the stairs, and without assistance from any one mounted
the pony, which Cazeau had ordered to be saddled upon his
arrival. In this way she obtained a fair start of her husband,
whose departure was far more leisurely, and for the greater
part of the way she managed to keep an appreciable gap
between them. She rode almost madly at first, with the
wind inflating her skirt balloon-like about her knees, and
her sunbonnet falling back between her shoulders.
At no time did Cazeau make an effort to overtake her
until traversing an old fallow meadow that was level and
hard as a table. The sight of a great solitary oak-tree, with
its seemingly immutable outlines, that had been a landmark
for ages—or was it the odor of elderberry stealing up from
the gully to the south? or what was it that brought vividly
back to Cazeau, by some association of ideas, a scene of
many years ago? He had passed that old live-oak hundreds
of times, but it was only now that the memory of one day
came back to him. He was a very small boy that day, seated
before his father on horse-back. They were proceeding
slowly, and Black Gabe was moving on before them at a
little dog-trot. Black Gabe had run away, and had been
discovered back in the Gotrain swamp. They had halted
beneath this big oak to enable the negro to take breath; for
Cazeau’s father was a kind and considerate master, and
every one had agreed at the time that Black Gabe was a
fool, a great idiot indeed, for wanting to run away from
him.
The whole impression was for some reason hideous,
and to dispel it Cazeau spurred his horse to a swift gallop.
Overtaking his wife, he rode the remainder of the way at
her side in silence.
It was late when they reached home. Félicité was
standing on the grassy edge of the road, in the moonlight,

waiting for them.
Cazeau once more ate his supper alone; for Athénaïse
went to her room, and there she was crying again.
 
III
Athénaïse was not one to accept the inevitable with
patient resignation, a talent born in the souls of many
women; neither was she the one to accept it with
philosophical resignation, like her husband. Her
sensibilities were alive and keen and responsive. She met
the pleasurable things of life with frank, open appreciation,
and against distasteful conditions she rebelled.
Dissimulation was as foreign to her nature as guile to the
breast of a babe, and her rebellious outbreaks, by no means
rare, had hitherto been quite open and aboveboard. People
often said that Athénaïse would know her own mind some
day, which was equivalent to saying that she was at present
unacquainted with it. If she ever came to such knowledge,
it would be by no intellectual research, by no subtle
analyses or tracing the motives of actions to their source. It
would come to her as the song to the bird, the perfume and
color to the flower.
Her parents had hoped—not without reason and justice
—that marriage would bring the poise, the desirable pose,
so glaringly lacking in Athénaïse’s character. Marriage they
knew to be a wonderful and powerful agent in the
development and formation of a woman’s character; they
had seen its effect too often to doubt it.
“And if this marriage does nothing else,” exclaimed
Miché in an outburst of sudden exasperation, “it will rid us

of Athénaïse; for I am at the end of my patience with her!
You have never had the firmness to manage her,”—he was
speaking to his wife,—“I have not had the time, the leisure,
to devote to her training; and what good we might have
accomplished, that maudit Montéclin—Well, Cazeau is the
one! It takes just such a steady hand to guide a disposition
like Athénaïse’s, a master hand, a strong will that compels
obedience.”
And now, when they had hoped for so much, here was
Athénaïse, with gathered and fierce vehemence, beside
which her former outbursts appeared mild, declaring that
she would not, and she would not, and she would not
continue to enact the role of wife to Cazeau. If she had had
a reason! as Madame Miché lamented; but it could not be
discovered that she had any sane one. He had never
scolded, or called names, or deprived her of comforts, or
been guilty of any of the many reprehensible acts
commonly attributed to objectionable husbands. He did not
slight nor neglect her. Indeed, Cazeau’s chief offense
seemed to be that he loved her, and Athénaïse was not the
woman to be loved against her will. She called marriage a
trap set for the feet of unwary and unsuspecting girls, and
in round, unmeasured terms reproached her mother with
treachery and deceit.
“I told you Cazeau was the man,” chuckled Miché,
when his wife had related the scene that had accompanied
and influenced Athénaïse’s departure.
Athénaïse again hoped, in the morning, that Cazeau
would scold or make some sort of a scene, but he
apparently did not dream of it. It was exasperating that he
should take her acquiescence so for granted. It is true he
had been up and over the fields and across the river and
back long before she was out of bed, and he may have been

thinking of something else, which was no excuse, which
was even in some sense an aggravation. But he did say to
her at breakfast, “That brother of yo’s, that Montéclin, is
unbearable.”
“Montéclin? Par exemple!”
OceanofPDF.com

Athénaïse, seated opposite to her husband, was attired
in a white morning wrapper. She wore a somewhat abused,
long face, it is true,—an expression of countenance familiar
to some husbands,—but the expression was not sufficiently
pronounced to mar the charm of her youthful freshness.
She had little heart to eat, only playing with the food before
her, and she felt a pang of resentment at her husband’s
healthy appetite.
“Yes, Montéclin,” he reasserted. “He’s developed into a
firs’-class nuisance; an’ you better tell him, Athénaïse,—
unless you want me to tell him,—to confine his energies
after this to matters that concern him. I have no use fo’ him
or fo’ his interference in w’at regards you an’ me alone.”
This was said with unusual asperity. It was the little
breach that Athénaïse had been watching for, and she
charged rapidly: “It’s strange, if you detes’ Montéclin so
heartily, that you would desire to marry his sister.” She
knew it was a silly thing to say, and was not surprised when
he told her so. It gave her a little foothold for further
attack, however. “I don’t see, anyhow, w’at reason you had
to marry me, w’en there were so many others,” she
complained, as if accusing him of persecution and injury.
“There was Marianne running after you fo’ the las’ five
years till it was disgraceful; an’ any one of the Dortrand
girls would have been glad to marry you. But no, nothing
would do; you mus’ come out on the rigolet fo’ me.” Her
complaint was pathetic, and at the same time so amusing
that Cazeau was forced to smile.
“I can’t see w’at the Dortrand girls or Marianne have to
do with it,” he rejoined; adding, with no trace of
amusement, “I married you because I loved you; because
you were the woman I wanted to marry, an’ the only one. I

reckon I tole you that befo’. I thought—of co’se I was a fool
fo’ taking things fo’ granted—but I did think that I might
make you happy in making things easier an’ mo’
comfortable fo’ you. I expected—I was even that big a fool
—I believed that yo’ coming yere to me would be like the
sun shining out of the clouds, an’ that our days would be
like w’at the story-books promise after the wedding. I was
mistaken. But I can’t imagine w’at induced you to marry
me. W’atever it was, I reckon you foun’ out you made a
mistake, too. I don’ see anything to do but make the best of
a bad bargain, an’ shake han’s over it.” He had arisen from
the table, and, approaching, held out his hand to her. What
he had said was commonplace enough, but it was
significant, coming from Cazeau, who was not often so
unreserved in expressing himself.
Athénaïse ignored the hand held out to her. She was
resting her chin in her palm, and kept her eyes fixed
moodily upon the table. He rested his hand, that she would
not touch, upon her head for an instant, and walked away
out of the room.
She heard him giving orders to workmen who had been
waiting for him out on the gallery, and she heard him
mount his horse and ride away. A hundred things would
distract him and engage his attention during the day. She
felt that he had perhaps put her and her grievance from his
thoughts when he crossed the threshold; whilst she—
Old Félicité was standing there holding a shining tin
pail, asking for flour and lard and eggs from the storeroom,
and meal for the chicks.
Athénaïse seized the bunch of keys which hung from
her belt and flung them at Félicité’s feet.

“Tiens! tu vas les garder comme tu as jadis fait. Je ne
veux plus de ce train là, moi!”
The old woman stooped and picked up the keys from
the floor. It was really all one to her that her mistress
returned them to her keeping, and refused to take further
account of the ménage.
 
IV
It seemed now to Athénaïse that Montéclin was the only
friend left to her in the world. Her father and mother had
turned from her in what appeared to be her hour of need.
Her friends laughed at her, and refused to take seriously
the hints which she threw out,—feeling her way to discover
if marriage were as distasteful to other women as to
herself. Montéclin alone understood her. He alone had
always been ready to act for her and with her, to comfort
and solace her with his sympathy and his support. Her only
hope for rescue from her hateful surroundings lay in
Montéclin. Of herself she felt powerless to plan, to act,
even to conceive a way out of this pitfall into which the
whole world seemed to have conspired to thrust her.
She had a great desire to see her brother, and wrote
asking him to come to her. But it better suited Montéclin’s
spirit of adventure to appoint a meeting-place at the turn of
the lane, where Athénaïse might appear to be walking
leisurely for health and recreation, and where he might
seem to be riding along, bent on some errand of business
or pleasure.
There had been a shower, a sudden downpour, short as
it was sudden, that had laid the dust in the road. It had

freshened the pointed leaves of the live-oaks, and
brightened up the big fields of cotton on either side of the
lane till they seemed carpeted with green, glittering gems.
Athénaïse walked along the grassy edge of the road,
lifting her crisp skirts with one hand, and with the other
twirling a gay sunshade over her bare head. The scent of
the fields after the rain was delicious. She inhaled long
breaths of their freshness and perfume, that soothed and
quieted her for the moment. There were birds splashing
and spluttering in the pools, pluming themselves on the
fence-rails, and sending out little sharp cries, twitters, and
shrill rhapsodies of delight.
She saw Montéclin approaching from a great distance,
—almost as far away as the turn of the woods. But she
could not feel sure it was he; it appeared too tall for
Montéclin, but that was because he was riding a large
horse. She waved her parasol to him; she was so glad to
see him. She had never been so glad to see Montéclin
before; not even the day when he had taken her out of the
convent, against her parents’ wishes, because she had
expressed a desire to remain there no longer. He seemed to
her, as he drew near, the embodiment of kindness, of
bravery, of chivalry, even of wisdom; for she had never
known Montéclin at a loss to extricate himself from a
disagreeable situation.
He dismounted, and, leading his horse by the bridle,
started to walk beside her, after he had kissed her
affectionately and asked her what she was crying about.
She protested that she was not crying, for she was
laughing, though drying her eyes at the same time on her
handkerchief, rolled in a soft mop for the purpose.

She took Montéclin’s arm, and they strolled slowly
down the lane; they could not seat themselves for a
comfortable chat, as they would have liked, with the grass
all sparkling and bristling wet.
Yes, she was quite as wretched as ever, she told him.
The week which had gone by since she saw him had in no
wise lightened the burden of her discontent. There had
even been some additional provocations laid upon her, and
she told Montéclin all about them,—about the keys, for
instance, which in a fit of temper she had returned to
Félicité’s keeping; and she told how Cazeau had brought
them back to her as if they were something she had
accidentally lost, and he had recovered; and how he had
said, in that aggravating tone of his, that it was not the
custom on Cane river for the negro servants to carry the
keys, when there was a mistress at the head of the
household.
But Athénaïse could not tell Montéclin anything to
increase the disrespect which he already entertained for
his brother-in-law; and it was then he unfolded to her a
plan which he had conceived and worked out for her
deliverance from this galling matrimonial yoke.
It was not a plan which met with instant favor, which
she was at once ready to accept, for it involved secrecy and
dissimulation, hateful alternatives, both of them. But she
was filled with admiration for Montéclin’s resources and
wonderful talent for contrivance. She accepted the plan;
not with the immediate determination to act upon it, rather
with the intention to sleep and to dream upon it.
Three days later she wrote to Montéclin that she had
abandoned herself to his counsel. Displeasing as it might
be to her sense of honesty, it would yet be less trying than

to live on with a soul full of bitterness and revolt, as she
had done for the past two months.
 
V
When Cazeau awoke, one morning at his usual very
early hour, it was to find the place at his side vacant. This
did not surprise him until he discovered that Athénaïse was
not in the adjoining room, where he had often found her
sleeping in the morning on the lounge. She had perhaps
gone out for an early stroll, he reflected, for her jacket and
hat were not on the rack where she had hung them the
night before. But there were other things absent,—a gown
or two from the armoire; and there was a great gap in the
piles of lingerie on the shelf; and her traveling-bag was
missing, and so were her bits of jewelry from the toilet tray
—and Athénaïse was gone!
But the absurdity of going during the night, as if she
had been a prisoner, and he the keeper of a dungeon! So
much secrecy and mystery, to go sojourning out on the Bon
Dieu! Well, the Michés might keep their daughter after this.
For the companionship of no woman on earth would he
again undergo the humiliating sensation of baseness that
had overtaken him in passing the old oak-tree in the fallow
meadow.
But a terrible sense of loss overwhelmed Cazeau. It was
not new or sudden; he had felt it for weeks growing upon
him, and it seemed to culminate with Athénaïse’s flight
from home. He knew that he could again compel her return
as he had done once before,—compel her to return to the
shelter of his roof, compel her cold and unwilling
submission to his love and passionate transports; but the

loss of self-respect seemed to him too dear a price to pay
for a wife.
He could not comprehend why she had seemed to
prefer him above others; why she had attracted him with
eyes, with voice, with a hundred womanly ways, and finally
distracted him with love which she seemed, in her timid,
maidenly fashion, to return. The great sense of loss came
from the realization of having missed a chance for
happiness,—a chance that would come his way again only
through a miracle. He could not think of himself loving any
other woman, and could not think of Athénaïse ever—even
at some remote date—caring for him.
He wrote her a letter, in which he disclaimed any
further intention of forcing his commands upon her. He did
not desire her presence ever again in his home unless she
came of her free will, uninfluenced by family or friends;
unless she could be the companion he had hoped for in
marrying her, and in some measure return affection and
respect for the love which he continued and would always
continue to feel for her. This letter he sent out to the rigolet
by a messenger early in the day. But she was not out on the
rigolet, and had not been there.
The family turned instinctively to Montéclin, and almost
literally fell upon him for an explanation; he had been
absent from home all night. There was much mystification
in his answers, and a plain desire to mislead in his
assurances of ignorance and innocence.
But with Cazeau there was no doubt or speculation
when he accosted the young fellow. “Montéclin, w’at have
you done with Athénaïse?” he questioned bluntly. They had
met in the open road on horseback, just as Cazeau
ascended the river bank before his house.

“W’at have you done to Athénaïse?” returned Montéclin
for answer.
“I don’t reckon you’ve considered yo’ conduct by any
light of decency an’ propriety in encouraging yo’ sister to
such an action, but let me tell you”—
“Voyons! you can let me alone with yo’ decency an’
morality an’ fiddlesticks. I know you mus’ ’a’ done
Athénaïse pretty mean that she can’t live with you; an’ fo’
my part, I’m mighty durn glad she had the spirit to quit
you.”
“I ain’t in the humor to take any notice of yo’
impertinence, Montéclin; but let me remine you that
Athénaïse is nothing but a chile in character; besides that,
she’s my wife, an’ I hole you responsible fo’ her safety an’
welfare. If any harm of any description happens to her, I’ll
strangle you, by God, like a rat, and fling you in Cane river,
if I have to hang fo’ it!” He had not lifted his voice. The only
sign of anger was a savage gleam in his eyes.
“I reckon you better keep yo’ big talk fo’ the women,
Cazeau,” replied Montéclin, riding away.
But he went doubly armed after that, and intimated
that the precaution was not needless, in view of the threats
and menaces that were abroad touching his personal safety.
 
VI
Athénaïse reached her destination sound of skin and
limb, but a good deal flustered, a little frightened, and
altogether excited and interested by her unusual
experiences.

Her destination was the house of Sylvie, on Dauphine
Street, in New Orleans,—a three-story gray brick, standing
directly on the banquette, with three broad stone steps
leading to the deep front entrance. From the second-story
balcony swung a small sign, conveying to passers-by the
intelligence that within were “chambres garnies.”
It was one morning in the last week of April that
Athénaïse presented herself at the Dauphine Street house.
Sylvie was expecting her, and introduced her at once to her
apartment, which was in the second story of the back ell,
and accessible by an open, outside gallery. There was a
yard below, paved with broad stone flagging; many fragrant
flowering shrubs and plants grew in a bed along the side of
the opposite wall, and others were distributed about in tubs
and green boxes.
It was a plain but large enough room into which
Athénaïse was ushered, with matting on the floor, green
shades and Nottingham-lace curtains at the windows that
looked out on the gallery, and furnished with a cheap
walnut suit. But everything looked exquisitely clean, and
the whole place smelled of cleanliness.
Athénaïse at once fell into the rocking-chair, with the
air of exhaustion and intense relief of one who has come to
the end of her troubles. Sylvie, entering behind her, laid the
big traveling-bag on the floor and deposited the jacket on
the bed.
She was a portly quadroon of fifty or there-about, clad
in an ample volante of the old-fashioned purple calico so
much affected by her class. She wore large golden hoop-
earrings, and her hair was combed plainly, with every
appearance of effort to smooth out the kinks. She had
broad, coarse features, with a nose that turned up,

exposing the wide nostrils, and that seemed to emphasize
the loftiness and command of her bearing,—a dignity that
in the presence of white people assumed a character of
respectfulness, but never of obsequiousness. Sylvie
believed firmly in maintaining the color line, and would not
suffer a white person, even a child, to call her “Madame
Sylvie,”—a title which she exacted religiously, however,
from those of her own race.
“I hope you be please’ wid yo’ room, madame,” she
observed amiably. “Dat’s de same room w’at yo’ brother,
M’sieur Miché, all time like w’en he come to New Orlean’.
He well, M’sieur Miché? I receive’ his letter las’ week, an’
dat same day a gent’man want I give ’im dat room. I say,
‘No, dat room already ingage’.’ Ev-body like dat room on
’count it so quite (quiet). M’sieur Gouvernail, dere in nax’
room, you can’t pay ’im! He been stay t’ree year’ in dat
room; but all fix’ up fine wid his own furn’ture an’ books,
’tel you can’t see! I say to ’im plenty time’, ‘M’sieur
Gouvernail, w’y you don’t take dat t’ree-story front, now,
long it’s empty?’ He tells me, ‘Leave me ’lone, Sylvie; I
know a good room w’en I fine it, me.’ ”
She had been moving slowly and majestically about the
apartment, straightening and smoothing down bed and
pillows, peering into ewer and basin, evidently casting an
eye around to make sure that everything was as it should
be.
“I sen’ you some fresh water, madame,” she offered
upon retiring from the room. “An’ w’en you want an’t’ing,
you jus’ go out on de gall’ry an’ call Pousette: she year you
plain,—she right down dere in de kitchen.”
Athénaïse was really not so exhausted as she had every
reason to be after that interminable and circuitous way by

which Montéclin had seen fit to have her conveyed to the
city.
Would she ever forget that dark and truly dangerous
midnight ride along the “coast” to the mouth of Cane river!
There Montéclin had parted with her, after seeing her
aboard the St. Louis and Shreveport packet which he knew
would pass there before dawn. She had received
instructions to disembark at the mouth of Red river, and
there transfer to the first south-bound steamer for New
Orleans; all of which instructions she had followed
implicitly, even to making her way at once to Sylvie’s upon
her arrival in the city. Montéclin had enjoined secrecy and
much caution; the clandestine nature of the affair gave it a
savor of adventure which was highly pleasing to him.
Eloping with his sister was only a little less engaging than
eloping with someone else’s sister.
But Montéclin did not do the grand seigneur by halves.
He had paid Sylvie a whole month in advance for
Athénaïse’s board and lodging. Part of the sum he had been
forced to borrow, it is true, but he was not niggardly.
Athénaïse was to take her meals in the house, which
none of the other lodgers did; the one exception being that
Mr. Gouvernail was served with breakfast on Sunday
mornings.
Sylvie’s clientèle came chiefly from the southern
parishes; for the most part, people spending but a few days
in the city. She prided herself upon the quality and highly
respectable character of her patrons, who came and went
unobtrusively.
The large parlor opening upon the front balcony was
seldom used. Her guests were permitted to entertain in this

sanctuary of elegance,—but they never did. She often
rented it for the night to parties of respectable and discreet
gentlemen desiring to enjoy a quiet game of cards outside
the bosom of their families. The second-story hall also led
by a long window out on the balcony. And Sylvie advised
Athénaïse, when she grew weary of her back room, to go
and sit on the front balcony, which was shady in the
afternoon, and where she might find diversion in the
sounds and sights of the street below.
Athénaïse refreshed herself with a bath, and was soon
unpacking her few belongings, which she ranged neatly
away in the bureau drawers and the armoire.
She had revolved certain plans in her mind during the
past hour or so. Her present intention was to live on
indefinitely in this big, cool, clean back room on Dauphine
street. She had thought seriously, for moments, of the
convent, with all readiness to embrace the vows of poverty
and chastity; but what about obedience? Later, she
intended, in some roundabout way, to give her parents and
her husband the assurance of her safety and welfare;
reserving the right to remain unmolested and lost to them.
To live on at the expense of Montéclin’s generosity was
wholly out of the question, and Athénaïse meant to look
about for some suitable and agreeable employment.
The imperative thing to be done at present, however,
was to go out in search of material for an inexpensive gown
or two; for she found herself in the painful predicament of a
young woman having almost literally nothing to wear. She
decided upon pure white for one, and some sort of sprigged
muslin for the other.
 
VII

On Sunday morning, two days after Athénaïse’s arrival
in the city, she went in to breakfast somewhat later than
usual, to find two covers laid at table instead of the one to
which she was accustomed. She had been to mass, and did
not remove her hat, but put her fan, parasol, and prayer-
book aside. The dining-room was situated just beneath her
own apartment, and, like all rooms of the house, was large
and airy; the floor was covered with a glistening oil-cloth.
The small, round table, immaculately set, was drawn
near the open window. There were some tall plants in boxes
on the gallery outside; and Pousette, a little, old, intensely
black woman, was splashing and dashing buckets of water
on the flagging, and talking loud in her Creole patois to no
one in particular.
A dish piled with delicate river-shrimps and crushed ice
was on the table; a caraffe of crystal-clear water, a few bors
d’œuvres, beside a small golden-brown crusty loaf of
French bread at each plate. A half-bottle of wine and the
morning paper were set at the place opposite Athénaïse.
She had almost completed her breakfast when
Gouvernail came in and seated himself at table. He felt
annoyed at finding his cherished privacy invaded. Sylvie
was removing the remains of a mutton-chop from before
Athénaïse, and serving her with a cup of café au lait.
“M’sieur Gouvernail,” offered Sylvie in her most
insinuating and impressive manner, “you please leave me
make you acquaint’ wid Madame Cazeau. Dat’s M’sieur
Miché’s sister; you meet ’im two t’ree time’, you rec’lec’,
an’ been one day to de race wid ’im. Madame Cazeau, you
please leave me make you acquaint’ wid M’sieur
Gouvernail.”

Gouvernail expressed himself greatly pleased to meet
the sister of Monsieur Miché, of whom he had not the
slightest recollection. He inquired after Monsieur Miché’s
health, and politely offered Athénaïse a part of his
newspaper,—the part which contained the Woman’s Page
and the social gossip.
Athénaïse faintly remembered that Sylvie had spoken of
a Monsieur Gouvernail occupying the room adjoining hers,
living amid luxurious surroundings and a multitude of
books. She had not thought of him further than to picture
him a stout, middle-aged gentleman, with a bushy beard
turning gray, wearing large gold-rimmed spectacles, and
stooping somewhat from much bending over books and
writing material. She had confused him in her mind with
the likeness of some literary celebrity that she had run
across in the advertising pages of a magazine.
Gouvernail’s appearance was, in truth, in no sense
striking. He looked older than thirty and younger than
forty, was of medium height and weight, with a quiet,
unobtrusive manner which seemed to ask that he be let
alone. His hair was light brown, brushed carefully and
parted in the middle. His mustache was brown, and so were
his eyes, which had a mild, penetrating quality. He was
neatly dressed in the fashion of the day; and his hands
seemed to Athénaïse remarkably white and soft for a man’s.
He had been buried in the contents of his newspaper,
when he suddenly realized that some further little attention
might be due to Miché’s sister. He started to offer her a
glass of wine, when he was surprised and relieved to find
that she had quietly slipped away while he was absorbed in
his own editorial on Corrupt Legislation.

Gouvernail finished his paper and smoked his cigar out
on the gallery. He lounged about, gathered a rose for his
buttonhole, and had his regular Sunday-morning confab
with Pousette, to whom he paid a weekly stipend for
brushing his shoes and clothing. He made a great pretense
of haggling over the transaction, only to enjoy her
uneasiness and garrulous excitement.
He worked or read in his room for a few hours, and
when he quitted the house, at three in the afternoon, it was
to return no more till late at night. It was his almost
invariable custom to spend Sunday evenings out in the
American quarter, among a congenial set of men and
women,—des esprits forts, all of them, whose lives were
irreproachable, yet whose opinions would startle even the
traditional “sapeur,” for whom “nothing is sacred.” But for
all his “advanced” opinions, Gouvernail was a liberal-
minded fellow; a man or woman lost nothing of his respect
by being married.
When he left the house in the afternoon. Athénaïse had
already ensconced herself on the front balcony. He could
see her through the jalousies when he passed on his way to
the front entrance. She had not yet grown lonesome or
homesick; the newness of her surroundings made them
sufficiently entertaining. She found it diverting to sit there
on the front balcony watching people pass by, even though
there was no one to talk to. And then the comforting,
comfortable sense of not being married!
She watched Gouvernail walk down the street, and
could find no fault with his bearing. He could hear the
sound of her rockers for some little distance. He wondered
what the “poor little thing” was doing in the city, and meant
to ask Sylvie about her when he should happen to think of
it.

 
VIII
The following morning, towards noon, when Gouvernail
quitted his room, he was confronted by Athénaïse,
exhibiting some confusion and trepidation at being forced
to request a favor of him at so early a stage of their
acquaintance. She stood in her doorway, and had evidently
been sewing, as the thimble on her finger testified, as well
as a long-threaded needle thrust in the bosom of her gown.
She held a stamped but unaddressed letter in her hand.
And would Mr. Gouvernail be so kind as to address the
letter to her brother, Mr. Montéclin Miché? She would hate
to detain him with explanations this morning,—another
time, perhaps,—but now she begged that he would give
himself the trouble.
He assured her that it made no difference, that it was
no trouble whatever; and he drew a fountain pen from his
pocket and addressed the letter at her dictation, resting it
on the inverted rim of his straw hat. She wondered a little
at a man of his supposed erudition stumbling over the
spelling of “Montéclin” and “Miché.”
She demurred at overwhelming him with the additional
trouble of posting it, but he succeeded in convincing her
that so simple a task as the posting of a letter would not
add an iota to the burden of the day. Moreover, he promised
to carry it in his hand, and thus avoid any possible risk of
forgetting it in his pocket.
After that, and after a second repetition of the favor,
when she had told him that she had had a letter from
Montéclin, and looked as if she wanted to tell him more, he

felt that he knew her better. He felt that he knew her well
enough to join her out on the balcony, one night, when he
found her sitting there alone. He was not one who
deliberately sought the society of women, but he was not
wholly a bear. A little commiseration for Athénaïse’s
aloneness, perhaps some curiosity to know further what
manner of woman she was, and the natural influence of her
feminine charm were equal unconfessed factors in turning
his steps towards the balcony when he discovered the
shimmer of her white gown through the open hall window.
It was already quite late, but the day had been
intensely hot, and neighboring balconies and doorways
were occupied by chattering groups of humanity, loath to
abandon the grateful freshness of the outer air. The voices
about her served to reveal to Athénaïse the feeling of
loneliness that was gradually coming over her.
Notwithstanding certain dormant impulses, she craved
human sympathy and companionship.
She shook hands impulsively with Gouvernail, and told
him how glad she was to see him. He was not prepared for
such an admission, but it pleased him immensely, detecting
as he did that the expression was as sincere as it was
outspoken. He drew a chair up within comfortable
conversational distance of Athénaïse, though he had no
intention of talking more than was barely necessary to
encourage Madame—He had actually forgotten her name!
He leaned an elbow on the balcony rail, and would have
offered an opening remark about the oppressive heat of the
day, but Athénaïse did not give him the opportunity. How
glad she was to talk to some one, and how she talked!
An hour later she had gone to her room, and Gouvernail
stayed smoking on the balcony. He knew her quite well

after that hour’s talk. It was not so much what she had said
as what her half saying had revealed to his quick
intelligence. He knew that she adored Montéclin, and he
suspected that she adored Cazeau without being herself
aware of it. He had gathered that she was self-willed,
impulsive, innocent, ignorant, unsatisfied, dissatisfied; for
had she not complained that things seemed all wrongly
arranged in this world, and no one was permitted to be
happy in his own way? And he told her he was sorry she
had discovered that primordial fact of existence so early in
life.
He commiserated her loneliness, and scanned his
bookshelves next morning for something to lend her to
read, rejecting everything that offered itself to his view.
Philosophy was out of the question, and so was poetry; that
is, such poetry as he possessed. He had not sounded her
literary tastes, and strongly suspected she had none; that
she would have rejected The Duchess as readily as Mrs.
Humphry Ward. He compromised on a magazine.
It had entertained her passably, she admitted, upon
returning it. A New England story had puzzled her, it was
true, and a Creole tale had offended her, but the pictures
had pleased her greatly, especially one which had reminded
her so strongly of Montéclin after a hard day’s ride that she
was loath to give it up. It was one of Remington’s Cowboys,
and Gouvernail insisted upon her keeping it,—keeping the
magazine.
He spoke to her daily after that, and was always eager
to render her some service or to do something towards her
entertainment.
One afternoon he took her out to the lake end. She had
been there once, some years before, but in winter, so the

trip was comparatively new and strange to her. The large
expanse of water studded with pleasure-boats, the sight of
children playing merrily along the grassy palisades, the
music, all enchanted her. Gouvernail thought her the most
beautiful woman he had ever seen. Even her gown—the
sprigged muslin—appeared to him the most charming one
imaginable. Nor could anything be more becoming than the
arrangement of her brown hair under the white sailor hat,
all rolled back in a soft puff from her radiant face. And she
carried her parasol and lifted her skirts and used her fan in
ways that seemed quite unique and peculiar to herself, and
which he considered almost worthy of study and imitation.
They did not dine out there at the water’s edge, as they
might have done, but returned early to the city to avoid the
crowd. Athénaïse wanted to go home, for she said Sylvie
would have dinner prepared and would be expecting her.
But it was not difficult to persuade her to dine instead in
the quiet little restaurant that he knew and liked, with its
sanded floor, its secluded atmosphere, its delicious menu,
and its obsequious waiter wanting to know what he might
have the honor of serving to “monsieur et madame.” No
wonder he made the mistake, with Gouvernail assuming
such an air of proprietorship! But Athénaïse was very tired
after it all; the sparkle went out of her face, and she hung
draggingly on his arm in walking home.
He was reluctant to part from her when she bade him
good-night at her door and thanked him for the agreeable
evening. He had hoped she would sit outside until it was
time for him to regain the newspaper office. He knew that
she would undress and get into her peignoir and lie upon
her bed; and what he wanted to do, what he would have
given much to do, was to go and sit beside her, read to her
something restful, soothe her, do her bidding, whatever it
might be. Of course there was no use in thinking of that.

But he was surprised at his growing desire to be serving
her. She gave him an opportunity sooner than he looked for.
“Mr. Gouvernail,” she called from her room, “will you
be so kine as to call Pousette an’ tell her she fo’got to bring
my ice-water?”
He was indignant at Pousette’s negligence, and called
severely to her over the banisters. He was sitting before his
own door, smoking. He knew that Athénaïse had gone to
bed, for her room was dark, and she had opened the slats
of the door and windows. Her bed was near a window.
Pousette came flopping up with the ice-water, and with
a hundred excuses: “Mo pa oua vou à tab c’te lanuite, mo
cri vou pé gagni déja là-bas; parole! Vou pas cri conté ça
Madame Sylvie?” She had not seen Athénaïse at table, and
thought she was gone. She swore to this, and hoped
Madame Sylvie would not be informed of her remissness.
A little later Athénaïse lifted her voice again: “Mr.
Gouvernail, did you remark that young man sitting on the
opposite side from us, coming in, with a gray coat an’ a
blue ban’ aroun’ his hat?”
Of course Gouvernail had not noticed any such
individual, but he assured Athénaïse that he had observed
the young fellow particularly.
“Don’t you think he looked something,—not very much,
of co’se,—but don’t you think he had a little faux-air of
Montéclin?”
“I think he looked strikingly like Montéclin,” asserted
Gouvernail, with the one idea of prolonging the
conversation. “I meant to call your attention to the
resemblance, and something drove it out of my head.”

“The same with me,” returned Athénaïse. “Ah, my dear
Montéclin! I wonder w’at he is doing now?”
“Did you receive any news, any letter from him to-day?”
asked Gouvernail, determined that if the conversation
ceased it should not be through lack of effort on his part to
sustain it.
“Not to-day, but yesterday. He tells me that maman was
so distracted with uneasiness that finally, to pacify her, he
was fo’ced to confess that he knew w’ere I was, but that he
was boun’ by a vow of secrecy not to reveal it. But Cazeau
has not noticed him or spoken to him since he threaten’ to
throw po’ Montéclin in Cane river. You know Cazeau wrote
me a letter the morning I lef’, thinking I had gone to the
rigolet. An’ maman opened it, an’ said it was full of the
mos’ noble sentiments, an’ she wanted Montéclin to sen’ it
to me; but Montéclin refuse’ poin’ blank, so he wrote to
me.”
Gouvernail preferred to talk of Montéclin. He pictured
Cazeau as unbearable, and did not like to think of him.
A little later Athénaïse called out, “Good-night, Mr.
Gouvernail.”
“Good-night,” he returned reluctantly. And when he
thought that she was sleeping, he got up and went away to
the midnight pandemonium of his newspaper office.
 
IX
Athénaïse could not have held out through the month
had it not been for Gouvernail. With the need of caution
and secrecy always uppermost in her mind, she made no

new acquaintances, and she did not seek out persons
already known to her; however, she knew so few, it
required little effort to keep out of their way. As for Sylvie,
almost every moment of her time was occupied in looking
after her house; and, moreover, her deferential attitude
towards her lodgers forbade anything like the gossipy chats
in which Athénaïse might have condescended sometimes to
indulge with her land-lady. The transient lodgers, who came
and went, she never had occasion to meet. Hence she was
entirely dependent upon Gouvernail for company.
He appreciated the situation fully; and every moment
that he could spare from his work he devoted to her
entertainment. She liked to be out of doors, and they
strolled together in the summer twilight through the mazes
of the old French quarter. They went again to the lake end,
and stayed for hours on the water; returning so late that
the streets through which they passed were silent and
deserted. On Sunday morning he arose at an
unconscionable hour to take her to the French market,
knowing that the sights and sounds there would interest
her. And he did not join the intellectual coterie in the
afternoon, as he usually did, but placed himself all day at
the disposition and service of Athénaïse.
Notwithstanding all, his manner toward her was tactful,
and evinced intelligence and a deep knowledge of her
character, surprising upon so brief an acquaintance. For
the time he was everything to her that she would have him;
he replaced home and friends. Sometimes she wondered if
he had ever loved a woman. She could not fancy him loving
any one passionately, rudely, offensively, as Cazeau loved
her. Once she was so naïve as to ask him outright if he had
ever been in love, and he assured her promptly that he had
not. She thought it an admirable trait in his character, and
esteemed him greatly therefor.

He found her crying one night, not openly or violently.
She was leaning over the gallery rail, watching the toads
that hopped about in the moonlight, down on the damp
flagstones of the courtyard. There was an oppressively
sweet odor rising from the cape jessamine. Pousette was
down there, mumbling and quarreling with some one, and
seeming to be having it all her own way,—as well she
might, when her companion was only a black cat that had
come in from a neighboring yard to keep her company.
Athénaïse did admit feeling heart-sick, body-sick, when
he questioned her; she supposed it was nothing but
homesick. A letter from Montéclin had stirred her all up.
She longed for her mother, for Montéclin; she was sick for
a sight of the cotton-fields, the scent of the ploughed earth,
for the dim, mysterious charm of the woods, and the old
tumble-down home on the Bon Dieu.
As Gouvernail listened to her, a wave of pity and
tenderness swept through him. He took her hands and
pressed them against him. He wondered what would
happen if he were to put his arms around her.
He was hardly prepared for what happened, but he
stood it courageously. She twined her arms around his neck
and wept outright on his shoulder; the hot tears scalding
his cheek and neck, and her whole body shaken in his arms.
The impulse was powerful to strain her to him; the
temptation was fierce to seek her lips; but he did neither.
He understood a thousand times better than she herself
understood it that he was acting as substitute for
Montéclin. Bitter as the conviction was, he accepted it. He
was patient; he could wait. He hoped some day to hold her
with a lover’s arms. That she was married made no particle
of difference to Gouvernail. He could not conceive or dream

of it making a difference. When the time came that she
wanted him,—as he hoped and believed it would come,—he
felt he would have a right to her. So long as she did not
want him, he had no right to her,—no more than her
husband had. It was very hard to feel her warm breath and
tears upon his cheek, and her struggling bosom pressed
against him and her soft arms clinging to him and his whole
body and soul aching for her, and yet to make no sign.
He tried to think what Montéclin would have said and
done, and to act accordingly. He stroked her hair, and held
her in a gentle embrace, until the tears dried and the sobs
ended. Before releasing herself she kissed him against the
neck; she had to love somebody in her own way! Even that
he endured like a stoic. But it was well he left her, to
plunge into the thick of rapid, breathless, exacting work till
nearly dawn.
Athénaïse was greatly soothed, and slept well. The
touch of friendly hands and caressing arms had been very
grateful. Henceforward she would not be lonely and
unhappy, with Gouvernail there to comfort her.
 
X
The fourth week of Athénaïse’s stay in the city was
drawing to a close. Keeping in view the intention which she
had of finding some suitable and agreeable employment,
she had made a few tentatives in that direction. But with
the exception of two little girls who had promised to take
piano lessons at a price that would be embarrassing to
mention, these attempts had been fruitless. Moreover, the
homesickness kept coming back, and Gouvernail was not
always there to drive it away.

She spent much of her time weeding and pottering
among the flowers down in the courtyard. She tried to take
an interest in the black cat, and a mockingbird that hung in
a cage outside the kitchen door, and a disreputable parrot
that belonged to the cook next door, and swore hoarsely all
day long in bad French.
Beside, she was not well; she was not herself, as she
told Sylvie. The climate of New Orleans did not agree with
her. Sylvie was distressed to learn this, as she felt in some
measure responsible for the health and well-being of
Monsieur Miché’s sister; and she made it her duty to
inquire closely into the nature and character of Athénaïse’s
malaise.
Sylvie was very wise, and Athénaïse was very ignorant.
The extent of her ignorance and the depth of her
subsequent enlightenment were bewildering. She stayed a
long, long time quite still, quite stunned, after her
interview with Sylvie, except for the short, uneven
breathing that ruffled her bosom. Her whole being was
steeped in a wave of ecstasy. When she finally arose from
the chair in which she had been seated, and looked at
herself in the mirror, a face met hers which she seemed to
see for the first time, so transfigured was it with wonder
and rapture.
One mood quickly followed another, in this new turmoil
of her senses, and the need of action became uppermost.
Her mother must know at once, and her mother must tell
Montéclin. And Cazeau must know. As she thought of him,
the first purely sensuous tremor of her life swept over her.
She half whispered his name, and the sound of it brought
red blotches into her cheeks. She spoke it over and over, as
if it were some new, sweet sound born out of darkness and
confusion, and reaching her for the first time. She was

impatient to be with him. Her whole passionate nature was
aroused as if by a miracle.
She seated herself to write to her husband. The letter
he would get in the morning, and she would be with him at
night. What would he say? How would he act? She knew
that he would forgive her, for had he not written a letter?—
and a pang of resentment toward Montéclin shot through
her. What did he mean by withholding that letter? How
dared he not have sent it?
Athénaïse attired herself for the street, and went out to
post the letter which she had penned with a single thought,
a spontaneous impulse. It would have seemed incoherent to
most people, but Cazeau would understand.
She walked along the street as if she had fallen heir to
some magnificent inheritance. On her face was a look of
pride and satisfaction that passers-by noticed and admired.
She wanted to talk to some one, to tell some person; and
she stopped at the corner and told the oyster-woman, who
was Irish, and who God-blessed her, and wished prosperity
to the race of Cazeaus for generations to come. She held
the oyster-woman’s fat, dirty little baby in her arms and
scanned it curiously and observingly, as if a baby were a
phenomenon that she encountered for the first time in life.
She even kissed it!
Then what a relief it was to Athénaïse to walk the
streets without dread of being seen and recognized by
some chance acquaintance from Red river! No one could
have said now that she did not know her own mind.
She went directly from the oyster-woman’s to the office
of Harding & Offdean, her husband’s merchants; and it was
with such an air of partnership, almost proprietorship, that

she demanded a sum of money on her husband’s account,
they gave it to her as unhesitatingly as they would have
handed it over to Cazeau himself. When Mr. Harding, who
knew her, asked politely after her health, she turned so
rosy and looked so conscious, he thought it a great pity for
so pretty a woman to be such a little goose.
Athénaïse entered a dry-goods store and bought all
manner of things,—little presents for nearly everybody she
knew. She bought whole bolts of sheerest, softest, downiest
white stuff; and when the clerk, in trying to meet her
wishes, asked if she intended it for infant’s use, she could
have sunk through the floor, and wondered how he might
have suspected it.
As it was Montéclin who had taken her away from her
husband, she wanted it to be Montéclin who should take
her back to him. So she wrote him a very curt note,—in fact
it was a postal card,—asking that he meet her at the train
on the evening following. She felt convinced that after what
had gone before, Cazeau would await her at their own
home; and she preferred it so.
Then there was the agreeable excitement of getting
ready to leave, of packing up her things. Pousette kept
coming and going, coming and going; and each time that
she quitted the room it was with something that Athénaïse
had given her,—a handkerchief, a petticoat, a pair of
stockings with two tiny holes at the toes, some broken
prayer-beads, and finally a silver dollar.
Next it was Sylvie who came along bearing a gift of
what she called “a set of pattern’,”—things of complicated
design which never could have been obtained in any new-
fangled bazaar or pattern-store, that Sylvie had acquired of
a foreign lady of distinction whom she had nursed years

before at the St. Charles hotel. Athénaïse accepted and
handled them with reverence, fully sensible of the great
compliment and favor, and laid them religiously away in the
trunk which she had lately acquired.
She was greatly fatigued after the day of unusual
exertion, and went early to bed and to sleep. All day long
she had not once thought of Gouvernail, and only did think
of him when aroused for a brief instant by the sound of his
foot-falls on the gallery, as he passed in going to his room.
He had hoped to find her up, waiting for him.
But the next morning he knew. Some one must have
told him. There was no subject known to her which Sylvie
hesitated to discuss in detail with any man of suitable years
and discretion.
Athénaïse found Gouvernail waiting with a carriage to
convey her to the railway station. A momentary pang
visited her for having forgotten him so completely, when he
said to her, “Sylvie tells me you are going away this
morning.”
He was kind, attentive, and amiable, as usual, but
respected to the utmost the new dignity and reserve that
her manner had developed since yesterday. She kept
looking from the carriage window, silent, and embarrassed
as Eve after losing her ignorance. He talked of the muddy
streets and the murky morning, and of Montéclin. He
hoped she would find everything comfortable and pleasant
in the country, and trusted she would inform him whenever
she came to visit the city again. He talked as if afraid or
mistrustful of silence and himself.
At the station she handed him her purse, and he bought
her ticket, secured for her a comfortable section, checked

her trunk, and got all the bundles and things safely aboard
the train. She felt very grateful. He pressed her hand
warmly, lifted his hat, and left her. He was a man of
intelligence, and took defeat gracefully; that was all. But as
he made his way back to the carriage, he was thinking, “By
heaven, it hurts, it hurts!”
 
XI
Athénaïse spent a day of supreme happiness and
expectancy. The fair sight of the country unfolding itself
before her was balm to her vision and to her soul. She was
charmed with the rather unfamiliar, broad, clean sweep of
the sugar plantations, with their monster sugar-houses,
their rows of neat cabins like little villages of a single
street, and their impressive homes standing apart amid
clusters of trees. There were sudden glimpses of a bayou
curling between sunny, grassy banks, or creeping
sluggishly out from a tangled growth of wood, and brush,
and fern, and poison-vines, and palmettos. And passing
through the long stretches of monotonous woodlands, she
would close her eyes and taste in anticipation the moment
of her meeting with Cazeau. She could think of nothing but
him.
It was night when she reached her station. There was
Montéclin, as she had expected, waiting for her with a two-
seated buggy, to which he had hitched his own swift-footed,
spirited pony. It was good, he felt, to have her back on any
terms; and he had no fault to find since she came of her
own choice. He more than suspected the cause of her
coming; her eyes and her voice and her foolish little
manner went far in revealing the secret that was brimming
over in her heart. But after he had deposited her at her

own gate, and as he continued his way toward the rigolet,
he could not help feeling that the affair had taken a very
disappointing, an ordinary, a most commonplace turn, after
all. He left her in Cazeau’s keeping.
Her husband lifted her out of the buggy, and neither
said a word until they stood together within the shelter of
the gallery. Even then they did not speak at first. But
Athénaïse turned to him with an appealing gesture. As he
clasped her in his arms, he felt the yielding of her whole
body against him. He felt her lips for the first time respond
to the passion of his own.
The country night was dark and warm and still, save for
the distant notes of an accordion which some one was
playing in a cabin away off. A little negro baby was crying
somewhere. As Athénaïse withdrew from her husband’s
embrace, the sound arrested her.
“Listen, Cazeau! How Juliette’s baby is crying! Pauvre
ti chou, I wonder w’at is the matter with it?”
OceanofPDF.com

 
A Pair of Silk Stockings
Little Mrs. Sommers one day found herself the unexpected
possessor of fifteen dollars. It seemed to her a very large
amount of money, and the way in which it stuffed and
bulged her worn old porte-monnaie gave her a feeling of
importance such as she had not enjoyed for years.
The question of investment was one that occupied her
greatly. For a day or two she walked about apparently in a
dreamy state, but really absorbed in speculation and
calculation. She did not wish to act hastily, to do anything
she might afterward regret. But it was during the still
hours of the night when she lay awake revolving plans in
her mind that she seemed to see her way clearly toward a
proper and judicious use of the money.
A dollar or two should be added to the price usually
paid for Janie’s shoes, which would insure their lasting an
appreciable time longer than they usually did. She would
buy so and so many yards of percale for new shirt waists
for the boys and Janie and Mag. She had intended to make
the old ones do by skilful patching. Mag should have
another gown. She had seen some beautiful patterns,
veritable bargains in the shop windows. And still there
would be left enough for new stockings—two pairs apiece—
and what darning that would save for a while! She would
get caps for the boys and sailor-hats for the girls. The
vision of her little brood looking fresh and dainty and new
for once in their lives excited her and made her restless
and wakeful with anticipation.

The neighbors sometimes talked of certain “better
days” that little Mrs. Sommers had known before she had
ever thought of being Mrs. Sommers. She herself indulged
in no such morbid retrospection. She had no time—no
second of time to devote to the past. The needs of the
present absorbed her every faculty. A vision of the future
like some dim, gaunt monster sometimes appalled her, but
luckily to-morrow never comes.
Mrs. Sommers was one who knew the value of
bargains; who could stand for hours making her way inch
by inch toward the desired object that was selling below
cost. She could elbow her way if need be; she had learned
to clutch a piece of goods and hold it and stick to it with
persistence and determination till her turn came to be
served, no matter when it came.
But that day she was a little faint and tired. She had
swallowed a light luncheon—no! when she came to think of
it, between getting the children fed and the place righted,
and preparing herself for the shopping bout, she had
actually forgotten to eat any luncheon at all!
She sat herself upon a revolving stool before a counter
that was comparatively deserted, trying to gather strength
and courage to charge through an eager multitude that was
besieging breastworks of shirting and figured lawn. An all-
gone limp feeling had come over her and she rested her
hand aimlessly upon the counter. She wore no gloves. By
degrees she grew aware that her hand had encountered
something very soothing, very pleasant to touch. She
looked down to see that her hand lay upon a pile of silk
stockings. A placard near by announced that they had been
reduced in price from two dollars and fifty cents to one
dollar and ninety-eight cents; and a young girl who stood
behind the counter asked her if she wished to examine

their line of silk hosiery. She smiled, just as if she had been
asked to inspect a tiara of diamonds with the ultimate view
of purchasing it. But she went on feeling the soft, sheeny
luxurious things—with both hands now, holding them up to
see them glisten, and to feel them glide serpent-like
through her fingers.
Two hectic blotches came suddenly into her pale
cheeks. She looked up at the girl.
“Do you think there are any eights-and-a-half among
these?”
There were any number of eights-and-a-half. In fact,
there were more of that size than any other. Here was a
light-blue pair; there were some lavender, some all black
and various shades of tan and gray. Mrs. Sommers selected
a black pair and looked at them very long and closely. She
pretended to be examining their texture, which the clerk
assured her was excellent.
“A dollar and ninety-eight cents,” she mused aloud.
“Well, I’ll take this pair.” She handed the girl a five-dollar
bill and waited for her change and for her parcel. What a
very small parcel it was! It seemed lost in the depths of her
shabby old shopping-bag.
Mrs. Sommers after that did not move in the direction
of the bargain counter. She took the elevator, which carried
her to an upper floor into the region of the ladies’ waiting-
rooms. Here, in a retired corner, she exchanged her cotton
stockings for the new silk ones which she had just bought.
She was not going through any acute mental process or
reasoning with herself, nor was she striving to explain to
her satisfaction the motive of her action. She was not
thinking at all. She seemed for the time to be taking a rest

from that laborious and fatiguing function and to have
abandoned herself to some mechanical impulse that
directed her actions and freed her of responsibility.
How good was the touch of the raw silk to her flesh!
She felt like lying back in the cushioned chair and reveling
for a while in the luxury of it. She did for a little while.
Then she replaced her shoes, rolled the cotton stockings
together and thrust them into her bag. After doing this she
crossed straight over to the shoe department and took her
seat to be fitted.
She was fastidious. The clerk could not make her out;
he could not reconcile her shoes with her stockings, and
she was not too easily pleased. She held back her skirts and
turned her feet one way and her head another way as she
glanced down at the polished, pointed-tipped boots. Her
foot and ankle looked very pretty. She could not realize that
they belonged to her and were a part of herself. She
wanted an excellent and stylish fit, she told the young
fellow who served her, and she did not mind the difference
of a dollar or two more in the price so long as she got what
she desired.
It was a long time since Mrs. Sommers had been fitted
with gloves. On rare occasions when she had bought a pair
they were always “bargains,” so cheap that it would have
been preposterous and unreasonable to have expected
them to be fitted to the hand.
Now she rested her elbow on the cushion of the glove
counter, and a pretty, pleasant young creature, delicate and
deft of touch, drew a long-wristed “kid” over Mrs.
Sommers’s hand. She smoothed it down over the wrist and
buttoned it neatly, and both lost themselves for a second or
two in admiring contemplation of the little symmetrical

gloved hand. But there were other places where money
might be spent.
There were books and magazines piled up in the
window of a stall a few paces down the street. Mrs.
Sommers bought two high-priced magazines such as she
had been accustomed to read in the days when she had
been accustomed to other pleasant things. She carried
them without wrapping. As well as she could she lifted her
skirts at the crossings. Her stockings and boots and well
fitting gloves had worked marvels in her bearing—had
given her a feeling of assurance, a sense of belonging to
the well-dressed multitude.
She was very hungry. Another time she would have
stilled the cravings for food until reaching her own home,
where she would have brewed herself a cup of tea and
taken a snack of anything that was available. But the
impulse that was guiding her would not suffer her to
entertain any such thought.
There was a restaurant at the corner. She had never
entered its doors; from the outside she had sometimes
caught glimpses of spotless damask and shining crystal,
and soft-stepping waiters serving people of fashion.
When she entered her appearance created no surprise,
no consternation, as she had half feared it might. She
seated herself at a small table alone, and an attentive
waiter at once approached to take her order. She did not
want a profusion; she craved a nice and tasty bite—a half
dozen blue-points, a plump chop with cress, a something
sweet—a crème-frappée, for instance; a glass of Rhine
wine, and after all a small cup of black coffee.

While waiting to be served she removed her gloves very
leisurely and laid them beside her. Then she picked up a
magazine and glanced through it, cutting the pages with a
blunt edge of her knife. It was all very agreeable. The
damask was even more spotless than it had seemed
through the window, and the crystal more sparkling. There
were quiet ladies and gentlemen, who did not notice her,
lunching at the small tables like her own. A soft, pleasing
strain of music could be heard, and a gentle breeze was
blowing through the window. She tasted a bite, and she
read a word or two, and she sipped the amber wine and
wiggled her toes in the silk stockings. The price of it made
no difference. She counted the money out to the waiter and
left an extra coin on his tray, whereupon he bowed before
her as before a princess of royal blood.
There was still money in her purse, and her next
temptation presented itself in the shape of a matinée
poster.
It was a little later when she entered the theatre, the
play had begun and the house seemed to her to be packed.
But there were vacant seats here and there, and into one of
them she was ushered, between brilliantly dressed women
who had gone there to kill time and eat candy and display
their gaudy attire. There were many others who were there
solely for the play and acting. It is safe to say there was no
one present who bore quite the attitude which Mrs.
Sommers did to her surroundings. She gathered in the
whole—stage and players and people in one wide
impression, and absorbed it and enjoyed it. She laughed at
the comedy and wept—she and the gaudy woman next to
her wept over the tragedy. And they talked a little together
over it. And the gaudy woman wiped her eyes and sniffled
on a tiny square of filmy, perfumed lace and passed little
Mrs. Sommers her box of candy.

The play was over, the music ceased, the crowd filed
out. It was like a dream ended. People scattered in all
directions. Mrs. Sommers went to the corner and waited
for the cable car.
A man with keen eyes, who sat opposite to her, seemed
to like the study of her small, pale face. It puzzled him to
decipher what he saw there. In truth, he saw nothing—
unless he were wizard enough to detect a poignant wish, a
powerful longing that the cable car would never stop
anywhere, but go on and on with her forever.
OceanofPDF.com

 
Nég Créol
At the remote period of his birth he had been named
César François Xavier, but no one ever thought of calling
him anything but Chicot, or Nég, or Maringouin. Down at
the French market, where he worked among the
fishmongers, they called him Chicot, when they were not
calling him names that are written less freely than they are
spoken. But one felt privileged to call him almost anything,
he was so black, lean, lame, and shriveled. He wore a head-
kerchief, and whatever other rags the fishermen and their
wives chose to bestow upon him. Throughout one whole
winter he wore a woman’s discarded jacket with puffed
sleeves.
Among some startling beliefs entertained by Chicot was
one that “Michié St. Pierre et Michié St. Paul” had created
him. Of “Michié bon Dieu” he held his own private opinion,
and not a too flattering one at that. This fantastic notion
concerning the origin of his being he owed to the early
teaching of his young master, a lax believer, and a great
farceur in his day. Chicot had once been thrashed by a
robust young Irish priest for expressing his religious views,
and at another time knifed by a Sicilian. So he had come to
hold his peace upon that subject.
Upon another theme he talked freely and harped
continuously. For years he had tried to convince his
associates that his master had left a progeny, rich,
cultured, powerful, and numerous beyond belief. This
prosperous race of beings inhabited the most imposing
mansions in the city of New Orleans. Men of note and
position, whose names were familiar to the public, he

swore were grandchildren, great-grandchildren, or, less
frequently, distant relatives of his master, long deceased.
Ladies who came to the market in carriages, or whose
elegance of attire attracted the attention and admiration of
the fishwomen, were all des ’tites cousines to his former
master, Jean Boisduré. He never looked for recognition
from any of these superior beings, but delighted to
discourse by the hour upon their dignity and pride of birth
and wealth.
Chicot always carried an old gunny-sack, and into this
went his earnings. He cleaned stalls at the market, scaled
fish, and did many odd offices for the itinerant merchants,
who usually paid in trade for his service. Occasionally he
saw the color of silver and got his clutch upon a coin, but
he accepted anything, and seldom made terms. He was
glad to get a handkerchief from the Hebrew, and grateful if
the Choctaws would trade him a bottle of filé for it. The
butcher flung him a soup bone, and the fishmonger a few
crabs or a paper bag of shrimps. It was the big mulatresse,
vendeuse de café, who cared for his inner man.
Once Chicot was accused by a shoe-vender of
attempting to steal a pair of ladies’ shoes. He declared he
was only examining them. The clamor raised in the market
was terrific. Young Dagoes assembled and squealed like
rats; a couple of Gascon butchers bellowed like bulls.
Matteo’s wife shook her fist in the accuser’s face and called
him incomprehensible names. The Choctaw women, where
they squatted, turned their slow eyes in the direction of the
fray, taking no further notice; while a policeman jerked
Chicot around by the puffed sleeve and brandished a club.
It was a narrow escape.
Nobody knew where Chicot lived. A man—even a nég
créol—who lives among the reeds and willows of Bayou St.

John, in a deserted chicken-coop constructed chiefly of
tarred paper, is not going to boast of his habitation or to
invite attention to his domestic appointments. When, after
market hours, he vanished in the direction of St. Philip
street, limping, seemingly bent under the weight of his
gunny-bag, it was like the disappearance from the stage of
some petty actor whom the audience does not follow in
imagination beyond the wings, or think of till his return in
another scene.
There was one to whom Chicot’s coming or going
meant more than this. In la maison grise they called her La
Chouette, for no earthly reason unless that she perched
high under the roof of the old rookery and scolded in shrill
sudden outbursts. Forty or fifty years before, when for a
little while she acted minor parts with a company of French
players (an escapade that had brought her grandmother to
the grave), she was known as Mademoiselle de
Montallaine. Seventy-five years before she had been
christened Aglaé Boisduré.
No matter at what hour the old negro appeared at her
threshold, Mamzelle Aglaé always kept him waiting till she
finished her prayers. She opened the door for him and
silently motioned him to a seat, returning to prostrate
herself upon her knees before a crucifix, and a shell filled
with holy water that stood on a small table; it represented
in her imagination an altar. Chicot knew that she did it to
aggravate him; he was convinced that she timed her
devotions to begin when she heard his footsteps on the
stairs. He would sit with sullen eyes contemplating her
long, spare, poorly clad figure as she knelt and read from
her book or finished her prayers. Bitter was the religious
warfare that had raged for years between them, and
Mamzelle Aglaé had grown, on her side, as intolerant as
Chicot. She had come to hold St. Peter and St. Paul in such

utter detestation that she had cut their pictures out of her
prayer-book.
Then Mamzelle Aglaé pretended not to care what
Chicot had in his bag. He drew forth a small hunk of beef
and laid it in her basket that stood on the bare floor. She
looked from the corner of her eye, and went on dusting the
table. He brought out a handful of potatoes, some pieces of
sliced fish, a few herbs, a yard of calico, and a small pat of
butter wrapped in lettuce leaves. He was proud of the
butter, and wanted her to notice it. He held it out and asked
her for something to put it on. She handed him a saucer,
and looked indifferent and resigned, with lifted eyebrows.
“Pas d’ sucre, Nég?”
Chicot shook his head and scratched it, and looked like
a black picture of distress and mortification. No sugar! But
tomorrow he would get a pinch here and a pinch there, and
would bring as much as a cupful.
Mamzelle Aglaé then sat down, and talked to Chicot
uninterruptedly and confidentially. She complained bitterly,
and it was all about a pain that lodged in her leg; that crept
and acted like a live, stinging serpent, twining about her
waist and up her spine, and coiling round the shoulder-
blade. And then les rheumatismes in her fingers! He could
see for himself how they were knotted. She could not bend
them; she could hold nothing in her hands, and had let a
saucer fall that morning and broken it in pieces. And if she
were to tell him that she had slept a wink through the
night, she would be a liar, deserving of perdition. She had
sat at the window la nuit blanche, hearing the hours strike
and the market-wagons rumble. Chicot nodded, and kept
up a running fire of sympathetic comment and suggestive
remedies for rheumatism and insomnia: herbs, or tisanes,

or grigris, or all three. As if he knew! There was Purgatory
Mary, a perambulating soul whose office in life was to pray
for the shades in purgatory,—she had brought Mamzelle
Aglaé a bottle of eau de Lourdes, but so little of it! She
might have kept her water of Lourdes, for all the good it
did,—a drop! Not so much as would cure a fly or a
mosquito! Mamzelle Aglaé was going to show Purgatory
Mary the door when she came again, not only because of
her avarice with the Lourdes water, but, beside that, she
brought in on her feet dirt that could only be removed with
a shovel after she left.
And Mamzelle Aglaé wanted to inform Chicot that there
would be slaughter and bloodshed in la maison grise if the
people below stairs did not mend their ways. She was
convinced that they lived for no other purpose than to
torture and molest her. The woman kept a bucket of dirty
water constantly on the landing with the hope of Mamzelle
Aglaé falling over it or into it. And she knew that the
children were instructed to gather in the hall and on the
stairway, and scream and make a noise and jump up and
down like galloping horses, with the intention of driving
her to suicide. Chicot should notify the policeman on the
beat, and have them arrested, if possible, and thrust into
the parish prison, where they belonged.
Chicot would have been extremely alarmed if he had
ever chanced to find Mamzelle Aglaé in an uncomplaining
mood. It never occurred to him that she might be
otherwise. He felt that she had a right to quarrel with fate,
if ever mortal had. Her poverty was a disgrace, and he
hung his head before it and felt ashamed.
One day he found Mamzelle Aglaé stretched on the
bed, with her head tied up in a handkerchief. Her sole
complaint that day was, “Aïe—aïe—aïe! Aïe—aïe—aïe!”

uttered with every breath. He had seen her so before,
especially when the weather was damp.
“Vous pas bézouin tisane, Mamzelle Aglaé? Vous pas
veux mo cri gagni docteur?”
She desired nothing. “Aïe—aïe—aïe!”
He emptied his bag very quietly, so as not to disturb
her; and he wanted to stay there with her and lie down on
the floor in case she needed him, but the woman from
below had come up. She was an Irishwoman with rolled
sleeves.
“It’s a shtout shtick I’m afther giving her, Nég, and she
do but knock on the flure it’s me or Janie or wan of us
that’ll be hearing her.”
“You too good, Brigitte. Aïe—aïe—aïe! Une goutte d’eau
sucré, Nég! That Purg’tory Marie,—you see hair, ma bonne
Brigitte, you tell hair go say li’le prayer là-bas au
Cathédral. Aïe—aïe—aïe!”
Nég could hear her lamentation as he descended the
stairs. It followed him as he limped his way through the city
streets, and seemed part of the city’s noise; he could hear it
in the rumble of wheels and jangle of car-bells, and in the
voices of those passing by.
He stopped at Mimotte the Voudou’s shanty and bought
a grigri—a cheap one for fifteen cents. Mimotte held her
charms at all prices. This he intended to introduce next day
into Mamzelle Aglaé’s room,—somewhere about the altar,—
to the confusion and discomfort of “Michié bon Dieu,” who
persistently declined to concern himself with the welfare of
a Boisduré.

At night, among the reeds on the bayou, Chicot could
still hear the woman’s wail, mingled now with the croaking
of the frogs. If he could have been convinced that giving up
his life down there in the water would in any way have
bettered her condition, he would not have hesitated to
sacrifice the remnant of his existence that was wholly
devoted to her. He lived but to serve her. He did not know it
himself; but Chicot knew so little, and that little in such a
distorted way! He could scarcely have been expected, even
in his most lucid moments, to give himself over to self-
analysis.
Chicot gathered an uncommon amount of dainties at
market the following day. He had to work hard, and scheme
and whine a little; but he got hold of an orange and a lump
of ice and a choufleur. He did not drink his cup of café au
lait, but asked Mimi Lambeau to put it in the little new tin
pail that the Hebrew notion-vender had just given him in
exchange for a mess of shrimps. This time, however, Chicot
had his trouble for nothing. When he reached the upper
room of la maison grise, it was to find that Mamzelle Aglaé
had died during the night. He set his bag down in the
middle of the floor, and stood shaking, and whined low like
a dog in pain.
Everything had been done. The Irishwoman had gone
for the doctor, and Purgatory Mary had summoned a priest.
Furthermore, the woman had arranged Mamzelle Aglaé
decently. She had covered the table with a white cloth, and
had placed it at the head of the bed, with the crucifix and
two lighted candles in silver candlesticks upon it; the little
bit of ornamentation brightened and embellished the poor
room. Purgatory Mary, dressed in shabby black, fat and
breathing hard, sat reading half audibly from a prayerbook.
She was watching the dead and the silver candlesticks,
which she had borrowed from a benevolent society, and for

which she held herself responsible. A young man was just
leaving,—a reporter snuffing the air for items, who had
scented one up there in the top room of la maison grise.
All the morning Janie had been escorting a procession
of street Arabs up and down the stairs to view the remains.
One of them—a little girl, who had had her face washed
and had made a species of toilet for the occasion—refused
to be dragged away. She stayed seated as if at an
entertainment, fascinated alternately by the long, still
figure of Mamzelle Aglaé, the mumbling lips of Purgatory
Mary, and the silver candlesticks.
“Will ye get down on yer knees, man, and say a prayer
for the dead!” commanded the woman.
But Chicot only shook his head, and refused to obey. He
approached the bed, and laid a little black paw for a
moment on the stiffened body of Mamzelle Aglaé. There
was nothing for him to do here. He picked up his old
ragged hat and his bag and went away.
“The black h’athen!” the woman muttered. “Shut the
dure, child.”
The little girl slid down from her chair, and went on
tiptoe to shut the door which Chicot had left open. Having
resumed her seat, she fastened her eyes upon Purgatory
Mary’s heaving chest.
“You, Chicot!” cried Matteo’s wife the next morning.
“My man, he read in paper ’bout woman name’ Boisduré,
use’ b’long to big-a famny. She die roun’ on St. Philip—po’,
same-a like church rat. It’s any them Boisdurés you alla
talk ’bout?”

Chicot shook his head in slow but emphatic denial. No,
indeed, the woman was not of kin to his Boisdurés. He
surely had told Matteo’s wife often enough—how many
times did he have to repeat it!—of their wealth, their social
standing. It was doubtless some Boisduré of les Attakapas;
it was none of his.
The next day there was a small funeral procession
passing a little distance away,—a hearse and a carriage or
two. There was the priest who had attended Mamzelle
Aglaé, and a benevolent Creole gentleman whose father
had known the Boisdurés in his youth. There was a couple
of player-folk, who, having got wind of the story, had thrust
their hands into their pockets.
“Look, Chicot!” cried Matteo’s wife. “Yonda go the
fune’al. Mus-a be that-a Boisduré woman we talken ’bout
yesaday.”
But Chicot paid no heed. What was to him the funeral
of a woman who had died in St. Philip street? He did not
even turn his head in the direction of the moving
procession. He went on scaling his red-snapper.
OceanofPDF.com

 
Elizabeth Stock’s One Story
Elizabeth Stock, an unmarried woman of thirty-eight, died
of consumption during the past winter at the St. Louis City
Hospital. There were no unusually pathetic features
attending her death. The physicians say she showed hope
of rallying till placed in the incurable ward, when all
courage seemed to leave her, and she relapsed into a
silence that remained unbroken till the end.
In Stonelift, the village where Elizabeth Stock was born
and raised, and where I happen to be sojourning this
summer, they say she was much given over to scribbling. I
was permitted to examine her desk, which was quite filled
with scraps and bits of writing in bad prose and impossible
verse. In the whole conglomerate mass, I discovered but
the following pages which bore any semblance to a
connected or consecutive narration.
 
Since I was a girl I always felt as if I would like to write
stories. I never had that ambition to shine or make a name;
first place because I knew what time and labor it meant to
acquire a literary style. Second place, because whenever I
wanted to write a story I never could think of a plot. Once I
wrote about old Si’ Shepard that got lost in the woods and
never came back, and when I showed it to Uncle William he
said: “Why, Elizabeth, I reckon you better stick to your
dress making: this here ain’t no story; everybody knows
about old Si’ Shepard.”

No, the trouble was with plots. Whenever I tried to
think of one, it always turned out to be something that
some one else had thought about before me. But here back
awhile, I heard of great inducements offered for an
acceptable story, and I said to myself: “Elizabeth Stock, this
is your chance. Now or never!” And I laid awake most a
whole week; and walked about days in a kind of dream,
turning and twisting things in my mind just like I often saw
old ladies twisting quilt patches around to compose a
design. I tried to think of a railroad story with a wreck, but
couldn’t. No more could I make a tale out of a murder, or
money getting stolen, or even mistaken identity; for the
story had to be original, entertaining, full of action and
Goodness knows what all. It was no use. I gave it up. But
now that I got my pen in my hand and sitting here kind of
quiet and peaceful at the south window, and the breeze so
soft carrying the autumn leaves along, I feel as I’d like to
tell how I lost my position, mostly through my own
negligence, I’ll admit that.
My name is Elizabeth Stock. I’m thirty-eight years old
and unmarried, and not afraid or ashamed to say it. Up to a
few months ago I been postmistress of this village of
Stonelift for six years, through one administration and a
half—up to a few months ago.
Often seems like the village was most too small; so
small that people were bound to look into each other’s
lives, just like you see folks in crowded tenements looking
into each other’s windows. But I was born here in Stonelift
and I got no serious complaints. I been pretty comfortable
and contented most of my life. There ain’t more than a
hundred houses all told, if that, counting stores, churches,
postoffice, and even Nathan Brightman’s palatial mansion
up on the hill. Looks like Stonelift wouldn’t be anything
without that.

He’s away a good part of the time, and his family; but
he’s done a lot for this community, and they always
appreciated it, too.
But I leave it to any one—to any woman especially, if it
ain’t human nature in a little place where everybody knows
every one else, for the postmistress to glance at a postal
card once in a while. She could hardly help it. And besides,
seems like if a person had anything very particular and
private to tell, they’d put it under a sealed envelope.
Anyway, the train was late that day. It was the breaking
up of winter, or the beginning of spring; kind of betwixt and
between; along in March. It was most night when the mail
came in that ought have been along at 5:15. The Brightman
girls had been down with their pony-cart, but had got tired
waiting and had been gone more than an hour.
It was chill and dismal in the office. I had let the stove
go out for fear of fire. I was cold and hungry and anxious to
get home to my supper. I gave out everybody’s mail that
was waiting; and for the thousandth time told Vance
Wallace there was nothing for him. He’ll come and ask as
regular as clockwork. I got that mail assorted and put aside
in a hurry. There was no dilly dallying with postal cards,
and how I ever come to give a second look at Nathan
Brightman’s postal, Heaven only knows!
It was from St. Louis, written with pencil in large
characters and signed, “Collins,” nothing else; just
“Collins.” It read:
“Dear Brightman: Be on hand tomorrow, Tuesday at 10.
A.M. promptly. Important meeting of the board. Your own
interest demands your presence. Whatever you do, don’t
fail. In haste, Collins.”

I went to the door to see if there was anyone left
standing around: but the night was so raw and chill, every
last one of the loungers had disappeared. Vance Wallace
would of been willing enough to hang about to see me
home; but that was a thing I’d broken him of long ago. I
locked things up and went on home, just ashivering as I
went, it was that black and penetrating—worse than a
downright freeze, I thought.
After I had had my supper and got comfortably fixed
front of the fire, and glanced over the St. Louis paper and
was just starting to read my seaside Library novel, I got
thinking, somehow, about that postal card of Nath
Brightman’s. To a person that knew B. from hill’s foot, it
was just as plain as day that if that card laid on there in the
office, Mr. Brightman would miss that important meeting in
St. Louis in the morning. It wasn’t anything to me, of
course, except it made me uncomfortable and I couldn’t
rest or get my mind fixed on the story I was reading. Along
about nine o’clock, I flung aside the book and says to
myself:
“Elizabeth Stock, you a fool, and you know it.” There
ain’t much use telling how I put on my rubbers and
waterproof, covered the fire with ashes, took my umbrella
and left the house.
I carried along the postoffice key and went on down
and got out that postal card—in fact, all of the Brightmans’
mail—wasn’t any use leaving part of it, and started for “the
house on the hill” as we mostly call it. I don’t believe
anything could of induced me to go if I had known before
hand what I was undertaking. It was drizzling and the rain
kind of turned to ice when it struck the ground. If it hadn’t
been for the rubbers, I’d of taken more than one fall. As it
was, I took one good and hard one on the footbridge. The

wind was sweeping down so swiftly from the Northwest,
looked like it carried me clean off my feet before I could
clutch the hand-rail. I found out about that time that the
stitches had come out of my old rubbers that I’d sewed
about a month before, and letting the water in soaking my
feet through and through. But I’d got more than good and
started and I wouldn’t think of turning around.
Nathan Brightman has got kind of steps cut along the
side of the hill, going zig-zag. What you would call a
gradual ascent, and making it easy to climb. That is to say,
in good weather. But Lands! There wasn’t anything easy
that night, slipping back one step for every two; clutching
at the frozen twigs along the path; and having to use my
umbrella half the time for a walking stick; like a regular
Alpine climber. And my heart would most stand still at the
way the cedar trees moaned and whistled like doleful organ
tones; and sometimes sighing deep and soft like dying souls
in pain.
Then I was a fool for not putting on something warm
underneath that mackintosh. I could of put on my knitted
wool jacket just as easy as not. But the day had been so
mild, it bamboozled us into thinking spring was here for
good; especially when we were all looking and longing for
it; and the orchards ready to bud, too.
But I forgot all the worry and unpleasantness of the
walk when I saw how Nath Brightman took on over me
bringing him that postal card. He made me sit down
longside the fire and dry my feet, and kept saying:
“Why, Miss Elizabeth, it was exceedingly obliging of
you; on such a night, too. Margaret, my dear”—that was his
wife—“mix a good stiff toddy for Miss Elizabeth, and see
that she drinks it.”

I never could stand the taste or smell of alcohol. Uncle
William says if I’d of had any sense and swallowed down
that toddy like medicine, it might of saved the day.
Anyhow, Mr. Brightman had the girls scampering
around getting his grip packed; one bringing his big top
coat, another his muffler and umbrella; and at the same
time here they were all three making up a list of a thousand
and one things they wanted him to bring down from St.
Louis.
Seems like he was ready in a jiffy, and by that time I
was feeling sort of thawed out and I went along with him. It
was a mighty big comfort to have him, too. He was as polite
as could be, and kept saying:
“Mind out, Miss Elizabeth! Be careful here; slow now.
My! but it’s cold! Goodness knows what damage this won’t
do to the fruit trees.” He walked to my very door with me,
helping me along. Then he went on to the station. When the
midnight express came tearing around the bend, rumbling
like thunder and shaking the very house, I’d got my clothes
changed and was drinking a hot cup of tea side the fire I’d
started up. There was a lot of comfort knowing that Mr.
Brightman had got aboard that train. Well, we all more or
less selfish creatures in this world! I don’t believe I’d of
slept a wink that night if I’d of left that postal card lying in
the office.
Uncle William will have it that this heavy cold all came
of that walk; though he got to admit with me that this
family been noted for weak lungs as far back as I ever
heard of.
Anyway, I’d been sick on and off all spring; sometimes
hardly able to stand on my feet when I’d drag myself down

to that postoffice. When one morning, just like lightning out
of a clear sky, here comes an official document from
Washington, discharging me from my position as
postmistress of Stonelift. I shook all over when I read it,
just like I had a chill; and I felt sick at my stomach and my
teeth chattered. No one was in the office when I opened
that document except Vance Wallace, and I made him read
it and I asked him what he made out it meant. Just like
when you can’t understand a thing because you don’t want
to. He says:
“You’ve lost your position, Lizabeth. That what it
means; they’ve passed you up.”
I took it away from him kind of dazed, and says:
“We got to see about it. We got to go see Uncle William;
see what he says. Maybe it’s a mistake.”
“Uncle Sam don’t make mistakes,” said Vance. “We got
to get up a petition in this here community; that’s what I
reckon we better do, and send it to the government.”
Well, it don’t seem like any use to dwell on this subject.
The whole community was indignant, and pronounced it an
outrage. They decided, in justice to me, I had to find out
what I got that dismissal for. I kind of thought it was for my
poor health, for I would of had to send in my resignation
sooner or later, with these fevers and cough. But we got
information it was for incompetence and negligence in
office, through certain accusations of me reading postal
cards and permitting people to help themselves to their
own mail. Though I don’t know as that ever happened
except with Nathan Brightman always reaching over and
saying:

“Don’t disturb yourself, Miss Elizabeth,” when I’d be
sorting out letters and he could reach his mail in the box
just as well as not.
But that’s all over and done for. I been out of office two
months now, on the 26th. There’s a young man named
Collins, got the position. He’s the son of some wealthy,
influential St. Louis man; a kind of delicate, poetical-
natured young fellow that can’t get along in business, and
they used their influence to get him the position when it
was vacant. They thinks it’s the very place for him. I reckon
’tis. I hope in my soul he’ll prosper. He’s a quiet, nice-
mannered young man. Some of the community thought of
boycotting him. It was Vance Wallace started the notion. I
told them they must be demented, and I up and told Vance
Wallace he was a fool.
“I know I’m a fool, Lizabeth Stock,” he said, “I always
been a fool for hanging round you for the past twenty
years.”
The trouble with Vance is, he’s got no intellect. I
believe in my soul Uncle William’s got more. Uncle William
advised me to go up to St. Louis and get treated. I been up
there. The doctor said, with this cough and short breath, if
I know what’s good for me I’ll spend the winter in the
South. But the truth is, I got no more money, or so little it
don’t count. Putting Danny to school and other things here
lately, hasn’t left me much to brag of. But I oughtn’t be
blamed about Danny; he’s the only one of sister Martha’s
boys that seemed to me capable. And full of ambition to
study as he was! It would have felt sinful of me, not to. Of
course, I’ve taken him out, now I’ve lost my position. But I
got him in with Filmore Green to learn the grocery trade,
and maybe it’s all for the best; who knows!

But indeed, indeed, I don’t know what to do. Seems like
I’ve come to the end of the rope. O! it’s mighty pleasant
here at this south window. The breeze is just as soft and
warm as May, and the leaves look like birds flying. I’d like
to sit right on here and forget everything and go to sleep
and never wake up. Maybe it’s sinful to make that wish.
After all, what I got to do is leave everything in the hands
of Providence, and trust to luck.
OceanofPDF.com

 
The Storm
A Sequel to “The ’Cadian Ball”
 
I
The leaves were so still that even Bibi thought it was
going to rain. Bobinôt, who was accustomed to converse on
terms of perfect equality with his little son, called the
child’s attention to certain sombre clouds that were rolling
with sinister intention from the west, accompanied by a
sullen, threatening roar. They were at Friedheimer’s store
and decided to remain there till the storm had passed. They
sat within the door on two empty kegs. Bibi was four years
old and looked very wise.
“Mama’ll be ’fraid, yes,” he suggested with blinking
eyes.
“She’ll shut the house. Maybe she got Sylvie helpin’ her
this evenin’,” Bobinôt responded reassuringly.
“No; she ent got Sylvie. Sylvie was helpin’ her yistiday,”
piped Bibi.
Bobinôt arose and going across to the counter
purchased a can of shrimps, of which Calixta was very fond.
Then he returned to his perch on the keg and sat stolidly
holding the can of shrimps while the storm burst. It shook
the wooden store and seemed to be ripping great furrows
in the distant field. Bibi laid his little hand on his father’s
knee and was not afraid.

 
II
Calixta, at home, felt no uneasiness for their safety. She
sat at a side window sewing furiously on a sewing machine.
She was greatly occupied and did not notice the
approaching storm. But she felt very warm and often
stopped to mop her face on which the perspiration
gathered in beads. She unfastened her white sacque at the
throat. It began to grow dark, and suddenly realizing the
situation she got up hurriedly and went about closing
windows and doors.
Out on the small front gallery she had hung Bobinôt’s
Sunday clothes to air and she hastened out to gather them
before the rain fell. As she stepped outside, Alcée
Laballière rode in at the gate. She had not seen him very
often since her marriage, and never alone. She stood there
with Bobinôt’s coat in her hands, and the big rain drops
began to fall. Alcée rode his horse under the shelter of a
side projection where the chickens had huddled and there
were plows and a harrow piled up in the corner.
“May I come and wait on your gallery till the storm is
over, Calixta?” he asked.
“Come ’long in, M’sieur Alcée.”
His voice and her own startled her as if from a trance,
and she seized Bobinôt’s vest. Alcée, mounting to the
porch, grabbed the trousers and snatched Bibi’s braided
jacket that was about to be carried away by a sudden gust
of wind. He expressed an intention to remain outside, but it
was soon apparent that he might as well have been out in
the open: the water beat in upon the boards in driving

sheets, and he went inside, closing the door after him. It
was even necessary to put something beneath the door to
keep the water out.
“My! what a rain! It’s good two years sence it rain’ like
that,” exclaimed Calixta as she rolled up a piece of bagging
and Alcée helped her to thrust it beneath the crack.
She was a little fuller of figure than five years before
when she married; but she had lost nothing of her vivacity.
Her blue eyes still retained their melting quality; and her
yellow hair, dishevelled by the wind and rain, kinked more
stubbornly than ever about her ears and temples.
The rain beat upon the low, shingled roof with a force
and clatter that threatened to break an entrance and
deluge them there. They were in the dining room—the
sitting room—the general utility room. Adjoining was her
bed room, with Bibi’s couch along side her own. The door
stood open, and the room with its white, monumental bed,
its closed shutters, looked dim and mysterious.
Alcée flung himself into a rocker and Calixta nervously
began to gather up from the floor the lengths of a cotton
sheet which she had been sewing.
“If this keeps up, Dieu sait if the levees goin’ to stan’
it!” she exclaimed.
“What have you got to do with the levees?”
“I got enough to do! An’ there’s Bobinôt with Bibi out in
that storm—if he only didn’ left Friedheimer’s!”
“Let us hope, Calixta, that Bobinôt’s got sense enough
to come in out of a cyclone.”

She went and stood at the window with a greatly
disturbed look on her face. She wiped the frame that was
clouded with moisture. It was stiflingly hot. Alcée got up
and joined her at the window, looking over her shoulder.
The rain was coming down in sheets obscuring the view of
far-off cabins and enveloping the distant wood in a gray
mist. The playing of the lightning was incessant. A bolt
struck a tall chinaberry tree at the edge of the field. It filled
all visible space with a blinding glare and the crash seemed
to invade the very boards they stood upon.
Calixta put her hands to her eyes, and with a cry,
staggered backward. Alcée’s arm encircled her, and for an
instant he drew her close and spasmodically to him.
“Bonté!” she cried, releasing herself from his encircling
arm and retreating from the window, “the house’ll go next!
If I only knew w’ere Bibi was!” She would not compose
herself; she would not be seated. Alcée clasped her
shoulders and looked into her face. The contact of her
warm, palpitating body when he had unthinkingly drawn
her into his arms, had aroused all the old-time infatuation
and desire for her flesh.
“Calixta,” he said, “don’t be frightened. Nothing can
happen. The house is too low to be struck, with so many tall
trees standing about. There! aren’t you going to be quiet?
say, aren’t you?” He pushed her hair back from her face
that was warm and steaming. Her lips were as red and
moist as pomegranate seed. Her white neck and a glimpse
of her full, firm bosom disturbed him powerfully. As she
glanced up at him the fear in her liquid blue eyes had given
place to a drowsy gleam that unconsciously betrayed a
sensuous desire. He looked down into her eyes and there
was nothing for him to do but to gather her lips in a kiss. It
reminded him of Assumption.

“Do you remember—in Assumption, Calixta?” he asked
in a low voice broken by passion. Oh! she remembered; for
in Assumption he had kissed her and kissed and kissed her;
until his senses would well nigh fail, and to save her he
would resort to a desperate flight. If she was not an
immaculate dove in those days, she was still inviolate; a
passionate creature whose very defenselessness had made
her defense, against which his honor forbade him to
prevail. Now—well, now—her lips seemed in a manner free
to be tasted, as well as her round, white throat and her
whiter breasts.
They did not heed the crashing torrents, and the roar of
the elements made her laugh as she lay in his arms. She
was a revelation in that dim, mysterious chamber; as white
as the couch she lay upon. Her firm, elastic flesh that was
knowing for the first time its birthright, was like a creamy
lily that the sun invites to contribute its breath and
perfume to the undying life of the world.
The generous abundance of her passion, without guile
or trickery, was like a white flame which penetrated and
found response in depths of his own sensuous nature that
had never yet been reached.
When he touched her breasts they gave themselves up
in quivering ecstasy, inviting his lips. Her mouth was a
fountain of delight. And when he possessed her, they
seemed to swoon together at the very borderland of life’s
mystery.
He stayed cushioned upon her, breathless, dazed,
enervated, with his heart beating like a hammer upon her.
With one hand she clasped his head, her lips lightly
touching his forehead. The other hand stroked with a
soothing rhythm his muscular shoulders.

The growl of the thunder was distant and passing away.
The rain beat softly upon the shingles, inviting them to
drowsiness and sleep. But they dared not yield.
The rain was over; and the sun was turning the
glistening green world into a palace of gems. Calixta, on
the gallery, watched Alcée ride away. He turned and smiled
at her with a beaming face; and she lifted her pretty chin in
the air and laughed aloud.
 
III
Bobinôt and Bibi, trudging home, stopped without at
the cistern to make themselves presentable.
“My! Bibi, w’at will yo’ mama say! You ought to be
ashame’. You oughtn’ put on those good pants. Look at ’em!
An’ that mud on yo’ collar! How you got that mud on yo’
collar, Bibi? I never saw such a boy!” Bibi was the picture
of pathetic resignation. Bobinôt was the embodiment of
serious solicitude as he strove to remove from his own
person and his son’s the signs of their tramp over heavy
roads and through wet fields. He scraped the mud off Bibi’s
bare legs and feet with a stick and carefully removed all
traces from his heavy brogans. Then, prepared for the
worst—the meeting with an over-scrupulous housewife,
they entered cautiously at the back door.
Calixta was preparing supper. She had set the table and
was dripping coffee at the hearth. She sprang up as they
came in.
“Oh, Bobinôt! You back! My! but I was uneasy. W’ere
you been during the rain? An’ Bibi? he ain’t wet? he ain’t
hurt?” She had clasped Bibi and was kissing him effusively.

Bobinôt’s explanations and apologies which he had been
composing all along the way, died on his lips as Calixta felt
him to see if he were dry, and seemed to express nothing
but satisfaction at their safe return.
“I brought you some shrimps, Calixta,” offered Bobinôt,
hauling the can from his ample side pocket and laying it on
the table.
“Shrimps! Oh, Bobinôt! you too good fo’ anything!” and
she gave him a smacking kiss on the cheek that resounded.
“J’vous réponds, we’ll have a feas’ to-night! umph-umph!”
Bobinôt and Bibi began to relax and enjoy themselves,
and when the three seated themselves at table they
laughed much and so loud that anyone might have heard
them as far away as Laballière’s.
 
IV
Alcée Laballière wrote to his wife, Clarisse, that night.
It was a loving letter, full of tender solicitude. He told her
not to hurry back, but if she and the babies liked it at
Biloxi, to stay a month longer. He was getting on nicely;
and though he missed them, he was willing to bear the
separation a while longer—realizing that their health and
pleasure were the first things to be considered.
 
V
As for Clarisse, she was charmed upon receiving her
husband’s letter. She and the babies were doing well. The
society was agreeable; many of her old friends and

acquaintances were at the bay. And the first free breath
since her marriage seemed to restore the pleasant liberty
of her maiden days. Devoted as she was to her husband,
their intimate conjugal life was something which she was
more than willing to forego for a while.
So the storm passed and every one was happy.
OceanofPDF.com
