


 



 

Table of Contents
 
 
Other novels by Lionel Shriver
Title Page
Dedication
Epigraph
 
 
Copyright Page

Other novels by Lionel Shriver
 
Double Fault 
A Perfectly Good Family 
Game Control 
The Bleeding Heart (Ordinary Decent Criminals) 
Checker and the Derailleurs 
The Female of the Species
 

For Terri 
One worst-case scenario we’ve both escaped.
 

A child needs your love most when he deserves it least.
—ERMA BOMBECK
 

 
 
November 8, 2000
 
 
Dear Franklin,
 
I’m unsure why one trifling incident this afternoon has moved me to
write to you. But since we’ve been separated, I may most miss coming
home to deliver the narrative curiosities of my day, the way a cat might
lay mice at your feet: the small, humble offerings that couples proffer
after foraging in separate backyards. Were you still installed in my
kitchen, slathering crunchy peanut butter on Branola though it was
almost time for dinner, I’d no sooner have put down the bags, one
leaking a clear viscous drool, than this little story would come tumbling
out, even before I chided that we’re having pasta tonight so would you
please not eat that whole sandwich.
In the early days, of course, my tales were exotic imports, from
Lisbon, from Katmandu. But no one wants to hear stories from abroad,
really, and I could detect from your telltale politeness that you privately
preferred anecdotal trinkets from closer to home: an eccentric encounter
with a toll collector on the George Washington Bridge, say. Marvels
from the mundane helped to ratify your view that all my foreign travel
was a kind of cheating. My souvenirs—a packet of slightly stale Belgian
waffles, the British expression for “piffle” (codswallop!)—were
artificially imbued with magic by mere dint of distance. Like those
baubles the Japanese exchange—in a box in a bag, in a box in a bag—the
sheen on my offerings from far afield was all packaging. What a more
considerable achievement, to root around in the untransubstantiated
rubbish of plain old New York state and scrounge a moment of piquancy
from a trip to the Nyack Grand Union.
Which is just where my story takes place. I seem finally to be learning
what you were always trying to teach me, that my own country is as
exotic and even as perilous as Algeria. I was in the dairy aisle and didn’t
need much; I wouldn’t. I never eat pasta these days, without you to
dispatch most of the bowl. I do miss your gusto.
It’s still difficult for me to venture into public. You would think, in a
country that so famously has “no sense of history,” as Europeans claim,
that I might cash in on America’s famous amnesia. No such luck. No one

in this “community” shows any signs of forgetting, after a year and eight
months—to the day. So I have to steel myself when provisions run low.
Oh, for the clerks at the 7-Eleven on Hopewell Street my novelty has
worn off, and I can pick up a quart of milk without glares. But our
regular Grand Union remains a gauntlet.
I always feel furtive there. To compensate, I force my back straight,
my shoulders square. I see now what they mean by “holding your head
high,” and I am sometimes surprised by how much interior
transformation a ramrod posture can afford. When I stand physically
proud, I feel a small measure less mortified.
Debating medium eggs or large, I glanced toward the yogurts. A few
feet away, a fellow shopper’s frazzled black hair went white at the roots
for a good inch, while its curl held only at the ends: an old permanent
grown out. Her lavender top and matching skirt may have once been
stylish, but now the blouse bound under the arms and the peplum served
to emphasize heavy hips. The outfit needed pressing, and the padded
shoulders bore the faint stripe of fading from a wire hanger. Something
from the nether regions of the closet, I concluded, what you reach for
when everything else is filthy or on the floor. As the woman’s head tilted
toward the processed cheese, I caught the crease of a double chin.
Don’t try to guess; you’d never recognize her from that portrait. She
was once so neurotically svelte, sharply cornered, and glossy as if
commercially gift wrapped. Though it may be more romantic to picture
the bereaved as gaunt, I imagine you can grieve as efficiently with
chocolates as with tap water. Besides, there are women who keep
themselves sleek and smartly turned out less to please a spouse than to
keep up with a daughter, and, thanks to us, she lacks that incentive these
days.
It was Mary Woolford. I’m not proud of this, but I couldn’t face her. I
reeled. My hands went clammy as I fumbled with the carton, checking
that the eggs were whole. I rearranged my features into those of a
shopper who had just remembered something in the next aisle over and
managed to place the eggs on the child-seat without turning. Scuttling off
on this pretense of mission, I left the cart behind, because the wheels
squeaked. I caught my breath in soup.
I should have been prepared, and often am—girded, guarded, often to
no purpose as it turns out. But I can’t clank out the door in full armor to
run every silly errand, and besides, how can Mary harm me now? She
has tried her damnedest; she’s taken me to court. Still, I could not tame

my heartbeat, nor return to dairy right away, even once I realized that I’d
left that embroidered bag from Egypt, with my wallet, in the cart.
Which is the only reason I didn’t abandon the Grand Union altogether.
I eventually had to skulk back to my bag, and so I meditated on
Campbell’s asparagus and cheese, thinking aimlessly how Warhol would
be appalled by the redesign.
By the time I crept back the coast was clear, and I swept up my cart,
abruptly the busy professional woman who must make quick work of
domestic chores. A familiar role, you would think. Yet it’s been so long
since I thought of myself that way that I felt sure the folks ahead of me at
checkout must have pegged my impatience not as the imperiousness of
the secondearner for whom time is money, but as the moist, urgent panic
of a fugitive.
When I unloaded my motley groceries, the egg carton felt sticky,
which moved the salesclerk to flip it open. Ah. Mary Woolford had
spotted me after all.
“All twelve!” the girl exclaimed. “I’ll have them get you another
carton.”
I stopped her. “No, no,” I said. “I’m in a hurry. I’ll take them as they
are.”
“But they’re totally—”
“I’ll take them as they are!” There’s no better way to get people to
cooperate in this country than by seeming a little unhinged. After
dabbing pointedly at the price code with a Kleenex, she scanned the
eggs, then wiped her hands on the tissue with a rolled eye.
“Khatchadourian,” the girl pronounced when I handed her my debit
card. She spoke loudly, as if to those waiting in line. It was late
afternoon, the right shift for an after-school job; plausibly about
seventeen, this girl could have been one of Kevin’s classmates. Sure,
there are half a dozen high schools in this area, and her family might
have just moved here from California. But from the look in her eye I
didn’t think so. She fixed me with a hard stare. “That’s an unusual
name.”
I’m not sure what got into me, but I’m so tired of this. It’s not that I
have no shame. Rather, I’m exhausted with shame, slippery all over with
its sticky albumen taint. It is not an emotion that leads anywhere. “I’m
the only Khatchadourian in New York state,” I flouted, and snatched my
card back. She threw my eggs in a bag, where they drooled a little more.
 

So now I’m home—what passes for it. Of course you’ve never been
here, so allow me to describe it for you.
You’d be taken aback. Not least because I’ve opted to remain in
Gladstone, after kicking up such a fuss about moving to the suburbs in
the first place. But I felt I should stay within driving distance of Kevin.
Besides, much as I crave anonymity, it’s not that I want my neighbors to
forget who I am; I want to, and that is not an opportunity any town
affords. This is the one place in the world where the ramifications of my
life are fully felt, and it’s far less important to me to be liked these days
than to be understood.
I’d enough of a pittance left over after paying off the lawyers to buy a
little place of my own, but the tentativeness of renting suited. Likewise
my living in this Tinkertoy duplex seemed a fitting marriage of
temperaments. Oh, you’d be horrified; its flimsy pressboard cabinetry
defies your father’s motto, “Materials are everything.” But it is this very
quality of barely hanging on that I cherish.
Everything here is precarious. The steep stairway to the second floor
has no banister, spicing my ascent to bed with vertigo after three glasses
of wine. The floors creak and the window frames leak, and there is an air
about the place of fragility and underconfidence, as if at any moment the
entire structure might simply blink out like a bad idea. Swinging on rusty
coat hangers from a live wire across the ceiling, the tiny halogen bulbs
downstairs have a tendency to flicker, and their tremulous light
contributes to the on-again, off-again sensation that permeates my new
life. Likewise the innards of my sole telephone socket are disgorged; my
uncertain connection to the outside world dangles by two poorly soldered
wires, and it often cuts off. Though the landlord has promised me a
proper stove, I really don’t mind the hot plate—whose “on” light doesn’t
work. The inside handle of the front door often comes off in my hand. So
far I’ve been able to work it back on again, but the stump of the lock
shaft teases me with intimations of my mother: unable to leave the
house.
I recognize, too, my duplex’s broad tendency to stretch its resources to
the very limit. The heating is feeble, rising off the radiators in a stale,
shallow breath, and though it is only early November, I have already
cranked their regulators on full. When I shower, I use all hot water and
no cold; it’s just warm enough that I don’t shiver, but awareness that
there is no reserve permeates my ablutions with disquiet. The refrigerator
dial is set at its highest point, and the milk keeps only three days.

As for the decor, it evokes a quality of mockery that feels apt. The
downstairs is painted in a slapdash, abrasively bright yellow, the
brushstrokes careless and aerated with streaks of underlying white, as if
scrawled with crayon. Upstairs in my bedroom, the walls are sponged
amateurishly in aqua, like primary-school daubs. This tremulous little
house—it doesn’t feel quite real, Franklin. And neither do I.
Yet I do hope that you’re not feeling sorry for me; it’s not my intention
that you do. I might have found more palatial accommodation, if that’s
what I wanted. I like it here, in a way. It’s unserious, toy. I live in a
dollhouse. Even the furniture is out of scale. The dining table strikes
chesthigh, which makes me feel underage, and the little bedside table on
which I have perched this laptop is much too low for typing—about the
right height for serving coconut cookies and pineapple juice to
kindergartners.
Maybe this askew, juvenile atmosphere helps to explain why
yesterday, in a presidential election, I didn’t vote. I simply forgot.
Everything around me seems to take place so far away. And now rather
than pose a firm counterpoint to my dislocation, the country seems to
have joined me in the realm of the surreal. The votes are tallied. But as in
some Kafka tale, no one seems to know who won.
And I have this dozen eggs—what’s left of them. I’ve emptied the
remains into a bowl and fished out the shards of shell. If you were here I
might whip us up a nice frittata, with diced potato, cilantro, that one
teaspoon of sugar that’s the secret. Alone, I’ll slop them in a skillet,
scramble, and sullenly pick. But I will eat them all the same. There was
something about Mary’s gesture that I found, in an inchoate sort of way,
rather elegant.
 
Food revulsed me at first. Visiting my mother in Racine, I turned green
before her stuffed dolma, though she’d spent all day blanching grape
leaves and rolling the lamb and rice filling into neat parcels; I reminded
her they could be frozen. In Manhattan, when I scurried past the 57th
Street deli on the way to Harvey’s law office, the peppery smell of
pastrami fat would flip my stomach. But the nausea passed, and I missed
it. When after four or five months I began to get hungry—ravenous, in
fact—the appetite struck me as unseemly. So I continued to act the part
of a woman who’d lost interest in food.
But after about a year, I faced the fact that the theater was wasted. If I
grew cadaverous, no one cared. What did I expect, that you would wrap
my rib cage with those enormous hands in which horses must be

measured, lifting me overhead with the stern reproach that is every
Western woman’s sly delight, “You’re too thin”?
So now I eat a croissant with my coffee every morning, picking up
every flake with a moistened forefinger. Methodically chopping cabbage
occupies a portion of these long evenings. I have even declined, once or
twice, those few invitations out that still jangle my phone, usually friends
from abroad who e-mail from time to time, but whom I haven’t seen for
years. Especially if they don’t know, and I can always tell; innocents
sound too roisterous, whereas initiates begin with a deferential stutter
and a hushed, churchy tone. Obviously I don’t want to recite the story.
Nor do I covet the mute commiseration of friends who don’t know what
to say and so leave me to spill my guts by way of making conversation.
But what really drives me to make my apologies about how “busy” I am
is that I am terrified we will both order a salad and the bill will arrive and
it will only be 8:30 or 9:00 at night and I will go home to my tiny duplex
and have nothing to chop.
It’s funny, after so long on the road for Wing and a Prayer—a different
restaurant every night, where waiters speak Spanish or Thai, whose
menus list seviche or dog—that I should have grown so fixated on this
fierce routine. Horribly, I remind myself of my mother. But I cannot
break with this narrow sequence (square of cheese or six to seven olives;
breast of chicken, chop, or omelet; hot vegetable; single vanilla sandwich
cookie; no more wine than will finish exactly half the bottle) as if I am
walking a balance beam, and with one step off I will topple. I have had
to disallow snow peas altogether because their preparation is
insufficiently arduous.
Anyway, even with the two of us estranged, I knew you would worry
about whether I was eating. You always did. Thanks to Mary Woolford’s
feeble revenge this evening, I am amply fed. Not all of our neighbors’
antics have proved so anodyne.
 
Those gallons of crimson paint splashed all over the front porch, for
example, when I was still living in our nouveau riche ranch house (that’s
what it was, Franklin, whether or not you like the sound of it—a ranch
house) on Palisades Parade. Over the windows, the front door. They
came in the night, and by the time I woke the next morning the paint had
almost dried. I thought at the time, only a month or so after—whatever
am I going to call that Thursday?—that I couldn’t be horrified anymore,
or wounded. I suppose that’s a common conceit, that you’ve already
been so damaged that damage itself, in its totality, makes you safe.

As I turned the corner from the kitchen into the living room that
morning, I recognized this notion that I was impervious for codswallop. I
gasped. The sun was streaming in the windows, or at least through the
panes not streaked with paint. It also shone through in spots where the
paint was thinnest, casting the off-white walls of that room in the lurid
red glow of a garish Chinese restaurant.
I’d always made it a policy, one you admired, to face what I feared,
though this policy was conceived in days when my fears ran to losing my
way in a foreign city—child’s play. What I would give now to return to
the days when I’d no idea what lay in wait (child’s play itself, for
example). Still, old habits die hard, so rather than flee back to our bed
and draw up the covers, I resolved to survey the damage. But the front
door stuck, glued shut with thick crimson enamel. Unlike latex, enamel
isn’t water soluble. And enamel is expensive, Franklin. Someone made a
serious investment. Of course, our old neighborhood has any number of
deficiencies, but one of them has never been money.
So I went out the side door and around to the front in my robe. Taking
in our neighbors’ artwork, I could feel my face set in the same
“impassive mask” the New York Times described from the trial. The Post,
less kindly, depicted my expression throughout as “defiant,” and our
local Journal News went even further: “From Eva Khatchadourian’s
stony implacability, her son might have done nothing more egregious
than dip a pigtail in an inkwell.” (I grant that I stiffened in court,
squinting and sucking my cheeks against my molars; I remember
grasping at one of your tough-guy mottoes, “Don’t let ’em see you
sweat.” But Franklin, “defiant”? I was trying not to cry.)
The effect was quite magnificent, if you had a taste for the sensational,
which by that point I certainly didn’t. The house looked as if its throat
were slit. Splashed in wild, gushing Rorschachs, the hue had been chosen
so meticulously—deep, rich, and luscious, with a hint of purplish blue—
that it might have been specially mixed. I thought dully that had the
culprits requested this color rather than pulled it off the shelf, the police
might be able to track them down.
I wasn’t about to walk into a police station again unless I had to.
My kimono was thin, the one you gave me for our first anniversary
back in 1980. Meant for summer, it was the only wrap I had from you,
and I wouldn’t reach for anything else. I’ve thrown so much away, but
nothing you gave me or left behind. I admit that these talismans are
excruciating. That is why I keep them. Those bullying therapeutic types
would claim that my cluttered closets aren’t “healthy.” I beg to differ. In

contrast to the cringing, dirty pain of Kevin, of the paint, the criminal
and civil trials, this pain is wholesome. Much belittled in the sixties,
wholesomeness is a property I have come to appreciate as surprisingly
scarce.
The point is, clutching that soft blue cotton and assessing the
somewhat slapdash paint job that our neighbors had seen fit to sponsor
free of charge, I was cold. It was May, but crisp, with a whipping wind.
Before I found out for myself, I might have imagined that in the
aftermath of personal apocalypse, the little bothers of life would
effectively vanish. But it’s not true. You still feel chills, you still despair
when a package is lost in the mail, and you still feel irked to discover
you were shortchanged at Starbucks. It might seem, in the circumstances,
a little embarrassing for me to continue to need a sweater or a muff, or to
object to being cheated of a dollar and fifty cents. But since that
Thursday my whole life has been smothered in such a blanket of
embarrassment that I have chosen to find these passing pinpricks solace
instead, emblems of a surviving propriety. Being inadequately dressed
for the season, or chafing that in a Wal-Mart the size of a cattle market I
cannot locate a single box of kitchen matches, I glory in the emotionally
commonplace.
Picking my way to the side door again, I puzzled over how a band of
marauders could have assaulted this structure so thoroughly while I slept
unawares inside. I blamed the heavy dose of tranquilizers I was taking
every night (please don’t say anything, Franklin, I know you don’t
approve), until I realized that I was picturing the scene all wrong. It was
a month later, not a day. There were no jeers and howls, no ski masks
and sawn-off shotguns. They came in stealth. The only sounds were
broken twigs, a muffled thump as the first full can slapped our lustrous
mahogany door, the lulling oceanic lap of paint against glass, a tiny rat-
a-tat-tat as spatters splattered, no louder than fat rain. Our house had not
been spurted with the Day-Glo spray of spontaneous outrage but
slathered with a hatred that had reduced until it was thick and savorous,
like a fine French sauce.
You’d have insisted we hire someone else to clean it off. You were
always keen on this splendid American penchant for specialization,
whereby there was an expert for every want, and you sometimes
thumbed the Yellow Pages just for fun. “Paint Removers: Crimson
enamel.” But so much was made in the papers about how rich we were,
how Kevin had been spoiled. I didn’t want to give Gladstone the
satisfaction of sneering, look, she can just hire one more minion to clean

up the mess, like that expensive lawyer. No, I made them watch me day
after day, scraping by hand, renting a sandblaster for the bricks. One
evening I glimpsed my reflection after a day’s toil—clothing smeared,
fingernails creased, hair flecked—and shrieked. I’d looked like this once
before.
 
A few crevices around the door may still gleam with a ruby tint; deep in
the crags of those faux-antique bricks may yet glisten a few drops of
spite that I was unable to reach with the ladder. I wouldn’t know. I sold
that house. After the civil trial, I had to.
I had expected to have trouble unloading the property. Surely
superstitious buyers would shy away when they found out who owned
the place. But that just goes to show once again how poorly I understood
my own country. You once accused me of lavishing all my curiosity on
“Third World shitholes,” while what was arguably the most
extraordinary empire in the history of mankind was staring me in the
face. You were right, Franklin. There’s no place like home.
As soon as the property was listed, the bids tumbled in. Not because
the bidders didn’t know; because they did. Our house sold for well more
than it was worth—over $3 million. In my naïveté, I hadn’t grasped that
the property’s very notoriety was its selling point. While poking about
our pantry, apparently couples on the climb were picturing gleefully in
their minds’ eyes the crowning moment of their housewarming dinner
party.
[Ting-ting!] Listen up, folks. I’m gonna propose a toast, but first,
you’re not gonna believe who we bought this spread from. Ready? Eva
Khatchadourian. . . . Familiar? You bet. Where’d we move to, anyway?
Gladstone! ... Yeah, that Khatchadourian, Pete, among all the
Khatchadourians you know? Christ, guy, little slow.
... That’s right, “Kevin.” Wild, huh? My kid Lawrence has his room.
Tried one on the other night, too. Said he had to stay up with me to
watch Henry: Portrait of a Serial Killer because his room was “haunted”
by “Kevin Ketchup.” Had to disappoint the kid. Sorry, I said, Kevin
Ketchup can’t no way be haunting your bedroom when the worthless
little bastard’s all too alive and well in some kiddie prison upstate. Up to
me, man, that scumbag would’ve got the chair.... No, it wasn’t quite as
bad as Columbine. What was it, ten, honey? Nine, right, seven kids, two
adults. The teacher he whacked was like, this brat’s big champion or
something, too. And I don’t know about blaming videos, rock music. We
grew up with rock music, didn’t we? None of us went on some killing

frenzy at our high school. Or take Lawrence. That little guy loves blood-
and-guts TV, and no matter how graphic he doesn’t flinch. But his rabbit
got run over? He cried for a week. They know the difference.
We’re raising him to know what’s right. Maybe it seems unfair, but you
really gotta wonder about the parents.
 
Eva
 

 
 
November 15, 2000
 
 
Dear Franklin,
 
You know, I try to be polite. So when my coworkers—that’s right, I
work, at a Nyack travel agency, believe it or not, and gratefully, too—
when they start foaming at the mouth about the disproportionate number
of votes for Pat Buchanan in Palm Beach, I wait so patiently for them to
finish that in a way I have become a treasured commodity: I am the only
one in the office who will allow them to finish a sentence. If the
atmosphere of this country has suddenly become carnival-like, festive
with fierce opinion, I do not feel invited to the party. I don’t care who’s
president.
Yet too vividly I can see this last week through the lens of my private
if-only. I would have voted for Gore, you for Bush. We’d have had
heated enough exchanges before the election, but this—this—oh, it
would have been marvelous. Loud, strident fist pounding and door
slamming, me reciting choice snippets from the New York Times, you
furiously underscoring op-eds in the Wall Street Journal—suppressing
smiles the whole time. How I miss getting exercised over bagatelle.
 
It may have been disingenuous of me to imply at the start of my last
letter that when we conferred at the end of a day, I told all. To the
contrary, one of the things that impels me to write is that my mind is
huge with all the little stories I never told you.
Don’t imagine that I’ve enjoyed my secrets. They’ve trapped me,
crowded me in, and long ago I’d have liked nothing more than to pour
out my heart. But Franklin, you didn’t want to hear. I’m sure you still
don’t. And maybe I should have tried harder at the time to force you to
listen, but early on we got on opposite sides of something. For many
couples who quarrel, just what they are on opposite sides of may be
unformed, a line of some sort, an abstraction that divides them—a
history or floating grudge, an insensible power struggle with a life of its
own: gossamer. Perhaps in times of reconciliation for such couples the
unreality of that line assists its dissolve. Look, I can jealously see them
noting, there is nothing in the room; we can reach across the sheer air

between us. But in our case, what separated us was all too tangible, and
if it wasn’t in the room it could walk in of its own accord.
Our son. Who is not a smattering of small tales but one long one. And
though the natural impulse of yarn spinners is to begin at the beginning, I
will resist it. I have to go further back. So many stories are determined
before they start.
What possessed us? We were so happy! Why, then, did we take the
stake of all we had and place it all on this outrageous gamble of having a
child? Of course you consider the very putting of that question profane.
Although the infertile are entitled to sour grapes, it’s against the rules,
isn’t it, to actually have a baby and spend any time at all on that banished
parallel life in which you didn’t. But a Pandoran perversity draws me to
prize open what is forbidden. I have an imagination, and I like to dare
myself. I knew this about myself in advance, too: that I was just the sort
of woman who had the capacity, however ghastly, to rue even so
unretractable a matter as another person. But then, Kevin didn’t regard
other people’s existence as unretractable—did he?
I’m sorry, but you can’t expect me to avoid it. I may not know what to
call it, that Thursday. The atrocity sounds torn from a newspaper, the
incident is minimizing to the point of obscenity, and the day our own son
committed mass murder is too long, isn’t it? For every mention? But I
am going to mention it. I wake up with what he did every morning and I
go to bed with it every night. It is my shabby substitute for a husband.
So I have racked my brain, trying to reconstruct those few months in
1982 when we were officially “deciding.” We were still living in my
cavernous loft in Tribeca, where we were surrounded by arch
homosexuals, unattached artists you deplored as “self-indulgent,” and
unencumbered professional couples who dined out at Tex-Mex nightly
and flopped about at the Limelight until 3 A.M. Children in that
neighborhood were pretty much on a par with the spotted owl and other
endangered species, so it’s little wonder that our deliberations were
stilted and abstract. We even set ourselves a deadline, for pity’s sake—
my thirty-seventh birthday that August—since we didn’t want a child
who could still be living at home in our sixties.
Our sixties! In those days, an age as bafflingly theoretical as a baby.
Yet I expect to embark to that foreign land five years from now with no
more ceremony than boarding a city bus. It was in 1999 that I made a
temporal leap, although I didn’t notice the aging so much in the mirror as
through the aegis of other people. When I renewed my driver’s license
this last January, for example, the functionary at the desk didn’t act

surprised I was all of fifty-four, and you remember I was once rather
spoiled on this front, accustomed to regular coos over how I looked at
least ten years younger. The coos came to a complete halt overnight.
Indeed, I had one embarrassing encounter, soon after Thursday, in which
a Manhattan subway attendant called my attention to the fact that over-
sixty-fives qualified for a senior discount.
We’d agreed that whether we became parents would be “the single
most important decision we would ever make together.” Yet the very
momentousness of the decision guaranteed that it never seemed real, and
so remained on the level of whimsy. Every time one of us raised the
question of parenthood, I felt like a seven-year-old contemplating a
Thumbellina that wets itself for Christmas.
I do recall a sequence of conversations during that period that lurched
with a seemingly arbitrary rhythm between tending toward and tending
against. The most upbeat of these has surely to be after a Sunday lunch
with Brian and Louise on Riverside Drive. They no longer did dinner,
which always resulted in parental apartheid: one spouse playing grown-
up with calamatas and cabernet, the other corralling, bathing, and
bedding those two rambunctious little girls. Me, I always prefer
socializing at night—it is implicitly more wanton—although wantonness
was no longer a quality I would have associated with that warm, settled
Home Box Office scriptwriter who made his own pasta and watered
spindly parsley plants on his window ledge.
I marveled in the elevator down, “And he used to be such a
cokehead.”
“You sound wistful,” you noted.
“Oh, I’m sure he’s happier now.”
I wasn’t sure. In those days I still held wholesomeness to be suspect.
In fact, we had had a very “nice” time, which left me bafflingly bereft. I
had admired the solid oak dining set seized for a song from an upstate
tag sale, while you submitted to a complete inventory of the younger
girl’s Cabbage Patch Kids with a patience that left me agog. We
commended the inventive salad with ingenuous fervor, for in the early
1980s goat cheese and sun-dried tomatoes were not yet passé.
Years before we’d agreed that you and Brian wouldn’t get into it over
Ronald Reagan—to you, a good-humored icon with easy flash and fiscal
ingenuity who had restored pride to the nation; to Brian, a figure of
menacing idiocy who would bankrupt the country with tax cuts for rich
people. So we stayed on safe topics, as “Ebony and Ivory” crooned in the
background at a grown-up volume and I suppressed my annoyance that

the little girls kept singing tunelessly along and replaying the same track.
You bewailed the fact that the Knicks hadn’t made the playoffs, and
Brian did an impressive imitation of a man who was interested in sports.
We were all disappointed that All in the Family would soon wrap up its
last season, but agreed that the show was about played out. About the
only conflict that arose all afternoon was over the equally terminal fate
of M*A*S*H. Well aware that Brian worshiped him, you savaged Alan
Alda as a “sanctimonious pill.”
Yet the difference was dismayingly good-natured. Brian had a blind
spot about Israel, and I was tempted to plant one quiet reference to
“Judeo-Nazis” and detonate this affable occasion. Instead I asked him
about the subject of his new script, but never got a proper answer
because the older girl got chewing gum in her Barbie-blond hair. There
was a long maunder about solvents, which Brian put an end to by
lopping off the lock with a carving knife, and Louise got a little upset.
But that was the single set-piece commotion, and otherwise no one drank
too much or took offense; their home was nice, the food was nice, the
girls were nice—nice, nice, nice.
I disappointed myself by finding our perfectly pleasant lunch with
perfectly pleasant people inadequate. Why would I have preferred a
fight? Weren’t those two girls captivating as could be, so what did it
matter that they were eternally interrupting and I had not for the whole
afternoon been able to finish a thought? Wasn’t I married to a man I
loved, so why did something wicked in me wish that Brian had slipped
his hand up my skirt when I helped him bring in bowls of Häagen-Dazs
from the kitchen? In retrospect, I was quite right to kick myself, too. Just
a few years later I’d have paid money for an ordinary, good-spirited
family gathering during which the worst thing any of the children got up
to was sticking gum in their hair.
You, however, announced boisterously in the lobby, “That was great. I
think they’re both terrific. We should be sure to have them over soon, if
they can get a sitter.”
I held my tongue. You would have no time for my nit-picking about
how wasn’t the luncheon a little bland, didn’t you have this feeling like,
what’s the point, isn’t there something flat and plain and doughy about
this whole Father Knows Best routine when Brian was once (at last I can
admit to a guest-room quickie at a party before you and I met) such a
hell-raiser. It’s quite possible that you felt exactly as I did, that this to all
appearances successful encounter had felt dumpy and insipid to you as
well, but in lieu of another obvious model to aspire to—we were not

going to go score a gram of cocaine—you took refuge in denial. These
were good people and they had been good to us and we had therefore had
a good time. To conclude otherwise was frightening, raising the specter
of some unnamable quantity without which we could not abide, but
which we could not summon on demand, least of all by proceeding in
virtuous accordance with an established formula.
You regarded redemption as an act of will. You disparaged people
(people like me) for their cussedly nonspecific dissatisfactions, because
to fail to embrace the simple fineness of being alive betrayed a weakness
of character. You always hated finicky eaters, hypochondriacs, and snobs
who turn up their noses at Terms of Endearment just because it was
popular. Nice eats, nice place, nice folks—what more could I possibly
want? Besides, the good life doesn’t knock on the door. Joy is a job. So if
you believed with sufficient industry that we had had a good time with
Brian and Louise in theory, then we would have had a good time in fact.
The only hint that in truth you’d found our afternoon laborious was that
your enthusiasm was excessive.
As we spun through the revolving doors onto Riverside Drive, I’m
sure my disquiet was unformed and fleeting. Later these thoughts would
come back to haunt me, though I could not have anticipated that your
compulsion to manhandle your unruly, misshapen experience into a tidy
box, like someone trying to cram a wild tangle of driftwood into a hard-
shell Samsonite suitcase, as well as this sincere confusion of the is with
the ought to be—your heartrending tendency to mistake what you
actually had for what you desperately wanted—would produce such
devastating consequences.
I proposed that we walk home. On the road for Wing and a Prayer I
walked everywhere, and the impulse was second nature.
“It must be six or seven miles to Tribeca!” you objected.
“You’ll take a taxi in order to jump rope 7,500 times in front of the
Knicks game, but a vigorous walk that gets you where you’re going is
too exhausting.”
“Hell, yes. Everything in its place.” Limited to exercise or the strict
way you folded your shirts, your regimens were adorable. But in more
serious contexts, Franklin, I was less charmed. Orderliness readily slides
to conformity over time.
So I threatened to walk home by myself, and that did it; I was leaving
for Sweden three days later, and you were greedy for my company. We
roistered down the footpath into Riverside Park, where the ginkgoes

were in flower, and the sloping lawn was littered with anorexics doing tai
chi. Ebullient over getting away from my own friends, I stumbled.
“You’re a drunk,” you said.
“Two glasses!”
You tsked. “Middle of the day.”
“I should have made it three,” I said sharply. Your every pleasure
rationed except television, I wished that sometimes you would let go, as
you had in our salad days of courtship, arriving at my door with two
pinot noirs, a six of St. Pauli Girl, and a lecherous leer that did not
promise to hold off until we’d flossed.
“Brian’s kids,” I introduced formally. “They make you want one?”
“M-m-maybe. They’re cute. Then, I’m not the one who has to stuff the
beasties in the sack when they want a cracker, Mr. Bunnikins, and 5
million drinks of water.”
I understood. These talks of ours had a gameliness, and your opening
play was noncommittal. One of us always got lodged into the role of
parental party pooper, and I had rained on the progeny parade in our
previous session: A child was loud, messy, constraining, and ungrateful.
This time I bid for the more daring role: “At least if I got pregnant,
something would happen.”
“Obviously,” you said dryly. “You’d have a baby.”
I dragged you down the walkway to the riverfront. “I like the idea of
turning the page is all.”
“That was inscrutable.”
“I mean, we’re happy? Wouldn’t you say?”
“Sure,” you concurred cautiously. “I guess so.” For you, our
contentment didn’t bear scrutiny—as if it were a skittish bird, easily
startled, and the moment one of us cried out Look at that beautiful swan!
it would fly away.
“Well, maybe we’re too happy.”
“Yeah, I’ve been meaning to talk to you about that. I wish you could
make me a little more miserable.”
“Stop it. I’m talking about story. In fairy tales, ‘And they lived happily
ever after’ is the last line.”
“Do me a favor: Talk down to me.”
Oh, you knew exactly what I meant. Not that happiness is dull. Only
that it doesn’t tell well. And one of our consuming diversions as we age
is to recite, not only to others but to ourselves, our own story. I should
know; I am in flight from my story every day, and it dogs me like a
faithful stray. Accordingly, the one respect in which I depart from my

younger self is that I now regard those people who have little or no story
to tell themselves as terribly fortunate.
We slowed by the tennis courts in the blaze of April sunlight, pausing
to admire a powerful slice backhand through a gap in the green mesh
windbreaks. “Everything seems so sorted out,” I lamented. “Wing and a
Prayer has taken off so that the only thing that could really happen to me
professionally is for the company to go belly-up. I could always make
more money—but I’m a thrift-shop junkie, Franklin, and I don’t know
what to do with it. Money bores me, and it’s starting to change the way
we live in a way I’m not totally comfortable with. Plenty of people don’t
have a kid because they can’t afford one. For me it would a relief to find
something of consequence to spend it on.”
“I’m not of consequence?”
“You don’t want enough.”
“New jump rope?”
“Ten bucks.”
“Well,” you conceded, “at least a kid would answer the Big Question.”
I could be perverse, too. “What big question?”
“You know,” you said lightly, and drew out with an emcee drawl, “the
old e-e-existential dilemma.”
I did not put my finger on why, but your Big Question left me
unmoved. I far preferred my turn of the page. “I could always traipse off
to a new country—”
“Any left? You go through countries the way most folks go through
socks.”
“Russia,” I noted. “But I’m not, for once, threatening to ransom my
life to Aeroflot. Because lately ... everywhere seems kind of the same.
Countries all have different food, but they all have food, know what I
mean?”
“What do you call that? Right! Codswallop.”
See, you’d a habit back then of pretending to have no idea what I was
talking about if what I was getting at was at all complicated or subtle.
Later this playing-dumb strategy, which began as gentle teasing, warped
into a darker incapacity to grasp what I was getting at not because it was
abstruse but because it was all too clear and you didn’t want it to be so.
Allow me, then, to elucidate: Countries all have different weather, but
they all have weather of some sort, architecture of some sort, a
disposition toward burping at the dinner table that regards it as flattering
or rude. Hence, I had begun to attend less to whether one was expected
to leave one’s sandals at the door in Morocco than to the constant that,

wherever I was, its culture would have a custom about shoes. It seemed a
great deal of trouble to go to—checking baggage, adapting to new time
zones—only to remain stuck on the old weather-shoes continuum; the
continuum itself had come to feel like a location of sorts, thereby landing
me relentlessly in the same place. Nevertheless, though I would
sometimes rant about globalization—I could now buy your favorite
chocolate-brown Stove brogans from Banana Republic in Bangkok—
what had really grown monotonous was the world in my head, what I
thought and how I felt and what I said. The only way my head was going
truly somewhere else was to travel to a different life and not to a
different airport.
“Motherhood,” I condensed in the park. “Now, that is a foreign
country.”
On those rare occasions when it seemed as if I might really want to do
it, you got nervous. “You may be self-satisfied with your success,” you
said. “Location scouting for Madison Avenue ad clients hasn’t brought
me to an orgasm of self-actualization.”
“All right.” I stopped, leaned on the warm wooden rail that fenced the
Hudson, and extended my arms on either side to face you squarely.
“What’s going to happen, then? To you, professionally, what are we
waiting and hoping for?”
You waggled your head, searching my face. You seemed to discern
that I was not trying to impugn your achievements or the importance of
your work. This was about something else. “I could scout for feature
films instead.”
“But you’ve always said that’s the same job: You find the canvas,
someone else paints the scene. And ads pay better.”
“Married to Mrs. Moneybags, that doesn’t matter.”
“It does to you.” Your maturity about my vastly outearning you had its
limits.
“I’ve considered trying something else altogether.”
“So, what, you’ll get all fired up to start your own restaurant?”
You smiled. “They never make it.”
“Exactly. You’re too practical. Maybe you will do something different,
but it’ll be pretty much on the same plane. And I’m talking about
topography. Emotional, narrative topography. We live in Holland. And
sometimes I get a hankering for Nepal.”
Since other New Yorkers were so driven, you could have been injured
that I didn’t regard you as ambitious. But one of the things you were
practical about was yourself, and you didn’t take offense. You were

ambitious—for your life, what it was like when you woke up in the
morning, and not for some attainment. Like most people who did not
answer a particular calling from an early age, you placed work beside
yourself; any occupation would fill up your day but not your heart. I
liked that about you. I liked it enormously.
We started walking again, and I swung your hand. “Our parents will
die soon,” I resumed. “In fact, one by one everyone we know will start
pitching their mortal coils in the drink. We’ll get old, and at some point
you’re losing more friends than you make. Sure, we can go on holidays,
finally giving in to suitcases with wheelies. We can eat more foods and
slug more wines and have more sex. But—and don’t take this wrong—
I’m worried that it all starts getting a little tired.”
“One of us could always get pancreatic cancer,” you said pleasantly.
“Yeah. Or run your pickup into a concrete mixer, and the plot thickens.
But that’s my point. Everything I can think of happening to us from now
on—not, you know, we get an affectionate postcard from France, but
really happen-happen—is awful.”
You kissed my hair. “Pretty morbid for such a gorgeous day.”
For a few steps we walked in a half embrace, but our strides clashed; I
settled for hooking your belt loop with my forefinger. “You know that
euphemism, she’s expecting? It’s apt. The birth of a baby, so long as it’s
healthy, is something to look forward to. It’s a good thing, a big, good,
huge event. And from thereon in, every good thing that happens to them
happens to you, too. Of course, bad things, too,” I added hurriedly, “but
also, you know, first steps, first dates, first places in sack races. Kids,
they graduate, they marry, they have kids themselves—in a way, you get
to do everything twice. Even if our kid had problems,” I supposed
idiotically, “at least they wouldn’t be our same old problems . . . ”
Enough. Recounting this dialogue is breaking my heart.
 
Looking back, maybe my saying that I wanted more “story” was all by
way of alluding to the fact that I wanted someone else to love. We never
said such things outright; we were too shy. And I was nervous of ever
intimating that you weren’t enough for me. In fact, now that we’re parted
I wish I had overcome my own bashfulness and had told you more often
how falling in love with you was the most astonishing thing that ever
happened to me. Not just the falling, either, the trite and finite part, but
being in love. Every day we spent apart, I would conjure that wide warm
chest of yours, its pectoral hillocks firm and mounded from your daily
100 pushups, the clavicle valley into which I could nestle the crown of

my head on those glorious mornings that I did not have to catch a plane.
Sometimes I would hear you call my name from around a corner—“Ee-
VA!”—often irascible, curt, demanding, calling me to heel because I was
yours, like a dog, Franklin! But I was yours and I didn’t resent it and I
wanted you to make that claim: “Eeeeeee-VAH!” always the emphasis
on the second syllable, and there were some evenings I could hardly
answer because my throat had closed with a rising lump. I would have to
stop slicing apples for a crumble at the counter because a film had
formed over my eyes and the kitchen had gone all liquid and wobbly and
if I kept on slicing I would cut myself. You always shouted at me when I
cut myself, it made you furious, and the irrationality of that anger would
almost beguile me into doing it again.
I never, ever took you for granted. We met too late for that; I was
nearly thirty-three by then, and my past without you was too stark and
insistent for me to find the miracle of companionship ordinary. But after
I’d survived for so long on the scraps from my own emotional table, you
spoiled me with a daily banquet of complicitous what-an-asshole looks at
parties, surprise bouquets for no occasion, and fridge-magnet notes that
always signed off “XXXX, Franklin.” You made me greedy. Like any
addict worth his salt, I wanted more. And I was curious. I wondered how
it felt when it was a piping voice calling, “Momm-MEEE?” from around
that same corner. You started it—like someone who gives you a gift of a
single carved ebony elephant, and suddenly you get this idea that it
might be fun to start a collection.
 
Eva
 
 
P.S. (3:40 A.M.)
I’ve been trying to go cold turkey on sleeping pills, if only because I
know you’d disapprove of my using them. But without the pills I keep
tossing. I’ll be worthless at Travel R Us tomorrow, but I wanted to get
down another memory from that period.
Remember having soft-shell crabs with Eileen and Belmont at the
loft? That evening was wanton. Even you threw caution to the winds and
lurched up for the raspberry brandy at 2 A.M. With no interruptions to
admire dolly outfits, no tomorrow is a school day, we gorged on fruit and
sorbet and splashed immoderate second shots of clear, heady framboise,

whooping at each others’ top-this tales in the orgy of eternal adolescence
characteristic of the childless in middle age.
We all talked about our parents—rather to their collective detriment,
I’m afraid. We staged an unofficial contest of sorts: whose parents were
the most bonkers. You were at a disadvantage; your parents’ uninflected
New England stoicism was difficult to parody. By contrast, my mother’s
ingenious contrivances for avoiding leaving the house made for great
hilarity, and I even managed to explain the private joke between me and
my brother Giles about “It’s very convenient”—the catchphrase in our
family for “They deliver.” In those days (before he was reluctant to let
his children anywhere near me), I had only to say “It’s very convenient”
to Giles, and he guffawed. By the wee-smalls I could say “It’s very
convenient” to Eileen and Belmont and they cracked up, too.
Neither of us could compete with that interracial vaudeville team of
been-around-the-block bohemians. Eileen’s mother was schizophrenic,
her father a professional cardsharp; Belmont’s mother was a former
prostitute who still dressed like Bette Davis in Whatever Happened to
Baby Jane? and his father was a semifamous jazz drummer who had
played with Dizzy Gillespie. I sensed that they’d told these stories
before, but as a consequence they told them very well, and after so much
chardonnay to wash down a feast of crabs I laughed until I wept. Once I
considered bending the conversation toward this monstrous decision you
and I were trying to make, but Eileen and Belmont were at least ten years
older, and I wasn’t sure childless by choice; raising the matter might
have been unkind.
They didn’t leave until almost 4 A.M. And make no mistake: On this
occasion I’d had a wonderful time. It was one of those rare evenings that
had proved worth the bustle of rushing to the fish market and chopping
all that fruit, and that should even have been worth cleaning up the
kitchen, dusty with dredging flour and sticky with mango peel. I could
see being a little let down that the night was over, or a little heavy with
too much booze, whose giddy effects had peaked, leaving only an
unsteadiness on my feet and a difficulty in focusing when I needed to
concentrate on not dropping the wine glasses. But that wasn’t why I felt
dolorous.
“So quiet,” you noticed, stacking plates. “Beat?”
I noshed on a lone crab claw that had fallen off in the skillet. “We
must have spent what, four, five hours, talking about our parents.”
“So? If you feel guilty about bad-mouthing your mother, you’re
looking at penance until 2025. It’s one of your favorite sports.”

“I know it is. That’s what bothers me.”
“She couldn’t hear you. And no one around that table assumed that
because you think she’s funny you don’t also think she’s tragic. Or that
you don’t love her.” You added, “In your way.”
“But when she dies, we won’t, I won’t be able to carry on like that. It
won’t be possible to be so scathing, not without feeling traitorous.”
“Pillory the poor woman while you can, then.”
“But should we be talking about our parents, for hours, at this age?”
“What’s the problem? You were laughing so hard you must have wet
yourself.”
“I had this image, after they left—the four of us, all in our eighties
with liver spots, still boozing it up, still telling the same stories. Maybe
tinged with affection or regret since they’d be dead, but still talking
about weird Mom and Dad. Isn’t it a little pathetic?”
“You’d rather anguish over El Salvador.”
“It’s not that—”
“—Or dole out cultural after-dinner mints: Belgians are rude, Thais
disapprove of groping in public, and Germans are obsessed with shit.”
The tinge of bitterness in such jibes had been on the increase. My
hard-won anthropological nuggets apparently served as reminders that
I’d gone on an adventure abroad while you were searching suburban
New Jersey for a tumbledown garage for Black and Decker. I might have
snapped that I was sorry my travel stories bored you, but you were
mostly teasing, it was late, and I wasn’t in the mood to scrap.
“Don’t be silly,” I said. “I’m like everyone else: I love to talk about
other people. Not peoples. People I know, people close to me—people
who drive me crazy. But I feel as if I’m using my family up. My father
was killed before I was born; one brother and one mom make for pretty
slim pickings. Honestly, Franklin, maybe we should have a kid just to
have something else to talk about.”
“Now that,” you clanged the spinach pan in the sink, “is frivolous.”
I stayed your hand. “It’s not. What we talk about is what we think
about, is what our lives are about. I’m not sure I want to spend mine
looking over my shoulder at a generation whose lineage I’m personally
helping to truncate. There’s something nihilistic about not having
children, Franklin. As if you don’t believe in the whole human thing. If
everyone followed our lead, the species would disappear in a hundred
years.”
“Get out,” you jeered. “Nobody has kids to perpetuate the species.”

“Maybe not consciously. But it’s only been since about 1960 that
we’ve been able to decide without joining a nunnery. Besides, after
nights like this, there might be poetic justice in having grown kids
talking for hours to their friends about me.”
How we shelter ourselves! For the prospect of such scrutiny clearly
appealed to me. Wasn’t Mom pretty? Wasn’t Mom brave? Gosh, she went
to all those scary countries all by herself! These flashes of my children’s
late-night meditations on their mother were gauzy with the very
adoration so signally absent from my savage dissection of my own
mother. Try, Isn’t Mom pretentious? Isn’t her nose huge? And those
travel guides she grinds out are sooooo boooooring. Worse, the deadly
accuracy of filial faultfinding is facilitated by access, by trust, by willing
disclosure, and so constitutes a double betrayal.
Yet even in retrospect this craving for “something else to talk about”
seems far from frivolous. Indeed, I may have first been enticed into the
notion of giving pregnancy a go by these tempting little imaginative
packages like movie previews: of opening the front door to the boy on
whom my daughter (I confess I always imagined a daughter) has her first
crush, soothing his awkwardness with easy banter, and assessing him
endlessly—playfully, ruthlessly—once he is gone. My yearning to stay
up late with Eileen and Belmont for once ruminating about young people
whose lives lay before them—who made new stories, about which I
would have new opinions, and whose fabric was not threadbare from
retelling—was real enough, it wasn’t flip.
Oh, but it never entered my head what, once I was finally provided my
coveted fresh subject matter, I would have to say. Much less could I
foresee the aching O. Henry irony that in lighting upon my consuming
new topic of conversation, I would lose the man that I most wanted to
talk to.

 
 
November 28, 2000
 
 
Dear Franklin,
 
This carnival in Florida shows no signs of picking up stakes. The office
is up in arms about some state official who wears a lot of makeup, and a
number of my overwrought coworkers are predicting a “constitutional
crisis.” Although I haven’t followed the details, I doubt that. What
strikes me as people in diners rail at each other at the counter when
before they ate in silence is not how imperiled they feel, but how safe.
Only a country that feels invulnerable can afford political turmoil as
entertainment.
But having come so close to extermination within living memory (I
know you’re tired of hearing about it), few Armenian Americans share
their compatriots’ smug sense of security. The very numerics of my own
life are apocalyptic. I was born in August 1945, when the spoors of two
poisonous mushrooms gave us all a cautionary foretaste of hell. Kevin
himself was born during the anxious countdown to 1984—much feared,
you’ll recall; though I scoffed at folks who took George Orwell’s
arbitrary title to heart, those digits did usher in an era of tyranny for me.
Thursday itself took place in 1999, a year widely mooted beforehand as
the end of the world. And wasn’t it.
 
Since I last wrote, I’ve been rooting around in my mental attic for my
original reservations about motherhood. I do recall a tumult of fears,
though all the wrong ones. Had I catalogued the downsides of
parenthood, “son might turn out killer” would never have turned up on
the list. Rather, it might have looked something like this:
1. Hassle.
2. Less time just the two of us. (Try no time just the two of us.)
3. Other people. (PTA meetings. Ballet teachers. The kid’s
insufferable friends and their insufferable parents.)
4. Turning into a cow. (I was slight, and preferred to stay that way.
My sister-in-law had developed bulging varicose veins in her legs
during pregnancy that never retreated, and the prospect of calves
branched in blue tree roots mortified me more than I could say.

So I didn’t say. I am vain, or once was, and one of my vanities
was to feign that I was not.)
5. Unnatural altruism: being forced to make decisions in accordance
with what was best for someone else. (I’m a pig.)
6. Curtailment of my traveling. (Note curtailment. Not conclusion.)
7. Dementing boredom. (I found small children brutally dull. I did,
even at the outset, admit this to myself.)
8. Worthless social life. (I had never had a decent conversation with
a friend’s five-year-old in the room.)
9. Social demotion. (I was a respected entrepreneur. Once I had a
toddler in tow, every man I knew—every woman, too, which is
depressing—would take me less seriously.)
10. Paying the piper. (Parenthood repays a debt. But who wants to
pay a debt she can escape? Apparently, the childless get away
with something sneaky. Besides, what good is repaying a debt to
the wrong party? Only the most warped mother could feel
rewarded for her trouble by the fact that at last her daughter’s life
is hideous, too.)
Those, as best I can recall, are the pygmy misgivings I weighed
beforehand, and I’ve tried not to contaminate their dumbfounding
naïveté with what actually happened. Clearly, the reasons to remain
barren—and what a devastating word—were all petty inconveniences
and trifling sacrifices. They were selfish and mean and small-minded, so
that anyone compiling such a catalogue who still chose to retain her tidy,
airless, static, dead-end, desiccated family-free life was not only short-
sighted but a terrible person.
Yet as I contemplate that list now it strikes me that, however damning,
the conventional reservations about parenthood are practical. After all,
now that children don’t till your fields or take you in when you’re
incontinent, there is no sensible reason to have them, and it’s amazing
that with the advent of effective contraception anyone chooses to
reproduce at all. By contrast, love, story, content, faith in the human
“thing”—the modern incentives are like dirigibles, immense, floating,
and few; optimistic, largehearted, even profound, but ominously
ungrounded.
For years I’d been awaiting that overriding urge I’d always heard
about, the narcotic pining that draws childless women ineluctably to
strangers’ strollers in parks. I wanted to be drowned by the hormonal
imperative, to wake one day and throw my arms around your neck, reach
down for you, and pray that while that black flower bloomed behind my

eyes you had just left me with child. (With child: There’s a lovely warm
sound to that expression, an archaic but tender acknowledgment that for
nine months you have company wherever you go. Pregnant, by contrast,
is heavy and bulging and always sounds to my ear like bad news: “I’m
pregnant.” I instinctively picture a sixteen-year-old at the dinner table—
pale, unwell, with a scoundrel of a boyfriend—forcing herself to blurt
out her mother’s deepest fear.)
Whatever the trigger, it never entered my system, and that made me
feel cheated. When I hadn’t gone into maternal heat by my mid-thirties, I
worried that there was something wrong with me, something missing. By
the time I gave birth to Kevin at thirty-seven, I had begun to anguish
over whether, by not simply accepting this defect, I had amplified an
incidental, perhaps merely chemical deficiency into a flaw of
Shakespearean proportions.
 
So what finally pulled me off the fence? You, for starters. For if we were
happy, you weren’t, not quite, and I must have known that. There was a
hole in your life that I couldn’t quite fill. You had work, and it suited
you. Nosing into undiscovered stables and armories, searching out a field
that had to be edged with a split-rail fence and sport a cherry-red silo and
black-and-white cows (Kraft—whose cheese-food slices were made with
“real milk”), you made your own hours, your own vista. You liked
location scouting. But you didn’t love it. Your passion was for people,
Franklin. So when I saw you playing with Brian’s children, nuzzling
them with monkey puppets and admiring their wash-off tattoos, I
yearned to provide you opportunity for the ardor that I myself once
found in A Wing and a Prayer—or, as you would say, AWAP.
I remember once you tried to express, haltingly, what was not like
you; not the sentiment, not the language. You were always
uncomfortable with the rhetoric of emotion, which is quite a different
matter from discomfort with emotion itself. You feared that too much
examination could bruise the feelings, like the well-meaning but brutish
handling of a salamander by big, clumsy hands.
We were in bed, still in that vaulting Tribeca loft whose creaky
handworked elevator was forever breaking down. Cavernous, sifting
with dust, undifferentiated into civilized cubicles with end tables, the loft
always reminded me of the private hideout my brother and I had
fashioned from corrugated iron in Racine. You and I had made love, and
I was just swooning off into sleep when I sat bolt upright. I had to catch
a plane for Madrid in ten hours’ time and had forgotten to set the alarm.

Once I’d adjusted the clock, I noticed you were on your back. Your eyes
were open.
“What is it?”
You sighed. “I don’t know how you do it.” As I nestled back to bask in
another paean to my amazing adventurousness and courage, you must
have sensed my mistake, for you added hastily, “Leave. Leave all the
time for so long. Leave me.”
“But I don’t like to.”
“I wonder.”
“Franklin, I didn’t contrive my company to escape your clutches.
Don’t forget, it predates you.”
“Oh, I could hardly forget that.”
“It’s my job!”
“It doesn’t have to be.”
I sat up. “Are you—”
“I’m not.” You pressed me gently back down; this was not going as
you planned, and you had, I could tell, planned it. You rolled over to
place your elbows on either side of me and touched your forehead,
briefly, to mine. “I’m not trying to take your series away. I know how
much it means to you. That’s the trouble. The other way around, I
couldn’t do it. I couldn’t get up tomorrow to fly to Madrid and try to
discourage you from meeting me at the airport three weeks later. Maybe
once or twice. Not over and over.”
“You could if you had to.”
“Eva. You know and I know. You don’t have to.”
I twisted. You were so close up; I felt hot, and, between your elbows,
caged. “We’ve been through this—”
“Not often. Your travel guides are a runaway success. You could hire
college students to do all the grubbing around in flophouses that you do
yourself. They already do most of your research, don’t they?”
I was vexed; I’d been through this. “If I don’t keep tabs on them, they
cheat. They say they’ve confirmed that a listing is still good, and don’t
bother and go get slammed. Later it turns out the B&B has changed
hands and is riddled with lice, or it’s moved to a new location. I get
complaints from cross-country cyclists who have ridden a hundred miles
to find an insurance office instead of a hard-earned bed. They’re furious,
as they should be. And without the boss lady looking over their shoulder,
some of those students will take kickbacks. AWAP’s most valuable asset
is its reputation—”

“You could hire someone else to do spot checks, too. So you’re going
to Madrid tomorrow because you want to. There’s nothing awful about
that except that I wouldn’t, and I couldn’t. You know that when you’re
gone I think about you all the time? On the hour I think about what
you’re eating, who you’re meeting—”
“But I think about you, too!”
You laughed, and the chuckle was congenial; you weren’t trying to
pick a fight. You released me, rolling onto your back. “Horseshit, Eva.
You think about whether the falafel stand on the corner will last through
the next update, and how to describe the color of the sky. Fine. But in
that case, you must feel differently about me than I do about you. That’s
all I’m getting at.”
“Are you seriously claiming that I don’t love you as much?”
“You don’t love me in the same way. It has nothing to do with degree.
There’s something—you save out,” you groped. “Maybe I envy that. It’s
like a reserve tank or something. You walk out of here, and this other
source kicks in. You putter around Europe, or Malaysia, until it finally
runs low and you come home.”
 
Yet in truth what you had described was closer to my pre-Franklin self. I
was once an efficient little unit, like one of those travel toothbrushes that
folds into a box. I know I tend to over-romanticize those times, though in
the early days especially I had a fire under me. I was a kid, really. I’d
initially gotten the idea for Wing and a Prayer halfway through my own
first trip to Europe, for which I’d brought way too little cash. This notion
of a bohemian travel guide gave me a sense of purpose in what was
otherwise disintegrating into one long cup of coffee, and from then on I
went everywhere with a tattered notebook, recording rates for single
rooms, whether they had hot water or the staff spoke any English or the
toilets backed up.
It’s easy to forget, now that AWAP has attracted so much competition,
but in the mid-sixties globe-trotters were pretty much at the mercy of The
Blue Guide, whose target audience was middle-aged and middle class. In
1966, when the first edition of Western Europe on a Wing and a Prayer
went into a second printing almost overnight, I realized that I was onto
something. I like to portray myself as shrewd, but we both know I was
lucky. I couldn’t have anticipated the backpacking craze, and I wasn’t
enough of an amateur demographer to have taken deliberate advantage of
all those restless baby boomers coming of age at once, all on Daddy’s
dime in an era of prosperity, but all optimistic about how far a few

hundred dollars would take them in Italy and desperate for advice on
how to make a trip Dad never wanted them to take in the first place last
as long as possible. I mostly reasoned that the next explorer after me
would be scared, the way I was scared, and nervous of being taken, the
way I was sometimes taken, and if I was willing to get the food
poisoning first I could make sure that at least our novice wayfarer didn’t
stay up heaving on that first electric night overseas. I don’t mean that I
was benevolent, only that I wrote the guide that I wished I’d been able to
use myself.
You’re rolling your eyes. This lore is shopworn, and maybe it’s
inevitable that the very things that first attract you to someone are the
same things with which you later grow irritated. Bear with me.
You know that I was always horrified by the prospect of turning out
like my mother. Funny, Giles and I only learned the term “agoraphobic”
in our thirties, and I’ve always been perplexed by its strict definition,
which I’ve looked up more than once: “fear of open or public spaces.”
Not, from what I could tell, an apt description of her complaint. My
mother wasn’t afraid of football stadiums, she was afraid to leave the
house, and I got the impression she was just as panicked by enclosed
spaces as by open ones, so long as the enclosed space did not happen to
be 137 Enderby Avenue in Racine, Wisconsin. But there doesn’t seem to
be a word for that (Enderbyphilia?), and at least when I refer to my
mother as agoraphobic, people seem to understand that she orders in.
Jesus that’s ironic, I’ve heard more times than I can count. With all the
places you’ve been? Other people savor the symmetry of apparent
opposites.
But let me be candid. I am much like my mother. Maybe it’s because
as a child I was always running errands for which I was too young and
that therefore daunted me; I was sent out to locate new gaskets for the
kitchen sink when I was eight years old. In pushing me to be her
emissary while I was still so small, my mother managed to reproduce in
me the same disproportionate anguish about minor interactions with the
outside world that she herself felt at thirty-two.
I can’t recall a single trip abroad that, up against it, I have truly wanted
to take, that I haven’t in some way dreaded and wanted desperately to get
out of. I was repeatedly forced out the door by a conspiracy of previous
commitments: the ticket purchased, the taxi ordered, a host of
reservations confirmed, and just to box myself in a little further I would
always have talked up the journey to friends, before florid farewells.
Even on the plane, I’d have been blissfully content for the wide-body to

penetrate the stratosphere for all eternity. Landing was agony, finding my
first night’s bed was agony, though the respite itself—my ad hoc
replication of Enderby Avenue—was glorious. At length, I got hooked
on this sequence of accelerating terrors culminating in a vertiginous
plunge to my adoptive mattress. My whole life I have been making
myself do things. I never went to Madrid, Franklin, out of appetite for
paella, and every one of those research trips you imagined I used to slip
the surly bonds of our domestic tranquillity was really a gauntlet I’d
thrown down and compelled myself to pick up. If I was ever glad to have
gone, I was never glad to go.
But over the years the aversion grew milder, and surmounting a mere
annoyance is not so rich. Once I habituated to rising to my own
challenge—to proving repeatedly that I was independent, competent,
mobile, and grown-up—gradually the fear inverted: The one thing I
dreaded more than another trip to Malaysia was staying home.
So I wasn’t only afraid of becoming my mother, but a mother. I was
afraid of being the steadfast, stationary anchor who provides a
jumpingoff place for another young adventurer whose travels I might
envy and whose future is still unmoored and unmapped. I was afraid of
being that archetypal figure in the doorway—frowzy, a little plump—
who waves good-bye and blows kisses as a backpack is stashed in the
trunk; who dabs her eyes with an apron ruffle in the fumes of departing
exhaust; who turns forlornly to twist the latch and wash the too-few
dishes by the sink as the silence in the room presses down like a dropped
ceiling. More than of leaving, I had developed a horror of being left.
How often I had done that to you, stranded you with the baguette crusts
of our farewell dinner and swept off to my waiting taxi. I don’t believe I
ever told you how sorry I was for putting you through all those little
deaths of serial desertion, or commended you on constraining expression
of your quite justifiable sense of abandonment to the occasional quip.
Franklin, I was absolutely terrified of having a child. Before I got
pregnant, my visions of child rearing—reading stories about cabooses
with smiley faces at bedtime, feeding glop into slack mouths—all
seemed like pictures of someone else. I dreaded confrontation with what
could prove a closed, stony nature, my own selfishness and lack of
generosity, the thick, tarry powers of my own resentment. However
intrigued by a “turn of the page,” I was mortified by the prospect of
becoming hopelessly trapped in someone else’s story. And I believe that
this terror is precisely what must have snagged me, the way a ledge will

tempt one to jump off. The very insurmountability of the task, its very
unattractiveness, was in the end what attracted me to it.
 
Eva
 

 
 
December 2, 2000
 
 
Dear Franklin,
 
I’ve settled myself down in a little coffee shop in Chatham, which is why
this is handwritten; then, you were always able to decipher my spidery
scrawl on postcards, since I gave you a terrible lot of practice. The
couple at the next table is having a knockdown drag-out over the
application process for absentee ballots in Seminole County—the kind of
minutiae that seems to consume the whole country right now, since
everyone around me has turned into a procedural pedant. All the same, I
bask in their heatedness as before a woodstove. My own apathy is bone
chilling.
The Bagel Café is a homey establishment, and I don’t think the
waitress will mind if I nurse a cup of coffee by my legal pad. Chatham,
too, is homey, authentic—with the kind of Middle America quaintness
that more well-to-do towns like Stockbridge and Lenox spend a great
deal of money to feign. Its railroad station still receives trains. The
commercial main drag sports the traditional lineup of secondhand
bookstores (full of those Loren Estleman novels you devoured), bakeries
with burnt-edged bran muffins, charity consignment shops, a cinema
whose marquee says “theatre” on the parochial presumption that British
spelling is more sophisticated, and a liquor store that, along with Taylor
magnums for the locals, stocks some surprisingly pricey California
zinfandels for out-oftowners. Manhattan residents with second homes
keep this disheveled hamlet alive now that most local industries have
closed—these summer folk and, of course, the new correctional facility
on the outskirts of town.
I was thinking about you on the drive up, if that doesn’t go without
saying. By way of counterpoint, I was trying to picture the kind of man I
assumed I’d end up with before we met. The vision was doubtless a
composite of the on-the-road boyfriends you always rode me about.
Some of my romantic blow-ins were sweet, though whenever a woman
describes a man as sweet, the dalliance is doomed.
If that assortment of cameo companions in Arles or Tel Aviv was
anything to go by (sorry—“the losers”), I was destined to settle down

with a stringy cerebral type whose skittering metabolism burns chickpea
concoctions at a ferocious rate. Sharp elbows, prominent Adam’s apple,
narrow wrists. A strict vegetarian. An anguished sort who reads
Nietzsche and wears spectacles, alienated from his time and
contemptuous of the automobile. An avid cyclist and hill walker.
Professional marginalia—perhaps a potter, with a love of hardwoods and
herb gardens, whose aspirations to an unpretentious life of physical toil
and lingering sunsets on a porch are somewhat belied by the steely,
repressed rage with which he pitches disappointing vases into an oil
drum. A weakness for weed; brooding. An understated but ruthless sense
of humor; a dry, distant laugh. Back massages. Recycling. Sitar music
and a flirtation with Buddhism that is mercifully behind him. Vitamins
and cribbage, water filters and French films. A pacifist with three guitars
but no TV, and unpleasant associations with team sports from a picked-
on childhood. A hint of vulnerability in the receding hairline at the
temples; a soft, dark ponytail whisping down the spine. A sallow, olive
complexion, almost sickly. Tender, whispering sex. Curious carved
wooden talisman thonged around the neck that he will neither explain
nor take off, even in the bath. Diaries that I mustn’t read, pasted up with
sick squib clippings that illustrate what a terrible world we live in.
(“Grisly Find: Police found assorted bits of a man’s body, including a
pair of hands and two legs, in six luggage lockers in Tokyo’s central
railway station. After inspecting all 2,500 coin lockers, police found a
pair of buttocks in a black plastic garbage bag.”) A cynic about
mainstream politics with an unabating ironic detachment from popular
culture. And most of all? With fluent if prettily accented English, a
foreigner.
We would live in the countryside—in Portugal, or a little village in
Central America—where a farm up the road sells raw milk, fresh-
churned sweet butter, and fat, seedy pumpkins. Our stone cottage would
writhe with creepers, its window boxes blushing red geraniums, and we
would bake chewy ryes and carrot brownies for our rustic neighbors. An
overeducated man, my fantasy partner would still root about the soil of
our idyll for the seeds of his own discontent. And surrounded by natural
bounty, grow spitefully ascetic.
Are you chuckling yet? Because then along came you. A big, broad
meat eater with brash blond hair and ruddy skin that burns at the beach.
A bundle of appetites. A full, boisterous guffaw; a man who tells
knockknock jokes. Hot dogs—not even East 86th Street bratwurst, but
mealy, greasy pig guts of that terrifying pink. Baseball. Gimme caps.

Puns and blockbuster movies, raw tap water and six-packs. A fearless,
trusting consumer who only reads labels to make sure there are plenty of
additives. A fan of the open road with a passion for his pickup who
thinks bicycles are for nerds. Fucks hard and talks dirty; a private though
unapologetic taste for porn. Mysteries, thrillers, and science fiction; a
subscription to National Geographic. Barbecues on the Fourth of July
and intentions, in the fullness of time, to take up golf. Delights in crappy
snack foods of every description: Burgles. Curlies. Cheesies. Squigglies
—you’re laughing, but I don’t eat them—anything that looks less like
food than packing material and at least six degrees of separation from the
farm. Bruce Springsteen, the early albums, cranked up high with the
truck window down and your hair flying. Sings along, off-key—how is it
possible that I should be endeared by such a tin ear? Beach Boys. Elvis
—never lost your roots, did you, loved plain old rock and roll. Bombast.
Though not impossibly stodgy; I remember, you took a shine to Pearl
Jam, which was exactly when Kevin went off them . . . (sorry). It just
had to be noisy; you hadn’t any time for my Elgar, my Leo Kottke,
though you made an exception for Aaron Copeland. You wiped your
eyes brusquely at Tanglewood, as if to clear gnats, hoping I didn’t notice
that “Quiet City” made you cry. And ordinary, obvious pleasures: the
Bronx Zoo and the Botanical Gardens, the Coney Island roller coaster,
the Staten Island ferry, the Empire State Building. You were the only
New Yorker I’d ever met who’d actually taken the ferry to the Statue of
Liberty. You dragged me along once, and we were the only tourists on
the boat who spoke English. Representational art—Edward Hopper. And
my lord, Franklin, a Republican. A belief in a strong defense but
otherwise small government and low taxes. Physically, too, you were
such a surprise—yourself a strong defense. There were times you
worried that I thought you too heavy, I made so much of your size,
though you weighed in at a pretty standard 165, 170, always battling
those five pounds’ worth of cheddar widgets that would settle over your
belt. But to me you were enormous. So sturdy and solid, so wide, so
thick, none of that delicate wristy business of my imaginings. Built like
an oak tree, against which I could pitch my pillow and read; mornings, I
could curl into the crook of your branches. How lucky we are, when
we’re spared what we think we want! How weary I might have grown of
all those silly pots and fussy diets, and how I detest the whine of sitar
music!
But the biggest surprise of all was that I married an American. Not just
any American either, a man who happened to be American. No, you

were American by choice as well as by birth. You were, in fact, a patriot.
I had never met one before. Rubes, yes. Blind, untraveled, ignorant
people who thought the United States was the whole world, so to say
anything against it was like decrying the universe, or air. Instead, you
had been a few places—Mexico, one disastrous trip to Italy with a
woman whose cornucopia of allergies included tomatoes—and had
decided that you liked your own country. No, that you loved your own
country, its smoothness and efficiency, its practicality, its broad,
unpretentious accents and emphasis on honesty. I would say—I did say
—that you were enamored of an archaic version of the U.S., either an
America that was long past or that never was; that you were enamored of
an idea. And you would say—did say—that part of what America was
was an idea, and that was more than most countries could claim, which
were mostly scrappy pasts and circumscriptions on a map. It was a fine,
it was a beautiful idea, too, you said, and you pointed out—I granted you
this—that a nation that aimed to preserve above all the ability of its
citizens to do pretty much whatever they wanted was exactly the sort of
place that should have captivated the likes of me. But it hasn’t worked
out that way, I’d object, and you’d counter, better than anywhere else,
and we would be off.
It is true that I grew disenchanted. But I would still like to thank you
for introducing me to my own country. Wasn’t that how we met? We’d
decided at AWAP to run those advertisements in Mother Jones and
Rolling Stone, and when I was vague about the photos we wanted, Young
& Rubicam had you stop in. You showed up at my office in a flannel
shirt and dusty jeans, a beguiling impertinence. I tried so hard to be
professional, because your shoulders were distracting. France, I
supposed. The Rhone Valley. And then I dithered over the expense—
sending you over, putting you up. You laughed. Don’t be ridiculous, you
dismissed. I can find you the Rhone Valley in Pennsylvania. Which
indeed you did.
Hitherto, I had always regarded the United States as a place to leave.
After you brazenly asked me out—an executive with whom you had a
business relationship—you goaded me to admit that had I been born
elsewhere, the U.S. of A. was perhaps the first country I would make a
beeline to visit: whatever else I might think of it, the place that called the
shots and pulled the strings, that made the movies and sold the Coca-
Cola and shipped Star Trek all the way to Java; the center of the action, a
country that you needed a relationship with even if that relationship was
hostile; a country that demanded if not acceptance at least rejection—

anything but neglect. The country in every other country’s face, that
would visit you whether you liked it or not almost anywhere on the
planet. Okay, okay, I protested. Okay. I would visit.
So I visited. In those early days, remember your recurrent
astonishment? That I had never been to a baseball game. Or to
Yellowstone. Or the Grand Canyon. I sneered at them, but I had never
eaten a McDonald’s hot apple pie. (I confess: I liked it.) Someday, you
observed, there would be no McDonald’s. Just because there are lots of
them doesn’t mean that the hot apple pies aren’t excellent or that it isn’t a
privilege to live in a time when you can buy them for 99 cents. That was
one of your favorite themes: that profusion, replication, popularity
wasn’t necessarily devaluing, and that time itself made all things rare.
You loved to savor the present tense and were more conscious than
anyone I have ever met that its every constituent is fleeting.
And that was your perspective on your country as well: that it was not
forever. That of course it was an empire, though that was nothing to be
ashamed of. History is made of empires, and the United States was by far
and away the greatest, richest, and fairest empire that had ever
dominated the earth. Inevitably, it would fall. Empires always did. But
we were lucky, you said. We got to participate in the most fascinating
social experiment ever attempted. Sure it was imperfect, you would add,
with the same hastiness with which I observed before Kevin was born
that of course some children “had problems.” But you said that if the
U.S. were to fall or founder during your lifetime, collapse economically,
be overrun by an aggressor, or corrupt from within into something
vicious, you would weep.
I believe you would. But I sometimes considered during those days
you were carting me off to the Smithsonian, needling me to recite the
presidents in order, grilling me on the causes of the Haymarket Riots,
that I wasn’t visiting the country, quite. I was visiting your country. The
one you had made for yourself, the way a child constructs a log cabin out
of Popsicle sticks. It was a lovely reproduction, too. Even now, when I
glimpse snippets of the Preamble to the Constitution, We, the people . . . ,
the hair raises on the back of my neck. Because I hear your voice. The
Declaration of Independence, We hold these truths—your voice.
Irony. I have thought about you and irony. It always got your back up
when my friends from Europe would come through and dismiss our
countrymen as “having no sense of irony.” Yet (ironically) in the latter
twentieth century, irony was huge in the U.S., painfully so. In fact, I was
sick of it, though I didn’t realize that until we met. Coming into the

eighties, everything was “retro,” and there was an undercurrent of
snideness, a distancing in all those fifties diners with chrome stools and
oversized root-beer floats. Irony means at once having and not having.
Irony involves a prissy dabbling, a disavowal. We had friends whose
apartments were completely tricked out in sardonic kitsch—pickaninny
dolls, framed advertisements for Kellogg’s cornflakes from the twenties
(“Look at the bowlfuls go!”)—who owned nothing that wasn’t a joke.
You wouldn’t live that way. Oh, to have “no sense of irony” was
supposedly to not know what it was—to be a moron—to have no sense
of humor. And you knew what it was. You laughed, a little, at the
lampbearing cast-iron black jockey that Belmont picked up for their
hearth, to be polite. You got the joke. You just didn’t think it was that
funny, really, and in your own life you wanted objects that were truly
beautiful and not just a laugh. Such a bright man, you were sincere by
design and not merely by nature, American by personal fiat, and you
would embrace all that was good in that. Is it called naïveté when you’re
naive on purpose? You would go on picnics. You would take
conventional vacations to national monuments. You would sing O’er the
la-and of the free! at the top of your tuneless voice at Mets games, and
never with a smirk. The United States, you claimed, was on the
existential cutting edge. It was a country whose prosperity was without
precedence, where virtually everyone had enough to eat; a country that
strove for justice and offered up nearly every entertainment and sport,
every religion, ethnicity, occupation, and political affiliation to be had,
with a wild wealth of landscapes, of flora and fauna and weather. If it
was not possible to have a fine, rich, sumptuous life in this country, with
a beautiful wife and a healthy, growing boy, then it was not possible
anywhere. And even now, I believe that you may be right. But that it
may not be possible anywhere.
 
9 P.M. (BACK HOME)
 
The waitress was tolerant, but the Bagel Café was closing. And
printout may be impersonal, but it’s easier on the eye. For that matter, I
worry that throughout that handwritten passage you’ve been skimming,
reading ahead. I worry that the instant you spotted “Chatham” up top you
could think of nothing else, and that you for once couldn’t care less
about my feelings for the United States. Chatham. I go to Chatham?

I do. I go at every opportunity. Fortunately, these journeys every two
weeks up to Claverack Juvenile Correctional Facility are aimed at such a
restrictive window of visiting hours that I am not free to consider going
an hour later or another day. I leave at exactly 11:30 because it is the first
Saturday of the month and I must arrive immediately after the second
lunch slot at 2:00. I do not indulge myself in reflection over how much I
dread going to see him, or, more improbably, look forward to it. I just go.
You’re astonished. You shouldn’t be. He’s my son, too, and a mother
should visit her child in prison. I have no end of failings as a mother, but
I have always followed the rules. If anything, following the letter of the
unwritten parental law was one of my failings. That came out in the trial
—the civil suit. I was appalled by how upstanding I looked on paper.
Vince Mancini, Mary’s lawyer, accused me in court of visiting my son so
dutifully in detention during his own trial only because I anticipated
being sued for parental negligence. I was acting a part, he claimed, going
through the motions. Of course, the trouble with jurisprudence is that it
cannot accommodate subtleties. Mancini was onto something. There may
indeed be an element of theater in these visits. But they continue when
no one is watching, because if I am trying to prove that I am a good
mother, I am proving this, dismally, as it happens, to myself.
Kevin himself has been surprised by my dogged appearances, which is
not to say, in the beginning at least, pleased. Back in 1999, at sixteen, he
was still at that age when to be seen with your mother was embarrassing;
how bittersweetly these truisms about teenagers persist through the most
adult of troubles. And in those first few visits he seemed to regard my
very presence as an accusation, so before I said a single word he’d get
angry. It didn’t seem sensible that he should be the one mad at me.
But in the same vein, when a car nearly sideswipes me in a crosswalk,
I’ve noticed that the driver is frequently furious—shouting, gesticulating,
cursing—at me, whom he nearly ran over and who had the undisputed
right of way. This is a dynamic particular to encounters with male
drivers, who seem to grow all the more indignant the more completely
they are in the wrong. I think the emotional reasoning, if you can call it
that, is transitive: You make me feel bad; feeling bad makes me mad;
ergo, you make me mad. If I’d had the presence back then to seize on the
first part of that proof, I might have glimpsed in Kevin’s instantaneous
dudgeon a glimmer of hope. But at the time, his fury simply mystified
me. It seemed so unfair. Women tend more toward chagrin, and not only
in traffic. So I blamed me, and he blamed me. I felt ganged up on.

Hence, when he was first incarcerated we didn’t have conversations as
such. Simply being in front of him made me limp. He sapped me even of
the energy to cry, which anyway would not have been very productive.
After five minutes, I might ask him, my voice hoarse, about the food. He
would gawk at me incredulously, as if under the circumstances the
inquiry were as inane as it actually was. Or I’d ask, “Are they treating
you all right?” although I wasn’t sure what that meant or even whether I
wanted his minders to treat him “all right.” He’d slur that sure they kiss
me beddy-bye every night. It didn’t take long for me to run out of pro
forma Mommy questions, for which I think we were both relieved.
If it took little time to get past my posing as the loyal mother who’s
only concerned that sonny is eating his vegetables, we are still
contending with Kevin’s more impenetrable pose as the sociopath who is
beyond reach. The trouble is, while my role as a mother who stands by
her son no matter what is ultimately demeaning—it is mindless,
irrational, blind, and sappy, hence a part I might gratefully shed—Kevin
gets too much sustenance from his own cliché to let it go quietly. He still
seems intent on demonstrating to me that he may have been a subjugant
in my house who had to clean his plate, but now he’s a celebrity who’s
been on the cover of Newsweek, whose fricative appellation, Kevin
Khatchadourian—or “KK” to the tabloids, like Kenneth Kaunda in
Zambia—has tsked chidingly off every major network news anchor’s
tongue. He’s even had a hand in setting the national agenda, sparking
new calls for corporal punishment, juvenile death sentences, and the V-
chip. In lockup, he would have me know that he is no tinhorn delinquent,
but a notorious fiend of whom his less accomplished fellow juveniles are
in awe.
Once in those early days (after he’d grown more talkative), I asked
him: “How do they regard you, the other boys? Do they . . . are they
critical? Of what you did?” This was as close as I could come to asking,
do they trip you in hallways or hawk in your soup. At first, you see, I
was hesitant, deferential. He frightened me, physically frightened me,
and I was desperate not to set him off. There were prison guards nearby,
of course, but there had been security personnel in his high school, police
in Gladstone, and what good had they been? I never feel protected any
more.
Kevin honked, that hard, joyless laugh forced through his nose. And
said something like, “Are you kidding? They fucking worship me,
Mumsey. There’s not a juve in this joint who hasn’t taken out fifty
dickheads in his peer group before breakfast—in his head. I’m the only

one with the stones to do it in real life.” Whenever Kevin cites “real
life,” it is with the excessive firmness with which fundamentalists
reference heaven or hell. It’s as if he’s trying to talk himself into
something.
I had only his word, of course, that far from being shunned Kevin had
achieved a status of mythic proportions among hoods who had merely
hijacked cars or knifed rival drug dealers. But I have come to believe he
must have once garnered some prestige, since, in his oblique fashion, just
this afternoon he allowed that it had begun to ebb.
He said, “Tell you what, I’m fucking tired of telling that same fucking
story”—from which I could infer that, rather, his fellow inmates were
tired of hearing it. Over a year and a half is a long time for teenagers, and
Kevin is already yesterday’s news. He’s getting old enough to appreciate,
too, that one of the differences between a “perp,” as they say in cop
shows, and your average newspaper reader is that onlookers are allowed
the luxury of getting “fucking tired of the same fucking story” and are
free to move on. Culprits are stuck in what must be a tyrannical rehearsal
of the same old tale. Kevin will be climbing the stairs to the
aerobicconditioning alcove of the Gladstone High gym for the rest of his
life.
So he is resentful, and I don’t blame him for being bored with his own
atrocity already, or for envying others their capacity to abandon it.
Today, he went on to grouse about some “pipsqueak” new arrival at
Claverack who was only thirteen. Kevin added for my benefit, “His
cock’s the size of a Tootsie Roll. The little ones, you know?” Kevin
wiggled his pinkie. “Three for a quarter.” With relish, Kevin explained
the boy’s claim to fame: An elderly couple in an adjacent apartment had
complained about how loudly he played his CDs of the Monkees at three
in the morning. The next weekend, the couple’s daughter discovered her
parents in their bed, slit from crotch to throat.
“That’s appalling,” I said. “I can’t believe anyone still listens to the
Monkees.”
I earned a begrudging snort. He went on to explain that the police have
never found the entrails, which is the detail on which the media, not to
mention the boy’s overnight Claverack fan club, has seized.
“Your friend’s precocious,” I said. “The missing entrails—didn’t you
teach me that to get noticed in this business you have to add a twist?”
You may be horrified, Franklin, but it has taken me the better part of
two years to get this far with him, and our black, straight-faced banter

passes for progress. But Kevin is still not comfortable with my
gameliness. I usurp his lines. And I had made him jealous.
“I don’t think he’s so smart,” said Kevin aloofly. “Probably just looked
down at those guts and thought, Cool! Free sausages!”
Kevin shot me a furtive glance. My impassivity was clearly a
disappointment.
“Everyone around here thinks that twerp’s so tough,” Kevin resumed.
“All like, ‘Man, you can play, like, “Sound of Music” loud’s you want, I
ain’t sayin’ nuttin.’” His African-American accent has become quite
accomplished and has made inroads into his own. “But I’m not
impressed. He’s just a kid. Too little to know what he was doing.”
“And you weren’t?” I asked sharply.
Kevin folded his arms and looked satisfied; I had gone back to playing
Mother. “I knew exactly what I was doing.” He leaned onto his elbows.
“And I’d do it again.”
“I can see why,” I said primly, gesturing to the windowless room
whose walls were paneled in vermilion and chartreuse; I have no idea
why they decorate prisons like Romper Room. “It’s worked out so well
for you.”
“Just swapped one shithole for another.” He waved his right hand with
two extended fingers in a manner that betrayed he’s taken up smoking.
“Worked out swell.”
Subject closed, as usual. Still I made a note of the fact that this
thirteen-year-old parvenu’s stealing the Claverack limelight aggrieved
our son. It seems that you and I needn’t have worried about his dearth of
ambition.
As for my parting with him today, I had thought to leave it out. But it
is just what I would like to withhold from you that I may need most to
include.
The guard with a mud-spatter of facial moles had called time; for once
we had used up the full hour without spending most of it staring at the
clock. We were standing on either side of the table, and I was about to
mumble some filler line like “I’ll see you in two weeks,” when I realized
Kevin had been staring straight at me, whereas his every other glance
had been sidelong. That stopped me, unnerved me, and made me wonder
why I had ever wanted him to look me in the eye.
Once I was no longer fussing with my coat, he said, “You may be
fooling the neighbors and the guards and Jesus and your gaga mother
with these goody-goody visits of yours, but you’re not fooling me. Keep

it up if you want a gold star. But don’t be dragging your ass back here on
my account.” Then he added, “Because I hate you.”
I know that children say that all the time, in fits: I hate you, I hate you!
eyes squeezed with tears. But Kevin is approaching eighteen, and his
delivery was flat.
I had some idea of what I was supposed to say back: Now, I know you
don’t mean that, when I knew that he did. Or, I love you anyway, young
man, like it or not. But I had an inkling that it was following just these
pat scripts that had helped to land me in a garish overheated room that
smelled like a bus toilet on an otherwise lovely, unusually clement
December afternoon. So I said instead, in the same informational tone, “I
often hate you, too, Kevin,” and turned heel.
 
So you can see why I needed a pick-me-up coffee. It was an effort to
resist the bar.
Driving home, I was reflecting that however much I might wish to
eschew a country whose citizens, when encouraged to do “pretty much
what they want,” eviscerate the elderly, it made perfect sense that I
would marry another American. I had better reason than most to find
foreigners passé, having penetrated their exoticism to the chopped liver
they are to one another. Besides, by the time I was thirty-three I was
tired, suffering the cumulative exhaustion of standing all day that you
only register when you sit down. I was forever myself a foreigner,
feverishly rehearsing phrase-book Italian for “basket of bread.” Even in
England, I had to remember to say “pavement” instead of “sidewalk.”
Conscious that I was an ambassador of sorts, I would defy a daily
barrage of hostile preconceptions, taking care not to be arrogant, pushy,
ignorant, presumptuous, crass, or loud in public.
But if I had arrogated to myself the whole planet as my personal
backyard, this very effrontery marked me as hopelessly American, as did
the fanciful notion that I could remake myself into a tropical
internationalist hybrid from the horribly specific origins of Racine,
Wisconsin. Even the carelessness with which I abandoned my native
land was classically of a piece with our nosy, restless, aggressive people,
who all (save you) complacently assume that America is a permanent
fixture. Europeans are better clued. They know about the liveness, the
contemporariness of history, its immediate rapacities, and will often rush
back to tend their own perishable gardens to make sure that Denmark,
say, is still there. But to those of us for whom “invasion” is exclusively
associated with outer space, our country is an unassailable bedrock that

will wait indefinitely intact for our return. Indeed, I had explained my
peripatetics more than once to foreigners as facilitated by my perception
that “the United States doesn’t need me.”
It’s embarrassing to pick your life partner according to what television
shows he watched as a child, but in a way that’s exactly what I did. I
wanted to describe some wiry, ineffectual little man as a “Barney Fife”
without having to tortuously append that Barney was a character in a
warm, rarely exported serial called The Andy Griffith Show, in which an
incompetent deputy was always getting into trouble by dint of his own
hubris. I wanted to be able to hum the theme song to The Honeymooners
and have you chime in with, “How sweet it is!” And I wanted to be able
to say “That came out of left field” and not kick myself that baseball
images didn’t necessarily scan abroad. I wanted to stop having to pretend
I was a cultural freak with no customs of my own, to have a house that
itself had rules about shoes to which its visitors must conform. You
restored to me the concept of home.
Home is precisely what Kevin has taken from me. My neighbors now
regard me with the same suspicion they reserve for illegal immigrants.
They grope for words and speak to me with exaggerated deliberation, as
if to a woman for whom English is a second language. And since I have
been exiled to this rarefied class, the mother of one of those “Columbine
boys,” I, too, grope for words, not sure how to translate my off-world
thoughts into the language of two-for-the-price-of-one sales and parking
tickets. Kevin has turned me into a foreigner again, in my own country.
And maybe this helps to explain these biweekly Saturday visits, because
it is only at Claverack Correctional that I need not translate my alien
argot into the language of the suburban mundane. It is only at Claverack
Correctional that we can make allusions without explanations, that we
can take as understood a shared cultural past.
 
Eva
 

 
 
December 8, 2000
 
 
Dear Franklin,
 
I’m the one at Travel R Us who volunteers to stay late and finish up, but
most of the Christmas flights are booked, and this afternoon we were all
encouraged as a “treat” to knock off early, it being Friday. Beginning
another desolate marathon in this duplex at barely 5 P.M. makes me close
to hysterical.
Propped before the tube, poking at chicken, filling in the easy answers
in the Times crossword, I often have a nagging sensation of waiting for
something. I don’t mean that classic business of waiting for your life to
begin, like some chump on the starting line who hasn’t heard the gun.
No, it’s waiting for something in particular, for a knock on the door, and
the sensation can grow quite insistent. Tonight it’s returned in force. Half
an ear cocked, something in me, all night, every night, is waiting for you
to come home.
 
Which inevitably puts me in mind of that seminal May evening in 1982,
when my expectation that you would walk into the kitchen anytime now
was less unreasonable. You were location scouting in the pine barrens of
southern New Jersey for a Ford advertisement and were due home about
7:00 P.M. I’d recently returned from a monthlong trip to update Greece
on a Wing and a Prayer, and when you hadn’t shown up by 8:00, I
reminded myself that my own plane had been six hours late, which had
ruined your plans to sweep me from JFK to the Union Square Café.
Still, by 9:00 I was getting edgy, not to mention hungry. I chewed
distractedly on a chunk of pistachio halvah from Athens. On an ethnic
roll, I’d made a pan of moussaka, with which I planned to convince you
that, nestled against ground lamb with loads of cinnamon, you did like
eggplant after all.
By 9:30, the custard topping had started to brown and crust around the
edges, even though I’d turned the oven down to 250˚. I took out the pan.
Balanced on the fulcrum between anger and anguish, I indulged a fit of
pique, banging the drawer when I went for the aluminum foil, grumbling
about having fried up all those circles of eggplant, and now it was

turning into a big, dry, charred mess! I yanked my Greek salad out of the
fridge and furiously pitted the calamatas, but then left it to wilt on the
counter and the balance tipped. I couldn’t be mad anymore. I was
petrified. I checked that both phones were on the hook. I confirmed that
the elevator was working, though you could always take the stairs. Ten
minutes later, I checked the phones again.
This is why people smoke, I thought.
When the phone did ring at around 10:20, I pounced. At my mother’s
voice, my heart sank. I told her tersely that you were over three hours
late, and I mustn’t tie up the line. She was sympathetic, a rare sentiment
from my mother, who then tended to regard my life as one long
accusation, as if the sole reason I ventured to yet another country was to
rub her nose in the fact that for one more day she had not left her porch. I
should have remembered that she, too, had been through this very
experience at twenty-three, and not for hours but for weeks, until a slim
envelope flipped through her front door slot from the War Department.
Instead I was cruelly rude, and hung up.
Ten-forty. Southern New Jersey wasn’t perilous—timber and
farmland, not like Newark. But there were cars like primed missiles, and
drivers whose stupidity was murderous. Why didn’t you call?
That was before the advent of mobile phones, so I’m not blaming you.
And I realize this experience is common as dirt: Your husband, your
wife, your child is late, terribly late, and then they come home after all
and there’s an explanation. For the most part, these brushes against a
parallel universe in which they never do come home—for which there is
an explanation, but one that will divide your whole life into before and
after—vanish without a trace. The hours that had elongated into lifetimes
suddenly collapse like a fan. So even though the salty terror in my gums
tasted familiar, I couldn’t recall a specific instance when I had paced our
loft before, head swimming with cataclysms: an aneurysm, an aggrieved
postal worker with an automatic in Burger King.
By 11:00, I was making vows.
I gulped a glass of sauvignon blanc; it tasted like pickle juice. This
was wine without you. The moussaka, its dry, dead hulk: This was food
without you. Our loft, rich with the international booty of baskets and
carvings, took on the tacky, cluttered aspect of an import outlet: This was
our home without you. Objects had never seemed so inert, so
pugnaciously incompensatory. Your remnants mocked me: the jump rope
limp on its hook; the dirty socks, stiff, caricatured deflations of your size
eleven feet.

Oh, Franklin, of course I knew that a child can’t substitute for a
husband, because I had seen my brother stooped from the pressure to be
the “little man of the house”; I had seen the way it tortured him that
Mother was always searching his face for resemblances to that ageless
photo on the mantle. It wasn’t fair. Giles couldn’t even remember our
father, who died when he was three and who had long since transformed
from a flesh-andblood Dad who dribbled soup on his tie into a tall, dark
icon looming over the fireplace in his spotless army air corps uniform, an
immaculate emblem of all that the boy was not. To this day Giles carries
himself with a diffidence. When in the spring of 1999 he forced himself
to visit me and there was nothing to say or do, he flushed with speechless
resentment, because I was reviving in him the same sense of inadequacy
that had permeated his childhood. Even more has he resented the public
attention refracted off our son. Kevin and Thursday have routed him
from his rabbit hole, and he’s furious with me for the exposure. His sole
ambition is obscurity, because Giles associates any scrutiny with being
found wanting.
Still I kicked myself that you and I had made love the night before and
one more evening I had absently slipped that rubber hat around my
cervix. What could I do with your jump rope, your dirty socks? Wasn’t
there only one respectable memento of a man worth keeping, the kind
that draws Valentines and learns to spell Mississippi? No offspring could
replace you. But if I ever had to miss you, miss you forever, I wanted to
have someone to miss you alongside, who would know you if only as a
chasm in his life, as you were a chasm in mine.
When the phone rang again at nearly midnight, I hung back. It was
late enough to be a reluctant emissary of a hospital, the police. I let it
ring a second time, my hand on the receiver, warming the plastic like a
magic lantern that might grant one last wish. My mother claims that in
1945 she left the envelope on the table for hours, brewing herself cup
after cup of black, acid tea and letting them grow cold. Already pregnant
with me from his last home leave, she took frequent trips to the toilet,
closing the bathroom door and keeping the light off, as if hiding out.
Haltingly, she had described to me an almost gladiatorial afternoon:
facing down an adversary bigger and more ferocious than she, and
knowing that she would lose.
You sounded exhausted, your voice so insubstantial that for one ugly
moment I mistook it for my mother’s. You apologized for the worry. The
pickup had broken down in the middle of nowhere. You’d walked twelve
miles to find a phone.

There was no point in talking at length, but it was agony to end the
call. When we said good-bye, my eyes welled in shame that I had ever
declared, “I love you!” in that peck-at-the-door spirit that makes such a
travesty of passion.
I was spared. In the hour it took a taxi to drive you to Manhattan, I
was allowed the luxury of slipping back to my old world of worrying
about casseroles, of seducing you into eggplant and nagging you to do
the laundry. It was the same world in which I could put off the possibility
of our having a child another night, because we had reservations, and
there were many more nights.
But I refused to relax right away, to collapse into the casual
heedlessness that makes everyday life possible, and without which we
would all batten ourselves into our living rooms for eternity like my
mother. In fact, for a few hours I had probably been treated to a taste of
my mother’s whole postwar life, since what she lacks may not be
courage so much as a necessary self-deceit. Her people slaughtered by
Turks, her husband plucked from the sky by devious little yellow people,
my mother sees chaos biting at her doorstep, while the rest of us inhabit
a fabricated playscape whose benevolence is a collective delusion. In
1999, when I entered my mother’s universe for good—a place where
anything could happen and often did—toward what Giles and I had
always regarded as her neurosis I grew much kinder.
You would indeed come home—this once. But when I put the phone
down, it registered with a whispered click: There could yet come a day
when you did not.
Thus instead of going slack and infinite, time still felt frantically short.
When you walked in you were so tired you could hardly speak. I let you
skip dinner, but I would not let you sleep. I have experienced my share
of burning sexual desire, and I can assure you that this was an urgency of
another order. I wanted to arrange a backup, for you and for us, like
slipping a carbon in my IBM Selectric. I wanted to make sure that if
anything happened to either of us there would be something left beside
socks. Just that night I wanted a baby stuffed in every cranny like money
in jars, like hidden bottles of vodka for weak-willed alcoholics.
“I didn’t put in my diaphragm,” I mumbled when we were through.
You stirred. “Is it dangerous?”
“It’s very dangerous,” I said. Indeed, just about any stranger could
have turned up nine months later. We might as well have left the door
unlocked.
 

The next morning, you said while we dressed, “Last night—you didn’t
just forget?” I shook my head, pleased with myself. “Are you sure about
this?”
“Franklin, we’re never going to be sure. We have no idea what it’s like
to have a kid. And there’s only one way to find out.”
You reached under my arms and lifted me overhead, and I recognized
your lit-up expression from when you’d played “airplane” with Brian’s
daughters. “Fantastic!”
I had sounded so confident, but when you brought me in for a landing
I started to panic. Complacency has a way of restoring itself of its own
accord, and I’d already stopped worrying whether you would live
through the week. What had I done? When later that month I got my
period, I told you I was disappointed. That was my first lie, and it was a
whopper.
During the following six weeks you applied yourself nightly. You
liked having a job to do and bedded me with the same boisterous
ifyou’re-going-to-do-anything-do-it-right with which you had knocked
up our bookshelves. Myself, I wasn’t so sure about this yeomanlike
fucking. I had always fancied the frivolousness of sex, and I liked it
down and dirty. The fact that even the Armenian Orthodox Church
would now look on with hearty approval could put me right out of the
mood.
Meanwhile, I came to regard my body in a new light. For the first time
I apprehended the little mounds on my chest as teats for the suckling of
young, and their physical resemblance to udders on cows or the swinging
distensions on lactating hounds was suddenly unavoidable. Funny how
even women forget what breasts are for.
The cleft between my legs transformed as well. It lost a certain
outrageousness, an obscenity, or achieved an obscenity of a different
sort. The flaps seemed to open not to a narrow, snug dead end, but to
something yawning. The passageway itself became a route to somewhere
else, a real place, and not merely to a darkness in my mind. The twist of
flesh in front took on a devious aspect, its inclusion overtly ulterior, a
tempter, a sweetener for doing the species’ heavy lifting, like the
lollipops I once got at the dentist.
Lo, everything that made me pretty was intrinsic to motherhood, and
my very desire that men find me attractive was the contrivance of a body
designed to expel its own replacement. I don’t want to pretend that I’m
the first woman to discover the birds and the bees. But all this was new
to me. And frankly, I wasn’t so sure about it. I felt expendable, throw-

away, swallowed by a big biological project that I didn’t initiate or
choose, that produced me but would also chew me up and spit me out. I
felt used.
I’m sure you remember those fights about booze. According to you, I
shouldn’t have been drinking at all. I balked. As soon as I discovered I
was pregnant—I was pregnant, I didn’t go in for this we stuff—I’d go
cold turkey. But conception could take years, during which I was not
prepared to killjoy my every evening with glasses of milk. Multiple
generations of women had tippled cheerfully through their pregnancies
and what, did they all give birth to retards?
You sulked. You went quiet if I poured myself a second glass of wine,
and your disapproving glances despoiled the pleasure (as they were
meant to). Sullenly, you’d grumble that in my place you’d stop drinking,
and yes, for years if necessary, about which I had no doubt. I would let
parenthood influence our behavior; you would have parenthood dictate
our behavior. If that seems a subtle distinction, it is night and day.
 
I was deprived that clichéd cinematic tip-off of heaving over the toilet,
but it doesn’t appear to be in moviemakers’ interests to accept that some
women don’t get morning sickness. Although you offered to accompany
me with my urine sample, I dissuaded you: “It’s not as if I’m getting
tested for cancer or something.” I remember the remark. Much like what
they say in jest, it’s telling what people claim something is not.
At the gynecologist’s, I delivered my marinated artichoke jar, a
briskness covering the intrinsic embarrassment of handing off smelly
effluents to strangers, and waited in the office. Dr. Rhinestein—a cold
young woman for her profession, with an aloof, clinical temperament
that would have suited her better for pharmaceutical trials with rats—
swept in ten minutes later and leaned over her desk to jot. “It’s positive,”
she said crisply.
When she looked up, she did a double take. “Are you all right? You’ve
turned white.”
I did feel strangely cold.
“Eva, I thought you were trying to get pregnant. This should be good
news.” She said this severely, with reproach. I got the impression that if I
wasn’t going to be happy about it, she would take my baby and give it to
someone who’d got their mind right—who would hop up and down like
a game-show contestant who’d won the car.
“Drop your head between your legs.” It seems I had begun to weave.

Once I had forced myself to sit up, if only because she seemed so
bored, Dr. Rhinestein went through a long list of what I couldn’t do,
what I couldn’t eat and drink, when I would—never mind my plans to
update “WEEWAP,” as the office now called our Western European
edition, thanks to you—return for my next appointment. This was my
introduction to the way in which, crossing the threshold of motherhood,
suddenly you become social property, the animate equivalent of a public
park. That coy expression “you’re eating for two now, dear,” is all by
way of goading that your very dinner is no longer a private affair;
indeed, as the land of the free has grown increasingly coercive, the
inference seems to run that “you’re eating for us now,” for 200-some
million meddlers, any one of whose prerogative it is to object should you
ever be in the mood for a jelly donut and not a full meal with whole
grains and leafy vegetables that covers all five major food groups. The
right to boss pregnant women around was surely on its way into the
Constitution.
Dr. Rhinestein itemized recommended brands of vitamins and lectured
on the dangers of continuing to play squash.
 
I had the afternoon to assemble myself into the glowing mother-to-be.
Instinctively, I chose a plain cotton sundress more pert than sexy, then
gathered the ingredients for a meal that was aggressively nutritious (the
sautéed sea trout would be unbreaded, the salad would sport sprouts). In
the meantime, I tried on different approaches to a shopworn scene: coy,
delayed; bemused, artificially offhand; gushing—oh, darling! None of
them seemed to suit. As I whisked about the loft twisting fresh candles
into holders, I made a brave attempt at humming but could only think of
show tunes from big-budget musicals like Hello, Dolly!
I hate musicals.
Ordinarily, the finishing touch on a festive occasion was choosing the
wine. I stared dolefully at our ample rack, bound to gather dust. Some
celebration.
When the elevator clanked at our floor, I kept my back turned and
arranged my face. With one glance at the tortured collection of
conflicting twitches we make when we “arrange” our faces, you spared
me the announcement. “You’re pregnant.”
I shrugged. “Looks that way.”
You kissed me, chastely, no tongue. “So when you found out—how’d
you feel?”
“A bit faint, actually.”

Delicately, you touched my hair. “Welcome to your new life.”
Since my mother was as terrified of alcohol as she was of the next
street over, a glass of wine had never lost for me its tantalizing quality of
the illicit. Although I didn’t think I had a problem, a long draught of rich
red at day’s end had long been emblematic to me of adulthood, that
vaunted American Holy Grail of liberty. But I was beginning to intuit
that full-blown maturity was not so very different from childhood. Both
states in their extreme were all about following the rules.
So I poured myself a flute of cranberry juice and toasted, brightly. “La
chaim!”
Funny how you dig yourself into a hole by the teaspoon—the smallest
of compromises, the little roundings off or slight recastings of one
emotion as another that is a tad nicer or more flattering. I did not care so
much about being deprived of a glass of wine per se. But like that
legendary journey that begins with a single step, I had already embarked
upon my first resentment.
A petty one, but most resentments are. And one that for its smallness I
felt obliged to repress. For that matter, that is the nature of resentment,
the objection we cannot express. It is silence more than the complaint
itself that makes the emotion so toxic, like poisons the body won’t pee
away. Hence, hard as I tried to be a grown-up about my cranberry juice,
chosen carefully for its resemblance to a young Beaujolais, deep down
inside I was a brat. While you came up with names (for boys), I wracked
my brain for what in all this—the diapers, the sleepless nights, the rides
to soccer practice—I was meant to be looking forward to.
Eager to participate, you had volunteered to give up booze for my
pregnancy, though our baby would be no more bouncing should you
forgo your predinner microbrew. So you began festively knocking back
cranberry juice to beat the band. You seemed to relish the opportunity to
prove how little drinking meant to you. I was annoyed.
Then, you were always captivated by self-sacrifice. However
admirable, your eagerness to give your life over to another person may
have been due in some measure to the fact that when your life was
wholly in your lap you didn’t know what to do with it. Self-sacrifice was
an easy way out. I know that sounds unkind. But I do believe that this
desperation of yours—to rid yourself of yourself, if that is not too
abstract—burdened our son hugely.
You remember that evening? We should have had so much to talk
about, but we were awkward, halting. We were no longer Eva and
Franklin, but Mommy and Daddy; this was our first meal as a family, a

word and a concept about which I had always been uneasy. And I was
short-tempered, discarding all the names you came up with, Steve and
George and Mark, as “way too ordinary,” and you were hurt.
I couldn’t talk to you. I felt pent up, clogged. I wanted to say:
Franklin, I’m not sure this is a good idea. You know in your third
trimester they won’t even let you onto a plane? And I hate this whole
rectitudinous thing, the keeping to a good diet and setting a good
example and finding a good school . . .
It was too late. We were supposed to be celebrating and I was
supposed to be elated.
Frantic to recreate the longing for a “backup” that had got me into this,
I roused the memory of the night you were stranded in the pine barrens
—barren, had that set me off? But that May evening’s rash decision had
been an illusion. I had made up my mind all right, but long before, back
when I fell so hard and irrevocably for your guileless American smile,
your heartbreaking faith in picnics. However weary I might have grown
with writing up new countries, over time it is inevitable that food, drink,
color, and trees—the very state of being alive is no longer fresh. If its
shine had tarnished, this was still a life I loved, and one into which
children didn’t readily fit. The single thing I loved more was Franklin
Plaskett. You coveted so little; there was only one big-ticket item you
wanted that was in my power to provide. How could I have denied you
the light in your face when you lifted Brian’s squealing little girls?
With no bottle over which to linger, we went to bed on the early side.
You were nervous about whether we were “supposed” to have sex, if it
would hurt the baby, and I grew a little exasperated. I was already
victimized, like some princess, by an organism the size of a pea. Me, I
really wanted to have sex for the first time in weeks, since we could
finally fuck because we wanted to get laid and not to do our bit for the
race. You acquiesced. But you were depressingly tender.
Though I expected that my ambivalence would evanesce, this
conflicted sensation grew only sharper, and therefore more secret. At last
I should come clean. I think the ambivalence didn’t go away because it
wasn’t what it seemed. It is not true that I was “ambivalent” about
motherhood. You wanted to have a child. On balance, I did not. Added
together, that seemed like ambivalence, but though we were a superlative
couple, we were not the same person. I never did get you to like
eggplant.
 

Eva
 

 
 
December 9, 2000
 
 
Dear Franklin,
 
I know I wrote only yesterday, but I now depend on this correspondence
to debrief from Chatham. Kevin was in a particularly combative humor.
Right off the bat he charged, “You never wanted to have me, did you?”
Before being impounded like a pet that bites, Kevin wasn’t given to
asking me about myself, and I actually took the question as promising.
Oh, he reached for it in dull restiveness, pacing his cage, but there’s
something to be said for being bored out of your mind. He must have
previously recognized that I had a life, in order to go about ruining it
with such a sense of purpose. But now he had further appreciated that I
had volition: I’d chosen to have a child and had harbored other
aspirations that his arrival might have thwarted. This intuition was at
such odds with the therapists’ diagnosis of “empathic deficiency” that I
felt he deserved an honest reply.
“I thought I did,” I said. “And your father, he wanted you—
desperately.”
I looked away; Kevin’s expression of sleepy sarcasm was immediate.
Perhaps I shouldn’t have cited, of all things, your desperation. Me, I
loved your longing; I had personally profited from your insatiable
loneliness. But children must find such hunger disquieting, and Kevin
would routinely translate disquiet into contempt.
“You thought you did,” he said. “You changed your mind.”
“I thought I needed a change,” I said. “But no one needs a change for
the worse.”
Kevin looked victorious. For years he has tempted me to be nasty. I
remained factual. Presenting emotions as facts—which they are—affords
a fragile defense.
“Motherhood was harder than I’d expected,” I explained. “I’d been
used to airports, sea views, museums. Suddenly I was stuck in the same
few rooms, with Lego.”
“But I went out of my way,” he said with a smile that lifted lifelessly
as if by hooks, “to keep you entertained.”

“I’d anticipated mopping up vomit. Baking Christmas cookies. I
couldn’t have expected—.” Kevin’s look dared me. “I couldn’t have
expected that simply forming an attachment to you,” I phrased as
diplomatically as I knew how, “would be so much work. I thought—.” I
took a breath. “I thought that part came for free.”
“Free!” he jeered. “Waking up every morning isn’t free.”
“Not any more,” I conceded dolefully. Kevin’s and my experience of
day-to-day life has converged. Time hangs off me like molting skin.
“Ever occur to you,” he said slyly, “maybe I didn’t want to have you?”
“You wouldn’t have liked any other couple better. Whatever they did
for a living, you’d think it was stupid.”
“Cheapskate travel guides? Scouting another banked turn for a Jeep
Cherokee ad? Gotta admit, that’s especially stupid.”
“See?” I exploded. “Honestly, Kevin—would you want you? If there is
any justice, you’ll wake up one day with yourself next to your bed in a
crib!”
Rather than recoil or lash out, he went slack. This aspect of his, it’s
more common to the elderly than to children: the eyes glaze and drop,
the musculature goes sloppy. It’s an apathy so absolute that it’s like a
hole you might fall in.
You think I was mean to him, and that’s why he withdrew. I don’t
think so. I think he wants me to be mean to him the way other people
pinch themselves to make sure they’re awake, and if anything he
slackened in disappointment that here I was finally pitching a few
halfheartedly injurious remarks and he felt nothing. Besides, I expect it
was the image of “waking up with yourself” that did it, since that’s just
what he does do, and why his every morning feels so costly. Franklin, I
have never met anyone—and you do meet your own children—who
found his existence more of a burden or indignity. If you have any notion
that I’ve brutalized our boy into low self-esteem, think again. I saw that
same sullen expression in his eyes when he was one year old. If
anything, he thinks very well of himself, especially since becoming such
a celebrity. There is an enormous difference between disliking yourself
and simply not wanting to be here.
In parting, I threw him a bone. “I did fight very hard to give you my
last name.”
“Yeah, well, saved you trouble. The old K-h-a . . . ?” he slurred.
“Thanks to me, now everybody in the country knows how to spell it.”
 

Did you know that Americans stare at pregnant women? In the low
birthrate First World, gestation is a novelty, and in the days of T&A on
every newsstand, real pornography—conjuring intrusively intimate
visions of spread hams, incontinent seepage, that eely umbilical slither.
Casting my own eye down Fifth Avenue as my belly swelled, I would
register with incredulity: Every one of these people came from a
woman’s cunt. In my head, I used the crudest word I could, to bring
home the point. Like the purpose of breasts, it’s one of those glaring
facts we tend to suppress.
Still, I once turned heads with a short skirt, and the flickered glances
from strangers in shops began to get on my nerves. Along with the
fascination, even enchantment on their faces, I also spotted the incidental
shiver of revulsion.
You think that’s too strong. I don’t. Ever notice how many films
portray pregnancy as infestation, as colonization by stealth? Rosemary’s
Baby was just the beginning. In Alien, a foul extraterrestrial claws its
way out of John Hurt’s belly. In Mimic, a woman gives birth to a two-
foot maggot. Later, the X-Files turned bug-eyed aliens bursting gorily
from human midsections into a running theme. In horror and sci-fi, the
host is consumed or rent, reduced to husk or residue so that some
nightmare creature may survive its shell.
I’m sorry, but I didn’t make these movies up, and any woman whose
teeth have rotted, whose bones have thinned, whose skin has stretched,
knows the humbling price of a nine-month freeloader. Those nature films
of female salmon battling upstream to lay their eggs only to disintegrate
—eyes filming, scales dropping—made me mad. The whole time I was
pregnant with Kevin I was battling the idea of Kevin, the notion that I
had demoted myself from driver to vehicle, from householder to house.
Physically, the experience was easier than I expected. The greatest
affront of the first trimester was a watery thickening that easily passed as
a weakness for Mars bars. My face filled out, beveling my
androgynously angular features into the softer contours of a girl. My face
was younger but, I thought, dumber looking.
I don’t know what took me so long to notice that you were simply
assuming that our baby would take your surname, and even on the
Christian name we weren’t like-minded. You’d propose Leonard or
Peter. When I countered with Engin or Garabet—or Selim, after my
paternal grandfather—you assumed the same tolerant expression I wore
when Brian’s girls showed me their Cabbage Patch Kids. Finally you

said, “You cannot possibly be proposing that I name my son Garabet
Plaskett.”
“Nnoo,” I said. “Garabet Khatchadourian. Has more of a ring.”
“It has the ring of a kid who’s not related to me.”
“Funny, that’s exactly how Peter Plaskett sounds to me.”
We were at the Beach House, that charming little bar around the
corner on Beach Street, no longer extant I’m afraid, and rather wasted on
my orange juice straight up, though they did serve a mean bowl of chili.
You drummed your fingers. “Can we at least nix Plaskett-
Khatchadourian ? Because once the hyphenated start marrying each
other, kids’ll be going by whole phone books. And since somebody’s
gotta lose, it simplest to stick with tradition.”
“According to tradition, women couldn’t own property until, in some
states, the 1970s. Traditionally in the Middle East we walk around in a
black sack and traditionally in Africa we get our clitorises carved out
like a hunk of gristle—”
You stuffed my mouth with cornbread. “Enough of the lecture, babe.
We’re not talking about female circumcision but our kid’s last name.”
“Men have always gotten to name children after themselves, while not
doing any of the work.” Cornbread crumbs were sailing from my mouth.
“Time to turn the tables.”
“Why turn them on me? Jesus, you’d think American men were pussy-
whipped enough. You’re the one who complains they’re all quicheeating
faggots who go to crying workshops.”
I folded my arms and brought out the heavy artillery. “My father was
born in Dier-ez-Zor concentration camp. The camps were riddled with
disease and the Armenians had hardly any food or even water—it’s
amazing the baby survived, because his three brothers didn’t. His father,
Selim, was shot. Two-thirds of my mother’s extended family, the
Serafians, was so neatly obliterated that not even their stories have
survived. I’m sorry to pull rank. But Anglo-Saxons are hardly an
endangered species. My forebears were systematically exterminated, and
no one ever even talks about it, Franklin!”
“A million and a half people!” you chimed in, gesticulating wildly.
“Do you realize it was what the Young Turks did to the Armenians in
1915 that gave Hitler the idea for the Holocaust?”
I glared.
“Eva, your brother’s got two kids. There are a million Armenians in
the U.S. alone. Nobody’s about to disappear.”

“But you care about your last name just because it’s yours. I care
about mine—well, it seems more important.”
“My parents would have a cow. They’d think I was denying them. Or
that I was under your thumb. They’d think I was an asshole.”
“I should get varicose veins for a Plaskett? It’s a gross name!”
You looked stung. “You never said you didn’t like my name.”
“That wide A, it’s kind of blaring and crass—”
“Crass!”
“It’s just so awfully American. It reminds me of fat nasal tourists in
Nice whose kids all want ice cream. Who shout, Honey, look at that
‘Pla-a-askett’ when it’s French and the word’s really pronounced plah-
skay.”
“It’s not Plah-skay, you anti-American prig! It’s Plaskett, a small but
old and respectable Scottish family, and a name I’d be proud to hand on
to my kids! Now I know why you didn’t take it when we got married.
You hated my name!”
“I’m sorry! Obviously I love your name in a way, if only because it’s
your name—”
“Tell you what,” you proposed; in this country, the injured party
enjoyed a big advantage. “If it’s a boy, it’s a Plaskett. A girl, and you can
have your Khatchadourian.”
I pushed the bread basket aside and jabbed your chest. “So a girl
doesn’t matter to you. If you were Iranian, she’d be kept home from
school. If you were Indian, she’d be sold to a stranger for a cow. If you
were Chinese, she’d be starved to death and buried in the backyard—”
You raised your hands. “If it’s a girl it’s a Plaskett, then! But on one
condition: None of this Gara-souvlaki stuff for a boy’s first name.
Something American. Deal?”
It was a deal. And in hindsight we made the right decision. In 1996,
fourteen-year-old Barry Loukaitis killed a teacher and two students while
taking a whole class hostage in Moses Lake, Washington. A year later,
thirteen-year-old Tronneal Mangum shot dead a boy at his middle school
who owed him $40. The next month, sixteen-year-old Evan Ramsey
killed a student and his principal and wounded two others in Bethel,
Alaska. That fall, sixteen-year-old Luke Woodham murdered his mother
and two students, wounding seven, in Pearl, Mississippi. Two months
later, fourteen-year-old Michael Carneal shot dead three students and
wounded five in Paducah, Kentucky. The next spring in 1998, thirteen-
year-old Mitchell Johnson and eleven-year-old Andrew Golden opened
fire on their high school, killing one teacher and four students, wounding

ten, in Jonesboro, Arkansas. A month after that, fourteen-year-old
Andrew Wurst killed a teacher and wounded three students in Edinboro,
Pennsylvania. The following month in Springfield, Oregon, fifteen-year-
old Kip Kinkel massacred both his parents, proceeding to kill two more
students and wounding twenty-five. In 1999, and a mere ten days after a
certain Thursday , eighteen-year-old Eric Harris and seventeen-year-old
Dylan Klebold planted bombs in their Littleton, Colorado, high school
and went on a shooting rampage that killed one teacher and twelve
students, while wounding twenty-three, after which they shot
themselves. So young Kevin—your choice—has turned out as American
as a Smith and Wesson.
As for his surname, our son has done more to keep the name
Khatchadourian alive than anyone else in my family.
 
Like so many of our neighbors who latched onto tragedy to stand out
from the crowd—slavery, incest, a suicide—I had exaggerated the ethnic
chip on my shoulder for effect. I’ve learned since that tragedy is not to
be hoarded. Only the untouched, the well-fed and contented, could
possibly covet suffering like a designer jacket. I’d readily donate my
story to the Salvation Army so that some other frump in need of color
could wear it away.
The name? I think I just wanted to make the baby mine. I couldn’t
shake the sensation of having been appropriated. Even when I got the
sonogram and Dr. Rhinestein drew her finger around a shifting mass on
the monitor, I thought, Who is that? Though right under my skin,
swimming in another world, the form seemed far away. And did a fetus
have feelings? I had no way of anticipating that I would still be asking
that question about Kevin when he was fifteen.
I confess that when Dr. Rhinestein pointed out the blip between the
legs, my heart sank. Although according to our “deal” I was now bearing
a Khatchadourian, just getting my name on the title deeds wasn’t going
to annex the kid for his mother. And if I enjoyed the company of men—I
liked their down-to-earth quality, I was prone to mistake aggression for
honesty, and I disdained daintiness—I wasn’t at all sure about boys.
When I was eight or nine, and once more sent on some errand by my
mother to fetch something grown-up and complicated, I’d been set upon
by a group of boys not much older than myself. Oh, I wasn’t raped; they
wrenched up my dress and pulled down my panties, threw a few dirt
clods and ran away. Still, I was frightened. Older, I continued to give
wide berth to eleven-year-olds in parks—pointed into bushes with their

flies down, leering over their shoulders and sniggering. Even before I
had one myself, I was well and truly frightened by boys. And nowadays,
well, I suppose I’m frightened by just about everybody.
For all our squinting at the two sexes to blur them into duplicates, few
hearts race when passing gaggles of giggling schoolgirls. But any
woman who passes a clump of testosterone-drunk punks without picking
up the pace, without avoiding the eye contact that might connote
challenge or invitation, without sighing inwardly with relief by the
following block, is a zoological fool. A boy is a dangerous animal.
Is it different for men? I never asked. Perhaps you can see through
them, to their private anguish about whether it’s normal to have a curved
penis, the transparent way they show off for one another (though that’s
just what I’m afraid of). Certainly the news that you’d be harboring one
of these holy terrors in your own home so delighted you that you had to
cover your enthusiasm a bit. And the sex of our child made you feel that
much more that the baby was yours, yours, yours.
Honestly, Franklin, your proprietary attitude was grating. If I ever cut
it close crossing the street, you weren’t concerned for my personal safety
but were outraged at my irresponsibility. These “risks” I took—and I
regarded as going about my regular life—seemed in your mind to exhibit
a cavalier attitude toward one of your personal belongings. Every time I
walked out the door, I swear you glowered a little, as if I were bearing
away one of your prized possessions without asking.
You wouldn’t even let me dance, Franklin! Really, there was one
afternoon that my subtle but unrelenting anxiety had mercifully lifted. I
put on our Talking Heads’ Speaking in Tongues and began buoyantly
herky-jerkying around our underfurnished loft. The album was still on
the first song, “Burning Down the House,” and I’d barely worked up a
sweat when the elevator clanked and in you marched. When you lifted
the needle preemptorily, you scratched a groove, so that forever after the
song would skip and keep repeating, Baby what did you expect and never
make it to Gonna burst into fla-ame without my depressing the cartridge
gently with a forefinger.
“Hey!” I said. “What was that about?”
“What the fuck do you think you’re doing?”
“For once I was having a good time. Is that illegal?”
You grabbed my upper arm. “Are you trying to have a miscarriage? Or
do you just get a kick out of tempting fate?”
I wrestled free. “Last time I read, pregnancy wasn’t a prison
sentence.”

“Leaping around, throwing yourself all over the furniture—”
“Oh, get out, Franklin. Not that long ago women worked in the fields
right up until giving birth and then squatted between rows of vegetables.
In the olden days, kids really did come from the cabbage patch—”
“In the olden days infant and maternal mortality were sky high!”
“What do you care about maternal mortality? So long as they scoop
the kid out of my lifeless body while its heart is still beating you’ll be
happy as a clam.”
“That’s a hideous thing to say.”
“I’m in the mood to be hideous,” I said blackly, plopping onto the
couch. “Though before Papa Doc came home, I was in a great mood.”
“Two more months. Is it that big a sacrifice to take it easy for the well-
being of a whole other person?”
Boy, was I already sick of having the well-being of a whole other
person held over my head. “My well-being, apparently, now counts for
beans.”
“There’s no reason you can’t listen to music—although at a volume
that doesn’t have John thumping his ceiling downstairs.” You replaced
the needle at the beginning of the A side, turning it down so low that
David Byrne sounded like Minnie Mouse. “But like a normal pregnant
woman, you can sit there and tap your foot.”
“I don’t know about that,” I said. “All the vibration—it might travel
up to Little Lord Fauntleroy and trouble his beauty sleep. And aren’t we
supposed to be listening to Mozart? Maybe Talking Heads isn’t in The
Book. Maybe by playing ‘Psycho Killer’ we’re feeding him Bad
Thoughts. Better look it up.”
You were the one powering through all those parental how-tos, about
breathing and teething and weaning, while I read a history of Portugal.
“Stop feeling sorry for yourself, Eva. I thought the whole idea of
becoming parents was to grow up.”
“If I’d realized that’s what it meant to you, affecting some phony,
killjoy adulthood, I’d have reconsidered the whole business.”
“Don’t you ever say that,” you said, your face beet-red. “It’s too late
for second thoughts. Never, ever tell me that you regret our own kid.”
That’s when I started to cry. When I had shared with you my most
sordid sexual fantasies, in such disturbing violation of heterosexual
norms that, without the assist of your own disgraceful mental smut
shared in return, I’m too embarrassed to mention them here—since when
was there anything that one of us was never, ever to say?
Baby what did you expect—Baby what did you expect—

The track had started to skip.
 
Eva
 

 
 
December 12, 2000
 
 
Dear Franklin,
 
Well, I had no desire to linger at the agency today. The staff has gone
from good-hearted jousting to all-out war. Observing the showdowns in
our small office without taking sides has lent these scenes the slightly
comic, unaffecting quality of television with the sound off.
I’m a little at a loss as to how “Florida” has become a race issue,
except in the way that sooner or later everything becomes a race issue in
this country—sooner, as a rule. So the three other Democrats here have
been throwing terms like “Jim Crow” at the two beleaguered
Republicans, who huddle together in the back room and speak in low
tones that the rest construe as the conspiratorial mutter of shared bigotry.
Funny; before the election none of these people displayed the least
interest in what was generally agreed to be a dreary contest.
Anyway, today some Supreme Court decision was due, and the radio
was on all day. The staff’s recriminations flew so fast and furious that
more than one customer, abandoned at the counter, simply walked out.
At length I did the same. Whereas the two conservatives tend to argue
nakedly for their side, the liberals are always weighing in on behalf of
truth, justice, or humanity. Though once a staunch Democrat, I long ago
gave up on defending humanity. It’s beyond me on most days to defend
myself.
Then, while I do hope this correspondence hasn’t degenerated into
shrill self-justification, I worry equally that I may seem to be laying the
groundwork for claiming that Kevin is all my fault. I do indulge that
sometimes, too, gulping down blame with a powerful thirst. But I did say
indulge. There’s a self-aggrandizement in these wallowing mea culpas, a
vanity. Blame confers an awesome power. And it’s simplifying, not only
to onlookers and victims but to culprits most of all. It imposes order on
slag. Blame conveys clear lessons in which others may take comfort: if
only she hadn’t—, and by implication makes tragedy avoidable. There
may even be a fragile peace to be found in the assumption of total
responsibility, and I see that calm in Kevin on occasion. It is an aspect
that his keepers confuse with remorselessness.

But for me this greedy gorging on fault never works. I am never able
to get the full story inside me. It’s larger than I am. It has damaged too
many people, aunts and cousins and best friends whom I will never know
and would not recognize if we met. I cannot at once contain the suffering
of so many family dinners with one empty chair. I haven’t anguished that
the photo on the piano is forever tainted because that was the snapshot
given to the newspapers or because sibling portraits on either side
continue to mark occasions of greater maturity—college graduations,
weddings—while the static high school yearbook photo loses color in the
sun. I haven’t been privy to the month-by-month deterioration of
marriages once robust; I haven’t sniffed the sickly sweet waft of gin off
the breath of a formerly industrious realtor at advancingly earlier hours
of the afternoon. I haven’t felt the weight of all those cartons dragged
into a van after a neighborhood lush with oaks, bubbling with smooth-
rocked creeks, and alive with the laughter of other people’s healthy
children has suddenly become intolerable overnight. It seems as if for me
to feel guilty in any meaningful way, I should have to suspend all these
losses in my head. Yet like those car games in which you recite, I’m
going on a trip, and I’m going to take an ambling aardvark, a babbling
baby, a capering caterpillar . . . , I always blank on an element or two
before the end of the alphabet. I start to juggle Mary’s unnaturally
beautiful daughter, the Fergusons’ short-sighted computer whiz kid, the
Corbitts’ gangling redhead who was always overacting in school plays,
and then I throw in that uncannily gracious English teacher Dana Rocco
and the balls fall on the floor.
Of course, just because I can’t manage to swallow all the blame
doesn’t mean that others won’t heap it on me anyway, and I’d have been
glad to provide a useful receptacle if I thought the heaping did them any
good. I always come back to Mary Woolford, whose experience of
injustice had hitherto run to a particularly inconvenient one-way street. I
suppose I’d call her spoiled; she did stir up rather an excessive fuss when
Laura didn’t make the track team, even though her daughter, however
lovely, was physically languid and not the least athletic. But it may not
be fair to call it a character flaw that someone’s life has always gone well
with minimal impedance. Moreover, she was a restive woman, and like
my Democratic coworkers given to indignation by nature. Previous to
Thursday, she had been accustomed to venting this quantity, which I
presume would otherwise build up in her at combustive levels, on
campaigns to have the town council put in a pedestrian crossing or to ban
homeless shelters from Gladstone; consequently, the denial of funds for

such a crossing or the arrival of hairy riffraff on the outskirts of town had
previously constituted her version of catastrophe. I’m not sure how such
people manage to get their heads around proper disaster after having
repeatedly exercised the full powers of their consternation on traffic.
So I can see how a woman who’d long slept restlessly on peas might
have difficulty lying on an anvil. Nevertheless, it’s a pity that she
couldn’t remain within the still, serene well of sheer incomprehension.
Oh, I realize you can’t stay bewildered—the need to understand or at
least to pretend you do is too great—but I myself have found wide white
mystification a place in my mind that is blessedly quiet. And I fear that
Mary’s alternative outrage, her evangelical fever to bring the guilty to
book, is a clamorous place that creates the illusion of a journey, a goal to
be achieved, only so long as that goal remains out of reach. Honestly, I
had to fight the impulse at the civil trial to take her aside and charge
gently, “You can’t imagine that you’ll feel better if you win, do you?” In
fact, I became convinced that she would find more consolation in having
what proved a surprisingly slight parental negligence case dismissed,
because then she’d be able to nurture this theoretical alternative universe
in which she had successfully unloaded her agony onto a callous,
indifferent mother who deserved it. Somehow Mary seemed confused as
to what the problem was. The problem was not who was punished for
what. The problem was that her daughter was dead. Although I couldn’t
have been more sympathetic, it was not subject to unloading onto anyone
else.
Besides, I might be more kindly disposed to this ultra-secular notion
that whenever bad things happen someone must be held accountable if a
curious little halo of blamelessness did not seem to surround those very
people who perceive themselves as bordered on every side by agents of
wickedness. That is, it seems to be the same folks who are inclined to sue
builders who did not perfectly protect them from the depredations of an
earthquake who will be the first to claim that their son failed his math
test because of attention deficit disorder, and not because he spent the
night before at a video arcade instead of studying complex fractions.
Further, if underlying this huffy relationship to cataclysm—the hallmark
of the American middle class—were a powerful conviction that bad
things simply shouldn’t happen, period, I might find the naïveté
disarming. But the core conviction of these incensed sorts—who greedily
rubberneck interstate pileups—seems rather that bad things shouldn’t
happen to them. Lastly, though you know I’ve never been especially
religious after having all that Orthodox guff forced on me as a child

(though luckily by the time I was eleven, my mother could no longer
brave the church a whole four blocks away and held halfhearted
“services” at home), I still wonder at a race grown so anthrocentric that
all events from volcanoes to global temperature shift have become
matters for which its individual members are answerable. The species
itself is an act, for lack of a better word, of God. Personally, I would
argue that the births of single dangerous children are acts of God as well,
but therein lay our court case.
Harvey thought from the start that I should settle. You remember
Harvey Landsdown; you thought he was self-important. He is, but he
told such marvelous stories. Now he goes to other people’s dinner parties
and tells stories about me.
Harvey did rattle me a bit, since he’s a get-to-the-point type. In his
office, I stumbled and digressed; he messed with papers, implying that I
was wasting his time or my money—same thing. We were at odds on our
understanding of what constitutes truth. He wanted gist. Me, I think you
only get at gist by assembling all the tiny inconclusive anecdotes that
would fall flat at a dinner table and that seem irrelevant until you collect
them in a pile. Maybe that’s what I’m attempting here, Franklin, because
though I tried to answer his questions directly, whenever I made simple,
exculpatory statements like, “Of course I love my son,” I felt that I was
lying and that any judge or jury would be able to tell.
Harvey didn’t care. He’s one of those attorneys who think of the law
as a game, not as a morality play. I’m told that’s the kind you want.
Harvey is fond of declaiming that being in the right never won anyone’s
case, and he even left me with the unfocused sense that having justice on
your side is a faint disadvantage.
Of course, I was not at all sure that justice was on my side, and
Harvey found my hand-wringing tedious. He commanded me to stop
dithering about how it looked, accepting a reputation as a Bad Mother,
and he clearly couldn’t have cared less about whether I really was a bad
mother. (And Franklin, I was. I was terrible at it. I wonder if you can
ever forgive me.) His reasoning was straightforward economics, and I
gather this is how many suits are decided. He advised that we could
probably pay off the parents out of court for a great deal less than a
sentimental jury might award. Crucially, there was no guarantee that
we’d be compensated for court costs even if we won. So that means, I
sorted out slowly, that in this country where you’re “innocent until
proven guilty” someone can accuse me of whatever he wants and I could
be out hundreds of thousands even if I prove the accusation groundless?

Welcome to the U.S. of A., he said gaily. I miss you to rail to. Harvey
wasn’t interested in my exasperation. He found these legal ironies
amusing, because it was not his company started from a single discount
plane ticket that was on the line.
Looking back, Harvey was absolutely right—about the money, that is.
And I have reflected since on what drove me to make Mary take her case
against me to trial in defiance of sound legal counsel. I must have been
angry. If I had done anything wrong, it seemed to me that I had already
been punished roundly. No court could have sentenced me to anything
worse than this arid life in my poky duplex, with my chicken breast and
cabbage, my tremulous halogen bulbs, my robotic biweekly visits to
Chatham—or perhaps even worse, to nearly sixteen years of living with
a son who, as he asserted, did not want me as a mother and who gave me
almost daily good reason to not want him as a son. All the same, I really
ought to have worked out for myself that if a jury’s damning verdict
would never assuage Mary’s grief, a more kindly judgment would never
temper my own sense of complicity, either. I’m sad to say that I must
have been motivated in some not inconsiderable part by a desperation to
be publicly exonerated.
Alas, it was not public exoneration that I truly craved, which may be
why I sit here night after night and try to record every incriminating
detail. Look at this sorry specimen: As a mature, happily married woman
of nearly thirty-seven, she is informed of her first pregnancy and almost
faints in horror, a response she disguises from her delighted husband
with a pert gingham sundress. Blessed with the miracle of new life, she
chooses to dwell instead on a forgone glass of wine and the veins in her
legs. She throws herself about her living room to the tune of tawdry
popular music with no thought of her unborn child. At a time that she
ought best to be learning in her very gut the true meaning of ours, she
chooses instead to fret about whether the forthcoming baby is hers. Even
beyond the point at which she should have more than learned her lesson,
she is still banging on about a movie in which human birth is confused
with the expulsion of an oversized maggot. And she’s a hypocrite who’s
impossible to please: After admitting that flitting about the globe is not
the magical mystery tour she once pretended it was—that these
superficial peripatetics have in fact become trying and monotonous—the
moment this gadding about is imperiled by the needs of someone else,
she starts swooning over the halcyon life she once led when jotting down
whether Yorkshire youth hostels provide kitchen facilities. Worst of all,
before her hapless son has even managed to survive the inhospitable

climate of her clenched, reluctant womb, she has committed what you
yourself, Franklin, deemed the officially unspeakable: She has
capriciously changed her mind, as if children are merely little outfits you
can try on back home and—after turning critically before the mirror to
conclude, no, sorry, it’s a pity but this really just doesn’t quite suit—cart
back to the store.
I recognize that the portrait I’m painting here is not attractive, and for
that matter I can’t remember the last time I felt attractive, to myself or
anyone else. In fact, years before I got pregnant myself I met a young
woman at the White Horse in the Village with whom I’d gone to college
in Green Bay. Though we hadn’t spoken since then, she had recently
given birth to her own first child, and I needed only to say hi for her to
begin spewing her despair. Compact, with unusually broad shoulders and
close curly black hair, Rita was an attractive woman—in the physical
sense. With no solicitation on my part she regaled me with the
irreproachable state of her physique before she conceived. Apparently
she’d been using the Nautilus every day, and her definition had never
been so sharp, her fatto-muscle ratio was unreal, her aerobic conditioning
topping the charts. Then pregnancy, well it was terrible! The Nautilus
just didn’t feel good any more and she’d had to stop—. Now, now, she
was a mess, she could hardly do a sit-up, much less three sets of proper
crunches, she was starting from scratch or worse—! This woman was
fuming, Franklin; she clearly muttered about her abdominal muscles
when she seethed down the street. Yet at no point did she mention the
name of her child, its sex, its age, or its father. I remember stepping back,
excusing myself to the bar, and slipping away without telling Rita good-
bye. What had most mortified me, what I had to flee, was that she
sounded not only unfeeling and narcissistic but just like me.
I’m no longer sure whether I rued our first child before he was even
born. It’s hard for me to reconstruct that period without contaminating
the memories with the outsized regret of later years, a regret that bursts
the constraints of time and gushes into the period when Kevin wasn’t
there yet to wish away. But the last thing I’ve wanted is to whitewash my
own part in this terrible story. That said, I’m determined to accept due
responsibility for every wayward thought, every petulance, every selfish
moment, not in order to gather all the blame to myself but to admit this is
my fault and that is my fault but there, there, precisely there is where I
draw a line and on the other side, that, that, Franklin, that is not.
 
Yet to draw that line I fear I must advance to its very edge.

By the last month, the pregnancy was almost fun. I was so ungainly
that the condition had a goofy novelty, and for a woman who had always
been so conscientiously trim there was a relief to be found in becoming a
cow. How the other half lives, if you will—more than half, I gather, as of
1998, the first year in which more people in the U.S. were officially fat
than not.
Kevin was two weeks late. Looking back, I am superstitiously
convinced that he was foot-dragging even in the womb—that he was
hiding. Perhaps I was not the only party to this experiment who had
reservations.
Why were you never tortured with our foreboding? I had to discourage
you from buying so many bunnies and buggies and Huggy Snuggy
afghans before the birth. What if, I noted, something goes wrong?
Couldn’t you be setting yourself up for a fall? You pished that to plan on
disaster was to court it. (Hence, in contemplating a darker twin of the
dazzlingly hale and happy boy you were counting on, I allowed the
changeling into the world.) I was the over-thirty-five mother keen on
getting the fetus tested for Downs; you were adamantly opposed. All
they can give you is a percentage chance, you argued. Are you going to
tell me that if it’s one in 500 you’ll go ahead, but one in fifty and it’s
flush and start again? Of course not, I said. One in ten, then. One in
three. What’s the cutoff? Why force yourself to make that kind of
choice?
Your arguments were convincing, though I wonder if behind them
didn’t lurk a poorly thought out romance with the handicapped child: one
of those clumsy but sweet-tempered emissaries of God who teaches his
parents that there’s so much more to life than smarts, a guileless soul
who is smothered in the same hair-tousling affection lavished on a family
pet. Thirsty to quaff whatever funky genetic cocktail our DNA served
up, you must have flirted with the prospect of all those bonus points for
self-sacrifice: Your patience when it takes our darling dunderhead six
months of daily lessons to tie his shoes proves superhuman. Unstinting
and fiercely protective, you discover in yourself a seemingly bottomless
well of generosity on which your I’m-leaving-for-Guyana-tomorrow
wife never draws, and at length you abandon location scouting, the better
to devote yourself full-time to our five-foot-something three-year-old.
The neighbors all extol your make-the-best-of-it resignation to the hand
Life has dealt, the roll-with-the-punches maturity with which you face
what others in our race and class would find a crippling body blow. You
were just desperate to throw yourself into this parenting business,

weren’t you? To plunge from a cliff, to pitch yourself on a pyre. Was our
life together that unbearable to you, that bleak?
I never told you, but I got the test behind your back. The optimism of
its result (about one in 100) allowed me to once more elude the enormity
of our differences. Me, I was picky. My approach to parenthood was
conditional, and the conditions were strict. I did not want to mother an
imbecile or a paraplegic; whenever I saw fatigued women wheeling their
stick-limbed progeny with muscular dystrophy for water therapy at
Nyack Hospital, my heart didn’t melt, it sank. Indeed, an honest list of
all that I did not want to nurture, from the garden-variety moron to the
grotesquely overweight, might run damningly to a second page. In
retrospect, however, my mistake was not that I got the test in secret but
that I found reassurance in its result. Dr. Rhinestein did not test for
malice, for spiteful indifference, or for congenital meanness. If they
could, I wonder how many fish we might throw back.
As for the birth itself, I had always played up a macho attitude toward
pain that merely betrayed that I’d never suffered from a debilitating
illness, broken a single bone, or emerged from a four-car pileup.
Honestly, Franklin, I don’t know where I got this idea of myself as so
tough. I was the Mary Woolford of the physical world. My concept of
pain derived from stubbed toes, skinned elbows, and menstrual cramps. I
knew what it was like to feel a little achy after the first day of a squash
season; I had no idea what it was like to lose a hand to industrial
machinery or to have a leg run over by the Seventh Avenue IRT.
Nevertheless, how eagerly we buy into one another’s mythologies, no
matter how farfetched. You accepted my blasé response to cut fingers in
the kitchen—a transparent bid for your admiration, my dear—as
sufficient evidence that I would force a form the size of a standing rib
roast through an orifice that had previously accommodated nothing
larger than a bratwurst with equal stoicism. It simply went without
saying that I would shun anesthetics.
I cannot for the life of me understand what we were trying to prove.
For your part, maybe that I was the heroic larger-than-life that you
wanted to have married. For my part, I may have got sucked into that
little competition between women about childbirth. Even Brian’s demure
wife Louise announced that she had managed a twenty-six-hour labor
with Kiley while soothed only by “raspberry leaf tea,” a treasured family
factoid that she repeated on three separate occasions. It was encounters
of this variety that swelled the ranks of the natural childbirth course I
took at the New School, though I wager that many of those students who

talked this “I want to know what it feels like” game broke down and
begged for an epidural at the first contraction.
Not me. I wasn’t brave, but I was stubborn and prideful. Sheer
obstinacy is far more durable than courage, though it’s not as pretty.
So the first time my insides twisted as if rung like a wet sheet, my eyes
bulged slightly, the lids widening in surprise; my lips compressed. I
impressed you with my calm. I meant to. We were lunching at the Beach
House again, and I decided against finishing my chili. In a show of
returning equanimity, you dispatched a piece of cornbread before
retreating to the rest room for a foot-high stack of freshly banded paper
towels; my water had broken, gallons of it, or so it seemed, and I had
drenched the bench. You paid the bill and even remembered to leave a
tip before leading me by the hand back to our loft, checking your watch.
We were not going to embarrass ourselves by turning up at Beth Israel
hours before my cervix had begun to dilate.
Later that afternoon, as you drove me across Canal Street in your
baby-blue pickup, you mumbled that everything would be all right,
though you had no way of knowing. At admissions, I was struck by the
commonplace character of my condition; the nurse yawned, fortifying
my resolve that I would prove an exemplary patient. I would astound Dr.
Rhinestein with my gruff practicality. I knew this was a natural process,
and I was not going to make a fuss. So when another contraction doubled
me as if I had just been caught unawares by a right hook, I merely
exhaled a little hoof.
It was all a ridiculous and perfectly pointless act. There was no reason
to try to amaze Dr. Rhinestein, whom I did not especially like. If I
intended to do you proud, you were getting a son out of the bargain,
sufficient payoff to put up with a little screaming and rudeness. It might
even have done you good to recognize that the woman you married was
an ordinary mortal who adored comfort and hated suffering and so would
opt sanely for anesthetic. Instead I made feeble jokes on my stretcher in
the corridor, and I held your hand. That was the hand that you told me
afterward I very nearly broke.
Oh, Franklin, there is no use pretending now. It was awful. I may be
capable of toughness in respect to certain kinds of pain, but if so, my
fortitude dwells in my calves or forearms but not between my legs. This
was not a part of my body that I had ever associated with endurance,
with anything so odious as exercise. And as the hours dragged on, I
began to suspect that I was just too old for this, that I was too inelastic
approaching forty to stretch to this new life. Dr. Rhinestein said, primly,

that I was small, as if to indicate an inadequacy, and after about fifteen
hours, she despaired sternly, Eva! You really must make an effort. So
much for earning her amazement.
There were times after about twenty-four hours that a few tears would
leak down my temples, and I hastily wiped them away, not wanting you
to see. More than once I was offered an epidural, and my determination
to forgo its deliverance acquired a demented aspect. I seized on this
refusal, as if passing this little test were the point, and not passing an
infant son. So long as I declined the needle, I was winning.
In the end it was the threat of a cesarean that did it; Dr. Rhinestein
made no bones about the fact that she had other patients back at her
office and that she was disgusted by my lackluster performance. I had an
abnormal horror of being sliced open. I didn’t want the scar; like Rita,
I’m ashamed to say, I feared for my stomach muscles; and the procedure
was too reminiscent of all those horror films.
So I made an effort, at which point I had to recognize that I’d been
resisting the birth. Whenever the enormous mass approached that tiny
canal, I’d been sucking it back. Because it hurt. It hurt a whole lot. In
that New School course, they drummed into you that the pain was good,
you were supposed to go with it, push into the pain, and only on my back
did I contemplate what retarded advice this was. Pain, good? I was
overcome with contempt. In fact, I never told you this before, but the
emotion on which I fastened in order to push beyond a critical threshold
was loathing. I despised being spread out like some farm exhibit with
strangers gawking between my canted knees. I detested Dr. Rhinestein’s
pointed, ratlike little face and her brisk, censorious manner. I hated
myself for ever having agreed to this humiliating theater, when I was fine
before and right at this moment I could have been in France. I repudiated
all my female friends, who used to share their reservations about supply-
side economics or at least halfheartedly ask after my last trip abroad, yet
for months now had only nattered about stretch marks and remedies for
constipation or gaily brandished horror stories about terminal
preeclampsia and autistic offspring who would do nothing but rock back
and forth all day and bite their hands. Your eternally hopeful,
encouraging expression made me sick. All very easy for you to want to
be a Daddy, to buy into all that stuffedbunny schlock, when I was the
one who had to blow up like a sow, I was the one who had to turn into a
goody-two-shoes teetotaler sucking down vitamins, I was the one who
had to watch her breasts get puffy and bloated and sore when they used
to be so neat and close, and I was the one who would be ripped to

ribbons ramming a watermelon through a passage the size of a garden
hose. I did, I hated you and your little coos and mumbles, I wished you’d
stop patting my brow with that damp washcloth as if it made the slightest
bit of difference, and I think I knew I was hurting your hand. And yes, I
even hated the baby—which so far had not brought me hope for the
future and story and content and “a turn of the page” but unwieldiness
and embarrassment and a rumbling subterranean tremor quaking through
the very ocean floor of who I thought I was.
But pushing past that threshold I met such a red blaze of agony that I
could no longer afford the expenditure of loathing. I screamed, and I
didn’t care. I’d have done anything in that instant to get it to stop:
hocked my company, sold our child into slavery, committed my soul to
hell. “Please—,” I gasped, “give me—that epidural!”
Dr. Rhinestein chided, “It’s too late for that now, Eva, if you couldn’t
take it you should have said so earlier. The baby is crowning. For pity’s
sake don’t let up now.”
And suddenly it was over. Later we’d joke about how long I held out
and how I begged for relief only once it was withdrawn, but at the time it
wasn’t funny. In the very instant of his birth, I associated Kevin with my
own limitations—with not only suffering, but defeat.
 
Eva
 

 
 
December 13, 2000
 
Dear Franklin,
 
 
When I walked into work this morning I could tell immediately from a
malignant Democratic sullenness that “Florida” was over. The sense of
letdown in both camps feels postpartum.
But if my coworkers of both stripes are disappointed that such an
invigorating affray is finished, I feel a measure more disconsolate still,
banished even from their shared, binding sense of loss. Multiplied by
many times, this loneliness of mine must approximate my mother’s
experience of the end of the war, for my birthday of August 15 coincides
with VJ-Day, when Hirohito broadcast his surrender to the Japanese.
Apparently the nurses were so ecstatic that it was hard to get them to
attend to the timing of her contractions. Listening to champagne corks
pop down the hall, she must have felt so dolefully left out. Many of the
nurses’ husbands would be coming home, but my father would not. If the
rest of the country had won the war, the Khatchadourians of Racine,
Wisconsin, had lost.
Later she must have felt similarly at odds with the sentiments
embalmed by the commercial greeting card company for which she went
to work (anything but Johnson Wax). How eerie, boxing other people’s
Happy Anniversary tributes and having no need to slip one in her purse
when the date came around in her own home. I’m of two minds as to
whether I should be glad that the job gave her the idea of starting her
own handcrafted greeting-card business, which allowed her to withdraw
to Enderby Avenue in perpetuity. But I will say that the “On the Birth of
Your First Baby” card that she made up especially for me—layered with
bled tissue in blues and greens—well, it was lovely.
In fact, when my head cleared in Beth Israel, I remembered my mother
and felt ungrateful. My father had been unable to hold her hand as you
held mine. Yet, offered the clasp of a living husband, I crushed it.
Still, we all know that women in labor can grow abusive, so I’m
tempted to admit to having gotten a little hostile in the thick of things,
and to leave my confession at that. After all, I was immediately abashed
and kissed you. This was before the days when doctors slid a newborn

right onto the mother’s breast, gore and all, and we had a few minutes
while they tied the cord and cleaned him up. I was excited, stroking and
squeezing your arm, nestling my forehead into the soft inside of your
elbow. I had never held our child.
But I cannot let myself off the hook so lightly.
 
Up until April 11, 1983, I had flattered myself that I was an exceptional
person. But since Kevin’s birth I have come to suppose that we are all
profoundly normative. (For that matter, thinking of one’s self as
exceptional is probably more the rule than not.) We have explicit
expectations of ourselves in specific situations—beyond expectations;
they are requirements. Some of these are small: If we are given a surprise
party, we will be delighted. Others are sizable: If a parent dies, we will
be grief-stricken. But perhaps in tandem with these expectations is the
private fear that we will fail convention in the crunch. That we will
receive the fateful phone call and our mother is dead and we feel
nothing. I wonder if this quiet, unutterable little fear is even keener than
the fear of the bad news itself: that we will discover ourselves to be
monstrous. If it does not seem too shocking, for the duration of our
marriage I lived with one terror: that if something happened to you it
would break me. But there was always an odd shadow, an underfear, if
you will, that it would not—that I would swing off blithely that
afternoon to play squash.
The fact that this underfear rarely becomes overweening proceeds
from a crude trust. You have to keep faith that if the unthinkable does
come to pass, despair will come crashing in of its own accord; that grief,
for example, is not an experience you need summon or a skill you need
practice, and the same goes for prescriptive joy.
Thus even tragedy can be accompanied by a trace of relief. The
discovery that heartbreak is indeed heartbreaking consoles us about our
humanity (though considering what people get up to, that’s a queer word
to equate with compassion, or even with emotional competence). By way
of a ready example, take yesterday, Franklin. I was driving to work on
Route 9W when a Fiesta turned right, cutting off a bicycle on the
shoulder. The passenger door made a pretzel of the bike’s front wheel,
flipping the cyclist over the roof. He landed in a position that was subtly
impossible, as if sketched by an unpromising art student. I’d already
driven by, but in my rearview mirror, three other cars behind me pulled
onto the shoulder to help.

It seems perverse to find solace in such misfortune. Yet presumably
none of the drivers who descended to ring emergency services knew this
cyclist personally or had any vested interest in his fate. Still, they cared
enough to inconvenience themselves potentially to the point of having to
testify in court. On my own account, the drama left me physically shaken
—my hands trembled on the wheel, my mouth dropped and went dry.
But I had acquitted myself well. I still blanch at the agony of strangers.
Yet I do know what it’s like to get off-script. Surprise party? Funny I
should have cited that. The week I was to turn ten I sensed something
was up. There were whispers, a closet I was directed to avoid. If that
weren’t enough wink-and-nod, Giles crooned, “You’re going to be
surprised!” The second week of August I knew what signal day was
approaching, and by the time it came around I was bursting.
Early afternoon of my birthday, I was ordered to the backyard.
“Surprise!” When I was invited back in, I discovered that five of my
friends had been sneaked in the front while I’d been trying to peek
through the drawn kitchen curtains. In our bunted living room, they
surrounded a card table spread with a paper lace cloth and set with
colorful paper plates, beside which my mother had placed matching
seating cards inscribed with the fluid calligraphy of her professional
work. There were also store-bought party favors: miniature bamboo
umbrellas, noisemakers that tongued and honked. The cake, too, was
from a bakery, and she had dyed the lemonade a vivid pink to make it
seem more festive.
Doubtless my mother saw my face fall. Children are so lousy at
covering up. At the party, I was desultory, laconic. I opened and closed
my umbrella and rapidly tired of it, which was odd; I had powerfully
envied other girls who had gone to parties to which I hadn’t been invited
and returned to school with precisely these pink-and-blue parasols. Yet
somehow it was revealed to me that they came in packets of ten in a
plastic bag and could be purchased even by the likes of us, and that
devalued the favors more than I could say. Two of the guests I did not
much like; parents never get it right about your friends. The cake was
sealed in fondant icing like a plastic puck, and flavorlessly sweet; my
mother’s baking was better. There were more presents than usual, but all
I remember of them is that each was unaccountably disappointing. And I
was visited by a prescient taste of adulthood, an unbracketed “No Exit”
sensation, which rarely plagues children: that we were sitting in a room
and there was nothing to say or do. The minute it was over, the floor
messy with crumbs and wrapping, I cried.

I must sound spoiled, but I wasn’t spoiled. Little had been made of my
birthdays in the past. Looking back, I feel simply despicable, too. My
mother had gone to so much trouble. Her business didn’t make much
money for the longest time; she would labor over one card for over an
hour and then sell it for a quarter, a price at which her customers would
still squawk. In terms of our family’s midget economy, the outlay had
been considerable. She must have been bewildered; if she were a
different sort of parent, she’d have spanked my ungrateful behind.
Whatever had I contemplated that in comparison made my surprise party
such a letdown?
Nothing. Or nothing in particular, nothing that I could form concretely
in my head. That was the problem. I had been awaiting something large
and amorphous, a vast big thing so marvelous that I could not even
imagine it. The party she threw was all too imaginable. For that matter,
had she brought in a brass band and magicians I’d have still been
crestfallen. There was no extravagance that would not have fallen short,
because it would be finite and fixed, one thing and not another. It would
be only what it was.
The point is, I don’t know what exactly I’d foreseen would happen to
me when Kevin was first hoisted to my breast. I hadn’t foreseen anything
exactly. I wanted what I could not imagine. I wanted to be transformed; I
wanted to be transported. I wanted a door to open and a whole new vista
to expand before me that I had never known was out there. I wanted
nothing short of revelation, and revelation by its nature cannot be
anticipated; it promises that to which we are not yet privy. But if I
extracted one lesson from my tenth birthday party, it was that
expectations are dangerous when they are both high and unformed.
I may have misrepresented myself here. Of course I had misgivings.
But my expectations of motherhood were high, or I wouldn’t have agreed
to go through with it. I’d attended hungrily to accounts from friends: You
have no idea what it’s like until you have one of your own. Whenever I
allowed that I was less than enamored of infants and small children, I
was assured: I felt the same way! Couldn’t stand other people’s kids! But
it’s different—it’s totally different—when they’re yours. I loved that, the
prospect of another country, a strange land in which insolent miscreants
were miraculously alchemized into, as you had said yourself, an answer
to the “Big Question.” Indeed, I may even have misrepresented my
feelings about foreign countries. Yes, I was suffering travel fatigue, and
yes, I did always fight a hereditary dread before hopping a plane. But

setting foot in Namibia, or Hong Kong, even Luxembourg for the first
time made me high as a kite.
What I hadn’t realized, Brian had confided, is that you fall in love with
your own children. You don’t just love them. You fall in love. And that
moment, when you lay eyes on them for the first time—it’s indescribable.
I do wish he had described it anyway. I do wish he had given it a try.
Dr. Rhinestein dangled the infant over my breast and rested the tiny
creature down with—I was glad to see her evidence it at last—
painstaking gentleness. Kevin was damp, and blood creased his neck, the
crooks of his limbs. I put my hands diffidently around him. The
expression on his twisted face was disgruntled. His body was inert; I
could only interpret his lassitude as a lack of enthusiasm. Sucking is one
of our few innate instincts, but with his mouth right at my enlarged
brown nipple, his head lolled away in distaste.
I kept trying; he kept resisting; he liked the other nipple no better. And
all the while I was waiting. My breath shallow, I was waiting. And I kept
waiting. But everybody says—, I thought. And then, distinctly: Beware of
what “everybody says.”
Franklin, I felt—absent. I kept scrabbling around in myself for this
new indescribable emotion, like stirring a crowded silverware drawer for
the potato peeler, but no matter how I rattled around, no matter what I
moved out of the way, it wasn’t there. The potato peeler is always in the
drawer after all. It’s under the spatula, it’s slipped into the fold of the
food-processor guarantee—
“He’s beautiful,” I mumbled; I had reached for a line from TV.
“Can I?” you asked shyly.
I offered the baby up. Whereas newborn Kevin had squirmed
miserably on my breast, he rested an arm around your neck, as if having
found his real protector. When I looked at your face, eyes closed, cheek
pressed against our infant son, I recognized, if this does not sound too
flippant: There’s the potato peeler. It seemed so unfair. You were clearly
choked up, filled to the back of your throat with a wonderment that
defied expression. It was like watching you lick an ice cream cone that
you refused to share.
I sat up, and you returned him reluctantly, at which point Kevin began
to squall. Holding the baby, who still refused to suckle, I was revisited by
that now-what sensation of my tenth birthday party: Here we were, in a
room, and there seemed nothing to say or do. Minutes wore on, Kevin
would yowl, rest limply, and jerk irritably from time to time; I felt the
first stirrings of what, appallingly, I can only call boredom.

Oh, please don’t. I know what you’d say. I was exhausted. I’d had a
thirty-seven-hour labor and it was ridiculous to think I’d be capable of
feeling anything but weary and numb. And it had been absurd to imagine
fireworks; a baby is a baby. You’d goad me to remember that nutty little
story I told you about the first time I ever went overseas for my junior
year abroad at Green Bay, and I stepped onto the airstrip in Madrid to be
obscurely disheartened that Spain, too, had trees. Of course Spain has
trees! you jeered. I was embarrassed; of course I knew, in a way, it had
trees, but with the sky and the ground and the people walking around—
well, it just didn’t seem that different. Later you referenced that anecdote
to illustrate that my expectations were always preposterously outsized;
that my very ravenousness for the exotic was self-destructive, because as
soon as I seized upon the otherworldly, it joined this world and didn’t
count.
Besides, you would cajole, parenthood isn’t something that happens in
an instant. The fact of a baby—when so recently there was none—is so
disconcerting that I probably just hadn’t made the whole thing real to
myself yet. I was dazed. That’s it, I was dazed. I wasn’t heartless or
defective. Besides, sometimes when you’re watching yourself too hard,
scrutinizing your own feelings, they flee, they elude capture. I was self-
conscious, and I was trying too hard. I had worked myself up into a kind
of emotional paralysis. Didn’t I just observe that these spontaneous
outpourings of high passion are matters of faith? So my belief had
flickered; I had allowed the underfear temporarily to get the best of me. I
just needed to relax and let nature take its course. And for God’s sake, to
get some rest. I know you’d say all these things, because I said them to
myself. And they didn’t make a dent—in my sense that the whole thing
was going wrong from the start, that I was not following the program,
that I had dismally failed us and our newborn baby. That I was, frankly, a
freak.
While they stitched up the tearing, you offered to take Kevin again,
and I knew I should protest. I didn’t. At being relieved of him, my
gratitude was soul-destroying. If you want to know the truth, I was
angry. I was frightened, I was ashamed of myself, but I also felt cheated.
I wanted my surprise party. I thought, if a woman can’t rely on herself to
rise to an occasion like this, then she can’t count on anything; from this
point onward the world was on its ear. Prostrate, with my legs agape, I
made a vow: that while I might have learned to expose my “private”
parts for all the world to see, I would never reveal to anyone on earth that
childbirth had left me unmoved. You had your unspeakable—“Never,

ever tell me that you regret our own kid”; now I had mine. Reminiscing
in company about this moment later, I would reach for that word,
indescribable. Brian was a splendid father. I would borrow my good
friend’s tenderness for the day.
 
Eva
 

 
 
December 18, 2000
 
 
Dear Franklin,
 
Tonight was our office Christmas party, which isn’t easy to pull off with
six people fresh from one another’s throats. We have little in common,
but in general I am glad for their companionship—not so much for heart-
to-hearts over a sandwich as for quotidian exchanges about package
deals in the Bahamas. (I’m sometimes so grateful for the busywork of
flights to book that I could weep.) Likewise, the simple adjacency of
warm bodies supplies the deepest of animal comfort.
The manager was kind to take me into her employ. Thursday having
wounded so many people in this area, Wanda did worry at first that folks
might start to avoid her premises just to keep from thinking about it. Yet
to be fair to our neighbors, it is often an exceptionally heartfelt-sounding
season’s greetings that tips me off that a customer recognizes who I am.
It’s the staff whom I’ve disappointed. They must have hoped that
rubbing up against a celebrity of sorts would confer distinction on
themselves and that I would furnish stirringly disturbing stories for my
coworkers to dine out on. But the association is too tangential, and I
doubt their friends are impressed. Most of my tales are ordinary. There is
only one story they want to hear, really, and that one they knew
backward and forward before I came on board.
A wide-hipped divorcée with a braying laugh, Wanda herself may
have hoped that we would become fast friends. By the end of our first
lunch, she had confided that her ex-husband got an erection watching her
pee, that she had just had a hemorrhoid “tied off,” and that, until a near-
miss with a Saks security guard at thirty-six, she’d been a compulsive
shoplifter. I returned with the disclosure that after six months in my toy
duplex I had finally gotten myself to buy curtains. You can see how she
might have been a little put out that I’d got Manhattan while she got
beads.
So tonight Wanda cornered me by the fax machine. She didn’t want to
pry, but had I sought out “help”? I knew what she meant, of course. The
entire student body of Gladstone High School was offered free
counseling by the school board, and even some of this year’s intake, not

even enrolled in 1999, has claimed to be traumatized and plunged to the
couch. I didn’t want to seem hostile and so say honestly that I couldn’t
see how the mere iteration of my troubles to a stranger would lessen
them one iota, and that surely counseling was the logical refuge of those
whose problems were ephemeral fancies and not matters of historical
fact. So I demurred that my experience with the mental health profession
had been rather sour, kindly omitting that the failures of my son’s
psychiatric care had made headlines coast to coast. Moreover, it didn’t
seem wise to confide that thus far I had found my only “help” in writing
to you, Franklin. For somehow I feel certain that these letters are not on
the list of prescribed therapies, since you are at the very heart of what I
need to “get past” so that I might experience “closure.” And what a
terrible prospect is that.
 
Even back in 1983, I was bewildered why a standardized psychiatric
label like postnatal depression was supposed to be consoling. Our
compatriots seem to put much stock in slapping a tag on their ailments.
Presumably a complaint common enough to have a name implies that
you are not alone and dangles options like Internet chat rooms and
community support groups for rhapsodic communal bellyaching. This
compulsion to bandwagon has even infiltrated American small talk. I
can’t remember the last time anyone told me that he “took a long time to
wake up.” Instead I’m informed that he’s not a morning person. All
those fellow travelers who require killer cups of coffee on waking must
provide one’s disinclination to hop out of bed for a ten-mile run some
extra clout.
I might have achieved a renewed appreciation for my own normative
propensities, including a not unreasonable expectation that when bearing
a child I will actually feel something, even something nice. But I hadn’t
changed that much. I’d never found solace in being just like everybody
else. And though Dr. Rhinestein offered up postnatal depression like a
present, as if simply being told that you are unhappy is supposed to cheer
you up, I did not pay professionals to be plied with the obvious, with the
merely descriptive. The term was less diagnostic than tautological: I was
depressed after Kevin’s birth because I was depressed after Kevin’s birth.
Thanks.
Yet she also suggested that because Kevin’s disinterest in my breast
had persisted, I might be suffering feelings of rejection. I colored. It
embarrassed me that I might take the opaque predilections of such a tiny,
half-formed creature to heart.

Of course she was right. At first I thought I was doing something
wrong, not guiding his mouth. But no; I would place the nipple between
his lips, where else could it go? He had sucked a time or two, but turned
away, the bluish milk running down his chin. He’d cough, and, perhaps I
imagined it, he even seemed to gag. When I went for an emergency
appointment, Dr. Rhinestein informed me flatly that “sometimes this
happens.” My lord, Franklin, what you discover sometimes happens
when you become a parent! I was distraught. In her office, I was
surrounded by leaflets about building your baby’s immune system. And I
tried everything. I didn’t drink. I eliminated dairy products. At
tremendous sacrifice, I gave up onions, garlic, and chilies. I eliminated
meat and fish. I installed a gluten-free regime, which left me with little
more than a bowl of rice and an undressed salad.
In the end I was starving, while Kevin continued to feed in his
lackluster way on a bottle of microwaved formula that he would only
accept from you. He wouldn’t even take my milk from a bottle, writhing
from it without a sip. He could smell it. He could smell me. Yet he didn’t
test positive for an allergy, at least in the medical sense. Meanwhile, my
once diminutive breasts were taut, sore, and leaking. Rhinestein was
adamant that I not let my milk dry up, since occasionally this aversion—
that was the word she used, Franklin, aversion—would abate. It was so
awkward and painful that I never did quite get the hang of the expressing
pump, though it was sweet of you to go out and buy that hospital-grade
Medela. I’m afraid I came to hate it, a chill plastic substitute for a warm
suckling infant. I was aching to give him the very milk of human
kindness, and he did not want it, or he did not want it from me.
I shouldn’t have taken it personally, but how could I not? It wasn’t
mother’s milk he didn’t want, it was Mother. In fact, I became convinced
that our little bundle of joy had found me out. Infants have great
intuition, because intuition’s about all they’ve got. I felt certain that he
could detect a telltale stiffening in my arms when I picked him up. I was
confident that he could infer from a subtly exasperated quality in my
voice when I burbled and cooed that burbling and cooing did not come
naturally to me and that his precocious ear could isolate in that endless
stream of placating blather an insidious, compulsive sarcasm. Moreover,
since I had read—sorry, you had read—that it was important to smile at
infants to try to elicit a smile in response, I smiled and smiled, I smiled
until my face hurt, but when my face did hurt I was sure he could tell.
Every time I forced myself to smile, he clearly knew that I didn’t feel
like smiling, because he never smiled back. He hadn’t seen many smiles

in his lifetime but he had seen yours, enough to recognize that in
comparison there was something wrong with Mother’s. It curled up
falsely; it evaporated with revelatory rapidity when I turned from his
crib. Is that where Kevin got it? In prison, that marionette smile, as if
pulled up by strings.
I know you doubt me on this, but I did try very hard to form a
passionate attachment to my son. But I had never experienced my feeling
for you, for example, as an exercise that I was obliged to rehearse like
scales on the piano. The harder I tried, the more aware I became that my
very effort was an abomination. Surely all this tenderness that in the end
I simply aped should have come knocking at the door uninvited. Hence it
was not just Kevin who depressed me, or the fact that your own
affections were increasingly diverted; I depressed me. I was guilty of
emotional malfeasance.
But Kevin depressed me as well, and I do mean Kevin and not the
baby. From the very beginning that child was particular to me, whereas
you often asked How’s the kid? or How’s my boy? or Where’s the baby?
To me he was never “the baby.” He was a singular, unusually cunning
individual who had arrived to stay with us and just happened to be very
small. For you he was “our son”—or, once you started to give up on me,
“my son.” There was a persistently generic character to your adoration
that I’m certain he sensed.
Before you get your back up, I don’t mean that as a criticism. It must
be this overarching commitment to what is really an abstraction, to one’s
children right or wrong, that can be even more fierce than the
commitment to them as explicit, difficult people, and that can
consequently keep you devoted to them when as individuals they
disappoint. On my part it was this broad covenant with children-in-
theory that I may have failed to make and to which I was unable to resort
when Kevin finally tested my maternal ties to a perfect mathematical
limit on Thursday. I didn’t vote for parties, but for candidates. My
opinions were as ecumenical as my larder, then still chock full of salsa
verde from Mexico City, anchovies from Barcelona, lime leaves from
Bangkok. I had no problem with abortion but abhorred capital
punishment, which I suppose meant that I embraced the sanctity of life
only in grown-ups. My environmental habits were capricious; I’d place a
brick in our toilet tank, but after submitting to dozens of spit-in-the-air
showers with derisory European water pressure, I would bask under a
deluge of scalding water for half an hour. My closet wafted with Indian
saris, Ghanaian wraparounds, and Vietnamese au dais. My vocabulary

was peppered with imports—gemütlich, scusa, hugge, mzungu. I so
mixed and matched the planet that you sometimes worried I had no
commitments to anything or anywhere, though you were wrong; my
commitments were simply far-flung and obscenely specific.
By the same token, I could not love a child; I would have to love this
one. I was connected to the world by a multitude of threads, you by a
few sturdy guide ropes. It was the same with patriotism: You loved the
idea of the United States so much more powerfully than the country
itself, and it was thanks to your embrace of the American aspiration that
you could overlook the fact that your fellow Yankee parents were lining
up overnight outside FAO Schwartz with thermoses of chowder to buy a
limited release of Nintendo. In the particular dwells the tawdry. In the
conceptual dwells the grand, the transcendent, the everlasting. Earthly
countries and single malignant little boys can go to hell; the idea of
countries and the idea of sons triumph for eternity. Although neither of
us ever went to church, I came to conclude that you were a naturally
religious person.
 
In the end, mastitis put an end to my desperate search for whatever
foodstuff was putting Kevin off my milk. Poor nutrition may have made
me susceptible. That and fumbling to get Kevin to take the breast, which
could have lacerated the nipples enough to transmit infection from his
mouth. Inimical to my sustenance, he could still introduce me to
corruption, as if already at year zero the more worldly party of our pair.
Since the first sign of mastitis is fatigue, it’s little wonder that the early
symptoms went unobserved. He’d worn me out for weeks. I bet you still
don’t believe me about his fits of pique, though a rage that lasts for six to
eight hours seems less a fit than a natural state, from which the tranquil
respites you witnessed were bizarre departures. Our son had fits of peace.
And this may sound completely mad, but the consistency with which
Kevin shrieked with precocious force of will the whole time he and I
were alone, and then with the abruptness of switching off a heavy-metal
radio station desisted the moment you came home—well, it seemed
deliberate. The silence still ringing for me, you’d bend over our
slumbering angel who unbeknownst to you was just beginning to sleep
off his Olympian exertions of the day. Though I’d never have wished on
you my own pulsing headaches, I couldn’t bear the subtle distrust that
was building between us when your experience of our son did not square
with mine. I have sometimes entertained the retroactive delusion that
even in his crib Kevin was learning to divide and conquer, scheming to

present such contrasting temperaments that we were bound to be set at
odds. Kevin’s features were unusually sharp for a baby, while my own
still displayed that rounded Marlo Thomas credulity, as if he had leeched
my very shrewdness in utero.
Childless, I’d perceived baby crying as a pretty undifferentiated affair.
It was loud; it was not so loud. But in motherhood I developed an ear.
There’s the wail of inarticulate need, what is effectively a child’s first
groping after language, for sounds that mean wet or food or pin. There’s
the shriek of terror—that no one is here and that there may never be
anyone here again. There’s that lassitudinous wah-wah, not unlike the
call to mosque in the Middle East or improvisational song; this is
creative crying, fun crying, from babies who, while not especially
unhappy, have failed to register that we like to constrain weeping to
conditions of distress. Perhaps saddest of all is the muted, habitual mewl
of a baby who may be perfectly miserable but who, whether through
neglect or prescience, no longer anticipates reprieve—who in infancy has
already become reconciled to the idea that to live is to suffer.
Oh, I imagine there are as many reasons that newborn babies cry as
that grown ones do, but Kevin practiced none of these standard
lachrymal modes. Sure, after you got home he’d sometimes fuss a little
like a normal baby that he wanted feeding or changing, and you’d take
care of it and he’d stop; and then you’d look at me like, see? and I’d
want to slug you.
With me, once you left, Kevin was not to be bought off with anything
so petty and transitory as milk or dry diapers. If fear of abandonment
contributed to a decibel level that rivaled an industrial buzz saw, his
loneliness displayed an awesome existential purity; it wasn’t about to be
allayed by the hover of that haggard cow with her nauseating waft of
white fluid. And I discerned no plaintive cry of appeal, no keen of
despair, no gurgle of nameless dread. Rather, he hurled his voice like a
weapon, howls smashing the walls of our loft like a baseball bat bashing
a bus shelter. In concert, his fists sparred with the mobile over his crib,
he kick-boxed his blanket, and there were times I stepped back after
patting and stroking and changing and marveled at the sheer athleticism
of the performance. It was unmistakable: Driving this remarkable
combustion engine was the distilled and infinitely renewable fuel of
outrage.
About what? you might well ask.
He was dry, he was fed, he had slept. I would have tried blanket on,
blanket off; he was neither hot nor cold. He’d been burped, and I have a

gut instinct that he didn’t have colic; Kevin’s was not a cry of pain but of
wrath. He had toys dangling overhead, rubber blocks in his bed. His
mother had taken six months off from work to spend every day by his
side, and I picked him up so often that my arms ached; you could not say
he lacked for attention. As the papers would be so fond of observing
sixteen years later, Kevin had everything.
I have theorized that you can locate most people on a spectrum of the
crudest sort and that it may be their position on this scale with which
their every other attribute correlates: exactly how much they like being
here, just being alive. I think Kevin hated it. I think Kevin was off the
scale, he hated being here so much. He may even have retained some
trace spiritual memory from before conception, and glorious nullity was
far more what he missed than my womb. Kevin seemed incensed that no
one had ever consulted him about turning up in a crib with time going on
and on, when nothing whatsoever interested him in that crib. He was the
least curious little boy I’ve ever encountered, with a few exceptions to
that rule that I shudder to contemplate.
 
One afternoon I started to feel draggier than usual, at times a bit light-
headed. For days I’d been unable to keep warm, and it was late May;
outside, New Yorkers were in shorts. Kevin had pulled off a virtuosic
recital. Huddled on the couch in a blanket, I reflected crankily on the fact
that you’d stacked up more work than ever. Fair enough, as a freelancer
you didn’t want your long-term clients to find an alternative scout,
whereas my own company could be trusted to underlings and wouldn’t
just go away. But somehow this meant that I was stuck all day with hell
in a handbasket while you tooled merrily off in your baby-blue pickup to
window-shop for fields with the right-colored cows. I suspected that if
our situation were reversed—you headed a thriving company while I was
a lone freelance location scout—Eva would be expected to drop the
scouting altogether like a hot brick.
When the elevator clanked and shuddered, I was just noticing that a
small patch under my right breast had turned bright red, tender, and
strangely stiff, mirroring the much larger such patch on the left. You
opened the lattice gate and went straight to the crib. I was glad you were
turning into such an attentive father, but of the two other inhabitants of
our loft it was only your wife who appreciated the meaning of the word
hello.
“Please don’t wake him up,” I whispered. “He’s only been down
twenty minutes and he’s outdone himself today. I doubt he ever goes to

sleep. He passes out.”
“Well, has he been fed?” Deaf to my imprecations, you had laid him
on your shoulder and were poking at his conked-out face. He looked
deceptively content. Dreams of oblivion, perhaps.
“Yes, Franklin,” I said with immoderate control. “After four or five
hours of listening to little Kevin bring the house down, I thought of that.
—Why are you using the stove?”
“Microwaving kills nutrients.” Over lunch at McDonald’s, you read
baby books.
“It isn’t so simple as figuring out what he wants and can’t ask for.
Most of the time he has no idea what he wants.” I caught it: Your eyes
flicked toward the ceiling like, oh-brother-not-this-again. “You think I’m
exaggerating.”
“I didn’t say that.”
“You think he’s ‘crabby.’ He’s ‘fussy’ sometimes, because he’s hungry
—”
“Listen, Eva, I’m sure he gets a little ill-tempered—”
“See? A little ill-tempered.” I waddled to the kitchen in my blanket.
“You don’t believe me!” I had broken out in a cold sweat and must either
have been flushed or pale. Walking hurt the soles of my feet and sent
pains shivering down my left arm.
“I believe you’re being straight up about your perception of how hard
it is. But what did you expect, a walk in the park?”
“Not a carefree stroll, but this is like being mugged in the park!”
“Look, he’s my son, too. I see him, too, every day. Sometimes he cries
a little. So what. I’d worry if he didn’t.”
Apparently my testimony was tainted. I would have to bring in other
witnesses. “You realize that John, downstairs, is threatening to move
out?”
“John’s a fag, and they don’t like babies. This whole country’s
antichild, I’m only just starting to notice.” The severity wasn’t like you,
except that for once you were talking about the real country and not the
starspangled Valhalla in your head. “See?” Kevin had roused on your
shoulder, then took the bottle peaceably without opening his eyes. “I’m
sorry, but most of the time he seems pretty good-natured to me.”
“He’s not good-natured right now, he’s exhausted! And so am I. I
know I’m run down, but I don’t feel right. Dizzy. Chills. I wonder if I’m
running a fever.”
“Well, that’s a shame,” you said formally. “Get some rest, then. I’ll
make dinner.”

I stared. This coldness was so unlike you! I was supposed to belittle
my own infirmities, you to make a to-do over them. Forcing you to go
through the motions of your old solicitation, I took the bottle and
plastered your hand to my forehead.
“Touch warm,” you said, withdrawing the hand right away.
I’m afraid that I couldn’t stand up anymore, and my skin hurt
wherever the blanket touched it. So I staggered back to the couch, as if
reeling from my revelation: You were angry at me. Fatherhood hadn’t
disappointed you; I had. You thought you’d married a trooper. Instead
your wife was proving a whiner, the very peevish sort she decried amid
America’s malcontented overfed, for whom a commonplace travail like
missing a FedEx delivery three times in a row and having to go to the
depot constitutes intolerable “stress,” the stuff of costly therapies and
pharmaceutical redress. Even for Kevin’s refusal to take my breast you
held me dimly accountable. I had denied you the maternal tableau, that
luscious Sunday-morning loll amid the sheets with buttered toast: son
suckling, wife aglow, breasts spilling their bounty over the pillow, until
you are forced out of bed for the camera.
Here I thought that I’d brilliantly disguised my true feelings about
motherhood thus far, to the point of dereliction; so much lying in
marriage is merely a matter of keeping quiet. I had refrained from
throwing that self-evident diagnosis of postnatal depression down on our
coffee table like a trophy but had kept this formal accreditation to
myself. Meanwhile, I’d brought home loads of editing work but had only
got through a few pages; I was eating badly and sleeping badly and
showering at most every three days; I saw no one and rarely got out
because Kevin’s rages, in public, were not socially acceptable; and daily,
I faced a purple churn of insatiable fury while rehearsing to myself with
dull incomprehension, I’m supposed to love this.
“If you’re having trouble coping, we don’t lack for resources.” You
towered over my couch with your son, like one of those mighty peasant
icons of dedication to family and motherland in Soviet murals. “We
could hire a girl.”
“Oh, I forgot to tell you,” I mumbled. “I had a conference call with the
office. We’re researching demand for an African edition. AFRIWAP.
Thought it had a ring.”
“I did not mean,” you stooped, your voice deep and hot in my ear,
“that someone else could raise our son while you go python-hunting in
the Belgian Congo.”
“Zaire,” I said.

“We’re in this together, Eva.”
“Then why do you always take his side?”
“He’s only seven weeks old! He’s not big enough to have a side!”
I wrenched myself to a stand. You may have mistaken me for tearful,
but my eyes were watering of their own accord. When I lumbered into
the bathroom, it was less to get the thermometer than to underscore the
fact that you had failed to fetch it for me. When I returned with the tube
poking from my mouth, was I imagining it, or were your eyes once more
rolling toward the ceiling?
I scrutinized the mercury under a lamp. “Here—you read it.
Everything’s a bit blurry.”
Absently you held the tube to the light. “Eva, you screwed it up. You
must have put it near the bulb or something.” You shook the mercury
down, poked the end in my mouth, and left to change Kevin’s diaper.
I shuffled to the changing table and made my offering. You checked
the reading and stabbed me with a black glance. “It’s not funny, Eva.”
“What are you talking about?” This time they were tears.
“Heating the thermometer. It’s a shitty joke.”
“I’m not heating the thermometer. I just put the bulb under my tongue
—”
“Crap, Eva, it reads practically 104°.”
“Oh.”
You looked at me. You looked at Kevin, for once torn between
loyalties. Hastily you scooped him from the table, then bedded him with
such perfunctoriness that he forgot his strict theatrical schedule and
cranked up his daytime I-hate-the-whole-world shriek. With that
manliness I’d always adored, you ignored him.
“I’m so sorry!” In one swoop you lifted me off the floor and swept me
back to the couch. “You’re really sick. We’ve got to call Rhinestein, get
you to a hospital—”
I was sleepy, fading. But I do remember thinking that it had taken too
much. Wondering if I would have a cool cloth on my forehead, ice water
and three aspirin at my side, and Dr. Rhinestein on the telephone if the
thermometer had read only 101°.
 
Eva
 

 
 
December 21, 2000
 
 
Dear Franklin,
 
I’m a bit rattled, since the phone just rang and I have no idea how this
Jack Marlin person got my unlisted number. He claimed to be a
documentary maker from NBC. I suppose the droll working title of his
project, “Extracurricular Activities,” sounds authentic enough, and at
least he was quick to distance himself from “Anguish at Gladstone
High,” that hasty Fox show that Giles informed me was mostly on-
camera weeping and prayer services. Still I asked Marlin why he
imagined that I would want to participate in one more sensationalist
postmortem of the day my life as I understood it came to an end, and he
said I might want to tell “my side of the story.”
“What side would that be?” I was on record as assuming the
opposition when Kevin was seven weeks old.
“For example, wasn’t your son the victim of sexual abuse?” Marlin
plied.
“A victim? Are we talking about the same boy?”
“What about this Prozac business?” The sympathetic purr could only
have been put on. “That was his defense at the trial, and it was pretty
well supported.”
“That was his lawyer’s idea,” I said faintly.
“Just generally—maybe you think Kevin was misunderstood?”
I’m sorry Franklin, I know I should have hung up, but I speak to so
few people outside the office .... What did I say? Something like, “I’m
afraid I understand my son all too well.” And I said, “For that matter,
Kevin must be one of the best-understood young men in the country.
Actions speak louder than words, don’t they? Seems to me he got across
his personal worldview better than most. Seems to me that you should be
interviewing children who are a great deal less accomplished at self-
expression.”
“What do you think he was trying to say?” asked Marlin, excited at
having snagged a real live specimen of what has become a remote
parental elite, whose members are strangely uneager for their fifteen
minutes on TV.

I’m sure the call was recorded, and I should have watched my tongue.
Instead I blurted, “Whatever his message was, Mr. Marlin, it was clearly
disagreeable. Why on earth would you like to provide him one more
forum for propounding it?”
When my caller launched into some nonsense about insight into
disturbed boys being vital so that next time “we can see it coming,” I cut
him off.
“I saw it coming for nearly sixteen years, Mr. Marlin,” I snapped. “A
fat lot of good that did.” And I hung up.
I know he was only doing his job, but I don’t like his job. I’m sick of
newshounds snuffling at my door like dogs that smell meat. I am tired of
being made a meal of.
 
I was gratified when Dr. Rhinestein, having lectured that it was
practically unheard of, was forced to concede that I had indeed
contracted mastitis in both breasts. Those five days in Beth Israel on an
antibiotic drip were painful, but I was coming to treasure physical pain
as a form of suffering I understood, in contrast to the baffling despair of
new motherhood. The relief of simple quiet was immense.
Still in the grip of your breadwinning fever and perhaps—admit it—
reluctant to put our son’s “good-natured” temperament to the test, you
took this opportunity to hire a nanny. Or should I say two nannies, since
by the time I came home the first one had quit.
Not that you were volunteering this information. In the pickup as you
were driving me home you simply began nattering about the marvelous
Siobhan, and I had to stop you. “I thought her name was Carlotta.”
“Oh, her. You know, a lot of these girls are immigrants who plan to go
AWOL when their visa turns into a pumpkin. They don’t really care
about kids.”
Whenever the pickup hit a bump, my breasts flamed. I wasn’t looking
forward to the excruciating process of expressing milk on arrival, which
I’d been dictated to do religiously every four hours for the sake of the
mastitis, even if only to pour the milk down the drain. “I take it Carlotta
didn’t work out.”
“I told her up front he was a baby. A pooping, farting, burping—”
“—Screaming—”
“—Baby. She seemed to have expected, like, a self-cleaning oven or
something.”
“So you sacked her.”

“Not exactly. But Siobhan is a saint. From Northern Ireland, of all
places. Maybe folks used to being bombed and shit can keep a little
whimpering in perspective.”
“You mean Carlotta quit. After only a few days. Because Kevin was—
what’s the term of art? Cranky.”
“After one day, if you can believe it. And when I call at lunchtime to
make sure everything’s all right, she has the gall to insist I cut my
workday short and relieve her of my son. I was tempted not to pay her a
dime, but I didn’t want us blacklisted with her agency.” (Prophetic. We
were blacklisted by her agency two years later.)
Siobhan was a saint. A bit homely at first glance, with unruly black
curls and that deathly white Irish skin, she had one of those doll-baby
bodies that didn’t narrow at the joints, but merely crimped a bit; though
she was slim enough, the columnar limbs and waistless torso gave the
impression of thickness. Yet I grew to regard her as prettier with time
because she was so good-hearted. True, I was apprehensive when she
mentioned at our introduction that she was a member of that Alpha
Course Christian sect. I conceived of such people as mindless fanatics
and dreaded being subjected to daily testimonials. A prejudice, and one
Siobhan did not substantiate; she rarely raised the subject again. Maybe
this offbeat religious route was her bid to opt out of the Catholic-
Protestant folderol back in County Antrim, of which she never spoke,
and from which she had further insulated herself with the Atlantic Ocean
as if for good measure.
You teased me that I took such a shine to Siobhan just because she
was a Wing and a Prayer fan, for she’d used AWAP when traveling the
Continent. Unsure what God would “call” her to do, she said she
couldn’t imagine a more delightful occupation than professional
globetrotting, stirring my nostalgia for a life already growing distant. She
ignited the same pride that I hoped Kevin would some day kindle, when
he got old enough to appreciate his parents’ accomplishments. I’d
already indulged the odd fantasy whereby Kevin would pore over my old
photographs, asking breathlessly, Where’s this? What’s that? You’ve been
to AFRICA? Wow! But Siobhan’s admiration proved cruelly misleading.
Kevin did pour over a box of my photographs once—with kerosene.
After a second round of antibiotics, the mastitis cleared up. Resigned
that Kevin was on formula for keeps, I allowed my breasts to engorge
and dry up, and with Siobhan holding down the fort was at length able to
return to AWAP that fall. What a relief, to dress well, to move briskly, to
speak in low, adult tones, to tell someone what to do and to have them do

it. While I took fresh relish in what had previously grown workaday, I
also chided myself for having imputed to a tiny bundle of confusion such
malign motives as an intent to drive a wedge between you and me. I’d
been unwell. It had been harder to adapt to our new life than I’d
expected. Recuperating some of my old energy and discovering with
pleasure that I had agitated myself back down to my former figure, I
assumed that the worst was over and made a mental note that the next
time one of my friends bore a first child I would fall all over myself to
sympathize.
Often I’d invite Siobhan to linger with me for a cup of coffee when I
came home, and the enjoyment I took in conversing with a woman
roughly half my age may have been less the delight of leaping
generations than the more standard one of talking to anybody. I was
confiding in Siobhan because I was not confiding in my husband.
“You must have wanted Kevin something fierce,” said Siobhan on one
such occasion. “Seeing the sights, meeting amazing people—and paid
for the pleasure, if you can credit it! I can’t imagine giving that up.”
“I haven’t given it up,” I said. “After a year or so, I’ll resume business
as usual.”
Siobhan stirred her coffee. “Is that what Franklin expects?”
“It’s what he ought to expect.”
“But he mentioned, like,” she was not comfortable with tattling, “that
your running off for months at a go, like—that it was over.”
“For a while there, I was a little burned out. Always running out of
fresh underwear; all those French train strikes. It’s possible I gave the
wrong impression.”
“Oh, aye,” she said sorrowfully. I doubt that she was trying to make
trouble, though she saw it coming. “He must have been lonely, when
you’d go away. And now if you take your trips again, he’d be the only
one to mind wee Kevin when I’m not here. Of course, in America, don’t
some da’s stay home, and the ma’s go to work?”
“There are Americans and Americans. Franklin’s not the type.”
“But you run a whole company. Sure you could afford ...”
“Only in the financial sense. It’s hard enough when a man’s wife is
profiled in Fortune magazine and he’s only location-scouted the
advertisement on the facing page.”
“Franklin said you used to be on the road five months a year.”
“Obviously,” I said heavily, “I’ll have to cut back.”
“You know, you may find that Kevin’s a wee bit tricky, like. He’s a—
an uneasy baby. Sometimes they grow out of it.” She hazarded starkly,

“Sometimes they don’t.”
 
You thought that Siobhan was devoted to our son, but I read her loyalty
as more to you and me. She rarely spoke of Kevin in other than a
logistical sense. A new set of bottles had been sterilized; our disposable
“nappies” were running low. For such a passionate girl this mechanical
approach seemed unlike her. (Though she did observe once, “He has like,
beady eyes, so he does!” She laughed nervously and qualified, “I mean
—intense.” “Yes, they’re unnerving, aren’t they,” I rejoined, as neutrally
as I knew how.) But she adored the two of us. She was entranced with
the freedom of our dual self-employment, and, despite the evangelical
romance with “family values,” was clearly disconcerted that we would
willfully impair this giddy liberty with the ball and chain of an infant.
And maybe we gave her hope for her future. We were middle-aged, but
we listened to The Cars and Joe Jackson; if she didn’t approve of bad
language, she may still have been broadly heartened that a codger
nearing forty could decry a dubious baby manual as horseshit. In turn,
we paid her well and accommodated her church obligations. I gave her
the odd present, like a silk scarf from Thailand, which she gushed over
so much that I was embarrassed. She thought you devastatingly
handsome, admiring the sturdiness of your figure and the disarming flop
of your flaxen hair. I wonder if she didn’t “fancy” you a tad.
Having every reason to assume that Siobhan was contented in our
employ, I was puzzled to note as the months advanced that she began to
look curiously drawn. I know the Irish don’t age well, but even for her
thinskinned race she was much too young to develop those hard worry
lines across her forehead. She could be testy when I returned from the
office, snapping when I had simply expressed surprise that we were low
again on baby food, “Och, it doesn’t all go in his mouth, you know!” She
immediately apologized, and grew fleetingly tearful but wouldn’t
explain. She became more difficult to entice into a debriefing cup of
coffee, as if anxious to be quit of our loft, and I was nonplussed by her
reaction when I proposed that she move in. You remember that I offered
to wall off that illused catchall corner, and to install a separate bath.
What I had in mind would have been far more capacious than the
cubbyhole she shared in the East Village with a loose, boozing, godless
waitress she didn’t much like. I wouldn’t have cut her salary, either, so
she’d have saved buckets on rent. Yet at the prospect of becoming a live-
in nanny, she recoiled. When she protested that she could never break her
lease on that Avenue C hovel, it sounded like, well, horseshit.

And then she started calling in sick. Just once or twice a month at first,
but at length she was phoning in with a sore throat or an upset stomach at
least once a week. She looked wretched enough; she couldn’t have been
eating well, because those doll-baby curves had given way to a
stickfigure frailty, and when the Irish pale, they look exhumed. So I was
hesitant to accuse her of faking. Deferentially I inquired if she had
boyfriend problems, if there was trouble with her family in Carickfergus,
or if she was pining for Northern Ireland. “Pining for Northern Ireland,”
she repeated wryly. “You’re having me on.” That moment of humor
served to highlight that her jokes had grown rare.
These impromptu vacations of hers put me to great inconvenience,
since according to the now-established logic of your tenuous freelance
employment versus my fatuous security as CEO, I was the one to stay
home. Not only would I have to reschedule meetings or conduct them
awkwardly in conference calls, but a whole extra day spent with our
precious little ward tipped a precarious equilibrium in me; by nightfall
on a day I had not been girded for Kevin’s unrelenting horror at his own
existence, I was, as our nanny would say, mental. It was through the
insufferable addition of that extra day a week that Siobhan and I came,
tacitly at first, to understand each other.
Clearly, God’s children are meant to savor His glorious gifts without
petulance, for Siobhan’s uncanny forbearance could only have issued
from catechism. No amount of wheedling would elicit whatever was
driving her abed every Friday. So if only to give her permission, I
complained myself.
“I have no regrets about my travels,” I began one early evening as she
prepared to go, “but it’s a shame I met Franklin so late. Four years just
the two of us wasn’t nearly enough time to get tired of him! I think it
must be nice if you meet your partner in your twenties, with long enough
as a childless couple to, I don’t know, get a little bored even. Then in
your thirties you’re ready for a change, and a baby is welcome.”
Siobhan looked at me sharply, and though I expected censure in her
gaze I caught only a sudden alertness. “Of course, you don’t mean Kevin
isn’t welcome.”
I knew the moment mandated hurried reassurances, but I couldn’t
furnish them. This would happen to me sporadically in the coming years:
I would do and say what I was supposed to week upon week without fail
until abruptly I hit a wall. I would open my mouth and That’s a really
pretty drawing, Kevin or If we tear the flowers out of the ground they’ll

die, and you don’t want them to die, do you? or Yes, we’re so awfully
proud of our son, Mr. Cartland would simply not come out.
“Siobhan,” I said reluctantly. “I’ve been a little disappointed.”
“I know I’ve been poorly, Eva—”
“Not in you.” I considered that she may have understood me perfectly
well and had misinterpreted me on purpose. I shouldn’t have burdened
this young girl with my secrets, but I felt strangely impelled. “All the
bawling and the nasty plastic toys . . . I’m not sure quite what I had in
mind, but it wasn’t this.”
“Sure you might have a touch of postpartum—”
“Whatever you call it, I don’t feel joyful. And Kevin doesn’t seem
joyful either.”
“He’s a baby!”
“He’s over a year and a half. You know how people are always cooing,
He’s such a happy child! Well, in that instance there are unhappy
children. And nothing I do makes the slightest bit of difference.”
She kept fiddling with her daypack, nestling the last of her few
possessions into its cavity with undue concentration. She always brought
a book to read for Kevin’s naps, and I finally noticed that she’d been
stuffing the exact same volume in that daypack for months. I’d have
understood if it was a Bible, but it was only an inspirational text—slim,
the cover now badly stained—and she had once described herself as an
avid reader.
“Siobhan, I’m useless with babies. I’ve never had much rapport with
small children, but I’d hoped ... Well, that motherhood would reveal
another side of myself.” I met one of her darting glances. “It hasn’t.”
She squirmed. “Ever talk to Franklin, about how you’re feeling?”
I laughed with one ha. “Then we’d have to do something about it.
Like what?”
“Don’t you figure the first couple of years is the tough bit? That it gets
easier?”
I licked my lips. “I realize this doesn’t sound very nice. But I keep
waiting for the emotional payoff.”
“But only by giving do you get anything back.”
She shamed me, but then I thought about it. “I give him my every
weekend, my every evening. I’ve even given him my husband, who has
no interest in talking about anything but our son, or in doing anything
together besides wheeling a stroller up and down the Battery Park
promenade. In return, Kevin smites me with the evil eye, and can’t bear
for me to hold him. Can’t bear much of anything, as far as I can tell.”

This kind of talk was making Siobhan edgy; it was domestic heresy.
But something seemed to cave in her, and she couldn’t keep up the
cheerleading. So instead of forecasting what delights were in store for
me once Kevin became a little person in his own right, she said gloomily,
“Aye, I know what you mean.”
“Tell me, does Kevin—respond to you?”
“Respond?” The sardonicism was new. “You could say that.”
“When you’re with him during the day, does he laugh? Gurgle
contentedly? Sleep?” I realized that I had refrained from asking her as
much for all these months, and that in so doing I’d been taking advantage
of her ungrudging nature.
“He pulls my hair,” she said quietly.
“But all babies—they don’t know—”
“He pulls it very hard indeed. He’s old enough now and I think he
knows it hurts. And Eva, that lovely silk muffler from Bangkok. It’s in
shreds.”
Ch-plang! Ch-plang! Kevin was awake. He was banging a rattle onto
that metal xylophone you came home with (alas), and was not showing
musical promise.
“When he’s alone with me,” I said over the racket. “Franklin calls it
cranky—”
“He throws all his toys out of the playpen, and then he screams, and he
will not stop screaming until they are all back, and then he throws them
out again. Flings them.”
P-p-plang-k-chang-CHANG! PLANK! P-P-P-plankpankplankplank!
There was a violent clatter, from which I construed that Kevin had
kicked the instrument from between the slats of his crib.
“It’s desperate!” Siobhan despaired. “He does the same thing in his
highchair, with Cheerios, porridge, cream crackers . . . With all his food
on the floor like, I haven’t a baldy where he gets the energy!”
“You mean,” I touched her hand, “you don’t know where you get the
energy.”
Mwah . . . Mmwah . . . Mmmmwhawhah . . . He started like a
lawnmower. Siobhan and I looked each other in the eye. Mwah-eee!
EEEeee! EEEEEEEE! EEahEEEEEEEE! Neither of us arose from our
chair.
“Of course,” said Siobhan hopefully, “I guess it’s different when it’s
yours.”
“Yup,” I said. “Totally different.”
EEahEEEEEahEEEE! EEahEEEEEahEEEE! EEahEEEEEahEEEE!

“I used to want a big family,” she said, turning away. “Now I’m not so
sure.”
“If I were you,” I said, “I’d think twice.”
Kevin filled the silence between us as I fought a rising panic. I had to
say something to forestall what was coming next, but I couldn’t think of
any comment to pass that wouldn’t further justify what I wished fervidly
to prevent.
“Eva,” she began. “I’m knackered. I don’t think Kevin likes me. I’ve
prayed until I’m blue—for patience, for love, for strength. I thought God
was testing me—”
“When Jesus said Suffer the little children,” I said dryly, “I don’t think
nannying is what he had in mind.”
“I hate to think I’ve failed Him! Or you, Eva! Still, do you think
there’s any chance—do you think you could use me at Wing and a
Prayer? Those guidebooks, you said loads of them’s researched by
university students and that. Could you—could you please, please send
me to Europe, or Asia? I’d do a brilliant job, I promise!”
I sagged. “You mean you want to quit.”
“You and Franklin been dead decent, you must think me terrible
ungrateful. Still, when you lot move to the suburbs you’d have to find
someone else anyway, right? ’Cause I came over here bound and
determined to live in New York City.”
“I am, too! Who says we’re moving to the burbs?”
“Franklin, of course.”
“We’re not moving to any suburbs,” I said firmly.
She shrugged. She had already withdrawn so from our little unit that
she regarded this miscommunication as none of her affair.
“Would you like more money?” I offered pathetically; my full-time
residence in this country was beginning to take its toll.
“The pay’s great, Eva. I can’t do it anymore, just. Every morning I
wake up . . . .”
I knew exactly how she woke feeling. And I couldn’t do it to her any
longer. I think I’m a bad mother, and you always thought so, too. But
deep inside me lurks the rare maternal bone. Siobhan was at her limit.
Though it ran wildly counter to our interests, her earthly salvation was
within my power to grant.
“We’re updating NETHERWAP,” I said morosely; I had an awful
premonition that Siobhan’s resignation would be effective right away.
“Would you like that? Rating hostels in Amsterdam? The rijsttafels are
delicious.”

Siobhan forgot herself and threw her arms around me. “Would you
like for me to try and quiet him?” she offered. “Maybe his nappy—”
“I doubt that; it’s too rational. No, you’ve put in a full day. And take
the rest of the week off. You’re shattered.” I was already sweetening her
up, to get her to stick around until we found a replacement. Fat chance.
“One last thing,” said Siobhan, tucking my note with the name of
NETHERWAP’s editor into her pack. “Wee’uns vary, of course. But
Kevin should really be talking by now. A few words anyway. Maybe you
should ask your doctor. Or talk to him more.”
I promised, then saw her to the elevator, shooting a rueful glance at the
crib. “You know, it is different when it’s yours. You can’t go home.”
Indeed, my yearning to go home had grown recurrent, but was most
intense when I was already there.
We exchanged wan smiles, and she waved behind the gate. I watched
from the front window as she ran down Hudson Street, away from our
loft and wee Kevin as fast as her unshapely legs could carry her.
I returned to our son’s marathon and looked down at his writhing
dudgeon. I was not going to pick him up. No one was there to make me
and I didn’t want to. I would not, as Siobhan had suggested, check his
diaper, nor would I warm a bottle of milk. I would let him cry and cry.
Resting both elbows on the crib rail, I cradled my chin on intertwined
fingers. Kevin was crouched on all fours in one of the positions that the
New School commended for birthing: primed for exertion. Most tots cry
with their eyes shut, but Kevin’s were slit open. When our gazes locked,
I felt we were finally communicating. His pupils were still almost black,
and I could see them flintily register that for once Mother was not going
to get in a flap about whatever might be the matter.
“Siobhan thinks I should talk to you,” I said archly over the din. “Who
else is going to, since you drove her off? That’s right, you screamed and
puked her out the door. What’s your problem, you little shit? Proud of
yourself, for ruining Mummy’s life?” I was careful to use the insipid
falsetto the experts commend. “You’ve got Daddy snowed, but
Mummy’s got your number. You’re a little shit, aren’t you?”
Kevin hoisted to a stand without missing a yowl. Clutching the bars,
he screamed at me from just a few inches away, and my ears hurt. So
scrunched up, his face looked like an old man’s, and it was screwed into
the I’m-gonna-get-you expression of a convict who’s already started
digging a tunnel with a nail file. On a purely zoo-keeping level, my
proximity was hazardous; Siobhan hadn’t been kidding about the hair.

“Mummy was happy before widdle Kevin came awong, you know
that, don’t you? And now Mummy wakes up every day and wishes she
were in France. Mummy’s life sucks now, doesn’t Mummy’s life suck?
Do you know there are some days that Mummy would rather be dead?
Rather than listen to you screech for one more minute there are some
days that Mummy would jump off the Brooklyn Bridge—”
I turned, and blanched. I may never have seen quite that stony look on
your face.
“They understand speech long before they learn to talk,” you said,
pushing past me to pick him up. “I don’t understand how you can stand
there and watch him cry.”
“Franklin, ease up, I was only kidding around!” I shot a parting private
glare at Kevin. It was thanks to his caterwauling that I hadn’t heard the
elevator gate. “I’m blowing off a little steam, okay? Siobhan quit. Hear
that? Siobhan quit.”
“Yeah, I heard you. Too bad. We’ll get someone else.”
“It turns out that all along she’s regarded this job as a modern rewrite
of the Book of Job—Look, I’ll change him.”
You wrenched him away. “You can steer clear until you get your mind
right. Or jump off a bridge. Whichever comes first.”
I trailed after you. “Say, what’s this about moving to the suburbs?
Since when?”
“Since—I quote—the little shit is getting mobile. That elevator is a
death trap.”
“We can gate off the elevator!”
“He needs a yard.” Sanctimoniously, you balled the wet diaper in the
pail. “Where we can toss a baseball, fill a pool.”
The awful revelation dawned that we were dealing with your
childhood—an idealization of your childhood—that could prove, like
your fantasy United States, an awesome cudgel. There’s no more
doomed a struggle than a battle with the imaginary.
“But I love New York!” I sounded like a bumper sticker.
“It’s dirty and swimming in diseases, and a kid’s immune system isn’t
fully developed until he’s seven years old. And we could stand to move
into a good school district.”
“This city has the best private schools in the country.”
“New York private schools are snobbish and cutthroat. Kids in this
town start worrying about getting into Harvard at the age of six.”
“What about the tiny matter that your wife doesn’t want to leave this
city?”

“You had twenty years to do whatever you wanted. I did, too. Besides,
you said you yearned to spend our money on something worthwhile.
Now’s your chance. We should buy a house. With land and a tire swing.”
“My mother never made a single major decision based on what was
good for me.”
“Your mother has locked herself in a closet for forty years. Your
mother is insane. Your mother is hardly the parent to look to as a role
model.”
“I mean that when I was a kid, parents called the shots. Now I’m a
parent, kids call the shots. So we get fucked coming and going. I can’t
believe this.” I flounced onto the couch. “I want to go to Africa, and you
want to go to New Jersey.”
“What’s this about Africa? Why do you keep bringing it up?”
“We’re going ahead with AFRIWAP. The Lonely Planet and The
Rough Guide are starting to squeeze us badly in Europe.”
“What does this edition have to do with you?”
“The continent is huge. Someone has to do a preliminary canvass of
countries.”
“Someone other than you. You still don’t get it, do you? Maybe it was
a mistake for you to think of motherhood as ‘another country.’ This is no
overseas holiday. It’s serious—”
“We’re talking about human lives, Jim!”
You didn’t even smile. “How would you feel if he lost a hand reaching
through that elevator gate? If he got asthma from all this crap in the air?
If some loser kidnapped him from your grocery cart?”
“The truth is, you want a house,” I charged. “You want a yard. You
have this dorky Norman Rockwell vision of Daddydom, and you want to
coach Little League.”
“Got that right.” You straightened victoriously at the changing table,
Kevin in his blazing fresh Pampers on your hip. “And there are two of
us, and one of you.”
It was a ratio I was destined to confront repeatedly.
 
Eva
 

 
 
December 25, 2000
 
Dear Franklin,
 
 
I agreed to visit my mother for Christmas, so I’m writing from Racine.
At the last minute—when he found out I was coming—Giles decided
that his family would spend the holiday with his in-laws instead. I could
choose to feel injured, and I do miss my brother if only as someone with
whom to mock my mother, but she’s getting so frail now at seventy-eight
that our patronizing despair on her behalf seems unfair. Besides, I
understand. Around Giles and his kids, I never mention Kevin, Mary’s
lawsuit; a little traitorously, I never even mention you. But through
benign discussion of the snow, whether to put pine nuts in the sarma, I
still personify a horror that, in defiance of my mother’s locked doors and
sealed windows, has gotten inside.
Giles resents my having co-opted the role of family tragic figure. He
only moved as far as Milwaukee, and the child at closer hand is always
chopped liver, while for decades I made a living from being as far away
from Racine as I could get. Like De Beers restricting the supply of
diamonds, I made myself scarce, a cheap gambit in Giles’s view for
artificially manufacturing the precious. Now I have stooped even lower,
using my son to corner the market on pity. Having kept his head below
the parapet working for Budweiser, he’s in grudging awe of anyone
who’s been in the newspaper. I keep trying to find some way of telling
him that this is the kind of dime-store fame that the most unremarkable
parent could win in the sixty seconds it takes an automatic assault rifle to
fire a hundred bullets. I don’t feel special.
You know, there’s a peculiar smell in this house that I used to find
rank. Remember how I used to insist that the air was thin? My mother
rarely opens a door, much less airs the place out, and I was convinced
that the distinctive headache that always hit me on arrival was the
beginnings of carbon dioxide poisoning. But now the close, clinging
admixture of stale lamb grease, dust, and mildew sharpened with the
medicinal reek of her colored inks comforts me somehow.
For years I wrote off my mother as having no grasp of my life, but
after Thursday I came to terms with the fact that I’d made no effort to

understand hers. She and I had been distant for decades not because she
was agoraphobic but because I’d been remote and unsparing. Needing
kindness myself, I am kinder now, and we get on amazingly well. During
my traveling days, I must have seemed uppity and superior, and my new
desperation for safety has restored my status as a proper child. For my
part, I have come to recognize—since any world is by definition self-
enclosed and, to its inhabitants, all there is—that geography is relative.
To my intrepid mother, the living room could be Eastern Europe, my old
bedroom Cameroon.
Of course, the Internet is the best and worst thing that ever happened
to her, and she is now able to order anything from support hose to grape
leaves over the Web. Consequently, the multitude of errands I used to run
for her whenever I was home is already dispatched, and I feel a little
useless. I suppose it’s good that technology has granted her
independence—if that’s what it’s called.
My mother, by the way, doesn’t avoid talking about Kevin at all. This
morning as we opened our few presents beside her spindly tree (ordered
on-line), she noted that Kevin rarely misbehaved in the traditional sense,
which always made her suspicious. All children misbehave, she said.
You were better off when they did so in plain view. And she recalled our
visit when Kevin was about ten—old enough to know better, she said.
She’d just finished a stack of twenty-five one-of-a-kind Christmas cards
commissioned by some wealthy Johnson Wax exec. While we were
preparing khurabia with powdered sugar in the kitchen, he
systematically snipped the cards into ragged paper snowflakes. (You said
—a mantra—he was “just trying to help.”) That boy had something
missing, she pronounced, in the past tense, as if he were dead. She was
trying to make me feel better, though I worried that what Kevin was
missing was a mother like mine.
In fact, I trace the flowering of my present filial grace to a gasping
phone call the night of Thursday itself. To whom else was I to turn but
my mother? The primitiveness of the tie was sobering. For the life of me,
I can’t remember a single time that Kevin—distraught over a scraped
knee, a falling-out with a playmate—has called me.
I could tell from her collected, formal greeting, Hello, Sonya
Khatchadourian speaking, that she hadn’t seen the evening news.
Mother? was all I could manage—plaintive, grade-school. The
ensuing heavy breathing must have sounded like a crank call. I felt
suddenly protective. If she lived in mortal dread of a trip to Walgreens,
how would she confront the vastly more appreciable terror of a

murderous grandson? For pity’s sake, I thought, she’s seventy-six, and
she already lives through a mail slot. After this, she’ll never pull the
covers off her head.
But Armenians have a talent for sorrow. You know, she wasn’t even
surprised? She was somber but remained composed, and for once, even
at her advanced age, she acted and sounded like a real parent. I could
depend on her, she assured me, an assertion that hitherto would have
made me scoff. It was almost as if all that dread of hers finally redeemed
itself; as if on some level she was relieved that her whole batten-down-
the-hatches gestalt hadn’t proved baseless. After all, she’d been here
before, where the rest of the world’s tragedy lapped at her shore. She
may have hardly left the house, but of everyone in our family, she most
profoundly appreciated how the careless way adjacent people live their
lives can threaten all you hold dear. Most of her extended family had
been slaughtered, her very husband picked off by Japanese like skeet;
Kevin’s rampage fit right in. Indeed, the occasion seemed to liberate
something in her, not only love but bravery, if they are not in many
respects the same thing. Mindful that the police were bound to expect me
to remain on hand, I declined her invitation to Racine. Gravely, my shut-
in mother offered to fly to me.
 
It was shortly after Siobhan jumped ship (she never did come back, and I
had to post her last paycheck to AmEx in Amsterdam) that Kevin
stopped screaming. Stopped cold. Maybe, his nanny dispatched, he felt
his mission accomplished. Maybe he’d finally concluded that these high-
decibel workouts did not reprieve him from the remorseless progress of
life-in-a-room and so were not worth the energy. Or maybe he was
hatching some new gambit now that Mother had grown inured to his
wailing, as one does in the latter stages of a neglected car alarm.
While I was hardly complaining, Kevin’s silence had an oppressive
quality. First off, it was truly silence—total, closed-mouth, cleansed of
the coos and soft cries that most children emit when exploring the
infinitely fascinating three square feet of their nylon net playpen.
Second, it was inert. Although he was now able to walk—which, like
every skill to come, he learned in private—there didn’t appear to be
anywhere he especially wanted to go. So he would sit, in the playpen or
on the floor, for hours, his unlit eyes stirring with an unfocused
disaffection. I couldn’t understand why he didn’t at least comb up a little
aimless fluff from our Armenian rugs, even if he refused to loop colored
rings on their plastic spike or crank the noisemaker on his Busy Box. I

would surround him with toys (there was hardly a day you didn’t come
home with a new one), and he would stare at them or kick one away. He
did not play.
You’d remember that period largely as the time we were fighting
about whether to move and whether I would take that long trip to Africa.
But I mostly remember staying home on those draggy days after we’d
once again lost a nanny, and mysteriously they did not pass any faster
than the ones during which Kevin bellowed.
Previous to motherhood I had imagined having a small child at elbow
as something like owning a bright, companionable dog, but our son
exerted a much denser presence than any pet. Every moment, I was
hugely aware he was there. Though his new phlegmatism made it easier
to edit copy at home, I felt watched and grew restive. I’d roll balls to
Kevin’s feet, and once I did entice him into rolling it back. Excited,
ridiculously so, I rolled it back; he rolled it back. But once I rolled it
between his legs a third time, that was that. With a listless glance, he left
the ball at his knee. I did begin to think, Franklin, that he was smart. In
sixty seconds, he got it: Were we to pursue this “game,” the ball would
continue to roll back and forth along the same trajectory, an exercise that
was overtly pointless. I was never able to engage him in it again.
This impenetrable flatness of his, combined with a reticence extending
well past the point that all your manuals forecast first attempts at speech,
compelled me to consult our pediatrician. Dr. Foulke was reassuring,
ready with the conventional parental sop that “normal” developmental
behavior embraced a range of idiosyncratic stalls and leaps, though he
did subject our son to a battery of simple tests. I’d expressed concern that
Kevin’s unresponsiveness was due to a hearing deficit; whenever I called
his name, he turned with such an in-his-own-good-time deadpan that it
was impossible to tell whether he had heard me. Yet though he was not
necessarily interested in anything I said, his ears worked fine, and my
theory that the volume of his infantile screaming had damaged his vocal
chords was not borne out by medical science. I even voiced a worry that
Kevin’s withdrawn quality might indicate early signs of autism, but
apparently he did not display the telltale rocking and repetitive behavior
of such unfortunates trapped in their own world; if Kevin was trapped, it
was in the same world as yours and mine. In fact, the most I wrested
from Dr. Foulke was his musing that Kevin “was a floppy little boy,
wasn’t he?” in reference to a certain physical slackness. The doctor
would lift our son’s arm, let go, and the arm would drop like a wet
noodle.

So insistent was I that Foulke pin a disability to our son, stamp a
name-brand American syndrome on Kevin’s forehead, that the
pediatrician must have thought me one of those neurotic mothers who
craved distinction for her child but who in our civilization’s latter-day
degeneracy could only conceive of the exceptional in terms of deficiency
or affliction. And honestly, I did want him to find something wrong with
Kevin. I yearned for our son to have some small disadvantage or flaw to
kindle my sympathy. I was not made of stone, and whenever I espied a
little boy with a piebald cheek or webbed fingers waiting patiently in the
outer office, my heart went out to him, and I quivered to consider what
tortures he would suffer at recess. I wanted to at least feel sorry for
Kevin, which seemed a start. Did I truly wish our son to have webbed
fingers? Well, yes, Franklin. If that’s what it took.
He was underweight, in consequence of which he never had those
rounded, blunt features of the roly-poly toddler that can make even
homely children adorable for that photogenic window between two and
three. Instead his face had that ferret-like sharpness from his earliest
years. If nothing else, I’d have liked to have been able to gaze later at
photographs of a pudgy heartbreaker and wonder what went wrong.
Instead, the snaps I have (and you took stacks) all document a sobersided
wariness and disturbing self-possession. The narrow olive face is
instantly familiar: recessed eyes, sheer straight nose with a wide bridge
and slight hook, thin lips set in an obscure determination. Those pictures
are recognizable not only for their resemblance to the class photograph
that appeared in all the papers but for their resemblance to me.
But I wanted him to look like you. His whole geometry was based on
the triangle and yours on the square, and there is something cunning and
insinuating about acute angles, stable and trustworthy about the
perpendicular. I didn’t expect to have a little Franklin Plaskett clone
running around the house, but I wanted to glance at my son’s profile and
apprehend with a flash of lambent joy that he had your strong tall
forehead—rather than one that shelved sharply over eyes that might
begin as strikingly deep-set but were destined with age to look sunken. (I
should know.) I was gratified that his appearance was noticeably
Armenian, but I had hoped that your robust Anglo optimism would
quicken the sluggish, grudge-bearing blood of my Ottoman heritage,
brightening his sallow skin with ruddy hints of football games in fall,
highlighting his sullen black hair with glints of Fourth of July fireworks.
Moreover, the furtiveness of his gaze and the secrecy of his silence
seemed to confront me with a miniature version of my own dissembling.

He was watching me and I was watching me, and under this dual
scrutiny I felt doubly self-conscious and false. If I found our son’s visage
too shrewd and contained, the same shifty mask of opacity stared back at
me when I brushed my teeth.
I was averse to plunking Kevin in front of the television. I hated
children’s programming; the animation was hyperactive, the educational
shows boppy, insincere, and condescending. But he seemed so
understimulated. So one afternoon when I had burned out on bubbling,
It’s time for our juice! I switched on the after-school cartoons.
“I don like dat.”
I reeled away from the beans I was tailing for dinner, certain from the
lifeless monotonic delivery that this line had not escaped from the A-
Team. I rushed to turn the TV down low and stooped to our son. “What
did you say?”
He repeated levelly, “I don like dat.”
With more urgency than I may ever have applied to this foundering
relationship, I took one of his shoulders in each hand. “Kevin? What do
you like?”
It was a question that he was not prepared to answer and that to this
day at the age of seventeen he is still unable to answer to his own
satisfaction, much less to mine. So I returned to what he didn’t like, a
subject that would soon prove inexhaustible.
“Sweetheart? What is it you want to stop?”
He batted a hand against the television tube. “I don like dat. Turn id
ov.”
I stood up and marveled. Oh, I turned the cartoon off all right, thinking
Christ, I have a toddler with good taste. As if myself the child, I was
impelled to experiment with my riveting new toy, to poke at its buttons
and see what lit up.
“Kevin, do you want a cookie?”
“I hate cookies.”
“Kevin, will you talk to Daddy when he comes home?”
“Not if I don feew wike it.”
“Kevin, can you say ‘Mommy’?”
I’d been queasy about what I wanted our son to call me. Mommy
sounded babyish, Ma rube-ish, Mum servile. Mama was the stuff of
batteryoperated doll babies, Mom rang earnest and gee-whiz, Mother
seemed formal for 1986. Looking back, I wonder if I did not like being
called any of the popular names for mother because I did not like—well,

because I was still ill at ease with being one. Little matter, since the
predictable answer was, “No.”
When you came home, Kevin refused to repeat his loquacious
performance, but I recited it word for word. You were ecstatic.
“Complete sentences, right off the bat! I’ve read that what seem like late
bloomers can be incredibly bright. They’re perfectionists. They don’t
want to try it out on you until they’ve got it right.”
I nursed a competing theory: that, having secretly been able to talk for
years, he had enjoyed eavesdropping on the unwitting; that he was a spy.
And I attended less to his grammar than to what he said. I know this kind
of assertion always gets up your nose, but I did sometimes consider that,
between us, I was the more interested in Kevin. (In my mind’s eye, I can
see you going apoplectic.) I mean, interested in Kevin as Kevin really
was, not Kevin as Your Son, who had continually to battle against the
formidable fantasy paragon in your head, with whom he was in far more
ferocious competition than he ever was with Celia. For example, that
evening I remarked, “I’ve been waiting ages to find out what’s going on
behind those piercing little eyes.”
You shrugged. “Snakes and snails and puppy dog tails.”
See? Kevin was (and remains) a mystery to me. You had that
insouciant boy-thing going and blithely assumed that you had been there
yourself and there was nothing to find out. And you and I may have
differed on so profound a level as the nature of human character. You
regarded a child as a partial creature, a simpler form of life, which
evolved into the complexity of adulthood in open view. But from the
instant he was laid on my breast I perceived Kevin Khatchadourian as
pre-extant, with a vast, fluctuating interior life whose subtlety and
intensity would if anything diminish with age. Most of all, he seemed
hidden from me, while your experience was one of sunny, leisurely
access.
Anyway, for several weeks he would talk to me during the day, and
when you came home he clammed up. At the clank of the elevator, he’d
shoot me a complicitous glance: Let’s put one over on Daddy. I may
have found a guilty pleasure in the exclusivity of my son’s discourse,
thanks to which I was apprised that he did not like rice pudding with or
without cinnamon and he did not like Dr. Seuss books and he did not like
the nursery rhymes put to music that I checked out from the library.
Kevin had a specialized vocabulary; he had genius for N-words.
The sole memory I retain of any proper childhood glee during this era
was at his third birthday party, when I was busy pouring cranberry juice

in his sippy cup, and you were tying ribbons on packages that you would
only have to untie for him minutes later. You had brought home a
threetiered marble layer cake from Vinierro’s on First Avenue that was
decorated with a custom butter-cream baseball theme and had placed it
proudly on the table in front of his booster chair. In the two minutes our
backs were turned, Kevin displayed much the same gift that he’d
exhibited earlier that week by methodically pulling all the stuffing
through a small hole in what we thought was his favorite rabbit. My
attention was drawn by a dry chuckle that I could only characterize as a
nascent snicker. Kevin’s hands were those of a plasterer. And his
expression was rapturous.
Such a young birthday boy, not yet fully comprehending the concept
of birthdays, had no reason to grasp the concept of slices. You laughed,
and after you’d gone to so much trouble I was glad you could take the
mishap as comedy. But as I cleaned his hands with a damp cloth, my
chortle was muted. Kevin’s technique of plunging both hands mid-cake
and spreading its whole body apart in a single surgical motion was
uneasily reminiscent of those scenes in medical shows when the patient
is “coding” and some doctor yells, “Crack ’em!” Gorier programs toward
the end of the millennium left little to the imagination: The ribcage is
riven with an electric hacksaw, the ribs pulled back, and then our
handsome ER doc plunges into a red sea. Kevin hadn’t simply played
with that cake. He had ripped its heart out.
 
In the end, of course, we finalized the inevitable swap: I would license
you to find us a house across the Hudson; you would license me to take
my reconnaissance trip to Africa. My deal was pretty raw, but then
desperate people will often opt for short-term relief in exchange for long-
term losses. So I sold my birthright for a bowl of soup.
I don’t mean that I regret that African sojourn, though in terms of
texture it was badly timed. Motherhood had dragged me down to what
we generally think of as the lower matters: eating and shitting. And that’s
ultimately what Africa is about. This may be ultimately what every
country is about, but I have always appreciated efforts to disguise that
fact, and I might have been better off traveling to more decorative
nations, where the bathrooms have roseate soaps and the meals at least
come with a garnish of radicchio. Brian had commended children as a
marvelous antidote for jadedness; he said that you get to re-appreciate
the world through their awestruck eyes and everything that you were
once tired of suddenly looks vibrant and new. Well, the cure-all had

sounded terrific, better than a facelift or a prescription for Valium. But I
am disheartened to report that whenever I saw the world through Kevin’s
eyes, it tended to appear unusually dreary. Through Kevin’s eyes the
whole world looked like Africa, people milling and scrounging and
squatting and lying down to die.
Yet amid all that squalor I still couldn’t locate a safari company that
could properly be considered budget; most charged hundreds of dollars
per day. Likewise, the lodging divided off in a way that eliminated my
target market: It was either luxurious and pricey, or filthy and too cut-
rate. A variety of Italian and Indian restaurants were a good value, but
authentic African eateries served mostly unseasoned goat. Transport was
appalling, the train lines prone to simply stop, the aircraft decrepit, the
pilots fresh from Bananarama Flight School, the driving kamikaze, the
buses bursting with cackling passengers three times over capacity and
aflap with chickens.
I know I sound finicky. I had been to the continent once in my
twenties and had been entranced. Africa had seemed truly elsewhere. Yet
in the interim, the wildlife population had plummeted, the human one
burgeoned; the intervening rise in misery was exponential. This time
appraising the territory with a professional eye, I discounted whole
countries as out of the question. Uganda was still picking corpses from
the mouths of crocodiles discarded by Amin and Obote; Liberia was
ruled by that murderous idiot, Samuel Doe; even in those days, Hutus
and Tutsis were hacking each other to pieces in Burundi. Zaire was in the
grip of Mobutu Sese Seko, while Mengistu continued to ransack Ethiopia
and Renamo ran amok in Mozambique. If I listed South Africa, I risked
having the entire series boycotted in the States. As for the bits that were
left, you may have accused me of being unnurturing, but I was reluctant
to take responsibility for callow young Westerners trooping off to these
perilous parts armed only with a distinctive sky-blue volume of Wing
and a Prayer. I was bound to read about robberies in Tsavo that left three
dead in a ditch for 2,000 shillings, a camera, and a guidebook and feel
certain it was all my fault. As Kevin would later illustrate, I attract
liability, real or imagined.
So I began to conclude that the marketing people’s heads were up their
backsides. They had researched the demand, but not the supply. I did not
have faith that even our intrepid army of college students and my
thoroughgoing staff could put together a solitary volume that would
protect its users from making the grossest of missteps for which they
could pay so dearly that a continent full of bargains would still seem

overpriced. For once I did feel motherly—toward customers like
Siobhan, and the last place I’d want pastily complected, there’s-good-in-
all-of-us Siobhan to end up was in a scorching, pitiless Nairobi slum.
AFRIWAP was a nonstarter.
But my greatest disappointment was in myself. While relinquishing
the idea of AFRIWAP might have freed me to gallivant about the
continent without taking notes, I’d grown dependent on research for a
sense of purpose on the road. Released from an itinerary dictated by
conveniently tabbed chapters, I felt aimless. Africa is a lousy place to
wonder incessantly what you are doing there, though there is something
about its careless, fetid, desperate cities that presses the question.
I could not shut you and Kevin from my mind. That I missed you
fiercely served as an aching reminder that I had been missing you since
Kevin was born. Away, I felt not emancipated but remiss, sheepish that
unless you’d finally solved the nanny problem you’d have to cart him
with you in the pickup to scout. Everywhere I went, I felt laden, as if
slogging the potholed streets of Lagos with five-pound leg weights: I had
started something back in New York, it was not finished by any means, I
was shirking, and what’s more, what I had started was going badly. That
much I faced; that much my isolation was good for. After all, the one
thing you cannot escape in Africa is children.
In the latter legs of the three-month trip, which you’ll recall I cut
short, I made resolutions. One too many sojourns—this one launched
less in a spirit of exploration than simply to make a point, to prove that
my life had not changed, that I was still young, still curious, still free—
was only proving beyond doubt that my life had indeed changed, that at
fortyone I was not remotely young, that I had truly sated a certain glib
curiosity about other countries, and that there was a variety of liberty of
which I could no longer avail myself without sinking the one tiny island
of permanence, of durable meaning and lasting desire, that I had
managed to annex in this vast, arbitrary sea of international indifference.
Camping in Harare’s airport lounge on gritty linoleum because there
were no seats and the plane was eight hours late, the whole 737 having
been appropriated by some government minister’s wife who wanted to
go shopping in Paris, I seemed to have unaccountably lost my old serene
certainty that inconvenience (if not outright disaster) was the springboard
for nearly every proper adventure abroad. I was no longer persuaded by
that old saw planted in every AWAP intro that the worst thing that can
happen to any trip is for everything to go smoothly. Instead, like any
standard Western tourist, I was impatient for air-conditioning and

disgruntled that the only available drinks were Fanta orange, which I did
not like. With the concessions’ refrigeration broken down, they were
boiling.
That sweaty, protracted delay allowed me to contemplate that so far
my commitment to motherhood had been toe-in-the-water. In a funny
way, I resolved, I had to remake that arduous decision of 1982 and jump
into parenthood with both feet. I had to get pregnant with Kevin all over
again. Like his birth, raising our son could be a transporting experience,
but only if I stopped fighting it. As I was at pains to teach Kevin for
years thereafter (to little effect), rarely is the object of your attentions
innately dull or compelling. Nothing is interesting if you are not
interested. In vain, I had been waiting for Kevin to prove out, to
demonstrate as I stood arms folded that he was worthy of my ardor. That
was too much to demand of a little boy, who would only be as lovable to
me as I allowed him to be. It was past time that I at least met Kevin
halfway.
Flying into Kennedy, I was bursting with determination, optimism,
and goodwill. But in retrospect, I do feel obliged to observe that I was at
my most passionate about our son when he was not there.
 
Merry Christmas,
Eva
 

 
 
December 27, 2000
 
Dear Franklin,
 
 
Having asked gently beforehand if I was up to it, tonight my mother had
a little holiday hen party here, and I think she regretted her timing. As it
happened, yesterday in Wakefield, Massachusetts, a very large, unhappy
man—a software engineer named Michael McDermott, who the whole
nation now knows is a science fiction fan, much as most men off the
street are familiar with our son’s predilection for undersized clothing—
walked into Edgewater Technology with a shotgun, an automatic, and a
pistol and murdered seven of his coworkers. I gather Mr. McDermott
was upset—and here I am, conversant with details of his financial life,
down to the fact that his six-year-old car was on the verge of
repossession—that his employers had garnished his wages for back
taxes.
I couldn’t help but think of your parents, since they don’t live far from
Wakefield. Your father was always concerned that his top-of-theline
appliances have a fine sense of proportion, a preoccupation that surely
extends to behavioral ratios like grievance to redress. Your parents must
imagine that the world of the physically preposterous, which doesn’t
respect materials, is closing in on them.
Having long since given up on the painful charade of inviting Sonya
Khatchadourian for soirees in return and suffering the kind of fanciful
excuses she always supplied me for why she could not attend opening
night of my school play, these old birds had sampled my mother’s
lahmajoon and sesame-topped ziloogs many times before and were
disinclined to dwell on the finger food. Instead, with some diffidence,
given the guest of honor, they were all dying to talk about Michael
McDermott. One dowager commented sorrowfully that she could see
how a young man might feel rejected with a nickname like “Mucko.” My
crusty Aunt Aleen muttered that her own ongoing fight with the IRS—a
$17 disputed underpayment in 1991 had over the years ballooned from
interest and late fees to over $1,300—might soon move her to firearms
herself. But they all subtly deferred to me, the resident expert with
insight into the twitchy mind.

I was finally forced to remind these women firmly that this friendless,
overweight loner and I had never met. It seemed to register all at once
that no one in this country specialized in plain old murder these days,
any more than a lawyer would study plain old Law. There was
Workplace Massacre, and there were School Shootings, quite another
field of concentration altogether, and I sensed a collective
embarrassment in the room, as if they’d all rung the Sales Department
when they should have asked for Customer Relations. Since it’s still too
dangerous to bring up “Florida” in company without being sure that
everyone is on-side, someone prudently changed the subject back to the
lahmajoon.
Anyway, who says crime doesn’t pay? I doubt the IRS will ever see a
dime of Mucko’s money now, and the forty-two-year-old tax cheat is
bound to cost Uncle Sam a far prettier penny in prosecution costs than
the IRS would ever have squeezed from his paycheck.
 
That’s the way I think now, of course, since the price of justice is no
longer an abstract matter in my own life but a hard-nosed tally of dollars
and cents. And I do often have little flashbacks of that trial—the civil
trial. The criminal one is almost a blank.
“Ms. Khatchadourian,” I will hear Harvey begin stentoriously on his
re-direct. “The prosecution has made much of the fact that you ran a
company in Manhattan while leaving your son to the care of strangers,
and that when he turned four you were away in Africa.”
“At the time I was unaware that having a life was illegal.”
“But after your return from this trip you hired someone else to oversee
the day-to-day business of your firm, in order to be a better mother to
your child?”
“That’s right.”
“Didn’t you take over as his primary caregiver? In fact, aside from
occasional baby-sitters, didn’t you cease to bring in outside help
altogether?”
“Frankly, we gave up on hiring a nanny because we couldn’t find
anyone to put up with Kevin for more than a few weeks.”
Harvey looked sour. His client was self-destructive. I imagined that
this quality made me special, but my lawyer’s fatigued expression
suggested that I was a set type.
“But you were concerned that he needed continuity, and that’s why
you terminated this revolving door of young girls. You no longer went
into the office nine-to-five.”

“Yes.”
“Ms. Khatchadourian, you loved your work, correct? It gave you great
personal satisfaction. So this decision was a considerable sacrifice, all for
the sake of your child?”
“The sacrifice was enormous,” I said. “It was also futile.”
“No further questions, your honor.” We had rehearsed enormous,
period; he shot me a glare.
 
Was I, back in 1987, already planning my defense? Though my
openended leave from AWAP was on a grand, over-compensatory scale,
it was cosmetic. I thought it looked good. I’d never conceived of myself
as someone who dwelled upon what other people thought, but hoarders
of guilty secrets are inevitably consumed with appearances.
Hence, when you two met my plane at Kennedy I stooped to hug
Kevin first. He was still in that disconcerting rag-doll phase, “floppy”;
he didn’t hug back. But the strength and duration of my own embrace
paraded my born-again conversion in Harare. “I’ve missed you so
much!” I said. “Mommy’s got two surprises, sweetheart! I brought you a
present. But I’m also going to promise that Mommy’s never, ever going
away for this long again!”
Kevin just got floppier. I stood up and arranged his willful shocks of
hair, embarrassed. I was playing my part, but onlookers might have
deduced from my child’s unnatural lassitude that I kept him handcuffed
to the water heater in the basement.
I kissed you. Although I’d thought children liked to see their parents
be affectionate with one another, Kevin stamped impatiently and mooed,
dragging at your hand. Maybe I was mistaken. I never saw my mother
kiss my father. I wish I had.
You cut the kiss short and mumbled, “It may take a while, Eva. For
kids this age, three months is a lifetime. They get mad. They think you’re
never coming back.”
I was about to josh that Kevin seemed more put out that I had come
back, but I caught myself; one of our first sacrifices to family life was
lightness of heart. “What’s this uherr, uherr! thing?” I asked as Kevin
continued to tug at you and moo.
“Cheese doodles,” you said brightly. “The latest must-have. Okay,
buster! Let’s go find you a bag of glow-in-the-dark petrochemicals,
kiddo!” And you tottered off down the terminal in tow, leaving me to
wheel my luggage.

In the pickup, I had to remove several viscous doodles from the
passenger seat, in various stages of dissolve. Kevin’s dietary enthusiasm
did not extend to eating the snacks; he sucked them, leeching off their
neon coating and imbuing them with enough saliva to melt.
“Most kids like sugar?” you explained zestfully. “Ours likes salt.”
Apparently a sodium fetish was superior to a sweet tooth in every way.
“The Japanese think they’re opposites,” I said, slipping my gooey
collection out the window. Though there was a shallow back seat,
Kevin’s child seat was fastened between us, and I was sorry that I
couldn’t, as I used to, place a hand on your thigh.
“Mommer farted,” said Kevin, now halving the difference between
Mommy and Mother. (It was cute. It must have been.) “It stinks.”
“That’s not the kind of thing you have to announce, Kevin,” I said
tightly. I’d had that mashed beans and banana side dish at the Norfolk
before catching the plane.
“How about Junior’s?” you proposed. “It’s on the way, and they’re
kid-friendly.”
It wasn’t like you to fail to consider that I’d been in transit from
Nairobi for fifteen hours, so I might be a little tired, bloated from the
flight, overfed with airline Danishes and cheddar packets, and less than
in the mood for a loud, camp, brightly lit hash house whose sole
redeeming feature was cheesecake. I’d privately hoped that you’d have
found a sitter and met my plane alone, to sweep me off to a quiet drink
where I could bashfully reveal my turned maternal leaf. In other words, I
wanted to get away from Kevin the better to confide to you how very
much more time I planned to spend with him.
“Fine,” I said faintly. “Kevin, either eat those cheese thingies or I’ll
put them away. Don’t crumble them all over the truck.”
“Kids are messy, Eva!” you said merrily. “Loosen up!”
Kevin shot me a crafty orange smile and fisted a doodle into my lap.
 
At the restaurant, Kevin scorned the booster seat as for babies. Since
clearly parenthood turns you overnight into an insufferable prig, I
lectured, “ALL right, Kevin. But remember: You only get to sit like an
adult if you act like one.”
“NYEE nyee, nyeh nyeh. Nyeh nyeh-nyee-nyeh: Nyeh nyeh-nyeh
nyeh-nyeh nyeh-nyeh nyeh nyeh-nyeh nyeh-nyeh nyee nyeh nyeh.” With
waltzing mockery, he had captured my stern cadence and preachy
inflection with such perfect pitch that he might have a future singing
covers as a lounge singer.

“Cut it out, Kevin.” I tried to sound offhand.
“Nye-nye nyee, nye nye!”
I turned to you. “How long has this been going on?”
“Nyeh nyeh nyeh NYEE nyeh nyeh-nyeh nyeh?”
“A month? It’s a phase. He’ll grow out of it.”
“Nyeh nyeh? Nyeh-nyeh nyeee. Nyeh nyeh nyeh-nyeh-nyeh.”
“I can’t wait,” I said, increasingly loath to let anything out of my
mouth, lest it come parroting back to me in nyeh-nyeh-speak.
You wanted to order Kevin onion rings, and I objected that he must
have been eating salty crap all afternoon. “Look,” you said. “Like you,
I’m grateful when he eats anything. Maybe he’s craving some trace
element, like iodine. Trust nature, I say.”
“Translation: You like eaty-whizzes and curly-munchies, too, and
you’ve been bonding over snack food. Order him a hamburger patty. He
needs some protein.”
When our waitress read back our order, Kevin nye-nye-ed throughout;
“NYEE-nyeh nyeh-nyeh, nyeh nyeh-nyeh nyeh-nyeh-nyeeeh” apparently
translates “garden salad, house dressing on the side.”
“What a cute little boy,” she said, glancing with desperation at the wall
clock.
When his patty came, Kevin retrieved the tall, faceted saltcellar with
huge pour-holes and covered the beef with salt until it looked like Mount
Kilimanjaro after a recent snow. Disgusted, I reached over with a table
knife to scrape it off, but you held my arm. “Why can’t you let anything
with this little guy be fun, or funny?” you chided quietly. “The salt thing
is a phase too, and he’ll grow out of it too, and later we’ll tell him about
it when he’s older and it’ll make him feel he had plenty of quirky
personality even when he was a little kid. It’s life. It’s good life.”
“I doubt Kevin’s going to have a hard time finding quirks.” Although
the sense of maternal mission that had powered me through my last
fortnight was fast abating, I had made myself a promise, Kevin a promise
on arrival, implicitly you one as well. I took a breath. “Franklin, I made a
major decision while I was gone.”
With the classic timing of dining out, our waitress arrived with my
salad and your cheesecake. Her feet gritted on the lino. Kevin had
emptied the saltcellar onto the floor.
“That lady has poop on her face.” Kevin was pointing at the birthmark
on our waitress’s left cheek, three inches across and roughly the shape of
Angola. She’d slathered beige concealer over the big brown blotch, but
most of the makeup had worn off. Like most disguises, the cover-up was

worse than honest flaw, a lesson I had yet to register on my own account.
Before I could stop him, Kevin asked her directly, “Why don’t you clean
your face? It’s poopy.”
I apologized profusely to the girl, who couldn’t have been much more
than eighteen and had no doubt suffered from that blemish her whole
life. She managed a dismal smile and promised to bring my dressing.
I wheeled to our son. “You knew that spot wasn’t ‘poop,’ didn’t you?”
“Nyeh NYEE nyeh nyeh nyeh-nyeh nyee, nyeh-nyeh nyeh?” Kevin
skulked in the booth, his eyes at half-mast and glittering. He’d placed his
fingers on the table and his nose against its rim, but I could tell from that
telltale sparky squint that below the table lurked a grin: wide, tight-
lipped, and strangely forced.
“Kevin, you know that hurt her feelings, didn’t you?” I said. “How
would you like it if I told you your face was ‘poopy’?”
“Eva, kids don’t understand that grown-ups can be touchy about their
looks.”
“Are you sure they don’t understand that? You read this somewhere?”
“Can we not ruin our first afternoon out together?” you implored.
“Why do you always have to think the worst of him?”
“Where did that come from?” I asked, looking perplexed. “It sounds
more as if you always think the worst of me.”
Innocent mystification would remain my tack for the next three years.
Meantime, the mood had gone all wrong for my announcement, so I got
it over with as unceremoniously as I could. I’m afraid my intentions
came out as defiant: Stick that in your pipe and smoke it, if you think I’m
such a rotten mother.
“Wow,” you said. “ Are you sure? That’s a big step.”
“I remembered what you said about Kevin and talking, that maybe he
didn’t for so long because he wanted to do it right. Well, I’m a
perfectionist, too. And I’m not doing AWAP or motherhood right. At the
office, I’m continually taking days off with no warning, and publications
get behind schedule. Meanwhile, Kevin wakes up and has no idea who’s
taking care of him today, his mother or some hopeless hireling who’ll
hightail it by the end of the week. I’m thinking mostly until Kevin is in
primary school. Hey, it might even be good for W&P. Bring in a new
perspective, fresh ideas. The series may be overly dominated by my
voice.”
“You,” shock-horror, “domineering?”
“NYEEEEEEE? Nyeh-nyeh nyeeeeh nyeh?”
“Kevin, stop it! That’s enough. Let Mommer and Daddy talk—”

“NYEH-nyeh, NYEEEE nyeh—! Nyeh nyeh-NYEEH—!”
“I mean it, Kevin, quit the nyeh-nyeh or we’re leaving.”
“Nyeh NYEE nyeh, nyeh nyeh, nyeh nyeh nyeh-nyeh nyeh nyeh
NYEE-NYEH !”
I don’t know why I threatened him with departure, lacking any
evidence that he wanted to stay. This was my first taste of what would
become a chronic conundrum: how to punish a boy with an almost Zen-
like indifference to whatever you might deny him.
“Eva, you’re just making everything worse—”
“How do you propose to get him to shut up?”
“Nyeh 
nyeh 
NYEEE 
nyeh-nyeeh 
nyeh 
nyeh-nyeh 
nyeh
nyeeeeeeenyeeeeeeee ?”
I slapped him. It wasn’t very hard. He looked happy.
“Where’d you learn that trick?” you asked darkly. And it was a trick:
This was the first sentence of mealtime conversation that did not get
translated into nyeh-nyeh.
“Franklin, he was getting louder. People were starting to look over.”
Now Kevin started to wail. His tears were a bit late, in my view. I
wasn’t moved. I left him to it.
“They’re looking over because you hit him,” you said sotto voce,
lifting our son and cuddling him into your lap as his weeping escalated to
a shriek. “It’s not done anymore, Eva. Not here. I think they’ve passed a
law or something. Or they might as well have. It’s considered assault.”
“I smack my own kid, and I get arrested?”
“There’s a consensus—that violence is no way to get your point
across. Which it sure as heck isn’t. I don’t want you to do that again,
Eva. Ever.”
So: I slap Kevin. You slap me. I got the picture.
“Can we please get out of here?” I proposed coldly. Kevin was
winding down to lurching sobs, but he could easily milk the decrescendo
another good ten minutes. Christ, it was practically a love pat. What a
little performer.
You signaled for the bill. “This is hardly the context in which I wanted
to make my announcement,” you said, wiping Kevin’s nose with a
napkin. “But I have some news, too. I bought us a house.”
I did a double take. “You bought us a house. You didn’t find one for
me to look at. It’s a done deal.”
“If I didn’t pounce it was going to be snapped up by somebody else.
Besides, you weren’t interested. I thought you’d be pleased, glad it’s
over.”

“Well. There’s only so pleased I’m going to get over something that
wasn’t my idea in the first place.”
“That’s it, isn’t it? You can’t get behind anything that isn’t your own
pet project. If you didn’t personally cook up SUBURBAWAP then
you’re all disaffected. Good luck doing all that delegating at the office. It
doesn’t come naturally.”
You left a generous tip. The extra three bucks, I inferred, was to cover
those poopy face cracks. Your motions were mechanical. I could see you
were hurt. You’d searched far and wide for this house, you’d been
looking forward to delivering your big news, and you must have been
excited about the property or you wouldn’t have bought it.
“I’m sorry,” I whispered as we walked out, and other patrons peered
furtively at our party. “I’m just tired. I am pleased. I can’t wait to see it.”
“Nyeh nyeh-nyeh. Nyeh-nyeh nyeh. Nyeh nyeh nyeh ... ”
I thought, Everyone in this restaurant is relieved we’re leaving. I
thought, I’ve become one of those people I used to feel sorry for. I
thought, And I still feel sorry for them, too.
More than ever.
 
Eva
 

 
 
JANUARY 1, 2001
 
 
Dear Franklin,
 
Call it a New Year’s resolution, since for years I’ve been busting to tell
you: I hated that house. On sight. It never grew on me, either. Every
morning I woke to its glib surfaces, its smart design features, its sleek
horizontal contours, and actively hated it.
I grant that the Nyack area, woodsy and right on the Hudson, was a
good choice. You had kindly opted for Rockland County in New York
rather than somewhere in New Jersey, a state in which I’m sure there are
many lovely places to live but that had a sound to it that would have
slain me. Nyack itself was racially integrated and, to meet the eye, down-
market, with the same slight dishevelment of Chatham—though unlike
Chatham, its shabby, unassuming quality was an illusion, since pretty
much all the new arrivals for decades had been stinking rich. Main Street
eternally backed up with Audis and BMWs, its overpriced fajita joints
and wine bars bursting, its dumpy outlying two-bedroom clapboards
listing for 700 grand, Nyack’s one pretension was its lack of pretension.
In contrast to Gladstone itself, I’m afraid, a relatively new bedroom
community to the north, whose tiny town center—with fake gas street
lamps, split-rail fencing, and commercial enterprises like “Ye Olde
Sandwich Shoppe”—epitomized what the British call “twee.”
In fact, my heart sank when you first plowed the pickup proudly up
the long, pompous drive off Palisades Parade. You’d told me nothing
about the property, the better to “surprise” me. Well. I was surprised. A
flat-roofed, single-storied expanse of glass and sandy brick, at a glance it
resembled the headquarters of some slick, do-gooding conflict-resolution
outfit with more money than it knew what to do with, where they’d give
“peace prizes” to Mary Robinson and Nelson Mandela.
Had we never discussed what I envisioned? You must have had some
idea. My fantasy house would be old, Victorian. If it had to be big it
would be high, three stories and an attic, full of nooks and crannies
whose original purpose had grown obsolete—slave quarters and tackle
rooms, root cellars and smokehouses, dumbwaiters and widow’s walks.
A house that was falling to bits, that dripped history as it dropped slates,

that cried out for fiddly Saturday repairs to its rickety balustrade, while
the fragrant waft of pies cooling on counters drifted upstairs. I’d furnish
it with secondhand sofas whose floral upholstery was faded and frayed,
garage-sale drapes with tasseled tiebacks, ornate mahogany sideboards
with speckled looking glass. Beside the porch swing, struggling
geraniums would spindle out of an old tin milking pail. No one would
frame our ragged quilts or auction them off as rare early American
patterns worth thousands; we’d throw them on the bed and wear them
out. Like wool gathering lint, the house would seem to accumulate junk
of its own accord: a bicycle with worn brake shoes and a flat tire;
straight-backs whose dowel rods need regluing; an old corner cabinet of
good wood but painted a hideous bright blue, which I keep saying I’m
going to strip down and never do.
I won’t go on, because you know exactly what I’m talking about. I
know they’re hard to heat, I know they’re drafty. I know the septic tank
would leak, the electric bills run high. I know you’d anguish that the old
well in the backyard was a dangerous draw for neighborhood urchins, for
I can picture this home so vividly in my mind that I can walk across its
overgrown yard with my eyes closed and fall in that well myself.
Curling out of the truck onto the semicircular concrete turnaround in
front of our new abode, I thought, abode, isn’t that the word. My ideal
home was cozy and closed the world out; looking out onto the Hudson
(admittedly, the view was smashing), these wide plate glass windows
advertised an eternal open house. Pink pebble-fill with flagstone paths
skirted its splay like one big welcome mat. The facade and central
walkway were lined with stunted shrubs. No black walnut trees, no
uncultivated riot of goldenrod and moss, but shrubs. Surrounding them?
A lawn. Not even the sweet cool sort, whose fine bright shoots tempt a
laze with lemonade and bees, but that springy, scratchy kind, like those
green abrasive scrub pads for washing dishes.
You flung open the entrance. The foyer dribbled into a living room the
size of a basketball court, and then up a couple of low stairs and there
was the dining “room,” partially segmented from the kitchen with a
divider to pass food through—some concoction with sun-dried tomatoes,
no doubt. I had yet to lay eyes on one door. I panicked, thinking, There’s
nowhere to hide.
“Tell me this isn’t dramatic,” you said.
I said honestly, “I’m dumbstruck.”
I’d have thought that a small child, let loose in a vast, unfurnished
expanse of glossy wooden floors blazing in insipid sunshine would go

dashing about, sliding down halls in socks, giggling and rampaging,
utterly unfazed by the antiseptic wasteland—wasteland, Franklin—into
which he had been dropped. Instead, Kevin slackened on your hand into
dead weight and had to be urged to “go explore.” He plodded to the
middle of the living room and sat. I’d suffered more than a few moments
of alienation from my son, but just then—his eyes Little Orphan Annie
O’s and dulled over like wax buildup, hands plopping on the floorboards
like fish on a dock—I couldn’t have felt more akin.
“You’ve got to see the master bedroom,” you said, grabbing my hand.
“The skylights are spectacular.”
“Skylights!” I said brightly.
All the angles in our massive bedroom were askew, its ceiling slanted.
The effect was jangled, and the evident distrust of standard parallels and
perpendiculars, like the whole building’s uneasiness with the concept of
rooms, felt insecure.
“Something else, huh?”
“Something else!” At some indeterminate point in the nineties,
expanses of teak would become passé. We weren’t there yet, but I had a
premonition of the juncture.
You demonstrated our built-in teak laundry hamper, cleverly doubling
as a bench, a cushion of smiley-face yellow strapped to its lid. You rolled
back the doors of the closet on their gliding wheelies. The moving parts
of the house were all silent, its surfaces smooth. The closet doors had no
handles. None of the woodwork had fixtures. Drawers had gentle
indents. The kitchen cabinets pushed open and shut with a click.
Franklin, the whole house was on Zoloft.
You led me out the glass sliding doors to the deck. I thought, I have a
deck. I will never shout, “I’m on the porch!” but “I’m on the deck.” I told
myself it was only a word. Still, the platform cried out for barbecues
with neighbors I did not much like. The swordfish steaks would be raw
one minute, overcooked the next, and I would care.
Darling, I know I sound ungrateful. You’d searched very hard, taking
on the job of finding us a home with all the seriousness of location
scouting for Gillette. I’m better familiar with the real estate scarcity in
the area now, so I trust that every other available property you looked at
was plain hideous. Which this place was not. The builders had spared no
expense. (Woe to those who spare no expense. I should know, since these
are the travelers who scorn AWAP for holidays in “foreign” countries so
comfortable that they qualify as near-death experiences.) The woods
were precious—if in more than one sense—the taps gold-plated. The

previous owners had commissioned it to their own exacting
specifications. You had bought us some other family’s Dream Home.
I could see it. Our industrious couple works their way up from shoddy
rentals to a series of nothing-special split-levels, until at last: an
inheritance, a market upswing, a promotion. Finally they can afford to
construct from the ground up the house of their heart’s desire. The
couple pores over blueprints, weighing where to hide every closet, how
to segue gracefully between the living area and the den (“With a
DOOR!” I want to scream, but it is too late for my stodgy advice). All
those innovative angles look so dynamic on paper. Even shrubs are rather
adorable a quarter of an inch high.
But I have a theory about Dream Homes. Not for nothing does “folly”
mean both foolhardy mistake and costly ornamental building. Because
I’ve never seen a Dream Home that works. Like ours, some of them
almost work, though unqualified disasters are equally common. Part of
the problem is that regardless of how much money you lavish on oak
baseboards, an unhistoried house is invariably cheap in another
dimension. Otherwise, the trouble seems rooted in the nature of beauty
itself, a surprisingly elusive quality and rarely one you can buy outright.
It flees in the face of too much effort. It rewards casualness, and most of
all it deigns to arrive by whim, by accident. On my travels, I became a
devotee of found art: a shaft of light on a dilapidated 1914 gun factory,
an abandoned billboard whose layers have worn into a beguiling
pentimento collage of Coca-Cola, Chevrolet, and Burma Shave, cut-rate
pensions whose faded cushions perfectly match, in that unplanned way,
the fluttering sun-blanched curtains.
Confoundingly then, this Gladstone Xanadu, beam by beam, would
have materialized into a soul-destroying disappointment. Had the
builders cut corners, an arrogant architect taken liberties with those
painstaking plans? No, no. Down to the torturously blank kitchen
cabinets, the visionary designs had been followed to the letter. That
mausoleum on Palisades Parade came out precisely as its creators
intended, and that’s what made it so depressing.
To be fair, the gap between most people’s capacity to conjure beauty
from scratch and to merely recognize it when they see it is the width of
the Atlantic Ocean. So all evidence to the contrary, the original owners
may have had pretty good taste; more’s the pity if they did. Certainly the
fact that those two built a horror show was no proof against my theory
that they knew very well that they’d constructed a horror show, too. I
was further convinced that neither husband nor wife ever let on to the

other what a downer this vapid atrocity turned out to be, that they each
braved out the pretense that it was the house of their prayers, while at the
same time separately scheming, from the day they moved in, to get out.
You said yourself the place was only three years old. Three years old?
It would have taken that long to build! Who goes to that much trouble
only to leave? Maybe Mr. Homeowner was transferred to Cincinnati,
though in that case he accepted the job. What else would drive him out
that clunky front door besides revulsion for his own creation? Who could
live day after day with the deficiency of his own imagination made solid
as brick?
“Why is it,” I asked as you led me around the sculpted backyard, “that
the folks who built this place sold it so soon? After constructing a house
that’s clearly so—ambitious?”
“I got the impression they were sort of, going in different directions.”
“Getting a divorce.”
“Well, it’s not as if that makes the property cursed or something.”
I looked at you with curiosity. “I didn’t say it did.”
“If houses passed that sort of thing along,” you blustered, “there
wouldn’t be a shack in the country safe for a happy marriage.”
Cursed? You obviously intuited that, sensible as the suburban recourse
seemed on its face—big parks, fresh air, good schools—we had drifted
alarmingly astray. Yet what strikes me now is not your foreboding, but
your capacity to ignore it.
As for me, I had no premonitions. I was simply bewildered how I had
landed, after Latvia and Equatorial Guinea, in Gladstone, New York. As
if standing in the surf at Far Rockaway during a tide of raw sewage, I
could barely keep my balance as our new acquisition exuded wave after
wave of stark physical ugliness. Why couldn’t you see it?
Maybe because you’ve always had a proclivity for rounding up. In
restaurants, if 15 percent came to $17, you’d tip with a twenty. Should
we have spent a tiresome evening with new acquaintances, I’d write
them off; you’d want to give them a second chance. When that Italian
girl I barely knew, Marina, turned up at the loft for two nights and then
your watch disappeared, I was fuming; you grew only the more
convinced that you must have left it at the gym. Lunch with Brian and
Louise ought to have been fun? It was fun. You seemed to be able to
squint and blur off the rough edges. As you gave me the grand tour of
our new property, your camp counselor hard sell contrasted with a
soulful look in your eyes, a pleading to play along. You talked nonstop,
as if strung out on speed, and a lacing of hysteria fatally betrayed your

own suspicion that 12 Palisades Parade was no formidable architectural
exploit but an ostentatious flop. Still, through a complex combination of
optimism and longing and bravado, you would round it up. While a
cruder name for this process is lying , one could make a case that
delusion is a variant of generosity. After all, you practiced rounding up
on Kevin from the day he was born.
Me, I’m a stickler. I prefer my photographs in focus. At the risk of
tautology, I like people only as much as I like them. I lead an emotional
life of such arithmetic precision, carried to two or three digits after the
decimal, that I am even willing to allow for degrees of agreeableness in
my own son. In other words, Franklin: I leave the $17.
 
I hope I persuaded you that I thought the house was lovely. It was the
first big decision you’d ever made independently on our behalf, and I
wasn’t about to pee all over it just because the prospect of living there
made me want to slit my wrists. Privately I concluded that the
explanation wasn’t so much your different aesthetic, or lack of one; it’s
just that you were very suggestible. I hadn’t been there, whispering in
your ear about dumbwaiters. In my absence, you reverted to the taste of
your parents.
Or an updated version of same. Palisades Parade was trying lethally to
be “with it”; the house your parents built in Gloucester, Mass., was a
traditional 
New 
England 
saltbox. 
But 
the 
spare-no-expense
workmanship, the innocent faith in Niceness, was unmistakable.
My enjoyment of your father’s motto, “Materials are everything,” was
not entirely at his expense. Up to a point, I saw the value of people who
made things, and to the highest standard: Herb and Gladys built their
own house, smoked their own salmon, brewed their own beer. But I had
never met two people who existed so exclusively in three dimensions.
The only times I saw your father excited were over a curly maple mantle
or a creamy-headed stout, and I think it was over static physical
perfection that he exalted; sitting before the fire, drinking the beer, were
afterthoughts. Your mother cooked with the precision of a chemist, and
we ate well on visits. Her meringue-topped raspberry pies that might
have been clipped out of magazines, though again I would have the
strong impression that it was pie-as-object that was the goal, and eating
the pie, gouging into her creation, was a kind of vandalism. (How telling
that your cadaverously thin mother is a marvelous cook but has no
appetite.) If the assembly-line production of goods sounds mechanical, it
felt mechanical. I was always a little relieved to get out of your parents’

house, and they were so kind to me, if materially kind, that I felt
churlish.
Still, everything in their house was buffed to a high, flat shine, so
much reflection to protect the fact that there was nothing underneath.
They didn’t read; there were a few books, a set of encyclopedias (the
wine-colored spines warmed up the den), but the only well-leafed
volumes were instruction manuals, do-it-yourself how-to’s, cookbooks,
and a haggard set of The Way Things Work, volumes one and two. They
had no comprehension why anyone would seek out a film with an
unhappy ending or buy a painting that wasn’t pretty. They owned a top-
shelf stereo with speakers worth $1,000 apiece, but only a handful of
easy-listening and best-of CDs: Opera Stoppers; Classical Greatest Hits.
That sounds lazy, but I think it was more helpless: They didn’t know
what music was for.
You could say that about all of life, with your family: They don’t
know what it’s for. They’re big on life’s mechanics; they know how to
get its cogs to interlock, but they suspect that they’re building a widget
for its own sake, like one of those coffee-table knickknacks whose silver
metal balls click fruitlessly back and forth until friction tires them. Your
father was profoundly dissatisfied when their house was finished, not
because there was anything wrong with it, but because there wasn’t. Its
highpressure shower head and hermetic glass stall were impeccably
installed, and just as he trooped out for a generic who-cares selection of
best-of CDs to feed his magisterial stereo, I could easily envision your
father running out to roll in the dirt to provide that shower a daily raison
d’être. For that matter, their house is so neat, glossy, and pristine, so
fitted out with gizmos that knead and julienne, that defrost and slice your
bagels, that it doesn’t seem to need its occupants. In fact, its puking,
shitting, coffeesloshing tenants are the only blights of untidiness in an
otherwise immaculate, self-sustaining biosphere.
We’ve talked about all this on visits of course—exhaustively, since,
overfed and forty minutes from the nearest cinema, we’d resort to
dissecting your parents for entertainment. The point is, when Kevin—
Thursday—well, they weren’t prepared. They hadn’t bought the right
machine, like their German-made raspberry de-seeder, that would
process this turn of events and make sense of it. What Kevin did wasn’t
rational. It didn’t make a motor run more quietly, a pulley more efficient;
it didn’t brew beer or smoke salmon. It did not compute; it was
physically idiotic.

The irony is, though your parents always deplored his absence of
Protestant industry, those two have more in common with Kevin than
anyone I know. If they don’t know what life is for, what to do with it,
Kevin doesn’t, either; interestingly, both your parents and your firstborn
abhor leisure time. Your son always attacked this antipathy head-on,
which involves a certain bravery if you think about it; he was never one
to deceive himself that, by merely filling it, he was putting his time to
productive use. Oh, no—you’ll remember he would sit by the hour
stewing and glowering and doing nothing but reviling every second of
every minute of his Saturday afternoon.
For your parents, of course, the prospect of being unoccupied is
frightening. They don’t have the character, like Kevin, to face the void.
Your father was forever puttering, greasing the machinery of daily life,
although the additional convenience, once he was finished, burdened him
with only more odious leisure time. What’s more, by installing a water
softener or a garden irrigation system he had no idea whatsoever what it
was he was trying to improve. Hard water had offered the happy
prospect of regular, industrious de-lime-scaling of the drain board by the
kitchen sink, and he rather liked sprinkling the garden by hand. The
difference is that your father would wittingly install the water softener
for no good reason and Kevin would not. Pointlessness has never
bothered your father. Life is a collection of cells and electrical pulses to
him, it is material, which is why materials are everything. And this
prosaic vision contents him—or it did. So herein lies the contrast: Kevin,
too, suspects that materials are everything. He just doesn’t happen to
care about materials.
I’ll never forget the first time I visited your parents after Thursday. I
confess I’d put it off, and that was weak. I’m sure it would have been
colossally difficult even if you’d been able to come with me, but of
course irretrievable breakdown prevented that. Alone, without the
cartilage of their son, I was presented with the stark fact that we were no
longer organically joined, and I think they both felt the same disconnect.
When your mother opened the door, her face turned ashen, but when she
asked me to come in she might have been politely ushering in a salesman
for Hoover uprights.
To call your mother stiff would be unjust, but she is a great one for
social form. She likes to know what to do now and what comes next.
That’s why she’s such a fan of elaborate meals. She finds repose in set
courses, the soup before the fish, and she doesn’t resist, as I would have
done, the numbing way in which preparing, serving, and cleaning up

after three meals a day can stitch up a cook’s time from morning to night.
She does not, as I do, struggle against convention as a constraint; she is a
hazily well-meaning but unimaginative person, and she is grateful for
rules. Alas, there doesn’t appear to be recorded—yet—an etiquette for
afternoon tea with your former daughter-in-law after your grandson has
committed mass murder.
She seated me in the formal sitting room instead of the den, which was
a mistake; the rigidity of the high-backed wing chairs only served to
emphasize that by contrast The Rules were in free fall. The colors of the
velveteen, sea green and dusty rose, were at such variance with the
glistening, livid subtext of my visit as to seem musty or faintly nauseous;
these were the colors of mold. Your mother fled to the kitchen. I was
about to cry after her not to bother because I really couldn’t eat a thing
when I realized that to deny her this one busywork delay for which she
was so thankful would be cruel. I even forced myself to eat one of her
Gruyère twists later, though it made me a little sick.
Gladys is such a nervous, high-strung woman that her brittleness—and
I don’t mean she couldn’t be warm or kind—her bodily brittleness had
kept her looking much the same. True, the lines in her forehead had
rippled into an expression of permanent perplexity; her eyes darted every
which way even more frenetically than usual, and there was, especially
when she wasn’t aware I was watching, a quality of lostness in her face
that reminded me what she must have looked like as a little girl. The
overall effect was of a woman who was stricken, but the contributing
elements of this effect were so subtle that a camera might not have
captured it on film.
When your father came up from the basement (I could hear his tread
on the stairs, and fought dread; though seventy-five, he’d always been a
vigorous man, and the steps were too slow and heavy), the change wasn’t
subtle at all. His cotton work clothes sloughed off him in great drooping
folds. It had only been six weeks, a period during which I was shocked
that it was possible to lose so much weight. All the flesh in his weathered
face had dropped: the lower eyelids sagged to expose a red rim; his
cheeks slung loose like a bloodhound’s. I felt guilty, infected by Mary
Woolford’s consuming conviction that someone must be to blame. Then,
that was your father’s conviction as well. He is not a vengeful person,
but a retired electronics machinetoolmaker (too perfect, that he’d made
machines that made machines) took matters of corporate responsibility
and better business practices with the utmost seriousness. Kevin had
proven defective, and I was the manufacturer.

Rattling my fluted teacup in its gilt saucer, I felt clumsy. I asked your
father how his garden was doing. He looked confused, as if he’d
forgotten he had a garden. “The blueberry bushes,” he remembered
mournfully, “are just beginning to bear.” The word bear hung in the air.
Bushes maybe, but your father had not begun to bear anything.
“And the peas? You’ve always grown such lovely sugar snaps.”
He blinked. The chimes struck four. He never explained about the
peas, and there was a horrible nakedness in our silence. We had exposed
that all those other times I’d asked I hadn’t cared about his peas, and that
all those other times he’d answered he hadn’t cared about telling me.
I lowered my eyes. I apologized for not visiting sooner. They didn’t
make any noises about that’s all right we understand. They didn’t make
any noises, like say something, so I just kept talking.
I said that I had wanted to go to all the funerals if I was welcome.
Your parents didn’t look baffled at the non sequitur; we had been
effectively talking about Thursday from the moment your mother opened
the door. I said that I hadn’t wanted to be insensitive, so I rang the
parents beforehand; a couple of them had simply hung up. Others
implored me to stay away; my presence would be indecent, said Mary
Woolford.
Then I told them about Thelma Corbitt—you remember, her son
Denny was the lanky red-haired boy, the budding thespian—who was so
gracious that I was abashed. I hazarded to your mother that tragedy
seems to bring out all varieties of unexpected qualities in people. I said it
was as if some folks (I was thinking of Mary) got dunked in plastic,
vacuum-sealed like backpacking dinners, and could do nothing but sweat
in their private hell. And others seemed to have just the opposite
problem, as if disaster had dipped them in acid instead, stripping off the
outside layer of skin that once protected them from the slings and arrows
of other people’s outrageous fortunes. For these sorts, just walking down
the street in the wake of every stranger’s ill wind became an agony, an
aching slog through this man’s fresh divorce and that woman’s terminal
throat cancer. They were in hell, too, but it was everybody’s hell, this
big, shoreless, sloshing sea of toxic waste.
I doubt I put it as fancily as that, but I did say that Thelma Corbitt was
the kind of woman whose private suffering had become a conduit for
other people’s. And I didn’t regale your parents with the whole phone
call of course, but the full conversation did come flooding back to me:
Thelma immediately admiring the “courage” it must have taken for me
to pick up the phone, inviting me right away to Denny’s funeral, but only

if it wasn’t too painful for me to go. I allowed to Thelma that it might
help me to express my own sorrow for her son’s passing, and for once I
realized that I wasn’t simply going through the motions, saying what I
was supposed to. Apropos of not much, Thelma explained that Denny
had been named after the chain restaurant where she and her husband
had their first date. I almost stopped her from going on because it seemed
easier for me to know as little as possible about her boy, but she clearly
believed that we would both be better off if I knew just who my son had
murdered. She said Denny had been rehearsing for the school’s spring
play, Woody Allen’s Don’t Drink the Water, and she’d been helping him
with his lines. “He had us in stitches,” she offered. I said that I’d seen
him in Streetcar the year before and that (stretching the truth) he’d been
terrific. She seemed so pleased, if only that her boy wasn’t just a statistic
to me, a name in the newspaper, or a torture. Then she said she wondered
whether I didn’t have it harder than any of them. I backed off. I said, that
couldn’t be fair; after all, at least I still had my son, and the next thing
she said impressed me. She said, “Do you? Do you really?” I didn’t
answer that, but thanked her for her kindness, and then we both got lost
in such a tumble of mutual gratitude—an almost impersonal gratitude,
that everyone in the world wasn’t simply horrid—that we both began to
cry.
So, as I told your parents, I went to Denny’s funeral. I sat in the back. I
wore black, though in funerals these days that is old-fashioned. And then
in the receiving line to convey my condolences, I offered Thelma my
hand and said, “I’m so sorry for my loss.” That’s what I said, a miscue, a
gaffe, but I thought it would be worse to correct myself—“your loss, I
mean.” To your parents, I was blithering. They stared.
Finally I took refuge in logistics. The legal system is itself a machine,
and I could describe its workings, as your father had once explained to
me, with poetic lucidity, the workings of a catalytic converter. I said that
Kevin had been arraigned and was being held without bail, and I was
hopeful that the terminology, so familiar from TV, would comfort; it
failed to. (How vital, the hard glass interface of that screen. Viewers
don’t want those shows spilling willy-nilly into their homes, any more
than they want other people’s sewage to overflow from their toilets.) I
said I’d hired the best lawyer I could find—meaning, of course, the most
expensive. I thought your father would approve; he himself always
bought top-shelf. I was mistaken.
He intruded dully, “What for?”

I had never heard him ask that question of anything in his life. I
admired the leap. You and I had always pilloried them behind their backs
as being spiritually arid.
“I’m not sure, though it seemed expected ... To get Kevin off as lightly
as possible, I guess.” I frowned.
“Is that what you want?” asked your mother.
“No . . . What I want is to turn back the clock. What I want is to never
have been born myself, if that’s what it took. I can’t have what I want.”
“But would you like to see him punished?” your father pressed. Mind,
he didn’t sound wrathful; he hadn’t the energy.
I’m afraid I laughed. Just a dejected huh! Still, it wasn’t appropriate.
“I’m sorry,” I explained. “But good luck to them. I tried for the better
part of sixteen years to punish Kevin. Nothing I took away mattered to
him in the first place. What’s the New York state juvenile justice system
going to do? Send him to his room? I tried that. He didn’t have much use
for anything outside his room, or in it; what’s the difference? And
they’re hardly going to shame him. You can only subject people to
anguish who have a conscience. You can only punish people who have
hopes to frustrate or attachments to sever; who worry what you think of
them. You can really only punish people who are already a little bit
good.”
“He could at least be kept from hurting anyone else,” your father
submitted.
A defective product is recalled, and withdrawn from the market. I said
defiantly, “Well, there is a campaign on, to try him as an adult and give
him the death penalty.”
“How do you feel about that?” asked your mother. Good grief, your
parents had asked me if Wing and a Prayer would ever go public; they
had asked if I thought those steam gadgets pressed trousers as well as
ironing. They had never asked what I felt.
“Kevin is no adult. But will he be any different when he is one?”
(They may be technically different specialties, but Workplace Massacre
is really just School Shooting Grows Up.) “Honestly, there are some
days,” I looked balefully out their bay window, “I wish they would give
him the death penalty. Get it all over with. But that might be letting
myself off the hook.”
“Surely you don’t blame yourself, my dear!” your mother chimed,
though with a nervousness; if I did, she didn’t want to hear about it.
“I never liked him very much, Gladys.” I met her eyes squarely,
mother-to-mother. “I realize it’s commonplace for parents to say to their

child sternly, ‘I love you, but I don’t always like you.’ But what kind of
love is that? It seems to me that comes down to, ‘I’m not oblivious to
you—that is, you can still hurt my feelings—but I can’t stand having you
around.’ Who wants to be loved like that? Given a choice, I might skip
the deep blood tie and settle for being liked. I wonder if I wouldn’t have
been more moved if my own mother had taken me in her arms and said,
‘I like you.’ I wonder if just enjoying your kid’s company isn’t more
important.”
I had embarrassed them. Moreover, I’d done precisely what Harvey
had already warned me against. Later they were both deposed, and
snippets of this deadly little speech would be quoted back verbatim. I
don’t think your parents had it in for me, but they were honest New
Englanders, and I’d given them no reason to protect me. I guess I didn’t
want them to.
When I rustled with leave-taking motions, setting down my stonecold
tea, the two of them looked relieved yet frantic, locking eyes. They must
have recognized that these cozy teatime chats of ours would prove
limited in number, and maybe late at night, unable to sleep, they’d think
of questions they might have asked. They were cordial, of course,
inviting me to visit any time. Your mother assured me that, despite
everything, they still considered me part of the family. Their inclusivity
seemed less kind than it might have six weeks before. At that time, the
prospect of being enveloped into any family had all the appeal of getting
stuck in an elevator between floors.
“One last thing.” Your father touched my arm at the door, and once
again asked the kind of question he’d evaded most of his life. “Do you
understand why?”
I fear my response will only have helped to cure him of such inquiries,
for the answers are often so unsatisfying.
 
Happy New Year, my dear,
Eva
 

 
 
JANUARY 6, 2001
 
 
Dear Franklin,
 
The Electoral College just certified a Republican president, and you must
be pleased. But despite your pose as a sexist, flag-waving retrograde, in
fatherhood you were a good little liberal, as fastidious about corporal
punishment and nonviolent toys as the times demanded. I’m not making
fun, only wondering if you, too, go back over those precautions and
ponder where we went wrong.
My own review of Kevin’s upbringing was assisted by trained legal
minds. “Ms. Khatchadourian,” Harvey grilled me on the stand, “did you
have a rule in your household that children were not allowed to play with
toy guns?”
“For what it’s worth, yes.”
“And you monitored television and video viewing?”
“We tried to keep Kevin away from anything too violent or sexually
explicit, especially when he was little. Unfortunately, that meant my
husband couldn’t watch most of his own favorite programs. And we did
have to allow one exception.”
“What was that?” Annoyance again; this wasn’t planned.
“The History Channel.” A titter; I was playing to the peanut gallery.
“The point is,” Harvey continued through his teeth, “you made every
effort to ensure that your son was not surrounded by coarsening
influences, did you not?”
“In my home,” I said. “That is six acres out of a planet. And even
there, I was unprotected from Kevin’s coarsening influence on me.”
Harvey stopped to breathe. I sensed an alternative-medicine
professional had taught him some technique. “In other words, you
couldn’t control what Kevin played with or watched when he went to
other children’s homes?”
“Frankly, other children rarely asked Kevin over more than once.”
The judge intervened, “Ms. Khatchadourian, please just answer the
question.”
“Oh, I suppose,” I complied lackadaisically; I was getting bored.

“What about the Internet?” Harvey proceeded. “Was your son given
free rein to access whatever web sites he liked, including, say, violent or
pornographic ones?”
“Oh, we did the whole parental-controls schmear, but Kevin cracked it
in a day.” I flicked the air dismissively. Harvey had warned me against
giving the slightest indication that I didn’t take the proceedings seriously,
and this case did bring out my perverse streak. But my larger trouble was
paying attention. Back at the defense table, my lids would droop, my
head list. If only to wake myself up, I added the kind of gratuitous
commentary that the judge—a prudish, sharp woman who reminded me
of Dr. Rhinestein—had cautioned against.
“You see,” I proceeded, “by the time he was eleven or twelve, this was
all too late. The no-gun rules, the computer codes ... Children live in the
same world we do. To kid ourselves that we can shelter them from it isn’t
just naive, it’s a vanity. We want to be able to tell ourselves what good
parents we are, that we’re doing our best. If I had it all to do over again,
I’d have let Kevin play with whatever he wanted; he liked little enough.
And I’d have ditched the TV rules, the G-rated videos. They only made
us look foolish. They underscored our powerlessness, and they provoked
his contempt.”
Although allowed a soliloquy in judicial terms, in my head I’d cut it
short. I no longer suffer the constraints of jurisprudential impatience, so
allow me to elaborate.
What drew Kevin’s contempt was not, as I had seemed to imply, our
patent incapacity to protect him from the Big Bad World. No, to Kevin it
was the substance and not the ineffectuality of our taboos that was a
joke. Sex? Oh, he used it, when he discovered that I was afraid of it, or
afraid of it in him, but otherwise? It was a bore. Don’t take offense, for
you and I did find great pleasure in one another, but sex is a bore. Like
the Tool Box toys that Kevin spurned as a toddler, the round peg goes in
the round hole. The secret is that there is no secret. In fact, plain fucking
at his high school was so prevalent, and so quotidian, that I doubt it
excited him much. Alternative round holes furnish a transient novelty
whose illusoriness he would have seen right through.
As for violence, the secret is more of a cheap trick.
You remember, once we gave up on the rating system to see a few
decent films, watching a video of Braveheart as, dare I say it, a family?
In the final torture scene, Mel Gibson is stretched on a rack, all four
limbs tied to the corners of the compass. Each time his English captors
pulled the ropes tauter, the sisal groaned, and so did I. When the

executioner thrust his barbed knife into Mel’s bowel and ripped upward,
I squeezed my palms to my temples and whinnied. But when I peeked
through the crook of my arm at Kevin, his glance at the screen was blasé.
The sour half cock of his mouth was his customary expression at rest. He
wasn’t precisely doing the Times crossword, but he was absently
blacking in all the white squares with a felt-tip.
Cinematic carve-ups are only hard to handle if on some level you
believe that these tortures are being done to you. In fact, it’s ironic that
these spectacles have such a wicked reputation among Bible thumpers,
since gruesome special effects rely for their impact on their audience’s
positively Christian compulsion to walk in their neighbors’ shoes. But
Kevin had discovered the secret: not merely that it wasn’t real, but that it
wasn’t him. Over the years I observed Kevin watching decapitations,
disembowelments, 
dismemberments, 
flayings, 
impalements,
deoculations, and crucifixions, and I never saw him flinch. Because he’d
mastered the trick. If you decline to identify, slice-and-dice is no more
discomfiting than watching your mother prepare beef stroganoff. So
what had we tried to protect him from, exactly? The practicalities of
violence are rudimentary geometry, its laws those of grammar; like the
grade-school definition of a preposition, violence is anything an airplane
can do to a cloud. Our son had a better than average mastery of geometry
and grammar both. There was little in Braveheart—or Reservoir Dogs,
or Chucky II—that Kevin could not have invented for himself.
In the end, that’s what Kevin has never forgiven us. He may not resent
that we tried to impose a curtain between himself and the adult terrors
lurking behind it. But he does powerfully resent that we led him down
the garden path—that we enticed him with the prospect of the exotic.
(Hadn’t I myself nourished the fantasy that I would eventually land in a
country that was somewhere else?) When we shrouded our grown-up
mysteries for which Kevin was too young, we implicitly promised him
that when the time came, the curtain would pull back to reveal—what?
Like the ambiguous emotional universe that I imagined awaited me on
the other side of childbirth, it’s doubtful that Kevin had formed a vivid
picture of whatever we had withheld from him. But the one thing he
could not have imagined is that we were withholding nothing. That there
was nothing on the other side of our silly rules, nothing.
The truth is, the vanity of protective parents that I cited to the court
goes 
beyond 
look-at-us-we’re-such-responsible-guardians. 
Our
prohibitions also bulwark our self-importance. They fortify the construct
that we adults are all initiates. By conceit, we have earned access to an

unwritten Talmud whose soul-shattering content we are sworn to conceal
from “innocents” for their own good. By pandering to this myth of the
naïf, we service our own legend. Presumably we have looked the horror
in the face, like staring into the naked eye of the sun, blistering into
turbulent, corrupted creatures, enigmas even to ourselves. Gross with
revelation, we would turn back the clock if we could, but there is no
unknowing of this awful canon, no return to the blissfully insipid world
of childhood, no choice but to shoulder this weighty black sagacity,
whose finest purpose is to shelter our air-headed midgets from a glimpse
of the abyss. The sacrifice is flatteringly tragic.
The last thing we want to admit is that the forbidden fruit on which we
have been gnawing since reaching the magic age of twenty-one is the
same mealy Golden Delicious that we stuff into our children’s lunch
boxes. The last thing we want to admit is that the bickering of the
playground perfectly presages the machinations of the boardroom, that
our social hierarchies are merely an extension of who got picked first for
the kickball team, and that grown-ups still get divided into bullies and
fatties and crybabies. What’s a kid to find out? Presumably we lord over
them an exclusive deed to sex, but this pretense flies so fantastically in
the face of fact that it must result from some conspiratorial group
amnesia. To this day, some of my most intense sexual memories date
back to before I was ten, as I have confided to you under the sheets in
better days. No, they have sex, too. In truth, we are bigger, greedier
versions of the same eating, shitting, rutting ruck, hell-bent on disguising
from somebody, if only from a three-year-old, that pretty much all we do
is eat and shit and rut. The secret is there is no secret. That is what we
really wish to keep from our kids, and its suppression is the true
collusion of adulthood, the pact we make, the Talmud we protect.
Sure, by the time he was fourteen we had given up on trying to control
the videos he watched, the hours he kept, what little he read. But
watching those stupid films and logging onto those stupid web sites,
swigging that stupid hooch and sucking those stupid butts and fucking
those stupid schoolgirls, Kevin must have felt so fiercely cheated. And
on Thursday ? I bet he still felt cheated.
Meantime, I could tell from Harvey’s expression of forbearance that
he had regarded my mini-lecture as more destructive self-indulgence.
Our case—his case, really—was pearled around the proposition that I
had been a normal mother with normal maternal affections who had
taken normal precautions to ensure that she raised a normal child.
Whether we were the victims of bad luck or bad genes or bad culture was

a matter for shamans or biologists or anthropologists to divine, but not
the courts. Harvey was intent on evoking every parent’s latent fear that it
was possible to do absolutely everything right and still turn on the news
to a nightmare from which there is no waking. It was a damned sound
approach in retrospect, and now that it’s been a year or so, I feel a little
sheepish about being so cantankerous at the time.
Still, like that depersonalizing rubber stamp of postnatal depression,
our there-but-for-the-grace-of-God defense put me right off. I felt driven
to distinguish myself from all those normal-normal mommies, if only as
an exceptionally crummy one, and even at the potential price tag of $6.5
million (the plaintiffs had researched what W&P was worth). I had
already lost everything, Franklin, everything but the company that is, the
continuing possession of which, under the circumstances, struck me as
crass. It is true that since then I have sometimes felt wistful about my
corporate offspring, now fostered by strangers, but at the time I didn’t
care. I didn’t care if I lost the case so long as in the process I was at least
kept awake, I didn’t care if I lost all my money, and I was positively
praying to be forced to sell our eyesore house. I didn’t care about
anything. And there’s a freedom in apathy, a wild, dizzying liberation on
which you can almost get drunk. You can do anything. Ask Kevin.
As usual, I’d conducted my own cross for opposing counsel (they
loved me; they’d have liked to call me as a witness for their side), so I
was asked to step down. I paused halfway off the stand. “I’m sorry, your
honor, I just remembered something.”
“You wish to amend your testimony, for the record?”
“We did let Kevin have one gun.” (Harvey sighed.) “A squirt gun,
when he was four. My husband loved squirt guns as a boy, so we made
an exception.”
 
It was an exception to a rule I thought inane to begin with. Keep them
away from replicas and kids will aim a stick at you, and I see no
developmental distinction between wielding formed plastic that goes rat-
a-tat-tat on battery power versus pointing a piece of wood and shouting
“bangbang-bang!” At least Kevin liked his squirt gun, since he
discovered that it was annoying.
All through the move from Tribeca, he’d soaked the flies of our
movers and then accused them of having “peed their pants.” I thought
the accusation pretty rich from a little boy still refusing to pick up on our
coy hints about learning to “go potty like Mommer and Daddy” some
two years after most kids were flushing to beat the band. He was wearing

the wooden mask I’d brought him from Kenya, with scraggy, electrified-
looking sisal hair, tiny eyeholes surrounded by huge blank whites, and
fierce three-inch teeth made from bird bones. Enormous on his scrawny
body, it gave him the appearance of a voodoo doll in diapers. I don’t
know what I was thinking when I bought it. That boy hardly needed a
mask when his naked face was already impenetrable, and the gift’s
expression of raw retributive rage gave me the creeps.
Schlepping boxes with a wet, itchy crotch couldn’t have been a picnic.
They were nice guys, too, uncomplaining and careful, so as soon as I
noticed their faces begin to twitch I told Kevin to cut it out. At which
point he swiveled his mask in my direction to confirm that I was
watching, and water-cannoned the wiry black mover in the butt.
“Kevin, I told you to stop it. Don’t squirt these nice men who are only
trying to help us one more time, and I mean it.” Naturally I only
managed to imply that the first time I hadn’t meant it. An intelligent
child takes the calculus of this-time-I’m-serious-so-last-time-I-wasn’t to
its limit and concludes that all his mother’s warnings are horseshit.
So we walk through our paces. Squish-squish-squish. Kevin, stop that
this instant. Squish-squish-squish. Kevin, I’m not going to tell you again.
And then (squish-squish-squish) the inevitable: Kevin, if you squirt
anybody one more time I’m taking the squirt gun away, which earned
me, “NYEH-nyeh? Nyeh nyeh nyeh NYEE-nyeh-nyeh-nyeh nyeh nyeh
nyeee, nyeh NYE-nye nye NYE-NYE nye-NYEEEEEEE.”
Franklin, what good were those parenting books of yours? Next thing I
know you’re stooping beside our son and borrowing his dratted toy. I
hear muffled giggling and something about Mommer and then you are
squirting me.
“Franklin, that’s not cute. I told him to quit. You’re not helping.”
“NYEH-nyeh? Nye nyeeh nyeeh. Nyeh nyeh-nyeh nyeh nyeh. Nyeh
nyeeh nyeeh-nyeh!” Incredibly, this nyeh-nyeh minced from you, after
which you shot me between the eyes. Kevin honked (you know, to this
day he still hasn’t learned how to laugh). When you gave the gun back,
he drowned my face in a cascade.
I snatched the gun.
“Aw!” you cried. “Eva, moving’s such a pain in the behind!” (Behind,
that was the way we talked now.) “Can’t we have a little fun?”
I had the squirt gun now, so one easy exit was to turn a tonal corner: to
squirt you gleefully on the nose, and we could have this rambunctious
family riot whereby you wrest the gun away and toss the squirt gun to
Kevin . . . . And we’d laugh and fall all over each other and we might

even remember it years later, that mythic squirt-gun fight the day we
moved to Gladstone. And then one of us would return the toy to Kevin
and he’d go back to soaking the movers and I wouldn’t have a leg to
stand on to get him to quit because I’d been squirting people too.
Alternatively, I could do the killjoy thing, which I did, and put the gun in
my purse, which I did.
“The movers peed their pants,” you told Kevin, “but Mommer pooped
the party.”
Of course I’d heard other parents talk about the unfair goodcop /bad-
cop divide, how the good cop was always the kid’s favorite while the bad
cop did all the heavy lifting and I thought, what a fucking cliché, how
did this happen to me? I’m not even interested in this stuff.
Kevin’s voodoo alter ego marked the gun’s location in my purse. Most
boys would have started to cry. Instead he turned his bird-bone grimace
mutely to his mother. From preschool, Kevin was a plotter. He knew how
to bide his time.
Since a child’s feelings are bruisable, his privileges few, his chattel
paltry even when his parents are well-to-do, I’d been given to understand
that punishing one’s own child was terribly painful. Yet in truth, when I
commandeered Kevin’s squirt gun, I felt a gush of savage joy. As we
followed the moving van to Gladstone in the pickup, the continuing
possession of Kevin’s beloved toy engorged me with such pleasure that I
withdrew it from my purse, forefinger on the trigger, riding shotgun.
Strapped between us in the front seat, Kevin lifted his gaze from my lap
to the dashboard with theatrical unconcern. Kevin’s bearing was taciturn,
his body slack, but the mask gave him away: Inside he was raging. He
hated me with all his being, and I was happy as a clam.
I think he sensed my pleasure and resolved to deprive me of it in the
future. He was already intuiting that attachment—if only to a squirt gun
—made him vulnerable. Since whatever he wanted was also something I
might deny him, the least desire was a liability. As if in tribute to this
epiphany, he pitched the mask on the pickup floor, kicked it absently
with his tennis shoe, and broke a few teeth. I don’t imagine he was such
a precocious boy—such a monster—that he had conquered his every
earthly appetite by the age of four and a half. He still wanted his squirt
gun back. But indifference would ultimately commend itself as a
devastating weapon.
 
When we drove up, the house looked even more hideous than I’d
remembered, and I wondered how I would make it through the night

without starting to cry. I hopped out of the cab. Kevin could now unstrap
himself, and he scorned assistance. He stood on the running board so that
I couldn’t shut the door.
“Give me my gun back now.” This was no wear-Mom-down whine,
but an ultimatum. I wouldn’t be given a second chance.
“You were a jerk, Kevin,” I said breezily, lifting him to the ground by
his underarms. “No toys for jerks.” I thought, hey, I could come to enjoy
being a parent. This is fun.
The squirt gun leaked, so I didn’t want to stash it back in my purse. As
the movers began to unload, Kevin followed me to the kitchen. I hoisted
myself onto the counter and slid his squirt gun with my fingertips on top
of the cupboards.
I was busy directing what went where and may not have returned to
the kitchen for twenty minutes.
“Hold it right there, mister,” I said. “Freeze.”
Kevin had shoved one box next to a pile of two to create a stairway to
the counter, onto which one of the movers had slid a box of dishes,
making another step. But he had waited for the sound of my footsteps
before climbing the cabinet shelves themselves. (In Kevin’s book,
unwitnessed disobedience is wasteful.) By the time I arrived, his tennis
shoes were perched three shelves up. His left hand was gripping the top
of the wavering cupboard door, while his right hand hovered two inches
from his squirt gun. I needn’t have shouted Freeze! He was already
posing as if for someone to snap a picture.
“Franklin!” I bellowed urgently. “Come here, please! Right away!” I
wasn’t tall enough to lift him to the floor. As I stood below to catch him
if he slipped, Kevin and I locked eyes. His pupils stirred with what might
have been pride, or glee, or pity. My God, I thought. He’s only four, and
he’s already winning.
“Hey, there, buster!” You laughed and lifted him down, though not
before he’d snatched the gun. Franklin, you had such beautiful arms.
“Little young to learn to fly!”
“Kevin’s been very, very bad!” I sputtered. “Now we’re going to have
to take that gun away for a very, very, very long time!”
“Aw, he’s earned it, haven’t you, kiddo? Man, that climb took guts.
Real little monkey, aren’t you?”
A shadow crossed his face. He may have thought you were talking
down to him, but if so the condescension suited his purposes. “I’m the
little monkey,” he said, deadpan. He strode out of the room, squirt gun

swinging at his side with the arrogant nonchalance I associated with
airplane hijackers.
“You just humiliated me.”
“Eva, moving’s hard enough on us, but for kids it’s traumatic. Cut him
some slack. Listen, I’ve got some bad news about that rocker of yours
...”
For our new home’s christening dinner the next night we bought
steaks, and I wore my favorite caftan, a white-on-white brocade from Tel
Aviv. That same evening Kevin learned to fill his squirt gun with
concord grape juice. You thought it was funny.
 
That house resisted me every bit as much as I resisted it. Nothing fit.
There were so few right angles that a simple chest of drawers slid into a
corner always left an awkward triangle of unfilled space. My furniture,
too, was beat-up, though in the Tribeca loft that battered handmade toy
box, the tuneless baby grand, the comfortably slumping couch whose
pillows leaked chicken feathers hit just the right offbeat note. Suddenly,
in our slick new home the funk turned to junk. I felt sorry for those
pieces, much as I’d pity unsophisticated but good-hearted high school
buddies from Racine at a party milling with hip, sharp-tongued New
Yorkers like Eileen and Belmont.
It was the same with the kitchenware: Cluttering sleek green marble
counters, my 1940s mixer went from quaint to grungy. Later, you came
home with a bullet-shaped KichenAid, and I took the ancient mixer to
the Salvation Army as if at gunpoint. When I unpacked my dented pots
and pans, their heavy-gauge aluminum encrusted, their crumbling
handles duct-taped together, it looked as if some homeless person had
nested in a household whose jet-set tenants were in Rio. The pans went,
too; you found a matching set at Macy’s in fashionable red enamel. I’d
never noticed how scummy that old cookware had become, though I’d
kind of liked not noticing.
In all, I may have been borderline rich, but I’d never owned much, and
aside from the silk hangings from Southeast Asia, a few carvings from
West Africa, and the Armenian rugs from my uncle, we dispensed with
most of the detritus of my old Tribeca life in frighteningly short order.
Even the internationalia assumed an inauthentic aura, as if it hailed from
an upmarket import outlet. Since our aesthetic reinvention coincided
with my sabbatical from AWAP, I felt as if I were evaporating.
That’s why the project in the study was so important to me. I realize
that for you that incident epitomizes my intolerance, my rigidity, my

refusal to make allowances for children. But that’s not what it means to
me.
For my study, I chose the one room in that house that didn’t have any
trees growing through it, had only one skylight, and was almost
rectangular—no doubt designed near the last, when thankfully our
Dream Home couple was running out of bright ideas. Most people would
consider papering fine wood an abomination, but we were swimming in
teak, and I had an idea that might make me feel, in one room at least, at
home: I would plaster the study with maps. I owned boxes and boxes:
city maps of Oporto or Barcelona, with all the hostels and pensions I
planned to list in IBERI-WAP circled in red; Geographical Survey maps
of the Rhone Valley with the lazy squiggle of my train journey
highlighted in yellow; whole continents jagged with ambitious airline
itineraries in ruled ballpoint.
As you know, I’ve always had a passion for maps. I’ve sometimes
supposed that, in the face of an imminent nuclear attack or invading
army, the folks with all the power won’t be the white supremacists with
guns or the Mormons with canned sardines, but the cartographically
clued who know that this road leads to the mountains. Hence the very
first thing I do on arrival in a new place is locate a map, and that is only
when I couldn’t get to Rand McNally in midtown before hopping the
plane. Without one, I feel easily victimized and at sea. As soon I have
my map, I gain better command of a town than most of its residents,
many of whom are totally lost outside a restrictive orbit of the patisserie,
charcuterie, and Luisa’s house. I’ve long taken pride in my powers of
navigation, for I’m better than the average bear at translating from two
dimensions to three, and I’ve learned to use rivers, railroads, and the sun
to find my bearings. (I’m sorry, but what else can I boast about now? I’m
getting old, and I look it. I work for a travel agency, and my son is a
killer.)
So I associated maps with mastery and may have hoped that, through
the literal sense of direction they had always provided, I might
figuratively orient myself in this alien life as a full-time suburban
mother. I craved some physical emblem of my earlier self if only to
remind me that I had deserted that life by choice and might return to it at
will. I nursed some distant hope that as he got older, Kevin might grow
curious, point to Majorca in the corner, and ask what it was like there. I
was proud of my life, and while I told myself that through an
accomplished mother Kevin might find pride in himself, I probably just

wanted him to be proud of me. I still had no idea what a tall order for any
parent that could turn out to be.
Physically, the project was fiddly. The maps were all different sizes,
and I had to design a pattern that was not symmetrical or systematic but
still made a pleasing patchwork, with a balance of colors and a judicious
mix of town centers and continents. I had to learn how to work with
wallpaper paste, which was messy, and the older, tattier maps had to be
ironed; paper readily browns. With so much else to attend to in a new
house and constant hands-on consultation with Louis Role, my new
managing editor at AWAP, I was papering my study over the course of
several months.
That’s what I mean by biding his time. He followed the papering of
that study and knew how much trouble it was; he had personally helped
to make it more trouble, by tracking wallpaper paste all over the house.
He may not have understood the countries the maps signified, but he did
understand that they signified something to me.
When I brushed on the last rectangle by the window, a topographical
map of Norway stitched with fjords, I climbed down the ladder and
surveyed the results with a twirl. It was gorgeous! Dynamic, quirky,
lavishly sentimental. Interstitial train ticket stubs, museum floor plans,
and hotel receipts gave the collage an additionally personal touch. I had
forced one patch of this blank, witless house to mean something. I put on
Joe Jackson’s Big World, lidded the paste, furled the canvas covering my
six-foot rolltop desk, rattled it open, and unpacked my last box,
arranging my stand of antique cartridge pens and bottles of red and black
ink, the Scotch tape, stapler, and tchotchkes for fidgeting—the miniature
Swiss cowbell, the terra-cotta penitent from Spain.
Meanwhile I was burbling to Kevin, something all very Virginia
Woolf like, “Everyone needs a room of their own. You know how you
have your room? Well, this is Mommer’s room. And everyone likes to
make their room special. Mommer’s been lots of different places, and all
these maps remind me of the trips I’ve taken. You’ll see, you may want
to make your room special some day, and I’ll help you if you want—”
“What do you mean special,” he said, hugging one elbow. In his
drooping free hand drizzled his squirt gun, whose leakage had worsened.
Although he was still slight for his age, I’d rarely met anyone who took
up more metaphysical space. A sulking gravity never let you forget he
was there, and if he said little, he was always watching.
“So it looks like your personality.”
“What personality.”

I felt sure I’d explained the word before. I was continually feeding
him vocabulary, or who was Shakespeare; educational chatter filled the
void. I had a feeling he wished I’d shut up. There seemed no end to the
information that he did not want.
“Like your squirt gun, that’s part of your personality.” I refrained from
adding, like the way you ruined my favorite caftan, that’s part of your
personality. Or the way you’re still shitting in diapers coming up on five
years old, that’s part of your personality, too. “Anyway, Kevin, you’re
being stubborn. I think you know what I mean.”
“I have to put junk on the walls.” He sounded put-upon.
“Unless you’d rather not.”
“I’d rather not.”
“Great, we’ve found one more thing you don’t want to do,” I said.
“You don’t like to go to the park and you don’t like to listen to music and
you don’t like to eat and you don’t like to play with Lego. I bet you
couldn’t think of one more thing you don’t like if you tried.”
“All these squiggy squares of paper,” he supplied promptly. “They’re
dumb.” After Idonlikedat, dumb was his favorite word.
“That’s the thing about your own room, Kevin. It’s nobody else’s
business. I don’t care if you think my maps are dumb. I like them.” I
remember raising an umbrella of defiance: He wouldn’t rain on this
parade. My study looked terrific, it was all mine, I would sit at my desk
and play grown-up, and I could not wait to screw on my crowning touch,
a bolt on its door. Yes, I’d commissioned a local carpenter and had added
a door.
But Kevin wouldn’t let the matter drop. There was something he
wanted to tell me. “I don’t get it. It was all gucky. And it took forever.
Now everything looks dumb. What difference does it make. Why’d you
bother.” He stamped his foot. “It’s dumb!”
Kevin had skipped the why phase that usually hits around three, at
which point he was barely talking. Although the why phase may seem
like an insatiable desire to comprehend cause and effect, I’d
eavesdropped enough at playgrounds (It’s time to go make dinner,
cookie! Why? Because we’re going to get hungry! Why? Because our
bodies are telling us to eat! Why?) to know better. Three-year-olds aren’t
interested in the chemistry of digestion; they’ve simply hit on the magic
word that always provokes a response. But Kevin had a real why phase.
He thought my wallpaper an incomprehensible waste of time, as just
about everything adults did also struck him as absurd. It didn’t simply

perplex him but enraged him, and so far Kevin’s why phase has proved
not a passing developmental stage but a permanent condition.
I knelt. I looked into his stormy, pinched-up face and placed a hand on
his shoulder. “Because I love my new study. I love the maps. I love
them.”
I could have been speaking Urdu. “They’re dumb,” he said stonily. I
stood up. I dropped my hand. The phone was ringing.
The separate line for my study wasn’t installed yet, so I left to grab the
phone in the kitchen. It was Louis, with another crisis regarding JAP-
WAP, whose resolution took a fair amount of time. I did call to Kevin to
come out where I could see him, more than once. But I still had a
business to oversee, and have you any notion how fatiguing it is to keep
an eye on a small child every single moment of every single day? I’m
tremendously sympathetic with the sort of diligent mother who turns her
back for an eye blink—who leaves a child in the bath to answer the door
and sign for a package, to scurry back only to discover that her little girl
has hit her head on the faucet and drowned in two inches of water. Two
inches. Does anyone ever give the woman credit for the twenty-four-
hours-minusthree-minutes a day that she has watched that child like a
hawk? For the months, the years’ worth of don’t-put-that-in-your-mouth-
sweeties, of whoops!-we-almost-fell-downs? Oh, no. We prosecute these
people, we call it “criminal parental negligence” and drag them to court
through the snot and salty tears of their own grief. Because only the three
minutes count, those three miserable minutes that were just enough.
I finally got off the phone. Down the hall, Kevin had discovered the
pleasures of a room with a door: The study’s was shut. “Hey, kid,” I
called, turning the knob, “when you’re this quiet you make me nervous
—”
My wallpaper was spidery with red and black ink. The more absorbent
papers had started to blotch. The ceiling, too, since I’d papered that as
well; craning on the ladder had been murder on my back. Drips from
overhead were staining one of my uncle’s most valuable Armenian
carpets, our wedding present. The room was so whipped and wet that it
looked as if a fire alarm had gone off and triggered a sprinkling system,
only the nozzles had flung not water but motor oil, cherry Hawaiian
punch, and mulberry sorbet.
From the transitional squirts of a sickly purple I might later conclude
that he had used up the bottle of black India ink first before moving on to
the crimson, but Kevin left nothing to my deduction: He was still
draining the last of the red ink into the barrel of his squirt gun. Just as

he’d posed in the process of retrieving the gun from the top of our
kitchen cabinet, he seemed to have saved this last tablespoon for my
arrival. He was standing on my study chair, bent in concentration; he did
not even look up. The filling hole was small, and though he was pouring
intently, my burnished oak desk was awash in spatter. His hands were
drenched.
“Now,” he announced quietly, “it’s special.”
I snatched the gun, flung it on the floor, and stamped it to bits. I was
wearing pretty yellow Italian pumps. The ink ruined my shoes.
 
Eva
 

 
 
JANUARY 13, 2001
 
 
Dear Franklin,
 
Yes, second Saturday of the month, and I’m debriefing in the Bagel Café
again. I’m haunted by the image of that guard with the mud-spatter of
facial moles, who looked at me today with his routine mixture of sorrow
and distaste. I feel much the same way about his face. The moles are
large and puffy, like feeding ticks, mottled and gelatinous, widening
toadstoollike from a narrower base so that some of them have started to
droop. I’ve wondered if he obsesses over his lesions, doing overtime at
Claverack to save for their removal, or has developed a perverse
fondness for them. People seem able to get used to anything, and it is a
short step from adaptation to attachment.
In fact, I read recently that a neural operation has been developed that
can virtually cure some Parkinson’s patients. So successful is the surgery
that it has moved more than one of its beneficiaries to kill themselves.
Yes, you read correctly: to kill themselves. No more trembling, no more
spastic arm swings in restaurants that knock over the wine. But also, no
more aching sympathy from doe-eyed strangers, no more spontaneous
outpourings of tenderness from psychotically forgiving spouses. The
recovered get depressed, reclusive. They can’t handle it: being just like
everybody else.
Between ourselves, I’ve started to worry that in some backhanded way
I’ve become attached to the disfigurement of my own life. These days it
is solely through notoriety that I understand who I am and what part I
play in the dramas of others. I’m the mother of “one of those Columbine
kids” (and how it grieves Kevin that Littleton has won the generic tag
over Gladstone). Nothing I do or say will ever outweigh that fact, and it
is tempting to stop fighting and give over. That must explain why some
mothers of my ilk have abandoned any attempt to recoup the lives they
led before, as marketing directors or architects, and have gone on the
lecture circuit or spearheaded the Million Mom March instead. Perhaps
this is what Siobhan meant by being “called.”
Indeed, I’ve developed a healthy respect for fact itself, its awesome
dominance over rendition. No interpretation I slather over events in this

appeal to you has a chance of overwhelming the sheer actuality of
Thursday, and maybe it was the miracle of fact itself that Kevin
discovered that afternoon. I can comment until I’m blue, but what
happened simply sits there, triumphing like three dimensions over two.
No matter how much enamel those vandals threw at our windowpanes,
the house remained a house, and Thursday has the same immutable feel
about it, like an object I can paint but whose physical enormity will
persist in shape, regardless of hue.
Franklin, I’m afraid I caught myself giving over in the Claverack
visitors’ waiting room today. And by the way, I’d be the last to complain
about the facilities overall. Newly constructed to supply a burgeoning
market sector, the institution is not yet overcrowded. Its roofs don’t leak,
its toilets flush; Juvenile Detention on a Wing and a Prayer
(JUVIEWAP) would give the joint an enthusiastic listing. Claverack’s
classrooms may provide a better meat-and-potatoes education than
trendy suburban high schools whose curricula are padded with courses in
Inuit Literature and Sexual Harassment Awareness Training. But aside
from the incongruous Romper Room primary colors of the visiting area,
Claverack is aesthetically harsh—laying bare, once you take away the
frippery of life, how terrifyingly little is left. Cinder-block walls a stark
white, the pea-green linoleum unpatterned, the visitors’ waiting room is
cruelly lacking in distractions—a harmless travel poster for Belize, a
single copy of Glamour—as if to deliberately quash self-deceit. It is a
room that does not wish to be confused with anything so anodyne as an
airline ticket-purchasing office or a dental waiting room. That lone
poster for AIDS prevention doesn’t qualify as decor, but as an
accusation.
Today a slight, serene black woman sat next to me, a generation
younger but doubtless a mother. I kept shooting fascinated glances at her
hair, plaited in a complex spiral that disappeared into infinity at the
crown, my admiration fighting a prissy middle-class foreboding about
how long the braids went unwashed. Her restful resignation was
characteristic of the black relatives who frequent that room; I’ve made a
study of it.
White mothers of delinquents, a statistically rarer breed, tend to jitter,
or if they are still, they are ramrod rigid, jaws clenched, heads held stiffly
as if fixed in place for a CAT-scan. Should low-enough attendance allow,
white moms always assume a chair with at least two empty plastic seats
on either side. They often bring newspapers. They discourage
conversation. The implication is bald: Something has violated the space-

time continuum. They do not belong here. I often detect a Mary
Woolford brand of outrage, as if these mothers are looking fiercely
around the room for someone to sue. Alternatively, I will get a sharp
reading of this-cannot-be-happening—an incredulity so belligerent that it
can generate a holographic presence in the waiting room of an ongoing
parallel universe in which Johnny or Billy came home at the same time
he always did after school that day, another ordinary afternoon on which
he had his milk and Ho-Hos and did his homework. We white folks cling
to such an abiding sense of entitlement that when things go amiss, we
cannot let go of this torturously sunny, idiotically cheerful doppelgänger
of a world that we deserve in which life is swell.
By contrast, black mothers will sit next to one another, even if the
room is practically empty. They may not always talk, but there is an
assumption of fellowship in their proximity, an esprit de corps
reminiscent of a book club whose members are all plowing through the
same arduously long classic. They never seem angry, or resentful, or
surprised to find themselves here. They sit in the same universe in which
they’ve always sat. And black people seem to have a much more
sophisticated grasp of the nature of events in time. Parallel universes are
science fiction, and Johnny—or Jamille—didn’t come home that
afternoon, did he? End of story.
All the same, there’s a tacit understanding among the whole of our
circle that you do not fish for details about the misconduct that landed
your seatmate’s young man here. Although the transgression in question
is in many cases the family’s most public manifestation, in that room we
collude in the seemly view that the stuff of the Times Metro Section, the
Post front page, is a private affair. Oh, a few mothers from time to time
will bend a neighbor’s ear about how Tyrone never stole that Discman or
he was only holding a kilo for a friend, but then the other mothers catch
one another’s’ eyes with bent smiles and pretty soon little Miss We
Gonna Appeal This Injustice puts a lid on it. (Kevin informs me that
inside, no one claims to be innocent. Instead they confabulate heinous
crimes for which they were never caught. “If half these jerk-offs were
telling the truth,” he slurred wearily last month, “most of the country
would be dead.” In fact, Kevin has more than once claimed Thursday
and newbies haven’t believed him: “And I’m Sidney Poitier, dude.”
Apparently he dragged one such skeptic to the library by the hair to
confirm his credentials in an old copy of Newsweek.)
So I was struck by this young woman’s repose. Rather than clean her
nails or cull old receipts from her pocketbook, she sat upright, hands at

rest in her lap. She stared straight ahead, reading the AIDS awareness
poster for perhaps the hundredth time. I hope this doesn’t sound racist—
these days I never know what will give offense—but black people seem
terribly good at waiting, as if they inherited the gene for patience along
with the one for sickle-cell. I noticed that in Africa as well: dozens of
Africans sitting or standing by the side of the road, waiting for the bus
or, even harder, waiting for nothing in particular, and they never
appeared restive or annoyed. They didn’t pull grass and chew the tender
ends with their front teeth; they didn’t draw aimless pictures with the
toes of their plastic sandals in the dry red clay. They were still, and
present. The capacity is existential, that ability to just be, with a
profundity that I have seen elude some very well educated people.
At one point she crossed to the candy machine in the corner. The
exact-change light must have been on, because she returned and asked if
I had change of a dollar. I fell over myself checking every coat pocket,
every cranny of my purse, so that by the time I scrounged the coins
together she may have wished she’d never asked. I contend with
strangers so infrequently now—I still prefer booking flights in the back
room at Travel R Us—that during small transactions I panic. Maybe I
was desperate to have a positive effect on someone else’s life, if only by
providing the means to a Mars Bar. At least this awkward exchange
broke the ice, and, to pay me back for what I made seem so much
trouble, she spoke when she resumed her seat.
“I ought to bring him fruit, I guess.” She glanced apologetically at the
M&M’s in her lap. “But Lord, you know he’d never eat it.”
We shared a sympathetic look, mutually marveling that kids who
commit grown-up crimes still have their little-boy sweet tooth.
“My son claims Claverack food is ‘hog slop,’” I volunteered.
“Oh, my Marlon do nothing but complain, too. Say it ain’t ‘fit for
human consumption.’ And you hear they bake saltpeter in the bread
rolls?” (This rusty summer-camp rumor is surely sourced in adolescent
vanity: that a teenager’s lavish libidinous urges are so seditious as to
demand dampening by underhanded means.)
“No, ‘hog slop’ was all I could get out of him,” I said. “But Kevin’s
never been interested in food. When he was little I was afraid he would
starve, until I figured out that he would eat as long as I wasn’t watching.
He didn’t like to be seen needing it—as if hunger were a sign of
weakness. So I’d leave a sandwich where he was sure to find it, and walk
away. It was like feeding a dog. From around the corner I’d see him cram
it in his mouth in two or three bites, looking around, making sure nobody

saw. He caught me peeking once, and spat it out. He took the half-
chewed bread and cheddar and mashed it onto the plate glass door. It
stuck. I left it there for the longest time. I’m not sure why.”
My companion’s eyes, previously alert, had filmed. She had no reason
to be interested in my son’s dietary proclivities and now looked as if she
regretted having started a conversation. I’m sorry, Franklin—it’s just that
I go for days barely speaking, and then if I do start to talk it spews in a
stream, like vomit.
“At any rate,” I continued with a bit more calculation, “I’ve warned
Kevin that once he’s transferred to an adult facility the food is bound to
be far worse.”
The woman’s eyes narrowed. “Your boy don’t get out at eighteen?
Ain’t that a shame.” Skirting the waiting room’s taboo subject, she
meant: He must have done something bad.
“New York is pretty lenient with juveniles under sixteen,” I said. “But
even in this state, kids have to do a five-year minimum for murder—
especially when it’s seven high school students and an English teacher.” I
added as her face rearranged, “Oh, and a cafeteria worker. Maybe Kevin
has stronger feelings about food than I thought.”
She whispered, “KK.”
I could hear the reels in her head rewinding, as she grasped frantically
after everything I’d said to which she’d only half listened. Now she had
reason to be interested in my son’s secretive appetite—and in his
“musical” preference for tuneless cacophony randomly generated by
computer, in the ingenious little game he used to play composing school
essays entirely with three-letter words. What I had just done, it was a
kind of party trick. Suddenly she was at a loss for what to say, not
because I bored her, but because she was bashful. If she could scavenge a
hasty bushel of bruised and mealy details from my conversational drop-
fruit, she would present it to her sister over the phone the next day like a
Christmas basket.
“None other,” I said. “Funny how ‘KK’ used to mean ‘ Krispy
Kreme.’”
“That must be . . . ” She faltered. I was reminded of the time I got a
free upgrade to first class, where I sat right next to Sean Connery.
Tonguetied, I couldn’t think of a thing to say besides, “You’re Sean
Connery,” of which presumably he was aware.
“That must be a m-mighty cross to bear,” she stammered.
“Yes,” I said. I was no longer driven to get her attention; I had it. I
could control the upchuck of chatter that had embarrassed me minutes

before. I experienced a seated sensation, literalized in an improbable
physical comfort in my form-fitted orange chair. Any obligation to
express interest in the plight of this young woman’s own son seemed to
vanish. Now I was the serene party, and the one to be courted. I felt
almost queenly.
“Your boy,” she scrambled. “He holding up okay?”
“Oh, Kevin loves it here.”
“How come? Marlon curse this place up one side, down the other.”
“Kevin has few interests,” I said, giving our son the benefit of the
doubt that he had any. “He’s never known what to do with himself.
After-school hours and weekends hung off him in big drooping folds like
an oversized car coat. Bingo, his day is agreeably regimented from
breakfast to lights-out. And now he lives in a world where being pissed
off all day long is totally normal. I think he even feels a sense of
community,” I allowed. “Maybe not with the other inmates themselves.
But their prevailing humors—disgust, hostility, derision—are like old
friends.”
Other visitors were clearly eavesdropping, since they flicked averted
eyes at our chairs with the swift, voracious motion of a lizard’s tongue. I
might have lowered my voice, but I was enjoying the audience.
“He look back on what he done, he feel any, you know—”
“Remorse?” I provided dryly. “What could he conceivably regret?
Now he’s somebody, isn’t he? And he’s found himself, as they said in my
day. Now he doesn’t have to worry about whether he’s a freak or a geek,
a grind or a jock or a nerd. He doesn’t have to worry if he’s gay. He’s a
murderer. It’s marvelously unambiguous. And best of all,” I took a
breath, “he got away from me.”
“Sounds like there’s a silver lining, then.” She held herself at an inch
or two greater distance than women in earnest conversation are wont,
eyeing me at an angle that departed from a straight line by about thirty
degrees. These subtle removals seemed almost scientific: I was a
specimen. “Like, you get away from him, too.”
I gestured helplessly at the waiting room. “Not quite.”
Glancing at her Swatch, she displayed a growing awareness that in
what could prove a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, she had to work in the
one question she had always wanted to ask KK’s actual mother before it
was too late. I knew what was coming: “You ever figure what it was
drove him to—you ever figure out why?”
It’s what they all want to ask—my brother, your parents, my
coworkers, the documentary makers, Kevin’s psychiatric consult, the

gladstone_carnage.com web-page designers, though interestingly never
my own mother. After I steeled myself to accept Thelma Corbitt’s
gracious invitation for coffee the week after her son’s funeral (though
she never asked aloud, and she spent most of our session reading me his
poems and showing me what seemed like hundreds of snapshots of
Denny in school plays), it came off her in pulses, it clutched at my dress:
a craving for comprehension that verged on hysteria. Like all those
parents, she’d been wracked by the apprehension that the entire gory
mess whose sticky pieces we would both be picking up for the rest of our
lives was unnecessary. Quite. Thursday was an elective, like
printmaking, or Spanish. But this incessant badgering, this pleading
refrain of why, why, why—it’s so grossly unfair. Why, after all I have
borne, am I held accountable for ordering their chaos? Isn’t it enough
that I suffer the brunt of the facts without shouldering this unreasonable
responsibility for what they mean? That young woman at Claverack
meant no harm I’m sure, but her all-toofamiliar question made me bitter.
“I expect it’s my fault,” I said defiantly. “I wasn’t a very good mother
—cold, judgmental, selfish. Though you can’t say I haven’t paid the
price.”
“Well, then,” she drawled, closing up that two inches and swiveling
her gaze thirty degrees to look me in the eye. “You can blame your
mother, and she can blame hers. Leastways sooner or later it’s the fault
of somebody who’s dead.”
Stolid in my guilt, clutching it like a girl with a stuffed bunny, I failed
to follow.
“Greenleaf?” shouted the guard. My companion tucked the candy into
her pocketbook, then rose. I could see her calculating that she had just
enough time to slip in one more quick question-and-answer or to deliver
a parting thought. With Sean Connery, that’s always the quandary, isn’t
it: to siphon information, or to pour. Somehow it impressed me that she
chose the latter.
“It’s always the mother’s fault, ain’t it?” she said softly, collecting her
coat. “That boy turn out bad cause his mama a drunk, or a she a junkie.
She let him run wild, she don’t teach him right from wrong. She never
home when he back from school. Nobody ever say his daddy a drunk, or
his daddy not home after school. And nobody ever say they some kids
just damned mean. Don’t you believe that old guff. Don’t you let them
saddle you with all that killing.”
“Loretta Greenleaf!”

“It hard to be a momma. Nobody ever pass a law say ’fore you get
pregnant you gotta be perfect. I’m sure you try the best you could. You
here, in this dump, on a nice Saturday afternoon? You still trying. Now
you take care of yourself, honey. And you don’t be talking any more a
that nonsense.”
Loretta Greenleaf held my hand and squeezed it. My eyes sprang hot. I
squeezed her hand back, so hard and so long that she must have feared I
might never let go.
Oh, dear, the coffee is cold.
 
Eva
 
 
(9 P.M.)
Now returned to my duplex, I’m ashamed of myself. I needn’t have
identified myself as Kevin’s mother. Loretta Greenleaf and I might have
simply talked about the Claverack food service: Who says saltpeter
suppresses sex drive? or even, What the hell is “saltpeter,” anyway?
I was about to write, “I don’t know what got into me,” but I’m afraid I
do, Franklin. I was thirsty for companionship, and I felt her engagement
with this garrulous white lady waning. I had the power to rivet her if I
wished, and I reached for it.
Of course, in the immediate aftermath of Thursday I wanted nothing
more than to crawl down a sewage drain and pull the lid. I longed for
unobtrusiveness, like my brother, or oblivion, if that is not simply a
synonym for wishing you were dead. The last thing in the world I was
worried about was my sense of distinction. But the resilience of the spirit
is appalling. As I said, I get hungry now, and for more than chicken.
What I wouldn’t give to go back to the days that I sat beside strangers
and made a memorable impression because I had founded a successful
company or had traveled extensively in Laos. I wax nostalgic for the
time that Siobhan clapped her hands and exclaimed admiringly that she’d
used Wing and a Prayer on her trips to the Continent. That is the
eminence that I chose for myself. But we are all resourceful, and we use
what falls to hand. Stripped of company, wealth, and handsome husband,
I stoop to my one surefire shortcut to being somebody.
Mother of the ignoble Kevin Khatchadourian is who I am now, an
identity that amounts to one more of our son’s little victories. AWAP and
our marriage have been demoted to footnotes, only interesting insofar as

they illuminate my role as the mother of the kid everybody loves to hate.
On the most private level, this filial mugging of who I once was to
myself may be what I most resent. For the first half of my life, I was my
own creation. From a dour, closeted childhood, I had molded a vibrant,
expansive adult who commanded a smattering of a dozen languages and
could pioneer through the unfamiliar streets of any foreign town. This
notion that you are your own work of art is an American one, as you
would hasten to point out. Now my perspective is European: I am a
bundle of other people’s histories, a creature of circumstance. It is Kevin
who has taken on this aggressive, optimistic Yankee task of making
himself up.
I may be hounded by that why question, but I wonder how hard I’ve
really tried to answer it. I’m not sure that I want to understand Kevin, to
find a well within myself so inky that from its depths what he did makes
sense. Yet little by little, led kicking and screaming, I grasp the
rationality of Thursday. Mark David Chapman now gets the fan mail that
John Lennon can’t; Richard Ramirez, the “Night Stalker,” may have
destroyed a dozen women’s chances for connubial happiness but still
receives numerous offers of marriage in prison himself. In a country that
doesn’t discriminate between fame and infamy, the latter presents itself
as plainly more achievable. Hence I am no longer amazed by the
frequency of public rampages with loaded automatics but by the fact that
every ambitious citizen in America is not atop a shopping center looped
with refills of ammunition. What Kevin did Thursday and what I did in
Claverack’s waiting room today depart only in scale. Yearning to feel
special, I was determined to capture someone’s attention, even if I had to
use the murder of nine people to get it.
It’s no mystery why Kevin is at home at Claverack. If in high school
he was disaffected, he had too much competition; scores of other boys
battled for the role of surly punk slumped in the back of the class. Now
he has carved himself a niche.
And he has colleagues, in Littleton, Jonesboro, Springfield. As in most
disciplines, rivalry vies with a more collegial sense of common purpose.
Like many a luminary, he is severe with his contemporaries, calling them
to rigorous standards: He derides blubberers like Paducah’s Michael
Carneal who recant, who sully the purity of their gesture with a craven
regret. He admires style—for instance, Evan Ramsey’s crack as he took
aim at his math class in Bethyl, Alaska, “This sure beats algebra, doesn’t
it?” He appreciates capable planning: Carneal inserted gun-range
earplugs before aiming his .22 Luger; Barry Loukaitis in Moses Lake

had his mother take him shopping in seven different stores until he found
just the right long black coat under which to hide his .30-caliber hunting
rifle. Kevin has a refined sense of irony, too, treasuring the fact that the
teacher Loukaitis shot had only recently written on the report card of this
A-student, “A pleasure to have in the class.” Like any professional, he
has contempt for the kind of rank incompetence featured by John Sirola,
the fourteen-year-old in Redlands, California, who blasted his principal
in the face in 1995, only to trip when fleeing the scene and shoot himself
dead. And in the way of most established experts, Kevin is suspicious of
parvenus trying to elbow their way into his specialty with the slightest of
qualifications—witness 
his 
resentment 
of 
that 
thirteen-year-old
eviscerater. He is difficult to impress.
Much as John Updike dismisses Tom Wolfe as a hack, Kevin reserves
a particular disdain for Luke Woodham, “the cracker” from Pearl,
Mississippi. He approves of ideological focus but scorns pompous
moralizing, as well as any School Shooting aspirant who can’t keep his
own counsel—and apparently before taking out his nominal once-
girlfriend with a .30-.30 caliber shotgun, Woodham couldn’t stop himself
from passing a note to a friend in class that read (and you should hear
your son’s puling rendition): “I killed because people like me are
mistreated every day. I did this to show society push us and we will push
back.” Kevin decried Woodham’s sniveling while mucus drizzled onto
his orange jumpsuit on Prime Time Live as totally uncool: “I’m my own
person! I’m not a tyrant. I’m not evil and I have a heart and I have
feelings!” Woodham has admitted to warming up by clubbing his dog,
Sparky, wrapping the pooch in a plastic bag, torching him with lighter
fluid, and listening to him whimper before tossing him in a pond, and
after studious consideration Kevin has concluded that animal torture is
clichéd. Lastly, he is especially condemnatory of the way this whiny
creature tried to worm out responsibility by blaming a satanic cult. The
story itself showed panache, but Kevin regards a refusal to stand by
one’s own handiwork as not only undignified but as a betrayal of the
tribe.
I know you, my dear, and you’re impatient. Never mind the
preliminaries, you want to hear about the visit itself—what his mood’s
like, how he’s looking, what he said. All right, then. But by imputation,
you asked for it.
He looks well enough. Though there is still a tinge too much blue in
his complexion, fine veins at his temples convey a promising hint of
vulnerability. If he has hacked his hair in uneven shocks, I take that as

representation of healthy concern with his appearance. The perpetual half
cock on the right corner of his mouth is starting to carve a permanent
single quote into the cheek, remaining behind when he switches to a
pursedmouth scowl. There’s no close quote on the left, and the
asymmetry is disconcerting.
No more of those ubiquitous orange jumpsuits these days at
Claverack. So Kevin is free to persist in the perplexing style of dress he
developed at fourteen, arguably crafted in counterpoint to the prevailing
fashion in clothing that’s oversized—the jib of Harlem toughs, boxers
catching sun, sauntering through moving traffic as the waistband of jeans
that could rig a small sailboat shimmy toward their knees. But if Kevin’s
alternative look is pointed, I can only make wild guesses at what it
means.
When he first trotted out this fashion in eighth grade, I assumed that
the T-shirts biting into his armpits and pleating across his chest were old
favorites he was reluctant to let go, and I went out of my way to find
duplicates in a larger size. He never touched them. Now I understand that
the dungarees whose zipper would not quite close were carefully
selected. Likewise the windbreakers whose arms rode up the wrist, the
ties that dangled three inches above the belt for when we forced him to
look “nice,” the shirts that gaped between popping buttons.
I will say, the tiny-clothes thing did get a lot across. At first glance, he
looked poverty-stricken, and I stopped myself more than once from
commenting that “people will think” we don’t earn enough to buy our
growing boy new jeans; adolescents are so greedy for signals that their
parents are consumed with social status. Besides, a closer inspection
revealed that his shrunken getup was designer labeled, lending the
pretense at hard luck a parodic wink. The suggestion of a wash load
churned at an errantly high temperature connoted a comic ineptitude, and
the binding of a child-sized jacket across the shoulders would sometimes
pull his arms goofily out from his sides like a baboon’s. (That’s as close
as he’s come to fitting the mold of a conventional cutup; no one I’ve
spoken to about our son has ever mentioned finding him funny.) The way
the hems of his jeans stopped shy of his socks made a hayseedy
impression, consonant with his fondness for playing dumb. There was
more than a suggestion of Peter Pan about the style—a refusal to grow
up—though I’m confused why he would cling so to being a kid when
throughout his childhood he seemed so lost in it, knocking around in
those years much the way I was rattling around our enormous house.

Claverack’s experimental policy of allowing inmates to wear street
clothes has allowed Kevin to reiterate his fashion statement inside. While
New York’s corner boys flapping in outsized gear look like toddlers from
a distance, Kevin’s shrunken mode of dress has the opposite effect of
making him look bigger—more adult, bursting. One of his psych
consultants has accused me of finding the style unnerving for its
aggressive sexuality: Kevin’s crotch cuts revealingly into his testicles,
and the painted-on T-shirts make his nipples protrude. Perhaps; certainly
the tight sleeve hems, the taut collars, and the yanked-in waistbands strap
his body in cords and remind me of bondage.
He looks uncomfortable, and in this respect the garb is apt. Kevin is
uncomfortable; the tiny clothing replicates the same constriction that he
feels in his own skin. Reading his suffocating attire as equivalent to a
penitential hair shirt might seem a stretch, but the waistbands chafe, the
collars score his neck. Discomfort begets discomfort in others, of course,
and that, too, must be part of the plan. I often find that when I’m with
him I pull at my own clothes, discreetly prizing a seam from between my
buttocks or releasing an extra button on my blouse.
Eyeing laconic interchanges at adjoining tables, I’ve detected that
some of his fellow inmates have started to mimic Kevin’s eccentric dress
sense. I gather that T-shirts in unusually small sizes have become prized
possessions, and Kevin himself has mentioned smugly that runts are
being robbed of their clothes. He may hold imitators up to ridicule, but
he does seem gratified at having initiated his very own fad. Were he
commensurately concerned with originality two years ago, the seven
students he used for target practice would be preparing applications to
the college of their choice by now.
Anyway, today? He lounged into the visiting room wearing what must
have been one of the runts’ sweatpants, since I didn’t recognize them as
ones I’d bought. The little plaid button-down he wore on top was only
secured by the middle two buttons, exposing his midriff. Now even his
tennis shoes are too small, and he crushes their heels under his feet. He
might not like to hear me say it, but he’s graceful. There’s a languor to
his motions, as to the way he talks. And he always has that skew, too; he
walks sideways, like a crab. Leading with his left hip gives him the
subtle sidle of a supermodel on a catwalk. If he realized I saw traces of
effeminacy in him, I doubt he’d be offended. He prizes ambiguity; he
loves to keep you guessing.
“What a surprise,” he said smoothly, pulling out the chair; its back
legs had lost their plastic feet and the raw aluminum shrieked across the

cement, a fingernail-on-the-blackboard sound that Kevin drew out. He
slid his elbow across the table, resting his temple on his fist, assuming
that characteristic tilt, sardonic with his whole body. I’ve tried to stop
myself, but whenever he sits in front of me I rear back.
I do get irked that I’m always the one who has to come up with
something to talk about. He’s old enough to carry a conversation. And
since he has imprisoned me in my life every bit as much as he’s
imprisoned himself in his, we suffer an equal poverty of fresh subject
matter. Often we run through the same script: “How are you?” I ask with
brutal simplicity. “You want me to say fine?” “I want you to say
something,” I throw back. “You’re the one came to see me,” he reminds
me. And he can and will sit it out, the whole hour. As for which of us has
the greater tolerance for nullity, there’s no contest. He used to spend
whole Saturdays propped theatrically in front of the Weather Channel.
So today I skipped even a perfunctory how’s tricks, on the theory that
folks who shun small talk are still dependent on its easing transitions but
have learned to make other people do all the work. And I was still
agitated by my exchange with Loretta Greenleaf. Maybe having tempted
his own mother into boasting about her connection to his filthy atrocity
would afford him some satisfaction. But apparently my messianic
impulse to take responsibility for Thursday onto myself reads to Kevin
as a form of stealing.
“All right,” I said, no-nonsense. “I need to know. Do you blame me?
It’s all right to say so, if that’s what you think. Is that what you tell your
psych consults, or they tell you? It all traces back to your mother.”
He snapped, “Why should you get all the credit?”
The conversation that I had expected to consume our whole hour was
now over in ninety seconds. We sat.
“Do you remember your early childhood very well, Kevin?” I had read
somewhere that people with painful childhoods will often draw a blank.
“What’s to remember?”
“Well, for example you wore diapers until you were six.”
“What about it.” If I had some idea of embarrassing him, I was
misguided.
“It must have been unpleasant.”
“For you.”
“For you as well.”
“Why?” he asked mildly. “It was warm.”
“Not for long.”
“Didn’t sit in it for long. You were a good mumsey.”

“Didn’t other kindergartners make fun of you? I worried at the time.”
“Oh, I bet you couldn’t sleep.”
“I worried,” I said staunchly.
He shrugged with one shoulder. “Why should they? I was getting
away with something and they weren’t.”
“I was just wondering if, at this late date, you could shed some light
on why the delay. Your father gave enough demonstrations.”
“Kevvy-wevvy!” he cooed, falsetto. “Honey sweetie! Look at
Daddykins! See how he pee-pees in the pooper-dooper? Wouldn’t you
like that, too, Kevvy-woopsie? Wouldn’t it be fun to be just like Dadda-
boo, piddle your peenie-weenie over the toileywoiley? I was just hoisting
you on your own retard.”
I was interested that he had allowed himself to be verbally clever; he’s
generally careful not to let on that he’s got a brain. “All right,” I said.
“You wouldn’t use the toilet for yourself, and you and I—you wouldn’t
do it for me. But why not for your father?”
“You’re a big boy, now!” Kevin minced. “You’re my big boy! You’re
my little man! Christ. What an asshole.”
I stood up. “Don’t you ever say that. Don’t you ever, ever say that.
Not once, not ever, not one more time!”
“Or what,” he said softly, eyes dancing.
I sat back down. I shouldn’t let him get to me like that. I usually don’t.
Still any dig at you—.
Oh, maybe I should count myself lucky that he doesn’t press this
button more often. Then, lately he is always pressing it, in a way. That is,
for most of his childhood his narrow, angular features taunted me with
my own reflection. But in the last year his face has started to fill out, and
as it widens I begin to recognize your broader bones. While it’s true that
I once searched Kevin’s face hungrily for resemblance to his father, now
I keep fighting this nutty impression that he’s doing it on purpose, to
make me suffer. I don’t want to see the resemblance. I don’t want to spot
the same mannerisms, that signature downward flap of a hand when you
dismissed something as insignificant, like the trifling matter of neighbor
after neighbor refusing to let their kids play with your son. Seeing your
strong chin wrenched in a pugnacious jut, your wide artless smile bent to
a crafty grin, is like beholding my husband possessed.
“So what would you have done?” I said. “With a little boy who
insisted on messing his pants until he was old enough for first grade?”
Kevin leaned further onto his elbow, his bicep flat on the table. “Know
what they do with cats, don’t you. They do it in the house, and you shove

their faces into their own shit. They don’t like it. They use the box.” He
sat back, satisfied.
“That’s not that far from what I did, is it?” I said heavily. “Do you
remember? What you drove me to? How I finally got you to use the
bathroom?”
He traced a faint white scar on his forearm near the elbow with a note
of tender possessiveness, as if stroking a pet worm. “Sure.” There was a
different quality to this affirmation; I felt he truly remembered, whereas
these other recollections were post hoc.
“I was proud of you,” he purred.
“You were proud of yourself,” I said. “As usual.”
“Hey,” he said, leaning forward. “Most honest thing you ever done.”
I stirred, collecting my bag. I may have craved his admiration once,
but not for that; for anything but that.
“Hold on,” he said. “I answered your question. Got one for you.”
This was new. “ All right,” I said. “Shoot.”
“Those maps,” he said.
“What about them,” I said.
“Why’d you keep them on the walls?”
It’s only because I refused to tear those spattered maps from the study
for years, or to allow you to paint over them as you were so anxious to,
that Kevin “remembers” the incident at all. He was, as you observed
repeatedly at the time, awfully young.
“I kept them up for my sanity,” I said. “I needed to see something
you’d done to me, to reach out and touch it. To prove that your malice
wasn’t all in my head.”
“Yeah,” he said, tickling the scar on his arm again. “Know what you
mean.”
I promise to explain, Franklin, but right now I just can’t.
 
Eva
 

 
 
JANUARY 17, 2001
 
 
Dear Franklin,
 
I’m sorry to have left you dangling, and I’ve been dreading an
explanation ever since. In fact, driving to work this morning, I had
another trial flashback. Technically, I committed perjury. I just didn’t
think I owed that beady-eyed judge (a congenital disorder I’d never seen
before, inordinately small pupils, provided her the dazed, insensate look
of a cartoon character who’s just been hit over the head with a frying
pan) what for a decade I’d kept from my own husband.
 
“Ms. Khatchadourian, did you or your husband ever hit your son?”
Mary’s attorney leaned threateningly into the witness stand.
“Violence only teaches a child that physical force is an acceptable
method of getting your way,” I recited.
“The court can only agree, Ms. Khatchadourian, but it’s very
important that we clarify in no uncertain terms for the record: Did you or
your husband ever physically abuse Kevin while he was in your care?”
“Certainly not,” I said firmly, and then muttered again for good
measure, “certainly not.” I rued the repetition. There’s something dodgy
about any assertion one feels obliged to make twice.
As I left the stand, my foot caught on a floorboard nail, pulling the
black rubber heel off my pump. I limped back to my chair, reflecting,
better a broken shoe than a long wooden nose.
But keeping secrets is a discipline. I never used to think of myself as a
good liar, but after having had some practice I had adopted the
prevaricator’s credo that one doesn’t so much fabricate a lie as marry it.
A successful lie cannot be brought into this world and capriciously
abandoned; like any committed relationship, it must be maintained, and
with far more devotion than the truth, which carries on being carelessly
true without any help. By contrast, my lie needed me as much as I
needed it, and so demanded the constancy of wedlock: Till death do us
part.
 

I realize that Kevin’s diapers embarrassed you, even if they
confoundingly failed to embarrass the boy himself. We were already
using the extra-large; much longer and we’d have to start mail-ordering
the kind for medical incontinence. However many tolerant parenting
manuals you’d devoured, you fostered an old-fashioned masculinity that
I found surprisingly attractive. You didn’t want your son to be a sissy, to
present an easy target for teasing peers, or to cling to a talisman of
infancy quite so publicly glaring, since the bulge under his pants was
unmistakable. “Jesus,” you’d grumble once Kevin was in bed, “why
couldn’t he just suck his thumb?”
Yet you yourself had engaged in an ongoing childhood battle with
your fastidious mother over flushing, because the toilet had overflowed
once, and every time you pushed the handle thereafter you were terrified
that lumps of excrement might begin disgorging endlessly onto the
bathroom floor, like a scatological version of The Sorcerer’s Apprentice.
And I had agreed that it was tragic how kids can tie themselves into
neurotic knots over pee and poop, and what a waste of angst it all was, so
I went along with this new theory about letting toddlers choose to potty
train when they were “ready.” Nevertheless, we were both getting
desperate. You started drilling me about whether he saw me using the
toilet during the day (we weren’t sure if he should or shouldn’t) or
whether I might have said anything to frighten him away from this
throne of civilized life, in comparison to which amenities like please and
thank you were dispensable as doilies. You accused me by turns of
making too much of the matter, and too little.
It was impossible that I made too little of it, since this one
developmental stage that our son seemed to have skipped was
tyrannizing my life. You will recall that it was only thanks to the new
educational ethos of pathological neutrality (there’s-no-such-thing-as-
worse-or-better-butonly-different) as well as paralytic fear of suit (in
horror of which Americans are increasingly reluctant to do anything
from giving drowning victims mouth-to-mouth to firing slack-jawed
incompetents from their employ) that Kevin wasn’t turned away from
that pricey Nyack kindergarten until he, well, got his shit together. All
the same, the teacher was not about to change a five-year-old boy,
claiming that she’d be laying herself open to charges of sexual abuse. (In
fact, when I quietly informed Carol Fabricant of Kevin’s little
eccentricity, she looked at me askance and announced witheringly that
this kind of nonconforming behavior was sometimes a cry for help. She
didn’t spell it out, but for the next week I lived in fear of a knock on the

door and a flashing blue light in our windows.) So no sooner had I
dropped him off at Love-’n’-Learn at 9 A.M. and driven back home than
I was obliged to return around 11:30 A.M. with my now rather careworn
diaper bag.
If he was dry, I’d engage in a bit of pretextual hair tousling and ask to
see what he was drawing, though with enough of his “artwork” stuck on
the fridge, I’d already have a pretty good idea. (While the other children
had graduated to fat-headed stick figures and landscapes with a little
strip of blue sky at the top, Kevin was still scrawling formless, jagged
scrabble in black and purple crayon.) Yet all too often a midday reprieve
meant return to a ringing phone: Miss Fabricant, informing me that
Kevin was now drenched and the other kids were complaining because
he smelled. Would I please—? I could hardly say no. Thus after picking
him up at 2 P.M., I’d have made four trips to Love-’n’-Learn in a day. So
much for having plenty of time to myself once Kevin started school, as
well as for the fantasy I had improbably kept alive that I might soon be
able to resume the directorship of AWAP.
Were Kevin a pliant, eager boy who happened to have this one
unpleasant problem, she might have felt sorry for him. But Miss
Fabricant’s relationship with our son was not thriving for other reasons.
We may have made a mistake in sending him to a Montessori
kindergarten, whose philosophy of human nature was, at the least,
optimistic. Its supervised but unstructured education—kids were placed
in a “stimulating” environment, with play stations including alphabet
blocks, counting beads, and pea plants—presumed that children were
inborn autodidacts. Yet in my experience, when left to their own devices
people will get up to one of two things: nothing much, and no good.
An initial report of Kevin’s “progress” that November mentioned that
he was “somewhat undersocialized” and “may need assistance with
initiating behaviors.” Miss Fabricant was loath to criticize her charges,
so it was pulling teeth to get her to translate that Kevin had spent his first
two months sitting slack on a stool in the middle of the room, gazing
dully at his puttering classmates. I knew that look, a precociously
geriatric, glaucous-eyed glare sparked only by a sporadic glint of
scornful incredulity. When pressed to play with the other boys and girls,
he replied that whatever they were doing was “dumb,” speaking with the
effortful weariness that in junior high school would convince his history
teacher that he was drunk. However she persuaded him to craft those
dark, furious drawings I will never know.

For me, these crayon mangles were a constant strain to admire. I
rapidly ran out of compliments (That has so much energy, Kevin!) and
imaginative interpretations (Is that a storm, honey? Or maybe a picture
of the hair and soap we pull out of a bathtub drain!). Hard-pressed to
keep cooing over his exciting choice of colors when he drew exclusively
in black, brown, and violet, I couldn’t help but suggest timidly that
abstract expressionism having hit such a dead-end in the fifties, maybe
he should try approximating a bird or a tree. But for Miss Fabricant,
Kevin’s clogged-drain still lifes were proof positive that the Montessori
method could work wonders with a doorstop.
Nonetheless, even Kevin, who has such a gift for it, can sustain stasis
for only so long without doing something to make life a little interesting,
as he demonstrated so conclusively on Thursday. By the school year’s
end Miss Fabricant must have waxed nostalgic for the days when Kevin
Khatchadourian did absolutely nothing.
Maybe it goes without saying that the pea plants died, as did the
sprouting avocado that replaced them, while at the same time I noticed
idly that I was missing a bottle of bleach. There were mysteries:
Subsequent to a particular day in January, the moment I led Kevin by the
hand into the classroom, a little girl with Shirley Temple curls began to
cry, and her wailing worsened until at some point in February she never
came back. Another boy, aggressive and rambunctious in September, one
of those biffy sorts always boxing your leg and pushing other kids in the
sandbox, suddenly became silent and inward, developing at once a
severe case of asthma and an inexplicable terror of the coat closet, within
five feet of which he would begin to wheeze. What did that have to do
with Kevin? I couldn’t say; perhaps nothing. And some of the incidents
were pretty harmless, like the time little Jason stuck his feet in his bright
red galoshes, only to find them filled with squares of apple-spice cake
leftover from snack time. Child’s play—if real child’s play—we’d agree.
What most aggrieved Miss Fabricant, of course, was the fact that one
after the other of her other charges started to regress in the potty
department. She and I had concurred hopefully at the start of the year
that Kevin might be inspired by the example of his peers on bathroom
breaks, but I fear that quite the opposite took place, and by the time he
graduated there was not just one six-year-old in diapers, but three or four.
I was more unsettled by a couple of passing incidents.
One morning some delicate slip of a thing nicknamed Muffet brought
a tea set for show-and-tell. It wasn’t any ordinary tea set, but an ornate,
many-cupped affair whose elements each fit into the formfitted cubbies

of a velvet-lined mahogany box. Her mother later huffed that it was a
family heirloom that Muffet was only allowed to bring out on special
occasions. No doubt the set should never have been taken to a
kindergarten, but the little girl was proud of the many matching pieces
and had learned to handle them with care, painstakingly laying out the
cups in their saucers with china spoons before a dozen of her classmates
as they sat at their knee-high tables. After she’d poured a round of “tea”
(the ubiquitous pineapple-grapefruit juice), Kevin hoisted his cup by its
tiny handle in a salutary toast—and dropped it on the floor.
In rapid succession all eleven of his fellow tea-sippers followed suit.
Before Miss Fabricant could get hold of the situation, the saucers and
spoons quickly suffered the same tinkling fate, in consequence of which
when Muffet’s mother retrieved her sobbing daughter that afternoon,
nothing remained of the treasured tea set but the pot.
If I had ever nursed the hope that my son might turn out to display
leadership qualities, this is not what I had in mind. Yet when I made a
remark to this effect, Miss Fabricant was in no mood for drollery. I felt
that in general her early twenties exhilaration at molding all those
receptive little moppets into multiculturally aware, environmentally
responsible vegetarians driven to rectify inequities in the Third World
was beginning to fray around the edges. This was her first year of flaking
poster paint from her eyebrows, going to sleep at night with the salty
taste of paste in her gums, and exiling so many children at a shot for a
“time-out” that there was no longer any activity to take a time out from.
After all, she had announced at our introduction in September that she
“simply loves children,” a declaration of which I am eternally dubious.
From young women like Miss Fabricant, with a blunt snub of a nose like
a Charlotte potato and hips like Idahos, the infeasible assertion seems to
decode, “I want to get married.” Myself, after having not a child but this
particular one, I couldn’t see how anyone could claim to love children in
the generic any more that anyone could credibly claim to love people in a
sufficiently sweeping sense as to embrace Pol Pot, Don Rickles, and an
upstairs neighbor who does 2,000 jumping jacks at three in the morning.
After relating her terrible tale in a breathless stage whisper, she clearly
expected me to leap to cover the cost of the tea set. Financially of course
I could afford to, whatever it was worth, but I could not afford the
attendant assumption of total blame. Face it, Franklin, you’d have had a
fit. You were touchy about your son’s being singled out, or as you would
say, persecuted. Technically he had only broken the one setting, and
covering one-twelfth of the loss was the most compensation you would

countenance. I also offered to speak to Kevin about “respecting the
property of others,” though Miss Fabricant was underwhelmed by this
assurance. Maybe she intuited that these set lectures of mine had begun
to lilt with the swinging, mocking cadence of the one-potato, two-potato
rhymes to which girls skip rope.
“That wasn’t very nice, Kevin,” I said in the car. “Breaking Muffet’s
teacup.” I’ve no idea why we parents persist in believing that our kids
yearn to be thought of as nice, since when we ourselves commend
acquaintances as very nice we usually mean they’re dull.
“She has a stupid name.”
“That doesn’t mean she deserves—”
“It slipped,” he said lamely.
“That’s not what Miss Fabricant said.”
“How would she know.” He yawned.
“How would you feel, kiddo, if you had something that you cared
about more than anything, and you brought it to show to the class, and
then someone smashed it?”
“Like what?” he asked, innocence tinged with self-congratulation.
I reached casually in my head for an example of a possession that
Kevin especially cherished, and it wasn’t there. Searching harder, I felt
the same rising dismay of patting down all my pockets after discovering
that the one in which I always kept my wallet was empty. It was
unnatural. In my own rather underfurnished childhood, I was a fetishistic
custodian of the lowliest keepsake, from a three-legged windup donkey
named Cloppity to a rinsed-out four-pack of food-coloring bottles.
It’s not as if Kevin didn’t have things in abundance, since you
showered him with toys. I’d feel unkind in pointing out that he ignored
these Junior Game Boys and Tonka dump trucks across the board, save
that your very excess seemed to signal an awareness that none of your
previous gifts had taken. Maybe your generosity backfired, by lining his
playroom in what must have seemed a kind of plastic dirt; and maybe he
could tell that commercial presents were easy for us, being rich, and so,
however expensive, cheap.
But I had spent weeks at a time crafting homespun, personalized
playthings that should hypothetically have meant something. I made sure
Kevin watched me, too, so that he knew them for labors of love. The
most curiosity he ever exhibited was to ask irritably why I didn’t just buy
a storybook. Otherwise, once my hand-drawn children’s book was
sandwiched between painted pressboard covers, drilled and hole-
punched and bound with bright yarn, he looked vacantly out the window

as I read it aloud. I admit that the story line was hackneyed, about a little
boy who loses his beloved dog, Snippy, and becomes distraught and
looks everywhere and of course in the end Snippy shows up—I probably
borrowed it from Lassie. I’ve never pretended to be a gifted creative
writer, and the watercolors bled; I was suffering from the delusion that
it’s the thought that counts. But no matter how many references to the
little boy’s dark hair and deep brown eyes I planted, I couldn’t get him to
identify with the boy in the story who pines for his lost puppy.
(Remember when you wanted to buy Kevin a dog? I begged you not to. I
was glad you never forced me to explain, since I never explained it to
myself. I just know that whenever I envisioned our bouncing black lab,
or trusting Irish setter, I was filled with horror.) The only interest he
displayed in the book was when I left him alone with it to get dinner,
only to find that he’d scribbled Magic Marker on every page—an early
interactive edition, it seems. Later he drowned the stuffed-sock, button-
eyed Teddy, aptly as it happens, in Bear Lake; he fed several pieces of
my black-and-white wooden jigsaw of a zebra down the driveway’s
drain.
I clutched at ancient history. “Remember your squirt gun?”
He shrugged.
“Remember when Mommer lost her temper, and stamped on it, and it
broke?” I had got into the queer habit of referring to myself in the third
person; I may have already begun to dissociate, and “Mommer” was now
my virtuous alter ego, a pleasingly plump maternal icon with floury
hands and a fire surging in a pot-bellied stove who solved disputes
between neighborhood urchins with spellbinding fables and hot Toll
House cookies. Meantime, Kevin had dropped Mommer altogether,
thereby demoting the neologism to my own rather silly name for myself.
In the car, I was disquieted to realize that he had ceased to call me
anything at all. That seemed impossible, but your children generally use
your name when they want something, if only attention, and Kevin was
loath to beseech me for so much as a turned head. “You didn’t like that,
did you?”
“I didn’t care,” said Kevin.
My hands slithered down the wheel from ten-and-two to a desultory
seven-and-five. His memory was accurate. Since according to you in
defacing my maps he had only been trying to help, you replaced the
squirt gun, which he tossed into his slag heap of a toy box and never
touched. The squirt gun had served its purpose. Indeed, I’d had a spooky

presentiment when I finished grinding the barrel into the floor that since
he had been attached to it, he was glad to see it go.
When I told you about the tea set, you were about to brush it off, but I
shot you a warning glance; we had talked about the need for presenting a
united front. “Hey, Kev,” you said lightly. “I know teacups are for girls
and sort of prissy, but don’t break ’em, okay? It’s uncool. Now how
about some Frisbee? We’ve just got time to work on that bank shot of
yours before dinner.”
“Sure, Dad!” I remember watching Kevin streak off to the closet to
fetch the Frisbee and puzzling. Hands fisted, elbows flying, he looked for
all the world like a regular, rambunctious kid, exhilarated at playing in
the yard with his father. Except that it was too much like a regular kid;
almost studied. Even that Sure, Dad! had a rehearsed, nyeh-nyeh ring to
it that I couldn’t put my finger on. I had the same queasy feeling on
weekends when Kevin would pipe up—yes, pipe up—“Gosh, Dad, it’s
Saturday! Can we go see another battlefield?” You’d be so enchanted
that I couldn’t bring myself to raise the possibility that he was pulling
your leg. Likewise, I watched out the dining room window and could not
believe, somehow, that Kevin was quite that inept at throwing a Frisbee
after all this time. He still tossed the disc on its side, hooking the rim on
his middle finger, and curled it ten yards from your feet. You were
patient, but I worried that your very patience tempted Kevin to try it.
Oh, I don’t remember all the incidents that year aside from the fact
that there were several, which you tagged with the umbrella dismissal,
“Eva, every boy pulls a few pigtails.” I spared you a number of accounts,
because for me to report any of our son’s misbehavior seemed like telling
on him. I ended up reflecting badly not on him but on myself. If I were
his sister I could see it, but could a mother be a tattletale? Apparently.
However, the sight I beheld in—I think it was March, well, I’m not
sure why it unnerved me quite so much, but I couldn’t keep it to myself.
I had gone to pick up Kevin at the usual time, and no one seemed to
know where he was. Miss Fabricant’s expression grew pinched, though
by this point, were Kevin abducted by the murderous pedophiles we
were then led to believe lurked behind every bush, I’d suspect her of
having hired them. The missing child being our son, it took a while
before one of us thought to check the bathrooms, hardly his bolt-hole of
choice.
“Here he is!” sang his teacher at the door to the Girls’ Room. And
then she gasped.

I doubt your recollection of these rusty stories is all that sharp, so
allow me to refresh your memory. There was a slight, dark-haired
kindergartner named Violetta whom I must have mentioned earlier that
school year, since she touched me so. She was quiet, withdrawn; she
would hide in Miss Fabricant’s skirts, and it took me ages to coax her to
tell me her name. Quite pretty, really, but you had to look at her carefully
to discern that, which most people didn’t. They couldn’t get past the
eczema.
It was dreadful. She was covered in it, these massive scaly patches,
red and flaking and sometimes cracked, where it scabbed. All down her
arms and spindly legs, and worst of all across her face. The crinkling
texture was reptilian. I’d heard that skin conditions were associated with
emotional disorders; maybe I was myself susceptible to faddish
presuppositions, since I couldn’t help wondering if Violetta was being
mistreated in some way or if her parents were undergoing a fractious
divorce. In any case, every time I laid eyes on her something caved in
me, and I fought the impulse to gather her in my arms. I’d never have
wished vast angry blemishes on our son per se, but this was just the sort
of heartbreaking affliction for which I had hankered at Dr. Foulke’s:
some temporary misfortune that would heal but that would meantime stir
in me when faced with my own boy the same bottomless pool of
sympathy that rippled whenever Violetta—a stranger’s child—shuffled
bashfully into view.
I’ve only had one outbreak of eczema, on my shin, just a taste but
enough to know that it itches like fury. I’d overheard her mother urging
the girl murmurously not to scratch and assumed that the tube of cream
that Violetta always carried, clutched shamefully in the pocket of her
jumper, was an anti-itch ointment, since if it was a curative it was snake
oil; I’d never seen Violetta’s eczema do anything but get worse. But
those antipruritics are only so effective, and her self-control was
impressive. She’d trace a fingernail tantalizingly over her arm, and then
grasp the offending hand with the other, as if putting it on a leash.
Anyway, when Miss Fabricant gasped, I joined her in the doorway.
Kevin’s back was to us, and he was whispering. When I pushed the door
open a little more, he stopped and stepped back. Facing us before the
washbasins was Violetta. Her face was lifted in what I can only describe
as an expression of bliss. Her eyes were closed, her arms crossed
sepulchrally with each hand at the opposite shoulder, her body listing in
a kind of swoon. I’m sure we’d have neither begrudged this benighted

little girl the ecstasy she so deserved, except for the fact that she was
covered with blood.
I don’t mean to be melodramatic. It soon became clear after Miss
Fabricant shrieked and pushed Kevin aside for paper towels that
Violetta’s abrasions weren’t as bad as they looked. I restrained her hands
from raking her upper arms while her teacher dabbed moistened towels
on her limbs and face, desperately trying to clean her up a bit before her
mother arrived. I attempted to dust the dandruff of white flecks from her
navy jumper, but the flakes of skin stuck to the flannel like Velcro. There
clearly wasn’t time to scrub the splotches of blood from the lacy rim of
her anklets and the gathers of her white puffed sleeves. Most of the
lacerations were shallow, but they were all over her body, and Miss
Fabricant would no sooner daub a patch of eczema—flamed from sullen
mauve to incandescent magenta—than it would bead again, and trickle.
Listen: I don’t want to have this argument again. I fully accept that
Kevin may never have touched her. As far as I could tell she had clawed
herself open without any help. It itched and she’d given in, and I dare say
that finally scraping her fingernails into that hideous red crust must have
felt delicious. I even sensed a trace of vengefulness in the extent of the
damage, or perhaps a misguided medical conviction that with sufficiently
surgical application she might exfoliate the scaly bane of her existence
once and for all.
Still, I’ve never forgotten my glimpse of her face when we found her,
for it bespoke not only plain enjoyment but a release that was wilder,
more primitive, almost pagan. She knew it would hurt later and she knew
she was only making her skin condition worse and she knew her mother
would be beside herself, and it was this very apprehension with which
her expression was suffused, and which gave it, even in a girl of five, a
hint of obscenity. She would sacrifice herself to this one glorious
gorging, consequences be damned. Why, it was the very grotesquerie of
the consequences—the bleeding, the stinging, the hair-tear back home,
the unsightly black scabs in the weeks to come—that seemed to lie at the
heart of her pleasure.
 
That night you were furious.
“So a little girl scratched herself. What has that to do with my son?”
“He was there! This poor girl, flaying herself alive, and he did
nothing.”
“He’s not her minder, Eva, he’s one of the kids!”
“He could have called someone, couldn’t he? Before it went so far?”

“Maybe, but he’s not even six until next month. You can’t expect him
to be that resourceful or even to recognize what’s ‘too far’ when all she’s
doing is scratching. None of which remotely explains why you let Kevin
squish around the house, all afternoon from the looks of him, plastered in
shit!” A rare slip. You forgot to say poop.
“It’s thanks to Kevin that Kevin’s diapers stink because it’s thanks to
Kevin that he wears diapers at all.” Bathed by his outraged father, Kevin
was in his room, but I was aware of the fact that my voice carried.
“Franklin, I’m at my wit’s end! I bought all those there’s-nothing-
dirtyabout-poo how-to books and now he thinks they’re stupid because
they’re written for two-year-olds. We’re supposed to wait until he’s
interested, but he’s not, Franklin! Why should he be when Mother will
always clean it up? How long are we going to let this go on, until he’s in
college?”
“Okay, I accept we’re in a positive reinforcement loop. It gets him
attention—”
“We’re not in a loop but a war, Franklin. And our troops are
decimated. We’re short on ammunition. Our borders are overrun.”
“Can we get something straight? Is this your new potty-training
theory, let him slum around in his own crap and get it all over our white
sofa? This is instructional? Or is it punishment? Because somehow this
latest therapy of yours seems all mixed up with your lunatic indignation
that some other kid got an itch.”
“He enticed her.”
“Oh, for Pete’s sake.”
“She’d been very, very good about leaving that eczema alone.
Suddenly we find her in the bathroom with her new little friend, and he’s
hovering over her and urging her on.... My God, Franklin, you should
have seen her! She reminded me of that old scare story that circulated in
the sixties about how some guy on acid clawed all the skin off his arms
because he thought he was infested with bugs.”
“Does it occur to you that if the scene was all that terrible then maybe
Kevin’s a little traumatized himself? That maybe he needs some comfort
and reassurance and someone to talk to about it, and not to be banished
to his own personal sewer? Jesus, they take kids into foster care for less.”
“I should be so lucky,” I muttered.
“Eva!”
“I was joking!”
“What is wrong with you?” you despaired.

“He wasn’t ‘traumatized,’ he was smug. Riding home, his eyes were
sparkling. I haven’t seen him that pleased with himself since he
eviscerated his birthday cake.”
You plopped onto an end of our impractical white couch, head in
hands; I couldn’t join you, because the other end was still smeared
brown. “I’m pretty much at the end of my rope, too, Eva.” You massaged
your temples. “But not because of Kevin.”
“Is that a threat?—”
“It’s not a threat—”
“What are you talking about!—”
“Eva, please calm down. I’m never going to break up our family.”
There was a time you’d have said instead, I’ll never leave you. Your
more rectitudinous declaration had a solidity about it, where pledges of
everlasting devotion to a lover are notoriously frail. So I wondered why
your bedrock commitment to our family made me sad.
“I dress him,” I said. “I feed him when he lets me, I ferry him
everywhere. I bake his kindergarten snacks. I’m at his beck from
morning to night. I change his diapers six times a day, and all I hear
about is the one afternoon that he so disturbed me, even frightened me,
that I couldn’t bear to come near him. I wasn’t exactly trying to punish
him. But in that bathroom, he seemed so, ah—” I discarded three or four
adjectives as too inflammatory, then finally gave up. “Changing him was
too intimate.”
“Listen to yourself. Because I have no idea what kid you’re talking
about. We have a happy, healthy boy. And I’m beginning to think he’s
unusually bright.” (I stopped myself from interjecting, That’s what I’m
afraid of.) “If he sometimes keeps to himself, that’s because he’s
thoughtful, reflective. Otherwise, he plays with me, he hugs me good
night, I read him stories. When it’s just me and him, he tells me
everything—”
“Meaning, he tells you what?”
You raised your palms. “What he’s been drawing, what they had for
snack—”
“And you think that’s telling you everything.”
“Are you out of your mind? He’s five years old, Eva, what else is there
to tell?”
“For starters? What happened last year, in that after-preschool play
group. One after another, every mother took her kids out. Oh, there was
always some excuse—Jordan keeps catching colds, Tiffany is
uncomfortable being the youngest. Until it’s down to just me and Lorna’s

kids, and she mumbles something about it not being much of a group
anymore and calls it quits. A few weeks later I stop by Lorna’s
unannounced to drop off a Christmas present? All the old play group is
reassembled in her living room. She was embarrassed and we didn’t
address it, but since Kevin tells you everything why not get him to
explain what might drive all those mothers to sneak off and reconvene in
secret, all to exclude our ‘happy, healthy’ son.”
“I wouldn’t ask him because that’s an ugly story that would hurt his
feelings. And I don’t see the mystery—gossip and cliquishness and
smalltown fallings out. Typical of stay-at-home mothers with time on
their hands.”
“I’m one of those stay-at-home mothers, at considerable sacrifice I’d
remind you, and the last thing we have is time on our hands.”
“So he was blackballed! Why doesn’t that make you angry at them?
Why assume it was something our son did, and not some neurotic hen
with a bug up her ass?”
“Because I’m all too well aware that Kevin doesn’t tell me everything.
Oh, and you could also ask him why not one baby-sitter will come back
a second night.”
“I don’t need to. Most teenagers around here get an allowance of $100
a week. Only 12 bucks an hour isn’t very tempting.”
“Then at least you could get your sweet, confiding little boy to tell you
just exactly what he said to Violetta.”
 
It’s not as if we fought all the time. To the contrary, though, it’s the fights
I remember; funny how the nature of a normal day is the first memory to
fade. I’m not one of those sorts, either, who thrives on turmoil—more’s
the pity, as it turns out. Still, I may have been glad to scratch the dry
surface of our day-to-day peaceableness the way Violetta had clawed the
sere crust on her limbs, anything to get something bright and liquid
flowing again, out in the open and slippery between our fingers. That
said, I feared what lay beneath. I feared that at bottom I hated my life
and hated being a mother and even in moments hated being your wife,
since you had done this to me, turned my days into an unending stream
of shit and piss and cookies that Kevin didn’t even like.
Meanwhile, no amount of shouting was resolving the diaper crisis. In
a rare inversion of our roles, you were apt to regard the problem as all
very internally complicated, and I thought it was simple: We wanted him
to use the toilet, so he wouldn’t. Since we weren’t about to stop wanting
him to use the toilet, I was at a loss.

You doubtless found my usage of the word war preposterous. But in
corralling Kevin to the changing table—now small for the purpose; his
legs dangled over its raised flap—I was often reminded of those scrappy
guerrilla conflicts in which underequipped, ragtag rebel forces manage to
inflict surprisingly serious losses on powerful armies of state. Lacking
the vast if unwieldy arsenal of the establishment, the rebels fall back on
cunning. Their attacks, while often slight, are frequent, and sustained
aggravation can be more demoralizing over time than a few high-
casualty spectaculars. At such an ordnance disadvantage, guerrillas use
whatever lies at hand, sometimes finding in the material of the everyday
a devastating dual purpose. I gather that you can make bombs, for
example, out of methanating manure. For his part, Kevin, too, ran a seat-
of-the-pants operation, and Kevin, too, had learned to form a weapon
from shit.
Oh, he submitted to being changed placidly enough. He seemed to
bask in the ritual and may have inferred from my growing briskness a
gratifying embarrassment, for swabbing his tight little testicles when he
was nearly six was beginning to feel risqué.
If Kevin enjoyed our trysts, I did not. I have never been persuaded that
even an infant’s effluents smell precisely “sweet”; a kindergartner’s feces
benefit from no such reputation. Kevin’s had grown firmer and stickier,
and the nursery now exuded the sour fug of subway tunnels colonized by
the homeless. I felt sheepish about the mounds of nonbiodegradable
Pampers we contributed to the local landfill. Worst of all, some days
Kevin seemed deliberately to hold his intestines in check for a second
strike. If no Leonardo of the crayon world, he had a virtuoso’s command
of his sphincter.
Mind, I’m setting the table here, but hardly excusing what happened
that July. I don’t expect you to be anything but horrified. I’m not even
asking your forgiveness; it’s late for that. But I badly need your
understanding.
Kevin graduated from kindergarten in June, and we were stuck with
one another all summer. (Listen, I got on Kevin’s nerves as much as he
got on mine.) Despite Miss Fabricant’s modest successes with Drano
illustrations, the Montessori method was not working wonders in our
home. Kevin had still not learned to play. Left to entertain himself, he
would sit like a lump on the floor with a moody detachment that turned
the atmosphere of the whole house oppressive. So I tried to involve him
in projects, assembling yarn and buttons and glue and scraps of colorful
fabric in the playroom for making sock puppets. I’d join him on the

carpet and have a cracking good time myself, really, except in the end I
would have made a nibbling rabbit with a red felt mouth and big floppy
blue ears and drinking-straw whiskers, and Kevin’s arm would sport a
plain knee-high dipped in paste. I didn’t expect our child to necessarily
be a crafts wunderkind, but he could at least have made an effort.
I also tried to give him a jump on first grade by tutoring him on the
basics. “Let’s work on our numbers!” I’d propose.
“What for.”
“So when you get to school you’ll be better than anyone else at
arithmetic.”
“What good is arithmetic.”
“Well, you remember yesterday, and Mommer paid the bills? You
have to be able to add and subtract to pay bills, and know how much
money you have left.”
“You used a calculator.”
“Well, you have to know arithmetic to be sure the calculator is right.”
“Why would you use it at all if it doesn’t always work.”
“It always works,” I begrudge.
“So you don’t need arithmetic.”
“To use a calculator,” I say, flustered, “you still have to know what a
five looks like, all right? Now, let’s practice our counting. What comes
after three?”
“Seven,” says Kevin.
We would proceed in this fashion, until once after one more random
exchange (“What comes before nine?” “Fifty-three.”) he looked me
lifelessly in the eye and droned in a fast-forward monotone,
“Onetwothreefourfivesixseveneightnineteneleventwelve ...,” pausing two
or three times for a breath but otherwise making it flawlessly to a
hundred. “Now can we quit?” I certainly felt the fool.
I roused no more enthusiasm for literacy. “Don’t tell me,” I’d cut him
off after raising the prospect of reading time. “What for. What good is it.
Well, I’ll tell you. Sometimes you’re going to be bored and there’s
nothing to do except you can always read a book. Even on the train or at
a bus stop.”
“What if the book is boring.”
“Then you find a different one. There are more books in the world
than you’ll ever have time to read, so you’ll never run out.”
“What if they’re all boring.”
“I don’t think that would be possible, Kevin,” I’d say crisply.
“I think it’s possible,” he’d differ.

“Besides, when you grow up you’ll need a job, and then you’ll have to
be able to read and write really well or no one will want to hire you.”
Privately, of course, I reflected that if this were true most of the country
would be unemployed.
“Dad doesn’t write. He drives around and takes pictures.”
“There are other jobs—”
“What if I don’t want a job.”
“Then you’d have to go on welfare. The government would give you
just a little money so you don’t starve, but not enough to do anything
fun.”
“What if I don’t want to do anything.”
“I bet you will. If you make your own money, you can go to movies
and restaurants and even different countries, like Mommer used to.” At
used to, I winced.
“I think I want to go on welfare.” It was the kind of line I’d heard
other parents repeat with a chortle at dinner parties, and I struggled to
find it adorable.
I don’t know how those home-schooling families pull it off. Kevin
never seemed to be paying any attention, as if listening were an
indignity. Yet somehow, behind my back, he picked up what he needed
to know. He learned the way he ate—furtively, on the sly, shoveling
information like a fisted cheese sandwich when no one was watching. He
hated to admit he didn’t know something already, and his blanket
playing-dumb routine was cunningly crafted to cover any genuine gaps
in his education. In Kevin’s mind, pretend-ignorance wasn’t shameful,
and I was never able to discriminate between his feigned stupidity and
the real thing. Hence, if at the dinner table I decried Robin Williams’s
role in Dead Poets Society as trite, I felt obliged to explain to Kevin that
the word meant “like what lots of people have done already.” But he’d
receive this definition with a precocious uh-duh. Had he learned the
word trite at three, when he was faking not being able to talk at all? You
tell me.
In any event, after belligerently botching his alphabet for weeks
(“What comes after R?” Elemenno), he interrupted one of my diatribes—
about how he couldn’t just sit there and expect learning to pour into his
ear all by itself—by singing the alphabet song impeccably start to finish,
albeit with an aggressive tunelessness that even for the tin-eared was
improbable and tinged with a minor key that made this bouncy children’s
pneumonic sound like kaddish. I suppose they’d taught it at Love-’n’-
Learn, not that Kevin had let on. When he finished mockingly, Now I’ve

said my ABCs, tell me what you think of me, I snapped furiously, “I think
you’re a wicked little boy who enjoys wasting his mother’s time!” and he
smiled, extravagantly, with both sides of his mouth.
He wasn’t precisely disobedient, which is one detail that the Sunday
magazine exposés often got wrong. Indeed, he could follow the letter of
his assignments with chilling precision. After the obligatory period of
aping incompetence—crippled, unclosed P’s wilting below the line as if
they’d been shot—he sat down on command and wrote perfectly within
the lines of his exercise book, “Look, Sally, look. Go. Go. Go. Run. Run.
Run. Run, Sally, Run.” I have no way of explaining why it was rather
awful, except that he exposed to me the insidious nihilism of the grade-
school primer. Even the way he formed those letters made me uneasy.
They had no character. I mean, he didn’t really develop handwriting as
we understand it, connotatively the personal stamp on standardized
script. From the point he admitted he knew how, his printing unerringly
replicated the examples in his textbook, with no extra tails or squiggles;
his T’s were crossed and I’s dotted, and never before had the bloated
interior of B’s and O’s and D’s seemed to contain so much empty space.
My point is that, however technically biddable, he was exasperating to
teach. You could savor his remarkable progress when you came home,
but I was never treated to those Eureka! moments of sudden
breakthrough that reward an adult’s hours of patient coaxing and mind-
numbing repetition. It is no more satisfying to teach a child who refuses
to learn in plain view than it is to feed one by leaving a plate behind in
the kitchen. He was clearly denying me satisfaction on purpose. He was
determined that I should feel useless and unneeded. Though I may not
have been as convinced as you were that our son was a genius, he was—
well, I suppose he still is, if such things can be said of a boy who clings
to an act of such crowning idiocy—very bright. But my day-to-day
experience as his tutor was that of instructing an exceptional child only
in the euphemistic tradition that seems to concoct an ever more dishonest
name for moron every year. I would drill what-istwo-plus-three over and
over and over, until once when he staunchly, maliciously refused to say
five one more time I sat him down, scrawled,
12,387 
6,945 
138,964 
3,987,234

scored a line under it and said, “There! Add that up then! And multiply it
by 25 while you’re at it, since you think you’re so smart!”
I missed you during the day, as I missed my old life when I was too
busy to miss you during the day. Here I had become quite well versed in
Portuguese history down to the order of the monarchy and how many
Jews were murdered during the Inquisition, and now I was reciting the
alphabet. Not the Cyrillic alphabet, nor the Hebrew one, the alphabet.
Even if Kevin had proved an ardent pupil, for me the regime would
doubtless have felt like a demotion of the precipitous sort commonly
constrained to dreams: Suddenly I’m sitting in the back of the class,
taking a test with a broken pencil and no pants. Nonetheless, I might
have abided this humbling role if it weren’t for the additional humiliation
of living, for over six years now, up to my elbows in shit.
Okay—out with it.
There came an afternoon in July that, per tradition, Kevin had soiled
his diapers once and been cleaned up with the whole diaper cream and
talcum routine, only to complete the evacuation of his bowels twenty
minutes later. Or so I assumed. But this time he outdid himself. This was
the same afternoon that, after I had insisted he write a sentence that was
meaningful about his life and not one more tauntingly inert line about
Sally, he wrote in his exercise book, “In kendergarden evrybody says my
mother looks rilly old.” I’d turned beet-red, and that was when I sniffed
another telltale waft. After I’d just changed him twice. He was sitting
cross-legged on the floor, and I lifted him to a stand by the waist, pulling
his Pampers open to make sure. I lost it. “How do you do it?” I shouted.
“You hardly eat anything, where does it come from?”
A rush of heat rippled up through my body, and I barely noticed that
Kevin was now dangling with his feet off the carpet. He seemed to weigh
nothing, as if that tight, dense little body stocked with such inexhaustible
quantities of shit was packed instead with Styrofoam peanuts. There’s no
other way to say this. I threw him halfway across the nursery. He landed
with a dull clang against the edge of the stainless steel changing table.
His head at a quizzical tilt, as if he were finally interested in something,
he slid, in seeming slow motion, to the floor.
 
Eva
 

 
 
JANUARY 19, 2001
 
Dear Franklin,
 
 
So now you know.
I had rash hopes when I first rushed over to him that he was all right—
he looked unmarked—until I rolled him over to reveal the arm he fell on.
His forearm must have struck the edge of the changing table when for
the first time, as you once remarked in jest, our son had learned to fly. It
was bleeding and a little crooked and bulging in the middle with
something white poking out and I felt sick. I’m sorry, I’m sorry, I’m so
sorry! I whispered. Yet however weak with remorse, I was still
intoxicated from a moment that may put the lie to my preening
incomprehension of Thursday. On its far side, I was aghast. But the very
center of the moment was bliss. Hurtling our little boy I-didn’t-care-
where-besides-away, I had heedlessly given over, like Violetta, to
clawing a chronic, torturous itch.
Before you condemn me utterly, I beg you to understand just how hard
I’d been trying to be a good mother. But trying to be a good mother may
be as distant from being a good mother as trying to have a good time is
from truly having one. Distrusting my every impulse from the instant he
was laid on my breast, I’d followed a devout regime of hugging my little
boy an average of three times a day, admiring something he did or said at
least twice, and reciting I love you, kiddo or You know that your Daddy
and I love you very much with the predictable uniformity of liturgical
professions of faith. But too strictly observed, most sacraments grow
hollow. Moreover, for six solid years I’d put my every utterance on the
five-second delay of call-in radio shows, just to make sure I didn’t
broadcast anything obscene, slanderous, or contrary to company policy.
The vigilance came at a cost. It made me remote, halting, and awkward.
When hoisting Kevin’s body in that fluid adrenal lift, for once I’d felt
graceful, because at last there was an unmediated confluence between
what I felt and what I did. It isn’t very nice to admit, but domestic
violence has its uses. So raw and unleashed, it tears away the veil of
civilization that comes between us as much as it makes life possible. A
poor substitute for the sort of passion we like to extol perhaps, but real

love shares more in common with hatred and rage than it does with
geniality or politeness. For two seconds I’d felt whole, and like Kevin
Khatchadourian’s real mother. I felt close to him. I felt like myself—my
true, unexpurgated self—and I felt we were finally communicating.
As I swept a shock of hair from his moist forehead, the muscles of
Kevin’s face worked furiously; his eyes screwed up and his mouth
grimaced into a near-smile. Even when I ran to fetch that morning’s New
York Times and slipped it under his arm he did not cry. Holding the paper
under the arm—I still remember the headline by his elbow, “More
Autonomy for Baltics Stirs Discomfort in Moscow”—I helped him to his
feet, asking if anything else hurt and he shook his head. I started to pick
him up, another shake; he would walk. Together we shuffled to the
phone. It’s possible that he wiped away the odd tear when I wasn’t
looking, but Kevin would no more suffer in plain view than he would
learn to count.
Our local pediatrician Dr. Goldblatt met us at Nyack Hospital’s tiny,
crushingly intimate emergency room, where I felt certain that everyone
could tell what I’d done. The notice for the “New York Sheriff’s Victim
Hotline” beside the registration window seemed posted specially for my
son. I talked too much and said too little; I babbled to the admissions
nurse about what had happened but not how. Meantime Kevin’s
unnatural self-control had mutated into the bearing of a martinet; he
stood straight with his chin lifted, and turned at right angles. Having
assumed responsibility for supporting his arm with the newspaper, he
allowed Dr. Goldblatt to hold his shoulder as he marched down the hall
but shook off my hand. When he entered the orthopedic surgeon’s
examining room, he about-faced in the doorway to announce briskly, “I
can see the doctor by myself.”
“Don’t you want me to keep you company, in case it hurts?”
“You can wait out there,” he commanded, the muscles rippling in his
clenched jaw the only indication that it hurt already.
“That’s quite a little man you’ve got there, Eva,” said Dr. Goldblatt.
“Sounds like you got your orders.” To my horror, he closed the door.
I did, I really did want to be there for Kevin. I was desperate to
reestablish that I was a parent he could trust, not a monster who would
hurl him about the room at a moment’s notice like a vengeful apparition
from Poltergeist. But, yes, I was also in dread that Kevin would tell the
surgeon or Benjamin Goldblatt what I’d done. They have laws about
these things. I could be arrested; my case could be written up in the
Rockland County Times in an appalled sidebar. I could, as I had so

tastelessly joked that I would welcome, have Kevin taken away from me
for real. At a minimum I might have to submit to mortifying monthly
visits from some disapproving social worker sent to check my son for
bruises. However much I deserved rebuke, I still preferred the slow burn
of private self-excoriation to the hot lash of public reproof.
So as I stared glaze-eyed into the glassed-in case preserving gushy
letters to the nursing staff from satisfied customers, I scrambled for soft-
core rewrites. Oh, doctor, you know how boys exaggerate. Throw him?
He was running headlong down the hall, and when I walked out of the
bedroom I bumped into him, by accident . . . Then he, ah, of course he
fell, hard, against—against the lamp stand ...! I sickened myself, and
every whitewash I concocted sounded preposterous. I had plenty of time
to stew in my own juices on one of those hard, sea-green metal chairs in
the waiting room, too; a nurse informed me that our son had to undergo
surgery to have his “bone ends cleansed,” a procedure I was more than
happy to have remain opaque.
But when Kevin emerged three hours later with his blindingly white
cast, Dr. Goldblatt patted our son on the back and admired what a brave
young man I had raised, while the orthopedic surgeon impersonally
detailed the nature of the break, the dangers of infection, the importance
of keeping the cast dry, and the date Kevin should return for follow-up
care. Both doctors were kind enough to omit mention of the fact that the
staff had been obliged to change our son’s dirty diapers; Kevin no longer
smelled. My head bobbed dumbly up and down until I stole a quick
glance at Kevin, who met my eyes with the clear, sparkling gaze of
perfect complicity.
I owed him one. He knew I owed him one. And I would owe him one
for a very long time.
Driving back home, I chattered (What Mommer did was very, very
wrong, and she is so, so sorry—though this distancing device of the third
person must have cast my regrets in a dubious light, as if I were already
blaming the incident on my imaginary friend). Kevin said nothing. His
expression aloof, almost haughty, the fingers of his plastered right arm
tucked Napoleonically in his shirt, he sat upright in the front seat and
surveyed the flashes of the Tappan Zee Bridge through the side window,
for all the world like a triumphant general, wounded nobly in battle, now
basking in the cheers of the crowd.
I enjoyed no such equipoise. I might have escaped the police and
social services, but I was condemned to run one more gauntlet. Whether
up against the wall I might have contrived some cock-and-bull about

bumping into Kevin for Dr. Goldblatt, I could not imagine locking eyes
and flinging patent nonsense at you.
“Hi! Where were you guys?” you shouted when we walked into the
kitchen. Your back was turned as you finished slathering peanut butter
on a Ritz cracker.
My heart was thumping, and I still had no idea what I was going to
say. So far, I had never wittingly done anything that would imperil our
marriage—or our family—but I was sure that if anything would push us
to the brink, this was it.
“—Jesus, Kev!” you exclaimed with a mouth covered in crumbs,
swallowing hard without having chewed. “What the heck happened to
you?”
You brushed your hands hastily and plunged to your knees before
Kevin. My skin prickled all over, as if someone had just switched on the
voltage and I were an electric fence. I had that distinctive presentiment
of 
I-have-one-more-second-or-two-after-which-nothing-will-ever-be-
thesame-again, the same limp apprehension of spotting an oncoming car
in your lane when it’s too late to turn the wheel.
But headlong collision was averted at the last minute. Already
accustomed to trusting your son’s version of events over your wife’s, you
had gone straight to Kevin. This once you were mistaken. Had you asked
me, I promise—or at least I like to think—that, with bowed head, I’d
have told you the truth.
“I broke my arm.”
“I can see that. How’d that happen?”
“I fell.”
“Where’d you fall?”
“I had poopy pants. Mommer went to get more wipes. I fell off the
changing table. On—onto my Tonka dump truck. Mommer took me to
Doctor Goldbutt.”
He was good. He was very, very good; you may not appreciate how
good. He was smooth—the story was ready. None of the details were
inconsistent or gratuitous; he had spurned the extravagant fantasies with
which most children his age would camouflage a spilled drink or broken
mirror. He had learned what all skilled liars register if they’re ever to
make a career of it: Always appropriate as much of the truth as possible.
A wellconstructed lie is assembled largely from the alphabet blocks of
fact, which will as easily make a pyramid as a platform. He did have
poopy pants. He remembered, correctly, that the second time I changed
him that afternoon I had finished the open box of Wet Wipes. He had,

more or less, fallen off the changing table. His Tonka dump truck was
indeed—I checked later that night—on the nursery floor at the time.
Furthermore, I marveled at his having intuited that simply falling three
feet onto the floor would probably not be enough to break his arm; he
would need to land haplessly on some hard metal object. And however
short, his tale was laced with elegant touches: Using Mommer when he
had eschewed the cutesy sobriquet for months lent his story a cuddly,
affectionate cast that fantastically belied the real story; Doctor Goldbutt
was playfully scatological, setting you at ease—your happy, healthy boy
was already back to normal. Perhaps most impressive of all, he did not,
as he had at the emergency room, allow himself the one collusive glance
in my direction that might have given the game away.
“Gosh,” you exclaimed. “That must have hurt!”
“The orthopedist says that for an open fracture,” I said, “—it broke the
skin—it was pretty clean, and should mend well.” Now Kevin and I did
look at each other, just long enough to seal the pact. I had ransomed my
soul to a six-year-old.
“Are you going to let me sign your cast?” you asked. “That’s a
tradition, you know. Your friends and family all sign their names and
wish you to get well soon.”
“Sure, Dad! But first I got to go to the bathroom.” He sauntered off,
his free hand swinging.
“Did I hear that right?” you asked quietly.
“Guess so.” Rigid for hours—fear is an isometric exercise—I was
exhausted, and for once the last thing on my mind was our son’s toilet
training.
You put an arm around my shoulders. “Man, that must have given you
a scare.”
“It was all my fault,” I said, squirming.
“No mother can watch a kid every second.”
I wished you wouldn’t be so understanding. “Yes, but I should have
—”
“Sh-sh!” You raised a forefinger, and a delicate trickling emitted from
the hall bathroom: music to the parental ear. “What do you think did the
trick, just the shock?” you whispered. “Or maybe he’s scared of landing
back on that changing table.”
I shrugged. Despite appearances, I did not believe that by flying into a
rage at yet another soiled diaper I had terrorized our boy into using the
toilet. Oh, it had everything to do with our set-to in the nursery, all right.
I was being rewarded.

“This calls for celebration. I’m going to go in and congratulate that
guy—”
I put a hand on your arm. “Don’t push your luck. Let him do it quietly,
don’t make a big deal out of it. Kevin prefers his reversals off-camera.”
That said, I knew better than to read pee-pee in the potty as admission
of defeat. He had won the larger battle; acceding to the toilet was the
kind of trifling concession that a magnanimous if condescending victor
can afford to toss a vanquished adversary. Our six-year-old had
successfully tempted me into violating my own rules of engagement. I
had committed a war crime—for which, barring my son’s clement
silence, my very husband would extradite me to The Hague.
When Kevin returned from the bathroom tugging up his pants with
one hand, I proposed that we have big bowl of popcorn for dinner,
adding obsequiously, with lots and lots of salt! Drinking in the music of
the normal life that I had minutes before kissed good-bye—your
clamorous banging of pots, the clarion clang of our stainless steel bowl,
the merry rattle of kernels—I’d a foreboding that this crawling-on-my-
belly-like-a-reptile mode could endure almost indefinitely so long as
Kevin kept his mouth shut.
Why didn’t he blab? By all appearances, he was protecting his mother.
All right. I’ll allow for that. Nevertheless, a balance-sheet calculation
may have entered in. Before a distant expiry date, a secret accrues
interest by dint of having been kept; compounded by lying, Know how I
really broke my arm, Dad? might have even more explosive impact in a
month’s time. Too, so long as he retained the principle of his windfall in
his account, he could continue to take out loans against it, whereas
blowing his wad all at once would plunge his assets back to a six-year-
old’s allowance of $5 a week.
Further, after all my sanctimonious singsong lectures (How would you
feel . . . ?), I had provided him with a rare opportunity to annex the moral
high ground—whose elevation would afford a few novel views, even if
this was not, at length, a territory destined to suit his preferences in real
estate. Mr. Divide-and-Conquer may also have intuited that secrets bind
and separate in strict accordance with who’s in on them. My chatter to
you about Kevin’s needing to opt for baths over showers to keep the cast
dry was artificially bright and stilted; when I asked Kevin whether he
wanted parmesan on the popcorn, the question was rich with appeal,
terror, and slavish gratitude.
For in one respect I was touched, and remain so: I think he had
experienced a closeness to me that he was reluctant to let go. Not only

were we in this cover-up together, but during the very assault we were
concealing, Kevin too may have felt whole, yanked to life by the
awesome sisal strength of the umbilical tie. For once I’d known myself
for his mother. So he may have known himself also, sailing amazedly
across the nursery like Peter Pan, for my son.
 
The remainder of that summer defied all my narrative instincts. Had I
been scripting a TV movie about a violent harridan who flew into fits of
blind dudgeon during which she was endowed with superhuman
strength, I’d have had her young boy tiptoeing around the house,
shooting her tremulous grins, offering up desperate gestures of
appeasement, and just in general shuffling, cowering, and yes-massa-ing
about the place, anything to keep from taking impromptu trips across
whole rooms of their home without his feet ever touching the floor.
So much for the movies. I tiptoed. My grins quivered. I shuffled and
cowered as if auditioning for a minstrel show.
Because let’s talk about power. In the domestic polity, myth dictates
that parents are endowed with a disproportionate amount of it. I’m not so
sure. Children? They can break our hearts, for a start. They can shame
us, they can bankrupt us, and I can personally attest that they can make
us wish we were never born. What can we do? Keep them from going to
the movies. But how? With what do we back up our prohibitions if the
kid heads belligerently for the door? The crude truth is that parents are
like governments: We maintain our authority through the threat, overt or
implicit, of physical force. A kid does what we say—not to put too fine a
point on it—because we can break his arm.
Yet Kevin’s white cast became a blazing emblem, not of what I could
do to him, but of what I could not. In resorting to the ultimate power, I
had robbed myself of it. Since I could not be trusted to use force in
moderation, I was stuck with an impotent arsenal, useless overkill, like a
stockpile of nuclear weapons. He knew full well that I would never lay a
hand on him again.
So in case you worry that in 1989 I became a convert to Neanderthal
brutality, all that wholeness and realness and immediacy that I
discovered in using Kevin for a shot put evaporated in a New York
minute. I remember feeling physically shorter. My posture deteriorated.
My voice went wispy. To Kevin, I couched my every request as an
optional suggestion: Honey, would you like to get in the car? You
wouldn’t mind terribly if we went to the store? Maybe it would be a good
idea if you didn’t pick the crust from the middle of Mommer’s freshly

baked pie. As for the lessons he found such an insult, I returned to the
Montessori method.
At first, he put me through a variety of paces, as if training a
performing bear. He would demand something time-consuming for his
lunch, like homemade pizza, and after I’d spent the morning kneading
dough and simmering sauce he’d pick two pieces of pepperoni off his
slices and then fold the remains into a glutinous baseball to pitch to the
sink. Then he tired of Mother-as-plaything as quickly as he did of his
other toys, which I guess made me lucky.
In fact, as I foisted on the boy the very salt-laden cheesies and
whizzies previously meted out in one-ounce rations, my solicitation soon
got on his nerves. I had a tendency to hover, and Kevin would shoot me
the kind of daggers you fire at a stranger who sits next to you on a train
when the car is practically empty. I was proving an unworthy adversary,
and any further victories over a guardian already reduced to such a
cringing, submissive condition were bound to feel cheap.
Although it was tricky with a sling, he now took baths on his own, and
if I stooped to wrap him in a fresh towel, he shied, then swaddled
himself. In fact, on the heels of having docilely submitted to diaper
changing and testicle swabbing, he developed a stern modesty, and by
August, I was banished from the bathroom. He dressed in private. Aside
from that remarkable two weeks during which he got so sick when he
was ten, he would not allow me to see him naked again until the age of
fourteen—at which point I’d gladly have forfeited the privilege.
As for my incontinent outpouring of tenderness, it was tainted with
apology, and Kevin was having none of it. When I kissed his forehead,
he wiped it off. When I combed his hair, he batted me away and rumpled
his locks. When I hugged him, he objected coldly that I was hurting his
arm. And when I averred, “I love you, kiddo”—no longer recited with
the solemnity of the Apostle’s Creed but rather with the feverish,
mindless supplication of a Hail Mary—he’d assume a caustic expression
from which that permanent left-hand cock of his mouth was enduringly
to emerge. One day when I avowed yet again I love you, kiddo, Kevin
shot back, Nyeh NYEE nyeh, nyeh-nyeeeeh! and I gave it a rest.
He clearly believed that he had found me out. He had glimpsed behind
the curtain, and no amount of cooing and snack food would erase a
vision at least as indelible as a first encounter with parental sex. Yet what
surprised me was how much this revelation of his mother’s true colors—
her viciousness, her violence—seemed to please him. If he had my
number, it was one that intrigued him far more than the twos and threes

of our dreary arithmetic drills before his “accident,” and he side-eyed his
mother with a brand new—I wouldn’t call it quite respect—interest. Yes.
As for you and me, until that summer I’d become accustomed to
concealing things from you, but mostly thought crimes—my atrocious
blankness at Kevin’s birth, my aversion to our house. While to some
extent we all shelter one another from the cacophony of horrors in our
heads, even these intangible unsaids made me mournful. But it was one
thing to keep my own counsel about the dread that had descended on me
whenever it was time to fetch our son from kindergarten, quite another to
neglect to tell you that, oh, by the way, I broke his arm. However
wicked, thoughts didn’t seem to take up space in my body, while keeping
a three-dimensional secret was like having swallowed a cannonball.
You seemed so far away. I’d gaze at you as you undressed at night
with a spectral nostalgia, half expecting that when I crossed to brush my
teeth you’d step through my body as easily as through moonlight.
Watching you in the backyard teaching Kevin to cup a baseball in a
catcher’s mitt with his good right hand—though in truth he seemed more
gifted with pizza—I’d press my palm against a sun-warmed windowpane
as if against a spiritual barrier, stabbed by the same vertiginous well-
wishing and aching sense of exclusion that would have tortured me had I
been dead. Even when I put my hand on your chest, I couldn’t seem to
quite touch you, as if every time you shed your clothes there were, like
Bartholomew’s hats, another L. L. Bean work shirt underneath.
Meantime, you and I never went out just the two of us anymore—to
catch Crimes and Misdemeanors, grab a bite at the River Club in Nyack,
much less to indulge ourselves at the Union Square Café in the city. It’s
true that we had trouble with sitters, but you acquiesced to our
housebound nights readily enough, prizing the light summer evenings for
coaching Kevin on fourth downs, three-pointer field goals, and the
infield-fly rule. Your blindness to the fact that Kevin displayed neither
interest nor aptitude in any of these sports nagged me a bit, but I was
mostly disappointed that you didn’t ever covet the same quality time
with your wife.
There’s no purpose to talking around it. I was jealous. And I was
lonely.
 
It was toward the end of August when our next-door neighbor leaned on
our doorbell with censorious insistence. I heard you answer it from the
kitchen.
“You tell your kid it’s not funny!” Roger Corley exclaimed.

“Whoa, slow down, Rog!” said you. “Criticize anybody’s sense of
humor, gotta tell the joke first.” Despite your jocular cadence, you did
not invite him in, and when I peered out to the foyer I noticed that you
had only opened the door halfway.
“Trent just rode his bike down that big hill on Palisades Parade, lost
control, and landed in the bushes! He’s knocked up pretty bad!”
I’d tried to stay on amicable terms with the Corleys, whose son was a
year or two older than Kevin. Though Moira Corley’s initial enthusiasm
for arranging play dates had waned without explanation, she’d once
displayed a gracious interest in my Armenian background, and I’d
stopped by only the day before to give her a loaf of freshly baked katah
—do you ever miss it?—that slightly sweet, obscenely buttery layered
bread my mother taught me to make. Being on congenial terms with your
neighbors was one of the few appeals of suburban life, and I feared that
your narrowing our front door was beginning to appear unfriendly.
“Roger,” I said behind you, wiping my hands on a dish towel, “why
don’t you come in and talk about it? You seem upset.”
When we all repaired to the living room, I noted that Roger’s getup
was a little unfortunate; he had too big a gut for Lycra cycling shorts, and
in those bike shoes he walked pigeon-toed. You retreated behind an
armchair, keeping it between you and Roger like a military fortification.
“I’m awful sorry to hear about Trent’s accident,” you said. “Maybe it’s a
good opportunity to go through the fundamentals of bike safety.”
“He knows the fundamentals,” said Roger. “Like, you never leave the
quick-release on one of your wheels flipped open.”
“Is that what you think happened?” I asked.
“Trent said the front wheel started wobbling. We checked the bike,
and the release wasn’t only flipped over; it’d been turned a few times to
loosen the fork. Doesn’t take Sherlock Holmes to conclude that Kevin
was the culprit!”
“Now wait just one minute!” you said. “That’s one hell of a—”
“Trent rode that bike yesterday morning, no problem. Nobody’s been
by since but you, Eva, along with your son. And I want to thank you for
that bread you sent over,” he added, lowering the volume. “It was real
good, and we appreciated your thoughtfulness. But we don’t appreciate
Kevin’s tinkering with Trent’s bike. Going a little faster, or around
traffic, my kid could’ve been killed.”
“You’re making a lot of assumptions here,” you growled. “That
release could have been tripped in Trent’s accident.”

“No way. I’m a cyclist myself, and I’ve had my share of spills. The
release never flips all the way over—much less turns around by itself to
loosen the spring.”
“Even if Kevin did do it,” I said (you shot me a black look), “maybe
he doesn’t know what the lever is for. That leaving it open is dangerous.”
“That’s one theory,” Roger grunted. “That your son’s a dummy. But
that’s not the way Trent describes him.”
“Look,” you said. “Maybe Trent had been playing with that release,
and he doesn’t want to take the rap. That doesn’t mean my son has to
take it instead. Now, if you’ll excuse us, we’ve got some work to do
around the yard.”
After Roger left, I had a sinking feeling that the Irish soda bread Moira
had promised to bake me in return would never materialize.
“Boy, I sometimes think you’re right,” you said, pacing. “A kid can’t
skin his knee anymore without it having to be somebody else’s fault.
Country’s completely lost touch with the concept of accident. When
Kevin broke his arm, did I give you a hard time? Did it have to be
somebody’s fault? No. Shit happens.”
“Do you want to talk to Kevin about Trent’s bike?” I said. “Or should
I?”
“What for? I can’t see he’s done anything.”
I said under my breath. “You never do.”
“And you always do,” you said levelly.
A standard exchange—not even exceptionally acrimonious—so I’m
not sure why it flipped something in me, like Trent Corley’s quick-
release. Maybe because it was standard now, and once it hadn’t been. I
closed my eyes, cupping the back of the armchair that had walled off
Roger Corley’s outlandish accusations. Honestly, I’d no idea what I was
going to say until I said it.
“Franklin, I want to have another child.”
I opened my eyes and blinked. I had surprised myself. It may have
been my first experience of spontaneity in six or seven years.
You wheeled. Your response was spontaneous, too. “You cannot be
serious.”
The time didn’t seem right for reminding you that you deplored John
McEnroe as a poor sport. “I’d like us to start trying to get me pregnant
right away.”
It was the oddest thing. I felt perfectly certain, and not in the fierce,
clutching spirit that might have betrayed a crazy whim or frantic grab at
a pat marital nostrum. I felt self-possessed and simple. This was the very

unreserved resolve for which I had prayed during our protracted debate
over parenthood, and whose absence had led us down tortuously abstract
avenues like “turning the page” and “answering the Big Question.” I’d
never been so sure of anything in my life, so much so that I was
disconcerted why you seemed to think there was anything to talk about.
“Eva, forget it. You’re forty-four. You’d have a three-headed toad or
something.”
“Lots of women these days have children in their forties.”
“Get out of here! I thought that now Kevin’s going to be in school full-
time you were planning to go back to AWAP! What about all those big
plans to move into Eastern Europe post-glasnost? Get in early, beat The
Lonely Planet?”
“I’ve considered going back to AWAP. I may still go back. But I can
work for the rest of my life. As you just observed with so much
sensitivity, there’s only one thing I can do for a short while longer.”
“I can’t believe this. You’re serious! You’re seriously—serious!”
“I’d like to get pregnant makes a crummy gag, Franklin. Wouldn’t you
like Kevin to have someone to play with?” Truthfully, I wanted someone
to play with, too.
“They’re called classmates. And two siblings always hate each other.”
“Only if they’re close together. She’d be younger than Kevin by at
least seven years.”
“She, is it?” The pronoun made you bristle.
I shrugged my eyebrows. “Hypothetically.”
“This is all because you want a girl ? To dress in little outfits? Eva,
this isn’t like you.”
“No, wanting to dress a girl in little outfits isn’t like me. So there was
no call for you to say that. Look, I can see your having reservations, but I
don’t understand why the prospect of my getting pregnant again seems to
be making you so angry.”
“Isn’t it obvious?”
“Anything but. I thought you’ve enjoyed being a parent.”
“I have, yes! Eva, what gives you the idea that even if you do have
this fantasy daughter everything’s going to be different?”
“I don’t understand,” I maintained, having learned the merits of
playing dumb from my son. “Why in the world would I want everything
to be different?”
“What could possess you, after it’s gone the way it’s gone, to want to
do it again?”
“It’s gone what way?” I asked neutrally.

You took a quick look out the window to make sure Kevin was still
patting the tether ball to spiral first one way around the pole, then the
other; he liked the monotony.
“You never want him to come with us, do you? You always want to
find somebody to dump him with so we can waltz off by ourselves, like
what you obviously consider the good old days.”
“I don’t remember saying any such thing,” I said stonily.
“You don’t have to. I can tell you’re disappointed every time I suggest
we do something so that Kevin can come, too.”
“That must explain why you and I have spent countless long, boozy
evenings in expensive restaurants, while our son languishes with
strangers.”
“See? You resent it. And what about this summer? You wanted to go
to Peru. Okay, I was game. But I assumed we’d take a vacation as a
family. So I start supposing how far a six-year-old can hike in a day, and
you should have seen your face, Eva. It fell like a lead balloon. Soon as
Peru would involve Kevin, too, you lose interest. Well, I’m sorry. But I
for one didn’t have a kid in order to get away from him as often as
possible.”
I was leery of where this was headed. I’d known that eventually we
would need to discuss all that had been left unsaid, but I wasn’t ready. I
needed ballast. I needed supporting evidence, which would take me a
minimum of nine months to gather.
“I’m with him all day,” I said. “It makes sense that I’d be more
anxious than you for a break—”
“And I never cease to hear about what a terrible sacrifice you’ve been
making.”
“I’m sorry that it means so little to you.”
“It’s not important it mean something to me. It should mean something
to him.”
“Franklin, I don’t understand where—”
“And that’s typical isn’t it? You stay home for him to impress me. He
just never enters in, does he?”
“Where is all this coming from? I only wanted to tell you that I’d like
us to have another baby, and for you to be happy about it, or at least start
getting used to the idea.”
“You pick on him,” you said. With another cautionary glance at the
tether-ball court up the hill, you had an air of just getting started. “You
blame him for everything that goes wrong around this house. And at his
kindergarten. You’ve complained about the poor kid at every stage of the

game. First he cries too much, then he’s too quiet. He develops his own
little language, and it’s annoying. He doesn’t play right—meaning the
way you did. He doesn’t treat the toys you make him like museum
pieces. He doesn’t pat you on the back every time he learns to spell a
new word, and since the whole neighborhood isn’t clamoring to sign his
dance card, you’re determined to paint him as a pariah. He develops one,
yes, serious psychological problem having to do with his toilet training
—it’s not that unusual, Eva, but it can be very painful for the kid—and
you insist on interpreting it as some mean-spirited, personal contest
between you and him. I’m relieved he seems to be over it, but with your
attitude I’m not surprised it lasted a long time. I do what I can to make
up for your—and I’m very sorry if this hurts your feelings, but I don’t
know what else to call it—your coldness. But there’s no substitute for a
mother’s love, and I am damned if I am going to let you freeze out
another kid of mine.”
I was stunned. “Franklin—”
“This discussion is over. I didn’t enjoy saying all that, and I still hope
things can get better. I know you think you make an effort—well, maybe
you do make what for you is an effort—but so far it’s not enough. Let’s
all keep trying.—Hey, sport!” You swooped Kevin up as he sauntered in
from the deck, raising him over your head as if posing for a Father’s Day
ad. “At the end of your tether?”
When you set him down, he said, “I wrapped the ball around 843
times.”
“That’s terrific! I bet next time you’ll be able to do it 844 times!”
You were trying to make an awkward transition after an argument that
left me feeling run over by a truck, but I can’t say I care for the
Hollywood gaga that’s expected of modern parents. Kevin’s own
expression flickered with a suggestion of oh-brother.
“If I try really hard,” he said, deadpan. “Isn’t it great to have a goal?”
“Kevin.” I called him over and stooped. “I’m afraid your friend Trent
has had an accident. It’s not too bad, and he’ll be all right. But maybe
you and I could make him a get-well card—like the one Grandma Sonya
made you when you hurt your arm.”
“Yeah, well,” he said, moving away. “He thinks he’s so cool with that
bike.”
The AC must have been turned too high; I stood up and rubbed my
arms. I didn’t remember mentioning anything about a bicycle.
 

Eva
 

 
 
FEBRUARY 1, 2001
 
 
Dear Franklin,
 
For some reason I imagine it will reassure you that I still get the Times.
But I seem to have misplaced the grid I once imposed on it to determine
what parts were worth reading. Famines and Hollywood divorces appear
equally vital and equally trifling. Arbitrarily, I either devour the paper
soup to nuts, or I toss it smooth and cool on the stack by the door. How
right I was, in those days; how easily the United States can get on
without me.
For the last two weeks I’ve tossed them unread, for if memory serves,
the earnest pomp of presidential inaugurations left me cold even when I
had clear enthusiasms and aversions. Capriciously, this morning I read
everything, including an article about American workers’ excessive
overtime—and perhaps it is interesting, though I couldn’t say, that the
Land of the Free prefers work to play. I read about a young electrical
lineman who would soon have been married, and who in his eagerness to
salt away funds for his family-to-be had slept only five hours in two and
a half days. He had been climbing up and down poles for twenty-four
hours straight:
Taking a break for breakfast on Sunday morning, he got yet another
call.
At about noon, he climbed a 30-foot pole, hooked on his safety
straps and reached for a 7,200-volt cable without first putting on his
insulating gloves. There was a flash, and Mr. Churchill was hanging
motionless by his straps. His father, arriving before the ladder-truck
did and thinking his son might still be alive, stood at the foot of the
pole for more than an hour begging for somebody to bring his boy
down.
 
I have no strong feelings about overtime; I’m acquainted with no
electrical linemen. I only know that this image—of a father pleading
with onlookers themselves as powerless as he, while his hardworking
son creaked in the breeze like a hanged man—made me cry. Fathers and

sons? Grief and misspent diligence? There are connections. But I also
wept for that young man’s real father.
You see, it was drilled into me since I could talk that 1.5 million of my
people were slaughtered by Turks; my own father was killed in a war
against the worst of ourselves, and in the very month I was born, we
were driven to use the worst of ourselves to defeat it. Since Thursday
was the slimy garnish on this feast of snakes, I wouldn’t be surprised to
find myself hard of heart. Instead, I’m easily moved, even mawkish.
Maybe my expectations of my fellows have been reduced to so base a
level that the smallest kindness overwhelms me for being, like Thursday
itself, so unnecessary. Holocausts do not amaze me. Rapes and child
slavery do not amaze me. And Franklin, I know you feel otherwise, but
Kevin does not amaze me. I am amazed when I drop a glove in the street
and a teenager runs two blocks to return it. I am amazed when a
checkout girl flashes me a wide smile with my change, though my own
face had been a mask of expedience. Lost wallets posted to their owners,
strangers who furnish meticulous directions, neighbors who water each
other’s houseplants—these things amaze me. Celia amazed me.
 
As you instructed, I never raised the matter again. And I took no relish in
deceiving you. But the eerie certainty that descended in August never
lifted, and you’d left me no choice.
Kevin’s cast had been removed two weeks earlier, but it was as of
Trent Corley’s bike accident that I stopped feeling guilty. Just like that.
There was no equivalence between what I had done and what I would do
—it was totally irrational—but still I seemed to have arrived at the
perfect antidote or penance. I would put myself to the test. I was not at
all sure that I would pass a second sitting.
You did notice I’d become “a horny little beastie,” and you seemed
glad of a desire that, though we never alluded to the abatement outright,
had sadly ebbed. With one or the other of us yawning theatrically before
bed “a little beat,” we had slid from having sex almost nightly to the
American average of once a week. My rekindled passion was no
contrivance. I did want you, more urgently than in years, and the more
we made love the more insatiable I felt during the day, unable to sit still,
rubbing my inside thigh with a pencil at my desk. I, too, was glad of
evidence that we had not yet sunk irretrievably into the mechanical
bedtime rut that drives so many spouses to the arms of strangers at lunch.
For ever since we’d had a little boy sleeping down the hall, you’d so
turned down the volume in bed that I had often to interrupt, “What? ...

Sorry?” Talking dirty by semaphore was too much effort, and at length
we’d both withdrawn to private sexual Imax. Unembellished by your
improvisations—and you had a gift for depravity; what a shame to let
such talent lie fallow—my own fantasies had come to bore me, and I’d
given over to floating pictures instead, rarely erotic in any literal sense,
and always dominated by a certain texture and hue. But over time the
visions had grown corrosive, like close-ups of a scab or geological
illustrations of dried magma. Other nights I’d been afflicted by flashes of
filthy diapers and taut, undescended testicles, so you can understand why
I might have contributed to reducing our schedule to once a week.
Perhaps worst of all, the vibrant scarlets and ceruleans that once
permeated my head when we made love in our childless days had
gradually muddied and lost their luster, until the miasma on the inside of
my eyelids churned with the furious pitch and umber of the drawings on
our refrigerator door.
Once I started leaving my diaphragm in its sky-blue case, the vista in
my mind during sex went light. Where my visual perimeters had once
closed in, now I saw great distances, as if gazing from Mt. Ararat or
skimming the Pacific in a glider. I peered down long hallways that
shimmered endlessly to the vanishing point, their marble parquet
blazing, sunlight pouring in windows from either side. Everything I
envisioned was bright: wedding dresses, cloudscapes, fields of
edelweiss. Please don’t laugh at me—I know what I’m describing sounds
like a tampon commercial. But it was beautiful. I felt, at last, transported.
My mind opened up, where before my head had seemed to be spelunking
into an ever narrower, more dimly lit hole. These wide-screen
projections weren’t mushy soft-focus, either, but sharp and vivid and I
remembered them when we were through. I slept like a baby. Rather, like
some babies, as I was soon to discover.
I was obviously not at my most fertile, and it did take a year. But when
I finally missed a period the following fall, I started to sing. Not show
tunes this time, but the Armenian folk songs with which my mother had
serenaded Giles and me when she tucked us in for the night—like
“Soode Soode” (“It’s a lie, it’s a lie, it’s a lie, everything’s a lie; in this
world, everything’s a lie!”). When I discovered that I’d forgotten some
of the words, I called her and asked if she might write them out. She was
delighted to oblige, since as far as Mother knew, I was still the willful
little girl who decried her Armenian lessons as burdensome extra
homework, and she inscribed my favorites—Komitas Vardapet’s “Kele

Kele,” “Kujn Ara,” and “Gna Gna”—inside greeting cards pen-and-
inked with mountain village scenes and patterns from Armenian carpets.
Kevin noticed my transformation, and while he mightn’t have savored
his mother groveling about the house like a worm, he was no better
pleased when she burst her cocoon as a butterfly. He hung back sullenly
and carped, “You sing out of tune” or commanded, reciting a line he had
picked up from his multiethnic primary school, “Why don’t you speak
English.” I told him lightly that Armenian folk songs were polyphonic,
and when he pretended to understand, I asked if he knew what that
meant. “It means stupid,” he said. I volunteered to teach him a song or
two, reminding him, “You’re Armenian, too, you know,” but he differed.
“I’m American,” he asserted, using the derisive tone of stating the
obvious, like “I’m a person” and not an aardvark.
Something was up. Mommer wasn’t slumping and shuffling and
talking in a peewee voice anymore, yet even pre-broken-arm Mommer
had not made a reappearance: the brisk, rather formal woman who
marched through the paces of motherhood like a soldier on parade. No,
this Mommer purled about her duties like a bubbling brook, and any
number of stones hurled at her eddies sank with a harmless rattle to her
bed. Apprised that her son thought all his second-grade classmates were
“retards” and everything they studied he “knew already,” this Mommer
didn’t remonstrate that he would soon find out he didn’t know
everything; she didn’t abjure him not to say retard. She just laughed.
Although an alarmist by nature, I didn’t even get bent out of shape
about the escalating threats issuing from the State Department over Iraq’s
invasion of Kuwait. “You’re usually so dramatic about these things,” you
remarked in November. “Aren’t you worried?” No, I wasn’t worried.
About anything.
It was after I’d missed my third cycle that Kevin started accusing me
of getting fat. He’d poke at my stomach and jeer, “You’re giant!”
Commonly vain about my figure, I concurred cheerfully, “That’s right,
Mommer’s a big pig.”
“You know, you may have gained just a bit around the waist,” you
remarked finally one night in December. “Maybe we should take it easy
on the spuds, huh? Could stand to drop a couple pounds myself.”
“Mmm,” I hummed, and I practically had to put my fist in my mouth
to keep from laughing. “I don’t mind a little extra weight. All the better
for throwing it around.”
“Jesus, what’s this, maturity? Usually if I suggest you’ve gained an
ounce you go ape-shit!” You brushed your teeth, then joined me in bed.

You picked up your mystery but only drummed the cover, sidling your
other hand to a swollen breast. “Maybe you’re right,” you murmured. “A
little more Eva is pretty sexy.” Slipping the book to the floor, you turned
toward me and lifted an eyebrow. “Is it in?”
“Mmm,” I hummed again, with an affirmative cast.
“Your nipples are big,” you observed, nuzzling. “Time for your
period? Seems like it’s been a while.”
Your head stilled between my breasts. You pulled back. You looked
me in the eye with the soberest of expressions. And then you turned
white.
My heart sank. I could tell that it would be worse than I’d led myself
to believe.
“When were you planning to tell me?” you asked stonily.
“Soon. Weeks ago, really. It just never seemed the right time.”
“I can see why it wouldn’t,” you said. “You expecting to palm this off
as some kind of accident?”
“No. It wasn’t an accident.”
“I thought we discussed this.”
“That’s what we didn’t do, discuss it. You went on a tirade. You
wouldn’t listen.”
“So you just go ahead and—a fait accompli—just—like some kind of
mugging. As if it has nothing to do with me.”
“It has everything to do with you. But I was right and you were
wrong.” I faced you squarely. As you would say, there were two of us
and one of you.
“This is the most presumptuous ... arrogant thing you’ve ever done.”
“Yes. I guess it is.”
“Now that it no longer matters what I think, you going to explain what
this is about? I’m listening.” You didn’t look as if you were listening.
“I have to find something out.”
“What’s that? How far you can push me before I push back?”
“About—,” I decided not to apologize for the word, “about my soul.”
“Is there anyone else in your universe?”
I bowed my head. “I’d like there to be.”
“What about Kevin?”
“What about him.”
“It’s going to be hard for him.”
“I read somewhere that other children have brothers and sisters.”
“Don’t be snide, Eva. He’s used to undivided attention.”

“Another way of saying he’s spoiled. Or could get that way. This is the
best thing that could possibly happen to that boy.”
“Little bird tells me that’s not the way he’s going to look at it.”
I took a moment to reflect that in five minutes we were already
dwelling on our son. “Maybe it will be good for you, too. For us.”
“It’s an agony aunt standard. Stupidest thing you can ever do to
cement a shaky marriage is to have a baby.”
“Is our marriage shaky?”
“You just shook it,” you fired back, and turned away from me on your
side.
I switched off the light and slid down on the pillow. We weren’t
touching. I started to cry. Feeling your arms around me was such a relief
that I cried harder still.
“Hey,” you said. “Did you really think—? Did you wait so long to tell
me so it would be too late? Did you really think I’d ask you to do that?
With our own kid?”
“Of course not,” I snuffled.
But when I’d calmed down you grew sterner. “Look, I’ll come around
to this if only because I have to. But you’re forty-five, Eva. Promise me
you’ll get that test.”
There was a purpose to “that test” only if we were prepared to act on a
discouraging outcome. With our own kid. Little wonder that I put off
telling you for as long as possible.
 
I didn’t get the test. Oh, I told you I did, and the new gynecologist I
found—who was lovely—offered, but unlike Dr. Rhinestein, she did not
seem to regard all pregnant women as public property and didn’t unduly
press the point. She did say that she hoped I was prepared to love and
care for whoever—she meant, whatever—came out. I said that I didn’t
think I was romantic about the rewards of raising a disabled child. But I
was probably too strict about what—and whom—I chose to love. So I
wanted to trust. For once, I said. To have blind faith in—I chose not to
say life or fate or God—myself.
There was never any doubt that our second child was mine.
Accordingly, you exhibited none of the proprietary bossiness that
tyrannized my pregnancy with Kevin. I carried my own groceries. I drew
no scowls over a glass of red wine, which I continued to pour myself in
small, sensible amounts. I actually stepped up my exercise regime,
including running and calisthenics and even a little squash. Our

understanding was no less clear for being tacit: What I did with this
bump was my business. I liked it that way.
Kevin had already sensed the presence of perfidy. He hung back from
me more than ever, glaring from corners, sipping at a glass of juice as if
tasting for arsenic, and poking so warily at anything I left him to eat,
often dissecting it into its constituent parts spread equidistant around his
plate; he might have been searching for shards of glass. He was secretive
about his homework, which he protected like a prisoner encrypting his
correspondence with details of savage abuse at the hands of his captors
that he would smuggle to Amnesty International.
Someone had to tell him, and soon; I was starting to show. So I
suggested that we take this opportunity to explain generally about sex.
You were reluctant. Just say you’re pregnant, you suggested. He doesn’t
have to know how it got there. He’s only seven. Shouldn’t we preserve
his innocence a little longer? It’s a pretty backward definition of
innocence, I objected, that equates sexual ignorance with freedom from
sin. And underestimating your kid’s sexual intelligence is the oldest
mistake in the book.
Indeed. I had barely introduced the subject while making dinner when
Kevin interrupted impatiently, “Is this about fucking?”
It was true: They didn’t make second-graders the way they used to.
“Better to call it sex, Kevin. That other word is going to offend some
people.”
“It’s what everybody else calls it.”
“Do you know what it means?”
Rolling his eyes, Kevin recited, “The boy puts his peepee in the girl’s
doodoo.”
I went through the stilted nonsense about “seeds” and “eggs” that had
persuaded me as a child that making love was something between
planting potatoes and raising chickens. Kevin was no more than tolerant.
“I knew all that.”
“What a surprise,” I muttered. “Do you have any questions?”
“No.”
“Not any? Because you can always ask me or Dad anything about
boys and girls, or sex, or your own body that you don’t understand.”
“I thought you were going to tell me something new,” he said darkly,
and left the room.
I felt strangely ashamed. I’d raised his expectations, then dashed them.
When you asked how the talk had gone I said okay, I guess; and you
asked if he’d seemed frightened or uncomfortable or confused, and I said

actually he seemed unimpressed. You laughed, while I said dolefully,
what’s ever going to impress him if that doesn’t?
Yet phase two of the Facts of Life was bound to be the more difficult
installment.
“Kevin,” I began the following evening. “Remember what we talked
about last night? Sex? Well, Mommer and Daddy do that sometimes,
too.”
“What for.”
“For one thing, so you could keep us company. But it might be nice
for you to have some company, too. Haven’t you ever wished you had
someone right around the house to play with?”
“No.”
I stooped to the play table where Kevin was systematically snapping
each crayon of his Crayola 64 set into pieces. “Well, you are going to
have some company. A little baby brother or sister. And you might find
out that you like it.”
He glared at me a long, sulky beat, though he didn’t look especially
surprised. “What if I don’t like it.”
“Then you’ll get used to it.”
“Just cause you get used to something doesn’t mean you like it.” He
added, snapping the magenta, “You’re used to me.”
“Yes!” I said. “And in a few months we’ll all get used to someone
new!”
As a crayon piece gets shorter it’s more difficult to break, and Kevin’s
fingers were now straining against one such obdurate stump. “You’re
going to be sorry.”
Finally, it broke.
 
I tried to draw you into a discussion about names, but you were
indifferent; by then the Gulf War had started, and it was impossible to
distract you from CNN. When Kevin slumped alongside you in the den, I
noted that the boy stuff of generals and fighter pilots didn’t captivate him
any more than the ABC song, though he did show a precocious
appreciation for the nature of a “nuclar bomb.” Impatient with the slow
pace of madefor-TV combat, he grumbled, “I don’t see why Cone Power
bothers with all that little junk, Dad. Nuke ’em. That’d teach the Raqis
who’s boss.” You thought it was adorable.
In the spirit of fair play, I reminded you of our old pact, offering to
christen our second child a Plaskett. Don’t be ridiculous, you dismissed,
not taking your eyes off an incoming Patriot missile. Two kids, different

last names? People would think one was adopted. As for Christian
names, you were equally apathetic. Whatever you want, Eva, you said
with a flap of your hand, is fine with me.
So for a boy I proposed Frank. For a girl, I deliberately rejected Karru
or Sophia from my mother’s vanquished clan and reached for the
vanquished in yours.
The death of your Aunt Celia, your mother’s childless younger sister,
had hit you hard when you were twelve. A frequent visitor, zany Aunt
Celia had a playful taste for the occult; she gave you a magic eight ball
that told fortunes and led you and your sister in darkened séances, the
more delicious for your parents’ disapproval. I’d seen her picture, and
she’d been heartbreakingly not-quite-pretty, with a wide mouth and thin
lips but piercing, clairvoyant eyes, at once brave and a little frightened.
Like me, she was adventurous, and she died young and unmarried after
climbing Mt. Washington with a dashing young climber for whom she
had high hopes, succumbing to hypothermia after their party was hit by a
freak snowstorm. But you shrugged off the tribute with irritation, as if I
were seeking to ensnare you by your Aunt Celia’s own supernatural
means.
My second confinement felt vastly less restrictive than the first, and
with Kevin in second grade, I could involve myself more fully in AWAP.
Yet with child I also felt less lonely, and when I spoke aloud with you
scouting and Kevin in school, I did not feel that I was talking to myself.
Of course, the second time around is always easier. I knew enough to
opt for anesthesia, though when the time came, Celia would prove so
tiny that I probably could have managed without. I also knew better than
to expect a blinding Vulcan mind-meld at her birth. A baby is a baby,
each miraculous in its way, but to demand transformation on the instant
of delivery was to place too great a burden on a small confused bundle
and an exhausted middle-aged mother both. All the same, when she
begged to arrive two weeks early on June 14, I couldn’t resist inferring
an eagerness on her part, as I had once inferred a corresponding
reluctance from Kevin’s foot-dragging fortnight’s delay.
Do babies have feelings, even at zero hour? From my modest study of
two, I believe they do. They don’t have names for feelings yet, and
without separating labels probably experience emotion in a goulash that
easily accommodates opposites; I am likely to pin myself to feeling
anxious, while an infant might have no trouble feeling simultaneously
apprehensive and relaxed. Still, on the birth of both my children, I could
immediately discern a dominant emotional tone, like the top note of a

chord or the foreground color of a canvas. In Kevin, the note was the
shrill high pitch of a rape whistle, the color was a pulsing, aortal red, and
the feeling was fury. The shriek and pump of all that rage was
unsustainable, so as he grew older the note would descend to the
uninflected blare of a leaned-on car horn; the paint in his foreground
would gradually thicken, its hue coagulating to the sluggish black-purple
of liver, and his prevailing emotion would subside from fitful wrath to
steady, unabating resentment.
Yet when Celia slid to hand, she may have been visually beet-faced
and bloody, but her aural color was light blue. I was overcome by the
same clearskied azure that had visited me when we made love. She
didn’t cry when she was born, and if she emitted a figurative sound it
was the quiet, meandering tune of a rambler far from home who is
enjoying the walk and doesn’t think anyone is listening. As for the
ascendant emotion that exuded from this blind creature—her hands not
grasping at the air but wandering, wondering at it, her mouth, once led to
the nipple, suckling right away—it was gratitude.
I’m not sure if you could tell the difference instantly, though once
Celia was fed, tied off, swabbed, and handed over to her father, you did
return her rather quickly. Maybe you were still irked at my presumption,
and maybe your new daughter’s perfection dismayed you further, as
living evidence that my deception had been righteous. In any case, the
years ahead would later confirm my initial intuition: that you could tell
the difference, and that the difference made you angry. I imagine you
bristling with a similar resistance if, after living for years in our fatally
middlebrow Dream Home, you walked into the Victorian one with the
porch swing, dumbwaiter, and mahogany balustrade and learned it was
for sale. You’d wish you’d never seen it, and something in you would
hate it a bit. On tramping back into our hackneyed cathedral of teak, the
scales would fall from your eyes, and you’d see only a slag heap of
pretensions, your brave capacity for rounding up crippled for life.
That’s my only explanation for your coolness, since you seemed so
leery of picking her up and anxious to avoid looking at her with those
long soulful gazes during which Brian claimed that a parent falls in love.
I think she frightened you. I think you regarded your attraction to your
daughter as a betrayal.
The birth went so smoothly that I only spent the one night, and you
brought Kevin with you to retrieve us from Nyack Hospital. I was
nervous, having every appreciation for how infuriating it must be for a
firstborn child to contemplate the invasion of his patch by a speechless

weakling. But when Kevin trailed into the hospital room behind you, he
hardly leaped onto the bed to smother my suckling daughter with a
pillow. Wearing an “I’m the Big Brother” T-shirt with a smiley face in
the O—its fresh squared creases and price tag in the neck betokening
your purchase of a last-minute prop from the lobby’s gift shop—he
slouched around the foot, sauntered to the other side, dragged a zinnia
from your bedside bouquet, and set about denuding the flower of petals.
Perhaps the safest outcome was that Celia should simply bore him.
“Kevin,” I said. “Would you like to meet your sister?”
“Why should I meet it,” he said wearily. “It’s coming home with us,
isn’t it. That means I’ll meet it every day.”
“So you should at least know her name, shouldn’t you?” I gently
pulled the baby away from the breast in which Kevin himself had once
shown such resolute disinterest, though she’d just started feeding. In that
event, most infants would squall, but from the start Celia took
deprivation as her due, receiving whatever trifle she was offered with
wide-eyed abashment. I tugged up the sheet and held out the baby for
inspection.
“This is Celia, Kevin. I know she’s not a lot of fun yet, but when she
gets a little bigger I bet she’ll be your best friend.” I wondered if he
knew what one was. He’d yet to bring a classmate home from school.
“You mean she’ll tag along after me and stuff. I’ve seen it. It’s a pain.”
You clapped your hands on Kevin’s shoulders from behind and rocked
him in a pally motion. Kevin’s face twitched. “Yeah, well that’s all part
of being a big brother!” you said. “I should know, because I had a little
sister, too. They never leave you alone! You want to play with trucks,
and they’re always pestering you to play with doll babies!”
“I played with trucks,” I objected, shooting you a look; we would have
to talk about this retrograde sex-role crap when we got home. It was a
shame that, born back-to-back, you and your sister Valerie—a prissy girl
grown officious woman, consumed by the cut of her drapes, and on our
brief visits to Philadelphia determined to organize “outings” to historical
homes—were never very close. “There’s no telling what Celia will like
to do, any more than you can tell if Kevin may like to play with dolls.”
“In a pig’s eye!” you cried fraternally.
“Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles? Spiderman? Action figures are dolls.”
“Great, Eva,” you muttered. “Give the little guy a complex.”
Meantime, Kevin had sidled closer to the bed and dipped his hand into
the glass of water on the bedside table. Eyeing the baby askance, he held
his wet hand over her face and let drops of water drip, drip onto her face.

Celia twisted, disconcerted, but the baptism didn’t seem to be upsetting
her, though I would later learn to regard the fact that my daughter hadn’t
complained or cried out as meaningless. His face stirring with a rare if
clinical curiosity, Kevin wet his hand again and spattered his sister’s
nose and mouth. I wasn’t sure what to do. Kevin’s christening reminded
me of fairy tales in which an aggrieved relative arrives to curse the
princess in her crib. Yet he wasn’t really hurting her, and I didn’t want to
taint this introduction with a reprimand. So when he dipped his hand a
third time, I resettled myself on the pillow and, dabbing her face with the
sheet, discreetly withdrew the baby out of his reach.
“Hey, Kev!” You rubbed your hands. “Your mother has to get dressed,
so let’s go find something really greasy and really salty in those
machines down the hall!”
When we left the hospital together, you said I must be shot after being
up and down all night with a newborn and volunteered to baby-sit while
I got some sleep.
“No, it’s the oddest thing,” I whispered. “I did get up a couple of times
for feeding, but I had to set an alarm. Franklin—she doesn’t cry.”
“Huh. Well, don’t expect that to last.”
“You never know—they’re all different.”
“Babies ought to cry,” you said vigorously. “Kid just lolls in bed and
sleeps all day, you’re raising a doormat.”
When we came home, I noticed that the framed photo of me in my late
twenties that we kept on the little table in the foyer was missing, and I
asked you if you’d moved it. You said no, shrugging, and I declined to
pursue the matter, assuming it would turn up. It didn’t. I was a little
perturbed; I no longer looked nearly that pretty, and these verifications
that we were once lineless and lovely do grow precious. The shot had
been snapped on an Amsterdam houseboat with whose captain I had a
brief, uncomplicated affair. I treasured the expression he’d captured—
expansive, relaxed, warm; it fixed a simple glorying in all that I then
required of life: light on water, bright white wine, a handsome man. The
portrait had softened the severity that marked most of my pictures, with
that shelved brow of mine, my deep-set eyes in shadow. The houseboat
captain had mailed me the photo, and I didn’t have the negative. Oh,
well. Presumably, while I was in the hospital Kevin had snatched the
print to poke pins in.
Anyway, I was in no mood to get exercised over one silly snapshot. In
fact, though I fear that my martial metaphor may seem provocative,
when I carried Celia over our threshold I had the exhilarating impression

of having reset our troop strengths at a healthy par. Little could I know
that, as a military ally, a trusting young girl is worse than nothing, an
open left flank.
 
Eva
 

 
 
FEBRUARY 18, 2001
 
 
Dear Franklin,
 
You know, I was just thinking that I might have been able to handle
everything—Thursday, the trials, even our separation—if only I’d been
allowed to keep Celia. Nevertheless (and this may surprise you), I like
picturing her with you, imagining the two of you together. I’m glad if, at
last, you may be getting to know one another better. You were a good
father to her—I don’t mean to criticize—but you were always so
sensitive about slighting Kevin that you may have overdone it, the
reassurance that you were still on his side. You kept her a little at arm’s
length. And as she got older, she got so pretty, didn’t she? In a tentative,
bashful way, with that fine gold hair fluttering forever in her face. I think
you resented it, on Kevin’s behalf—how other people found her so
enchanting, whereas with Kevin they tended to be wary and so overly
hearty or false and sometimes visibly relieved when we showed up at
their house and hadn’t brought him along. It wasn’t fair, you thought. I
suppose, in that big universal way, it wasn’t.
Maybe my love for Celia was too easy. Maybe in my own terms she
was a kind of cheating, since my whole life I had striven to surmount
difficulty, to overcome terrors. Celia was plainly lovable. I can’t recall
anyone who didn’t find her sweet, though I wonder if she stuck in the
mind. Neighbors rarely liked Kevin, even if they were too polite to say
so outright, but they remembered him. Both our families copped
attitudes. Your sister Valerie was always edgy about leaving Kevin
unattended anywhere in her fastidiously decorated house and, just to
check up on him, kept bringing our son sandwiches he didn’t want;
whenever he picked up a candy dish or fiddled with the tassel of a
tieback, she’d jump up and take it away. Well before Kevin’s deficiencies
became national news, whenever Giles asked after our son my brother
seemed to be fishing for mean little stories to confirm a private
prejudice. Kevin was hard to like, much less to love, but in this way he
should have been perfectly fashioned for the likes of his mother. Kevin
was hard to love in the same manner that it was hard to eat well in
Moscow, find a cheap place to stay in London, or locate a commercial

Laundromat in Bangkok. But I had moved back to the United States,
grown soft. As I would sometimes cave to expedience and order takeout
curries with a side of naan instead of simmering chicken in turmeric for
hours on my stove, I chose the easy comfort of a compliant, ready-made
child rather than break down the stringy fibers of a tough kid with long
low heat. I had been rising to challenges for most of my life. I was tired,
and, latterly, flabby; in a spiritual sense, I was out of shape.
But it is only natural for the current of emotion to follow the path of
least resistance. To my amazement, when I put Celia down she slept; I
guess we were indeed raising “a doormat.” Whereas Kevin had
screeched with every conceivable need met, Celia would submit to all
manner of material deprivations with barely a mewl or stir, and she could
pickle for hours in a wet diaper unless I remembered to check. She never
wept out of hunger yet always took the breast, so I was obliged to feed
her according to a fixed schedule. I may have been the first mother in
history to despair that her baby didn’t cry enough.
Kevin’s disconsolate infancy had segued to wholesale boredom; Celia
was entranced by the least bauble. Every bit as delighted with a scrap of
colored tissue paper as with that expensive mother-of-pearl mobile over
her crib, she displayed an indiscriminate fascination with the tactile
universe that would have driven your Madison Avenue masters to
distraction. Ironically for a girl so easy to please, it would grow difficult
to buy her presents because she was so infatuated with the toys she had.
As she got older she formed such passionate loyalties to tattered stuffed
animals that the gift of plush, fresh-furred creatures seemed to throw her
into turmoil—as if, like her second-time father, she feared that to enlarge
her little family was to imperil previous, more primitive commitments.
The newer animals were only allowed in her bedtime embrace once they
had proved themselves by losing an ear or had joined the fallible, mortal
world with a baptismal stain of strained broccoli. Once she could speak,
she confided to me that she was careful to play with each member of the
menagerie every day, lest one feel neglected or jealous. Her favorite,
most fiercely defended toys were the ones that (thanks to Kevin) were
broken.
It’s possible that she was too much of a girl-girl for you, and her
feminine diffidence and delicacy were foreign to me as well. You might
have preferred a boisterous, fearless tomboy who made you proud by
conquering the summits of jungle gyms, arm-wrestling boys, and
declaring to visitors that she planned to be an astronaut—a rough-and-
tumble hellion who sauntered about the house in cowboy chaps covered

in motor oil. I might have enjoyed that kind of girl, too, but that was not
the daughter we got.
Instead, Celia loved to don lacy frocks and dab on the lipstick I rarely
wore. But her girlishness wasn’t limited to captivation with jewelry on
my dresser, to wobbles in my high-heeled shoes. It expressed itself in a
larger weakness, dependency, and trust. She had so many lovely
qualities, but she didn’t have guts. She was full of terrors, and not only
of the dark, but of the vacuum cleaner, the basement, and the drain.
Eager to please, she began to use the potty well before the age of two but
into kindergarten was still mortified by venturing into the bathroom by
herself. She watched me open and throw out a moldy Columbo container
once and for weeks thereafter would not come near the refrigerator, nor
touch any substance, like vanilla pudding or even white poster paint, that
resembled yogurt. Like many children, she was supersensitive to texture;
though tolerant of mud, she reviled what she called “drydirt,”
pronounced as one word: fine silty soil, dust on linoleum, even plain
flour. The first time I taught her to roll a pie crust, she stood stricken in
the middle of the kitchen with her floured hands held out from her side,
fingers spread, eyes popped wide. Celia always expressed horror in
silence.
As for food, it took me a while to discern what turned out to be fierce
aversions. Loath to seem choosy, she would force herself to choke down
whatever she was offered, unless I attended to her indrawn shoulders and
stifled little gags. She was revulsed by anything with “lumps” (tapioca,
pumpernickel with raisins), “slime” (okra, tomatoes, sauces thickened
with cornstarch), or “skin” (a rubbery bottom on Jell-O, the cooled
brown surface on hot cocoa, even an unpeeled peach). While I was
relieved to have a child with tastes at all—I might have fashioned
Kevin’s meals from colored wax—quaking before these comestibles, she
grew so pale and moist that the food might have been poised to eat her.
For Celia, her whole surround was animate, and each tapioca lump had a
dense, nauseating little soul.
I know it was frustrating, always having to remember to leave the hall
light on or getting up in the middle of the night to accompany her to the
toilet. More than once you accused me of coddling her, since to indulge a
fear was to feed it. But what was I to do on discovering a four-year-old
trembling in the hall at 3 A.M., chilled in her nightie and clutching
between her legs, but beg her to always, always wake one of us up if she
needed to pee? Besides, Celia was frightened of so many different things
that it’s possible she was, in her own terms, courageous. Of what a

variety of dreadful textures or murky corners might she have been
terrified and quietly faced down by herself?
But I drew the line when you despaired that Celia was “clingy.” It’s an
ugly word, isn’t it, that describes the honey of the heart as a sticky,
pestersome substance that won’t brush off. And to whatever degree
clinginess is not simply a mean appellation for the most precious thing
on earth, it involves an unacceptably incessant demand for attention,
approbation, ardor in return. But Celia beseeched us for nothing. She
didn’t nag us to come see what she’d built in the playroom or paw and
tug at us while we tried to read. Whenever I hugged her unbidden, she
returned my embrace with a thankful ferocity that implied unworthiness.
After I went back to working at AWAP, she never complained at my
absence, though her face would turn ashen with grief when I dropped her
at preschool and would light like Christmas when I came home.
Celia was not clingy. She was simply affectionate. She did sometimes
wrap her arms around my leg in the kitchen, press her cheek to my knee,
and exclaim with amazement, “You’re my friend!” Yet whatever
difficulty you may have had with her arrival, you were never so hard a
man as to find such demonstrations anything but touching. Indeed,
confirmation that we were her friends seemed to entrance her far more
than broad, rather abstract protestations of parental love. Although I
know you thought Kevin the far smarter of the two, Kevin entered this
world utterly stymied by what it was for and what to do with it, where
Celia arrived with unshakable certainty about what she wanted and what
made life worth living: that goo that wouldn’t brush off. Surely that
constitutes intelligence of a kind.
All right, she didn’t do well in school. But that’s because she tried too
hard. She became so caught up in wanting to get things right, so seized
by the prospect of failing her parents and teachers, that she couldn’t get
down to the task itself. At least she didn’t hold everything they tried to
teach her in contempt.
I tried to drill into her: You just memorize that the capital of Florida is
Tallahassee, period. As great a believer in mystery as her namesake,
Celia couldn’t imagine it was that simple, that there wasn’t a magic trick,
and she doubted herself, so that taking the state capitals test she would
immediately question “Tallahassee” for the very reason that it popped
into her head. Kevin never had any trouble with mystery. He ascribed to
the whole world the same terrifying plainness, and the question was
never whether he was able to learn something, but whether to bother.
Celia’s faith, as emphatic in relation to others as it was deficient in

relation to herself, assured her that no one would ever insist that she
study the manifestly useless. Kevin’s cynicism equally assured him that a
malign, sadistic pedagogy would pitch him nothing but chaff.
I don’t mean that Celia couldn’t exasperate me as well. Like Kevin,
she was impossible to punish, though there was rarely reason to punish
her aside for something that, as it turned out, she didn’t actually do. Still,
she took the least admonition to heart, so that any remonstrance was like
killing a fly with a sledgehammer. At the least suggestion that she had
disappointed us, she was inconsolable, pouring out apologies before she
was quite sure what we’d like her to regret. A single sharp word would
send her into a tailspin, and I admit it would have been a relief once in a
while to be able to bark out, “Celia, I told you to set the table!” (she was
rarely disobedient, but she was absent-minded) and not have my
daughter melt into a time-consuming puddle of remorse.
But my primary exasperation was otherwise. Judiciously applied, fear
is a useful tool of self-protection. While the drain would hardly leap out
and bite her, Celia was sufficiently replete with dread to have plenty left
over for dangers that could. There was one thing in our house of which
she might have been justifiably afraid, and she adored him.
On this point I’m brooking no argument, and I intend to take ruthless
advantage of the fact that this is my account, to whose perspective you
have no choice but to submit. I don’t pretend to know the whole story,
because I don’t think that’s a story that you or I will ever fully know. I
remember uneasily from my own childhood that on Enderby Avenue,
where the alliance between my brother and me was far more fickle, Giles
and I conducted the main of our lives below our mother’s line of sight.
One of us might run to her to argue our side (frowned upon as cheating),
but for the most part our collusions, battles, and mutually inflicted
tortures took place, if not out of view, in code. So total was my own
immersion in the world of other short people that my memories before
about the age of twelve are largely depopulated of adults. Maybe it was
different for you and Valerie, since you didn’t like each other much. But
many, perhaps most siblings share a private universe tropical with
benevolence, betrayal, vendetta, reconciliation, and the use and abuse of
power of which their parents know practically nothing.
Still, I wasn’t blind, and a measure of parental innocence is stark
disinterest. If I walked into a playroom to find my daughter curled on her
side, ankles tied with knee socks, hands bound behind her back with her
hair ribbon, mouth duct-taped shut, and my son nowhere in evidence, I
could work out for myself what her whimpered explanation of “playing

kidnapping” amounted to. I might not have been privy to the Masonic
passwords of my children’s secretive sect, but I did know my daughter
well enough to be confident that, despite her claims to the contrary, she
would never hold the head of her favorite plastic horsey over the flame
of the stove. And if she was alarmingly compliant about forcing down
foodstuffs I hadn’t realized she couldn’t abide, she was not an outright
masochist. Thus when I discovered her strapped into her booster chair at
the dining table covered in vomit, I could reasonably assume that the
bowl before her of mayonnaise, strawberry jam, Thai curry paste,
Vaseline petroleum jelly, and lumps of balled up bread had not followed
a recipe of her personal concoction.
You would assert, of course—since you did at the time—that older
siblings traditionally torment younger ones, and Kevin’s petty
persecution remained within the range of the perfectly normal. You
might now object that I can only find incidents of typical childhood
cruelty in any way forbidding with benefit of hindsight. Meanwhile,
millions of children survive families rife with roughhouse bullying, often
profitably the wiser about the Darwinian pecking orders they will
negotiate as adults. Many of these onetime tyrants develop into sensitive
husbands who remember anniversaries, while their onetime victims grow
into confident young women with high-flying careers and aggressive
views on a woman’s right to choose. Yet my present position offers few
enough perquisites, and I do have the benefit of hindsight, Franklin, if
benefit is the word.
As I shuttled to Chatham last weekend, I considered that I might also
benefit from our shy, fragile daughter’s example of Christian
forgiveness. But Celia’s baffling incapacity to hold a grudge from age
zip seems to suggest that the ability to forgive is a gift of temperament,
not necessarily a trick for old dogs. Besides, on my own account, I am
not sure what “forgiving” Kevin entails. Surely it doesn’t involve
sweeping Thursday artificially under the carpet or ceasing to hold him
accountable, which couldn’t be in his larger moral interests. I can’t
imagine that I’m supposed to get over it, like hopping a low stone wall;
if Thursday was a barrier of some kind, it was made of razor wire, which
I did not bound over but thrash through, leaving me in flayed pieces and
on the other side of something only in a temporal sense. I can’t pretend
he didn’t do it, I can’t pretend I don’t wish he hadn’t, and if I have
abandoned that felicitous parallel universe to which my white
confederates in Claverack’s waiting room are prone to cling, the
relinquishment of my private if-only derives more from a depleted

imagination than any healthy reconcilement that what’s done is done.
Honestly, when Carol Reeves formally “forgave” our son on CNN for
murdering her boy, Jeffrey, who was already precocious enough at the
classical guitar to be courted by Juilliard, I had no idea what she talking
about. Had she built a box around Kevin in her head, knowing that only
rage dwelled there; was our son now simply a place her mind refused to
go? At best, I reasoned that she had successfully depersonalized him into
a regrettable natural phenomenon that had descended on her family like a
hurricane or opened a maw in their living room like an earthquake,
concluding that there was nothing to be gained from railing at the likes
of weather or tectonic plate shifts. Then, there is nothing to be gained by
railing in virtually every circumstance, and that doesn’t stop most of us.
Celia, though. I can’t imagine that Celia successfully boxed up or
demoted to cloudburst the day that Kevin, with the delicacy of a budding
entomologist, removed a nest of bagworms from our white oak in the
backyard and left them to hatch in her backpack. Subsequently, she
reached for her spelling book in her first-grade class, withdrawing it
covered in striped caterpillars—the kind that Kevin squished to green
goo on our deck—several of which crawled onto her hand and up her
rigored arm. Unfortunately, Celia wasn’t given to screaming, which
might have brought rescue more quickly. Instead I gather she seized up
—breath whiffing, nostrils flaring, pupils dilating to saucers—and her
teacher kept explaining the “hard C” in candy on the blackboard. Finally,
the girls in adjacent desks began to shriek, and pandemonium ensued.
Yet however fresh the memory of those bagworms, the recollection
simply didn’t feature two weeks later when Kevin offered her a “ride” on
his back as he climbed the white oak, and she clasped his neck. No doubt
she was surprised when Kevin urged her off to perch tremulously on an
upper branch, after which he climbed calmly to the ground. In fact, when
she puled, “Kewin? Kewin, I can gedown!” she must have sincerely
believed that, even after abandoning her twenty feet high and waltzing
inside for a sandwich, he would return to help her out of the tree. Is that
forgiveness? Like Charlie Brown taking one more running lunge at
Lucy’s football, no matter how many stuffed animals he eviscerated and
Tinkertoy cathedrals he felled, Celia never lost faith that deep down
inside her big brother was a nice guy.
You can call it innocence or you can call it gullibility, but Celia made
the most common mistake of the good-hearted: She assumed that
everyone else was just like her. Evidence to the contrary found nowhere
to lodge, like a book on chaos theory in a library that didn’t have a

physics section. Meanwhile, she never told tales, and without a
testimonial it was often impossible to pin her misfortunes on her brother.
As a consequence, from the moment his sister was born, Kevin
Khatchadourian, figuratively at least, got away with murder.
 
I confess that during Celia’s early years, Kevin receded for me, taking
two giant steps backward like Simon Says. Small children are absorbing,
and he had meanwhile assumed a militant independence. And you were
so good about taking him to ball games and museums in your spare time
that I may have handed him off a bit. That put me in your debt, which is
why I feel especially awkward about observing what, from those two
giant steps away, became only more striking.
Franklin, our son was developing the personality equivalent of the
black-and-white cookie. It started back in kindergarten if not before, but
it kept getting worse. Exasperatingly, we’re all pretty much restricted to
learning what people are like with the permanent confound of our own
presence, which is why those chance glimpses of someone you love just
walking down the street can seem so precious. So you’ll just have to take
my word for it—I know you won’t—that when you weren’t home, Kevin
was sour, secretive, and sarcastic. Not just once in a while, on a bad day.
Every day was a bad day. This laconic, supercilious, unforthcoming
persona of his did seem real. Maybe it wasn’t the only thing that was
real, but it didn’t come across as completely confected.
In contrast to—Franklin, I feel so lousy about this, as if I’m trying to
take something away from you that you cherish—Kevin’s behavior
around you. When you walked in, his face changed. His eyebrows shot
up, his head cocked, and he put on a closed-mouth smile high up on his
chin, his lips meeting at his upper gum. Altogether, his features assumed
the permanent expression of startled happiness that you see on aging
starlets who have had too much plastic surgery. Hi Dad! he’d cry. How
was work today, Dad? Did you take any pictures of some real cool stuff?
Any more cows, Dad? Any more fields or big buildings or really loaded-
people’s houses? You’d light into an enthusiastic description of the
sections of roadway you’d shot, and he’d enthuse, Gosh, that’s great!
Another car ad! I’m gonna tell everybody at school that my dad takes
pictures for Oldsmobile! One night you brought home a copy of the new
Atlantic Monthly, flipping proudly to the Colgate advertisement that
sponsored our very own pink-marbled master bath. Gee, Dad! Kevin
exclaimed. Since our bathroom is in a toothpaste ad, does that make us
famous? “Just a little famous,” you allowed, and I swear I remember

wising off, “To be really famous in this country, you’ve got to kill
somebody.”
Oh, you were by no means uniquely credulous; Kevin pulled the wool
over his teachers’ eyes for years. I still have, thanks to you, stacks of his
schoolwork. An amateur student of American history, you were the
family chronicler, the photographer, the scrapbook paster, while I was
more apt to regard experience itself as my souvenir. So I’m not quite sure
what possessed me to rescue, from among the Stairmasters and egg
slicers I abandoned en masse when I moved, the file folders of Kevin’s
essays.
Did I save the files just for your tight, slanted cursive, “First Grade”?
For once, I think not. I have been through two trials, if what preceded
them is not to be considered a third, and I have learned to think in terms
of evidence. Why, I’ve become so accustomed to abdicating ownership
of my life to other people—to journalists, judges, web-site writers; to the
parents of dead children and to Kevin himself—that even now I’m
reluctant to fold or deface my son’s essays lest it constitute actionable
tampering.
Anyway, it’s a Sunday afternoon, and I have been forcing myself to
read a few. (Do you realize that I could sell these? I don’t mean for spare
change, either. Apparently this is just the kind of ephemera that gets
auctioned on eBay for thousands, along with the passably competent
landscapes of Adolph Hitler.) Their innocent physical manifestation is
disarming: the fat, characterless printing, the fragile yellowed paper.
How prosaic, I thought at first; I’ll learn nothing but that, like a good
boy, he did his homework. But as I read on, I grew more compelled,
drawn in with the nervous fascination that leads one to poke and squeeze
at an emerging cyst or a burrowing ingrown hair.
I’ve concluded that Kevin was prone to snow his schoolmasters less
with that scrubbed-behind-the-ears Partridge-family buoyancy with
which he greeted your return from work than with an eerie lack of affect.
Kevin’s papers always follow the assignment excessively to the letter; he
adds nothing, and whenever they are marked down, it is usually for being
too short. There is nothing wrong with them. They are factually correct.
Their spelling is accurate. On those rare occasions his teachers jot vague
notes about how he might “take a more personal approach to the
material,” they are unable to pinpoint anything in his essays that is
precisely lacking:

Abraham Lincoln was president. Abraham Lincoln had a beard.
Abraham Lincoln freed the African-American slaves. In school we
study great African-American Americans for a whole month. There
are many great African-American Americans. Last year we studied
the same African-American Americans during African-American
History Month. Next year we will study the same African-American
Americans during African-American History Month. Abraham
Lincoln was shot.
 
If you don’t mind my weighing in on Kevin’s side for once, you and
his teachers thought all through primary school that he needed help on
his organizational skills, but I’ve decided that his organizational skills
were razor sharp. From first grade on, those assignments demonstrate an
intuitive appreciation for the arbitrary, for the numbing powers of
repetition, and for the absurdist possibilities of the non sequitur. More,
his robotic declaratives do not indicate a failure to master the niceties of
prose style; they are his prose style, refined with all the fastidiousness
that attended H. L. Mencken’s. Uneasy intimations to us at parent-
teacher conferences that Kevin “didn’t seem to put his heart into his
schoolwork” to the contrary, Kevin did put his heart into his work, his
heart and soul. Check out this fourth-grade rendition of the assignment,
“Meet My Mother”:
My mother goes somewhere else. My mother sleeps in a different
bed. My mother eats different food. My mother comes home. My
mother sleeps at home. My mother eats at home.
My mother tells other people to go somewhere else. Other people
sleep in a different bed. Other people eat different food. Other
people come home. Other people sleep at home. Other people eat at
home. My mother is rich.
 
I know what you’re thinking, or I know what you thought then. That it
was Kevin’s surly, remote pose with me that was fake, while with you he
could relax and be his sprightly, chipper self. That the pervasive
stiltedness of his written work revealed a commonplace gap between his
thoughts and his powers of expression. I’m willing to grant that his
closed condescension toward me was an artifice, even if its biding-time
quality, tracing back to my appropriation of his squirt gun, felt true. But
neither the Beaver Cleaver nor the windup schoolboy straight man was

any less bogus. Kevin was a shell game in which all three cups were
empty.
 
I just glanced over what I’ve written so far and realized that I was being
awfully summary about a solid seven years of our lives together;
moreover, that the abundance of that summary concerned Celia. I’m
ashamed of this, I really am, but while I can remember how we spent
every one of Celia’s birthdays during those years, my memories of Kevin
from the age of eight to about fourteen tend to blur.
Oh, a few bits and pieces stick out, especially my disastrous attempt to
impart the enthusiasms of my professional life by taking you and
thirteen-year old Kevin (you’ll recall that Celia, too young, stayed with
my mother) to Vietnam. I deliberately chose that country because it’s a
place that to any American, at least of our generation, inescapably means
something, saving it from the dissociated Just Somewhere Else and Who
Cares feeling that foreign countries so easily induce when you visit them
for the first time, and to which Kevin would naturally fall prey. Too,
Vietnam had only recently opened up to tourism, so I couldn’t resist the
opportunity on my own account. But I grant that this sense of
connectedness, of guilty intimacy with rice paddies and wizened old
women in conical straw hats, would pertain mostly to you and me. I’d
marched on Washington in my twenties, while you had actually begged
the Draft Board, if to no avail, not to reject you because of flat feet; with
Saigon already fallen three years before, we had some bracing
knockdown drag-outs over the war when we met. Kevin had no such
associations, so maybe despite my intentions to the contrary, I had
indeed dragged him to Just Somewhere Else and Who Cares.
Nonetheless, I’ll never forget my stinging humiliation when our son—if
nothing else, ever a quick study—sauntered through the sea of scooters
in Hanoi telling the “gooks” to get out of the way.
However, one other memory rises eidetically above the blur, and it is
not, Franklin, one more mean, slanderous example of how our son was
heartless from birth.
I refer to that two weeks when he got so sick. He was ten. For a while,
Dr. Goldblatt worried that it was meningitis, though an excruciating
spinal tap only proved that it wasn’t. Despite his poor appetite, Kevin
was generally a healthy boy, and this was my only experience of our son
laid so low for so long.
When he first started coming down with it, I noticed that the spirit in
which he turned up his nose at my meals was no longer sneering; he’d

look at his plate and slump, as if in defeat. In fact, since he was
accustomed—like his mother—to battling his own impulses as much as
outside forces, he struggled to stuff down one of my lamb sarma before
giving up. He didn’t lurk in shadows or march martinet-style down the
hall but began to wander, sagging against furniture. The rigid set of his
face went limp and lost that smirking sideways skew. Eventually I found
him curled helplessly on my study’s ink-stained Armenian carpet, and I
was astonished that when I helped him up and lifted him to bed that he
offered no resistance. Franklin, he put his arms around my neck.
In his bedroom, he let me undress him, and when I solicited which
pajamas he wanted to wear, rather than roll his eyes and say I don’t care,
he thought for a moment and then whispered in a small voice, “The
spaceman ones. I like the monkey in the rocket.” This was the first I’d
heard that he liked a single garment in his possession, and when I
discovered this was the one pair in the laundry hamper, I was distraught,
shaking them out and hurrying back to promise that the next day I would
wash them to be nice and fresh. I expected, “Don’t bother,” but instead
got—another first—“Thanks.” When I tucked him in, he huddled gladly
with the blanket to his chin, and when I slipped the thermometer between
his flushed lips—his face had a bright febrile blotch—he suckled the
glass with gentle rhythmic contractions, as if finally, at the age of ten,
having learned to nurse. His fever was high for a child—over 101°—and
when I stroked his forehead with a moist washcloth, he hummed.
I cannot say whether we are less ourselves when we are sick, or more.
But I did find that remarkable two-week period a revelation. When I sat
on the edge of his bed, Kevin would nestle his crown against my thigh;
once I became convinced that it wouldn’t be pushing my luck, I pulled
his head onto my lap and he clutched my sweater. A couple of times
when he threw up he didn’t make it to the toilet; yet when I cleaned up
the mess and told him not to worry, he exhibited none of the self-
satisfied complacency of his diaperchanging phase but whimpered that
he was sorry and seemed, despite my reassurances, ashamed. I know that
we all transform one way or another when we’re ill, but Kevin wasn’t
just cranky or tired, he was a completely different person. And that’s
how I achieved an appreciation for how much energy and commitment it
must have taken him the rest of the time to generate this other boy (or
boys). Even you had conceded that Kevin was “a little antagonistic”
toward his sister, but when our two-year-old tiptoed into his bedroom, he
let her pet his head with damp little pats. When she offered him her get-
well drawings, he didn’t dismiss them as dumb or take advantage of

feeling bad to tell her, as was well within his rights, to leave him alone,
instead exerting himself to say weakly, “That’s a nice picture, Celie.
Why don’t you draw me another one?” I had thought that dominant
emotional tone of his, so extravagant from birth, was immutable. Call it
rage or resentment, it was only a matter of degree. But underneath the
levels of fury, I was astonished to discover, lay a carpet of despair. He
wasn’t mad. He was sad.
The other thing that amazed me was his curious aversion to your
company. You may not remember, since after he’d rebuffed you once or
twice—imploring when you popped in that he’d like to go to sleep or
laying your present of rare collectible comics silently, wearily on the
floor—you were injured enough to withdraw. Maybe he felt unable to
muster the Gee, Dad boisterousness of your Saturday afternoon Frisbee
tosses, but in that instance he clearly regarded this rah-rah boy mode as
compulsory with his father. I comforted you that children always prefer
their mothers when they’re sick, but you were still a little jealous. Kevin
was breaking the rules, ruining the balance. Celia was mine, and Kevin
was yours. You and Kevin were close, he would confide in you, and lean
on you in times of trouble. But I think that was the very reason he
recoiled: your insistence, your crowding, your wanting, your cajoling,
chummy Daddishness. It was too much. He didn’t have the energy—not
to give you the intimacy you demanded, but to resist it. Kevin made
himself up for you, and there must have been, in the very lavishness of
his fabrication, a deep and aching desire to please. But do you ever
consider how disappointed he must have been when you accepted the
decoy as the real thing?
The second industry he could no longer afford was the manufacture of
apathy—though you’d think that apathy would come naturally in a state
of malaise. Instead, little islands of shy desire began to emerge like
bumps of sun-warmed dry land in a cold receding sea. Once he was
holding down food, I asked what he’d like to eat, and he confessed that
he liked my clam chowder, going so far as to assert that he preferred the
milk-based to the tomato. He even requested a toasted slice of katah,
whereas he had previously gone out of his way to disdain anything
Armenian. He confessed to a fancy for one of Celia’s ragged stuffed
animals (the gorilla), which she donated solemnly to his pillow as if her
humble primate had been selected for a rare honor—as indeed it had
been. When I asked him what I should read to him on the long
afternoons—I had taken time off from AWAP, of course—he was a bit at
a loss, but I think that was only because when either of us had read

stories before, he had refused to listen. So just on a hunch—it seemed an
appealing tale for a boy—I picked Robin Hood and His Merry Men.
He loved it. He implored me to read Robin Hood over and over, until
he must have committed whole passages to heart. To this day I will never
know whether this particular tale took so because I read it at some
perfect chemical point—where he was strong enough to pay attention but
still too weak to generate a force field of indifference—or whether there
was something about the nature of this one story that captured his
imagination. Like many children foisted into the headlong march of
civilization when it was already well down the road, he may have found
comfort in the trappings of a world whose workings he could understand;
horse-drawn carts and bows and arrows are pleasantly fathomable to the
ten-year-old. Perhaps he liked stealing from the rich and giving to the
poor because he had an instinctive appreciation for the anti-hero. (Or, as
you quipped at the time, maybe he was just a budding tax-and-spend
Democrat.)
If I will never forget those two weeks, as indelible was the morning
that he felt well enough to get out of bed, informing me that he would
dress himself and would I please leave the room. I obliged, trying to hide
my disappointment, and when I returned later to ask what he’d like for
lunch, maybe clam chowder again, he jerked his head in annoyance.
“Whatever,” he said, his generation’s watchword. A grilled cheese
sandwich? —“I don’t give a rat’s ass,” he said—a phrase that, whatever
they say about kids growing up fast these days, still took me aback from
a child of ten. I withdrew, though not before noticing that the set of his
mouth was once more askew. I told myself I should be pleased; he was
better. Better? Well, not to me.
Yet his fever had never burned quite high enough to sear the seeds of a
tiny, nascent interest to ash. I caught him the following week, reading
Robin Hood to himself. Later, I helped you two buy his first bow-and-
arrow set at the sporting goods store at the mall and construct the archery
range at the crest of our sloping backyard, praying all the while that this
little bloom of rapture in our firstborn would endure the length of the
project. I was all for it.
 
Eva
 

 
 
FEBRUARY 24, 2001
 
Dear Franklin,
 
 
When I saw Kevin today his left cheek was bruised, his lower lip
swollen; his knuckles were scabbed. I asked if he was all right and he
said he cut himself shaving. Maybe the lamest remarks pass for drollery
when you’re locked up. It gave him palpable pleasure to deny me access
to his travails inside, and who am I to interfere with his few enjoyments;
I didn’t press the matter. Afterward, I might have complained to the
prison authorities about their failure to protect our son, but considering
what Kevin has himself inflicted on his peers, objection to a few scrapes
in return seemed worse than petulant.
I dropped any further preliminaries. I’m increasingly indifferent to
setting him at ease on my visits when his own efforts are aimed solely at
my discomfiture.
“It’s been preying on me,” I said right off. “I can almost understand
going on some indiscriminate frenzy, venting your frustrations on
whomever happens to be in the way. Like that quiet, unassuming
Hawaiian a year or two ago, who just flipped—”
“Bryan Uyesugi,” Kevin provided. “He kept fish.”
“Seven coworkers?”
Kevin patted his hands in mock applause. “Two thousand fish. And it
was Xerox. He was a copy-machine repairman. Nine-millimeter Glock.”
“I’m so pleased,” I said, “that this experience has afforded you an
expertise.”
“He lived on ‘Easy Street,’” Kevin noted. “It was a dead-end.”
“My point is, Uyooghi—”
“Yoo-SOO-ghee,” Kevin corrected.
“It clearly didn’t matter who those employees were—”
“Guy was a member of the Hawaiian Carp Association. Maybe he
thought that meant he was supposed to complain.”
Kevin was showing off; I waited to make sure the little recital was
over.
“But your get-together in the gym,” I resumed, “was By Invitation
Only.”

“All my colleagues aren’t indiscriminate. Take Michael McDermott,
last December. Wakefield, Mass., Edgewater Tech—AK, .12-gauge
shotgun. Specific targets. Accountants. Anybody had to do with docking
his paycheck 2,000 bucks—”
“I don’t want to talk about Michael McDermott, Kevin—”
“He was fat.”
“—Or about Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold—”
“Morons. Give mass murderers a bad name.”
I told you, Franklin, he’s obsessed with those Columbine kids, who
upstaged him only twelve days later with six more fatalities; I’m sure I
brought them up just to rile him.
“At least Harris and Klebold had the courtesy to save the taxpayer a
bundle and make a quick exit,” I observed coolly.
“Weenies just trying to inflate their casualty figures.”
“Why didn’t you?”
He didn’t seem to take offense. “Why make it easy for everybody.”
“Everybody like me.”
“You included,” he said smoothly. “Sure.”
“But why Dana Rocco and not another teacher, why those particular
kids? What made them so special?”
“Uh, duh,” said Kevin. “I didn’t like them.”
“You don’t like anybody,” I pointed out. “What, did they beat you at
kickball? Or do you just not like Thursdays?”
In the context of Kevin’s new specialty, my oblique reference to
Brenda Spencer qualified as a classical allusion. Brenda killed two adults
and wounded nine students in her San Carlos, California, high school
only because, as the Boomtown Rats’ hit single subsequently attested, “I
Don’t Like Mondays.” The fact that this seminal atrocity dates back to
1979 distinguishes the sixteen-year-old as ahead of her time. My nod to
his puerile pantheon earned me what in other children would have been a
smile.
“It must have been quite a project,” I said, “trimming the list.”
“Massive,” he agreed affably. “Started out like, fifty, sixty serious
contenders. Ambitious,” he said, then shook his head. “But impractical.”
“All right, we have forty-five more minutes,” I said. “Why Denny
Corbitt?”
“—The ham!” he said, as if checking his grocery list before checkout.
“You remember the name of a copy-machine repairman in Hawaii, but
you’re not too sure about the names of the people you murdered.”

“Uyesugi actually did something. Corbitt, if I remember right, just sat
all google-eyed against the wall as if waiting for his director to block the
scene.”
“My point is, so Denny was a ham. So what?”
“See that dork do Stanley in Streetcar? I could do a better Southern
accent underwater.”
“What part are you playing? The surliness, the swagger. Where’d it
come from? Brad Pitt? You know, you’ve picked up a bit of a Southern
accent yourself. It isn’t very good, either.”
His fellow inmates are abundantly black, and his locution has begun to
warp accordingly. He’s always spoken with a peculiar slowness, that
effortfulness, as if he had to hoist the words from his mouth with a
shovel, so the slack-jawed urban-ghetto economy of dropped consonants
and verbs is naturally infectious. Still, I was pleased with myself; I
seemed to have annoyed him.
“I’m not playing a part. I am the part,” he said hotly. “Brad Pitt should
play me.”
(So he’d heard; a movie was already in development at Miramax.)
“Don’t be ridiculous,” I said. “Brad Pitt’s way too old to play some
pipsqueak high school sophomore. Even if he were the right age, no
audience would buy that a guy who looks that street-smart would do
anything so moronic. I’ve read they’re having trouble casting, you know.
Nobody in Hollywood will touch your filthy little part with a barge
pole.”
“Just as long as it isn’t DiCaprio,” Kevin grumbled. “He’s a twit.”
“Back to business.” I sat back. “What was your problem with Ziggy
Randolph? You could hardly accuse him of failing your exalted artistic
standards, like Denny. Word was that he had a professional future in
ballet.”
“What had a professional future,” said Kevin, “was his butthole.”
“He got an overwhelming reception when he gave that speech,
explaining he was gay and proud of it at assembly. You couldn’t bear
that, could you? The whole student body cooing how courageous he
was.”
“And how do you like that,” Kevin marveled. “Standing ovation for
taking it up the ass.”
“But I really haven’t been able to figure why Greer Ulanov,” I said.
“The fuzzy-headed girl, short, with prominent teeth.”
“Buck teeth,” he corrected. “Like a horse.”
“You generally had it in for the lookers.”

“Anything to get her to shut up about her ‘vast right-wing
conspiracy.’”
“Ah, she was the one,” I clued. “The petition.” (I don’t know if you
remember, but an indignant petition to New York congressmen circulated
Gladstone High School when Clinton was impeached.)
“Admit it, Mumsey, having a crush on the president is totally low-
rent.”
“I think,” I hazarded, “you don’t like people who have crushes of any
sort.”
“More theories? ’Cause I think,” he returned, “you need to get a life.”
“I had one. You took it.”
We faced off. “Now you’re my life,” I added. “All that’s left.”
“That,” he said, “is pathetic.”
“But wasn’t that the plan? Just you and me, getting to know one
another at last.”
“More theories! Aren’t I fascinating.”
“Soweto Washington.” I had a long list to get through, and I had to
keep the program moving. “He’s going to walk again, I’ve read. Are you
disappointed?”
“Why should I care?”
“Why did you ever care? Enough to try to kill him?”
“Didn’t try to kill him,” Kevin maintained staunchly.
“Oh, I see. You left him with holes in both thighs and that’s all on
purpose. Heaven forbid that Mr. Perfect Psychopath should miss.”
Kevin raised his hands. “Hey, hey! I made mistakes! Letting that little
movie nerd off scot-free was the last thing I had in mind.”
“Joshua Lukronsky,” I remembered, though we were getting ahead of
ourselves. “Did you hear that your friend Joshua’s been brought on board
the Miramax film, as a script consultant? They want to be historically
accurate. For a “movie nerd,” it’s a dream come true.”
Kevin’s eyes screwed up. He doesn’t like it when tangential characters
collect on his cachet. He was equally resentful when Leonard Pugh
posted his web page, KK’s_best_friend.com, which has garnered
thousands of hits and purports to expose our son’s darkest secrets for the
price of a double-click. Best friend my ass! Kevin snarled when the site
went up. Lenny was closer to a pet hamster.
“If it makes you feel better,” I added sourly, “Soweto’s basketball
career is no longer a slam-dunk.”
“Yeah, well as a matter of fact that does make me feel better. Last
thing the world needs is one more darkie who wants to play hoops in the

NBA. Talk about stale.”
“Talk about stale! Another high school rampage?”
Kevin cleaned his nails. “I prefer to think of it as tradition.”
“The media assumed you picked on Soweto because he was black.”
“That makes sense,” Kevin snorted. “Nine kids locked in that gym.
Only one of them’s of the Negro persuasion, and bingo, it’s a ‘hate
crime.’”
“Oh, it was a hate crime, all right,” I said quietly.
Kevin half smiled. “Totally.”
“They said the same thing about Miguel Espinoza. That you went for
him because he was Latino.”
“Superspic? I leave out communities of color, they’d say I
discriminated.”
“But the real reason was he was such an academic bright spark, isn’t
it? Skipped a grade. All those dizzyingly high scores on state
achievement tests and the PSAT.”
“Whenever he talk to you, turn out he just trying to use ‘echelon’ in a
sentence.”
“But you know what ‘echelon’ means. You know all kinds of big
words. That’s why you thought it was such a hoot to write whole essays
with words three letters long.”
“Fine. So it’s not like I was jealous. Which, if I’m getting the drift of
this bor-ing third degree, is what you’re getting at.”
I took a moment; you know, Kevin did look bored. Documentary
makers like Jack Marlin, criminologists dashing off best-sellers, the
principals and teachers and reverends interviewed on the news; your
parents, Thelma Corbitt, Loretta Greenleaf—all these people obsessing
over why KK did it, with the notable exception of our son. It was one
more subject in which Kevin was simply not interested: himself.
“The cafeteria worker,” I raised. “He doesn’t fit the pattern.” (I always
feel sheepish that I can’t remember his name.) “He wasn’t on the list,
was he?”
“Collateral damage,” said Kevin sleepily.
“And,” I said, determined to say something to get him to look alive, “I
know your secret about Laura Woolford. She was pretty, wasn’t she?”
“Saved her trouble,” Kevin slurred. “First sign of a wrinkle and she’d
a killed herself anyway.”
“Very, very pretty.”
“Yep. Bet that girl’s mirror was all wore out.”
“And you were sweet on her.”

If I’d any remaining doubt, Kevin’s theatrical guffaw cleared it right
up. He doesn’t often, but he rent me then, just a little. Adolescents are so
obvious. “Give me credit,” he sneered, “for better taste. That Barbie doll
was all accessories.”
“It embarrassed you, didn’t it?” I prodded. “The eyeliner, the Calvin
Klein, the designer haircuts. The nylons and opalescent pumps. Not icy,
misanthropic KK’s style.”
“She wasn’t all that hot-looking when I was finished.”
“It’s the oldest story in the book,” I goaded. “After confiding darkly to
friends that, ‘If I can’t have her, then no one else is going to . . . ,’
Charlie Schmoe opened fire . . . .’ Is that what this whole sorry mess was
meant to cover? Another pimply teen smitten with the unattainable prom
queen goes berserk?”
“In your dreams,” said Kevin. “You wanna turn this into a Harlequin
romance, that’s your midget imagination, not mine.”
“Luke Woodham was lovesick, wasn’t he? In Pearl? You know, ‘The
Whiner.’”
“He only went out with Christy Menefee three times, and they’d been
busted up for a year!”
“Laura rebuffed you, didn’t she?”
“I never came within a mile of that cunt. And as for that fat Woodham
fuck, you know his mother came with him on every date? No wonder he
reamed her with a butcher knife.”
“What happened? Did you finally work yourself up into cornering her
against a locker during lunch? Did she slap you? Laugh in your face?”
“That the story you wanna tell yourself,” he said, scratching his
exposed midriff, “I can’t stop you.”
“Tell other people, too. I was approached by a documentary filmmaker
not long ago. Terribly anxious to hear ‘my side.’ Maybe I should call
him back. I could explain to him how it was unrequited love all along.
My son was head-over-heels for this smashing little number who
wouldn’t give him the time of day. After all, how did Laura go down?
Kevin may have made a hash of the rest of that crowd, but he shot her
straight through the heart, our own cupid of Gladstone High. All those
other poor wretches were just camouflage, just—what did he call it?
Collateral damage.”
Kevin leaned forward and lowered his voice confidentially. “How
much did you care what girls I did and didn’t like before I whacked a
couple? How much did you care about anything that went on in my head
until it got out?”

I’m afraid that at that point I lost it a bit. “You want me to feel sorry
for you?” I said in a voice that carried; the mole guard looked over.
“Well, first I’ll feel sorry for Thelma Corbitt, and Mary Woolford. For
the Fergusons and the Randolphs, for the Ulanovs and the Espinozas. I’ll
let my heart break over a teacher who bent over backward to get inside
your precious head, over a basketball player who can barely walk, and
even a cafeteria worker I’ve never met, and then we’ll see if there’s any
pity left over for you. There just might be, but it’s the scraps of my table
you’re due, and for scraps you should count yourself lucky.”
“Nyeh nyeh nyeh nyeh nyeh nyeh-nyeh nyeh-nyeh!”
Then he laughed. Oh, Franklin. Whenever I let fly he seems so
satisfied.
 
I admit, I tried to make him mad today. I was determined to make him
feel small, not the deep dark impenetrable conundrum of Our
Contemporary Society, but the butt of a joke, hoisted on his own retard.
Because every time Kevin takes another bow as Evil Incarnate, he swells
a little larger. Each slander slewed in his direction—nihilistic, morally
destitute, depraved, degenerate, or debased—bulks his scrawny frame
better than my cheese sandwiches ever did. No wonder he’s broadening
out. He eats the world’s hearty denunciations for breakfast. Well, I don’t
want him to feel unfathomable, a big beefed-up allegory of generational
disaffection; I don’t want to allow him to cloak the sordid particulars of
his tacky, crappy, gimcrack, derivative stunt with the grand mantle of
Rudderless Youth Today. I want him to feel like one more miserable, all-
too-understandable snippet of a plain dumb kid. I want him to feel
witless and sniveling and inconsequential, and the last thing in the world
I want to betray is how much of my day, every day, I spend trying to
figure out what makes that boy tick.
My needling about his being stuck on Laura was merely an educated
guess. Although any suggestion that his grandiose atrocity derived from
a tawdry little broken heart was certain to offend, I’m not honestly sure
how much Kevin’s crush on Laura Woolford had anything to do with
Thursday. For all I know, he was trying to impress her.
But I have made a study of those victims, whether or not he cares to
examine the list himself. At first glance, it was a disparate group, so
motley that their names might have been drawn from a hat: a basketball
player, a studious Hispanic, a film buff, a classical guitarist, an emotive
thespian, a computer hacker, a gay ballet student, a homely political
activist, a vain teen beauty, a part-time cafeteria worker, and a devoted

English teacher. Slice of life; an arbitrary assemblage of eleven
characters scooped willy-nilly from the fifty or so whom our son didn’t
happen to like.
But Kevin’s displeasure is not the only thing that his victims had in
common. Okay, throw out the cafeteria worker, clearly there by mistake;
Kevin has a neat mind, and he’d prefer a tidy group of ten. Otherwise,
every one of them enjoyed something. Never mind whether this passion
was pursued with any flash; whatever his parents claim, I gather Soweto
Washington hadn’t a chance at going pro; Denny was (forgive me,
Thelma) an atrocious actor, and Greer Ulanov’s petitioning New York
congressmen who were going to vote with Clinton anyway was a waste
of time. No one is willing to admit as much now, but Joshua Lukronsky’s
obsession with movies was apparently annoying to many more students
than just our son; he was forever quoting whole sequences of dialogue
from Quentin Tarantino scripts and staging tiresome contests at lunch,
when the rest of the table preferred to negotiate trades of roast beef
sandwiches for slices of pound cake, over who could name ten Robert
DeNiro films in chronological order. Be that as it may, Joshua did love
movies, and even his outright irksomeness didn’t keep Kevin from
coveting the infatuation itself. It didn’t seem to matter infatuation with
what. Soweto Washington loved sport and at least the illusion of a future
with the Knicks; Miguel Espinoza, learning (at any rate, Harvard); Jeff
Reeves, Telemann; Denny Corbitt, Tennessee Williams; Mouse
Ferguson, the Pentium III processor; Ziggy Randolph, West Side Story,
not to mention other men; Laura Woolford loved herself; and Dana
Rocco—the ultimate unforgivable—loved Kevin.
I realize that Kevin doesn’t experience his aversions as envy. To
Kevin, all ten of his victims were supremely ridiculous. They each got
excited over trifles, and their enthusiasms were comical. But like my
wallpaper of maps, impenetrable passions have never made Kevin laugh.
From early childhood, they have enraged him.
Sure, most children have a taste for spoliation. Tearing things apart is
easier than making them; however exacting his preparations for
Thursday, they couldn’t have been nearly as demanding as it would have
been to befriend those people instead. So annihilation is a kind of
laziness. But it still provides the satisfactions of agency: I wreck,
therefore I am. Besides, for most people, construction is tight,
concentrated, bunchy, whereas vandalism offers release; you have to be
quite an artist to give positive expression to abandon. And there’s an
ownership to destruction, an intimacy; an appropriation. In this way,

Kevin has clutched Denny Corbitt and Laura Woolford to his breast,
inhaled their hearts and hobbies whole. Destruction may be motivated by
nothing more complicated than acquisitiveness, a kind of ham-handed,
misguided greed.
I watched Kevin despoil other people’s pleasures for most of his life. I
can’t count the number of times I picked up the word favorite during
some hot-under-the-collar maternal diatribe—the red galoshes stuffed
with snack cake in kindergarten were Jason’s favorite footwear. Kevin
could easily have overheard that the white caftan he squirted with
concord grape juice was my favorite floor-length dress. For that matter,
each walking adolescent bull’s-eye in that gym was some teacher’s
favorite student.
He seems to especially revile enjoyments I can only call innocent. For
example, he habitually beelined for anyone who was poised to snap a
photograph and walked deliberately in front of the lens. I began to dread
our trips to national monuments, if only on behalf of the Japanese and all
their wasted film. Why, across the globe are scattered dozens of
collectible snaps, blurred head shots of the notorious KK in profile.
Further illustrations are countless; I’ll cite only one in detail.
 
When Kevin had just turned fourteen, I was approached at his middle
school’s PTA meeting to chaperone the eighth-grade spring dance. I
remember being a little surprised that Kevin intended to go, since he
boycotted most organized school activities. (In retrospect, maybe the
draw was Laura Woolford, whose shimmering crotch-high frock for the
occasion must have set Mary back hundreds.) This end-of-the-year bash
was the highlight of the school’s social calendar, and most of his
classmates would have been anticipating admission to this exclusively
senior rite of passage since the sixth grade. The idea was to give these
kids practice at being Real Teenagers and to let them swagger around as
kings of the hill before entering the adjoining high school as hacked-on
peon freshmen at the bottom of the pecking order.
Anyway, I said I’d do it, not especially looking forward to
confiscating pints of Southern Comfort; I treasured the memory of my
own hot, surreptitious hits from hip flasks behind the stage curtains of
William Horlick High School in Racine. I was never keen on getting
stuck with the role of Big Killjoy Meanie and wondered if I might not
look quietly the other way so long as the kids were discreet and didn’t
get sloppy drunk.

Of course I was naive, and Southern Comfort was the least of the
administration’s worries. At our preparatory meeting the week before,
the first thing they taught chaperones was how to recognize a crack vial.
Graver still, the faculty was still anguished over a couple of national
incidents at the start of the calendar year. Kids graduating from eighth
grade may be only fourteen, but Tronneal Mangum had been only
thirteen when that January in West Palm Beach, he shot and killed
another classmate in front of his middle school because the boy owed
him $40. Only three weeks later in Bethel, Alaska (it’s embarrassing,
Franklin, but I remember all this stuff because when conversation flags
at Claverack, Kevin often reverts to reciting his favorite bedtime stories),
Evan Ramsey had got hold of his family’s .12-gauge shotgun, murdered
a popular school athlete at his desk, shot up the school, and then
systematically stalked and blew away his high school principal—in my
day, a word whose spelling we were taught to distinguish from principle
by the mnemonic, “The principal is your PAL.”
Statistically, of course, in a country with 50 million schoolkids, the
killings were insignificant, and I remember going home after that
meeting and complaining to you about the faculty’s overreaction. They’d
moaned about the fact that there wasn’t enough left in the budget to
purchase metal detectors, while training a whole cadre of chaperones on
how to frisk every kid on the way in. And I indulged myself in a bit of
liberal indignation (that always revulsed you).
“Of course, for ages black kids and Hispanic kids have been shooting
each other in shithole junior high schools in Detroit,” I opined over a late
dinner that night, “and that’s all very by-the-by. A few white kids,
middle-class kids, protected, private-telephone-line, own-their-own-TV
suburban kids go ballistic, and suddenly it’s a national emergency.
Besides, Franklin, you should have seen those parents and teachers eat it
up.” My stuffed chicken breast was getting cold. “You’ve never seen so
much self-importance, and when I made a joke once they all turned to
me with this it’s not funny expression, like airport security when you
make a crack about a bomb. They all love the idea of being on the front
line, doing something ooh-ooh dangerous instead of chaperoning a sock
hop, for God’s sake, being in the national spotlight so they can
participate in the usual politics of hysteria. I swear on some level they’re
all jealous, because Moses Lake and Palm Beach and Bethel have had
one, what’s wrong with Gladstone, why can’t we have one, too. Like
they’re all secretly hoping that as long as Junior or Baby Jane sneaks off
without a scratch wouldn’t it be keen if the eighth-grade dance turned

into a melee and we could all get on TV before the whole tacky number
becomes passé. . . .”
I’m making myself a little sick here, but I’m afraid I did spout this sort
of thing, and yes, Kevin was probably listening. But I doubt there was a
household in the United States that didn’t talk about those shootings one
way or another. Decry the “politics of hysteria” as I might, they hit a
nerve.
I’m sure that this dance has emerged in such high relief in my mind
because of where it took place. After all, it’s a small memory; whether to
the disappointment of those parents or not, the event passed without a
hitch, and as for the one student who probably remembers the evening as
a calamity, I never even knew her name.
The gym. It was in that gym.
Because the middle school and high school had been built on the same
campus, they often shared facilities. Fine facilities they were, too, for it
was partly this good school that had drawn you to buy us a house nearby.
Since, to your despair, Kevin shunned school sports, we’d never attended
his middle school’s basketball games, so this glorified baby-sitting job
remains my sole experience of that structure from the inside.
Freestanding, it was cavernous, more than two stories high, slick and
expensive—I think it even converted to an ice hockey rink. (How
wasteful that the Nyack School Board has, last I read, decided to tear the
whole thing down; students are apparently dodging PE courses by
claiming that the gym is haunted.) That night, the arena made quite a
booming echo chamber for the DJ. Any sports equipment had been
cleared off, and though my expectation of balloons and bunting was
clearly a hangover from my own dance debut doing the twist in 1961,
they had hung a mirror ball.
I may have been a rotten mother—just shut up, it’s true—but I wasn’t
so deplorable as to hang around my fourteen-year-old son at his school
dance. So I positioned myself on the opposite side of the gym, enjoying a
good view of his sideways slump against the cinder-block wall. I was
curious; I’d rarely seen him in the context of his larger social milieu. The
only student beside him was the unshakable Leonard Pugh, with his
weaselly hee-hee face, and even at 100 yards exuding that greasy
toadying quality, a sniggering obsequiousness that always seemed of a
piece with his faint odor of day-old fish. Lenny had recently pierced his
nose, and the area around the stud had got infected—one nostril was
bright red and half again as large as the other; its smear of antibiotic

cream caught the light. Something about that kid always put me in mind
of brown smudges in underpants.
Kevin had recently conceived his tiny-clothes fashion, which
(typically) Lenny had aped. Kevin’s black jeans might have fit him when
he was eleven. The legs reached mid-calf, exposing dark hairs sprouting
on his shins; the crotch, whose zipper would not quite close, well
sponsored his equipment. Lenny’s ocherous cotton slacks would have
looked nearly as hideous had they fit. They were both wearing stretched
Fruit of the Loom white T-shirts, leaving the usual three inches of bare
midriff.
Perhaps it was my imagination, but whenever schoolmates passed by,
they seemed to give those two wide berth. I might have been alarmed
that our son appeared to be the object of avoidance—and I was, rather,
though his classmates didn’t snicker at Kevin as if he were a social
reject. If anything, had the other students been laughing, they stopped. In
fact, when crossing in front of that pair, other students ceased to talk
altogether and only resumed their chatter once well out of the duo’s
earshot. The girls held themselves unnaturally erect, as if holding their
breath. Instead of squinting at the tiny-clothes brigade askance, even
football types trained their eyes straight ahead, only darting an edgy
backward glance at Kevin and his pet hamster once a safe stone’s throw
away. Meanwhile, as eighthgraders hung back from the dance floor and
flowered the walls of the gym, the space on either side of our son and his
sidekick remained deserted for a good ten feet. Not one of his classmates
nodded, smiled, or ventured so much as an innocuous how’s tricks, as if
hesitant to risk—what?
I’d anticipated that the music would make me feel old—by groups I’d
never heard of, whose pounding appeal would elude the decrepit. But
when the sound system cranked up, I was startled to recognize, between
selections of timeless bubblegum, some of the same “artists,” as we
pretentiously called them then, to which you and I would have flopped
about in our twenties: The Stones, Credence, The Who; Hendrix, Joplin,
and The Band; Franklin, Pink Floyd! With little to do with myself and
repelled by the sweet red punch (which cried out for a slug of vodka), I
wondered if the fact that Kevin’s peers were still nodding along with
Crosby, Stills, Nash, & Young, The Grateful Dead, and even The Beatles
made our own era especially distinguished, or his especially destitute.
When “Stairway to Heaven” came on—that old warhorse!—I had to
stifle a laugh.

I never expected that Kevin would dance; that would be dumb, and in
some respects that boy hadn’t changed since he was four. The rest of the
group’s reluctance to break in the dance floor was pro forma; we were
the same way, no one wanting to be first, to draw excessive and
inevitably less than kind attention to themselves. In my day, we’d all
dare one another interminably, nip at Dutch courage behind the curtains,
and finally shuffle from the walls in concert once our safety-in-numbers
quorum had reached at least ten. So I was impressed when, the midcourt
populated by no more than whirling polka dots from the mirror ball, one
lone soul took the floor. She didn’t assume a shadowy corner, either, but
the center.
With pale, translucent skin, the girl not only had blond hair but blond
lashes and eyebrows, whose tentative definition made her features look
washed-out. There was also a weakness in her chin—small and skisloped
—and it was mostly due to this one less than classical feature that she’d
never be considered pretty (by how little we’re undone). The other
problem was her clothes. Most girls at the dance had played it safe with
jeans, and the few dresses I’d spotted were either black leather or sleek,
spangled, and smashing, like Laura Woolford’s. But this fourteen-yearold
—for shorthand, let’s call her Alice—was wearing a dress that came
almost to her knees and tied in the back with a bow. It was a tan plaid. It
had puffed sleeves. She had a ribbon in her hair and patent leather on her
feet. She’d clearly been clad by a mother afflicted with some woefully
generic notion of what a young girl wore to “a party,” never mind the
year.
Even I recognized at once that Alice was uncool—a word whose
improbable currency from our generation to the next testifies to the
timelessness of the concept. What is cool changes; that there is such a
thing as cool is immutable. And in our heyday, anyway, the average nerd
got a little credit for acting mortified and apologetic, staring at his shoes.
But I’m afraid this poor chinless waif didn’t have enough social
intelligence to rue her puffed-sleeve, tan-plaid, tie-bowed party dress.
When her mother brought it home, she doubtless threw her arms around
the woman in moronic gratitude.
It was “Stairway to Heaven” that had enticed her to strut her stuff. Yet
however we may all keep a warm place in our hearts for that old Led
Zeppelin standard, it’s terribly slow and I personally remembered the
tune as undanceable. Not that this stopped Alice. She extended her arms
and lunged in ever-widening circles with her eyes closed. She was
clearly transported, oblivious to the fact that enthusiastic turns exposed

her panties. As she got caught up in the thrall of bass guitar, her moves
lost any semblance of rock-and-roll boogie and wobbled between
unschooled ballet and Sufi dancing.
In case I’ve sounded mean, I was really rather enchanted. Our little
Isadora Duncan understudy was so uninhibited, so exuberant! I may even
have envied her a little. Wistfully I remembered jigging around our
Tribeca loft to Talking Heads when pregnant with Kevin, and it saddened
me that I no longer did that. And though she was a good eight years older
than Celia, something about this girl as she flounced and pirouetted from
one end of the gym to the other reminded me of our daughter. An
unlikely exhibitionist, she seemed to have taken to the floor simply
because this was one of her favorite songs—that word again—and
because the empty space made it easier to rush around the floor in a
swoon. She probably emoted about her own living room to the same
song and saw no reason not to dance in exactly the same flamboyant
manner merely because 200 malicious adolescents were leering on the
sidelines.
It always seems interminable, but “Stairway to Heaven” was almost
over; he might have held off two more minutes. But no. I felt a peculiar
stab of fear as Kevin peeled languidly off the cinder block and sauntered
in an unerring straight line toward Alice, tracking her like a Patriot
missile homing in on a Scud. Then he stopped, right under the mirror
ball, having correctly calculated that Alice’s next pirouette would land
her left ear exactly in line with his mouth. There. Contact. He leaned,
just a little, and whispered.
I would never pretend to know what he said. But the image has
informed all my subsequent mental reconstructions of Thursday. Alice
froze. Her face infused with all the self-consciousness of which it had a
moment before been so conspicuously absent. Her eyes darted left and
right, unable to find a single resting place that afforded respite. Suddenly
all too well aware of her audience, she seemed to register the obligations
of the folly she’d begun; the song wasn’t quite finished, and she was
compelled to keep up appearances by bobbing to a few more bars. For
the next forty seconds or so, she floundered back and forth in a macabre
slow-motion death dance, like Faye Dunaway at the end of Bonnie and
Clyde.
The DJ having aptly segued to Jefferson Airplane’s “White Rabbit,”
she clutched her tan-plaid skirt and bunched it between her legs.
Hobbling toward a dark corner, Alice pressed her elbows tightly to her
waist, as each hand fought for cover under the other. I sensed that, in

some sickening fashion, over the course of the previous minute she had
just grown up. Now she knew that her dress was geeky, that her chin was
weak. That her mother had betrayed her. That she was uncool; that she
would never be pretty. And most of all, she had learned to never, ever
take to an empty dance floor—possibly any dance floor—for the rest of
her life.
I wasn’t there, on Thursday. But two years before, I was witness to its
harbinger in that same gym, when a lone graduate of Gladstone Middle
School was assassinated.
 
Eva
 

 
 
MARCH 2, 2001
 
Dear Franklin,
 
 
My colleague Ricky approached me at the end of the workday today, and
his proposal was the closest he’s ever come to acknowledging the
unmentionable: He invited me to attend his church. I was embarrassed,
and thanked him, but said vaguely, “I don’t think so”; he didn’t let it go
and asked why. What was I supposed to say, “Because it’s a load of
crap”? I always feel a little condescending toward religious people, as
they feel condescending toward me. So I said, I wish I could, that I could
believe, and sometimes I try very hard to believe, but nothing about my
last few years suggests that an entity with any kindness is watching over
me. Ricky’s comeback about mysterious ways left neither of us very
impressed. Mysterious, I said. Now you can say that again.
I’ve often returned to the remark you made in Riverside Park before
we became parents, “At least a kid is an answer to the Big Question.” It
perturbed me at the time that your life was posing this Big Question with
such persistence. Our childless period must have had its shortfalls, but I
recall charging in the same conversation that maybe we were “too
happy,” a distinctly more agreeable excess than a surfeit of harrowing
emptiness. Maybe I’m shallow, but you were enough for me. I loved
scanning for your face outside Customs after those long trips that were
so much harder on you than on me, and sleeping late the next morning in
a hot, pectoral cocoon. It was enough. But our twosome was not, it
seems, enough for you. While that may make you, between us, the more
spiritually advanced, it hurt my feelings.
Yet if there’s no reason to live without a child, how could there be
with one? To answer one life with a successive life is simply to transfer
the onus of purpose to the next generation; the displacement amounts to
a cowardly and potentially infinite delay. Your children’s answer,
presumably, will be to procreate as well, and in doing so to distract
themselves, to foist their own aimlessness onto their offspring.
I raise this matter because I think that you did expect Kevin to answer
your Big Question, and that he could sense that fantastic expectation
from an early age. How? Small things. The aggressive heartiness in your

voice, under which gasped a shy desperation. The ferocity of your
embraces, which he may have found smothering. The resolve with which
you cleared your decks every weekend to put yourself at his disposal;
while I suspect that children want their parents to be busy, they don’t
want to have to fill your schedule with their paltry needs. Children want
to be assured that there are other things to do, important things; more
important, on occasion, than they are.
I’m not commending neglect. But he was only a little boy, and he
alone was supposed to answer a Big Question that had his grown father
stymied. What a burden to place on the newly arrived! What’s worse,
children, like adults, vary drastically in what I can only call their
religious appetites. Celia was more like me: a hug, a crayon, and a
cookie, and she was sated. Though Kevin seemed to want practically
nothing, I now realize that he was spiritually ravenous.
Both of us were lapsed, so it made sense to raise our kids as neither
Armenian Orthodox nor Presbyterian. Although I’m reluctant to inveigh
that Youth Today just need to crack the Old Testament, it sobers me that,
thanks to us, Kevin may never have seen the inside of a church. The fact
that you and I were brought up with something to walk away from may
have advantaged us, for we knew what lay behind us, and what we were
not. So I wonder if Kevin, too, would have been better off had we
spewed a lot of incense-waving hooey that he could have coughed back
in our faces—those extravagant fancies about virgin births and
commandments on mountaintops that really stick in a kid’s throat. I’m
being impractical; I doubt we could have faked a faith for the children’s
sake, and they’d have known we were posing. Nevertheless, repudiation
of self-evident dross like travel guides and Oldsmobile ads must be so
unsatisfying.
It was Kevin’s starvation that his teachers—with the exception of
Dana Rocco—never detected, preferring to diagnose our little
underachiever as one more fashionable victim of attention deficit
disorder. They were determined to find something mechanically wrong
with him, because broken machines can be fixed. It was easier to
minister to passive incapacity than to tackle the more frightening matter
of fierce, crackling disinterest. Clearly Kevin’s powers of attention were
substantial—witness his painstaking preparations for Thursday or his
presently impeccable command of the malevolents’ Roll of Honor, right
down to the population of Uyesugi’s pet fish. He left assignments
unfinished not because he couldn’t finish them, but because he could.

This voracity of his may go some distance toward explaining his
cruelty, which among other things must be an inept attempt at taking
part. Having never seen the point—of anything—he must feel so brutally
left out. The Spice Girls are dumb, Sony Playstations are dumb, The
Titanic is dumb, mall cruising is dumb, and how could we disagree?
Likewise, taking photos of the Cloisters is dumb, and dancing to
“Stairway to Heaven” in the latter 1990s is dumb. As Kevin approached
the age of sixteen, these convictions grew violent.
He didn’t want to have to answer your Big Question, Franklin. He
wanted an answer from you. The glorified loitering that passes for a
fruitful existence appeared so inane to Kevin from his very crib that his
claim last Saturday that he was doing Laura Woolford “a favor” on
Thursday may have been genuine.
But me, I’m superficial. Even once the shine was off travel, I could
probably have sampled those same old foreign foods and that same old
foreign weather for the rest of my life, just so long as I flew into your
arms at Kennedy when I came home. I didn’t want much else. It is Kevin
who has posed my Big Question. Before he came along, I’d been much
too busy attending to a flourishing business and a marvelous marriage to
bother about what it all amounted to. Only once I was stuck with a bored
child in an ugly house for days on end did I ask myself what was the
point.
And since Thursday? He took away my easy answer, my cheating,
slipshod shorthand for what life is for.
 
We last left Kevin at the age of fourteen, and I’m getting anxious. I may
have dwelt so on his early years to stave off rehashing the more recent
incidents that set you and me so agonizingly against one another.
Doubtless we both dread wading back through events whose only
redeeming feature is that they are over. But they are not over. Not for me.
During the first semester of Kevin’s ninth-grade year in 1997, there
were two more School Shootings: in Pearl, Mississippi, and Paducah,
Kentucky, both small towns I had never heard of, both now permanently
marked in the American vocabulary as synonyms for adolescent
rampage. The fact that Luke Woodham in Pearl not only shot ten kids,
three fatally, but killed his mother—stabbing her seven times and
crushing her jaw with an aluminum baseball bat—may have given me an
extra private pause. (Indeed, I remarked when the reports first started
pouring in, “Look, all they do is go on and on about how he shot those
kids. And then, oh, by the way, he also murdered his mom. By the way?

It’s obvious that the whole thing had to do with his mother.” This, in due
course, was an observation that would qualify in legal terms as
admission against interest.) Still, I’m not so pretentious as to impute to
myself during that period a sense of deep personal foreboding, as if I
perceived these repeated tragedies on the news as an inexorable
countdown to our own family’s misfortune. Not at all. Like all news, I
regarded it as having nothing to do with me. Yet like it or not, I had
morphed from maverick globetrotter to one more white, well-off
suburban mother, and I couldn’t help but be unnerved by deadly flights
of lunacy from fledglings of my own kind. Gangland killings in Detroit
or L.A. happened on another planet; Pearl and Paducah happened on
mine.
I did feel a concentrated dislike for those boys, who couldn’t submit to
the odd faithless girlfriend, needling classmate, or dose of working-
singleparent distraction—who couldn’t serve their miserable time in their
miserable public schools the way the rest of us did—without carving
their dime-a-dozen problems ineluctably into the lives of other families.
It was the same petty vanity that drove these boys’ marginally saner
contemporaries to scrape their dreary little names into national
monuments. And the self-pity! That nearsighted Woodham creature
apparently passed a note to one of his friends before staging a tantrum
with his father’s deer rifle: “Throughout my life I was ridiculed. Always
beaten, always hated. Can you, society, blame me for what I do?” And I
thought, Yes, you little shit! In a heartbeat!
Michael Carneal in Paducah was a similar type—overweight, teased,
wallowing in his tiny suffering like trying to take a bath in a puddle. But
he’d never been a discipline problem in the past; the worst he’d ever
been caught at theretofore was watching the Playboy video channel.
Carneal distinguished himself by opening fire on, of all things, a prayer
group. He managed to kill three students and wound five, but judging
from the cheek-turning memorial services and merciful banners in
classroom windows—one of which embraced photos not only of his
victims but of Carneal himself with a heart—the born-again got theirs
back by forgiving him to death.
The October night that news of Pearl came in, I exploded as you and I
watched the Jim Lehrer Newshour. “Jesus, some kid calls him a fag or
pushes him in the hallway, and suddenly it’s ooh, ooh, I’m gonna shoot
up the school, I’m gonna crack from all this terrible pressure! Since
when did they make American kids so soft?”

“Yeah, you gotta ask yourself,” you agreed, “whatever happened to
heading out to the playground to duke it out?”
“Might get their hands dirty.” I appealed to our son as he glided
through on the way to the kitchen; he’d been eavesdropping, which as a
rule he preferred to participating in family conversations. “Kevin, don’t
boys at your school ever settle their differences with an old-fashioned
fistfight?”
Kevin stopped to regard me; he always had to weigh up whether
anything I asked him was worthy of reply. “Choice of weapons,” he said
at last, “is half the fight.”
“What’s that supposed to mean?”
“Woodham’s weak, flabby, unpopular. Fistfight’s low percentage. A
doughboy’s got way better odds with a 30 millimeter. Smart call.”
“Not that smart,” I said hotly. “He’s sixteen. That’s the cutoff in most
states for being tried as an adult. They’ll throw away the key.” (Indeed,
Luke Woodham would be given three life sentences, and 140 extra years
for good measure.)
“So?” said Kevin with a distant smile. “Guy’s life is already over. Had
more fun while it lasted than most of us ever will. Good for him.”
“Cool it, Eva,” you intervened as I sputtered. “Your son’s pulling your
leg.”
 
For most of his life, Kevin’s troubles, too, remained on a minor scale. He
was bright but hated school; he had few friends, and the one we knew
was smarmy; there were all those ambiguous incidents, from Violetta to
let-uscall-her-Alice, that set off alarm bells at a volume only I seemed
able to hear. Yet character expresses itself with remarkable uniformity, be
it on a battlefield or in the supermarket. To me, everything about Kevin
was of a piece. Lest my theories about his existential disposition seem
too highfalutin, let’s reduce the unifying glue to one word: spite.
Consequently, when two Orangetown policemen showed up at our door
on that night in December 1997 with Kevin and the unsavory Leonard
Pugh in tow, you were shocked, while I regarded this constabulary visit
as overdue.
“What can I do for you, officers?” I overheard.
“Mr. Khadourian?”
“Plaskett,” you corrected, not for the first time. “But I am Kevin’s
father.”
Having been helping Celia with her homework, I crept up to hover
behind you in the foyer, buzzing from voyeuristic excitement.

“We had a motorist phone in a complaint, and I’m afraid we found
your son and his friend here, on that pedestrian overpass over 9W? We
had to run these two down, but it seemed pretty obvious that they were
the kids throwing detritus onto the roadway.”
“ Onto the cars?” you asked, “ or just empty lanes?”
“Wouldn’t be much sport in empty lanes,” snarled the second officer.
“It was mostly water babies, Dad!” said Kevin behind the police. I
know his voice was changing, but whenever he spoke to you, Franklin, it
skipped up an octave.
“Wasn’t water balloons this motorist called in about,” said the second,
chunkier cop, who sounded the more worked up. “It was rocks. And we
checked the highway on either side of the overpass—littered with chunks
of brick.”
I nudged in urgently. “Was anyone hurt?”
“Thankfully, there were no direct hits,” said the first officer. “Which
makes these boys real, real lucky.”
“I don’t know about lucky,” Lenny sniveled, “when you get nabbed by
the cops.”
“Gotta have luck to push it, kid,” said the policeman with the hotter
head. “Ron, I still say we should—”
“Look, Mr. Plastic,” the first cop overrode. “We’ve run your son
through the computer, and his record’s clean. Far as I can tell, he comes
from a good family.” (Good, of course, meaning rich.) “So we’re going
to let this young man off with a warning. But we take this sort of thing
real serious—”
“Hell,” the second cop interrupted, “a few years back, some creep
tossed a quarter in front of a woman doing seventy-five? Shattered the
windscreen and drove right into her head!”
Ron shot his partner a glance that would get them the more quickly to
Dunkin’ Donuts. “Hope you give this young man a good talking to.”
“And how,” I said.
“I expect he’d no idea what kind of risk he was taking,” you said.
“Yeah,” said Cop No. 2 sourly. “That’s the whole attraction of
throwing bricks from an overpass. It seems so harmless.”
“I appreciate your leniency, sir,” Kevin recited to the primary. “I’ve
sure learned my lesson, sir. It won’t happen again, sir.”
Policemen must get this sir stuff a lot; they didn’t look bowled over.
“The leniency won’t happen again, friend,” said the second cop, “that is
for damned sure.”

Kevin turned to the hothead, meeting the man’s eyes with a glitter in
his own; they seemed to share an understanding. Though picked up by
the police for (as far as I knew) the first time in his life, he was unruffled.
“And I appreciate the lift home. I’ve always wanted to ride in a police
car—sir.”
“Pleasure’s all mine,” the cop replied jauntily, as if smacking gum.
“But my money says that’s not your last spin in a black-and-white—
friend.”
After a bit more fawning gratitude from both of us, they were on their
way, and as they left the porch, I heard Lenny whining, “We almost
outran you guys you know, ’cause you guys are like, totally out of shape
. . . !”
You had seemed so sedate and courteous through this exchange that
when you wheeled from the door I was surprised to observe that your
face was livid and lit with rage. You grabbed our son by the upper arm
and shouted, “You could have caused a pileup, a fucking catastrophe!”
Flushed with a morbid satisfaction, I stepped back to leave you to it.
Cursing, no less! Granted, had one of those bricks indeed smashed
someone’s windshield I’d readily have forgone this petty jubilation for
the full-blown anguish at which I would later get so much practice. But
spared calamity, I was free to muse with the singsong of the playground,
You’re gonna get in trou-ble. Because I’d been so exasperated! The
unending string of misadventures that trailed in Kevin’s wake never
seemed, as far as you were concerned, to have anything to do with him.
Finally, a tattletale besides me—the police, whom Mr. Reagan
Republican had no choice but to trust—had caught our persecuted
innocent red-handed, and I was going to enjoy this. Moreover, I was glad
for you too to experience the bizarre helplessness of being this
supposedly omnipotent parent and being completely flummoxed by how
to impose a punishment that has the slightest deterrent effect. I wanted
you to apprehend for yourself the lameness of sending a fourteen-year-
old for a “time-out,” the hackneyed predictability of “grounding” when,
besides, there was never anywhere that he wanted to go, and the horror
of realizing that, if he did launch out to his archery range in defiance of
your prohibition on practicing the sole activity that he seemed to enjoy,
you would have to decide whether to physically tackle him to the lawn.
Welcome to my life, Franklin, I thought. Have fun.
Celia wasn’t used to seeing you manhandle her brother, and she’d
started to wail. I hustled her from the foyer back to her homework at the
dining table, soothing that the policemen were our friends and just

wanted to make sure we were safe, while you rustled our stoic son down
the hall to his room.
In such an excitable state, I had difficulty concentrating as I coaxed
Celia back to her primer about farm animals. The yelling subsided
surprisingly soon; you sure didn’t burn out that fast when you were mad
at me. Presumably you’d switched to the somber disappointment that for
many children is more devastating than a lost temper, though I’d tried
stern gravity ad nauseum with our firstborn, and this was one more
impotence I was glad for you to sample. Why, it was all I could do to
stop myself from creeping down the hall and listening at the crack of the
door.
When you emerged at last, you closed Kevin’s door behind you with
ministerial solemnity, and your expression as you entered the dining area
was curiously at peace. I reasoned that getting all that shame and disgust
out of your system must have been cleansing, and when you motioned
me over to the kitchen, I assumed that you were going to explain what
kind of punishment you’d levied so that we could exact it as a team. I
hoped that you’d come up with some novel, readily enforceable penalty
that would get to our son in a place—I’d never found it—where it hurt. I
doubted he was now remorseful about the brick-throwing itself, but
maybe you had convinced him that outright juvenile delinquency was a
tactical error.
“Listen,” you whispered. “The whole caper was Lenny’s idea, and
Kevin went along because Lenny was only proposing water babies at
first. He thought the balloons would just make a splash—and you know
how kids think that kind of thing is funny. I told him even a little balloon
exploding might have startled a driver and been dangerous, and he says
he realizes that now.”
“What,” I said. “What—about—the bricks.”
“Well—they ran out of water babies. So Kevin says that before he
knew it, Lenny had pitched a stone—maybe it was a piece of brick—
when a car was coming. Kevin says he immediately told Lenny not to do
that, since somebody could get hurt.”
“Yeah,” I said thickly. “That sure sounds like Kevin.”
“I guess Lenny managed to get a few more bits of brick over the side
before Kevin leaned on him hard enough that he cut it out. That must
have been when somebody with a mobile called the cops. Apparently
they were still up there, you know, just hanging out, when the police
pulled up on the shoulder. It was spectacularly dumb—he admits that,

too—but for a kid who’s never had trouble with the law before those
blinking blue lights must be pretty scary, and without thinking—”
“Kevin’s a very bright boy, you always say.” Everything that came out
of my mouth was heavy and slurred. “I sense he’s done plenty of
thinking.”
“Mommy—?”
“Sweetheart,” I said, “go back and do your homework, okay? Daddy’s
telling Mommy a really good story, and Mommy can hardly wait to hear
how it ends.”
“Anyway,” you resumed, “they ran. Didn’t get very far, since he
realized that running was crazy, and he grabbed Lenny’s jacket to put the
brakes on. And here’s the thing: It seems our friend Lenny Pugh already
has something on his record—the old sugar-in-the-gas-tank trick, or
some such. Lenny had been told that if he was caught at anything else
they’d press charges. Kev reckoned that with his own clean record,
they’d probably let him off with a warning. So Kevin told the cops that
he was the ringleader, and he was the only one who threw rocks. I have
to say, once the whole thing was on the table, I felt kind of sheepish for
laying into him like that.”
I looked up at you with dumbstruck admiration. “Did you apologize?”
“Sure.” You shrugged. “Any parent’s got to admit when he’s made a
mistake.”
I groped my way to a chair at the kitchen table; I had to sit down. You
poured yourself a glass of apple juice, while I declined one (what was
wrong with you that you couldn’t tell I needed a stiff drink?). You pulled
up a chair yourself, leaning forward chummily as if this whole
misunderstanding was going to make us an even more closely knit,
supportive, rememberthat-daft-business-about-the-overpass family.
“I’ll tell you,” you said, and took a gulp of juice, “we just had this
terrific conversation, all about the complexities of loyalty, you know?
When to stick by your friends, where to draw the line when they’re doing
something you think is out of bounds, how much you should personally
sacrifice for a buddy. Because I warned him, he could have
miscalculated by taking the fall. He could have been booked. I admired
the gesture, but I told him, I said I wasn’t exactly sure that Lenny Pugh
was worth it.”
“Boy,” I said. “No holds barred.”
Your head whipped around. “Was that sarcastic?”
Okay, if you weren’t going to attend to a medical emergency, I would
pour a glass of wine myself. I resumed my seat and finished off half of it

in two slugs. “That was a very detailed story. So you won’t mind my
clarifying a few things.”
“Shoot.”
“Lenny,” I began. “Lenny is a worm. Lenny’s actually kind of stupid.
It took me a while to figure out what the appeal is—for Kevin, I mean.
Then I got it: That’s the appeal. That he’s a stupid, pliant, self-abasing
worm.”
“Hold on, I don’t like him much either, but self-abasing—?”
“Did I tell you that I caught them out back, and Lenny had his pants
down?”
“Eva, you should know about pubescent boys. It may make you
uncomfortable, but sometimes they’re going to experiment—”
“Kevin didn’t have his pants down. Kevin was fully clothed.”
“Well, what’s that supposed to mean?”
“That Lenny isn’t his friend, Franklin! Lenny is his slave! Lenny does
anything Kevin tells him to, the more degrading the better! So the
prospect of that miserable, sniggering, brownnosing dirtbird having an
idea to do anything—much less being the ‘ringleader’ of some nasty,
dangerous prank, dragging poor virtuous Kevin unwillingly along—well,
it’s perfectly preposterous!”
“Would you keep it down? And I don’t think you need another glass of
wine.”
“You’re right. What I really need is a fifth of gin, but Merlot will have
to do.”
“Look. He may have made a dubious call, and he and I discussed that.
But taking the rap still took guts, and I’m pretty damned proud—”
“Bricks,” I interrupted. “They’re heavy. They’re big. Builders don’t
store bricks on pedestrian overpasses. How did they get there?”
“Piece of brick. I said piece.”
“Yes,” my shoulders slumped, “I’m sure that’s what Kevin said, too.”
“He’s our son, Eva. That should mean having a little faith.”
“But the police said—” I left the thought dangling, having lost my
enthusiasm for this project. I felt like a dogged attorney who knows that
the sympathy of the jury is already lost but who still has to do the job.
“Most parents,” you said, “apply themselves to understanding their
kids, and not to picking apart every little—”
“I am trying to understand him.” My ferocity must have carried; on
the other side of the partition, Celia started to whimper. “I wish you
would!”

“That’s right, go tend to Celia,” you muttered as I got up to leave. “Go
dry Celia’s eyes and pat Celia’s pretty gold hair and do Celia’s
homework for her, since God forbid she should learn to do one miserable
assignment by herself. Our son was just picked up by the cops for
something he didn’t do, and he’s pretty shaken up, but never mind,
because Celia needs her milk and cookies.”
“That’s right,” I returned. “Because one of our children is spelling
farm animals, while another of our children is pitching bricks at
oncoming headlights. It’s about time you learned to tell the difference.”
 
I was really angry about that night, and I wasted most of my subsequent
workday at AWAP mumbling to myself about how I could have married
a complete fool. I’m sorry. And this was despicable of me, but I never
told you what I stumbled across late that afternoon. Maybe I was just
embarrassed, or too proud.
So beside myself with fury and frustration that I was getting nothing
done, I took the CEO’s prerogative of cutting out early. When I got back
and relieved Celia’s baby-sitter Robert, I heard voices down the hall. It
seems that the stupid, pliant, self-abasing worm didn’t even have the
good sense to make himself scarce for a few days after showing up at our
door with the police, because I recognized the nasal, querulous pule
emitting from Kevin’s nightmarishly tidy bedroom. Unusually, the door
was ajar; but then I wasn’t expected home for another two hours. When I
headed toward the bathroom I wasn’t exactly eavesdropping, but—oh, I
guess I was eavesdropping. The urge to listen at that door had been upon
me the night before and had lingered.
“Hey, you see that cop’s fat butt hanging out his pants?” Lenny was
reminiscing. “Working man’s smile grinning ear-to-ear! I bet if that
guy’d taken a dump while he was running, it would’ve cleared his belt!”
Kevin did not seem to be joining in with Lenny’s cackle. “Yeah, well,”
he said. “Lucky for you I got Mr. Plastic off my back. But you should
have heard the scene in here, Pugh. Straight out of Dawson’s Creek.
Fucking nauseating. Thought I’d bust into tears before a commercial
break from our sponsors.”
“Hey, I hear you! Like, with those cops dude, you were so smooth
dude, I thought that fat fuck was going to take you to some little room
and kick the shit out of you, ’cause you were driving him like, fucking
insane! Sir, I really must terribly protest, sir, that it was me— ”
“It was I, you grammatical retard. And just remember, chump, you
owe me one.”

“Sure, bro. I owe you big-time. You took the heat like some superhero,
like—like you was Jesus!”
“I’m serious, pal. This one’s gonna cost you,” said Kevin. “’Cause
your low-rent stunt could do my reputation some serious damage. I got
standards. Everybody knows I got standards. I saved your ass this time,
but don’t expect a sequel, like, ‘Ass-Save II.’ I don’t like associating
myself with this shit. Rocks over an overpass. It’s fucking trite, man. It’s
got no class at all, it’s fucking trite.”
 
Eva
 

 
 
MARCH 3, 2001
 
 
Dear Franklin,
 
You’ve put it together: I felt ashamed of my false accusations, and that’s
the real reason I decided to ask Kevin on that mother-son outing, just the
two of us. You thought it was a weird idea, and, when you commended
so heartily that Kevin and I should do that sort of thing more often, I
knew you didn’t like it—especially once you added that barb about how
we’d better avoid any pedestrian overpasses, “Since, you know, Kev
would have an uncontrollable urge to throw whole Barcaloungers onto
the road.”
I was nervous about approaching him but pushed myself, thinking,
there’s no point in moaning about how your adolescent never talks to you
if you never talk to him. And I reasoned that the trip to Vietnam the
summer before last had backfired for being overkill, three solid weeks of
close familial quarters when at thirteen no kid can bear to be seen with
his parents, even by communists. Surely one day at a time would be
easier to take. Besides, I had forced my own enthusiasm for travel down
his throat, instead of making an effort to do what he wanted to do—
whatever that was.
My dithering beforehand over how to pop the question made me feel
like a bashful schoolgirl gearing up to invite our son to a rock concert.
When I finally cornered him—or myself, really—in the kitchen, I went
with the sensation, saying, “By the way, I’d like to ask you out on a
date.”
Kevin looked mistrustful. “What for.”
“Just to do something together. For fun.”
“Like, do what.”
This was the part that made me nervous. Thinking of something “fun”
to do with our son was like trying to think of a really great trip to take
with your pet rock. He hated sports and was indifferent to most movies;
food was chaff, and nature an annoyance, merely the agent of heat or
cold or flies. So I shrugged. “Maybe do a little Christmas shopping. Take
you to dinner?” Then I pulled out my ace in the hole, playing perfectly to

Kevin’s absurdist strong suit. “And play a round or two of miniature
golf.”
He cracked that sour half smile, and I’d secured a companion for
Saturday. I worried about what to wear.
 
In a switch-off reminiscent of The Prince and the Pauper, I would
assume the role of Kevin’s caring, engaged parent, while you would
become Celia’s protector for the day. “Gosh,” you quipped lightly,
“going have to come up with something to do that doesn’t terrify her.
Guess that rules out vacuuming.”
To say that I wanted, truly desired, to spend all afternoon and evening
with my prickly fourteen-year-old son would be a stretch, but I did
powerfully desire to desire it—if that makes any sense. Knowing how
time went slack around that boy, I had scheduled our day: miniature golf,
shopping on Main Street in Nyack, and then I would treat him to a nice
dinner out. The fact he didn’t care about Christmas presents or fine
dining seemed no reason to skip the lesson that this is simply what
people do. As for our sporting escapade, no one is meant to care about
miniature golf, which must be why it felt so apt.
Kevin reported for duty in the foyer with an expression of glum
forbearance, like a convict being hauled off to serve his sentence (though
in that very circumstance not two years later, his face would instead
appear cool and cocky). His ridiculous child-sized Izod knit was the loud
orange of prison jumpsuits—not, as I would have much opportunity to
establish, a very becoming color on him—and with the tight shirt pulling
his shoulders back, he might have been handcuffed. His low-slung khaki
slacks from seventh grade were at fashion’s cutting edge: Extending to
mid-calf, they presaged the renaissance of pedal pushers.
We climbed into my new metallic double-yellow VW Luna. “You
know, in my day,” I chattered, “these VW bugs were everywhere.
Rattletrap and usually beaten up, full of destitute longhairs smoking dope
and blasting Three Dog Night on tinny eight-tracks. I think they cost
something like $2,500. Now this reissue is ten times that; it still fits two
adults and a cat, but it’s a luxury automobile. I don’t know what that is—
ironic, funny.”
Silence. At last, laboriously: “It means you’ll spend twenty-five grand
to kid yourself you’re still nineteen, and still not get any trunk space.”
“Well, I guess I do tire of all this retro-boomer stuff,” I said. “The film
remakes of The Brady Bunch and The Flintstones. But the first time I
saw it, I fell in love with this design. The Luna doesn’t copy the original,

it alludes to the original. And the old Beetle was poky. The Luna is still a
little bump on the road, but it’s a surprisingly beautiful car.”
“Yeah,” said Kevin. “You’ve said all that before.”
I colored. It was true. I had.
I pulled into that funky little course in Sparkhill called “9W Golf” and
finally noticed that Kevin hadn’t worn a jacket. It was chilly, too, and
overcast. “Why didn’t you wear a coat?” I exploded. “You just can’t get
uncomfortable enough, can you?”
“Uncomfortable?” he said. “With my own mother?”
I slammed the door, but with that German engineering it only made a
muffled clump.
Heaven knows what I’d been thinking. Miniature golf being
fundamentally ludicrous, maybe I’d hoped that it would lend our
afternoon a leavening element of whimsy. Or maybe I’d hoped instead
for some emotional inversion, whereby because everything that meant
something to me meant nothing to Kevin, something that meant nothing
to me might mean something to Kevin. In any case, it was wrongheaded.
We paid the attendant and marched to the first hole—a bathtub sprouting
dead weeds, guarded by a plaster giraffe that looked like a pony with a
wrung neck. In fact, all the course’s models were gimcrack and careless,
lending the place an ambiance of, as Kevin would say, who-gives-a-rat’s-
ass. The traffic on 9W was loud and relentless, and meanwhile, stiff
goose bumps rose on Kevin’s arms. He was freezing and I was making
him do this anyway, because I had this wonky notion of having a mother-
son “outing” and we would, goddamn it, have fun.
Naturally, anybody could roll a golf ball between the claw feet of that
bathtub, since the feet were a yard apart. But once the course grew
harder—under the missile, over to the lighthouse, down the suspension
bridge, around the milk churns, through the doors of the model
Sparkhill-Palisades Fire Department—Kevin set aside the studied
ineptitude of curling a Frisbee on its side in the backyard, displaying
instead the striking hand-eye coordination that his archery instructor had
remarked upon more than once. But somehow the very fact that he was
so good at this made it all the more pointless, and I couldn’t help but be
reminded of our first “game” when he was two, rolling the ball back and
forth on the floor exactly three times. For my part, the rank silliness of
this exercise had become so glaring that I grew apathetic and muffed the
holes. We said nothing, and the course took very little time to complete,
if only by the clock; I glanced constantly at my watch. This is what it’s

like to be Kevin, I thought. The leaden passage of minute by minute:
This is what it’s like to be Kevin all the time.
At the end Kevin posed with his club like a dapper gentleman, still
silent but with a now-what? look, as if to say, okay, I did what you
wanted and I hope you’re satisfied.
“Well,” I said grimly. “You won.”
I insisted on driving home to get his jacket, though reappearing back
at the house so soon embarrassed me—you looked bemused—and going
up through Nyack to Gladstone and back to Nyack to shop introduced
yet more awkwardness. Nevertheless, now that Kevin had made a hash
of my one playful, offbeat idea for our afternoon—having turned it into a
mechanical, bone-chilling farce—he seemed more contented. Once we
parked (way down Broadway, because the mid-December traffic was
bumper-to-bumper and we were lucky to find the space we got), to my
astonishment he volunteered a thought.
“I don’t get why you celebrate Christmas when you aren’t a
Christian.” He pronounced the Christ with a long I to emphasize the
Jesus bit.
“Well,” I said, “it’s true that your father and I don’t believe that some
young man who was good at sound bites 2,000 years ago was the son of
God. But it’s nice to have holidays, isn’t it? To make part of the year a
little different, something to look forward to. I learned studying
anthropology at Green Bay is that it’s important to observe cultural
rituals.”
“Just so long as they’re totally empty,” said Kevin breezily.
“You think we’re hypocrites.”
“Your word, not mine.” He glided past the Runcible Spoon around the
corner to Main Street, turning the heads of some older high school girls
loitering across the way by the Long Island Drum Center. Frankly I don’t
think his smoky Armenian looks drew their attention so much as the
languid elegance of his manner, at such odds with his preposterous
clothes: He moved levelly on the same plane, as if rolling on casters.
Then, those fine exposed hipbones couldn’t have hurt.
“So,” Kevin summed up, weaving through pedestrians, “you want to
keep the presents and the high-test eggnog, but chuck the prayers and the
boring Christmas Eve service. To cash in on the good stuff without
having to pay for it with the shit.”
“You could say that,” I agreed cautiously. “In a broad sense I’ve tried
to do that all my life.”

“Okay, long as you can get away with it,” he said cryptically. “Not
sure it’s always possible.” And he let the subject go.
Conversation once again ceased to flow, so when one of them almost
ran me over, I supposed aloud that maybe we could buy Celia one of
those superthin aluminum Razor scooters that had abruptly become so
popular.
Kevin said, “You know, couple years ago, you give a kid some geeky
scooter for Christmas and he’d have bawled his eyes out.”
I lunged at the chance to be collegial. “You’re right, that’s one of the
things that’s wrong with this country, it’s so faddish. It was the same
with in-line skates, right? Overnight, a must-have. Still—” I bit my lip,
watching yet another boy whiz past on one of those narrow silver frames.
“I wouldn’t want Celia to feel left out.”
“Mumsey. Get real. Ceil would be scared shitless. You’d have to hold
her little hand everywhere she went or you’d have to carry her, scooter
and all. You ready? ’Cause count me out.”
Okay. We didn’t get the scooter.
In fact, we didn’t buy anything. Kevin made me so self-conscious that
everything I considered seemed to damn me. I looked at the scarves and
hats through his eyes and they suddenly seemed stupid or unnecessary.
We had scarves. We had hats. Why bother.
Though I was sorry to lose our parking space, I was glad of the chance
to act the proper mother for once and announced sternly that we would
now go back to the house, where he would dress for dinner in normal-
sized clothes—although his airy response, “Whatever you say,” made me
more aware of the limits to my authority than of its force. As we passed
back in front of the Runcible Spoon on the way to the car, a corpulent
woman was sitting alone at a table by the window, and her hot fudge
sundae was built on that lavish American scale that Europeans both envy
and disparage.
“Whenever I see fat people, they’re eating,” I ruminated safely out of
the diner’s earshot. “Don’t give me this it’s glands or genes or a slow
metabolism rubbish. It’s food. They’re fat because they eat the wrong
food, too much of it, and all the time.”
The usual lack of pickup, not even mm-hmm, or true. Finally, a block
later: “You know, you can be kind of harsh.”
I was taken aback and stopped walking. “You’re one to talk.”
“Yeah. I am. Wonder where I got it.”
Driving home, then, every time I came up with something to say—
about pushy SUV drivers (or, as I preferred to playfully misspeak, SRO

drivers), garish Nyack Christmas lights—I realized it was whittling, and
I’d swallow the remark. I was apparently one of those types who, should
she follow that edict about if you can’t say something nice, would say
nothing at all. Our raw silence in my Luna supplied a foretaste of the
long periods of dead air that would pass in Claverack.
Back home, you and Celia had been working on homemade tree
ornaments all afternoon, and you’d helped her to weave tinsel in her hair.
You were in the kitchen arranging frozen fish sticks on a tray when I
bustled from the bedroom and asked you to fasten the top button of my
hot-pink silk dress. “Wow,” you said, “you’re not looking very
maternal.”
“I’d like to create a sense of occasion,” I said. “I thought you liked this
dress.”
“I do. Still,” you mumbled, buttoning, “That slit up the thigh is cut
pretty high. You don’t want to make him uneasy.”
“I’m making someone uneasy, obviously.”
I left to find some earrings and to splash on a little Opium, then
returned to the kitchen to discover that Kevin had not, for once, merely
followed the letter of my law, for I’d half expected to find him decked
out in a “normal-sized” bunny suit. He was standing at the sink with his
back to me, but even so I could see that his lush black rayon slacks rested
gently on his narrow hips and fell to his cordovans with a slight break. I
hadn’t bought him that white shirt; with its full sleeves and graceful
drape, it may have been fencing garb.
I was touched, I really was, and I was about to exclaim about what a
handsome figure he cut when he didn’t wear clothes designed for an
eight-year-old when he turned around. In his hands was the carcass of a
whole cold chicken. Or it had been whole, before he clawed off both
breasts and a leg, the drumstick of which he was still devouring.
I probably turned white. “I’m about to take you to dinner. Why are
you eating the better part of a roast chicken before we go?”
Kevin wiped a little grease off the corner of his mouth with the heel of
his hand, ill-concealing a smirk. “I was hungry.” A rare enough
admission that it could only be a ruse. “You know—growing boy?”
“Put that away right now and get your coat.”
So naturally once we were seated in Hudson House our growing boy
had grown enough for the day, and he allowed that his appetite had
waned. I would break bread with my son only in the most literal sense,
for he refused to order an entrée or even an appetizer, preferring to tear at

the basket of hard rolls. Though he ripped the sourdough into ever
smaller pieces, I don’t think he ate any.
Defiantly, I ordered the mesclun salad, pigeon-breast appetizer,
salmon, and a whole bottle of sauvignon blanc that I sensed I would
finish.
“So,” I began, battling discomfiture as I picked at greens under
Kevin’s ascetic eye; we were in a restaurant, why should I feel
apologetic about eating? “How’s school going?”
“It’s going,” he said. “Can’t ask for more than that.”
“I can ask for a few more details.”
“You want my course schedule?”
“No.” I badly did not want to get annoyed. “Like, what’s your favorite
subject this semester?” I remembered too late that for Kevin the word
favorite attached exclusively to the enthusiasms of others that he liked to
despoil.
“You imply I like any.”
“Well,” I thrashed, having difficulty stabbing a forkful of arugula
small enough that it wouldn’t smear honey-mustard dressing on my chin.
“Have you thought about joining any after-school clubs?”
He looked at me with the same incredulity that would later meet my
inquiries about the cafeteria menus at Claverack. Maybe the fact that he
wouldn’t deign to answer this question at all made me lucky.
“What about your, ah, teachers? Are any of them, you know,
especially—”
“And what bands are you listening to these days?” he said earnestly.
“Next you can wheedle about whether there isn’t some cute little cunt in
the front row that’s got me itchy. That way you can segue into how it’s
all up to me of course, but before balling the chick in the hallway I might
decide to wait until I’m ready. Right around dessert you can ask about
druuugs. Careful, like, ’cause you don’t want to scare me into lying my
head off, so you have to say how you experimented but that doesn’t
mean I should experiment too. Finally, once you’ve sucked up that whole
bottle you can go gooey-eyed and say how great it is to spend quality
time together and you can shift out of your chair and put an arm around
my shoulder and give it a little squeeze.”
“All right, Mr. Snide.” I abandoned my lettuce. “What do you want to
talk about?”
“This was your idea. I never said I wanted to talk about a fucking
thing.”

We squared off over my pigeon breast and red-currant confit, and I
began to saw. Kevin had a way of turning pleasures into hard work. As
for the turn he took after three or four minutes’ silence, I can only
conclude that he took pity on me. Later in Claverack he would never be
the one to blink first, but after all, in Hudson House he was only
fourteen.
“Okay, I’ve got a topic,” he proposed slyly, picking up a carmine
crayon from the restaurant’s complimentary glass of Crayolas, grown
ubiquitous as scooters. “You’re always griping about this country and
wishing you were in Malaysia or something. What’s your problem with
the place. Really. American materialism?”
Much like Kevin when I proposed this date, I suspected a trap, but I
had an entrée and two-thirds of a bottle to go, and I didn’t want to spend
it drawing tic-tac-toes on the disposable tablecloth. “No, I don’t think
that’s it,” I answered sincerely. “After all, as your grandfather would say
—”
“Materials are everything. So what’s your beef?”
This is sure to dumbfound you, but in that moment I couldn’t think of
one thing wrong with the United States. I’m often stymied in this vein
when some stranger on a plane, making conversation when I put down
my book, asks what other novels I’ve enjoyed: I draw such a perfect
blank that my seatmate might infer that the paperback stuffed in the
magazine pocket is the first fiction I’ve read in my life. My leery outlook
on the United States was precious to me—even if, thanks to you, I had
learned to give the country grudging credit for at least being a spirited,
improvisational sort of place that, despite its veneer of conformity,
cultivated an impressive profusion of outright lunatics. Abruptly
incapable of citing a single feature of this country that drove me around
the bend, I felt the bottom fall out for a second and worried that maybe I
hadn’t kept the U.S. at arm’s length from sophisticated cosmopolitanism,
but rather from petty prejudice.
Nevertheless, on airplanes it eventually comes to me that I adore Paul
Bowles’s The Sheltering Sky. Then I remember V. S. Naipaul’s A Bend in
the River, which always reminds me of Paul Theroux’s delightful Girls
at Play, and I’m away, restored to literacy again.
“It’s ugly,” I submitted.
“What? The amber waves of grain?”
“The fast-food taka-taka. All that plastic. And it’s spread all around
the country like potato blight.”
“You said you like the Chrysler Building.”

“It’s old. Most modern American architecture is horrendous.”
“So this country’s a dump. Why’s anywhere else any better.”
“You’ve hardly been anywhere else.”
“Vietnam was a shithole. That lake in Hanoi stank.”
“But didn’t you think the people were gorgeous? Even just physically
gorgeous.”
“You took me to Asia for chink pussy? I could of booked one of those
package holidays on the Web.”
“Having fun?” I asked dryly.
“I’ve had better.” He shot a ball of bread into the basket. “’Sides. The
guys all looked like girls to me.”
“But I thought it was refreshing,” I insisted, “along that lake—even if
it does smell—the way the Vietnamese pay entrepreneurs with bathroom
scales a few dong to weigh themselves, in the hopes that they’ve gained
a few pounds. It’s biologically sane.”
“Put those gooks around a bottomless vat of French fries for long
enough and they’ll pork out wider than they are tall, just like mall rats in
New Jersey. You think only Americans are greedy? I don’t pay attention
in European History too good, but I don’t think so.”
Served the salmon for which I now had little appetite, I drummed my
fingers. With the backdrop of the wallwide seascape at Hudson House, in
that flashy white shirt with its billowing sleeves, raised collar, and a V-
neck cut to the sternum, Kevin could have passed for Errol Flynn in
Captain Blood.
“The accent,” I said. “I hate it.”
“It’s your accent, too,” he said. “Even if you do say tomahto.”
“You think that’s pretentious.”
“Don’t you?”
I laughed, a little. “Okay. It’s pretentious.”
Something was loosening up, and I thought, my, maybe this “outing”
wasn’t a bad idea after all. Maybe we’re getting somewhere. I began to
throw myself into the conversation in earnest. “Look, one of the things
about this country I really can’t stand? It’s the lack of accountability.
Everything wrong with an American’s life is somebody else’s fault. All
these smokers raking in millions of dollars in damages from tobacco
companies, when, what, they’ve known the risks for forty years. Can’t
quit? Stick it to Philip Morris. Next thing you know, fat people will be
suing fast-food companies because they’ve eaten too many Big Macs!” I
paused, catching myself. “I realize you’ve heard this before.”

Kevin was winding me up, of course, like a toy. He had the same
intent, mischievous expression I’d seen recently on a boy making his
model race car hurtle off the rocks in Tallman Park by remote control.
“Once or twice,” he allowed, repressing a smile.
“Power walkers,” I said.
“What about them.”
“They drive me insane.” Of course, he’d heard this, too. But he hadn’t
heard this, because until then I hadn’t quite put it together: “People
around here can’t just go for a walk, they have to be getting with some
kind of program. And you know, this may be at the heart of it, what’s my
beef. All those intangibles of life, the really good but really elusive stuff
that makes life worth living—Americans seem to believe they can all be
obtained by joining a group, or signing up to a subscription, or going on
a special diet, or undergoing aroma therapy. It’s not just that Americans
think they can buy everything; they think that if you follow the
instructions on the label, the product has to work. Then when the product
doesn’t work and they’re still unhappy even though the right to
happiness is enshrined in the Constitution, they sue the bejesus out of
each other.”
“What do you mean, intangibles,” said Kevin.
“Whatever, as your friends would say. Love—joy—insight.” (To
Kevin, I could as well have been talking about little green men on the
moon.) “But you can’t order them on the Internet or learn them in a
course at the New School or look them up in a How-To. It’s not that
easy, or maybe it is easy . . . so easy that trying, following the directions,
gets in the way . . . I don’t know.”
Kevin was doodling furiously on the tablecloth with his crayon.
“Anything else?”
“Of course there’s anything else,” I said, feeling the momentum that
gets rolling in those plane chats when I finally get access to the library in
my head, remembering Madame Bovary, and Jude the Obscure, and A
Passage to India. “Americans are fat, inarticulate, and ignorant. They’re
demanding, imperious, and spoiled. They’re self-righteous and superior
about their precious democracy, and condescending toward other
nationalities because they think they’ve got it right—never mind that half
the adult population doesn’t vote. And they’re boastful, too. Believe it or
not, in Europe it isn’t considered acceptable to foist on new
acquaintances right off the bat that you went to Harvard and you own a
big house and what it cost and which celebrities come to dinner. And
Americans never pick up, either, that in some places it’s considered crass

to share your taste for anal sex with someone at a cocktail party you’ve
known for five minutes—since the whole concept of privacy here has
fallen by the wayside. That’s because Americans are trusting to a fault,
innocent in a way that makes you stupid. Worst of all, they have no idea
that the rest of the world can’t stand them.”
I was talking too loudly for such a small establishment and such
abrasive sentiments, but I was strangely exhilarated. This was the first
time that I’d been able to really talk to my son, and I hoped that we’d
crossed the Rubicon. At last I was able to confide things that I well and
truly believed, and not just lecture—please don’t pick the Corleys’ prize-
winning roses. Granted, I’d begun in a childishly inept way, asking how’s
school, while he was the one who’d conducted our talk like a competent
adult, drawing out his companion. But as a consequence I was proud of
him. I was just fashioning a remark along these lines, when Kevin, who
had been scribbling intently on the tablecloth with that crayon, finished
whatever he was drawing, looked up, and nodded at the scrawl.
“Wow,” he said. “That’s a whole lot of adjectives.”
Attention deficit disorder in a pig’s eye. Kevin was an able student
when he bothered, and he hadn’t been doodling; he’d been taking notes.
“Let’s see,” he said, and proceeded to check off successive elements
of his list with his red crayon. “Spoiled. You’re rich. I’m not too sure
what you think you’re doing without, but I bet you could afford it.
Imperious. Pretty good description of that speech just now; if I was you,
I wouldn’t order dessert, ’cause you can bet the waiter’s gonna hawk a
loogie in your raspberry sauce. Inarticulate? Lemme see . . . ” He
searched the tablecloth, and read aloud, “It’s not that easy, or maybe it is
easy, I don’t know. I don’t call that Shakespeare myself. Also, seems to
me I’m sitting across from the lady who goes on these long rants about
‘reality TV’ when she’s never watched a single show. And that—one of
your favorite words, Mumsey—is ignorant. Next: boasting. What was
all 
that 
these-dumb-fucks-suck-dead-moose-dickand-I’m-so-much-
cooler-than-them if it wasn’t showing off? Like somebody who thinks
she’s got it right and nobody else does. Trusting . . . with no idea other
people can’t stand them.” He underscored this one and then looked me in
the eye with naked dislike. “Well. Far as I can tell, about the only thing
that keeps you and the other dumb-ass Americans from being peas in a
pod is you’re not fat. And just because you’re skinny you act self-
righteous—condescending— and superior. Maybe I’d rather have a big
cow of a mother who at least didn’t think she was better than everybody
else in the fucking country.”

I paid the bill. We wouldn’t conduct another mother-son outing until
Claverack.
 
Discouraged from getting her the scooter, I went to considerable trouble
to locate a “small-eared elephant shrew” as a Christmas present for
Celia. When we’d visited the Small Mammals exhibit in the Bronx Zoo,
she’d been enchanted by this incongruous little fellow, who looked as if
an elephant crossed with a kangaroo had interbred with several
generations of mice. The importation was probably illegal—if not
outright endangered, this tiny creature from southern Africa was
identified at the zoo as “threatened, due to habitat loss”—which didn’t
help my case when you grew impatient with the time it took to find one.
At length we struck a deal. You’d look the other way as I located a pet
shop that specialized in “unusual” animals on the Internet, I the other
way as you bought Kevin that crossbow.
I never told you what Celia’s present cost, and I don’t think I’ll tell
you now, either. Suffice it to say that once in a while it was nice to be
wealthy. The short-eared elephant shrew—inaptly named; neither
elephant nor shrew, it has flanged, cupped ears that are proportionately
enormous—was, bar none, the most successful present I’ve ever given.
Celia would have been bowled over by a roll of Lifesavers, but even our
agreeable daughter expressed degrees of exhilaration, and when she
unwrapped the big glass cage her eyes bulged. Then she flew into my
arms with a torrent of thanks. She kept getting up from Christmas dinner
to check that the cage was warm enough or to feed him a raw cranberry. I
was already worried. Animals don’t always flourish in alien climates,
and giving such a perishable present to a sensitive child was probably
rash.
Then, I may have purchased “Snuffles,” as Celia christened him, as
much for myself as for her, if only because his delicate, wide-eyed
vulnerability reminded me so of Celia herself. With long, downy fur
reminiscent of our daughter’s fine hair, this five-ounce fluff ball looked
as if, with one good puff, he would scatter to the winds like a dandelion.
Balanced on haunches that narrowed to slender stilts, Snuffles looked
precarious when upright. His signature snout, trumpet-shaped and
prehensile, routed about the dirt-lined cage, both touching and comic.
The animal didn’t run so much as hop, and his bounding within the
confines of his hemmed-in world exuded the cheerful make-the-best-of-it
optimism with which Celia would soon face her own limitations.
Although elephant shrews are not strictly vegetarian—they eat worms

and insects—massive brown eyes gave Snuffles an awed, frightened
appearance, anything but predatory. Constitutionally, Snuffles, like Celia,
was quarry.
Appreciating that her pet mustn’t be overhandled, she would poke a
nervous finger through the cage door to stroke the tips of his tawny fur.
When she had friends over to play, she kept her bedroom door shut while
she decoyed playmates to more durable toys. Maybe that means she’s
learning, I prayed, about other people. (Celia was popular partly for
being indiscriminate, since she brought home the playmates that other
children despised—like that spoiled, strident creature Tia, whose mother
had the gall to advise me quietly that it was “really better if Tia is
allowed to win board games.” Celia deduced as much without being told,
as she asked me pensively after her bossy companion had left, “Is it okay
to cheat to lose?”) Contemplating our daughter as she defended Snuffles,
I searched for a firmness, a resolve in her expression that might indicate
an incipient capacity to defend herself.
Yet unwillingly, I considered the possibility that, while lovely to my
own eye, Celia was fetching in a way that outsiders might be apt to
overlook. She was only six, but I already feared that she would never be
beautiful—that she was unlikely to carry herself with that much
authority. She had your mouth, too wide for her small head; her lips were
thin and bloodless. Her tremulous countenance encouraged a carefulness
around her that was wearing. That hair, so silken and wispy, was destined
to grow lank, its gold to give way to a dingier blond by her teens.
Besides, isn’t true beauty a tad enigmatic? And Celia was too artless to
imply concealment. She had an available face, and there is something
implicitly uninteresting about the look of a person who will tell you
whatever you want to know. Why, already I could see it: She would grow
into the kind of adolescent who conceives a doomed crush on the
president of the student council, who doesn’t know she’s alive. Celia
would always give herself away cheaply. Later, she would move in—too
young—with an older man who would abuse her generous nature, who
would leave her for a more buxom woman who knows how to dress. But
at least she would always come home to us for Christmas, and had she
opportunity, she would make a far finer mother than I ever was.
Kevin shunned Snuffles, its very name an indignity to a teenage boy.
He was more than willing to catch spiders or crickets and dangle the live
morsels into the cage—standard boy-stuff and the perfect job for him,
since Celia was too squeamish. But the cool, deadpan teasing was

merciless. You couldn’t have forgotten the night I served quail, and he
convinced her that the scrawny carcass on her plate was you-know-who.
I know, Snuffles was just a pet, an expensive pet, and some kind of
unhappy ending was inevitable. I should have thought of that before I
gave her the little beast, though surely to avoid attachments for fear of
loss is to avoid life. I had hoped he’d last longer, but that wouldn’t have
made it any easier for Celia when calamity hit.
That night in February 1998 is the only instance I can remember of
Celia’s dissembling. She kept darting around the house, crawling on the
floor, picking up the couch skirting and peering under the sofa, but when
I asked her what she was looking for she chirped, “Nothing!” She
continued scuffling around on all fours past her bedtime, refusing to
explain the game she was playing, but begging to play it longer. Finally,
enough was enough, and I hauled her off to bed as she struggled. It
wasn’t like her to be such a brat.
“How’s Snuffles?” I asked, trying to distract her when I turned on the
light.
Her body stiffened, and she didn’t look at the cage when I bounced her
onto the mattress. After a pause, she whispered, “He’s fine.”
“I can’t see him from here,” I said. “Is he hiding?”
“He’s hiding,” she said, in an even smaller voice.
“Why don’t you go find him for me?”
“He’s hiding,” she said again, still not looking at the cage.
The elephant shrew did sometimes sleep in a corner or under a branch,
but when I searched the cage myself, I couldn’t spot any tufts. “You
didn’t let Kevin play with Snuffles, did you?” I asked sharply, in the
same tone of voice I might have asked, You didn’t put Snuffles in a
blender, did you?
“It’s all my fault!” she gasped, and began to sob. “I th-thought I closed
the cage door, but I guess I d-d-d-didn’t! ’Cause when I came in after
supper it was open and he was gone! I’ve looked everywhere!” Shsh,
now there, we’ll find him, I cooed, but she would not be quieted. “I’m
stupid! Kevin says so and he’s right. I’m stupid! Stupid, stupid, stupid!”
She hit herself so hard on the temple with her balled up fist that I had to
grab her wrist.
I was hopeful that her crying jag would burn itself out, but a little
girl’s grief has astonishing staying power, and the strength of her
selfloathing tempted me to make false promises. I assured her that
Snuffles could not have got very far and that he would definitely be right

back in his cozy cage by morning. Grasping at my perfidious straw, Celia
shuddered and lay still.
I don’t think we gave up until about 3 A.M.—and thanks, again, for
your help. You had another scouting job the next day, and we would both
miss sleep. I can’t think of a cranny we didn’t check; you moved the
dryer, I combed the trash. Mumbling good-naturedly, “Where is that bad
boy?” you pulled all the books out of the lower shelves while I steeled
myself to check for hair in the disposal.
“I don’t want to make this worse with an I-told-you-so,” you said
when we both collapsed in the living room with dust balls in our hair.
“And I did think it was cute. But that’s a rare, delicate animal, and she’s
in first grade.”
“But she’s been so conscientious. Never out of water, careful about
overfeeding. Then to just, leave the door open?”
“She is absent-minded, Eva.”
“True. I suppose I could order another one ...”
“Fugeddaboutit. One lesson in mortality is enough for the year.”
“You think maybe he got outside?”
“In which case he’s already frozen to death,” you said cheerfully.
“Thanks.”
“Better than dogs. . . . ”
That was the story I put together for Celia the next day: that Snuffles
had gone to play outdoors, where he was much happier with lots of nice
fresh air, and where he’d make lots of animal friends. Hey, why not turn
it to my advantage? Celia would believe anything.
 
All things being equal, I’d expect to recollect our daughter’s ashen mope
of the following week, but not ordinary housekeeping chores. But under
the circumstances, I have good reason to recall that the kids’ bathroom
sink backed up that weekend. Janis wouldn’t be in until Monday, and I’d
never spurned a little upkeep of my own home now and again. So I
smote the clog with a few glugs of Liquid-Plumr, poured in one cup of
cold water, and left it to sit, according to the directions. Then I put the
Liquid-Plumr away. Did you seriously imagine that after all this time I
would change my story? I put it away.
 
Eva
 

 
 
MARCH 8, 2001
 
 
Dear Franklin,
 
My God, there’s been another one. I should have known on Monday
afternoon when all my coworkers suddenly started to avoid me.
Standard issue. In a suburb outside San Diego, fifteen-year-old
Charles “Andy” Williams—a scrawny, unassuming-looking white kid
with thin lips and matted hair like well-trod carpet—brought a .22 to
Santana High School in his backpack. He hid out in the boys’ bathroom,
where he shot two, proceeding to the hallway to fire at anything that
moved. Two students were killed, thirteen injured. Once he had retreated
to the bathroom again, the police found him cowering on the floor with
the gun to his head. He whimpered incongruously, “It’s only me”; they
arrested the boy without a struggle. It almost goes without saying by now
that he’d just broken up with his girlfriend—who was twelve.
Curiously, on the news Monday night, some of his fellow students
characterized the shooter, as usual, as “picked on,” persecuted as a
“freak, a dork, and a loser.” Yet a whole other set of kids attested that
Andy had plenty of friends, wouldn’t remotely qualify as unpopular or
especially ragged on, and was to the contrary “well-liked.” These latter
descriptions must have confused our audience, since when Jim Lehrer
revisited the story tonight for another inquiry into why, why, why, all
depictions along the lines of “well-liked” had been expunged. If Andy
Williams hadn’t been “bullied,” he failed to support the now fashionable
revenge-of-the-nerds interpretation of these incidents, which were now
meant to teach us not stricter gun control but concern for the agonies of
the underage outcast.
Accordingly, while “Andy” Williams is now nearly as famous as his
crooner counterpart, I doubt there’s a news consumer in the country who
could tell you the name of either of the two students he shot dead—
teenagers who never did anything wrong outside of heading to the
bathroom on a morning that their more fortunate classmates resolved to
hold their bladders through Geometry: Brian Zuckor and Randy Gordon.
Exercising what I can only regard as a civic duty, I have committed their
names to heart.

 
I’ve heard parents throughout my life allude to horrifying incidents in
which something happened to their children: a full-immersion baptism
by a boiling pot of turkey stew or the retrieval of a wayward cat via an
open third-story window. Prior to 1998, I had casually assumed that I
knew what they were talking about—or what they avoided talking about,
since there’s often a private fence around such stories, full access to
which, like intensive care units, only immediate family is allowed. I’d
always respected those fences. Other people’s personal disasters of any
sort are exclusionary, and I’d be grateful for that Don’t Enter sign,
behind which I might shelter a secret offensive relief that my own loved
ones were safe. Still I imagined that I knew roughly what lay on the
other side. Be it a daughter or a grandfather, anguish is anguish. Well, I
apologize for my presumption. I had no idea.
When you’re the parent, no matter what the accident, no matter how
far away you were at the time and how seemingly powerless to avert it, a
child’s misfortune feels like your fault. You’re all your kids have, and
their own conviction that you will protect them is contagious. So in case
you expect, Franklin, that I’m simply setting about one more time to
deny culpability, to the contrary. Broadly, it still feels like my fault, and
broadly, it felt like my fault at the time.
At the very least, I wish I’d stuck to my guns on our child-care
arrangements. We’d hired Robert, that seismology student from Lamont-
Doherty Earth Observatory, to pick up Celia from school and stick
around the house until one of us got home, and that’s the way the rules
should have stayed. Against all odds, we managed to keep Robert, too—
though he threatened to quit—once we assured him that Kevin was now
old enough to look after himself and he need only look after Celia. But
you were on this responsibility kick. Kevin was fourteen, as old as many
sitters in our neighborhood. If Kevin was to become trustworthy, he had
first to be trusted; sure, it sounded good. So you told our child-minder
that as long as Kevin had returned from ninth grade and had been
apprised that he was now to keep an eye on Celia, Robert could go. That
solved the problem that kept cropping up, that you would get stuck in
traffic and I would work a bit late, and (however well-compensated for
his time) Robert would get stranded, chafing, on Palisades Parade when
he had research at Lamont to which he needed to return.
When I try to remember that Monday, my mind shies, like ducking a
hurtling tether ball. Then the memory curves centrifugally back around
again, so that when I stand back up it hits me in the head.

I was once more working a little late. The new arrangement with
Robert made me feel less guilty for putting in an extra hour, and AWAP’s
preeminence in the budget-travel niche had started to slide. We had so
much more competition than when I started out—The Lonely Planet and
The Rough Guide had sprung up; meanwhile, with the whole country
aslosh in cash from a buoyant stock market, demand for the really dirt-
cheap travel in which we specialized had dropped. So against my better
judgment, I was working up a proposal for a whole new series, Wing and
a Prayer for Boomers—whose target audience would be flush with
Internet start-up stock, probably overweight, nostalgic about their first
seat-of-the-pants trip to Europe with a beat-up copy of W&P in the
sixties, convinced they were still college students if not in fact then in
spirit, accustomed to $30 cabernets but, by conceit, still adventurous, that
is, eager for comfort so long as that’s not what it was called and by all
means in horror of resorting to the stodgy Blue Guide like their parents—
when the phone rang.
You said to drive carefully. You said that she was already in the
hospital and there was nothing I could do now. You said that her life was
not endangered. You said that more than once. All this was true. Then
you said that she was going to be “all right,” which was not true, though
for most messengers of dismal tidings the urge to issue this groundless
reassurance seems to be irresistible.
I had no choice but to drive carefully, because the traffic on the
George Washington Bridge was barely moving. When at last I laid eyes
on your collapsed expression in the waiting room, I realized that you
loved her after all, which I castigated myself for ever having doubted.
Kevin wasn’t with you, to my relief, because I might have clawed his
eyes out.
Your embrace had rarely offered so little solace. I kept hugging you
harder to get something out of it, like squeezing an empty bottle of hand
lotion until it wheezes.
She was already in surgery, you explained. While I’d driven in, you’d
run Kevin home, because there was nothing to do but wait, and there was
no point making this harder on her brother than it was already. But I
wondered if you hadn’t whisked him from the waiting room to safeguard
him from me.
We sat in those same sea-green metal chairs where I had agonized
over what Kevin would tell the doctors when I broke his arm. Maybe, I
supposed miserably, for the last eight years he’d been biding his time. I
said, “I don’t understand what happened.” I was quiet; I didn’t shout.

You said, “I thought I told you. Over the phone.”
“But it doesn’t make sense.” Anything but contentious, my tone was
simply baffled. “Why would she—what would she be doing with that
stuff?”
“Kids.” You shrugged. “Playing. I guess.”
“But,” I said. “She’ll, ah—.” My mind kept blanking out. I had to
reconstruct what I’d wanted to say all over again, repeating the
conversation to myself, where we were, what came next.... Bathroom.
Yes.
“She’ll go to the bathroom by herself now,” I resumed. “But she
doesn’t like it in there. She never has. She wouldn’t play in there.” An
incipient insistence in my voice must have sounded dangerous; we would
shrink back from the ledge. Celia was still in surgery. We wouldn’t fight,
and you would hold my hand.
It seemed hours later that the doctor emerged. You’d called home on
your cell phone, twice, out of my earshot as if sparing me something;
you’d bought me coffee from the machine along the wall, and it was now
topped with crinkled skin. When a nurse pointed us out to the surgeon, I
suddenly understood why some people worship their doctors, and why
doctors are prone to feel godlike. But with one look at his face, I could
see that he wasn’t feeling very godlike.
“I’m sorry,” he said. “We really tried. But there was too much damage.
I’m afraid we couldn’t save the eye.”
 
We were encouraged to go home. Celia was heavily sedated, and she
would remain so for some time. Not long enough, I thought. So we
stumbled from the waiting room. At least, you pointed out numbly, he
says the other eye is probably okay. Just that morning I’d taken for
granted the fact that our daughter had two.
Out in the parking lot, it was cold; in my flight from the office, I’d left
my coat. We had two cars to drive home, which made me feel colder. I
sensed we were at a junction of sorts and feared that if we each launched
off in separate vehicular universes we would end up in the same place
only in the most banal, geographical sense. You must have felt the same
need to confirm that we were, as my staff had lately taken to saying five
times a day, on the same page, because you invited me into your truck
for a few minutes to debrief and get warm.
I missed your old baby-blue pickup, which I associated with our
courtship, powering along the turnpike with the windows down and
sound system pounding, like a living Bruce Springsteen lyric. And the

pickup was more you, old-you anyway: classic, down-home, honest.
Pure, even. Edward Hopper would never have painted the bulky 4x4
with which you replaced it. Reared up unnaturally above wide, oversized
tires, the body had the blunted, bulging contours of an inflatable dinghy.
Its bullying fenders and puffed-up posture reminded me of those poor
little lizards whose only weapon is display, and the truck’s overdrawn,
cartoon manliness had prompted me to quip in better days, “If you check
under the chassis, Franklin, I bet you’ll find a tiny dick.” At least you’d
laughed.
The heating worked well; too well, since once we’d idled for a few
minutes the cab got stuffy. It was bigger than the Ford, but your baby-
blue had never felt this claustrophobic with just the two of us.
Finally, you knocked your head back on the padded headrest and
stared at the ceiling. “I can’t believe you left it out.”
Stunned, I didn’t respond.
“I thought about not saying that,” you proceeded. “But if I swallowed
it, I’d be not saying it, and not saying it, for weeks, and that seemed
worse.”
I licked my lips. I had begun to tremble. “I didn’t leave it out.”
You dropped your head, then sighed. “Eva. Don’t make me do this.
You used that Liquid-Plumr on Saturday. I remember because you went
on about how the kids’ drain smelled weird or something, and then later
that afternoon you warned us not to run any water in that sink for the
next hour because you’d put drain cleaner in it.”
“I put it away,” I said. “Back in that high cabinet with the child-lock
on it, which Celia couldn’t even reach with a chair!”
“Then how did it get out?”
“Good question,” I said icily.
“Look, I realize that you’re usually very careful with caustic
substances and lock that shit up automatically. But people aren’t
machines—”
“I remember putting it away, Franklin.”
“Do you remember putting your shoes on this morning, do you
remember closing the door behind you when you left the house? How
many times have we been in the car, and we’ve had to go back inside and
make sure that the stove isn’t on? When turning it off is presumably
second nature?”
“But the stove is never on, is it? It’s almost a rule of life, a, what, some
kind of fortune-cookie aphorism: The Stove Is Never On.”

“I’ll tell you when it’s on, Eva: the one time that you don’t bother to
double-check. And that is when the fucking house burns down.”
“Why are we having this inane conversation? With our daughter in the
hospital?”
“I want you to admit it. I’m not saying I won’t forgive you. I know
you must feel terrible. But part of getting through this has to be facing up
—”
“Janis came this morning, maybe she left it out.” In truth, I never
thought for a moment that Janis had been so sloppy, but I was desperate
to keep at bay the picture that began to form in my head when I
entertained a more credible suspect.
“Janis had no need for drain cleaner. All the drains were clear.”
“All right,” I said, steeling myself. “Then ask Kevin how that bottle
got left out.”
“I knew we’d get around to this. First it’s oh, what a mystery, then it’s
the housekeeper’s fault, who’s left? And, what a surprise, that Eva—who
never does anything wrong herself—should finger her own son!”
“He was supposed to be taking care of her. You said he was old enough
—”
“Yes, it was on his watch. But she was in the bathroom, he says the
door was closed, and we’ve hardly encouraged our fourteen-year-old boy
to bust in on his sister in the john.”
“Franklin, this story doesn’t add up. Never mind for now why it was
out, all right? Forget that. But why would Celia pour drain cleaner in her
own eye?”
“I haven’t a clue! Maybe because kids are not only dumb but creative
and the combination is death. Why else would we keep that shit locked
up? What’s important is Kevin did everything he should have. He says
when she started to scream he came running, and when he found out
what it was he ran water over her face and rinsed her eye the best he
could, and then he called an ambulance, even before he called me on the
cell—which was just right, the order was just right, he was a star.”
“He didn’t call me,” I said.
“Well,” you said. “I wonder why.”
“The damage—” I took a breath. “It’s bad, isn’t it. It had to have been
very, very bad—.” I had started to cry, but I made myself stop, because I
had to get this out. “If she’s lost the eye, and surgeons are better at this
kind of thing than they used to be, then it was—. It was a mess. It takes,
ah. It takes a while.” I stopped again, listening to the wah from the heat

vents. The air had grown dry, my saliva sticky. “It takes a while for that
stuff to work. That’s why the label tells you to—to let it sit.”
Compulsively, I had pressed my fingertips against my own eyes,
padding the papery lids, guarding the smooth, tender roll of the balls.
“What are you saying? Because it’s bad enough to accuse him of
neglect—”
“The doctor said there’d be scarring! That she was burned, all across
that side of her face! Time, it would have taken time! Maybe he did wash
it out, but when? When he was finished?”
You grabbed each of my arms, raised them on either side of my head,
and looked me in the eye. “Finished with what? His homework? His
archery practice?”
“Finished,” I groaned, “with Celia.”
“Don’t you ever say that again! Not to anyone! Not even to me!”
“Think about it!” I wrenched my arms free with a twist. “Celia, douse
herself with acid? Celia’s afraid of everything! And she’s six, she’s not
two. I know you don’t think she’s very smart, but she’s not retarded! She
knows not to touch the stove, and she doesn’t eat bleach. Meanwhile,
Kevin can reach that cabinet, and Kevin can work child-locks in his
sleep. He’s not her savior. He did it! Oh, Franklin, he did it—”
“I’m ashamed of you, ashamed,” you said at my back as I curled
against the door. “Demonizing your own kid just because you can’t
admit to your own carelessness. It’s worse than craven. It’s sick. Here
you’re flailing around making outrageous accusations, and as usual you
have no proof. That doctor—did he say anything about Kevin’s story not
squaring with her injuries? No. No, he didn’t. Only his mother can detect
a cover-up of some unspeakable evil because she’s such a medical
expert, such an expert on corrosive chemicals because she’s occasionally
cleaned house.”
As ever, you couldn’t keep shouting at me while I was crying. “Look,”
you implored. “You don’t know what you’re saying because you’re
upset. You’re not yourself. This is hard, and it’s going to keep being
hard, because you’re going to have to look at it. She’s going to be in
pain, and it’s going to look nasty for a while. The only thing that’s going
to make it easier is if you confront your part in this. Celia—even Celia,
with that elephant shrew—admits it’s her fault. She left the cage open!
And that’s part of it, what hurts, that not only did something sad happen
but if she’d done something differently it wouldn’t have happened. She
takes responsibility, and she’s only six! Why can’t you?”

“I wish I could take responsibility,” I whispered, fogging the side
window. “I’d say, ‘Oh, I could kill myself for leaving that drain cleaner
where she could find it!’ Don’t you see how much easier that would be?
Why would I be so upset? If it were my fault, only my fault? In that case,
it wouldn’t be frightening. Franklin, this is serious, it’s not just a little
girl scratching her eczema anymore. I don’t how he got this way but he’s
a horror, and he hates her—”
“That’s enough!” Your announcement had a liturgical finality, deep
and booming like the ringing Amen in a benedictory prayer. “I don’t
often lay down the law. But Kevin’s been through an incredible trauma.
His sister will never be the same. He kept his head in a crisis, and I want
him to be proud of that. Still, he was the one baby-sitting, and he’s
inevitably going to worry that it was all his fault. So you are going to
promise me, right now, that you’ll do everything in your power to assure
him that it wasn’t.”
I pulled the handle of the door and opened it a few inches. I thought, I
have to get out of here, I have to get away.
“Don’t go, not yet,” you said, holding my arm. “I want you to
promise.”
“Promise to keep my mouth shut or to believe his feeble story? I might
add, another one.”
“I can’t make you believe in your own son. Though I’ve sure as fuck
tried.”
On one point you were right: I didn’t have any proof. Only Celia’s
face. Hadn’t I been right. She’d never be beautiful, would she.
I climbed from the truck and faced you through the open door. The
chill wind whipping my hair, I stood at attention, reminded of brittle
military truces struck between mistrustful generals in the middle of
barren battlefields.
“All right,” I said. “We’ll call it an accident. You can even tell him,
‘I’m afraid your mother forgot to put the Liquid-Plumr away on
Saturday.’ After all, he knew I unclogged that drain. But in return you
promise me: that we will never again leave Kevin alone with Celia. Not
for five minutes.”
“Fine. I bet Kevin’s none too keen for more baby-sitting jobs right
now anyway.”
I said I’d see you at home; a civil farewell was an effort.
“Eva!” you called at my back, and I turned. “You know I’m not
usually big on shrinks. But maybe you should talk to somebody. I think

you need help. That’s not an accusation. It’s just—you’re right on one
score. This is getting serious. I’m afraid it’s beyond me.”
Indeed it was.
 
The following couple of weeks were eerily quiet around the house, with
Celia still recovering in the hospital. You and I spoke little. I’d ask what
you’d like for dinner; you’d say you didn’t care. In relation to Celia, we
largely addressed logistics—when each of us would visit. Although it
seemed sensible for us to go separately so that she’d have
companionship for more of the day, the truth was that neither of us was
anxious to share your overheated 4x4 once more. Back home, we could
discuss the particulars of her condition, and though the particulars were
distressing—an infection subsequent to her enucleation, a vocabulary
lesson I could have skipped, had further damaged the optic nerve and
ruled out a transplant— facts fed the conversational maw. Shopping for
an oculist for her follow-up, I seized on a doctor named Krikor Sahatjian
on the Upper East Side. Armenians look out for each other, I assured
you. He’ll give us special attention. “So would Dr. Kevorkian,” you
grunted, well aware that the godfather of assisted suicide was one
Armenian my conservative community was reluctant to claim. Still, I
was grateful for an exchange that almost qualified as banter, in
conspicuous short supply.
I remember being on my best behavior, never raising my voice, never
objecting when you barely touched a meal that I’d have gone to great
trouble to fix. Cooking, I tried not to make too much noise, muffling the
clang of a knocked pot. In respect to Celia’s uncannily sunny disposition
in Nyack Hospital, I swallowed many an admiring remark for seeming
somehow indecorous, as if her improbable good nature were an affront to
lesser mortals who quite reasonably wail from pain and grow irascible
during convalescence. In our household, my praise of our daughter
always seemed to get confused with bragging on my own account.
Throughout, I made a concerted effort to act normal, which, along with
trying to have fun and trying to be a good mother, we can now add to our
list of projects that are inherently doomed.
That remark you made about my “needing help” proved disquieting. I
had replayed the memory of putting that Liquid-Plumr away so many
times that the tape was worn and I couldn’t quite trust it. I would review
my suspicions and sometimes they didn’t ... well, nothing would seem
clear-cut. Did I put that bottle away? Was the injury too severe for the
story the way Kevin told it? Could I point to a single shred of solid

evidence that would hold up in court? I didn’t want to “talk to
somebody,” but I’d have given my eye teeth to be able to talk to you.
It was only a couple of days after the accident when you convened our
roundtable of three. We’d just had dinner, loosely speaking; Kevin had
shoveled his food directly from the stove. Humoring you, he assumed his
rueful, sideways slouch at the dining table. Having been unwillingly
summoned to this convocation as well, I felt like a kid myself, once more
forced at age nine to formally apologize to Mr. Wintergreen for pilfering
drops from the walnut tree in his front yard. Sneaking a glance at Kevin,
I wanted to say, Wipe that smirk off your face, this isn’t a joke; your
sister’s in the hospital. I wanted to say, Go put on a T-shirt that isn’t five
sizes too small for you, just being in the same room with that getup
makes me itch. But I couldn’t. In the culture of our family, such
commonplace 
parental 
admonitions, 
from 
me 
anyway, 
were
impermissible.
“In case you’re nervous, Kev,” you began (though he didn’t look
nervous to me), “this isn’t an inquisition. We mostly want to tell you how
much you impressed us with your quick thinking. Who knows, if you
hadn’t called those medics in right away, it could have been even worse.”
(How? I thought. Though I suppose she could’ve taken a bath in it.)
“And your mother has something she wants to tell you.”
“I wanted to thank you,” I began, avoiding Kevin’s eye, “for getting
your sister to the hospital.”
“Tell him what you told me,” you prompted. “Remember, you said
you were concerned, that he might feel, you know . . . ”
This part was easy. I looked at him straight on. “I thought you
probably felt responsible.”
Unflinching, he squinted back, and I confronted my own widebridged
nose, my narrow jaw, my shelved brow and dusky complexion. I was
looking in the mirror, yet I had no idea what my own reflection was
thinking. “Why’s that?”
“Because you were supposed to be taking care of her!”
“But you wanted to remind him,” you said, “that we’d never expected
him to watch her every single minute, and accidents happen, and so it
wasn’t his fault. What you told me. You know. In the truck.”
It was exactly like apologizing to Mr. Wintergreen. When I was nine,
I’d wanted to blurt, Most of those stupid walnuts were wormy or rotten,
you old coot, but instead I’d promised to harvest a full peck of his
crummy nuts and return them fully shelled.

“We don’t want you to blame yourself.” My tone duplicated Kevin’s
own, when he’d spoken to the police—sir this, sir that. “I’m the one at
fault. I should never have left the Liquid-Plumr out of the cabinet.”
Kevin shrugged. “Never said I blamed myself.” He stood up. “I be
excused?”
“One more thing,” you said. “Your sister’s going to need your help.”
“Why?” he said, ranging into the kitchen. “Only one eye, wasn’t it.
Not like she needs a guide dog or a white stick.”
“Yes,” I said. “Lucky her.”
“She’ll need your support,” you said. “She’s going to have to wear a
patch—”
“Cool,” he said. He came back with the bag of lychees from the
refrigerator. It was February; they were in season.
“She’ll be fitted with a glass eye down the line,” you said, “but we’d
appreciate your sticking up for her if neighborhood kids tease her—”
“Like how?” he said, carefully pulling the rough salmon-colored husk
off the fruit, exposing the pinkish-white flesh. “Celia does not look like a
geek?” When the pale translucent orb was peeled, he popped it in his
mouth, sucked, and pulled it back out.
“Well, however you—”
“I mean, Dad.” Methodically, he splayed the lychee open, parting the
slippery flesh from the smooth brown seed. “Not sure you remember too
good, being a kid.” He angled the mangle into his mouth. “Ceil’s just
gonna have to suck it up.”
I could feel you internally beaming. Here was your teenager trotting
out his archetypal teenagery toughness, behind which he hid his
confused, conflicted feelings about his sister’s tragic accident. It was an
act, Franklin, a candy-coated savagery for your consumption. He was
plenty confused and conflicted, but if you looked into his pupils they
were thick and sticky as a tar pit. This teenage angst of his, it wasn’t
cute.
“Hey, Mister Plastic,” Kevin offered. “Want one?” You demurred.
“I didn’t know you liked lychees,” I said tightly once he’d started on a
second one.
“Yeah, well,” he said, stripping the fruit bare and rolling the pulpy
globe around the table with one forefinger. It was the ghostly, milky
color of a cataract.
“It’s just, they’re very delicate,” I said, fretting.
He tore into the lychee with his front teeth. “Yeah, whadda you call
it.” He slurped. “An acquired taste.”

He was clearly planning to go through the whole bag. I rushed from
the room, and he laughed.
 
On the days that I took the early afternoon visiting hours, I worked from
home; Kevin’s school bus would often drop him off at the same time as I
returned from the hospital. The first time I passed him as he sauntered
languidly across Palisades Parade, I pulled over in my Luna and offered
him a ride up our steep drive. You’d think that just being alone with your
own son in a car was a pretty ordinary affair, especially for two minutes.
But Kevin and I rarely put ourselves in such stifling proximity, and I
remember babbling associatively all the way up. The street was lined
with several other vehicles waiting to rescue children from having to
walk as much as ten feet on their own steam, and I remarked on the fact
that every single car was an SRO. It was out of my mouth before I
remembered that Kevin hated my teasing malapropism for SUV—one
more pretend-gaffe to service the myth that I didn’t really live here.
“You know, those things are a metaphor for this whole country,” I
went on. I had been put on notice that this sort of talk drove my son
insane, but maybe that’s why I pursued it, much as I would later bring up
Dylan Klebold and Eric Harris in Claverack just to goad him. “They sit
up on the road higher and mightier than anyone else, and they have more
power than anyone knows what to do with. Even the profile they cut—
they always remind me of fat shoppers, waddling down the mall in
squarecut Bermuda shorts and giant padded sneakers, stuffing their faces
with cinnamon buns.”
“Yeah, well, ever ride in one?” (I admitted I hadn’t.) “So what do you
know?”
“I know they piggy up too much of the road, guzzle gas, sometimes
roll over—”
“Why do you care if they roll over? You hate these people anyway.”
“I don’t hate—”
“Single-room occupancy!” Shaking his head, he slammed the VW
door behind him. The next time I offered him a lift up the hill, he waved
me off.
There was even something strangely unbearable about those couple of
hours he and I sometimes shared the house before your 4x4 plowed into
the garage. You’d think it would be easy enough, in that vast splay of
teak, but no matter where each of us settled I never lost an awareness of
his presence, nor he, I suspect, of mine. Lacking you and Celia as a
buffer, just the two of us in the same residence felt—the word naked

comes to mind. We barely spoke. If he headed for his room, I didn’t ask
about his homework; if Lenny stopped by, I didn’t ask what they were
doing; and if Kevin left the house, I didn’t ask where he was headed. I
told myself that a parent should respect an adolescent’s privacy, but I
also knew that I was a coward.
This sensation of nakedness was assisted by the real thing. I know that
fourteen-year-old boys are brimming with hormones, all that. I know that
masturbation is a normal, vital relief, a harmless and enjoyable pastime
that shouldn’t be slandered as a vice. But I also thought that for teenagers
—let’s be serious, for everyone—this entertainment is covert. We all do
it (or I used to—yes, once in a while, Franklin, what did you think?), we
all know we all do it, but it isn’t customary to say, “Honey, could you
keep an eye on the spaghetti sauce, because I’m going to go masturbate.”
It had to happen more than once for me to finally mention it, because
after our set-to in the hospital parking lot I had blown my tattling
allowance for several months.
“He leaves the bathroom door open,” I reported reluctantly in our
bedroom late one night, at which point you began to brush the hairs from
your electric shaver intently. “And you can see the toilet from the
hallway.”
“So he forgets to close the door.” You were clipped.
“He doesn’t forget. He waits until I go to the kitchen to fix a cup of
coffee, so I’ll see him on my way back to my study. It’s very deliberate.
And he’s, ah—loud.”
“At his age, I probably jerked off three times a day.”
“In front of your mother?”
“Around the corner, behind the door. I thought I kept it secret, but I’m
sure she knew.”
“Behind the door,” I noted. “The door. It’s important.” My, that shaver
was really clogged with stubble tonight. “Knowing I can see—I think it
excites him.”
“Well, no matter how healthy you try to be about it, everybody’s a
little weird in this department.”
“You’re not, um—getting it. I know he’s going to do it, I don’t have a
problem with his doing it, but I’d rather not be included. It’s
inappropriate.” That word took heavy duty during this era. The Monica
Lewinsky scandal had broken the month before, and President Clinton
would later put a napkin over the specifics by deeming their relations
inappropriate.

“So why don’t you say something?” You got tired of intercession, I
suppose.
“What if Celia were masturbating in front of you? Would you talk to
her about it or prefer that I did?”
“So what do you want me to say?” you asked wearily.
“That he’s making me uncomfortable.”
“That’s a new one.”
I flounced onto the bed and grabbed a book I’d be unable to read.
“Just tell him to keep the goddamned door shut.”
I shouldn’t have bothered. Yes, you reported that you’d done as you
were told. I pictured you poking your head into his room and saying
something jovial and collusive about “growing a little hair on the palm,”
a dated expression he probably didn’t get, and then I bet you tossed off,
supercasual, “Just remember it’s private, okay sport?” and said good-
night. But even if you instead had a long, earnest, stern discussion, you’d
have tipped him off that he’d gotten to me, and with Kevin that’s always
a mistake.
So the very next afternoon after your “talk,” I’m heading to the study
with my cup of coffee and I can hear a telltale grunting down the hall.
I’m praying that he’s gotten the message and there will at least be a thin
but blessed wooden barrier between me and my son’s budding manhood.
I think: Aside from closets, there are only about four, five doors in the
whole bloody house, and we should really be getting our money’s worth
out of them. But as I advance another step or two the noise level belies
this most minimal attempt at propriety.
I press my warm coffee cup between my eyes to soothe a nascent
headache. I’ve been married for nineteen years and I know how men
work and there’s no reason to be afraid of a glorified spigot. But
subjected to the urgent little moans down the hall, I’m ten years old
again, sent on errands across town for my shut-in mother, having to cut
through the park, eyes trained straight ahead while older boys snicker in
the bushes with their flies down. I feel stalked, in my own house,
nervous, hounded, and mocked, and I don’t mind telling you I’m pretty
pissed off about it.
So I dare myself, the way I always got home in the old days, when I
would discipline myself not to run and so give chase. I march rather than
tiptoe down the hall, heels hitting the floorboards, clop-clop. I get to the
kids’ bathroom, door agape, and there is our firstborn in all his pubescent
splendor, down to a rash of fiery pimples on his backside. Feet planted
wide and back arched, he has pivoted his stance at an angle to the toilet

so that I can see his handiwork—purple and gleaming with what I first
assume is K-Y jelly, but which the silver wrapper on the floor suggests is
my Land O’Lakes unsalted butter—and this is my introduction to the
fact that my son has now grown fine, uncommonly straight pubic hair.
Though most males conduct this exercise with their eyes closed, Kevin
has cracked his open, the better to shoot his mother a sly, sleepy glance
over the shoulder. In return, I glare squarely at his cock—doubtless what
I should have done in the park instead of averting my gaze, since the
appendage is so unimpressive when confronted head-on that it makes
you wonder what all the fuss is about. I reach in and pull the door shut,
hard.
The hallway rings with a dry chuckle. I clip back to the kitchen. I’ve
spilled coffee on my skirt.
 
So. I know you must have wondered. Why didn’t I simply walk out?
Nothing stopped me from grabbing Celia while she still had one eye left
and hightailing it back to Tribeca. I could have left you with your son
and that horrible house, a matched set. After all. I had all the money.
I’m not sure you’ll believe me, but it never occurred to me to leave. I
may have spent long enough in your orbit to have absorbed your
ferocious conviction that a happy family cannot be a mere myth or that
even if it is, better to die trying for the fine if unattainable than sulking in
passive, cynical resignation that hell is other people you’re related to. I
hated the prospect of defeat; if in bearing Kevin to begin with I picked
up my own gauntlet, bearing Kevin on a daily basis involved rising to a
greater challenge still. And there may have been a practical side to my
tenacity as well. He was about to turn fifteen. He had never spoken of
college—had never spoken of his adult future at all; never having
expressed the slightest interest in a trade or profession, for all I knew he
was sticking to his five-year-old vow to go on welfare. But theoretically
our son was out of the house in about three years. Thereafter, it would
just be you, me, and Celia, and then we would see about that happy
family of yours. Those three years are almost over now, and if they have
proved the longest of my life, I had no way of anticipating that at the
time. Lastly, and this may strike you as simplistic, I loved you. I loved
you, Franklin. I still do.
Nevertheless, I did feel under siege. My daughter had been half
blinded, my husband doubted my sanity, and my son was flouting his
butter-greased penis in my face. Abetting the sensation of assault from
all sides, Mary Woolford chose this of all times to make her first

indignant visit to our house—and the last, come to think of it, since the
next time we’d meet would be in court.
She was still whippet slim then, her dark hair jet to the roots so I’d
never have known it was dyed; the way it was pinned up was a tad
severe. Even to make this neighborly call she was dressed to the nines in
a Chanel suit, a demure jeweled spray on her lapel twinkling with
respectability. Who’d have guessed that a scant three years later she’d be
shambling the Nyack Grand Union in a streaked outfit that needed
pressing and vandalizing raw eggs in the child seat of another woman’s
cart.
She introduced herself curtly, and, despite the chill, declined an
invitation inside. “My daughter, Laura, is a lovely girl,” she said. “A
mother would naturally think so, but I believe her attractiveness is also
apparent to others. With two important exceptions: Laura herself, and
that young man of yours.”
I wanted to reassure the woman that by and large, my surly son failed
to see the attractiveness of anyone, but I sensed that we were still in the
preamble. This sounds unkind considering that my son would, in just
over a year, murder this woman’s daughter, but I’m afraid I took an
immediate dislike to Mary Woolford. She moved jaggedly, her eyes
shifting this way and that, as if roiling from some constant inner turmoil.
Yet some people coddle their own afflictions the way others spoil small
pedigreed dogs with cans of pâté. Mary struck me straight off as one of
this sort, for whom my private shorthand was Looking for a Problem—
rather a waste of detective powers I always thought, since in my
experience most proper problems come looking for you.
“For the last year or so,” Mary continued, “Laura has suffered under
the misapprehension that she is overweight. I’m sure you’ve read about
the condition. She skips meals, she buries her breakfast in the trash, and
lies about having eaten at a friend’s. Laxative abuse, diet pills—suffice it
to say that it’s all very frightening. Last September she got so frail that
she was hospitalized with an intravenous drip, which she would tear out
if not watched round the clock. Are you getting the picture?”
I mumbled something feebly commiserating. I would normally lend a
sympathetic ear to such stories, though just then I couldn’t help thinking
that my daughter was in the hospital, too, and not—I was fiercely
convinced—because she done anything stupid to herself. Besides, I’d
heard too many Karen Carpenter tales at Gladstone PTA meetings, and
they often took the form of boasts. The prestigious diagnosis of anorexia
seemed much coveted not only by the students but by their mothers, who

would compete over whose daughter ate less. No wonder the poor girls
were a mess.
“We had been making progress,” Mary continued. “For the last few
months she’s submitted to her modest portions at family meals, which
she is compelled to attend. She’s finally gained a little weight back—as
your son Kevin was more than eager to point out.”
I sighed. In comparison to our visitor, I must have looked haggard.
What I wouldn’t have looked is surprised, and my failure to gasp oh-
mygoodness-me-what-has-that-boy-done seemed to inflame her.
“Last night I caught my beautiful daughter vomiting her dinner! I got
her to admit, too, that she’s been making herself upchuck for the last
week. Why? One of the boys at school keeps telling her she’s fat! Barely
100 pounds and she’s tormented for being a ‘porker’! Now, it wasn’t
easy to get his name out of her, and she begged me not to come here
tonight. But I for one believe it’s time we parents start accepting
responsibility for our children’s destructive behavior. My husband and I
are doing everything we can to keep Laura from hurting herself. So you
and your husband might please keep your son from hurting her, too!”
My head bobbed like one of those dogs in car windows. “Ho-ow?” I
drawled. It’s possible she thought I was drunk.
“I don’t care how—!”
“Do you want us to talk to him?” I had to tighten the corners of my
mouth to keep them from curling into an incredulous smirk all too
reminiscent of Kevin himself.
“I should think so!”
“Tell him to be sensitive to the feelings of others and to remember the
Golden Rule?” I was leaning on the door jamb with something close to a
leer, and Mary stepped back in alarm. “Or maybe my husband could
have a man-toman chat, and teach our son that a real man isn’t cruel and
aggressive, but a real man is gentle and compassionate?”
I had to stop for a second to keep from laughing. I suddenly pictured
you jaunting into the kitchen to report, Well, honey, it was all a big
misunderstanding! Kevin says that poor skin-and-bones Laura Woolford
simply heard wrong! He didn’t call her “fat,” he called her “fab”! And
he didn’t say she was a “porker”—he said she told a joke that was a
“corker”! A grin must have leaked out despite me, because Mary turned
purple and exploded, “I cannot for the life of me understand why you
seem to think this is funny!”
“Ms. Woolford, do you have any boys?”
“Laura is our only child,” she said reverently.

“Then I’ll refer you back to old schoolyard rhymes as to just what
little boys are made of. I’d like to help you out, but practically? If
Franklin and I say anything to Kevin, the consequences for your
daughter at school will be even worse. Maybe it’s better you teach Laura
—what do the kids say? To suck it up.”
I would pay for this bout of realism later, though I could hardly have
known then that my hard-bitten counsel would be trotted out in Mary’s
testimony at the civil trial two years hence—with a few acid
embellishments for good measure.
“Well, thank you for nothing!”
Watching Mary harumph down the flagstones, I reflected on the fact
that you, Kevin’s teachers, and now this Mary Woolford woman were
regaling me that as a mother I must accept responsibility. Fair enough.
But if I was so all-fired responsible, why did I still feel so helpless?
 
Celia came home at the beginning of March. Kevin had never been to
visit her once; protective, I’d never encouraged him. You’d issued the
odd invitation to come along, but backed off in deference to his trauma.
He never even asked how she was doing, you know. Anyone listening in
wouldn’t have thought he had a sister.
I had only made modest headway in accommodating myself to her
new appearance. The burns spattered on her cheek and streaked across
her temple, though starting to heal, were still crusty, and I begged her not
to pick at them lest she make the scarring even worse. She was good
about it, and I thought of Violetta. Hitherto out of touch with monocular
fashions, I’d expected her eye patch to be black, and Shirley Temple
flashbacks of The Good Ship Lollipop may have comforted me with
anodyne visions of my little blond pirate. I think I’d have preferred a
black one, too, so that I might have run out to buy her a three-cornered
hat and made some pathetic attempt at turning this macabre nightmare
into a fancy-dress game to distract her.
Instead, the flesh color of those stick-on 3M Opticlude patches turned
the left-hand side of her face blank. Swelling on the left side obliterated
any defining structures like her cheekbone. It was as if her face wasn’t
quite three-dimensional anymore, but rather like a postcard, with a
picture on one side and clean white paper on the other. I could catch a
glimpse of her right-hand profile, and for a moment my cheerful moppet
was unchanged; with a glimpse of the left, she was erased.
This now-you-see-me, now-you-don’t quality to her countenance gave
expression to my painful new awareness that children were a perishable

consumer good. Though I don’t think I had ever taken her for granted,
once she came home I pretty much gave up on whatever effort I had ever
made to disguise my preference for one child over the other. She could
never bring herself to leave my side any longer, and I allowed her to
shadow me softly around the house and join me on errands. I’m sure you
were right that we shouldn’t have let her slip any further behind in
school and that the sooner she got used to her disability in public the
better, but I still took some time off from AWAP and kept her home for
two more weeks. Meanwhile, she lost some of the skills she had
mastered, for instance, tying her tennis shoes, and I’d have to go back to
tying them for her and start the lesson from scratch.
I watched her around Kevin like a hawk. I admit that she did not act
afraid of him. And he went right back to issuing her a plenitude of bored
orders; ever since she’d gotten old enough to run and fetch, he’d treated
her like a pet with a limited range of tricks. But even in response to some
small, harmless request like to grab him a cracker or toss him the TV
remote, I thought I now detected in his sister a momentary hesitation, a
little freeze, like a hard swallow. And though she had once begged to
carry his quiver and felt honored to help him prize his arrows from the
target out back, the first time he casually suggested that she resume these
duties, I put my foot down: I knew he was careful, but Celia had only
one eye left and she was not to go near that archery range. I had expected
Celia to whimper. She was always desperate to prove of use to him and
had loved to watch her brother stand Hiawatha-tall and release those
arrows unerringly into the bull’s-eye. Instead she shot me a glance that
looked grateful, and her hairline glistened from a light sweat.
I was surprised when he invited her out to play Frisbee—play with his
sister, now that was a first—and even a little impressed. So I told her it
was all right so long as she wore her safety glasses; my relationship to
her good eye now was hysterical. But when a few minutes later I looked
out the window, he was playing with his sister only in the sense that one
plays with the Frisbee itself. Celia’s depth perception was still very poor,
and she kept grabbing for the Frisbee before it had reached her, missing,
and then it would hit her in the chest. Very funny.
Of course, the hardest part at first was addressing that hole in Celia’s
head, which had to be swabbed frequently with baby shampoo and a
moistened Q-Tip. While Dr. Sahatjian assured us that the secretions
would subside once the prosthesis was fitted and the healing complete, at
first the cavity oozed that yellowish discharge continually, and
sometimes in the morning I’d have to soak the area with a wet Kleenex

because the lid would have crusted shut in her sleep. The lid itself sagged
—sulcus, her oculist called it—and was also puffy, especially since it had
been damaged by the acid and had been partially reconstructed with a
small flap of skin from Celia’s inner thigh. (Apparently eyelid
augmentation has developed into a fine art because of high demand in
Japan for anglification of Occidental features, which in better days I’d
have found a horrifying testimony to the powers of Western advertising.)
The swelling and slight purpling made her look like one of those battered
children in posters that encourage you to turn in your neighbors to the
police. With one eyelid depressed and her other eye open, she seemed to
be winking hugely, as if we shared a lurid secret.
I’d told Sahatjian that I wasn’t sure I could bring myself to clean that
hollow daily; he assured me that I’d get used to it. He was right in the
long run, but I fought a swell of nausea when I first lifted the lid myself
with my thumb. If it wasn’t quite as harrowing as I’d feared, it was
disturbing on a subtler level. No one was home. The effect recalled those
almondeyed Modiglianis whose absence of pupils give the figures a
hypnotic mildness and tranquillity, though a dolorousness as well, and a
hint of stupidity. The cavity went from pink at the rim to a merciful black
toward the back, but when I got her under the light to administer her
antibiotic drops, I could see that incongruous plastic conformer, which
kept the socket from collapsing; I might have been staring into a doll.
I know you resented my fawning over her so much, and that you felt
bad for resenting it. In compensation, you were firmly affectionate with
Celia, drawing her into your lap, reading her stories. Me, I recognized
too well the mark of deliberateness about these efforts—so this was
trying to be a good father—but I doubt that it looked to Kevin like
anything other than surfaces would suggest. Clearly his little sister’s
injury had won her only more doting—more Do you need an extra
blanket, honey? more Would you like another piece of cake? more Why
don’t we let Celia stay up, Franklin, it’s an animal show. Checking out
the tableau in the living room as Celia fell asleep in the crook of your
arm and Kevin glared at “My Granny Had My Boyfriend’s Baby” on
Jerry Springer, I thought, Didn’t our little stratagem backfire.
In case you’re wondering, I did not ply Celia unduly for details about
that afternoon in the bathroom. I was every bit as shy of discussing the
matter as she was; neither of us had any desire to relive that day. Yet out
of a sense of parental obligation—I didn’t want her to think the subject
taboo, in case its exploration would prove therapeutic—I did ask her just
once, casually, “When you got hurt? What happened?”

“Kevin—.” She pawed at the lid with the back of her wrist; it itched,
but lest she dislodge the conformer she had learned to always rub toward
her nose. “I got something in my eye. Kevin helped me wash it out.”
That’s all she ever said.
 
Eva
 

 
 
MARCH 11, 2001
 
 
Dear Franklin,
 
It looks as if that Andy Williams thing sparked off a rash of copycat
crimes. But then, they’re all copycat crimes, don’t you agree?
There were four more School Shootings that spring of 1998. I
remember clearly when news came in of the first one, because that was
the same day Dr. Sahatjian did the drawings for Celia’s prosthesis and
then took a mold of her socket. Celia was entranced when he
painstakingly painted the iris of her good eye by hand; I was surprised
that it wasn’t scanned by computer, but still limned with fine brushes in
watercolors. Iris-painting is apparently quite an art, since every eye is as
unique as a fingerprint, and even the whites of our eyes have a distinctive
color, their fine red veins a personal skein. It was certainly the only
element of this agonizing process that could have passed for charming.
As for the mold making, we’d been assured that it wouldn’t be painful,
though she might experience “discomfort,” a term beloved of the
medical profession that seems to be a synonym for agony that isn’t
yours. Though the stuffing of her socket with white putty was
indisputably unpleasant, she merely mewled a little; she never really
cried. Celia’s bravery was peculiarly disproportionate. She was a stoic
little trooper when she lost an eye. She still screamed bloody murder if
she spotted mildew on the shower curtain.
As his assistant restored the conformer and applied a fresh eye patch, I
asked Krikor Sahatjian idly what drew him to this niche occupation. He
volunteered that at age twelve, when taking a shortcut through a
neighbor’s yard, he had climbed over a spiked fence; he slipped, and the
tip of an arrow-shaped iron rod . . . . Leaving the rest mercifully to my
imagination, he said, “I was so fascinated by the process of making my
own prosthesis that I decided I’d found my calling.” Incredulous, I
looked again at his soulful brown eyes, reminiscent of Omar Sharif’s.
“You’re surprised,” he said amiably. “I hadn’t noticed,” I admitted.
“You’ll find that’s common,” he said. “Once the prosthesis is in, many
people will never know that Celia is monocular. And there are ways of
covering it up—moving your head instead of your eyes to look at

someone. I’ll teach her, when she’s ready.” I was grateful. For the first
time her enucleation didn’t seem like the end of the world, and I even
wondered if the distinction the disability conferred, and the strength it
could summon, might help Celia grow into herself.
When Celia and I returned from the Upper East Side, you’d gotten
home before us and were settled in the den with Kevin in front of one of
those Nick at Night back-to-back binges of Happy Days. I commented in
the doorway, “Ah, the 1950s that never were. I keep waiting for
somebody to tell Ron Howard about Sputnik, McCarthyism, and the
arms race.” I added ruefully, “Though I see you two are bonding.”
In those days, I always lavished a laden irony on trendy American
buzz phrases, as if picking them up with rubber gloves. In kind, I had
explained to Kevin’s English teacher that the misuse of the word literally
was “one of my issues” with an exaggerated wink-and-nod that must
only have perplexed the woman. I’d always thought of American culture
as a spectator sport, on which I could pass judgment from the elevated
bleachers of my internationalism. But these days I join in aping beer
advertisements when my workmates at Travel R Us cry in unison, Whass
uuuuup?, I use impact as a transitive verb, and I omit prissy quotation
marks. Real culture you don’t observe but embody. I live here. As I
would soon discover in spades, there is no opt-out clause.
Our son, however, could read all the above and more into my
disdainful pronunciation of bonding. “Is there anything, or anybody,” he
asked, looking me in the eye, “you don’t feel superior to?”
“I’ve been candid with you about my problems with this country,” I
said stiffly, leaving little doubt that this candor was the source of regret,
and making perhaps my sole allusion since to our disastrous dinner at
Hudson House. “But I don’t know what gives you the idea that I feel
‘superior.’”
“Ever notice you never talk about Americans as ‘we’?” he said. “It’s
always ‘they.’ Like you’d talk about the Chinese or something.”
“I’ve spent a large amount of my adulthood out of the country, and I
probably—”
“Yeah, yeah, yeah.” Kevin broke eye contact and stared back at the
screen. “I just want to know what makes you think you’re so special.”
“Eva, grab a seat and join the fun!” you said. “This is the one where
Richie’s forced to blind-date the boss’s daughter, so he gets Potsie—”
“Meaning you’ve seen it twenty times,” I chided affectionately,
thankful for your rescue. “How many Happy Days has it been in a row
now, three or four?”

“This is the first one! Five more to go!”
“Before I forget, Franklin—I got Dr. Sahatjian to agree to glass.”
Petting Celia’s fine blond hair as she hung on my leg, I refrained from
citing glass-what. It had fallen to me earlier that afternoon to disabuse
our daughter of the expectation that her new eye would be able to see.
“E-va,” you sang, not in the mood for a fight. “Polymer is state of the
a-art.”
“So is this German Cryolite.”
“Fewer infec-tions, less chance of brea-kage—”
“Polymer’s just a fancy name for plastic. I hate plastic.” I closed the
argument, “Materials are everything.”
“Look at that,” you pointed out to Kevin. “Richie sleazes out of the
date, and it turns out she’s a hottie.”
I didn’t want to poop your party, but the mission from which I’d just
returned was pretty grim, and I couldn’t immediately start munching
your visual junk food. “Franklin, it’s almost seven. Can we please watch
the news?”
“Bor-ing,” you cried.
“Not lately it isn’t.” Monica-gate was still breaking in prurient slow
motion. “Lately it’s X-rated. Kevin?” I turned politely to our son.
“Would you mind very much if, after this episode is over, we switched to
the news?”
Kevin was slumped in the easy chair, eyes at half-mast. “Whatever.”
You sang along with the signature tune, Monday, Tuesday, happy days
. . . ! as I knelt to pick white putty from Celia’s hairline. At the hour, I
switched to Jim Lehrer. It was the lead story. For once our president
would have to keep his fly zipped to make way for two unpleasant little
boys in his home state, the older of whom was all of thirteen, the
younger only eleven.
I groaned, flopping onto the leather couch. “Not another one.”
Outside Westside Middle School in Jonesboro, Arkansas, Mitchell
Johnson and Andrew Golden had lain in wait, huddled in the bushes in
camouflage outfits after setting off the school’s fire alarm. As students
and teachers exited the building, the two opened fire with a Ruger .44-
caliber rifle and a 30.06 hunting rifle, killing four girls and one teacher,
and injuring eleven other students. Himself wounded, if only by romantic
disappointment, the older boy had apparently warned a friend the day
before with cinematic swashbuckling, “I got some killin’ to do,” while
little Andrew Golden had sworn to a confidant that he was planning to

shoot “all the girls who’d ever broken up with him.” A single boy was
injured; the other fifteen victims were female.
“Fucking idiots,” I growled.
“Yo, Eva!” you abjured. “Watch the mouth.”
“More drowning in self-pity!” I said. “Oh, no, my girlfriend doesn’t
love me any more, I’m gonna go kill five people!”
“What about all that Armenian shit?” asked Kevin, cutting his eyes
toward me flintily. “Oh, no, like, a million years ago the Turks were big
meanies and now nobody cares! That’s not self-pity?”
“I’d hardly put genocide on a par with being jilted,” I snapped.
“Nyeh nyeh-nyeh nyeh NYEH-nyeh-nyeh nyeh-nyeh nyeh nyeh nyeh-
nyeh NYEE-nyeeh!” Kevin mocked under his breath. “Jesus, give it a
rest.”
“—And what’s this about wanting to kill all the girls who’d ever
broken up with him?” I jeered.
“Could you shut up?” said Kevin.
“Kevin!” you scolded.
“Well, I’m trying to follow this, and she said she wanted to watch the
news.” Kevin often spoke of his mother as I spoke of Americans. We
both preferred the third person.
“But the brat’s eleven years old!” I hated people who talked over the
news, too, but I couldn’t contain myself. “How many girlfriends can that
be?”
“On average?” said our resident expert. “About twenty.”
“Why,” I said, “how many have you had?”
“Ze-ro.” Kevin was now so slumped as to be nearly supine, and his
voice had a gravelly creakiness that he would soon employ all the time.
“Hump ’em and dump ’em.”
“Whoa, Casanova!” you said. “This is what we get for telling a kid the
facts of life at seven.”
“Mommy, who are Humpum and Dumpum? Are they like
Tweedledum and Tweedledee?”
“Celia, sweetheart,” I said to our six-year-old, whose sexual education
did not seem so urgent. “Wouldn’t you like to go play in the playroom?
We’re watching the news, and it’s not much fun for you.”
“Twenty-seven bullets, sixteen hits,” Kevin calculated appreciatively.
“Moving targets, too. You know, for little kids that’s a decent
percentage.”
“No, I want to stay with you!” said Celia. “You’re my friennnd!”
“But I want a picture, Celia. You haven’t drawn me a picture all day!”

“Oh-kay.” She lingered, fisting her skirt.
“Here, first give me a hug, then.” I drew her to me, and she threw her
arms about me. I wouldn’t have thought a six-year-old could squeeze so
hard, and it was painful to have to pry her fingers from my clothing
when she wouldn’t let go. Once she had shuffled out of the room, after
pausing in the archway and waving with a cupped hand, I caught you
rolling your eyes at Kevin.
In the meantime, a reporter on screen was interviewing Andrew
Golden’s grandfather, from whom some of the kids’ stockpile of
weapons had been stolen, including three high-powered rifles, four
pistols, and a trove of ammunition. “It’s a terrible tragedy,” he said
unsteadily. “We’ve lost. They’ve lost. Everybody’s lives are ruined.”
“You can say that again,” I said. “I mean, what was ever going to
happen but they’d be nabbed and nailed and put away for eternity? What
were they thinking?”
“They weren’t thinking,” you said.
“You kidding?” said Kevin. “This stuff takes planning. ’Course they
were thinking. Probably never thought harder in their whole crummy
lives.” From their first occurrence, Kevin owned these incidents, and
whenever the subject arose he assumed an air of authority that got on my
nerves.
“They weren’t thinking about what comes next,” I said. “They may
have thought out their stupid attack, but not the next five minutes—much
less the next fifty years.”
“Wouldn’t be so sure,” said Kevin, reaching for a handful of nacho
tortilla chips with glow-in-the-dark cheese. “You weren’t listening—as
usual—cause Celie had to have her huggy-wuggies. They’re under
fourteen. According to the law in Arkansas, Batman and Robin there’ll
be back in the Batmobile by eighteen.”
“That’s outrageous!”
“Records sealed, too. Bet everybody in Jonesboro’s really lookin’
forward to it.”
“But you can’t seriously imagine that they took a trip to the law
library beforehand and checked out the statute books.”
“Mm,” Kevin hummed noncommittally. “How do you know?
Anyway, maybe it’s dumb to think about the future all the time. Put off
the present long enough and it, like, never happens, know what I’m
sayin’?”
“They have lower sentences for juveniles for good reason,” you said.
“Those kids had no idea what they were doing.”

“You don’t think so,” said Kevin caustically. (If he was offended by
my ridicule of adolescent angst, our son may have been more affronted
by your compassion.)
“No eleven-year-old has any real grasp of death,” you said. “He
doesn’t have any real concept of other people—that they feel pain, even
that they exist. And his own adult future isn’t real to him, either. Makes
it that much easier to throw it away.”
“Maybe his future is real to him,” said Kevin. “Maybe that’s the
problem.”
“Come on, Kev,” you said. “All the kids in these shootings have been
middle class, not guys from some urban sewer. Those boys were looking
at a life with a mortgage and a car and a job in management, with yearly
holidays to Bali or something.”
“Yeah,” Kevin purred. “Like I said.”
“You know what?” I said. “Who cares. Who cares whether shooting
people is or isn’t real to them, and who cares about their painful bust-ups
with girlfriends that don’t even have tits yet. Who cares. The problem is
guns. Guns, Franklin. If guns weren’t kicking around these people’s
houses like broom handles, none of these—”
“Oh God, here we go again,” you said.
“You heard Jim Lehrer say that in Arkansas it isn’t even illegal for
minors to possess firearms?”
“They stole them—”
“They were there to steal. And both boys owned rifles of their own.
It’s absurd. No guns, and those two creeps go kick a cat, or—your idea
of how to solve differences—go punch their ex-girlfriends in the face.
Bloody nose; everybody goes home. These shootings are so inane that
I’d think you’d be grateful to find some little turd of a lesson in them.”
“Okay, I can see restricting automatic weapons,” you said, getting that
preachy sound that for me was the bane of parenthood. “But guns are
here to stay. They’re a big part of this country, target shooting and
hunting, not to mention self-defense—.” You stopped because I had
obviously stopped listening.
“The answer, if there is one, is the parents,” you resumed, now
ranging the room and raising your voice above the TV, from which
Monica Lewinsky’s big fat lovelorn face was once more ogling. “You
can bet your bottom dollar those boys had no one to turn to. No one they
could really pour their hearts out to, who they could trust. When you
love your kids, and you’re there for them, and you take them on trips,
like to museums and battlefields, and make time for them, you have faith

in them and express an interest in what they think? That’s when this kind
of plunging off the deep end doesn’t happen. And if you don’t believe
me, ask Kevin.”
But for once Kevin wore his derision on his sleeve. “Yeah, Dad! It
makes a real big difference to me that I can tell you and Mumsey
anything, especially when I’m under all this peer pressure and junk! You
always ask what video games I’m playing or what my homework is, and I
always know I can turn to you in times of need!”
“Yeah, well, if you couldn’t turn to us, buster,” you grumbled, “you
wouldn’t think it was so damned funny.”
Celia had just crept back to the den’s archway, where she hung back,
fluttering a piece of paper. I had to motion her inside. She’d always
seemed undefended, but this cringing, Tiny Tim meekness of hers was
new, and I hoped it was only a phase. After resealing the edges of her
Opticlude bandage, I pulled her into my lap to admire her picture. It was
discouraging. Dr. Sahatjian’s white coat was drawn so large that his head
was off the page; the self-portrait of Celia herself rose only to the
oculist’s knee. Although her drawings were usually light, deft, and
meticulous, in the place where her left eye should have been, she’s
crayoned a formless scribble that violated the outline of her cheek.
Meanwhile, you were asking, “Seriously, Kev—do any of the students
at your school ever seem unstable? Does anyone ever talk about guns, or
play violent games or like violent movies? Do you think something like
this could happen at your school? And are there at least counselors there,
professionals kids can talk to if they’re unhappy?”
Broadly, you probably did want answers to these questions, but their
caring-Dad intensity came across as self-serving. Kevin cased you before
he replied. Kids have a well-tuned radar to detect the difference between
an adult who’s interested and an adult who’s keen to seem interested. All
those times I stooped to Kevin after kindergarten and asked him what he
did that day—even as a five-year-old he could tell that I didn’t care.
“All the kids at my school are unstable, Dad,” he said. “They play
nothing but violent computer games and watch nothing but violent
movies. You only go to a counselor to get out of class, and everything
you tell her is a crock. Anything else?”
“I’m sorry, Franklin,” I said, lifting Celia to sit beside me, “but I don’t
see how a few more heart-to-hearts are going to put the brakes on what is
clearly becoming some kind of fad. It’s spreading just like Teletubbies,
only instead of having to have a rubber doll with a TV in its belly, every
teenager has to shoot up his school. This year’s must-have accessories: a

Star Wars cell phone and a Lion King semiautomatic. Oh, and some
accompanying sob story about being picked on, or ditched by a pretty
face.”
“Show a little empathy,” you said. “These are disturbed boys. They
need help.”
“They’re also imitative boys. Think they didn’t hear about Moses
Lake and West Palm Beach? About Bethel, Pearl, and Paducah? Kids
pick up things on TV, they listen to their parents talking. Mark my
words, every well-armed temper tantrum that goes down only increases
the likelihood of more. This whole country’s lost, everybody copies
everybody else, and everybody wants to be famous. In the long term, the
only hope is that these shootings get so ordinary that they’re not news
anymore. Ten kids get shot in some Des Moines primary school and it’s
reported on page six. Eventually any fad gets to be uncool, and thank
God at some point hip thirteen-year-olds just won’t want to be seen with
a Mark-10 in second period. Until then, Kevin, I’d keep a sharp eye on
any of your classmates who start feeling sorry for themselves in
camouflage gear.”
As I reconstruct this tirade of mine, I can’t help but observe its
implicit lesson: that if School Shootings would inevitably grow
hackneyed, ambitious adolescents with a taste for the headlines had best
make their bids while the going was good.
 
Just over a month later in Edinboro, Pennsylvania, fourteen-year-old
Andrew Wurst promised one day to make his eighth-grade graduation
dance “memorable,” and indeed, the next day he did. On the patio of
Nick’s Place at 10 P.M., where 240 middle-schoolers were dancing to
“My Heart Will Go On” from the film Titanic, Wurst shot a forty-eight-
year-old teacher fatally in the head with his father’s .25-caliber handgun.
Inside, he fired several more shots, wounding two boys and grazing a
female teacher. Fleeing out the back, he was apprehended by the owner
of Nick’s Place, who was carrying a shotgun and convinced the fugitive
to back down in the face of superior firepower. As journalists were eager
to observe for a welcome note of drollery, the theme of the dance was
“I’ve Had the Time of My Life.”
Each of these incidents was distinguished by whatever sorry lessons
could be squeezed from it. Wurst’s nickname was “Satan,” which
resonated with the commotion over Luke Woodham in Pearl having been
involved in a demonic cult. Wurst was a fan of an androgynous heavy-
metal vocalist called Marilyn Manson, a man who jumped about on stage

in poorly applied eyeliner, so this singer who was only trying to make an
honest buck out of teenage bad taste was deplored in the media for a
spell. Myself, I was sheepish about having been so derisive regarding the
precautions taken at Kevin’s own eighth-grade dance the previous year.
As for the shooter’s motivation, it sounded amorphous. “He hated his
life,” said a friend. “He hated the world. He hated school. The only thing
that would make him happy was when a girl he liked would talk to
him”—exchanges that we’re forced to conclude were infrequent.
Maybe School Shootings were already growing passé, because the
story of eighteen-year-old Jacob Davis in Fayetteville, Tennessee, in
mid-May pretty much got lost in the shuffle. Davis had already won a
college scholarship and had never been in trouble. A friend remarked to
reporters later, “He didn’t hardly ever even talk. But I guess that’s the
ones that will get you—the quiet ones.” Outside his high school three
days before they were both to graduate, Davis approached another senior
who was dating his ex-girlfriend and shot the boy thrice with a .22-
caliber rifle. It seems the breakup had hit him hard.
I may have been impatient with lovesick teen melodrama, but as
killers go Davis was a gentleman. He left a note behind in his car
assuring his parents and his former girlfriend how much he loved them.
Once the deed was done, he put down his gun, sat down next to it, and
put his head in his hands. He stayed just like that until the police arrived,
at which time the papers reported that he “surrendered without incident.”
This time, anomalously, I was touched. I could see it: Davis knew he had
done something stupid, and he had known it was stupid beforehand. For
these two facts to be concurrently true would present him with the great
human puzzler for the rest of his four-walled life.
Meanwhile, out in Springfield, Oregon, young Kipland Kinkel had
digested the lesson that wasting a single classmate was no longer a sure
route to immortality. Just three days after Jacob Davis broke his beloved
parents’ hearts, this scrawny, weasel-faced fifteen-year-old upped the
ante. Around 8 A.M. as his classmates at Thurston High finished up their
breakfast, Kinkel walked calmly into the school cafeteria bearing a .22-
caliber handgun, a 9-millimeter Glock, and a .22-caliber semiautomatic
rifle under a trench coat. Deploying the most efficacious weapon first, he
sprayed the room with rifle fire, shattering windows and sending
students diving for cover. Nineteen in the cafeteria were shot but
survived, while four additional students were injured in the panic to get
out of the building. One student was killed outright, a second would die
in the hospital, and a third would have died as well, had Kipland’s

semiautomatic not run out of ammunition. Pressed to a boy’s temple, the
rifle went click, click, click.
As Kinkel scrambled to insert a second clip, sixteen-year-old Jake
Ryker—a member of the school wrestling team who’d been shot in the
chest—lunged at the killer. Kinkel pulled a pistol from his trench coat.
Ryker grabbed the gun and wrenched it away, taking another bullet in the
hand. Ryker’s younger brother jumped on the shooter, then helped
wrestle him to the ground. As other students piled on top, Kinkel
shouted, “Shoot me, shoot me now!” Under the circumstances, I’m
rather surprised they didn’t.
Oh, and by the way: Once in custody, Kinkel advised the police to
check his home address—a lovely two-story house in an affluent
subdivision lush with tall firs and rhododendrons—where they
discovered a middle-aged man and woman shot dead. For at least a day
or two there was much evasion in the press about who these two people
might be exactly, until Kinkel’s grandmother identified the bodies. I’m a
little disconcerted as to just who the police imagined might be living in
Kinkel’s home besides his parents.
Now, as they go, this story was rich, its moral agreeably clear. Little
Kipland had bristled with “warning signs” that hadn’t been taken with
sufficient seriousness. In middle school, he’d been voted “Most Likely to
Start World War III.” He had recently given a class presentation on how
to construct a bomb. In the main, he was predisposed to vent violent
inclinations through the most innocuous of schoolwork. “If the
assignment was to write about what you might do in a garden,” said one
student, “Kipland would write about mowing down the gardeners.”
Though in an eerie coincidence Kip Kinkel’s initials were also “KK,” he
was so universally disliked by his schoolmates that even after his
performance in the cafeteria they refused to give him a nickname. Most
damningly of all, the very day before the shooting he had been arrested
for possession of a stolen firearm, only to be released into his parents’
custody. So the word went out: Dangerous students give themselves
away. They can be spotted, ergo, they can be stopped.
Kevin’s school had been acting on this assumption for most of that
school year, though news of every new shooting jacked up the paranoia
another notch. Gladstone High had taken on a battened-down, military
atmosphere, except the McCarthyite presumption ran that the enemy was
within. Teachers had been provided lists of deviant behaviors to look out
for, and in school assemblies students were coached to report the most
casually threatening remark to the administration, even if it “seemed

like” a joke. Essays were combed for an unhealthy interest in Hitler and
Nazism, which made teaching courses in twentieth-century European
History rather tricky. Likewise, there was a supersensitivity to the
satanic, so that a senior named Robert Bellamy, who was known by the
handle “Bobby Beelzebub,” was hauled before the principal to explain—
and change—his sobriquet. An oppressive literalism reigned, so that
when some excitable sophomore screamed, “I’m gonna kill you!” to a
volleyball teammate who dropped the ball, she was slammed into the
guidance counselor’s office and expelled for the rest of the week. Yet
there was no safe haven in the metaphoric, either. When a devout Baptist
in Kevin’s English class wrote in a poem, “My heart is a bullet, and God
is my marksman,” his teacher went straight to the principal, refusing to
teach her class again until the boy was transferred. Even Celia’s primary
school grew fatally po-faced: A boy in her first-grade class was kicked
out for three days because he had pointed a chicken drumstick at the
teacher and said, “Pow, pow, pow!”
It was the same all over the country, if the embarrassing little squibs in
New York Times sidebars were anything to go by. In Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania, a fourteen-year-old girl was strip searched—strip
searched, Franklin—and suspended when, in a class discussion about
School Shootings, she said she could see how kids who’d been teased
might eventually snap. In Ponchatoula, Louisiana, a twelve-year-old boy
was locked up in juvenile detention for an entire two weeks because his
warning to his fellow fifth-graders in the cafeteria line that he’d “get
them” if they didn’t leave him enough potatoes was construed as a
“terrorist threat.” On a two-page web site, Buffythevampireslayer. com,
an Indiana student posited a theory that must have crossed many a high-
schooler’s mind from time to time that his teachers were devil
worshipers; unsatisfied with his mere suspension, his teachers filed a
federal lawsuit charging both the boy and his mother with defamation
and infliction of emotional distress. A thirteen-year-old was suspended
for two weeks because on a field trip to Albuquerque’s Atomic Museum,
he had piped, “Are they going to teach us how to build a bomb?” while
another boy got the third degree from a school administrator just for
carrying his chemistry textbook. Nationwide, kids were expelled for
wearing trench coats like Kipland Kinkel, or just for wearing black. And
my personal favorite was a nineyear-old’s suspension after a class project
about diversity and Asian culture, during which he wrote the fortune
cookie message, “You will die an honorable death.”

Although Kevin was ordinarily tight-lipped about goings-on at his
school, he went out of his way to deliver us tidbits of this escalating
hysteria. The reportage had the intended effect: You were more afraid for
him; I was more afraid of him. He enjoyed the sensation of seeming
dangerous, yet clearly regarded the school’s precautions as farcical.
“They keep this up,” he remarked once, and on this point he was astute,
“they just gonna give kids ideas.”
It was an evening near graduation, a falling off the edge of childhood
that for seniors always has a hint of the apocalyptic, and so might have
made the faculty antsy even without Kip Kinkel’s help. After his usual
dinner—a brutish nosh before the open refrigerator—Kevin cooled back
in the den’s easy chair and delivered the latest installment: The entire
student body had just been subjected to a “lockdown” in their classrooms
for four periods straight while the police searched every locker and
prowled the hallways with sniffer-dogs.
“What were they looking for, drugs?” I asked.
Kevin said lightly, “Or poems.”
“It’s this Jonesboro-Springfield nonsense,” you said. “They were
obviously looking for guns.”
“What really slays me,” said Kevin, stretching out and spewing his
words like cigarette smoke, “—if you’ll excuse the expression—is they
sent a memo on the search procedure to the teachers? That loser drama
teacher, Pagorski, left it on her desk, and Lenny saw it—I was
impressed; didn’t know he could read. Anyway, word got around. Whole
school knew this was coming. Kid with an AK in his locker had plenty
of time to reconsider his piss-poor hiding place.”
I asked, “Kevin, didn’t any of your classmates object to this?”
“Few of the girls did, after a while,” he said airily. “Nobody could take
a leak, see. Fact,” Kevin achieved a wheezy little laugh, “that
donkeyface Ulanov wet herself.”
“Did anything make the administration especially alarmed? Or was it
just, oh it’s Wednesday, why don’t we play with sniffer-dogs?”
“Probably an anonymous tip. They run a telephone hotline now, so
you can rat out your friends. For a quarter, I could get out of
Environmental Science any day of the week.”
“An anonymous tip from whom?” I asked.
“Hello-o. If I told you who it was, then it wouldn’t be anonymous,
would it?”
“Well after all that bother, did they even find anything?”

“Sure they did,” Kevin purled. “Shitload of overdue library books.
Some old French fries that were starting to stink. One really juicy, evil
poem had them going for while, till it turned out to be Big Black lyrics:
This is Jordan, we do what we like . . .—Oh, and one more thing. A list.”
“What kind of list?”
“A hit list. Not ‘My Favorite Songs,’ but the other kind. You know,
with THEY ALL DESERVE TO DIE scrawled at the top, big as life.”
“Jesus!” You sat up. “These days, that’s not funny.”
“Noooo, they didn’t think it was funny.”
“I hope they’re planning to give this kid a good talking-to,” you said.
“Oooh, I think they’ll do better than a talking-to.”
“Well, who was it?” I asked. “Where did they find it?”
“In his locker. Funniest thing, too. Last guy you’d expect. Superspic.”
“Kev,” you said sharply. “I’ve warned you about that kind of
language.”
“’Scuse me. I mean Señor Espinoza. Guess he’s just bustin’ with
ethnic hostility and pent-up resentment on behalf of the Latino people.”
“Hold on,” I said. “Didn’t he win some big academic prize last year?”
“Can’t say as I recall,” said Kevin blithely. “But that three-week
suspension is going to nasty up his record something terrible. Ain’t that a
shame? Geez, and you think you know people.”
“If everyone knew this search was coming,” I said, “why wouldn’t this
Espinoza boy clear such an incriminating list from his locker
beforehand?”
“Dunno,” said Kevin. “Guess he’s an amateur.”
I drummed my fingers on the coffee table. “These lockers. The kind I
grew up with had slits in the top. Aeration vents. Do yours?”
“Sure,” he said, heading from the room. “So the French fries keep
better.”
They suspended the valedictorian-in-waiting; they made Greer Ulanov
pee her pants. They punished the poets, the hotheaded sportsmen, the
morbidly dressed. Anyone with a jazzy nickname, an extravagant
imagination, or the less than lavish social portfolio that might mark a
student as an “outcast” became suspect. As far as I could tell, it was War
on Weirdos.
But I identified with weirdos. In my own adolescence, I had strong,
stormy Armenian features and so wasn’t considered pretty. I had a funny
name. My brother was a quiet, dour nobody who’d scored me no social
points as a predecessor. I had a shut-in mother who would never drive
me anywhere or attend school functions, if her insistence on continuing

to manufacture excuses was rather sweet; and I was a dreamer who
fantasized endlessly about escape, not only from Racine but the entire
United States. Dreamers don’t watch their backs. Were I a student at
Gladstone High in 1998, I’d surely have written some shocking fantasy
in sophomore English about putting my forlorn family out of its misery
by blowing the sarcophagus of 112 Enderby Avenue to kingdom come,
or in a civics project on “diversity” the gruesome detail in which I
recounted the Armenian genocide would betray an unhealthy fascination
with violence. Alternatively, I’d express an inadvisable sympathy with
poor Jacob Davis sitting beside his gun with his head in his hands, or I’d
tactlessly decry a Latin test as murderous—one way or another, I’d be
out on my ear.
Kevin, though. Kevin wasn’t weird. Not so’s you notice. He did
brandish the tiny-clothes thing, but he didn’t wear all black, and he
didn’t skulk in a trench coat; “tiny clothes” were not on the official
photocopied list of “warning signs.” His grades were straight Bs, and no
one seemed to find this astonishing but me. I thought, this is a bright kid,
grade inflation is rife, you’d think he’d make an A by accident. But no,
Kevin applied his intelligence to keeping his head below the parapet. I
think he overdid it, too. That is, his essays were so boring, so lifeless,
and so monotonous as to border on deranged. You’d think someone
would have noticed that those choppy, stultifying sentences (“Paul
Revere rode a horse. He said that the British were coming. He said, ‘The
British are coming. The British are coming.’”) were sticking two fingers
up his teacher’s butt. But it was only when he wrote a paper contrived to
repeatedly use the words snigger, niggardly , and Nigeria for his Black
History teacher that he pushed his luck.
Socially, Kevin camouflaged himself with just enough “friends” so as
not to appear, alarmingly, a loner. They were all mediocrities—
exceptional mediocrities, if there is such a thing—or outright cretins like
Lenny Pugh. They all pursued this minimalist approach to education, and
they didn’t get into trouble. They may well have led a whole secret life
behind this gray scrim of bovine obedience, but the one thing that didn’t
raise a red flag at his high school was being suspiciously drab. The mask
was perfect.
Did Kevin take drugs? I’ve never been sure. You agonized enough
about how to approach the subject, whether to pursue the rectitudinous
course and denounce all pharmaceuticals as the sure route to insanity and
the gutter or to play the reformed hell-raiser and vaunt a long list of
substances that you once devoured like candy until you learned the hard

way that they could rot your teeth. (The truth—that we hadn’t cleaned
out the medicine cabinet, but we’d both tried a variety of recreational
drugs, and not only in the sixties but up to a year before he was born;
that better living through chemistry had driven neither of us to an asylum
or even to an emergency room; and that these gleeful carnival rides on
the mental midway were far more the source of nostalgia than remorse—
was unacceptable .) Each path had pitfalls. The former doomed you as a
fuddy-duddy who’d no notion what he was talking about; the latter
reeked of hypocrisy. I recall you finally charted some middle way and
admitted to smoking dope, told him for the sake of consistency that it
was okay if he wanted to “try it,” but to not get caught, and to please,
please not tell anyone that you’d been anything but condemnatory about
narcotics of any kind. Me, I bit my lip. Privately I believed that downing
a few capsules of ecstasy could be the best thing that ever happened to
that boy.
As for sex, the accuracy of that “hump ’em and dump ’em” boast is up
for grabs. If I’ve claimed, of us two, to “know” Kevin the better, that is
only to say that I know him for being opaque. I know that I don’t know
him. It’s possible he’s still a virgin; I’m only sure of one thing. That is, if
he has had sex, it’s been grim—short, pumping; shirt on. (For that
matter, he could have been sodomizing Lenny Pugh. It’s uncannily easy
to picture.) Hence Kevin may even have heeded your stern caution that if
he ever felt ready for sex he should always use a condom, if only
because a slimy rubber sheath bulging with milky come would have
made his vacuous encounters that much more delectably sordid. I reason
that nothing about a blindness to beauty necessitates a blindness to
ugliness, for which Kevin long ago developed a taste. Presumably there
are as many fine shades of the gross as the gorgeous, so that a mind full
of blight wouldn’t preclude a certain refinement.
 
There was one more matter at the end of Kevin’s ninth-grade school year
that I never bothered you about, but I’ll mention it in passing for the sake
of being thorough.
I’m sure you would remember that in early June, AWAP’s computers
were contaminated with a computer virus. Our technical staff traced it to
an e-mail titled, cleverly, “WARNING: Deadly new virus in circulation.”
No one seemed to trouble with hard-copy dumps or those chintzy little
floppies anymore, so that since the virus also infected our backup drive,
the results were disastrous. With file after file, access was denied, it
didn’t exist, or it came up on screen all squares, squiggles, and tildes.

Four different editions were put back for at least six months, encouraging
scores of our most devoted bookstores, including the chains, to put in
bountiful orders for The Rough Guide and The Lonely Planet when Wing
and a Prayer couldn’t satisfy the brisk summer market with up-to-date
listings. (We didn’t make any friends, either, when the virus sent itself to
every e-mail address on our marketing list.) We never fully recouped the
trade we lost that season, so the fact that I was forced to sell the company
in 2000 for less than half its valuation two years earlier traces in some
measure to this contagion. For me, it substantially contributed to 1998’s
zeitgeist of siege.
I did not tell you about its source out of shame. I should never have
been snooping, you’d say. I should have minded every parenting
manual’s edict to respect the inviolability of a child’s bedroom. If I
suffered dire consequences, I had made my own bed. It’s the oldest
switcheroo in the book, and a favorite of the faithless the world over:
When folks discover something incriminating by poking around where
they’re not supposed to, you immediately flip the issue to the snooping
itself, to distract from what they found.
I’m not sure what led me to go in there. I’d stayed home from AWAP
to take Celia in for another oculist appointment, to check on her
adaptation to the prosthesis. There was little enough in Kevin’s room to
attract curiosity, though it may have been this very quality—its
mysterious blankness—that I found so magnetic. When I creaked open
the door I felt powerfully that I wasn’t meant to be there. Kevin was in
school, you were scouting, Celia was poring over homework that should
have taken her ten minutes and would therefore take her a good two
hours, so the chances of my being discovered were slim. Still, my heart
raced and my breath was bated. This is silly, I told myself. I’m in my
own house, and if improbably interrupted I can claim to be checking for
dirty dishes.
Fat chance, in that room. It was immaculate; you teased Kevin about
being a “granny,” he was such a neatnik. The bed was made with
bootcamp precision. We’d offered him a bedspread of racing cars or
Dungeons and Dragons; he’d been quite firm on preferring plain beige.
The walls were unadorned; no posters of Oasis or the Spice Girls, no
leering Marilyn Manson. The shelves lay largely bare: a few textbooks, a
single copy of Robin Hood; the many books we gave him for Christmas
and birthdays simply disappeared. He had his own TV and stereo system,
but about the only “music” I’d heard him play was some kind of Philip
Glass-like CD that sequenced computer-generated phrases according to a

set mathematical equation; it had no form, no peaks or valleys, and
approximated the white noise that he would also tune in on the television
when he was not watching the Weather Channel. Again, the CDs we’d
given him when trying to sort out what he “liked” were nowhere in
evidence. Though you could get delightful screen savers of leaping
dolphins or zooming spaceships, the one on his Gateway merely
pointillated random dots.
Was this what it looked like inside his head? Or was the room, too, a
kind of screen saver? Just add a seascape above the bed, and it looked
like an unoccupied unit at a Quality Inn. Not a photograph at his bedside,
nor keepsake on his bureau—the surfaces were slick and absent. How
much I’d have preferred to walk into a hellhole jangling with heavy-
metal, lurid with Playboy centerfolds, fetid from muddy sweats, and
crusty with year-old tuna sandwiches. That was the kind of no-go teen
lair that I understood, where I might discover safe, accessible secrets like
a worn Durex packet under the socks or a baggie of cannabis stuffed in
the toe of a smelly sneaker. By contrast, the secrets of this room were all
about what I would not find, like some trace of my son. Looking around,
I thought uneasily, He could be anyone.
But as for its conceit that there was nothing to hide, I wasn’t buying.
So when I spotted a stack of floppies on the shelf above the computer, I
shuttled through them. Inscribed with characterless perfect printing, their
titles were obscure: “Nostradamus,” “I Love You,” “D4-X.” Feeling
wicked, I picked one of them out, put the rest back the way I found them,
and slipped out the door.
In my study, I inserted the floppy in my computer. I didn’t recognize
the suffixes on the A drive, but they weren’t regular word-processing
files, which disappointed me. In hoping to find a private journal or diary,
I may have been less eager to discover the precise content of his inmost
thoughts than to confirm that at least he had inmost thoughts. Not about
to give up easily, I went into the Explorer program and loaded one of the
files; perplexingly, Microsoft Outlook Express came up on screen, at
which point Celia called from the dining table that she needed help. I
was gone for about fifteen minutes.
When I returned, the computer was blank. It had shut itself off, which
it had never done without being told. Disconcerted, I turned it on again
but got nothing but error messages, even when I took the disk from the
drive.
You’re way ahead of me. I carted the thing into work the next day so
that my technical people might sort it out, only to discover the entire

office milling about. It wasn’t exactly pandemonium, more like the
atmosphere of a party that had run out of drink. Editors were chatting
aimlessly in one another’s cubicles. No one was working. They couldn’t.
There wasn’t a terminal functioning. Later I was almost relieved when
George informed me that my PC’s hard drive was so corrupted that I
might as well buy a new one. Perhaps with the infectious object
destroyed, no one would ever know that the virus had been forwarded by
AWAP’s own executive director.
Furious at Kevin for keeping the modern equivalent of a pet scorpion,
I held onto the disk as evidence for several days rather than discreetly
sliding it back on his shelf. But once I simmered down, I had to admit
that Kevin hadn’t personally wiped out my company’s files, and the
debacle was my fault. So one evening I knocked on his door, was granted
admission, and closed it behind me. He was sitting at the desk. The
screen saver was blipping in its desultory fashion, dot here, dot there.
“I wanted to ask you,” I said, tapping his floppy. “What’s this?”
“A virus,” he said brightly. “You didn’t load it in, did you?”
“Of course not,” I said hastily, discovering that lying to a child feels
much the same as lying to a parent; my cheeks prickled as they had when
I assured my mother after losing my cherry at seventeen that I’d spent
the night with a girlfriend she’d never heard of. Mother knew better;
Kevin did, too. “I mean,” I revised mournfully, “only once.”
“Only takes once.”
We both knew that it would have been ridiculous for me to have
sneaked into his room and stolen a disk, with which I subsequently
ruined my computer and paralyzed my office, only to come storming in
to accuse him of industrial sabotage. So the interchange proceeded with
an evenness.
“Why do you have it?” I asked respectfully.
“I keep a collection.”
“Isn’t that a peculiar thing to collect?”
“I don’t like stamps.”
Just then I had a presentiment of what he might have said had you
burst in determined to find out why the heck he had a stack of computer
viruses above his desk: Well, after we watched Silence of the Lambs, I
decided I wanted to be an FBI agent! And you know how they have this
whole task-force that, like, tracks down hackers who spread those
terrible computer viruses? So I’m studying them and everything, ’cause
I’ve read it’s a really big problem for the new economy and globalization
and even for our country’s defense . . . ! That Kevin skipped such a

performance—he collected computer viruses, end of story, so what?—
left me feeling strangely flattered.
So I asked bashfully. “How many do you have?”
“Twenty-three.”
“Are they—difficult to find?”
He looked at me gamely, with that old sense of indecision, but on
some whim he decided to experiment with talking to his mother.
“They’re hard to capture alive,” he said. “They get away, and they bite.
You have to know how to handle them. You know—like a doctor. Who
studies diseases in a lab but doesn’t want to get sick himself.”
“You mean, you have to keep them from infecting your own
machine.”
“Yeah. Mouse Ferguson’s been teaching me the ropes.”
“Since you collect them. Maybe you can explain to me—why do
people make them? I don’t get it. They don’t achieve anything. What’s
the appeal?”
“I don’t get,” he said, “what you don’t get.”
“I understand hacking into AT&T to get free phone calls or stealing
encrypted credit card numbers to run up a bill at The Gap. But this sort
of computer crime—nobody benefits. What’s the point?”
“That is the point.”
“I’m still lost,” I said.
“Viruses—they’re kind of elegant, you know? Almost—pure. Kind of
like—charity work, you know? It’s selfless.”
“But it’s not that different from creating AIDS.”
“Maybe somebody did,” he said affably. “’Cause otherwise? You type
on your computer and go home and the refrigerator comes on and
another computer spits out your paycheck and you sleep and you enter
more shit on your computer . . . Might as well be dead.”
“So it’s this—. Almost to, what, know you’re alive. To show other
people they don’t control you. To prove you can do something, even if it
could get you arrested.”
“Yeah, pretty much,” he said appreciatively. In his eyes, I had
exceeded myself.
“Ah,” I said, and handed him his disk back. “Well, thanks for
explaining.”
As I turned to go, he said, “You’re computer’s fucked, isn’t it.”
“Yes, it’s fucked,” I said ruefully. “I guess I deserved it.”
“You know, if there’s anybody you don’t like?” he offered. “And you
got their e-mail address? Just lemme know.”

I laughed. “Okay, I’ll be sure to do that. Though, some days? The
people I don’t like come to quite a list.”
“Better warn them you got friends in low places,” he said.
So this is bonding! I marveled, and closed the door.
 
Eva
 

 
 
MARCH 16, 2001
 
 
Dear Franklin,
 
Well, it’s another Friday night on which I gird myself for a visit to
Chatham tomorrow morning. The halogen bulbs are trembling again,
flickering like my stoic resolve to be a good soldier and live out what’s
left of my life for the sake of some unnamable duty. I’ve sat here for over
an hour, wondering what keeps me going, and more specifically just
what it is I want from you. I guess it goes without saying that I want you
back; the volume of this correspondence—though it’s more of a
respondence, isn’t it?—attests heavily to that. But what else? Do I want
you to forgive me? And if so, for what exactly?
After all, I was uneasy with the unsolicited tide of forgiveness that
washed over the shipwreck of our family in the wake of Thursday. In
addition to mail promising either to beat his brains out or to bear his
babies, Kevin has received dozens of letters offering to share his pain,
apologizing for society’s having failed to recognize his spiritual distress
and granting him blanket moral amnesty for what he has yet to regret.
Amused, he’s read choice selections aloud to me in the visiting room.
Surely it makes a travesty of the exercise to forgive the unrepentant,
and I speak for myself as well. I, too, have received a torrent of mail (my
e-mail and postal address were billboarded on both partnersnprayer.org
and beliefnet.com without my consent; apparently at any one time,
thousands of Americans have been praying for my salvation), much of it
invoking a God in whom I was less disposed to believe than ever, while
sweepingly acquitting my shortcomings as a mother. I can only assume
that these well-meaning people felt moved by my plight. Yet it bothered
me that nearly all this deliverance was bestowed by strangers, which
made it seem cheap, and an undercurrent of preening betrayed that
conspicuous clemency has become the religious version of driving a
flashy car. By contrast, my brother Giles’s staunch incapacity to pardon
us for the unwelcome attentions that our wayward son has visited upon
his own family is a grudge I treasure, if only for its frankness. Thus I was
of half a mind to mark the envelopes “Return to sender,” like Pocket
Fishermans and Gensu knives I hadn’t ordered. In the early months, still

asthmatic with grief, I was more in the mood for the bracing open air of
the pariah than for the close, stifling confines of Christian charity. And
the vengefulness of my hate mail was meat-red and raw, whereas the
kindness of condolences was pastel and processed, like commercial baby
food; after reading a few pages from the merciful, I’d feel as if I’d just
crawled from a vat of liquefied squash. I wanted to shake these people
and scream, Forgive us! Do you know what he did?
But in retrospect it may grate on me most that this big dumb
absolution latterly in vogue is doled out so selectively. Weak characters
of an everyday sort—bigots, sexists, and panty fetishists—need not
apply. “KK” the murderer harvests sheaves of pitying pen pals; an addled
drama teacher too desperate to be liked is blackballed for the rest of her
life. From which you may correctly construe that I’m not so bothered by
the caprices of all America’s compassion as I am by yours. You bent
over backward to be understanding about killers like Luke Woodham in
Pearl and little Mitchell and Andrew in Jonesboro. So why had you no
sympathy to spare for Vicki Pagorski?
 
The first semester of Kevin’s sophomore year in 1998 was dominated by
that scandal. Rumors had circulated for weeks, but we weren’t in the
loop, so the first we heard about it was when the administration sent that
letter around to all Ms. Pagorski’s drama students. I’d been surprised that
Kevin elected to take a drama course. He tended to shy from the
limelight in those days, lest scrutiny blow his Regular Kid cover. On the
other hand, as his room suggested, he could be anybody, so he may have
been interested in acting for years.
“Franklin, you should take a look at this,” I said one November
evening while you were grumbling over the Times that Clinton was a
“lying sack of shit.” I handed you the letter. “I don’t know what to make
of it.”
As you adjusted your reading glasses, I had one of those juddering
update moments when I realized that your hair had now passed
decisively from blond to gray. “Seems to me,” you determined, “this
lady’s got a taste for tenderloin.”
“Well, you have to infer that,” I said. “But if someone’s made an
accusation, this letter’s not defending her. If your son or daughter has
reported anything irregular or inappropriate . . . Please speak to your
child . . . They’re digging for more dirt!”
“They have to protect themselves.—KEV! Come into the den for a
sec!”

Kevin sauntered across the dining area in tiny dove-gray sweats, their
elastic ankles bunched under his knees.
“Kev, this is a little awkward,” you said, “and you haven’t done
anything wrong. Not a thing. But this drama teacher, Ms.—Pagorski. Do
you like her?”
Kevin slumped against the archway. “Okay, I guess. She’s a little . . . ”
“A little what?”
Kevin looked elaborately in all directions. “Hinky.”
“Hinky how?” I asked.
He studied his unlaced sneakers, glancing up through his eyelashes.
“She like, wears funny clothes and stuff. Not like a teacher. Tight jeans,
and sometimes her blouse—” He twisted, and scratched an ankle with his
foot. “Like, the buttons at the top, they’re not ... See, she gets all excited
when she’s directing a scene, and then . . . It’s sort of embarrassing.”
“Does she wear a bra?” you asked bluntly.
Kevin averted his face, suppressing a grin. “Not always.”
“So she dresses casually, and sometimes—provocatively,” I said.
“Anything else?”
“Well, it’s not a big deal or anything, but she does use a lot of dirty
words, you know? Like, it’s okay, but from a teacher and everything,
well, like I said, it’s hinky.”
“Dirty like damn and hell?” you prodded. “Or harder core?”
Kevin raised his shoulders helplessly. “Yeah, like—sorry, Mumsey—”
“Oh, skip it, Kevin,” I said impatiently; his discomfiture seemed rather
overdone. “I’m a grown-up.”
“Like fuck,” he said, meeting my eyes. “She says, like, That was a
fucking good performance, or she’ll direct some guy, Look at her like
you really want to fuck her, like you want to fuck her till she squeals like
a pig.”
“Little out there, Eva,” you said, eyebrows raised.
“What does she look like?” I said.
“She’s got big, uh,” he mimed honeydews, “and a really wide,” this
time he couldn’t contain the grin, “like, a huge butt. She’s old and
everything. Sort of a hag, basically.”
“Is she a good teacher?” I said.
“She’s sure into it anyway.”
“Into it how?” you said.
“She’s always trying to get us to stay after school and practice our
scenes with her. Most teachers just want to go home, you know? Not
Pagorski. She can’t get enough.”

“Some teachers,” I said sharply, “are very passionate about their
work.”
“That’s what she is,” said Kevin. “Real, real passionate.”
“Sounds like she’s a little bohemian,” you said, “or a bit of a loon.
That’s all right. But other things aren’t all right. So we need to know. Has
she ever touched you. In a flirtatious way. Or—below the waist. In any
way that made you uncomfortable.”
The squirming became extravagant, and he scratched his bare midriff
as if it didn’t really itch. “Depends on what you mean by uncomfortable,
I guess.”
You looked alarmed. “Son, it’s just us here. But this is a big deal, all
right? We have to know if anything—happened.”
“Look,” he said bashfully. “No offense, Mumsey, but would you
mind? I’d rather talk to Dad in private.”
Frankly, I minded very much. If I was going to be asked to trust this
story, I wanted to hear it myself. But there was nothing for it but to
excuse myself to the kitchen and fret.
Fifteen minutes later, you were steamed. I poured you a glass of wine,
but you couldn’t sit down. “Tell you what, Eva, this woman went beyond
the pale,” you murmured urgently, and gave me the lowdown.
“Are you going to report this?”
“Bet your life I’m going to report this. That teacher should be fired.
Hell, she should be arrested. He’s underage.”
“Do you—do you want to go in together?” I’d been about to ask
instead, Do you believe him? but I didn’t bother.
 
I left turning state’s evidence to you, while I volunteered to meet Dana
Rocco, Kevin’s English teacher, for a routine parent-teacher conference.
Whisking out of Ms. Rocco’s classroom at 4 P.M., Mary Woolford
passed me in the hallway with barely a nod; her daughter was no
academic bright spark, and she looked, if this was not merely a
permanent condition, put out. When I entered, Ms. Rocco had that
having-just-taken-a-deep-breath expression, as if drawing on inner
resources. But she recovered readily enough, and her handclasp was
warm.
“I’ve been looking forward to meeting you,” she said, firm rather than
gushy. “Your son’s quite an enigma to me, and I’ve been hoping you
could help me crack the code.”
“I’m afraid I rely on his teachers to explain the mystery to me,” I said
with a wan smile, assuming the hot seat by her desk.

“Though I doubt they’ve been enlightening.”
“Kevin turns in his homework. He isn’t a truant. He doesn’t, as far as
anyone knows, take knives to school. That’s all his teachers have ever
cared to know.”
“I’m afraid that most teachers here have nearly 100 students—”
“I’m sorry, I didn’t mean to be critical. You’re spread so thin that I’m
impressed you’ve even learned his name.”
“Oh, I noticed Kevin right away—.” She seemed about to say more,
and stopped. She placed a pencil eraser on her bottom lip. A slim,
attractive woman in her mid-forties, she had decisive features that tended
to set in an implacable expression, her mouth faintly pressed. Yet if she
exuded an air of restraint, her reserve did not seem natural but learned,
perhaps by expensive trial and error.
It wasn’t an easy time to be a schoolteacher, if it ever had been.
Squeezed by the state for higher standards and by parents for higher
grades, under the magnifying glass for any ethnic insensitivity or sexual
impropriety, torn by the rote demands of proliferating standardized tests
and student cries for creative expression, teachers were both blamed for
everything that went wrong with kids and turned to for their every
salvation. This dual role of scapegoat and savior was downright
messianic, but even Jesus was probably paid better.
“What’s his game?” Ms. Rocco resumed, bouncing the eraser on her
desk.
“Pardon?”
“What do you think that boy’s up to? He tries to hide it, but he’s smart.
Quite the savage social satirist, too. Has he always done these tongue-in-
cheek papers, or are these deadpan parodies something new?”
“He’s had a keen sense of the absurd since he was a toddler.”
“Those three-letter-word essays are tours de force. Tell me, is there
anything he doesn’t find ridiculous?”
“Archery,” I said miserably. “I have no idea why he doesn’t get tired
of it.”
“What do you think he likes about it?”
I 
frowned. 
“Something 
about 
that 
arrow—the 
focus—its
purposiveness, or sense of direction. Maybe he envies it. There’s a
ferocity about Kevin at target practice. Otherwise, he can seem rather
aimless.”
“Ms. Khatchadourian, I don’t want to put you on the spot. But has
anything happened in your family that I should know about? I was
hoping you could help explain why your son seems so angry.”

“That’s odd. Most of his teachers have described Kevin as placid, even
lethargic.”
“It’s a front,” she said confidently.
“I do think of him as a little rebellious—”
“And he rebels by doing everything he’s supposed to. It’s very clever.
But I look in his eyes, and he’s raging. Why?”
“Well, he wasn’t too happy when his sister was born ... But that was
over seven years ago, and he wasn’t too happy before she was born,
either.” My delivery had grown morose. “We’re pretty well off—you
know, we have a big house . . . ” I introduced an air of embarrassment.
“We try not to spoil him, but he lacks for nothing. Kevin’s father adores
him, almost—too much. His sister did have an—accident last winter in
which Kevin was—involved, but he didn’t seem very bothered by it. Not
bothered enough, in fact. Otherwise, I can’t tell you any terrible trauma
he’s been through or deprivation he’s suffered. We lead the good life,
don’t we?”
“Maybe that’s what he’s angry about.”
“Why would affluence make him mad?”
“Maybe he’s mad that this is as good as it gets. Your big house. His
good school. I think it’s very difficult for kids these days, in a way. The
country’s very prosperity has become a burden, a dead end. Everything
works, doesn’t it? At least if you’re white and middle class. So it must
often seem to young people that they’re not needed. In a sense, it’s as if
there’s nothing more to do.”
“Except tear it apart.”
“Yes. And you see the same cycles in history. It’s not only children.”
“You know, I’ve tried to tell my kids about the hardships of life in
countries like Bangladesh or Sierra Leone. But it’s not their hardship,
and I can’t exactly tuck them in on a bed of nails every night so they’ll
appreciate the miracle of comfort.”
“You said your husband ‘adores’ Kevin. How do you get along with
him?”
I folded my arms. “He’s a teenager.”
Wisely, she dropped the subject. “Your son is anything but a hopeless
case. That’s what I most wanted to tell you. He’s sharp as a tack. Some
of his papers—did you read the one on the SUV? It was worthy of Swift.
And I’ve noticed that he asks challenging questions merely to catch me
out—to humiliate me in front of the class. In fact, he knows the answer
beforehand. So I’ve been playing along. I call on him, and he asks what
logomachy means. I gladly admit I don’t know, and bingo, he’s learned a

new word—because he had to find it in the dictionary to ask the
question. It’s a game we play. He spurns learning through regular
channels. But if you get at him through the back door, your young man
has spark.”
I was jealous. “Generally when I knock at the door, it’s locked.”
“Please don’t despair. I assume that with you, just as in school, he’s
inaccessible and sarcastic. As you said, he’s a teenager. But he’s also
inhaling information at a ferocious rate, if only because he’s determined
that nobody get the better of him.”
I glanced at my watch; I’d run overtime. “These high school
massacres,” I said offhandedly, collecting my purse. “Do you worry that
something like that could happen here?”
“Of course it could happen here. Among a big enough group of
people, of any age, somebody’s going to have a screw loose. But
honestly, my turning violent poetry into the office only makes my
students mad. In fact, it should make them mad. Madder, even. So many
kids take all this censorship, these locker searches—”
“Flagrantly illegal,” I noted.
“—Flagrantly illegal searches.” She nodded. “Well, so many of them
take it lying down like sheep. They’re told it’s for ‘their own protection,’
and for the most part they just—buy it. When I was their age we’d have
staged sit-ins and marched around with placards—.” She stopped herself
again. “I think it’s good for them to get their hostilities out on paper. It’s
harmless, and a release valve. But that’s become a minority view. At
least these horrible incidents are still very rare. I wouldn’t lose any sleep
over it.”
“And, uh—,” I stood, “the rumors about Vicki Pagorski. Think there’s
anything to them?”
Ms. Rocco’s eyes clouded. “I don’t think that’s been established.”
“I mean, off the record. Is it credible. Assuming you know her.”
“Vicki is a friend of mine, so I don’t feel impartial—.” She once more
put that eraser on her chin. “This has been a painful time for her.” That
was all she would say.
Ms. Rocco saw me to the door. “I want you to give Kevin a message
for me,” she said with a smile. “You tell him I’m onto him.”
I’d often nursed the same conviction, but I’d never have asserted it in
such a cheerful tone of voice.
 
Anxious to avert legal action, the Nyack School Board held a closed
disciplinary hearing at Gladstone High, to which only the parents of four

of Vicki Pagorski’s students were invited. Trying to keep the event
casual, they put the meeting in a regular classroom. Still the room sizzled
with a sense of occasion, and the other three mothers had dressed up. (I
realized I’d made terribly classist assumptions about Lenny Pugh’s
parents, whom we’d never met, when I found myself scanning for
overweight trailer-park trash in loud polyester to no avail. I later
discerned that he was the banker-type in chalk-stripe, she the stunning,
intelligent-looking redhead in understated gear that was clearly designer
label, because it didn’t show any buttons. So we all have our crosses to
bear.) The school board and that beefy principal, Donald Bevons, had
assumed a set of folding chairs along one wall, and they were all
scowling with rectitude, while we parents were stuck in those
infantilizing school desks. Four other folding chairs were arranged on
one side of the teacher’s desk at the front, where there sat two nervous-
looking boys I didn’t know, along with Kevin and Lenny Pugh, who kept
leaning over toward Kevin and whispering behind his hand. On the other
side of the desk was seated, I could only assume, Vicki Pagorski.
So much for the powers of adolescent description. She was hardly a
hag; I doubt she was even thirty. I would never have depicted her breasts
as large or her keister as wide, for she had the agreeably solid figure of a
woman who ate her Wheaties. Attractive? Hard to say. With that snub
nose and freckles, she had a lost, girlish, innocent look that some men
like. The drab dun suit was doubtless donned for the event; her friend
Dana Rocco would have counseled against tight jeans and a low-cut
shirt. But it’s too bad she hadn’t done anything about her hair, which was
thick and kinky; it frizzed from her head in all directions and suggested a
ditzy, frazzled state of mind. The glasses, too, were unfortunate: The
round oversized frames gave her a pop-eyed appearance, inducing the
impression of dumb shock. Hands twisting in her lap, knees locked
tightly together under the straight wool skirt, she reminded me a bit of
let-us-call-her-Alice at that eighth-grade dance immediately after Kevin
whispered I-didn’t-want-to-know.
When the chairman of the school board, Alan Strickland, called the
little group to order, the room was already unpleasantly quiet. Strickland
said that they hoped to clear up these allegations one way or the other
without landing this business in court. He talked about how seriously the
board took this sort of thing and blathered on about teaching and trust.
He emphasized that he didn’t want anything we said that evening leaving
this room until the board decided what action to take, if any; the
stenographer was taking notes for internal purposes only. Belying the

rhetoric of informal chitchat, he explained that Miss Pagorski had
declined to ask her attorney to be present. And then he asked Kevin to
have a seat in the chair placed in front of the teacher’s desk and to just
tell us in his own words what happened that afternoon in October in Miss
Pagorski’s classroom.
Kevin, too, recognized the importance of costuming, and for once was
wearing plain slacks and a button-down of the customary size. On
command, he assumed the shuffling, averted-eye squirm that he’d
practiced in the archway of our den. “You mean, like, that time she asked
me to stay after school, right?”
“I never asked him to stay after school,” Pagorski blurted. Her voice
was shaky but surprisingly forceful.
“You’ll get your chance, Miss Pagorski,” said Strickland. “For now
we’re going to hear Kevin’s side of things, all right?” He clearly wanted
this hearing to proceed calmly and civilly, and I thought, good luck.
“I don’t know,” said Kevin, ducking and weaving his head. “It just got
kinda intimate, you know? I wasn’t gonna say anything or anything, but
then my dad started asking questions and I like, told him.”
“Told him about what?” Strickland asked gently.
“You know—what I told Mr. Bevons about, too, before.” Kevin
sandwiched his hands between his thighs and looked at the floor.
“Kevin, I realize this is difficult for you, but we’re going to need
details. Your teacher’s career is on the line.”
Kevin looked to you. “Dad, do I have to?”
“Afraid so, Kev,” you said.
“Well, Miss Pagorski’s always been nice to me, Mr. Strickland. Real
nice. Always asking did I need help choosing a scene or could she read
the other part so I could memorize mine ... And I’ve never thought I was
all that good, but she’d say I was a great actor and she loved my
‘dramatic face’ and my ‘tight build’ and with my looks I could be in the
movies. I don’t know about that. Still, I sure wouldn’t want to get her in
trouble.”
“You leave that to us, Kevin, and just tell us what happened.”
“See, she’d asked me several times if I could stay after school so she
could coach me on my delivery, but before I’d always said I couldn’t.
Actually, I could, most days, I mean, I didn’t have anything I had to do
or anything, but I just didn’t—I felt funny about it. I don’t know why, it
just felt kinda weird when she’d pull me over to her desk after class and,
like, pick off little pieces of lint on my shirt that I wasn’t sure were really
there. Or she’d take the flap of my belt and tuck it back in the loop?”

“Since when has Kevin ever worn a belt?” I whispered. You shushed
me quiet.
“—But this one time she was real insistent, almost like I had to, like it
was part of class work or something. I didn’t want to go—I told you, I
don’t know why exactly, I just didn’t—but it seemed like this time I
didn’t have any choice.”
Most of this was addressed to the linoleum, but Kevin would shoot
quick glances at Strickland from time to time, and Strickland would nod
reassuringly.
“So I waited around till 4 o’clock, since she said she had stuff to do
right after the bell, and by then there wasn’t hardly anybody around
anymore. I walked into her classroom, and I thought it was kinda strange
that she’d changed clothes since our fourth-period class. I mean, just the
shirt, but now it was one of those stretchy T’s that are scooped low and it
was clingy enough I could see her—you know.”
“Her what?”
“Her . . . nipples,” said Kevin. “So I said, ‘You want me to go though
my monologue?’ and she got up and closed the door. And she locked it.
She said, “We need a little privacy, don’t we?” I said, actually, I didn’t
mind the air. Then I asked should I start at the top, and she said, ‘First
we’ve got to work on that posture of yours.’ She said I’ve got to learn to
speak from the diaphragm, right here, and she put her hand on my chest
and she left it there. Then she said, and you’ve got to stand up real
straight, and she put her other hand on my lower back and pressed and
sort of smoothed around. I sure did stand up straight. I remember holding
my breath, like. Since I was nervous. Then I started my monologue from
Equus—actually, I’d wanted to do Shakespeare, you know? That to be or
not to be thing. I thought it was kinda cool.”
“In your own good time, son. But what happened next?”
“I think she interrupted me after only two or three lines. She said,
‘You have to remember that this play is all about sex.’ She said, ‘When
he blinds those horses, it’s an erotic act.’ And then she started asking if
I’ve ever seen horses, big horses up close, not the like, geldings, but
stallions, and had I ever noticed what a big—I’m sorry, do you want me
to say what she really said, or should I just, you know, summarize?”
“It would be better if you used her exact words, as well as you can
remember.”
“Okay, you asked for it.” Kevin inhaled. “She wanted to know if I’d
ever seen a horse’s cock. How big it was. And all this time I’m feeling
kinda—funny. Like, restless. And she put her hand on my, uh. Fly. Of my

jeans. And I was pretty embarrassed, because with all that talk, I’d got . .
. a little worked up.”
“You mean you had an erection,” said Strickland sternly.
“Look, do I have to go on?” Kevin appealed.
“If you can, it would be better if you finished the story.”
Kevin glanced at the ceiling and crossed his legs tightly, tapping the
toe of his right sneaker in an agitated, irregular rhythm against the toe of
the left. “So I said, ‘Miss Pagorski maybe we should work on this scene
some other time, ’cause I’ve got to go soon.’ I wasn’t sure whether to say
anything about her hand, so I just kept saying that maybe we should stop,
that I wanted to stop, that I should go now. ’Cause it didn’t seem right,
and, you know, I like her, but not like that. She could be my mother or
something.”
“Let’s be clear here,” said Strickland. “Legally, it’s only so important,
because you’re a minor. But on top of the fact that you’re only fifteen,
these were unwanted advances, is this correct?”
“Well, yeah. She’s ugly.”
Pagorski flinched. It was the brief, floppy little jerk you get when you
keep shooting a small animal with a high-caliber pistol and it’s already
dead.
“So did she stop?” asked Strickland.
“No, sir. She started rubbing up and down through my jeans, all the
while saying, ‘Jesus’ ... Saying, and I really apologize Mr. Strickland but
you asked me . . . She said every time she saw a horse’s cock she
‘wanted to suck it.’ And that’s when I—”
“Ejaculated.”
Kevin dropping his head to look at his lap. “Yeah. It was kind of a
mess. I just ran out. I skipped class a couple of times after that, but then I
came back and tried to act as if nothing happened since I didn’t want to
wreck my grade-point average.”
“How?” I murmured under my breath. “By getting another B?” You
shot me a glare.
“I know this hasn’t been easy for you, and we want to thank you,
Kevin, for being so forthcoming. You can take a seat now.”
“Could I go sit with my parents?” he implored.
“Why don’t you sit over there with the other boys for now, because we
might need to ask you a few more questions. I’m sure your parents are
very proud of you.”
Kevin hove back to his original perch, curling with a tinge of shame—
nice touch. Meanwhile, the classroom was pin-drop silent, as parents met

one another’s eyes and shook their heads. It was a bravura performance.
I cannot pretend that I was not impressed.
But then I looked to Vicki Pagorski. Early in Kevin’s testimony she’d
emitted the odd repressed squeal, or she’d dropped her mouth open. But
by the time it was over she was beyond histrionics, and this was a drama
teacher. She was drooped so bonelessly in her folding chair that I feared
she would fall off, while the frizz of her hair evanesced into the air as if
her whole head were in a state of dissolve.
Strickland turned to the drama teacher’s chair, though he kept his
distance. “Now, Miss Pagorski. It’s your contention that this encounter
never happened?”
“That’s—.” She had to clear her throat. “That’s right.”
“Do you have any idea why Kevin would tell such a story if it wasn’t
true?”
“No, I don’t. I can’t understand it. Kevin’s class is an unusually
talented group, and I thought we’d been having a lot of fun. I’ve given
him plenty of individual attention—”
“It’s the individual attention he seems to have a problem with.”
“I give all my students individual attention!”
“Oh, Miss Pagorski, let’s hope not,” Strickland said sorrowfully. Our
small audience chuckled. “Now, you claim you didn’t invite Kevin to
stay after school?”
“Not separately. I told the whole class that if they want to use my
classroom to practice their scenes after school, I’d make it available.”
“So you did invite Kevin to stay after school, then.” As Pagorski
sputtered, Strickland proceeded, “Have you ever admired Kevin’s
looks?”
“I may have said something about his having very striking features,
yes. I try to instill confidence in my students—”
“How about this ‘speaking from the diaphragm.’ Did you say that?”
“Well, yes—”
“And have you put your hand on his chest, to indicate where the
diaphragm is?”
“Maybe, but I never touched him on—”
“Or on his lower back, when ‘improving’ his posture?”
“Possibly. He has a tendency to slump, and it ruins his—”
“What about the selection from Equus? Did Kevin choose this
passage?”
“I recommended it.”

“Why not something from Our Town, or Neil Simon, a little less
racy?”
“I try to find plays that students can relate to, about things that are
important to them—”
“Things like sex.”
“Well, yes, among other things, of course—.” She was getting
flustered.
“Did you describe the content of this play as ‘erotic’?”
“Maybe, probably, yes! I thought that drama about adolescent
sexuality and its confusions would naturally appeal—”
“Miss Pagorski, are you interested in adolescent sexuality?”
“Well, who isn’t?” she cried. Someone should have given the poor
woman a shovel, so intent was she on digging her own grave. “But
Equus isn’t steamy and explicit, it’s all symbolism—”
“Symbolism you were eager to explain. And did you talk about horses
to Kevin?”
“Of course, the play—”
“Did you talk about stallions, Miss Pagorski.”
“Well, we did discuss what made them such common symbols of
virility—”
“And what does make them ‘virile’?”
“Well, they’re muscular and very beautiful and powerful, sleek—”
“Just like teenage boys,” Strickland noted sardonically. “Did you ever
draw attention to a horse’s penis. To its size?”
“Maybe; how could you ignore it? But I never said—”
“Some people can’t ignore it, apparently.”
“You don’t understand! These are young people and they’re easily
bored. I have to do something to get them excited!”
Strickland just let that one sit there for a beat. “Yes, well,” he said.
“You seem to have succeeded there.”
Deathly pale, Pagorski turned to our son. “What did I ever do to you?”
“That’s just what we’re trying to find out,” Strickland intervened. “But
we’ve got more testimony to get through, and you’ll have opportunity to
respond. Leonard Pugh?”
Lenny murmured to Kevin before sauntering to the center chair.
Surely at any moment one of the boys would start writhing in agony
because Goody Pagorski was smiting them with evil spirits.
“Now Leonard, you, too, met with your drama teacher after school?”
“Yeah, she seemed real hot to have a conference,” said Lenny, with his
poo-making smile. His nose stud was infected again, the left nostril red

and puffy. He’d recently gotten a fade, which was neo-Nazi short with
the letter Z shaved into one side. When I’d asked him what the Z stood
for, he’d said, Whatever, which I’d been forced to point out began with a
W.
“Can you tell us what happened?”
“It was just like Kevin said. I thought we was just gonna practice and
shit. And I come in the room and she like, shuts the door? She’s wearing
this really short skirt, you know, you can almost see her cheeks.” Lenny
mugged a bit.
“And did you practice your work for class?” asked Strickland, though
coaching proved quite unnecessary. More, detail proved Lenny’s strong
suit.
“We sure practiced something!” said Lenny. “She said, ‘I’ve been
watching you in the back row, when I’m sitting at my desk? And some
afternoons I get so wet I have to do myself in class!’”
Strickland looked a little queasy. “Did Miss Pagorski do anything that
you thought was inappropriate?”
“Well then she like, sits on the edge of her desk? With her legs spread
wide open. So I go up to the desk, and I can see she’s not wearing
panties. It’s like, this, wide open beaver, you know? All red and hairy,
and it’s just, you know, dripping—”
“Leonard, let’s just get the facts—.” Strickland was massaging his
forehead. Meanwhile, chalk-stripe was twisting his tie; the redhead had
her face in her hands.
“So she says, ‘You want some? ’Cause I look at that bulge in your
pants, and I can’t keep my hands off my pussy—’”
“Could you please watch your language—!” said Strickland, making
desperate slashing motions at the stenographer.
“—So if you don’t do me right now, I’m gonna shove this eraser in my
hole and bring myself off!’”
“Leonard, that’s enough—”
“Girls around here are pretty tight with it, so I wasn’t about to pass on
free pussy. So I did her, right on the desk, and you shoulda heard her
begging to let her suck it—”
“Leonard, take your seat right now.”
Well, wasn’t it awkward. Lenny shambled back to his chair, and
Strickland announced that the board had heard enough for one night, and
he thanked everyone for coming. He repeated his admonition that we not
spread rumors until a decision had been made. We would be notified if
any action would be taken on this case.

 
After the three of us had climbed into your 4x4 in silence, you finally
said to Kevin, “You know, that friend of yours made you look like a liar.”
“Moron,” Kevin grumbled. “I should never have told him about what
happened with Pagorski. He copies me in everything. I guess I just
needed to tell somebody.”
“Why didn’t you come straight to me?” you asked.
“It was gross!” he said, bunched in the back seat. “That whole thing
back there was totally embarrassing. I should never have told anybody.
You shouldn’ta made me do that.”
“On the contrary.” You twisted around the headrest. “Kevin, if you
have a teacher whose behavior is out of bounds, I want to know about it,
and I want the school to know about it. You have nothing to be ashamed
of. Except possibly your choice of friends. Lenny is something of a
fabulist. Little distance might be in order there, sport.”
“Yeah,” said Kevin. “Like to China.”
I don’t think I said a word the whole drive back. When we got home I
left it to you to thank Robert for getting Celia, amazingly, to go to sleep
without a forty-five-minute tucking-in from her mother. I was reluctant
to open my mouth even a little bit, much as one might hesitate to put
even a very small hole in an inflated balloon.
“Kev, Triskets?” you offered when Robert had left. “Sodium City,
man.”
“Nah. I’m going to my room. I’ll come out when I can show my face
again. Like in about fifty years.” He moped off. Unlike the stagy
melancholy of the weeks to come, he seemed truly glum. He seemed to
be suffering the lingering sense of injustice that would attend a tennis
player who had valiantly distinguished himself in a game of doubles but
whose partner had muffed it, so they lost the match.
You busied yourself putting stray dishes in the washer. Every piece of
silverware seemed to make an extraordinary amount of noise.
“Glass of wine?”
I shook my head. You looked over sharply; I would always have a
glass or two before bed, and it had been a stressful evening. But it would
turn to vinegar on my tongue. And I still couldn’t open my mouth. I
knew we had been here before. Yet I finally apprehended that we
couldn’t keep visiting this place—or rather, these places; that is, we
could not indefinitely occupy parallel universes of such diametrical
characters without eventually inhabiting different places in the most
down to earth, literal sense.

That’s all it took, my turning down a glass of wine, which you
interpreted as hostile. In defiance of our set roles—I was the family
booze hound—you grabbed yourself a beer.
“It didn’t seem advisable,” you began after a vengeful swig, “to
apologize to that Pagorski woman after the hearing. That could help the
defense if this ends up in court.”
“It won’t end up in court,” I said. “We won’t press charges.”
“Well, I’d prefer not to put Kevin through that myself. But if the
school board allows that perv to keep teaching—”
“This cannot continue.”
Even I was not quite sure what I meant, though I felt it forcefully. You
waited for me to elucidate.
“It’s gone too far,” I said.
“What’s gone too far, Eva? Cut to the chase.”
I licked my lips. “It used to have mostly to do with us. My wall of
maps. Then later, it was little things—eczema. But it’s bigger now—
Celia’s eye; a teacher’s career. I can’t keep looking the other way. Not
even for you.”
“If that lady’s career is on the line, she has only herself to blame.”
“I think we should consider sending him to boarding school.
Somewhere strict, old-fashioned. I never thought I’d say this, but maybe
even a military academy.”
“Whoa! Our son has been sexually abused, and your answer is to
banish him to boot camp? Jesus, if some creep were interfering with
Celia you’d be down at the police station right now, filling out forms!
You’d be on the phone to the New York Times and ten victim-support
groups, and never mind a school in Annapolis—you’d never let her leave
your lap!”
“That’s because if Celia said someone had messed with her, the
situation would be far more grave than she let on. Celia is more likely to
let some dirty old geez finger her for years because she doesn’t want to
get the nice man in trouble.”
“I know what’s behind this: typical double standard. A girl gets pawed
at and it’s ooh terrible put the sicko away. But a woman paws all over a
boy and it’s gosh, lucky kid, gets his first taste, bet he really enjoyed it!
Well, just because a boy responds—from physical reflex—doesn’t mean
it can’t be a degrading, humiliating violation!”
“Professionally,” I said, pressing an index finger patiently to my
forehead, “I may have been fortunate, but I’ve never thought of myself
as all that bright. Kevin came by his intelligence from somewhere. So

you must have at least considered the possibility that this whole thing
was a sadistic frame-job.”
“Just because Lenny Pugh’s horning in on the show was bogus—”
“Lenny didn’t ‘horn in,’ he just didn’t learn his lines. He’s lazy, and a
lousy drama student, apparently. But Kevin clearly put the other boys up
to it.”
“Balls—!”
“He didn’t have to call her ‘ugly.’” I shuddered, remembering. “That
was twisting the knife.”
“Some nympho seduces our own son, and the only person you care
about—”
“He made one mistake, did you notice? He said she locked the door.
Then he claimed he ‘ran out’ after she had her way with him. Those
doors don’t even lock, you know, from the inside. I checked.”
“Big deal she didn’t literally lock it! He obviously felt trapped. More
to the point, why in God’s name would Kevin make that story up?”
“I can’t say.” I shrugged. “But this certainly fits.”
“With what?”
“With a wicked and dangerous little boy.”
You looked at me clinically. “Now, what I can’t figure is whether
you’re trying to hurt me, or hurt him, or if this is some confused self-
torture.”
“This evening’s witch trial was excruciating enough. We can knock
out self-torture.”
“Witches are mythical. Pedophiles are real as sin. One look at that
loon and you could tell she was unstable.”
“She’s a type,” I said. “She wants them to like her. She courts their
favor by breaking the rules, by choosing racy plays and saying fuck in
class. She may even like the idea of their ogling her a bit, but not at this
price. And there’s nothing illegal about being pathetic.”
“He didn’t say she spread her legs and begged like Lenny Pugh, did
he? No, she got a little carried away and crossed a line. He even kept his
pants on. I could see it happening. That’s what convinced me. He
wouldn’t make that part up about through his jeans.”
“Interesting,” I said. “That’s exactly how I knew he was lying.”
“Lost me.”
“Through his jeans. It was calculated authenticity. The believability
was crafted.”
“Let’s get this straight. You don’t believe his story because it’s too
believable.”

“That’s right,” I agreed evenly. “He may be scheming and malicious,
but his English teacher is right. He’s sharp as a tack.”
“Did he seem as if he wanted to testify?”
“Of course not. He’s a genius.”
Then it happened. When you collapsed into the chair opposite, you did
not come to a dead halt only because I had made up my mind and you
could no more dislodge my conviction that Kevin was a Machiavellian
miscreant than I could dislodge yours that he was a misunderstood
choirboy. It was worse than that. Bigger. Your face sagged much as a
short time later I would see your father’s droop as he emerged from his
basement stairwell—as if all your features had been artificially held up
by tacks that had suddenly fallen out. Why, at that moment you and your
father would have appeared nearly the same age.
Franklin, I’d never appreciated how much energy you expended to
maintain the fiction that we were a broadly happy family whose trifling,
transient problems just made life more interesting. Maybe every family
has one member whose appointed job is to fabricate this attractive
packaging. In any event, you had abruptly resigned. In one form or
another, we had visited this conversation countless times, with the
habitual loyalty that sends other couples to the same holiday home every
summer. But at some point such couples must look about their painfully
familiar cottage and admit to each other, Next year we’ll have to try
somewhere else.
You pressed your fingers into your eye sockets. “I thought we could
make it until the kids were out of the house.” Your voice was gray. “I
even thought that if we made it that far, maybe ... But that’s ten years
from now, and it’s too many days. I can take the years, Eva. But not the
days.”
I had never so fully and consciously wished that I had never borne our
son. In that instant I might even have forgone Celia, whose absence a
childless woman in her fifties would not have known well enough to rue.
From a young age there was only one thing I had always wanted, along
with getting out of Racine, Wisconsin. And that was a good man who
loved me and would stay true. Anything else was ancillary, a bonus, like
frequentflier miles. I could have lived without children. I couldn’t live
without you.
But I would have to. I had created my own Other Woman who
happened to be a boy. I’d seen this in-house cuckolding in other families,
and it’s odd that I’d failed to spot it in ours. Brian and Louise had split
ten years before (all that wholesomeness had been a little meat-and-

potatoes for him, too; at a party for his fifteenth wedding anniversary, a
jar of pickled walnuts smashed on the floor, and he got caught fucking
his mistress in the walk-in pantry), and of course Brian was far more
upset about separation from those two blond moppets than about leaving
Louise. There shouldn’t be any problem loving both, but for some reason
certain men choose; like good mutual-fund managers minimizing risk
while maximizing portfolio yield, they take everything they once
invested in their wives and sink it into children instead. What is it? Do
they seem safer, because they need you? Because you can never become
their ex-father, as I might become your ex-wife? You never quite trusted
me, Franklin. I took too many airplanes in the formative years, and it
never entirely registered that I always bought a round-trip.
“What do you want to do?” I asked. I felt light-headed.
“Last out the school year, if we can. Make arrangements over the
summer.
“At least custody is a no-brainer, isn’t it?” you added sourly. “And
doesn’t that say it all.”
At the time, of course, we had no way of knowing that you would
keep Celia, too.
“Is it—?” I didn’t want to sound pitiful. “You’ve decided.”
“There’s nothing left to decide, Eva,” you said limply. “It’s already
happened.”
Had I imagined this scene—and I had not, for to picture such things is
to invite them—I’d have expected to stay up until dawn draining a bottle,
agonizing over what went wrong. But I sensed that if anything we would
turn in early. Like toasters and sub-compacts, one only tinkers with the
mechanics of a marriage in the interests of getting it up and running
again; there’s not much point in poking around to see where the wires
have disconnected prior to throwing the contraption away. What’s more,
though I’d have expected to cry, I found myself all dried up; with the
house overheated, my nostrils were tight and smarting, my lips cracked.
You were right, it had already happened, and I may have been in
mourning for our marriage for a decade. Now I understood how the
mates of long senile spouses felt when, after dogged, debilitating visits to
a nursing home, what is functionally dead succumbs to death in fact. A
culminatory shudder of grief; a thrill of guilty relief. For the first time
since I could remember, I relaxed. My shoulders dropped a good two
inches. I sat into my chair. I sat. I may have never sat so completely. All I
was doing was sitting.

Thus it took a supreme effort to lift my eyes and turn my head when a
flicker of motion in the mouth of the hallway distracted from the perfect
stasis of our still life. Kevin took a deliberate step into the light. One
glance confirmed that he’d been eavesdropping. He looked different.
Those sordid afternoons with the bathroom door open notwithstanding,
this was the first time in years I had seen him naked. Oh, he was still
wearing the normal-sized clothes from the hearing. But he’d lost the
sideways skew; he stood up straight. The sarcastic wrench of his mouth
dropped; his features were at rest. I thought, he really is “striking,” as his
drama teacher purportedly remarked. He looked older. But what most
amazed me were his eyes. Ordinarily, they glazed with the glaucous film
of unwashed apples—flat and unfocused, bored and belligerent, they
shut me out. Sure, they glittered with occasional mischief, like the closed
metal doors of a smelting furnace around which a little red rim would
sometimes smolder, from which stray flames would lick. But as he
stepped into the kitchen, the furnace doors swung wide to bare the jets.
“I need a drink of water,” he announced, somehow managing to hiss
without pronouncing any S’s, and strode to the sink.
“Kev,” you said. “Don’t take anything you might have overheard to
heart. It’s easy to misunderstand when you hear something out of
context.”
“Why would I not know the context?” He took a single swallow from
his glass. “I am the context.” He put the glass on the counter, and left.
I’m certain of it: That moment, that hard swallow, is when he decided.
 
A week later, we received another letter from the school board. Already
relieved of her classes when the accusations were first made, Vicki
Pagorski would be permanently removed to administrative duties and
never allowed direct supervision of students again. Yet in the absence of
any evidence beyond the boys’ word against hers, she was not to be
discharged. We both found the decision cowardly, though for different
reasons. It seemed to me that she was either guilty or she was not, and
there was no justification for taking an innocent from an occupation that
she clearly adored. You were outraged that she was not to be fired and
that none of the other parents planned to sue.
After slumping around the house as pointedly as one can go about an
exercise that is essentially rounded, Kevin confided in you that he had
grown depressed. You said you could see why. Stunned by the injustice
of the school board’s slap on the wrist, Kevin felt humiliated, so of
course he was depressed. Equally you fretted that he had intuited an

impending divorce that we both wanted to put off making official until
we had to.
He wanted to go on Prozac. From my random sampling, a good half of
his student body was on one antidepressant or another, though he did
request Prozac in particular. I’ve always been leery of legal restoratives,
and I did worry about the drug’s reputation for flattening; the vision of
our son even more dulled to the world boggled the mind. But so rarely
out of the States those days, I, too, had acculturated myself to the notion
that in a country with more money, greater freedom, bigger houses,
better schools, finer health care, and more unfettered opportunity than
anywhere else on earth, of course an abundance of its population would
be out of their minds with sorrow. So I went along with it, and the
psychiatrist we sought seemed as happy to hand out fistfuls of
pharmaceuticals as our dentist to issue free lollipops.
Most children are mortified by the prospect of their parents’ divorce,
and I don’t deny that the conversation he overheard from the hallway
sent Kevin into a tailspin. Nevertheless, I was disconcerted. That boy had
been trying to split us up for fifteen years. Why wasn’t he satisfied? And
if I really was such a horror, why wouldn’t he gladly jettison his awful
mother? In retrospect, I can only assume that it was bad enough living
with a woman who was cold, suspicious, resentful, accusatory, and aloof.
Only one eventuality must have seemed worse, and that was living with
you, Franklin. Getting stuck with Dad.
Getting stuck with Dad the Dupe.
 
Eva
 

 
 
MARCH 25, 2001
 
Dear Franklin,
 
 
I have a confession to make. For all my ragging on you in these days,
I’ve become shamefully dependent on television. In fact, as long as I’m
baring all: One evening last month in the middle of Frasier, the tube
winked out cold, and I’m afraid that I rather fell apart—banging the set,
plugging and unplugging, wiggling knobs. I’m long past weeping over
Thursday on a daily basis, but I go into a frenzy when I can’t find out
how Niles takes the news that Daphne’s going to marry Donnie.
Anyway, tonight after the usual chicken breast (a bit overcooked), I
was flicking through the channels when the screen suddenly filled with
our son’s face. You’d think I’d be used to it by now, but I’m not. And
this wasn’t the ninth-grade school photo all the papers ran—out of date,
black-and-white, with its acid grin—but Kevin’s more robust visage at
seventeen. I recognized the interviewer’s voice. It was Jack Marlin’s
documentary.
Marlin had ditched the dry thriller title “Extracurricular Activities” for
the punchier “Bad Boy,” reminding me of you; I’ll finish off that bad boy
in a couple of hours, you’d say, about an easy scouting job. You applied
the expression to just about everything save our son.
To whom Jack Marlin applied it readily enough. Kevin, you see, was
the star. Marlin must have gotten Claverack’s consent, for interspersed
with shots of the tearful aftermath—the piles of flowers outside the gym,
the memorial service, Never Again town meetings—was an exclusive
interview with KK himself. Rattled, I almost switched it off. But after a
minute or two, I was riveted. In fact, Kevin’s manner was so arresting
that at first I could barely attend to what he said. He was interviewed in
his dormitory cubicle—like his room, kept in rigid order and unadorned
with posters or knickknacks. Tipping his chair on two legs, hooking an
elbow around its back, he looked thoroughly in his element. If anything,
he seemed larger, full of himself, bursting from his tiny sweats, and I had
never seen him so animated and at his ease. He basked under the
camera’s eye as if under a sunlamp.

Marlin was off-screen, and his questions were deferential, almost
tender, as if he didn’t want to scare Kevin away. When I tuned in, Marlin
was asking delicately whether Kevin still maintained that he was one of
the tiny percentage of Prozac patients who had a radical and antipathetic
reaction to the drug.
Kevin had learned the importance of sticking by your story by the time
he was six. “Well, I definitely started feeling a little weird.”
“But according to both the New England Journal of Medicine and the
Lancet, a causal linkage between Prozac and homicidal psychosis is
purely speculative. Do you think more research—?”
“Hey,” Kevin raised a palm, “I’m no doctor. That defense was my
lawyer’s idea, and he was doing his job. I said I felt a little weird. But
I’m not looking for an excuse here. I don’t blame some satanic cult or
pissy girlfriend or big bad bully who called me a fag. One of the things I
can’t stand about this country is lack of accountability. Everything
Americans do that doesn’t work out too great has to be somebody else’s
fault. Me, I stand by what I done. It wasn’t anybody’s idea but mine.”
“What about that sexual abuse case? Might that have left you feeling
bruised?”
“Sure I was interfered with. But hell,” Kevin added with a confidential
leer, “that was nothing compared to what happens here.” (They cut to an
interview with Vicki Pagorski, whose denials were apoplectic with
methinks-thou-dost-protest-too-much excess. Of course, too feeble an
indignation would have seemed equally incriminating, so she couldn’t
win. And she really ought to do something about that hair.)
“Can we talk a little about your parents, Kevin?” Marlin resumed.
Hands behind head. “Shoot.”
“Your father—did you get along, or did you fight?”
“Mister Plastic?” Kevin snorted. “I should be so lucky we’d have a
fight. No, it was all cheery chirpy, hot dogs and Cheez Whiz. A total
fraud, you know? All like, Let’s go to the Natural History Museum, Kev,
they have some really neat-o rocks! He was into some Little League
fantasy, stuck in the 1950s. I’d get this, I luuuuuuv you, buddy! stuff, and
I’d just look at him like, Who are you talking to, guy? What does that
mean, your dad ‘loves’ you and hasn’t a [bleep]ing clue who you are?
What’s he love, then? Some kid in Happy Days. Not me.”
“What about your mother?”
“What about her?” Kevin snapped, though until now he’d been
affable, expansive.
“Well, there was that civil suit brought for parental negligence—”

“Totally bogus,” said Kevin flatly. “Rank opportunism, frankly. More
culture of compensation. Next thing you know, geezers’ll be suing the
government for getting old and kids’ll be taking their mommies to court
because they came out ugly. My view runs, life sucks; tough luck. Fact
is, the lawyers knew Mumsey had deep pockets, and that Woolford cow
can’t take bad news on the chin.”
Just then the camera angle panned ninety degrees, zooming in on the
room’s only decoration that I could see taped over his bed. Badly creased
from having been folded small enough to fit in a pocket or wallet, it was
a photograph of me. Jesus Christ, it was that head-shot on an Amsterdam
houseboat, which disappeared when Celia was born. I was sure he’d torn
it to pieces.
“But whether or not your mother was legally remiss,” Marlin
proceeded, “maybe she paid you too little attention—?”
“Oh, lay off my mother.” This sharp, menacing voice was alien to me,
but it must have been useful inside. “Shrinks here spend all day trying to
get me to trash the woman, and I’m getting a little tired of it, if you
wanna know the truth.”
Marlin regrouped. “Would you describe your relationship as close,
then?”
“She’s been all over the world, know that? You can hardly name a
country where she hasn’t got the T-shirt. Started her own company. Go
into any bookstore around here, you’ll see her series. You know, Smelly
Foreign Dumps on a Wing and a Prayer? I used to cruise into Barnes
and Noble in the mall just to look at all those books. Pretty cool.”
“So you don’t think there’s any way she might have—”
“Look, I could be kind of a creep, okay? And she could be kind of a
creep, too, so we’re even. Otherwise, it’s private, okay? Such a thing in
this country anymore as private, or do I have to tell you the color of my
underwear? Next question.”
“I guess there’s only one question left, Kevin—the big one. Why’d
you do it?”
I could tell Kevin had been preparing for this. He inserted a dramatic
pause, then slammed the front legs of his plastic chair onto the floor.
Elbows on knees, he turned from Marlin to directly address the camera.
“Okay, it’s like this. You wake up, you watch TV, and you get in the
car and you listen to the radio. You go to your little job or your little
school, but you’re not going to hear about that on the 6:00 news, since
guess what. Nothing is really happening. You read the paper, or if you’re
into that sort of thing you read a book, which is just the same as

watching only even more boring. You watch TV all night, or maybe you
go out so you can watch a movie, and maybe you’ll get a phone call so
you can tell your friends what you’ve been watching. And you know, it’s
got so bad that I’ve started to notice, the people on TV? Inside the TV?
Half the time they’re watching TV. Or if you’ve got some romance in a
movie? What do they do but go to a movie. All these people, Marlin,” he
invited the interviewer in with a nod. “What are they watching?”
After an awkward silence, Marlin filled in, “You tell us, Kevin.”
“People like me.” He sat back and folded his arms.
Marlin would have been happy with this footage, and he wasn’t about
to let the show stop now. Kevin was on a roll and had that quality of just
getting started. “But people watch other things than killers, Kevin,”
Marlin prodded.
“Horseshit,” said Kevin. “They want to watch something happen, and
I’ve made a study of it: Pretty much the definition of something
happening is it’s bad. The way I see it, the world is divided into the
watchers and the watchees, and there’s more and more of the audience
and less and less to see. People who actually do anything are a
goddamned endangered species.”
“On the contrary, Kevin,” Marlin observed sorrowfully, “all too many
young people like yourself have gone on killing sprees in the last few
years.”
“Lucky for you, too! You need us! What would you do without me,
film a documentary on paint drying? What are all those folks doing,” he
waved an arm at the camera, “but watching me? Don’t you think they’d
have changed the channel by now if all I’d done is get an A in
Geometry? Bloodsuckers! I do their dirty work for them!”
“But the whole point of asking you these questions,” Marlin said
soothingly, “is so we can all figure out how to keep this sort of
Columbine thing from happening again.”
At the mention of Columbine, Kevin’s face soured. “I just wanna go
on the record that those two weenies were not pros. Their bombs were
duds, and they shot plain old anybody. No standards. My crowd was
handpicked. The videos those morons left behind were totally
embarrassing. They copied me, and their whole operation was obviously
designed to one-up Gladstone—”
Marlin tried quietly to intrude something like, “Actually, police claim
that Klebold and Harris were planning their attack for at least a year,”
but Kevin plowed on.

“Nothing, not one thing in that circus went according to plan. It was a
100-percent failure from top to bottom. No wonder those miserable twits
wasted themselves—and I thought that was chicken. Part of the package
is facing the music. Worst of all, they were hopeless geeks. I’ve read
sections of Klebold’s whining, snot-nosed journal. Know one of the
groups that chump wanted to avenge himself against? People who think
they can predict the weather. Had no idea what kind of a statement they
were making. Oh, and get this—at the end of the Big Day, those two
losers were originally planning to hijack a jet and fly it into the World
Trade Center. Give me a break!”
“You, ah, note that your victims were ‘handpicked,’” said Marlin, who
must have been wondering, What was that about? “Why those particular
students?”
“They happened to be the people who got on my nerves. I mean, if
you were planning a major operation like this, wouldn’t you go for the
priss-pots and faggots and eyesores you couldn’t stand? Seems to me
that’s the main perk of taking the rap. You and your cameramen here
leech off my accomplishments, and you get a fancy salary and your
name in the credits. Me, I have to do time. Gotta get something out of
it.”
“I have one more question, Kevin, though I’m afraid you may have
answered it already,” said Marlin with a tragic note. “Do you feel any
remorse? Knowing what you do now, if you could go back to April 8th,
1999, would you kill those people all over again?”
“I’d only do one thing different. I’d put one right between the eyes of
that Lukronsky dork, who’s been making a mint off his terrible ordeal
ever since. I read he’s now gonna be acting in that Miramax flick! Feel
sorry for the cast, too. He’ll be quoting Let’s get in character from Pulp
Fiction and doing his Harvey Keitel imitations and I bet in Hollywood
that shit gets old quick. And while we’re on that, I wanna complain that
Miramax and everybody should be paying me some kind of fee. They’re
stealing my story, and that story was a lot of work. I don’t think it’s legal
to swipe it for free.”
“But it’s against the law in this state for criminals to profit from—”
Again, Kevin swung to the camera. “My story is about all I got to my
name right now, and that’s why I feel robbed. But a story’s a whole lot
more than most people got. All you people watching out there, you’re
listening to what I say because I have something you don’t: I got plot.
Bought and paid for. That’s what all you people want, and why you’re
sucking off me. You want my plot. I know how you feel, too, since hey, I

used to feel the same way. TV and video games and movies and
computer screens ... On April 8th, 1999, I jumped into the screen, I
switched to watchee. Ever since, I’ve known what my life is about. I give
good story. It may have been kinda gory, but admit it, you all loved it.
You ate it up. Nuts, I ought to be on some government payroll. Without
people like me, the whole country would jump off a bridge, ’cause the
only thing on TV is some housewife on Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?
winning $64,000 for remembering the name of the president’s dog.”
I turned off the set. I couldn’t take any more. I could feel another
interview with Thelma Corbitt coming up, bound to include an appeal for
the “Love for Kids with Determination” scholarship fund she’d set up in
Denny’s honor, to which I’d already contributed more than I could
afford.
Obviously, this flashy thesis about the passive spectating of modern
life was but a twinkle in Kevin’s eye two years ago. He has time on his
hands at Claverack, and he’d knocked together that fancy motive in
much the way older convicts manufacture vanity license plates. Still, I
reluctantly have to admit that his post hoc exegesis contained a nugget of
truth. Were NBC to broadcast an unabating string of documentaries on
the mating habits of sea otters, viewership would dwindle. Listening to
Kevin’s diatribe, I was struck despite myself by what a sizable
proportion of our species feeds off the depravity of a handful of
reprobates, if not to earn a living then to pass the time. It isn’t only
journalists, either. Think tanks generating mountains of paper over the
sovereign disposition of fractious little East Timor. University Conflict
Studies departments issuing countless Ph.D.s on ETA terrorists who
number no more than 100. Filmmakers generating millions by
dramatizing the predations of lone serial killers. And think of it: the
courts, police, National Guard—how much of government is the
management of the wayward 1 percent? With prison building and
warding one of the biggest growth industries in the United States, a
sudden popular conversion to civilization across the board could trigger a
recession. Since I myself had craved a turn of the page, is it really such a
stretch to say of KK that we need him? Beneath his bathetic disguise,
Jack Marlin had sounded grateful. He wasn’t interested in the mating
habits of sea otters, and he was grateful.
Otherwise, Franklin, my reaction to that interview is very confusing.
A customary horror mixes with something like—pride. He was lucid,
selfassured, engaging. I was touched by that photograph over his bed,
and no little chagrined that he hadn’t destroyed it after all (I guess I’ve

always assumed the worst). Recognizing snippets of his soliloquy from
my own tirades at table, I’m not only mortified, but flattered. And I’m
thunderstruck that he has ever ventured into a Barnes and Noble to gaze
at my handiwork, for which his “Meet My Mother” essay didn’t betray
great respect.
But I’m dismayed by his unkind remarks about you, which I hope you
don’t take to heart. You tried so hard to be an attentive, affectionate
father. Yet I did warn you that children are unusually alert to artifice, so
it makes sense that it’s your very effort that he derides. And you can
understand why in relation to you of all people he feels compelled to
portray himself as the victim.
 
I was grilled at length by Mary’s lawyers about the “warning signs” that
I should have picked up sufficiently in advance to have headed off
calamity, but I think most mothers would have found the tangible signals
difficult to detect. I did ask about the purpose of the five chain-and-
padlock Kryptonites when they were delivered to our door by FedEx,
since Kevin had a bike lock, along with a bike he never rode. Yet his
explanation seemed credible: He’d come across a terrific deal on the
Internet, and he planned to sell these Kryptonites, which went for about
$100 apiece retail, at school for a profit. If he’d never before displayed
such entrepreneurial spunk, the aberration only seems glaring now that
we know what the locks were for. How he got hold of school stationery
I’ve no idea, and I never ran across it. And while he laid in a generous
supply of arrows for his crossbow over a period of months, he never
ordered more than half a dozen at a time. He was always ordering
arrows, and the stockpile, which he kept outside in the shed, didn’t
attract my attention.
The one thing that I did notice through the rest of December and the
early months of 1999 was that Kevin’s Gee, Dad routine now extended
to Gee, Mumsey. I don’t know how you put up with it. Gosh, are we
having some of that great Armenian food tonight? Terriff! I sure want to
learn more about my ethnic heritage! Lots of guys at school are plain old
white-bread, and they’re superjealous that I’m a member of a real-live
persecuted minority! Insofar as he had any tastes in food at all, he hated
Armenian cuisine, and this disingenuous boppiness hurt my feelings.
With me, Kevin’s behavior had been hitherto as unadorned as his
bedroom—stark, lifeless, sometimes hard and abrasive, but (or so I
imagined) uncamouflaged. I preferred that. It was a surprise to discover
that my son could come to seem even farther away.

I interpreted his transformation as induced by that conversation in the
kitchen that he’d overheard—to which neither you nor I had alluded
again, even in private. Our prospective separation loomed as a great
smelly elephant in the living room, trumpeting occasionally or leaving
behind massive piles of manure for us to trip over.
Yet astonishingly, our marriage blossomed into a second honeymoon,
remember? We pulled off that Christmas with unequaled warmth. You
secured me a signed copy of Peter Balakian’s Black Dog of Fate, as well
as Michael J. Arlen’s Passage to Ararat, Armenian classics. In turn, I
gave you a copy of Alistair Cooke’s America and a biography of Ronald
Reagan. If we were poking fun at one another, the teasing was tender. We
indulged Kevin with some sports clothes that were grotesquely too small,
while Celia, typically, was every bit as entranced with the bubble wrap it
came in as with her glass-eyed antique doll. We made love more often
than we had in years under the implicit guise of for-old-time’s-sake.
I was unsure whether you were reconsidering a summer split or were
merely impelled by guilt and grief to make the most of what was
irrevocably terminal. In any event, there is something relaxing about
hitting bottom. If we were about to get a divorce, nothing worse could
possibly happen.
Or so we thought.
 
Eva
 

 
 
April 5, 2001
 
 
Dear Franklin,
 
I know it’s bound to be a touchy subject for you. But I promise, if you
hadn’t given him that crossbow for Christmas, it would have been the
longbow or poison darts. For that matter, Kevin was sufficiently
resourceful to have capitalized on the Second Amendment and would
have laid hands on the more conventional arsenal of pistols and deer
rifles that his more modern-minded colleagues prefer. Frankly, traditional
School Shooting instruments would not only have improved his margin
of error but would have heightened the likelihood that he could best the
competition in fatalities—clearly one of his driving ambitions, since
before those Columbine upstarts came along twelve days later, he topped
the charts. And you can be sure that he considered this issue at great
length. He said himself at fourteen, “Choice of weapons is half the
fight.” So on the face of it, the archaic selection is peculiar. It
handicapped him, or so it would seem.
He may have liked that. Maybe I passed on my own inclination to rise
to a challenge, the very impulse that got me pregnant with the boy in the
first place. And though he may have enjoyed sticking his mother, who
fancied herself so “special,” with the insult of cliché—like it or not, little
Ms. International Traveler would become one more assembly-line
mother of a tacky American type, and he knew how much it pained me
that my sassy VW Luna was now every fifth car in the Northeast—he
still liked the idea of setting himself apart. Since after Columbine he
grumbled in Claverack that “any idiot can fire a shotgun,” he must have
recognized that being “the crossbow kid” would mark his little prank in
the popular imagination. Indeed, by the spring of 1999 the field was
crowded, and the once indelibly impressed names of Luke Woodham and
Michael Carneal were already beginning to fade.
Moreover, he was certainly showing off. Maybe Jeff Reeves played a
mean guitar riff, Soweto Washington could swish his free-throws, and
Laura Woolford could get the whole football team to ogle her slim
behind as it twitched down the hall, but Kevin Khatchadourian could put
an arrow through an apple—or an ear—from fifty meters.

Nevertheless, I’m convinced that his leading motivation was
ideological. Not that “I got plot” nonsense he fobbed off on Jack Marlin.
Rather, I have in mind the “purity” he admired in the computer virus.
Having registered the social compulsion to derive some broad, trenchant
lesson from every asinine murder spree, he must have painstakingly
parsed the prospective fallout from his own.
His father, at least, was forever dragging him off to some cluttered
Native American museum or dreary Revolutionary War battlefield, so
that anyone who tried to portray him as the neglected victim of the self-
centered two-career marriage would have an uphill battle, and whatever
he may have intuited, we were not divorced: no copy there. He wasn’t a
member of a satanic cult; most of his friends didn’t go to church either,
so godlessness was unlikely to emerge as a cautionary theme. He wasn’t
picked on—he had his unsavory friends, and his contemporaries went
out of their way to leave him be—so the poor-persecuted-misfit, we-
must-do-something-to-stopbullying-in-schools number wouldn’t go very
far. Unlike the mental incontinents he held in such contempt, who passed
malignant notes in class and made extravagant promises to confidants,
he’d kept his mouth shut; he hadn’t posted a homicidal web site or
written essays about blowing up the school, and the most creative social
commentator would be hard-pressed to deploy a satire about sports
utility vehicles as one of those unmissable “warning signs” that are now
meant to drive vigilant parents and teachers to call confidential hotlines.
But best of all, if he accomplished his stunt entirely with a mere
crossbow, his mother and all her mush-headed liberal friends wouldn’t be
able to parade him before Congress as one more poster boy for gun
control. In short, his choice of weapon was meant to ensure to the best of
his ability that Thursday would mean absolutely nothing.
 
When I got up at the usual 6:30 A.M. on April 8, 1999, I wasn’t yet
impelled to put that day of the week in italics. I picked out a blouse I
rarely wore; you bent to me as I buttoned it in the mirror and said that I
might not like to admit it, but I looked good in pink, and you kissed my
temple. In those days your smallest kindness was writ large, and I
blushed with pleasure. Once again I hoped you might be having second
thoughts about separation, although I was reluctant to ask you outright
and so risk spoiling the illusion. I made coffee, then roused Celia,
helping her to clean and replace her prosthesis. She was still having
trouble with discharge, and wiping the yellow crust off the glass and out
of her eyelashes and tear duct could take a good ten minutes. Though it

is amazing what you get used to, I still felt relieved once the glass eye
was in, her watery blue gaze restored.
Aside from the fact that Kevin got up without having to be rousted
three times, it began as a normal morning. As ever, I marveled at your
appetite, recently revived; you may have been the last WASP in America
who still regularly breakfasted on two eggs, bacon, sausage, and toast. I
could never manage more than coffee, but I loved the sizzle of smoked
pork, the fragrance of browning bread, and the general atmosphere of
relish for the day ahead that this ritual fostered. The sheer vigor with
which you prepared this feast must have scrubbed your arteries of its
consequences.
“Look at you!” I exclaimed when Kevin emerged. I was carefully
frying Celia’s French toast completely dry, lest a little undercooked egg
seem like slime. “What happened, were all your size-one clothes in the
wash?”
“Some days you just wake up,” he said, tucking his billowing white
fencing shirt into the same rippling black rayon slacks he had worn to
Hudson House, “with a sense of occasion.”
In plain view, he packed the five Kryptonite locks and chains into his
backpack. I assumed he’d found takers at school.
“Kevin looks really handsome,” said Celia shyly.
“Yup, your brother’s a heartbreaker,” I said. And wouldn’t he be.
I sifted a generous dusting of confectioner’s sugar over the toast,
stooping by Celia’s soft blond hair to mumble, “Now don’t dawdle, you
don’t want to be late for school again. You’re supposed to eat it, not
make friends with it.”
I tucked her hair behind her ears and kissed the top of her head, and as
I did so Kevin cut a glance toward me as he loaded the backpack with
another chain. Though he’d entered the kitchen with a rare energy, now
his eyes had gone dead.
“Hey, Kev!” you cried. “I ever show you how this camera works?
Good knowledge of photography never hurt anybody; it’s sure paid off
for me. Get over here, there’s time. I don’t know what’s got into you, but
you have forty-five minutes to spare.” You pushed your greasy plate out
of the way and opened the camera bag at your feet.
Unwillingly, Kevin floated over. He didn’t seem in the mood for Gee-
Dadding this morning. As you went through the lighting and f-stop
positions, I felt a pang of recognition. Your own father’s awkward
version of intimacy was always to explain in far greater detail than
anyone cared to hear exactly how some device worked. You didn’t share

Herbert’s conviction that to take apart the clockwork of the universe was
to unlock the extent of its mysteries, but you had inherited a resort to
mechanics as an emotional crutch.
“This reminds me,” you said mid-instruction. “I want to shoot a roll of
you at archery practice sometime soon. Capture that steely gaze and
steady arm for posterity, how about it? We could do a whole
photomontage for the foyer: Braveheart of the Palisades!”
Slapping his shoulder was probably a mistake; he flinched. And for
the briefest of moments I appreciated what little access we ever had to
what really went on in Kevin’s head, since for a second the mask fell,
and his face curdled with—well, with revulsion, I’m afraid. To allow
even so brief a glimpse of its workings, he must have had other things on
his mind.
“Yeah. Dad,” he said effortfully. “That would be . . . great.”
Yet I chose this of all mornings to gaze upon our domestic tableau in
soft focus. All teenagers hate their parents, I thought, and there was
something priceless about the antipathy if you could take it. As the sun
caught the fine gold of Celia’s hair while she cut her French toast into
ridiculously tiny pieces and you embarked on a riff about the dangers of
backlighting while Kevin twitched with impatience, I was so heartened
by this Norman Rockwell moment that I considered sticking around until
the kids had to leave for school, maybe giving Celia a lift myself instead
of leaving the run to you. Would that I had given in to the temptation!
But children need routine, I decided, and if I didn’t get a jump on the
morning rush hour, there would be hell to pay on the bridge.
“Shut up!” Kevin barked suddenly at your side. “That’s enough. Shut
up!”
Warily, we all three peered at this unprompted impertinence.
“I don’t care how your camera works,” he continued levelly. “I don’t
want to be a location scout for a bunch of crappy products. I’m not
interested . I’m not interested in baseball or the founding fathers or
decisive battles of the Civil War. I hate museums and national
monuments and picnics. I don’t want to memorize the Declaration of
Independence in my spare time, or read de Tocqueville . I can’t stand
reruns of Tora, Tora, Tora! or documentaries about Dwight Eisenhower. I
don’t want to play Frisbee in the backyard or one more game of
Monopoly with a sniveling, candy-ass, one-eyed midget. I don’t give a
fuck about stamp collecting or rare coins or pressing colorful autumn
leaves in encyclopedias. And I’ve had it up to my eyeballs with heart-to-

heart father-son talks about aspects of my life that are none of your
business.”
You looked stunned. I met your eyes, then just perceptibly shook my
head. It was unusual for me to counsel restraint. But the pressure cooker
was very popular among my mother’s generation. After an incident now
mythic in my family involving madagh scraped off the ceiling with a
broom, I’d learned at an early age that when that chittering round whistle
is blowing off steam, the worst thing you can do is open the pot.
“Okay,” you said tightly, fitting your lenses back in the case. “You’re
on the record.”
As abruptly as he had exploded, Kevin folded right back up, once
again the complacent, unimaginative tenth-grader preparing for another
humdrum day of school. I could see him shutting out your hurt feelings,
one more thing in which, I suppose, he was not interested. For about five
minutes no one said anything, and then we gradually resumed the
pretense of an ordinary morning, making no mention of Kevin’s outburst
the way polite people are meant to pretend they didn’t notice the release
of a very loud fart. Still the smell lingered, if less of gas than of cordite.
Although by now in a hurry, I had to say good-bye to Celia twice. I
stooped and brushed her hair, picked a last bit of crust from her lower
lash, reminded her which books she had to take today, and then gave her
a big long hug, but after I’d turned to collect my things, I noticed her still
standing there where I’d left her looking stricken, hands held stiffly out
from her side as if contaminated with drydirt. So I hoisted her by the
armpits into my arms, though she was nearly eight now and supporting
her full weight was hard on my back. She wrapped her legs around my
waist, buried her head in my neck, and said, “I’ll miss you!” I said I
would miss her, too, though I had no idea how much.
Perhaps unnerved by Kevin’s unwarranted harangue and in need of
safe harbor, your own kiss good-bye was for once not an absent peck on
the cheek, but feverish, open-mouthed. (Thank you, Franklin. I have
relived that moment so many times now that the memory cells must be
pale and broken down, like the denim of much-loved jeans.) As for my
earlier uncertainty over whether children enjoy watching their parents
kiss, one look at Kevin’s face settled the matter. They didn’t.
“Kevin, you have that independent study archery for gym today, don’t
you?” I reminded him, keen to consolidate our normality while bustling
into my spring coat. “Don’t forget to bring your kit.”
“You can count on it.”

“Also, you should make up your mind what you want to do for your
birthday,” I said. “It’s only three days away, and sixteen is something of
a milestone, don’t you think?”
“In some ways,” he said noncommittally. “Ever notice how milestone
turns into millstone by changing only one letter?”
“What about Sunday!”
“I might be tied up.”
I was frustrated that he always made it so difficult to be nice to him,
but I had to go. I didn’t kiss Kevin lately—teenagers didn’t like it—so I
brushed the back of my hand lightly against his forehead, which I was
surprised to find damp and cold. “You’re a little clammy. Do you feel all
right?”
“Never better,” said Kevin. I was on my way out the door when he
called, “Sure you don’t want to say good-bye to Celie one more time?”
“Very funny,” I said behind me, and closed the door. I thought he was
just riding me. In retrospect, he was giving me very sound advice that I
really ought to have taken.
 
I have no idea what it must be like to wake up with such a terrible
resolve. Whenever I picture it, I see myself roll over on the pillow
muttering, On second thought, I can’t be bothered, or at the very least,
Screw it, I’ll do it tomorrow. And tomorrow and tomorrow. Granted, the
horrors we like to term “unthinkable” are altogether thinkable, and
countless kids must fantasize about revenge for the thousand natural
shocks that tenth-graders are heir to. It’s not the visions or even half-
baked plans that set our son apart. It’s the staggering capacity to travel
from plan to action.
Having racked my brains, the only analogy I’ve located in my own life
is an awful stretch: all those trips to foreign countries that, up against it, I
really didn’t want to take. I would ease myself through by breaking a
seemingly monumental excursion into its smallest constituent parts.
Rather than dare myself to spend two months in thief-riddled Morocco, I
would dare myself to pick up the phone. That’s not so hard. And with a
minion on its other end, I would have to say something, so I would order
a ticket, taking refuge in the mercifully theoretical nature of airline
schedules on dates at such marvelous remove that they could never
possibly come to pass. Behold, a ticket arrives in the mail: Plan becomes
action. I would dare myself to purchase histories of North Africa, and I
would later dare myself to pack. The challenges, broken down, were
surmountable. Until, after daring myself into a taxi and down a jetway, it

would be too late to turn back. Big deeds are a lot of little deeds one after
the other, and that’s what Kevin must have cottoned onto—ordering his
Kryptonites, stealing his stationery, loading those chains into his
backpack one by one. Take care of the components, and the sum of their
parts unfolds as if by magic.
For my own part that Thursday—still plain old Thursday—I was busy;
we were rushing to meet a due date at the printers. But in the odd
unoccupied moment, I did reflect on Kevin’s peculiar outburst that
morning. The diatribe had been signally absent the likes, I means, sort
ofs, and I guesses that commonly peppered his passable imitation of a
regulation teenager. Rather than slump at an angle, he had stood upright,
speaking from the center of his mouth rather than out one corner. I was
certainly distressed that he would hurt his father’s feelings with such
abandon, but the young man who made these stark, unmediated
declarations seemed a very different boy than the one I lived with every
day. I found myself hoping we would meet again, especially at such a
time that this stranger-son’s state of mind was more agreeable—an
unlikely prospect that to this day I continue to look forward to.
Around 6:15 P.M., there was a commotion outside my office, a
conspiratorial huddling by my staff, which I interpreted as a sociable
gossip as they knocked off for the day. Just as I was resigning myself to
working into the evening on my own, Rose, their elected representative I
suppose, knocked tentatively on my door. “Eva,” she said gravely. “Your
son’s at Gladstone High School, isn’t he?”
It was already on the Internet.
The details were incomplete: “Fatalities Feared in Gladstone High
Shooting.” Who and how many students had been shot was unclear. The
culprit was unknown. In fact, the news flash was exasperatingly brief.
“Security staff” had come upon “a scene of carnage” in the school gym,
to which police were now “trying to gain access.” I know I was flustered,
but it didn’t make the slightest bit of sense to me.
I immediately called your mobile, cursing when it was turned off; you
did that all too often, treasuring the uninterrupted solitude of your 4x4 as
you tooled around New Jersey searching for the right-colored cows. I
appreciated that you didn’t want to hear from a rep from Kraft or your
Madison Avenue minders, but you might have thought to turn it on for
me. What’s the point of having the damned thing? I fretted. I called
home but got our machine; it was a lovely spring evening, and doubtless
Robert had taken Celia out in the backyard to play. The fact that Kevin
didn’t pick up made my stomach churn, but I reasoned feverishly that of

course he could have slunk off with Lenny Pugh, with whom he had
inexplicably patched things up since the Pagorski hearing. Perhaps the
trade in slavish disciples was not so brisk that a self-abasing sidekick
could be easily replaced.
So I grabbed my coat and resolved to go straight to the school. As I
left, my staff was already regarding me with the awe that attends those
who have even the most tangential association with the cameo news
flash on the America On-Line home page.
As we follow me running down to the garage to my VW, gunning out
of midtown only to get stuck on the West Side Highway, let’s get one
thing straight. I did think Kevin screamed in his crib out of free-floating
rage, and not because he needed feeding. I fiercely believed that when he
poked fun at our waitress’s “poopy face” he knew he would hurt her
feelings, and that he defaced the maps on my study walls out of
calculated malice, not misguided creativity. I was still convinced that he
systematically seduced Violetta into clawing a layer of skin from the
better part of her body and that he continued to require diapers until he
was six years old not because he was traumatized or confused or slow to
develop, but because he was on a full-time war-footing with his mother. I
thought he destroyed the toys and storybooks I painstakingly fashioned
because they were worth more to him as emblems of his own up-yours
ingratitude than as sentimental playthings, and I was sure that he learned
to count and read in secret deliberately to deprive me of any sense of
usefulness as a parent. My certainty that he was the one who flipped the
quick-release on the front wheel of Trent Corley’s bicycle was
unwavering. I was under no illusion that a nest of bagworms had
dropped into Celia’s backpack by itself or that she had climbed twenty
feet up our white oak only to get stranded on an upper branch all by her
lonesome; I believed it was no more her idea to stir together a lunch of
petroleum jelly and Thai curry paste than it was to play “kidnapping”
and “William Tell.” I was pretty damned sure that whatever Kevin
whispered in the ear of let-us-call-her-Alice at that eighth-grade school
dance, it wasn’t admiration of her dress; and however Liquid-Plumr got
in Celia’s left eye, I was dead positive that her brother had something to
do with it beyond his role as her noble savior. I regarded his jerking off
at home with the door wide open as wanton sexual abuse—of his mother
—and not the normal uncontrolled bubbling of adolescent hormones.
Although I may have told Mary that Laura should suck it up, I found it
entirely credible that our son had told her frail, underfed daughter that
she was fat. It was no mystery to me how a hit list turned up in Miguel

Espinoza’s locker, and though I took full responsibility for spreading one
to my own company, I couldn’t see the hobby of collecting computer
viruses as anything but disturbed and degenerate. I remained firmly of
the view that Vicki Pagorski had been persecuted in a show trial of
Kevin Khatchadourian’s personal contrivance. Granted, I’d been
mistaken about our son’s responsibility for chucking chunks of bricks at
oncoming cars on 9W, and until ten days ago I had chalked up the
disappearance of a treasured photograph from Amsterdam as yet another
victim of my son’s unparalleled spite. So I have, as I said, always
believed the worst. But even my unnatural maternal cynicism had its
limits. When Rose told me there’d been a vicious assault at Kevin’s high
school and some students were feared dead, I worried for his well-being.
Not for an instant did I imagine that our son was the perpetrator.
 
The testimony of witnesses to an event is notoriously shambolic,
especially on its immediate heels. On-scene, misinformation rules. Only
after the fact is order imposed on chaos. Hence, with a few keystrokes
on-line I can now access numerous versions of our son’s actions that day
that make crude chronological sense. Few pieces of this tale were
available to me when I careened into the school parking lot with the
radio on, but years of contemplative reflection spread before me for the
leisurely assembly of this hobbyistic jigsaw, much as Kevin himself has
years more access to underequipped wood shops in which to file, sand,
and polish his excuse.
Schools do not necessarily regard their letterhead stationery as the
keys to the kingdom, and I doubt it’s all locked up. However he acquired
it, Kevin had paid enough attention in Dana Rocco’s English class to
digest that form dictates tone. As you do not use popular slang in an
article for the school paper, neither do you indulge nihilistic little games
involving three-letter words when printing on letterhead stationery.
Hence, the official missive sent to Greer Ulanov, for example—in
sufficient advance to allow for Nyack’s lackluster postal service—
exhibits the same keen ear for authenticity that Kevin displayed in
playing Ron Howard to you and the shy, flustered victim to Alan
Strickland:
Dear Greer,
The faculty of Gladstone High School is proud of all their
students, each of whom contributes his or her own remarkable
talents to the community. Yet certain students invariably come to

our attention as having distinguished themselves in the arts or
having done even more than their share in shaping a dynamic
educational environment. We are pleased to reward this unusual
excellence at the end of the school year.
In consultation with teachers and staff, I have compiled a list of
nine exemplary students who seem most worthy of our new Bright
and Shining Promise Award. I am delighted to inform you that you
are one of these nine, singled out for your outstanding contributions
in politics and civic awareness.
In furtherance of this process, we are asking all BSPA winners to
assemble in the gym on Thursday, April 8 at 3:30 P.M. It is our
hope that you can begin to put together an assembly program for
early June in which the BSPA prizes will be awarded. Some
demonstration of your exceptional gifts would be appropriate.
Those of you in the arts can readily demonstrate your skills; others
with more academic talents may have to exercise creativity as to
how best to exemplify your accomplishments.
While we have made our decisions based solely on merit, we
have tried to arrive at a mix of gender, race, ethnicity, religion, and
sexual preference so that the BSPA will suitably reflect our
community’s diversity.
Lastly, I would implore you all to please keep your selection for
this award to yourselves. If I hear of any boasting, the
administration may be forced to reconsider your candidacy. We
truly wish it were possible to give every student a prize for being
the very special person that he or she is, and it is very important that
you not cause unnecessary jealousy before the award winners are
made public.
My heartfelt congratulations.
Sincerely, 
Donald Bevons 
Principal
 
 
Identical notices were sent to eight other students, with the blanks
filled in accordingly. Denny Corbitt was commended for acting, Jeff
Reeves for classical guitar, Laura Woolford for “personal grooming,”
Brian “Mouse” Ferguson for computing skills, Ziggy Randolph not only
for ballet but for “encouraging tolerance of difference,” Miguel Espinoza

for academic achievement and “vocabulary skills,” Soweto Washington
for sports, Joshua Lukronsky for “cinematic studies” and—I fault Kevin
here for not being able to control himself—“memorizing whole Quentin
Tarantino scripts,” though most people are disinclined to regard flattery
with suspicion. Dana Rocco was sent a somewhat different letter that
requested she chair this Thursday meeting but also advising that she
herself had been selected for the Most Beloved Teacher Award and
likewise requesting, since all the other teachers are also beloved, that she
keep her MBTA on the q.t.
If the trap was well set, it was not immune to glitches. Dana Rocco
might have mentioned the meeting to Bevons, who would have protested
ignorance, and the whole business might have come unraveled. Can we
really call Kevin lucky? She didn’t.
On the evening of April 7, Kevin set his alarm for half an hour earlier
than usual and laid out clothing for the morning roomy enough to allow
for ease of mobility, choosing that dashing white shirt with billowing
fencing-style sleeves in which he might photograph well. Personally, I
would have tossed through such a night in anguish, but then I personally
would never have contrived this grotesque project in the first place, so I
can only assume that if Kevin lost any sleep it was from excitement.
Riding the school bus the following morning he would have been
encumbered—those bike locks weighed 6.2 pounds apiece—but Kevin
had arranged for this independent-study archery course at the beginning
of the semester, interest in the unpopular pastime being too slight for a
proper class. Other students had been trained to regard his lugging
archery equipment to school as ordinary. No one was sufficiently attuned
to the niceties of this dorky sport to be disturbed that Kevin wasn’t
lugging his standard bow or his longbow but his crossbow, which the
administration later bent over backward to deny would ever have been
allowed on school grounds. Though the number of arrows in his
possession was considerable—he was obliged to cart them in his duffel
—no one remarked on the bag; the wide berth that his classmates
allowed Kevin in eighth grade had by his sophomore year only
broadened.
After stashing his archery materiel, as usual, in the equipment room of
the gym, he attended all of his classes. In English, he asked Dana Rocco
what maleficence means, and she beamed.
His independent-study archery practice was scheduled for the last
period of the day, and—his enthusiasm firmly established—PE teachers
no longer checked up on him as he fired arrows into a sawdust target.

Hence, Kevin had ample time to clear the gym of any apparatuses such
as punching bags, horses, or heavy tumbling mats. Conveniently, the
bleachers were already up, and to make sure they stayed up, he clipped
small combination padlocks around the intersection of two iron supports
on both banks, ensuring that they could not fold out. When he was
finished there was absolutely nothing in that gym except six blue mats—
the thin kind, for sit-ups—arranged in a convivial circle in the middle.
The logistics, for those impressed by such things, were impeccably
worked out. The physical education building is a freestanding structure, a
good three-minute walk from the main campus. There are five entrances
to the central gym itself—from the boys’ and girls’ locker rooms and the
equipment room, as well as from the lobby; a door on the second floor
opens onto an alcove, used for the aerobic conditioning machines, that
overlooks the gym. Yet not one of these entrances lies on the outside of
the building. The gym is unusually high, a full two stories, and there are
windows only at the top; you can’t see inside from ground level. There
were no sporting events scheduled for that afternoon.
The bell rang at 3:00, and by 3:15 the distant clamor of departing
students was dying down. The gym itself was deserted, though Kevin
must have still padded with trepidation as he glided into the boys’ locker
room and unlooped his first Kryptonite bike lock from around his
shoulder. He’s a methodical person in the most ordinary of
circumstances, so we can be sure that he had twist-tied the correct key to
each bright yellow, plasticcoated padlock. Looping the heavy chain
around each handle of the double doors, he pulled the chain taut. After
hiking up the chain’s protective black nylon sheath, he hooked the sunny
yellow padlock into a middle link, clicked the lock shut, twisted the
round key from its socket, and slipped it in his pocket. I dare say he
tested the doors, which would now only open with a crack between them
before they seized. He repeated this exercise in the girls’ locker room,
then at the gym entrance from the equipment room, exiting from its back
door into the weights room.
I now know that these locks were state-of-the-art in bicycle security.
The U-shaped portion of the tiny, sturdy padlock is only about two
inches high, denying prospective thieves the leverage for a crowbar. The
chain itself is forged interlinking at the factory; each link is half an inch
thick. Kryptonite chains are famously resistant to heat, since professional
cycle thieves have been known to use torches, and the company is
sufficiently confident of its technology that if your bicycle is stolen, it

guarantees a full refund for the purchase value of the bike. Unlike many
competitors’ models, the guarantee is even good in New York.
Despite his avowed disinterest in your work, Franklin, Kevin was
about to launch Kryptonite’s most successful advertising campaign to
date.
By 3:20, giggling with self-congratulatory glee, the first BSPA
winners were starting to arrive through the main entrance from the lobby,
which remained unlocked.
“Personal hygiene, my momma!” Soweto declared.
“Hey, we’re bright and shining,” said Laura, tossing her silken brown
hair. “Don’t we get any chairs?”
Mouse crossed to the equipment room to scrounge some fold-ups, but
when he came back reporting the room already locked for the day Greer
said, “I don’t know, it’s kind of neat this way. We can sit cross-legged,
like around a campfire.”
“Puh-lease,” said Laura, whose outfit was—scant. “Cross-legged, in
this skirt? And it’s Versace, for Chrissake. I don’t want to stink it up with
sit-up sweat.”
“Yo, girl,” Soweto nodded at her spindly figure, “that close as you
gonna come to sit-up sweat.”
Kevin was able to listen in on his prizewinners from the alcove, an
inset shelf on the upper level; so long as he remained against the back
wall, he couldn’t be seen from below. The three stationary bicycles,
treadmill, and rowing machine had already been dragged away from the
alcove’s protective railing. Transferred from the duffel, his stash of some
hundred arrows bristled from two fire buckets.
Enticed by the marvelous echo, Denny emoted a few lines from Don’t
Drink the Water at the top of his lungs, while Ziggy, who made a habit of
flouncing around school in a leotard and tights to show off his calves,
couldn’t resist making what Kevin later called “a big queeny entrance,”
dancing a series of turns in pointe position across the length of the gym
and finishing with a grand jeté. But Laura, who doubtless thought it
uncool to ogle fags, only had eyes for Jeff Reeves—though quiet and
terminally earnest, a handsome blue-eyed boy with a long blond ponytail
with whom a dozen girls were known to be smitten. One of Jeff’s
salivating fans, according to an interview with a friend recorded by
NBC, was Laura Woolford, which more than his mastery of the twelve-
string guitar may have explained why he, too, was christened Bright and
Shining.

Miguel, who must have told himself he was unpopular for being smart
or Latino—anything but for being a little pudgy—promptly plunked
himself on one of the blue mats, to burrow with knit-browed seriousness
into a battered copy of Alan Bloom’s The Closing of the American Mind.
Beside him, Greer, who made the mistake common to rejects everywhere
of assuming that outcasts like each other, was busy trying to engage him
in a discussion of NATO’s intervention in Kosovo.
Dana Rocco arrived at 3:35. “Come on troops!” she rallied them.
“Ziggy, that’s all very dramatic, but this isn’t ballet practice. Can we get
down to business here? This is a happy occasion, but it’s still after-hours
for me, and I’d like to get home before Letterman.”
At this point, the cafeteria worker arrived, carting a tray of
cellophaned sandwiches. “Where you want these, ma’am?” he asked
Rocco. “We got a order from Mr. Bevons to provide refreshments.”
“Wasn’t that thoughtful of Don!” she exclaimed.
Well. It was thoughtful of someone. And I have to say, the sandwiches
were a nice touch, that little garnish of an authentic school occasion. But
Kevin may have been over-egging the pudding a bit, and the gesture
would cost him collateral damage.
“Ma’am, my shift’s over now, you mind if I shoot a few? I just be over
at the far end there, won’t be no trouble. Don’t got no hoop in my
neighborhood. I’d be much obliged.”
Rocco would have hesitated—the noise would be a distraction—but
the cafeteria worker was black.
Kevin must have been kicking himself for having left that basketball
off in the corner, but by this time—3:40—he’d have been more
distracted by the no-show. Only nine of his ten party guests had reported
for duty, along with one gate-crasher. This operation was not organized
for latecomers, and as the meeting got underway he must have been
frantically concocting a contingency plan to allow for the dilatory
performance of Joshua Lukronsky.
“Oh, gr-ooss!” said Laura, passing the platter. “Turkey roll. Total
waste of calories.”
“First off, you guys,” Rocco began, “I want to congratulate you all on
having been picked for this special award—”
“O-kay!” The lobby doors burst wide. “Let’s get in character!”
Kevin would never have been quite so happy to see the consummately
irritating Joshua Lukronsky. As the circle enlarged to make a place for
Josh, Kevin crept out of the alcove and slipped downstairs with another
Kryptonite. Although he was as quiet as he could be, the chain did rattle

a little, and he may have been grateful for the banging of the cafeteria
worker’s basketball at that. Back up in the alcove, he slipped his last
padlock and chain around the inside bars of the alcove’s double doors.
Voilà. Fish in a barrel.
Was he having second thoughts, or simply enjoying himself? Their
meeting had proceeded another five minutes by the time Kevin advanced
stealthily toward the rail with his loaded crossbow. Though he drew into
sight from below, the group was too engrossed in planning their own
accolades to look up.
“I could give a speech,” Greer proposed. “Like on how the office of
special prosecutor should be abolished? Because I think Kenneth Starr is
evil incarnate!”
“What about something a little less divisive?” Rocco proposed. “You
don’t want to alienate Republicans—”
“Wanna bet?”
A soft, rushing sound. Just as there is a tiny pause between lightning
and thunderclap, there was a single, dense instant of silence between the
arrow’s shsh-thunk through Laura Woolford’s Versace blouse and the
point at which the other students began to scream.
“Oh, my God!”
“Where’d it come from!”
“She’s bleeding all OVER!”
Shsh-thunk. Not yet struggled to his feet, Miguel took one in the gut.
Shsh-thunk. Jeff was nailed between the shoulder blades as he bent over
Laura Woolford. I can only conclude that for those many hours Kevin
spent in our backyard, the little black bull’s-eye in the middle of all those
concentric circles was in his mind’s eye a perfect circle of Versace
viscose. Struck perfectly through the heart, she was dead.
“He’s up there!” Denny pointed.
“Kids, get out! Run!” Rocco ordered, though she needn’t have; the
uninjured remainder had already stampeded toward the main exit, where
they were giving new meaning to the term panic bars. Yet given the
position of the alcove, there wasn’t one square foot in that gym that
couldn’t be penetrated from over its railing, as they were all soon to
discover.
“Oh, shit, I should have known!” screamed Joshua with an upward
glance, rattling the equipment room door that Mouse had already tried.
“It’s Khatchadourian!”
Shsh-thunk. As he pounded on the main doors calling for help while
the arrow stuck in his back quivered, a shaft sank into the nape of Jeff

Reeves’s neck. As Mouse streaked to the boys’ locker room exit and the
doors gave just a little and held fast, he took an arrow in the ass; it
wouldn’t kill him, but as he hobbled to the one last exit on the girls’ side,
he was surely beginning to realize that there was plenty of time for one
that did.
Dana Rocco got to the girls’ exit at about the same time, weighed
down by Laura’s body in her arms—a fruitless but valiant effort that
would feature prominently in the memorial service. Mouse met Rocco’s
eyes and shook his head. As his shrieking classmates began to circle
from door to door in a churning motion like dough in a mixing bowl,
Mouse shouted over the uproar, “The doors are locked! All the doors are
locked! Take cover!”
Behind what?
The cafeteria worker—less attuned to the School Shooting format than
the students, who had been through whole preparatory assemblies and
got into character right away—had been easing along the walls as if
feeling for one of those secret passageways in murder mysteries, moving
slowly, attracting minimum attention. The cinder block unavailing, he
now crouched into a fetal ball, holding the basketball between the archer
and his head. Kevin was doubtless annoyed at having allowed any
obstacle to remain in the gym however small, and the ineffectual
protection just drew fire. Shsh-phoot. The ball was skewered.
“Kevin!” cried his English teacher, triangulating Mouse behind her
body into the corner farthest from the alcove. “Please stop! Please,
please stop!”
“Maleficence,” Kevin hissed distinctly from overhead; Joshua said
later that it was weird how you could hear this relatively quiet word
above the din. For the duration, it was all that Kevin said. Thereafter,
Kevin fixed his staunchest ally on the Gladstone faculty steadily in his
sight and put an arrow straight between her eyes.
As she fell, Mouse was exposed in the corner, and though he began to
crouch in the shelter of her body, he took another shaft that pierced a
lung. That would teach him to share the secrets of computer viruses with
mere cyber-dilettantes who were really much more interested in archery.
But Mouse, in Joshua’s view, had the right idea; so far, Lukronsky’s
scrabbling up all the thin blue sit-up mats and trying to fashion some
kind of shield wasn’t working nearly as well as it would have in the
movies, and already two arrows had whizzed within inches of his head.
Scooting over to Mouse’s corner while Kevin was occupied with
reaming Soweto Washington’s powerful thighs, Joshua built himself an

impromptu lean-to in the corner constructed of the blue foam rubber,
Dana Rocco, Laura Woolford, and the groaning, half-conscious body of
Mouse Ferguson. It was from this stuffy tent that he observed the
denouement, peering from under Laura’s armpit as Mouse’s breath
bubbled. It was hot, suffused with the rank fumes of fearful sweat and
another, more disturbing smell that was nauseously cloying.
Giving up on safe haven, Greer Ulanov had marched right up to the
wall that dropped from the alcove’s railing, standing twenty feet
immediately below their malevolent Cupid. She had finally found a bête
noir more odious than Kenneth Starr.
“I hate you, you stupid creep!” she screeched. “I hope you fry! I hope
they shoot you full of poison and I get to watch you die!” It was a rapid
conversion. Only the month before, she’d written an impassioned essay
denouncing capital punishment.
Leaning over the railing, Kevin shot straight down, striking Greer
through the foot. The arrow went through to the wooden floor, and
pinned her where she stood. As she blanched and struggled to pull the
arrow from the floor, he pinned her second foot as well. He could afford
the fun; he must still have had fifty, sixty arrows in reserve.
By this time, the other injured had all crawled to the far wall, where
they flopped like voodoo dolls stuck with pins. Most bunched on the
floor, trying to present the smallest targets possible. But Ziggy Randolph,
yet unscathed, now strode to the very middle of the gym, where he
presented himself with chest blown out, heels together, toes pronated.
Dark and finefeatured, he was a striking boy with a commanding
presence, though tritely effeminate in manner; I have never been sure if
homosexuals’ limp-wristed gestures are innate, or studied.
“Khatchadourian!” Ziggy’s voice resonated over the sound of sobbing.
“Listen to me! You don’t have to do this! Just put the bow on the floor,
and let’s talk. A lot of these guys’ll be all right, if we just get some
medics right away!”
It’s worth inserting a reminder here that after Michael Carneal shot up
that prayer group in Paducah, Kentucky, in 1997, a devout Heath High
School senior, a preacher’s son with the novelistic name Ben Strong was
feted from coast to coast for having advanced soothingly on the shooter,
urging the boy to put down his weapon and putting himself in mortal
danger in the process. In response, according to legend, Carneal dropped
the pistol and collapsed. Due to nationwide hunger for heroes in events
that 
were 
otherwise 
becoming 
irredeemable 
international
embarrassments, the story was widely known. Strong was featured in

Time magazine and interviewed on Larry King Live. Ziggy’s own
familiarity with this parable may have bolstered his courage to confront
their assailant, and the unprecedented admiration that had met Ziggy’s
“coming out” to an assembly earlier that semester would have further
enhanced his faith in his persuasive powers of oratory.
“I know you must be really upset about something, okay?” Ziggy
continued; most of Kevin’s victims were not yet dead, and someone was
already feeling sorry for him. “I’m sure you’re hurting inside! But this is
no way out—”
Unfortunately for Ziggy, the apocryphal nature of Ben Strong’s stern,
mesmerizing Michael? Put down the gun! would not come out until the
spring of 2000, when a suit filed by the victims’ parents against more
than fifty other parties—including parents, teachers, school officials,
other teenagers, neighbors, the makers of “Doom” and “Quake” video
games, and the film producers of The Basketball Diaries—came to trial
in circuit court. Under oath, Strong confessed that an initially sloppy
rendition of events to his principal had been further embellished by the
media and taken on a life of its own. Trapped in a lie, he’d been
miserable ever since. Apparently by the time our hero approached,
Michael Carneal had already stopped shooting and had collapsed, his
surrender unrelated to any eloquent, death-defying appeal. “He just got
done,” Strong testified, “and he dropped it.”
Shsh-thunk. Ziggy staggered backward.
I hope I haven’t related this chronology in so dispassionate a fashion
that I seem callous. It’s just that the facts remain bigger, bolder, and more
glistening than any one small grief. I’m simply reiterating a sequence of
events strung together by Newsweek.
In parroting its copy, however, I do not pretend any remarkable insight
into Kevin’s state of mind, the one foreign country into which I have
been most reluctant to set foot. Descriptions from Joshua and Soweto of
our son’s expression from overhead depart from the reportage of similar
events. Those Columbine children, for example, were manic, eyes
glazed, grinning crazily. Kevin, by contrast, was described as
“concentrated” and “deadpan.” But then, he always looked that way on
the archery range, if only on the archery range, come to think of it—as if
he became the arrow, and thus discovered in this embodiment the sense
of purpose that his phlegmatic daily persona so extravagantly lacked.
Yet I have reflected on the fact that for most of us, there is a hard,
impassable barrier between the most imaginatively detailed depravity
and its real-life execution. It’s the same solid steel wall that inserts itself

between a knife and my wrist even when I’m at my most disconsolate.
So how was Kevin able to raise that crossbow, point it at Laura’s
breastbone, and then really, actually, in time and space, squeeze the
release? I can only assume that he discovered what I never wish to. That
there is no barrier. That like my trips abroad or this ludicrous scheme of
bike locks and invitations on school stationery, the very squeezing of that
release can be broken down into a series of simple constituent parts. It
may be no more miraculous to pull the trigger of a bow or a gun than it is
to reach for a glass of water. I fear that crossing into the “unthinkable”
turns out to be no more athletic than stepping across the threshold of an
ordinary room; and that, if you will, is the trick. The secret. As ever, the
secret is that there is no secret. He must almost have wanted to giggle,
though that is not his style; those Columbine kids did giggle. And once
you have found out that there is nothing to stop you—that the barrier, so
seemingly uncrossable, is all in your head—it must be possible to step
back and forth across that threshold again and again, shot after shot, as if
an unintimidating pipsqueak has drawn a line across the carpet that you
must not pass and you launch tauntingly over it, back and over it, in a
mocking little dance.
That said, it is the last bit that harrows me most. I have no metaphors
to help us.
If it seems extraordinary that no one responded to the cries for help,
the gym is isolated, and the stragglers at the school who later admitted to
hearing screams and shouts understandably assumed that an exciting or
fractious sporting event was underway. There was no telltale crack of
gunfire. And the most obvious explanation for this absence of alarm is
that, while it may take a while to tell, the melee couldn’t have lasted
more than ten minutes. But if Kevin had entered into some sort of altered
mental state, it was far more sustained than ten minutes.
Soweto passed out, which probably saved him. As Joshua remained
motionless, his fleshy fortress shook from a systematic rain of arrows,
some combination of which would finish Mouse Ferguson. Shouts for
help or wails of pain further down the wall were silenced with additional
shots. He took his time, Franklin—emptying both buckets, until that line
of limp casualties bristled like a family of porcupines. But more
appalling than this cheap archery practice—his victims could no longer
be regarded as moving targets—was its cessation. It’s surprisingly
difficult to kill people with a crossbow. Kevin knew that. And so he
waited. When at last at 5:40 a security guard jingled by to lock up, was
dismayed by the Kryptonite, and peeked through the crack of the door to

see red, Kevin waited. When the police arrived with those massive but
useless cutters (which the chain merely dented) and at length were driven
to secure an electric metal saw that shrieked and spit sparks—all of
which took time—Kevin put his feet up on the alcove rail and waited.
Indeed, the protracted interlude between his last arrow and the SWAT
team’s final burst through the lobby door at 6:55 was one of those
untenanted periods for which I’d advised him at age six that he’d be
grateful for a book.
Laura Woolford and Dana Rocco were killed by the trauma of the
arrows themselves. Ziggy, Mouse, Denny, Greer, Jeff, Miguel, and the
cafeteria worker all bled to death, trickle by drop.
 
(April 6, 2001—Continued)
When I wheeled out of the car, the lot was already jammed with
ambulances and police cars. A bunting of yellow tape marked its
perimeter. It was just getting dark, and careworn paramedics were lit in
ghoulish admixtures of red and blue. Stretcher after stretcher paraded
into the lot—I was aghast; there seemed no end to them. Yet even amid
pandemonium, a familiar face will flash brighter than emergency
vehicles, and my eyes seized on Kevin in a matter of seconds. It was a
classic double take. Although I may have had my problems with our son,
I was still relieved that he was alive. But I was denied the luxury of
wallowing in my healthy maternal instincts. At a glance, it was obvious
that he was not marching but being marched down the path from the gym
by a brace of policemen, and the only reason he could possibly be
holding his hands behind his back rather than swinging them in his
conventionally insolent saunter is that he hadn’t any choice.
I felt dizzy. For a moment, the lights of the parking lot scattered into
meaningless splotches, like the patterns behind the lids when you rub
your eyes.
“Ma’am, I’m afraid you’ll have to clear the area—.” It was one of the
officers who appeared at our door after the overpass incident, the
heavier, more cynical of the pair. They must meet a plethora of wide-
eyed parents whose darling little reprobates issued “from a good family,”
because he didn’t seem to recognize my face.
“You don’t understand,” I said, adding the most difficult claim of
fealty I’d ever made, “That’s my son.”
His face hardened. This was an expression I would get used to; that,
and the melting you-poor-dear-I-don’t-know-what-to-say one, which was
worse. But I was not inured to it yet, and when I asked him what had

happened, I could already tell from the flinty look in his eye that
whatever I was now indirectly responsible for, it was bad.
“We’ve had some casualties, ma’am,” was all he was inclined to
explain. “Best you came down to the station. Just take 59 to 303, and exit
at Orangeberg Road. Entrance on Town Hall Road. That’s assuming
you’ve never been there before.”
“Can I—talk to him?”
“You’ll have to see that officer there, ma’am. With the cap?” He
hastened away.
Making my way toward the police car into whose back seat I’d seen a
policeman shove our son with a hand on the top of his head, I was forced
to run a gamut, explaining with increasing fatigue who I was to a
sequence of officers. I finally understood the New Testament story about
St. Peter, and why he might have been driven to thrice deny association
with some social pariah who’d been set upon by a lynch mob.
Repudiation may have been even more tempting for me than for Peter,
since, whatever he might have styled himself, that boy was no messiah.
I finally battled to the Orangetown black-and-white, whose enveloping
inscription on the side, “In partnership with the community,” no longer
seemed to include me. Staring at the back window, I couldn’t see through
the glass for the blinking reflections. So I cupped my hand over the
window. He wasn’t crying or hanging his head. He turned to the window.
He had no trouble looking me in the eye.
I had thought to scream, What have you done? But the hackneyed
exclamation would have been self-servingly rhetorical, a flouting of
parental disavowal. I would know the details soon enough. And I could
not imagine a conversation that would be anything but ridiculous.
So we stared at each other in silence. Kevin’s expression was placid. It
still displayed remnants of resolution, but determination was already
sliding to the quiet, self-satisfied complacency of a job well done. His
eyes were strangely clear—unperturbed, almost peaceful—and I
recognized their pellucidity from that morning, though breakfast already
seemed ten years past. This was the stranger-son, the boy who dropped
his corny, shuffling disguise of I mean and I guess for the plumb carriage
and lucidity of a man with a mission.
He was pleased with himself, I could see that. And that’s all I needed
to know.
Yet when I picture his face through that back window now, I
remember something else as well. He was searching. He was looking for
something in my face. He looked for it very carefully and very hard, and

then he leaned back a little in his seat. Whatever he’d been searching for,
he hadn’t found it, and this, too, seemed to satisfy him in some way. He
didn’t smile. But he might as well have.
 
Driving to the Orangetown police station, I’m afraid I got enraged with
you, Franklin. It wasn’t fair, but your mobile was still switched off, and
you know how one fixates on these small, logistical matters as a
distraction. I wasn’t able, yet, to get angry at Kevin, and it seemed safer
to vent my frustrations on you, since you hadn’t done anything wrong.
Hitting that redial button over and over, I railed aloud at the wheel.
“Where are you? It’s almost 7:30! Turn on the fucking phone! For God’s
sake, of all the nights, why did you have to work late tonight? And
haven’t you listened to the news?” But you didn’t play the radio, in your
truck; you preferred CDs of Springsteen, or Charlie Parker. “Franklin,
you son of a bitch!” I shouted, my tears still the hot, leaking, stingy ones
of fury. “How could make me go through this all by myself?”
I drove past Town Hall Road at first, since that slick, rather garish
green-and-white building looks like a chain steakhouse or subscription
fitness center from the outside. Aside from its clumsily wrought bronze
frieze memorializing four Orangetown officers fallen in the line of duty,
the foyer, too, was an expanse of white walls and characterless linoleum
where you would expect to find directions to the pool. But the reception
room itself was horrifyingly intimate, even more claustrophobically tiny
than the emergency room at Nyack Hospital.
I was accorded anything but priority status, though the receptionist did
inform me coldly through the window that I could accompany my
“minor”—a word that seemed inappropriately reductive—while he was
booked. Panicked, I pleaded, “Do I have to?” and she said, “Suit
yourself.” She directed me to the single black vinyl sofa, to which I was
abandoned untended as police officers raced back and forth. I felt both
implicated and irrelevant. I didn’t want to be there. In case that sounds
like a grievous understatement, I mean that I had the novel experience of
not wanting to be anywhere else, either. Flat out, I wished I were dead.
For a short time, on the opposite side of my sticky black vinyl couch
sat a boy whom I now know to be Joshua Lukronsky. Even had I been
familiar with this student, I doubt I’d have recognized him at that
moment. A small boy, he no longer resembled an adolescent, but a child
closer to Celia’s age, for he lacked any of the wisecracking swagger for
which he was apparently known at school. His shoulders were drawn in,
his cropped black hair disheveled. Hands shoved inward in his lap, he

kept his wrists bent at the unnaturally severe angle of children in the
advanced stages of muscular dystrophy. He sat perfectly still. He never
seemed to blink. Awarded a police minder that my own role didn’t merit
—I already had that feeling of being infected, contagious, quarantined—
he didn’t respond as the uniformed man standing next to him tried to
interest him in a glassed-in case of model police vehicles. It was quite a
charming collection, all metal, some very old—vans, horse trailers,
motorcycles, ’49 Fords from Florida, Philadelphia, L.A. With fatherly
tenderness, the officer explained that one car was very rare, from the
days that New York City police cars were green-and-white—before
NYPD blue. Joshua stared blankly straight ahead. If he knew I was there
at all, he did not appear to know who I was, and I was hardly going to
introduce myself. I wondered why this boy had not been taken to the
hospital like the others. There was no way of telling that none of the
blood drenching his clothes belonged to him.
After a few minutes, a large, plump woman flew through the reception
room door, swooping down on Joshua and lifting him in a single motion
into her arms. “Joshua!” she cried. At first limp in her clasp, gradually
those muscular-dystrophy wrists curled around her shoulders. His
shirtsleeves left red smears on her ivory raincoat. The small face buried
in her ample neck. I was simultaneously moved, and jealous. This was
the reunion that I’d been denied. I love you so much! I’m so, so relieved
you’re all right! Me, I was no longer entirely relieved that our own son
was all right. From my glance in that car window, it was his very
seeming all rightness that had begun to torment me.
The trio shuffled through the inside door. The officer behind the
reception window ignored me. If at wit’s end, I was probably grateful for
my little task with the mobile, which I worried like a rosary; dialing gave
me something to do. If only for variety, I switched to trying our home
phone for a while, but I kept getting the machine, and I’d hang up in the
middle of that stilted recording, hating the sound of my own voice. I’d
already left three, four messages, the first controlled, the last weeping—
what a tape to come home to. Realizing that we were both running late,
Robert had obviously taken Celia to McDonald’s; she loved their hot
apple pies. Why didn’t he call me? He had my mobile number! Hadn’t
Robert listened to the news? Oh, I know, McDonald’s broadcasts Muzak,
and he wouldn’t necessarily switch on his car radio for such a short trip.
But wouldn’t someone mention it while standing on line? How could
anyone in Rockland County be talking about anything else?

By the time two officers fetched me into that plain little room to take
my statement, I was so distraught that I was less than polite. I probably
sounded thick, too; I couldn’t see the purpose of contacting our family’s
lawyer when there didn’t appear to be any question that Kevin did it.
And this was the first time that anyone had seen fit to give his mother
even the sketchiest lowdown on did what. The casualty estimates that
one officer rattled off matter-of-factly would later prove exaggerated, but
back then I’d had no reason to have researched the fact that atrocity
figures are almost always inflated when first released. Besides, what is
the difference, really, between bearing a son who murders only nine
people instead of thirteen? And I found their questions obscenely
immaterial: how Kevin did in school, what had he been like that
morning.
“He was a little testy with my husband! Otherwise, nothing special!
What was I supposed to do, my son was rude to his father, so I call the
police?”
“Now, calm down Mrs. Kachourian—”
“Khatchadourian!” I insisted. “Can you please get my name right?”
Oh, they would.
“Mrs. Khadourian, then. Where might your son have gotten that
crossbow?”
“It was a Christmas present! Oh, I told Franklin it was a mistake, I told
him. Can I please call my husband again?”
They allowed the call, and after another fruitless redial, I wilted. “I’m
so sorry,” I whispered. “I’m so sorry, I’m so sorry. I didn’t mean to be
unkind to you, I don’t care about my name, I hate my name. I never want
to hear my name again. I’m so sorry—”
“Mrs. Khadarian—” One officer patted my shoulder gingerly. “Maybe
we should take a full statement another time.”
“It’s just, I have a daughter, a little girl, Celia, at home, could you—”
“I understand. Now, I’m afraid Kevin’s going to have to stay in
custody. Would you like to speak to your son?”
Picturing that smarmy, implacable expression of serenity I met
through the police car window, I shuddered, covering my face with my
hands. “No. Please, no,” I begged, feeling an awful coward. I must have
sounded like Celia, imploring weakly not to be forced to bathe when
there was still all that dark, sticky horror lurking in the bathtub trap.
“Please don’t make me. Please don’t. I couldn’t face him.”
“Then maybe it would be best for now if you just went on home.”

I stared at him stupidly. I was so ashamed, I honestly believed they
were going to keep me in jail.
If only to fill the awkward silence as I just looked at him, he added
gently, “Once we get a warrant, we will have to search your house.
That’ll probably be tomorrow, but don’t you worry. Our officers are very
respectful. We won’t turn the place upside down.”
“You can burn that house for all I care,” I said. “I hate it. I’ve always
hated it—”
The two looked at each other: hysterical. And they ushered me out the
door.
 
Freed—I couldn’t believe it—out in the parking lot, I wandered
desolately past my car, failing to recognize it the first time down the row;
everything in what was already my old life had grown alien. And I was
dumbfounded. How could they just let me go? Even at this early juncture
I must have begun to feel a deep need to be brought to book, to be called
to account. I had to stop myself from pounding on the station door and
importuning reception to please let me spend the night in a cell. Surely I
belonged there. I was convinced that the only pallet on which I would be
able to lie peacefully that night would be a cheap, lumpy mattress with a
scratchy institutional sheet, and the only lullaby that could possibly sing
me to sleep would be the grit of cordovans on concrete and the distant
clink of keys.
Yet once I found the car I became strangely calm. Sedate. Methodical.
Like Kevin. Keys. Lights. Seat belt. Windshield wipers on interval, for
there was a thin mist. My mind went blank. I ceased talking to myself. I
drove home very slowly, braking on yellow, coming to a legally
complete halt at the four-way stop, though there was no other traffic.
And when I curved up our long drive and noticed that none of the lights
were on, I thought nothing of it. I preferred not to.
I parked. Your truck was in the garage. I moved very slowly. I turned
off the wipers, and the lights. I locked the car. I put the keys in my
Egyptian bag. I paused to think of some other small everyday thing I
needed to take care of before walking in the house; I picked a leaf off the
windscreen, scooped your jump rope off the garage floor and hung it on
its hook.
When I turned on the light in the kitchen, I thought how unlike you it
was to have left all those greasy breakfast dishes. The skillet for your
sausage was upright in the drainer, but not the one for the French toast,
and most of the plates and juice glasses were still on the counter.

Sections of the Times splayed on the table, though taking the paper out to
the stack in the garage every morning was one of your neatnik
obsessions. Flicking the next light switch, I could see at a glance that no
one was in the dining room, living room, or den; that was the advantage
of a house with no doors. Still I walked through every room. Slowly.
“Franklin?” I called. “Celia?” The sound of my own voice unnerved
me. It was so small and tinny, and nothing came back.
As I advanced down the hall, I paused at Celia’s bedroom and had to
force myself to walk in. It was dark. Her bed was empty. The same, in
the master bedroom, the bathrooms, out on the deck. Nothing. Nobody.
Where were you? Had you gone looking for me? I had a mobile. You
knew the number. And why wouldn’t you have taken the truck? Was this
a game? You were hiding, giggling in a closet with Celia. This of all
nights you chose to play a game?
The house was empty. I felt a surging, regressive urge to call my
mother.
I walked through it twice. Though I had checked the rooms before, the
second time through I felt only deeper trepidation. It was as if there were
someone in the house, a stranger, a burglar, and he was just out of view,
stalking behind me, ducking under cabinets, clutching a cleaver. Finally,
shaking, I returned to the kitchen.
The previous owners must have installed those floodlights in the back
in expectation of lavish garden parties. We didn’t incline toward garden
parties and rarely used the floods, but I was familiar with the switch: just
to the left of the pantry, beside the sliding glass doors that opened to our
banked backyard. This was where I used to stand and watch you throw a
baseball with Kevin, feeling wistful, left out. I felt a little that way at that
moment—left out. As if you’d held some family celebration of great
sentimental significance, and of all people I hadn’t been invited. I must
have kept my hand on that switch a good thirty seconds before I flipped
it. If I had it to do over again, I’d have waited a few moments more. I
would pay good money for every instant in my life without that image in
it.
On the crest of the hill, the archery range lit up. Soon I would
understand the drollery behind Kevin’s lunchtime phone call to Lamont,
when he’d apparently told Robert not to bother to pick up Celia from
school, since she was “unwell.” Backed against the target was Celia—
standing at attention, still and trusting, as if eager to play “William Tell.”
As I wrenched the door open and flailed up the rise, my haste was
irrational. Celia would wait. Her body was affixed to the target by five

arrows, which held her torso like stick-pins tacking one of her crimped
self-portraits to a class bulletin board. As I stumbled nearer calling her
name, she winked at me, grotesquely, with her head knocked back.
Though I remembered putting in her prosthesis that morning, it was
missing now.
There are things we know with our whole being without ever having
to actively think them, at least with that verbal self-conscious prattle that
chatters on the surface of our minds. It was like that; I knew what else I
would find without having to specify it to myself outright. So when,
scrambling up to the archery range, I tripped over something sticking
from bushes, I may have sickened, but I wasn’t surprised. I recognized
the obstacle in an instant. I had bought pairs of chocolate-brown Stove
brogans from Banana Republic often enough.
Oh, my beloved. I may need too badly to tell myself a story, but I’ve
felt compelled to weave some thread of connection between the
otherwise meaningless dishevelment of that backyard and the finest in
the man I married.
With a good twenty minutes remaining before they had to leave for
school, you’d let the kids go out to play. In fact, it would have
encouraged you that for once the two of them were horsing around
together—bonding. You dawdled through the Times, though it was the
Home C-section on a Thursday, which wouldn’t entice you. So you
started on the breakfast dishes. You heard a scream. I don’t doubt that
you were out the sliding doors in a flash. From the bottom of the hill,
you went for him. You were a robust man, even in your fifties, still
skipping rope forty-five minutes a day. It would have taken a lot to stop a
man like you in his tracks. And you almost made it, too—a few yards
from the crest, with the arrows raining.
So here is my theory: I believe you paused. Outside on the deck, with
our daughter pinioned to an archery target with an arrow through her
chest, while our firstborn pivoted on his mound and sighted his own
father down the shaft of his Christmas crossbow, you simply didn’t
believe it. There was such a thing as a good life. It was possible to be a
good dad, to put in the weekends and the picnics and the bedtime stories,
and so to raise a decent, stalwart son. This was America. And you had
done everything right. Ergo, this could not be happening.
So for a single, deadly moment this overweening conviction—what
you wanted to see—fatally interposed itself. It is possible that your
cerebrum even managed to reconfigure the image, to remix the sound
track: Celia, pretty make-the-best-of-it Celia, darling look-on-the-bright-

side Celia, is once more inured to her disability and tossing her fine gold
hair cheerfully into the spring breeze. She isn’t screaming, she’s
laughing. She’s shrieking with laughter. The only reason Kevin’s helpful
girl Friday could conceivably be standing right in front of the target is to
faithfully collect her brother’s spent arrows—ah, Franklin, and wouldn’t
she. As for your handsome young son, he has been practicing archery for
six years. He has been scrupulously instructed by well-compensated
professionals, and he is nothing if not safety conscious. He would never
point a loaded crossbow at another person’s head, least of all at his own
father’s.
Clearly, the sunlight had played some visual trick. He is merely
waving an upraised arm. He must be hoping, without saying as much—
he is a teenager, after all—to apologize for lashing out at breakfast with
those harsh, ugly repudiations of everything his father has tried to do for
him. He is interested in how the Canon works, and he hopes you’ll
explain what “f-stop” means another time. In truth he deeply admires his
father’s enterprise in having seized upon such a quirky profession, one
that allows such creative latitude and independence. It’s just awkward for
an adolescent boy. They get competitive at this age. They want to take
you on. Still the boy feels awful now, for having let fly. The fit of pique
was all a lie. He treasures all those trips to Civil War battlefields, if only
because war is something that only men can understand with other men,
and he’s learned one heck of a lot from museums. Back in his room some
nights, he takes out those autumn leaves you two collected on the
grounds of Theodore Roosevelt’s ancestral home and pressed inside the
Encyclopedia Britannica last year. Seeing that the colors are beginning
to fade reminds him of the mortality of all things, but especially of his
own father, and he cries. Cries. You will never see it; he will never tell
you. But he doesn’t have to. See? The waving? He’s waving for you to
bring the camera. He’s changed his mind, and with another five minutes
left before he has to catch the bus, he wants you to take some
photographs after all—to start the montage, Braveheart of the Palisades,
for the foyer.
This masterful remake may not have lasted more than a second or two
before it corrupted, as a frozen frame will blister and crenellate before a
hot projection lamp. But it would have lasted just long enough for Kevin
to sink his first crippling shaft—perhaps the one I found angled through
your throat and protruding from the back of your neck. It must have
severed an artery; around your head, under the flood lamps, the grass
was black. The three other arrows—stuck in the hollow between your

pectorals where I loved to rest my head, fixed fast into the fibrous
muscle of your broad rope-skipping calf, and extending from the groin
whose pleasures we had so recently rediscovered together—were just-to-
be-on-thesafe-side touches, like a few extra stakes around the edges of a
well-pitched tent.
All the same, I do wonder just how hard you struggled up that hill,
really—wheezing, beginning to choke on your own blood. It wasn’t that
you didn’t care for her, but you may have grasped with a glance that it
was too late to save Celia. The fact she was no longer screaming was a
bad sign. As for saving yourself, maybe it just wasn’t in you. Stark in the
glare of the floods, sharpened by the shadow cast by the shaft in your
neck, the expression on your face—it was so disappointed.
 
Eva
 

 
 
April 8, 2001
 
Dearest Franklin,
 
 
I don’t know if you keep up with these things, but about a week ago a
Chinese fighter plane ran into an American surveillance craft over the
South China Sea. The Chinese pilot was probably drowned, and the
crippled American spy plane landed on the Chinese island of Hainan.
There seems to be some question as to whose craft hit whose. Anyway,
it’s become quite a diplomatic showdown, and now China is holding the
twenty-four American crew members hostage—for an apology, of all
things. I haven’t had the energy to follow who is and is not at fault, but I
have been intrigued that world peace (or so they say) hangs in the
balance over the sole matter of remorse. Previous to my education in
such things, I might have found the situation exasperating. Just say
you’re sorry then, if that will get them back! But nowadays the matter of
remorse looms great to me, and it neither surprises nor frustrates me that
momentous events might be decided in accordance with it. Besides, so
far this Hainan conundrum is relatively simple. It is so much more often
the case that an apology brings no one back.
Lately, too, politics seems to have dissolved for me into a swarm of
tiny, personal stories. I don’t seem to believe in it anymore. There are
only people and what happens to them. Even that fracas in Florida—to
me it was about a man who wanted to be president since he was a little
boy. Who got so close that he could taste it. About a person and his
sadness and his desperation to turn back the clock, to count again and
again until the news is good at last—about his poignant denial. Similarly,
I think less about trade restrictions and future arms sales to Taiwan than I
do about those twenty-four young people, in a strange building with
strange smells, fed meals that don’t resemble the take-out Chinese they
grew up with, sleeping badly, imagining the worst—being charged as a
spy and rotting in a Chinese prison while diplomats trade acid
communiqués that no one lets them read. Young people who thought
they were hungry for adventure until they got one.
I am sometimes awed by the same naïveté of my own younger self—
disheartened that Spain has trees, despairing that every unexplored

frontier turns out to have food and weather. I wanted to go somewhere
else, I thought. Witlessly, I conceived of myself as harboring an
insatiable appetite for the exotic.
Well, Kevin has introduced me to a real foreign country. I can be sure
of that, since the definition of the truly foreign locale is one that fosters a
piercing and perpetual yearning to go home.
 
A couple of these small, truly foreign experiences I have held back.
Which isn’t like me. You remember how I once loved to return from a
trip abroad and present you my cultural bric-a-brac, the kind of mundane
how-they-do-things-elsewhere discoveries that you only make if you
actually go there, like the queer little fact that in Thailand commercial
loaves of bread aren’t twist-tied at the heel of the loaf, but on the top.
As for the first tidbit I’ve withheld, I may be guilty of plain
condescension. I should give you more credit, since Kevin’s escapade
screamed premeditation; in another life he might have grown up to do
well at, say, staging large professional conferences—anything that’s
advertised as requiring “strong organizational abilities and problem-
solving skills.” Hence even you realize that Thursday being staged three
days before he turned the age of full legal accountability was no
coincidence. He may have been virtually sixteen on Thursday, but in a
statutory sense he was still fifteen, meaning that in New York state a
more lenient raft of sentencing guidelines would apply, even if they
threw the book at him and tried him as an adult. Kevin is sure to have
researched the fact that the law does not, like his father, round up.
Still, his lawyer did locate a range of convincing expert witnesses who
told 
alarming 
medical 
anecdotes. 
Typically, 
downhearted 
but
mildmannered fifty-something goes on Prozac, experiences an acute
personality flip into paranoia and dementia, shoots his whole family and
then himself. I wonder, have you ever clutched at the pharmaceutical
straw? Our good son was just one of those unfortunate few whose
reaction to antidepressants was adverse, so that instead of lightening his
burdens the drug plunged him into darkness? Because I really tried to
believe that myself for a while, especially during Kevin’s trial.
Though that defense neither got him off completely nor released him
into psychiatric care as intended, Kevin’s sentence may have been
slightly more lenient for the doubt his lawyer raised over his chemical
stability. After the sentencing hearing at which Kevin got seven years, I
thanked his lawyer, John Goddard, outside the courthouse. I didn’t, in
fact, feel very grateful at the time—seven years had never seemed so

short—but I did appreciate that John had done his best at a disagreeable
job. Scrambling for something of substance to admire, I commended his
inventive approach to the case. I said I’d never heard of Prozac’s alleged
psychotic effect on some patients or I’d never have allowed Kevin to
take it.
“Oh, don’t thank me, thank Kevin,” said John easily. “I’d never heard
of the psychosis thing, either. That whole approach was his idea.”
“But—he wouldn’t have had access to a library, would he?”
“No, not in pretrial detention.” He looked at me with real sympathy
for a moment. “I hardly needed to lift a finger, frankly. He knew all the
citations. Even the names and locations of expert witnesses. That’s a
bright boy you’ve got, Eva.” But he didn’t sound upbeat. He sounded
depressed.
 
As for the second tidbit—regarding how they do things in that faraway
land where fifteen-year-olds murder their classmates—I haven’t held it
back because I thought you couldn’t take it. I just didn’t want to think
about it myself or subject you to it, though until this very afternoon I was
living in eternal fear that the episode would repeat itself.
It was perhaps three months after Thursday. Kevin had already been
tried and sentenced, and I had recently installed those robotic Saturday
visits to Chatham in my routine. We had still not learned to talk to one
another, and the time dragged. In those days the conceit on his part ran
that my visits were an imposition, that he dreaded my arrival and
applauded my departure, and that his real family was inside, among his
worshipful juvenile boosters. When I informed him that Mary Woolford
had just filed suit, I was surprised that he didn’t seem gratified but only
the more disgruntled; as Kevin would later object, why should I get all
the credit? So I said, that’s a fine how do you do, isn’t it, after I lose my
husband and daughter? To get sued? He grunted something about my
feeling sorry for myself.
“Don’t you?” I said. “Don’t you feel sorry for me?”
He shrugged. “Got out of this safe and sound, didn’t you? Not a
scratch.”
“Did I?” I added, “And why was that, anyway?”
“When you’re putting on a show, you don’t shoot the audience,” he
said smoothly, rolling something in his right hand.
“You mean leaving me alive was the best revenge.” We were already
way beyond revenge-for-what.

I couldn’t talk about anything more to do with Thursday at that point,
and I was about to resort to the old are-they-feeding-you-all-right, when
my eye was drawn again by the object he kept palming from hand to
hand, palpating it rhythmically with his fingers like a string of worry
beads. Honestly, I just wanted to change the subject, I didn’t care at all
about his toy—though if I took his fidgeting as a sign of moral
discomfort in the presence of a woman whose family he had slaughtered,
I was sadly mistaken.
“What is that?” I asked. “What have you got there?”
With a small, crafty smile, he opened his palm, displaying his talisman
with the shy pride of a boy with his prize shooting marble. I stood up so
quickly that my chair clattered backward onto the floor. It isn’t often that
when you look at an object, it looks back.
“Don’t you ever pull that out again,” I said hoarsely. “If you do, I will
never come back here. Not ever. Do you hear me?”
I think he knew that I meant it. Which gave him a powerful amulet to
ward off these ostensibly pestilential visits from Mumsey. The fact that
Celia’s glass eye has remained out of my sight since can only mean, I
suppose, that, on balance, he’s glad I come.
 
You probably think that I’m just telling more tales, the meaner the better.
What a hideous boy we have, I must be saying, to torment his mother
with so ghastly a souvenir. No, not this time. It’s just that I had to tell
you that story in order that you better understand the next one, from this
very afternoon.
You surely noticed the date. It’s the two-year anniversary. Which also
means that in three days, Kevin will be eighteen. For the purposes of
voting (which as a convicted felon he will be banned from doing in all
but two states) and enlisting in the armed services, that’s when he
officially becomes a grown-up. But on this one I’m more inclined to side
with the judicial system, which tried him as an adult two years ago. To
me the day on which we all formally came of age will always be April
8th, 1999.
So I put in a special request to meet with our son this afternoon.
Though they routinely turn down appeals to meet with inmates on
birthdays, my request was granted. Maybe this is the kind of
sentimentality that prison warders appreciate.
When Kevin was issued in, I noticed a change in his demeanor before
he said a word. All that snide condescension had fallen away, and I
finally appreciated how fatiguing it must be for Kevin to generate this

worldweary who-gives-a-fuck the livelong day. Given the epidemic
thieving of small-sized sweats and T-shirts, Claverack has given up on its
experiment in street clothes, so he was wearing an orange jumpsuit—for
once one that wasn’t only normal-sized but too big for him, in which he
looked dwarfed. Three days from adulthood, Kevin is finally starting to
act like a little boy—confused, bereft. His eyes had shed their glaze and
tunneled to the back of his head.
“You don’t look too happy,” I ventured.
“Have I ever?” His tone was wan.
Curious, I asked, “Is something bothering you?” though the rules of
our engagement proscribe such a direct and motherly solicitation.
The more extraordinary, he answered me. “I’m almost eighteen, aren’t
I?” He rubbed his face. “Outta here. I heard they don’t waste much
time.”
“A real prison,” I said.
“I don’t know. This place is sure real enough for me.”
“... Does the move to Sing Sing make you nervous?”
“Nervous?” he asked incredulously. “Nervous! Do you know anything
about those places?” He shook his head in dismay.
I looked at him in wonder. He was shaking. Over the course of the last
two years, he has acquired a maze of tiny battle scars across his face, and
his nose is no longer quite straight. The effect doesn’t make him look
tougher, but disarranged. The scars have smudged the once sharp,
Armenian cut of his features into a doughier blur. He could have been
drawn by an uncertain portraitist who constantly resorts to an eraser.
“I’ll still come to visit you,” I promised, bracing myself for sarcastic
reproof.
“Thanks. I was hoping you would.”
Incredulous, I’m afraid I stared. As a test, I brought up the news from
March. “You always seem to keep up with these things. So I assume you
saw the stories out of San Diego last month? You have two more
colleagues.”
“You mean, Andy, uh—Andy Williams?” Kevin remembered vaguely.
“What a sucker. Wanna know the truth, I felt sorry for the chump. He’s
been had.”
“I warned you this fad would grow passé,” I said. “Andy Williams
didn’t make the headlines, did you notice? Dick Cheney’s heart problems
and that huge storm-that-never-happened both got bigger billing in the
New York Times. And the second shooting, on its heels—with one
fatality, in San Diego, too? That got almost no coverage at all.”

“Hell, that guy was eighteen.” Kevin shook his head. “I mean, really.
Don’t you think he was a little old for it?”
“You know, I saw you on TV.”
“Oh, that.” He squirmed with a tinge of embarrassment. “It was filmed
a while ago, you know. I was into a—thing.”
“Yes, I didn’t have a lot of time for the thing,” I said. “But you were
still—you were very articulate. You present yourself very well. Now all
you have to come up with is something to say.”
He chuckled. “You mean that isn’t horseshit.”
“You do know what day it is, don’t you?” I introduced shyly. “Why
they let me come see you on a Monday?”
“Oh, sure. It’s my anniversary.” He is finally turning that sardonicism
on himself.
“I just wanted to ask you—,” I began, and licked my lips. You’re
going to think this curious, Franklin, but I had never put this question to
him before. I’m not sure why; maybe I didn’t want to be insulted with a
lot of rubbish like jumping into the screen.
“It’s been two years,” I proceeded. “I miss your father, Kevin. I still
talk to him. I even write to him, if you can believe it. I write him letters.
And now they’re in a big messy stack on my desk, because I don’t know
his address. I miss your sister, too—badly. And so many other families
are still so sad. I realize that journalists, and therapists, maybe other
inmates ask you all the time. But you’ve never told me. So please, look
me in the eye. You killed eleven people. My husband. My daughter.
Look me in the eye, and tell me why.”
Unlike the day he turned to me through the police car window, pupils
glinting, Kevin met my gaze this afternoon with supreme difficulty. His
eyes kept shuttering away, making contact in sorties, then flickering back
toward the gaily painted cinder-block wall. And at last gave up, staring a
little to the side of my face.
“I used to think I knew,” he said glumly. “Now I’m not so sure.”
Without thinking, I extended my hand across the table and clasped his.
He didn’t pull away. “Thank you,” I said.
Does my gratitude seem odd? In fact, I’d harbored no preconception
of what answer I wanted. I certainly had no interest in an explanation
that reduced the ineffable enormity of what he had done to a pat
sociological aphorism about “alienation” out of Time magazine or a
cheap psychological construct like “attachment disorder” that his
counselors were always retailing at Claverack. So I was astonished to
discover that his answer was word-perfect. For Kevin, progress was

deconstruction. He would only begin to plumb his own depths by first
finding himself unfathomable.
When he did pull his hand back at last, it was to reach into his coverall
pocket. “Listen,” he said. “I made you something. A—well—sort of a
present.”
As he withdrew a dark rectangular wooden box about five inches long,
I apologized. “I know it’s your birthday coming up. I haven’t forgotten.
I’ll bring your present next time.”
“Don’t bother,” he said, polishing the oiled wood with a wad of toilet
paper. “It’d just get ripped off in here anyway.”
Carefully, he slid the box across the table, keeping two fingers on the
top. It wasn’t quite rectangular after all, but coffin-shaped, with hinges
on one side and tiny brass hooks on the other. He must have made it in
shop. The morbid shape seemed typical, of course. The gesture, however,
moved me, and the workmanship was surprisingly fine. He’d given me a
few Christmas presents in the olden days, but I always knew you’d
bought them, and he’d never given me anything while inside.
“It’s very nicely made,” I said sincerely. “Is it for jewelry?” I reached
for the box, but he kept his fingers on it fast.
“Don’t!” he said sharply. “I mean, please. Whatever you do. Don’t
open it.”
Ah. Instinctively, I shrank back. In an earlier incarnation, Kevin might
have crafted this very same “present,” lined mockingly with pink satin.
But he’d have relinquished it blithely—suppressing a grisly little smile
as in innocent expectation I unhooked the clasps. Today it was his
warning—don’t open it—that may have constituted the greatest measure
of my gift.
“I see,” I said. “I thought this was one of your most precious
possessions. Why ever would you give it up?” I was flushed, a little
shocked, a little horrified really, and my tone was stinging.
“Well, sooner or later some goon was going to swipe it, and it’d get
used for some cheap gag—you know, it’d turn up in somebody’s soup.
Besides. It was like she was, sort of, looking at me all the time. It started
to get spooky.”
“She is looking at you, Kevin. So is your father. Every day.”
Staring at the table, he shoved the box a little farther toward me, then
removed his hand. “Anyway, I thought you might take this and, well,
maybe you could, you know—”
“Bury it,” I finished for him. I felt heavy. It was an enormous request,
for along with his dark-stained homemade coffin I was to bury a great

deal else.
Gravely, I agreed. When I hugged him good-bye, he clung to me
childishly, as he never had in childhood proper. I’m not quite sure, since
he muttered it into the upturned collar of my coat, but I like to think that
he choked, “I’m sorry.” Taking the risk that I’d heard correctly, I said
distinctly myself, “I’m sorry, too, Kevin. I’m sorry, too.”
 
I will never forget sitting in that civil courtroom and hearing the judge
with tiny pupils announce primly that the court finds for the defendant.
I’d have expected to feel so relieved. But I didn’t. Public vindication of
my motherhood, I discovered, meant nothing to me. If anything, I was
irate. Supposedly we were all to go home now, and I would feel
redeemed. To the contrary, I knew I’d go home and feel hideous, as
usual, and desolate, as usual, and dirty, as usual. I’d wanted to be
cleansed, but my experience on that bench was much like a typically
sweaty, gritty afternoon in a Ghana hotel room: turning on the shower to
find that the water main was turned off. This disdainful rusty drip was
the only baptism the law would afford me.
The sole aspect of the verdict that gave me the slightest satisfaction
was being stuck with my own court costs. Although the judge may not
have thought much of Mary Woolford’s case, she had clearly taken a
personal dislike to me, and plain animosity from key parties (ask Denny
Corbitt) can cost you. Throughout the trial I had been aware that I cut an
unsympathetic figure. I had disciplined myself never to cry. I’d been
loath to use you and Celia for so venal a purpose as ducking liability, and
so the fact that my son had not only killed his classmates but my own
husband and daughter tended to get lost in the shuffle. Though I know
they didn’t mean to undermine my defense, that testimony from your
parents about my fatally forthcoming visit to Gloucester was disastrous;
we don’t like mothers who “don’t like” their own sons. I don’t much like
such mothers, either.
I had broken the most primitive of rules, profaned the most sacred of
ties. Had I instead protested Kevin’s innocence in the face of mountains
of hard evidence to the contrary, had I railed against his “tormentors” for
having driven him to it, had I insisted that after he started taking Prozac
“he was a completely different boy”—well, I guarantee you that Mary
Woolford and that defense fund she raised through the Internet would
have been forced to pay my court costs to the final dime. Instead, my
demeanor was repeatedly described in the papers as “defiant,” while my
disagreeable characterizations of my own flesh and blood were

submitted no-comment, to hang me out to dry. With such an ice queen
for a mother, little wonder, observed our local Journal News, that KK
turned bad boy.
Harvey was outraged, of course, and immediately whispered that we
should appeal. Paying costs was punitive, he said. He should know; he
was the one who would write the bill. But me, I was cheered up. I
wanted a verdict that was punitive. I had already depleted all our liquid
assets for Kevin’s pricey defense and had taken out a second mortgage
on Palisades Parade. So I knew immediately that I would have to sell
AWAP, and I would have to sell our awful, empty house. Now that was
cleansing.
But since then—and throughout writing these letters to you—I have
come full circle, making a journey much like Kevin’s own. In asking
petulantly whether Thursday was my fault, I have had to go backward, to
deconstruct. It is possible that I am asking the wrong question. In any
event, by thrashing between exoneration and excoriation, I have only
tired myself out. I don’t know. At the end of the day, I have no idea, and
that pure, serene ignorance has become, itself, a funny kind of solace.
The truth is, if I decided I was innocent, or I decided I was guilty, what
difference would it make? If I arrived at the right answer, would you
come home?
This is all I know. That on the 11th of April, 1983, unto me a son was
born, and I felt nothing. Once again, the truth is always larger than what
we make of it. As that infant squirmed on my breast, from which he
shrank in such distaste, I spurned him in return—he may have been a
fifteenth my size, but it seemed fair at the time. Since that moment we
have fought one another with an unrelenting ferocity that I can almost
admire. But it must be possible to earn a devotion by testing an
antagonism to its very limit, to bring people closer through the very act
of pushing them away. Because after three days short of eighteen years, I
can finally announce that I am too exhausted and too confused and too
lonely to keep fighting, and if only out of desperation or even laziness I
love my son. He has five grim years left to serve in an adult penitentiary,
and I cannot vouch for what will walk out the other side. But in the
meantime, there is a second bedroom in my serviceable apartment. The
bedspread is plain. A copy of Robin Hood lies on the bookshelf. And the
sheets are clean.
 

Forever your loving wife,
Eva
 

Copyright © 2003 by Lionel Shriver
 
Published by Counterpoint, 
A Member of the Perseus Books Group
 
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced in any manner whatsoever without
written permission except in the case of brief quotations embodied in critical articles and reviews.
For information, address Counterpoint, 387 Park Avenue South, New York, NY 10016-8810.
 
 
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data 
Shriver, Lionel. 
We need to talk about Kevin / Lionel Shriver. 
p. cm.
eISBN : 978-1-582-43887-0
1. Teenage boys—Fiction. 2. New York (State)—Fiction. 3. High 
schools—Fiction. 4. Massacres—Fiction. I. Title. 
PS3569.H742 W4 2003 
813’.54—dc21 2002152753
 
