
 
 
Love Rogo
 
a story by
 
Jeffrey A. Carver
 
 
*****
OceanofPDF.com

 
 
 
First published in Futurelove: A Science Fiction Triad
edited by Roger Elwood
Bobbs-Merrill Company, Inc., 1977
 
"Love Rogo"
Copyright 1977 Jeffrey A. Carver
 
 
A Starstream Publications Short Story
Discover other ebooks by Jeffrey A. Carver at
http://www.starrigger.net/ebooks.htm/
 
Smashwords Edition, License Notes
 
This ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This ebook may
not be re-sold or given away to other people. If you would like to share this
book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each
recipient. If you’re reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not
purchased for your use only, then please return to Smashwords.com and
purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the hard work of this
author.
 
*****
OceanofPDF.com

Love Rogo
 
Why I sensed that Rogo would enjoy a walk on the Sea Cliff Terrace I
don't honestly know, but I had the afternoon off and wanted to give my new
friend a treat. Even then he seemed to be "our" B-mot, though we had
hardly had him long enough to decide whether we wanted to keep him. He
had looked so helpless sitting at our door, and he was such a thoroughly
pleasant fellow, and Janice liked his name so much—I couldn't foresee that
either of us would ever want to send him away.
Too bad, that.
Rogo looked more or less like a dog most of the time— although as I
watched him galumphing with me along the pedestrifare he seemed more to
resemble an oversized bumper-pillow with four feet and two eyes. At other
times he looked like a brown earless bunny, or a down-covered basset
hound with small pointed ears where the big flappers should have been. B-
mots change in their appearance from time to time, which is awfully
disconcerting, and until I adjusted to it I was forever thinking my eyes were
trying to be funny.
Rogo charged on down through the public doors and sat eagerly waiting,
his head twitching in the breeze. There were relatively few people about,
and it looked to be a fine day outside the plexopolis. I hurried to join him,
glad to smell the fresh salt air after two weeks indoors. "Feels good, eh,
Rogo?" I luxuriated in the air from the sea; my cheeks livened at the cool,
washing, shoreward breeze. Rogo perked his ears and twisted his head
around with a doglike grin. We crossed the broad Terrace to get to the sea-
railing, Rogo romping ahead of me and planting himself blissfully at the
rail, facing seaward. As I caught up with him, he barked, without bothering
to look around. His "bark" was more of a sigh, like air crying from a
balloon whistle, pitched high and sliding down to a melancholy moan.
"Yeah, that's nice, Rog', you're absolutely right." The view was superb:
the ocean splayed out in lines and streaks from the Terrace-topped cliff,
breakers and distant whitecaps glittered in the afternoon sun, and from
somewhere at the base of the cliff the cascade and crumple of water like
repeating landslides kicked spray almost high enough to wet the Terrace. I
leaned out over the railing, eyes half closed, gathering a hint of salty mist in
my nostrils, against my face. Seen through slitted eyes, the sky itself was a
blue-gray cotton sea, a shifting matrix of interloping currents of fluid and

light and vertiginous depth. There was a sense of saturation in the sight,
sharpened to a clear crystal by voices in the air, voices of walkers, loungers,
lovers, arguers—and, over all, the lumber and hiss of the sea.
Sitting just close enough to hug my leg, Rogo was breathing with a soft,
repeated sigh, a sound that was something between a purr and a contented
hum. I liked his presence; he did not seem at all like a stranger. "Rogo,
boy," I said, "I think we're going to keep you." And I swear he understood.
He craned his ruffed neck and looked up at me with his small mouth partly
open and his eyes filled with solemn and total devotion. Touched by this
display, I batted him gently on the nose.
Too soon we had to start home for supper, and that meant a good four-
section, three-level hike into the plexopolis, the enclosed city which the
Terrace bordered like some giant's flowing mantel. As usual, my timing was
precisely wrong; I have a knack for stumbling into the worst rushes on the
pedestrifare. We were pushed and harried and delayed all the way to the
Clarendon Level, and at times I had to swing my arms like a turnstyle just
to keep mindless pedestrians from trampling Rogo. But through an hour of
curses and elbows and body odor I not only kept my temper, I kept my good
humor— and that was astonishing. I saw boredom, impatience, vicious
ugliness on tired and hungry faces, but somehow it keyed my senses, made
me brightly aware that there was life around me; and I found that the more
turmoil I saw, the more alert I became. Rogo woofed and grinned whenever
some moron stumbled over one of us, and while that may not seem like
much, it kept me jolly, kept me happy, and kept the whole ridiculous
business somehow in perspective, so that I could absorb the brutal jostling
and dish it right back, all without losing an ounce of good spirits. I have no
idea how he did it. I guess it was just his crazy B-mot manner.
I felt so good when we got home, I almost raped Janice before she could
say hello.
"Aren't we frisky today!" she yelped in surprise, escaping from my
clutches like a veteran. "What's got you so friendly?" She was starting to
laugh.
That, I thought, was unnecessary. She looked terribly appealing in her
clingy saffron houserobe—which was curious, since I had told her any
number of times that I didn't like that robe. "Dunno," I said over my
shoulder, going into the bathroom. When I came out again, I peered into the

microcook to see whether anything was cooking—nothing was—and said,
"We're keeping Rogo, okay?"
"Huh?"
"He's great company, and—look at him—we can't turn him in to the
Commissioner. Who knows where he'd wind up? He trusts us—look at
that." She turned and looked. Rogo was sitting respectfully by the door, as if
waiting for us to finish the discussion and cast our votes, thumbs up or
thumbs down. His fur was camel-brown at the moment and exceedingly
fluffed, and he looked at us with dark, gumdrop eyes, ready to leave at once
if that was what we wanted.
"We really don't have room, you know, Lackey dear."
"How much room can he take?"
"Well, I don't know—we'd have to get a permit." Her eyebrows were
crunched together very thoughtfully.
"So we'll get one tomorrow. What do you say?" I took her by the
shoulders and smiled, disarmingly, I hoped.
"Hmm. Okay." She grinned and kissed me suddenly. The sneak—she had
been sold all along; she had just wanted to make me work for it.
"Rogo, you're in!" I shouted, hugging Janice fiercely. Rogo allowed
himself a woof-sigh and settled down for a nap in his new home. Janice and
I settled in for our own kind of celebration.
The night improved as it went along. While we didn't get around to
supper until quite late, we enjoyed each other more that night than we had
in ages. It was funny, because we had been snipping at each other for
months, and suddenly that was all behind us. It was as if all those months
had been a long pause, as if we had been holding our breath, and now we
were free to tumble even more desperately into love than before. Rogo lay
serenely near the foot of our bed while we made love, and his occasional
wistful sighs filled our moments of silence nicely, making it all seem that
much more right. The night fled quickly as we slept in tired, tangled
peacefulness.
Though I felt springy and spry in the morning, I wanted to call in sick at
work. But Janice talked me out of it, saying that she had to go to school
anyway. So I went to the office and to my astonishment was afflicted by a
sudden rush of interest in my work. Now, a job shuffling government
personnel forms is not a likely target for enthusiasm, but I found myself
actually reading documents I had handled for years, and suddenly I was

marveling at the intricate nonsense that government paperwork entails.
Employment histories, regional residency histories, mating histories,
security ratings . . . I not only worked my full five hours; I stayed a half
hour overtime.
When Janice got home from her art classes, we went down and
registered Rogo at the Pet Commissioner's office:
 
CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRY OF RESIDENTIAL PET
 
Description of pet: B-mot. Name of pet: Rogo
Circumstances of acquisition: He acquired us (stray).
Veterinary clearance documentation: To be obtained.
Name of owner(s): John Lackland; Janice Lieberkind.
If joint ownership, length of prior cohabitation: 1 1/2 years.
Residence of owner(s): 924A-K Third Floor Clarendon
Level; same.
Occupation (s) of owner (s): G-11b Reg. Gov. Person. Clerk;
Student.
Soc. Sec. No. owner(s): 3-647-55-6915, 3-654-82-9164.
Permit number, pet (to be assigned by Office of Commissioner):
Bmt-34895AK.
 
. . . and so on and on; there was lots more of the same sort of thing.
Three pages' worth, not counting duplicates, and I examined it all with great
care and delight. Then, once he was official, we took old Bmt-34895AK to
the nearest vet, who pronounced him fit and healthy. This was basically a
formality, since B-mots are considered immune to terrestrial diseases
anyway, but we needed the clearance note for the Pet Commissioner. By the
time we were finished with all the tape-running, it was too late to do
anything recreational that day, so we went home and hatched a plot for the
following day.
I'd had a premonition that my new-found enthusiasm for work was likely
to wear thin rather quickly, so instead of putting it to the test, I shuffled
some papers bearing my own name and secured myself a week's advance
vacation, beginning immediately. Janice, meanwhile, arranged for someone
to cover for her in class. It was an outrageous thing for us to do, and we
knew we'd pay for it later, but we were in the crazy high of having a good

time for ourselves, and we just said, What the hell? So we made our excuses
and ran, with Rogo.
We headed up the coast by train, several hundred kilometers north and a
hundred or so inland, to Mount Adrexica—the man-made mountain which
neither Janice nor I (nor, presumably, Rogo) had ever seen. It was an
impressive edifice, appearing to be a hybrid between a real mountain and
some of the old amusement park varieties; according to the guide literature
it had been built largely out of industrial glassy slag and clinkers—urban
refuse from an entire region—and sealed (they sounded as if they were
joking) with Lake Erie dredge spoil. The basic lumpy mountain was then
cut and shaped with fusors and carefully triggered landslides, filled,
planted, landscaped, and finally frosted with snow and even a small glacier
near the summit.
After checking into the Winterside Lodge, we spent the better part of the
afternoon just gawking at the mountain from the various overlooks, finding
it utterly entrancing: sleek false-winter snow capping the upper slopes and
curling down and around the lower ones, here sweeping along a smooth-
carved ski run, there dropping from an overhang down an ice-ornamented
precipice. Skiers swam like dots and clusters down the wrinkles and ridges
of the mountain's skin, then zipped out at the bottom onto a great wide
apron of fresh powder. No ski lift was visible, just skiers disappearing into
the mouth of the underground elevator like bowling balls into a hidden
return. Janice was interested in the people rambling in and out of the chalet,
brightly plumed and muffled folk with skis under their arms, a few of them
with the longer and slower old-style skis, and everyone chattering and
laughing, as if the crisp bright aura of the mountain had exorcised all spirits
but glittering enthusiasm.
After a while, we hurried down from the promenade ourselves and went
outside onto the snow. Rogo at first poked nervously at the edge of the icy,
powdery stuff and sat himself down just clear of it, sighing and grinning
wolfishly; but finally, with a lot of whistling and foolish giggling, we
coaxed him out into the snow and got him romping like an excited puppy,
bouncing and digging and coming up with snootfuls of snow. Being
lowslung, he was never quite able to lift himself clear of the white stuff, so
he looked as though he were swimming or belly-crawling, when he was
actually just trying to walk. His fur rippled in the air like satin ruffles,
gradually turning a pale buff, and it probably would have turned as white as

a seal cub's coat if we'd stayed out long enough. When he focused his jet-
black eyes on us to announce that he was getting cold, we raced with him
back to the patio and the fireplace warmth of the chalet.
Around on the Summerside of Adrexica was the Gladepool, and that was
where we headed next. It sat beneath straight, tall, snow-topped cliffs which
split outward at the mountain's foot to shoulder a vale lush with vegetation,
with a crystalline blue pool basin at its lower end. The air was heated,
moist, and ripe with a flowery sweetness and the scent of ferns. We started
our exploration with a stroll through a wide grove between the Summerside
Chalet and the pool.
Here the only bit of unpleasantness marred a near-perfect day.
A tired-looking man stumbled toward us from somewhere off in the
grove; he was leading a gray B-mot, not quite so large as Rogo, and he was
drunk. Before he was even close, we smelled the Erythraean gin. "Hey,
there!" he shouted—to whom, we didn't know. Janice urged me ahead,
hoping to avoid him, but the man called out again, and this time it was clear
he was addressing us. He walked up, swaying unpleasantly close to my
face. "That beast of yours," he said, staring at me with a glazed, drunken
intensity, "that thing is going to be a troublemaker; look at 'im."
I looked at Rogo, standing docilely. I looked at the man. "What?" I said.
"Yah, you say that. Here, now, keep him away from my Ricky." Rogo
had noticed the other B-mot, and the two animals were touching noses but
showing no great excitement. The man toed Rogo, who backed away
hastily, looking insulted. If he had hurt Rogo, I would have slugged him.
"Yah, you stay away from my Ricky," he grumbled. He looked around
dazedly, suddenly ignoring us. He turned, coughed hoarsely, and croaked,
"Place sure isn't all it's billed to be, is it?" Then laughed—an ugly, drunken
laugh.
My good mood was gone, and I was becoming angry. What right, for
god sakes, did this pitiful fool have to spoil our day? "Listen," I said,
straining to keep my voice level, "there are a thousand other places you can
go if you don't like it here." Janice was harrumphing, plucking at my arm,
but now that this ass had bothered us, I was going to make it clear to him
that I didn't like it at all.
"Sure, sure," he said blandly. "You and the woman getting a real charge
out of all this, huh?" He chuckled obscenely, leered at Janice, looked back
at me, and turned away.

"Listen, you—" I started, raising my fists, but Janice had a firm grip on
me now. The epitome of calm. She caught my eye and shook her head. She
knew damned well I had no tact when insulted, nor did I have intimidating
bulk or the blessing of an agile tongue. In any case, the man was walking
away with his Ricky; we had been forgotten. "Let's go, Rog'," I growled,
and let Janice pick a new heading through the woods.
I was burning, my pride and my dignity offended, but I rather relished
the feeling—it was the first genuine anger I had felt in months, and it was a
purging anger; not boredom or frustration, but good honest malice. I
gripped Janice's hand tightly as we walked, smelling the wood-green smells
of the grove, feeling the spring of fallen pine needles under my feet, and
living my anger to its fullest in the rushing world sealed in my mind—until
the anger had burned itself pure and my good humor returned. The
transformation was as cleanly perceptible as the rush of a clear liquor's
vapors to my skull. We left the woods and walked at the edge of the pool
basin and sat in the grass under a warming sun. Janice smiled at me, glad to
see me happy again; the incident seemed not to have affected her at all. I
touched her nose with a finger, stroked the front strands of her hair. When
Rogo poked his head between ours to get his share of the affection, I
roughed him up vigorously, and he sighed in perfect contentedness.
"We'll remember this," Janice said later, walking with her hand in mine
around the pool. The water was utterly flat, a clear blue in the midst of the
verdant leaves. The pool was fed from beneath, the basin an asymmetric
funnel, darkening in the middle to its indiscernible source. "Mm-hm," I
answered. Janice talked that way when she was feeling very close, very
gentle, very much in love—and that was how I always answered.
Rogo lurched and nipped at the pool's bank, and we laughed quietly as
we watched the sun breaking up behind the trees as it sank, and watched
each other and were as happy as we would ever be in our lives.
 
***
 
No one seems to know just how the B-mots acquired their peculiar
name. No doubt I have failed to ask the proper individuals. All I know is
that they were brought here a few years back by the visitors from
Betelgeuse—those gangling fellows who toured Earth with all the fanfare
and spotlights. They brought along some of their pets, which after the

official welcomings they displayed enclosed in strange little spheres for all
the scientists and media people to see and record. They had a regular
sampler of Betelian native stock, including plants and fishes and land
animals. Under scientific supervision, some of these were released into
Earth-type environments; a few died, but most were adaptable to Earth and
appeared quite harmless. This was all very enlightening scientifically, no
doubt, but the scientists could hardly have predicted the spectacular
popularity of one animal, the B-mot, for which even one-time viewers
developed a quick and unshakable adoration. The B-mots were the new
darlings, and they seemed to love people as much as people loved them.
Eventually the powers that be decided that it was all right to turn them
loose, and the Betelians happily provided several hundred for distribution.
The B-mots bred like crazy, and soon it was possible for nearly everyone
to have one. According to the Betelians, they would reproduce as long as
they were happy, but not to excess—they would never breed in burdensome
numbers. It seemed to be true; at least, I had never heard of anyone's
wanting to wish them away. The Betelians themselves, I believe, went
home. Don't quote me on that—some of them may still be around
somewhere.
To Janice and me, Rogo was an all-new experience, and we learned as
we went along. For a time, it seemed too easy—he ate little and kept
himself clean—and we were lulled into believing that the cost of owning
him would be no greater. He occupied a great deal of our attention, though,
mainly just by being lovable, and we thought this a blessing. He was always
jolly, or, if one of us was angry or depressed, sympathetic—the perfect
companion.
Janice usually got home before I did and would often take Rogo out for
some exercise and play—which was fine with me, until I began coming
home to a place that was empty until suppertime. Eventually I chided her
gently about this, and she blushed and promised never to let it happen
again. "But," she said wryly, "who greets Rogo so effusively that half the
time he forgets to say Hi to his beloved roommate, hmm?" Well, she had a
point there. I grinned sheepishly and promised, et cetera, and we were both
happy again, at least for a while.
My work started to get me down, though, mainly because of my boss.
Mrs. Curtzen is a vicious old lady at heart, I believe, and when she chose to
interrupt my peaceful reverie with her grating voice next to my ear, I would

virtually shrivel on the spot. "You didn't have enough time on your
vacation, Mr. Lackland?" would come the singsong-query nagging. A
scowl, a shrug, and then back to looking as though I were working. Ah, but
the reverie! Ever since the beginning of our trip, I had felt a glow in my
fingertips, a sharpening of my senses. I was filled with marvelous
conceptions of space, colors, smells, temperature rhythms, sound flows.
Strange perceptions constantly at my notice. From my seat at work I had a
perfect view of the lines, the depth of the office, the play of light on the
curves of the desks and chairs. I listened to the heartbeat in my head, and
noticed little twinges and tickles in my nervous system—signals, I suppose,
of discharges, systems clearing the boards or recharging for the next round.
Pleasant, intriguing—but I wasn't getting much work done. "Mr. Lackland,
shall I call the supervisor and tell him you're not happy with your work?"
Damn woman. I'd shake my head, dive energetically into my work.
When I wasn't lost in a symphony of senses, I was lost in thought,
wondering why not; what was wrong with me?
I told Janice, and she gave me a Well, what can you expect? look and
said, tugging at a piece of yarn on a tapestry puzzle she was making, "You
ought to start thinking more like a robot when you're at work. Save some of
that creative energy for me. You've been slipping a bit lately, you know."
Was that the best she could do? I had to act like a robot; did I have to
think like one, too? Hey, wait a minute! "Who's been slipping? Me?" She
slid one lip up over the other, half-smiled, shrugged. She would say no
more, but she watched me as I walked around for a while, frowning and
wondering.
We had gotten into the habit in the evenings of taking Rogo for walks in
Clarendon Park, an indoor arboretum with some flowers and trees and a
small aviary, all housed under a geodesic dome at the edge of Clarendon
Level. It was a convenient place to let Rogo run. Out the right side of the
dome, one could see, in staggered fashion downward, the lighted domes of
Berkeley and Arlington parks, while above and to the left were the
stepping-slab undersides of the upper-level parks, all dark and shadowy.
The real attraction, though, was the Clarendon garden itself. Rogo liked to
poke around the shrubbery; he snuffed his way curiously, with almost feline
delicacy, rarely touching anything, even with his nose. Janice and I simply
enjoyed the view and the flowers, and watched Rogo with his insatiable

interest. It struck me as a curious thing that he was an alien from another
world, because to us he was just someone with whom we shared our lives.
I was almost afraid to say it, but finally one night I remarked to Janice
that I was getting a little tired of the park. Actually, I thought I was just in a
soul-slump at the time, because I hadn't been enjoying much of anything
lately. "Maybe it's the dog shit," she said dryly. I chuckled and dropped the
subject, but I wondered what had prompted such a nasty remark. That was a
long-standing annoyance to her, but she had been carefully keeping it to
herself for harmony's sake. Well, one would have had to suppose that there
was B-mot shit involved, too, although B-mots tend to be more discreet
than dogs.
More deeply disturbing was her behavior later that night, when she
became coldly cranky for no reason I could fathom. Rogo and I had worked
up a game involving our polywater bed, which he loved bouncing around
on, especially when it was rolling like surf. We played a sort of keep-away,
with me jouncing the mattress energetically while Rogo fumbled with a
Floppo-Ball too big for him to hold in his jaws which lurched and bounced
crazily—and that was what Rogo did, also, romping and stumbling, and
somehow always turning on his nose. B-mots do not normally turn on their
noses. Rogo thought it great fun, and he could have gone on long after I
tired.
I thought Janice was angry because she felt neglected. But when I
apologized, she scowled and punched another videocassette into her study-
deck. "If you're that crazy about him, go back and play," she muttered
sullenly.
"Hey!" I went around in front of her so she would look at me. "Don't you
like him, too?" Of course I knew she did; something else was wrong.
"Sure. I'll get in my hour another time." She ignored me, pretending to
study. I was amazed; I couldn't believe she was seriously jealous of Rogo.
Dumbly I went back to sit beside Rogo. I wondered what was going on,
and why I wasn't doing anything about it. I should have tried to get her to
talk, but for a long time I didn't; I was hurt, and I just didn't want to. Finally,
Janice accused me of not caring very much. "I care," I said defensively. But
she didn't want to believe me, and she wouldn't listen. "Janice, talk to me
now—don't just be mad."
Arched eyebrows. Back to her studying.

I sensed that jealousy was not the problem. It was something else—
chemistry, brain waves, something. Okay, every couple has occasional bad
nights. We'd been lucky to have had so few.
Before we went to bed, she said, "I'm sorry, Lackey. I'm not mad at you
or Rogo. I'm mad at myself."
Which helped not at all. Rogo knew what was going wrong —oh yes—
but by the time I understood, my world was far too far gone.
Shortly thereafter my work began to improve, in a manner of speaking. I
was growing numb to it and was therefore less distracted, which kept Mrs.
Curtzen off my back. In point of fact, I was growing numb to quite a lot of
things. My walk to the office took me through a variety of neighborhoods,
past noisy and interesting shops on Berkeley Level, but I found myself
arriving at work or at home with hardly any impression in my mind of what
the walk had been like. It was not that I was failing to pay attention; I saw
the shops, the signs, the displays, the milling people, but none of it was
sinking in; none of it mattered; none of it seemed worth remembering.
I was frightened, in the way one might fear a potentially serious and
protracted illness. I had always prided myself on my appreciation of things
around me. Perhaps it was just the weather outside, the season, the ions in
the air. It was temporary; things would return to normal, I thought. But
somewhere within me I suspected otherwise.
Then Janice confessed to me that she had been skipping her classes for
the past two weeks. I was surprised; I didn't know what to say. "What have
you been doing?" I asked.
"Walking," she said, "sitting at home, going out. Sometimes I take
Rogo." She tried to smile, but the smile was an impoverished effort,
flickering on her lips like a futilely struggling candle flame.
I started to tell her what she was risking by skipping school, but she
stopped me immediately. Yes, yes, she said; but she couldn't concentrate,
she was bored. "Oh." I had thought she liked her classes. "What's wrong,
anyway?"
She looked at me very strangely for a long minute, as if she thought I
knew very well what was wrong. She had not reckoned with my obtuseness,
however. "My paintings: they're dull, gray, worse than nothing at all." She
said it very emphatically, very dejectedly. Then she walked out into the
kitchen and left me standing with a strange tight pressure across my chest,
in a room full of emptiness, as if the air had exploded out of the room. I sat

and stared into the distance of a blank blue wall and wondered how it was
that everything I prized was tumbling, going to gray, turning flat; I was
hardly aware that Rogo was beside me, absorbing the strokes of my hand on
his fur with muffled, healthy little sighs. When he moaned and caught my
attention, I realized that my hand was on his ruffed neck, and I jerked it
back as if bitten; and I wondered, Now, why did I do that?
 
***
 
Later, I found Janice walking in a slow dance around Rogo, studying
him as if he were a statuette for sale in a gallery. She stooped, touched his
middle with her fingertips, looked exasperated and thoughtful. Rogo looked
oblivious. "Measuring him for a dress or for the cooker?" I asked her.
"Mmm," she said, paying no attention.
"How's that again?" She still ignored me, so I tapped her on the arm.
She looked up, startled. "Hi," she grunted. "I was just thinking that this
fellow is getting a bit big. And I wondered why."
"Feeding him too much." We fed him hardly anything.
"Uh-huh. John, how sure are we that Rogo's a guy?"
"The vet said so."
"Well, can little boy B-mots get pregnant?" She knelt beside him,
stroking his flanks gently.
"Well, why don't we ask the vet? Never thought about it, myself." The
idea was mildly disturbing, but I figured that taking him back to the
medicine man would give us something to do.
We did, and he was. Pregnant. According to the vet, he still was a he, so
we learned something else that day: B-mots are androgynous, or something
along those lines. We did not press for a fuller explanation, because frankly
we were too shocked at the thought of having a prospective mother on our
hands. Rogo took the news calmly, silently.
On the way home Janice told me she didn't know whether she wanted to
keep him. Our nice male pet was going to fill the living room with babies—
that was a very alien thing to do, she said. And there was something else
about Rogo that bothered her, but she chickened out of saying it, and that
was as close as we came to bringing our growing suspicions into the open.
(Now, why were we afraid? Was it some extraordinary embarrassment, or
was it just part of his power over us, his charm that we were afraid to

question or insult? Or were we merely stupid?) Janice kept me awake half
the night, staring at me in the gloom from her side of the bed. "We can't just
throw the poor guy out," I insisted logically. "Besides, you used to like him
too."
"I do like him; he's adorable! But he's got me suspicious. What do we
really know about him?" That he was turning us into glassy-eyed nervous
wrecks? That was what I thought, but I didn't say it. Janice turned her back
to me, making it clear that she considered the situation hopeless. Before she
went to sleep I reminded her that we had a few weeks yet to decide before
Rogo's babies were due.
I hadn't forgotten that Rogo was no Earthling. But only now did it occur
to me to wonder why he had left his last owner . . . or why he had been
thrown out. Could he have been pregnant that long ago? Had his previous
owner reacted the same way as Janice? Should I not have thought through
all of this long ago? Such questions skittered around in my head until I went
to sleep—and then returned when I awoke.
But we were just being foolish. He was ours now, and he trusted us, and
Janice was stirring up trouble over nothing. Ha, ha—right?
"Isn't that true, old boy?" I asked, hoping fervently that he would agree.
Rogo sighed, sniffed, and stretched out his chin on the carpet. I sat on the
floor and watched him. He knew he was under discussion, and it was
hurting him. I felt rotten about it. When Janice went out for a while, I
confided in him. "For some reason we're not getting along too well, Rog'."
He knew I meant Janice and me. "We haven't—well, I don't know what it is,
really." Like hell I didn't. But it looked as if I couldn't say it, even to Rogo.
Well . . . all right, I would say it. "I'm not . . ." He looked up at me, just
moving his eyes. "We're not getting through to each other, Rogo. Not
anymore." As if he didn't already know. "We're . . . I'm trying. It's not your
fault, boy."
Coward. Shameless, groveling, sniveling coward. Was this beautiful,
alien animal so innocent? Wasn't he self-assured and full of life now,
watching me flounder in a morass I couldn't even begin to understand?
Nothing was getting through, for sure. Nothing was getting to me at all.
Nothing. Now, not even the rottenness I had felt just moments ago. Could I
be that numb? Could my gut feelings, my senses, be wafting, evaporating,
disappearing from my body, like sweat from a dying man in a desert? For a
moment I felt a harsh thickening in my throat and a fluttering spasm of the

diaphragm. I shut my eyes tightly, tensed my muscles, and waited for it to
go away—and it did; a feeling of profound, tearless despair wrenched at me
with a vicious grip and in an instant left me tingling emptily, with the
faintest nausea, wondering if I would ever feel any such emotion again.
Rogo studied me sadly: perhaps a bit fatter, a bit stronger.
I kept my distance from Rogo most of the evening, but that was as
decisive as I became. When Janice came home we talked, not very
interestedly, and passed the night. Rogo watched silently from his corner of
the room, no sign of playfulness in him now. Janice puttered around in the
kitchen for a while, then sat with me watching some nameless program on
the big screen. We exchanged a few words, no touches, no expressions of
comfort, none of anger. I assembled a wire-model tree kit; she worked on
her tapestry puzzle. When our eyes met, it was with a start, an aborted surge
of energy—and then we would be like strangers, or separating friends.
Some part of me was crying for help, but the cry was coming faintly
from some closed, sealed place within. I was horrified at what was
happening, at its suddenness, but I could find no handle to it, no way of
knowing just what it was or how to put it into words. I was a man staring at
myself with helpless eyes from some remote location, not able to speak or
touch, but only to watch, to feel a secondhand anguish. I cut my finger,
carelessly twisting a piece of wire on my model; I observed a small, dense
globule of red liquid growing on my skin and wondered why, if it was
blood, there was no pain.
Two days passed, and I sank steadily deeper into this quicksand as
though wallowing in the self-pity of a futile love. Janice spoke not at all of
things that mattered, and I could only assume that she too was suffering: but
where were the words for asking? I quietly ceased caring, like a man
drowning in a carbon monoxide slumber.
Janice found the will to struggle when I did not. How, I don't know—
perhaps she was more immune, or simply stronger. She took me to the Sea
Cliff Terrace, having insisted on leaving Rogo at home. It was a stiff, breezy
day outside, the water and sky colorful and shifting. "He's got to go," she
said, facing the water. There was no anger, no passion in her voice, only a
firmer determination than I had suspected she possessed. "He goes before
he ruins us completely."
Before? I almost laughed, but I stopped myself: it would have been a
cheap laugh. Instead I said, "Isn't it a bit late for that?" I looked out to sea,

searching for something to move me from dead center.
Janice stared into my eyes with what I thought might be anger. I knew it
was no longer the pregnant mother she was worried about; it was the
lovable, love-stealing alien himself we were harboring. "Is it too late?" she
demanded flatly, still not sounding angry.
I thought about it. I continued searching the water, blue and a bit gray,
churning up and down. I said, "We can't leave him out in the cold. He loves
us; we have a responsibility to him." God, still I was defending him!
"John!" Her voice rose violently, suddenly filled with hysteria. "What
about us, what about ourselves?" I shrugged; I didn't know. "Do you know
what he's doing to us? Haven't you ever wondered why those bastards,
those aliens, were so goddamn generous with their damn animals? Haven't
you?" The woman was shrieking, actually scaring me.
"No!" I shouted in defense and alarm. But I had, and I knew she was
right. And the more clearly I saw it, the less capable I seemed of acting on
it. This was happening to someone else. There was an airy silence all
around our nook of the Terrace; the sea crumpled quietly on the rocks
below; a gull cried out over the water. So what? it cried.
"John."
"What?" She had been speaking to me, but I hadn't heard her.
"I said, Do you still love me?" She looked at me, glanced away, then
back again. I was startled by the question, not because she had asked it, but
because she had given me no time to prepare for it. I looked slowly, blindly,
in several directions. I nodded vaguely, deflecting the question like a limp
ball.
"Okay," I said suddenly, "he goes." The lie passed so easily from my
lips. I loved Rogo; I wasn't going to get rid of him.
Janice nodded with real understanding and looked at me with crushed
eyes, in a defeat that once would have broken my heart.
 
***
 
Rogo, I say, staring solemnly into his eyes, why did you come? To stay
until there's nothing left to stay for? To move on, to do it all over?
He looks like a great unshorn poodle, gray and fluffy, sprawled
uncomfortably under my stare. I can't hate him for being what he is. I can
only love him, and be sorry. How long will you stay, Rogo? Did we last as

long as the people before us? Will you need a more nourishing home so
your babies can grow?
Do you suffer for us, Rogo?
I can only stare, loving him with what memories of substance remain in
my heart, and absently, futilely, I wonder how he does it.
Rogo himself makes no answer. He just returns my gaze calmly, sadly,
with those dark unblinking eyes which reflect so faintly, yet so clearly what
he has stolen.
 
*****
 
OceanofPDF.com

About the Author
 
Jeffrey A. Carver was a Nebula Award finalist for his novel Eternity's
End. He also authored Battlestar Galactica, a novelization of the critically
acclaimed television miniseries. His novels combine thought-provoking
characters with engaging storytelling, and range from the adventures of the
Star Rigger universe (Star Rigger's Way, Dragons in the Stars, and others)
to the ongoing, character-driven hard SF of The Chaos Chronicles—which
begins with Neptune Crossing and continues with Strange Attractors, The
Infinite Sea, and Sunborn.
A native of Huron, Ohio, Carver lives with his family in the Boston area.
He has taught writing in a variety of settings, from educational television to
conferences for young writers to MIT, as well as his own Ultimate Science
Fiction Workshop with Craig Shaw Gardner. He has created a free web site
for aspiring authors of all ages at http://www.writesf.com. Learn more about
the author and his work at http://www.starrigger.net.
*
For a complete guide to Jeffrey A. Carver's ebooks, visit:
http://www.starrigger.net/ebooks.htm
OceanofPDF.com

Books by Jeffrey A. Carver
 
Seas of Ernathe
Star Rigger's Way
Panglor
The Infinity Link
The Rapture Effect
Roger Zelazny's Alien Speedway: Clypsis
From a Changeling Star
Down the Stream of Stars
Dragons in the Stars
Dragon Rigger
Eternity's End
Battlestar Galactica: the Miniseries
 
The Chaos Chronicles
Neptune Crossing
Strange Attractors
The Infinite Sea
Sunborn
The Reefs of Time*
 
*forthcoming
 
*****
 
OceanofPDF.com
