J 

THE KILL 
With the publication of The Kill our 
series of Zola translations 
reaches 
a 
milestone, for this is one of the key 
novels 
in Zola’s 
pitiless 
analysis 
of 
nineteenth-century Paris. 
This novel plunges deep into what 
Angus Wilson has called ‘< the feverish, 
complicated world of the adventure- 
speculators 
who 
formed 
the 
cafe- 
society of the Second Empire ’’. 
It is 
the rapacious world of the gamblers 
who flocked to Paris for their share of 
the spoils to be carved out of Baron 
Haussmann’s rebuilding of Paris. 
This 
was 
the 
motive 
that 
drew 
Aristide Saccard to Paris ; and here the 
theme of financial gain becomes inter- 
twined with that of physical desire. 
As his second wife, Saccard marries 
Renée, a wealthy and attractive young 
woman. 
His son by his first marriage, 
Maxime, comes home from school and 
his step-mother, already bored with her 
money-obsessed 
husband, 
introduces 
him to the shallow, frivolous society 
life which is her sole occupation. 
Little by little, as Maxime grows up, 
seduces 
the servant 
girl, takes mis- 
tresses, has affairs with his stepmother’s 
friends, Renée herself falls in love with 
her stepson—and so comes about the 
half-incestuous theme of the book which 
Zola called ‘ a study in money and the 
flesh ’. 
It is also the powerful portrait of a 
degenerate world, immeshed 
in the 
lust for gain and pleasure. 
Introduction by Angus Wilson, 
16s. B@ net 
D 
CASS 

This book is to be returned on or before 
the last date stamped below. 
£2. 
xi 
Uy 
ry, 
og. oct 94 
NORFOLK COUNTY LIBRARY 
cow 
VUMIUINNUUIY 
ITEM 014 400 783 

Digitized by the Internet Archive 
in 2022 with funding from 
Kahle/Austin Foundation 
https://archive.org/details/killOOO0emil 

THE KILL 


THE KILL 
EMILE ZOLA 
Translated from the French by 
A. TETXEIRA DE MATTOS 
Introduction by 
ANGUS WILSON 
LONDON 
ELEK BOOKS 

All rights reserved 
Published by 
ELEK 
BOO KS 
1. fD-,, 
14 Great James Street, 
London, W.C.1. 
Made and printed in Great Britain by 
A. WHEATON & CO. LTD. 
EXETER DEVON 
wh nh Rimes 

INTRODUCTION 
THE ironical disposition of events in history, however we may care 
to explain it, is a never ending source of diversion. It tempers the 
solemn course of the past with a pleasant measure of absurdity. 
Zola planned his large cycle of novels to portray the decline of 
society under the Second Empire, yet he was wholly taken un- 
awares when that Empire actually fell. During the months which 
preceded Napoleon III’s disastrous campaign against the Germans 
—months 
of feverish, inadequate military preparation, 
political 
rumour and court intrigue—Zola, accompanied by his wife, was 
visiting the Jardin des Plantes and very earnestly, rather laboriously, 
‘taking note of the exact names of the tropical plants in the hot- 
houses. Such exact cataloguing was the necessary prelude in Zola’s 
scheme of things to writing the scenes of seduction and lust among 
the newly-moneyed classes of the Second Empire, scenes appro- 
priately to be played out in a hothouse. When war broke out, Zola, 
with two female dependants and a poor physique, was exempted 
from military service. He made his way to his native Provence and 
eked out a miserable livelihood by chance journalism. No scheme 
could have been more stillborn than the projected cycle of the 
‘ Rougon-Macquart. The first volume La Fortune des Rougon had 
been published comparatively unnoticed. Although the precious 
manuscript of La Curée, the second in the projected cycle, went 
with Zola to the Midi, he was too occupied there and in Bordeaux 
with day to day living to be able to work on it. But his single- 
minded determination was shown immediately he was able to return 
to Paris. Despite the fact that part of the city was in the hands of 
the moderate Republicans and part in the hands of the Commun- 
ards, Zola’s concern was solely for securing the publication of his 
new novel, and, in his disregard for mete political differences, he 
found himself arrested by each side in the course of the same 
twenty-four hours. It might well be suggested that a man who had 
so little prophetic sense that he was taken by surprise when so 
creaking a structure as Napoleon III’s Empire finally fell, a man 
5 

who felt the pressure of social forces so little that he could regard 
the class-warfare of the Commune as a tiresome distraction, was of 
all men the least suited to write the imaginative chronicle of his 
age. Yet such a suggestion is really quite superficial. Insight may be 
most deeply penetrating without attempting that rather arbitrary, 
jigsaw puzzle dovetailing of events, which is the basis of political 
foresight. Whilst the events of the last twenty years have shown that 
the writer who is ultimately most committed to his time is not 
necessarily the most immediately politically partisan. Zola observed, 
and observed 
most 
exactly, 
the manners 
of his age, without 
sacrificing one inch of the egotism which made his imaginative 
reconstruction of the Second Empire infinitely more real and im- 
portant to him than the actual course of history. Above all, he 
was deeply absorbed in himself and there is a sense, I suspect, in 
which self-knowledge is for a writer the sole means of apprehending 
the world in which he lives. 
The day of double arrest decided Zola that Paris was no place in 
which to risk his precious enterprise. He moved from his house in 
Batignolles to Bonniére and there sat down to finish La Curée. The 
serialization in the newspaper La Cloche began in September 1871 
before the work was completed. Not many instalments had ap- 
peared before the outside world once more interfered. The censor 
of the Third Republic was unwilling to accept the scene of Renée’s 
seduction in the Café Riche by her stepson, even though this was 
an attack on the morals of the fallen régime. Serialization was sus- 
pended and Zola, out of friendship for La Cloche’s editor Louis 
Ulbach, wrote a letter of apology. La Curée gained few readers, for 
Lacroix, the publishing house on which the publication of the 
Rougon-Macquart chronicle depended, had always been in a pre- 
carious financial position. It soon failed completely. “The high 
project,” at which, Henry James said, “imagination stood in awe at 
the very wonder,” seemed sadly likely to peter out in obscurity. 
But true to the best traditions of biography, Zola’s darkest hour, 
in fact, heralded the dawn. Lacroix had always been a pis-aller 
publisher, and the terms upon which Zola was to write for them 
would have crippled his life. Unlikely as it seemed that a sub- 
stantial publisher would be willing to take on so precarious a ven- 
ture, or one whose infant reputation was already so sullied in correct 
literary circles, the principle of inheritance, which Zola found so 
unpleasant when it gave his friend Cézanne a small private income, 
came to his rescue. The wealthy, firmly established publishing firm 
6 

of Charpentier had recently passed into the hands of young Georges 
Charpentier; and it was he who, with the backing of Maurice 
Dreyfous, gave Zola, in this desperate time, the backing he had 
always hoped for. The publication of the Rougon-Macquart series 
by Charpentier, which followed La Curée, brought good to every- 
one. Charpentier’s trust and generosity ensured the author the 
security he needed in order to write; the success of the novels 
ultimately brought huge fortunes to publisher and author alike. 
Young Madame Charpentier found in Zola the lion her salon 
needed, while he gained in her a social, mondaine adviser of 
the greatest help to his future career. It is interesting to speculate 
what his publisher’s wife, who had her foot securely on the social 
ladder, made of La Curée, the novel of high society by a young man 
who knew no more of the smart world than an occasional news- 
paper soirée. 
In the course of the great Rougon-Macquart cycle, Zola was 
to rush fearlessly into social worlds far above and far below his own 
experience. It was the outstanding greatness of his own imaginative 
powers and his intuitive sympathies, that he could take the care- 
fully amassed facts of sociology, and investing them with the 
violence of his own despairs and ambitions, bring to life a strange 
world of his own, at once intensely factual and highly distorted. 
The courage required to write La Curée is, however, the most re- 
markable audacity of his career. With nothing to guide him but the 
blue books of the State Auditor’s office, the fashion columns of 
the newspapers, the sales inventories of rich houses and the cata- 
logue of contents of the hothouses of the Jardin des Plantes, he set 
out to picture the extravagances, the corruption, the restless sexual 
boredom of the great nouveau riche world of the Second Empire 
speculators. 
Of course, the reading of a few chapters of La Curée, in par- 
ticular those concerning the financial complications of Aristide 
Saccard’s exploitation of the Haussmann real estate boom, will show 
that without the force of Balzac’s influence upon his imagination, 
Zola could not have succeeded. But, it is also true, as any Balzacian 
will immediately and indignantly assert, that La Curée is no imita- 
tion of Balzac. There is much that is ragged and unassimilated in 
La Curée, much again that borders on the absurd, but the faults 
are those of a future master in his own right, not of a bungling 
imitator. It is a matter of fact that at the time when Zola wrote La 
Curée, he had only just attained a precarious place in bourgeois 
7 

domesticity, had only just left penury and starvation behind him; 
it is also a matter of fact that the circles of which he wrote were as 
distant from him as the moon, but that fact does not emerge. 
Whatever its occasional crudities and overwriting, there is nothing 
that might not have come from the pen of a young, somewhat 
over-intense frequenter of Second Empire salons. In this respect 
it is notable that even his most hostile critics, for example the young 
Paul Bourget, in their diatribes against the immoral tone of the 
book, the depraved pictures of society that it gave, attacked La 
Curée for its too great realism, not for its unreality. All this, of 
course, is to say no more than that Zola had at an early age the 
highest power of imaginative assimilation with social circles he did 
not know, that he was in fact a great novelist. La Curée, however, 
is one of the most interesting of Zola’s novels, because it is the first 
in which this intuitive gift was given full rein. 
It is unfortunately true, however, that the early works of great 
novelists receive considerable attention for the light that they throw 
on the mature works of their authors, although their intrinsic 
literary merit is small. This, of course, makes them of peculiar 
interest to the student of literary history or to the specialised critic, 
but is of small comfort to the general reader who is led into reading 
them by the power of the author’s name. Let me say frankly then 
that La Curée is not among the four or five greatest of Zola’s 
novels, but it is, I think, a very absorbing and powerful book, rich 
in the entertainment value which rightly counts highest among the 
demands of the ordinary reader, and of very remarkable interest to 
the more serious literary critics for its sustained dramatic force and 
its build-up of emotional tension through carefully constructed set 
pieces. 
The story is presented in two interwoven threads: 
the financial 
speculations of Aristide Saccard, 
a member of the Rougon family 
who has descended upon Paris from Provence in order to share in 
the spoils of the speculators and builders, who are pulling down 
the narrow medieval streets and the elegant hotels of the ancien 
régime to make way for the avenues and boulevards we now know. 
He is quickly disencumbered of his provincial wife and his son 
Maxime is sent away to school in Provence. Aided by his sister 
Sidonie, 
a richly Balzacian woman who might come from the 
pages of Cousine Bette, he marries a young girl Renée of the old 
merchant classes of Paris whose pregnancy makes her an easy prey 
to marital adventurers. Since Aristide has got her on easy terms, 
8 

with an eye to her dot, which is house property in an area scheduled 
for improvement, he is never alive to her youth and beauty. He 
acquires the high class demi-mondaine Laure as a mistress; his 
beautiful, social hostess young wife has her lovers. The situation, 
which is brilliantly portrayed, might have lasted for ever with an 
increasingly money-obsessed husband and an increasingly bored 
extravagant wife. But into the household comes Maxime from his 
school, thirteen years of age, precocious, idle, depraved and pretty. 
The boy is immediately the doll of his bored young stepmother 
and is taken by her to every dress show, to her friend’s boudoirs, 
until he seems to drip with the small talk, the perfumes and the 
amours of these smart young married women. Dress and scandal 
make up the lives of these two pretty hangers-on of the swindler. 
Little by little, as Maxime grows up, seduces the servant girl, takes 
mistresses, has affairs with his stepmother’s friends, Renée finds 
herself in love with him. Boredom, the excitement of a novel, 
vicious situation, the easy, garcon relationship between them, all 
point to this. And so comes about the theme of the novel which 
Zola called “The modern Phédre”, and “a study in money and the 
flesh”. For students of Zola’s particular, somewhat strange con- 
ception of sexual morality, La Curée is a key novel. It is not so 
much the illicit nature of Renée’s love for Maxime, nor its half in- 
cestuous nature that makes it tragic, but the manner in which an 
easy, somewhat vicious, pleasure-seeking friendship between two 
young people slips into passion and thence to satiety and disaster. 
If Maxime is the effeminate dandy, Renée is the eager, boyish 
pursuer. The whole affair is, in Zola’s eyes, the forbidden fruit 
which was afterwards to destroy L’Abbé Mouret in his garden of 
Paradou, the forbidden androgynous pleasure of sex pursued for 
fun rather than for procreation. It is a curiously Catholic view 
for the great anti-Catholic writer. It is perhaps because it touched 
Zola’s own secret desires and fears so deeply that the descriptions 
of Renée’s and Maxime’s love-making are so remarkably powerful. 
The seduction in the private room at the Café Riche, the adultery 
on the bear skin in the great hothouse might so easily have been 
absurd, a mixture of Maurice Dekobra and Disraeli; but they are 
not: 
they are exciting, moving and extraordinary vivid. In fact, 
throughout this novel of financial scheming and hothouse love there 
runs that extraordinary visual sense of Zola’s, giving us a larger 
than life picture so clearly, so vividly that we find it more con- 
vincing than the real world. 
Ancus WILSoNn 
9 

_ 
bal 5’ 
ia 
' 
F aol. 
es 
Ate 
3 
; 
vty 
¥ 
ve 
nits 
‘edi 
ames 
at 
* ve oo 
5 
- id ‘ ethno 
oa haath, ci 
ae : 
: 
sh Nissi 

4 
ON THE drive home, the calash could make but little way against 
the obstruction of carriages returning by the edge of the lake. 
At one moment the block became such that it was even necessary 
to pull up. 
The sun was setting in a pale grey October sky, streaked on the 
horizon with thin clouds. One last ray, falling from the distant 
shrubberies of the cascade, pierced the roadway, and flooded the 
long array of stationary carriages with pale red light. The golden 
glints, the bright flashes thrown by the wheels, seemed to have 
settled along the straw-coloured edges of the calash, while the dark- 
blue panels reflected bits of the surrounding landscape. And higher 
up, full in the red light that lit them up from behind, and gave 
effulgence to the brass buttons of their capes half-folded across the 
back of the box, sat the coachman and footman, in their dark-blue 
liveries, their drab breeches, and their yellow-and-black striped 
waist-coats, erect, solemn and patient, after the manner of well-bred 
servants who are in no way put out by a block of carriages. Their 
hats, adorned with black cockades, looked very dignified. The 
horses alone, a pair of splendid bays, snorted with impatience. 
“Look,” said Maxime, “Laure d’Aurigny, over there, in that 
brougham. . 
. 
. Do look, Renée.” 
Renée raised herself slightly, and blinked her eyes with the exqui- 
site grimace caused by the shortness of her sight. 
“T thought she had vanished from the scene,” said Renée. 
. 
. 
“She has changed the colour of her hair, has she not?” 
“Yes,” replied Maxime, laughing; “her new lover hates red.” 
Awakened from the melancholy dream that for an hour had kept 
her silent, stretched out in the back seat of the carriage as in an 
invalid’s long-chair, Renée leaned forward and looked, resting her 
hand on the low door of the calash. Over a gown consisting of a 
mauve silk polonaise and tunic, trimmed with wide plaited flounces, 
she wore a little coat of white cloth with mauve velvet lapels, which 
gave her a look of great smartness. Her strange, pale, fawn-coloured 
11 
> 

hair, whose shade recalled the colour of good butter, was barely 
concealed by a tiny bonnet adorned with a cluster of Bengal roses. 
She continued to screw up her eyes with her look of an impertinent 
boy, her pure forehead furrowed by one long wrinkle, her upper 
lip protruding like a sulky child’s. Then, finding that she could not 
see, she took her eye-glass, 
a man’s double eye-glass framed in tor- 
toiseshell, and, holding it in her hand without placing it on her nose, 
at her ease examined the fat Laure d’Aurigny, with an air of 
absolute calmness. 
The carriages were still blocked. Among the massed dark patches 
made by the long line of broughams, of which numbers that autumn 
afternoon had crowded to the Bois, gleamed the glass of a carriage- 
window, the bit of a bridle, the plated socket of a lamp, the braid 
on the livery of a lackey perched on his box. Here and there 
a bit of stuff, a bit of a woman’s dress, silk or velvet, flashed from 
an open landau. Little by little a deep silence had taken the place 
of all the bustle that now stood dead and motionless. ‘The occupants 
of the carriages could distinguish the conversation of the people on 
foot. Silent glances were exchanged from window to window; and 
all ceased talking during this wait, whose silence was broken only 
by the creaking of a set of harness, or the impatient pawing of a 
horse’s hoof. The blurred voices of the Bois died away in the 
distance. 
All Paris was there, in spite of the lateness of the season: 
the 
Duchesse de Sternich, in a chariot; Mme. de Lauwerens, in a smart 
victoria and pair; the Baronne de Meinhold, in an enchanting light- 
brown cab; the Comtesse Vanska, with her piebald ponies; Mme. 
Daste, with her famous black steppers; Mme. de Guende and Mme. 
Teissiére in a brougham; little Sylvia in a dark-blue landau. And 
then there was Don Carlos, in mourning, with his solemn, old- 
fashioned liveries; and Selim Pasha, with his fez and without his 
tutor; the Duchesse de Rozan, in a miniature brougham, with her 
powdered livery; the Comte de Chibray, in a dog-cart; Mr. Simp- 
son, driving his perfectly-appointed drag; and the whole American 
colony. Then, finally, two Academicians in a hired cab. 
The front carriages were released, and one by one the whole 
line began to move slowly on. It resembled an awakening. A thou- 
sand lively coruscations sprang up, quick flashes played among the 
wheels, sparks flew from the horses’ harness. On the ground, on the 
trees, were broad reflections of trotting glass. This glitter of wheels 
and harness, this blaze of varnished panels glowing with the red 
12 

gleam of the setting sun, the bright notes of colour cast by the 
dazzling liveries perched up full against the sky, and by the rich 
costumes projecting beyond the carriage-doors, were carried along 
amid a hollow, sustained rumbling sound, timed by the trot of the 
horses. And the procession went on, with the same noise, the same 
effects of light, unceasingly and with one impulse, as though the 
foremost carriages were dragging all the others behind them. 
Renée yielded to the first slight jolt of the calash, and lowering 
her eye-glass, threw herself back on the cushions. Shivering, she 
drew towards her a corner of the bearskin that filled the body of the 
carriage as with a sheet of silky snow, and plunged her gloved 
hands into the long, soft, curly hair. The wind began to blow from 
the North. The warm October day, which had given the Bois an 
aftermath of spring and brought the great ladies out in open 
carriages, threatened to end in a bitterly cold evening. 
For a moment Renée remained huddled in the warmth of her 
corner, giving way to the pleasurable lullaby of wheels turning 
before her. Then, raising her head, towards Maxime, whose eyes 
were calmly undressing the women spread out in the adjacent 
broughams and landaus : 
“Tell me,” she said, “do you really think that Laure d’Aurigny 
handsome? How you sang her praises the other day, when they 
were discussing the sale of her diamonds! ... By the way, did you 
not see the necklace and the airgrette your father bought me at the 
sale?” 
“Yes, he does things well,” said Maxime, without answering, 
laughing mischievously. “He finds means to pay Laure’s debts and 
to give diamonds to his wife.” 
Renée made a slight movement with her shoulders. 
“Wretch !” she murmured, with a smile. 
But Maxime was leaning forward, following with his gaze a lady 
whose green dress interested him. Renée had thrown back her head 
and with half-closed eyes glanced listlessly at the two sides of the 
avenue, seeing nothing. On the right, copses and low-cut planta- 
tions with reddened leaves and slender branches passed slowly by; 
at intervals, on the track reserved for riders, slim-waisted gentle- 
men galloped past, their steeds raising little clouds of fine dust 
behind them. On the left, at the foot of the narrow grass-plots that 
run down intersected by flower-beds and shrubs, the lake, clear as 
crystal, without a ripple, lay as though neatly trimmed along its 
edges by the gardeners’ spades; and on the further side of this 
13 

translucent mirror, the two islands, with between them the grey 
bar formed by the connecting bridge, displayed their smiling slopes 
and the theatrical outlines of fir-trees and evergreens, whose black 
foliage, resembling the fringe of curtains cunningly draped along 
the edge of the horizon, was reflected in the water. This scrap of 
nature, that seemed like a newly-painted piece of scenery, lay 
bathed in a faint shadow, in a pale blue vapour which succeeded 
in lending to the background an exquisite charm, an air of en- 
trancing artificiality. On the other bank, the Chalet des Iles, as 
though newly varnished, shone like an unused toy; and the paths of 
yellow sand, the narrow garden walks that wind among the lawns 
and run along the lake, edged with iron hoops in imitation of 
rustic woodwork, stood out more curiously, in this last hour of day- 
light, against the softened green of grass and water. 
Accustomed to the ingenious charms of this perspective, Renée, 
once more yielding to her languor, had lowered her eyelids alto- 
gether, and looked only at her slender fingers twisting the long 
hairs of the bearskin. But there came a jolt in the even trot of the 
line of carriages. And, raising her head, she nodded to two ladies 
lolling languidly, amorously, side by side, in a chariot which was 
noisily leaving the road that skirts the lake, in order to go down one 
of the side avenues. The Marquise d’Espanet, whose husband, lately 
an aide-de-camp to the Emperor, had just created a great scandal 
by allying himself with the discontented members of the old nobility, 
was one of the most prominent leaders of society of the Second 
Empire; her companion, Mme. Haffner, was the wife of a cele- 
brated manufacturer of Colmar, a millionaire twenty times over, 
whom the Empire was transforming into a politician. Renée, a 
schoolfellow of the two inseparables, as people nicknamed them with 
a knowing air, called them by their Christian names, Adeline and 
Suzanne. 
As, after smiling to them, she was about to sink afresh into her 
corner, a laugh from Maxime made her turn round. 
“No, really, I feel too sad: don’t laugh, I mean what I say,” she 
said, seeing that the young man was watching her ironically, mak- 
ing merry over her huddled attitude. 
Maxime put on a comedy voice : 
“How unhappy we are: how jealous 
She seemed quite amazed. 
“I!” she said. “Jealous what of ?” 
14 
1? 

. And then added, with a pout of contempt, as though remember- 
ing : 
“Ah, to be sure, that fat Laure! 
I had not given her a thought, 
believe me. If Aristide has, as you say, paid that woman’s debts and 
saved her from having to pack up her trunks, it only proves that he 
is less fond of money than I thought. This will restore him to the 
ladies’ good graces. . 
.. The dear man, I leave him every liberty.” 
She smiled, and pronounced the words “the dear man” in a voice 
full of friendly indifference. And suddenly, becoming very sad 
again, casting around her the despairing glance of women who do 
not know in what form of amusement to take refuge, she mur- 
mured : 
“Oh, I should like to. 
. 
. 
. But no, I am not jealous, not at all 
jealous.” 
She stopped doubtfully : 
“You see, I am bored,” she said at last, abruptly. 
Then she sat silent, with her lips pressed together. The line of 
carriages still rolled along the lake with its even trot and a noise 
singularly resembling a distant water-fall. Now, on the left, there 
rose, between the water and the roadway, little bushes of evergreens 
with thin straight stems, forming curious little clusters of pillars. On 
the right, the copses and plantations had come to an end; the Bois 
opened out into broad lawns, into vast expanses of grass, with here 
and there a clump of tall trees; the green-sward ran on, with gentle 
undulations, 
to the Porte de la Muette, whose low gates, that 
seemed like a piece of black lace stretched on the level of the 
ground, could be distinguished at a very great distance; and on the 
slopes, at the places where the undulations sank in, the grass seemed 
quite blue. Renée stared fixedly before her, as though this widening 
of the horizon, these gentle meadows, soaked in the evening air, had 
caused her to feel more keenly the void of her existence. 
After a pause she repeated, querulously : 
“Oh, I am bored, bored to death.” 
“This is not amusing, you know,” said Maxime, calmly. “Your 
nerves are out of order, undoubtedly.” 
Renée threw herself back in the carriage. 
“Yes, my nerves are out of order,” she replied dryly. 
Then she became motherly : 
“IT am growing old, my dear child; I shall soon be thirty. It’s 
terrible. Nothing gives me pleasure. 
. 
. 
. You, who are twenty, can- 
not know...” 
1B) 

“Was it to hear your confession that you brought me out?” in- 
terrupted the young man. “It would take the devil of a long time.” 
She received this impertinence with a faint smile, as though it 
were the outburst of a spoilt child that knows no restraint. 
“I should recommend you to complain,” continued Maxime. 
“You spend more than a hundred thousand francs a year on your 
dress, you live in a sumptuous house, you have splendid horses, your 
caprices are law, and the papers discuss each of your new gowns 
as an event of the most serious importance; the women envy you, 
the men would give ten years of their lives for leave to kiss the 
tips of your fingers... Is what I say true?” 
She nodded affirmatively, without replying. Her eyes cast down, 
she had resumed her task of curling the hairs of the bearskin. 
“Come, don’t be modest,” Maxime continued; “confess roundly 
that you are one of the pillars of the Second Empire. We need not 
hide these things from one another. Wherever you go, at the 
Tuileries, at the houses of ministers, at the houses of mere million- 
aires, high or low, you reign a queen. There is not a pleasure of 
which you have not had your fill, and if I dared, if the respect I 
owe you did not restrain me, I should say...” 
He paused for a few seconds, laughing, then finished his sentence 
cavalierly : 
“T should say you had bitten at every apple.” 
She moved no muscle. 
“And you are bored!” resumed the young man, with droll 
vivacity. “But it’s scandalous! .. 
. What is it you want? What on 
earth do you dream of ?” 
She shrugged her shoulders to imply that she did not know. 
Though she kept her head down, Maxime was able to see that she 
looked so serious, so melancholy, that he thought it best to hold 
his tongue. He watched the line of carriages, which, when they 
reached the end of the lake, spread out, filling the whole of the open 
space. The carriages, packed less closely, swept round with majestic 
grace; the quicker trot of the horses sounded noisily on the hard 
ground. 
The calash, on going the round to join the line, rocked in a way 
that filled Maxime with vague enjoyment. Then, yielding to his 
wish to crush Renée : 
“Look here,” he said, “you deserve to ride in a cab! That would 
serve you right! .. 
. Why, look at these people returning to Paris, 
people who are all at your feet. They hail you as their queen, and 
16 

your sweetheart, M. de Mussy, can hardly refrain from blowing 
kisses to you.” 
A horseman was, in fact, bowing to Renée. Maxime had been 
talking in a hypocritical, mocking voice. But Renée barely turned 
round, and shrugged her shoulders. At last the young man made a 
gesture of despair. 
“Really,” he said; “have we come to that? .. 
. But, good God, 
you have everything : what do you want more?” 
Renée raised her head. In her eyes was a glow of light, the 
ardent desire of unsatisfied curiosity. 
“I want something different,” she replied, in a low voice. 
“But since you have everything,” resumed Maxime laughing, 
“there is nothing different. 
. 
. 
. What is the ‘something different’ 
?” 
“What?” she repeated. 
And she did not continue. She had turned right round, and was 
watching the strange picture fading behind her. It was almost 
night; twilight was falling slowly like fine ashes. The lake, seen from 
the front, in the pale daylight that still hovered over the water, 
_ became rounder, like a huge tin dish; on either side, the plantations 
of evergreens, whose slim straight stems seemed to issue from its 
slumbering surface, assumed at this hour the appearance of purple 
colonnades, delineating with the evenness of their architecture the 
studied curves of the shores; and again, in the background, rose 
shrubberies, confused masses of foliage, whose large black patches 
closed up the horizon. Behind these patches shone the glow of the 
expiring sunset, that set fire to but a small portion of the grey 
immensity. Above this placid lake, these low copses, this singularly 
flat perspective, stretched the vault of heaven, infinite, deepened 
and widened. This great slice of sky hanging over this small morsel 
of nature caused a thrill, an undefinable sadness; and from these 
paling heights fell so deep an autumnal melancholy, so sweet and 
so heart-breaking a darkness, that the Bois, wound little by little 
in a shadowy shroud, lost its mundane graces, widened, full of the 
puissant charm that forests have. The trot of the carriages, whose 
bright colouring was swept away in the twilight, sounded like the 
distant voices of leaves and running water. All died away as it went. 
In the centre of the lake, in the general evanescence, the lateen 
sail of the great pleasure-boat stood out, strongly defined against 
the glow of the sunset. And it was no longer possible to distinguish 
anything but this sail, this triangle of yellow canvas, immeasurably 
enlarged. 
17 

Renée, satiated as she was, experienced a singular sensation of 
illicit desire at the sight of this landscape that had become un- 
recognisable, of this bit of nature, so wordly and artificial, which 
the great vibrating darkness transformed into a sacred grove, one 
of the ideal glades in whose recesses the gods of old concealed their 
Titanic loves, their adulteries, and their divine incests. And, as the 
calash drove away, it seemed to her that the twilight was carrying 
off behind her, in its tremulous veil, the land of her dream, the 
flagitious, celestial alcove in which her sick heart and weary flesh 
might at last have been assuaged. 
When, fading into the shadow, the lake and the bushes showed 
only as a black bar against the sky, Renée turned round abruptly, 
and, in a voice that contained tears of vexation, resumed her inter- 
rupted phrase : 
“What? ... something different, of course; 
I want something 
different. How do I know what! 
If I did know. ... But, look here, 
I am sick of balls, sick of suppers, sick of that sort of entertainment. 
It is so monotonous. It is deadly. 
... And the men are insufferable, 
ah ! yes, insufferable.” 
Maxime began to laugh. A certain eagerness became apparent 
under the aristocratic aspect of the woman of fashion. She no 
longer blinked her eyelids, the wrinkle on her forehead became 
more harshly accentuated; her lip, that was so like a sulky child’s, 
protruded in hot quest of the nameless enjoyment she pined for. 
She observed her companion’s laughter, but was too excited to 
stop; lying back, swayed by the rocking of the carriage, she con- 
tinued in short, sharp sentences : 
“Yes, certainly, you are insufferable. 
. 
. 
. I don’t include you, 
Maxime, you are too young. ... But if I were to tell you how 
ponderous Aristide used to be in the early days! And the others! 
the men who have been my lovers. 
. 
. 
. You know, we are good 
friends, you and I: 
I don’t mind what I say to you; well then, 
there are really days when I am s0 tired of living this life of a rich 
woman, adored and worshipped, that I feel I should like to become 
a Laure d’Aurigny, one of those ladies who live like bachelors.” 
And on Maxime laughing still louder, she insisted : 
“Yes, a Laure d’Aurigny. It would surely be less insipid, less 
monotonous.” 
She sat silent for a few minutes, as though picturing to herself 
the life she would lead if she were Laure. Then, with a note of dis- 
couragement in her voice : 
18 

~“After all,” she resumed, “those women must have their own 
annoyances too. There is nothing amusing in life. It is killing work. 
... As I said, one ought to have something different; you under- 
stand, I can’t guess what; but something else, something that would 
happen to nobody but one’s self, that would not be met with every 
day, that would give a rare, unknown enjoyment... .” 
She spoke more slowly. She uttered these last words as though 
seeking something, giving way to absent reverie. The calash went 
up the avenue that leads to the entrance of the Bois. The darkness 
increased; the copses ran along on either side like grey walls; the 
yellow iron chairs upon which, on fine evenings, the middle-class 
loves to attitudinise in its Sunday best, filed away along the foot- 
ways, all unoccupied, with the gloomy melancholy air common to 
garden furniture overtaken by the winter; and the rumbling, the 
dull rhythmical noise of the returning carriages passed down the 
deserted avenues like a sad refrain. 
Maxime doubtless appreciated the bad form of thinking life 
amusing. Though young enough to give himself over to an out- 
- burst of contented admiration, his egoism was too great, his indiffer- 
ence too cynical, he already experienced too much real weariness, 
not to proclaim himself disgusted, sick, and played-out. And, as a 
rule, he took a certain pride in making the confession. 
He threw himself back like Renée, and assumed a plaintive voice. 
“Yes, you are right,” he said; “it is killing work. As for that, I 
amuse myself no more than you do; I too have often dreamt of 
something different. 
. 
. 
. There is nothing so stupid as travelling. 
Making money: 
I prefer to run through it, though even that is 
not always so amusing as one at first imagines. Loving and being 
loved: 
we soon get sick of that, don’t we? ... Yes, we get sick of 
a 
Renée made no reply, and he went on, desiring to astound her 
with a piece of gross blasphemy : 
“T should like to have a nun in love with me. Eh? that might be 
amusing. .. 
. Have you never dreamt of loving a man of whom 
you would not be able even to think without committing a crime?” 
But her gloom continued, and Maxime, seeing that she remained 
silent, concluded that she was not listening. She seemed to be 
sleeping with her eyes open, the nape of her neck resting against 
the padded edge of the calash. She lay listlessly thinking, a prey to 
the dreams that kept her depressed, and at times a slight nervous 
movement passed over her lips. She was softly overcome by the 
Lg 

shadow of the twilight; all that this shadow contained of sadness, of 
discreet 
pleasures, 
of hopes unacknowledged, 
penetrated 
her, 
covered her with an air of morbid languor. Doubtless, while staring 
at the round back of the footman on his box, she was thinking of 
those delights of yesterday, of those entertainments that had so 
palled upon her, that she was weary of; she contemplated her past 
life, the instantaneous satisfaction of her appetites, the fulsomeness 
of luxury, the appalling monotony of the same loves and the same 
betrayals. Then, with a ray of hope, there came to her, with shivers 
of longing, the idea of that “something different” which her mind 
could not strain itself to fix upon. There, her dream wandered. Con- 
stantly the word that she strove to find escaped into the falling 
night, became lost in the continuous rolling of the carriages. The 
soft vibration of the calash was but one more impediment that 
prevented her from formulating her desire. And 
an immense 
temptation rose from the empty space, from the copses asleep in the 
shadow on either side of the avenue, from the noise of wheels and 
from the gentle oscillation that filled her with a delicious torpor. 
A thousand tremulous emotions passed over her flesh; dreams un- 
realised, nameless delights, confused longings, all the monstrous 
voluptuousness that a drive home from the Bois under a paling 
sky can infuse into a woman’s worn heart. She kept both her hands 
buried in the bearskin, she was quite warm in her white cloth coat 
with the mauve velvet facings. She put out her foot, as she stretched 
herself in her feeling of well-being, and with her ankle lightly 
touched Maxime’s warm leg; he took no notice of this contact. 
A jolt aroused her from her lethargy. She raised her head and with 
her grey eyes looked strangely at the young man, who sat lounging 
in an attitude of sheer elegance. 
At this moment the calash left the Bois. The Avenue de l’Impéra- 
trice stretched out straight into the darkness, with the two green 
lines of its fences of painted wood, which met at the horizon. In 
the side-path reserved for riders, a white horse in the distance cut 
out a bright patch in the grey horizon. Here and there, on the other 
side, along the roadway, were belated pedestrians, groups of black 
spots, making slowly for Paris. And right up above, at the end of 
the 
rumbling, 
confused 
procession 
of carriages, 
the Arc 
de 
Triomphe, seen from one side, displayed its whiteness against a 
vast expanse of sooty sky. 
While 
the calash 
ascended 
at an 
increased 
pace, Maxime, 
charmed with the English appearance of the scene, looked out at 
20 

the irregular architecture of the private houses on both sides of the 
avenue, with their lawns running down to the side-walks. Renée, 
still dreaming, amused herself by watching the gaslights of the 
Place de l’Etoile being lit, one by one, on the edge of the horizon, 
and as each of these bright jets splashed the dying day with its 
little yellow flame, she seemed to hear a mysterious appeal; it 
seemed to her that Paris flaring in its winter’s night was being 
lighted up for her, and making ready for her the unknown gratifica- 
tion that her glutted senses yearned for. 
The calash turned down the Avenue de la Reine-Hortense, and 
pulled up at the end of the Rue Monceau, a few steps from the 
Boulevard Malesherbes, in front of a large private house standing 
between a court-yard and a garden. The two gates, heavily orna- 
mented with gilt enrichments, which opened into the court-yard, 
were flanked by a pair of lamps, shaped like urns, and similarly 
covered with gilding, in which flared broad gas-jets. Between the 
two gates, the concierge lived in a pretty lodge vaguely suggestive 
of a little Greek temple. 
Maxime sprang lightly to the ground as the carriage was about to 
enter the court-yard. 
“You know,” said Renée, detaining him by the hand, “we dine 
at half-past seven. You have more than an hour to dress in. Don’t 
keep us waiting.” 
And she added, with a smile : 
“The Mareuils are coming. .. 
. Your father wishes you to pay 
Louise every attention.” 
Maxime shrugged his shoulders. 
“What a bore!” he murmured, peevishly. “I don’t mind marry- 
ing, but wooing is too silly. 
... Ah! how nice it would be of you, 
Renée, if you would rescue me from Louise this evening.” 
He put on his comedy look, the accent and grimace which he 
borrowed from Lassouche whenever he was about to launch one 
of his constant conceits : 
“Will you, stepmother dear?” 
Renée shook hands with him in masculine fashion. And quickly, 
with nervous, jesting boldness : 
“Tf I had not married your father, I believe you would have made 
love to me.” 
The young man appeared to think the idea very funny, for he 
was still laughing when he turned the corner of the Boulevard 
Malesherbes. 
21 

The calash entered and drew up before the steps. 
These steps, which were broad and shallow, were sheltered by a 
great glass awning, with a scalloped bordering of golden fringe and 
tassels. The two stories of the house rose up above the servants’ 
offices, whose square windows, glazed with frosted glass, appeared 
just above the level of the ground. At the top of the steps the hall- 
door projected, flanked by slender columns recessed into the wall, 
thus forming a slight break, marked at each story by a bay-window, 
and ascending to the roof, where it finished in a pediment. The 
stories had five windows on each side, placed at regular intervals 
along the facade, and simply framed in stone. The roof was cut off 
square above the attic windows, with broad and almost perpendicu- 
lar sides. 
But on the garden side the facade was far more sumptuous. A 
regal flight of steps led to a narrow terrace which skirted the whole 
length of the ground-floor; the balustrade of this terrace, designed 
to match the railings of the Parc Monceau, was even more heavily 
gilded than the awning or the lamps in the court-yard. Above this 
rose the mansion, having at either corner a pavilion, a sort of tower 
half enclosed in the body of the building, and containing rooms of 
a circular form. In the centre there bulged out slightly a third 
turret, more deeply contained in the building. The windows, tall 
and narrow in the turrets, wider apart and almost square on the 
flat portions of the facade, had on the ground-floor stone balustrades 
and on the upper stories gilded wrought-iron railings. The display 
of decoration was profuse to oppressiveness. The house was hidden 
under its sculpture. Around the windows and along the cornices 
ran swags of flowers and branches; there were balconies shaped 
like baskets full of blossoms, and supported by great naked women 
with straining hips, with breasts jutting out before them; then, 
here and there, were planted fanciful escutcheons, clusters of fruit, 
roses, every flower that it is possible for stone or marble to repre- 
sent. The higher the eye ascended, the more the building burst 
into blossom. Around the roof ran a balustrade on which stood, 
at equal intervals, urns blazing with flames of stone. And there, 
between the bull’s-eye windows of the attics, which opened on to 
an incredible confusion of fruit and foliage, mantled the crowning 
portions of this stupendous scheme of decoration, the pediments of 
the turrets, amid which reappeared the great naked women, play- 
ing with apples, attitudinising amidst sheaves of rushes. The roof, 
loaded with these ornarnents, and surmounted besides with a crest- 
22 

ing of embossed lead, with two lightning conductors, and with 
four huge symmetrical chimney-stacks, carved like all the rest, 
seemed the supreme effort of this architectural firework. 
On the right was a vast conservatory, built on to the side of the 
house, and communicating with the ground-floor through the glass 
door of a drawing-room. The garden, separated from the Parc 
Monceau by a low railing concealed by a hedge, had a consider- 
able slope. Too small for the house, so narrow that a grass-plot 
and a few clumps of evergreens filled it up entirely, it was there 
simply as a mound, a green pedestal on which the house stood 
proudly planted in its gala dress. Seen from the gardens, across the 
well-trimmed grass and the glistening foliage of the shrubs, this 
great structure, still new and absolutely pallid, showed the wan 
face, the purse-proud, foolish importance of a female parvenu, 
with its heavy head-dress of slates, its gilded flounces, and the 
rustling of its sculptured skirts. It was a reduced copy of the new 
Louvre, one of the most characteristic specimens of the Napoleon 
III style, that fecund bastard of every style. On summer evenings, 
when the rays of the setting sun lit up the gilt of the railings against 
its white facade, the strollers in the gardens would stop to look at 
the crimson silk curtains draped behind the ground-floor windows; 
and, through sheets of plate glass so wide and so clear that they 
seemed like the window-fronts of a big modern shop, arranged so 
as to display to the outer world the wealth within, the petty 
bourgeoisie could catch glimpses of the corners of chairs or tables, 
of portions of hangings, of patches of ceilings of a profuse richness, 
the sight of which would root them to the spot with envy and 
admiration, right in the middle of the pathways. 
But at this moment the shades were falling from the trees, and 
the facade slept. On the other side, in the court-yard, the footman 
was respectfully assisting Renée to alight. At the further end of a 
glass covered-way on the right, the stables, banded with red brick, 
opened wide their doors of polished oak. On the left, as if for a 
balance, there was built into the wall of the adjacent house a highly- 
decorated niche, within which a sheet of water flowed unceasingly 
from a shell which two Cupids held in their outstretched arms. 
Renée stood for a moment at the foot of the steps, gently tapping 
her dress, which refused to fall properly. The court-yard, which 
had just been traversed by the noise of the equipage, resumed its 
solitude, its high-bred silence, broken by the continuous song of 
the flowing water. And as yet, in the black mass made by the house 
23 

where the first of the great autumn dinner-parties was presently to 
cause light to be set to the chandeliers, the bottom windows alone 
shed their light, all glowing and casting the bright reflections of 
a conflagration upon the little pavement of the court-yard, neat 
and regular as a draught-board. 
Renée pushed open the hall-door, and found herself face to face 
with her husband’s valet, who was on his way to the basement, 
carrying a silver kettle. The man looked magnificent, dressed all 
in black, tall, broad-shouldered, pale-complexioned, with the con- 
ventional side-whiskers of an English diplomat, and the solemn and 
dignified air of a magistrate. 
“Baptiste,” asked Renée, “has monsieur come in?” 
“Yes, madame, he is dressing,” replied the valet, with a bend of 
the head which a prince bowing to the crowd might have envied. 
Renée slowly climbed the staircase, drawing off her gloves. 
The hall was very luxurious. There was a slight sense of suffoca- 
tion on entering. The thick carpets that covered the floor and the 
stairs, the broad red velvet hangings that concealed the walls and 
the doorways, made the air heavy with silence, with the tepid 
fragrance of a chapel. Draperies hung high, and the very lofty 
ceiling was decorated with bosses projecting from a trellis-work of 
golden ribs. The staircase, whose double balustrade of white marble 
had a hand-rail covered with crimson velvet, commenced in two 
slightly converging flights, between which, at the back, was placed 
the door of the big drawing-room. On the first landing an immense 
mirror filled the whole wall. Below, at the foot of the branching 
staircase, stood, on marble pedestals, two bronze-gilt women, bare 
to the waist, upholding great lamps set with five burners, whose 
bright light was softened by ground-glass globes. And on both 
sides was a row of admirable majolica vases, in which rare plants 
displayed their growth. 
Renée climbed the staircase, and at each step her image rose in 
the glass; she wondered, with the feeling of doubt common to the 
most popular actresses, whether she was really delicious, as people 
told her. 
Then, when she had reached her rooms, which were on the first 
floor and overlooked the Parc Monceau, she rang for Céleste, her 
maid, and had herself dressed for dinner. This took fully an hour 
and a quarter. When the last pin had been inserted, she opened a 
window, as the room was very warm, and, leaning her elbows on 
24 

the sill, sat thinking. Behind her, Céleste moved about discreetly, 
putting away the things. 
A sea of shadow filled the gardens below. The tall, inky masses 
of foliage, shaken by sudden gusts of wind, swayed heavily to and 
fro as with the flux and reflux of the tide, the sound of their dead 
| 
leaves recalling the lapping of waves on a pebbly beach. Only now 
and then this ebb and flow of darkness would be pierced by the 
two yellow eyes of a carriage, appearing and disappearing between 
the shrubberies, along the road connecting the Avenue de la Reine- 
Hortense with the Boulevard Malesherbes. In the presence of this 
autumnal melancholy, Renée felt her heart once more 
fill with 
sadness. She fancied herself a child in her father’s house, in that 
still house in the Ile Saint Louis, where for two centuries the 
Bérauds du Chatel had sheltered their grim, magisterial gravity. 
Then she thought of the suddenness of her marriage, of that 
widower who had sold himself to become her husband and bartered 
his name of Rougon for that of Saccard, the two dry syllables of 
which, when she first heard them, had sounded in her ears with 
the brutal cadence of two rakes gathering up gold; he took her 
and cast her into this life of excess, in which her poor head was 
becoming more and more disordered every day. Then she fell to 
dreaming, with childlike joy, of the pleasant games of battledore 
she had played with her little sister Christine in the old days. And 
how some morning she would wake from her dream of enjoyment 
of the past ten years, mad, soiled by one of her husband’s specula- 
tions, in which he himself would go under. It came to her as a 
quick foreboding. The trees soughed more 
loudly. Renée, dis- 
tressed by these thoughts of shame and punishment, yielded to the 
instincts, slumbering within her, of the honest old middle-class; 
she made a promise to the black night that she would reform, spend 
less on her dress, seek some innocent amusement, as in the happy 
school-days, when the girls sang “Nous n’irons plus aux bois,” as 
they danced sweetly under the plane-trees. 
At this moment, Céleste, who had been downstairs, returned, and 
murmured in her mistress’s ear : 
“Monsieur begs madame to go down. There are several people 
already in the drawing-room.” 
Renée shivered. She had not noticed the keen air that had frozen 
her shoulders. As she passed before her mirror, she stopped, glanced 
at herself automatically. She smiled involuntarily, and went down- 
stairs. 
Pde) 

Most of the guests had, in fact, arrived. She found downstairs 
her sister Christine, a young girl of twenty, very simply dressed 
in white muslin; her aunt Elisabeth, the widow of Aubertot the 
notary, in black satin, a little old woman of sixty, of an exquisite 
charm of manner; her husband’s sister, Sidonie Rougon, a lean, 
mealy-mouthed woman, of uncertain age, with a face like soft wax, 
which the dull hue of her dress threw even more in the shade; 
then the Mareuils; the father, M. de Mareuil, who had just left off 
mourning for his wife, a tall, handsome man, shallow and serious, 
bearing a striking resemblance 
to the valet Baptiste; and the 
daughter, that poor Louise, as she was called, a child of seventeen, 
puny, a little hump-backed, wearing with a sickly grace a white 
foulard dress with red spots; then a whole group of serious men, 
men with many decorations, official gentlemen with silent, sallow 
faces, and, further on, another group, young men 
these, with 
vicious looks and low-cut waistcoats, standing round five or six 
ladies of extreme elegance, foremost among whom where the two 
inseparables, the little Marquise d’Espanet, in yellow, and the 
fair-haired Mme. Haffner, in violet. M. de Mussy, the horseman 
whose bow Renée had not acknowledged, was there too, with the 
restless look of a lover who feels his dismissal coming. And, among 
the long trains spread over the carpet, two contractors, two brick- 
layers who had made money. Mignon and Charrier, with whom 
Saccard was to settle a matter of business on the morrow, moved 
about heavily in their clumsy boots, their hands behind their backs, 
wretchedly unhappy in their dress-clothes. 
Aristide Saccard, standing by the door, managed to greet each 
new arrival while holding forth to the group of serious men with 
his Southern twang and sprightliness. He shook his guests by the 
hand, with a cordial word of welcome. Short, mean in appearance, 
he bent and bowed like a puppet; and the most salient feature of all 
his shrill, cunning, swarthy little person was the red splash of the 
ribbon of the Legion of Honour, which he wore very wide. 
Renée’s entrance provoked a murmur of admiration. She was 
really divine. Upon a tulle skirt, garnished behind with a flow of 
flounces, she wore a bodice of pale-green satin, bordered with 
English lace, caught up and fastened with large bunches of violets; 
a single flounce adorned the front of the skirt, and bunches of 
violets, held together by garlands of ivy, fastened a light muslin 
drapery. Her head and bust appeared adorably gracious above 
these petticoats of regal fulness and richness overloaded. Her neck 
26 

was uncovered down to the points of her breasts, her arms were 
bare and had clusters of violets at the shoulders: 
she seemed to 
emerge quite naked from her case of tulle and satin, similarly to 
one of those nymphs whose busts issue from the sacred oaks. Her 
white neck and shoulders, her supple body, seemed so happy already 
in their semi-freedom, that the eye expected every moment to see 
the bodice and skirts glide down, like the dress of a bather en- 
raptured with her flesh. Her fine yellow hair, gathered up high, hel- 
met-shaped, with trailing through it a sprig of ivy retained by a 
knot of violets, still further accentuated her nudity by uncovering 
the nape of the neck, which was lightly shaded by little wanton 
curls, like threads of gold. Round her throat was a necklace with 
pendants, of brilliants of wonderful water, and on her forehead an 
aigrette made of sprigs of silver set with diamonds. And so she stood 
for some seconds on the threshold, erect in the magnificence of her 
dress, her shoulders shimmering in the hot light like watered silk. 
She had come down quickly, and was a little out of breath. Her 
eyes, which the blackness of the Parc Monceau had filled with 
shadow, blinked in that quick flood of light, giving her that air of 
hesitation of the short-sighted which in her was so gracious. 
On perceiving her, the little marquise sprang from her seat, came 
running up to her, took her by both hands, and examining her 
from head to foot, murmured in fluted tones : 
“You dear, beautiful creature...” 
Meanwhile there was much moving about; 
all the guests came 
and did homage to the beautiful Mme. Saccard, as Renée was 
known to everyone in society. She touched hands with most of the 
men. Then she kissed Christine, and asked after her father, who 
never came to the house in the Parc Monceau. And smiling, still 
bowing, her arms languidly rounded, she remained standing before 
the circle of ladies, who examined anxiously the necklace and the 
aigrette. 
The fair-haired Mme. Haffner could no longer withstand the 
temptation. She drew nearer, and after a wistful look at the gems, 
asked, with envy in her voice : 
“That is the necklace and aigrette, is it not?” 
Renée nodded. Thereupon all the women burst out into praise; 
the jewels were delicious, divine; then they proceeded to discuss, 
with admiration full of envy, Laure d’Aurigny’s sale, at which 
Saccard had bought them for his wife; they complained that those 
creatures got the prettiest of everything: 
soon there would be no 
27 

diamonds 
left for the honest women. And through their com- 
plaints there filtered the longing to feel on their bare skins some of 
the jewellery that all Paris had seen on the shoulders of a noted 
courtesan, that might perhaps whisper in their ears scandals of the 
alcoves in which the thoughts of these great ladies so gladly lin- 
gered. They knew of the high prices, they mentioned a gorgeous 
cashmere shawl, some magnificent 
lace. The aigrette had cost 
fifteen thousand francs, the necklace fifty thousand. These figures 
roused Mme. d’Espanet to enthusiasm. She called Saccard over, 
exclaiming : 
“Come and let me congratulate you! What a good husband you 
are!” 
Aristide Saccard came up, bowed, made little of it. But his grin- 
ning features betrayed a lively satisfaction. And he watched from 
the corner of his eye the two contractors, the two bricklayers who 
had made their fortunes, as they stood a few steps off, listening 
with evident respect to the sound of such figures as fifteen and 
fifty thousand francs. 
At this moment Maxime, who had just come in, charmingly 
pinched in his dress-clothes, leant familiarly on his father’s shoulder, 
and whispered to him as to a schoolfellow, glancing towards the 
bricklayers. Saccard wore the discreet smile of an actor called be- 
fore the curtain. 
Some more guests arrived.. There were at least thirty persons in 
the drawing-room. 
Conversation 
was 
resumed; 
in intervals 
of 
silence the faint clatter of silver and crockery was heard through 
the walls. At last Baptiste opened the folding-doors, and majestically 
pronounced the sacramental phrase : 
“Dinner is served, madame.” 
Then, slowly, the procession formed. Saccard gave his arm to the 
little marquise; Renée took the arm of an old gentleman, a senator, 
the Baron Gouraud, before whom everybody bowed down with 
great humility; as to Maxime, he was obliged to offer his arm to 
Louise de Mareuil; then followed the rest of the guests, in double 
file; and right at the end, the two contractors, swinging their arms. 
The dining-room was a huge, square room, whose wainscotting 
of stained and varnished pear-wood rose to the height of a man, 
and was decorated with slender beadings of gold. The four large 
panels had evidently been prepared so that they might be filled up 
with paintings of still life; but this had never been done, the land- 
lord having doubtless recoiled before a purely artistic expenditure. 
28 

They had been hung simply with dark-green velvet. The chairs, 
curtains, and door-hangings of the same material gave the room a 
look of sober seriousness, calculated to concentrate on the table all 
the splendour of the light. 
And indeed, at this hour, the table, standing in the centre of the 
wide, dark Persian carpet, which deadened the sound of the foot- 
steps, and under the glaring light of the chandelier, surrounded by 
chairs whose black backs, with fillets of gold, encircled it with a 
dark frame, seemed like an altar, like a mortuary chapel, as the 
bright scintillations of the crystal glass and silver plate sparkled on 
the dazzling whiteness of the cloth. Beyond the carved chairbacks 
one could just perceive, in a floating shadow, the wainscotting of 
the walls, a large low sideboard, ends of velvet hanging here and 
there. The eye was of necessity drawn back to the table, and be- 
came filled with the splendour of it. A beautiful dead-silver centre- 
piece, glittering with its chased work, stood in the middle of the 
table; it represented a troop of satyrs carrying off nymphs; above the 
group, issuing from a large cornucopia, 
an enormous bouquet of 
' 
real flowers hung down in clusters. At either end of the table stood 
vases with more flowers, a pair of candelabra, matching the centre 
group, and each consisting of a satyr running off with a swooning 
woman on one arm, and holding in the other a ten-branched candle- 
stick which added the brilliancy of its candles to the lustre of the 
central chandelier. Between 
these principal ornaments 
the first 
dishes, large and small, were ranged symmetrically, flanked by 
shells containing the hors d’ceuvre, and separated by porcelain 
bowls, crystal vases, flat plates and tall preserve-stands, filled with 
that portion of the dessert that was already on the table. Along the 
line of plates ran an army of glasses, of water-bottles, of decanters, 
of salt-cellars, and all this glass was as thin and light as muslin, un- 
cut, and so transparent that it cast no shadow. And the centre-piece 
and candelabra seemed like fountains of fire; sparks glittered in the 
burnished silver dishes; the forks, the spoons, and the knives with 
handles of mother-of-pearl were as bars of flame; colours kaleido- 
scopic filled the glasses; and, in the midst of this rain of light, of this 
mass of incandescence, the decanters threw red stains upon the 
white-hot cloth. 
On entering, a discreet expression of happiness overspread the 
faces of the men, as they smiled to the ladies on their arms. The 
flowers imparted a freshness to the heavy atmosphere. Delicately 
the fumes of cooked food mingled with the perfume of the roses. 
29 

The sharp odour of prawns predominated, and the sour scent of 
citrons. 
Then, when each had found his name written on the back of his 
menu-card, there was a noise of chairs, a great rustling of silken 
dresses. The bare shoulders, studded with diamonds, separated by 
black coats, which served to throw up their pallor, added their 
creamy whiteness to the gleam of the table. The dinner began 
amidst 
little smiles exchanged between neighbours, 
in a semi- 
silence only broken as yet by the muffled clattering of spoons. 
Baptiste fulfilled his office of major-domo with his serious diplo- 
matic attitudes; under his orders were, in addition to the two foot- 
men, four assistants whom he only engaged for the great dinners. 
As he removed each dish to the end of the room and carved it at 
a side-table, three of the servants passed noiselessly round the table, 
dish in hand, naming the contents in an undertone as they handed 
them. The other served the wine, and saw to the bread and the 
decanters. The removes and entrées thus slowly went round and 
disappeared; the ladies’ pearly laughter grew no shriller. 
The guests were too many for the conversation easily to become 
general. Nevertheless, at the second course, when the game and 
side-dishes had replaced the removes and entrées, and the generous 
wines of Burgundy, Pomard and Chambertin, succeeded the Léo- 
ville and Chateau-Lafitte, the sound of voices increased, and bursts 
of laughter caused the light glass to ring again. Renée, seated at 
the middle of the table, had on her right the Baron Gouraud, and 
on her left M. Toutin-Laroche, a retired candle-manufacturer, and 
now a Municipal Councillor, a director of the Crédit Viticole, and 
a member of the committee of inspection of the Société Générale of 
the Ports of Morocco, a lean, important person, whom Saccard, 
sitting opposite between Mme. d’Espanet and Mme. Haffner, ad- 
dressed at one moment, in unctuous tones, as “My dear colleague,” 
and at another as “Our great administrator.” Next came the 
politicians: 
M. Hupel de la Noue, a provincial préfet, who spent 
eight months of the year in Paris; three deputies, among whom 
M. Haffner displayed his broad Alsatian face; then M. de Saffré, a 
charming young man, secretary to one of the ministers; and M. 
Michelin, the First Commissioner of Roads. M. de Mareuil, a per- 
petual candidate for the Chamber of Deputies, sat square, facing 
the préfet, whom he ogled persistently. As to M. d’Espanet, he 
never accompanied his wife into society. The ladies of the family 
were placed between the most prominent of these personages. Sac- 
30 

card had, however, kept his sister Sidonie, whom he had placed 
further off, for the seat between the two contractors, the Sieur 
Charrier on her right, the Sieur Mignon on her left, as being a post 
of trust where it was a question of conquest. Mme. Michelin, the 
wife of the First Commissioner, a plump, pretty, dark woman, sat 
next to M. de Saffré, with whom she carried on an animated con- 
versation in a low voice. And at either end of the table were the 
young people, auditors to the Council of State, sons of useful 
fathers, budding millionaires, M. de Mussy, casting despairing 
glances at Renée, and Maxime, apparently quite vanquished by 
Louise de Mareuil, who sat on his right. Little by little they had 
begun to laugh very loudly. It was from their corner that the first 
outbursts of gaiety proceeded. 
Meanwhile M. Hupel de la Noue inquired courteously : 
“Shall we have the pleasure of seeing his Excellency this even- 
ing?” 
“I fear not,’ answered Saccard with an air of importance that 
concealed a secret annoyance. ‘My brother is so busy. . 
. 
. He has 
sent us his secretary, M. de Saffré, to make his apologies to us.” 
The young secretary, whom Mme. 
Michelin 
was 
decidedly 
monopolising, raised his head on hearing his name mentioned, and 
cried at random, thinking that he had been spoken to : 
“Yes, yes, there is to be a cabinet council this evening at nine 
o’clock at the office of the Keeper of the Seals.” 
All this time, M. Toutin-Laroche, who had been interrupted, 
was continuing seriously, as though he were delivering a peroration 
amid the attentive silence of the Municipal Council : 
“The results are superb. This city loan will be remembered as 
one of the finest financial operations of the period. Ah! mes- 
sieurs....”” 
But at this point his voice was again drowned in the laughter 
that broke out suddenly at one end of the table. In the midst of 
this outburst of merriment could be heard Maxime’s voice, as he 
concluded an anecdote: 
“But wait, I have not finished. The fair 
equestrian was picked up by a road-labourer. They say she is having 
him brilliantly educated with a view to marrying him later on. 
No man but her husband, she says, shall boast of having seen a 
certain black mole just above her knee.” The laughter redoubled; 
Louise laughed, unreservedly, louder than the men. And _noise- 
lessly amid this laughter, as though deaf, a footman at this moment 
thrust his pale serious face between each guest, offering in a low 
voice slices of wild duck. 
3] 

Aristide was annoyed at the want of attention paid to M. Toutin- 
Laroche. He repeated, to show that he had been listening : 
“Thecity loaves. 
But M. Toutin-Laroche was not the man to lose the thread of 
an idea: 
“Ah! messieurs,” he continued when the laughter had subsided, 
“Yesterday was a great consolation to us whose administration is 
exposed to such base attacks. They accuse the council of leading 
the city to destruction, and you see, no sooner does the city issue 
a loan, than they all bring us their money, even those who com- 
plain.” 
“You have performed wonders,” said Saccard. “Paris has be- 
come the capital of the world.” 
“Yes, it is really astounding,” interposed M. Hupel de la Noue. 
“Can you imagine that I, old Parisian that I am, no longer know 
my Paris. I lost my way yesterday in going from the Hétel de Ville 
to the Luxembourg. It’s astounding, astounding !” 
There was a pause. All the serious people were now listening. 
“The transformation of Paris,’ continued M. Toutin-Laroche, 
“will be the glory of the reign. The nation is ungrateful; it ought 
to kiss the Emperor’s feet. As I said this morning in the council, 
when they were talking of the great success of the loan: ‘Gentle- 
men, let those brawlers of the opposition say what they will; to 
plough up Paris is to make it productive.’ ” 
Saccard smiled, and closed his eyes, as though the better to relish 
the subtlety of the epigram. He leant behind the back of Mme. 
d’Espanet, and said to M. Hupel de la Noue, loud enough to be 
heard : 
“He is adorably witty.” 
Meantime, while they were discussing the alterations made in 
Paris, the Sieur Charrier had been stretching out his neck, as 
though to take part in the conversation. His partner Mignon was 
fully occupied with Mme. Sidonie, who was giving him plenty to 
do. Saccard had been watching the two contractors from the corner 
of his eye since the commencement of dinner. 
“The administration,” he said, “has met with so much devotion. 
Everyone was eager to contribute to the great work. Without the 
wealthy companies that came to its assistance, the city would never 
have done so well nor so quickly.” 
He turned round, and with a sort of fawning brutality : 
“MM. Mignon and Charrier know something of that; they have 
32 

had their share of the labour, and they will have their share of the 
glory.” 
The bricklayers who had made their fortunes received this un- 
couth compliment with radiant faces. Mignon, to whom Mme. 
Sidonie was saying, in her mincing tones: 
“Ah, monsieur, you 
flatter me; no, pink would be too young for me...” left her in 
the middle of her sentence to reply to Saccard : 
“You are too kind; we merely did our business.” 
But Charrier was more polished. He drank off his glass of 
Pomard, and managed to deliver himself of a phrase : 
“The alterations of Paris,” he said, “have given a living to the 
workman.” 
“And we may add,” resumed M. Toutin-Laroche, “that they 
have given a magnificent impulse to industry and finance.” 
“And do not forget the artistic side of the question: 
the new 
thoroughfares are majestic in their beauty,” added M. Hupel de 
la Noue, who prided himself on his taste. 
“Yes, yes, it is a fine undertaking,’ murmured M. de Mareuil, 
_ 
for the sake of saying something. 
“As to the cost,’ declared Haffner seriously, the deputy who 
never opened his mouth except on great occasions, “that will be 
for our children to bear, nothing could be fairer.” 
And as, in speaking, he looked towards M. de Saffré, who ap- 
peared to have given a momentary offence to the pretty Mme. 
Michelin, the young secretary, to show that he had been following 
the conversation, repeated : 
“Nothing could be fairer indeed.” 
Each member of the group of serious men at the middle of the 
table had had his say. M. Michelin, the Chief Commissioner, smiled 
and wagged his head: 
this was his ordinary method of taking part 
in a conversation: 
he had smiles of greeting, of response, of ap- 
proval, of thanks, of leave-taking, quite a pretty collection of smiles 
which saved him almost any necessity for speech, an arrangement 
which he looked upon as doubtless more polite and more favourable 
to his advancement. 
Yet one other personage had kept silence, the Baron Gouraud, 
who munched 
his food slowly like a drowsy ox. Up to that 
moment he had appeared absorbed in the contemplation of his 
plate. Renée, who paid him every attention, received nothing for it 
but little grunts of satisfaction. And consequently it was a surprise 
to see him lift his head and observe, as he wiped his greasy lips : 
B 
33 

“As a landlord, whenever I have a flat done up and painted, I 
raise the rent.” 
M. Haffner’s expression: “The cost will be for our children to 
bear” had had the effect of arousing the senator. All discreetly 
clapped their hands, and M. de Saffré exclaimed : 
“Ah, charming, charming, I must send that to the papers to- 
morrow.” 
“You are quite right, messieurs, these are good times we live in,” 
said Mignon, by way of summing up, in the midst of the smiles 
and admiration aroused by the baron’s epigram. “I know a few 
who have made a good thing out of them. You see, everything is 
fine so long as you make money by it.” 
These last words seemed to freeze the serious men. The con- 
versation dropped flat, and each appeared to avoid his neighbour’s 
eyes. The bricklayer’s aphorism struck home, deadly as the paving- 
stone of la Fontaine’s bear. Michelin, who happened to be beam- 
ing upon Saccard with a pleasant air, ceased smiling, very anxious 
lest he should seem for one instant to have applied the contractor’s 
words to the master of the house. The latter threw a glance to 
Mme. Sidonie, who tackled Mignon afresh, saying, “And so you 
like pink, monsieur 
. 
. .?” And Saccard paid an elaborate compli- 
ment to Mme. Espanet; his dark, sorry face almost touched her 
milky shoulders, as she threw herself back and tittered. 
They were at the dessert. The lackeys moved round the table 
at a quicker pace. There was a pause while the cloth was being 
covered with the remainder of the fruit and sweets. At Maxime’s 
end of the table the laughter increased in brightness; Louise’s little 
shrill voice was heard saying: “I assure you, Sylvia wore blue satin 
as Dindonette”; and another childish voice added: 
“Yes, but her 
dress was trimmed with white lace.” Tepid fumes pervaded the 
air. The flushed faces seemed to be softened by a sense of inward 
felicity. Two lackeys went round the table serving Alicante and 
Tokay. 
Renée had worn a look of vacancy ever since the beginning of 
dinner. She fulfilled her duties as hostess with a mechanical smile. 
At every outburst of merriment that came from the end of the table 
where Maxime and Louise sat side by side, jesting like boon com- 
panions, she threw a lurid glance in their direction. She felt bored. 
The serious men were too much for her. Mme. d’Espanet and 
Mme. Haffner looked towards her in despair. 
34 

“And what are the prospects of the forthcoming elections?” asked 
Saccard, suddenly, of M. Hupel de la Noue. 
“Very promising,” answered the latter, smiling: 
“only I have 
had no candidates appointed as yet for my department. The minister 
has not made up his mind, it would seem.” 
M. de Mareuil, who had thanked Saccard with a glance for 
broaching this subject, appeared to be on hot coals. He blushed, and 
bowed disconcertedly when the préfet turned to him and continued : 
“I have heard much of you in the country, monsieur. Your 
extensive property there has won you many friends, and your 
devotion to the Emperor is well known. Your chances are excel- 
lent.” 
“Papa, isn’t it true that little Sylvia used to sell cigarettes at 
Marseilles in 1849?” cried Maxime at this moment from the end 
of the table. 
Aristide Saccard pretended not to hear, and his son continued in 
a lower tone : 
“My father has known her intimately.” 
This aroused some smothered laughter. Meantime, while M. de 
Mareuil kept up his bowing, M. Haffner had resumed in sententious 
tones : 
“Devotion to the Emperor is the only virtue, the only patriotism, 
in these days of self-interested democracy. Who loves the Emperor 
loves France. It would give us unfeigned pleasure if monsieur were 
to become our colleague.” 
“Monsieur will succeed,” said M. Toutin-Laroche in his turn. 
“All large fortunes should gather round the throne.” 
_ 
Renée could bear it no longer. The marquise was stifling a 
yawn in front of her. And as Saccard was about to resume, she 
said to him, with her pretty smile : 
“Take pity on us, dear, and spare us any more of your horrid 
politics.” 
Then M. Hupel de la Noue, with a préfet’s gallantry, exclaimed 
that the ladies were right. And he began to tell an indecent story 
of something that had happened in his district. The marquise, 
Mme. Haffner, and the other ladies, laughed heartily at certain of 
the details. The préfet told his story in a very pungent style, with 
suggestions, reservations and inflections of voice that gave a very 
improper meaning to the most inoffensive expressions. Then they 
talked of the first of the duchesse’s Tuesdays, of a burlesque that 
had been produced the night before, of the death of a poet, and 
35 

of the end of the autumn racing-season. M. Toutin-Laroche, who 
had his amiable moments, drew a comparison between women and 
roses, and M. de Mareuil, in the confusion in which he had been 
plunged by his electoral expectations, gave vent to profound obser- 
vations on the new fashion in bonnets. Renée retained her vacant 
look. 
Meanwhile the guests had ceased eating. A hot breath seemed 
to have passed over the table, clouding the glasses, crumbling the 
bread, blackening the fruit-peel on the plates, and destroying the 
fine symmetry of the cloth. The flowers drooped in the great cornu- 
copia of chased silver. And the guests had a moment of self- 
oblivion, in the presence of the remains of the dessert, lacking the 
energy to rise from their seats. Leaning half forward, with one 
arm resting on the table, they had the listless aspect, the indefinite 
dejection, that accompanies the cautious, circumspect inebriation 
of men and women of fashion fuddling themselves by degrees. All 
laughter had subsided, and but few words were spoken. Much had 
been drunk and eaten, and the group of men with decorations were 
more solemn than ever. In the heavy atmosphere of the room, the 
ladies felt a dampness rising to their necks and temples. They 
awaited the signal to adjourn to the drawing-room, serious, a little 
pale, as though their heads were gently swimming. Mme. Espanet 
was pink all over, while Mme. Haffner’s shoulders had assumed 
a waxen whiteness. And M. Hupel de la Noue examined the handle 
of his knife; M. Toutin-Laroche continued to fling disconnected 
sentences towards M. Haffner, who wagged his head in reply; M. 
de Mareuil mused, with his eyes fixed on M. de Michelin, who 
smiled upon him archly. As for the pretty Mme. Michelin, she 
had long ceased talking; very red in the face, she let one of her 
hands hang under the table, where it was doubtless held by M. de 
Saffré, who leant awkwardly against the edge of the table, with 
knit eyebrows and the grimace of a man solving an algebraical 
problem. Madame 
Sidonie, 
too, had made her conquests; the 
Sieurs Mignon and Charrier, both leaning on their elbows with 
their faces turned towards her, seemed enraptured at receiving her 
confidences; she confessed that she loved everything that was made 
with milk, and that she was frightened of ghosts. And Aristide 
Saccard himself, his eyes half-closed, plunged in the beatitude of 
an amphitryon who realises that he has conscientiously fuddled his 
guests, had no thought of leaving the table; with respectful tender- 
ness he surveyod the Baron Gouraud laboriously digesting his 
36 

dinner, his right hand spread over the white cloth, the hand of a 
sensual old man, short, thick, blotched with purple patches and 
covered with short red hairs. 
Renée drank up automatically the few drops of Tokay that 
remained at the bottom of her glass. Her face tingled; 
the little 
yellow hairs on her neck and temples escaped rebelliously as though 
moistened by a humid breath. Her lips and nose were nervously 
contracted, she had the silent expression of a child that has drunk 
neat wine. The good bourgeois thoughts that had come to her 
as she sat looking at the shadows of the Parc Monceau were now 
drowned in the stimulation of food and wine and light, and of the 
disturbing surroundings, impregnated with hot breath and merri- 
ment. She no longer exchanged quiet smiles with her sister Chris- 
tine and her aunt Elisabeth, both of them modest and retiring, 
barely uttering a word. With a stony glance she had compelled the 
poor M. de Mussy to lower his eyes. Though her thoughts were 
apparently wandering, and she carefully refrained from turning 
round, and remained leaning back in her chair, against which the 
‘satin of her bodice rustled gently, she allowed an imperceptible 
shudder of the shoulder to escape her at each renewed burst of 
laughter that came to her from the corner where Maxime and 
Louise were still making merry, as loudly as ever, amid the dying 
hum of conversation. 
And behind her, on the edge of the shadow, his tall figure beetling 
over the disordered table and the torpid guests, stood Baptiste, 
pale and solemn, in the scornful attitude of a flunkey that has 
gorged his masters. He alone, in the air laden with drunkenness, be- 
neath the vivid light that was turning to yellow, continued correct, 
with his silver chain round his neck, his cold eyes, in which the sight 
of the women’s shoulders kindled no spark, his air of a eunuch 
waiting on Parisians of the decadence and retaining his dignity. 
At last Renée rose, with a nervous movement. All followed her 
example. They adjourned to the drawing-room, where coffee was 
served. 
The large drawing-room was an immense, long room, a sort of 
gallery that ran from one pavilion to the other, taking up the whole 
of the facade on the garden side. A large French window opened 
on to the steps. This gallery glittered with gold. The ceiling, gently 
arched, had fanciful scrolls winding round great gilt medallions 
that shone like bucklers. Bosses and dazzling garlands encircled the 
arch; fillets of gold, resembling threads of molten metal, ran round 
37 

the walls, framing the panels, which were hung with red silk; 
festoons of roses, topped with tufts of full-blown blossoms, hung 
down along the sides of the mirrors. An Aubusson carpet spread 
its purple flowers over the polished flooring. The furniture of red 
silk damask, the door-hangings and window-curtains of the same 
material, the huge ormolu clock on the mantelpiece, the porcelain 
vases standing on the consoles, the legs of the two long tables inlaid 
in Florentine mosaic, the very flower-stands placed in the recesses 
of the windows, oozed and sweated with gold. At the four corners 
of the room were four great lamps placed on pedestals of red marble, 
to which they were fastened by chains of bronze gilt, that fell with 
symmetrical grace. And from the ceiling hung three lustres with 
crystal pendants, streaming with drops of blue and pink light, whose 
hot glare drew a responding gleam from all the gold in the room. 
The men soon withdrew to the smoking-room. M. de Mussy 
went up to Maxime and took him familiarly by the arm; he had 
known him at school, though he was six years his senior. He led 
him on to the terrace, and after they had lighted their cigars he 
complained bitterly of Renée. 
“But tell me, what is the matter with her? I saw her yesterday, 
and she was charming. And to-day you see, she behaves to me as 
if all were over between us. What can I have done? 
It would be 
kind of you indeed, my dear Maxime, if you would question her 
and tell her how I am suffering for her.” 
“Ah! 
as for that—no!” 
replied Maxime, laughing. “Renée’s 
nerves are out of order, and I am not disposed to face a storm. You 
can settle your differences between yourselves.” 
And he added, after slowly puffing out the smoke of his havanna : 
“You want me to do a nice thing, don’t you?” 
But M. de Mussy spoke of the sincerity of his friendship, and 
declared that he was only waiting for an opportnuity to give 
Maxime a proof of his devotion. He was very unhappy, he was 
so deeply in love with Renée! 
“Very well then, I will,” said Maxime at last, “I will speak to 
her, but I can promise nothing, you know: 
she is sure to send 
me to blazes.” 
They returned to the smoking-room and stretched themselves 
at full length in two great lounging-chairs. And there, during a 
good half-hour, M. de Mussy related his sorrows to Maxime; he 
told him for the tenth time how he had fallen in love with his step- 
mother, how she had condescended to notice him; and Maxime, 
38 

while finishing his cigar, advised him, explaining Renée’s nature 
to him, pointed out to him how he should act in order to subjugate 
her. 
Saccard came and sat down within a few paces of the young 
men, and M. de Mussy kept silence, while Maxime concluded by 
saying : 
“Tf I were in your place, I would treat her very cavalierly. She 
likes that.” 
The smoking-room was at one end of the large salon: 
it was one 
of the round rooms formed by the turrets. It was fitted up very 
richly and very soberly. Hung with imitation Cordova leather, it 
had Algerian curtains and door-hangings, and a velvet-pile carpet 
of Persian design. The furniture, upholstered in maroon-coloured 
shagreen leather, consisted of ottomans, easy-chairs, and a circular 
divan that ran round a part of the room. The minature chandelier, 
the ornaments on the table and the fire-irons were of pale-green 
Florentine bronze. 
_ 
There remained behind with the ladies only a few of the younger 
men and some old men with pale, flabby faces, who loathed tobacco. 
In the smoking-room reigned laughter and much free jesting. M. 
Hupel de la Noue diverted his fellow-guests by repeating the story 
he had told at dinner, embellished with exceedingly bawdy details. 
This was his speciality : he had two versions of every anecdote, one 
for the ladies and the other for men. Then, when Aristide Saccard 
entered, he was surrounded and complimented; and as he pretended 
not to understand, M. de Saffré told him, in a heartily-applauded 
speech, that he had deserved well of his country for preventing the 
fair Laure d’Aurigny from falling into the hands of the English. 
“No, really, messieurs, you are mistaken,” stammered Saccard, 
with false modesty. 
“Go on, why try to excuse yourself?” cried Maxime, humor- 
ously. “It was a very fine thing to do, at your time of life.” 
The young man, who had thrown away his cigar, went back to 
the drawing-room. A great many people had arrived. The gallery 
was full of men in evening clothes, standing up and talking in low 
tones, and of petticoats spread out wide along the settees. Flunkeys 
had begun to move about with silver salvers loaded with ices and 
glasses of punch. 
Maxime, who wished to speak to Renée, passed through the 
full length of the drawing-room, knowing from experience the 
ladies’ favourite sanctum. There was, at the opposite end to the 
39 

smoking-room, to which it formed a pendant, another circular 
room which had been made into an adorable little drawing-room. 
This boudoir, with its hangings, curtains and portiéres of butter- 
cup satin, had a voluptuous charm of an original and exquisite 
flavour. The lights of the chandelier, a piece of very delicate work- 
manship, sang a symphony in pale-yellow, amid all these sun- 
coloured silks. The effect resembled a flood of softened rays, as of 
the sun setting over a field of ripe wheat. The light expired upon 
the floor on an Aubusson carpet strewn with dead leaves. An ebony 
piano inlaid with ivory, two cabinets whose glass doors displayed a 
host of knick-knacks, a Louis XVI table, a flower-bracket heaped 
high with blossoms furnished the room. The settees, the easy-chairs, 
the ottomans, were covered in quilted buttercup satin, divided at 
intervals by wide black satin bands embroidered with gaudy tulips. 
And then there were low seats, and occasional chairs, and every 
variety of stool, elegant and bizarre. The woodwork of the articles 
of furniture could not be perceived; the satin and the quilting 
covered all. The backs were curved with the soft fullness of bolsters. 
They were 
like so many discreet couches in whose down one 
could sleep and love amid the sensual symphony in pale-yellow. 
Renée loved this little room, one of whose glass doors opened 
into the magnificent hothouse built on to the side of the house. 
In the daytime it was here that she spent her hours of idleness. The 
yellow hangings, so far from extinguishing her pale hair, gave it a 
strange golden radiancy; her head stood out pink and white amid 
a glamour of dawn like that of a fair Diana awakening in the 
morning light; and this was doubtless the reason why she loved 
this room that threw her beauty into relief. 
At present she was there with her intimate friends. Her sister 
and aunt had just taken their leave. None but the hare-brained 
remained in the sanctum. Half thrown back on a settee, Renée was 
listening to the confidences of her friend Adeline, who was whisper- 
ing in her ear with kittenish airs and sudden bursts of laughter. 
Suzanne Haffner was in great request; she was holding her own 
against a group of young men who pressed her closely, without 
losing her German listlessness, her provoking effrontery, cold and 
bare as her shoulders. In a corner Madame Sidonie in a low voice 
instilled her precepts into the mind of a young married woman 
with Madonna-like lashes. Further off stood Louise, talking to a 
tall, shy young man, who blushed; while the Baron Gouraud dozed 
in his easy-chair in the full light, spreading out his flabby flesh, his 
40 

wan, elephantine form in the midst of the ladies’ frail grace and 
silken daintiness. And a fairy-like light fell in a golden shower all 
over the room, on the satin skirts with folds hard and gleaming 
as porcelain, on the shoulders whose milky whiteness was studded 
with diamonds. A fluted voice, a laugh like a pigeon’s cooing, rang 
with crystal clearness. It was very warm. Fans beat slowly to and 
fro like wings disseminating at each stroke into the languid air the 
musked perfume of the bodices. 
When Maxime appeared in the doorway, Renée, who was listen- 
ing absently to the marquise’s stories, rose hastily as if to attend 
to her duties as hostess. She went into the large drawing-room, 
where the young man followed her. She took a few steps, smiling, 
shaking hands with people, and then, drawing Maxime aside: 
“Well!” she whispered, ironically, “the burden seems a pleasant 
one; you no longer find it so stupid to do your own wooing.” 
“I don’t understand,” replied Maxime, who had come to plead 
for M. de Mussy. 
“Yet it seems to me that I did well not to deliver you from 
Louise. You are getting on rapidly, you two.” 
And she added, with a sort of vexation : 
“Its was indecent to go on like that at dinner.” 
Maxime began to laugh. 
“Ah yes, we told one another stories. I did not know the little 
minx. She is quite amusing. She is like a boy.” 
And as Renée continued her grimace of prudish annoyance, the 
young man, who had never known her to shew such indignation, 
resumed with his urbane familiarity : 
‘Do you imagaine, stepmamma, that I pinched her knees under 
the table? Hang it all, I know how to behave to my future wife! 
. 
.. I have something more serious to say to you. Listen... 
. You 
are listening, are you not?” 
He lowered his voice still more. 
“Look here, M. de Mussy is very unhappy, he has just told me 
so. You know, it is not for me to reconcile you, if you have had a 
difference. But, you see, I knew him at school, and as he really 
seemed in despair, I promised to put in a word for him... 
.” 
He stopped. Renée was looking at him in an indescribable man- 
ner. 
“You won’t answer? 
.. 
.” he continued. “No matter, I have 
delivered my message, and you can settle things as you please. . 
41 

But, honestly, I think you are unkind. I felt sorry for the poor 
fellow. If I were you, I would at least send him a kind word.” 
Then Renée, who had not ceased to keep her eyes, filled with a 
glittering light, fixed upon Maxime, said : 
“Go and tell M. de Mussy that he’s a nuisance.” 
And she resumed her slow walk amidst the groups of guests, 
smiling, bowing, shaking hands with people. Maxime stood where 
he was, lost in surprise; then he laughed silently to himself. 
In no way eager to deliver his message to M. de Mussy, he 
strolled round the large drawing-room. The reception was drag- 
ging itself to its end, marvellous and commonplace, like all re- 
ceptions. It was close upon midnight; the guests were dropping off 
one by one. Not caring to go to sleep upon an unpleasant impres- 
sion, he decided to look for Louise. He was passing before the hall- 
door, when he saw standing in the vestibule the pretty Madame 
Michelin, whom her husband was wrapping up daintily in a blue- 
and-pink opera-cloak. 
“He was charming, quite charming,” she was saying. “We talked 
of you all through dinner. He will speak to the minister; only it is 
not in his province... .” 
And as a footman, close by them, was helping the Baron Gouraud 
on with a great fur coat : 
“That’s the old boy who could carry the thing through!” she 
added in her husband’s ear, while he was tying the ribbon of her 
hood under her chin. “He can do anything he likes with the 
minister. To-morrow, at the Mareuils’, I must see what... .” 
M. Michelin smiled. He carried his wife off gingerly, as though he 
had something valuable and fragile under his arm. Maxime, after 
glancing round to assure himself that Louise was not in the hall, 
went straight to the small drawing-room. And he found her still 
there, almost alone, waiting for her father who had spent the 
evening in the smoking-room with the politicians. Most of the ladies, 
the marquise, Madame Haffner, had left. Only Madame Sidonie 
remained behind, explaining to some wives of officials how fond 
she was of animals. 
“Ah! here is my little husband,” cried Louise. “Sit down here 
and tell me where my father has fallen asleep. He must have 
fancied that he was already in the Chamber.” 
Maxime replied in a similar strain, and the two young people 
began laughing again as loudly as at dinner. Sitting on a very low 
stool at her feet, he ended by taking her hands, by playing with 
42 

her as with a school-fellow. And, in fact, in her frock of white 
foulard with red spots, with her high-cut bodice, her flat breast, and 
her ugly, cunning little street boy’s head, she might have passed 
for a boy dressed up as a girl. Yet at times her shrivelled arms, her 
distorted form, would assume a pose of abandonment, and a light 
would flash from the depth of her eyes, still full of callowness; but 
not the least blush in the world was brought to her cheek by 
Maxime’s romping. And they both laughed on, thinking themselves 
alone, without perceiving Renée, who stood half-hidden in the 
middle of the conservatory, watching them from a distance. 
A moment before, as she was crossing a walk, the sight of 
Maxime and Louise had suddenly caused Renée to stand still be- 
hind a shrub. Around her the hothouse, resembling the nave of a 
church, with an arched glass roof supported by straight, slender 
iron columns, displayed its fat vegetation, its masses of lusty verdure, 
its spreading rockets of foliage. 
In the middle, in an oval tank level with the flooring, lived, with 
the mysterious sea-green life of water-plants, all the aquatic flora 
of the tropics. Cyclanthus-plants, displaying their streaks of varie- 
gated green, raised a monumental girdle around the fountain, which 
resembled the truncated capital of some cyclopean column. At 
either end, two tall tornelias reared their quaint brushwood above 
the water, their dry, bare stems contorted like agonising serpents, 
and let fall aérial roots, that seemed like a fisherman’s nets hung up 
in the open air. Near the edge, a Javanese pandanus spread its 
cluster of green leaves streaked with white, thin as swords, prickly 
and fretted as Malay creeses. And on the surface, in the warmth of 
the tepid sheet of slumbering water, great water-lilies opened out 
their pink petals, and euryales trailed their round leaves, their 
leprous leaves, floating like the backs of monstrous blistered toads. 
By way of turf, a broad edging of selaginella encircled the tank. 
This dwarf fern formed a thick mossy carpet of a light green shade. 
And beyond the great circular path, four enormous clusters of 
plants shot vigorously right up to the roof: palms, drooping gently 
in their elegance, spreading their fans, displayed their rounded 
crowns, hung down their leaves like oars wearied by their perpetual 
voyage through the blue; 
tall Indian bamboos rose straight, hard, 
slender, dropping from on high their light shower of leaves; a 
ravenala, the traveller’s tree, reared its bouquet of huge Chinese 
hand-screens; and in a corner a plantain-tree, loaded with fruit, 
stretched out on all sides its long horizontal leaves, on which two 
aS 

lovers might easily recline clasped in each other’s embrace. In the 
corners were Abyssinian euphorbias, deformed prickly cactuses, 
covered with lothly excrescences, oozing with poison. And beneath 
the trees the ground was carpeted with creeping ferns, adianta and 
pterides, their fronds outlined daintily like fine lace. Alsophilas of 
a taller species tapered upwards with their rows of symmetrical 
foliage, hexagonal, so regular as to have the appearance of large 
pieces of porcelain destined to hold the fruit of some titanic dessert. 
The shrubberies were surrounded with a border of begonias and 
caladiums; begonias, with twisted leaves, gorgeously streaked with 
red and green; caladiums whose spear-headed leaves, white, with 
veins of green, looked like large butterfly-wings; bizarre plants, 
whose foliage lives strangely with the sombre or wan splendour of 
noisome flowers. 
Behind the shrubberies, 
a second and narrower pathway ran 
round the green-house. There, on stages, half concealing the hot- 
water pipes, bloomed marantas, soft as velvet to the touch, gloxinias, 
purple-belled, draccenas, resembling blades of old lacquer. 
But one of the charms of this winter-garden was the four alcoves 
of verdure at the corners, roomy arbours closed in by thick curtains 
of creepers. Scraps of virgin forest had here erected their leafy 
walls, their impenetrable confusion of stems, of supple shoots that 
clung to the branches, shot through space in reckless flight, and 
fell from the arched roof like tassels of ornate drapery. A stalk of 
vanilla, whose ripe pods emitted a pungent perfume, trailed about 
a moss-grown portico; Indian berries draped the thin pillars with 
their round leaves! bauhinias with their red clusters, quisqualias 
with flowers pendant like bead necklaces glided, twined and inter- 
twined like slim adders, endlessly playing and creeping amid the 
darkness of the growths. 
And beneath arches, placed here and there between the beds of 
shrubs, hung baskets suspended from wire chains, and filled with 
orchids, fantastic plants of the air, which pushed in every direction 
their crooked tendrils, bent and twisted like the limbs of cripples. 
There were cypripediums, whose flowers resemble 
a wonderful 
slipper with a heel adorned with a dragon-fly’s wings; zrides, so 
delicately scented; stanhopeas, with pale tiger flowers, which ex- 
hale from afar a strong and acrid breath, as from the putrid throats 
of the convalescent sick. 
But what most struck the eye from every point of the walks was 
a great Chinese hibiscus, whose immense expanse of foliage and 
44 

flowers covered the whole wall of the house on to which the con- 
servatory was built. The huge purple flowers of this giant mallow, 
unceasingly renewed, live but a few hours. They resembled, as one 
might say, the eager, sensual mouths of women, the red lips, soft 
and moist, of some colossal Messalina, bruised by kisses, and ever 
reviving with their hungry, bleeding smiles. 
Renée, standing by the tank, shivered in the midst of this ver- 
dant magnificence. Behind her, a great sphinx in black marble, 
squatting upon a block of granite, turned its head towards the 
fountain with a cat’s cruel and wary smile; and, with its polished 
thighs, it looked like the dark idol of this tropical clime. From globes 
of ground glass came a light that covered the leaves with milky 
stains. Statues, heads of women with necks thrown back, swelling 
with laughter, stood out white against the background of the 
shrubberies, with patches of shadow which distorted the mad gaiety 
upon their faces. Strange rays of light played about the dull, still 
water of the tank, throwing up vague shapes, glaucous masses with 
monstrous 
outlines. A flood of white light streamed 
over 
the 
ravenala’s glossy leaves, over the lacquered fans of the latanias; 
while from the lace-work of the ferns fell drops of light in a fine 
shower. Up above shone the reflections from the glass roof, between 
the sombre tops of the tall palm-trees. And all around was massed 
in darkness; the arfours, with their hangings of creepers, were 
drowned in tenebrous gloom, like the lairs of slumbering serpents. 
Renée stood musing beneath the bright light, watching Louise 
and Maxime in the distance. She no longer felt the fleeting fancies, 
the grey, twilight temptations of the chilly avenues of the Bois. Her 
thoughts were no longer lulled to sleep by the trot of her horses 
along the mundane turf, the glades in which middle-class families 
take their Sunday repasts. This time she was permeated with a keen 
and definite desire. 
Unbridled love and voluptuous appetite haunted this stifling 
nave in which seethed the ardent sap of the tropics. Renée was 
wrapt in the puissant bridals of the earth which gave birth to those 
dark growths, those colossal stamina; and the acrid birth-throes of 
this hot-bed, of this forest expansion, of this mass of vegetation all 
glowing with the entrails that nourished it, surrounded her with 
perturbing effluvia full of intoxication. At her feet steamed the 
tank, the mass of tepid water thickened by the saps from the 
floating roots enveloping her shoulders with a mantle of heavy 
vapours; a mist that warmed her skin like the touch of a hand 
45 

moist with concupiscence. Overhead she could smell the palm-trees 
whose tall leaves shook down their aroma. And more than the 
stifling heat of the air, more than the brilliant light, more than the 
great dazzling flowers, like faces laughing or grimacing between the 
leaves, it was the odours, above all, that overpowered her. An in- 
describable perfume, potent, provocative, composed of a thou- 
sand perfumes, hung about her; human exudation, the breath of 
women, the scent of hair; and zephyrs sweet and swooningly faint 
were blended with zephyrs coarse, pestilential, laden with poison. 
But, amid this rare music of odours, the dominant melody that 
constantly returned, stifling the sweetness of the vanilla and the 
orchids’ stridency, was that penetrating, sensual smell of flesh, that 
smell of love escaping in the morning hour from the close cham- 
ber of a bridegroom and bride. 
Renée sank back slowly, leaning against the granite pedestal. In 
her dress of green satin, her head and breast flushed and bedewed 
with the bright scintillations of her diamonds, she resembled a 
great flower, green and pink, one of the water-lilies from the tank, 
swooning with heat. In this moment of enlightenment, all her good 
resolutions vanished for ever, the intoxication of dinner returned 
to her head, arrogant, triumphant, redoubled in force by the flames 
of the hot-house. She thought no longer of the freshness of the 
night, that had calmed her, of the murmuring shadows of the 
gardens, whose voices had whispered in her ear the bliss of serenity. 
In her were aroused the senses of a woman who desires, the caprices 
of a woman who is satiated. And above her head, the great black 
marble sphinx laughed its mystic laugh, as if it had read the long- 
ing, formulated at last, that galvanised that dead heart, the fugitive 
longing, the “something different” vainly sought for by Renée in 
the rocking of her calash, in the fine ashes of the falling night, and 
now suddenly revealed to her beneath the dazzling light of this 
blazing garden by the sight of Maxime and Louise, laughing and 
playing, their hands interlocked. 
Now a sound of voices issued from an adjacent arbour into 
which Aristide Saccard had led the Sieurs Mignon and Charrier. 
“No, Monsieur Saccard, said the latter’s fat voice, “we really 
cannot take that back at more than two hundred francs the métre.” 
And Saccard’s shrill tones retorted : 
“But in my share you valued each métre of frontage at two 
hundred and fifty francs.” 
46 

“Well, listen, we will make it two hundred and _ twenty-five 
francs.” 
And the voices went on, coarse, sounding strangely under the 
clumps of drooping palm-trees. But they passed like an empty 
noise through Renée’s dream, as there rose before her, with the 
fatal summons experienced by one looking over a precipice, an 
unknown joyance, hot with crime, more violent than all those which 
she had already drained, the last that remained in her cup. She 
felt weary no longer. 
The shrub that half concealed her was a malignant plant, a 
Madagascar tanghin-tree with bored box-like leaves with whitish 
stems, whose smallest veins distilled a venomous fluid. And at a 
moment when Louise and Maxime laughed more loudly in the 
yellow refraction, in the sunset of the little boudoir, Renée, her 
mind wandering, her mouth parched and stung, took between her 
lips a sprig of the tanghin-tree which came to the level of her 
teeth, and closed them on one of its bitter leaves. 
47 

ii 
ARISTIDE Roucon swept down upon Paris on the morrow of the 
2 Décembre, 
like a carrion bird that scents the field of battle 
from afar. He came from Plassans, a sous-préfecture in the south, 
where his father had at length, in the troubled water of events, 
netted a long-coveted appointment as receiver of taxes. He himself, 
still young, had compromised himself like a fool, without fame or 
profit, and could consider himself fortunate to have emerged safe 
and sound from the scrimmage. He came with a rush, furious at 
having taken a false step, cursing the country, talking of Paris with 
the ravenous hunger of a wolf, swearing “that he would never be 
such an ass again;” and the bitter smile which accompanied these 
words assumed a terrible significance on his thin lips. 
He arrived in the early days of 1852. He brought with him his 
wife Angéle, a fair-haired, insipid person, whom he installed in a 
cramped lodging in the Rue Saint-Jacques, like an inconvenient 
piece of furniture that he was eager to get out of the way. The 
young wife had refused to be separated from her daughter, little 
Clotilde, a child of four, whom the father would gladly have left 
behind in the care of his family. But he had only yielded to 
Angéle’s desire on the stipulation that the college at Plassans should 
remain the home of their son Maxime, a scapegrace of eleven, 
whom his grandmother had promised to look after. Aristide wanted 
to have his hands free: 
a wife and a child already seemed to him 
a crushing burden for a man decided to surmount every obstacle, 
not caring whether he got rolled in the mud or broke his back in 
the attempt. 
g 
On the very night of his arrival, while Angéle was unpacking the 
trunks, he felt a keen desire to explore Paris, to tread with his clod- 
hopping shoes the burning stones from which he hoped to extract 
millions of money. He simply took possession of the city. He 
walked for the sake of walking, going along the pavements as 
though he were in a conquered country. He saw before him clearly 
the battle he had come to fight, and he felt no repugnance in com- 
48 

paring himself to a skilful picklock who was about, by ruse or 
violence, to seize this share of the common wealth which so far had 
been malignantly denied him. Had he felt the need of an excuse, he 
would have invoked his desires, which had for ten years been stifled, 
his wretched provincial existence, and above all his mistakes, for 
which he held society at large responsible. But at this moment, 
amid this emotion of the gambler who at last places his eager hands 
on the green cloth, he felt nothing but joy, a joy all his own, in 
which were mingled the gratification of covetousness and the ex- 
pectations of unpunished roguery. The Paris air intoxicated him; 
he thought he could hear in the rumbling of the carriages the 
voices from Macbeth calling to him: 
“Thou shalt be rich!” For 
close upon two hours he thus walked from street to street, tasting 
the delights of a man who gives play to his vices. He had not been 
back in Paris since the happy year which he had spent there as a 
student. The night fell: 
his dream grew in the bright light thrown 
on the pavement by the shops and cafés; he lost himself. 
When he raised his eyes, he found he was in the Faubourg Saint- 
Honoré, near the middle. One of his brothers, Eugéne Rougon, 
lived in an adjacent street, the Rue Penthiévre. When coming to 
Paris, Aristide had reckoned particularly upon Eugéne, who after 
having been one of the most active participators in the Coup d’Etat, 
was now an occult force, a lawyer of small account about to develop 
into a politician of great importance. But with the supersition of 
a gambler, Aristide decided not to knock at his brother’s door that 
evening. He returned slowly to the Rue Saint-Jacques, thinking of 
Eugéne with a dull feeling of jealousy, contemplating his shabby 
clothes 
still covered with the dust of the journey, and seeking 
consolation in the resumption of his dream of wealth. But even this 
dream had turned to bitterness. After starting out for the sake 
of expansion, and being exhilarated by the bustling activity of the 
Paris shops, he returned home irritated by the happiness that 
seemed to him to fill the streets, intensified in his ferocity, picturing 
to himself relentless struggles in which he would take delight in 
beating and cheating that crowd that had jostled him on the pave- 
ment. Never had he known an appetite so vast, an eagerness so 
pressing for enjoyment. 
At daybreak the next morning he was at his brother’s. Eugéne 
lived in two large, cold, barely-furnished rooms, that chilled Aristide 
to the marrow. He had looked to find his brother wallowing in 
the lap of luxury. Eugéne was working at a small black table. 
49 

All he said was, with a smile, in his slow voice : 
“Ah! there you are, I was expecting you.” 
Aristide was very bitter. He accused Eugéne of leaving him to 
vegetate, of not even having had the charity to give him a word of 
good advice while he was floundering about in the country. He 
could never forgive himself for remaining a Republican up to the 
2 Décembre; it was an open sore with him, an everlasting con- 
fusion. Eugéne had quietly taken up his pen. When the other had 
finished : 
“Bah!” he said. “All mistakes can be set right. You have a 
career before you full of promise.” 
He spoke these words in so decided a voice, with a look so pierc- 
ing, that Aristide lowered his head, feeling that his brother was 
penetrating into the very depths of his nature. The latter continued 
with friendly bluntness : 
“You have come here to ask me to find you an appointment, 
have you not? 
I have been thinking of you, but I have heard of 
nothing yet. You understand, I must be careful where I put you. 
What you want is a place where you can feather your nest without 
danger either to yourself or to me. 
. 
. 
. Don’t trouble to protest, we 
are quite alone, we can say what we like... .” 
Aristide thought it best to laugh. 
“Oh, I know you have your wits about you,” Eugéne continued, 
“and that you are not likely to make a fool of yourself for no 
purpose. .. 
. As soon as a good opportunity presents itself, I will 
give you the berth. Meantime, whenever you want twenty francs or 
so, come and ask me for it.” 
They talked an instant of the rising in the South, through which 
their father had gained his appointment as receiver of taxes. Eugéne 
dressed himself while they were talking. As he was about to take 
leave of his brother downstairs in the street, he detained him a 
moment longer, and said to him in a lower tone of voice : 
“You will do me a favour by not seeking work on your own 
account, but by waiting at home quietly for the appointment which 
I promise you. 
. 
. 
. I should not like to see my brother hanging 
about in people’s waiting-rooms.” 
Aristide had a certain respect for Eugéne, whom he looked upon 
as an uncommonly smart chap. He could not forgive his distrustful- 
ness, nor his candour, which was a trifle blunt; still he went home 
obediently and shut himself up in the Rue Saint-Jacques. He had 
arrived with five hundred francs which had been lent him by his 
50 

| 
wife’s father. After paying the expenses of the journey, he made the 
three hundred francs that remained last him a month. Angéle was 
a great eater; moreover she thought it necessary to trim her Sunday 
dress with a fresh set of mauve ribbons. That month of waiting 
seemed endless to Aristide. He was consumed with impatience. 
When he sat at his window and watched the gigantic labour of 
Paris seething beneath him, he was struck with an insane desire to 
hurl himself straightway into the furnace, in order with his fevered 
hands to mould the gold like soft wax. He inhaled, the breath, 
vague as yet, that rose from the great city, that breath of the 
budding Empire, laden already with the odours of alcoves and 
financial hells, with the warm effluvia of sensuality. The faint fumes 
that reached him told him that he was on the right scent, that 
the game was scudding before him, that the great imperial hunt, 
the hunt after adventures, women, and millions, was at last about 
to commence. His nostrils quivered, his instinct, the instinct of a 
famished beast, dexterously seized upon the slightest indications of 
the division of spoil of which the city was to be the arena. 
Twice he called on his brother, to urge him to greater activity. 
Eugéne received him gruffly, told him again that he was not for- 
getting him, but that he must have patience. He at last received a 
letter asking him to call at the Rue Penthiévre. He went, his heart 
beating violently, as though he was on his way to an assignation. 
He found Eugéne sitting before his everlasting little black table in 
the great bleak room which he used as a study. So soon as he saw 
him, the lawyer handed him a document, and said : 
“There, I got your business settled yesterday. This is your ap- 
pointment as an assistant surveying-clerk at the Hétel de Ville. 
Your salary will be two thousand four hundred francs.” 
Aristide remained where he stood. He turned pale, and did not 
take the document, thinking that his brother was making fun of 
him. He had expected an appointment of at least six thousand 
francs. Eugéne, suspecting what was passing in his mind, turned 
his chair round, and, folding his arms, exclaimed, with a show of 
anger : 
“So you are a fool, then, are you?. . 
. You indulge in dreams like 
a girl. You want to live in a handsome flat, to keep servants, to eat 
well, to sleep in silken sheets, to take your pleasure in the arms of 
the first woman that comes, in a boudoir furnished in a couple of 
hours... 
. You and your sort, if you had your way, would empty 
the coffers even before they were full. But, good God, why can’t 
51 

you be patient? 
See how I live, and in order to pick up your 
fortune at least take the trouble to stoop.” 
He spoke with a profound contempt for his brother’s schoolboy 
impatience. One could feel, through his rude speech, a higher 
ambition, a desire for unmitigated power; this candid craving for 
money must have seemed common to him, and puerile. He con- 
tinued in a gentler voice, with a subtle smile : 
“No doubt you have excellent propensities, and I have no wish to 
thwart them. Men like you are worth much to us. We fully intend 
to choose our best friends from among the hungriest. Set your 
mind at rest, we shall keep open table, and the most unbounded 
appetites shall be satisfied. It is, after all, the easiest way of govern- 
ing... . But for heaven’s sake wait till the cloth is laid; and, if you 
take my advice, you will go to the kitchen yourself and fetch your 
own knife and fork.” 
Aristide still remained silent. His brother’s metaphorical humour 
in no way raised his spirits. And Eugéne once more gave vent to 
his anger. 
“Ah!” he exclaimed. “I was right in my first opinion: you are a 
fool. 
. 
. .-Why, what did you expect, what did you imagine I was 
going to do with your illustrious person? You have not even had 
the spirit to finish your law studies; you bury yourself for ten years 
in a miserable clerkship in a sous-préfecture; and you come down 
upon me with the odious reputation of a Republican whom the 
Coup d’Etat alone was able to convert... 
. Do you think there is 
the making of a minister in you, with a record like that? ... Oh, I 
know you have in your favour your savage desire to succeed by 
any possible means. It is a great point, I admit, and it is that which 
I had in my mind when I got you this appointment in the Hétel 
de Ville.” 
And rising, he thrust the nomination into Aristide’s hands, and 
continued : 
“Take it, and some day you'll thank me! I chose the place for 
you myself, and I know what you'll be able to get out of it... 
You have only to look about you and to keep your ears open. If 
you know your way about, you will understand, and act accord- 
ingly. 
. 
. 
. Now remember carefully what I am about to add. We 
are entering upon a period when fortune will be within the reach of 
anyone. Make as much money as you like: I give you leave; only 
no folly, no flagrant scandal, or I’ll exterminate you.” 
This threat produced the effect which his promises had not been 
52 

able to bring about. All Aristide’s ardour was rekindled at the 
thought of the fortune of which his brother spoke. It seemed to him 
that he was at last let loose in the fray, authorised to cut throats, 
provided he did so legally, and without causing too much com- 
motion. Eugéne gave him two hundred francs to keep him till 
the end of the month. Then he paused, reflecting. 
“I am thinking of changing my name,” he said at last; “you 
should do the same. 
. 
. 
. We should be less in each other’s way.” 
“As you like,” answered Aristide quietly. 
“You need take no trouble in the matter, I will attend to the 
formalities. 
. 
. 
. Would you like to call yourself Sicardot, your 
wife’s name?” 
Aristide raised his eyes to the ceiling, repeating the name and 
listening to the sound of the syllables : 
“Sicardot. 
. 
. 
. Aristide Sicardot. .. 
. No, I wouldn’t; it’s clumsy 
and stinks of failure.” 
“Think of something else then,” said Eugéne. 
“T woud prefer Sicard simply,” resumed the other after a pause : 
_ 
“Aristide Sicard ... that’s not so bad, is it? .. 
. a little frivolous, 
perhaps... «” 
He thought a moment longer, and then, triumphantly : 
“T have it, I’ve found it,” he cried... “Saccard, Aristide Saccard 
. 
. with two c’s.... Eh! there’s money in that name; it sounds as 
if you were counting five-franc pieces.” 
Eugéne’s was a savage type of humour. He dismissed his brother, 
and said to him with a smile : 
“Yes, a name that ought to make either a felon or a millionaire 
of you.” 
A few days later Aristide Saccard was installed at the Hétel de 
Ville. He learnt that his brother must have had great influence to 
get him admitted without the usual examinations. 
And then the household entered upon the monotonous life of a 
small clerk. Aristide and his wife resumed their Plassans habits. 
Only they had fallen from a dream of sudden fortune, and their 
poverty-stricken existence seemed the heavier to them since they 
had come to look upon it as a time of probation whose length they 
were unable to determine. To be poor in Paris is to be doubly poor. 
Angéle accepted penury with the listlessness of a chlorotic woman; 
she spent her days in the kitchen, or else lolling on the floor playing 
with her daughter, never bewailing her lot till the last franc was 
reached. But Aristide quivered with rage in this poverty, in this 
a9 

narrow existence, in which he turned about like a caged beast. For 
him it was a period of unspeakable suffering; his pride was wounded 
to the quick, his unsatisfied cravings goaded him to madness. His 
brother succeeded in getting elected to the Corps Législatif by the 
arrondissement of Plassans, and he suffered all the more. He was 
too conscious of Eugéne’s superiority to be foolishly jealous: 
he 
accused him of not doing as much as he might have done for him. 
Time after time he was driven by want to go to him and borrow 
money of him. Eugéne lent him the money, but reproached him 
roughly for his lack of spirit and willingness. After that Aristide 
set his back up. He swore he would never ask anybody for a sou, 
and he kept his word. The last week of each month Aristide ate dry 
bread and sighed. This apprenticeship completed Saccard’s grue- 
some training. His lips became still more thin; he was no longer 
fool enough to dream of millions aloud; his emaciated person be- 
came dumb, and expressed but one desire, one fixed idea, that never 
left his mind. When he trotted from the Rue Saint-Jacques to the 
H6tel de Ville, his worn heels sounded sharply on the pavement, 
and he buttoned himself up in his threadbare frock-coat as in an 
asylum of hatred, while his weasel’s nose sniffed the air of the 
streets: 
a jagged symbol of the envious wretchedness that one sees 
prowling over the pavements of Paris, carrying abroad its plan of 
fortune and its dream of gratification. 
In the early part of 1853, Aristide was appointed a surveying 
commissioner of roads. His salary was to be four thousand five 
hundred francs. This increase came in the nick of time: 
Angéle 
was in a decline, little Clotilde had lost all her colour. He kept on 
his scanty lodgings of two small rooms, the dining-room furnished 
in walnut and the bedroom in mahogany, and continued to lead a 
harsh existence, avoiding debt, not desiring to touch other people’s 
money until he was able to plunge his arms into it up to the elbows. 
He thus belied his instincts, scorning the few additional sous that 
came to him, remaining on the look-out. Angéle was perfectly 
happy. She bought herself some things and ate meat every day. She 
could no longer understand her husband’s suppressed anger, nor the 
reason why he wore the sombre expression of a man working out 
the solution of a formidable problem. 
Aristide followed Eugéne’s advice: 
he kept his ears and eyes 
open. When he went to thank his brother for his promotion, the 
latter observed the change that had taken place in him; he com- 
plimented him on what he called his sensible demeanour. The clerk, 
Se 

inwardly hardened by jealousy, had become supple and insinuating. 
A few months had sufficed to transform him into an admirable 
comedian. 
All 
his Southern 
ardour 
had 
been 
aroused; 
and 
he carried his cunning so far that his fellow-clerks at the Hétel 
de Ville looked upon him as an inoffensive fellow whom his near 
relationship 
to a deputy marked out beforehand for some fat 
appointment. This relationship secured for him the goodwill also of 
his superiors. He thus enjoyed a sort of authority above his position, 
which enabled him to open certain doors and to explore certain 
receptacles without any blame being attached to his indiscretions. 
For two years he was seen to roam about all the passages, linger in 
all the rooms, leave his seat twenty times a day to go and talk toa 
friend, or carry an instruction, or take a stroll through the offices, 
endless journeys that caused his colleagues to exclaim, “That devil 
of a Provengal! he can’t sit still: his legs are always on the move.” 
His personal friends took him for an idler, and our hero laughed 
when they accused him of having but one thought, to despoil the 
services of a few minutes. He never made the mistake of listening 
at key-holes; but he had a way of boldly opening a door and walk- 
ing across a room, with a document in his hand and a preoccupied 
air, with a step so slow and even that he did not lose a word of the 
conversation. This was a masterpiece of tactics; people ended by 
not interrupting themselves when this assiduous clerk passed by 
them, gliding through the shadows of the offices, and seemingly so 
wrapped up in his business. He had still one other method; he was 
extraordinarily obliging, he offered to help his fellow-clerks when- 
ever they dropped into arrears with their work, and he would then 
study the registers and documents that passed through his hands 
with meditative fondness. But one of his favourite tricks was to 
strike up a friendship with the messengers. He went so far as to 
shake them by the hand. For hours together he would keep them 
talking between the doors, with little stifled bursts of laughter, 
telling them stories, drawing them out. The worthy men worshipped 
him, and said of him, “There’s 
a man who isn’t haughty.” He 
was the first to be told of any scandal that might occur. And 
thus it came about that at the end of two years the Hétel de Ville 
was an open book to him. He knew every member of the staff down 
to the least of the lamp-lighters, and every paper down to the 
laundress’s bills. 
The Paris of that period offered a most fascinating study to a 
man like Aristide Saccard. The Empire had just been proclaimed, 
39) 

after the famous journey in the course of which the Prince-President 
had succeeded in stirring up the enthusiasm of a few Bonapartist 
departments. The platform and the press were silent. Society, saved 
once again, shook hands with itself, took its ease, lay abed of a 
morning, now that it had a strong government to protect it and 
relieve it from the trouble of thinking and looking after its interests. 
The great preoccupation of society was to know with what amuse- 
ment to kill time. In Eugéne Rougon’s happy phrase, Paris had sat 
down to dinner, and was contemplating bawdiness at dessert. Politics 
terrified it, like 
a dangerous drug. Men’s enervated minds turned 
towards pleasure and speculation. Those who had money brought 
it forth from its hiding-place, and those who had none sought for 
forgotten treasures in every nook and cranny. And underneath the 
turmoil there ran a subdued quiver, a nascent sound of five-franc 
pieces, of women’s rippling laughter, and the yet faint clatter of 
plate and murmur of kisses. In the midst of the great silence, the 
absolute peace of the new reign of order, arose every kind of attrac- 
tive rumour, of golden and voluptuous promise. It was as if one 
were passing in front of one of those little houses whose closely- 
drawn curtains reveal nothing beyond the shadows of women, 
whence no sound issues but that of the gold on the marble chimney- 
pieces. The Empire was on the point of turning Paris into the 
bawdy-house of Europe. The handful of adventurers who had 
succeeded in purloining a throne required a reign of adventures, of 
shady transactions, of sold consciences, of bought women, of ram- 
pant and universal drunkenness. And in the city where the blood of 
December was yet hardly washed away, there sprang up, timidly 
as yet, that mad desire for dissipation that was destined to drag 
down the country to the limbo of decayed and dishonoured nations. 
From the very beginning Aristide Saccard felt the advent of this 
rising tide of speculation, whose spume was in the end to cover the 
whole of Paris. He watched its progress with profound attention. 
He found himself in the very midst of the hot rain of crown-pieces 
that fell thickly on to the city’s roofs. In his incessant wanderings 
across the Hétel de Ville, he had got wind of the vast project for 
the transformation of Paris, of the plan of those clearances, those 
new roads and improvised districts, that formidable piece of jobbery 
in the sale of real property, which gave rise in the four quarters of 
the town to the conflict of interests and the blaze of luxury un- 
restrained. From that time forward his activity had a purpose. It 
was at this period that he devolped his geniality. He even fattened 
56 

out a little, he ceased hurrying through the streets like an attenuated 
cat in search of its prey. At his office he was more chatty, more 
obliging than ever. His brother, whom he visited in a more or 
less official manner, complimented him on putting his advice so 
happily into practice. About the beginning of 1854 Saccard con- 
fided to him that he had several pieces of business in view, but 
that he would require a rather large advance. 
“Look for it,” said Eugéne. 
“You are quite right, I will look for it,” he replied, with entire 
good humour, appearing not to perceive that his brother declined 
to supply him with the preliminary capital. 
It was the thought of this capital that now worried him. His 
plan was formed, it matured day by day. 
But the first few thousand francs were not to be found. His will 
became more and more tense; he looked at the people in the streets 
in a nervous and penetrating manner, as though he were seeking 
a lender in every warfarer. At home Angéle continued to lead her 
subdued and contented existence. He awaited his opportunity; and 
his genial laughter became more bitter as this opportunity delayed 
in presenting itself. 
Aristide had a sister in Paris. Sidonie Rougon had married at 
Plassans an attorney’s clerk, and together they had set up business 
in the Rue Saint-Honoré as dealers in fruit from the South of 
France. When her brother came 
across 
her, the husband had 
vanished, and the business had long ago disappeared. She was living 
in the Rue du Faubourg-Poissonniére, in a little entresol consisting 
of three rooms. She also leased the shop on the ground-floor beneath 
her flat, a narrow and mysterious establishment in which she pre- 
tended to carry on a business in lace: and there were, as a matter 
of fact, in the window some odds and ends of guipure and Valen- 
ciennes, hung over gilt rods; but the inside looked like a waiting- 
room, with a polished wainscotting and not the least sign of goods 
for sale. The door and window were veiled with light curtains, 
which sheltered the shop from the gaze of the passers-by and 
completed its discreet and secluded appearance, as of the atrium 
to some unknown temple. It was a rare thing for a customer to be 
seen calling on Madame Sidonie; most frequently even the handle 
was removed from the door. She made it known in the neighbour- 
hood that she waited personally upon wealthy women and offered 
them her lace. The convenience of the place, she used to say, was 
her sole reason for hiring the shop and the entresol, which com- 
57 

municated by means of a staircase hidden in the wall. As a matter 
of fact the lace-woman was always out of doors; she was seen 
hurrying in and out ten times in a single day. Moreover, she did 
not confine herself to the lace-trade; she made use of her entresol, 
filling it up with a stock of things picked up nobody knew where. 
She had there dealt in gutta-percha goods, waterproofs, goloshes, 
braces, and the rest; and then followed one after the other a 
new oil for promoting the growth of the hair, appliances for curing 
deformities, a patent automatic coffee-pot, the working of which 
had cost her a deal of trouble. When her brother called to see her 
she was selling pianos; her entresol was crammed with these instru- 
ments; there were pianos even in her bedroom, a very coquettishly- 
furnished room that clashed with the sale-room disorder of the 
two 
others. 
She carried 
on 
these two businesses with perfect 
method; the customers who came for the goods on the entresol 
came in and went out through a carriage-entrance that led into 
the house from the Rue Papillon; you had to know the secret of 
the little staircase in order to be aware of the two-fold nature of 
the lace-woman’s 
dealings. On the entresol 
she called 
herself 
Madam Touche, her husband’s name, while on the door of the 
shop she had put only her Christian name, which caused her to be 
generally known as Madame Sidonie. 
Madame Sidonie was thirty-five; but she dressed herself with so 
little care, and had so little of the woman in her manner, that one 
would have thought her much older. As a matter of fact she had 
no age. She wore an everlasting black dress, frayed at the edges, 
rumpled and discoloured by use, recalling an advocate’s gown worn 
out by the wear and tear of the bar. Clad further in a black 
bonnet that came down to her forehead and hid her hair, and a 
pair of thick shoes, she trotted along the streets, carrying on her 
arm a little basket whose handles were mended with string. This 
basket, which never left her, was a world in itself. When she raised 
the lid there came from it samples of every sort, note-books, pocket- 
books, above 
all handfuls 
of stamped documents, 
the illegible 
writing on which she was peculiarly adroit at deciphering. She 
combined the attributes of the bailiff and the commission-agent. 
She lived among protests, judgment summonses, and orders of 
court; when she had sold ten francs’ worth of lace or pomade, she 
would insinuate herself into her customer’s good graces and _be- 
come her man of business, attending attorneys, advocates, and 
judges on her behalf. She would thus for weeks hawk about the 
58 

particulars of a case at the bottom of her basket, taking the devil’s 
own trouble, going from one end of Paris to the other, with an even 
little trot, never taking a conveyance. It would have been difficult 
to say what profit she made from this sort of business; she did it to 
begin with from an innate taste for shady traffic and a fondness for 
sharp practice; and then she secured a host of little advantages : 
dinners on every hand, franc pieces picked up here and there. But 
after all her most distinct gain lay in the confidences she everywhere 
received, putting her on the track of good strokes of business and 
useful windfalls. Living in the homes of others, in the business and 
others, she was a real walking catalogue of wants and offers. She 
knew where there was a daughter who had to get married at once, 
a family that stood in need of three thousand francs, an old gentle- 
man willing to lend the three thousand francs, but on substantial 
security and at a fat rate of interest. She knew of matters more 
delicate than these: 
the sad feelings of a fair-haired lady who 
was not understood by her husband, and who yearned to be under- 
. 
stood; the secret aspirations of a good mother who wished to see 
her little girl comfortably married; the tastes of a baron keen on 
little supper-parties and very young girls. And with a pale smile 
she hawked these wants and offers about; she would do miles on 
foot to interview people; she sent the baron to the good mother, 
induced the old gentleman to lend the three thousand francs to the 
distressed family, found consolation for the fair-haired lady and a 
not too inquiring husband for the girl that had to get married. 
She had big affairs on hand too, affairs that she could speak of 
aloud, pestering everybody who came near her: 
an interminable 
lawsuit that a noble but ruined family had employed her to look 
after, and a debt contracted by England to France in the days of 
the Stuarts, whose figures, with the compound interest added, ran 
up to close upon three milliards of francs. This debt of three mil- 
lards was her hobby; she explained the case with great wealth of 
detail, launching out into quite an historical lecture, and a flush of 
enthusiasm would rise to her cheeks, usually flacid and yellow as 
wax. Occasionally, between a visit to bailiff and a call on a friend, 
she would get rid of a coffee-pot, a waterproof, or sell a bit of lace, 
or place a piano on the hire system. These things gave her the 
least trouble. Then she would hurry back to her shop, where a 
customer had made an appointment to inspect a piece of Chantilly. 
The customer arrived and glided like a shadow into the discreetly- 
veiled shop. And not unfrequently a gentleman would at the same 
oY 

time come in by the carriage-entrance in the Rue Papillon to see 
Madame Touche’s pianos on the entresol. 
If Madame Sidonie failed to make her fortune, it was because 
she often worked for art’s sake. Loving litigation, neglecting her 
own business for that of others, she allowed herself to be fleeced by 
the bailiffs, though this gave her, for the rest, a rapture unknown 
save to the litigious. All the woman in her vanished; she became a 
mere man of business, a commission-agent bustling about Paris 
at all hours, carrying in her fabulous basket the most equivocal 
articles, selling everything, dreaming of milliards, and appearing in 
court, on behalf of a favourite client, over a contested matter of ten 
francs. Short, lean, and sallow, clad in the thin black dress that 
looked as though it had been cut out of an advocate’s gown, she 
had shrivelled out of recognition, and to see her creeping along the 
houses, one would have taken her for an errand-boy dressed up as 
a girl. Her complexion had the piteous pallor of stamped paper. 
Her lips smiled an extinct smile, while her eyes seemed to swim 
in the whirlpool of jobs and preoccupations of every kind with 
which she stuffed her brains. Her ways, for the rest, were timid and 
discreet, with a vague reminiscence of the priest’s confessional and 
the midwife’s closet, and she had the maternal gentleness of a nun 
who, having renounced 
all worldly affections, feels pity for the 
sufferings of the heart. She never spoke of her husband, nor of her 
childhood, her family, her personal concerns. There was only one 
thing that she never sold, and that was her person; not that she had 
any scruples, but because the idea of such a bargain could not 
possibly occur to her. She was as dry as an invoice, as cold as a 
protest, and at bottom as brutal and indifferent as a broker’s man. 
Saccard, fresh up from the country, was unable at first to fathom 
the subtle depths of Madame Sidonie’s numerous trades. As he 
had read law for twelve months, she spoke to him one day of the 
three milliards with an air of seriousness that gave him a poor 
opinion of her intellect. She came and rummaged in the corners of 
the lodgings in the Rue Saint-Jacques, weighed Angéle with a 
glance, and did not return except when her errands brought her 
to the neighbourhood, and she felt a want to discuss the question of 
the three milliards. Angéle had nibbled at the story of the English 
debt. The agent mounted her hobby, and made the gold rain down 
for an hour. It was the crack in this quick intelligence, the sweet 
mad lullaby of a life wasted in squalid dealings, the magical charm 
with which she ensorcelled not only herself but the more credulous 
60 

among her clients. Firm in her conviction moreover, she ended by 
speaking of the three milliards as of a personal fortune which the 
judges were bound sooner or later to restore to her; and this threw 
a wondrous halo about her poor black bonnet upon which a few 
faded violets curtsied on brass wires that showed the metal. Angéle 
opened wide her eyes. She spoke repeatedly of her sister-in-law to 
her husband with respectfulness, saying that perhaps Madame 
Sidonie would make them rich one day. Saccard shrugged his 
shoulders; he had been to see the shop and entresol in the Faubourg- 
Poissoniére, and had read nothing there but approaching bank- 
ruptcy. He tried to learn Eugéne’s opinion of their sister; but his 
brother became grave, and merely replied that he never saw her, 
that he knew her to be a very intelligent woman, a little com- 
promising, perhaps. Nevertheless, as Saccard was returning to the 
Rue Penthiévre some time afterwards, he thought he saw Mme. 
Sidonie’s black dress leave his brother’s and glide rapidly along the 
houses. He ran after it, but was unable again to catch sight of the 
. black dress. The she-agent had one of those spare figures that get 
lost in a crowd. He stood pondering, and from this moment he 
began to study his sister more attentively. It was not long before 
he grasped the immensity of the toil performed by this pale, nebu- 
lous, little creature, whose whole face seemed to melt away into 
shapelessness. He respected her. She was 
a true Rougon. He 
recognised this hunger for money, this longing for intrigue, which 
was the characteristic of the family; only in her case, thanks to the 
surroundings amid which she had matured, thanks to that Paris 
where each morning she had to seek to make her evening black 
bread, the common temperament had deviated from its course, 
producing this extaordinary hermaphrodism of the woman grown 
sexless, man of business and procuress in one. 
When Saccard, after having drawn up his schemes, set out in 
search of his preliminary capital, his thoughts naturally turned to- 
wards his sister. She shook her head, and sighed, talked of her 
three milliards. But the clerk would not humour her madness, he 
pulled her up roughly each time she got back to the Stuart debt; 
this myth seemed to him to disgrace so practical an intellect. Mme. 
Sidonie, who quietly accepted the most cutting satire without allow- 
ing her convictions to be shaken, next explained to him with great 
lucidity that he would not raise a sou, having no security to offer. 
This conversation took place in front of the Bourse, where she was 
about to speculate with her savings. One was certain to find her at 
61 

about three o’clock leaning against the rail, on the left, at the post- 
office side; it was there that she gave audience to individuals as 
sinister and shady as herself. As her brother was on the point of 
leaving her, she murmured regretfully, “Ah! 
if only you were 
unmarried! .. .” This reservation, of which he scrupled to enquire 
the exact and complete meaning, made Saccard singularly reflective. 
Months passed, war was declared in the Crimea. Paris, unmoved 
by a war so distant, threw itself with growing ardour into specula- 
tion and the commerce of harlots. Saccard stood by, gnawing his 
fists, as he watched this increasing mania which he had foreseen. 
The hammers beating the gold on the anvils of this gigantic forge 
gave him shocks of fury and impatience. So tense were his intellect 
and his will, that he lived in a dream, like a sleep-walker stepping 
along the edge of a roof under the influence of a fixed idea. He 
was surprised, therefore, and irritated, one evening to find Angéle 
ill in bed. His home life, regular as clock-work, was upset, and this 
exasperated him like a thought-out spitefulness of Fate. Poor 
Angéle complained gently; she had caught a chill. When the doctor 
came, he appeared very anxious; he told the husband on the land- 
ing that his wife had inflammation of the lungs, and that he could 
not answer for her recovery. From that moment the clerk nursed 
the sick woman without any feeling of anger; he no longer went 
to his office, he stayed by her side, watching her with an indescrib- 
able look on his face, whenever she lay asleep, flushed and panting 
with fever. Mme. Sidonie found time, notwithstanding the over- 
whelming nature of her work, to call every evening and make 
concoctions which she maintained to be sovereign in their effects. 
To all her other professions she added that of a heaven-born sick- 
nurse, taking an interest in sufferings, in remedies, in the broken- 
hearted conversations that linger round death-beds. She seemed 
to have taken a tender liking for Angéle; she had a way of loving 
women, with a thousand caresses, doubtless because of the pleasure 
they gave to men; she treated them with the delicate attention that 
merchants bestow upon the more precious of their wares, calling 
them “Pretty one, sweetheart,” cooing to them, and behaving 
with the transports of a lover in the presence of his mistress. And 
though Angéle was one of those out of whom there was nothing to 
be made, yet she cajoled her like the others, on principle. When 
the young wife. took to her bed, Mme. Sidonie’s effusions became 
tearful, she filled the silent chamber with her devotedness. Her 
62 

brother watched her moving about, his lips tight, as though crushed 
with silent grief. 
The illness grew worse. One evening the doctor informed them 
that the patient would not live through the night. Mme. Sidonie 
had come early, preoccupied, watching Aristide and Angéle with 
her watery eyes, illumined by momentary flashes of fire. When 
the doctor was gone, she lowered the lamp, and there was a great 
hush. Death entered slowly into the hot, moist room, where the 
uneven breathing of the dying woman sounded like the spasmodic 
ticking of a clock that is running down. Mme. Sidonie desisted 
from her potions, letting the illness take its course. She sat down 
before the fire-place, near her brother, who was poking the fire 
with a feverish hand, throwing involuntary glances the while to- 
wards the bed. Then, as though unnerved by the closeness of the 
atmosphere, he withdrew into the adjoining room; little Clotilde, 
who had been shut in there, was playing with her doll, very quietly, 
on a fragment of carpet. His daughter was smiling to him, when 
Mme. Sidonie, gliding up behind him, drew him into a corner, 
speaking low. The door remained standing open. They could hear 
the faint rattle in Angéle’s throat. 
“Your poor wife...” the agent sobbed out. “I fear it will soon 
be over. You heard what the doctor said?” 
Saccard made no answer, but dismally bowed his head. 
“She was a good soul,” continued the other, speaking as though 
Angéle were already dead. “You may find many richer women, 
and more fashionable women; but you will never find another 
heart like hers.” 
Seeing her stop, wipe her eyes, and seek an excuse for changing 
the subject, Saccard asked her, simply : 
“Have you anything to tell me?” 
“Yes, I have been working for you, in the matter you know of, 
and I think I have found... But at such a moment. 
. 
. 
. Believe 
me, my heart is broken.” 
She went on wiping her eyes. Saccard let her have her way 
quietly, without opening his mouth. Then she came to the point. 
“There is a young girl whom her people want to see married at 
once. The sweet child has had a misfortune. She has an aunt who 
would be prepared to make a sacrifice .. .” 
She interrupted herself, she had never ceased lamenting, weeping 
out her words, as though still bewailing poor Angéle. Her object 
was to make her brother lose patience, and to compel him to ques- 
63 

tion her, so that she should not have all the responsibility of the 
offer which she had come to make to him. And in fact the clerk 
was seized with an unreasoning irritation. 
“Come, out with it!” he said. “Why do they want to marry 
this girl?” 
“She had just left school,” continued the agent, in a dismal voice, 
“and a man seduced her, in the country, where she was staying 
with the relations of one of her school-fellows. The father has just 
discovered her condition. He wanted to kill her. The aunt, in order 
to save the dear child, became her accomplice, and between the 
two of them they made up a story and told the father that the 
guilty one was a man of honour whose one desire was to atone for 
his momentary offence.” 
“In that case,” said Saccard, in a tone of surprise and seeming 
annoyance, “the man in the country is going to marry the girl?” 
“No, he can’t, he is a married man.” 
A pause ensued. The rattle in Angéle’s throat sounded more pain- 
fully in the quivering atmosphere. Little Clotilde had ceased play- 
ing; she looked up at Madame Sidonie and her father, with her 
great pensive child-eyes, as though she had understood their con- 
versation. Saccard began to put brief questions : 
“How old is this young girl?” 
“Nineteen.” 
“How long has she been in the family way?” 
“Three months. It is sure to be a miscarriage.” 
“And is the family rich and respectable?” 
“They belong to the old-fashioned middle-class. The father used 
to be a magistrate. They are very well-to-do.” 
“What would this sacrifice of the aunt’s amount to?” 
“A hundred thousand francs.” 
There was another pause. Mme. Sidonie had ceased snivelling; 
she was doing business now, her voice assumed the metallic tones 
of a second-hand clothes-woman haggling over a bargain. Her 
brother took a sidelong glance at her, and added, with some hesita- 
tion : 
“And you, what do you want out of it?” 
“We shall see later on,” she replied. “You can do something for 
me in your turn.” 
She waited a few seconds; and as he did not speak, she asked him 
straight out: 
- 
“Well, have you made up your mind? Those poor women are 
64 

at. their wits’ end. They want to prevent an outburst. They have 
promised to give up the culprit’s name to the father to-morrow. 
. 
. 
. If you accept, I will send them your card by a messenger.” 
Saccard seemed to wake from a dream; 
he started, and turned 
timorously towards the next room, where he thought he had heard a 
slight noise. 
“But I can’t,” he said, with anguish in his voice, “you well know 
Reaw tcc: 
Mme. Sidonie looked at him fixedly, with a cold and scornful 
gaze. All his Rougon blood, all his eager covetousness, rushed to 
his throat. He took a visiting-card from his pocket-book, and gave 
it to his sister, who put it in an envelope, after carefully scratching 
out the address. Then she went down the stairs. It was barely nine 
o'clock. 
Left alone, Saccard went to the window and pressed his forehead 
against the icy panes. He forgot himself so far as to beat a tattoo 
with his fingers on the glass. But the night was so black, the outer 
darkness hung in such strange masses, that he experienced a feeling 
_ of uneasiness, and returned to the room where Angéle lay dying. 
He had forgotten her; he received a terrible shock on finding her 
half raised up against her pillows; her eyes stood wide open, a flush 
of life seemed to have returned to her cheeks and lips. Little 
Clotilde, still nursing her doll, was seated on the edge of the bed; as 
soon as her father’s back was turned, she had quickly slipped back 
into that room from which she had been removed, and to which all 
her happy childish curiosity attracted her. Saccard, his head full of 
his sister’s recital, saw his dream dashed to the ground. A hideous 
thought must have shone from his eyes. Angéle, seized with terror, 
tried to throw herself back into bed, against the wall; but death 
came, this awakening in agony was the last flicker of the expiring 
lamp. The dying woman was unable to move; she sank back, keep- 
ing her eyes fixed wide open upon her husband, as though to watch 
his every movement. Saccard, who had dreaded a resurrection, a 
devil’s device of destiny to keep him in penury, was reassured on 
seeing that the wretched woman had not an hour to live. He now 
felt nothing but intolerable uneasiness. Angéle’s eyes told him that 
she had overheard her husband’s conversation with Mme. Sidonie, 
and that she feared he would strangle her if she did not die 
sufficiently quickly. And her eyes still retained the terrified amaze- 
ment of a sweet and inoffensive nature that learns at the last 
moment the infamy of this world, and shudders at the thought of 
c 
65 

the long years passed side by side with a miscreant. Little by little 
her look softened; she was no longer afraid, she seemed to find an 
excuse for the wretch as she thought of the desperate struggle he 
had so long maintained against Fate. Saccard, followed by the dying 
woman’s gaze, in which he read so deep a reproach, leant against 
the furniture for support, sought the dark corners of the room. 
Then, faltering, he made as though to drive away the nightmare 
that was maddening him, and stepped forward into the light of the 
lamp. But Angéle signed to him not to speak. And she continued to 
look at him with her look of terror-stricken anguish, to which was 
now added a promise of forgiveness. Then he stooped to take 
Clotilde in his arms and carry her into the other room. She for- 
bade him this, too, with 
a movement of her lips. She insisted that 
he should stay there. She expired gently, without removing her 
gaze from him, and, as her sight grew dimmed, that gaze became 
more and more gentle. At the last breath she forgave him. She 
died as she had lived, colourlessly, effacing herself in death as she 
had effaced herself during life. Saccard stood shivering before those 
dead eyes, 
still open, which continued 
to follow him in their 
immobility. Little Clotilde nursed her doll on the edge of the 
sheets, gently, so as not to awaken her mother. 
When Mme. Sidonie returned, it was all over. With the trick 
of the fingers of a woman used to this operation, she closed Angéle’s 
eyes, to Saccard’s intense relief. Then, after putting the little one 
to bed, she deftly arranged the mortuary chamber. When she had 
lit two candles on the chest of drawers, and carefully drawn the 
sheet to meet the chin of the corpse, she threw a glance of satis- 
faction around her, and stretched herself out in an easy-chair, 
where she slumbered till daybreak. Saccard spent the night in the 
next room, writing out the announcements of the death. He inter- 
rupted himself from time to time, forgetting himself, and jotted 
down columns of figures on scraps of paper. 
On the evening of the funeral, Mme. Sidonie carried off Saccard 
to her entresol. There great resolutions were come to. The clerk 
decided to send little Clotilde to one of his brothers, Pascal Rougon, 
a doctor who led a solitary life at Plassans, sunk in research, and 
who had frequently offered to take his niece to enliven his silent 
scientific home. Mme. Sidonie next gave him to understand that 
he must no longer remain in the Rue Saint-Jacques. She would 
take an elegant set of furnished rooms for him for a month, some- 
where round about the Hétel de Ville; she would try and find some 
66 

rooms in a private house, so that the furniture might seem to belong 
to him. As to the chattels in the Rue Saint-Jacques, they would be 
sold, so as to efface the last traces of the past. He could use the 
money in buying himself a wedding outfit and some decent clothes. 
Three days later Clotilde was handed over to an old lady who just 
happened to be going to the South. And Aristide Saccard, exultant 
and rosy-cheeked, fattened already in three days by the first smiles 
of Fortune, occupied in the Marais, in the Rue Payenne, in a severe 
and respectable house, a smart five-roomed flat, which he peram- 
bulated in embroidered slippers. They were the rooms of a young 
abbé, who had left suddenly for Italy and had sent instructions to 
his housekeeper to let them. This woman was a friend of Mme. 
Sidonie, who affected the cloth a little; she loved priests with the 
love she bestowed on women, instinctively, establishing, possibly, a 
certain subtle relationship between cassocks and silk shirts. From 
that time Saccard was prepared; he had thought out his part with 
exquisite art; he awaited without flinching the difficulties and 
niceties of the situation he had accepted. 
On the hideous night of Angéle’s last agony, Madame Sidonie 
had faithfully related, in few words, the case of the Béraud family. 
Its head, M. Béraud du Chatel, a tall old man of sixty, was the last 
representative of an ancient bourgeois family, whose pedigree went 
further back than that of certain noble houses. One of his ancestors 
was the friend of Etienne Marcel. In ’93 his father had died on the 
scaffold, after welcoming the Republic with all the enthusiasm of a 
burgess of Paris in whose veins flowed the revolutionary blood of 
the city. He himself was a Republican of ancient Sparta, whose 
dream was a reign of universal justice and sound liberty. Grown old 
in the magistracy, where he had contracted 
a professional 
in- 
flexibility and severity, he had resigned his chairmanship in 1851, 
at the time of the Coup d’Etat, after refusing to take part in one 
of those mixed commissions which tended to dishonour French 
justice. Since that time he had been living alone in retirement in 
his house on the Ie Saint-Louis, situated at the extremity of the 
island, almost facing the Hétel Lambert. His wife had died young. 
Some secret tragedy, whose wound remained unhealed, added still 
further to the gloom of the. magistrate’s countenance. He was al- 
ready the father of an eight-year old daughter, Renée, when 
his wife expired in giving birth to a second. The latter, who was 
called Christine, was taken charge of by a sister of M. Béraud du 
Chatel, the wife of Aubertot the notary. Renée went to a convent. 
67 

Madame Aubertot, who had no children, took a maternal fondness 
for Christine, whom she brought up by her side. On her husband’s 
death, she brought back the little one to its father, and continued to 
live with the silent old man and the smiling, fair-haired child. 
Renée was forgotten at her school. During the holidays she filled 
the house with such an uproar that her aunt heaved a great sigh of 
relief when she had at last escorted her back to the ladies of the 
Visitation, where she had been a boarder since her eighth year. 
She did not leave the convent until she was nineteen, and went 
straight to spend the fine season at the home of her friend Adeline, 
whose parents owned a beautiful estate in the Nivernais. When she 
returned in October, her Aunt Elisabeth was surprised to find her 
serious and profoundly melancholy. One evening she discovered her 
stifling her sobs in her pillow, writhing on her bed in a paroxysm of 
uncontrollable grief. In the unconstraint of her despair the girl told 
her a heart-rending story: how a man of forty, rich, married—his 
wife, 
a young and charming woman, was there—had violated her 
in a field, without her daring or knowing how to defend herself. 
This confession terrified Aunt Elisabeth; she accused herself, as 
though she felt herself to be to blame; her preference for Christine 
made her deeply unhappy; she thought that, had she kept Renée 
also beside her, the poor child would not have succumbed. Hence- 
forth, in order to drive away this exquisite remorse, which was 
rendered 
still more acute by the tenderness of her nature, she 
sustained the erring one; she bore the brunt of the anger of the 
father, to whom they both revealed the horrible truth by the very 
excess of their precautions; she invented, in the bewilderment of 
her solicitude, this strange project of matrimony, which to her 
idea would settle the whole affair, appease the father, and restore 
Renée to the world of honest women, and she refused to perceive 
its shameful side or foresee its disastrous consequences. 
Nobody ever knew how Madame Sidonie had got wind of this 
good bit of business. The honour of the Bérauds had been dragged 
about in her basket among the protested bills of every prostitute in 
Paris. Once she knew the story, she almost forced her brother, whose 
wife lay dying, upon them. Aunt Elisabeth ended by believing that 
she was under an obligation to this gentle, humble lady, who was 
devoting herself to the unhappy Renée to the degree of finding a 
husband for her in her own family. The first interview between the 
aunt and Saccard took place on the entresol in the Rue du Fau- 
bourg-Poissoniére. The clerk, who had arrived by the carriage- 
68 

entrance in the Rue Papillon, realised, when he saw Madame 
Aubert>t coming through the shop and the little staircase, the 
ingenious arrangement of the two entrances. He was full of tact 
and propriety. He treated the marriage as a matter of business, but 
in the fashion of a man of the world settling his debts of honour. 
Aunt Elisabeth was far less at ease than he; she stammered, she had 
not the courage to mention the hundred thousand francs she had 
promised him. 
It was he who first broached the question of money, with the 
manner of a solicitor discussing a client’s case. According to him a 
hundred thousand francs was a ridiculous sum for the husband of 
Mademoiselle Renée to bring into settlement. He laid a little 
stress on the “mademoiselle”. M. Béraud du Chatel would still 
more despise a poor son-in-law: 
he would accuse him of having 
seduced his daughter for the sake of her fortune; perhaps it might 
even occur to him to make some private inquiries. Startled and 
dismayed by Saccard’s calm and polite phrases, Madame Aubertot 
lost her head and consented to double the amount when he de- 
_clared that he would never dare to propose for Renée with less than 
two hundred thousand francs in his pocket; he did not wish to be 
taken for a contemptible fortune-hunter. The good lady departed 
quite confused, not knowing what to think of a man capable of so 
much indignation, and yet willing to accept a bargain of such a 
nature. 
This first interview was followed by an official visit which Aunt 
Elisabeth paid Saccard at his rooms in the Rue Payenne. This time 
she came in the name of M. Béraud. The ex-magistrate had refused 
to see “that man,” as he called his daughter’s seducer, so long as he 
was not married to Renée, to whom furthermore he had also for- 
bidden his house. Madame Aubertot had full powers of treaty. She 
seemed pleased with the clerk’s luxurious surroundings; she had 
feared that the brother of that Madame Sidonie, with her draggled 
skirts, might be a disreputable-looking person. He received her 
swathed in a delightful dressing-gown. It was at the time when the 
adventurers of the 2 Décembre, after paying their debts, flung their 
worn boots and frayed coats into the sewers, shaved their eight 
days’ beards, and became respectable men. Saccard was at last to 
join the band; he cleaned his nails and washed exclusively with 
powders and perfumes of inestimable value. He made himself gal- 
lant; he changed his tactics and showed himself wonderfully dis- 
interested. When the old lady began to talk of the contract, he 
69 

made a gesture as though to say what did he mind. For a week 
past he had been studying the Code, pondering this serious question 
on which would depend his future liberty of action as a sharp 
business practitioner. 
“I beg you,” he said, “let us hear no more of this disagreeable 
question of money. 
. 
. 
. My opinion is that Mademoiselle Renée 
should remain mistress of her fortune and I master of mine. The 
notary will put that right.” 
Aunt Elisabeth approved of this manner of looking at things; she 
trembled lest this fellow, whose iron grip she could vaguely per- 
ceive, should wish to thrust his fingers into her niece’s dowry. She 
next entered into the matter of this dowry. 
“My brother’s fortune,” she said, “consists mainly of houses and 
landed property. He is not the man to punish his daughter by 
reducing the share he intended for her. He will give her an estate 
in the Sologne valued at three hundred thousand francs, in addition 
to a house in Paris which is worth about two hundred thousand 
francs.” 
Saccard was dazzled; he had expected no such amount; he turned 
half away so as to hide the rush of blood that came to his face. 
“That will make five hundred thousand francs,” continued the 
aunt; “but I am bound to add that the Sologne property yields 
only two per cent.” 
He smiled, repeating his disinterested gesture, implying that that 
could not concern him, as he declined to interfere with his wife’s 
property. He sat in his arm-chair in an adorable attitude of in- 
difference, absent-minded, balancing his slipper on his foot, seeming 
to listen from sheer politeness. Mme. Aubertot, with her simple- 
minded good-nature, spoke with difficulty, picking her words so 
as not to wound him. She continued : 
“And lastly, I want to make Renée a present myself. I have no 
children, my property will some day revert to my nieces, and I am 
not going to close my hands now because one of them is in trouble. 
Both their wedding-presents were ready for them. Renée’s consists 
of some extensive plots of land up Charonne way, which I can 
safely value at two hundred thousand francs. Only... .” 
At the word land Saccard started slightly. In spite of his assumed 
indifference he was listening intently. Aunt Elisabeth became con- 
fused, apparently at a loss for the right expression, and continued, 
blushing : 
“Only, I wish the ownership of this land to be settled on Renée’s 
70 

first child. You understand my reason. I do not wish this child 
ever to be of any expense to you. In the event of its dying, Renée 
would become the sole owner.” 
He made no sign, but his knit brows revealed great inward pre- 
occupation. The mention of the land at Charonne had aroused 
within him a world of ideas. Mme. Aubertot feared she had 
offended him by speaking of Renée’s child, and she remained 
abashed, not knowing how to follow up the conversation. 
“You have not told me in what street the house worth two hun- 
dred thousand francs stands,” he said, resuming his smiling, genial 
air. 
“In the Rue de la Pépiniére, 
of the Rue d’Astorg.” 
This simple sentence produced a decided effect on him. He could 
no longer conceal his delight; he drew up his chair, and with his 
Provengal volubility, in coaxing tones : 
“Dear lady,” he said, “have we not said enough, need we con- 
tinue to talk of this confounded money? .. 
. See here, I want to 
tell you my story quite frankly, for I should be most unhappy if I 
failed to deserve your regard. I lost my wife recently, I have two 
children left on my hands, I am a sensible and practical man. In 
marrying your niece I am doing good all round. If you retain 
any prejudice against me, you will lose it later on when I have 
dried everyone’s tears and made the fortune of all my family. 
Success is a golden flame that purifies everything. I want M. 
Béraud himself to shake me by the hand and thank me... .” 
He lost himself. He talked on for a long while in the same banter- 
ing strain, whose cynicism from time to time shone through his 
genial air. He dragged in his brother, the Deputy, his father the 
receiver of taxes at Plassans. He ended by making a conquest of 
Aunt Elisabeth who, with involuntary joy, saw the tragedy under 
which she had been suffering for the past month ending, under this 
clever man’s fingers, in a comedy that was almost hilarious. It was 
arranged that they should go to the notary the next day. 
So soon as Madame Aubertot had gone, Saccard went to the 
H6tel de Ville, and spent the day in turning over certain documents 
that he knew of. At the notary’s he raised a difficulty, he said that 
as Renée’s dowry consisted entirely of landed property, he feared 
it would give her a deal of worry, and that he thought it would be 
as well to sell the house in the Rue de la Pépiniére in order to 
secure her an investment in the funds. Mme. Aubertot proposed 
71 
” she replied; “almost at the corner 

to refer the matter to M. Béraud du Chatel, who continued to keep 
his room. Saccard went out again till the evening. He went to the 
Rue de la Pépiniére, he walked about Paris with the preoccupied air 
of a general on the eve of a decisive battle. The next day Mme. 
Aubertot declared that M. Béraud du Chatel left the whole matter 
in her hands. The contract was drawn up on the lines already dis- 
cussed. Saccard brought in two hundred thousand francs, Renée’s 
dowry was the Sologne property and the house in the Rue de la 
Pépiniére, which she agreed to sell; and further, in the case of the 
death of her first child, she was to be the sole owner of the land at 
Charonne given her by her aunt. The contract was in accordance 
with the system of separate estates by which the husband and wife 
retain the entire management of their respective fortunes. Aunt 
Elisabeth followed the notary attentively, and seemed contented 
with this system, whose provisions apparently assured her niece’s 
independence by placing her fortune beyond the reach of any at- 
tempts. Saccard smiled vaguely as he saw the good lady nodding her 
approval of each clause. The marriage was fixed to take place at the 
earliest possible date. 
When all was settled, Saccard paid a ceremonial visit to his 
brother Eugéne to announce his marriage with Mlle. Renée Béraud 
du Chatel. This master-stroke took the deputy by surprise. As he 
made no attempt to conceal his astonishment, the clerk said : 
“You told me to look, and I looked until I found.” 
Eugéne, bewildered at first, began to get a glimpse of the truth. 
And in a charming tone he said : 
“Come, you’re a clever fellow ... I suppose you have come to 
ask me to be your witness. You may rely on me... 
. If necessary, 
I will bring the whole of the Right of the Corps Législatif to your 
wedding; that would launch you nicely... .” 
Then, as he had opened the door, he lowered his voice to add: 
“I say... I don’t want to compromise myself too much just now, 
we have a very tough bill to pass. .. 
. The lady is not very far gone, 
I hope?” 
Saccard gave him such a savage look that Eugéne said to himself, 
as he shut the door : 
“That’s a joke that would cost me dear if I were not a Rougon.” 
The marriage was solemnized in the Church of Saint-Louis-en- 
Ile. Saccard and Renée did not meet till the eve of that great day. 
The introduction took place early in the evening, in a low recep- 
tion-room 
at 
the Hétel Béraud. 
They examined 
each 
other 
72 

curiously. Renée, since her marriage had been arranged, had 
regained her light-headedness, her madcap ways. She was a tall 
girl of exquisite and tempestuous beauty, that had grown up at 
random through her school-girl caprices. She thought Saccard 
small and ugly, but ugly in a restless and intelligent way that she 
did not dislike; and moreover, he was perfect in manner and de- 
portment. As for him, he made a little grimace at the first sight of 
her; she doubtless struck him as too tall, taller than he was. They 
exchanged a few words, free from embarrassment. Had the father 
been present, he might readily have believed that they had long 
known each other, and that they had a common fault in their past 
lives. Aunt Elisabeth, who was present at the interview, blushed in 
their stead. 
On the day after the wedding, which the presence of Eugéne 
Rougon, whom a recent speech had brought to the forefront, 
magnified into an event in the Ie Saint-Louis, the newly-married 
couple were at length admitted to the presence of Monsieur Béraud 
du Chatel. Renée shed tears on finding her father aged, graver, and 
_ sadder. Saccard, whom up to that point nothing had put out of 
countenance, was frozen by the chill and gloom of the room, by the 
sombre austerity of the tall old man, whose piercing eye seemed to 
penetrate to the depths of his conscience. The ex-magistrate kissed 
his daughter slowly on the forehead, as though to tell her that he 
forgave her, and turning to his son-in-law : 
. 
“Monsieur,” he said simply, “we have suffered greatly, I trust 
you will give us reason to forget the wrong you have done us.” 
He held out his hand. But Saccard remained timid. He thought 
how, if M. Béraud du Chatel had not given way under the tragic 
sorrow of Renée’s shame, he might with a glance, with a gesture, 
have annulled Madame Sidonie’s manceuvres. The latter, after 
bringing her brother and Aunt Elisabeth together, had prudently 
effaced herself. She had not even come to the wedding. Saccard 
adopted an attitude of great frankness towards the old man, having 
read in his face a look of surprise at finding his daughter’s seducer 
ugly, little, and forty years of age. The newly-married couple were 
compelled to spend the first nights at the Hétel Béraud. Christine 
had been sent away two months since, so that this child of fourteen 
might have no suspicion of the drama that was being enacted in 
this house, peaceful and serene as a convent. When she returned 
home, she stood aghast before her sister’s husband, whom she too 
thought old and ugly. Renée alone seemed to take but little notice 
73 

of her husband’s age or his mean aspect. She treated him without 
contempt as without affection, with absolute tranquillity, through 
which was visible an occasional glimmer of ironical disdain. Sac- 
card strutted about, made himself at home, and really succeeded, 
by his frankness and vivacity, in gradually winning everybody’s 
good will. When they took their departure, in order to install them- 
selves in an imposing flat in a new house in the Rue de Rivoli, M. 
Béraud du ChAatel had lost his look of astonishment, and Christine 
had taken to playing with her brother-in-law as with a school- 
fellow. Renée’s pregnancy was at that time four months advanced; 
her husband was on the point of sending her to the country, pro- 
posing afterwards to lie as to the child’s age, when, as Madame 
Sidonie had foretold, she had a miscarriage. She had so tightly 
laced herself to dissimulate her condition, which was moreover 
concealed under the fulness of her skirts, that she was compelled 
to keep her bed for some weeks. He was enchanted with the adven- 
ture; Fortune was at last on his side; he had made a golden bar- 
gain: 
a splendid dowry, a wife of a beauty that should be worth 
a decoration to him within six months, and not the least encum- 
brance. He had received two hundred thousand francs to give his 
name to a fcetus which its mother would not even look at. From 
that moment his thoughts began to turn affectionately towards the 
Charonne property. But for the time being he devoted all his 
attention to a speculation which was to be the basis of his fortune. 
Notwithstanding the high standing of his wife’s family, he did 
not immediately resign his post as a surveyor of roads. He talked of 
work that had to be finished, of an occupation that had to be 
sought for. As a matter of fact he wished to remain till the end on 
the battlefield upon which he was venturing his first stake. He felt 
at home, he was able to cheat more at his ease. 
His plan of fortune was simple and practical. Now that he had 
more money than he had ever hoped for in hand to begin his 
operations, he reckoned on putting his designs into execution on a 
large scale. He had all Paris at his fingers’ ends; he knew that the 
shower of gold which was beating down upon the walls would fall 
more heavily every day. Clever people had but to open their 
pockets. He had enlisted himself among the clever ones by reading 
the future in the offices of the Hétel de Ville. His duties had taught 
him what may be stolen in the buying and selling of houses and 
ground. He was well up in every classical swindle: 
he knew how 
you sell for a million what has cost you five hundred thousand 
74 

francs; how you acquire the right of rifling the treasury of the 
State, which smiles and closes its eyes; how, when throwing a 
boulevard across the belly of an old quarter, you juggle with six- 
storied houses amidst the unanimous applause of your dupes. And 
in these still clouded days, when the canker of speculation was but 
at its period of incubation, what made a formidable gambler of him 
was that he saw further than his chiefs themselves into the stone- 
and-plaster future reserved for Paris. He had ferreted to such an 
extent, collected so many clues, that he could have prophesied the 
appearance the new neighbourhoods would offer in 1870. Some- 
times, in the street, he would look at certain houses in a curious 
way, as though they were acquaintances whose destiny, known to 
him alone, deeply affected him. 
Two months before Angéle’s death, he had taken her, on a Sun- 
day, to the Buttes Montmartre. The poor woman loved dining at a 
restaurant; she was delighted whenever, after a long walk, he sat her 
down at a table in some hostelry on the outskirts of the town. On 
this particular day they dined at the top of the hill, in a restuarant 
whose windows looked out over Paris, over that sea of houses with 
blue roofs, like surging billows that filled the vast horizon. Their 
table was placed at one of the windows. The sight of the roofs of 
Paris enlivened Saccard. At dessert he called for a bottle of Bur- 
gundy. He smiled into space, he was unusually gallant. And his 
looks always returned amorously to that living, seething ocean, 
from which issued the deep voice of the crowd. It was autumn; 
beneath the great pale sky the city lay listless in a soft and tender 
grey, pierced here and there with dark patches of foliage that 
resembled the broad leaves of water-lilies floating on a lake; the 
sun was setting behind a red cloud, and, while the background was 
filled with a light haze, a shower of gold dust, of golden dew, fell 
on the right bank of the river, in the neighbourhood of the 
Madeleine and the Tuileries. It was like an enchanted corner in a 
city of the “Arabian Nights,” with emerald trees, sapphire roofs, 
ruby weathercocks. There came a moment when a ray of sunlight, 
gliding from between two clouds, was so resplendent that the houses 
seemed to flare up and melt like an ingot of gold in a crucible. 
“Oh! look,” said Saccard, with a laugh like a child’s, “it is rain- 
ing twenty-franc pieces in Paris!” 
Angéle joined in the laughter, saying that that sort of pieces was 
not easy to pick up. But her husband had stood up, and leaning 
on the handrail of the window : 
75 

“That is the Vendéme Column, is it not, glittering over there? 
... There, more to the right, you can see the Madeleine. .. 
. A fine 
district, where there is much to be done... . Ah! now it is all going 
to blaze up! Do you see? ... You would think the whole neigh- 
bourhood was boiling in a chemist’s retort.” 
His voice became eager and agitated. The comparison he had hit 
upon seemed to strike him greatly. He had been drinking Bur- 
gundy, he forgot himself; stretching out his arm to show Paris to 
Angéle, who was leaning by his side, he went on : 
“Yes, yes, I said so, more than one district will be melted down, 
and gold will stick to the fingers of those who heat and stir the 
mortar. That great noodle of a Paris! see how big it is, and how 
quietly it goes to sleep! What fools, those large towns! 
It has no 
suspicion of the army of picks that will fall upon it one of these fine 
mornings, and certain houses in the Rue d’Anjou would not shine 
so brightly in the sunset, if they knew that they have only three or 
four years to live.” 
Angéle thought her husband was joking. He sometimes showed 
a predilection for colossal and disquieting pleasantries. She laughed, 
but with a vague terror, at the sight of this little man standing erect 
over the recumbent giant at his feet, and shaking his fist at it while 
ironically pursing his lips. 
“They have begun already,” he continued. “But it is nothing 
much yet. Look down there, over by the Halles, they have cut 
Paris into four... .” 
And with his hand spread out, open and sharp-edged as a cutlass, 
he made the movement of separating the city into four parts. 
“You mean the Rue de Rivoli and the new boulevard they are 
building?” asked his wife. 
“Yes, the great transept of Paris, as they call it. They’re clearing 
away the buildings round the Louvre and the Hétel de Ville. 
That’s mere child’s play! It serves to awaken the public’s appetite. 
. 
. 
. When the first network is finished the fun will begin. The 
second network will pierce the city in every direction so as to 
connect the suburbs with the first. The remains will disappear in 
clouds of plaster. 
. 
. 
. Look, just follow my hand. From the 
Boulevard du Temple to the Barriére du Tréne, that’s one cutting; 
then on this side another, from the Madeleine to the Plaine Mon- 
ceau: 
and a third cutting this way, another that way, a cutting 
there, one further on, cuttings on every side, Paris slashed with 
sabre cuts, its veins opened, giving sustenance to a hundred thou- 
76 

sand navwvies and bricklayers, traversed by splendid military roads 
which will bring the forts into the very heart of the old quarters 
of the town.” 
Night was falling. His dry, nervous hand kept cutting through 
space. Angéle shivered slightly before this living knife, those iron 
fingers mercilessly slicing up the boundless mass of dusky roofs. 
During the last moment the haze of the horizon had been descend- 
ing slowly from the heights, and she fancied she could hear, beneath 
the gloom that was gathering in the hollows, a distant cracking, as 
though her husband’s hand had really made the cuttings he spoke 
of, splitting up Paris from one end to the other, severing beams, 
crushing masonry, leaving behind it long and hideous wounds of 
crumbling walls. The smallness of this hand, hovering pitilessly 
over a gigantic prey, ended by becoming disquieting; and as, with- 
out effort, it tore asunder the entrails of the enormous 
city, it 
seemed 
to assume a strange reflex of steel in the blue of the 
twilight. 
“There is to be a third network,” continued Saccard after a 
pause, as though talking to himself; “that one is too far off yet, I 
do not see it so distinctly. I have heard only a little about it... 
. 
But there will be a sheer orgie, a bacchanal of millions, Paris drunk 
and overwhelmed !” 
He lapsed into silence, his eyes ardently fixed upon the town, 
over which the shadows were falling more and more deeply. He 
was apparently interrogating that too-distant future which escaped 
him. Then night fell, the city became confused, one heard 
it 
breathing heavily, like the sea when the eye no longer distinguishes 
anything but the pale crest of the billows. Here and there a wall 
still stood out white; and the yellow flames of the gas-jets pierced 
the darkness one by one, like stars lighting up in the blackness of a 
stormy sky. 
Angéle shook off her feeling of uneasiness, and took up the jest 
that her husband had made at dessert. 
“Well,” she said, with a smile, “there has been a fine shower of 
those twenty-franc pieces! The people of Paris are counting them 
now. Look at the great heaps they are laying out at our feet!” 
She pointed to the streets that run down opposite the Buttes 
Montmartre, whose gas-lights seemed to be heaping up their specks 
of gold in two rows. 
“And over there,” she cried, pointing with her finger to a swarm 
of stars, “that must be the treasury.” 
77 

The jest made Saccard laugh. They stayed a few moments 
longer at the window, enchanted with this torrent of “twenty-franc 
pieces,” which had ended by setting light to the whole of Paris. On 
the road home from Montmartre the surveyor of roads no doubt 
repented of having spoken so freely. He put it down to the Bur- 
gundy, and begged his wife not to repeat the “nonsense” he had 
been talking; he wanted, he said, to be a serious person. 
For a long time past Saccard had been studying these three 
arteries of streets and boulevards, of which he had so far forgotten 
himself as to lay bare to plan to Angéle with tolerable correctness. 
When the latter died, he was not sorry to think that she bore with 
her into the grave his chatter on the occasion of the Montmartre 
expedition. There lay his fortune, in those famous gaps which his 
hand had cut out in the heart of Paris, and he had made up his 
mind to communicate his idea to nobody, well knowing that on the 
day of the spoil there would be crows enough hovering over the 
disembowelled city. His first intention had been to get hold cheaply 
of some building which he would know beforehand to be con- 
demned to speedy demolition, and to realise a big profit by obtain- 
ing substantial compensation. He might, perhaps, have gone so far 
as to make the attempt without a sou, buying the house on credit, 
and only receiving the difference, 
as on the Bourse, when his 
second marriage, bringing him in a premium of two hundred 
thousand francs, fixed and enlarged his design. Now, his calculations 
were made; he would buy the house in the Rue de la Pépiniére 
from his wife through an intermediary, without allowing his own 
name to appear, and treble his outlay, thanks to the knowledge he 
had picked up in the corridors of the Hétel de Ville, and to his 
pleasant relations with certain eminent persons of influence. The 
reason he started when Aunt Elisabeth told him where the house 
was situated was because this was right in the centre of the design 
for a thoroughfare which had not yet been talked of outside the 
private office of the Préfect of the Seine. This thoroughfare would 
be swallowed up entirely by the Boulevard Malesherbes. It was an 
old scheme of Napoleon I, which they were now thinking of carry- 
ing, “in order,” said the serious people, “to give a normal outlet to 
districts lost behind a labyrinth of narrow streets on the slope of the 
hills that mark the outskirts of Paris.” This official phrase did not, 
of course, admit the interest the Empire possessed in making the 
money dance, in organising those redoubtable excavations and 
building operations which gave the labouring classes no time to 
78 

think. Saccard had ventured one day to consult, in the préfet’s 
room, that famous plan of Paris on which “an august hand” had 
traced in red ink the principal thoroughfares of the second network. 
Those blood-red pen-strokes cut even deeper gashes into Paris than 
did Saccard’s hand. The Boulevard Malesherbes, which pulled down 
some magnificent houses in the Rue d’Anjou and the Rue de la 
Ville-’Evéque, and necessitated a large number of levelling works, 
was to be one of the first laid out. When Saccard went to look over 
the building in the Rue de la Pépiniére, he thought of that autumn 
evening, of that dinner he had taken with Angéle on the Buttes 
Montmartre, during which, at sunset, so thick a shower of louis 
d’or had fallen on the Madeline quarter. He smiled; he pictured 
to himself the radiant cloud as bursting over his own court-yard, 
and that he was on his way to pick up the twenty-franc pieces. 
While Renée, luxuriously installed in the flat in the Rue de 
Rivoli, in the centre of that new Paris, one of whose queens she 
was destined to become, thought out her future dresses and took 
her first steps in the life of a woman of fashion, her husband was 
_ 
devoutly maturing his first great scheme. He began by purchasing 
from her the house in the Rue de la Pépiniére, thanks to the inter- 
mediary of a certain Larsonneau, whom he had come across ferret- 
ing like himself in the offices of the Hétel de Ville. Larsonneau, 
however, had been stupid enough to allow himself to be caught one 
day when he was prying into the préfet’s private drawers. He had 
set up as an agent at the end of a dark, damp court at the foot of 
the Rue Saint-Jacques. His pride, his greed suffered torments there. 
He found himself in the same position as Saccard before his mar- 
riage; he too, he would say, had invented “a five-franc piece 
machine”; only he lacked the necessary funds to turn his invention 
to profit. A hint was sufficient to enable him to come to an under- 
standing with his former colleague; and he did his part of the work 
so well that he obtained the house for one hundred and fifty thou- 
sand francs. Renée was already, before many months had elapsed, 
in great need of money. The husband did not appear in the matter 
except to authorise his wife to sell. When the sale was effected, she 
asked him to invest a hundred thousand francs for her, handing 
it to him with full confidence, so as no doubt to touch him and 
make him close his eyes to the fact that she was keeping fifty 
thousand francs back. He smiled knowingly; he had reckoned on 
her squandering her money; those fifty thousand francs, which were 
about to disappear in jewellery and lace, were calculated to bring 
19 

him in cent. per cent. He carried his honesty so far, so well satisfied 
was he with his first transaction, as really to invest Renée’s hundred 
thousand francs and hand her the share certificates. His wife had 
no power to transfer them; he was certain of being able to lay his 
hand on them if ever he happened to want them. 
““My dear, this will do for your dress,” he said gallantly. 
When he had obtained possession of the house, he had the 
ingenuity to have it sold over again, twice in one month, to men 
of straw, increasing the purchase price each time. The last pur- 
chaser paid no less than three hundred thousand francs for it. 
Meanwhile Larsonneau alone appeared as the representative of the 
successive 
landlords, and worked the tenants. He pitilessly re- 
fused to renew the leases unless they consented to a formidable 
increase of rent. The tenants, who had an inkling of the approach- 
ing expropriation, were in despair; they ended by agreeing to the 
increase, especially when Larsonneau added, with a conciliatory air, 
that this increase should remain a ficitious one during the first 
five years. As for the tenants who were unaccommodating, they 
were replaced by creatures who received the apartment for nothing 
and signed anything they were asked to; in their case there was a 
double profit: 
the rent was raised, and the compensation due to 
the tenant for his lease went to Saccard. Madame Sidonie was so 
good as to assist her brother by setting up a pianoforte-agency in 
one of the shops on the ground-floor. It was then that Saccard and 
Larsonneau, seized with the fever of gain, went rather too far: 
they concocted business-books, they forged letters, so as to establish 
a trade in pianos on an imense footing. They scribbled away to- 
gether for many nights. Worked in this fashion, the house trebled 
in value. Thanks to the last sale, thanks to the increase in the rents, 
to the fictitious tenants, and to Madame Sidonie’s business, it was 
in a condition to be valued at five hundred thousand francs be- 
fore the compensations commission. 
The machinery of expropriation, 
of that powerful piece of 
mechanism that for fifteen years turned Paris topsy-turvy, breathing 
fortune and ruin, is of the simplest. So soon as a new thoroughfare 
is decided upon, the surveyors of roads draw up the plan in separate 
sections and appraise the buildings. As a rule, in the case of houses 
let in apartments, they add up the total amount of the rents, after 
making inquiries, and are thus enabled to fix upon the approximate 
value. The compensations commission, consisting of members of the 
Municipal Council, always make an offer lower than this sum, 
80 

knowing that the interested parties will claim more, and that there 
will be a concession on both sides. When they are unable to come 
to terms, the case is taken before a jury, which decides authorita- 
tively upon the offer of the town and the claim of the evicted land- 
lord or tenant. 
Saccard, who had remained at the Hétel de Ville for the decisive 
moment, had for one instant the impudence to wish to have him- 
self appointed when the works of the Boulevard Malesherbes were 
begun, and himself to appraise his house. But he was afraid by so 
doing to paralyse his influence with the members of the compensa- 
tions commission. He caused one of his colleagues to be chosen, a 
young man with a sweet smile, called Michelin, whose wife, an 
enchantingly pretty woman, occasionally called to apologise to her 
husband’s chiefs for his absence, when he stayed away through ill- 
health. He was often 
ill. Saccard had noticed that the pretty 
Madame Michelin, who glided so humbly through the half-closed 
doorways, was omnipotent; Michelin obtained promotion at each 
illness, he made his career by taking to his bed. During one of his 
- 
absences, when he was sending his wife almost every morning to 
the office to say how he was getting on, Saccard twice met him on 
the outer boulevards, smoking a cigar with the expression of rapt 
affection that never left him. This filled him with sympathy for this 
good young man, for that happy couple, so practical and so in- 
genious. He admired 
all “five-franc-piece machines” 
that were 
properly worked. When he had got Michelin appointed, he went 
and called on his charming wife, expressed a wish to introduce her 
to Renée, talked before her of his brother the deputy, the brilliant 
orator. Madame Michelin understood. 
From that day forward her husband kept his choicest smiles for 
his colleague. The latter, who had no desire to take the worthy 
fellow into his confidence, contented himself with being present, 
as though casually, on the day when the other proceeded to value 
the house in the Rue de la Pépiniére. He assisted him. Michelin, 
who had the most insignificant and the emptiest head imaginable, 
followed the instructions of his wife, who had urged him to satisfy 
M. Saccard in all things. He suspected nothing, moreover; he 
thought the surveyor was in a hurry to see him finish his work so 
as to take him off to a café. The leases, the receipts for rent, 
Madame Sidonie’s famous books, passed from his colleague’s hands 
under his eyes without his even having time to verify the figures 
81 

which the latter read aloud. Larsonneau was present, and treated his 
accomplice as a stranger. 
“Come, put down five hundred thousand francs,” Saccard ended 
by saying. “The house is worth more. .. 
. Hurry up; I believe there 
is going to be a change in the staff of the Hétel de Ville, and I 
want to talk to you about it, so that you may let your wife know 
beforehand.” 
The business was thus carried through. But he still had fears. He 
dreaded lest the sum of five hundred thousand francs should seem 
rather excessive to the compensations commission for a house which 
was well known to be worth at most two hundred thousand. The 
formidable rise in house-property had not yet taken place. An 
inquiry would have caused him to run the risk of serious unpleasant- 
ness. He remembered his brother’s words: “No flagrant scandal, or 
Ill exterminate you;” and he knew Eugéne was the man to carry 
out his threat. It was a question of blindfolding those gentlemen of 
the commission, and ensuring their good will. He cast his eyes on 
two influential men, of whom he had made friends through his 
habit of saluting them in the corridors when he met them. The 
thirty-six members of the Municipal Council were carefully selected 
by the Emperor himself, on the recommendation of the préfet, 
from among the senators, deputies, advocates, doctors, and great 
manufacturers, who prostrated themselves the most devoutly before 
the reigning power; but among them all, the fervour of the Baron 
Gouraud and of M. Toutin-Laroche more especially attracted the 
good will of the Tuileries. 
The whole of the Baron Gouraud is comprised in this short 
biography: 
he was made a baron by Napoleon I as a reward for 
supplying damaged biscuits to the Grand Army, he was a peer 
successively under Louis XVIII, Charles X, and Louis-Philippe, 
and he was a senator under Napoleon III. He worshipped the 
throne, the four gilded boards covered with velvet; it mattered little 
to him what man sat upon it. With his enormous belly, his bovine 
face, his elephantine movements, he boasted a delightful rascality; 
he sold himself majestically, and committed the greatest infamies in 
the name of duty and conscience. But the man was yet more 
astonishing in his vices. Stories were current about him which could 
not be told above a whisper. In spite of his seventy-eight years, he 
flourished in the midst of the most monstrous debauchery. It was 
necessary on two occasions to hush up some dirty adventure, so that 
82 

his embroidered senator’s coat should not be dragged through the 
dock of the assize-court. 
M. Toutin-Laroche, tall and thin, had invented a mixture of 
tallow and stearine for the manufacture of candles, and longed to 
enter the Senate. He clung to the Baron Gouraud like a leech; he 
rubbed up against him with the vague idea that it would bring him 
luck. At bottom he was exceedingly practical; and had he come 
across a senator’s seat for sale, he would have haggled fiercely over 
the price. The Empire was to bring into prominence this greedy 
nonentity, 
this 
narrow 
brain 
with 
its genious 
for industrial 
swindling. He was the first to sell his name to a shady company, one 
of those associations which sprouted like poisonous toadstools on 
the dunghill of imperial speculation. At that time one could see 
stuck on the walls a placard bearing these words in big black 
letters: 
“Société Générale of the Ports of Morocco,” on which the 
name of M. Toutin-Laroche, with his title of municipal councillor, 
was displayed at the head of the list of members of the board of 
directors, each more unknown than the other. This method, which 
has since been abused, succeeded admirably; the shares were snap- 
ped up, although the question of the Ports of Morocco was not a 
very definite one, and the worthy people who brought their money 
were not themselves able to explain to what use it was to be put. 
The placard spoke magniloquently of commercial stations to be 
established along the Mediterranean. For two years past certain of 
the newspapers had been hallowing this imposing undertaking, 
which they declared to be more prosperous every quarter. In the 
Municipal Council M. Toutin-Laroche was considered 
an ad- 
ministrator of the first water; he was one of the clever heads of 
the place, and his bitter tyranny over his colleagues was equalled 
only by his devout self-effacement in the presence of the préfet. 
He was now engaged upon the construction of a great financial 
company, the Crédit Viticole, 
a wine-growers’ loan office, of which 
he spoke with a reticence and an air of solemnity that kindled the 
covetousness of the idiots around him. 
Saccard secured the protection of these two personages by ren- 
dering them services whose importance he cleverly pretended to 
ignore. He introduced his sister to the baron at a time when the 
latter was mixed up in a very dirty scandal. He took her to see him 
under the pretence of soliciting his support in the favour of the 
dear woman, who had long been petitioning for an order for the 
supply of window-curtains to the Tuileries. But it so happened that 
83 

when the surveyor of roads left them together, it was Madame 
Sidonie who promised the baron to negotiate with certain people 
who were clumsy enough not to have felt honoured by the friend- 
ship that a senator had condescended to show to their child, a little 
girl of ten. Saccard took M. Toutin-Laroche in hand himself; he 
manceuvred so as to obtain an interview with him in the corridor, 
and led the conversation to the famous Crédit Viticole. After five 
minutes 
the great administrator, 
dazed and astounded 
at the 
astonishing things he heard, took the clerk familiarly by the arm 
and detained him for a full hour in the corridor. Saccard whispered 
in his ear some financial schemes of prodigious ingenuity. When M. 
Toutin-Laroche left him, he pressed his hand in a meaning way with 
a masonic wink of the eye. 
“You shall be there,” he murmured, “you must be there.” 
He surpassed himself throughout this business. He carried his 
foresight as far as not to make the Baron Gouraud and M. Toutin- 
Laroche accomplices of one another. He called upon them separ- 
ately, dropped a word in their ear in favour of one of his friends 
who was about to be bought out in the Rue de la Pépiniére; he 
was very careful to tell each of the two confederates that he would 
not mention this business to any other member of the commission, 
that it was very uncertain, but that he reckoned on all his good will. 
The surveyor of roads was right in being apprehensive and in 
taking his precautions. When the report relating to his house came 
before the compensations commission, it just happened that one of 
the members lived in the Rue d’Astorg and knew the house. This 
member raised a protest against the figure of five hundred thou- 
sand francs which, according to him, should be reduced by one- 
half. Aristide had had the impudence to have seven hundred thou- 
sand francs put down in the claim. But that day M. Toutin- 
Laroche, who was generally very disagreeable to his colleagues, was 
in a still more truculent mood than usual. He grew angry, he took 
up the defence of the landlords. 
“We are all of us landlords, messieurs,” he cried. 
. 
. 
. “The 
Emperor wishes to do things on a large scale, let us not haggle over 
trifles. 
. 
. 
. This house must be worth five hundred thousand francs; 
the amount was set down by one of our people, a clerk of the town. 
. 
. 
. Upon my word, one would think we were living in a den of 
thieves; you will see that we shall end by suspecting one another.” 
The Baron Gouraud, sitting squat in his chair, looked from the 
corner of his eye, with an air of surprise, at M. Toutin-Laroche 
84 

raising fire and flames on behalf of the landlord of the Rue de la 
Pépiniére. He had a suspicion. But after all, as this violent outburst 
saved him the trouble of speaking, he began to nod his head slowly, 
as a sign of complete approval. The member from the Rue d’Astorg 
indignantly resisted, refusing to bow before the two tyrants of the 
commission in a matter in which he was more competent than 
those gentlemen. At that moment M. Toutin-Laroche, noticing the 
baron’s marks of approval, hastily seized the report and said, curtly : 
“Very well. We'll dispel your doubts. 
. 
. 
. If you will allow me, 
I will take the matter in hand, and the Baron Gouraud shall join 
me in the inquiry.” 
“Yes, yes,” said the Baron gravely, “nothing underhand must be 
allowed to taint our decisions.” 
The report had already vanished within M. Toutin-Laroche’s 
capacious pockets. The commission had to give way. As they went 
out on to the quay, the two confederates looked at each other 
without a smile. They felt themselves to be accomplices, and this 
added to their assurance. Two vulgar minds would have sought an 
explanation; these two continued to plead the cause of the land- 
lords, as though they could still be overheard, and to deprecate the 
spirit of distrust that was filtering through everything. Just as they 
were about to separate : 
“Ah, I was forgetting, my dear colleague,” said the Baron, with 
a smile. “I am going into the country almost at once. It would 
be very kind of you to go and make this little inquiry without me. 
. 
. 
. And above all don’t give me away, our friends complain that 
I take too many holidays.” 
“Be easy,” replied M. Toutin-Laroche, “I shall go straight to the 
Rue de la Pépiniére.” 
He went quietly to his own house, not without a touch of 
admiration for the baron, who had such a pretty way of unravelling 
a delicate position. He kept the report in his pocket, and at the next 
sitting he declared peremptorily, in the baron’s name and his own, 
that they should split the difference between the offer of five hun- 
dred thousand and the claim of seven hundred thousand francs, and 
allow six hundred thousand. There was not the slightest opposition. 
The member from the Rue d’Astorg, who had no doubt thought it 
over, said with great good-nature that he had been mistaken: 
he 
thought it was the next house that was in question. 
In this way did Aristide Saccard win his first victory. He quad- 
rupled his outlay and secured two accomplices. One thing alone 
85 

perturbed him; when he wanted to destroy Madame Sidonie’s 
famous account-books, he was unable to find them. He hastened to 
Larsonneau, who boldly avowed that he had them and that he 
meant to keep them. The other showed no vexation; he suggested 
that he had only been anxious on account of his dear friend, who 
was much more compromised than himself by these entries, which 
were almost entirely in his handwriting, but that he was reassured 
so soon as he knew they were in his keeping. At heart he would 
have been delighted to strangle his “dear friend”; he remembered 
a particularly compromising document, a false inventory which he 
had been fool enough to draw up, and which he knew had been left 
in one of the ledgers. Larsonneau, handsomely rewarded, set up 
a business-agency in the Rue de Rivoli, where he had a suite of 
offices furnished 
as luxuriously as a courtesan’s rooms. Saccard 
left the Hétel de Ville and, being in command of considerable 
funds to work with, launched furiously into speculation, while 
Renée, in mad intoxication, filled Paris with the clatter of her 
equipages, the sparkle of her diamonds, the vertigo of her riotous 
existence. 
Sometimes the husband and wife, those two feverish devotees of 
money and of pleasure, would penetrate the icy mists of the Ile 
Saint-Louis. They felt as though they were entering a city of the 
dead. 
The Hétel Béraud, built about the beginning of the sixteenth 
century, was one of those square black, solemn edifices, with tall, 
narrow windows, which are numerous in the Marais, and are let to 
proprietors of schools, to manufacturers of aerated waters, and to 
bonders of wines and spirits. Only it was in a state of admirable 
preservation. On the Rue Saint-Louis side it had only three stories, 
each fifteen to twenty feet in height. The ground-floor was not so 
lofty, and was pierced with windows protected by enormous iron 
bars and sunk dismally into the gloomy thickness of the walls, and 
with an arched gateway almost as tall as it was broad, and bearing 
a cast-iron knocker on its doors, which were painted dark-green and 
studded with enormous nails that formed stars and lozenges on the 
two folds. This characteristic entrance was flanked on either side 
with spur-posts sloping backwards, and strapped with broad iron 
bands. One could see that formerly a gutter had run under the 
middle of the gateway, between the weatherings of the pebble-work 
of the porch; but M. Béraud had decided to stop up this gutter and 
have the entrance asphalted: 
this, however, was the only con- 
86 

cession he could ever be persuaded to make to modern architecture. 
The windows of the upper floors were ornamented with thin hand- 
rails of wrought iron, through which could be seen their colossal 
casements of strong brown woodwork with little green panes. At 
the top the roof was interrupted by the dormers, and the gutter 
alone continued its course so as to discharge the rain-water into the 
down-pipes. And what still further increased the severe nakedness 
of the facade was the entire absence of awnings or shutters, for 
at no season of the year did the sun shine on those pale, melancholy 
stones. This facade with its venerable air, its burgher severity, 
slumbered solemnly amid the self-absorption of the district, in the 
silence of the street that no carriage ever disturbed. 
In the interior of the mansion was a square court-yard, sur- 
rounded by a colonnade, a reduced copy of the Place Royale, paved 
with enormous flags, and completing the cloistral appearance of this 
lifeless house. Opposite the porch a fountain, a lion’s head half 
worn away, it’s gaping jaws alone distinguishable, discharged a 
heavy, monotonous stream of water through an iron tube into a 
. basin green with moss, its edges polished by wear. This water was 
cold as ice. Weeds sprouted between the flagstones. In the summer a 
meagre ray of sunlight entered the court-yard, and this infrequent 
visit had whitened a corner of the south facade, while the three 
other walls, morose and black, were streaked with moisture. There, 
in the depth of that court-yard, cold and silent as a well, lighted 
with a white, wintry light, one would have thought one’s self a 
thousand leagues away from that new Paris in which every pas- 
sionate enjoyment flamed amid the racket of gold. 
The rooms of the house had the sad calm, the cold solemnity of 
the court-yard. Approached by a broad iron-railed staircase, on 
which the footsteps and coughs of visitors resounded as in the aisle 
of a church, they stretched in long strings of wide, lofty rooms, in 
which the old-fashioned, heavy furniture of dark wood was lost; 
and the pale light was peopled only by the figures on the tapestries, 
whose great, pallid bodies could be vaguely discerned. There was 
all the luxury of the old-fashioned Parisian middle-class, a luxury 
that is Spartan and all-enduring. Chairs whose oak seats are barely 
covered with a little tow, beds with stiff sheets, linen-chests the 
roughness of whose boards would strangely endanger the frail 
existence of modern garments. M. Béraud du Chatel had selected 
his rooms in the darkest part of the mansion, between the street and 
the court-yard, on the first floor. He there found himself in a won- 
87 

derful surrounding of peacefulness, silence, and gloom. When he 
opened the doors, traversing the solemnity of the rooms with his 
slow, serious step, he might have been taken for one of those mem- 
bers of the old parliaments, whose portraits were hung on the walls, 
returning home wrapt in thought after discussing and refusing to 
sign an edict of the king. 
Yet in this lifeless house, in this cloister, there was one warm nest 
full of life, 
a corner of sunshine and gaiety, a nook of childhood, 
of fresh air, of bright light. One had to climb a host of little 
stairways, pass along ten or twelve corridors, go down and up again, 
make a positive journey, and then at last one reached a huge room, 
a sort of belvedere built on the roof, at the back of the house, over 
above the Quai de Béthune. It looked due South. The window 
opened so wide that the heavens, with all their sunbeams, all their 
ether, all their blue, seemed to enter there. It was perched aloft like 
a dove-cot, and contained long flower-boxes, an immense aviary, 
and not a single article of furniture. There was only just some 
matting spread over the floor. This was “the children’s room.” All 
over the house it was known and spoken of by that name. The 
house was so cold, the court-yard so damp, that Aunt Elisabeth had 
dreaded lest Christine and Renée should suffer harm from the chill 
breath that hung about the walls; many a time had she scolded the 
children for running about the arcades and amusing thmselves by 
dipping their little arms into the icy water of the fountain. There- 
upon she conceived the idea of making use of this forgotten attic for 
them, the only corner into which the sun had, for nearly two cen- 
turies, entered and rejoiced, in the midst of the cobwebs. She gave 
them some matting, birds, and flowers. The children were wild 
with delight. Renée lived there during the holidays, bathing in the 
yellow rays of that good sun, who seemed pleased with the decora- 
tions lavished upon his retreat and with the two fair-haired heads 
sent to keep him company. The room became a paradise, ever re- 
sounding with the song of the birds and the children’s babbling. It 
had been yielded to them for their exclusive use. They spoke of 
“our room”; it was their home; they went so far as to lock them- 
selves in so as to put it beyond doubt that they were the sole 
mistresses of the room. What a happy nook! On the matting lay 
a massacre of playthings, expiring in the bright sunshine. 
But the great delight of the children’s room was the vastness of 
the horizon. From the other windows of the house there was 
nothing to look at but black walls, a few feet away. But from this 
88 

window one could see all that part of the Seine, all that piece of 
Paris which extends from the Cité to the Pont de Bercy, bound- 
lessly flat, resembling some quaint Dutch city. Down below, on the 
Quai de Béthune, were tumble-down wooden sheds, accumula- 
tions of beams and crumbling roofs, amid which the children often 
amused themselves by watching enoromus rats run about, with a 
vague fear of seeing them clamber up the high walls. But beyond 
all this the real rapture began. The boom, with its tiers of timbers, 
its buttresses resembling those of a Gothic cathedral, and the slender 
Pont de Constantine, hanging like a strip of lace beneath the way- 
farers’ footsteps : crossed each other at right angles, and seemed to 
dam up and keep within bounds the huge mass of the river. The 
trees of the Halle aux Vins opposite and the shrubberies of the 
Jardin des Plantes, further away, spread out their greenness to the 
distant horizon: 
while on the other bank of the river, the Quai 
Henri IV and the Quai de la Rapée extended their low and 
irregular edifices, their row of houses which, from above, resembled 
the tiny wood and cardboard houses which the little girls kept in 
. 
boxes. In the background on the right the slated roof of the Sal- 
pétriére rose blue above the trees. Then, in the centre, sloping down 
to the Seine, the wide-paved banks formed two long grey tracks, 
streaked here and there by a row of casks, a cart and its team, an 
empty wood or coal-barge lying high and dry. But the soul of all 
this, the soul that filled the whole landscape, was the Seine, the 
living river; it came from afar, from the vaguely-shimmering edge 
of the horizon, it emerged from the distance, as from a dream, to 
flow straight down to the children with its tranquil majesty, its 
powerful swell, which spread and widened itself into a great sheet 
of water at their feet, at the extremity of the island. The two 
bridges that crossed it, the Pont de Bercy and the Pont d’Austerlitz, 
looked like necessary boundaries placed there to contain it, to pre- 
vent it from surging up to the room. The little ones loved this 
giant, they filled their eyes with its colossal flux, with that eternal 
murmuring flood which rolled towards them as though to reach 
them, and which branched out to left and right, and disappeared 
into the unknown with the docility of a conquered Titan. On fine 
days, on mornings when the sky hung blue overhead, they would 
be enraptured with the pretty dresses of the Seine; it wore dresses 
of a changeable hue that altered from blue to green with a thou- 
sand tints of infinite tenderness; dresses of silk shot with white 
flames and trimmed with frills of satin; and the barges drawn up 
89 

on either bank bordered it with a black velvet ribbon. In the 
distance especially, the material became beautiful and precious as 
. 
the enchanted gauze of a fairy’s robe; and, beyond the belt of 
dark-green satin with which the shadow of the bridges girdled the 
Seine, were breast-plates of gold and lappets of a plaited sun- 
coloured stuff. The immense sky formed a vault over the water, 
over the low rows of houses, over the green of the two parks. 
Sometimes Renée, wearied of this unbounded horizon, a big girl 
already, and full of a fleshly curiosity brought back from her board- 
ing-school, would throw a glance into the swimming school attached 
to Petit’s floating baths, which were moored to the end of the 
island. She sought to catch a glimpse, through the flapping linen 
cloths hung up on lines to serve as a roof, of the men in bathing- 
drawers showing their naked bellies. 
90 

III 
Maxime remained at school at Plassans until the holidays of 1854. 
He was a few months over thirteen, and had just passed the fifth 
class. It was then that his father decided to let him come to Paris. 
He reflected that a son of that age would give him a certain 
position, would fix him definitively in the part he played of a 
wealthy widower, twice married, and serious in his views. When 
he informed Renée, towards whom he prided himself upon his 
extreme gallantry, of his intention, she answered, negligently : 
“That’s right, have the boy up... . He will amuse us a little. One 
is bored to death in the mornings.” 
The boy arrived a week later. He was already a tall, spare strip- 
ling, with a girl’s face, a delicate, forward look, and very light 
flaxen hair. But great God! how oddly he was got up! He was 
cropped to the ears, his hair was cut so short that the whiteness of 
his cranium was barely covered with a shadow of pale down, he 
wore trousers 
too short for him, hob-nailed shoes, a hideously 
threadbare tunic that was much too wide and made him look al- 
most hunchbacked. In this garb, surprised at the new things he 
saw, he looked about him, not at all timidly, but with the savage, 
cunning air of a precocious child, that is loth to come out of its 
shell at first sight. 
A servant had just fetched him from the station, and he was wait- 
ing in the big drawing-room, charmed with the gilding on the 
ceiling and furniture, thoroughly delighted with this luxury in 
which he was about to spend his life, when Renée, returning from 
her tailor, swept in like a gust of wind. She threw off her hat and 
the white burnoose which she had placed over her shoulders to 
protect her from the cold, which was already keen. She appeared 
before Maxime, who was stupefied with admiration, in all the 
brilliancy of her marvellous attire. 
The child thought she was dressed up. She wore a delicious skirt 
of blue faille, with deep flounces, and over that a sort of French- 
guard’s coat in pale-grey silk. The flaps of the coat, lined with blue 
91 

satin of a deeper shade than the faille of the skirt, were bravely 
caught up and secured with knots of ribbon; the cuffs of the flat 
sleeves, the broad lapels of the bodice stood out wide, trimmed with 
the same satin. And as a supreme effort of trimming, as a bold 
stroke of eccentricity, two rows of large buttons imitating sapphires 
and fastening into blue rosettes, adorned the front of the coat. It 
was ugly and entrancing. 
When Renée perceived Maxime : 
“It’s the boy, is it not?” asked she of the servant, surprised to find 
him as tall as herself. 
The child was devouring her with his eyes. This lady with a 
skin so white, whose bosom showed through a gap of her plaited 
shirt-front, this sudden and charming apparition, with her hair 
dressed high, her elegant, gloved hands, her little Wellington boots 
with pointed heels that dug into the carpet, delighted him, seemed 
to him to be the good fairy of this warm, gilded room. He began 
to smile, and he was just sufficiently awkward to retain his urchin 
gracefulness. 
“Why, he is quite amusing!” 
cried Renée. 
. 
. 
. “But what a 
shame! how they have cut his hair! 
. 
. 
. Listen, my little friend, 
your father will probably not come in till dinner-time, and I shall 
have to make you at home. ... I am your step-mother, monsieur. 
Will you give me a kiss?” 
“Yes, if you like,” answered Maxime, boldly. 
And he kissed Renée on both cheeks, taking her by the shoulders, 
whereby the French-guard’s coat was a little rumpled. She freed 
herself, laughing, saying : 
“Oh dear, how amusing he is.” 
She came back to him, more serious. 
“We shall be friends, sha’n’t we? 
. 
. 
. 
I want to be a mother to 
you. I was thinking about it while I was waiting for my tailor, 
who was engaged, and I said to myself that I must be very kind 
and bring you up quite properly. 
. 
. 
. That will be nice!” 
Maxime continued to stare at her with his blue forward girl’s 
eyes, and suddenly : 
“How old are you?” he asked. 
“But you should never ask that!” she cried, clasping her hands 
1» 
together. 
. 
. 
. “He knows nothing, poor little wretch! 
He will 
have to be taught everything. 
. 
. 
. Luckily I can still tell my age. 
I am twenty-one.” 
“T shall soon be fourteen. .. 
. You might be my sister.” 
92 

~ He did not go on, but his look added that he had expected to 
find his father’s second wife much older. He was standing quite 
close to her, and examining her neck so attentively that she almost 
ended by blushing. Her giddy head, moreover, was turning: 
it 
was never able to fix itself long on the same subject; and she began 
to walk about, to speak of her tailor, forgetting she was talking to 
a child. 
“I wanted to be here to receive you. But think, Worms brought 
me this dress this morning. . 
. 
. I tried it on and I thought it rather 
successful. It is very smart, is it not?” 
She had moved before a mirror. Maxime walked to and fro 
behind her so as to examine her on every side. 
“Only,” she continued, “when I put on the coat, I noticed there 
was a large fold, there, on the left shoulder, d’you see? 
. 
. 
. That 
fold is very ugly, it makes me look as if I had one shoulder higher 
than the other.” 
He came up to her and pressed his finger over the fold as though 
to smooth it down, and his vicious school-boy hand seemed to 
linger on that spot with a certain satisfaction. 
“Well,” she continued, “ I couldn’t wait. I had the horses put to, 
and I went to tell Worms what I thought of his outrageous care- 
lessness. 
. 
.. He promised me to put it right.” 
Thereupon she remained before the mirror, still looking at her- 
self, lost in a sudden reverie. She ended by laying one finger on her 
lips, with an air of contemplative impatience. And quite low, as if 
talking to herself : 
“It wants something. 
. 
. 
. Yes, really, it wants something... 
. 
Then, with a quick movement, she turned round, placed her- 
self in front of Maxime, and asked him : 
“Ts is really right? 
. 
. 
. Don’t you think it wants something, a 
trifle, a bow somewhere or other ?” 
The school-boy was reassured by Renée’s familiarity, and re- 
sumed all the assurance of his forward nature. He drew back, came 
nearer, screwed up his eyes, and murmured : 
“No, no, it wants nothing, it’s very pretty, very pretty indeed. 
... If anything, I think there is something too much.” 
He blushed a little, despite his audacity, came nearer still, and 
with his finger-tip tracing an acute angle on Renée’s breast : 
“Tf I were you,” he continued, “I would hollow out that lace so, 
and wear a necklace with a great big cross.” 
She clapped her hands, radiant with delight. 
93 
” 

“That’s it, that’s it,” she exclaimed... 
. “I had the great big cross 
on the tip of my tongue.” 
She folded back the chemisette, left the room for two minutes, 
and returned with the necklace and cross. And resuming her place 
in front of the mirror she murmured triumphantly : 
“Oh, perfect, quite perfect. 
. 
. 
. But he’s no fool, that little 
one! 
Used you to dress the girls in the country, then? You and 
I are sure to get on well together. But you will have to do as 
I tell you. In the first place, you must let your hair grow and never 
wear that horrid tunic again. Then you must faithfully follow my 
lessons in good manners. I want you to become a smart young 
man.” 
“But, of course,” said the child naively; “since papa is rich now 
and you are his wife.” 
She smiled, and with her customary vivacity : 
“Then let us begin by dropping the plural. I have been saying 
thou and you anyhow. It’s too silly. 
. 
. 
. Will you love me very 
much ?” 
“T will love you with all my heart,” he replied, with the effusive- 
ness of a boy towards his sweetheart. 
Such was the first interview between Maxime and Renée. The 
child did not go to school till a month later. During the first few 
days his step-mother played with him as with a doll; she brushed off 
his country manners, and it must be added that he seconded her 
with extreme willingness. When he appeared, newly arrayed from 
head to foot by his father’s tailor, she uttered a cry of joyous sur- 
prise : he looked as pretty as a daisy, she said. Only his hair took an 
unconscionable time in growing. Renée used always to say that all 
one’s face lay in one’s hair. She tended her own devoutly. For a 
long time she had been maddened by the colour of it, that peculiar 
pale yellow colour which reminded one of good butter. But when 
yellow hair came into fashion she was delighted, and to make be- 
lieve that she did not follow the fashion because she could not help 
herself, she swore she dyed it every month. 
Maxime was already terribly knowing for his thirteen years. His 
was one of those frail, precocious natures in which the senses assert 
themselves early. He had vices before he knew the meaning of 
desire. He had twice narrowly escaped being expelled from school. 
Had Renée’s eyes been accustomed to provincial graces, she would 
have perceived that, strangely got-up though he was, the little 
one, as she called him, had a way of smiling, of turning his neck, 
94 

of putting out his arms prettily, with the feminine air of the love- 
boys at school. He took great pains over his hands, which were 
long and slender; and though his hair was cropped short by order 
of the head-master, an ex-colonel of engineers, he owned a little 
looking-glass which he drew from his pocket during school-time 
and placed between the leaves of his book, looking at himself in it 
for hours, examining his eyes, his gums, pulling pretty faces, study- 
ing the art of coquetry. His school-fellows hung round his blouse 
as round a petticoat, and he buckled his belt to tightly that he had 
the slim waist and undulating hips of a grown woman. True it was, 
he received as many kicks as kisses. And so the school at Plassans, 
a den of little miscreants like most provincial schools, was a hot- 
bed of pollution in which were singularly developed that epicene 
temperament, that childhood fraught with evil from some mysteri- 
ous hereditary cause. Fortunately, age was above to improve him. 
But the sign of his boyish debauchery, this effemination of his whole 
being what time he had played the girl, was destined to remain in 
him, and to strike a lasting blow at his virility. 
Renée called him “Mademoiselle,” not knowing that six months 
earlier she would have hit the truth. He seemed to her very docile, 
very affectionate, and indeed his caresses often made her feel ill-at- 
ease. He had a way of kissing that heated the skin. But what de- 
lighted her was his roguishness; he was as entertaining as could be, 
and bold, already talking of women with a smile, holding his own 
against Renée’s friends, against dear Adeline who had just married 
M. d’Espanet, and the fat Suzanne, wedded quite recently to 
Haffner, the big manufacturer. When he was fourteen he fell in 
love with the latter. He confided his passion to his step-mother, 
who was intensely amused. 
“For myself I should have preferred Adeline,” she said, “she is 
prettier.” 
“Perhaps so,” replied the scapegrace, 
“but Suzanne is much 
stouter. 
... I like fine women... 
. If you were very good-natured, 
you would put in a word for me.” 
Renée laughed. Her doll, this tall lad with the girl’s ways, seemed 
to her inimitable now that he had fallen in love. The time came 
when Mme. Haffner had seriously to defend herself. For the rest 
the ladies encouraged Maxime by their stifled laughter, their un- 
finished sentences, and the coquettish attitudes they assumed in 
presence of the precocious child. There was a touch of very aristo- 
cratic debauchery in this. All three, in the midst of their life of 
95 

tumult, scorched by passion, lingered over the boy’s delicious de- 
pravity as over a novel and harmless spice that stimulated their 
palates. They allowed him to touch their dresses, to pass his fingers 
over their shoulders when he followed them into the ante-room to 
help them on with their wraps; they passed him from hand to 
hand, laughing like madwomen when he kissed their wrists on the 
veined side, on the place where the skin is so soft; and then they 
became motherly, and learnediy instructed him in the art of being a 
smart man and pleasing the ladies. He was their plaything, a little 
toy man of ingenious workmanship, that kissed, and made love, and 
had the sweetest vices in the world, but remained a plaything, a 
little cardboard man that one need not be too much afraid of, only 
just sufficiently to feel a very pleasant thrill at the touch of his 
childish hand. 
After the holidays Maxime went to the Lycée Bonaparte. It was 
the fashionable public school, the one that Saccard was bound to 
choose for his son. The child, soft and light-headed though he was, 
had by that time a very quick intelligence; but he applied himself 
to far other things than his classical studies. He was nevertheless a 
well-behaved pupil, who never descended to the Bohemian level 
of dunces, and who foregathered with the proper and well-dressed 
young gentlemen of whom nothing was ever said. All that re- 
mained to him of his boyhood was a vertitable cult of dress. Paris 
opened his eyes, turned him into a smart young man, with tight- 
fitting clothes of the latest fashion. He was the Brummel of his 
form. He appeared there as he would in a drawing-room, daintily 
booted, correctly gloved, with prodigious neckties and unutterable 
hats. There were about twenty like him in all, who formed a sort 
of aristocracy, offering one another, as they left the school, Havan- 
nah cigars out of gold-clasped cigar-cases, and having servants in 
livery to carry their parcels of books. Maxime had persuaded his 
father to buy him a tilbury and a little black horse, which were the 
admiration of his school-fellows. He drove himself, while a footman 
sat with folded arms on the back seat, holding on his knees the 
school-boy’s knapsack, a real ministerial portfolio in brown grained 
leather. And you should have seen how lightly, how cleverly, and 
with what excellent form Maxime drove in ten minutes from the 
Rue de Rivoli to the Rue du Havre, drew up his horse before the 
school-door, threw the reins to the footman, and said : 
“Jacques, at half-past four, see?” 
The neighbouring shopkeepers were delighted with the fine grace 
96 

of this fair-haired young spark whom they saw regularly twice a 
day arriving and leaving in his trap. On returning home he some- 
times gave a lift to a friend, whom he set down at his door. The 
two children smoked, looked at the women, splashed the passers-by, 
as though they were returning from the races. An astonishing little 
world, a foolish, foppish brood which you can see any day in the 
Rue du Havre, smartly dressed in their dandy jackets, aping the 
ways of rich and worn-out men, while the Bohemian contingent 
of the school, the real school-boys, come shouting and shoving, 
stamping on the pavement with their thick shoes, with their books 
hung over their backs by a strap. 
Renée, who took herself seriously as a mother and as a governess, 
was delighted with her pupil. She left nothing undone, in fact, to 
complete his education. She was at that time passing through a 
period of mortification and tears; a lover had jilted her openly, 
before the eyes of all Paris, to attach himself to the Duchesse de 
Sternich. She dream of Maxime as her consolation, she made her- 
self older, she racked her brains to appear maternal, and became the 
“most eccentric mentor imaginable. Often would Maxime’s tilbury 
be left at home, and Renée come to fetch the school-boy in her big 
calash. They hid the brown portfolio under the seat and drove to 
the Bois, then in all the freshness of novelty. There she put him 
through a course of tip-top elegance. She pointed everyone out to 
him in the fat and happy Paris of the Empire, still under the 
ecstasy of that stroke of the wand which had changed yesterday’s 
starvelings and swindlers into great lords and millionaires snorting 
and swooning under the weight of their cash-boxes. But the child 
questioned her above all about the women, and as she was very 
familiar with him, she gave him exact particulars: 
Madame du 
Guende was stupid but admirably made; the Comtesse Vanska, a 
very rich woman, had been a street-singer before marrying a Pole 
who beat her, so they said; as to the Marquise d’Espanet and 
Suzanne Haffner, they were inseparable, and though they were 
Renée’s intimate friends, she added, compressing her lips as if to 
prevent herself from saying more, that some very nasty stories were 
told about them; the beautiful Madame de Lauwerens also was a 
terribly compromising woman, but she had such fine eyes, and after 
all everybody knew that she herself was quite above reproach, al- 
though she was a little too much mixed up in the intrigues of the 
poor little women who frequented her, Madame Daste, Madame 
Teissiére, and the Baronne de Meinhold. Maxime obtained the 
D 
97 

portraits of these ladies, and with them filled an album that lay 
on the table in the drawing-room. With that vicious artfulness 
which was the dominant note in his character, he tried to embarrass 
his step-mother by asking for particulars about the fast women, 
pretending to take them for ladies in society. Renée became serious 
and moral, and told him that they were horrid creatures and that 
he must be careful and keep away from them; and then forgetting 
herself, she spoke of them as of people whom she had known 
intimately. One of the youngester’s great delights, again, was to get 
her on to the subject of the Duchesse de Sternich. Each time her 
carriage passed theirs in the Bois, he never failed to mention the 
duchesse’s name, with wicked slyness and an under-glance that 
showed that he knew of Renée’s last adventure. Whereupon in a 
harsh voice she tore her rival to pieces: how old she was growing! 
Poor woman! 
She made-up her face, she had lovers hidden in all 
her cupboards, she had sold herself to a chamberlain that she might 
procure admission 
to the imperial bed. And she ran on, while 
Maxime, to exasperate her, declared that he thought Madame de 
Sternich delicious. Such lessons as these singularly developed the 
school-boy’s intelligence, the more so as the young teacher repeated 
them wherever they went, in the Bois, at the theatre, at parties. The 
pupil became very proficient. 
What Maxime loved was to live among women’s skirts, in the 
midst of their finery, in their rice-powder. He always remained 
more or less of a girl, with his slim hands, his beardless face, his 
plump white neck. Renée consulted him seriously about her gowns. 
He knew the good makers of Paris, summed each of them up in a 
word, talked about the cunningness of such an one’s bonnets and the 
logic of such another’s dresses. At seventeen there was not a milliner 
whom 
he had not probed, and not 
a bootmaker whom 
he 
had not studied through and through. This quaint abortion, who 
during his English lessons read the prospectuses which his per- 
fumer sent him every Friday, could have delivered a brilliant 
lecture on the fashionable Paris world, customers and purveyors 
included, at an age when country urchins dare not look their house- 
maid in the face. Frequently, on his way home from school he would 
bring back in his tilbury a bonnet, a box of soap, or a piece of 
jewellery which his step-mother had ordered the preceding day. 
He had always some strip of musk-scented lace hanging about in 
his pockets. 
But his great treat was to go with Renée to the illustrious Worms, 
98 

the tailor genius to whom the queens of the Second Empire bowed 
the knee. The great man’s show-room was wide and square, and 
furnished with huge divans. Maxime entered 
it with religious 
emotion. Dresses undoubtedly have a perfume of their own; 
silk, 
satin, velvet and lace had mingled their faint aromas with those of 
hair and of amber-scented shoulders; and the atmosphere of the 
room retained that sweet-smelling warmth, that fragrance of flesh 
and of luxury, which transformed the apartment into a chapel 
consecrated to some secret divinity. It was often necessary for Renée 
and Maxime to wait for hours; a series of anxious women sat 
there, waiting their turn, dipping biscuits into glasses of Madeira, 
helping themselves from the great table in the middle, which was 
covered with bottles and plates full of cakes. The ladies were at 
home, they talked without restraint, and when they ensconced them- 
selves around 
the room, 
it was 
as though a flight of white 
Lesbian doves had alighted on the sofas of a Parisian drawing-room. 
Maxime, whom they endured and loved for his girlish air, was the 
only man admitted into the circle. He there tasted delights divine; 
he glided along the sofas like a supple adder; he was discovered 
under a skirt, behind a bodice, between two dresses, where he made 
himself quite small and kept very quiet, inhaling the warm frag- 
rance of his neighbours with the demeanour of a choir-boy par- 
taking of the sacrament. 
“That child pokes his nose in everywhere,” said the Baronne de 
Meinhold, tapping his cheeks. 
He was so slightly built that the ladies did not think him more 
than fourteen. They amused themselves by making him tipsy with 
the illustrious Worms’s Madeira. He made astounding speeches to 
them, which made them laugh till they cried. However, it was the 
Marquis d’Espanet who found the right word to describe the posi- 
tion. One day when Maxime was discovered behind her back in a 
corner of the divan : 
“That boy ought to have been born a girl,” she murmured, on 
seeing him so pink, blushing, penetrated with the satisfaction he had 
enjoyed from her proximity. 
Then, when the great Worms at last received Renée, Maxime 
followed her into the consultation room. He had ventured to speak 
on two or three occasions while the master remained absorbed in the 
contemplation of his client, as the high-priest of the Beautiful hold 
that Leonardo da Vinci did in the presence of la Gioconda. The 
master had deigned to smile upon the correctness of his observations. 
99 

He made Renée stand up before a glass which rose from the floor 
to the ceiling, and pondered with knit brows, while Renée, seized 
with emotion, held her breath, so as not to stir. And after a few 
minutes the master, as though seized and moved by inspiration, 
sketched in broad, jerky strokes the work of art which he had just 
conceived, ejaculating in short phrases : 
‘A Montespan dress in pale-grey faille 
. 
. 
. the skirt describing 
a rounded basque in front .. 
. large grey satin bows to catch it up 
on the hips .. 
. and a puffed apron of pearl-grey tulle, the puffs 
separated by strips of grey satin.” 
He pondered once again, seemed to descend to the very depths of 
his genius, and, with the triumphant facial contortion of a pythoness 
on her tripod, concluded : 
“We will have in the hair, on the top of this bonny head, Psyche’s 
dreamy butterfly, with wings of changeful blue.” 
But at other times inspiration was stubborn. The illustrious 
Worms summoned it in vain, and concentrated his faculties to no 
purpose. He distorted his eyebrows, turned livid, took his poor 
head between his hands and shook it in his despair, and beaten, 
throwing himself into an arm-chair : 
“No,” he would mutter, in a pitiful voice, “no, not to-day... 
. 
It is not possible. 
. 
. 
. You ladies expect too much. The source is 
exhausted.” 
And he showed Renée out, repeating : 
“Impossible, impossible, dear lady, you must come back another 
day....I don’t grasp you this morning.” 
The fine education that Maxime received had a first result. At 
seventeen the young scapegrace seduced his step-mother’s maid. 
The worst of the affair was that the lady’s-maid got a baby. They 
had to send her into the country with the brat, and to buy her a 
little annuity. Renée was horribly annoyed at this incident. Saccard 
did not interfere except 
to arrange 
the financial part of the 
question; but his young wife scolded her pupil roundly. That he, of 
whom she wanted to make a distinguished man, should compromise 
himself with a girl like that! 
What a ridiculous, disgraceful be- 
ginning, what a discreditable exploit! He might at least have led 
off with a lady! 
“Quite true!” he replied quietly, “if your dear friend Suzanne 
had been willing, it was she who might have been sent to the 
country.” 
“Oh! the scamp!” she murmured, disarmed, enlivened with the 
100 

idea of seeing Suzanne retiring to the country with an annuity of 
twelve hundred francs. 
Then a funnier thought occurred to her, and forgetting that she 
was playing the indignant mother, bursting into pearly laughter 
which she restrained with her fingers, she stammered, giving him a 
sidelong glance : 
“I say, how you would have caught it from Adeline, and what a 
scene she would have made her... .” 
She did not finish. Maxime and she were laughing hysterically. 
Such was the fine catastrophe of Renée’s lecture on this incident. 
Meanwhile Saccard troubled himself not at all about the two 
children, as he called his son and his second wife. He left them 
absolute liberty, glad to see them such good friends, whereby the flat 
was filled with noisy merriment. A singular apartment, this first floor 
in the Rue de Rivoli. The doors were slamming to and fro all day 
long. The servants talked aloud; its new and dazzling luxury was 
continually traversed by a flood of vast, floating skirts, by proces- 
sions of tradespeople, by the uproar of Renée’s friends, Maxime’s 
school friends and Saccard’s callers. From nine to eleven the last 
received the strangest set imaginable: 
senators and bailiffs’ clerks, 
duchesses and old-clothes-women, all the scum that the tempests of 
Paris hurled at his door every morning, silk gowns, dirty skirts, 
blouses, dress-coats, all of whom he received with the same hurried 
manner, the same impatient, nervous gestures; he clinched bits of 
business with two words, got rid of twenty difficulties at a time, and 
gave solutions at a run. One would have thought that this restless 
little man with the very loud voice was fighting with people in his 
study, and with the furniture, tumbling head over heels, knocking 
his head against the ceiling to make his ideas flash out, and always 
falling triumphantly on his feet. Then at eleven o’clock he went 
out; he was not seen again during the day; he breakfasted out, he 
often even dined out. From that time the house belonged to Renée 
and Maxime; they took possession of the father’s study; they un- 
packed the tradesmen’s parcels there, and articles of finery lay 
about among the business-papers. Sometimes serious people had to 
wait for an hour at the study-door while the school-boy and the 
young married woman discussed a bow of ribbon, seated at either 
end of Saccard’s writing-table. Renée had the horses put to ten 
times a day. They rarely had a meal together; two of the three 
would be rushing about, forgetting themselves, staying out till mid- 
night. An apartment of racket, of business, and of pleasure, through 
101 

which modern life, with its noise of jingling gold, of rustling skirts, 
swept like a whirlwind. 
Aristide Saccard was in his element at last. He had revealed him- 
self a great speculator, a brewer of millions. After the master-stroke 
in the Rue de la Pépiniére, he threw himself boldly into the struggle 
which was beginning to fill Paris with shameful wreckages and 
lightning triumphs. He began by gambling on certainties, repeating 
his first successful stroke, buying up houses which he knew to be 
threatened with the pickaxe, and using his friends in order to 
obtain fat compensations. The moment came when he had five or 
six houses, those houses that he had looked at so curiously, as though 
they were acquaintances of his, in the days when he was only a poor 
surveyor of roads. But these were the mere first steps of art. There 
was no great cleverness wanted to run out leases, conspire with the 
tenants, and rob the State and individuals; nor did he think the 
game worth the candle. For which reason he soon made use of his 
genius for transactions of a more complicated character. 
Saccard first invented the trick of making secret purchases of 
house-property on the city’s account. A decision of the Council of 
State had placed the Municipality in a difficult position. It had 
acquired by private contract a large number of houses, in the hope 
of running out the leases and turning the tenants out without com- 
pensation. But these purchases were pronounced to be genuine acts 
of expropriation, and the city had to pay. It was then that Saccard 
offered to lend his name to the city: he bought houses, ran out the 
leases, and for a consideration handed over the property at a fixed 
date. And he even ended by playing a double game: 
he acted as 
buyer both for the Municipality and for the préfet. Whenever the 
thing was irresistibly tempting, he stuck to the house himself. The 
State paid. In reward for his assistance he received building con- 
cessions for bits of streets, for open spaces, which he disposed of in 
his turn even before the new thoroughfare was commenced. It was 
a fierce gamble: 
the new streets were speculated in as one specu- 
lates in stocks and shares. Certain ladies were in the swim, hand- 
some girls, intimately connected with some of the higher function- 
aries; one of them, whose white teeth are world-renowned, has 
nibbled up whole streets on more than one occasion. Saccard was 
insatiable, he felt his greed grow at the sight of the flood of gold 
that glided through his fingers. It seemed to him as though a sea of 
twenty-franc pieces extended about him, swelling from a lake to an 
ocean, filling the vast horizon with a sound of strange waves, a 
102 

metallic music that tickled his heart; and he grew adventurous, 
plunging more boldly every day, diving and coming up again, now 
on his back, then on his belly, swimming through this immensity 
in fair weather and foul, and relying on his strength and skill to 
prevent him from ever sinking to the bottom. 
Paris was at that time disappearing in a cloud of plaster. The 
days predicted by Saccard on the Buttes Montmartre had come. 
The city was being slashed with sabre-cuts, and he had a finger in 
every gash, in every wound. He had belonging to him demolished 
houses in every quarter of the city. In the Rue de Rome he was 
mixed up in that astounding story of the pit which was dug by a 
company in order to carry away five or six thousand cubic métres of 
soil and create a belief in gigantic works, and which had afterwards 
to be filled up, on the failure of the company, by bringing the soil 
back from Saint-Ouen. Saccard came out of this with an easy con- 
science and full pockets, thanks to the friendly intervention of his 
brother Eugéne. At Chaillot he assisted in cutting through the 
heights and throwing them into a hollow in order to make way for 
the boulevard that runs from the Arc de Triomphe to the Pont 
d’Alma. In the direction of Passy it was he who conceived the idea 
of scattering the refuse of the Trocadéro over the high level, so 
that to this day the good soil is buried two métres below the surface, 
and the very weeds refuse to grow through the rubbish. He was to 
be found in twenty places at once, at every spot where there was 
some innsurmountable obstacle, a heap of rubbish that no one knew 
what to do with, a hollow that could not be filled up, a great mass of 
soil and plaster over which the engineers in their feverish haste 
grew impatient, but in which he rummaged with his nails, and 
invariably ended by finding some bonus or some speculation to his 
taste. On the same day he ran from the works at the Arc de 
Triomphe to those at the Boulevard Saint-Michel, from the clear- 
ings in the Boulevard Malesherbes to the embankments at Chaillot, 
dragging after him an army of workmen, lawyers, shareholders, 
dupes, and swindlers. 
But his purest glory was the Crédit Viticole, which he had 
founded with Toutin-Laroche. The latter was the official director; 
he himself only figured as a member of the board. In this con- 
nection Eugéne had done his brother another good turn. Thanks 
to him the Government authorised the company and watched over 
its career with great good nature. On one delicate occasion, when a 
malignant journal ventured to criticise one of the company’s opera- 
103 

tions, the Moniteur went so far as to publish a note forbidding any 
discussion of so honourable an undertaking, one which the State 
deigned to protect. The Crédit Viticole was based upon an excellent 
financial system: 
it lent the wine-growers half of the estimated 
value of their property, ensured the repayment of the loan by a 
mortgage, and received interest from the borrowers in addition to 
instalments of the principal. Never was there mechanism more 
prudent or more worthy. Eugéne had declared to his brother, with 
a knowing smile, that the Tuileries expected people to be honest. 
M. Toutin-Laroche interpreted this wish by allowing the wine- 
growers’ loan-office to work quietly, and founding by its side a 
banking-house which attracted 
capital and gambled feverishly, 
launching out into every sort of adventure. Thanks to the formid- 
able impulse it received from its director, the Crédit Viticole soon 
achieved a well-established reputation for solidity and prosperity. 
At the outset, in order to offer at the Bourse in one job a mass of 
shares on which no dividend had yet been paid, and to give them 
the appearance of having been long in circulation, Saccard had the 
ingenuity to have them trodden on and beaten, a whole night long, 
by the bank-messengers, armed with birch-brooms. The place re- 
sembled a branch of the Bank of France. The house occupied by the 
offices, with its court-yard full of private carriages, its austere iron 
railings, its broad flight of steps and its monumental staircase, its 
suites of luxurious reception-rooms, 
its world of clerks and of 
liveried lackeys, seemed to be the grave, dignified temple of Mam- 
mon; and nothing filled the public with a more religious emotion 
than the sanctuary, the cashier’s office, which was approached by 
a corridor of hallowed bareness and contained the safe, the god, 
crouching, embedded in the wall, squat and somnolent, with its 
triple lock, its massive flanks, its air of a brute divinity. 
Saccard carried through a big job with the Municipality. The 
latter was greatly in debt, was crushed by its debts, dragged into 
this dance of gold which it had led off to please the Emperor and to 
fill certain people’s pockets, and was now reduced to borrowing 
covertly, not caring to confess its violent fever, its stone-and-pickaxe 
madness. It had begun to issue what were called delegation bonds, 
really bills of exchange payable at a distant date, so that the con- 
tractors might be paid on the day the agreements were signed, and 
thus enabled 
to obtain money by discounting the bonds. The 
Crédit Viticole had graciously accepted this paper at the con- 
tractors’ hands. One day when the Municipality was in want of 
104 

money, Saccard went and tempted it. It received a considerable 
advance on an issue of delegation bonds, which M. Toutin-Laroche 
swore he held from contracting companies, and which he dragged 
through every gutter of speculation. 
From thenceforward the Crédit 
Viticole was safe from attack; it held Paris by the throat. The 
director now talked only with a smile of the famous Société 
Générale of the Ports of Morocco; and yet it still continued to 
exist, and the newspapers continued regularly to extol its great 
commercial 
stations. 
One day when 
M. Toutin-Laroche 
en- 
deavoured to induce Saccard to take shares in this society, the latter 
laughed in his face, and asked him if he thought he was such a 
fool as to invest his money in the Société Générale of the Arabian 
Nights. 
Up to that time Saccard had speculated successfully, with safe 
profits, cheating, selling himself, making money on deals, deriving 
some sort of gain from each of his operations. Soon, however, this 
gambling in differences ceased to suffice him; he disdained to glean 
and pick up the gold which men like Toutin-Laroche and the 
- Baron Gouraud let drop behind them. He plunged his arms into 
the sack to the elbows. He went into partnership with Mignon, 
Charrier and Co., those famous contractors, who were then just 
starting and who were destined to make colossal fortunes. The 
Municipality had already decided no longer to carry out the works 
itself, but to have the boulevards laid out by contract. The tender- 
ing companies agreed to deliver a complete thoroughfare, with its 
trees planted, its benches and lamp-posts fixed, in return for a 
specified indemnity ; sometimes even they delivered the thoroughfare 
for nothing, finding themselves amply remunerated by retaining the 
bordering building-ground, for which they asked a considerably en- 
hanced price. Saccard through his connections obtained a conces- 
sion to lay out three lots of boulevards. He was the ardent and 
somewhat blundering soul of the partnership. The Sieurs Mignon 
and Charrier, his creatures at the outset, were a pair of fat, cun- 
ning cronies, master-masons who knew the value of money. They 
laughed in their sleeves at Saccard’s horses and carriages; oftenest 
they kept on their blouses, always ready to shake hands with their 
workmen, and returning home covered with plaster. They came 
from Langres both of them. They brought into this burning and 
insatiable Paris their Champenois caution, their calm brains, not 
very open to impressions, not very intelligent, but exceedingly 
quick at profiting by opportunities for filling their pockets, con- 
105 

tented to enjoy themselves later on. If Saccard pushed the business, 
infused his vigour into it, and his rage for greed, the Sieurs Mignon 
and Charrier, by their matter-of-fact ways, their methodical, narrow 
management, saved it a score of times from being capsized by the 
extraordinary imagination of their partner. They would never 
agree to having superb offices in a house which he wanted to build 
to astonish Paris, They refused moreover to entertain the subordin- 
ate speculations that sprouted each morning in his head : the erect- 
ion of concert halls and immense baths on the building-ground bor- 
dering their thoroughfares; of railways along the line of the new 
boulevards; of glass-roofed galleries which would increase the rent 
of the shops ten-fold, and allow Paris to walk about without getting 
wet. The contractors, in order to put a stop to these alarming pro- 
jects, decided that these pieces of ground should be apportioned 
among the three partners, and that each of them should do as he 
please with his share. They wisely continued to sell theirs. Saccard 
built upon his. His brain seethed. He would have proposed in all 
seriousness to place Paris under an immense bell-glass, so as to 
transform it into a hot-house for forcing pineapples and sugar- 
canes. 
Before long, turning over money by the shovelful, he had eight 
houses on the new boulevards. He had four that were completely 
finished, two in the Rue de Marignan and two on the Boulevard 
Haussmann; 
the four others, situated on the Boulevard Malesherbes, 
remained in progress, and one of them, in fact, a vast enclosure of 
planks from which a magnificent house was to arise, had not got 
further than the flooring of the first story. At this period his affairs 
became so complicated, he had so many strings attached to his 
fingers’ ends, so many interests to watch over and puppets to work, 
that he slept barely three hours a night, and read his correspon- 
dence in his carriage. The marvellous part was that his coffers 
seemed inexhaustible. He held shares in every company, built houses 
with a sort of mania, turned to every trade and threatened to in- 
undate Paris like a rising tide, and yet he was never seen to realise 
a genuine clear profit, to pocket a big sum of gold shining in the 
sun. This flood of gold with no known source, which seemed to flow 
from his office in rapidly-recurring waves, astonished the cockneys 
and made of him, at one moment, the prominent figure to whom 
the newspapers ascribed all the witticisms that came from the 
Bourse. 
With such a husband Renée was as little married as she could be. 
106 

She remained entire weeks almost without seeing him. For the rest 
he was perfect; he opened his cash-box quite wide for her. At bot- 
tom she liked him as she would have liked an obliging banker. 
When she visited the Hétel Béraud, she praised him highly before 
her father, whose cold austerity was in no way changed by his 
son-in-law’s good fortune. Her contempt had disappeared; this man 
seemed so convinced that life is a mere business, he was so obviously 
born to coin money with whatever fell into his hands: 
women, 
children, paving-stones, sacks of plaster, consciences, that she was 
no longer able to reproach him for their marriage-bargain. Since 
that bargain he looked upon her in a measure as upon one of those 
fine houses which did him credit and which would, he hoped, yield 
him a large profit. He liked to see her well-dressed, noisy, attracting 
the attention of all Paris. That consolidated his position, doubled 
the probable figure of his fortune. He seemed handsome, young, 
amorous, and giddy because of his wife. She was his partner, his 
unconscious accomplice. A new pair of horses, a two-thousand- 
_ crown dress, a surrender to some lover facilitated and often ensured 
the success of his most remunerative transactions. Also he often 
pretended to be tired out and sent her to a minister, to some 
functionary or other, to solicit an authorisation or receive a reply. 
He said to her: “And be good!” in a tone all his own, bantering 
and coaxing in one. And when she returned, successful, he rubbed 
his hands, repeating his famous, “I hope you were good!” Renée 
laughed. He was too active to desire 
a Madame Michelin. Only he 
loved coarse pleasantries and improper hypotheses. For the rest, 
had Renée not “been good,” he would have experienced only the 
mortification of having really paid for the minister’s or functionary’s 
complaisance. To dupe people, to give them less than their money’s 
worth, was his delight. He often said : “If I were 
a woman, I might 
sell myself, but I would never deliver the goods: 
that is too 
foolish.” 
This madcap of a Renée, who had shot one night into the 
Parisian firmament as the eccentric fairy of fashionable voluptuous- 
ness, was the most complex of women. Had she been brought up at 
home, she would doubtless by the aid of religion or some other 
nervous satisfaction have blunted the edge of the desire whose 
pricks at times maddened her. Her mind was of the bourgeoisie : 
she was absolutely straightforward, loved logical views, feared 
heaven and hell, and was crammed with prejudice; she was the 
daughter of her father, of that placid, prudent race among which 
107 

flourish the virtues of the fireside. And in this nature 
there 
sprouted and grew her prodigious fantasies, her ever reviving 
curiosity, her unspeakable longings. Among the ladies of the Visita- 
tion, free, her mind roaming amid the mystic voluptuousness of the 
chapel and the carnal attachments of her little friends, she had 
framed for herself a fantastic education, learning vice, throwing the 
frankness of her nature into it, and disordering her brain to the 
extent 
of singularly embarrassing her confessor by telling him 
that one day at mass she had experienced an irrational desire to 
get up and kiss him. Then she struck her breast, and turned pale 
at the thought of the Devil and his caldrons. The fault which 
later brought on her marriage with Saccard, the brutal rape which 
she underwent with a sort of frightened expectation, made her 
despise herself, and accounted in a great measure for the subsequent 
abandonment of her whole life. She thought that she need no 
longer struggle against evil, that it was in her, that logic authorised 
her to pursue the study of wickedness to the end. She had still more 
curiosity than appetite. Thrown into the world of the Second 
Empire, 
abandoned 
to 
her imagination, 
kept in money, 
en- 
couraged in her loudest eccentricities, she gave herself, then re- 
gretted it, and finally succeeded in killing her expiring good prin- 
ciples, for ever lashed, for ever pushed onwards by her insatiable 
desire for knowledge and sensation. 
For the rest she had as yet turned only the first page of the book 
of vice. She was fond of talking in a low tone, and laughing, about 
the extraordinary cases of the tender friendship of Suzanne Haffner 
and Adeline d’Espanet, of the ticklish trade of Madame de Lau- 
werens, and of the Comtesse Vanska’s tariffed kisses; but she still 
looked upon these things from afar, with the vague idea of tasting 
them, perhaps; and this indefinite longing that arose within her at 
evil hours still further increased her turbulent anxiety, her mad 
search after an unique, exquisite enjoyment of which she alone 
should partake. Her first lovers had not spoilt her; three times she 
had thought herself seized with a grand passion; love burst in her 
head like a cracker whose sparks failed to reach the heart. She 
went mad for a month, exhibiting herself with her heart’s lord all 
over Paris; and then one morning, amid all the racket of her 
amorousness, she became conscious of a crushing silence, an im- 
mense void. The first, the young Duc de Rozan, was a feast of 
sunshine that led to nothing; Renée, who had noticed him for his 
gentleness and his excellent manner, found him absolutely shallow, 
108 

colourless and tedious when they were alone together. Mr. Simp- 
son, an attaché at the American Legation, who eame next, all but 
beat her, and thanks to this remained with her for more than a year. 
Then she took up with the Comte de Chibray, one of the Emperor’s 
aides-de-camp, an absurdly vain, good-looking man who was be- 
ginning to hang terribly on her hands when the Duchesse de 
Sternich took it into her head to become enamoured of him and to 
take him away from her; whereupon she wept for him and gave her 
friends to understand that her heart was bruised, and that she 
should never be in love again. And thus she drifted towards M. de 
Mussy, the most insignificant creature in the world, 
a young man 
who was making his way in diplomacy by leading cotillons with 
especial grace; she never knew exactly how she had come to give 
herself to him, and she kept him a long time, a prey to idleness, 
disgusted with the unknown that is explored in an hour, and defer- 
ring the trouble of a change until she met with some extraordinary 
adventure. At twenty-eight she was already horribly weary. Her 
boredom appeared to her all the more insupportable as her homely 
virtues took advantage of the hours when she was bored to complain 
and to disquiet her. She bolted her door, she had horrible head- 
aches. And then, when she opened the door again, it was a flood of 
silk and lace that surged through it with a great noise, a luxurious, 
joyous being with no care nor blush upon her brow. 
Yet she had had a romance amid the fashionable commonplace of 
her life. One day, when she had gone out on foot to see her father, 
who disliked the noise of carriages at his door, she perceived, as she 
was walking back in the twilight along the Quai Saint-Paul, that 
she was being followed by a young man. It was warm; and the day- 
light was waning with amorous gentleness. She, who was never 
followed except on horseback in the lanes of the Bois, thought the 
adventure piquant, she felt flattered by it as by a new and somewhat 
brutal form of homage, whose very coarseness appealed to her. 
Instead of returning home, she turned down the Rue du Temple, 
and walked her admirer along the boulevards. The man, however, 
grew bolder and became so persistent that Renée, a little dismayed, 
lost her head, followed the Rue du Faubourg-Poissonniére, and took 
refuge in the shop of her husband’s sister. The man came in after 
her. Mme. Sidonie smiled, seemed to understand, and left them 
alone. And when Renée made as if to follow her, the stranger held 
back, addressed her with respectful fervour, and won her forgive- 
ness. He was a clerk, he was called Georges, and she never asked 
109 

him his surname. She came twice to see him; she came in through 
the shop, and he by the Rue Papillon. This chance love affair, 
picked up and accepted in the street, was one of her keenest 
pleasures. She always thought of it with a certain shame, but with a 
singular smile of regret. Mme. Sidonie profited by the adventure 
in that she at last became the accomplice of her brother’s second 
wife, a part to which she had been aspiring since the day of the 
wedding. 
That poor Madame Sidonie had experienced a disappointment. 
While intriguing for the match she had expected to marry Renée 
a little herself, to make her one of her customers and derive a heap 
of profits from her. She judged women at a glance, as connoisseurs 
judge horseflesh. And so her consternation was great when, after 
allowing the couple a month to settle down, she perceived Mme. 
de Lauwerens enthroned in the centre of the drawing-room, and 
realised that she was already to late. Mme. de Lauwerens, a fine 
woman of six-and-twenty, made a business of launching newarrivals. 
She came of a very old family, and was married to a man in the 
higher financial world, who had the bad taste to refuse to pay her 
tailor’s and milliner’s 
bills. The lady, a very intelligent person, 
made money and kept herself. She loathed men, she said, but she 
supplied all her friends with them; there was always a full array of 
customers in the apartment which she occupied in the Rue de 
Provence over her husband’s offices. You always found a snack 
there. You met your friends there in an unpremeditated and charm- 
ing fashion. There was no harm in a young girl’s going to see her 
dear Mme. de Lauwerens, and if chance brought men there who 
were, at all events, respectful, and moved in the best set—so much 
the worse. The hostess was adorable in her long lace tea-gowns. 
Many a visitor would have chosen her in preference to her collection 
of blondes and brunettes. But rumour asserted that she was abso- 
lutely good. The whole secret of the affair lay there. She kept up 
her high position in society, had all the men for her friends, retained 
her pride as a virtuous woman, and derived a secret enjoyment 
from bringing others down and profiting by their fall. When Mme. 
Sidonie had enlightened herself as to the mechanism of the new 
invention, she was thunderstruck. It was the classical school, the 
woman in the old black dress carrying love-letters at the bottom of 
her basket, brought face to face with the modern, the lady of 
quality, who sells her friends in her boudoir while sipping a cup of 
tea. The modern school triumphed. Mme. Lauwerens looked coldly 
110 

upon the shabby attire of Mme. Sidonie, in whom she scented a 
rival. And it was she who provided Renée with her first bore, the 
young Duc de Rozan, whom the fair financier had found much 
difficulty in disposing of. The classical school did not win the day 
till later on, when Mme. Sidonie lent her entresol to her sister-in- 
law so that she might gratify her caprice for the stranger of the 
Quai Saint-Paul. She remained her confidante. 
But one of Mme. Sidonie’s faithful friends was Maxime. From 
his fifteenth year, he had been in the habit of prowling around at his 
aunt’s, sniffing at the gloves that he found lying forgoten on the 
furniture. She who hated clear situationns and never owned up to 
her little complacencies, ended by lending him the keys of her 
apartments on certain days, saying that she was going to stay in the 
country till the next day. Maxime talked of some friends whom he 
wanted to entertain, and whom he dared not ask to his father’s 
house. It was in the entresol in the Rue du Faubourg-Poissoniére 
that he spent several nights with the poor girl who had to be sent 
to the country. Mme. Sidonie borrowed her nephew’s money, and 
went into ecstasies before him, murmuring in her soft voice that he 
was “smooth and pink as a cherub.” 
Maxime meantime had grown. He was now a nice-looking, 
slender young man, who had retained the rosy cheeks and blue 
eyes of childhood. His curly hair had completed that “girl look” 
that so enchanted the ladies. He resembled poor Angéle with her 
soft expression and blonde paleness. But he was not even the equal 
of that indolent, shallow woman. The race of the Rougons became 
refined in him, grew delicate and vicious. Born of too young a 
mother, constituting a strange, jumbled, and, so to say, scattered 
mixture of his father’s furious appetites and his mother’s 
self- 
abandonment and weakness, he was a defective offspring in whom 
the parental shortcomings were 
fulfilled and aggravated. 
This 
family lived too fast; it was dying out already in the person of this 
frail creature, whose sex must have remained in suspense; he repre- 
sented, not a greedy eagerness for gain and enjoyment like Saccard, 
but a mean nature devouring ready-made fortunes, a strange herma- 
phrodite making its entrance at the right moment in a society that 
was growing rotten. When Maxime rode in the Bois, pinched in at 
the waist like a woman, lightly dancing in the saddle, in which he 
was swayed by the canter of his horse, he was the god of that age, 
with his swelling haunches, 
his long, slender hands, his sickly 
lascivious air, his correct elegance, and his comic-opera slang. He 
111 

was twenty years old, and already there was nothing left to surprise 
or disgust him. He had certainly dreamt of the most unheard-of 
filth. Vice with him was not an abyss, as with certain old men, but 
a natural, external growth. It waved over his fair hair, smiled upon 
his lips, dressed him in his clothes. But his special characteristic was 
his eyes, two clear and smiling blue apertures, coquette’s mirrors, 
behind which one perceived all the emptiness of the brain. Those 
harlot’s eyes were never lowered : they roamed in quest of pleasure, 
a pleasure without fatigue, which one summons and receives. 
The everlasting whirlwind that swept through the apartment in 
the Rue de Rivoli and made its doors slam to and fro blew 
stronger in the measure that Maxime grew up, that Saccard en- 
larged the sphere of his operations, and that Renée threw more 
fever into her search for an unknown joy. These three beings ended 
by leading an astonishing existence of liberty and folly. It was the 
ripe and prodigious fruit of an epoch. The street invaded the apart- 
ment with its rumbling of carriages, its jostling of strangers, its 
license of language. The father, the step-mother and the step-son 
acted, talked and made themselves at home as though each of them 
had found himself leading a bachelor life alone. Three boon com- 
panions, three students sharing the same furnished room, could not 
have made use of that room with less reserve for the installation 
of their vices, their loves, their noisy, adolescent gaiety. They 
accepted one another with a hand-shake, never seeming to suspect 
the reasons that united them under one roof, treating each other 
cavallierly, joyously, and thus assuming each the most entire in- 
dependence. The family idea was replaced with them by a sort of 
partnership whose profits are divided in equal shares; each one drew 
his part of the pleasure to himself, and it was tacitly agreed that 
each should dispose of that part as best seemed to him. They went 
so far as to take their enjoyment in each other’s presence, displaying 
it, describing it, without awakening any feeling but a little envy and 
curiosity. 
; 
Maxime now instructed Renée. When he went to the Bois with 
her, he told her stories about the fast women which entertained her 
vastly. 
A new woman could not appear by the lake, but he would 
lay himself out to ascertain the name of her lover, the allowance he 
made her, the style in which she lived. He knew these ladies’ homes, 
and was acquainted with intimate details; he was a real living cata- 
logue in which all the prostitutes in Paris were numbered, with a 
very complete description of each of them. This gazette of scandal 
112 

was Renée’s delight. On race-days, at Longchamps, when she 
drove by in her calash, she listened eagerly, albeit retaining the 
haughtiness of a woman of the real world, to how Blanche Muller 
deceived her attaché with a hair-dresser; or how the little baron 
had found the count in his drawers in the alcove of a skinny red- 
haired celebrity who was nicknamed the Crayfish. Each day brought 
its tittle-tattle. When the story was rather too warm, Maxime 
lowered his voice, but told it to the end. Renée opened wide her 
eyes, like a child to whom a funny trick is being told, restrained her 
laughter, and then stifled it in her embroidered handkerchief, which 
she pressed daintily upon her lips. 
Maxime also brought these ladies’ photographs. He had actresses’ 
photographs in all his pockets, and even in his cigar-case. From 
time to time he cleared them out and placed these ladies in the 
album that lay about on the furniture in the drawing-room, and 
that already contained the photographs of Renée’s friends. There 
were men’s photographs there too, MM. de Rozan, Simpson, de 
Chibray, de Mussy, as well as actors, writers, deputies, who had 
come to swell the collection nobody knew how. A strangely mixed 
society, a symbol of the jumble of persons and ideas that crossed 
Renée’s and Maxime’s lives. Whenever it rained or they felt bored, 
this album was the great subject of conversation. It always ended by 
falling under one’s hand. Renée opened it with a yawn, for the 
hundredth time perhaps. Then her curiosity would reawaken, and 
the young man came and leant behind her. And then followed long 
discussions about the Crayfish’s hair, Madame de Meinhold’s double 
chin, Madame de Lauwerens’ 
eyes, and Blanche Muller’s bust; 
about the marquise’s nose, which was a little on one side, and little 
Sylvia’s mouth, which was renowned for the thickness of its lips. 
They compared the women with one another. 
“If I were a man,” said Renée, “I would choose Adeline.” 
“That’s because you don’t know Sylvia,” replied Maxime. “She 
is so quaint! ... I must say I prefer Sylvia.” 
The pages were turned over; sometimes the Duc de Rozan ap- 
peared, or Mr. Simpson, or the Comte de Chibray, and he added, 
jeering at her: 
“Besides, your taste is perverted, everybody knows that. 
. 
Can anything more stupid be imagined than the faces of those men! 
Rozan and Chibray are both like Gustave, my hair-dresser.” 
Renée shrugged her shoulders, as if to say that she was beyond 
the reach of sarcasm. She again forgot herself in the contemplation 
113 

of the pallid, smiling, or cross-grained faces contained in the album; 
she lingered longest over the portraits of the fast women, studying 
with curiosity the exact miscroscopic details of the photographs, the 
minute wrinkles, the tiny hairs. One day even she sent for a strong 
magnifying-glass fancying she had perceived a hair on the Cray- 
fish’s nose. And in fact the glass did reveal a thin golden thread 
which had strayed from the eyebrows down to the middle of the 
nose. This hair diverted them, for a long time. For a week long the 
ladies who called were made to assure themselves in person of the 
presence of this hair. Thenceforward the magnifying-glass served 
to pick the women’s faces to pieces. Renée made astonishing dis- 
coveries: 
she found unknown wrinkles, coarse skins, cavities im- 
perfectly filled up with rice powder, until Maxime finally hid the 
glass, declaring that it was not right to disgust one’s self like that 
with the human countenance. The truth was that she scrutinised too 
rigorously the thick lips of Sylvia, for whom he cherished a par- 
ticular fondness. They invented a new game. They asked this ques- 
tion: 
“With whom would I like to spend a night?” and they 
opened the album which was to supply for the answer. This brought 
about some very joyous couplings. The friends played this game for 
several evenings. Renée was in this way married successively to the 
Archbishop of Paris, to the Baron Gouraud, to M. de Chibray, 
which caused much laughter, and to her husband himself, which 
distressed her mightily. As to Maxime, either by chance, or through 
the mischievousness of Renée, who opened the album, he always 
fell to the marquise. But they never laughed so much as when fate 
coupled two men or two women together. 
The familiarity between Renée and Maxime went so far that she 
told him the sorrows of her heart. He consoled and advised her. 
His father did not seem to exist. Then they came to confide in one 
another about their childhood. It was especially during their drives 
in the Bois that they felt a vague languor, a longing to tell one an- 
other things that are difficult to say, that are never told. The delight 
that children take in whispering about forbidden things, the fascina- 
tion that exists for a young man and a young woman in lowering 
themselves to sin, if only in words, brought them back unceasingly 
to suggestive topics. They there partook deeply of a voluptuousness 
in which they felt no self-reproaching, and in which they revelled, 
lazily reclining in the two corners of the carriage like two old school- 
fellows recalling their first escapades. They ended by becoming 
braggets of immorality. Renée confessed that the little girls at the 
114 

boarding-school were very smutty. Maxime went further and had 
the courage to relate some of the infamy of the college at Plassans. 
“Ah! I can’t tell you,” murmured Renée. 
Then she bent towards his ear as if the sound of her voice alone 
would have made her blush, and she confided to him one of those 
convent stories that are spun out in lewd songs. He had too rich a 
collection of similar anecdotes to be left behindhand. He hummed 
some very bawdy couplets in her ear. And little by little they 
entered upon a peculiar state of beatitude, rocked by all the carnal 
ideas they stirred up, tickled by little undefined desires. The car- 
riage rolled gently on, and they returned home deliciously fatigued, 
more exhausted than on the morning after a night of love. They 
had sinned like two young men who, wandering down country lanes 
without 
mistresses, 
content 
themselves 
with an interchange 
of 
reminiscences. 
A still great familiarity and license existed between father and 
son. Saccard had realised that a great financier must love women 
and commit extravagances for them. He was a rough lover, and 
preferred money; but it formed part of his programme to frequent 
alcoves, to scatter bank-notes on certain mantelpieces, and from 
time to time to affix some noted strumpet as a sign-board to his 
speculations. When Maxime had left school they used to meet in 
the same women’s rooms and laugh over it. They were even rivals 
in a measure. Occasionally when the young man was dining at the 
“Maison d’Or” with some boisterous crew he heard Saccard’s voice 
in an adjacent private room. 
“T say !.papa’s next door!” he cried, with the grimace which he 
borrowed from the popular actors. 
He went and knocked at the door of the private room, curious to 
see his father’s conquest. 
“Ah! it’s you,” said the latter, jovially. “Come in. You make so 
much noise that a man can’t hear himself eat. Who are you with?” 
“Why, there’s Laure d’Aurigny, and Sylvia, and the Crayfish, 
and two more besides, I believe. They are wonderful: 
they dig 
their fingers into the dishes, and chuck handfuls of salad at our 
heads. My coat is covered with oil.” 
The father laughed, thinking this very amusing. 
“Ah! young folk, young folk,’ he murmured. “That’s not like 
us, is it, pet? We’ve had a nice quiet dinner, and now we’re going to 
by-by.” 
115 

And he took the woman by his side by the chin, and cooed with 
his Provencal snuffle, producing a queer sort of love music. 
“Oh! the old rascal!” 
. .. cried the woman. “How are you, 
Maxime? Musn’t I be fond of you, eh! to consent to sup with your 
scapegrace of a father. 
. 
. 
. I never see you now. Come the day 
after to-morrow, in the morning, early. . 
. 
. No, really, I have some- 
thing to tell you.” 
Saccard finished an ice or a fruit, taking small mouthfuls, bliss- 
fully He kissed the woman on the shoulder, saying jestingly : 
“You know, my loves, if I’m in the way Ill go out... 
. You 
can ring when I may come in again.” 
Then he carried the lady off, or sometimes went with her and 
joined in the noise of the next room. Maxime and he shared the 
same shoulders; their hands met around the same waists. They 
called to one another on the sofas, and repeated to one another 
aloud the confidences the women had whispered in their ears. And 
they carried their intimacy to the pitch of plotting together to 
carry off from the company the blonde or the brunette whom one 
of them had selected. 
They were well known at Mabille. They went there arm in arm, 
after a good dinner, strolling round the garden, nodding to the 
women, tossing them a remark as they went by. They laughed out 
loud, without unlocking their arms, and came to one another’s aid 
if necessary whenever the conversation became too lively. The father 
who was very strong on this point, negotiated his son’s love-affairs 
advantageously. At times they sat down and drank with a party of 
girls. Then they changed their table, or resumed their stroll. And 
till midnight they were seen, their arms always linked in their 
intimacy, following the petticoats along the yellow pathways, under 
the glaring flame of the gas-jets. 
When they returned home they brought with them from outside, 
in their coats, a something of the women they had been with. Their 
jaunty attitudes, the tags of certain suggestive phrases and certain 
vulgar gestures filled the flat in the Rue de Rivoli with the fragrance 
of an equivocal alcove. The easy, wanton way in which the father 
shook hands with his son was enough to proclaim whence they 
came. It was in this atmosphere that Renée inhaled her sensual 
caprices and longings. She chaffed them nervously. 
“Where on earth do you come from?” she asked them. “You 
smell of musk and tobacco. 
. 
. 
. I know I shall have a headache.” 
116 

And the strange aroma did in fact perturb her profoundly. It 
was the persistent perfume of that singular household. 
Meantime Maxime was smitten with a violent passion for little 
Sylvia. He bored his step-mother with this girl for several months. 
Renée soon knew her from one end to the other, from the sole of 
her feet to the crown of her head. She had a blue mark on her hip; 
nothing was 
sweeter 
than her knees; her shoulders had _ this 
peculiarity that the left alone was dimpled. Maxime took a mali- 
cious pleasure in filling their drives with his mistress’s perfections. 
One evening, on returning from the Bois, Renée’s carriage and 
Sylvia’s, caught in a block, had to draw up side by side in the 
Champs-Elysées. The two women eyed one another with keen 
curiosity, while Maxime, enchanted with this critical situation, 
tittered under his breath. When the calash began to roll on again, 
his step-mother preserved a gloomy silence; he thought she was 
sulking, and expected one of those maternal scenes, one of those 
strange lectures, with which she still occasionally filled up her 
_ moments of lassitude. 
“Do you know that person’s jeweller?” she asked him suddenly, 
at the moment they reached the Place de la Concorde. 
“Yes, alas!” he replied with a smile; “I owe him ten thousand 
francs... 
. Why do you ask me?” 
“For nothing.” 
Then, after a fresh pause : 
“She had a very pretty bracelet, the one on the left wrist... 
. I 
should have liked to see it closer.” 
They reached home. She said no more on the matter. Only, the 
next day, just as Maxime and his father were going out together, 
she took the young man aside and spoke to him in an undertone, 
with an air of embarrassment, and a pretty smile which pleaded for 
pardon. He seemed surprised and went off, laughing his wicked 
laugh. In the evening he brought Sylvia’s bracelet, which his step- 
mother had begged him to show her. 
“There’s what you want,” he said. “One would turn thief for 
your sake, step-mother.” 
“She didn’t see you take it?” asked Renée, who was greedily 
examining the bracelet. 
“T don’t think so... 
. She wore it yesterday, she certainly would 
not want to wear it to-day.” 
Meantime Renée approached the window. She put on the brace- 
117 

let. She raised her wrist a little and turned it round, enraptured, re- 
peating : 
“Oh! very pretty, very pretty... 
. I like everything immensely, 
except the emeralds.” 
At that moment Saccard entered, and as she was still holding up 
her wrist in the white light of the window : 
“Hullo!” he cried in astonishment. ‘“‘Sylvia’s bracelet !” 
‘Do you know this piece of jewellery?” she said, more embar- 
rassed than he, not knowing what to do with her arm. 
He had recovered himself, and threatened his son with his finger, 
murmuring : 
“That rascal has always some forbidden fruit in his pockets... 
. 
One of these days he will bring us the lady’s arm with the bracelet 
on.” 
“Ah! 
but it’s not I,” replied Maxime with mischievous cowardice. 
“Tt’s Renée who wanted to see it.” 
“Ah !” was all the husband said. 
And he examined the gaud in his turn, repeating like his wife : 
“It is very pretty, very pretty.” 
Then he went quietly away, and Renée scolded Maxime for 
giving her away like that. But he declared that his father didn’t 
care a pin! Then she returned him the bracelet, adding : 
“You must go to the jeweller and order one exactly like it for 
me; only you must have sapphires put in instead of emeralds.” 
Saccard was unable to keep a thing or a person near him for long 
without wanting to sell it or derive some sort of profit from it. His 
son was not twenty when he thought of turning him to account. A 
good-looking boy, nephew to a minister and son of a big financier, 
ought to be a good investment. He was a trifle young still, but one 
could always look out for a wife and a dowry for him, and then 
decide to postpone the wedding for a long time, or to hurry it on, 
according to the exigencies of domestic economy. Saccard was for- 
tunate. He discovered on a board of directors of which he was a 
member a fine, tall man, M. de Mareuil, who in two days belonged 
to him. M. de Mareuil was a retired sugar-refiner of Havre, and his 
real name was Bonnet. After amassing a large fortune, he had 
married a young girl of noble birth, also very rich, who was looking 
out for a fool of imposing appearance. Bonnet obtained permission 
to assume his wife’s name, which was a first satisfaction for his 
bride; but his marriage had made him madly ambitious, and his 
dream was to repay Héléne for the noble name she had given him 
118 

by achieving a high political position. From that time forward he 
put money into new papers, bought large estates in the heart of the 
Niéve, and by all the well-known means prepared for himself a 
candidature for the Corps Législatif. So far he had failed without 
losing an iota of his solemnity. His was the most incredibly empty 
brain one could come across. He was of splendid stature, with the 
white, pensive face of a great statesman; and as he had a marvellous 
way of listening, he gave the impression of a propigious inner labour 
of comprehension and deduction. In reality he was thinking of 
nothing. But he succeeded in perplexing people, who no longer 
knew whether they had to do with a man of distinction or a fool. 
M. de Mareuil attached himself to Saccard as to a raft. He knew 
that an official candidature was about to fall vacant in the Miévre, 
and he ardently hoped that the minister would nominate him: 
it 
was his last card. And so he handed himeslf over, bound hand and 
foot, to the minister’s brother. Saccard, who scented a good piece 
of business, put into his head a match between his daughter Louise 
and Maxime. The other became most effusive, thought he was the 
_ first to have had the idea of this marriage, and considered himself 
very fortunate to enter into a minister’s family and to give Louise 
to a young man who seemed to have such fine prospects. 
Louise, her father said, would have a million francs to her dowry. 
Deformed, ugly, and adorable, she was doomed to die young; con- 
sumption was stealthily undermining her, giving her a nervous 
gaiety and a tender grace. Sick little girls quickly grow old, and 
become women before their time. She was naively sensual, she 
seemed to have been born when she was fifteen, in full puberty. 
When her father, that healthy, stupid colossus, looked at her, he 
could not believe that she was his daughter. Her mother during her 
lifetime had also been a tall, strong woman; but stories were told 
about her which explained the child’s stuntedness, her manners like 
a millionaire gipsy’s, her vicious and charming ugliness. It was said 
that Héléne de Mareuil had died amid the most shameful de- 
bauchery. Pleasure had eaten into her like an ulcer, without her 
husband’s perceiving the lucid madness of his wife, whom he ought 
to have had locked up in a lunatic asylum. Borne in these diseased 
flanks, Louise had issued from them with impoverished blood, de- 
formed limbs, her brain threatened, and her memory already filled 
with a dirty life. She occasionally fancied she had a confused recol- 
lection of a former existence; she saw unfolded before her, in a 
vague gloaming, bizarre scenes, men and women kissing, a whole 
119 

fleshly drama in which her childish curiosity found amusement. It 
was her mother that spoke within her. This vice continued through 
her childhood. As she gradually grew up, nothing astonished her, 
she recollected everything, or rather she knew everything, and she 
reached for forbidden things with a sureness of hand that made her, 
in life, resemble 
a man returning home after a long absence, and 
having only to stretch out his arm to make himself comfortable and 
enjoy the pleasures of his homestead. This odd little girl, who by 
her evil instincts flattered Maxime, but had moreover, 
in this 
second life which she lived as a virgin with all the knowledge and 
shame of a grown woman, an ingenuous effrontery, a piquant mix- 
ture of childishness and audacity, was bound in the end to attract 
him, and to seem to him even more diverting than Sylvia, the 
daughter of a worthy stationer, who had the heart of a money- 
lender, and was terribly homely by nature. 
The marriage was arranged with a laugh, and it was decided that 
“the youngsters” should be allowed to grow up. The two families 
lived in close intimacy. M. de Mareuil worked his candidature. 
Saccard watched his prey. It was understood that Maxime should 
place his nomination as an auditor to the Council of State among 
the wedding presents. 
Meanwhile the fortune of the Saccards seemed tobe at its zenith. 
It blazed in the midst of Paris like a colossal bonfire. This was the 
moment when the eager division of the hounds’ fee filled a corner 
of the forest with the yelping of the pack, the cracking of whips, the 
flaring of torches. The appetites let loose were satisfied at last, in 
the shamelessness of triumph, amid the sound of crumbling districts 
and of fortunes built up in six months. The town was become a 
sheer orgy of gold and women. Vice, coming from on high, flowed 
through the gutters, spread out over the ornamental waters, shot up 
in the fountains of the public gardens to fall down again upon the 
roofs in a fine, penetrating rain. And at night-time, when one 
crossed the bridges, it seemed as though the Seine drew along with 
it, through the sleeping city, the refuse of the town, crumbs fallen 
from the tables, bows of lace left on couches, false hair forgotten in 
cabs, banknotes slipped out of bodices, all that the brutality of desire 
and the immediate satisfaction of an instinct fling into the street 
bruised and sullied. Then, amid the feverish sleep of Paris, and 
even better than during its breathless quest in broad daylight, one 
felt the unsettling of the brain, the golden and voluptuous night- 
mare of a city madly enamoured of its gold and its flesh. The violins 
120 

sounded till midnight; then the windows became dark, and shadows 
descended upon the city. It was like a colossal alcove in which the 
last candle had been blown out, the last remnant of shame ex- 
tinguished. There was nothing left in the depths of the darkness 
save a great rattle of furious and wearied love; while the Tuileries, 
at the waterside, stretched out their arms into the night, as though 
for a huge embrace. 
Saccard had just built his mansion in the Parc Monceau, on a 
plot of ground stolen from the Municipality. He had reserved for 
himself, on the first floor, a magnificent study, in violet ebony and 
gold, with tall glass doors to the book-cases, full of business-papers, 
but without a book to be seen; the safe, embedded in the wall, 
yawned like an iron alcove, large enough to accommodate the 
amorous exploits of a milliard of money. Here his fortune bloomed 
and insolently displayed itself. Everything seemed to succeed with 
him. When he left the Rue de Rivoli, enlarging his household, 
doubling his expenses, he talked to his friends of considerable win- 
nings. According to his account, his partnership with the Sieurs 
Mignon and Charrier brought him in enormous profits; his specula- 
tions in house-property came off still better; while the Crédit Viti- 
cole was an inexhaustible milch-cow. He had a way of enumerating 
his riches that bewildered his listeners and prevented them from 
seeing the truth. His Provencal snuffle grew more pronounced : 
with his short phrases and nervous gestures he let off fireworks in 
which millions shot up like rockets and ended by dazzling the most 
incredulous. This turbulent mimicry of the man of wealth was 
mainly responsible for the reputation he had achieved as a lucky 
speculator. To tell the truth, no one knew him to be possessed of 
a clear, solid capital. His various partners, who were necessarily 
acquainted with his position as regarded themselves, explained his 
colossal fortune by believing in his absolute luck in other specula- 
tions, those in which they had no share. He spent money madly; 
the flow from his cash-box continued, although the sources of that 
stream of gold had not yet been discovered. It was pure folly, a 
frenzy of money, handfuls of louis flung out of window, the safe 
emptied each evening to its last sou, filling again during the night, 
no one knew how, and never supplying such large sums as when 
Saccard pretended to have lost the keys. 
In this fortune, which clamoured and overflowed like a winter 
torrent, Renée’s dowry was shaken, carried off and drowned. The 
young wife, who had been distrustful in the earlier days and desirous 
uot 

of managing her property herself, soon grew weary of business; and 
then she felt herself poor beside her husband and, crushed by debt, 
she was obliged to apply to him, to borrow money from him and 
place herself in his hands. At each fresh bill that he paid, with the 
smile of a man indulgent towards human foibles, she surrendered 
herself a little more, confiding dividend-warrants to him, authoris- 
ing him to sell this or that. When they went to live in the house in 
the Parc Monceau, 
already she found 
herself almost 
entirely 
stripped. He had taken the place of the State, and paid her the 
interest on the hundred thousand francs coming from the Rue de la 
Pépiniére; on the other hand, he had made her sell the Sologne 
property in order to sink the proceeds in a great piece of business, a 
splendid investment, he said. She therefore had nothing left except 
the Charonne building-plots, which she obstinately refused to part 
with, so as not to sadden that excellent Aunt Elisabeth. And in that 
quarter again he was preparing a stroke of genius, with the help 
of his old accomplice, Larsonneau. For the rest, she remained his 
debtor; though he had taken her fortune, he paid her the income 
five or six times over. The interest of the hundred thousand francs, 
added to the revenue of the Sologne money, amounted to barely 
nine or ten thousand francs, just enough to pay her hosier and boot- 
maker. He gave her, or spent on her, fifteen or twenty times that 
paltry sum. He would have worked for a week to rob her of a 
hundred francs, and he kept her like a queen. And thus, like all the 
world, she respected her husband’s monumental safe, without try- 
ing to penetrate into the nothingness of that stream of gold flowing 
under her eyes, into which every morning she flung herself. 
At the Parc Monceau it was a delirium, a lightning triumph. 
The Saccards doubled the number of their carriages and horses; 
they had an army of servants whom they dressed in a dark-blue 
livery with drab breeches and yellow-and-black striped waistcoats, 
a rather severe scheme of colour which the financier had chosen 
so as to appear quite serious, one of his most cherished dreams. They 
emblazoned their luxury on the walls, and drew back the curtains 
when they gave big dinners. The whirlwind of contemporary life, 
which had set slamming the doors of the first-floor in the Rue de 
Rivoli, had become, in the mansion, a genuine hurricane which 
threatened 
to carry away the partitions. In the midst of these 
princely rooms, along the gilded balustrades, over the fine velvet 
carpets, in this fairy parvenu palace, there trailed the aroma of 
Mabille, there danced the jauntiness of the popular quadrilles, the 
122 

whole period passed with its mad, stupid laugh, its eternal hunger 
and its eternal thirst. It was the disorderly house of fashionable 
pleasure, of the unblushing pleasure that widens the windows so that 
the passers-by may enjoy the confidence of the alcoves. Husband 
and wife lived there freely, under their servants’ eyes. They divided 
the house into two, encamped there, not appearing as though at 
home, but rather as if they had been dropped, at the end of a 
tumultuous and bewildering journey, into some palatial hotel where 
they had merely taken the time to undo their trunks in order to 
hasten more speedily towards the delights of a fresh city. They 
slept there at night, only staying at home on the days of the great 
dinner-parties, carried away by a ceaseless rush across Paris, re- 
turning sometimes for an hour as one returns to a room at an inn 
between two excursions. Renée felt more 
restless, more nervous 
there; her silken skirts glided with adder-like hisses over the thick 
carpets, along the satin of the couches; was irritated by the idiotic 
gilding that surrounded her, by the high, empty ceilings, where 
after féte-nights there lingered nothing but the laughter of young 
fools and 
the sententious maxims 
of old ruffians; and to fill 
this 
luxury, 
to dwell 
amid 
this 
radiancy, 
she longed for 
a 
supreme 
amusement 
which 
her 
curiosity 
in vain 
sought 
in 
all the corners 
of the house, in the little sun-coloured 
draw- 
ing-room, 
in the conservatory with 
its fat vegetation. 
As to 
Saccard, he was approaching the realisation of his dream; 
he re- 
ceived the high finance, M. Toutin-Laroche, M. de Lauwerens; he 
received also great politicians, the Baron Gouraud, Haffner the 
deputy; his brother the minister had even consented to come two or 
three times and consolidate his position by his presence. And yet, 
like his wife, he experienced nervous anxieties, a restlessness that 
lent to his laugh a strange sound of broken window-panes. He 
became so giddy, so bewildered, that his acquaintances said of him : 
“That devil of a Saccard! he makes too much money, it will drive 
him mad!” In 1860 he had been decorated, in consequence of a 
mysterious service he had done the préfet, by lending his name to a 
lady for the sale of some land. 
It was about the time of their installation in the Parc Monceau 
that an apparition crossed Renée’s life, leaving an ineffaceable im- 
pression. Up to then the minister had resisted the entreaties of his 
sister-in-law, who was dying of a longing to be invited to the court 
balls. He gave way at last, thinking his brother’s fortune to be 
definitely established. Renée did not sleep for a month. The great 
123 

evening came, and she sat all trembling in the carriage that drove 
her to the Tuileries. 
She wore a costume of prodigious grace and originality, a real 
gem, which she had hit upon one sleepless night, and which three 
of Worms’s workmen had come to her house to carry out under her 
eyes. It was a simple dress of white gauze, but trimmed with a mul- 
titude of little flounces, scalloped out and edged with black velvet. 
The black velvet tunic was cut out square, very low over her 
bosom, which was framed with narrow lace, barely a finger deep. 
Not a flower, not a bit of ribbon; at her wrists, bracelets without 
any chasing, and on her head a narrow diadem of gold, a plain 
circlet which clothed her as with a halo. 
When she had reached the reception-rooms, and her husband 
had left her for the Baron Gouraud, she experienced 
a momentary 
embarrassment. But the mirrors, in which she saw that she was 
adorable, quickly reassured her, and she was accustoming herself 
to the hot air and the murmur of voices, to the crowd of dress- 
coats and white shoulders, when the Emperor appeared. He slowly 
crossed the room on the arm of a short, fat general, who puffed as 
though he suffered from a troublesome digestion. The shoulders 
drew up in two lines, while the dress-coats fell back a step with 
instinctive discretion. Renée found herself pushed to the end of the 
line of shoulders, near the second door, the one which the Emperor 
was approaching with a painful and faltering step. She thus saw 
him come towards her, from one door to the other. 
He was in plain dress, with the red riband of the Grand Cordon. 
Renée, again seized with emotion, saw badly, and to her this bleed- 
ing stain seemed to splash the whole of the sovereign’s breast. She 
considered him little, with legs too short, and swaying hips; but 
now she was charmed, and he looked handsome to her, with his 
wan face and the heavy, leaden lids that fell over his lifeless eyes. 
Under his moustache his mouth feebly opened, and his nose alone 
stood out cartilaginous amid the puffiness of his face. 
Worn out, vaguely smiling, the Emperor and the old general 
kept advancing with 
short 
stepes, 
apparently supporting 
one 
another. They looked at the bowing ladies, and their glances, cast 
to right and left, glided into the bodices. The general leant on one 
side, spoke a word to his master, and pressed his arm with the air of 
a jolly companion. And the Emperor, nerveless and nebulous, duller 
even than usual, came nearer and nearer with his dragging step. 
They were in the middle of the room when Renée felt their 
124 

glances fixed upon her. The general examined her with a look of 
surprise, while the Emperor, half-raising his eyelids, had a red light 
in the grey hesitation of his bleared eyes. Renée, losing countenance, 
lowered her head, bowed, saw nothing more save the pattern of the 
carpet. But she followed their shadows, and understood that they 
were pausing for a few seconds before her. And she thought she 
heard the Emperor, that ambiguous dreamer, murmur as he gazed 
at her, immersed in her muslin skirt striped with velvet : 
“Look, general, there’s a flower worth picking, a mystic carna- 
tion, variegated white and black.” 
And the general replied, in a more brutal voice : 
“Sire, that carnation would look devilish well in our button- 
holes.” 
Renée raised her head. The vision had disappeared, the crowd 
was thronging round the doorway. After that evening, she frequently 
returned to the Tuileries: 
she even had the honour of being com- 
plimented aloud by His Majesty, and of becoming a little his friend; 
_ 
but she always remembered the sovereign’s slow heavy walk across 
the room between the two rows of shoulders; and whenever she 
experienced any new joy amid her husband’s growing prosperity, 
she again saw the Emperor over-topping the bowing bosoms, coming 
towards her, comparing her to a carnation which the old general 
advised him to put in his button-hole. To her this was the shrill 
note of her life. 
125 

IV 
Tue distinct and exquisite longing that had risen to Renée’s heart, 
amid the perturbing perfumes of the conservatory, while Maxime 
and Louise sat laughing on a sofa in the little buttercup drawing- 
room, seemed 
to vanish like a nightmare that leaves behind it 
nothing but a vague shudder. All through the night, Renée had 
the bitter taste of the tanghin-plant on her lips; it seemed to her, 
when she felt the burning of the malignant leaf, as if a mouth of 
flame were pressing itself to hers, breathing into her a devouring 
love. Then this mouth escaped her, and her dream was drowned in 
the vast waves of shadow that rolled over her. 
In the morning she slept a little. When she awoke, she fancied 
herself ill. She had the curtains drawn, spoke to her doctor of sick- 
ness and headache, and for two days positively refused to go out. 
And as she pretended that she was being besieged, she forbade her 
door. Maxime came and knocked at it in vain. He did not sleep in 
the house, preferring to be free to do as he pleased in his rooms; 
and in fact he led the most nomadic life in the world, living in his 
father’s new houses, selecting the floor that pleased him, moving 
every month, often from caprice, sometimes to make room for 
serious tenants. He dried the walls in the company of some mistress. 
Accustomed to his stepmother’s caprices, he feigned great sympathy, 
and went upstairs to inquire after her with a distressed look, four 
times a day, solely to tease her. On the third day he found her in 
the little drawing-room, pink and smiling, looking calm and reposed. 
“Well! have you had a good time with Céleste?” he asked, allud- 
ing to her long téte-a-téte with her maid. 
“Yes,” she replied, “she is a priceless girl. Her hands are always 
cold; she used to lay them on my forehead and soothe my poor 
head a little.” 
“But that girl’s a nostrum!” cried Maxime. “If ever I have the 
misfortune to fall in love, you'll lend her to me, won’t you? to lay 
her two hands on my heart.” 
They jested, they went for their usual drive in the Bois. A fort- 
126 

night passed. Renée had thrown herself more madly into her life of 
visits and balls; her head seemed to have turned once more, she 
complained no longer of lassitude and disgust. One might only 
have suspected that she had committed some secret fault which she 
kept to herself, but which she betrayed by a more strongly marked 
contempt for heself and by a more reckless depravity in her fashion- 
able caprices. One night she confessed to Maxime that she was 
dying to go to a ball which Blanche Muller, a popular actress, was 
giving to the princesses of the foot-lights and the queens of the fast 
world. This avowal surprised and embarrassed even Maxime, who, 
after all, had no great scruples. He tried to catechise his step- 
mother: 
really, that was no place for her; besides, she would see 
nothing very amusing there; and then, if she were recognised, what 
a scandal there would be. To all these good arguments she answered 
with clapsed hands, smiling and entreating : 
“Come, my little Maxime, be nice, I want to go.... Pll put ona 
very dark domino, and we’ll only just walk through the rooms.” 
Maxime always ended by giving way, and would have taken his 
_ stepmother to every brothel in Paris for the asking. When he con- 
sented to escort her to Blanche Muller’s ball, she clapped her hands 
like a child that is given an unexpected holiday. 
“Ah! you’re a dear,” she said. “It’s to-morrow, is it not? Come 
and fetch me very early. I want to see the women arrive. You must 
tell me their names, and we'll have great fun.” 
She reflected, and then added : 
“No, don’t come here. Wait for me in a cab on the Boulevard 
Malesherbes. I shall go out through the garden.” 
This mysteriousness was an added spice to her escapade: 
a 
simple refinement of pleasure, for she might have gone out at mid- 
night by the front-door without her husband’s so much as putting 
his head out of the window. 
The next day, after telling Céleste to sit up for her, she crossed 
the dark shadows of the Parc Monceau with exquisite timorous 
shivers. Saccard had taken advantage of his good understanding 
with the Hétel de Ville to have a key given him of a little gate in 
the gardens, and Renée had asked for one for herself as well. She 
almost lost her way, and only found the cab thanks to the two 
yellow eyes of the lamps. At this period the Boulevard Malesherbes, 
barely finished, was still perfectly lonely at night-time. Renée glided 
into the vehicle in great emotion, her heart beating rapturously, as 
though 
she 
were 
going 
to 
an 
assignation. 
Maxime 
smoked 
127 

philosophically, half asleep in a corner of the cab. He wanted to 
throw away his cigar, but she prevented him, and in trying to hold 
back his arm in the darkness she put her hand full in his face, which 
amused them both greatly. 
“I tell you I like the smell of tobacco,” she cried. “Go on smok- 
ing. . 
. 
. Besides, we are having a debauch to-night. .. 
. ’m a man, 
seer? 
The boulevard was not yet lighted up. While the cab drove down 
to the Madeleine it was so dark inside that they could not see one 
another. Now and again, when the young man lifted his cigar to 
his lips, a red spot pierced the thick darkness. This red spot 
interested Renée. Maxime, who was half covered by the folds of 
the black satin domino that filled the inside of the cab, continued 
smoking in silence, with an expression of weariness. The truth was 
that his stepmother’s caprice had prevented him from following a 
party of women who had made up their minds to begin and end 
Blanche Muller’s ball at the Café Anglais. He was in a huff, and 
she felt conscious of his sulkiness in the darkness. 
“Are you ill?” she asked. 
“No, I’m cold,” he replied. 
“Dear me! I’m burning. I think it’s stifling in here... 
. Take 
the end of my skirts over your knees.” 
“Oh! your skirts,” he muttered, ill-humouredly. “Pm up to my 
eyes in your skirts.” 
But this remark made him laugh himself, and little by little he 
grew livelier. She told him how frightened she had felt in the Parc 
Monceau. After that she confessed to him another of her longings : 
she should like one night to go for a row on the little lake of the 
gardens in the skiff that she could see from her windows, moored 
at the edge of a pathway. He thought she was growing sentimental. 
The cab rolled on, the darkness remained impenetrable, they leant 
towards one another so as to hear one another amid the noise of 
the wheels, touching each other when they moved their hands, and 
at times, when they approached too closely, inhaling one another’s 
warm breath. And at regular intervals, Maxime’s cigar glowed 
afresh, throwing a red blur in the darkness, and casting a pale pink 
flash over Renée’s face. She was adorable, seen by this fleeting light; 
so much so that the young man was struck by it. 
“Oh! 
oh!” he said. “We seem to be very pretty this evening, 
stepmamma.... Let’s have a look.” 
He brought his cigar nearer, and drew a few rapid puffs. Renée 
128 

in her corner was lit up with a warm, palpitating light. She had 
slightly raised her hood. Her bare head, covered with a mass of little 
curls, adorned with a simple blue ribbon, looked like a real boy’s 
head over the great black satin blouse which came up to her neck. 
She thought it very amusing to be thus examined and admired by 
the light of a cigar. She threw herself back tittering, while he added 
with an air of comical gravity : 
“The deuce! I shall have to look after you, if I am to bring you 
back safe and sound to my father.” 
Meantime the cab turned round the Madeleine and joined the 
current of the boulevards, Here it became filled with a leaping 
light, with the reflections from the shops with their flaring windows. 
Blanche Muller lived close by in one of the new houses that have 
been built on the raised ground of the Rue Basse-du-Rempart. 
There were but few carriages as yet at the door. It was only ten 
o'clock. Maxime wanted to drive down the boulevards and wait an 
hour; but Renée, whose curiosity was becoming keener, told him 
decidedly that she would go up all alone if he did not accompany 
_ her. He followed her, and was glad to find more people upstairs 
than he expected. Renée had put on her mask. Leaning on 
Maxime’s arm, and whispering to him peremptory commands which 
he submissively obeyed, she ferreted about in all the rooms, lifted 
the corners 
of the door-hangings, examined the furniture, and 
would have gone so far as to search the drawers had she not feared 
being seen. 
The apartment, though richly decorated, had Bohemian corners 
that at once suggested the chorus-girl. It was here especially that 
Renée’s pink nostrils quivered, and that she constrained her com- 
panion to walk slowly, so as to lose no particle of things or of their 
smell. She lingered particularly in a dressing-room left wide open 
by Blanche Muller, who, when she received her friends, gave up 
everything to them, even to her alcove, where the bed was pushed 
aside to make room for the card-tables. But the dressing-room did 
not please her: 
it seemed to her common, and even a little dirty, 
with its carpet covered with little round burns from cigarette-ends, 
and its blue silk hangings stained with pomade and splashed with 
soap-suds. Then, when she had fully inspected the rooms, and fixed 
the smallest details of the place in her memory, so as to describe 
them later to her friends, she passed on to the guests. The men she 
knew; for the most part they were the same financiers, the same 
politicians, the same young men-about-town who came 
to her 
E 
129 

Thursdays. She fancied herself in her own drawing-room at times, 
when she came face to face with a group of smiling dress-coats, 
who, the previous evening, had worn the same smile in her house 
when talking to the Marquise d’Espanet or the fair-haired Mme. 
Haffner. Nor was the illusion completely dispelled when she looked 
at the women. Laure d’Aurigny was in yellow like Suzanne Haffner, 
and Blanche Muller, like Adeline d’Espanet, wore a white dress 
which left her bare down to the middle of her back. At last Maxime 
besought her to take pity on him, and she consented to sit down 
with him on a sofa. They stayed there 
a moment, the young man 
yawning, Renée asking him the ladies’ names, undressing them 
with her look, adding up the number of yards of lace they wore 
round their skirts. Seeing her absorbed in this serious study, he 
ended by slipping away in obedience 
to a sign which Laure 
d’Aurigny made him with her hand. She chaffed him about the 
lady he was escorting. Then she made him swear to come and join 
them at the Café Anglais at one o’clock. 
“Your father will be there,” she called to him, as he rejoined 
Renée. 
The latter found herself surrounded by a group of women laugh- 
ing very loud, while M. de Saffré had availed himself of the seat 
left vacant by Maxime to slip down beside her and pay her un- 
mannerly compliments. Next, M. de Saffré and the women had all 
begun to shout, to smack their thighs, so much so that Renée, 
fairly deafened, and yawning in her turn, rose and said to her 
companion : 
“Let’s go away, they’re too stupid !” 
As they were leaving, M. de Mussy entered. He seemed delighted 
to meet Maxime, and paying no attention to the masked woman he 
had with him : 
“Ah, my friend,’ he murmured with a love-sick air, “she will be 
the death of me. I know she is better, and she still forbids me her 
door. Do tell her you have seen me with tears in my eyes.” 
“Be still, she shall have your message,” said the young man, with 
a curious laugh. 
And on the stairs : 
“Well, stepmamma, hasn’t the poor fellow touched you?” 
She shrugged her shoulders without replying. Outside, on the 
pavement, she paused before getting into the cab, which had waited 
for them, and looked hesitatingly towards the Madeleine and to- 
130 

wards the Boulevard des Italiens. It was barely half-past eleven, 
the boulevard was still very animated. 
“So we are going home,” she murmured, regretfully. 
“Unless you care to take a drive along the boulevards, 
Maxime. 
She agreed. Her feast of feminine curiosity was turning out badly, 
and she hated the idea of returning home with an illusion the less 
and an incipient headache. She had long imagined that an actresses’ 
ball was killingly funny. There seemed to be a return of Spring, as 
happens sometimes in the last days of October; the night had a 
May warmth, and the occasional cold breezes passing gave ad- 
ditional gaiety to the atmosphere. Renée, with her head at the win- 
dow, remained silent, looking at the crowd, the cafés, the res- 
taurants, whose interminable line scudded past. She had become 
quite serious, lost in the depths of those vague longings that fill the 
reveries of women. The wide pavement, swept by the street-walkers’ 
skirts, and ringing with peculiar familiarity under the men’s boots, 
the grey asphalte, over which it seemed to her that the gallop of 
' pleasure and facile love was passing, awoke her slumbering desires, 
and made her forget the idiotic ball which she had left, to allow her 
a glimpse of other and more highly-flavoured joys. At the windows 
of the private rooms at Brébant’s, she perceived the shadows of 
women on the whiteness of the curtains. And Maxime told her a 
very improper story, of a husband who had thus detected, on a 
curtain, the shadow of his wife and the shadow of a lover in the 
act. She hardly listened to him. But he grew livelier, and ended by 
taking her hands and teasing her by talking of that poor M. de 
Mussy. 
They turned back, and as they once more passed in front of 
Brébant’s : 
“Do you know,” she said, suddenly, “that M. de Saffré asked me 
to supper this evening?” 
“Oh! you would have fared badly,” he replied, laughing. “‘Saffré 
has not the slightest culinary imagination. He has not got beyond 
a lobster salad.” 
“No, no, he spoke of oysters and of cold partridge. 
. 
. 
. But he 
addressed me in the second person singular, and that bothered 
eal, siyst 
She stopped short, looked again at the boulevard, and added 
after a pause, with an air of distress : 
“The worst of it is that I am awfully hungry.” 
131 
” replied 

“What, you are hungry!” exclaimed the young man. “That’s 
very simple, we will go and have supper together. 
. 
. 
. What do 
you say?” 
He spoke quietly, but she refused at first, declaring that Céleste 
had put out something for her to eat at home. Meantime Maxime, 
who did not want to go to the Café Anglais, had stopped the cab at 
the corner of the Rue le Peletier, in front of the Café Riche; he 
even alighted, and as his stepmother still hesitated : 
“As for that,” he said, “if you are afraid of my compromising 
you, say so.... I will get up beside the driver and take you back 
to your husband.” 
She smiled, and alighted from the cab with the air of a bird 
afraid to wet its feet. She was radiant. The pavement which she 
felt beneath her feet warmed her heels and sent a delicious sensation 
of fear and of gratified caprice quivering over her skin. Ever since 
the cab had been rolling on, she had had a mad longing to jump 
out upon the pavement. She crossed it with short steps, stealthily, 
as though she felt a keener pleasure from the fear that she might 
be seen. Her escapade was decidedly turning into an adventure. 
She certainly did not regret having refused M. de Saffré’s off-hand 
invitation. But she would have come home terribly cross if Maxime 
had not thought of letting her taste forbidden fruit. He ran upstairs 
quickly, as though at home. She followed him a little out of breath. 
Slight fumes of fish and game hung about, and the stair-carpet, 
secured to the steps with brass rods, had a smell of dust that in- 
creased her excitement. 
As they reached the first landing, they met a dignified- = 
waiter, who drew back to the wall to let them pass. 
“Charles,” said Maxime, “you’ll wait on us, won’t you? ... Give 
us the white room.” 
Charles bowed, went up a few steps, and opened the door of a 
private room. The gas was lowered, it seemed to Renée as if she 
was penetrating into the twilight of a dubious and charming resort. 
A continuous rumbling came in through the wide-open window, 
and on the ceiling, in the reflection cast by the café below, the 
shadows of the people in the street passed swiftly by. But with a 
twist of his thumb the waiter turned on the gas. The shadows on 
the ceiling disappeared, the room filled with a crude light that fell 
full upon Renée’s head. She had already thrown back her hood. 
The little curls had become slightly disarranged, but the blue ribbon 
had not stirred. She began to walk about, confused by the way in 
132 
/ 

which Charles looked at her; he blinked his eyes and screwed up the 
lids in order to see her better in a way which plainly argued: 
“Here’s one I haven’t seen before.” 
“What shall I serve, monsieur?” he asked aloud. 
Maxime turned towards Renée. 
“What do you say to M. de Saffré’s supper?” he asked. “Oysters, 
a partridge... .” 
And seeing the young man smile, Charles discreetly imitated 
him murmuring : 
“Wednesday’s supper, then, if that will suit?” 
“Wednesday’s supper . . .” repeated Maxime. 
Then, remembering : 
“Yes, I don’t care, give us Wednesday’s supper.” 
When the waiter had gone, Renée took her eyeglass, and went 
inquisitively round the room. It was a square room in white and 
gold, furnished with the coquetry of a boudoir. Besides the table 
and the chairs, there was a sort of low slab that served as a side- 
board, and a broad divan, a veritable bed, which stood between the 
' window and the fireplace. A Louis XVI clock and candlesticks 
adorned the white marble mantel. But the curiosity of the room was 
the mirror, 
a handsome long-shaped 
mirror, which had been 
scrawled over by the ladies’ diamonds with names, dates, doggerel 
verses, 
prodigious 
sentiments 
and 
astounding 
avowals. 
Renée 
thought she caught sight of something beastly, and lacked the 
courage to satisfy her curiosity. She looked at the divan, experi- 
encing fresh embarrassment, and at last, to give herself count- 
enance, began gazing at the ceiling and the copper-gilt chandelier 
with its five jets. But the uneasiness she felt was delicious. While she 
raised her forehead as if to examine the cornice, seriously, and with 
her eyeglass in her hand, she derived profound enjoyment from this 
equivocal furniture which she felt about her; from that limpid, 
cynical mirror whose pure surface, barely wrinkled by those filthy 
scrawls, had helped in the adjusting of so many false chignons; 
from that divan whose breadth shocked her; from the table and 
the very carpet, in which she found the same smell as on the stairs, 
a subtle, penetrating, and almost religious odour of dust. 
Then, when she was driven at last to lower her eyes : 
“What is this supper of Wednesday?” she asked of Maxime. 
“Nothing,” he replied. “A bet one of my friends lost.” 
In any other place he would have told her without hesitation 
that he had supped on Wednesday with a lady he had met on the 
133 

boulevard. But since entering the private room, he had instinctively 
treated her as 
a woman whose good graces one seeks to obtain and 
whose jealously must be spared. She did not insist; she went and 
leant on the rail of the window, where he joined her. Behind them 
Charles came and went, with a sound of crockery and plate. 
It was not yet midnight. On the boulevard below, Paris was 
growling, prolonging its ardent day, before deciding to go to bed. 
The rows of trees separated with a confused line the whiteness of 
the pavement from the uncertain darkness of the roadway, on 
which passed the rumble and the fleeting lamps of the carriages. 
On either edge of this dark belt, the newsvendors’ kiosks shed their 
light from spot to spot, like great Venetian lanterns, tall and fan- 
tastically variegated, set on the ground at regular intervals for some 
colossal illumination. But at this time their subdued brilliancy was 
lost in the flare of the neighbouring shop-fronts. Not a shutter was 
up, the pavement stretched out without a line of shadow, under a 
shower of rays that lighted it with a golden dust, with the warm 
and resplendent glare of daylight. Maxime showed Renée the Café 
Anglais, whose windows shone out in front of them. The lofty 
branches of the trees interfered with them a little, however, when 
they tried to see the houses and pavement opposite. They leant 
over, and looked below them. There was a continual coming and 
going; men walked past in groups, prostitutes in couples dragged 
their skirts, which they raised from time to time with a languid 
movement, 
casting weary, smiling glances around them. Right 
under the window, the tables of the Café Riche were spread out 
in the blaze of the gas-lamps, whose brilliancy extended half across 
the roadway; and it was especially in the centre of this burning 
focus that they saw the pallid faces and pale smiles of the passers- 
by. Around the little tables were men and women mingled together, 
drinking. The girls were in showy dresses, their hair dressed low 
down in their necks; they lounged about on chairs and made loud 
remarks, which the clatter prevented one from hearing. Renée 
noticed one in particular, sitting alone at a table, dressed in a 
bright-blue costume, garnished with white guipure; thrown back in 
her chair, she finished, sip by sip, a glass of beer, her hands on her 
stomach, a heavy and resigned expectant look on her face. The 
women on foot disappeared slowly among the crowd, and Renée 
who was interested in them, followed them, gazing from one end 
of the boulevard to the other, into the noisy, confused depths of the 
avenue, full of the black swarm of pedestrians, where the lights 
134 

became mere sparks. And the endless procession, a crowd strangely 
mixed and always alike, passed by with tiring regularity in the 
midst of the bright colours and patches of darkness, in the fairy- 
like confusion of the thousand leaping flames that swept like waves 
from the shops, lending colour to the transparencies of the windows 
and the kiosks, running along the pavements in fillets, letters and 
designs of fire, piercing the darkness with stars, gliding unceasingly 
along the roadway. The deafening noise that rose on high had a 
clamour, a prolonged monotonous rumbling, like an organ-note 
accompanying an 
endless procession of little mechanical 
dolls. 
Renée at one moment thought an accident had taken place. A 
stream of people moved on the left, a little beyond the Passage de 
POpéra. But, taking her eyeglass, she recognised the omnibus- 
office. There was a crowd of people on the pavement, standing 
waiting, and rushing forward as soon as an omnibus arrived. She 
heard the rough voice of the ticket-examiner calling out the num- 
bers, and then the tinkle of the registering bell reached her with 
a crystal ringing. Her eyes lighted upon the advertisements on a 
kiosk, glaringly coloured like Epinal prints; on a pane of glass, 
in a green-and-yellow frame, there was the head of a grinning devil 
with hair on end, a hatter’s advertisement, which she failed to 
understand. Every five minutes the Batignolles omnibus passed, 
with its red lamps and yellow sides, turning the corner of the Rue 
le Peletier, shaking the house with its din, and she saw the men on 
the knife-board raise tired faces and look at them, Maxime and her, 
with the curious glance of famished people peering through a 
keyhole. 
“Ah!” she said. “The Parc Monceau is fast asleep by this time.” 
It was the only remark she made. They stayed there for nearly 
twenty minutes in silence, surrendering themselves to the intoxica- 
tion of the noise and light. Then, the table being laid, they went 
and sat down, and as she seemed embarrassed by the presence of 
the waiter, Maxime dismissed him. 
“Leave us... 
. I will ring for dessert.” 
Renée’s cheeks were slightly flushed, and her eyes sparkled; one 
would think she had just been running. She brought from the 
window a little of the din and animation of the boulevard. She 
would not let her companion close the window. 
“Why, it’s the orchestra!” she said, when he complained of the 
noise. “Don’t you think it a funny sort of music? It will make a 
fine accompaniment to our oysters and partridge.” 
135 

The escapade gave youth to her thirty years. She had quick 
movements and a touch of fever, and this private room, this sup- 
ping alone with a young man amid the uproar of the street excited 
her, gave her the look of a fast woman. She attacked the oysters 
resolutely. Maxime was not hungry; he watched her bolt her food 
with a smile. 
“The devil!” he murmured. “You would have made a good 
supper-girl.” 
She stopped, annoyed with herself for eating so fast. 
‘Do I look hungry? What can you expect? It’s the hour we 
spent at that idiotic ball that exhausted me. . 
. 
. Ah, my poor friend, 
I pity you for living in a world like that !” 
“You know very well,” he said, “that I have promised to give 
up Sylvia and Laure d’Aurigny on the day your friends consent to 
come to supper with me.” 
She made a haughty gesture. 
“I should rather think so! We are rather more amusing than 
those women, you must confess. ... If one of us were to bore her 
lover as your Sylvia and your Laure d’Aurigny must bore all of 
you, why the poor little woman would not keep her lover a 
week! 
. .. You never will listen to me. Just try it, one of these 
days.” 
Maxime, 
to avoid summoning the waiter, rose, removed the 
oysters, and brought the partridge which was on the slab. The table 
had the luxurious look of the first-class restaurants. A breath of 
adorable debauchery passed over the damask cloth, and Renée 
experienced little thrills of contentment as she let her slender hands 
stroll from her fork to her knife, from her plate to her glass. She, 
who usually drank water barely tinged with claret, now drank 
white wine neat. Maxime, standing with his napkin over his arm, 
and waiting on her with comical obsequiousness, resumed : 
“What can M. de Saffré have said to make you so furious? Did 
he tell you you were ugly?” 
“Oh, he!” she replied. “He’s a nasty man. I could never have 
believed that a gentleman who is so distinguished, so polite when at 
my house, could have used-such language. But I forgive him. It 
was the women that irritated me. One would have thought they 
were apple-women. There was one who complained of a boil on 
her hip, and a little more and I believe she would have pulled up 
her petticoat to show all of us her sore.” 
Maxime was splitting with laughter. 
136 

~ “No, really,” she continued, working herself up, “I can’t under- 
stand you men; those women are dirty and dull... 
. And to think 
that when I saw you going off with your Sylvia I imagined wonder- 
ful scenes, ancient banquets that you see in pictures, with creatures 
crowned with roses, goblets of gold, extraordinary voluptuousness. 
. 
. 
» Ah! no doubt. You showed me a dirty dressing-room, and 
women swearing like troopers. That’s not worth being immoral 
for.” 
He wanted to protest, but she silenced him, and holding between 
her finger-tips a partridge-bone which she was daintily nibbling, 
she added, in a lower voice : 
“Immorality ought to be an exquisite thing, my dear. ... When 
I, a straight woman, feel bored and commit the sin of dreaming of 
impossibilities, 
I am sure I think of much jollier things than all 
your Blanche Mullers.” 
And with a serious air, she concluded with this profound and 
frankly cynical remark : 
“Tt is a question of education, don’t you see?” 
She laid the little bone gently on her plate. The rumbling of the 
carriages continued, with no clearer sound rising above it. She had 
been obliged to raise her voice for him to hear her, and the flush 
on her cheeks grew redder. There were 
still on the slab some 
truffles, 
a sweet, and some asparagus, which was out of season. He 
brought the lot over, so as not to have to disturb himself again; and 
as the table was rather narrow, he placed on the floor between them 
a silver pail, full of ice, containing a bottle of champagne. Renée’s 
appetite had ended by communicating itself to him. They tasted all 
the dishes, they emptied the bottle of champagne with brusque 
liveliness, launching out into ticklish theories, leaning their elbows 
on the table like two friends who relieve their hearts after drinking. 
The noise on the boulevard was diminishing; but to her ears, on the 
contrary, it seemed to increase, and at moments all these wheels 
would seem to be whirling round in her head. 
When he spoke of ringing for dessert, she rose, shook the crumbs 
from her long satin blouse, and said : 
“That’s it... . You can light your cigar, you know.” 
She was a little giddy. She went to the window, attracted by a 
peculiar noise which she could not explain to herself. The shops 
were being closed. 
“Look,” she said, turning towards Maxime, “the orchestra is 
emptying.” 
137 

She leant out again. In the middle of the road, the coloured eyes 
of the cabs and omnibuses, fewer and faster, were still crossing one 
another. But on either side, along the pavements, great pits of dark- 
ness had opened out in front of the closed shops. The cafés alone 
were still flaming, streaking the asphalte with sheets of light. 
From 
the Rue Drouot to the Rue du Helder she thus perceived a long line 
of white squares and black squares, in which the last wayfarers 
sprang up and disappeared in a curious fashion. The street-walkers 
in particular, with their long-trained dresses, glaringly illuminated 
and immersed in darkness by turns, seemed like apparitions, like 
ghostly puppets crossing the limelight of some extravaganza. She 
amused herself for 
a moment with this sight. There was no longer 
any wide-spread light; the gas-jets were being turned out; the 
variegated kiosks marked the darkness more definitely. From time 
to time a flood of people, issuing from some theatre, passed by. But 
soon there was vacancy, and there came under the window groups 
of men in twos or threes whom a woman accosted They stood 
debating. Some of their remarks rose audibly in the subsiding din; 
and then the women generally went off on the arm of one of the 
men. Other girls wandered from café to café, strolled round the 
tables, pocketed the forgotten lumps of sugar, laughed with the 
waiters, and gazed fixedly with a silent, questioning, proffering look 
at the belated customers. And just after Renée had followed with 
her eyes the all but empty knifeboard of a Batignolles omnibus, she 
recognised, at the corner of the pavement, the woman in the blue 
dress with the white lace, erect, glancing about her, still in search of 
a man. 
When Maxime came to fetch Renée from the window where she 
stood lost, he smiled as he looked towards one of the half-opened 
windows of the Café Anglais; the idea of his father, supping there 
on his side, struck him as humorous; but that evening he was under 
the influence of a peculiar form of modesty which interfered with 
his customary love of fun. Renée left the window-rail with regret. 
An intoxication and languor rose up from the vaguer depths of the 
boulevard. 
In the enfeebled rumbling of the carriages, in the 
obliteration of the bright lights, there was a coaxing summons to 
voluptuousness and sleep. The whispers that sped by, the groups 
assembled in shadowy corners, turned the pavement into the pas- 
sage of some great inn at the hour when the travellers repair to 
their casual beds. The gleam and the noise continued to grow 
138 

fainter and fainter, the town fell asleep, a breath of love passed over 
the house-tops. 
When Renée turned round, the light of the little chandelier made 
her blink her eyes. She was a little pale now, and felt slight quivers 
at the corners of her mouth. Charles was putting out the dessert : he 
went out, came in again, opening and shutting the door slowly, 
with the self-contained air of a man of the world. 
“But I’m no longer hungry!” cried Renée. “Take away all those 
plates, and bring the coffee.” 
The waiter, accustomed to the whims of the ladies he waited on, 
cleared away the dessert and poured out the coffee. He filled the 
room with his importance. 
“Do get rid of him,” said Renée, who was feeling sick, to 
Maxime. 
Maxime dismissed him; but scarcely had he disappeared before 
he returned once again to draw the great window-curtains closely 
together with an air of discretion. When he had at last retired, the 
young man, seized in his turn with impatience, rose, and going to 
_ the door : 
“Wait,” he said, “I know a way to keep him out.” 
And he pushed the bolt. 
“That’s it,” she rejoined, “we are by ourselves at last.” 
Their confidential, intimate chatting recommenced. Maxime had 
lighted a cigar. Renée sipped her coffee and even indulged in a 
glass of chartreuse. The room grew warmer and became filled with 
blue smoke. She ended by leaning her elbows on the table and 
resting her chin between her half-closed fists. Under this slight 
pressure her mouth became smaller, her cheeks were slightly raised, 
and her eyes, diminished 
in size, shone more 
brightly. Thus 
rumpled, her little face looked adorable under the rain of golden 
curls that now fell down upon her eyebrows. Maxime examined her 
through the smoke of his cigar. He thought her quaint. At times 
he was no longer quite sure of her sex: the great wrinkle that 
crossed her forehead, the pouting projection of her lips, the un- 
decided air derived from her short-sightedness, made a big young 
man of her; the more so as her long black satin blouse came so high 
that one could barely espy, under her chin, a line of plump white 
neck. She let herself be looked at with a smile, no longer moving 
her head, her eyes lost in vacancy, her lips silent. 
Then she woke up suddenly; she went and looked at the mirror 
towards which her dreamy eyes had been turning the last few 
139 

moments. She raised herself on tip-toe, and leant her hands on the 
edge of the mantel, to read the signatures, the coarse remarks which 
before supper had frightened her off. She spelt out the syllables with 
some difficulty, laughing, reading on like a school-boy turning over 
the pages of a Piron in his desk. 
““Frnest and Clara,’ ” she said, ‘‘and there is a heart underneath 
that looks like a funnel... 
. Ah! this is better: ‘I like men because 
I like truffles.’ 
Signed, ‘Laure.’ 
Tell me, Maxime, was 
it the 
d’Aurigny woman who wrote that? ... Then here is the coat-of- 
arms of one of these ladies, I imagine : a hen smoking a big pipe... 
. 
And more names, the whole calendar of saints, male and female: 
Victor, Amélie, Alexandre, Edouard, Marguerite, Paquita, Louise, 
Renée.« 
«So there’s one called:after'me: .": .” 
Maxime could see her face glowing in the glass. She raised her- 
self still higher, and her domino, drawn more tightly behind, 
outlined the curve of her figure, the undulation of her hips. The 
young man followed the line of satin, which fitted her like a shirt. 
He rose in his turn, and threw away his cigar. He was ill at ease and 
restless. Something he was accustomed to was wanting in him. 
“Ah! here is your name, Maxime,” cried Renée. ... “Listen... 
. 
RELOVe gia is 
But he had sat down on the corner of the divan, almost at 
Renée’s feet. He succeeded in taking hold of her hands with a 
quick movement; he turned away from the looking glass, and said, 
in a singular voice : 
“Please, don’t read that.” 
She struggled, laughing nervously. 
“Why not? Am I not your confidante?” 
But he insisted in a more suppressed tone : 
“No, no, not to-night.” 
He still held her, and she tried to free herself with little jerks of 
the wrists. There was an unknown light in their eyes, a touch of 
shame in their long, constrained smile. She fell on her knees at the 
edge of the divan. They continued struggling, although she no 
longer made any movement 
to return 
to the mirror, and was 
already surrendering herself. And as Maxime threw his arms round 
her body, she said with her embarrassed, expiring laugh : 
“Don’t, let me alone. .. 
. You are hurting me.” 
It was the only murmur that rose to her lips. In the profound 
silence of the room, where the gas seemed to flare up higher, she 
felt the ground tremble and heard the clatter of the Batignolles 
140 

omnibus turning the corner of the boulevard. And it was all over. 
When they recovered their position, side by side on the divan, he 
stammered out amid their mutual embarrassment : 
“Bah ! it was bound to happen sooner or later.” 
She said nothing. She examined the patterned of the carpet with 
a dumbfounded air. 
“Had you ever dreamt of it? .. 
.” 
continued Maxime, stam- 
mering still more. “I hadn’t for a moment. 
. 
. 
. I ought to have 
mistrusted that private room.” 
But in a deep voice, as if all the middle-class respectability of the 
Bérauds du Chatel had been awakened by this supreme sin: 
“This is infamous, what we have just done,” she muttered, 
sobered, her face aged and very serious. 
She was stifling. She went to the window, drew back the cur- 
tains, and leant out. The orchestra was hushed; her sin had been 
committed amid the last quiver of the basses and the distant chant 
of the violins, the vague, soft music of the boulevard asleep and 
dreaming of love. The roadway and pavement below stretched out 
_ and merged into grey solitude. All the growling cab-wheels seemed 
to have departed, carrying with them the lights and the crowd. 
Beneath the window, the Café Riche was closed; no thread of 
light gleamed through the shutters. Across the road, shimmering 
lights alone lit up the front of the Café Anglais, and one half-open 
window in particular, whence issued a faint laughter. And all along 
this riband of darkness, from the turn at the Rue Drouot to the 
other extremity, as far as her eyes could reach, she saw nothing but 
the symmetrical blurs of the kiosks staining the night red and green, 
without illuminating it, and resembling night-lights spaced along a 
giant dormitory. She raised her head. The trees outlined their tall 
branches against a clear sky, while the irregular line of the houses 
died away, assuming the clustering appearance of a rocky coast on 
the shore of a faint blue sea. But this belt of sky saddened her still 
more, and only in the darkness of the boulevard could she find 
consolation. What lingered on the surface of the deserted road of the 
noise and vice of the evening made excuses for her. She thought she 
could feel the heat of the footsteps of all those men and women 
ascend from the pavement that was growing cold. The shameful- 
ness that had lingered there, momentary lusts, whispered offerings, 
prepaid weddings of a night, was evaporating, was floating in a 
heavy mist dissipated by the breath of morning. Leaning out into 
the darkness, she inhaled this quivering silence, that alcove fra- 
141 
” 

grance, as an encouragement that reached her from below, as an 
assurance of shame shared and accepted by an approving city. And 
when her eyes had grown accustomed to the dark, she saw the 
woman in the blue dress trimmed with lace standing in the same 
place, alone in the grey solitude, waiting and offering herself to the 
empty night. 
On turning round, Renée perceived Charles, who was looking 
around for what he could see. He ended by discovering Renée’s 
blue ribbon, lying crumpled and forgotten on a corner of the sofa. 
And with his civil air he hastened to take it to her. Then she 
_ 
realised all her shame. Standing before the glasss, with awkward 
hands she endeavoured to refasten the ribbon. But her chignon had 
slipped down, her little curls had flattened on her temples, and she 
was unable to tie the bow. Charles came to her assistance, saying, 
as though he were offering an everyday thing, a finger-bowl or a 
toothpick : 
“Would madame like the comb? 
.. 
.” 
“Oh no, don’t trouble,” interrupted Maxime, giving the waiter 
an impatient look. “Go and call a cab.” 
Renée decided simply to pull down the hood of her domino. And 
as she was about to leave, she again lightly raised herself to see the 
words which Maxime’s embrace had prevented her from reading. 
Slanting upwards towards the ceiling, and written in a large, 
hideous hand, there was this declaration, signed Sylvia: 
“I love 
Maxime.” She bit her lips and drew her hood a little lower. 
In the cab they experienced a horrible sense of awkwardness. 
They sat facing one another, as when driving down from the Parc 
Monceau. They could not think of a word to say to each other. 
The cab was full of opaque darkness, and Maxime’s cigar did not 
even mark it with a red dot, a glimmer of crimson charcoal. The 
young man, hidden again among the skirts in which he was “up to 
his eyes,” suffered from this gloom and this silence, from the silent 
woman he felt beside him, whose eyes he imagined he could see 
staring wide open into the night. To seem less stupid he ended by 
feeling for her hand, and when he held it in his own, he was 
relieved, and found the situation tolerable. Renée abandoned her 
hand languidly and dreamily. 
The cab crossed the Place de la Madeleine. Renée reflected that 
she was not to blame. She had not desired the incest. And the 
deeper her introspection, the more innocent she thought herself, at 
12 

the commencement of her escapade, at the moment of her stealthy 
departure from the Parc Monceau, at Blanche Muller’s, on the 
boulevard, even in the private room at the restaurant. Then why 
had she fallen on her knees on the edge of that sofa? She could not 
think. She had certainly not thought of “that” for a moment. She 
would have angrily refused to give herself. It was for fun, she was 
amusing herself, nothing more. And in the rolling of the cab she 
found again the deafening orchestra of the boulevard, the coming 
and going of men and women, while bars of fire scorched her tired 
eyes. 
Maxime, in his corner, was also pondering, with a certain annoy- 
ance. He was angry at the adventure. He laid the blame on the 
black satin domino. Whoever saw a woman rig herself out like 
that! You couldn’t even see her neck. He had taken her for a boy 
and romped with her, and it was not his fault that the game had 
become serious. He certainly would not have touched her with the 
tip of his fingers, if she had shown only a tiny bit of her shoulders. 
He would have remembered that she was his father’s wife. Then, as 
he did not care for disagreeable reflections, he forgave himself. So 
much the worse, after all! he would try and not do it again. It was 
a piece of nonsense. 
The cab stopped, and Maxime got down first to assist Renée. 
But, at the little gate of the gardens, he did not dare to kiss her. 
They touched hands as was their habit. She was already on the 
other side of the railing, when, for the sake of saying something, 
unwittingly confessing a preoccupation that had vaguely filled her 
thoughts since leaving the restaurant : 
“What is that comb,” she asked, “the waiter spoke of ?” 
“That comb,” repeated Maxime, embarrassed. “I’m sure I don’t 
KAOW 150. 
Renée suddenly understood. The room, no doubt, had a comb 
that formed part of its apparatus, like the curtains, the bolt and the 
sofa. And without waiting for an explanation which was not forth- 
coming, she plunged into the darkness of the Parc Monceau, 
hastening her steps and thinking she could see behind her those 
tortoise-shell teeth in which Laure d’Aurigny and Sylvia had left 
fair hair and black. She was in a high fever. Céleste had to put 
her to bed and sit up with her till morning. Maxime stood for a 
moment on the pavement of the Boulevard Malesherbes, consulting 
with himself whether he should join the festive party at the Café 
143 

Anglais; and then, with the idea that he was punishing himself, he 
determined that he ought to go home to bed. 
The next morning Renée woke late from a heavy, dreamless 
sleep. She had a large fire lighted, and said she would spend the day 
in her room. This was her refuge at serious moments. Towards 
mid-day, as her husband did not see her come down to breakfast, he 
asked leave to speak with her for an instant. She was already 
refusing the request, with a touch of nervousness, when she thought 
better of it. The day before she had sent down to Saccard a bill of 
Worms’s for a hundred and thirty-six thousand francs, a rather high 
figure; and doubtless he wished to indulge in the gallantry of 
bringing her the receipt in person. 
The thought came to her of yesterday’s little curls. Mechanically 
she looked in the glass at her hair, which Céleste had plaited into 
great tresses. 
Then she ensconced herself by the fireside, burying 
herself in the lace of her peignoir. Saccard, whose rooms were also 
on the first-floor, corresponding to his wife’s, entered in his slippers, 
a husband’s privilege. He set foot barely once a month in Renée’s 
room, and always for some delicate question of money. That 
morning he had the red eyes and pallid complexion of a man who 
has not slept. He kissed his wife’s hand, gallantly. 
“Are you unwell, my dear?” he asked, sitting down on the 
opposite side of the fire-place. “A little headache, eh? .. 
. Forgive 
me for coming to worry you with my business jargon, but the 
thing is rather serious. . . .” 
He drew from the pocket of his dressing-gown Worms’s account, 
the cream-laid paper of which Renée recognised. 
“T found this bill on my desk yesterday,” he continued, “and I’m 
more than sorry, but I am absolutely unable to pay it at present.” 
With a sidelong look he watched the effect his words produced 
on her. She seemed profoundly astonished. He resumed with a 
smile : 
“You know, my dear, I am not in the habit of finding fault with 
your expenses, though I confess that certain items of this bill have 
surprised me a little. As for instance, on the second page, I find: 
‘Ball dress; material, 70 francs; making up, 600 francs; money lent, 
5,000 francs; eau du Docteur Pierre, 6 francs.’ That seems pretty 
expensive for a seventy-franc dress. 
. 
. 
. But as you know I under- 
stand every kind of weakness. Your bill comes to a hundred and 
thirty-six thousand francs, and you have been almost moderate, 
144 

comparatively speaking, I mean to say. . 
. 
. Only, as I said before, 
I can’t pay it, I am short of money.” 
She held out her hand with a gesture of suppressed mortification. 
“Very well,” she said, curtly, “give me back the bill. I will think 
it over.” 
“I see you don’t believe me,” murmured Saccard taking pleasure 
in his wife’s incredulity on the subject of his embarrassment as 
though in a personal triumph. “I don’t say that my position is 
threatened, but business is very shaky at present... 
. Allow me, 
although I may seem insistent, to explain to you how we stand; 
you have confided your dowry to me, and I owe you complete 
frankness.” 
He laid the bill on the mantel, took up the tongs, and began to 
stir the fire. This passion for raking the cinders while talking 
business was with him a system that had ended by becoming a habit. 
Whenever he came to an irksome figure or phrase, he brought 
about a subsidence which subsequently he laboriously built up, 
bringing the logs together, collecting and heaping up the little 
splinters. At another time he almost disappeared into the fire-place 
in search of a stray piece of charcoal. His voice grew indistinct, you 
grew impatient, you became interested in his cunning constructions 
of glowing firewood, you omitted to listen to him, and as a rule 
you left his presence beaten and satisfied. Even at other people’s 
houses he despotically took possession of the tongs. In summer- 
time he played with a pen, a paper-knife, a pen-knife. 
“My dear,” he said, giving a great blow that sent the fire flying, 
“T once more beg your pardon for entering into these details... 
. I 
have punctually made over to you the interest on the money you 
placed in my hands. I can even say, without hurting your feelings, 
that I have only looked upon that interest as your pocket-money 
for your private disbursements, and that I have never asked you to 
contribute your share to the common household expenses.” 
He paused. Renée suffered, as she watched him making a large 
hole in the cinders to bury the end of a log. He was approaching a 
delicate confession. 
“T have had, you understand, to make your money pay a high 
interest. You can be easy, the principal is in good hands. 
. 
. 
. As to 
the amounts coming from your property in the Sologne, they have 
partly gone to pay for the house we live in; the remainder is in- 
vested in an excellent company, the Société Générale of the Ports of 
Morocco. ... We have not got to settle accounts yet, have we? But 
145 

I want to show you that we poor husbands are sometimes not half 
appreciated.” 
A powerful motive must have impelled him to lie less than usual. 
The truth was that Renée’s dowry had long ceased to exist; it had 
become a fictitious asset in Saccard’s safe. Although he paid out 
interest on it at the rate of two or three hundred per cent. or more, 
he could not have produced the least security or found the smallest 
solid particle of the original capital. As he half confessed, moreover, 
the five hundred thousand francs of the Sologne property had been 
used to pay a first instalment on the house and the furniture, which 
together cost close upon two millions. He still owed a million to 
the upholsterer and the builders. 
“T make no claim on you,” Renée said at last; “I know I am very 
much in your debt.” 
“Oh, my dear,” he cried, taking his wife’s hand, without re- 
linquishing the tongs, “what a horrid thing to say! ... Listen, in 
two words, I have been unlucky on the Bourse, Toutin-Laroche has 
made a fool of himself, and Mignon and Charrier are a pair of 
crooks who have taken me in. And that is why I can’t pay your 
bill. You forgive me, don’t you?” 
He seemed genuinely moved. He dug the tongs in among the 
logs, and made the sparks burst out like fireworks. Renée remem- 
bered how restless he had been for some time past. But she was 
unable to realise the astonishing truth. Saccard had reached the 
point of having to perform a daily miracle. He resided in a house 
that cost two millions, he lived on a princely footing, and there 
were mornings when he had not a thousand francs in his safe. His 
expenditure did not seem to diminish. He lived upon debt among 
a race of creditors who swallowed up from day to day the scan- 
dalous profits that he realised from certain transactions. In the 
meantime and at the same moment companies crumbled beneath 
his feet, new and deeper pits yawned before him, over which he had 
to leap, unable to fill them up. He thus trod over sapped ground, 
amid a chronic crisis, settling bills of fifty thousand francs and 
leaving his coach-man’s wages unpaid, marching on with a more 
and more regal assurance, emptying over Paris with increasing 
frenzy his empty cash-box, from which continued to flow the golden 
stream with the fabulous source. 
Speculation was passing through a bad period at that moment. 
Saccard was a worthy offspring of the Hétel de Ville. He had 
undergone the rapidity of transformation, the frenzy for enjoyment, 
146 

the blindness to expense that was shaking Paris. He now again re- 
sembled the Municipality in finding himself face to face with a 
formidable deficit which it was necessary secretly to make good; for 
he would not hear speak of prudence, of economy, of a calm and 
respectable existence. He preferred to keep up the useless luxury 
and real penury of those new thoroughfares whence he had derived 
his colossal fortune, which came into being each morning to be 
swallowed up at night. Passing from adventure to adventure, he 
now only possessed the gilded facade of a missing capital. In this 
period of eager madness, Paris itself did not risk its future with 
greater rashness or march straighter towards every folly and every 
trick of finance. The winding-up threatened to be disastrous. 
The most promising speculations turned out badly in Saccard’s 
hands. As he said, he had just written off considerable losses on the 
Bourse. M. Toutin-Laroche had almost caused the Crédit Viticole 
to founder through a gamble for a rise that had suddenly turned 
against him; fortunately the Government, intervening under the 
rose, had set the famous wine-growers’ mortgage loan-machine on 
its legs again. Saccard, badly shaken by this sudden blow, seriously 
upbraided by his brother for the danger that had threatened the 
delegation bonds of the Municipality, which was involved with the 
Crédit Viticole, was even still more unfortunate in his speculations 
in house-property. The Mignon and Charrier pair had broken with 
him entirely. If he accused them, it was because he was secretly 
enraged at his mistake of having built on his share of the ground 
while they prudently sold theirs. While they were making their 
fortune, he was left behind with houses on his hands that he was 
often unable to dispose of save at a loss. Among others he sold a 
house in the Rue de Marignan, on which he still owed three hun- 
dred and eighty thousand francs, for three hundered thousand 
francs. He had certainly invented a trick of his own which consisted 
in asking ten thousand francs a year for an apartment worth eight 
thousand at most. The terrified tenant only signed a lease when the 
landlord had consented to forego the first two years’ rent. In this 
way the apartment was brought down to its real value, but the 
lease bore the figure of ten thousand francs a year, and when 
Saccard found a purchaser and capitalised the income from the 
house, the calculation became an absolute phantasmagoria. He was 
not able to practise this swindle on a large scale: his houses would 
not let; he had built them too early; the clearings in which they 
stood, lost in the mud of winter, isolated them, and considerably 
147 

reduced their value. The affair had affected him the most was the 
coarse piece of trickery of the Sieurs Mignon and Charrier, who 
bought back from him the house on the Boulevard Malesherbes, 
the building of which he had had to abandon. The contractors were 
at last smitten with the desire to inhabit “‘their boulevard.” As they 
had sold their share of the ground above its value, and suspected 
the embarrassment of their former partner, they offered to relieve 
him of the enclosure in the centre of which the house stood com- 
pleted up to the flooring of the first story, whose iron girders were 
partly laid. Only they treated the solid freestone foundations as 
useless rubbish, saying that they would have preferred the ground 
bare, so as to build on it according to their taste. Saccard was 
obliged to sell, without taking into account the hundred and odd 
thousand francs he had already expended, and what exasperated 
him still further was that the contractors persistently refused to take 
back the ground at two hundred and fifty francs the métre, the 
figure fixed at the time of the division. They beat him down twenty- 
five francs a métre, like those second-hand clothes-women who give 
only four francs for a thing they have sold for five the day before. 
Two days later Saccard had the mortification of seeing an army 
of bricklayers invade the boarded enclosure and go on building upon 
the “useless rubbish.” 
He was thus all the better able to play before his wife at being 
pressed for money, as his affairs were becoming more and more 
involved. He was not the man to confess from sheer love of truth. 
“But, monsieur,” said Renée, with an air of doubtfulness, “if you 
are in difficulties for money, why have you bought me that aigrette 
and necklace which cost you, I believe, sixty-five thousand francs? 
... I have no use for those jewels, and I shall have to ask your per- 
mission to dispose of them so as to pay Worms something on 
account.” 
“Take care not to do that!” he cried anxiously. “If you were not 
seen wearing those diamonds at the ministry ball to-morrow, people 
would invent stories about my position... .” 
He was in a genial mood that morning. He ended by smiling and 
murmuring with a wink : 
“We speculators, my dear, are like pretty women, we have our 
little artifices. 
. 
.. Keep your aigrette and necklace, I beg, for love 
of me.” 
He could not tell the story, a very pretty one but a little risky. It 
was after supper one night that Saccard and Laure d’Aurigny had 
148 

entered into an alliance. Laure was over head and ears in debt, and 
her one thought was to find a good young man who would elope 
with her and take her to London. Saccard on his side felt the 
ground crumbling beneath his feet; his imagination, driven to bay, 
sought an expedient which would display him to the public spraw- 
ling on a bed of gold and bank-notes. The courtesan and the 
speculator had come to an understanding amid the semi-intoxi- 
cation of dessert. He hit upon the idea of that sale of diamonds 
which set all Paris agog; and there, with a deal of fuss, he bought 
jewels for his wife. Then with the product of the sale, about four 
hundred thousand francs, he managed to satisfy Laure’s creditors, 
to whom she owed nearly twice as much. It is even to be presumed 
that he recouped part of his sixty-five thousand francs. When he 
was seen settling the d’Aurigny’s affairs, he was looked upon as her 
lover, and believed to be paying her debts in full and committing 
extravagances for her. Every hand was stretched out to him, his 
credit revived formidably. And on the Bourse he was chaffed about 
his passion, with smiles and insinuations that entranced him. Mean- 
while Laure d’Aurigny, brought into prominence by this hubbub, 
although he had never spent a single night with her, pretended to 
deceive him with nine or ten idiots enticed by the notion of stealing 
her from a man of such colossal wealth. In one month she had two 
sets of furniture and more diamonds than she had sold. Saccard had 
got into the way of going to smoke a cigar with her in the afternoon 
on leaving the Bourse; he often caught sight of coat-tails flying 
through the door-ways in terror. When they were alone, they could 
not look at one another without laughing. He kissed her on the 
forehead 
as though she were a wayward wench whose roguery 
delighted him. He did not give her a sou, and on one occasion she 
even lent him money to pay a gambling debt. 
Renée tried to insist, and spoke of at least pawning the diamonds; 
but her husband gave her to understand that that was not possible, 
that all Paris expected to see her wear them on the morrow. Then 
Renée, who was much worried about Worms’s bill, sought another 
way out of the difficulty. 
“But,” she suddenly exclaimed, “my Charonne property is going 
on all right, is it not? You were telling me only the other day that 
the profit would be superb. . 
. 
. Perhaps Larsonneau would advance 
me a hundred and thirty-six thousand francs?” 
Saccard had for a moment forgotten the tongs between his legs. 
He now hastily seized them again, leant forward, and almost dis- 
149 

appeared in the fire-place, whence the young woman indistinctly 
heard his voice muttering : 
“Yes, yes, Larsonneau might perhaps... . 
She was at last coming of her own accord to the point to which 
he had been gently leading her since the beginning of the con- 
versation. He had already for two years been preparing his master- 
stroke in the Charonne district. His wife had never consented to 
part with Aunt Elisabeth’s estate; she had promised her to keep it 
intact, so as to leave it to her child if she became a mother. In the 
presence of this obstinacy, the speculator’s imagination had set to 
work, and ended by building up quite a poem. It was a work of 
exquisite villainy, a colossal piece of cheating, of which the Muni- 
cipality, the State, his wife, and even Larsonneau were to be the 
victims. He no longer spoke of selling the building-plots; only every 
day he deplored the folly of leaving them unproductive and con- 
tenting one’s self with a return of two per cent. Renée, who was al- 
ways in urgent need of money, ended by entertaining the idea of a 
speculation of some kind. He based his operations on the certainty 
of an expropriation for the cutting of the Boulevard du Prince- 
Eugéne, the direction of which was not yet clearly resolved upon. 
And it was then that he brought forward his old accomplice 
Larsonneau as a partner, who made an agreement with his wife on 
the following basis: she bought the building-plots, representing a 
value of five hundred thousand francs; Larsonneau on the other 
hand agreed to spend an equal sum on building upon this ground 
a music-hall with a large garden attached, where games of all 
kinds, swings, skittle-alleys and bowling-greens would be set up. 
The profits were naturally to be divided, as the losses would be 
borne in equal shares. In the event of one of the two partners 
wishing to withdraw, he could do so and claim his share, which 
would be fixed by a valuation. Renée seemed surprised at the large 
figure of five hundred thousand francs, when the ground was worth 
three hundred thousand at the utmost. But he explained to her that 
it was an ingenious plan for tying Larsonneau’s hands later on, 
as his buildings would never represent such an amount as that. 
Larsonneau had developed into an elegant man-about-town, well- 
gloved, with dazzling linen and astounding cravats. To go on his 
errands he had a tilbury as light as a piece of clockwork, with a 
very high seat, which he drove himself. His offices in the Rue de 
Rivoli were a sumptuous suite of rooms in which there was not a 
bundle of papers, not a business document to be seen. His clerks 
150 
9 

worked at tables of stained pear-wood, inlaid with marquetry and 
adorned with chased brass. He called himself an expropriation- 
agent, a new calling which the works of Paris had brought into 
being. His connection with the Hétel de Ville caused him to receive 
early information of the cutting of any new thoroughfare. When 
he had succeeded in learning the line of route of a boulevard from 
one of the surveyors of roads, he went and offered his services to 
the threatened landlords. And he turned his little plan for increas- 
ing the compensation to account by acting before the decree of 
public utility was issued. So soon as the landlord accepted his 
proposals, he took all the expenses on himself, drew up a plan of 
the property, wrote out a memorandum, followed up the case 
before the court and paid an advocate, all for a percentage on the 
difference between the offer of the Municipality and the com- 
pensation awarded by the jury. But to this almost justifiable 
branch of business he added a number of others. He more especially 
lent out money at interest. He was not the usurer of the old school, 
ragged and dirty, with eyes pale and expressionless as five-franc 
pieces, and lips white and drawn together like the strings of a 
purse. He was a radiant person, had a charming way of ogling, 
got his clothes at Dusautoy’s, went and lunched at Brébant’s with 
his victim, whom he called “old man,” and offered him Havannahs 
at dessert. In reality, beneath his waistcoats tightly buckled round 
his waist, Larsonneau was a terrible gentleman, who would have 
insisted on the payment of a note of hand until he had driven the 
acceptor to suicide, and this without losing a grain of amiability. 
Saccard would gladly have looked for another partner. But he 
was always anxious on the subject of the false inventory, which 
Larsonneau preciously preserved. He preferred to take him into the 
affair, hoping to avail himself of some circumstance 
to regain 
possession of that compromising document. Larsonneau built the 
music-hall, an edifice of planks and plaster surmounted by little tin 
turrets, which were painted bright red and yellow. The garden and 
the games proved successful in the populous district of Charonne. 
In two yeads the speculation looked prosperous, although the profits 
in reality were very slight. Saccard had so far always spoken en- 
thusiastically to his wife of the prospects of this fine idea. 
Renée, seeing that her husband would not make up his mind to 
come out of the fire-place, where his voice was becoming more and 
more inaudible, said : 
“T will go and see Larsonneau to-day. It is my only chance.” 
151 

Then he let go the log with which he was struggling. 
“The errand’s done, my dear,” he replied, smiling. “Don’t I 
forestall all your wishes? .. 
. I saw Larsonneau last night.” 
“And he promised you the hundred and thirty-six thousand 
francs?” she inquired anxiously. 
He was building up between the two flaming logs a little moun- 
tain of embers, picking up daintily with the tongs the smallest 
fragments of burnt wood, looking with a satisfied air at the progress 
of the eminence which he was constructing with infinite art. 
“Oh! how you rattle on! ...” he murmured. “A hundred and 
thirty-six thousand francs is a large sum... 
. Larsonneau is a good 
fellow, but his means are still limited. He is quite ready to oblige 
yous. += 
He paused, blinking his eyes and rebuilding a corner of the 
eminence which had fallen through. This pastime began to confuse 
Renée’s ideas. In spite of herself she followed the work of her. hus- 
band, whose awkwardness increased. She felt tempted to advise 
him. Forgetting Worms, the bill, her need of money, she ended 
by saying : 
“But put that big piece at the bottom; then the others will 
keep up.” 
Her husband obeyed her submissively, and added : 
“All he can find is fifty thousand francs. That will at least be a 
nice bit on account. .. 
. Only he does not want to mix this up with 
the Charonne affair. He is only a go-between, do you understand, 
my dear? The person who lends the money asks an enormous 
interest. He wants a note of hand for eighty thousand francs at six 
months’ date.” 
And having crowned the edifice with a pointed cinder, he crossed 
his hands over the tongs and looked fixedly at his wife. 
“Eighty thousand francs!” she cried. “But that’s sheer robbery ! 
... Do you advise me to commit this folly?” 
“No,” he replied shortly. “But if you absolutely want the money, 
I won’t forbid it.” 
He rose as though to go. Renée, in a state of cruel indecision, 
looked at her husband and at the bill which he left on the mantel. 
At last she took her poor head between her hands, murmuring : 
“Oh, these business matters! .. 
. My head is splitting this morn- 
ing ... Well, I must sign this note for eighty thousand francs. If 
I didn’t I should become altogether ill. I know myself, I should 
152 

spend the day in a frightful struggle. 
. 
. 
. I prefer to do something 
stupid at once. That relieves me.” 
And she spoke of ringing to send for a bill-stamp. But he insisted 
on rendering her this service in person. No doubt he had the bill- 
stamp in his pocket, for he was absent for hardly two minutes. 
While she was writing at a little table he had pushed towards the 
fire, he examined her with eyes in which arose an astonished light 
of desire. The room was still full of the warmth of the bed she had 
quitted and of the fragrance of her first toilet. While talking she 
had allowed the folds of the peignoir in which she was wrapped to 
slip down, and the eyes of her husband, as he stood before her, 
glided over her bent head, through the gold of her hair, and very 
low down, into the whiteness of her neck and bosom. He wore a 
curious smile; the glowing fire, which had burnt his face, the close 
room, whose heavy atmosphere retained an odour of love, the 
yellow hair and white skin, which tempted him with a sort of con- 
jugal scornfulness, set him dreaming, widened the scope of the 
drama in which he had just played a scene, and prompted some 
secret voluptuous calculation in his brutal jobber’s flesh. 
When his wife handed him the acceptance, begging him to finish 
the matter for her, he took it without removing his eyes from her. 
“You are bewitchingly beautiful . 
. .’ he murmured. 
And as she bent forward to push away the table, he kissed her 
rudely on the neck. She gave a little cry. Then she rose, quivering, 
trying to laugh, thinking, in spite of herself, of the other’s kisses of 
the night before. But he seemed to regret this unmannerly kiss. He 
left her, with a friendly pressure of the hand, and promised her that 
she should have the fifty thousand francs that same evening. 
Renée dozed all day before the fire. At critical periods she had 
the languor of a Creole. All her turbulent nature would then be- 
come indolent, numbed, chill. She shivered with cold, she needed 
blazing fires, a stifling heat that brought little drops of perspiration 
to her forehead and lulled her. In this burning atmosphere, in this 
bath of flames, she almost ceased to suffer; her pain became as a 
light dream, a vague oppression, whose very uncertainty ended by 
becoming voluptuous. Thus she lulled till the evening the remorse 
of yesterday, in the red glow of the firelight, in front of a terrible 
fire, that made the furniture crack around her, and that at moments 
deprived her of the consciousness of her existence. She was able to 
think of Maxime as of a flaming enjoyment whose rays burnt her; 
she had a nightmare of strange passions amid flaring logs on white- 
153 

hot beds. Céleste moved to and fro through the room, with her 
calm face, the face of a cold-blooded waiting-maid. She had orders 
to admit no one, she even sent away the inseparables, Adeline 
d’Espanet and Suzanne Haffner, who called after breakfasting 
together in a summer-house they rented at Saint-Germain. How- 
ever, when, towards the evening, Céleste came to tell her mistress 
that Madame Sidonie, monsieur’s sister, asked to see her, she re- 
ceived orders to show her up. 
Madame Sidonie as a rule did not call till dusk. Her brother had 
nevertheless prevailed upon her to wear silk gowns. But, no one 
knew why, for all that the silk she wore came fresh from the shop, 
it never looked new; it was shabby, lost its sheen, looked a rag. She 
had also consented to leave off bringing her basket to the Saccards. 
By way of retaliation, her pockets bulged over with papers. She 
took an interest in Renée, of whom she was unable to make a 
reasonable client, resigned to the necessities of life. She called on 
her regularly, with the discreet smiles of a physician who does not 
care to frighten his patient by telling her the name of her com- 
plaint. She commiserated with her in her little worries, treating 
them as little aches and pains which she could cure in a minute if 
Renée wished it. The latter, who was in one of those moments when 
one feels the need of pity, received her only to tell her that she had 
intolerable pains in her head. 
“Why, my beautiful pet,’ murmured Mme. Sidonie as she glided 
through the shade of the room, “but your’re stifling here! ... Still 
your neuralgic pains, is it? It comes from worry. You take life too 
much to heart.” 
“Yes, I have a heap of anxiety,” 
replied Renée, languishingly. 
Night was falling. She had not allowed Céleste to light the lamp. 
The fire alone shed a great red glow that lighted her up fully, out- 
stretched in her white peignoir, whose lace was assuming rose tints. 
At the edge of the shadow one could just see a corner of Mme. 
Sidonie’s black dress, and her two crossed hands, covered with grey 
cotton gloves. Her soft voice emerged from the darkness. 
“Money-troubles again?” she asked, as though she had said 
troubles of the heart, in a voice full of gentleness and compassion. 
Renée lowered her eyelids and nodded assent. 
“Ah! if my brothers would listen to me, we should all be rich. 
But they shrug their shoulders when I speak to them of that debt of 
three milliards, you know. .. 
. Still I have good hopes. For the last 
ten years I have been wanting to go across to England. I have so 
154 
” 

little time to spare! ... At last I resolved to write to London, and I 
am awaiting the reply.” 
And as the younger woman smiled : 
“TI know you are an unbeliever yourself. Still you would be very 
pleased if I made you a present one of these days of a nice little 
million. 
. 
. 
. Look here, the story is quite simple: there was a Paris 
banker who lent the money to the son of the King of England, and 
as the banker died without direct heirs, the State is to-day entitled 
to claim payment of the debt with compound interest. I have 
worked it out, it comes to two milliards, nine hundred and forty- 
three millions, two hundred and ten thousand francs. 
. 
. 
. Never 
fear, it will come, it will come.” 
“In the meantime,” said Renée, with a dash of irony, “I wish you 
would get some one to lend me a hundred thousand francs. .. 
. I 
could then pay my tailor, who is making himself a great nuisance.” 
“A hundred thousand 
francs can be found,” replied Mme. 
Sidonie, tranquilly. “It is only a question of what you will give in 
exchange.” 
The fire was glowing; Renée, still more languid, stretched out her 
legs, showed the tips of her slippers at the edge of her dressing- 
gown. The agent resumed her sympathetic voice : 
“My poor dear, you are really not reasonable. 
I know many 
women, but I have never seen one so little careful of her health as 
you. That little Michelin, for instance, see how well she manages! 
I cannot help thinking of you whenever I see her in good health 
and spirits... 
. Do you know that M. de Saffré is madly in love 
with her, and that he has already given her close upon ten thousand 
francs’ worth of presents? I believe her dream is to have a house 
in the country.” 
She grew excited, she fumbled in her pocket. 
“IT have here again a letter from a poor young married woman. 
.. 
. If it was light enough, I would let you read it... 
. Just think, 
her husband takes no notice of her. She had accepted some bills, 
and was obliged to borrow the money from a gentleman I know. I 
went myself and rescued the bills from the bailiffs clutches, and it 
was no easy matter. ... Those poor children, do you think they do 
wrong? I receive them at my place as though they were my son 
and daughter.” 
‘Do you know anyone who would lend me the money?” asked 
Renée, casually. 
“I know a dozen. ... You are too kindhearted. One can say 
155 

anything between women, can’t one? and it’s not because your 
husband is my brother that I would excuse him for running after 
the hussies and leaving a love of a woman like you to mope at the 
fireside. 
. 
. 
. That Laure d’Aurigny costs him heaps and heaps. I 
should not be surprised to hear that he had refused you money. He 
has refused you, has he not? ... Oh, the wretch !” 
Renée listened complacently, to this mellifluous voice, that issued 
from the shadow like the echo, vague as yet, of her own dreams. 
With eyelids half-closed, lying almost at length in her easy-chair, 
she was 
no longer conscious 
of Mme. Sidonie’s presence, 
she 
thought she was dreaming of evil thoughts that came to her and 
tempted her very gently. The business-woman kept up a long 
prattle like the monotonous flow of tepid water. 
“It is Mme. de Lauwerens who has marred your life. You never 
would believe me. Ah! you wouldn’t be reduced to crying in your 
chimney-corner, if you hadn’t mistrusted me. ... And I love you 
like my eyes, you beautiful thing. What a bewitching foot you 
have. You will laugh at me, but I must tell you how silly I am: 
when I have gone three days without seeing you, I feel absolutely 
obliged to come and admire you; 
yes, I feel I want something; I 
feel the need of feasting my eyes on your lovely hair, your face, so 
white, so delicate, your slender figure. 
. 
. 
. Really I have never 
seen such a figure.” 
Renée ended by smiling. Her lovers themselves did not display 
such warmth, such rapt ecstasy, in speaking to her of her beauty. 
Mme. Sidonie observed the smile. 
“Well then, it’s agreed,” she said, rising briskly... . “I run on and 
on, and forget that I am making your head split... 
. You will come 
to-morrow, will you not? We will talk of money, we will look 
about for a lender. 
. 
. 
. Understand, I want you to be happy.” 
Still motionless, enervated by the heat, Renée replied, after a 
pause, as though it had cost her a laborious effort to understand 
what was being said to her : 
“Yes, I will come, that’s agreed, and we will talk; but not to- 
morrow. 
. 
. 
. Worms will be satisfied with an instalment. When he 
worries me again, we will see. 
. 
. 
. Don’t talk to me of all that any 
more. My head is shattered with business.” 
Mme. Sidonie seemed very much vexed. She was on the point of 
sitting down again, of resuming her caressing monologue; but 
Renée’s weary attitude decided her to postpone her attack till later. 
156 

She drew a handful of papers from her pocket, and searched among 
them until she found an article enclosed in a sort of pink box. 
“I came to recommend to you a new soap,” she said, resuming 
her business voice. “I take a great interest in the inventor, who is a 
charming young man. It is a very soft soap, very good for the skin. 
You will try it, won’t you? and talk of it to your friends. 
. 
. 
. I will 
leave it here, on the mantelpiece.” 
She had reached the door, when she returned once more, and 
standing erect in the crimson glow of the fire, with her waxen face, 
she began to sing the praises of an elastic belt, an invention in- 
tended to take the place of corsets. 
“It gives you a waist absolutely round, a genuine wasp’s waist,” 
she said... 
. “I saved it from bankruptcy. When you come you 
can try on the samples if you like. ...I had to run after the law- 
yers for a week. The documents are in my pocket, and I am going 
straight to my bailiff now to put a stop to a final opposition. .. 
. 
Good-bye for the present, darling. You know, I shall expect you : 
I want to dry those pretty eyes of yours.” 
She glided out of sight. Renée did not even hear her close the 
door. She stayed there before the expiring fire, continuing her 
dream of the whole day, her head full of dancing numerals, hear- 
ing the voices of Saccard and of Madame Sidonie talking in the 
distance, offering her large sums of money, in the voice in which an 
auctioneer puts up a lot of furniture. She felt her husband’s coarse 
kiss on her neck, and when she turned round, she fancied the 
woman of business was at her feet, with her black gown and her 
flaccid countenance, making passionate speeches to her, praising 
her perfections, and begging for an assignation with the attitude of 
a lover on the verge of despair. This made her smile. The heat of 
the room became more and more stifling. And Renée’s stupor, the 
fantastic dreams she had, were no more than a light slumber. An 
artificial slumber, in the depths of which constantly recurred to her 
the little private room on the boulevard, the large sofa upon which 
she had fallen on her knees. She no longer suffered in the least. 
When she opened her eyes, Maxime’s image passed through the 
crimson firelight 
The next day, at the ministry ball, the beautiful Madame 
Saccard was wondrous. Worms had accepted the fifty thousand 
francs on account, and she emerged from her financial straits with 
the laughter of convalescence. When she traversed the reception 
rooms in her great dress of rose faille with its long Louis XIV train, 
157 

edged with deep white lace, there was a murmur, men jostled each 
other to see her. And those who were her friends bowed low, with 
a discreet smile of appreciation, doing homage to those beautiful 
shoulders, so well known to all official Paris, and looked upon as 
the firm pillars of the Empire. She had bared her bosom with so 
great a contempt for the looks of others, she walked so serene and 
gentle in her nakedness, that it almost ceased to be indecent. 
Eugéne Rougon, the great politician, felt that this nude bosom was 
even more eloquent than his speeches in the Chamber, softer and 
more persuasive in making people relish the charms of the reign 
and in convincing the doubtful. He went up to his sister-in-law to 
compliment her on her happy stroke of audacity in lowering her 
bodice yet another inch. Almost all the Corps Législatif was there, 
and from the air with which the deputies looked at the young 
married woman, the minister foresaw a fine success on the morrow 
in the delicate matter of the loans of the City of Paris. It was 
impossible to vote against a power that raised on the compost of 
millions a flower like this Renée, a so strange flower of voluptuous- 
ness, with silken flesh and statuesque nudity, a living joy that left 
behind it a fragrance of tepid pleasure. But what set the whole 
ball-room whispering was the necklace and aigrette. The men 
recognised the jewels. The women furtively called each other’s 
attention to them with a glance. Nothing else was talked of the 
whole evening. And the suite of reception rooms stretched away 
in the white light of the chandeliers, filled with a glittering throng 
like a medley of stars fallen into too confined a corner. 
At about one o’clock Saccard disappeared. He relished his wife’s 
triumph as a successful piece of clap-trap. He had once more 
consolidated his credit. 
A matter of business required his presence 
at Laure d’Aurigny’s; he went off, and begged Maxime to take 
Renée home after the ball. 
Maxime spent the evening staidly by the side of Louise de 
Mareuil, both very much taken up in saying shocking things about 
the women who passed to and fro. And when they had uttered 
some coarser piece of nonsense than usual, they stifled their laugh- 
ter in their pocket-handkerchiefs. When René wished to leave, she 
had to come and ask the young man for his arm. In the carriage she 
showed a nervous gaiety; she still quivered with the intoxication of 
light, perfumes and sounds that she had just passed through. She 
seemed besides to have forgotten their “folly” of the boulevard, as 
Maxime called it. She only asked him, in a singular tone of voice : 
158 

“Ts that little hunchback of a Louise so very amusing, then?” 
“Oh, very amusing. 
. 
. .” replied the young man, still laughing. 
“You saw the Duchesse de Sternich with a yellow bird in her hair, 
didn’t you? . 
. 
. Well, Louise pretends that it’s a clock-work bird 
that flaps its wings every hour and cries, ‘Cuckoo! cuckoo!’ to 
the poor duke.” 
Renée thought this pleasantry of the emancipated school-girl very 
entertaining. When they had reached home, as Maxime was about 
to take leave of her, she said to him : 
“Are you not coming up? Céleste has no doubt got me something 
to eat.” 
He came up in his usual compliant fashion. There was nothing to 
eat upstairs, and Céleste had gone to bed. Renée had to light the 
tapers in a little three-branched candlestick. Her hand trembled a 
little. 
“That foolish creature,’ she said, speaking of her maid, “must 
have misunderstood what I told her. 
. 
. 
. I shall never be able to 
undress myself all alone.” 
She passed into her dressing-room. Maxime followed her, to tell 
her a fresh jest of Louise’s that recurred to his mind. He was as 
much at ease as though he had been loitering at a friend’s and was 
feeling for his cigar-case to light a Havannah. But when Renée had 
set down the candlesticks, she turned round and fell into the young 
man’s arms, speechless and disquieting, gluing her mouth to his 
mouth. 
Renée’s private apartment was a nest of silk and lace, a marvel 
of luxurious coquetry. A tiny boudoir led into the bedroom. The 
two rooms formed but one, or at least the boudoir was nothing 
more than the threshold of the bedroom, a large recess, furnished 
with long-chairs, and with a pair of hangings instead of a door. The 
walls of both rooms were hung with the same material, a heavy 
pale-grey silk, figured with huge bouquets of roses, white lilac, and 
buttercups. The curtains and door-hangings were of Venetian lace 
over a silk lining of alternate grey and pink bands. In the bedroom 
the white marble chimney-piece, 
a real jewel, displayed like a 
basket of flowers its incrustations of lapis lazuli and precious mosaic, 
repeating the roses, white lilac, and buttercups of the tapestry. A 
large grey-and-pink bed, whose woodwork was hidden beneath 
padding and upholstery, and whose head stood against the wall, 
filled quite one-half of the room with its flow of drapery, its lace 
and its silk figured with bouquets, falling from ceiling to carpet. 
159 

As who should say a woman’s dress, rounded and slashed and 
decked with puffs and bows and flounces; and the large curtain, 
swelling out like a skirt, raised thoughts of some tall, amorous girl, 
leaning over, swooning, almost falling back upon the pillows. 
Beneath the curtains it was a sanctuary: cambric finely plaited, a 
snowy mass of lace, all sorts of delicate diaphanous things immersed 
in religious dimness. By the side of the bedstead, of this monu- 
ment whose devout ampleness recalled a chapel decorated for some 
festival, the rest of the furniture subsided into nothingness: low 
chairs, a cheval-glass six feet high, presses provided with innumer- 
able drawers. Under foot, the carpet, blue-grey, was covered with 
pale full-blown roses. And on either side of the bed lay two great 
black bearskin rugs, edged with crimson velvet, with silver claws, 
and with their heads turned toward the window, gazing fixedly 
through their glass eyes at the empty sky. 
Sofe harmony, muffled silence reigned in this chamber. No shrill 
note, no metallic reflection, no bright gilding broke through the 
dreamy chant of pink and grey. Even the chimney ornaments, the 
frame of the mirror, the clock, the little candlesticks, were of old 
Sévres, and the mountings of copper-gilt were scarcely visible. 
Marvellous ornaments, the clock especially, with its ring of chubby 
Cupids, who climbed and leaned over the dial-plate like a troop of 
naked urchins mocking at the quick flight of time. This subdued 
luxury, these colours and ornaments which Renée’s taste had chosen 
soft and smiling, lent to the room a crepuscular light like that of an 
alcove with curtains drawn. The bed seemed to prolong itself till the 
room became one immense bed, with its carpets, its bearskin rugs, 
its padded seats, its stuffed hangings which continued the softness of 
the floor along the walls and up to the ceiling. And as in a bed, 
Renée left upon all these things the imprint, the warmth, the per- 
fume of her body. When one drew aside the double hangings of the 
boudoir, it seemed as if one were raising a silken counterpane and 
entering some great couch, still warm and moist, where one found 
on the fine linen the adorable shape, the slumber and the dreams of 
a Parisian woman of thirty. 
An adjoining closet, a spacious chamber hung with antique 
chintz, was simply furnished on every side with tall rosewood 
wardrobes, containing an army of dresses. Céleste, always method- 
ical, arranged the dresses according to their dates, labelled them, 
introduced arithmetic amid her mistress’s blue and yellow caprices, 
and kept this closet as reposeful as a sacristy and as clean as a 
160 

stable. There was no furniture in the room; not a rag lay about. 
The wardrobe-doors shone cold and clean like the varnished panels 
of a brougham. 
But the wonder of the apartment, the room that was the talk of 
Paris, was the dressing-room. One said: ‘The beautiful Madame 
Saccard’s dressing-room,” as one says: “The Gallery of Mirrors at 
Versailles.” This room was situated in one of the towers, just above 
the little buttercup drawing-room. On entering, one was reminded 
of a large circular tent, an enchanted tent, pitched in a dream by 
some love-lorn Amazon. In the centre of the ceiling a crown of 
chased silver upheld the drapery of the tent, which ran, with a 
curve, to the walls, whence it fell straight down to the floor. This 
drapery, these rich hangings, consisted of pink silk covered with 
very thin muslin, plaited in wide folds at regular intervals. 
A band 
of lace separated the folds, and fillets of wrought silver ran down 
from the crown and glided down the hangings along either edge of 
each of the bands. The pink and grey of the bedroom grew brighter 
here, became a pink and white, like naked flesh. And under this 
bower of lace, under these curtains that hid all the ceiling save a 
pale blue cavity inside the narrow circlet of the crown, where 
Chaplin had painted a wanton Cupid looking down and preparing 
his dart, one would have thought one’s self at the bottom of a 
comfit-box, or in some precious jewel-case enlarged as though to 
display a woman’s nudity instead of the brilliancy of a diamond. 
The carpet, white as snow, stretched out without the least pattern 
or flower. The furniture consisted of a cupboard with plate-glass 
doors, whose two panels were inlaid with silver; a long-chair, two 
ottomans, some white satin stools; and a great toilet-table with a 
pink marble slab and legs hidden under flounces of muslin and 
lace. The glasses on the toilet-table, the bottles, the basin were of 
antique Bohemian crystal, streaked pink and white. And there was 
yet another table, inlaid with silver like the looking-glass cupboard, 
on which all the paraphernalia and toilet utensils were laid out, 
like the contents of a fantastic surgeon’s case, displaying a large 
number of little instruments of puzzling purpose, back-scratchers, 
nail-polishers, files of every shape and dimension, straight scissors 
and curved, every species of tweezer and pin. Each one of these 
articles of silver and ivory was marked with Renée’s monogram. 
But the dressing-room had a delightful corner, which corner in 
particular made it famous. In front of the window the folds of the 
tent parted and disclosed, in a kind of long, shallow alcove, a bath, 
F 
161 

a tank of pink marble sunk into the floor, with sides fluted like those 
of a large shell and rising to a level with the carpet. Marble steps 
led down into the bath. Above the silver taps, shaped like swans’ 
necks, the back of the alcove was filled with a Venetian mirror, 
frameless, with curved edges, and a ground design on the crystal. 
Every morning Renée took a bath that lasted some minutes. This 
bath filled the dressing-room for the whole day with moisture, with 
a fragrance of fresh, wet flesh. Sometimes an unstoppered scent- 
bottle, a cake of soap left out of its dish, struck a more violent note 
in this somewhat insipid languor. Renée was fond of staying there 
till midday, almost naked. The round tent for its part was naked 
also. The pink bath, the pink slabs and basins, the muslin of the 
walls and ceiling, under which a pink blood seemed to course, 
acquired the curves of flesh, the curves of shoulders and breasts; 
and, according to the time of day, one would have thought of the 
snowy skin of a child or the hot skin of a woman. It was a vast 
nudity. When Renée left her bath, her fair-complexioned body 
added but a little more pink to all the pink flesh of the room. 
It was Maxime who undressed Renée. He understood that sort 
of thing, and his quick hands divined pins and glided round her 
waist with innate science. He undid her hair, took off her diamonds, 
dressed her hair for the night. He added jests and caresses to the 
performance of his duties as lady’s-maid and _ hair-dresser, and 
Renée laughed, with a broad stifled laugh, while the silk of her 
bodice cracked and her petticoats were loosened one by one. When 
she saw herself naked, she blew out the tapers of the candlestick, 
caught Maxime round the body, and all but carried him into the 
bedroom. The ball had completed her intoxication. In her fever 
she was conscious of the previous day spent by the fireside, of that 
day of ardent stupor, of vague and smiling dreams. She still heard 
the harsh voices of Saccard and Madame Sidonie talking, calling 
out figures through their noses like lawyers. Those were the people 
who overwhelmed her, who drove her to crime. And even now, 
when she sought his lips in the depths of the vast, dark bed, she 
still saw Maxime’s image in the firelight of yesterday, looking at 
her with eyes that scorched her. 
The young man did not leave her till six in the morning. She 
gave him the key of the little gate of the Parc Monceau, and made 
him swear to come back every night. The dressing-room communi- 
cated with the buttercup drawing-room by a servants’ staircase 
hidden in the wall, which connected all the rooms in the tower. 
162 

From the drawing-room it was easy to pass into the conservatory 
and reach the gardens. 
On going out at daylight in a thick fog, Maxime was a little 
bewildered by his adventure. He accepted it, however, with the 
epicene complacency that formed part of his being. 
“So much the worse!” he thought. “It’s she who wishes it after 
all. 
. 
. 
. She is deucedly well made; and she was right, she is twice 
as jolly in bed as Sylvia.” 
They had drifted towards incest since the day when Maxime, in 
his threadbare schoolboy tunic, had hung on Renée’s neck, creasing 
her French-guard’s coat. From that time forward there had been a 
long and constant perversion between them. The strange education 
the young woman gave the child; the familiarities that made boon 
companions of them; later on, the laughing audacity of their con- 
fidences; all this dangerous promiscuity had ended by linking them 
together by a singular bond, in which the delights of friendship 
came near to carnal indulgence. They had given themselves to one 
another since years; the animal act was but the acute crisis of this 
‘unconscious malady of passion. In the maddened world in which 
they lived, their sin had sprouted as on a dunghill oozing with 
equivocal juices; it had developed with strange refinements amid 
special conditions of debauch. 
When the great calash carried them to the Bois and rolled them 
softly along the drives, their whispering of obscenities into each 
other’s ears, their searching to recall the spontaneous dirty practices 
of their childhood, was but a digression by the way and a tacit 
gratification of their passions. They felt themselves to be vaguely 
guilty, as though they had just slightly touched one another; and 
even this first sin, this languor born of filthy conversations, though 
it wearied them with a voluptuous fatigue, tickled them yet more 
sweetly than plain, positive kisses. Their familiarity was thus the 
slow progress of two lovers, and was inevitably bound to lead them 
one day to the private room in the Café Riche and to Renée’s great 
pink-and-grey bed. When they found themselves in each other’s 
arms, they did not even feel the shock of sin. One would have 
thought them two old lovers, whose kisses were full of recollections. 
And they had lost so many hours what time their whole beings had 
been in contact, that in spite of themselves they talked of that past 
which was full of their unconscious love. 
‘Do you remember, the day I came to Paris,” said Maxime, 
“what a funny dress you wore? and I drew an angle on your chest 
163 

with my finger and advised you to cut down the bodice in a point. 
. 
... I felt your skin under your shirt, and my finger went in a 
little. 
.. 
. It was very nice... .” 
Renée laughed, kissed him, and murmured : 
“You were nice and vicious already. .. 
. How you amused us at 
Worms’s, do you remember? We used to call you ‘our little toy 
man.’ I always believed that the fat Suzanne would have let you do 
anything you liked, if the marquise had not watched her with such 
furious eyes.” 
“Ah, yes, we had some good laughs 
. 
. .” murmured Maxime. 
“The photograph album, what? and all the rest, our drives through 
Paris, our feeds at the pastry-cook’s on the boulevard; you know, 
those little strawberry-tarts you were so fond of? ... I shall never 
forget the afternoon when you told me the story of Adeline at 
the convent, when she wrote letters to Suzanne and signed herself 
‘Arthur d’Espanet’ like a man, and proposed to elope with her. . 
. .” 
The lovers grew merry again over 
this anecdote; and then 
Maxime continued in his coaxing voice : 
“When you came to fetch me from school in your carriage, how 
funny we must have looked, you and I. ... I used to disappear 
under your skirts, I was so little.” 
“Yes, yes,” she stammered, quivering, and drawing Maxime to- 
wards her, “it was very delightful, as you say. 
. 
.. We loved one 
another without knowing it, did we not? I knew it before you did. 
The other day, driving back from the Bois, I just touched your leg, 
and I gave a start. 
. 
. 
. But you didn’t notice anything. Eh? you 
were not thinking of me?” 
“Oh yes,” he replied, somewhat embarrassed. “Only I did not 
know, you see. .. 
. I did not dare.” 
He lied. The idea of possessing Renée had never clearly come to 
him. He had covered her with all his viciousness, without really 
desiring her. He was too feeble for such an effort. He accepted 
Renée because she forced herself upon him, and he had drifted into 
her bed without willing or foreseeing it. When he had once rolled 
there, he remained because it was warm, and because he habitually 
lingered at the bottom of every pit he fell into. At the commence- 
ment he even felt the satisfaction of egotism. She was the first mar- 
ried woman he had had. He did not reflect that the husband was 
his father. 
But Renée brought into her sin all the ardour of a heart that has 
lost caste. She too had glided down the slope. Only she had not 
164 

-rolled to the bottom like a mass of inert flesh. Lust had been kindled 
within her when it was too late to combat it, and when the fall had 
become inevitable. This fall abruptly opened up before her as a 
necessary consequence of her weariness, as a rare and supreme 
enjoyment which alone was able to rouse her tired senses, her 
wounded heart. It was during that autumn drive in the twilight, 
when the Bois was falling asleep, that the vague idea of incest came 
to her like a titillation that sent an unknown thrill over her skin; 
and in the evening, in the semi-intoxication of the dinner, lashed 
by jealousy, this idea became more defined, rose up ardently before 
her, amid the flames of the conservatory, 
as she stood before 
Maxime and Louise. At that moment she craved for sin, the sin 
that no one commits, the sin that was to fill her empty existence 
and bring her at last to that hell of which she was still afraid, as in 
the days when she was a little girl. Then, the next day, through a 
strange feeling of remorse and lassitude, her craving had left her. 
It seemed to her that she had already sinned, that it was not so 
pleasant as she had fancied, and that it would really be too dis- 
gusting. The crisis was bound to be a fatal one, to come of itself, 
without the help of these two beings, these comrades who were 
destined to decide themselves one fine evening, to unite in a sexual 
embrace when they imagined they were shaking hands. But after 
this stupid fall, she returned to her dream of a nameless pleasure, 
and then she took Maxime back to her arms, curious about him, 
curious as to the cruel delights of a passion which she regarded as 
a crime. Her volition accepted incest, demanded it, resolved to taste 
it to the end, even to remorse, should that ever come. She was 
active and cognisant. She loved with the transports of a woman of 
fashion, with the restless prejudices of a woman of the middle class, 
with all the struggles, joys, and disgusts of a woman drowning 
herself in self-disdain. 
Maxime returned every night. He came through the garden at 
about one o’clock. Oftenest Renée would wait for him in the con- 
servatory, which he must cross to reach the small drawing-room. 
For the rest they were absolutely shameless, barely hiding them- 
selves, forgetting the most classic precautions of adultery. This 
corner of the house, it is true, belonged to them. Baptiste, the 
husband’s valet, alone had the right to enter it, and Baptiste, like a 
serious man, disappeared so soon as his duties were over. Maxime 
even pretended with a laugh that he withdrew to write his Mem- 
oirs. One night, however, just after Maxime had arrived, Renée 
165 

pointed out Baptiste to him crossing the drawing-room solemnly 
with a candlestick in his hand. The tall valet, with his diplomatic 
figure, lit by the yellow light of the taper, wore that night a still 
more correct and severe expression than usual. Leaning forward, 
the lovers saw him blow out his candle and go towards the stables, 
where the horses and grooms lay sleeping. 
“He is going his rounds,” said Maxime. 
Renée stood shivering. Baptiste always made her uncomfortable. 
She said one day that he was the only respectable man in the house, 
with his coldness and his clear glances that never alighted on the 
women’s shoulders. 
After that they evinced a certain prudence in their meetings. 
They closed the doors of the small drawing-room and were thus 
able to dispose of this room, of the conservatory, and of Renée’s 
own rooms in all tranquillity. It was quite a world in itself. They 
there tasted, during the earlier months, the most refined, the most 
daintily sought-out delights. They shifted their love-scenes from the 
great grey-and-pink bed of the bedroom to the pink-and-white 
nudity of the dressing-room and to the symphony in yellow-minor 
of the small drawing-room. Each room with its particular odour, its 
hangings, its special life, gave them a different form of passion and 
made of Renée a different inamorata : she was dainty and pretty in 
her padded patrician couch, where, in the tepid, aristocratic bed- 
chamber, love underwent the modification of good taste; under the 
flesh-coloured tent, amid the perfume and the human languor of 
the bath-room, she became a capricious, carnal courtesan, yielding 
herself as she left the bath : it was there that Maxime preferred her; 
then, downstairs, in the bright sunrise of the small drawing-room, 
in the midst of the yellow halo that gilded her hair, she became a 
goddess with her fair Diana-like head, her bare arms which assumed 
chaste postures, her unblemished body which reclined on the couch- 
es in attitudes revealing noble outlines of antique grace. But there 
was one place of which Maxime was almost frightened, where 
Renée dragged him only on bad days, on days when she needed a 
more acrid intoxication. Then they loved in the hot-house 
It was 
there that they tasted incest. 
One night, in an hour of anguish, Renée sent her lover for one of 
the black bearskin rugs. Then they lay down on this inky fur, at the 
edge of a tank, in the large circular pathway. Out of doors it was 
freezing terribly in the limpid moonlight. Maxime arrived shiver- 
ing, with frozen ears and fingers. The conservatory was heated to 
166 

such a point that he swooned away on the bearskin. Coming from 
the dry, biting cold into so intense a heat, he felt a smarting as 
though he had been whipped with a birch-rod. When he came to 
himself, he saw Renée on her knees, leaning over him, with fixed 
eyes and an animal attitude that alarmed him. Her hair down, her 
shoulders bare, she leant upon her wrists, with her spine stretched 
out, like a great cat with phosphorescent eyes. The young man, 
lying on his back, perceived above the shoulders of this adorable, 
amorous beast that gazed upon him the marble sphinx, whose 
thighs gleamed in the moonlight. Renée had the attitude and the 
smile of the monster with the woman’s head, and, in her loosened 
petticoats, looked like the white sister of this black divinity. 
Maxime remained supine. The heat was suffocating, a sultry heat 
that did not fall from the sky in a rain of fire, but trailed on the 
ground like a poisonous effluvium, and its steam ascended like a 
storm-laden cloud. 
A warm dampness covered the lovers with dew, 
with burning sweat. For a long time they remained motionless and 
speechless in this bath of flame, Maxime prostrate and inert, Renée 
‘quivering on her wrists as on supple, nervous hams. From outside 
through the little panes of the hot-house, came glimpses of the Parc 
Monceau, clumps of trees with fine black outlines, lawns white as 
frozen lakes, a whole dead landscape, the exquisiteness and the 
light, even tints of which reminded one of bits of Japanese prints. 
And this spot of burning soil, this inflamed couch on which the 
lovers lay, seethed strangely in the midst of the great, silent cold. 
They passed a night of mad love. Renée was the man, the 
passionate, active will. Maxime submitted. Smooth-limbed, slim 
and graceful as a Roman stripling, fair-haired and pretty, stricken 
in his virility since childhood, this epicene being became a great 
girl in Renée’s inquisitive arms. He seemed born and bred for a 
perversion of sensual pleasure. Renée enjoyed her domination, and 
she bent under her passion this creature with the still indeterminate 
sex. For her it was a continual astonishment of lasciviousness, a 
surprise of the senses, a bizarre sensation of discomfort and of keen 
enjoyment. She was no longer certain : she felt doubts each time she 
returned to his delicate skin, his soft plump neck, his attitudes of 
abandonment, his fainting-fits. She then experienced an hour of 
repletion. By revealing to her a new ecstasy, Maxime crowned her 
mad toilettes, her prodigious luxury, her life of excess. He set her in 
flesh the top note that was already singing in her ears. He was the 
lover 
who matched the follies and fashions of the period. This 
167 

pretty little fellow, whose frail figure was revealed by his clothes, 
this abortive girl, who strolled along the boulevards, his hair parted 
in the middle, with little bursts of laughter and bored smiles, be- 
came in Renée’s hands one of those debauching influences of the 
decadence which at certain periods among rotten nations exhaust a 
body and unhinge a brain. 
And it was in the hot-house especially that Renée played the 
man. The ardent night they spent there was followed by many 
others. The hot-house loved and burned with them. In the heavy 
atmosphere, in the pale light of the moon, they saw the strange 
world of plants around them moving confusedly and exchanging 
embraces. The black bearskin stretched across the pathway. At their 
feet the tank steamed full of a swarm, of a thick tangle, of plants, 
while the pink petals of the water-lilies opened out on the surface, 
like virgin bodices, and the tornelias let fall their bushy tendrils like 
the hair of languishing water-nymphs. Around them the palm-trees 
and the tall Indian bamboos rose up towards the arched roof, where 
they bent over and mingled their leaves with the staggering at- 
titudes of exhausted lovers. Lower down the ferns, the pterides, the 
alsophilas, were like green Jadies, with ample skirts trimmed with 
symmetrical flounces, who stood mute and motionless at the edge 
of the path-way awaiting love. By their side the twisted red-streaked 
leaves of the begonias and the white spear-headed leaves of the 
caladiums furnished a vague series of bruises and pallors, which the 
lovers could not explain to themselves, though at times they dis- 
cerned curves as of hips and knees, prone on the ground beneath 
the brutality of ensanguined kisses. And the plantain-trees, bending 
under the weight of their fruit, spoke to them of the rich fecundity 
of the soil, while the Abyssinian euphorbias, of whose prickly, 
deformed, tapering stems, covered with loathly excrescences, they 
could catch glimpses in the shadow, seemed to sweat out sap, the 
over-flowing flux of this fiery gestation. But, by degrees, as their 
glances penetrated into the corners of the conservatory, the dark- 
ness became filled with a more furious debauch of leaves and stalks; 
they were not able to distinguish on the stages between the maran- 
tas, soft as velvet, the gloxinias, purple-belled, the draccenas resem- 
bling blades of old lacquer; it was one round dance of living plants 
pursuing one another with unsatiated fervour. At the four corners, 
there where the curtains of creepers closed in the arbours, their 
carnal fancy grew madder still, and the supple shoots of the vanilla- 
plants, of the Indian berries, the quisqualias and bauhinias were as 
168 

the interminable arms of unseen lovers distractedly lengthening 
their embraces so as to collect all scattered delights. Those endless 
arms drooped with weariness, entwined in a spasm of love, sought 
each other, closed up together like a crowd bent on rut. It was the 
unbounded copulation of the hot-house, of this nook of virgin for- 
est ablaze with tropical flora and foliage. 
Maxime and Renée, their senses perverted, felt carried away in 
these mighty nuptials of the earth. The soil burnt their backs 
through the bearskin, and drops of heat fell upon them from the 
lofty palms. The sap that rose in the trunks of the trees penetrated 
them also, filling them with a mad longing for immediate increase, 
for gigantic procreation. They joined in the copulation of the hot- 
house. It was then, in the pale light, that they were stupefied by 
visions, by nightmares in which they watched at length the intrigues 
of the ferns and palm-trees; the foliage assumed a confused equi- 
vocal aspect, which their desires transformed into sensual images; 
murmurs and whisperings reached them from the shrubberies, faint 
voices, sighs of ecstasy, stifled cries of pain, distant laughter, all that 
‘was audible in their own embraces, and that was wafted back by the 
echo. At times they thought themselves shaken by an earthquake, 
as though the very ground had burst forth into voluptuous sobs in 
a fit of satisfied desire. 
If they had closed their eyes, if the stifling heat and the pale light 
had not imparted to them a vitation of every sense, the aromas 
would have been sufficient to throw them into an extraordinary 
state of nervous irritation. The tank saturated them with a deep, 
pungent odour, through which passed the thousand perfumes of the 
flowers and plants. At times the vanilla-plant sang with dove-like 
cooings; then came the rough notes of the stanhopeas, whose tigered 
throats have the strong and putrid breath of the convalescent sick. 
The orchids, in their baskets suspended by wire chains, emitted 
their exhalations like living censers. But the dominant scent, the 
scent in which all these vague breaths were intermingled, was a 
human scent, a scent of love which Maxime recognised when he 
kissed Renée in the neck, when he plunged his head into her flow- 
ing hair. And they lay intoxicated with this scent of an amorous 
woman which trailed through the hot-house as through an alcove 
in which the earth was reproducing its kind. 
As a rule the lovers lay down under the Madagascar tanghin-tree, 
under that poisoned shrub into one of whose leaves Renée had 
once bitten. Around them the white statues laughed as they gazed 
169 

at the mighty copulation of foliage. The moon, as it turned, dis- 
placed the groups and gave life to the drama with its changing 
light. They were a thousand leagues from Paris, far from the easy 
life of the Bois and official receptions, in a corner of an Indian 
forest, of some monstrous temple of which the black marble sphinx 
became the deity. They felt themselves rolling towards crime, to- 
wards accursed love, towards the caresses of wild beasts. All the 
germination that surrounded them, the swarming of the tank, the 
naked immodesty of the foliage, threw them into the innermost, 
dantesque inferno of passion. It was then, in the depths of this glass 
cage, all boiling in the summer heat, lost in the keen December 
cold, that they relished the flavour of incest, as though it were the 
criminal fruit of an overheated soil, feeling the while a secret dread 
of their terrifying couch. 
And in the centre of the black bearskin, Renée’s body seemed 
whiter, as she crouched like a great cat, her spine stretched out, her 
wrists tense like supple, nervous hams. She was all swollen with 
voluptuousness, and the clear outline of her shoulders and loins 
stood out with feline distinctness against the splash of ink with 
which the rug blackened the yellow sand of the pathway. She 
gloated over Maxime, this prey extended beneath her, abandoning 
itself, which she possessed entirely. And from time to time she 
leant forward abruptly and kissed him with her chafed mouth. Her 
mouth opened then with the hungry, bleeding brilliancy of the 
Chinese hibiscus, whose expanse covered the wall of the house. She 
became 
a sheer burning daugher of the hot-house. Her kisses 
bloomed and faded like the red flowers of the great mallow, which 
last scarcely a few hours and are unceasingly renewed, like the 
bruised, insatiable lips of a colossal Messalina. 
170 

Vv 
Saccarp was haunted by the thought of the kiss he had pressed 
upon his wife’s neck. He had long ceased to avail himself of his 
marital rights; the rupture had come naturally, neither one nor the 
other caring about a connection which inconvenienced them. Sac- 
card would never think of returning to Renée’s chamber, if some 
good piece of business were not the ultimate aim of his conjugal 
devotion. 
The lucky speculation at Charonne progressed favourably, al- 
though he was still anxious as to its termination. Larsonneau, with 
his dazzling shirt-front, had a way of smiling which he did not like. 
He was no more than an intermediary, 
a man of straw, whose 
assistance he paid for by allowing him a commission of ten per cent. 
on the ultimate profits. But although the expropriation-agent had 
not paid a sou into the enterprise, and Saccard had not only found 
the money for the music-hall but taken every precaution, a deed of 
retrocession, undated letters, antedated receipts, the latter none the 
less felt an inward fear, a presentiment of some treachery. He sus- 
pected his accomplice of an intention to blackmail him by means of 
the false inventory which he had preciously preserved and which 
alone he had to thank for his share in the business. 
So the two fellows shook one another vigorously by the hand. 
Larsonneau addressed Saccard as “dear master.” At bottom he had 
a real admiration for this acrobat, and watched his performances on 
the tight-rope of speculation with the eye of a connoisseur. The idea 
of taking him in tickled him as a rare and pungent voluptuousness. 
He nursed a plan, as yet vague, not knowing how to make use of the 
weapon he possessed, lest he should do himself a damage with it. He 
felt besides that he was at his former colleague’s mercy. The ground 
and the buildings, which the cunningly-prepared inventories al- 
ready estimated at closely two millions although not worth a quar- 
ter of that amount, must end by being swallowed up in a colossal 
smash, if the fairy of expropriation failed to touch them with her 
golden wand. According to the original plans which they had been 
Pt 

able to consult, the new boulevard, opened to connect the artillery- 
park of Vincennes with the Prince-Eugéne Barracks, and to bring 
the guns into the heart of Paris, while avoiding the Faubourg 
Saint-Antoine, cut off a part of the ground; but there still remained 
the danger that this would be only just grazed, and that the in- 
genious speculation might fall through by reason of its very shame- 
lessness. In that case Larsonneau would be left stranded with a 
delicate venture on his hands. Still, despite the inferior part he was 
compelled to play, this danger did not prevent him from feeling 
disgusted when he thought of the paltry ten per cent. which he was 
to pocket in this colossal robbery of millions. And at these moments 
he could not resist a furious longing to stretch out his hand and 
carve out a slice for himself. 
Saccard had not even permitted him to lend money to his wife; 
he took pleasure himself in this crass piece of theatrical trickery, 
which delighted his weakness for complicated transactions. 
“No, no, my dear fellow,” he said, with his Provencal accent, 
which he exaggerated whenever he wished to add zest to a joke, 
“don’t let us mix up our accounts... 
. You are the only man in 
Paris whom I have sworn never to owe any money to.” 
Larsonneau contented himself with telling him that his wife was 
a sink. He advised him not to give her another sou, so that she 
might be compelled to make over the property to them at once. He 
would have preferred to have had business with Saccard alone. He 
tried him occasionally, and carried things so far as to say to him, 
with his languid and indifferent man-about-town manner : 
“All the same, I shall have to put my papers in order a bit... 
. 
Your wife frightens me, old man. I don’t want to have certain 
documents at my office attached.” 
Saccard was not the man to submit patiently to hints of this kind, 
especially as he was well acquainted with the cold and fastidious 
orderliness that prevailed in this individual’s office. All his active, 
cunning little being revolted against the terror with which this great 
coxcomb of a yellow-gloved usurer sought to inspire him. The 
worst was that he felt seized with shudders when he thought of the 
possibility of a scandal; and he saw himself remorselessly exiled by 
his brother and living in Belgium by some shabby little trade. One 
day he grew angry and went so far as to address Larsonneau in the 
second person singular. 
“Look here, my boy,” he said, “you’re a decent chap, but ‘t 
172 

would be just as well if you gave up the document you know of. 
You'll see that bit of paper will end by making us quarrel.” 
The other feigned astonishment, pressed his “dear master’s” 
hands, and assured him of his devotion. Saccard regretted his 
momentary impatience. It was at this period that he began to think 
seriously of resuming relations with his wife; he might have need of 
her against his accomplice, and he, moreover, said to himself that 
business matters are wonderfully easy to talk over with one’s head 
on the pillow. That kiss on the neck tended little by little to reveal 
an entirely new policy. 
However, he was in no hurry, he husbanded his resources. He 
devoted the whole winter to ripening his plan, bothered by a 
hundred affairs, one more involved than the other. It was a horrible 
winter for him, full of shocks, a prodigious campaign, during which 
he had daily to vanquish bankruptcy. Far from cutting down his 
domestic expenses, he gave entertainment upon entertainment. But 
if he successfully faced every obstacle, he was compelled to neglect 
Renée, whom he reserved for a triumphant stroke when the Char- 
- onne operation became ripe. He contented himself with preparing 
the catastrophe by continuing to give her no money except by the 
intermediary of Larsonneau. When he had a few thousand francs 
lying idle, and she complained of her poverty, he brought them to 
her, saying that Larsonneau’s people required a note of hand for 
twice the amount. This farce amused him enormously, the story of 
those promissory notes delighted him because of the air of romance 
they imparted to the affair. Even at the period of his clearest profits 
he had served out his wife’s income in a very irregular fashion, 
making her princely presents, throwing her handfuls of bank-notes, 
and then for weeks leaving her in the lurch for a paltry amount. 
Now that he found himself seriously embarrassed, he spoke of the 
household expenses, he treated her as a creditor to whom one is 
unwilling to confess one’s ruin, gaining time by making excuses. She 
barely listened to him; she signed anything he asked; she only pitied 
herself for not being able to sign more. 
Already, however, he held two hundred thousand francs’ worth 
of her promissory notes, which cost him barely one hundred and 
ten thousand francs. After having these notes endorsed by Larson- 
neau, in whose favour they were made out, he put them in cir- 
culation in a prudent manner, intending to employ them as decisive 
weapons later on. He would never have been able to hold out to 
the end of that terrible winter, lending money to his wife at usury 
173 

and keeping up his household expenses, but for the sale of his 
building-plots on the Boulevard Malesherbes, which the Sieurs 
Mignon and Charrier bought of him for cash down, deducting, 
however, a formidable discount. 
For Renée this same winter was a long joy. She suffered only 
from the want of ready money. Maxime proved a great expense; 
he still treated her as his stepmother, and allowed her to pay wher- 
ever they went. But this secret poverty was for her a delight the 
more. She taxed her ingenuity and racked her brains so that “her 
dear child” should want for nothing; and when she had persuaded 
her husband to find her a few thousand francs, she ran through 
them with her lover in costly frivolities like two schoolboys let out 
on their first escapade. When they had spent the last sou, they 
remained at home, they revelled in the great piece of masonry 
built with such new and such insolent meaningless luxury. The 
father was never there. The lovers sat by the fireside more often 
than formerly. The fact was that Renée had at last filled the icy 
emptiness of those gilded ceilings with a warm joy. The disorderly 
house of worldly pleasure had become a chapel in which she secretly 
practised a new religion. Maxime did not merely strike in her the 
shrill note that matched her extravagant costumes; he was the lover 
fashioned for this house, with its windows wide as shop-windows 
and its flow of sculpture from garret to base; he gave life to all this 
plaster, from the two chubby Cupids who in the court-yard let flow 
a sheet of water from their shell to the great naked women who 
supported the balconies and played with apples and ears of corn 
amid the pediments; he gave a meaning to the over-decorated hall, 
the circumscribed garden, the dazzling rooms in which one saw too 
many arm-chairs and no single work of art. Renée, who had bored 
herself to death in this house, began suddenly to take pleasure in it, 
using it as she might use a thing whose purpose she had not at first 
understood. And it was not only in her own rooms, in the butter- 
cup drawing-room, and in the hot-house that she carried her love, 
but through the whole house. She even ended by finding pleasure 
in lying on the divan in the smoking-room; she lingered there, 
saying that the room had a vague and very agreeable smell of 
tobacco. 
She had two days every week now instead of one. On Thursdays 
any called who pleased. But Mondays were reserved to bosom 
friends. Men were excluded. Maxime alone was admitted to these 
select gatherings, which took place in the small drawing-room. One 
174 

evening she conceived the amazing idea of dressing him up as a 
woman and introducing him as her cousin. Adeline, Suzanne, the 
Baronne Meinhold, and the other ladies present rose and bowed, 
astonished at this face, which they vaguely recognised. Then, when 
they understood, they laughed a great deal, they absolutely refused 
to let the young man go and undress. They kept him with them in 
his skirts, teasing him and permitting themselves equivocal pleas- 
antries. When he had seen these ladies out by the front door, he 
went round the gardens and returned by the conservatory. Renée’s 
dear friends never had the slightest suspicion of the truth. The 
lovers could not be more familiar than they already were when they 
used to declare themselves boon companions. And if a servant hap- 
pened to see them pressing rather close together, in the doorways, 
he felt no surprise, being accustomed to the frolicsomeness of ma- 
dame and of the son of monsieur. 
This complete sense of liberty and impunity made them still 
bolder. They fastened the door at night, but in the daytime they 
embraced in every room in the house. On rainy days they invented 
a thousand little pastimes. But Renée’s great delight was still to 
heap up a tremendous fire and doze away before the grate. Her 
linen was marvellously luxurious that winter. She wore chemises 
and wrappers of ruinous costliness, whose cambric and lace inser- 
tions barely covered her with a cloud of white smoke. And in the 
red glow of the firelight she lay as though naked, with rosy lace 
and skin, the heat penetrating through the thin stuff to her flesh. 
Maxime, crouched at her feet, kissed her knees without even feeling 
the cambric, which had the warmth and colour of that beautiful 
body. The daylight was not fully admitted, it fell like a twilight 
into the grey silk room, while Céleste behind them went to and fro 
with her quiet step. She had become their accomplice, quite natur- 
ally. One morning when they had forgotten themselves in bed, she 
found them there and retained the impassiveness of her cold- 
blooded, servant-maid’s nature. They then ceased to restrain them- 
selves, she came in at all hours without the sound of their kisses 
causing her to turn her head. They relied on her to warn them in 
case of danger. They did not purchase her silence. She was a very 
economical, very good girl, and had never been known to have 
a lover. 
However, Renée had not shut herself up. Taking Maxime in her 
train, like a fair-haired page in dress-clothes, she threw herself into 
society, where she tasted even keener pleasures. The season was a 
E75 

long triumph for her. Never had she imagined bolder toilettes or 
head-dresses. It was then that she had the courage to wear that 
famous gown of forest-coloured satin on which was embroidered 
a complete stag-hunt with its accessories, powder-flasks, hunting- 
horns, big-bladed knives. It was then also that she set the fashion of 
dressing the hair in the classical style; Maxime was sent to make 
sketches for her in the Musée Campana, which had been recently 
opened, She grew younger, she was at the acme of her turbulent 
beauty. Incest lent her a fire that glowed in the depths of her eyes 
and warmed her laughter. Her eye-glass looked supremely insolent 
at the tip of her nose, and she glanced at the other women, at the 
dear friends pluming themselves upon the enormity of some vice or 
other, with the air of a boastful boy, with a fixed smile that said: 
“TI have my crime.” 
Maxime for his part considered society tedious to a degree. It 
was to seem “smart” that he pretended to bore himself there, for he 
did not really amuse himself anywhere. At the Tuileries, at the 
ministers’ houses, he disappeared behind Renée’s skirts. But he 
resumed the reins so soon as there was a question of some escapade. 
Renée wanted to see the private-room on the boulevard again, and 
the width of the sofa made her smile. Then he took her to all sorts 
of places, to the houses of fast women, to the opera-balls, to the 
stage-boxes of the burlesque theatres, to every equivocal place 
where they could rub shoulders with animal vice and taste the 
delights of their incognito. When they stealthily returned home, 
worn out with fatigue, they fell asleep in each other’s arms, sleep- 
ing off the intoxication of obscene Paris, with snatches of ribald 
couplets still singing in their ears. The next day Maxime imitated 
the actors, and Renée, seated at the piano in the small drawing- 
room, endeavoured 
to reproduce the raucous voice and jaunty 
attitudes of Blanche Muller as la Belle Héléne. Her convent music- 
lessons now only assisted her to murder the verses of the new 
burlesques. She had a holy horror of serious airs. Maxime mocked 
at German music with her, and he felt it his duty to go and hiss 
Tannhduser both by conviction and in defence of his stepmother’s 
sprightly refrains. 
One of their great delights was skating; that winter skating was 
fashionable, the Emperor having been one of the first to try the ice 
on the lake in the Bois de Boulogne. Renée ordered a complete 
Polish suit of Worms, in velvet and fur; she made Maxime wear 
doeskin boots and a foxskin cap. They reached the Bois in intense 
176 

cold which stung their lips and noses as though the wind had blown 
fine sand into their faces. It amused them to feel cold. The Bois 
was quite grey, with snow threading the branches with narrow 
strips of lace. And under the pale sky, above the frozen and dimmed 
lake, only the fir-trees on the islands still displayed, on the edge of 
the horizon, their theatrical drapery, on which also the snow had 
stitched broad bands of lace. They darted along together through 
the icy air, with the rapid flight of swallows skimming the ground. 
With one hand carried behind their backs and one upon each 
other’s shoulders, they went off erect, smiling, side by side, turning 
on themselves, in the wide space marked out by thick ropes. The 
sight-seers stared at them from the roadway. From time to time 
they came and warmed themselves at the braziers lighted at the 
edge of the lake. They shot off again. They enlarged the circle of 
their flight, their eyes watering with pleasure and with cold. 
Then, when springtime came, Renée recalled her old sentimental 
ideas. She made Maxime stroll with her at night in the Parc Mon- 
ceau in the moonlight. They went into the grotto, and sat down on 
' 
the grass in front of the colonnade. But when she evinced a desire 
for a row on the little lake, they found that the boat they saw from 
the house, moored at the edge of a pathway, was without oars. 
These were evidently removed at night. This was a disappointment. 
Moreover, the great shadows of the gardens disquieted the lovers. 
They would have liked a Venetian féte to be given there, with red 
lanterns and a band. They preferred it in the daytime, in the after- 
noon, and often they stationed themselves at one of the windows of 
the house to watch the carriages following the graceful curve of the 
main avenue. They enjoyed looking at this charming corner of new 
Paris, this clean, smiling bit of nature, these lawns like skirts of 
velvet, figured with flower-beds and choice shrubs, and bordered 
with magnificent white roses. Carriages passed by one another, as 
numerous as on the boulevards; the ladies on foot trailed their skirts 
languorously, as though they had not lifted a foot from the carpets 
of their drawing-rooms. And they criticised the dresses across the 
foliage, pointed to the horses, taking a genuine pleasure in the soft 
colours of this great garden. A scrap of gilded railing flashed be- 
tween two trees, a flock of ducks swam across the lake, the little 
Renaissance bridge stood out white and new amid the foliage, while 
on either side of the big avenue, mothers, seated on yellow chairs, 
chatted and forgot the little boys and girls who looked at each other 
prettily, with the graces of precocious children. 
177 

The lovers doted on new Paris. They often drove through the 
town, going out of their way so as to pass along certain boulevards 
which they loved with a personal affection. The tall houses, with 
their great carved doors, their heavy balconies, with, in great gold 
letters, names, 
signs, names 
of firms, delighted them. As the 
brougham rolled on, they followed with a friendly glance the grey 
bands of wide, interminable pavement, with its seats, its variegated 
columns, 
its exiguous trees. This bright gap, which ran to the 
limit of the horizon, growing narrower, and opening upon a pale- 
blue square of space, this uninterrupted twofold row of great shops, 
where the shopmen smiled upon their fair customers, these currents 
of stamping, swarming crowds filled them little by little with an 
absolute and entire contentment, with a feeling of perfection in the 
life of the streets. They loved even the jets of the watering-hose, 
which passed like white vapour before their horses, spreading out 
and falling like fine rain under the wheels of the brougham, darken- 
ing the ground, and raising a light cloud of dust. They rolled on, 
and it seemed to them that the carriage was rolling over carpets 
along that straight, endless roadway, which had been made solely 
to save them from the dark back-streets. Every boulevard became a 
lobby of their house. The gay sunshine smiled upon the new 
facades, lit up the window-panes, fell upon the awnings of the shops 
and cafés, and heated the asphalte beneath the busy footsteps of the 
crowd. And when they returned home, a little confused by the 
dazzling hubbub of these long bazaars, they found relief in the con- 
templation of the Parc Monceau, which was the natural border of 
this new Paris which displayed its luxury in the first warmth of 
spring. 
When fashion absolutely forced them to leave Paris, they went to 
the seaside, but regretfully, dreaming of the boulevard pavements 
while on the shores of the ocean. Their love itself faded there. It 
was a flower of the hot-house that needed the great grey-and-pink 
bed, the naked flesh of the dressing-room, the gilded dawn of the 
small drawing-room. Alone in the evenings, in front of the sea, they 
no longer found anything to say to each other. Renée tried to sing 
her collection of songs from the Théatre des Variétés at an old 
piano that was at its last gasp in a corner of her room at the hotel; 
but the instrument, damp with the breezes from the open, had the 
melancholy voice of the great waters. La Belle Héléne sounded 
fantastic and lugubrious. Renée consoled herself by astonishing the 
people on the beach with her wonderful costumes. All her crowd of 
178 

ladies was there, yawning, waiting for winter, casting about in des- 
pair for a bathing-dress that would not make them look too ugly. 
Renée could never prevail on Maxime to bathe. He was horribly 
frightened of the water, turned quite pale when the tide rose up to 
his boots, and for nothing in the world would have approached the 
edge of a cliff; he kept away from the sand-holes, and made long 
circuits to avoid the least bit of steep beach. 
Saccard came down once or twice to see “the children”. He was 
overwhelmed with worry, he said. It was not until October, when 
they were all three back in Paris, that he thought seriously of effect- 
ing a reconciliation with his wife. The Charonne affair was ripen- 
ing. His plan was a simple and a brutal one. He proposed to capture 
Renée by the same trick that he would have practised upon a 
prostitute. She was living amid an increasing need of money, and 
was too proud to apply to her husband save as a last resource. The 
latter resolved to take advantage of her first request for money to 
play the gallant, and to resume the long-severed relations in the 
delight brought about by the payment of some big debt. 
' 
Terrible embarrassments awaited Renée and Maxime in Paris. 
Several of the promissory notes made out to Larsonneau were over- 
due; but as Saccard naturally left them slumbering at the lawyer’s, 
they did not cause the young wife much uneasiness. She was far 
more alarmed by her debt to Worms, which now amounted to 
nearly two hundred thousand francs. The tailor insisted on a pay- 
ment on account, and threatened to stop her credit. She shuddered 
keenly when she thought of the scandal of a law-suit, and above 
all of a quarrel with the illustrious dressmaker. Moreover, she was 
in need of pocket-money. They would be bored to death, Maxime 
and she, without a few louis a day to spend. The dear child was 
quite without resources since he had begun to rummage his father’s 
drawers in vain. His fidelity, his exemplary behaviour during the 
last seven or eight months, were largely due to the absolute empti- 
ness of his purse. He rarely had twenty francs with which to take a 
girl out to supper. And so he philosophically returned to the house. 
Renée, on each of their escapades, handed him her purse so that he 
might pay at the restaurants, at the balls, and at the boulevard 
theatres. She continued to treat him as a mother; and she even 
paid, with the tips of her gloved fingers, at the pastry-cook’s, where 
they got out almost every afternoon to eat little oyster patties. In 
the morning he often found in his waistcoat a few louis which he 
did not know he had, and which she had put there, like a mother 
179 

filling a schoolboy’s pockets. And to think that this charming life of 
odd snacks, of contended caprices and of facile pleasures was to 
cease! But a still greater dread came to terrify them. Sylvia’s jewel- 
ler, to whom Maxime owed ten thousand francs, grew angry and 
talked of prison. The costs had so accumulated on the acceptances 
which he held in hand and had long protested, that the debt had 
increased by some three or four thousand francs. Saccard plainly 
declared that he could do nothing. To have his son sent to prison 
would look well, and when he took him out he would make a great 
fuss about his paternal liberality. Renée was in despair; she beheld 
her dear child in prison, in a veritable dungeon, lying on damp 
straw. One night she seriously proposed to him not to leave her 
again, to live there unknown to everyone, and sheltered from the 
bailiff’s men. Then she swore she would find the money. She never 
spoke of the origin of the debt, of that Sylvia who confided her 
amours to the mirrors of private rooms. She wanted about fifty 
thousand francs, fifteen thousand for Maxime, thirty thousand for 
Worms, and five thousand for pocket-money. Then they would 
have a long fortnight’s happiness before them. She embarked on her 
campaign. 
Her first idea was to ask her husband for the fifty thousand 
francs. She did not decide to do so without some repugnance. The 
last time he came to her room to bring her money, he had pressed 
fresh kisses on her neck, and had taken her hands and talked of his 
affection. Women have a very subtle sense that enables them to 
guess men’s feelings. And so she was prepared for a demand, for a 
tactic bargain clinched with a smile. And indeed, when she asked 
him for the fifty thousand francs, he protested, exclaimed that 
Larsonneau would never lend such an amount as that, that he him- 
self was still too much embarrassed. Then, changing his voice, as 
though conquered and seized with sudden emotion : 
“One can refuse you nothing,” he murmured. “I will trot about 
Paris and accomplish the impossible. 
. 
. 
. I want you to be happy, 
my dear.” 
And putting his lips to her ear, kissing her hair, his voice trem- 
bling a little : 
“I will bring it to you to-morrow evening, in your room . . 
without any promissory note... .” 
But she interrupted hastily that she was in on hurry, that she did 
not want to trouble him to do that. Saccard, who had just thrown 
all his heart into that dangerous “without any promissory note,” 
180 

which he had allowed to slip out and which he regretted, pretended 
not to have received a disagreeable rebuff. He rose, and said : 
“Well, I am at your disposal 
. 
. 
. I will get the money for you 
when you want it. Larsonneau will have nothing to do with it, 
you know. It’s a present I want to make you.” 
He smiled good-naturedly. Renée remained in a state of cruel 
anguish. She felt that she would lose the little equilibrium left her, 
if she gave herself to her husband. Her last pride was that she was 
married to the father but was the wife of the son alone. Often, 
when Maxime seemed cold to her, she endeavoured by very plain 
allusions to make him grasp this situation; it must be confessed 
that the young man, whom she expected to see fall at her feet after 
this revelation, remained perfectly indifferent, thinking doubtless 
that she was trying to reassure him as to the possibility of a meeting 
between his father and himself in the grey silk room. 
When Saccard had left her, she impetuously dressed herself, and 
had the horses put to. While her brougham was conveying her to 
the Ile Saint-Louis, she rehearsed the manner in which she would 
ask her father for the fifty thousand francs. She flung herself into 
this sudden idea without consenting to discuss it, feeling a great 
coward at heart, and seized with invincible fright at the thought of 
the step she was taking. When she arrived, the court-yard of the 
H6tel Béraud froze her with its dreary, cloistral dampness, and she 
felt a longing to run away as she climbed the broad stone staircase, 
on which her little high-heeled boots rang out ominously. She had 
been foolish enough in her hurry to choose a costume of feuillemort 
silk, with long flounces of white lace, trimmed with bows of satin, 
and cut crosswise by a plaited sash. This dress, which was finished 
off with a little flat toque with a large white veil, struck so singular 
a note in the dark gloom of the staircase that she herself became 
conscious of the strange figure she cut there. She trembled as she 
traversed the austere array of huge rooms, in which the vague 
figures of the tapestry seemed surprised at the sight of this flow of 
skirts passing through the twilight of their solitude. 
She found her father in a drawing-room looking out upon the 
court-yard, where he habitually sat. He was reading a large book 
placed on a desk fastened to the arms of his chair. Before one of the 
windows sat Aunt Elisabeth knitting with long wooden needles; 
and in the silence of the room the tick-tack of those needles was 
the only sound heard. 
Renée sat down, ill at ease, unable to move without disturbing 
181 

the severity of the lofty ceiling with a noise of rustling silk. Her lace 
looked a crude white against the dark background of tapestry and 
old-fashioned furniture. M. Béraud du Chatel gazed at her with his 
hands resting on the edge of his reading-desk. Aunt Elisabeth spoke 
of the approaching wedding of Christine, who was about to marry 
the son of a very well-to-do attorney; she had gone shopping with 
an old family-servant; and the good aunt talked on all by herself, 
in her placid voice, knitting unceasingly, gossiping about her house- 
hold affairs, and casting smiling glances at Renée over her spec- 
tacles. 
But Renée became more and more uneasy. The silence of the 
whole house weighed upon her shoulders, and she would have given 
much for the lace of her dress to have been black. Her father’s look 
made her so uncomfortable that she considered Worms really ridicu- 
lous to have thought of such wide flounces. 
“How smart you look, my girl!” said Aunt Elisabeth, suddenly. 
She had not even noticed her niece’s lace before. 
She stopped her needles, and adjusted her spectacles, in order to 
see better. M. Béraud du Chatel gave a faint smile. 
“Tt is rather white,” he said. “A woman must feel very uncom- 
fortable in that on the pavements.” 
“But, father, we don’t go out on foot!” cried Renée, who imme- 
diately regretted this ingenuous utterance. 
The old man made as though to reply. Then he rose, drew up his 
tall stature, and walked slowly up and down, without giving his 
daughter another look. The latter remained quite pale with trepida- 
tion. Every time she exhorted herself to take courage, and sought 
a transition in order to lead up to her request for money, she felt a 
twitching at her heart. 
“We never see you now, father,” she complained. 
“Oh!” replied the aunt, without giving her brother time to open 
his lips, “your father never goes out, except very rarely to go to the 
Jardin des Plantes. And I have to grow angry with him before he 
will do that! He maintains that he loses himself in Paris, that the 
town is no longer fit for him. ... Ah, you would do well to scold 
him !” 
“My husband would be so pleased to see you at our Thursdays 
from time to time,” continued Renée. 
M. Béraud du Chatel took a few steps in silence. Then in a quiet 
voice : 
“Thank your husband for me,” he said. “He seems to be an 
182 

energetic fellow, and I hope for your sake that he conducts his 
business honestly. But our ideas are not the same, and I do not feel 
comfortable in your fine house in the Parc Monceau.” 
Aunt Elisabeth seemed vexed by his reply : 
“How perverse you men are with your politics!” she said merrily. 
“Shall I tell you the truth? Your father is furious with both of you 
because you go to the Tuileries.” 
But the old man shrugged his shoulders, as though to imply that 
his dissatisfaction had much more serious causes. He thoughtfully 
resumed his slow walk. Renée was silent for a moment, with the 
request for the fifty thousand francs on the tip of her tongue. Then 
she was seized with a greater fit of cowardice, kissed her father, 
and went away. 
Aunt Elisabeth accompanied her to the staircase. As they crossed 
the suite of rooms, she continued to chatter in her thin, old voice : 
“You are happy, dear child. I am so pleased to see you looking 
well and handsome; for if your marriage had turned out badly, you 
know, I should have thought myself to blame. 
. 
. 
. Your husband 
loves you, you have all you want, have you not?” 
“Of course,” replied Renée, forcing herself to smile, though feel- 
ing sick at heart. 
The aunt still detained her, her hand on the balustrade of the 
staircase. 
“You see, I have only one fear, lest you should lose your head 
with all this happiness. Be prudent, and above all sell none of your 
property. ... If one day you had a baby, you would have a little 
fortune all ready for it.” 
When Renée was back in her brougham, she heaved a sigh of 
relief. Drops of cold sweat stood on her temples; she wiped them 
off, thinking of the icy dampness of the H6tel Béraud. Then, when 
the brougham rolled into the bright sunshine of the Quai Saint- 
Paul, she remembered the fifty thousand francs, and all her suffer- 
ing was révived, more poignant than before. She who was con- 
sidered so audacious, what a coward she had just been! And yet it 
was a question of Maxime, of his liberty, of their mutual joys! 
Amid the bitter reproaches which she heaped upon herself, an idea 
suddenly occurred to her that put the finishing touch to her despair : 
she ought to have spoken of the fifty thousand francs to her Aunt 
Elisabeth on the stairs. What had she been thinking of? The kind 
woman would perhaps have lent her the money, or at least have 
helped her. She was leaning forward to tell her coachman to drive 
183 

back to the Rue Saint-Louis-en-I’Ile, when she thought she again 
saw the image of her father slowly crossing the solemn darkness of 
the big drawing-room. She would never have the courage to return 
immediately to that room. What should she say to explain this 
second visit? And, at the bottom of her heart, she felt she had no 
longer even the courage to mention the matter to Aunt Elisabeth. 
She told her coachman to drive her to the Rue du Faubourg- 
Poissoniére. 
Mme. Sidonie uttered a cry of delight when she saw her opening 
the discreetly-curtained door of the shop. She was there by accident, 
she was just going out to run to the court where she was suing a 
customer. But she would let judgment go by default, she would 
try again another day; she was so happy that her sister-in-law had 
had the kindness to pay her a little visit at last. Renée smiled with 
an air of embarrassment. Mme. Sidonie positively refused to allow 
her to stay downstairs; she took her up to her room, by way of the 
little staircase, after removing the brass knob from the shop-door. 
She removed and replaced this knob, which was held by a single 
nail, twenty times a day. 
“There, my beauty,” she said, making her sit down on a long- 
chair, “now we can have a nice chat... 
. Just fancy, you came in 
the nick of time. I was coming to see you this evening.” 
Renée, who knew the room, experienced that indefinite feeling 
of uneasiness which a traveller feels on finding that a strip of timber 
has been felled in a favourite landscape. 
“Ah,” she said at last, ““you’ve moved the bed, have you not?” 
“Yes,” the lace-dealer replied, quietly, “one of my customers 
prefers it facing the mantelpiece. It was she too who advised me to 
have red curtains. 
“That’s what I was thinking, the curtains used not to be red... 
. 
A very common colour, red.” 
And she put up her eye-glass, and looked round this room that 
displayed the luxury of a big furnished hotel. On the mantelshelf 
she saw some long hair-pins which had certainly not come from 
Mme. Sidonie’s meagre chignon. In the place where the bed used 
to stand, the wall-paper was all torn, discoloured, and soiled by the 
mattresses. The business-woman had indeed endeavoured to hide 
this eyesore behind the backs of two arm-chairs: 
but these backs 
were rather low, and Renée’s eyes became fixed on this worn strip 
of paper. 
“Have you something to tell me?” she asked. 
184 

“Yes, it’s a whole story,” said Mme. Sidonie, folding her hands, 
with the mien of a gastronome who is about to describe what she 
has had for dinner. “Just think, M. de Saffré has fallen in love with 
the beautiful Madame Saccard. 
. 
. 
. Yes, with your pretty self.” 
Renée did not even make a coquettish gesture. 
“Why,” said she, “you said he was 
so smitten with Mme. 
Michelin.” 
“Oh, that’s all over, over and done with 
. 
. 
. I can prove it to 
you if you like . 
. 
. haven’t you heard that the little Michelin has 
attracted the Baron Gouraud? 
It’s inconceivable. All who know 
the baron are astounded. 
. 
. 
. And now, you know, she is on the 
way to obtain the red riband for her husband? ... Ah, she’s a 
clever woman that. She knows her way about, you can’t teach her 
anything !” 
She said this with an air of admiration not unmingled with regret. 
“But to return to M. de Saffré. .. 
. He seems to have met you at 
an actress’s ball, muffled up in a domino, and he even accuses him- 
self of having rather cavalierly asked you to supper. ... 
Is it true?” 
_ 
The young woman was quite surprised. 
“Perfectly true,” she murmured; 
“but who could have told him?” 
“Wait, he says that he recognised you later on, after you had left 
the room, and that he remembered seeing you go out on Maxime’s 
arm. ... Since that time he has been madly in love with you. It has 
sprouted up in his heart, don’t you see? a fancy. ... He has been to 
see me, to beseech me to make you his apologies... .” 
“Well, tell him I forgive him,” interrupted Renée, carelessly. 
Then, all her anguish returning, she went on : 
“Ah, my kind Sidonie, I am terribly worried. I must positively 
have fifty thousand francs to-morrow morning. I came to talk to 
you about this. You know people who lend money, you told me.” 
The woman of business, offended at the abrupt way in which her 
sister-in-law broke up her recital, made her wait some time for an 
answer. 
“Ves, certainly, only I advise you first of all to look about among 
your friends. 
. 
. 
. Were I in your place I know very well what I 
should do..... I should just simply apply to M. de Saffré.” 
Renée gave a constrained smile. 
“But,” she retorted, “that would be hardly proper, considering 
you pretened that he is so much in love.” 
The old woman looked at her with a stare; then her flaccid face 
melted gently into a smile of affectionate pity. 
185 

“You poor dear,” she murmured, “you’ve been crying; don’t 
deny it, I can see it by your eyes. You must be brave and take life 
as it comes. 
. 
. 
. Now then, let me arrange this little matter for 
you.” 
Renée rose, twisting her fingers, making her gloves crack. And 
she remained standing, completely shaken by a cruel inner struggle. 
She opened her lips, to accept perhaps, when suddenly the bell rang 
lightly in the next room. Mme. Sidonie hastily went out, leaving 
the door ajar, which showed a double row of pianos. Renée next 
heard a man’s step and the stifled sound of a conversation carried 
on in an undertone. She mechanically went and examined more 
closely the yellow streak with which the mattresses had stained the 
wall. This stain disturbed her, made her feel uncomfortable. For- 
getting everything, Maxime, the fifty thousand francs. M. de Saffré, 
she returned to the side of the bed, reflecting: that bed looked much 
better placed as it used to be; some women really had no taste; 
surely, if you went to bed like that, you would have the light in your 
eyes. And vaguely in the depths of her memory she saw rising the 
image of the stranger of the Quai Saint-Paul, her romance in two 
assignations, that chance amour which she had indulged over there, 
where the bed used to stand. The wearing away of the wallpaper 
was all that remained of it. Then the room filled her with uneasi- 
ness, and she lost patience with the hum of voices that still went on 
in the adjoining room. 
When Mme. Sidonie returned, circumspectly, opening and clos- 
ing the door, she made repeated signs with her fingers to induce 
Renée to speak very low. Then, in her ear : 
“You have no idea, this is most fortunate: 
it is M. de Saffré who 
has called.” 
“You haven’t told him, surely, that I was here?” asked Renée, 
uneasily. 
The woman of business seemed surprised, and very innocently 
answered : 
“I did indeed. 
. 
. 
. He is waiting for me to tell him to come in. Of 
course, I said nothing to him of the fifty thousand francs. 
. 
. .” 
Renée, very pale, had drawn herself up as though struck with a 
whip. An infinite pride rose to her heart. The rude creaking of 
boots which she now heard more distinctly in the room next door, 
exasperated her. 
“T am going,” she said, curtly. “Come and open the door for me.” 
Mme. Sidonie tried to smile. 
186 

“Don’t be childish. 
. . 
. I can’t be left with that lad on my hands, 
now that [I’ve hold him you were here. 
. 
. 
. You compromise me, 
really...” 
But Renée had already descended the little staircase. She repeated 
before the closed shop-door : 
“Open it, open it.” 
The lace-dealer had a habit of putting the brass knob in her 
pocket after she had withdrawn it from the door. She wanted to 
continue arguing. At last, seized with anger herself, and displaying 
in the depths of her grey eyes, the sour barrenness of her nature, 
she cried : 
“But what on earth do you want me to tell the man?” 
“That I’m not for sale,” replied Renée, with one foot on the 
pavement. 
And it seemed to her that she heard Madame Sidonie mutter, as 
she banged the door to: “Ah, get out, you jade! you shall pay me 
for this.” 
“My God!” thought she, as she stepped into her brougham, “I 
prefer my husband to that.” 
She drove straight back home. After dinner she asked Maxime 
not to come; she was unwell, she needed rest. And the next day, 
when she handed him the fifteen thousand francs for Sylvia’s 
jeweller, she was embarrassed in the midst of his surprise and his 
questions. Her husband, she said, had had a good stroke of business. 
But from that day forward she was more wayward, she frequently 
changed the hour of the appointments she gave Maxime, and often 
even watched for him in the conservatory to send him away. He 
did not trouble much about these changes of mood; he took pleasure 
in being an obedient thing in the hands of women. What more 
annoyed him was the moral turn which their lovers’-meetings took 
at times. She became quite dismal; and it even happened that she 
had great tears in her eyes. She left off her refrain of “le beau jeune 
homme” in La Belle Héléne, played the hymns she had learnt at 
school, asked her lover if he did not think that sin was punished 
sooner or later. 
“There is no doubt she’s growing old,” thought he. “It will be 
the utmost if she’s amusing for another year or two.” 
The truth was that she was suffering cruelly. She would now have 
preferred to deceive Maxime with M. de Saffré. At Madame 
Sidonie’s she had revolted, she had yielded to instinctive pride, to 
disgust for that coarse bargain. But on the following days, when she 
187 

endured the anguish of adultery, everything within her foundered, 
and she felt herself to be so contemptible that she would have given 
herself to the first man that pushed open the door of the room with 
the pianos. Up to then, the thought of her husband had sometimes 
passed before her, in her incest, like a voluptuous accentuation of 
horror, but now the husband, the man himself, entered into it with 
a brutality that changed her most delicate sensations into intolerable 
pain. She, who found pleasure in the refinement of her sin, and who 
dreamt gladly of a corner of a superhuman paradise where the 
gods enjoyed their own kindred, was now drifting towards vulgar 
debauchery, and making herself the common property of two men. 
In vain did she endeavour to derive enjoyment from her infamy. 
Her lips were still warm with Saccard’s kisses when she offered them 
to Maxime. Her curiosity penetrated to the depth of those accursed 
enjoyments; she went so far as to mingle the two affections, and to 
seek for the son in the embraces of the father. And she emerged 
yet more scared, more bruised from this journey into the unknown 
regions of sin, from this ardent darkness in which she confused her 
two-fold lovers, with terrors that were as the death-rattle of her 
joys. 
She kept this tragedy for herself alone, and redoubled its anguish 
by the fever of her imagination. She would have died rather than 
confess the truth to Maxime. She had an inward fear lest the young 
man might revolt and leave her; above all she had so absolute a 
belief in the monstrousness of her sin and the eternity of her damna- 
tion, that she would rather have crossed the Parc Monceau naked 
than have confessed her shame in a whisper. On the other hand, she 
still remained the scatter-brain who astonished Paris with her eccen- 
tricities. Nervous gaiety seized hold of her, prodigious caprices, 
which were discussed in the newspapers with her name disguised 
under initials. It was at this period that she seriously wanted to 
fight a duel, with pistols, with the Duchesse de Sternich, who had 
purposely, she said, upset a glass of punch over her gown; her 
brother-in-law, the minister, had to speak angrily to her before she 
would relinquish her idea. On another occasion she bet Madame de 
Lauwerens that she would run round the track at Longchamps in 
less than ten minutes, and it was only a question of costume that de- 
terred her. Maxime himself began to be frightened of this head in 
which madness was shooting up, and in which he thought he could 
hear, at night, on the pillow, all the hubbub of a city on heat for 
enjoyment. 
188 

One night they went together to the Thé&tre-Italien. They had 
not even looked at the bill. They wanted to see a great Italian 
actress, Ristori, who was at that time being run after by all Paris, 
and who was so much in fashion that they were forced to take an 
interest in her. The play was Phédre. He remembered his classical 
repertory sufficiently well, and she knew enough Italian, to follow 
the performance. And 
this tragedy even 
gave them a special 
emotion, played in this foreign language whose sonorousness seemed 
to them at times to be a simple orchestral accompaniment to the 
pantomime of the actors. The Hippolyte was a tall, pale fellow, a 
very poor actor, who wept through his part. 
“What an ass!” muttered Maxime. 
But Ristori, with her broad shoulders shaken by sobs, with her 
tragic features and large arms, moved Renée profoundly, Phédre 
was of Pasiphaée’s blood, and she asked herself of whose blood she 
could be, she, the incestuous one of modern time. And she saw 
nothing of the piece save this tall woman dragging across the stage 
the crime of antiquity. In the first act, when Phédre confides her 
‘criminal affection to CGEnone; in the second when, all burning, she 
declares herself to Hippolyte; and later, in the fourth act, when 
the return of Thésée overwhelms her, and she curses herself, in a 
crisis of sombre fury, she filled the house with such a cry of savage 
passion, with so great a yearning for superhuman voluptousness, 
that Renée felt every shudder of her desire and of her remorse pass 
through her own flesh. 
“Wait,” whispered Maxime in her ear, “you will hear Théraméne 
tell his story. What an old fathead !” 
And he muttered in a hollow voice : 
“Scarce had we issued forth from Trcezen’s gates, 
He on his chariot... .” 
But while the old man spoke, Renée had neither eyes nor ears. 
The light from the roof blinded her, a stifling heat came to her 
from all those pale faces stretched out towards the stage. The 
monologue continued, interminable. She was back in the hot-house, 
under the ardent foliage, and she dreamt that her husband came in 
and surprised her in the arms of his son. She suffered hideously, she 
was losing consciousness, when the last death-rattle of Phédre, re- 
penting and dying in the convulsions of poison, made her re-open 
her eyes. The curtain fell. Would she have the strength to poison 
189 

herself some day? How mean and shameful was her tragedy by the 
side of the idyl of antiquity! 
And while Maxime fastened her 
opera-cloak under her chin, she stil! heard Ristori’s rough voice 
growling behind her, and CEnone’s complacent murmur replying. 
In the brougham Maxime did all the talking. He thought 
tragedy “disgusting” 
as a rule, and preferred the plays at the 
Bouffes. Nevertheless Phédre was pretty “thick”. He felt interested 
because. ... And he squeezed Renée’s hand to complete his thought. 
Then a funny notion came into his head, and he yielded to the 
impulse to make a joke. 
“T was wise,’ he murmured, “not to go too near the sea at 
Trouville.” 
Renée, lost in the depths of her melancholy dream, was silent. 
He had to repeat his sentence. 
“Why 
?” she asked, astonished, unable to understand. 
“Why, the monster...” 
And he tittered. The jest froze Renée. Everything was becoming 
unhinged in her head. Ristori was no longer anything but a great 
buffoon who pulled up her peplon and stuck out her tongue at the 
audience like Blanche Muller in the third act of La Belle Héléne, 
Théraméne danced a can-can, and Hippolyte ate bread and jam, 
and stuffed his fingers up his nose. 
When a more piercing remorse than usual made Renée shudder, 
she felt an insolent reaction. What was her crime after all, and why 
should she blush? Did she not tread on greater infamies every day? 
Did she not rub shoulders at the ministries, at the Tuileries, every- 
where, with wretches like herself, who wore millions on their bodies 
and were adored on both knees? And she thought of the shame- 
ful intimacy of Adeline d’Espanet and Suzanne Haffner, at which 
one smiled now and again at the Empress’s Mondays. And she re- 
called the traffic driven by Madame de Lauwerens, whose praises 
were sung by husbands for her propriety, her orderly conduct, her 
promptness in paying her bills. She called up the names of Madame 
Daste, Madame Teissiére, the Baronne de Meinhold, those creatures 
who let their lovers pay for their luxuries, and who were quoted in 
fashionable society as shares are quoted on the Bourse. Madame de 
Guende was so stupid and so beautifully made, that she had three 
superior officers for her lovers at the same time, and was unable to 
tell one from the other, because of their uniform; wherefore that 
demon of a Louise said that she first made them strip to their shirts 
so as to know which of the three she was talking to. The Comtesse 
190 

Vanska for her part could remember court-yards in which she had 
sung, pavements on which she had been seen, dressed in calico, 
prowling along like a she-wolf. Each of these women had her 
shame, her open, triumphant sore. And lastly, overtopping them all, 
uprose the Duchesse de Sternich, old, ugly, worn-out, with the halo 
of a night passed in the Imperial bed; she typified official vice, from 
which she derived as it were a majesty of debauch and a sovereignty 
over this band of illustrious prostitutes. 
Then the incestuous woman grew accustomed to her sin as to a 
gala-dress whose stiffness had at first inconvenienced her. She fol- 
lowed the fashions of the period, she dressed and undressed as others 
did. She ended by believing herself to live in a world above 
common morality, in which the senses became refined and de- 
veloped, and in which one was allowed to strip one’s self naked for 
the benefit of all Olympus. Sin became a luxury, a flower set in the 
hair, a diamond fastened on the brow. And she again saw, as a 
justification and a redemption, the Emperor passing on the general’s 
arm through the two rows of bowing shoulders. 
- 
One man alone, Baptiste, her husband’s valet, continued to dis- 
quiet her. Since Saccard had been showing himself gallant, this tall, 
pale, dignified valet seemed to walk around her with the solemnity 
of mute disapprobation. He never looked at her, his cold glances 
passed higher, above her chignon, with the modesty of a church- 
beadle refusing to defile his eyes by allowing them to rest on the 
hair of a sinner. She imagined that he knew everything, she would 
have purchased his silence had she dared. Then she became filled 
with uneasiness, she felt a sort of confused respect whenever she 
met Baptiste, and she said to herself that all the respectability of her 
household had withdrawn and concealed itself under this lackey’s 
dress-coat. 
One day she asked Céleste : 
“Does Baptiste make jokes in the kitchen? Have you ever heard 
any stories about him, has he a mistress?” 
“What a question !” was all the maid replied. 
“Come, has he made love to you?” 
“Eh! but he never looks at women. We hardly ever see him... 
. 
He is always either with monsieur or in the stables. 
. 
. 
. He says 
he’s very fond of horses.” 
Renée was irritated at this respectability. She insisted, she would 
have liked to be able to despise her servants. Although she had 
191 

taken a liking for Céleste, she would have rejoiced to hear of her 
having lovers. 
“But you yourself, Céleste, don’t you think Baptiste is a good- 
looking fellow ?” 
“TI, madame!” cried the maid, with the stupefied air of a person 
who has just been told of something prodigious, “oh! 
I have very 
different ideas in my head. I don’t want a man. I have my own 
plan, you will see later. I’m not a blockhead, believe me.” 
Renée could not draw anything more definite from her. Her 
cares, besides, increased. Her rackety life, her mad escapades, met 
with numerous obstacles which it became necessary for her to sur- 
mount, however much she might sometimes be bruised by them. 
It was thus that Louise de Mareuil one day rose up between her 
and Maxime. She was not jealous of “the hunchback,” as she scorn- 
fully called her; she knew that she was condemned by the doctors, 
and could never believe that Maxime would marry an ugly creature 
like that, even at the price of a dowry of a million. In her fall she 
had retained a middle-class simplicity with regard to people she 
loved; though she despised herself, she readily believed them to 
possess superior and very estimable natures. But whilst rejecting the 
possibility of a marriage which would have seemed to her a sinister 
piece of debauchery and a theft, she felt pained at the familiarity 
and intimacy of the young people. When she spoke of Louise to 
Maxime, he laughed with sheer satisfaction, he repeated the child’s 
sayings to her, he told her : 
“She calls me her little man, you know, the chit.” 
And he took things so easily that she did not venture to explain 
to him that this chit was seventeen, and that their way of pulling 
each other about, their eagerness, when they met in a drawing-room, 
to seek a shady corner from which to make fun of everybody, 
grieved her and spoilt her most enjoyable evenings. 
An incident occurred which imparted a singular character to the 
situation. Renée often felt a need of bravado, she had whims of un- 
reasoning audacity. She dragged Maxime behind a curtain, behind 
a door, and kissed him at the risk of being seen. One Thursday even- 
ing, when the buttercup drawing-room was full of people, she was 
seized with the brilliant idea of calling the young man to her, as he 
sat talking with Louise; she came towards him, from the heart of 
the conservatory where she was standing, and suddenly kissed him 
on the mouth, between two clumps of shrubbery, thinking herself 
sufficiently concealed. But Louise had followed Maxime. When the 
192 

lovers raised their heads, they saw her, a few steps away, looking 
at them with a strange smile, with no blush nor sign of astonishment, 
but with the quiet appreciative air of a companion in vice, knowing 
enough to understand and appreciate a kiss of that sort. 
Maxime felt really alarmed that day, and it was Renée who 
showed herself indifferent and almost light-hearted. That put an 
end to it. It was impossible now for the hunchback to take her lover 
from her. She thought to herself : 
“T should have done it on purpose. She knows now that ‘her 
little man’ belongs to me.” 
Maxime felt reassured when he again found Louise as frolicsome 
and entertaining as before. He pronounced her to be “‘very smart, 
a very good sort.” And that was all. 
Renée had reason to be disturbed. Saccard had for some time 
been thinking of his son’s marriage with Mademoiselle de Mareuil. 
There was a dowry of a million there which he did not mean to 
let out of his reach, intending later on to lay hands on the money 
himself. Louise, in the beginning of the winter, had stayed in bed 
for nearly three weeks, and Saccard was so afraid of seeing her die 
before the contemplated wedding that he resolved to have the 
children married forthwith. He did indeed think them a trifle 
young, but then the doctors feared the month of March for the 
consumptive girl. On his side M. de Mareuil was in a delicate 
position. At the last poll he had at length succeeded in being re- 
turned as deputy. Only the Corps Législatif had just quashed his 
election, which was the great scandal of the revisions. This election 
was quite a mock-heroic poem, on which the newspapers lived for a 
month. M. Hupel de la Noue, the préfet of the department, had 
displayed such vigour that the other candidates had been prevented 
even from placarding their election addresses or distributing their 
voting-papers. Acting on his advice, M. de Mareuil had covered 
the constituency with tables at which the peasants ate and drank 
for a week. He promised moreover, a railway line, a new bridge, and 
three churches, and on the eve of the poll he forwarded to the 
influential electors portraits of the Emperor and Empress, two large 
engravings covered with glass and set in gilt frames. This gift was 
an enormous success, and the majority was overwhelming. But 
~when the Chamber, in presence of the outburst of laughter of the 
whole of France, found itself compelled to send M. de Mareuil 
back to his electors, the minister flew into a terrible passion with 
the préfet and the unfortunate candidate, who had really shown 
ie 
193 
| 

themselves to be too “hot”. 
He even spoke of selecting another 
name as the official candidate. M. de Mareuil was thunderstruck; 
he had spent three hundred thousand francs on the department, 
he owned large estates in it in which he was bored, and he would 
lose money if he sold them. And so he came to beseech his dear 
colleague to pacify his brother, and to promise him in his name an 
absolutely decorous election. It was on this occasion that Saccard 
again spoke of the children’s marriage, and that the two parents 
definitely decided upon it. 
When Maxime was sounded on this subject, he felt embarrassed. 
Louise amused him, the dowry tempted him still more. He said yes, 
he agreed to all the dates that Saccard proposed, so as to avoid the 
tedium of an argument. But to himself he confessed that, unfortu- 
nately, things would not be arranged so prettily nor so easily. Renée 
would never consent; she would cry, she would make scenes; she 
was capable of creating some great scandal that would astound 
Paris. It was very unpleasant. She frightened him now. She watched 
him with perturbing eyes, she possessed him so despotically that he 
thought he could feel claws diging into his shoulder when she 
laid her white hand upon it. Her turbulence turned to roughness, 
and there was a cracked sound beneath her laughter. He really 
feared that she would one night go mad in his arms. In her remorse, 
the fear of being surprised, the cruel joys of adultery, did not mani- 
fest themselves as in other women in tears and dejection, but in 
more pronounced eccentricity, in a still more irresistible longing 
for racket. And amid her growing distraction, one began to hear a 
rattling, the breaking-up of this adorable and bewildering machine, 
which was going to pieces. 
Maxime patiently awaited an occasion which would rid him of 
this irksome mistress. He repeated once more that they had been 
foolish. Though their intimacy had at first lent an additional volup- 
tuousness to their amorous relationship, it now prevented him from 
breaking off, as he certainly would have done with any other 
woman. He would have stayed away; that was his method of end- 
ing his amours, so as to avoid all effort or dispute. But he felt him- 
self unequal to an explosion, and he still even willingly forgot him- 
self in Renée’s embraces: 
she was motherly, she paid for him, she 
was ready to help him out of a difficulty whenever a creditor lost 
patience. Then the thought of Louise returned to him, the thought 
of the dowry of a million, and made him reflect, even amid Renée’s 
194 

kisses, that “this was all very fine, but it was not serious and must 
come to an end some time or other.” 
One night Maxime was so rapidly cleaned out at the house of a 
lady where cards were often played 
till daylight, that he ex- 
perienced one of those fits of dumb anger common to the gambler 
whose pockets have been emptied. He would have given anything in 
the world to be able to fling a few more louis on the table. He 
took up his hat, and, with the mechanical step of a man impelled 
by a fixed idea, went to the Parc Monceau, opened the little gate, 
and found himself in the conservatory. It was past midnight. Renée 
had told him not to come that night. When she now closed her 
door to him, she no longer even sought to invent an explanation, 
and he thought only of making the most of his holiday. He did 
not clearly remember Renée’s injunction until he had reached the 
glass door of the small drawing-room which was closed. As a rule, 
when he was expected, Renée undid the fastening of this door 
beforehand. 
“Bah!” he thought, seeing a light in the dressing-room window, 
“T will whistle and she will come down. I shan’t disturb her, and 
if she has a few louis I’ll go away at once.” 
And he whistled softly. He often, for that matter, used this signal 
to announce his arrival. But this evening he whistled several times 
in vain. He grew obstinate, whistled more loudly, not wishing to 
abandon his idea of an immediate loan. At last he saw the glass 
door opened with infinite precaution, though he had heard no 
sound of footsteps. Renée appeared in the twilight of the hot-house, 
her hair undone, almost without clothes, as though she were just 
going to bed. Her feet were bare. She pushed him towards one of 
the arbours, descending the steps and treading on the gravel of the 
pathways without seeming to feel the cold or the roughness of the 
ground. 
“How stupid of you to whistle so loudly,” she murmured with 
restrained anger. 
. 
. 
. “I told you not to come. What do you 
want ?” 
“Oh, let’s go up,” said Maxime, surprised at this reception. “I 
will tell you upstairs. You will catch cold.” 
But as he made a step forward she held him back, and he then 
noticed that she was horribly pale. She was bowed with a silent 
terror. Her petticoats, the lace of her underclothing, hung down 
like tragic shreds upon her trembling skin. 
He examined her with growing astonishment. 
195 

“What is the matter? Are you ill?” 
And he instinctively raised his eyes and glanced through the glass 
panes of the conservatory at the dressing-room window where he 
had seen a light. 
“But there’s a man in your room!” he said suddenly. 
“No, no, it’s not true,” she stammered, beseeching, distraught. 
“Nonsense, my dear, I can see his shadow.” 
Then for a minute they remained there, face to face, not knowing 
what to say to one another. Renée’s teeth chattered with terror, and 
it seemed to her as if buckets of ice-cold water were being emptied 
over her feet. Maxime felt more annoyance than he would have 
believed; but he still remained sufficiently self-possessed to reflect, 
and to say to himself that the opportunity was a good one for 
breaking off the connection. 
“You won’t make me believe that Céleste wears a top-coat,” he 
continued. “If the panes of the conservatory were not so thick, I 
might perhaps recognise the gentleman.” 
She pushed him deeper into the gloom of the foliage, and, seized 
with a growing terror, said, with clasped hands : 
“T beg of you, Maxime. 
. 
But all the young man’s mischievousness was aroused, a fierce 
sense of mischief that sought for vengeance. He was too puny to 
find relief in anger. Spite compressed his lips; and instead of 
striking her, as he had at first felt inclined to do, he rejoined in a 
strident voice : 
“You should have told me, I should not have come to disturb 
you. ... That happens every day, that people cease to care for one 
another. I was beginning to have enough of it myself. . . 
. Come, 
don’t grow impatient. [ll let you go up again; but not till you 
have told me the gentleman’s name. .. .” 
“Never, never 
!’? murmured Renee, forcing back her tears. 
“It’s not to challenge him, I only want to know. 
. 
. 
. His name, 
tell me his name quick, and [’ll go.” 
He was holding her by the wrists, and he looked at her with his 
bad laugh. And she struggled, distraught, refusing to open her lips, 
lest the name he asked for should escape her. 
“We shall make a noise soon, then you'll be much better off. 
What are you afraid of? we’re good friends, are we not? ... I want 
to know who replaces me, that’s fair enough. ... Wait, let me assist 
you. It’s M. de Mussy, whose grief has touched you?” 
196 

~ 
She made no reply. She bowed her head beneath this interro- 
gatory. 
“Not M. de Mussy? 
. .. The Duc de Rozan, then? Really, not 
he either? . 
. 
. The Comte de Chibray, perhaps? Not even he?.. 
.” 
He stopped, he reflected. 
“The deuce, I can’t think of anybody. .. 
. It’s not my father, 
after what you told me? ...” 
Renée started as though she had been scalded, and in a hollow 
voice : 
“No, you know he no longer comes to me. I wouldn’t allow it, 
it would be too degrading.” 
“Then who is it?” 
And he tightened his grasp on her wrists The poor woman 
struggled a few moments longer. 
“Oh, Maxime, if you knew! ... And yet I can’t tell you. 
. 
. 
Then, conquered, crushed, looking up with affright at the light 
in the window : 
“It’s M. de Saffré,” she stammered, in a whisper. 
Maxime, who had taken delight in his cruel pastime, turned 
extremely pale before the avowal which he had evoked with so 
much persistence. He was vexed at the unexpected pain this man’s 
name caused him. He violently threw back Renée’s wrists, came up 
to her, and said to her, full in her face, between his clenched teeth : 
“Look here, if you want to know, you’rea...!” 
He said the word. And he was going away when she ran to him, 
sobbing, and took him in her arms, murmured words of love, appeals 
for forgiveness, swore to him that she still adored him, and that 
she would explain everything the next day. But he disengaged him- 
self, and banging the door of the conservatory, replied : 
“No, no, no! it’s over I’ve had quite enough of it.” 
She remained crushed. She watched him crossing the garden. 
The trees of the hot-house seemed to be revolving around her. 
Then she slowly dragged her bare feet over the gravel of the path- 
ways, Climbed up the steps, her skin mottled with cold, she still more 
tragical in the disorder of her lace. Upstairs she said, in reply to her 
husband’s questions, who was waiting for her, that she thought she 
would have been able to remember where a little memorandum- 
book might have got to that had been lost since the morning. And 
when she was in bed, she suddenly felt an infinite despair when 
she reflected that she ought to have told Maxime that his father 
197 
” 

had come in with her and had followed her into her room in order 
to discuss some question of money with her. 
It was on the next day that Saccard resolved to bring to a head 
the Charonne business. His wife belonged to him; he had just felt 
her soft and inert in his hands, like a yielding thing. On the other 
hand the direction of the Boulevard de Prince-Eugéne was about to 
be. settled, and it was necessary that Renée should be despoiled 
before the news got about of the approaching expropriation. Sac- 
card put an artist’s love of his work into this piece of business; he 
watched his plan ripen with devotion, and set his traps with the 
refinement of a sportsman who takes a special pride in catching his 
game skilfully. In his case it was simply the self-satisfaction of an 
expert gamester, of a man who derives a peculiar enjoyment from 
illgotten gains; he wanted to buy the ground for an old song, and 
was quite ready then to give his wife a hundred thousand francs’ 
worth of jewellery in the exaltation of his triumph. 
The simplest 
operations became complicated so soon as he touched them, and 
turned into sombre tragedies: 
he became impassioned, he would 
have beaten his father for a five-franc piece. And afterwards he 
scattered his gold right royally. 
But before obtaining from Renée the transfer of her share of the 
property, he had the foresight to go and sound Larsonneau as to 
the blackmailing intentions of which he suspected him. His intuition 
saved him in this instance. The expropriation-agent had thought, 
on his side, that the fruit was now ripe and waiting to be gathered. 
When Saccard walked into the office in the Rue de Rivoli, he 
found his associate overcome, giving signs of the most violent 
despair. 
“Ah, my friend,’ murmured the latter, taking hold of Saccard’s 
hands, “we are lost. . 
. 
. I was just coming round to you to discuss 
the best way out of this terrible scrape. .. .” 
While he wrung his hands, and endeavoured to force out a sob, 
Saccard noticed that he had been engaged in signing letters as he 
came in, and that the signatures were admirably firm. He looked 
at him calmly, and then said : 
“Pooh, what has happened, then ?” 
But the other did not at once reply; he threw himself into his 
armchair in front of his writing-table, and there, with his elbows 
on his blotting-book, and his forehead between his hands, furiously 
shook his head. At last, in a hollow voice : 
“They have stolen the ledger, I tell you... .” 
198 

-And he told how one of his clerks, a rogue fit for the galleys, had 
abstracted a large number of books, among which was the famous 
ledger. The worst of it was that the thief had realised to what use 
he could put that book, and would only sell it back again for a 
hundred thousand francs. 
Saccard reflected. The story struck him as altogether too clumsy. 
Obviously Larsonneau did not at heart much care whether he 
believed it or not. He simply sought a pretext for giving him to 
understand that he wanted a hundred thousand francs out of the 
Charonne affair; and in fact that on this condition he would restore 
the compromising papers in his possession. The bargain seemed too 
dear to Saccard. He would not have minded allowing his ex-col- 
league a share; but this ambush prepared for him, this vain attempt 
to dupe him, irritated him. On the other hand he was not quite 
easy in his mind; he knew his man, and he knew him to be quite 
capable of carrying the documents to his brother the minister, who 
would certainly have paid him to prevent any scandal. 
“The devil!” he muttered, sitting down, in his turn, “that’s an 
_ 
ugly business. 
. 
. 
. And could I see the rogue in question?” 
“J will send for him,” said Larsonneau. 
“He lives close by, in 
the Rue Jean-Lantier.” 
Ten minutes had not elapsed when a short young man, squint- 
eyed, pale-haired, with a face covered with red patches, entered 
softly, taking care that the door should make no noise. He was 
dressed in a badly-cut black frock-coat, too large for him and 
horribly threadbare. He stood at a respectful distance, watching 
Saccard out of the corner of his eye, calmly. Larsonneau, addressing 
him as Baptistin, submitted him to a series of questions to which he 
replied in monosyllables without being in the least disconcerted; 
and he received with complete indifference the epithets of thief, 
swindler, and scoundrel, with which his employer thought fit to 
accompany each of his questions. 
Saccard admired the wretch’s coolness. At one moment 
the 
expropriation-agent flew from his chair as though to strike him; 
and he contented himself with taking a step backwards, squinting 
with greater humility. 
“That will do, leave him alone,” said the financier. 
. 
. 
. “So, 
monsieur, you ask a hundred thousand francs to give up those 
papers?” 
3) 
“Yes, a hundred thousand francs,” replied the young man. 
And he went away. Larsonneau seemed unable to calm him- 
self. 
199 

“Ugh! what a reptile!” he stuttered. “Did you see his deceitful 
looks? 
. 
. 
. Those fellows have a timid look, but they’d murder a 
man for twenty francs.” 
But Saccard interrupted him and said : 
“Bah! he’s nothing to be afraid of. I think we shall be able to 
make terms with him. 
. 
. 
. 
I came to see you about a much more 
distressing matter. 
.. 
. You were right to distrust my wife, my dear 
friend. Try and realise that she wants to sell her share in the 
property to M. Haffner. She needs money, she says. Her friend 
Suzanne must have egged her on.” 
The other abruptly ceased his lamentations; he listened, rather 
pale, adjusting his stand-up collar, which had become bent during 
his anger. 
“This transfer,” continued Saccard, “means ruin to our expecta- 
tions. If M. Haffner becomes your co-partner, not only will our 
profits be compromised, but I am dreadfully afraid we shall find 
ourselves in a very unpleasant position in regard to that fastidious 
person, who will insist on examining the accounts.” 
The expropriation-agent began walking up and down with an 
agitated step, his patent-leather boots creaking on the carpet. 
“You see,” he muttered, “in what a position one puts oneself 
to oblige people! 
. 
. 
. But, my dear fellow, in your place I should 
absolutely prevent my wife from doing anything so foolish. 
I 
would rather beat her.” 
“Ah, my friend! .. .” said the financier, with a cunning smile, “TI 
have no more power over my wife than you seem to have over 
that low scoundrel of a Baptistin.” 
Larsonneau stopped short before Saccard, who went on smiling, 
and glanced up at him with a penetrating look. Then he resumed 
his walk to and fro, but with a slow and measured step. He went 
up to a mirror, pulled up the bow of his cravat, and walked on 
again, regaining his elegant manner. And suddenly : 
“Baptistin !” he cried. 
The little young man with a squint came in, but through an- 
other door. He no longer carried a hat, but twisted a pen between 
his fingers. 
“Go and fetch the ledger,” said Larsonneau to him. 
And when he was gone, he discussed the amount they were to 
give him. 
“Do this for my sake,” he ended by saying, quite bluntly. 
Then Saccard consented to give thirty thousand francs out of 
200 

the future profits of the Charonne undertaking. He considered 
that he had escaped cheaply from the usurer’s gloved hands. The 
latter had the promise made out to his name, keeping up the 
pretence to the end, saying that he would account for the thirty 
thousand francs to the young man. It was with a laugh of relief 
that Saccard burnt the ledger in the flames of the fire, page by page. 
Then, this operation over, he shook Larsonneau vigorously by the 
hand, and left him, saying : 
“You are going to Laure’s to-night, are you not? 
. 
. 
. Look out 
for me. I shall have settled everything with my wife; we shall make 
our final arrangements.” 
Laure d’Aurigny, who often changed her address, was at that 
time living in a large apartment on the Boulevard Haussmann, 
opposite the Chapelle Expiatoire. She had taken to having a day 
every week, like the ladies in the real world. It enabled her to bring 
together at the same time all the men who saw her, separately, 
during the week. Aristide Saccard exulted in these Tuesday even- 
_ 
Ings; he was the acknowledged protector; and he turned away his 
head, with a vacuous laugh, whenever the mistress of the house 
deceived him in the doorways by granting an assignation for the 
same night to one of those gentlemen. He stayed till all the rest had 
gone, lit another cigar, talked business, joked a moment about the 
gentleman who was dancing attendance in the street, while waiting 
for him to go, and then, after calling Laure “his dear child” and 
giving her a little pat on the cheek, he quietly went out by one way 
while the gentleman came in by another. The secret treaty of 
alliance, which had consolidated Saccard’s credit and provided the 
d’Aurigny with two sets of furniture in one month, continued to 
amuse them. But Laure wanted a finale to this comedy. This finale, 
arranged beforehand, was to consist in a public rupture, in favour 
of some idiot who would pay a heavy price for the right of becom- 
ing the serious protector and of being known as such to all Paris. 
The idiot was forthcoming. The Duc de Rozan, tired of wearying 
the women of his own set to no purpose, dreamt of acquiring the 
reputation of a debauchee, in order to lend some relief to his 
insipid personality. He was an assiduous visitor at Laure’s Tuesdays, 
and had conquered her by his absolute innocence. Unfortunately, 
although thirty-five years of age, he was still dependent upon his 
mother, so much so that the most he could dispose of was some ten 
louis at a time. On the evenings when Laure deigned to take his 
ten louis, pitying herself, talking of the hundred thousand francs 
G* 
201 

she stood in need of, he sighed, he promised to give it her on the 
day when he should be his own master. Thereupon she conceived 
the bright idea of causing him to make friends with Larsonneau, 
one of the familiars of the house. The two men breakfasted together 
at Tortoni’s; and at dessert Larsonneau, while describing his love 
affair with a delicious Spaniard, professed to know some money- 
lenders; but he strongly advised Rozan never to fall into their 
clutches. This disclosure excited the duc, who ended by wringing 
a promise from his good friend that he would interest himself in 
“his little affair.” He took so practical an interest in it that he was 
to bring the money on the very evening when Saccard had arranged 
to meet him at Laure’s. 
When Larsonneau entered the d’Aurigny’s great white-and-gold 
drawing-room, there had arrived only five or six women, who 
seized his hands and hung round his neck with a great display of 
affection. They called him “that big Lar!” a caressing diminutive 
invented by Laure. And he replied, in fluted tones : 
“They, there, my turtle-doves; you'll crush my hat.” 
They calmed down, and gathered close round him on a couch, 
while he told them about a stomach-ache of Sylvia’s with whom 
he had supped the night before. Then, taking a bag of sweets from 
the pocket of his dress-coat, he handed round some burnt almonds. 
But Laure came in from her bedroom, and as many gentlemen were 
arriving, she drew Larsonneau into a boudoir at one end of the 
drawing-room, from which it was separated by a double set of 
hangings. 
“Have you the money?” she asked, when they were alone. 
She addressed him in the second person singular on important 
occasions. Larsonneau made no reply, but bowed humorously, and 
tapped the inside pocket of his coat. 
“Oh, that big Lar!” murmured the young woman, enchanted. 
And she seized him round the waist and kissed him. 
“Wait,” she said, “I want the curl-papers at once. 
. 
. 
. Rozan is 
in my room, I will fetch him.” 
But he held her back, and kissing her on the shoulders in his 
turn : 
“You know what commission I asked of you?” 
“Why, yes, you great stupid, that’s all right.” 
She returned with Rozan. Larsonneau was dressed more cor- 
rectly than the duc, with better fitting gloves and a more artistic 
cravat. They touched hands carelessly, and talked of the races of 
202 

two days ago, when one of their friends had run a loser. Laure 
stamped about. 
“Come, never mind all that, dear,” she said to Rozan, “that big 
Lar has the money, you know. We had better settle up.” 
Larsonneau pretended to remember. 
“Ah, yes, that’s true,” he said, “I have the amount. ... But how 
much wiser you would have been to have listened to me, old chap! 
To think that those rogues asked me fifty per cent! 
. 
. 
. However, 
abd 
I agreed at any cost, as you told me it made no difference. 
. 
. 
. 
Laure d’Aurigny had procured some bill-stamps during the day. 
But when it became a question of a pen and ink, she looked at the 
two men with an air of consternation, doubting whether she had 
such a thing in the house. She proposed to go and look in the 
kitchen, when Larsonneau took from his pocket, the same pocket 
that held the bag of sweets, two marvels, a silver penholder that 
screwed out, and an inkstand in steel and ebony, finished off as 
daintily as a trinket. And as Rozan sat down : 
_ 
“Make the notes payable to me,” he said. “You understand, I 
did not want to compromise you. We will settle that between our- 
selves. 
. 
. 
. Six bills of twenty-five thousand francs each, see?” 
Laure counted the “curl-papers” at a corner of the table. Rozan 
did not even see them. When he had signed, and raised his head, 
they had disappeared in the woman’s pocket. But she came up to 
him and kissed him on both cheeks, to his evident delight. Larson- 
neau watched them philosophically as he folded up the bills, ana 
replaced the inkstand and the penholder in his pocket. 
Laure was still with her arms round Rozan’s neck, when Aristide 
Saccard lifted a corner of the door-hangings. 
“That’s right, don’t mind me,” he said, laughing. 
The duc blushed. But Laure went and shook hands with the 
financier, exchanging a wink of intelligence with him. She was 
radiant. 
“It’s done, my dear,” she said; “I warned you. You’re not very 
angry with me?” 
Saccard shrugged his shoulders good-naturedly. He pulled back 
the hangings, and standing aside to allow Laure and the duc to 
pass, he cried, in the shrill voice of a gentleman-usher : 
“Monsieur the duc, madame the duchesse !” 
This joke met with immense success. The newspapers printed it 
the next day, giving Laure d’Aurigny’s real name, and describing 
the two men by very transparent initials. The rupture between 
203 

Aristide Saccard and the fat Laure caused even more stir than their 
pretended love-affair. 
Meantime Saccard had let fall the curtain on the burst of merri- 
ment which his joke had occasioned in the drawing-room. 
“Eh! what a jolly girl!” he said, turning towards Larsonneau. 
“And so depraved! ... It’s you, you scamp, who get the most out 
of all this. What are you to have?” 
But the other protested with smiles; and he pulled down his 
shirt-cuffs, which were working up. At last he came and sat down 
near the door on a couch to which Saccard beckoned him. 
“Come here, I don’t want to confess you, dash it all! ... Let’s 
get to serious business, old chap. I had a long conversation with my 
wife to-night. ... It’s all settled.” 
‘Does she consent to transfer her share?” asked Larsonneau. 
“Yes, but it was not without difficulty. 
.. 
. Women are so obsti- 
nate! You know my wife had promised an old aunt of hers not to 
sell out. There was no end to her scruples. 
. 
. 
. Fortunately I had 
a quite unanswerable story ready.” 
He rose to light a cigar at the candle which Laure had left on 
the table, and returning, stretched himself at his ease on the 
couch : 
“I told my wife,” he continued, “that you were completely 
ruined. 
. 
. 
. You had gambled on the Bourse, squandered your 
money on women, plunged into stupid speculations: 
in short, you 
are on the verge of a terrible bankruptcy. 
. 
. 
. I even gave her to 
understand that I did not consider you perfectly honest... 
. Then 
I explained to her that the Charonne affair would be swallowed up 
in your disaster, and that the best would be for her to accept the 
proposal you had made me to release her and to buy her out for 
an old song, no doubt.” 
“I don’t call that clever,” muttered the expropriation-agent. “Do 
you think your wife will believe such rot as that?” 
Saccard smiled. He was in one of his communicative moods. 
“How simple you are, my dear fellow!” he resumed. “What has 
the plot of the story to do with it? It’s the details, the gesture, the 
accent: 
that’s the thing. Call Rozan over, and I bet I persuade 
him it’s broad daylight. And my wife has no more brains than 
Rozan. 
. 
. 
. I gave her a glimpse of an abyss. She has no suspicion of 
the coming expropriation. As she expressed surprise that in the 
midst of a catastrophe you could think of taking over a still heavier 
burden, I told her that she no doubt stood in the way of some 
204 

ugly trick you proposed to play your creditors. 
. 
. 
. At last I 
advised her to consent, as being the only way to avoid being mixed 
up in endless lawsuits and to get some money out of her property.” 
Larsonneau 
still thought the story rather clumsy. His own 
method was less melodramatic; each of his transactions was put 
together and unravelled with all the elegance of a drawing-room 
comedy. 
“Personally, 
I should have thought of something different,” he 
said. “However, everyone has his own system. 
. 
. 
. So all we have 
to do now is to pay up.” 
“It is on this subject,” replied Saccard, “that I want to come to 
an arrangement with you. .. 
. To-morrow I will take the deed of 
transfer to my wife, and she will only have to send you this deed 
in order to receive the stipulated price 
. 
. 
. I prefer to avoid an 
interview.” 
As a matter of fact he had never allowed Larsonneau to visit 
them on an intimate footing. He did not ask him to the house, and 
he went with him to Renée whenever it was absolutely necessary 
for the two partners to meet; that had happened thrice. He nearly 
always acted with a power of attorney from his wife, not seeing 
the use of allowing her to know too much of his affairs. 
He opened his pocket-book, and added : 
“Here are the two hundred thousand francs’ worth of bills 
accepted by my wife; you must give her those in payment, and add 
one hundred thousand francs, which I will bring you to-morrow 
in the course of the morning. .. 
. I am ruining myself, my dear 
friend. This business will cost me a fortune.” 
“But that,’ observed the expropriation-agent, “will only make 
three hundred thousand francs. 
. 
. 
. Will the receipt be made out 
for that sum?” 
“A receipt for three hundred thousand francs!” rejoined Sac- 
card, laughing. “I should think so! We should be in a nice fix 
later on. According to our inventories, the property must now be 
estimated at two million five hundred thousand francs. The receipt 
will be for half that, of course.” 
“Your wife will never sign it.” 
“Yes, she will. I tell you it’s all right. 
. 
. 
. Why, I told her it 
was your first condition. You hold a pistol to our heads, don’t you 
see, with your bankruptcy? And it is in that matter that I pre- 
tended to doubt your honesty and accused you of wishing to cheat 
205 

your creditors... 
. Do you think my wife understands a word of 
all that?” 
Larsonneau shook his head and murmured : 
“No matter, you ought to have thought of something simpler.” 
“But my story is simplicity itself!” said Saccard, in great astonish- 
ment. “Where the devil do you find it complicated ?” 
He was quite unconscious of the incredible number of threads 
with which he interwove the most ordinary piece of business. He 
derived a real joy from the cock-and-bull story he had just told 
Renée; and what enraptured him was the impudence of the lie, 
the heaping up of impossibilities, the astonishing complication of 
the plot. He could have had the building-land long ago had he 
not worked out all this drama; but he would have found less enjoy- 
ment in obtaining it easily. He set to work, on the contrary, with 
the utmost naiveté to make a whole financial melodrama out of 
the Charonne speculation. 
He rose, and taking Larsonneau’s 
arm, walked towards 
the 
drawing-room. 
“You have quite understood me, have you not? Be content to 
follow my instructions, and later on you’ll applaud me. .. 
. I say, 
my dear fellow, you ought not to wear yellow gloves, they spoil 
the look of your hands.” 
The expropriation-agent only smiled and murmured : 
“Oh, gloves have their advantages, my dear master: 
you can 
touch anything without being defiled.” 
As they entered the drawing-room, Saccard was surprised and 
somewhat alarmed to find Maxime on the other side of the hang- 
ings. The young man was seated on a couch beside a blonde lady 
who was telling him, in a monotonous voice, a long story, her own 
no doubt. He had, in point of fact, overheard his father’s conversa- 
tion with Larsonneau. The two accomplices seemed to him a pair 
of cunning dogs. Still annoyed by Renée’s betrayal, he felt a 
cowardly pleasure in learning of the theft of which she was to be 
the victim. It avenged him a little. His father came and shook 
hands with him with a suspicious look, but Maxime whispered 
to him, motioning to the blonde lady : 
“She’s not bad, is she? 
[I’m going to ‘bag’ her for to-night.” 
Then 
Saccard began 
to pose and play the gallant. Laure 
d’Aurigny joined them for a moment; she complained that Maxime 
barely called on her once a month. But he professed to have been 
206 

very busy, whereat everyone laughed. He added that in future they 
would see him wherever they went. 
“I have been writing a tragedy,” he said, “and I only hit upon 
the fifth act yesterday. 
. 
. 
. I now mean to seek repose in the 
bosoms of all the pretty women in Paris.” 
He laughed. He relished his allusions, which only he could under- 
stand. Meantime there was no one left in the drawing-room except 
Rozan and Larsonneau, at either side of the chimney. The Saccards 
rose to go, as did the blonde lady, who lived in the same house. 
Then the d’Aurigny went and spoke to the duc in a low voice. 
He seemed surprised and annoyed. Seeing that he could not make 
up his mind to leave his chair : 
“No, really, not to-night,” she said in an undertone. “I have a 
headache! .. . To-morrow, I promise you.” 
Rozan could not but obey. Laure waited till he was on the land- 
ing, and then said quickly in Larsonneau’s ear : 
“See, big Lar? 
I keep my word. 
. 
. 
. 
Stuff him into his 
carriage.” 
When the blonde lady took leave of the gentlemen to go up to 
her apartment, 
which 
was 
on 
the floor 
above, 
Saccard 
was 
astonished not to see Maxime follow her. 
“Well?” he asked. 
“Well, no,” replied the young man. 
“I’ve thought better of 
oe 
se 
Then he had an idea that struck him as very funny : 
“Tl resign in your favour if you like. Hurry up, she hasn’t shut 
her door yet.” 
But the father shrugged his shoulders, and said : 
“Thanks, I have something better than that at present.” 
The four men went downstairs. Outside the duc insisted on 
taking Larsonneau in his carriage; his mother lived in the Marais, 
he could drop the expropriation-agent at his door in the Rue de 
Rivoli. The latter refused, closed the door himself, and told the 
coachman to drive on. And he remained on the pavement of the 
Boulevard Haussmann with the two others, talking, staying where 
he was. 
“Ah! poor Rozan!” 
said Saccard, who suddenly understood. 
Larsonneau swore that it was not so, that he didn’t care a rush 
for that, that he was a practical man. And as the two others con- 
tinued to joke, and as the cold was very sharp, he ended by 
exclaiming : 
1»? 
. 
207 

“Upon my word, I don’t care, ’m going to ring. . 
. 
. You are 
two busybodies, messieurs.” 
“Good night !” cried Maxime, as the door closed to. 
And taking his father’s arm, he walked up the boulevard with 
him. It was one of those clear, frosty nights when it is so pleasant to 
walk on the hard ground through the icy atmosphere. Saccard said 
that Larsonneau made a mistake, that he ought merely to be the 
d’Aurigny’s friend. From there he went on to declare that the love 
of those women was really a bad thing. He assumed an air of 
morality, gave utterance to maxims and precepts of astonishing 
propriety. 
“You see,” he said to his son, “that only lasts for a time, my 
boy. 
. 
. 
. You lose your health at it, and you don’t taste real 
happiness. You know I’m not a Puritan. Well, I tell you, I’ve had 
enough of it; I’m going to settle down.” 
Maxime chuckled; he stopped his father, looked at him in the 
moonlight, and told him he was “an old fat-head.” But Saccard 
became still more serious : 
“Joke as much as you like. I tell you again, there is nothing like 
_ marriage to keep a man in good condition and make him happy.” 
Then he spoke to him of Louise. And he walked more slowly, to 
finish the business, he said, as they were once on the subject. The 
thing was completely arranged. He even informed him that he 
and M. de Mareuil had fixed the date for signing the contract for 
the Sunday following the Thursday in mid-Lent. On that Thursday 
there was to be a great entertainment at the house in the Parc 
Monceau, and he would then take the opportunity publicly to 
announce the marriage. Maxime thought all this very satisfactory. 
He was rid of Renée, he saw no further obstacle, he surrendered 
himself to his father as he had surrendered himself to his step- 
mother. 
“Well then, that’s settled,” he said. “Only don’t talk about it to 
Renée. Her friends would chaff me and tease me, and I prefer that 
she should know of it at the same time as everybody else.” 
Saccard promised to be silent. Then, as they approached the 
top of the Boulevard Malesherbes, he again gave him an heap of 
excellent advice. He told him how he ought to set about in order 
to make his home a paradise. 
“Above all, never break off with your wife. It’s folly. A wife 
with whom you cease having connection costs you a fortune... 
. 
In the first place, you have to keep a woman, don’t you? And then 
208 

the house expenses are much greater: 
there are dresses, madame’s 
private amusements, her dearest friends, the devil and all his 
retinue.” 
He was in a mood of extraordinary virtue. The success of his 
Charonne business had filled his heart with idyllic affection. 
“As for me,” he continued, “I was born to live in happy obscurity 
down in some village, with all my family around me... 
. People 
don’t know me, my boy. . 
. 
. I give the impression of being very 
frivolous. Well, that’s quite a mistake. I should love to be always 
near my wife, I would willingly exchange my business for a modest 
income that would enable me to retire to Plassans. 
. 
. 
. You are 
going to be a rich man: 
make yourself a home with Louise in 
which you will live like two turtle-doves. It’s so pleasant! I will 
come and see you. That will do me good.” 
He ended with tears in his voice. Meanwhile they had reached 
the gate of the house, and they stood talking on the kerbstone. A 
north wind was sweeping over the heights of Paris. No sound arose 
in the pale night, white with frost; Maxime, surprised at his father’s 
emotion, had had a question on his lips for the past minute. 
“But you,” he said at last, “it seems to me... .” 
“What ?” 
“Well, with your wife!” 
Saccard shrugged his shoulders. 
“Yes, just so! I was a fool. That is why I am able to speak to 
you from experience. 
. 
. 
. But we have come together again, oh, 
entirely! 
It is almost six weeks ago. I go into her at night when I 
don’t get home too late. To-night the poor little dear will have to 
do without me; I have to work till day-light. I tell you, she’s jolly 
well made! .. .” 
As Maxime held out his hand to him, he kept him back, and 
added, in a confidential whisper : 
“You know Blanche Muller’s figure; well, it’s like that, only ten 
times more supple. And then such hips! 
they have a curve, an 
elegance... .! 
And he concluded by saying to the younger man, who was 
going off : 
“You are like me, you have a heart, you will make your wife 
happy. .. . Good-night, my boy !” 
When Maxime at last escaped from his father, he went quickly 
round the gardens. What he had just heard surprised him so greatly 
that he experienced an irresistible desire to see Renée. He wanted 
209 

to beg forgiveness for his brutality, to know why she had told him 
that lie about M. de Saffré, to learn the story of her husband’s 
affection. But all this confusedly, with the one clear wish to smoke 
a cigar in her rooms and to resume their friendly relations. If she 
was in the right humour, he would even announce his marriage to 
her, to make her see that their love-affair must remain dead and 
buried. When he had opened the little gate, of which he had 
fortunately kept the key, he ended by convincing himself that his 
visit, after his father’s revelations, was necessary and absolutely 
proper. 
In the conservatory he whistled as he had done the preceding 
evening; but he was not kept waiting. Renée came and unfastened 
the glass door of the small drawing-room, and led the way upstairs 
without a word. She had that instant come back from a ball at the 
Hétel de Ville. She still wore her dress of white puffed tulle, 
covered with satin bows; the skirts of the satin bodice were edged 
with a broad border of white bugles, which the light of the candles 
tinged with blue and pink. Upstairs, when Maxime looked at her, 
he was touched by her pallor and the deep emotion that stifled her 
utterance. She had evidently not expected him, she still quivered 
all over at seeing him arrive as usual, with his quiet, wheedling air. 
Céleste returned from the wardrobe-room, where she had been 
to fetch a night-dress, and the lovers remained silent, waiting for 
the girl to go. As a rule they did not mind what they said before 
her; but they felt ashamed of the things that were on their lips. 
Renée told Céleste to undress her in the bedroom, where there was 
a big fire. The lady’s maid removed the pins, took off each article 
of finery separately, without hurrying herself. And Maxime, bored, 
mechanically, took up the night-dress, which was lying on a chair 
beside him, and warmed it before the fire, leaning forward with 
arms outstretched. He had been used in happier times to do this 
little service for Renée. She felt moved when she saw him daintily 
holding the night-gown to the fire. Then, as Céleste had not yet 
finished : 
“Did you enjoy yourself at the ball?” he asked. 
“Oh no, it’s always the same thing, you know,” she replied. 
“Far too many people, a regular crush.” 
He turned the night-gown, which was hot on one side. 
“What did Adeline wear?” 
“Mauve, a badly thought-out dress. 
. 
. 
. She is short, and yet she 
dotes on flounces.” 
210 

‘They talked of the other women. Maxime was now burning 
his fingers with the chemise. 
“But you'll scorch it,” said Renée, whose voice sounded mater- 
nally caressing. 
Céleste took the chemise from the young man’s hands. He rose 
and went over to the great pink-and-grey bed, fixing his eyes on 
one of the embroidered bouquets on the curtains, so as to turn away 
his head and not see Renée’s naked breasts. He did this by intuition. 
He no longer considered himself her lover, he had no longer the 
right to look. Then he took a cigar from his pocket and lighted it. 
Renée had given him permission to smoke in her room. At last 
Céleste withdrew, leaving the young woman by the fireside, all 
white in her night-dress. 
Maxime walked about a few seconds longer, without speaking, 
glancing at Renée, who seemed to be seized with a fresh shudder. 
And stationing himself before the fire, with his cigar between his 
teeth, he asked abruptly : 
“Why didn’t you tell me that it was my father who was with 
- you last night?” 
She raised her head, her eyes wide open, with a look of supreme 
anguish; then a rush of blood crimsoned her features, and, over- 
whelmed with shame, she hid her face in her hands, stammering : 
“You know that? you know that?...” 
She recovered herself, she tried to lie. 
“Tt’s not true. ... Who told you?” 
Maxime shrugged his shoulders. 
“Why, my father himself, who thinks you jolly well made and 
talked to me about your hips.” 
He had allowed a little vexation to show itself. But he began 
walking about again, and continued in a scolding but friendly 
voice between two puffs at his cigar : 
“Really, I can’t understand you. You're a strange woman. 
It 
was your own fault if I behaved like a brute yesterday. You ought 
to have told me it was my father, and I should have gone away 
quietly, don’t you see? What right have I? ... But you go and 
tell me it’s M. de Saffré !” 
She sobbed, her hands over her face. He came up to her, knelt 
down before her, and forced her hands apart. 
“Come, tell me why you said it was M. de Saffré !” 
Then, still averting her head, she replied through her tears, in a 
low voice : 
yA | 

2 
“I thought you would leave me if you knew that your father... . 
He rose to his feet, took up his cigar, which he had laid on a 
corner of the mantelshelf, and contented himself with muttering : 
“You're a very funny woman, on my word !” 
She no longer cried. The flames in the grate and the fire in her 
cheeks had dried her tears. The surprise of seeing Maxime so self- 
possessed in presence of a revelation which she thought would 
crush him made her forget her shame. She watched him walking 
up and down, she listened to his voice as though she were dreaming. 
Without abandoning his cigar he repeated to her that she was 
absurd, that it was quite natural that she should have connection 
with her husband, that he really could not think of resenting it. But 
to go and confess that she had a lover when it wasn’t true! And he 
kept on returning to this, to this point which he could not under- 
stand and which he looked upon as positively monstrous, talked 
of women’s “foolish fancies.” 
“Youre not quite right in your mind, dear; you must be care- 
ful.” 
He wound up by asking inquisitively : 
“But why M. de Saffré more than another 
?” 
“He makes love to me,” said Renée. 
Maxime checked an impertinence; he was on the point of saying 
that she was doubtless only anticipating by a month when she 
owned to M. de Saffré as her lover. He only smiled wickedly at 
his spiteful idea, and throwing his cigar into the fire, sat down at 
the opposite side of the mantelpiece. There, he talked common- 
sense, he gave Renée to understand that they must remain good 
friends. Her fixed look embarrassed him, however, he had not the 
courage to tell her of his approaching marriage. She gazed at him, 
her eyes still swollen with tears. She thought him a poor creature, 
narrow-minded and contemptible, and yet she loved him, as she 
might love her lace. He looked handsome in the light of the 
candelabra standing at the corner of the mantel by his side. As he 
threw back his head, the light of the candles tinged his hair with 
gold and glided over the soft down on his cheeks with a charmingly 
blonde effect. 
“T must really be off,” he said several times. 
He had quite decided not to stay. Besides, Renée would not 
have let him. They both thought so, said so; 
they were now 
merely friends. And when Maxime at last pressed Renée’s hand 
and was on the point of leaving the room, she detained him for 
212 

a moment longer and spoke to him of his father. She sang his 
praises loudly. 
“You see, I felt too great a remorse. I prefer that this should 
have happened. 
. 
. 
. You don’t know your father; I was astonished 
to find him so kind, so disinterested. The poor man is so much 
worried at present.” 
Maxime examined the tips of his boots without replying, with an 
air of uneasiness. She persisted : 
“So long as he used not to come to this room, I did not care. 
But afterwards. ... When I saw him here, so affectionate, bringing 
me money that he must have scraped together in every corner 
of Paris, ruining himself for me without a murmur, I became ill 
to think of it... 
. If you knew how carefully he has watched over 
my interests !” 
The young man returned quietly to the mantelpiece, and leant 
against it. He stood there embarrassed, with bowed head, and a 
smile that slowly rose to his lips. 
“Yes,” he muttered, “that’s my father’s strong point, to look 
‘after people’s interests.” 
Renée was astonished at the tone of his voice. She looked at him 
and he, as if to defend himself, added : 
“Oh, I don’t know anything. .. 
. I only say my father is a clever 
man.” 
“You would do wrong to talk ill of him,” she replied. “You 
evidently judge him a little superficially. 
. 
. 
. If I were to tell you 
all his troubles, if I repeated to you what he told me this very even- 
ing, you would see how mistaken people are when they think he 
cares for money... .” 
Maxime could not help shrugging his shoulders. He interrupted 
his stepmother with an ironical laugh. 
“Believe me, I know him, I know him well. 
. 
. 
. He must have 
told you some fine tales. Let me hear what he said.” 
This bantering tone offended her. Whereupon she increased her 
praises, she considered her husband quite great, she talked of the 
Charonne affair, of that swindle, of which she had understood 
nothing, as though it had been a catastrophe in which Saccard’s 
intelligence and kind-heartedness had been revealed to her. She 
added that she should sign the deed of transfer the next day, and 
that if it was really a disaster, she accepted the disaster as a punish- 
ment for her sins. Maxime let her go on, chuckling, looking at her 
from under his eyelids; then he said in an undertone : 
H 
213 

“That’s it, that’s quite right... .” 
And louder, laying his hand on Renée’s shoulder : 
“Thanks, dear, but I knew the story. 
. 
. 
. What soft stuff you 
must be made of !” 
He moved away again as if to go. He felt a furious itching to tell 
everything. She had exasperated him with her eulogy of her hus- 
band, and he forgot that he had resolved not to speak, so as to avoid 
all unpleasantness. 
“Why? what do you mean?” she asked. 
“Well then, that my father has been having you as nicely as 
could be. 
. 
. 
. I am sorry for you, on my word; you are such a 
simpleton !” 
And he told her what he had heard at Laure’s, told her basely, 
craftily, taking a secret delight in dwelling upon these infamies. 
It seemed to him that he was taking his revenge for a vague insult 
that he had received. 
His harlot’s temperament lingered rap- 
turously over this denunciation, over this cruel gossip of what he 
had heard behind a door. He spared Renée no detail, neither the 
money her husband had lent her at usury, nor that which he meant 
to steal from her with the assistance of ridiculous fairy-tales fit to 
send children to sleep with. Renée listened, very pale, her lips com- 
pressed. Standing before the chimney-piece, she lowered her head 
a little, she looked into the fire. Her night-dress, the chemise which 
Maxime had warmed for her, opened out, revealing a motionless 
whiteness as of a statue. 
“T am telling you all this,’ the young man concluded, “so that 
you may not look a fool... 
. But you must not take it amiss of my 
father. He means well. He has his faults like all of us... 
. Till to- 
morrow, then.” 
He retreated towards the door. Renée stopped him with a quick 
gesture. 
“Stay !” she cried, imperiously. 
And seizing him, drawing him to her, almost seating him on her 
knees before the fire, she kissed him on the lips, and said : 
“Ah well, it would be too silly to put ourselves out after that... 
. 
I haven’t told you that since yesterday, when you wanted to break 
with me, I have been off my head. I feel half mad. At the ball 
to-night I had a mist before my eyes. The fact is that I can’t live 
without you now. When you leave me, I shall be done for... 
. 
Don’t laugh, I mean what I say.” 
214 

She gave him a look of infinite tenderness, as though she had not 
seen him for a long time. 
“You were right, I was a simpleton, your father could have made 
me see stars in broad daylight to-day. What did I know about it? 
All the time he was telling his story, I heard nothing but a great 
buzzing, and I was so crushed that he could have made me go down 
on my knees, if he had wanted to, to sign his old papers. And I 
fancied I felt remorse! ... Yes, I was silly enough to think that!” 
She burst into laughter, 
a mad light shone in her eyes. Pressing 
her lover still more tightly, she continued : 
“Do we sin, you and I? We are in love, and we amuse ourselves 
as we like. That’s what all of us have come to, have we not?... 
Look at your father, he does not put himself out. He is fond of 
money and he takes it when he can get it. He’s quite right and it 
sets me at my ease. .. 
. To begin with, I shan’t sign a single thing, 
and then you must come back every evening. I was afraid you 
would refuse, you know, because of what I told you. ... But you 
say you don’t mind. 
. 
. 
. Besides, I shall keep him out now, you 
~ understand.” 
She rose, and lit the night-light. Maxime hesitated in despair. 
He saw what a piece of folly he had perpetrated, and he reproached 
himself harshly for having talked too much. How could he now tell 
her of his marriage? 
It was his own fault, the rupture had been 
accomplished, there was no need for him to go up into that room 
again, nor above all to go and prove to Renée that her husband 
was swindling her. And his anger against himself increased when he 
found that he was not able to remember what had prompted him 
to act as he did. He thought for a moment of being brutal a second 
time, but the sight of Renée taking off her slippers filled him with 
insurmountable cowardice. He was frightened. He stayed. 
The next day, when Saccard came to his wife to make her sign 
the deed of transfer, she replied quietly that she did not mean to 
do so, that she had thought better of it. On the other hand, she 
gave him no hint whatever; she had sworn to be discreet, not 
wishing to create worries for herself, eager only to enjoy the 
renewal of her amour in peace. The Charonne affair could arrange 
itself as it pleased; her refusal to sign was merely an act of ven- 
geance; she did not care a scrap for the rest. Saccard was on the 
verge of flying into a passion. His whole dream crumbled away. 
His other affairs were going from bad to worse. He had come to 
the end of his resources, and only kept his balance by miracles of 
215 

equilibrium: 
that very morning he had been unable to pay his 
baker’s bill. This did not prevent him from preparing a splendid 
entertainment for the Thursday in mid-Lent. In the presence of 
Renée’s refusal he experienced the white rage of a vigorous man 
that is hindered in his work by a child’s caprice. With the deed of 
transfer in his pocket he had relied on being able to raise cash while 
waiting for the indemnity. Then, when he had calmed down a little, 
and, looked at things clearly, he was amazed at his wife’s sudden 
change of mind; some one must, undoubtedly, have advised her. 
He suspected a lover. He had so clear a presentiment, that he ran 
round to his sister to question her, to ask her if she knew anything of 
Renée’s private life. Sidonie displayed great acrimony. She had not 
forgotten the affront her sister-in-law had given her in refusing to 
see M. de Saffré. So when she understood from her brother’s 
questions that he accused his wife of having a lover, she cried out 
that she felt certain of it. And she offered of her own accord to 
spy on “the turtle-doves.” She would show the minx what sort of 
stuff she was made of. As a rule Saccard did not seek out dis- 
agreeable truths; his interest alone compelled him to open his 
discreetly-closed eyes. He accepted his sister’s offer. 
“I tell you, make your mind easy, I shall find out everything,” 
she said to him, in a voice full of compassion. ... “Ah, my poor 
brother, Angéle would never have betrayed you! 
So good, so 
generous a husband! Those Parisian dolls have no heart... 
. And 
1»? 
. 
to think that I always gave her good advice 
216 

VI 
THERE was a fancy-dress ball at the Saccard’s on Thursday in 
mid-Lent. The great event, however, of the evening was 
the 
poem of Les Amours du Beau Narcisse et de la Nymphe Echo, in 
three tableaux, which was to be performed by the ladies. The author 
of the poem, M. Hupel de la Noue, had for more than a month been 
journeying to and fro between his préfecture and the house in the 
Parc Monceau in order to superintend the rehearsals and give his 
advice on the costumes. He had at first thought of writing his work 
in verse; then he had decided in favour of tableaux vivants; it was 
more dignified, he said, and came nearer to the classical ideal. 
__ 
The ladies had no more rest. Some of them had no less than three 
changes of dress. There were endless conferences, over which the 
préfet presided. To begin with, the character of Narcissus was dis- 
cussed at length. Was it to be enacted by a woman or by a man? 
At last, at Renée’s entreaties, it was decided that the part should be 
entrusted to Maxime; but he was to be the only man, and even then 
Madame de Lauwerens declared she would never have consented 
to this if “little Maxime had not been so like a real girl.” Renée was 
to be Echo. The question of the dresses was far more complicated. 
Maxime was of great assistance to the préfet, who was distracted in 
the midst of the nine women whose mad imaginations threatened 
seriously to compromise the purity of outline of his work. Had he 
listened 
to them, Olympus would 
have worn powdered 
hair. 
Madame d’Espanet wanted positively to have a train to her dress so 
as to hide her feet, which were a trifle large, while Madame Haffner 
had visions of herself clad in the skin of a wild beast. M. Hupel de 
la Noue was vehement; once he even grew angry; he had made up 
his mind; he said that the only reason why he had renounced verse 
was that he might write his poem “in cunningly-contrived fabrics 
and the most beautiful eclectic poses.” 
“The general effect, mesdames,” he repeated at each fresh in- 
stance of unreasonableness, “you forget the general effect... 
. I 
can’t possibly spoil my whole work for the sake of the furbelows 
you ask me for.” 
O17 

The conferences 
took place in the buttercup drawing-room. 
Whole afternoons were spent in settling the cut of a skirt. Worms 
was called in several times. At last all was arranged, the costumes 
decided on, the positions learnt, and M. Hupel de la Noue de- 
clared he was satisfied. Not even the election of M. de Mareuil 
had given him so much trouble. 
Les Amours du Beau Narcisse et de la Nymphe Echo was to begin 
at eleven o'clock. At half-past ten the large drawing-room was full, 
and as there was to be a fancy-dress ball afterwards, the women had 
come in costume, and were seated on chairs ranged in a semi- 
circle before the improvised stage, a platform hidden by two broad 
curtains of red velvet with a gold fringe, running on rods. The 
men stood at the back, or moved to and fro. At ten o’clock the up- 
holsterers had driven the last nail. The platform was erected at 
the end of the long gallery of a drawing-room, and occupied a 
whole section of it. The stage was approached from the smoking- 
room, which had been converted into a green-room for the actors. In 
addition, the ladies had a number of rooms at their disposal on the 
first floor, where an army of ladies’ maids laid out the costumes for 
the different tableaux. 
It was half-past eleven, and the curtains were not yet drawn 
apart. A loud buzzing filled the drawing-room. The rows of chairs 
offered a bewildering display of marquises, noble dames, milk-maids, 
Spanish ladies, shepherdesses, sultanas; while the compact mass of 
dress-coats set a great black blotch beside that shimmering of bright 
stuffs and bare shoulders, all flashing with the bright scintillations of 
jewellery. The women alone were in fancy-dress. It was already 
getting warm. The three chandeliers lit up the golden flood of the 
drawing-room. 
At last M. Hupel de la Noue was seen to emerge from an opening 
arranged on the left of the platform. He had been helping the ladies 
since eight o’clock in the evening. His dress-coat had on the left 
sleeve the mark of three white fingers, a small woman’s hand which 
had been laid there after dabbling in a box of rice-powder. But the 
préfet had other things to think of besides his dress! His eyes were 
dilated, his face swollen and rather pale. He seemed to see nobody. 
And advancing towards Saccard, whom he recognised among a 
group of serious men, he said to him in an undertone : 
“Damn it all! Your wife has lost her girdle of leaves... 
. We’re 
in a pretty mess!” 
He swore, he could have thumped people. Then, without waiting 
218 

for a reply, without looking at anything, he turned his back, dived 
under the draperies, and disappeared. The ladies smiled at this 
queer apparition. 
The group amid which Saccard was standing was clustered be- 
hind the last row of chairs. An arm-chair had even been drawn out 
of the row for the Baron Gouraud, whose legs had been swelling for 
some time past. There were there M. Toutin-Laroche, whom the 
Emperor had just created a senator; M. de Mareuil, whose second 
election the Chamber had deigned to confirm; M. Michelin, newly 
decorated; and, a little further back, the Mignon and Charrier 
couple, of whom one wore a big diamond in his necktie, while the 
other displayed a still bigger one on his finger. The gentlemen 
chatted together. Saccard left them for 
a moment to go and ex- 
change a whispered word with his sister, who had just come in 
and was sitting between Louise de Mareuil and Madame Michelin. 
Madame Sidonie was disguised as a sorceress; Louise was jauntily 
attired in a page’s dress that made her look quite an urchin; the 
little Michelin, dressed as an alme, smiled amorously through her 
veils embroidered with threads of gold. 
“Have you learnt anything?” Saccard softly asked his sister. 
“No, not yet,” she replied. “But the spark must be here. 
. 
. 
Ill catch them to-night, make yourself easy.” 
“Let me know at once, won’t you?” 
And Saccard, turning to right and left, complimented Louise and 
Madame Michelin. He compared the latter to one of Mahomet’s 
houris, the former to a favourite of Henry III. His Provengal accent 
seemed to make the whole of his spare, strident figure sing with 
delight. When he returned to the group of serious men, M. de 
Mareuil took him aside and spoke to him of their children’s mar- 
riage. Nothing was altered, the contract was still to be signed on 
the following Sunday. 
“Quite so,” said Saccard. “I intend even to announce the match 
to our friends this evening, if you see no objection. 
. 
. 
. 
I am only 
waiting for my brother the minister, who has promised to come.” 
The new deputy was delighted. Meantime, M. Toutin-Laroche 
was raising his voice as though seized with lively indignation. 
“Yes, messieurs,” he said to M. Michelin and the two contractors, 
who drew nearer, “I was good-natured enough to allow my name 
to be mixed up in an affair like that.” 
And as Saccard and Mareuil came up to them : 
“I was telling these gentlemen the regrettable catastrophe of the 
219 

Société Générale of the Ports of Morocco; you know, Saccard?” 
The latter did not flinch. The company in question had just 
collapsed amid a terrible scandal. Over-inquisitive shareholders had 
insisted on learning what progress had been made with the establish- 
ment of the famous commercial stations on the Mediterranean sea- 
board, and a judicial inquiry had shown that the Ports of Morocco 
existed only on the plans of the engineers: very handsome plans 
hung on the walls of the Company’s offices. Since then M. Toutin- 
Laroche had been clamouring more loudly than the shareholders, 
waxing indignant, demanding that his name should be restored to 
him without a stain. And he made so much noise that the Govern- 
ment, in order to calm this useful man and restore him in the eyes 
of public opinion, decided to send him to the Senate. It was thus 
that he fished up the so greatly coveted seat, in an affair that had 
very nearly involved him in a criminal trial. 
“It is very kind of you to be interested in that,” said Saccard, 
“when you can point to your great work, the Crédit Viticole, a 
concern that has emerged triumphantly from every crisis.” 
“Yes,” murmured Mareuil, “that is an answer to everything.” 
As a matter of fact the Crédit Viticole had just issued from a 
serious but carefully concealed embarrassment. A minister who was 
very tenderly disposed towards this financial institution, which held 
the Municipality of Paris by the throat, had forced on a bulling 
operation which M. Toutin-Laroche had turned to wonderfully 
good account. Nothing flattered him more sweetly than the praise 
bestowed upon the prosperity of the Crédit Viticole. As a rule he 
provoked 
it. He thanked M. de Mareuil with a glance, and 
bending over the Baron Gouraud, on whose arm-chair he was 
familiarly leaning, he asked him : 
“Are you comfortable? 
You’re not too warm?” 
The baron gave a slight grunt. 
“He is breaking up, he is breaking up, day by day,” added M. 
Toutin-Laroche, in an undertone, turning towards the other gentle- 
men. 
M. Michelin smiled, threw down his eyelids from time to time, 
gently, so as to look at his red ribbon. The Mignon and Charrier 
couple, planted squarely upon their big feet, seemed much more at 
their ease in their dress-clothes since they had taken to wearing 
diamonds. However, it was nearly midnight, and the company was 
growing impatient; it was not so ill-bred as to murmur, but the fans 
fluttered more nervously, and the sound of conversations increased. 
220 

' At last M. Hupel de la Noue reappeared. He had passed one 
shoulder through the narrow opening when he perceived Madame 
d’Espanet at length ascending the platform; the other ladies, al- 
ready posed for the first picture, were only waiting for her. The 
préfet turned round, showing his back to the audience, and he 
could be seen talking to the marquise, who was concealed by the 
curtains. He lowered his voice, and with compliments blown from 
his fingertips, said : 
“My congratulations, marquise. Your costume is delicious.” 
“I have a much prettier one underneath!” replied she, bluntly, 
laughing in his face, so funny did he seem to her, buried as he was 
in draperies. 
“Ah, charming, charming !” he murmured, with an air of rapture. 
He dropped the corner of the curtain, he went and joined the 
group of serious men, desiring to enjoy his work. He was no longer 
the man running with haggard face in search of Echo’s girdle of 
leaves. He beamed, and panted, and wiped his forehead. He still 
had the mark of the little white hand on the sleeve of his coat; and 
’ moreover the thumb of his right-hand glove was stained with red 
at the tip; he had no doubt dipped his thumb into one of those 
ladies’ make-up boxes. He smiled, he fanned himself, he stammered 
out: 
“She is adorable, enchanting, astounding !” 
“Who is?” asked Saccard. 
“The marquise. What do you think she said to me just now...?” 
And he told the story. It was considered quite perfect. The 
gentlemen repeated it to one another. Even the dignified M. 
Haffner, who had drawn nearer, could not prevent himself from 
applauding. Meanwhile a piano, which few of the people had 
noticed, began to play a waltz. Then there came a great silence. 
The waltz had endless, capricious variations; and a very soft phrase 
ever mounted from the keyboard, finishing in a nightingale’s trill; 
then deeper notes took up the theme, more slowly. It was very 
voluptuous. The ladies, their heads a little to one side, smiled. On 
the other hand the piano had put a sudden stop to M. Hupel de la 
Noue’s merriment. He looked anxiously towards the red velvet 
curtains, he said to himself that he ought to have posed Madame 
d’Espanet himself, as he had posed the others. 
The curtains opened slowly, the piano resumed the waltz, with 
the soft pedal down. A murmur sped through the drawing-room. 
The ladies leant forward, the men stretched out their necks, whilst 
221 

admiration displayed itself here and there by a word too loudly 
spoken, an unconscious sigh, a stifled laugh. This lasted for fully 
five minutes, under the glare of the three chandeliers. 
M. Hupel de la Noue, relieved, beamed beatifically upon his 
poem. He could not resist the temptation to repeat to the people 
around him what he had been saying for a month past : 
“I did think of doing it in verse. 
. .. But, don’t you agree with 
me, it’s more dignified like this... .” 
Then, while the waltz rose and fell in an endless lullaby, he 
explained. The Mignon and Charrier couple had drawn nearer 
and were listening attentively. 
“You know the subject, don’t you? The beauteous Narcissus, 
son of the River Cephisus and of the Nymph Liriope, scorns the 
love of the Nymph Echo. .. 
. Echo was an attendant of Juno, whom 
she amused with her speeches while Jupiter was roving about the 
world. 
. 
. 
. Echo, daughter of the Air and the Earth, as you 
knows tas? 
And he went into transports over the poetry of mythology. 
Then, more confidentially : 
“I thought I might give rein to my imagination. ... The Nymph 
Echo leads the beauteous Narcissus to Venus in a grotto on the sea- 
shore, so that the goddess may inflame him with her fire. But the 
goddess is powerless. 
The young man indicates by his attitude that 
he is not touched.” 
The explanation was not out of place, for few of the spectators in 
the drawing-room understood the exact meaning of the groups. 
When the préfet had named the characters in an undertone the 
admiration increased. The Mignon and Charrier couple continued 
to stare with wide-open eyes. They had not understood. 
On the platform, between the red velvet curtains, yawned a 
grotto. The scenery was made of silk stretched in large broken 
plaits, imitating the anfractuosity of rocks, upon which were painted 
shells, fishes and large sea-plants. The stage, broken up, rose in the 
shape of a hillock, and was covered with the same silk, upon which 
the scene-painter had depicted a fine sand ground, constellated with 
pearls and silver spangles. It was a retreat fit for a goddess. There 
on the top of the hillock, stood Mme. de Lauwerens as Venus; 
rather stout, wearing her pink tights with the dignity of an Olym- 
pian duchess, she interpreted her part of the Queen of Love with 
large, severe, devouring eyes. Behind her, showing only her mis- 
chievous head, her wings and her quiver, little Mme. Daste lent her 
222 

smile to the amiable character of Cupid. Then on one side of the 
hillock, the three Graces, Mmes. de Guende, Teissiére and de 
Meinhold, 
all in muslin, stood smiling and intertwined 
as 
in 
Pradier’s group; while on the other side, the Marquise d’Espanet 
and Mme. Haffner, enveloped in the same flow of lace, their 
arms round each other’s waists, their hair intermingled, gave a risky 
note to the picture, a reminiscence of Lesbos, which M. Hupel de 
la Noue explained in a lower voice, for the benefit of the men only, 
saying that he intended by this to show the extent of Venus’s power. 
At the foot of the hillock, the Comtesse Vanska impersonated 
Voluptuousness; she lay outstretched, twisted by a final spasm, her 
eyes half closed and languishing, as though satiated; very dark, she 
had unloosened her black hair, and her bodice, streaked with tawny 
flames, showed portions of her glowing skin. The scale of colour of 
the costumes, from the snowy white of Venus’s veil to the dark- 
red of Voluptuousness’ 
bodice, was 
soft, generally pink, flesh- 
coloured. And under the electric-ray, ingeniously cast upon the 
stage from one of the garden windows, the gauze, the lace, all those 
light, diaphanous materials mingled so well with the shoulders and 
tights that those pink whitenesses seemed alive, and one was no 
longer certain that the ladies had not carried plastic truth so far 
as to strip themselves quite naked. 
All this was but the apotheosis; the play was enacted in the 
foreground. On the left Renée, as Echo, stretched out, her arms to- 
wards the tall goddess, her head half turned towards Narcissus, 
pleadingly, as though to invite him to look at Venus, the mere sight 
of whom kindles such irresistible fires; but Narcissus, on the right, 
made a gesture of refusal, hid his eyes with his hand, remained cold 
as ice. The costumes of these two characters in particular had cost 
M. Hupel de la Noue’s imagination infinite trouble. Narcissus, as a 
wandering demi-god of the forests, wore an ideal huntsman’s dress : 
green tights, a short, clinging jacket, a leafy twig of oak in his hair. 
The dress of Echo was quite an allegory in itself; it suggested tall 
trees and lofty mountains, the resounding spots where the voices of 
the Earth and the Air reply to each other; it was rock in the white 
satin of the skirt, thicket in the leaves of the girdle, clear sky in the 
cloud of blue gauze of the bodice. And the groups retained a 
statuesque immobility, the fleshly note of Olympus sang in the 
effulgence of the broad ray of light, while the piano continued its 
penetrating complaint of love, interspersed with deep sighs. 
It was generally considered that Maxime was beautifully made. In 
223 

making his gesture of refusal, he accentuated his left nip, which was 
much noticed. But all the praise was for Renée’s expression of 
unsatisfied desire.” 
She wore a bitter smile that tried to look 
humble, she sought her prey with the entreaties of a she-wolf who 
but half hides her teeth. The first tableau went off well, but for 
that madcap of an Adeline, who moved and who scarcely repressed 
an irresistible desire to laugh. At last the curtains were closed, the 
piano ceased. 
Then the audience applauded discreetly, and the conversations 
were resumed. A great breath of love, of restrained desire, had 
come from the nudities on the stage, and hovered through the 
drawing-room, where the women leaned more languidly in their 
seats, while the men spoke low in each other’s ears, with smiles. 
There was whispering as in an alcove, a well-bred semi-silence, a 
longing for voluptuousness barely formulated by a trembling of 
lips; and in the mute looks exchanged amid this decorous rapture 
there was the frank boldness of delights offered and accepted with a 
glance. 
Endless judgments were passed on the ladies’ good points. Their 
costumes assumed an importance almost equal to that of their 
shoulders. When the Mignon and Charrier couple turned to ques- 
tion M. Hupel de la Noue, they were quite surprised to find him no 
longer beside them; he had already dived behind the platform. 
“As I was telling you, my beautiful pet,” said Madame Sidonie, 
resuming a conversation interrupted by the first tableau, “I have 
received a letter from London, about that business of the three 
milliards, you know. .. 
. The person I employed to make enquiries 
writes that he thinks he has found the banker’s receipt. England 
must have paid. ... It has made me ill all day.” 
She was in fact yellower than usual, in her sorceress’s robe 
sprinkled with stars. And as Madame Michelin did not listen to her, 
she continued in a lower voice, muttering that it was impossible 
that England had paid, and that she should certainly go to London 
herself. 
“Narcissus’ 
dress is very pretty, is it not?” asked Louise of 
Madame Michelin. 
The latter smiled. She looked at the Baron Gouraud, who seemed 
quite cheerful again in his arm-chair. Madame Sidonie, observing 
the direction of her glance, leant over, whispered in her ear, so that 
the child might not hear : 
“Has he settled up?” 
224 

“Yes,” replied the young woman, languishing, playing her alme 
part delightfully. “I have chosen the house at Louveciennes, and I 
have received the title-deeds from his man of business, .. 
But we 
have broken off, I no longer see him.” 
Louise was particularly sharp at catching what she was not in- 
tended to hear. She looked at the Baron Gouraud with a page's 
boldness, and said quietly to Madame Michelin : 
“Don’t you think the baron looks hideous?” 
Then she added, with a burst of laughter : 
“I say! they ought to have made him play Narcissus. He would 
have been delicious in apple-green tights.” 
The sight of Venus, of this voluptuous corner of Olympus, had in 
fact revived the old senator. He rolled delighted eyes, turned half 
round to compliment Saccard. Amidst the buzz that filled the 
drawing-room, the group of serious men continued to talk business 
and politics. M. Haffner said he had just been appointed chairman 
of a jury charged with settling questions of indemnities. Then the 
conversation turned upon the works of Paris, upon the Boulevard 
' du Prince-Eugéne, which was beginning to be discussed seriously in 
public. Saccard seized the opportunity to speak of somebody he 
knew, a landlord who would no doubt be expropriated. And he 
looked the gentlemen straight in the face. The baron slowly wagged 
his head: M. Toutin-Laroche went so far as to declare that there 
was nothing so unpleasant as to be expropriated; M. Michelin 
agreed, squinted more than ever as he looked at his decoration. 
“The indemnity can never be too high,” learnedly concluded M. 
de Mareuil, who wished to please Saccard. 
They had understood one another. But the Mignon and Charrier 
couple brought their own affairs forward. They meant to retire 
soon, they said, no doubt to Langres, keeping on an occasional 
lodging in Paris. They made the other gentlemen smile when they 
related how, after completing the building of their magnificent 
mansion in the Boulevard Malesherbes, they had thought it so 
handsome that they had not been able to resist the longing to sell 
it. Their diamonds must have been a consolation that they had 
offered themselves. Saccard laughed with a bad grace; his former 
partners had just realised enormous profits in an affair in which he 
had played the part of a dupe. And as the entr’acte grew longer, 
phrases in praise of Venus’s bosom and Echo’s costume penetrated 
through the conversation of the serious men. 
After more than half an hour, M. Hupel de la Noue reappeared. 
yaya) 

He was on the high road to success, and the disorder of his attire 
increased. As he regained his place, he came across M. de Mussy. 
He shook hands with him in passing; then he turned back and asked 
him : 
“Haven’t you heard what the marquise said ?” 
And, without waiting for his reply, he told him the story. He. 
appreciated it, more and more, he criticised it, he ended by thinking 
it exquisite in its candour. “I have a much prettier one under- 
neath !” It was a cry from the heart. 
But M. de Mussy did not hold the same opinion. He considered 
the remark indecent. He had just been attached to the London 
embassy, 
where 
the minister 
had 
told him than 
an 
austere 
demeanour was expected. He refused to lead the cotillon, he made 
himself old, he no longer spoke of his love for Renée, to whom he 
bowed gravely when he met her. 
M. Hupel de la Noue had come up to the group standing behind 
the baron’s arm-chair, when the piano struck up a triumphal march. 
A loud burst of harmony, produced by masterful strokes on the 
keyboard, preluded a full melody in which a metallic clang at 
intervals resounded. As each phrase was finished, it was repeated 
in a higher key that accentuated the rhythm. It was at once fierce 
and joyous. 
“You will see,” murmured M. Hupel de la Noue; “I have 
perhaps carried poetic licence rather far, but I think my audacity 
has succeeded. 
. 
. 
. The nympth Echo, seeing that Venus is powerless 
over the beauteous Narcissus, leads him to Plutus, the god of wealth 
and precious metals. 
. 
. 
. After the temptation of the flesh, the 
temptation of riches.” 
“That’s very classical,” replied the spare M. Toutin-Laroche, 
with an amiable simper. “You know your period, monsieur the 
préfet.” 
The curtains parted, the piano played more loudly. It was a 
dazzling picture. The electric ray fell on a blazing splendour in 
which the spectators at first saw nothing but a brazier, in which 
precious stones and ingots of gold seemed to be fusing. 
A new 
grotto was shown; but this was not the cool retreat of Venus, lapped 
by the waters eddying on fine sand sprinkled with pearls, but one 
situated seemingly in the centre of the earth, in a nether, fiery 
region, a fissure of the hell of antiquity, a crevice in a mine of 
molten metals inhabited by Plutus, The silk simulating the rock 
showed broad threads of metal, layers that looked like the veins of 
226 

the primeval world, loaded with riches incalculable and the eternal 
life of the soil. On the ground, thanks to a bold anachronism of 
M. Hupel de la Noue’s, lay an avalanche of twenty-franc prieces, 
louis spread out, louis heaped-up, a swarm of ascending louis. 
On the top of this heap of gold sat Mme. de Guende, as Plutus, a 
female Plutus, a Plutus showing her bosom set in the great stripes of 
her dress which imitated all the metals. Around the god, erect, re- 
clining, grouped in clusters, blooming apart, were posed the fairy- 
like flora of this grotto, into which the caliphs of the Arabian Nights 
seemed to have emptied their treasures: Mme. Haffner, as Gold, 
with a stiff and resplendent skirt like a bishop’s cope; Mme. 
d’Espanet, as Silver, gleaming like moonlight; Mme. de Lauwerens, 
in bright blue, as a Sapphire, with by her side little Mme. Daste, a 
smiling Turquoise in tenderest blue; then there followed an Emerald, 
Mme. de Meinhold; a Topaz, Mme. Teissiére; and lower down, the 
Comtesse Vanska, lending her dark ardour to a Coral, recumbent, 
with raised arms loaded with rosy pendants, resembling a monstrous, 
seductive polype which displayed a woman’s flesh amidst the yawn- 
ing, pink pearliness of its shell. These ladies wore necklaces, brace- 
lets, complete sets of jewels, formed of the precious stones they 
respectively impersonated. Especially noticeable were the quaint 
ornaments of Mmes. d’Espanet and Haffner, contrived entirely of 
small gold coins and small silver coins fresh from the mint. In the 
foreground the story remained unchanged: 
the Nymph Echo still 
tempted the beauteous Narcissus, who refused with the same gesture. 
And the eyes of the spectators grew accustomed with delight to this 
yawning cavity opening on to the inflamed bowels of the earth, to 
this heap of gold on which lay sprawling the riches of a world. 
This second tableau was still more successful than the first. It 
seemed particularly ingenious. The audacity of the twenty-franc 
pieces, this stream from a modern safe that had fallen into a corner 
of Greek mythology, enchanted the imagination of the ladies and 
financiers present. The words, “What a heap of pieces! what a lot 
of money!” flitted around, with smiles, with long quivers of satis- 
faction; and assuredly each of those ladies, each of those gentlemen, 
dreamt of owning all this money himself, coffered in his cellar. 
“England has paid up; there are your milliards,” maliciously 
whispered Louise in Mme. Sidonie’s ear. 
And Mme. Michelin, her mouth slightly parted with enraptured 
desire, threw back her alme’s veil, fondled the gold with glittering 
eyes, while the group of serious men went into transports. M. 
227 

Toutin-Laroche, beaming all over, whispered a few words in the 
ear of the baron, whose face was becoming mottled with yellow 
patches. But the Mignon and Charrier couple, less discreet, said 
with coarse candour : 
“Damn it! there’s enough there to pull down all Paris and build 
it up again.” 
The remark seemed a deep one to Saccard, who began to suspect 
that the Mignon and Charrier pair made fun of people under the 
guise of idiocy. When the curtains once more fell to, and the piano 
finished its triumphal march with a loud tumult of notes thrown 
pell-mell, like a last shovelfuls of crown-pieces, the applause burst 
forth, louder, more prolonged. 
Meantime, in the middle of the tableau, the minister, accom- 
panied by his secretary, M. de Saffré, had appeared at the door 
of the drawing-room. Saccard, who was impatiently looking out 
for his brother, wanted to rush forward to welcome him. But the 
latter, with 
a movement of the hand, begged him not to stir. And 
he slowly approached the group of serious men. When the curtains 
had closed, and he was recognised, a long whisper travelled round 
the drawing-room, all heads looked round: 
the minister counter- 
balanced the success of Les Amours du beau Narcisse et de la 
Nymphe Echo. 
“You are a poet, monsieur the préfet,” he said, smiling, to M. 
Hupel de la Noue. “You once published a volume of verse, Les 
Volubilis, I believe? ... 1 see the cares of administration have not 
drained your imagination.” 
The préfet detected, in this compliment, the sting of an epigram. 
The sudden advent of his chief disconcerted him, the more so as, 
on giving a glance to see if his dress was in order, he noticed on the 
sleeve of his coat the little white hand, which he did not dare to 
brush off. He bowed, stammered. 
“Really,” continued the minister, addressing M. Toutin-Laroche, 
the Baron Gouraud, the other personages present, “all that gold 
was a wonderful spectacle. . .. We should be able to do great things 
if M. Hupel de la Noue would coin money for us.” 
This was, in ministerial language, the same remark as that of the 
Mignon and Charrier couple. Then M. Toutin-Laroche and the 
others paid their court, rung the changes on the minister’s last 
phrase: the Empire had done wonders already; it was not gold that 
was wanting,.thanks to the great experience of the government; 
never had France stood so high in the councils of Europe; and the 
228 

gentlemen ended by uttering such platitudes that the minister him- 
self changed the conversation. He listened to them with his head 
erect, the corners of his mouth a little raised, which gave to his fat, 
white, clean-shaven face an expression of dubiousness and smiling 
disdain. 
Saccard manceuvred so as to find an excuse to change the sub- 
ject and to make his announcement of the marriage of Maxime and 
Louise. He assumed an air of great familiarity, and his brother, 
with mock geniality, was good-natured enough to help him by 
pretending great affection for him. He was really the superior of 
the two, with his steady gaze, his evident contempt for petty 
rascality, his broad shoulders, which, with a shrug, could have 
floored all that crew. When at last the marriage came into question, 
he became charming, he let it be understood that he had his wed- 
ding-present ready; he was so good as to talk of Maxime’s being 
appointed an auditor to the Council of State. He went so far as 
twice to repeat to his brother, with an air of absolute good-fellow- 
ship : 
“Tell your son I will be his witness.” 
M. de Mareuil crimsoned with delight. Saccard was congratu- 
lated. M. Toutin-Laroche offered himself as a second witness. Then, 
suddenly, they began to talk of divorce. 
A member of the opposi- 
tion, said M. Haffner, had just had “the lamentable audacity” to 
defend this social scandal. And every one protested. Their sense of 
propriety found vent in profound observations. M. Michelin smiled 
faintly upon the minister, while the Mignon and Charrier couple 
noted with astonishment that the collar of his dress-coat was worn. 
Meanwhile M. Hupel de la Noue remained ill at ease, leaning 
against the arm-chair of the Baron Gouraud, who had contented 
himself with silently shaking hands with the minister. The poet 
dared not leave the spot. An indefinable feeling, the dread of ap- 
pearing ridiculous, the fear of losing the good graces of his chief 
detained him, despite his furious desire to go and pose the ladies 
on the stage for the last tableau. He waited for some happy remark 
to occur to him and to restore him to favour. But he could think 
of nothing. He felt more and more embarrassed when he perceived 
M. de Saffré; he took his arm, hooked himself on to him as to a life- 
saving plank. The young man had just arrived, he was a fresh 
victim. 
“Haven’t you heard what the marquise said?” asked the préfet. 
229 

But he was so perturbed that he no longer knew how to put the 
story spicily. He floundered. 
“T said to her, ‘You have a charming costume’; and she re- 
phedja.<; 
“‘T have a much prettier one underneath,’ ” quietly added M. de 
Saffré. “It’s old, my dear sir, very old.” 
M. Hupel de la Noue looked at him in consternation. The 
repartee was an old one, and he was just about still more deeply to 
penetrate into his commentary on the candour of this cry from the 
heart ! 
“Old,” replied the secretary, “old as the hills: Mme. d‘Espanet 
has already said it twice at the Tuileries.” 
This was the last straw. What did the préfet care now for the 
minister, for the whole drawing-room? He turned to go towards 
the stage, when the piano played a prelude, in a sad tone, with the 
trembling of notes that weep; then the plaintive strain expanded, 
dragged on at length, and the curtains parted. M. Hupel de la 
Noue, who had already half disappeared, returned to the drawing- 
room when he heard the soft grating of the curtain-rings. He was 
pale, exasperated; he made a violent effort to keep himself from 
apostrophising the ladies. They had posed themselves without him! 
It must have been that little d’Espanet woman who had egged them 
on to hasten the changes of dress and dispense with his assistance. 
It was all wrong, it was worth nothing at all ! 
He returned, mumbling inarticulate words. He looked at the 
stage, shrugging his shoulders, muttering : 
“Echo is too near the edge. 
. 
. 
. And Narcissus’ leg, it’s not 
dignified, not dignified in the least... .” 
The Mignon and Charrier couple, who had drawn near in order 
to hear “the explanation,” ventured to ask him “What the young 
man and the young girl were doing, lying on the ground.” But 
he made no reply, he refused to explain his poem any further; and 
as the contractors insisted : 
“Why, it no longer concerns me, since those ladies choose to pose 
without consulting me!” 
The piano sobbed softly. On the stage, a glade, into which the 
electric ray threw a sheet of sunlight, revealed a vista of foliage. It 
was an ideal glade, with blue trees, big yellow and red flowers, that 
rose as high as the oaks. There, on a grassy mound, lay Venus and 
Plutus, side by side, surrounded by nymphs who had hastened from 
the neighbouring thickets 
to serve 
as their escort. There were 
230 

daughters of the trees, daughters of the springs, daughters of the 
mountains, all the laughing, naked divinities of the forest. And the 
god and goddess triumphed, punished the indifference of the proud 
one who had scorned them, while the group of nymphs looked on 
curiously and with pious affright at the vengeance of Olympus in 
the foreground. There the drama was unfolded. The beauteous 
Narcissus, lying on the margin of a brook that came down from the 
back of the stage, was contemplating himself in the limpid mirror; 
and realism had been carried so far that a strip of real looking-glass 
had been placed at the bottom of the brook. But he had already 
ceased to be the free stripling, the forest wanderer. Death surprised 
him in the midst of his rapt admiration of his own image, Death 
enervated him, and Venus, with outstretched finger, like a fairy in 
a transformation-scene, hurled the fatal doom at his head. He was 
turning into a flower. His limbs became verdant, elongated, in his 
tight-fitting dress of green satin; the flexible stalk, formed by his 
legs slightly bent, was on the point of sinking into the ground and 
taking root, while his body, adorned with broad lappets of white 
satin, blossomed into a wondrous corolla. Maxime’s fair hair com- 
pleted the illusion, and with its long curls set yellow pistils amid the 
whiteness of the petals. And the great nascent flower, still human, 
inclined its head towards the spring, its eyes moistened, its coun- 
tenance smiling with voluptuous ecstasy, as though the beauteous 
Narcissus had at last in death satisfied the passion with which he 
had inspired himself. A few paces off the Nymph Echo was dying 
also, dying of unquenched desire; she found herself little by little 
caught in the hardness of the ground, she felt her burning limbs 
freezing and hardening. She was no vulgar moss-stained rock, but 
one of white marble, through her arms and shoulders, through her 
long snow-white robe, from which the girdle of leaves and the blue 
drapery had glided down. Sinking amid the satin of her skirt, which 
was creased in large folds, like a block of Parian marble, she threw 
herself back, retaining nothing of life, in her cold sculptured body, 
save her woman’s eyes, eyes that gleamed, fixed on the flower of 
the waters, reclining languidly above the mirror of the spring. And 
it already seemed as if all the love-sounds of the forest, the long- 
drawn voices of the thickets, the mystic shivers of the leaves, the 
deep sighs of the tall oaks, came and beat upon the marble flesh of 
the Nymph Echo, whose heart, still bleeding within the block, re- 
sounded evermore, repeating afar the slightest complaints of Earth 
or Air. 
231 

“Oh, how they have rigged out that poor Maxime!” murmured 
Louise. “And Madame Saccard, she looks like a corpse.” 
“She is covered with rice-powder,” said Madame Michelin. 
Other remarks flitted about of a hardly complimentary nature. 
This third tableau had not the unqualified success of the two others. 
And yet it was this tragic ending that filled M. Hupel de la Noue 
with enthusiasm for his own talent. He admired himself in it as did 
his Narcissus in his strip of looking-glass. He had put into it a 
crowd of poetical and philosophical allusions. When the curtains 
were closed for the last time, and the spectators had applauded in a 
well-bred way, he felt a mortal regret at having yielded to anger 
and not explained the last page of his poem. Then he essayed to 
give to the people about him the key to the charming, grandiose, or 
simply naughty ideas represented by the beauteous Narcissus and 
the Nymph Echo, and he even tried to say what Venus and Plutus 
were doing at the bottom of the glade; but these ladies and gentle- 
men, whose clear, practical minds had understood the grotto of 
flesh and the grotto of gold, did not care to go into the préfet’s 
mythological complications. Only the Mignon and Charrier couple, 
who had made up their minds to know, had the good-nature to 
question him. He took possession of them, and kept them standing 
for nearly two hours in a window-recess while he related to them 
Ovid’s “Metamorphoses.” 
Meantime the minister departed. He apologised for not being 
able to stay and compliment the beautiful Madame Saccard on the 
perfect grace of her Nymph Echo. He had gone three or four 
times round the drawing-room on his brother’s arm, shaking hands 
with people, bowing to the ladies. Never had he compromised 
himself so much for Saccard. He left him radiant when, on the 
threshold, he said to him in a loud voice : 
“I shall expect you to-morrow morning. Come to breakfast.” 
The ball was about to begin. The servants had ranged the ladies’ 
chairs along the walls. The large drawing-room now displayed, 
from the small yellow drawing-room to the stage, its bare carpet, 
whose big purple flowers opened out under the dripping light that 
fell from the crystal of the chandeliers. The heat increased, the 
reflection of the red hangings burnished the gilt of the furniture and 
the ceiling. To open the ball they were waiting for the ladies, the 
Nymph Echo, Venus, Plutus and the rest, to change their costumes. 
Madame d’Espanet and Madame Haffner were 
the first to 
appear. They had resumed the dresses they wore in the second 
232 

tableau; one was Gold, the other Silver. They were surrounded, 
congratulated; and they related their emotions. 
“As for me I almost exploded with laughter,” said the marquise, 
“when I saw M. Toutin-Laroche’s big nose looking at me from the 
distance !” 
“T believe I’ve got a crick in my neck,” drawled the fair-haired 
Suzanne. “No, on my word, if it had lasted a minute longer, I 
would have put my head back into a natural position, it hurt my 
neck so.” 
From the recess into which he had driven the Mignon and 
Charrier couple, M. Hupel de la Noue cast restless glances at the 
group formed around the two ladies; he feared he was being 
ridiculed. The other nymphs arrived one after the other; all had 
resumed their costumes as precious stones; the Comtesse Vanska, as 
Coral, achieved a stupendous success when the ingenious details 
of her dress were closely examined. Then Maxime entered, faultless 
in dress-clothes, with a smiling air; and a flow of women enveloped 
him, he was placed in the centre of the circle, he was joked about 
_ 
his floral character, about his passion for mirrors; while he, un- 
embarrassed, as though delighted with his part, continued to smile, 
joked back, confessed that he adored himself, and that he was 
sufficiently cured of women to prefer himself to them. The laughter 
grew louder, the group grew larger, took up the whole of the middle 
of the drawing-room, while the young man, lost in this mob of 
shoulders, in this medley of dazzling costumes, retained his fra- 
grance of depraved love, the gentleness of a pale, vicious flower. 
But when Renée at length came down, there was a semi-silence. 
She had put on a new costume of such original grace and so auda- 
cious that the ladies and the men, however accustomed to her eccen- 
tricities, gave a sudden movement of surprise. She was dressed as 
an Otaheitan belle. This dress, it would seem, is by way of being 
very primitive: 
a pair of soft tinted tights, that reached from her 
feet to her breasts, leaving her arms and shoulders bare, and over 
these tights a simple muslin blouse, short, and trimmed with two 
flounces so as to hide the hips a little. 
A wreath of wild flowers 
in her hair; gold bangles on her wrists and ankles. And nothing 
more. She was naked. The tights had the suppleness of flesh under 
the muslin blouse; the pure naked outline was visible, vaguely 
bedimmed by the flounces from the arm-pits to the knees, but at 
the slightest movement reappearing and accentuating itself between 
the meshes of the lace. She was an adorable savage, a barbarous and 
233 

voluptuous wanton, barely hidden beneath a white haze, a blurr of 
sea-fog, beneath which her whole body could be divined. 
Renée, with rosy cheeks, came briskly forward. Céleste had 
managed to split the first pair of tights; fortunately Renée, fore- 
seeing this eventuality, had taken her precautions. The torn tights 
had delayed her. She seemed to care little for her triumph. Her 
hands burned, her eyes glittered with fever. She smiled, however, 
answered briefly the men who stopped her, who complimented her 
on the chasteness of her attitudes in the tableaux-vivants. She left 
in her wake a trail of dress-coats astounded and charmed at the 
transparency of her muslin blouse. When she had reached the 
group of women surrounding Maxime, she occasioned short cries 
of admiration, and the marquise began to eye her from head to 
foot, amorously murmuring : 
“She is deliciously made.” 
Madame Michelin, whose alme dress became hideously ponde- 
rous beside this simple veil, pursed her lips, while Madame Sidonie, 
shrivelled up in her black sorceress’s dress, whispered in her ear : 
“It’s the height of indecency: 
don’t you think so, you beautiful 
thing?” 
“Well!” said the pretty brunette at last, “how angry M. Michelin 
would be if I undressed myself like that.” 
“And quite right too,” concluded the business woman. 
The band of serious men was not of this opinion. They indulged 
in ecstasies at a distance. M. Michelin, whom his wife had so inap- 
propriately quoted, went into transports, in order to please M. 
Toutin-Laroche and the Baron Gouraud, whom the sight of Renée 
enraptured. Saccard was greatly complimented on the perfection of 
his wife’s figure. He bowed, he professed to be very much over- 
come. The evening was an auspicious one for him, and but for a 
preoccupation that flitted through his eyes at moments when he 
threw a rapid glance towards his sister, he would have appeared 
perfectly happy. 
“I say, she never showed us so much as that before,” said Louise, 
jestingly, in Maxime’s ear, glancing towards Renée. 
She corrected herself, and added, with a mystifying smile : 
“At least, to me.” 
The young man looked at her with an air of alarm, but she con- 
tinued smiling, comically, like a schoolboy delighted with a rather 
broad joke. 
The ball began. The stage of the tableaux-vivants had been 
234 

utilised to accommodate a small band, in which brass predominated ; 
and the clear notes of the horns and cornets rang out in the ideal 
forest with the blue trees. First came a quadrille: 
“Ah, il a des 
bottes, il a des bottes, Bastien!’ which was at that time sending the 
ball-rooms 
into 
raptures. 
The 
ladies 
danced. 
Polkas, 
waltzes, 
mazurkas alternated with the quadrilles. The swinging couples 
passed and repassed, filling the long gallery, bounding beneath the 
lash of the brass, swaying to the lullaby of the violins. The fancy 
dresses, this flow of women of every country and of every period, 
rocked to and fro in a swarming medley of bright materials. After 
mingling and carrying off the colours in cadenced confusion, the 
rhythm, at certain strokes of the bow, abruptly brought back the 
same pink satin tunic, the same blue velvet bodice, side by side with 
the same black coat. Then another stroke of the bows, a blast of 
the cornets pushed the couples on, made them travel in files around 
the drawing-room with the swinging motion of a rowing-boat 
drifting under the impulse of the wind, which has snapped her 
painter. And so on, endlessly, for hours. Sometimes, between two 
dances, a lady went up to a window, suffocating, to inhale a little 
of the icy air; a couple rested on a sofa in the small buttercup 
drawing-room, or went into the conservatory, strolling slowly round 
the pathways. Skirts, their edges alone visible, wore languid smiles 
under the arbours of creepers, in the depths of the tepid shadow, 
where the forte notes of the cornets penetrated during the quad- 
rilles of “Ohé les ptits agneaux!” and “J’ai un pied qui r’mue!” 
When the servants opened the door of the dining-room, trans- 
formed into a refreshment-buffet, with sideboards against the walls 
and a long table in the middle, laden with cold things, there was a 
push and a crush. A fine tall man, who had bashfully kept his hat 
in his hand, was so violently flattened against the wall that the 
wretched hat burst with a pitiful moan. This made the others laugh. 
They rushed at the pastry and the truffled game, brutally digging 
their elbows into one another’s sides. It was a sack, hands met in 
the middle of dishes, and the lackeys did not know to whom to 
attend of this band of well-bred men, whose outstretched arms 
expressed the one fear of arriving too late and finding the dishes 
empty. An old gentleman grew angry because there was no claret, 
and champagne, he maintained, kept him awake. 
“Gently, messieurs, gently,” said Baptiste, in his serious voice. 
“There will be enough for every one.” 
But nobody listened. The dining-room was full, and anxious 
235 

dress-coats stood on tiptoe at the door. Before the sideboards stood 
groups, eating quickly, crowding together. Many swallowed their 
food without drinking, not having been able to lay their hands on a 
glass. Others, on the contrary, drank and sought fruitlessly for a 
morsel of bread. 
“Listen,” said M. Hupel de la Noue, whom the Mignon and 
Charrier couple, sick of mythology, had dragged to the supper- 
room, “we shan’t get a thing if we don’t club together. .. 
. It’s 
much worse at the Tuileries, and I’ve gained experience there... 
. 
You look after the wine, I’ll see to the solids.” 
The préfet had his eye on a leg of mutton. He stretched out his 
arm at the right moment through a break in the shoulders, and 
quietly carried it off, after stuffing his pockets with rolls. The con- 
tractors returned on their side, Mignon with one bottle, Charrier 
with two bottles of champagne; but they had only been able to find 
two glasses; they said that didn’t matter, they would drink out of 
the same. And the party supped off the corner of a flower-stand, at 
the end of the room. They did not even take off their gloves, but 
put the slices already cut from the leg of mutton between their 
bread, and kept the bottles under their arms. And standing up, they 
talked with their mouths full, stretching out their chins beyond 
their waistcoats so as to let the gravy fall on the carpet. 
Charrier, having finished his wine before his bread, asked a ser- 
van to get him a glass of champagne. 
“You will have to wait, monsieur!” angrily replied the scared 
domestic, losing his head, forgetting that he was not in the kitchen. 
“They have drunk up three hundred bottles already.” 
Meantime the notes of the band could be heard swelling with 
sudden gusts. They were dancing the Kisses Polka, famous at public 
balls, the rhythm of which each dancer had to mark by saluting his 
partner. Mme. d’Espanet appeared at the door of the dining-room, 
flushed, her hair a little disarranged, trailing her long silver dress 
with a charming air of lassitude. Hardly any one moved aside, she 
was obliged to push with her elbows to effect a passage. Then she 
came straight up to M. Hupel de la Noue, who had finished, and 
who was wiping his mouth with his handkerchief. 
“It would be so good of you, monsieur,” she said with a bewitch- 
ing smile, “if you would find me a chair. I have been all round the 
table in vain... .” 
The préfet had a grudge against the marquise, but his gallantry 
gave him no alternative: 
he bustled about, found the chair, in- 
236 

stalled Mme. d’Espanet, and stayed behind her to wait on her. She 
would only take a few prawns, with a little butter, and half a glass 
of champagne. She ate daintily amid the gluttony of the men. The 
table and the chairs were reserved exclusively for the ladies. But an 
exception was always made in favour of the Baron Gouraud. There 
he was, comfortably seated in front of a piece of 
game-pie of 
which his jaws were slowly munching the crust. The marquise re- 
subjugated the préfet by telling him that she would never forget her 
artistic emotions in Les Amours du Beau Narcisse et de la Nymphs 
Echo. She even explained to him why they had not waited for him, 
in a way that completely consoled him: the ladies, on learning that 
the minister was there, thought it would not be very proper to 
prolong the entr’acte. She ended by begging him to go and look 
for Mme. Haffner, who was dancing with Mr. Simpson, a brute of 
a man, she said, whom she disliked. And when Suzanne had come, 
she no longer had an eye for M. Hupel de la Noue. 
Saccard, followed by MM. Toutin-Laroche, de Mareuil, Haffner, 
had taken possession of a sideboard. As there was no room at the 
table, and M. de Saffré passed with Madame Michelin on his arm, 
he stopped them and insisted that the pretty brunette should join 
his party. She nibbled at some pastry, smiling, raising her bright eyes 
to the five men who surrounded her. They leant over her, touched 
her alme’s veils embroidered with threads of gold, drove her up 
against the sideboard against which she ended by leaning, taking 
cakes from every hand, very gentle and very caressing, with the 
amorous docility of a slave amid her masters. M. Michelin, all alone 
at the other end of the room, was finishing up a pot of paté de foie 
gras which he had succeeded in capturing. 
Meantime Mme. Sidonie, who had been prowling about ever 
since the first strokes of the bow had opened the ball, entered the 
dining-room and beckoned to Saccard with a glance. 
“She is not dancing,” she said, in a low voice. “She seems restless. 
I believe she is meditating something desperate. ... But I have not 
yet been able to discover the spark 
. 
. 
. I must have something to 
eat and return to the watch.” 
And standing up, like a man, she ate a wing of a chicken which 
she got M. Michelin, who had finished his paté, to give her. She 
poured herself out a large champagne-glass full of malaga, and 
then, after wiping her lips with her fingers, she returned to the 
drawing-room. The train of her sorceress’s dress seemed already 
to have gathered up all the dust of the carpets. 
237 

The ball grew languid, the band was showing signs of fatigue, 
when a murmur circulated: 
“The cotillon! 
the cotillon!” putting 
fresh life into the dancers and the brass. Couples came from all the 
shrubberies in the hot-house; the large drawing-room filled up as 
for the first quadrille; and there was 
a discussion among the 
awakened crowd. It was the last flicker of the ball. The men who 
were not dancing watched with limp good-nature from the depths 
of the window-recesses the talkative group swelling in the middle of 
the room; while the supper-eaters in the next room stretched out 
their necks to see, without relinquishing their food. 
“M. de Mussy says he won’t,” said a lady. “He swears he never 
leads the cotillon now. 
. 
. 
. Come, just once more, Monsieur de 
Mussy, only this little once. Do, to oblige us.” 
But the young attaché remained stiff and serious in his stick-up 
collar. It was really impossible, he had taken a vow. Disappoint- 
ment followed. Maxime refused also, saying that he could not 
possibly, that he was worn out. M. Hupel de la Noue dared not 
offer his services; his frivolity stopped at poetry. A lady suggesting 
Mr. Simpson was promptly silenced; Mr. Simpson was the most 
extraordinary cotillon-leader you ever saw; he gave himself over to 
fantastic and mischievous devices; at one dance where they had 
been so imprudent as to select him, it was said that he had com- 
pelled the ladies to jump over the chairs, and one of his favourite 
figures was to make everybody go round the room on all-fours. 
“Has M. de Saffré gone?” asked a childish voice. 
He was just going, he was saying good-bye to the beautiful 
Madame Saccard, with whom he was on the best of terms since she 
had refused to have anything to do with him. The amiable sceptic 
admired the caprices of others. He was brought back in triumph 
from the hall. He resisted, he said with a smile that they were com- 
promising him, that he was a serious man. Then, in presence of all 
the white hands stretched out to him : 
“Come,” said he, “take your positions. 
. 
. 
. But I warn you, I 
belong to the old school. I haven’t two farthings’ worth of imagina- 
tion.” 
The couples sat down around the room, on all the seats that could 
be gathered together; young men were even sent to fetch the iron 
chairs from the hot-house. It was a monster cotillon. M. de Saffré, 
who wore the rapt expression of a celebrant, chose for his partner 
the Comtesse Vanska, whose Coral dress fascinated him. When 
everybody was in position, he cast a long look at this circular row 
238 

of skirts, each flanked by a dress-coat. And he nodded to the 
orchestra, whose brass resounded. Heads leaned forward along the 
smiling line of faces. 
Renée refused to take part in the cotillon. She had been ner- 
vously gay since the commencement of the ball, scarcely dancing, 
mingling with the groups, unable 
to remain 
still. Her friends 
thought her odd. She had talked, during the evening, of making a 
balloon journey with a celebrated aeronaut in whom all Paris was 
interested. When the cotillon began, she was annoyed at no longer 
being able to walk about at her ease, she stationed herself at the 
door leading to the hall, shaking hands with the men who were 
leaving, talking with her husband’s familiars. The Baron Gouraud, 
whom a lackey was carrying off in his fur cloak, found a last word 
of praise for Renée’s Otaheitan dress. 
Meanwhile, M. Toutin-Laroche shook Saccard’s hand. 
“Maxime reckons on you,” said the latter. 
“Quite so,” replied the new senator. 
And turning to Renée : 
“Madame, I have forgotten to congratulate you. .. 
. So the dear 
boy is settled now !” 
And as she gave a surprised smile : 
“My wife doesn’t know yet,” said Saccard. ... “We have this 
evening decided on the marriage between Mademoiselle de Mareuil 
and Maxime.” 
She continued 
smiling, bowing to M. Toutin-Laroche, who 
went off saying : 
“You sign the contract on Sunday, don’t you? 
I am going to 
Nevers on some mining business, but I shall be back in time.” 
Renée remained alone for a moment in the middle of the hall. 
She smiled no longer; and as she more deeply realised what she had 
just been told, she was seized with a great shiver. She looked with 
a fixed stare at the red velvet hangings, the rare plants, the majolica 
vases. Then she said out aloud : 
“I must speak to him.” 
And she returned to the drawing-room. But she had to stay in 
the doorway. A figure of the cotillon barred the way. The band 
played a soft waltz-movement. The ladies, holding each other’s 
hands, formed a ring like one of those rings of little girls singing 
“Giroflé girofla”; and they danced round as quickly as possible, 
pulling at each other’s arms, laughing, gliding. In the centre a 
gentleman—it was that mischievous Mr. Simpson—held a long 
239 

pink scarf in his hand; he raised it, with the gesture of a fisherman 
about to cast his net; but he did not hurry, he seemed to think it 
amusing to let those ladies dance round and tire themselves. They 
panted and begged for mercy. Then he threw the scarf, and he 
threw it with such skill that it went and wound round the shoulders 
of Madame d’Espanet and Madame Haffner, who were dancing 
round side by side. It was one of the Yankee’s jests. 
Next he wanted 
to waltz with both ladies at once, and he had already taken the two 
of them by the waist, one with his left arm, the other with his right, 
when M. de Saffré said, in his severe voice as cotillon-king : 
“You can’t dance with two ladies.” 
But Mr. Simpson refused to leave go of the two waists. Adeline 
and Suzanne threw themselves back in his arms, laughing. The point 
was argued, the ladies grew angry, the uproar was prolonged, and 
the dress-coats in the recesses of the windows asked themselves how 
Saffré proposed to extricate himself creditably from this dilemma. 
For a moment, in fact, he seemed perplexed, seeking by what refine- 
ment of grace he could win the laughers to his side. Then he gave 
a smile, he took Madame d’Espanet, and Madame Haffner, each 
by one hand, whispered a question in their ears, received their 
reply, and next addressing himself to Mr. Simpson : 
“Do you pick verbena or periwinkle?” 
Mr. Simpson, looking rather foolish, said that he picked verbena. 
Whereupon M. de Saffré handed him the marquise, saying : 
“Here’s your verbena.” 
There was discreet applause. They thought this very neat. M. de 
Saffré was a cotillon-leader “who was never at a loss,” so the ladies 
said. In the meanwhile the band had with its full strength resumed 
the waltz air, and Mr. Simpson, after waltzing round the room with 
Madame d’Espanet, led her back to her seat. 
Renée was able to pass. She had bitten her lips till the blood 
came, at the sight of all “this nonsense.” She thought these men and 
women stupid to throw scarves about and call themselves by the 
names of plants. Her ears rang, a furious impatience gave her an 
abrupt desire to throw herself headlong forward and effect a pas- 
sage. She crossed the drawing-room with a rapid step, jostling the 
belated couples returning to their seats. She went straight to the 
conservatory. She had seen neither Louise nor Maxime among the 
dancers, she said to herself that they must be there, in some nook of 
foliage, brought together by that instinct for fun and improprieties 
that made them seek out little corners as soon as they found them- 
240 

selves anywhere together. But she explored the dimness of the 
conservatory in vain. She only perceived, in the back of an arbour, 
a tall young man devoutly kissing little Madame Daste’s hands, 
murmuring : 
“Madame de Lauwerens was right: you’re an angel !” 
This declaration made in her house, in her conservatory, shocked 
her. Really Madame de Lauwerens ought to have taken her trade 
elsewhere! 
And Renée would have felt relieved could she have 
turned out of her rooms all these people who shouted so loudly. 
Standing before the tank, she looked at the water, she asked herself 
where Louise and Maxime could have hidden themselves. The 
orchestra still played the same waltz, whose slow undulation made 
her feel sick. It was unendurable, not to be able to reflect in one’s 
own house. She became confused. She forgot that the young people 
were not married yet, and she said to herself it was perfectly clear 
they had gone to bed. Then she thought of the dining-room, she 
quickly ran up the conservatory steps. But, at the door of the ball- 
room, she was for the second time stopped by a figure of the 
cotillon. 
“This is the ‘Dark Spots,’ mesdames,” said M. de Saffré, gal- 
lantly. “It is my own invention, and you shall be the first to have 
the benefit of it.” 
There was much laughter. The men explained the allusion to the 
ladies. The Emperor had just made a speech in which he had re- 
ferred to the presence of “certain dark spots” on the horizon. These 
dark spots, for no appreciable reason, had had a great success. The 
Parisian wits had appropriated the expression so much so that for 
the past week the dark spots had been applied to everything. M. de 
Saffré placed the gentlemen at one end of the room, making them 
turn their back on the ladies, who were left at the other end. Then 
he ordered them to pull up their coats so as to hide the backs of 
their heads. This performance was gone through amid the maddest 
merriment. Hunchbacked, their shoulders screwed up, their coat 
tails falling no lower than their waists, the cavaliers looked really 
hideous. 
“Don’t laugh, mesdames,” cried M. de Saffré, with most humor- 
ous seriousness, “or I shall make you put your skirts over your 
heads.” 
The gaiety redoubled. And he energetically availed himself of his 
sovereignty in respect of some of the gentlemen who refused to 
conceal the back of their necks. 
241 

“You are ‘dark spots,” he said, “hide your heads, show nothing 
but your backs, the ladies must see nothing but black. . 
. 
. Now walk 
about, mix yourselves, so that you may not be recognised.” 
Gaiety was at its highest. The “dark spots” went to and fro, on 
their thin legs, with the swaying of headless crows. One gentleman’s 
shirt showed, with a bit of brace. Then the ladies begged for mercy, 
they were dying with laughter, and M. de Saffré graciously ordered 
them to go and fetch the “dark spots.” They flew off, like a covey 
of partridges, with a loud rustle of skirts. Then at the end of her 
run each seized hold of the cavalier nearest at hand. It was an in- 
describable hurly-burly. And one after the other the improvised 
couples disengaged themselves, waltzed round the room 
to the 
louder strains of the band. 
Renée leant against the wall. She looked on, pale, with pursed 
lips. An old gentleman came gallantly to ask her why she did not 
dance. She had to smile, to answer something. She made her escape, 
she entered the supper-room. The room was empty. Amid the 
pillaged sideboards, the bottles and plates left lying about, Maxime 
and Louise sat quietly supping at one end of the table, side by 
side, on a napkin they had spread out between them. They looked 
quite at home, they laughed amid this disorder, amid the dirty 
plates, the greasy dishes, the still tepid remnants of the gluttony 
of the white-gloved supper-eaters. They had contented themselves 
with brushing away the crumbs around them. Baptiste stalked 
solemnly round the table, without a glance for the room, which 
looked as though it had been traversed by a pack of wolves; he 
waited for the servants to come and restore a semblance of order to 
the sideboards. 
Maxime had succeeded in getting a very comfortable supper to- 
gether. Louise adored nougat aux pistaches, a plateful of which had 
remained intact on the top of a sideboard. They had three partially- 
emptied bottles of champagne before them. 
“Perhaps papa has gone,” said the girl. 
“So much the better!” replied Maxime. “I will see you home.” 
And as she laughed : 
“You know, they have made up their minds that I am to marry 
you. It’s no longer a joke, it’s serious. 
.. 
. What are we going to do 
when we get married?” 
“We'll do what the other do, of course !” 
This joke escaped her rather quickly; she hastily added, as though 
to withdraw it : 
242 

“We will go to Italy. That will be good for my chest, I am very 
ill... 
. Ah, my poor Maxime, what a funny wife you'll have! I’m 
no fatter than two sous’ worth of butter.” 
She smiled, with a touch of melancholy, in her page’s dress. A 
dry cough sent a hectic flush to her cheeks. 
“It’s the nougat,” she said. “I’m not allowed to eat it at home. 
... Pass me the plate, I will put the rest in my pocket.” 
And she was emptying out the plate, when Renée entered. She 
went straight to Maxime, making an unconscionable effort to keep 
herself from cursing, from striking that hunchback whom she found 
there sitting at table with her lover. 
“TI want to speak to you,” she stammered, in a husky voice. 
He wavered, alarmed, fearing to be alone with her. 
“Alone, and at once,” repeated Renée. 
“Why don’t you go, Maxime?” said Louise, with her unfathom- 
able look. “You might at the same time see if you can discover 
what’s become of my father. I lose him at every party we go to.” 
He rose, he endeavoured to stop Renée in the middle of the 
‘supper-room, asking her what she could have of so urgent a nature 
to communicate to him. But she rejoined between her teeth : 
“Follow me, or I’ll speak out before everybody !” 
He turned very pale, he followed her with the docility of a 
beaten animal. She thought Baptiste looked at her; but at this 
moment what did she care for the valet’s steady gaze? At the door 
the cotillon detained her a third time. 
“Wait,” she muttered. “These idiots will never finish.” 
And she took his hand, lest he should try to get away. 
M. de Saffré was placing the Duc de Rozan with his back to the 
wall, in a corner of the room beside the door of the dining-room. 
He put a lady in front of him, then a gentleman back to back with 
the lady, then another lady facing the gentleman, and so on in a 
line, couple by couple, like a long snake. As the ladies lingered and 
talked : 
“Come along, mesdames!” he cried. “Take your places for the 
‘Columns.’ ” 
They came, “the columns” were formed. The indecency of find- 
ing themselves thus caught, squeezed in between two men, leaning 
against the back of one, and feeling the chest of the other in front, 
made these ladies very gay. The tips of the breasts touched the 
facings of the dress-coats, the legs of the gentlemen disappeared in 
the ladies’ skirts, and when any sudden outburst of merriment made 
243 

a head lean forward, the moustachios in front were obliged to draw 
back so as not to carry matters so far as kissing. At one moment a 
wag must have given a slight push, for the line closed up, the men 
plunger deeper into the skirts; there were little cries, laughs, endless 
laughs. The Baronne de Meinhold was heard to say: 
“But, mon- 
sieur, you are smothering me; don’t squeeze me so hard!” and this 
seemed so amusing, and occasioned so mad a fit of hilarity in the 
whole row that “the columns” tottered, staggered, clashed together, 
leant one against the other to avoid falling. M. de Saffré waited 
with raised hands, ready to clap. Then he clapped. At this signal, 
suddenly, all turned round. The couples who found themselves face 
to face clasped waists, and the row disperesed its chaplet of dancers 
into the room. None remained but the poor Duc de Rozan who, 
on turning round, found himself stuck with his nose against the 
wall. He was ridiculed. 
“Come,” said Renée to Maxime. 
The band still played the waltz. This soft music, whose mono- 
tonous rhythm tended to become insipid, redoubled Renée’s exas- 
peration. She gained the small drawing-room, holding Maxime by 
the hand; and pushing him up the staircase that led to the dressing- 
room : 
“Go up,” she ordered. 
She followed him. At this moment Madame Sidonie, who had 
been prowling after her sister-in-law the whole evening, astonished 
at her continual wanderings through the rooms, just reached the 
conservatory steps. She saw a man’s legs plunging into the dark- 
ness of the little staircase. A pale smile lit up her waxen face, and 
catching up her sorceress’s dress so as to go quicker, she hunted 
for her brother, upsetting a figure of the cotillon, questioning the 
servants she met on her way. She at last found Saccard with M. de 
Mareuil in a room adjacent to the dining-room, that had been fitted 
up as a temporary smoking-room. The two fathers were discussing 
the settlements, the contract. But when his sister came up and 
whispered a word in his ear, Saccard rose, apologised, disappeared. 
Upstairs, the dressing-room was in complete disorder. On the 
chairs trailed Echo’s costume, the torn tights, odds and ends of 
crumpled lace, under-clothing thrown aside in a heap, all that a 
woman in the hurry of being waited for leaves behind her. The 
little ivory and silver utensils lay here, there, and everywhere; there 
were brushes and nail-files that had fallen on the carpet; and the 
towels, still damp, the cakes of soap forgotten on the marble slab, 
244 

the scent bottles left unstoppered lent a strong, pungent odour to 
the flesh-coloured tent. Renée, to remove the white from her arms 
and shoulders, had dipped herself in the pink marble bath, after the 
tableaux-vivants. Iridescent soapstains floated on the surface of the 
water now grown cold. 
Maxime stepped on a corset, almost stumbled, tried to laugh. But 
he shuddered before Renée’s stern face. She came up to him, 
pushed him, said in a low voice : 
“So you are going to marry the hunchback ?” 
“Not a bit of it,” he murmured. “Who told you so?” 
“Oh, don’t tell any lies, it’s no use... .” 
He had a moment of resistance. She alarmed him, he wanted to 
have done with her. 
“Well then, yes, I am going to marry her. And what then? 
. 
Am I not my own master?” 
She came up to him, with her head a little lowered, and with a 
wicked laugh, and seizing his wrists : 
“The master! you the master! ... You know better than that. 
It is I who am your master. I could break your arms if I were 
spiteful; you are no stronger than a girl.” 
And as he struggled, she twisted his arms with all the nervous 
violence of her anger. He uttered a faint cry. Then she let go, re- 
suming : 
“See? we'd better not fight; I should only beat you.” 
He remained pallid, with the shame of the pain he felt at his 
wrists. He watched her coming and going in the dressing-room. She 
pushed back the furniture, reflecting, fixing on the plan that had 
been revolving in her head since her husband had told her of the 
marriage. 
“T shall lock you up here,” she said at last; “and as soon as it’s 
daylight we’ll start for Havre.” 
He grew still paler with alarm and stupor. 
“But this is madness!” he cried. “We can’t run away together. 
You are going off your head.” 
“Very likely. In any case it is you and your father who have 
driven me so... 
. I want you, and I mean to have you. So much 
the worse for the fools !” 
A red light gleamed from her eyes. She continued, approaching 
Maxime once more, scorching his face with her breath : 
“What do you think would become of me if you married the 
hunchback? You would laugh at me between you, I should perhaps 
I 
245 

be obliged to take back that great noodle of a Mussy, who would 
leave my very feet indifferent. ... When people have done what 
you and I have done, they stick to one another. Besides, it’s quite 
plain. I am bored when you’re not there, and as I’m going away, 
I shall take you with me. .. 
. You can tell Céleste what you want 
her to fetch from your place.” 
The unfortunate Maxime held out his hands, beseeching her : 
“Look here, Renée dear, don’t be silly. Be yourself. . . 
. Just think 
of the scandal.” 
“What do I care for the scandal! 
If you refuse, I shall go down 
to the drawing-room and cry out that I have slept with you, and 
that you’re base enough now to want to marry this hunchback.” 
He bent his head, listened to her, already yielding, accepting this 
will that thrust itself so rudely upon him. 
“We will go to Havre,” she resumed in a lower voice, caressing 
her dream, “and from there we shall cross to England. Nobody 
shall ever interfere with us again. If that is not far enough away, we 
shall go to America. I who am always so cold shall be better there. 
I have often envied the creoles. . . .” 
But in the measure 
that she enlarged upon her proposal, 
Maxime’s terror was renewed. To leave Paris, to go so far away 
with a woman who was undoubtedly mad, to leave behind him a 
tale whose scandalous side would exile him for ever! 
it was as 
though he were being stifled by a hideous nightmare. He sought 
desperately for a means of escape from this dressing-room, from this 
rose-coloured retreat where tolled the passing-bell of Charenton. 
He thought he had hit upon something. 
“You see, I have no money,” he said, gently, so as not to exas- 
perate her. “If you lock me in, I can’t procure any.” 
“But I have,” she replied, triumphantly. “I have a hundred 
thousand francs. It all fits in capitally. ...” 
She took from the looking-glass wardrobe the deed of transfer 
which her husband had left with her, in the vague hope that she 
might lose her senses. 
She laid it on the toilet-table, ordered 
Maxime to give her a pen and ink from the bedroom, and pushing 
back the soap-dishes, said, as she signed the deed : 
“There, the folly’s done. If I am robbed, it is because I choose to 
be . 
. 
. we will call at Larsonneau’s on the way to the station... 
. 
Now, my little Maxime, I am going to lock you in, and we will 
escape through the garden when I’ve turned all these people out of 
the house. We don’t even need to take any luggage.” 
246 

She resumed her gaiety. This mad freak delighted her. It was a 
piece of supreme eccentricity, a finish which, in her crisis of raging 
fever, seemed to her entirely original. It far surpassed her desire for 
the balloon voyage. She came and took Maxime in her arms, mur- 
muring : 
“My poor darling, did I hurt you just now? You see, you re- 
fused. 
. 
. 
. But you shall see how nice it will be. Would your 
hunchback ever love you as I love you? She’s not a woman, that 
little darkie. . . .” 
She laughed, she drew him to her, kissed him on the lips, when a 
sound made them both turn round. Saccard stood on the thresh- 
old. 
A terrible silence ensued. Slowly, Renée took her arms from 
around Maxime’s neck; and she did not lower her brow, she con- 
tinued staring at her husband with wide eyes, fixed like those of 
one dead; while the young man, dumbfounded and terrified, stag- 
gered with bowed head, now that he was no longer sustained by 
her embrace. Stunned by this culminating blow which at last made 
_ the husband and the father cry out within him, Saccard stood where 
he was, livid, burning them from afar with the fire of his glances. 
In the moist, fragrant atmosphere of the room, the three candles 
flared very high, their flames erect, with the immobility of fiery 
tears. And alone to break the silence, the terrible silence, a breath of 
music floated up through the narrow staircase: the waltz, with 
its serpentine modulations, glided, coiled, died away on the snow- 
white carpet, among the split tights and the skirts fallen on the 
floor. 
Then the husband stepped forward. A desire for brutality mottled 
his complexion, he clenched his fists to strike down the guilty pair. 
Anger in this small, turbulent man burst forth with the report of 
fire-arms. He gave a strangled chuckle, and always approaching : 
“You were announcing your marriage to her, I suppose?” 
Maxime retreated, leaned up against the wall. 
“Listen,” he stammered, “it was she... .” 
He was about to accuse her like a coward, to cast the crime upon 
her shoulders, to say that she wanted to carry him off, to defend 
himself with the meekness and the trepidation of a child detected 
in fault. But his strength failed him, the words expired in his throat. 
Renée kept her statuesque rigidity, her mute air of defiance. Then 
Saccard, no doubt to find a weapon, threw a rapid glance around 
him. And on the corner of the toilet-table, among the combs and 
247 

nail-brushes, he caught sight of the deed of transfer, whose stamped 
paper lay yellow on the marble. He looked at the deed, looked at 
the guilty pair. Then, leaning forward, he saw that he deed was 
signed. His eyes went from the open inkstand to the pen still wet, 
lying at the foot of the candlestick. He remained standing before 
this signature, reflecting. 
The silence seemed to increase, the flames of the candles grew 
longer, the waltz passed along the hangings with a softer lullaby. 
Saccard gave an imperceptible shrug of the shoulders. He looked 
again at his wife and son with a penetrating air, as though to 
wring from their faces an explanation that he was unable to supply. 
Then he slowly folded up the deed, placed it in the pocket of his 
dress-coat. His cheeks had become quite pale. 
“You did well to sign it, my dear,” he said, quietly, to his wife. 
... “It’s a hundred thousand francs in your pocket. I will give you 
the money this evening.” 
He almost smiled, and his hands alone still trembled. He took one 
or two steps, and added : 
“It is stifling here. What an idea to come and hatch one of your 
jokes in this vapour-bath. ...! 
And addressing Maxime, who had raised his head, surprised at 
his father’s mollified voice : 
“Here, come downstairs, you !”” he resumed. “J saw you come up, 
I came to fetch you to say goodnight to M. de Mareuil and his 
daughter.” 
The two men went downstairs, talking together. Renée remained 
behind alone, standing in the middle of the dressing-room, staring 
at the gaping well of the little staircase, down which she had just 
seen the shoulders of the father and the son disappear. She could 
not take away her eyes from this well. What! they had gone off 
quietly, amicably! These two men had not smashed one another! 
She leant an ear, she listened whether some hideous struggle were 
not causing the bodies to roll down the stairs. Nothing. In the tepid 
darkness, nothing but a sound of dancing, a long lullaby. She 
thought she could hear in the distance the marquise’s laugh, M. de 
Saffré’s clear voice. Then the drama was ended. Her crime, the 
kisses on the great grey-and-pink bed, the wild nights in the hot- 
house, all the accursed love that had consumed her for months came 
to this mean, vulgar ending. Her husband knew all, and did not 
even strike her. And the silence surrounding her, the silence through 
which trailed the never-ending waltz, frightened her more than the 
248 

sound of a murder. She felt afraid of this peacefulness, afraid of this 
delicate, discreet dressing-room, filled with the fragrance of love. 
She saw herself in the tall glass of the wardrobe. She came nearer, 
surprised at her own 
sight, forgetting her husband, forgetting 
Maxime, quite taken up with the strange woman she beheld before 
her. Madness rose to her brain. Her yellow hair, caught up at the 
temples and on the neck, seemed to her a nudity, an obscenity. The 
wrinkle in her forehead deepened to such a degree that it placed a 
dark bar above her eyes, the thin blue scar of a lash from a whip. 
Who had marked her like that? Her husband had not raised his 
hand, surely. And her lips astonished her by their pallor, her short- 
sighted eyes seemed extinct. How old she looked! 
She inclined 
her forehead, and when she saw herself in her tights, in her light 
gauze blouse, she gazed at herself with lowered eyelashes and sudden 
blushes. Who had stripped her naked? What was she doing there, 
bare-breasted, like a prostitute who uncovers herself to her stomach? 
She no longer knew. She looked at her thighs, rounded out by the 
_ tights; at her hips, whose supple lines she followed under the gauze; 
at her bust broadly discovered; and she was ashamed of herself, and 
contempt of her flesh filled her with mute anger against those who 
had left her thus, with mere bangles of gold at her wrists and ankles 
to cover her skin. 
Then endeavouring, with the fixed idea of a brain giving way, to 
remember what she was there for, quite naked, before that glass, 
she went back by a sudden bound to her childhood, and she again 
saw herself at the age of seven in the solemn gloom of the Hétel 
Béraud. She recalled a day when Aunt Elisabeth had dressed them, 
Christine and her, in frocks of grey homespun with little red checks. 
It was at Christmas-time. How pleased they had been with these 
two dresses just alike! Their auntie spoiled them, and she went 
so far as to give them each a coral bracelet and necklace. The 
sleeves were long, the bodices came up to their chins, and the 
trinkets showed up on the stuff, and they thought it very pretty. 
Renée remembered too that her father was there, that he smiled in 
his sad way. That day she and her sister had walked up and down 
the children’s room like grown-up people, without playing, so as 
not to dirty themselves. Then, at the Ladies of the Visitation, her 
schoolfellows had laughed at her about “her clown’s dress,” which 
came down to her finger-tips and up over her ears. She had begun 
to cry during lesson-time. 
At play-time, so that they should not 
make fun of her any longer, she had turned up the sleeves and 
aa9 

tucked in the neck band of the bodice. And the necklace and brace- 
let seemed to her to look prettier on the skin of her neck and arm. 
Was that when she had first begun to strip herself naked? 
Her life unrolled before her. She witnessed her long bewilder- 
ment, that racket of gold and flesh that had mounted within her, 
that had first come up to her knees, then to her belly, then to her 
lips; and now she felt its flood passing over her head, beating on 
her skull with quick blows. It was like a poisonous sap: 
it had 
wearied her limbs, grafted growths of shameful affection on her 
heart, made sickly and bestial caprices sprout in her brain. This sap 
had soaked into her feet on the rug of her calash, on other carpets 
too, on all the silk, on all the velvet upon which she had been 
walking since her marriage. The footsteps of others must have left 
behind those poisonous seeds which were now germinating in her 
blood and being carried along in her veins. She clearly remembered 
her childhood. When she was little, she had been merely inquisitive. 
Even later, after that rape which had hurled her into wickedness, 
she had not wished for all that shame. She would certainly have 
become better if she had stayed knitting by Aunt Elisabeth’s side. 
And she heard the even clicking of her aunt’s needles, while she 
stood looking fixedly in the glass to read the peaceful future that 
had eluded her. But she saw only her pink thighs, her pink hips, 
that strange, pink silk woman standing before her, whose skin of fine 
closely-woven silk seemed made for the loves of dolls and puppets. 
She had come to that, to be a big doll from whose broken chest 
there issues a mere squeak of sound. Then, at the thought of the 
enormities of her life, the blood of her father, that middle-class 
blood that had always tormented her at critical moments, cried out 
within her, rebelled. She who had always trembled at the thought 
of hell, she ought to have spent her life buried in the gloomy 
austereness 
of the Hétel Béraud. Who was 
it, then, that had 
stripped her naked? 
And in the dim blue reflection of the glass she imagined she saw 
the figures of Saccard and Maxime rise up. Saccard, swarthy, grin- 
ning, iron-hued, with his cruel laugh, his skinny legs. The strength 
of that man’s will! 
For ten years she had seen him at the forge, 
amid the sparks of red-hot metal, with scorched flesh, breathless, 
always striking, lifting hammers twenty times too heavy for his arms, 
at the risk of crushing himself. She understood him now; he seemed 
to her to have increased in height by this superhuman effort, by 
this stupendous 
rascality, 
this fixed idea of an immense, im- 
250 

mediate fortune. She remembered how he sprang over obstacles, 
rolling over in the mud, not taking the time to wipe himself, so that 
he might attain his aim in good time, not even stopping for enjoy- 
ment by the wayside, munching his gold pieces while he ran. Then 
Maxime’s fair-haired comely head appeared behind his father’s 
rough shoulder : he had his clear harlot smile, his vacant lascivious 
eyes, which were never lowered, his centre parting, which showed 
the white of his skull. He laughed at Saccard, he looked down upon 
him for taking so much trouble to make the money which he, 
Maxime, spent with such enchanting indolence. He was kept. His 
long, soft hands bore witness to his vices. His smooth body had the 
languid attitude of a satiated woman. In all his soft, feeble person, 
in which vice coursed gently like tepid water, there shone not even a 
gleam of the curiosity of sin. He was a passive agent. And Renée, as 
she looked at the two apparitions emerging from the light shade of 
the mirror, stepped back, saw that Saccard had thrown her like a 
stake, a speculation, and that Maxime had happened to be there to 
pick up that louis fallen from the gambler’s pocket. She had always 
been an asset in her husband’s pocket-book; he urged her on to the 
toilettes of a night, the lovers of a season; he wrought her in the 
flames of his forge, using her as a precious metal with which to gild 
the iron of his hands. And s0, little by little, the father had driven 
her to such a pitch of madness and abandonment as to desire the 
kisses of the son. If Maxime was the impoverished blood of Sac- 
card, she felt that she herself was the product, the maggot-eaten 
fruit of those two men, the pit of infamy which they had dug be- 
tween them, and into which they now both rolled. 
She knew now. These were they who had stripped her naked. 
Saccard had unhooked her bodice, and Maxime had let down her 
skirt. Then between them they had at last torn off her shift. At 
present she stood there without a rag, with bracelets of gold, like a 
slave. They had looked upon her not a moment ago, and they had 
not said to her: “You are naked.” The son had trembled like a 
coward, shuddered at the thought of carrying his crime to the end, 
refusing to follow her in her passion. The father instead of killing 
her, had robbed her; this man chastised people by rifling their 
pockets: 
a signature had fallen like a ray of sunshine into the 
midst of the brutality of his anger, and by way of vengeance he had 
carried off the signature. Then she had seen their shoulders diving 
down into the darkness. No blood on the carpet, not a cry, not a 
moan. They were cowards. They had stripped her naked. 
Zou 

And she recalled how, on a solitary occasion, she had read the 
future, on that day when, in sight of the murmuring shadows of the 
Parc Monceau, the thought that her husband would soil her and 
one day drive her mad had come to her and alarmed her growing 
desires. Ah! how her poor head hurt her! How she realised now 
the folly of the illusion which had led her to believe that she lived 
in a blissful world of divine enjoyment and impunity! She had lived 
in the land of shame, and she was punished by the desolation of her 
whole body, by the annihilation of her personality, now in its last 
agonies. She wept that she had not listened to the loud voices of 
the trees. 
Her nudity irritated her. She turned her head, she looked around 
her. The dressing-room retained its heavy odour of musk, its warm 
silence, into which the waltz movements never ceased to penetrate, 
like the last expiring ripples on a sheet of water. This faint laughter 
of distant voluptuousness passed over her with intolerable irony. 
She stopped her ears so as not to hear it. Then she beheld the 
luxury of the room. She lifted her eyes along the pink tent, up to 
the silvercrown that showed a podgy Cupid preparing his dart; they 
rested on the furniture, on the marble slab of the dressing-table, 
heaped up with pots and implements that now meant nothing to 
her; she went up to the bath still full of stagnant water; with her 
foot she thrust back the things that trailed down from the white 
satin of the easy-chairs, Echo’s dress, petticoats, neglected towels. 
And from all these things voices of shame arose: 
Echo’s dress re- 
minded her of the mummery she had acquiesced in for the eccen- 
tricity of offering herself to Maxime in public; the bath exhaled 
the scent of her body, the water in which she had soaked herself 
filled the room with a sick woman’s feverishness; the table with 
its soap-dishes and cosmetics, the furniture with its bed-like full- 
ness spoke to her rudely of her flesh, of her amours, of all the 
filth that she longed to forget. She returned to the middle of the 
room, with crimson face, not knowing where to fly from this alcove 
perfume, this luxury which bared itself with a harlot’s shamelessness, 
this pink display. The room was naked as herself; the pink bath, 
the pink skin of the hangings, the pink marble of the two tables 
assumed an aspect of life, coiled themselves up, surrounded her 
with such an orgy of living lusts that she closed her eyes, lowering 
her forehead, crushed beneath the lace of the walls and ceiling 
which overwhelmed her. 
But in the darkness she again saw the flesh-coloured stain of the 
252 

dressing-room, and she perceived besides the grey tenderness of 
the bedroom, the soft gold of the small drawing-room, the hard 
green of the hot-house, all this accomplice luxury. It was there 
that her feet had been impregnated with the poisonous sap. She 
would never have slept with Maxime on a pallet, in a corner of a 
garret. It would have been too low. Silk had cast a coquettish lustre 
over her crime. And she dreamt of tearing down this lace, of spitting 
upon the silk, of kicking her great bed to pieces, of dragging her 
luxury into some gutter whence it would emerge worn-out and 
sullied as herself. 
When she re-opened her eyes, she approached the mirror, looked 
at herself again, examined herself closely. It was all over with her. 
She saw herself dead. Every feature told her that the breaking down 
of her brain was nearly accomplished. Maxime, that last perversion 
of her senses, had finished his work, had exhausted her flesh, un- 
hinged her intellect. No joys remained for her to taste, no hope 
of reawakening. 
At this thought a savage rage was once more kindled within her. 
And in a final access of desire, she dreamt of recapturing her prey, 
of swooning in Maxime’s arms and carrying him away with her. 
Louise could never marry him; Louise well knew that he did not 
belong to her, since she had seen them kissing each other on the 
lips. Then she threw a fur cloak over’ her shoulders, so as not to 
pass quite naked through the ball. She went downstairs. 
In the small drawing-room she came face to face with Mme. 
Sidonie. The latter, in order to enjoy the drama, had again stationed 
herself on the conservatory steps. But she no longer knew what to 
think when Saccard reappeared with Maxime, and abruptly replied 
to her whispered questions that there was “nothing whatever.” 
Then she guessed the truth. Her yellow face turned pale, she 
thought this was really too much. And she went softly and glued 
her ear to the door of the staircase, hoping to hear Renée cry, up- 
stairs. When the latter opened the door, it almost struck her sister- 
in-law in the face. 
“You are spying on me!” said Renée, angrily. 
But Mme. Sidonie replied with fine disdain : 
‘Do you think I care about your filth?” 
And catching up her sorceress’s dress, retreating with a majestic 
look : 
“It’s not my fault, my dear, if you meet with mishaps... 
. But I 
bear no malice, do you hear? And understand that you would have 
203 

found and could still find a second mother in me. I shall be glad 
to see you at my place, whenever you please.” 
Renée did not listen to her. She entered the large drawing-room, 
she passed through a very complicated figure of the cotillon, with- 
out even remarking the surprise which her fur cloak occasioned. In 
the middle of the room were groups of ladies and their partners 
mingling together, waving streamers, and M. de Saffré’s fluted 
voice called out : 
“Come, mesdames, the ‘Mexican War’... 
. The ladies who play 
the bushes must spread out their skirts and remain on the ground. 
. 
.. Now the gentlemen must dance round their bushes. 
. 
. 
. Then 
when I clap my hands each of them must waltz with his bush.” 
He clapped his hands. The brass sang out, the waltz once more 
sent the couples spinning round the room. The figure was not very 
successful. Two ladies had been left behind on the carpet, entangled 
in their dresses. Madame Daste declared that the only thing that 
amused her in the “Mexican War” was making a “cheese” with her 
dress, as at school. 
Renée, on reaching the hall, found Louise and her father, whom 
Saccard and Maxime were seeing off. The Baron Gouraud had left. 
Madame Sidonie went away with the Mignon and Charrier couple, 
while M. Hupel de la Noue escorted Madame Michelin, followed 
discreetly by her husband. The préfet had spent the latter part of 
the evening in making love to the pretty brunette. He had just 
succeeded in persuading her to spend a month of the fine season in 
his departmental town, “where she would see some really curious 
antiquities.” 
Louise, who was covertly munching the nougat which she had 
put in her pocket, was seized with a fit of coughing just as she was 
leaving the house. 
“Cover yourself up,” said her father. 
And Maxime hastened to tighten the strings of the hood of her 
opera-cloak. She raised her chin, she allowed herself to be muffled 
up. But when Madame Saccard appeared, M. de Mareuil turned 
back, said good-bye. They all stayed talking there for a moment. 
Renée, to explain her paleness, her trembling, said that she had felt 
cold, that she had gone up to her room to throw this fur over her 
shoulders. And she watched for the moment when she could whisper 
to Louise, who was looking at her with tranquil curiosity. When the 
gentlemen shook hands once more, she leant forward, murmured : 
204 

“Tell me you’re not going to marry him? 
It’s not possible. You 
know quite well...” 
But the child interrupted her, rising on tiptoe, speaking in her 
ear: 
“Oh! make yourself easy. I shall take him away... 
. It makes 
no difference, since we are going to Italy.” 
And she smiled with her vague, vicious, sphinx-like smile. Renée 
was left stuttering. She did not understand, she fancied that the 
hunchback was laughing at her. Then, when the Mareuils had gone, 
after several times repeating, “Till Sunday!” she looked at her 
husband, she looked at Maxime with her terrified eyes. And seeing 
their tranquil and self-satisfied attitudes, she hid her face in her 
hands, fled, sought refuge in the depths of the conservatory. 
The pathways were deserted. The great clumps of foliage were 
asleep, and on the heavy surface of the tank two budding water- 
lilies slowly unfolded. Renée would gladly have sought relief in 
tears; but this moist heat, this pungent odour which she recognised 
caught her at the throat, strangled her despair. She looked down at 
the spot in the yellow sand at her feet, on the margin of the tank, 
where last winter she used to spread out the bearskin rug. And 
when she raised her eyes, she saw yet one more figure of the cotillon 
right away in the background, through the two open doors. 
The noise was deafening, there was a confused medley in which 
at first she distinguished nothing but flying skirts and black legs 
prancing and turning. M. de Saffré’s voice cried, “Change your 
ladies! change your ladies!” And the couples passed by amid a fine 
yellow dust; each gentleman, after three or four turns in the waltz, 
threw his partner into the arms of his neighbour, who in his turn 
threw him his. The Baronne de Meinhold, in her costume as the 
Emerald fell from the hands of the Comte de Chibray into the hands 
of Mr. Simpson; he caught her as best he could by the shoulder, 
while the tips of his gloves glided under her bodice. The Comtesse 
Vanska, flushed, jingling her coral pendants, went with a bound 
from the chest of M. de Saffré to the chest of the Duc de Rozan, 
whom she entwined in her arms and compelled to hop round for five 
turns, when she hung herself on the hips of Mr. Simpson, who had 
just flung the Emerald to the leader of the cotillon. And Madame 
Teissiére, Madame Daste, Madame de Lauwerens shone like large, 
live jewels, with the blonde pallor of the Topaz, the gentle blue of 
the Turquoise, the ardent blue of the Sapphire, had moments of 
abandonment, curved under a waltzer’s outstretched wrist, then 
209 

started off again, fell back or forwards into a fresh embrace, visited 
one after the other the arms of every man in the room. However, 
Madame d’Espanet, standing in front of the band, had succeeded in 
catching hold of Madame Haffner as she sped by, and now waltzed 
with her, refusing to let her go. Gold and Silver danced amorously 
together. 
Renée then understood this whirl of skirts, this prancing of legs. 
Standing lower down, she could see the eagerness of the feet, the 
whirling of glazed shoes and white ankles. At intervals it seemed 
to her as though a gust of wind were about to carry off the dresses. 
Those bare shoulders, those bare arms, those bare heads that flew 
and reeled past, caught up, thrown off and caught up again at the 
end of that gallery, where the waltz of the band grew madder, 
where the red hangings swooned amid the final fever of the ball, 
seemed to her as the tumultuous symbol of her own life, of her 
self-exposures, of her surrenders. And at the thought that Maxime, 
to take the hunchback in his arms, had abandoned her there, in 
the very spot where they had loved one another, she underwent a 
pang so great that she thought of plucking a stalk of the tanghin- 
plant that grazed her cheek, and of chewing it dry. But she was 
afraid, and she remained before the shrub, shivering under the fur 
which her hands drew over her with a tight clutch, with a gesture 
of terrified shame. 
256 

VII 
TureEE months later, on one of those dismal spring mornings which 
in Paris recall the dimness and murky humidity of winter, Aristide 
Saccard got out of a cab in the Place du Chateau-d’Eau and turned 
with four other gentlemen into the space in the middle of the 
demolitions upon the site of what was to become the Boulevard 
du Prince-Eugéne. They formed a committee of inspection which 
had been sent by the compensations commission to value certain 
houses on the spot, their owners not having been able to come to 
terms with the Ville. 
Saccard was repeating the stroke of fortune of the Rue de la 
_ Pépiniére. So that his wife’s name might remain quite out of it, he 
began by a spurious sale of the building-plots and the music-hall. 
Larsonneau handed over the lot to an imaginary creditor. The deed 
of sale bore the colossal figure of three million francs. This figure 
was so outrageous that the committee at the Hétel de Ville, when 
the expropriation-agent, in the name of the non-existing landlord, 
claimed the amount of the purchase-money as an indemnity, refused 
for one moment to allow more than two millions and a half, despite 
the mute efforts of M. Michelin and the speeches of M. Toutin- 
Laroche and the Baron Gouraud. Saccard had foreseen this repulse; 
he refused the offer, let the case go before the jury, of which he 
happened to be a member, together with M. de Mareuil, by an 
accident to which he had no doubt contributed. And it was thus 
that, with four of his colleagues, he found himself appointed to 
make an inquiry upon his own site. 
M. de Mareuil accompanied him. The three other committee- 
men consisted of a doctor, who smoked a cigar without caring the 
least in the world for the heaps of lime-rubbish he stepped over, and 
two business men, of whom one, a manufacturer of surgical instru- 
ments, had formely turned a grind-stone in the streets. 
The path which these gentlemen followed was abominable. It 
had been raining all night. The ground, soaked through and 
through, was turning into a river of mud, running between the 
257 

demolished houses over a path cutting across the soft ground in 
which the dobbin-carts sank up to their axles. On either side, great 
pieces of wall, crenulated by the pickaxe, remained erect; tall, 
gutted buildings, displaying their pallid entrails, opened to mid-air 
their wells stripped of stairs, their gaping rooms suspended on high 
and resembling the broken drawers of a big, ugly piece of furniture. 
Nothing could be more woe-begone than the wall-papers of these 
rooms, 
blue or yellow squares 
falling in tatters, marking the 
positions, five or six stories high, close under the roofing, of wretched 
little garrets, cramped cabins to which perhaps a whole human 
existence had been limited. On the bare walls, ribbons of flues 
ascended side by side, lugubriously black and with abrupt bends. 
A forgotten weather-cock grated at the extremity of a roof, while 
gutters, half detached, depended like rags. And the gap yawned 
still wider in the midst of these ruins, like a breach opened by 
cannon; the roadway, as yet hardly set out, filled with rubbish, 
with mounds of earth and deep pools of water, stretched along 
under the leaden sky, amid the sinister pallor of the falling plaster- 
dust, edged with the black strips of chimneys as with a mourning 
border. 
The gentlemen, with their well-blackened 
boots, their frock- 
coats and tall hats, struck a strange note in this muddy, dirty yellow 
landscape, across which there passed nothing but sallow workmen, 
horses splashed to their backs, carts whose sides were hidden beneath 
a coating of dust. They went in Indian file, hopping from stone to 
stone, avoiding the pools of liquid mire, sometimes sinking in up 
to their ankles and then cursing as they shook their feet. Saccard 
had suggested taking the Rue de Charonne, by which they would 
have avoided this tramp over broken ground; but unfortunately 
they had several plots of land to visit on the long line of the boule- 
vard ; curiosity impelled them, they had decided to go right through 
the works. And moreover it interested them greatly. Sometimes 
they stopped, balancing themselves on a piece of plaster that had 
fallen into a rut, lifted their noses, called out to point out to one 
another a yawning flooring, a flue pointing into the air, a joist 
that had fallen on to a neighbouring roof. This bit of razed city 
at the end of the Rue Temple seemed to them quite droll. 
“It’s really curious,” said M. de Mareuil. ‘See, Saccard, look at 
that kitchen, up there; an old frying-pan has remained hanging 
there over the stove. .. 
. I can see it quite plainly.” 
But the doctor, his cigar between his teeth, had planted himself 
258 

before a demolished house of which there remained only the 
ground-floor rooms, filled with the débris of the other stories. A 
solitary large piece of walling rose from the heap of brick-rubbish; 
and in order to overthrow it with one effort they had tied round it a 
rope at which some thirty workmen were tugging. 
“They won’t do it,” muttered the doctor. “They’re pulling too 
much to the left.” 
The four others retraced their steps to see the wall come down. 
And all five of them, with staring eyes, with bated breath waited for 
the fall with a thrill of rapture. The workmen, relaxing, and then 
suddenly stiffening themselves, cried, “Oh! heave oh!” 
“They won’t do it,” repeated the doctor. 
Then, after a few seconds of anxiety : 
“It’s moving, it’s moving,” joyously said one of the business-men. 
And when the wall at last gave way and came down with a 
thundering crash, raising a cloud of plaster, the gentlemen looked at 
one another with smiles. They were enchanted. Their frock-coats 
were covered with a fine dust, which whitened their arms and 
shoulders. 
They now talked of the workmen, while resuming their cautious 
progress 
across 
the puddles. There were not many good ones 
amongst them. They were all sluggards, spendthrifts, and obstinate 
into the bargain, having but one dream, the ruin of their employers. 
M. de Mareuil, who for the last minute had with a shudder been 
watching two poor devils perched on the corner of a roof hacking 
at a wall with their pickaxes, expressed the view that those 
fellows were very plucky all the same. The others stopped once 
more, raised their eyes to the labourers balancing themselves, leaning 
over, striking with all their might; they shoved down the stones 
with their feet and quietly watched them smashing beneath them : 
had their pickaxe gone wide of the mark, the mere momentum of 
their arms would have hurled them to the bottom. 
“Bah! they’re used to it,” said the doctor, replacing his cigar 
between his lips. “They’re brutes.” 
They now reached one of the houses they had to inspect. They 
hurried through their task in a quarter of an hour, and resumed 
their walk. They gradually lost their disgust for the mud; they 
walked straight across the pools, giving up all hope of keeping their 
boots clean. When they had passed the Rue Ménilmontant, one of 
the business-men, the ex-knife-grinder, became restless. He examined 
the ruins around him, failed to recognise the neighbourhood. He 
Pdi) 

said he had lived thereabouts, more than thirty years ago, on his 
first arrival in Paris, and that he should much like to find the place 
again. He kept on searching with his eyes, when the sight of a house 
which the labourers’ picks had already cut into two made him stop 
short in the middle of the road. He studied the door, the windows. 
Then, pointing with his finger to a corner of the demolished build- 
ing, right up above : 
“There it is,” he cried. “I recognise it!” 
“What?” asked the doctor. 
“My room, of course! That’s it!” 
It was on the fifth floor, a little room which must formerly have 
looked out on a court-yard. A breach in the wall showed it, quite 
bare, already cut into on one side, with its wall-paper with a pattern 
of big yellow flowers, a broad torn strip of which trembled in the 
wind. On the left they could still see the recess of a cupboard, 
lined with blue paper. And beside it was the aperture for a stove- 
pipe, with a bit of piping left in it. 
The ex-workman was seized with emotion. 
“T spent five years there,” he murmured. “I didn’t have a good 
time in those days; but no matter, I was young... . You see the cup- 
board; that’s where I put by three hundred francs, sou by sou. And 
the hole for the stove-pipe, I can still remember the day I made it. 
There was no fireplace in the room, it was bitterly cold, the more 
so as there were not often two of us.” 
“Come, come,” interrupted the doctor, joking, “we don’t ask 
you for any confidences. You sowed your wild oats like the rest of 
us.” 
“That's true enough,” ingenuously resumed the worthy man. 
“T still remember an ironing-girl who lived over the way. ... Do 
you see, the bed was on the right, near the window. 
. 
. 
. Ah, my 
poor room, what a state they’ve put it in!” 
He was really very much upset. 
“Get out,” said Saccard. “There’s no harm done in pulling down 
those old rookeries. We’re going to build fine freestone houses in 
their stead. 
. 
. 
. Would you still live in a hole like that? Whereas 
there is nothing to prevent you from taking up your quarters on 
the new boulevard.” 
“That’s true enough,” replied the manufacturer, who seemed 
quite consoled. 
The committee of inquiry halted again two houses further on. 
The doctor remained outside, smoking, looking at the sky. When 
260 

they reached the Rue des Amandiers, the houses became moré 
scattered; they now passed through large enclosures, pieces of 
waste land, where straggled some tumble-down 
ruins. Saccard 
seemed enraptured by this walk through devastations. He had just 
remembered the dinner he had once had with his first wife on the 
Buttes Montmartre, and he clearly recollected how he had pointed 
out to her, with the edge of his hand, the cutting that went from the 
Place du Chateau-d’Eau to the Barriére du Tréne. The realisation 
of this far-away prophecy delighted him. He followed the cutting 
with the secret joys of authorship, as though he himself had struck 
the first blows of the pickaxe with his iron fingers. And he skipped 
over the puddles, reflecting that three millions were awaiting him 
beneath a heap of building-rubbish, at the end of this stream of 
greasy mire. 
Meanwhile the gentlemen began to fancy themselves in the 
country. The road passed through gardens, whose separating walls 
had been pulled down. There were large clumps of budding lilac. 
The foliage was a very delicate, pale green. Each of these gardens, 
looking like a retreat hung with the verdure of the shrubs, was 
hollowed out with a narrow basin, a miniature cascade, bits of wall 
on which were painted optical delusions in the shape of fore- 
shortened groves, blue backgrounds of landscape. The buildings, 
disseminated and discreetly hidden, resembled 
Italian pavilions, 
Greek temples: moss was crumbling away the bases of the plaster 
columns, while lichens had already loosened the mortar of the 
pediments. 
“Those are ‘follies,’ ” said the doctor, with a wink. 
But as he saw that the gentlemen did not understand him, he 
explained to them that under Louis XV the Court nobility kept up 
houses for their select parties. It was the fashion. And he added : 
“Those places were called their ‘follies.’ 
The neighbourhood is 
full of them. ... I tell you, some stiff things used to happen here.” 
The committee of inquiry had become very attentive. The two 
business-men had eyes that glittered, they smiled, looked with lively 
interest at these gardens, these pavilions which they had barely 
honoured with a glance prior to their colleague’s explanations. They 
stood long before a grotto. But when the doctor, seeing a house 
already attacked by the pickaxe, said that he recognised the Comte 
de Savigny’s ‘folly,’ well-known by reason of that nobleman’s orgies, 
the whole of the committee deserted the boulevard to go and in- 
spect the ruins. They climbed on to the rubbish-heaps, entered 
261 

the ground-floor rooms by the windows, and as the workmen were 
at dinner, they were able to linger there quite at their ease. They 
stayed a good half-hour, examining the rose-work of the ceilings, 
the frescoes over the door, the tortuous mouldings of the plaster 
yellowed with age. The doctor reconstructed the house. 
“Look here,” he said, “this room must be the banqueting-hall. 
There, in that recess of the wall, must certainly have stood a huge 
divan. And see, I am positive there was a mirror over the divan; 
there are the feet of the mirror... 
. Oh! those scamps knew jolly 
well how to enjoy life!” 
They would never have left those old stones, which tickled 
their 
curiosity, 
had 
not 
Aristide 
Saccard, 
seized 
with 
im- 
patience, said to them, laughing : 
“You may look as long as you like, the ladies are gone. 
. 
. 
. Let’s 
get on with our business.” 
But before leaving, the doctor climbed on to a mantel-shelf in 
order delicately to detach, with a blow from a pickaxe, a little 
painted Cupid’s head, which he put into the pocket of his frock- 
coat. 
They arrived at last at the end of their journey. The land that 
was formerly Mme. Aubertot’s was very extensive; the music-hall 
and the garden took up barely the half of it, the rest had here and 
there a few houses of no importance. The new boulevard cut 
diagonally across this huge parallelogram, which circumstance had 
allayed one of Saccard’s fears: 
he had long imagined that only a 
corner of the music-hall would be cut off. And accordingly Larson- 
neau had been instructed to talk very big, as the bordering plots 
ought to increase 
at least five-fold in value. He was already 
threatening against the municipality to avail himself of a recent 
decree that authorised the land-owners to deliver up no more than 
the ground absolutely necessary for the public works. 
The expropriation-agent received the gentlemen in person. He 
walked them through the garden, made them go over the music- 
hall, showed them a huge bundle of documents. But the two 
business men had gone down again, accompanied by the doctor, 
whom they still questioned about the Comte de Savigny’s folly, of 
which their minds were full. They listened to him with gaping 
mouths, all three standing beside a jeu de tonneau. And he talked to 
them of the Pompadour, told them of the amours of Louis XV, 
while M. de Mareuil and Saccard continued the inquiry alone. 
“That’s finished,” said the latter, returning to the garden. 
“If 
262 

you allow me, messieurs, I will undertake to draw up the report.” 
The surgical-instrument maker did not even hear. He was deep 
in the Regency. 
“What queer times, all the same!” he muttered. 
Then they found a cab in the Rue de Charonne, and they drove 
off, splashed up to their knees, but as satisfied with their walk as 
though they had had a day in the country. The conversation 
changed in the cab, they talked politics, they said that the Emperor 
was doing great things. They had never seen anything like what 
they had seen just now. That great, long, straight street would be 
splendid when the houses were built. 
Saccard drew up the report, and the jury granted three millions. 
The speculator was at the end of his tether, he could not have 
waited another month. This money saved him from ruin and even 
from the dock. He paid five hundred thousand francs on account of 
the million which he owned to his upholsterer and his builder, for 
the house in the Parc Monceau. He stopped up other holes, flung 
himself into new companies, deafened Paris with the sound of the 
real crown-pieces which he shovelled out on to the shelves of his iron 
safe. The golden stream had a source at last. But it was not yet a 
solid, entrenched fortune, flowing with an even, continuous current. 
Saccard, saved from a crisis, thought himself a beggar with the 
crumbs of his three millions, said frankly that he was still too poor, 
that he could not stop. And soon the ground cracked once more 
beneath his feet. 
Larsonneau had behaved so admirably in the Charonne business 
that Saccard, after a short hesitation, had the honesty to give him 
his ten per cent. and his bonus of thirty thousand francs. The expro- 
priation-agent thereupon started a banking-house. When his ac- 
complice peevishly accused him of being richer than himself, the 
yellow-gloved coxcomb replied with a laugh : 
“You see, dear master, you’re very clever at making the five- 
franc pieces rain down, but you don’t know how to pick ’em up.” 
Madame Sidonie profited by her brother’s stroke of luck to 
borrow ten thousand francs of him, with which she went and spent 
two months in London. She returned without a sou. It was never 
known where the ten thousand francs had gone to. 
“Good gracious!” she replied, when they questioned her, “it all 
costs money. I ransacked all the libraries. I had three secretaries to 
help me.” 
And when she was asked if she had at last any positive informa- 
263 

tion about the three milliards, she smiled at first with a mysterious 
air, and then ended by muttering : 
“You are a lot of unbelievers. 
. 
. 
. I have discovered nothing, but 
it makes no difference. You'll see, you'll see some day.” 
She had not, however, wasted all her time while she was in 
England. Her brother the minister profited by her journey to en- 
trust her with a delicate commission. When she returned she ob- 
tained large orders from the ministry. It was a fresh incarnation. 
She made contracts with the government, she undertook every 
imaginable kind of supply. She sold it provisions and arms for the 
troops, furniture for the préfectures and public departments, fire- 
wood for the museums and government-offices. The money she 
made did not induce her to change her everlasting black gowns, and 
she kept her yellow, dismal face. Saccard then reflected that it was 
indeed she whom he had seen long ago furtively leaving their 
brother Eugéne’s house. She must have kept up secret relations 
with him all through, for reasons with which not a soul was 
acquainted. 
Amid these interests, these burning, unquenchable thirsts, Renée 
suffered agonies. Aunt Elisabeth was dead; 
her sister had married 
and left the Hétel Béraud, where her father alone remained erect in 
the gloomy shadow of the large rooms. Renée in one season ran 
through her aunt’s inheritance. She gambled now. She had found 
a house where ladies sat at the card-table till three o’clock in the 
morning, losing hundreds of thousands of francs a night. She made 
an endeavour to drink; but she could not, she experienced invincible 
uprisings of disgust. Since she had found herself alone again, a prey 
to the mundane flood that carried her with it, she abandoned her- 
self more than ever, not knowing with what to kill time. She 
succeeded in tasting of everything. And nothing touched her amid 
the boundless ennui which overwhelmed her. She grew older, her 
eyes were circled with blue, her nose became thinner, her lips 
pouted with sudden, uncalled-for laughter. It was the breaking-up 
of a woman. 
When Maxime had married Louise, and the young couple had 
left for Italy, she no longer troubled herself about her lover, she 
even seemed entirely to forget him. And when after six months 
Maxime returned alone, having buried “the hunchback” in the 
cemetery of a small town in Lombardy, her feeling towards him 
was one of hatred. She remembered Phédre, she doubtless recol- 
lected that poisonous love to which she had heard Ristori lend her 
264 

sobs. Then, to avoid meeting the young man at home in future, 
to dig for ever an abyss of shame between the father and son, she 
forced her husband to take cognisance of the incest, she told him 
that on the day when he had surprised her with Maxime, the latter, 
who had long been running after her, was trying to ravish her. 
Saccard was terribly annoyed by her persistency in her desire to 
open his eyes. He was compelled to quarrel with his son, to cease 
to see him. The young widower, rich with his wife’s dowry, took a 
small house in the Avenue de l’Impératrice, where he lived alone. 
He gave up the Council of State, he ran race-horses. Renée ex- 
perienced one of her last satisfactions. She took her revenge, she 
flung back the infamy these two men had set in her into their 
faces; she said to herself that now she would never again see them 
laughing at her, arm in arm, familiarly. 
Amid the crumbling of Renée’s affections there came a time 
when she had none but her maid left to love. She had gradually 
developed a motherly fondness for Céleste. Perhaps this girl, who 
was all that remained near her of Maxime’s love, recalled to her 
hours of enjoyment for ever dead. Perhaps she simply found herself 
touched by the faithfulness of this servant, of this honest heart 
whose tranquil solicitude nothing seemed to shake. From the depth 
of her remorse she thanked her for having witnessed her shame 
without leaving her in disgust; she pictured self-denials, a whole 
life of renunciation, before becoming able to understand the calm- 
ness of the lady’s-maid in the presence of incest, her icy hands, her 
respectful and serene attentions. And she was all the happier in 
the girl’s devotion as she knew her to be virtuous and thrifty, with 
no lovers, no vices. 
Sometimes in her sad moments she would say to her : 
“Ah, my good girl, it will be your duty to close my eyes.” 
Céleste made no reply, gave a curious smile. One morning she 
quietly told Renée that she was leaving, that she was going back to 
the country. Renée stood trembling all over, as though some great 
misfortune had overtaken her. She protested, she plied her with 
questions. Why was she deserting her when they agreed so well 
together? And she offered to double her wages. 
But the lady’s-maid, to all her kind words, replied no with a 
gesture, placidly and obstinately. 
“Listen, madame,” she ended by replying; “you might offer me 
all the gold in Peru, and I could not remain a week longer. Lord, 
you don’t know me. ... I have been eight years with you, haven’t 
265 

I? Well then, ever since the first day I said to myself, ‘As soon as 
I have got five thousand francs together, I will go back home; I will 
buy Lagache’s house, and I shall live very happily... 
. Its a 
promise I made myself, you see. And I made up the five thousand 
francs yesterday, when you paid me my wages.” 
Renée felt a chill at her heart. She saw Céleste moving behind 
her and Maxime while they embraced each other, and she saw her 
with her indifference, her perfect unconcern, thinking of her five 
thousand francs. She made one more endeavour, for all that, to 
retain her, frightened at the void that threatened her existence, 
hoping, in despite of everything, to keep by her this obstinate mule 
whom she had looked upon as devoted and whom she discovered 
to be merely egotistical. The girl smiled, still shaking her head, 
muttering : 
“No, no, I can’t do it. I would refuse my own mother. .. 
. I 
shall buy two cows. I may start a little haberdasher’s shop. . 
. 
. It’s 
very nice in our part. Oh, as to that, I don’t mind if you like to 
come and see me. It is near Caen. I will leave you the address.” 
Then Renée ceased insisting. She wept scalding tears when she 
was alone. The next day, with the capriciousness of a sick person, 
she decided to accompany Céleste to the Gare de l'Ouest in her own 
brougham. She gave her one of her travelling-rugs, made her a 
present of money, fussed around her like a mother whose daughter 
is about to undertake a long and arduous journey. In the brougham 
she looked at her with humid eyes. Céleste chatted, said how 
pleased she was to go away. Then, emboldened, she spoke out and 
gave her mistress some advice. 
“I should never have taken up life as you did, madame. I often 
said to myself, when I found you with M. Maxime: 
‘How is it 
possible to be so foolish for men!’ It always ends badly... 
. Well, 
for my part, I always mistrusted them !” 
She laughed, she threw herself back in the corner of the broug- 
ham. 
“How my money would have danced!” she continued. “And at 
this moment I might have been crying my eyes out. And that is 
why, whenever I saw a man, I took up a broomstick. 
. 
. 
. I never 
dared tell you all this. Besides, it wasn’t my business. You were free 
to do as you pleased, and I had only to earn my money honestly.” 
At the railway-station Renée said she would pay her fare, and 
took a first-class ticket for her. As they had arrived before their 
time, she detained her, pressed her hands, reiterated : 
266 

“And mind you take great care of yourself, look after yourself 
well, my dear Céleste.” 
The latter let herself be petted. She stood looking happy, with a 
fresh, smiling face under her mistress’s eyes, which were swimming 
in tears. Renée again spoke of the past. And suddenly the other 
exclaimed : 
“I was forgetting: 
I never told you the story of Baptiste, mon- 
sieur’s valet. 
. 
. 
. I suppose they did not care to tell you... .” 
Renée owned that as a matter of fact she did not know. 
“Well, then, you remember his grand, dignified airs, his scornful 
look, you yourself spoke to me about them... 
. All that was play- 
acting. 
. 
. 
. He didn’t like women, he never came down to the 
servants’ hall when we were there: 
and he even, I can tell you 
now, pretended that it was disgusting in the drawing-room, because 
of the low-necked dresses. I well believe it, that he didn’t like 
women !” 
And she leant towards Renée’s ear; she made her blush, the while 
_ 
she herself retained her virtuous composure. 
“When the new stable-lad,” she continued, “told everything to 
monsieur, monsieur preferred to dismiss Baptiste rather than have 
him prosecuted. It seems that filthy sort of thing had been going on 
in the stables for years... 
. And to think that great rascal pretended 
to be fond of horses! It was the grooms he was after.” 
The bell interrupted her. She hurriedly caught up the nine or ten 
packages from which she had refused to be parted. She allowed her- 
self to be kissed. Then she went off, without looking back. 
Renée remained in the station till the engine whistled. And when 
the train had gone, she did not know what to do in her despair; 
her days seemed to stretch before her as empty as this great hall 
where she had been left alone. She stepped back into her brougham, 
she told the coachman to drive her home. But on the way she 
changed her mind; she was afraid of her room, of the tediousness 
awaiting her there; she had not even the spirit to go in and change 
her dress for her customary drive round the lake. She felt a need of 
sunlight, a need of crowd. 
She ordered the coachman to drive to the Bois. 
It was four o’clock. The Bois was awakening from the drowsiness 
of the warm afternoon. Clouds of dust flew along the Avenue de 
VImpératrice, and one could see in the distance the expanse of ver- 
dure contained by the slopes of Saint-Cloud and Suresnes, crowned 
by the grey mass of Mont-Valérien. The sun, high on the horizon, 
267 

swept down, filling the hollows of the foliage with a golden dust, 
lighting up the tall branches, changing that sea of leaves into a sea 
of light. But past the fortifications, in the drive of the Bois leading 
to the lake, the roads had been watered, the carriages rolled over the 
brown earth as over the pile of a carpet, amid a freshness, a rising 
fragrance of moist earth. On either side the trees of the copses 
reared their crowd of young trunks amid the low bushes, losing 
themselves in the greenish twilight, which streaks of light pierced 
here and there with yellow clearings; and as the lake drew nearer, 
the chairs on the side-paths became more numerous, families sat 
with quiet, silent faces, watching the endless procession of wheels. 
Then, on reaching the open space before the lake, there was an 
effulgence; the slanting sun transformed the round sheet of water 
into a great mirror of polished silver, reflecting the blazing disc of 
the luminary. Eyes blinked, one could only distinguish on the left, 
near the bank, the dark patch of the pleasure-boat. The sunshades 
in the carriages inclined with a gentle, uniform movement towards 
this splendour, and were not raised until they reached the avenue 
skirting the water which, from above the bank, now assumed a 
metallic darkness streaked with burnished gold. On the right, the 
clumps of fir-trees stretched forth their colonnades of straight, 
slender stems, whose soft violet tint was reddened by the flames of 
the sky; on the left, the lawns, bathed in light, spread out like 
fields of emeralds to the distant lacework of the Porte de la Muette. 
And on approaching the cascade, while the dimness of the copses 
was renewed on one side, the islands at the further end of the lake 
rose up against the blue sky, with their sunlit banks, the bold 
shadows of their pine-trees, and the Chalet at their feet looked like 
a child’s plaything lost in the corner of a virgin forest. The whole 
park laughed and quivered in the sun. 
Renée felt ashamed of her brougham, of her dress of puce- 
coloured silk, on this splendid day. She ensconced herself a little, 
and through the open windows looked out at this flood of light 
covering the water and the verdure. At the bends of the drives she 
caught sight of the line of wheels revolving like golden stars in a 
long track of blinding lights. The varnished panels, the gleam of the 
bits of brass and steel, the bright hues of the dresses passed on in 
the even trot of the horses, set against the background of the Bois a 
long moving bar, a ray fallen from the sky, stretching out and 
following the bends of the roadway. And in this ray Renée, blink- 
ing her eyes, at intervals saw a woman’s fair chignon, a footman’s 
268 

dark back, the white mane of a horse detach itself. The rounded 
sunshades of watered silk shimmered like moons of metal. 
Then, in the presence of this broad daylight, of these sheets of 
sunshine, she thought of the fine dust of twilight which she had seen 
falling one evening upon the yellow leaves. Maxime was with 
her. It was at the period when her lust for that child was awakening 
within her. And she saw again the lawns soaked by the evening 
air, the darkened copses, the deserted pathways. The line of car- 
riages drove on with a mournful sound past the empty chairs, while 
to-day the rumble of the wheels, the trot of the horses, sounded with 
the joyousness of a fanfare of trumpets. Then all her drives in the 
Bois came back to her. She had lived there, Maxime had grown up 
there, by her side, on the cushion of her carriage. It was their gar- 
den. Rain had surprised them there, sunshine brought them back, 
night had not always driven them away. They drove there in every 
kind of weather, they tasted there the disappointments and the de- 
lights of their life. Amid the void of her existence, amid the melan- 
choly caused by Céleste’s departure, these memories imparted to 
her a bitter joy. Her heart said, “Never again! never again!” And 
she remained frozen when she evoked the image of that winter land- 
scape, that congealed and dimmed lake upon which they had 
skated; the sky was soot-coloured, the snow had stitched white 
bands of lace upon the trees, the wind blew fine sand into their 
faces. 
Meantime, on the left hand, on the track reserved for riders, she 
had recognised the Duc de Rozan, M. de Mussy, and M. de Saffré. 
Larsonneau had killed the duc’s mother by presenting to her, as 
they fell due, the hundred and fifty thousand francs’ worth of bills 
accepted by the son, and the duc was running through his second 
half million with Blanche Muller after leaving the first five hundred 
thousand francs in the hands of Laure d’Aurigny. M. de Mussy, 
who had left the Embassy in London for the Embassy at Florence, 
had become gallant once more; he led the cotillon with renewed 
grace. As to M. de Saffré, he remained the fastest and most amiable 
sceptic in the world. Renée saw him urging his horse towards the 
carriage-door of the Comtesse Vanska, with whom he was said to 
have been infatuated ever since the day when he had seen her as 
Coral at the Saccard’s. 
All the ladies were there besides : the Duchesse de Sternich in her 
everlasting chariot, Madame de Lauwerens in a landau, with the 
Baronne de Meinhold and little Madame Daste in front of her; 
269 

Madame Teissiére and Madame de Guende in a victoria. Among 
these ladies, Sylvia and Laure d’Aurigny displayed themselves on 
the cushions of a magnificent calash. Even Madame Michelin 
passed by, ensconced in a brougham; the pretty brunette had been 
on a visit to M. Hupel le la Noue’s departmental town, and on her 
return she had appeared in the Bois in this brougham, to which she 
. 
hoped soon to add ‘an open carriage. Renée also perceived the 
Marquise d’Espanet and Madame Haffner, the inseparables, hidden 
beneath their sunshades, stretched side by side, laughing amorously 
into each other’s eyes. 
Then the gentlemen drove by. M. de Chibray in a drag; Mr. 
Simpson in a dog-cart; the Sieurs Mignon and Charrier, keener than 
ever after work despite their dream of approaching retirement, in a 
brougham which they left at the corner of the drives in order to go 
a bit of the way on foot; M. de Mareuil, still in mourning for his 
daughter, looking out for bows in acknowledgment of his first 
interruption uttered the day before at the Corps Législatif, airing his 
political importance in the carriage of M. Toutin-Laroche, who had 
once more saved the Crédit Viticole after bringing it to the verge of 
ruin, and who was being made still thinner and still more imposing 
by his work on the Senate. 
And to close the procession, as a last display of majesty, came the 
Baron Gouraud, lolling in the sun on the two pillows with which his 
carriage was furnished. Renée was surprised and disgusted 
to 
recognise Baptiste seated by the coachman’s side, with his pale face 
and his solemn air. The tall lackey had taken service with the baron. 
The copses sped past, the water of the lake grew iridescent under 
the more slanting rays, the line of carriages stretched out its dancing 
lights. And Renée, herself caught up and carried away amid this 
enjoyment, was vaguely conscious of all these appetites rolling along 
through the sunlight. She felt no indignation with these devourers 
of the kill. But she hated them by reason of their joy, of this 
triumph which showed them full in the golden dusk that fell from 
the sky. They were gorgeous and smiling; the women displayed 
themselves white and plump; the men had the quick glances, the 
enamoured deportment of successful lovers. And she, down in her 
empty heart, found nought but lassitude, but repressed envy. Was 
she better, then, than others, that she should thus give way under 
the weight of pleasure? or was it the others who were to be praised 
for having stronger loins than hers? She did not know, she longed 
for new desires with which to begin life afresh, when, turning her 
270 

head, she perceived beside her, on the side-path edging the coppice, 
a sight that rent her with a supreme blow. 
Saccard and Maxime were walking along with short steps, arm- 
in-arm. The father must have been to see the son, and together they 
had come down from the Avenue de |’ Impératrice to the lake, chat- 
ting as they went. 
“Listen to me,” said Saccard, “you’re a simpleton. ... A man like 
you, with money, doesn’t let it lie idle at the bottom of his drawers. 
There is a hundred per cent. to be made in the business I am telling 
you of. It’s a safe investment. You know very well I wouldn’t let 
you be done.” 
But the young man seemed wearied by this persistence. He smiled 
in his pretty way, he looked at the carriages. 
“Do you see that little woman over there, the woman in violet?” 
he said suddenly. “That’s a washer-girl whom that ass of a Mussy 
has brought out.” 
They looked at the woman in violet. Then Saccard took a cigar 
_ from his pocket, and turning to Maxime, who was smoking : 
“Give me a light.” 
Then they stopped for 
a moment, facing each other, bringing 
their faces close together. When the cigar was alight : 
“Look here,” continued the father, once more taking his son’s 
arm, pressing it tightly under his own, “you’re a fool if you don’t 
take my advice. Well, is it agreed? Will you bring me the hundred 
thousand francs to-morrow ?” 
“You know I no longer go to your house,” replied Maxime, 
compressing his lips. 
“Bah! rubbish! it’s time at last there was end to all that!” 
And as they took a few steps in silence, at the moment when 
Renée, feeling about to faint away, pressed back her head against 
the padding of the brougham so as not to be seen, a growing rumour 
ran along the line of carriages. The pedestrains on the side-paths 
halted, turned round, open-mouthed, following with their eyes 
something that approached, There was a quicker sound of wheels, 
carriages drew aside respectfully, and two outriders appeared, clad 
in green, with round caps on which danced golden tassels with their 
cords outspread all round; leaning slightly forward, they trotted 
on upon the backs of their large bay horses. Behind them they left 
an empty space. Then, in this empty space, the Emperor appeared. 
He occupied alone the back seat of a landau. Dressed in black, 
with his frock-coat buttoned up to his chin, he wore, a little on one 
271 

side, a very tall hat, whose silk glistened. In front of him, on the 
other seat, sat two gentlemen, dressed with that correct elegance 
which was in favour at the Tuileries, serious, their hands upon their 
knees, with the silent air of two wedding-guests taken for a drive 
amid the curiosity of the crowd. 
Renée thought the Emperor aged. His mouth opened more feebly 
under his thick waxed moustache. His eyelids fell more heavily to 
the point of half covering his lifeless eyes, the yellow greyness of 
which was yet more bleared. And his nose alone retained its look 
of a dry fish-bone set in the vagueness of his face. 
Meantime, while the ladies in the carriage smiled discreetly, the 
people on foot pointed the sovereign out to one another. 
A fat man asserted that the Emperor was the gentleman with his 
back to the coachman on the left. 
A few hands were raised to 
salute. But Saccard, who had taken off his hat even before the out- 
riders had passed, waited till the imperial carriage was exactly in 
front of him; and then shouted in his thick Provengal voice: 
“Long live the Emperor !” 
The Emperor, surprised, turned round, seemed to recognise the 
enthusiast, returned the bow with a smile. And everything disap- 
peared in the sunlight, the carriages closed up, Renée could only 
perceive, above the manes of the horses, between the backs of the 
lackeys, the outriders’ green caps dancing with their golden tassels. 
She remained for a moment with the wide-open eyes, full of this 
vision, which reminded her of another moment 
in her life. It 
seemed to her as if the Emperor, by mingling with the line of car- 
riages, had just set in it the last necessary ray, and given an inten- 
tion to this triumphal procession. Now it was a glorification. All 
these wheels, all these men with decorations, all these women lan- 
guidly reclining, disappeared among the flash and the rumbling of 
the imperial Jandau. This sensation became so acute and so painful 
that Renée felt an imperious need to escape from this triumph, from 
that cry of Saccard’s, still ringing in her ears, from that sight of the 
father and son walking along with short steps, chatting arm-in- 
arm. She sought about, her hands folded on her breast, as though 
burnt with an internal fire; and it was with a sudden hope of relief, 
of healing coolness, that she leant forward and said to the coach- 
man : 
“To the Hétel Béraud.” 
The court-yard retained its cloistral coldness; Renée went round 
the colonnades, happy in the dampness which 
fell upon her 
272 

shoulders. She approached the basin, green with moss, its edges 
polished by wear; she looked at the lion’s head half worn away, 
with gaping jaws, discharging a stream of water through an iron 
pipe. How often had she and Christine taken this head in their 
childish arms to lean forward and reach the stream of water which 
they loved to feel flowing cold as ice over their little hands. Then 
she climbed the great silent staircase, she saw her father at the 
end of the string of wide rooms; he drew up his tall figure, he slowiy 
passed deeper into the shade of this old house, of this proud solitude 
in which he had absolutely cloistered himself since his sister’s 
death; and she thought of the men in the Bois, of that other old 
man, the Baron Gouraud, rolling his flesh in the sun, on pillows. 
She climbed higher, she followed the passages, the servants’ stairs, 
she made the journey towards the children’s room. When she 
reached the very top, she found the key on its usual nail, a big, 
rusty key, on to which spiders had spun their web. The lock gave 
a plaintive cry. How sad was the children’s room! She felt a pang 
at her heart on finding it so deserted, so grey, so silent. She closed 
the open door of the aviary, with the vague idea that it must have 
been by that door that the joys of her childhood had flown away. 
She stopped before the flower-boxes, still full of soil hardened and 
cracked like dry mud, she broke off with her fingers a rhododen- 
dron-stalk; this skeleton of a plant, shrivelled and white with dust, 
was all that remained of their living clusters of verdure. And the 
matting, the very matting, discoloured, rat-gnawed, displayed itself 
with the melancholy of a shroud that has for years been awaiting 
the promised corpse. In a corner, amid this mute despair, this silent 
weeping abandonment, she found one of her old dolls; all the bran 
had flowed out through a hole, and the porcelain head continued to 
smile with its enamelled lips, above the wasted body, which seemed 
as though exhausted by puppet follies. 
Renée was stifled amid this tainted atmosphere of her childhood. 
She opened the window, she looked out upon the boundless land- 
scape. There nothing was soiled. She found again the eternal joys, 
the eternal youth of the open air. The sun must be sinking behind 
her; she saw only the rays of the setting luminary gilding with 
infinite softness this bit of town which she knew so well. It was 
a last song of daylight, a refrain of gaiety which was subsiding 
slowly over all things. Below, ruddy flames lit up the boom, while 
the lace-work of the iron chains of the Pont de Constantine stood 
out against the whiteness of its supports. Then, more to the right, 
273 

the dark foliage of the Halle aux Vins and of the Jardin des Plantes 
gave the impression of a great pool of stagnant, moss-covered water, 
whose green surface blended in the distance with the mist of the 
sky. On the left, the Quai Henri IV and the Quai de la Rapée 
extended the same row of houses, the houses which the little girls 
used to see there twenty years ago, together with the same brown 
patches of sheds, the same red factory-chimneys. And above the 
trees, the slated roof of the Salpétriére, made blue by the sun’s 
leave-taking, appeared to her suddenly like an old friend. But what 
calmed her, what brought coolness to her breast, was the long 
grey banks, was above all the Seine, the giant, which she watched 
coming from the edge of the horizon, straight down to her, as in 
those happy days when they had been afraid lest they should see 
it swelling and surging up to their window. She remembered their 
fondness for the river, their love for its colossal flux, for this quiver- 
ing of murmuring water, spreading like a sheet at their feet, open- 
ing out around them, behind them, into two arms which they could 
not see though they could still feel its great, pure caress. They were 
coquettes already, and they used to say, on fine days, that the Seine 
had put on its pretty dress of green silk shot with white flames; 
and the eddies where the water rippled trimmed the dress with 
frills of satin, while in the distance, beyond the belt of the bridges, 
splashes of light spread out lappets of sun-coloured stuff. 
And Renée, raising her eyes, looked at the vast arch of pale, blue 
sky, fading little by little in the effacement of the twilight. She 
thought of the accomplice city, of the flaring nights of the boule- 
vards, of the sultry afternoons in the Bois, of the crude, pallid days 
in the great, new mansions. Then, when she lowered her head, 
when she glanced again upon the peaceful horizon of her childhood, 
this corner of a middle-class and workmen’s city, where she had 
dreamt of a life of peace, a final bitterness mounted to her lips. 
With clasped hands, she sobbed in the gathering night. 
Next winter, when Renée died of acute meningitis, her father 
paid her debts. Worm’s bill came to two hundred and fifty-seven 
thousand francs, 
THE END 
274 






) 
Other volumes available in our Uniform Edition of the Works of 
EMILE ZOLA 
*EARTH (La Terre) 
Translated by Ann Lindsay 
ZEST FOR LIFE (La Joie de Vivre) 
Translated by Jean Stewart 
SAVAGE PARIS (La Ventre de Paris) 
Translated by David Hughes and Marie-Jacqueline Mason 
A LOVE AFFAIR (Un Page d’ Amour) 
Translated by Jean Stewart 
*THE BEAST IN MAN (La Béte Humaine) 
Translated by Alec Brown 
*THE MASTERPIECE (L’Oeuvre) 
Translated by Thomas Walton 
' 
*THE ABBE MOURET’S SIN (La Faute de L’ Abbé Mouret) 
Translated by Alec Brown 
DOCTOR PASCAL (Le Docteur Pascal) 
Translated by Vladimir Kean 
*A PRIEST IN)THE HOUSE (La Conquéte de Plassans) 
Translated by Brian Rhys 
MADELEINE FERAT 
Translated by Alec Brown 
RESTLESS HOUSE (Pot Bouille) 
Translated by Percy Pinkerton 
*NANA 
Translated by Victor Plarr 
*DRUNKARD (L’ Assommoir) 
Translated by Arthur Symons 
8e-oy
ti
S TIT
06z- 
TIA 
| 
| | 
“Ai 
Titles marked * 18s, net. 
Gther +élumea 16s, net. 
- 
LONDON, W.LC. 
ELEK BOOKS 
- 
14 GREAT JAMES STREET 
