
 
Dora Bruder with her mother
and father
OceanofPDF.com

Dora
Bruder
PATRICK MODIANO
………………………………………..
Translated from the French
by Joanna Kilmartin
 
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA PRESS
BERKELEY | LOS ANGELES | LONDON
OceanofPDF.com

 
University of California Press, one of the most distinguished university presses
in the United States, enriches lives around the world by advancing scholarship in
the humanities, social sciences, and natural sciences. Its activities are supported
by the UC Press Foundation and by philanthropic contributions from individuals
and institutions. For more information, visit www.ucpress.edu
University of California Press
Oakland, California
 
© 1999 by The Regents of the University of California
Translation © 1999 by Joanna Kilmartin
Originally published as Dora Bruder in 1997 by Éditions
Gallimard, Paris. Copyright © Editions Gallimard Paris, 1997
First Paperback printing, 2015
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Modiano, Patrick, 1945–
[Dora Bruder, English]
Dora Bruder/Patrick Modiano ; translated from the French by Joanna
Kilmartin.
p. cm.
ISBN 978-0-520-21878-9
eISBN 978-0-520-96202-6
1. Modiano, Patrick, 1945– .     2. Bruder, Dora, 1926–1942?     3. Holocaust,
Jewish (1939–1945).      I. Kilmartin, Joanna.
II. Title.
PQ2673.O3Z46413      1999
940.53‘18‘092—dc21
[b]
98-
338
90
CIP
OceanofPDF.com

Table of Contents
Frontispiece
Title
Copyright
Contents
Subvention
Maps
Dora Bruder
OceanofPDF.com

The publisher gratefully acknowledges the contribution to
this book provided by the Literature in Translation
Endowment of the Associates of the University of
California Press, which is supported by a generous gift
from Joan Palevsky.
OceanofPDF.com

 
 
XIIe Arrondissement (detail)
OceanofPDF.com

 
 
 
XVIIIe Arrondissement (detail)
OceanofPDF.com

…………….
Dora
Bruder
OceanofPDF.com

E
……………..
IGHT YEARS AGO, IN AN OLD COPY OF PARIS-SOIR DATED 31 December 1941,
a heading on page 3 caught my eye: “From Day to Day.”1 Below this, I
read:
PARIS
Missing, a young girl, Dora Bruder, age 15, height 1 m 55, oval-shaped face, gray-
brown eyes, gray sports jacket, maroon pullover, navy blue skirt and hat, brown gym
shoes. Address all information to M. and Mme Bruder, 41 Boulevard Ornano, Paris.
I had long been familiar with that area of the Boulevard Ornano. As a
child, I would accompany my mother to the Saint-Ouen flea markets. We
would get off the bus either at the Porte de Clignancourt or, occasionally,
outside the 18th arrondissement town hall. It was always a Saturday or
Sunday afternoon.
In winter, on the tree-shaded sidewalk outside Clignancourt barracks, the
fat photographer with round spectacles and a lumpy nose would set up his
tripod camera among the stream of passers-by, offering “souvenir photos.”
In summer, he stationed himself on the boardwalk at Deauville, outside the
Bar du Soleil. There, he found plenty of customers. But at the Porte de
Clignancourt, the passers-by showed little inclination to be photographed.
His overcoat was shabby and he had a hole in one shoe.
I remember the Boulevard Ornano and the Boulevard Barbès, deserted,
one sunny afternoon in May 1958. There were groups of riot police at each
crossroads, because of the situation in Algeria.
I was in this neighborhood in the winter of 1965. I had a girlfriend who
lived in the Rue Championnet. Ornano 49–20.
Already, by that time, the Sunday stream of passers-by-outside the
barracks must have swept away the fat photographer, but I never went back
to check. What had they been used for, those barracks?2 I had been told that
they housed colonial troops.

January 1965. Dusk came around six o’clock to the crossroads of the
Boulevard Ornano and the Rue Championnet. I merged into that twilight,
into those streets, I was nonexistent.
The last café at the top of the Boulevard Ornano, on the right, was called
the Verse Toujours.3 There was another, on the left, at the corner of the
Boulevard Ney, with a jukebox. The Ornano-Championnet crossroads had a
pharmacy and two cafés, the older of which was on the corner of the Rue
Duhesme.
The time I’ve spent, waiting in those cafés   .    .    .   First thing in the
morning, when it was still dark. Early in the evening, as night fell. Later on,
at closing time  .  .  .
On Sunday evening, an old black sports car—a Jaguar, I think—was
parked outside the nursery school on the Rue Championnet. It had a plaque
at the rear: Disabled Ex-Serviceman. The presence of such a car in this
neighborhood surprised me. I tried to imagine what its owner might look
like.
After nine o’clock at night, the boulevard is deserted. I can still see lights
at the mouth of Simplon métro station and, almost opposite, in the foyer of
the Cinéma Ornano 43. I’ve never really noticed the building beside the
cinema, number 41, even though I’ve been passing it for months, for years.
From 1965 to 1968. Address all information to M. and Mme Bruder, 41
Boulevard Ornano, Paris.
OceanofPDF.com

 
1. “D’hier à aujord’hui.”
2. During the Occupation of Paris, Clignancourt barracks housed French
volunteers in the Waffen SS. See David Pryce-Jones, Parus ub the Third
Reich, Collins, 1981.
3. “Keep pouring, nonstop.”
OceanofPDF.com

F
……………..
ROM DAY TO DAY. WITH THE PASSAGE OF TIME, I FIND, perspectives become
blurred, one winter merging into another. That of 1965 and that of 1942.
In 1965,1 knew nothing of Dora Bruder. But now, thirty years on, it
seems to me that those long waits in the cafés at the Ornano crossroads,
those unvarying itineraries—the Rue du Mont-Cenis took me back to some
hotel on the Butte Montmartre: the Roma or the Alsina or the Terrass, Rue
Caulaincourt—and the fleeting impressions I have retained: snatches of
conversation heard on a spring evening, beneath the trees in the Square
Clignancourt, and again, in winter, on the way down to Simplon and the
Boulevard Ornano, all that was not simply due to chance. Perhaps, though
not yet fully aware of it, I was following the traces of Dora Bruder and her
parents. Already, below the surface, they were there.
I’m trying to search for clues, going far, far back in time. When I was
about twelve, on those visits to the Clignancourt flea markets with my
mother, on the right, at the top of one of those aisles bordered by stalls, the
Marché Malik, or the Vernaison, there was a young Polish Jew who sold
suitcases  .  .  .  Luxury suitcases, in leather or crocodile skin, cardboard
suitcases, traveling bags, cabin trunks labeled with the names of
transatlantic companies—all heaped one on top of the other. His was an
open-air stall. He was never without a cigarette dangling from the corner of
his lips and, one afternoon, he had offered me one.
 
Occasionally, I would go to one of the cinemas on the Boulevard Ornano.
To the Clignancourt Palace at the top of the boulevard, next to the Verse
Toujours. Or to the Ornano 43.
Later, I discovered that the Ornano 43 was a very old cinema. It had been
rebuilt in the thirties, giving it the air of an ocean liner. I returned to the area
in May 1996. A shop had replaced the cinema. You cross the Rue Hermel

and find yourself outside 41 Boulevard Ornano, the address given in the
notice about the search for Dora Bruder.
A five-story building, late nineteenth century. Together with number 39, it
forms a single block, enclosed by the boulevard, the top of the Rue Hermel,
and the Rue Simplon, which runs along the back of both buildings. These
are matching. A plaque on number 39 gives the name of the architect, a man
named Pierrefeu, and the date of construction: 1881. The same must be true
of number 41.
Before the war, and up to the beginning of the fifties, number 41 had been
a hotel, as had number 39, calling itself the Hôtel Lion d’Or. Number 39
also had a café-restaurant before the war, owned by a man named Gazal. I
haven’t found out the name of the hotel at number 41. Listed under this
address, in the early fifties, is the Société Ornano and Studios Ornano:
Montmartre 12–54. Also, both then and before the war, a café with a
proprietor by the name of Marchal. This café no longer exists. Would it
have been to the right or the left of the porte cochère?
This opens onto a longish corridor. At the far end, a staircase leads off to
the right.
OceanofPDF.com

I
……………..
T TAKES TIME FOR WHAT HAS BEEN ERASED TO RESURFACE. Traces survive in
registers, and nobody knows where these registers are hidden, and who
has custody of them, and whether or not these custodians are willing to let
you see them. Or perhaps they have quite simply forgotten that these
registers exist.
All it takes is a little patience.
Thus, I came to learn that Dora Bruder and her parents were already
living in the hotel on the Boulevard Ornano in 1937 and 1938. They had a
room with kitchenette on the fifth floor, the level at which an iron balcony
encircles both buildings. The fifth floor has some ten windows. Of these,
two or three give onto the boulevard, and the rest onto the Rue Hermel or, at
the back, the Rue Simplon.
When I revisited the neighborhood on that day in May 1996, rusting
shutters were closed over the two end fifth-floor windows overlooking the
Rue Simplon, and outside, on the balcony, I noticed a collection of
miscellaneous objects, seemingly long abandoned there.
During the last three or four years before the war, Dora Bruder would
have been enrolled at one of the local state secondary schools. I wrote to
ask if her name was to be found on the school registers, addressing my
letter to the head of each:
8 Rue Ferdinand-Flocon
20 Rue Hermel
7 Rue Championnet
61 Rue de Clignancourt
All replied politely. None had found this name on the list of their prewar
pupils. In the end, the head of the former girls’ school at 69 Rue
Championnet suggested that I come and consult the register for myself. One

of these days, I shall. But I’m of two minds. I want to go on hoping that her
name is there. It was the school nearest to where she lived.
 
It took me four years to discover her exact date of birth: 25 February 1926.
And a further two years to find out her place of birth: Paris, 12th
arrondissement. But I am a patient man. I can wait for hours in the rain.
 
One Friday afternoon in February 1996 I went to the 12th arrondissement
Register Office. The registrar—a young man—handed me a form:
To be completed by the person applying for the certificate. Fill in your
Surname
First name
Address
I require a full copy of the Birth Certificate for
Surname BRUDER
First Name DORA
Date of birth: 25 February 1926
Check if you are:
□ The person in question
□ Son or daughter
□ Father or mother
□ Husband or wife
□ Grandfather or grandmother
□ Legal representative (You have power of attorney, and an identity card for the
person in question)
No persons other than the above may be supplied with a copy of a Birth Certificate.
I signed the form and handed it back to him. After reading it through, he
said that he was unable to supply me with a standard birth certificate: I bore
no legal relationship whatever to the person in question.

At first, I took him for one of those sentinels of oblivion whose role is to
guard a shameful secret and deny access to anybody seeking to uncover the
least trace of a person’s existence. But he was a decent fellow. He advised
me to go to the Palais de Justice, 2 Boulevard du Palais, and apply for a
special exemption from the Superintendent Registrar, Section 3, 5th floor,
Staircase 5, Room 501. Monday to Friday, 2 to 4 P.M.
I was about to enter the main courtyard through the big iron gates at 2
Boulevard du Palais when a functionary directed me to another entrance a
little farther down: the same as that for the Sainte-Chapelle. Tourists were
waiting in a line between the barriers and I wanted to go straight on,
through the porch, but another functionary gestured at me impatiently to
line up with the rest.
At the back of the foyer, regulations required you to empty your pockets
of anything metal. I had nothing on me except a bunch of keys. This I was
supposed to place on a sort of conveyor belt for collection on the far side of
a glass partition, but for a moment I couldn’t think what to do. My
hesitation earned me a rebuke from another functionary. Was he a guard? A
policeman? Was I also supposed to hand over my shoelaces, belt, wallet, as
at the gates of a prison?
I crossed a courtyard, followed a corridor, and emerged into a vast
concourse milling with men and women carrying black briefcases, some
dressed in legal robes. I didn’t dare ask them how to get to Staircase 5.
A guard seated at a table directed me to the back of the concourse. And
here I entered a deserted hall whose high windows let in a dim, gray light. I
searched every corner of this room without finding Staircase 5. I was seized
with panic, with that sense of vertigo you have in bad dreams when you
can’t get to the station, time is running out and you are going to miss your
train.
Twenty years before, I had had a similar experience. I had learned that
my father was in hospital, in the Pitié-Salpêtrière. I hadn’t seen him since

the end of my adolescent years. I therefore decided to pay him an
impromptu visit.
I remember wandering for hours through the vastness of that hospital in
search of him. I found my way into ancient buildings, into communal wards
lined with beds, I questioned nurses who gave me contradictory directions. I
came to doubt my father’s existence, passing and repassing that majestic
church, and those spectral buildings, unchanged since the seventeenth
century, which, for me, evoke Manon Lescaut and the era when, under the
sinister name General Hospital, the place was used as a prison for
prostitutes awaiting deportation to Louisiana. I tramped the paved
courtyards till dusk. It was impossible to find my father. I never saw him
again.
 
But I found Staircase 5 in the end. I climbed several flights. A row of
offices. I was directed to Room 501. A bored-looking woman with short
hair asked me what I wanted.
Curtly, she informed me that to obtain particulars of a birth certificate I
should write to the Public Prosecutor,1 Department B, 14 Quai des
Orfèvres, Paris 3.
Three weeks later, I had a reply.
At nine ten P.M. on twenty-five February nineteen hundred twenty-six, at 15 Rue
Santerre, a female child, Dora, was born to Ernest Bruder, unskilled laborer, born
Vienna (Austria) twenty-one May eighteen hundred ninety-nine, and to his wife,
Cécile Burdej, housewife, born Budapest (Hungary) seventeen April nineteen hundred
seven, both domiciled at 2 Avenue Liégeard, Sevran (Seine-et-Oise). Registered at
three thirty P.M. on twenty-seven February nineteen hundred twenty-six on the
declaration of Gaspard Meyer, aged seventy-three, employed and domiciled at 76 Rue
de Picpus, having been present at the birth, who has read and signed it with Us,
Auguste Guillaume Rossi, Deputy Mayor, 12th arrondissement, Paris.
15 Rue Santerre is the address of the Rothschild Hospital. Many children
of poor Jewish families, recent immigrants to France, were born in its
maternity ward around the same time as Dora. Seemingly, on that Thursday

of 25 February 1926, Ernest Bruder had been unable to get time off from
work in order to register his daughter himself at the 12th arrondissement
town hall. Perhaps there is a register somewhere with more information
about the Gaspard Meyer who had signed the birth certificate. 76 Rue de
Picpus, where he was “employed and domiciled,” is the address of the
Rothschild Hospice, an establishment for the old and indigent.
In that winter of 1926 all trace of Dora Bruder and her parents peters out
in Sevran, the suburb to the northeast, bordering the Ourcq canal. One day I
shall go to Sevran, but I fear that, as in all suburbs, houses and streets will
have changed beyond recognition. Here are the names of a few businesses
and inhabitants of the Avenue Liégeard dating from that period: the Trianon
de Freinville occupied number 24. Was this a café? A cinema? The Île-de-
France wine cellars at number 31. There was a Dr. Jorand at number 9, a
pharmacist, Platel, at number 30.
The Avenue Liégeard where Dora’s parents lived was part of a built-up
area that sprawled across the communities of Sevran, Livry-Gargan, and
Aulnay-sous-Bois and was known as Freinville.2 It had grown up around
the Westinghouse Brake Factory, established there at the beginning of the
century. A working-class area. In the thirties, it had tried to gain its
autonomy, without success, and so had remained a dependency of the three
adjoining communities. But it had its own railway station nevertheless:
Freinville.
In that winter of 1926, Ernest Bruder, Dora’s father, is sure to have been
employed at the Westinghouse Brake Factory.
OceanofPDF.com

 
1. An official who has a number of nonjudicial functions in France.
2. The equivalent of Brakesville, from frein, a brake.
OceanofPDF.com

E
……………..
RNEST BRUDER, BORN VIENNA, AUSTRIA, 21 MAY 1899. His childhood would
have been spent in that city’s Jewish quarter, Leopoldstadt. His own
parents were almost certainly natives of Galicia or Bohemia or Moravia,
having come, like the majority of Vienna’s Jews, from the eastern provinces
of the Empire.
I had turned twenty in Vienna, in 1965, also the year when I was
frequenting the Clignancourt districts. I lived on the Taubenstummengasse,
behind the Karlskirche. My first few nights were spent in a seedy hotel near
the Western Station. I have memories of summer evenings spent in
Sievering and Grinzing, and of parks where bands were playing. And, not
far from Heilingenstadt, of a shack in the middle of some sort of allotment.
Everything was closed on those July weekends, even the Café Hawelka.
The city was deserted. Tramlines glistened in the sunlight, crisscrossing the
northwestern districts as far as Pötzleinsdorf Park.
Some day, I shall go back to Vienna, a city I haven’t seen for over thirty
years. Perhaps I shall find Ernest Bruder’s birth certificate in the Register
Office of Vienna’s Jewish community. I shall learn his father’s first name,
occupation, and birthplace, his mother’s first name and maiden name. And
whereabouts they had lived in that zone of the 2d district, somewhere
between the Northern Station, the Prater, and the Danube.
Child and adolescent, he would have known the Prater, with its cafés, and
its theater, the home of the Budapester. And the Sweden Bridge. And the
courtyard of the Commodities Exchange, near the Taborstrasse. And the
market square of the Carmelites.
In 1919, his life as a twenty-year-old in Vienna had been harder than
mine. Following the first defeats of the Austrian army, tens of thousands of
refugees fleeing from Galicia, Bukovina, and the Ukraine had arrived in
successive waves to crowd into the slums around the Northern Station. A
city adrift, cut off from an empire that had ceased to exist. Ernest Bruder

must have been indistinguishable from those bands of unemployed roaming
the streets of shuttered shops.
Or did he come from a less poverty-stricken background than the
refugees from the east? The son of a Taborstrasse shopkeeper, perhaps?
How are we to know?
 
On a file card, one of thousands in an index created some twenty years later
to facilitate the roundup of Jews during the Occupation, and which still lies
around to this day at the Veterans’ Administration, Ernest Bruder is
described as “French legionnaire, 2d class.” So he must have enlisted in the
Foreign Legion, though I have no means of knowing precisely when. 1919?
1920?
A man enlisted for five years. He didn’t even need to go to France, it was
enough to visit a French consulate. Was that what Ernest Bruder did, in
Austria? Or was he already in France by then? Either way, along with other
Germans and Austrians in his situation, he was probably sent to the barracks
at Belfort and Nancy, where they were not exactly received with open arms.
Then it was Marseille and the Fort Saint-Jean, where the reception was
cooler still. After that, the troopship: in Morocco, it seemed, Lyautey was
short of thirty thousand troops.
I’m trying to reconstitute Ernest Bruder’s tour of duty. The bounty,
handed out at Sidi Bel Abbès. The condition of most enlisted men—
Germans, Austrians, Russians, Rumanians, Bulgarians—is so miserable that
they are dazed by the idea of receiving a bounty. They can’t believe their
luck. Hastily, they stuff the money into their pockets, as if it might be taken
back from them. Then comes the training, long runs over the dunes,
interminable marches under a leaden African sun. For volunteers from
Central Europe, like Ernest Bruder, it is hard going: they have been
undernourished throughout adolescence, owing to four years of wartime
rationing.

Next, the barracks at Meknès, Fez, or Marrakesh. They are sent on
operations intended to pacify the still rebellious territories of Morocco.
April 1920. Fighting at Bekrit and the Ras-Tarcha. June 1921. Legion
battalion under Major Lambert engaged in the Djebel Hayane. March 1922.
Fighting at Chouf-ech-Cherg. Captain Roth. May 1922. Fighting at Tizi
Adni. Nicolas battalion. April 1923. Fighting at Arbala, and in the Taza
corridor. May 1923. Heavy fighting for the Talrant Bab-Brida, taken under
intense fire by Naegelin’s legionnaires. On the night of the 26th, in a
surprise attack, the Naegelin battalion occupies the Ichendirt massif. June
1923. Fighting at Tadout. Naegelin battalion takes the ridge. Legionnaires
raise the tricolor over an important casbah to the sound of bugles. Fighting
at Oued Athia, where the Barrière battalion has to make two bayonet
charges. Buchsenschutz battalion takes entrenched positions on the pinnacle
south of Bou-Khamouj. Fighting in the El-Mers basin. July 1923. Fighting
on the Immouzer plateau. Cattin battalion. Buchsenschutz battalion. Susini
and Jenoudet battalions. August 1923. Fighting at Oued Tamghilt.
At night, in this landscape of stone-strewn sand, did he dream of Vienna,
the city of his birth, and the chestnut trees of the Hauptallee? The file of
Ernest Bruder, “French legionnaire, 2d class” also indicates: “100%
disabled.” In which of these battles was he wounded?
 
At the age of twenty-five, he was back on the streets of Paris. The Legion
must have released him from his engagement because of his war wound. I
don’t suppose he talked about it to anybody. Not that anybody would have
been interested. I’m almost sure he didn’t receive a disability pension. He
was never given French nationality. In fact, I’ve seen his disability
mentioned only once, and that was in one of the police files designed to
facilitate the roundups during the Occupation.
OceanofPDF.com

I
……………..
N 1924, ERNEST BRUDER MARRIED A YOUNG WOMAN OF seventeen, Cécile
Burdej, born 17 April 1907 in Budapest. I don’t know where this
marriage took place, nor do I know the names of their witnesses. How did
they happen to meet? Cécile Burdej had arrived in Paris the year before,
with her parents, her brother, and her four sisters. A Jewish family of
Russian origin, they had probably settled in Budapest at the beginning of
the century.
Life in Budapest and Vienna being equally hard after the First World War,
they had had to flee west yet again. They ended up in Paris, at the Jewish
refuge in the Rue Lamarck. Within a month of their arrival, three of the
girls, aged fourteen, twelve, and ten, were dead of typhoid fever.
 
Were Cécile and Ernest Bruder already living in the Avenue Liégeard,
Sevran, at the time of their marriage? Or in a hotel in Paris? For the first
years of their marriage, after Dora’s birth, they always lived in hotel rooms.
They are the sort of people who leave few traces. Virtually anonymous.
Inseparable from those Paris streets, those suburban landscapes where, by
chance, I discovered that they had lived. Often, what I know about them
amounts to no more than a simple address. And such topographical
precision contrasts with what we shall never know about their life—this
blank, this mute block of the unknown.
 
I tracked down Ernest and Cécile Bruder’s niece. I talked to her on the
telephone. The memories that she retains of them are those of childhood, at
once fuzzy and sharp. She remembers her uncle’s gentleness, his kindness.
It was she who gave me the few details that I have noted down about their
family. She had heard it said that before they lived in the hotel on the
Boulevard Ornano, Ernest, Cécile, and their daughter, Dora, had lived in

another hotel. In a street off the Rue des Poissonniers. Looking at the street
map, I read her out a succession of names. Yes, that was it, the Rue
Polonceau. But she had never heard any mention of Sevran, nor Freinville,
nor the Westinghouse factory.
 
It is said that premises retain some stamp, however faint, of their previous
inhabitants. Stamp: an imprint, hollow or in relief. Hollow, I should say, in
the case of Ernest and Cécile Bruder, of Dora. I have a sense of absence, of
emptiness, whenever I find myself in a place where they have lived.
Two hotels, for that date, in the Rue Polonceau: the tenant of one, at
number 49, was called Roquette. In the telephone directory he appears
under Hôtel Vin. The other, at number 32, was owned by a Charles
Campazzi. As hotels, they had a bad reputation. Today, they no longer exist.
Often, around 1968, I would follow the boulevards as far as the arches of
the overhead métro. My starting point was the Place Blanche. In December,
a traveling fair occupied the open ground. Its lights grew dimmer the nearer
you got to the Boulevard de la Chapelle. At the time, I knew nothing of
Dora Bruder and her parents. I remember that I had a peculiar sensation as I
hugged the wall of Lariboisière Hospital, and again on crossing the railway
tracks, as though I had penetrated the darkest part of Paris. But it was
merely the contrast, after the dazzling lights of the Boulevard de Clichy,
with the black, interminable wall, the penumbra beneath the métro arches
 .  .  .
Nowadays, on account of the railway lines, the proximity of the Gare du
Nord and the rattle of the high-speed trains overhead, I still think of this
part of the Boulevard de la Chapelle as a network of escape routes  .  .  .  A
place where nobody would stay for long. A crossroads, where everybody
went their separate ways to the four points of the compass.
All the same, I made a note of local schools where, if they still exist, I
might find Dora Bruder’s name in the register:

Nursery school: 3 Rue Saint-Luc
Primary schools for girls: 11 Rue Cavé, 43 Rue des Poissonniers, Impasse d’Oran
OceanofPDF.com

A
……………..
ND, AT THE PORTE DE CLIGNANCOURT, THE YEARS slipped by till the
outbreak of war. I know nothing about the Bruders during this time.
Was Cécile already working as a “furrier’s seamstress,” or rather, as it says
in the files, “salaried garment worker”? Her niece thinks that she was
employed in a workshop near the Rue de Ruisseau, but she can’t be sure.
Was Ernest Bruder still working as an unskilled laborer, if not at the
Westinghouse factory in Freinville, then elsewhere, in some other suburb?
Or had he too found work in a garment workshop in Paris? Next to the
words trade or profession on the file that they had drawn up on him during
the Occupation, and on which I had read “French legionnaire, 2d class,
100% disabled,” it says “None.”
A few photographs from this period. The earliest, their wedding day.
They are seated, their elbows resting on a sort of pedestal. She is enveloped
in a long white veil that trails to the floor and seems to be knotted at her left
ear. He wears tails with a white bow tie. A photograph with their daughter,
Dora. They are seated, Dora standing between them: she can’t be more than
two years old. A photograph of Dora, surely taken after a special school
assembly. She is aged twelve or thereabouts and wears a white dress and
ankle socks. She holds a book in her right hand. Her hair is crowned by a
circlet of what appear to be white flowers. Her left hand rests on the edge of
an enormous white cube patterned with rows of black geometric motifs,
clearly a studio prop. Another photograph, taken in the same place at the
same period, perhaps on the same day: the floor tiles are recognizable, as is
the big white cube with black geometric motifs on which Cécile Bruder is
perched. Dora stands on her left, in a high-necked dress, her left arm bent
across her body so as to place her hand on her mother’s shoulder. In another
photograph with her mother, Dora is about twelve years old, her hair shorter
than in the previous picture. They are standing in front of what appears to
be an old wall, though it must be one of the photographer’s screens. Both
wear black dresses with a white collar. Dora stands slightly in front and to

the right of her mother. An oval-shaped photograph in which Dora is
slightly older—thirteen or fourteen, longer hair—and all three are in single
file, their faces turned toward the camera: first Dora and her mother, both in
white blouses, then Ernest Bruder, in jacket and tie. A photograph of Cécile
Bruder in front of what appears to be a suburban house. The lefthand wall
in the foreground is covered in a mass of ivy. She is sitting on the edge of
three concrete steps. She wears a light summer dress. In the background, the
silhouette of a child with her back to the camera, her arms and legs bare,
wearing either a black cardigan or a bathing suit. Dora? And behind a
wooden fence, the facade of another house, with a porch and a single
upstairs window. Where could this be?
An earlier photograph of Dora alone, aged nine or ten. Caught in a ray of
sunshine, entirely surrounded by shadow, she might be on a rooftop.
Dressed in a white blouse and ankle socks, she stands, hand on hip, her
right foot placed on the concrete rim of what appears to be a large cage or
aviary, although, owing to the shadow, you can’t make out the animals or
birds confined there. These shadows and patches of sunlight are those of a
summer’s day.
 

 
Dora Bruder with her mother

 
Dora Bruder with her mother
and grandmother
OceanofPDF.com

O
……………..
THER SUMMER DAYS WERE SPENT IN CLIGNANCOURT. Her parents would
take Dora to the Cinéma Ornano 43. It was just across the street. Or
did she go on her own? From a very young age, according to her cousin, she
had been rebellious, independent, with an eye for the boys. The hotel room
was far too cramped for three people.
As a child, she would have played in the Square Clignancourt. At times,
this part of town seemed like a village. In the evenings, the neighbors would
place their chairs outside and sit on the sidewalk for a chat. Or take a
lemonade together on the café terrace. Sometimes men who could have
been either real goatherds or else peddlers from the fairs would come by
with a few goats and sell you tall glasses of milk for almost nothing. The
froth gave you a white mustache.
At the Porte de Clignancourt, the toll house and gate.1 To its left, between
the flea market and the tall apartment blocks of the Boulevard Ney, an
entire district of shacks, warehouses, acacias, and low-built houses, since
pulled down. This wasteland had impressed me, aged fourteen. I thought I
recognized it in two or three photographs, taken in winter: a kind of
esplanade, a passing bus in sight. A truck at a standstill, seemingly forever.
Waiting beside an expanse of snow, a trailer and a black horse. And in the
far background, the dim masses of high buildings.
I remember experiencing for the first time that sense of emptiness that
comes with the knowledge of what has been destroyed, razed to the ground.
As yet, I was ignorant of the existence of Dora Bruder. Perhaps—in fact,
I’m sure of it—she explored this zone that, for me, evokes secret lovers’
trysts, pitiful moments of lost happiness. Here, reminders of the countryside
still surfaced in the street names: Allée du Puits, Allée du Métro, Allée des
Peupliers, Impasse des Chiens.
OceanofPDF.com

 
1. One of the 18th-c. gates (barrières) in the fortifications of Paris;
originally control points for game, later also used for goods subject to
excise tax, they were abolished in the late 1920s.
OceanofPDF.com

O
……………..
N 9 MAY 1940, AT THE AGE OF FOURTEEN, DORA BRUDER was enrolled in the
boarding school of the Saint-Coeur-de-Marie, run by the Sisters of the
Christian Schools of Divine Mercy1 at 60–62 Rue de Picpus in the 12th
arrondissement.
The school register contains the following entry:
Name, last and first: Bruder, Dora
Date and place of birth: 26 February 1926, Paris 12
Parents: Ernest and Cécile Bruder née Brudej
Family status: legitimate
Date and conditions of admission: 9 May 1940. Full boarder
Date and reason for departure: 14 December 1941. Pupil has run away
What were her parents’ reasons for sending her to this religious school?
No doubt it was difficult living three to a room in the Boulevard Ornano
hotel. I wonder if Ernest and Cécile Bruder, as ex-Austrians and “nationals
of the Reich,” were not threatened with a form of internment, Austria
having ceased to exist in 1938 and become part of the “Reich.”
In the autumn of 1939, men who were ex-Austrian or otherwise nationals
of the “Reich” were interned in “assembly camps.” They were divided into
two categories: suspect and non-suspect. Non-suspects were taken to Yves-
du-Manoir stadium, in Colombes. Then, in December, they were included
with the group known as “foreign statute laborers.” Was Ernest Bruder
among those laborers?
On 13 May 1940, four days after Dora Bruder’s arrival at the Saint-
Coeur-de-Marie boarding school, ex-Austrian women and nationals of the
Reich were called up in their turn and taken to the Vélodrome d’Hiver,
where they were interned for thirteen days. Then, with the approach of the
German army, they were transferred to the camp at Gurs, in the Basses-
Pyrénées. Was Cécile Bruder among those called up?

You were placed in bizarre categories you had never heard of and with no
relation to who you really were. You were called up. You were interned. If
only you could understand why.
 
I also wonder how Cécile and Ernest Bruder came to hear of the Saint-
Coeur-de-Marie boarding school. Who had advised them to send Dora
there?
I imagine that, by the age of fourteen, she must have given proof of
independence, and that the rebellious spirit her cousin mentioned to me had
already manifested itself. Her parents felt that she was in need of discipline.
For this, these Jews chose a Christian institution. But were they themselves
practicing Jews? And what choice did they have? According to the
biographical note on the institution’s Mother Superior when Dora was a
boarder there, the pupils at the Saint-Coeur-de-Marie came from poor
backgrounds: “Often they are orphans, or children dependent on social
welfare, those to whom Our Lord has always shown His special love.” And,
in a brochure about the Sisters of the Christian Schools of Divine Mercy,
“The Saint-Coeur-de-Marie was called upon to render signal service to
young children and adolescents from the capital’s least fortunate families.”
The teaching certainly went beyond the arts of housekeeping and sewing.
The Sisters of the Christian Schools of Divine Mercy, whose mother house
was the ancient abbey of Saint-Sauveur-le-Vicomte in Normandy, had
founded the charitable institution of the Saint-Coeur-de-Marie, Rue de
Picpus, in 1852. In those days, it was a vocational boarding school for five
hundred girls, the daughters of working men’s families, with a staff of
seventy-five nuns.
 
At the time of the fall of France in June 1940, nuns and pupils were
evacuated to the department of Maine-et-Loire. Dora would have left with
them, on one of the last packed trains still running from the Gare d’Orsay

and the Gare d’Austerlitz. They formed part of the endless procession of
refugees on routes leading southward to the Loire.
July, and the return to Paris. Boarding-school life. I don’t know what the
school uniform consisted of. Was it, quite simply, the clothes listed in the
notice about the search for Dora: maroon pullover, navy blue skirt, brown
gym shoes? And, over this, a smock? I can more or less guess the daily
timetable. Rise about six. Chapel. Classroom. Refectory. Classroom.
Playground. Refectory. Classroom. Chapel. Dormitory. Day of rest, Sunday.
I imagine that life behind those walls was hard for these girls for whom Our
Lord had always shown His special love.
I have heard that the Sisters of the Christian Schools of Divine Mercy of
the Rue de Picpus had established a holiday camp at Béthisy. Was it at
Béthisy-Saint-Martin? Or Béthisy-Saint-Pierre? Both villages are near
Senlis, in the Valois. Perhaps Dora Bruder and her classmates spent a few
days there, in the summer of 1941.
 
The buildings of the Saint-Coeur-de-Marie no longer exist. Modern
apartment blocks have taken their place, giving an idea of the vastness of
the grounds. I don’t possess a single photograph of the vanished school. On
an old map of Paris, its site is marked “House of religious education.” Four
little squares and a cross symbolize the school buildings and chapel. And a
long, narrow rectangle, extending from the Rue de Picpus to the Rue de la
Gare-de-Reuilly, outlines the perimeter.
Opposite the school, on the other side of the Rue de Picpus, the map
shows, successively, the houses of the Mère de Dieu congregation, then the
Dames de l’Adoration, the Oratory of Picpus and the Picpus cemetery
where, in the last months of the Terror, over one thousand victims of the
guillotine were buried in a common grave. And on the same side of the
street as the boarding school, almost an extension of it, the large property
belonging to the Dames de Sainte-Clothilde. Then that of the Dames
Diaconesses, where, one day, aged eighteen, I went for treatment. I

remember the garden of the Diaconesses. I didn’t know then that this
establishment had served as a rehabilitation center for delinquent girls. Not
unlike the Saint-Coeur-de-Marie. Not unlike the Bon-Pasteur. These
institutions, where you were shut up, not knowing when or if you would be
released, certainly rejoiced in some curious names: the Bon-Pasteur
d’Angers. The Refuge de Darnetal. The sanctuary of Sainte-Madeleine de
Limoges. The Solitude-de-Nazareth.
Solitude.
 
The Saint-Coeur-de-Marie, 60–62 Rue de Picpus, stood at the corner of the
Rue de Picpus and the Rue de la Gare-de-Reuilly. In Dora’s time, this street
still had a countrified air. A high wall ran the length of its lefthand side,
shaded by the school’s trees.
The few details that I have managed to glean about these places, such as
Dora Bruder would have seen them, day in, day out, for a year and a half,
are as follows: the large garden ran the length of the Rue de la Gare-de-
Reuilly, and the school buildings must have stood between it and the
courtyard. Within this courtyard, hollowed out beneath rocks in the form of
an imitation grotto, lay the burial vault of the Madre family, the school’s
benefactors.
 
I don’t know if Dora Bruder made friends at the Saint-Coeur-de-Marie. Or
if she kept to herself. Until such time as I have the testimony of one of her
former classmates, I am reduced to conjecture. Today, in Paris, or
somewhere in the suburbs, there must be a seventy-year-old woman who
remembers her erstwhile neighbor in classroom or dormitory—a girl named
Dora, age 15, height 1 m 55, oval-shaped face, gray-brown eyes, gray sports
jacket, maroon pullover, navy blue skirt and hat, brown gym shoes.
In writing this book, I send out signals, like a lighthouse beacon in whose
power to illuminate the darkness, alas, I have no faith. But I live in hope.

In those days, the Mother Superior of the Saint-Coeur-de-Marie was
Mother Marie-Jean-Baptiste. She was born—so her biographical note tells
us—in 1903. After her novitiate, she was sent to Paris, to the house of the
Saint-Coeur-de-Marie, where she stayed for seventeen years, from 1929 to
1946. She was barely forty years old when Dora Bruder was a boarder
there.
She was “independent and warm-hearted”—according to the biographical
note—and “endowed with a strong personality.” She died in 1985, three
years before I knew of Dora Bruder’s existence. She would certainly have
remembered Dora—if only because the girl had run away. But, after all,
what could she have told me? A few humdrum facts of daily existence?
Warm-hearted or not, she certainly failed to divine what was going through
Dora Bruder’s head, neither how the girl was coping with boarding-school
life nor how she reacted to chapel morning and evening, the fake grotto in
the courtyard, the garden wall, the dormitory with its rows of beds.
 
I traced a woman who had entered the boarding school in 1942, a few
months after Dora Bruder ran away. She was about ten years old at the time,
younger than Dora. And her memories of the Saint-Coeur-de-Marie are
merely those of a child. She had been living alone with her mother, a Jew of
Polish origin, in a street in the Goutte-d’Or district, the Rue de Chartres, no
distance from the Rue Polonceau where Cécile, Ernest, and Dora Bruder
had lived. To avoid dying of starvation, the mother worked night shifts in a
workshop that made mittens for the Wehrmacht. The daughter went to
school in the Rue Jean-François-Lépine. At the end of 1942, because of the
roundups, the headmistress had advised the mother to send her child into
hiding, and it was doubtless she who had given her the address of the Saint-
Coeur-de-Marie.
To disguise her origins, she was enrolled at the boarding school under the
name of “Suzanne Albert.” Shortly afterward, she fell ill. She was sent to

the infirmary. There, she saw a doctor. After a while, since she refused to
eat, it was decided to send her home.
She remembers everything in that boarding school as being black—walls,
classrooms, infirmary—except for the white coifs of the nuns. It seemed
more like an orphanage. Iron discipline. No heating. Nothing to eat but root
vegetables. Boarders’ prayers took place at “six o’clock,” and I forgot to ask
her whether she meant six in the morning or six at night.
OceanofPDF.com

 
1. The Écoles chrétiennes de la Miséricorde ran the boarding school (the
Holy Heart of Mary).
OceanofPDF.com

D
……………..
ORA SPENT THE SUMMER OF 1940 AT THE BOARDING school. On Sundays,
she would certainly have gone to visit her parents, who were still
living in the hotel room at 41 Boulevard Ornano. I look at the plan of the
métro and try to retrace her route in my mind. The simplest, avoiding too
many changes, is to take a train from Nation, a station fairly near the
boarding school. Pont-de-Sèvres line. Change at Strasbourg-Saint-Denis.
Porte de Clignancourt line. She would have got out at Simplon, just
opposite the cinema and the hotel.
Twenty years later, I often took the métro at Simplon. It was always about
ten o’clock at night. At that hour, the station was deserted, and there were
long intervals between trains.
Late on Sunday afternoons, she too would have returned by the same
route. Did her parents go with her? Once at Nation, she had to walk, and the
quickest way to the Rue de Picpus was via the Rue Fabre-d’Églantine.
It was like going back to prison. The days were drawing in. It was already
dark when she crossed the courtyard, passing the funerary monument with
its imitation grotto. Above the steps, a single lamp was lit over the door. She
followed the corridors. Chapel, for Sunday evening Benediction. Then, into
line, in silence as far as the dormitory.
OceanofPDF.com

A
……………..
UTUMN HAD COME. ON 2 OCTOBER, THE PARIS NEWSPAPERS published the
decree obliging all Jews to register at police stations for a census. A
declaration by the head of the family sufficed for all. To avoid long lines,
those affected were asked to attend in alphabetical order, on the dates
indicated in the table below  .  .  .
The letter B fell on 4 October. On that day, Ernest Bruder went to
Clignancourt police station to fill in the census form. But he failed to
register his daughter. Everybody reporting for the census was allotted a
number, later attached to the “family file.” This was known as the “Jewish
dossier” number.
Ernest and Cécile Bruder had the Jewish dossier number 49091. But Dora
had no number of any sort.
Perhaps Ernest Bruder felt that she was out of harm’s way, in a free zone,
at the Saint-Coeur-de-Marie boarding school, and that it was best not to
draw attention to her. Then again, the classification “Jew” meant nothing to
the fourteen-year-old Dora. When it came down to it, what exactly did the
Bruders understand by the term “Jew”? For himself, he never gave it a
thought. He was used to being put into this or that category by the
authorities and accepted it without question. Unskilled laborer. Ex-Austrian.
French legionnaire. Non-suspect. Ex-serviceman 100% disabled. Foreign
statute laborer. Jew. And the same went for his wife, Cécile. Ex-Austrian.
Non-suspect. Furrier’s seamstress. Jewess. As yet, the only person who had
escaped all classification, including the number 49091, was Dora.
Who knows, she might have escaped to the end. She had only to remain
within the boarding school’s dark walls and merge into their shadows; and,
by scrupulously observing its daily and nightly routine, avoid drawing
attention to herself. Dormitory. Chapel. Refectory. Playground. Classroom.
Chapel. Dormitory.

 
It chanced—but was it really chance—that, at the Saint-Coeur-de-Marie
boarding school, she was back within sight of her birthplace on the opposite
side of the street. 15 Rue Santerre. The Rothschild Hospital maternity ward.
Rue Santerre was a continuation of the Rue de la Gare-de-Reuilly and thus
ran alongside the school wall.
A quiet, tree-shaded neighborhood. When, twenty-five years ago, in June
1971, I spent an entire day walking around there, I found it unchanged.
Occasionally, a summer shower obliged me to take shelter in an archway.
That afternoon, without knowing why, I had the impression of walking in
another’s footsteps.
After the summer of ’42, the area around the Saint-Coeur-de-Marie
became particularly dangerous. For two years there had been a succession
of roundups, at the Rothschild Hospital, at its orphanage of the same name,
Rue Lamblardie, and at the hospice, 76 Rue de Picpus, where the Gaspard
Meyer who had signed Dora’s birth certificate lived and worked. The
Rothschild Hospital was a trap for the sick from Drancy camp, sent there
only to be returned to the camp whenever it suited the Germans, who were
keeping watch on 15 Rue Santerre with the help of a private police agency,
the Agence Faralicq. A great many children and adolescents of Dora’s age
were arrested, taken from their hiding place in the Rothschild Orphanage,
Rue Lamblardie, the first street on the right after the Rue de la Gare-de-
Reuilly. And, on the Rue de la Gare-de-Reuilly itself, at number 48bis,
exactly opposite the boarding school wall, nine boys and girls of Dora’s age
or, in some cases, younger, were arrested with their families. Indeed, the
garden and courtyard of the Saint-Coeur-de-Marie boarding school were the
sole enclave in this entire block of houses to remain inviolate. But only on
condition that you never went out, that you stayed forgotten within the
shadow of those dark walls, themselves engulfed by the darkness of the
curfew.
 

I’m writing these pages in November 1996. It seldom stops raining.
Tomorrow we shall be in December, and fifty-five years will have passed
since Dora ran away. It gets dark early, and it’s just as well: night obliterates
the grayness and monotony of these rainy days when you wonder if it really
is daytime, or if we are going through some intermediary stage, a sort of
gloomy eclipse lasting till dusk. Then the street lamps and shop windows
and cafés light up, the evening air freshens, contours sharpen, there are
traffic jams at the crossroads and hurrying crowds in the streets. And in the
midst of all these lights, all this hubbub, I can hardly believe that this is the
city where Dora lived with her parents, where my father lived when he was
twenty years younger than I am now. I feel as though I am alone in making
the link between Paris then and Paris now, alone in remembering all these
details. There are moments when the link is strained and in danger of
snapping, and other evenings when the city of yesterday appears to me in
fleeting gleams behind that of today.
I’ve been rereading the fifth and sixth volumes of Les Misérables. Victor
Hugo describes Cosette and Jean Valjean, tracked by Javert, making their
way across Paris, by night, from the Barrière Saint-Jacques to the Petit
Picpus. You can follow part of their itinerary on a map. They are near the
Seine. Cosette begins to tire. Jean Valjean carries her in his arms. Taking the
back streets, they skirt the Jardin des Plantes and come to the riverbank.
They cross the Pont d’Austerlitz. Scarcely has Jean Valjean set foot on the
right bank than he thinks he sees shadowy figures on the bridge. Their only
means of escape—he tells himself—is to take the little Rue du Chemin-
Vert-Saint-Antoine.
And suddenly, you have a sensation of vertigo, as if Cosette and Jean
Valjean, to escape Javert and his police, have taken a leap into space: thus
far, they have been following real Paris streets, and now, abruptly, Victor
Hugo thrusts them into the imaginary district of Paris that he calls the Petit
Picpus. It is the same sense of strangeness that overcomes you when you
find yourself walking through an unfamiliar district in a dream. On waking,

you realize, little by little, that the pattern of its streets had overlaid the one
with which, in daytime, you are familiar.
And here is what disturbs me: at the end of their flight across a district
whose topography and street names had been invented by Victor Hugo,
Cosette and Jean Valjean just manage to escape a police patrol by slipping
behind a wall. They find themselves in “a sort of garden, very large and of
singular appearance; one of those gloomy gardens which seem to be made
to be seen in the winter and at night.” This garden where the pair hide is
that of a convent, which Victor Hugo situates precisely at number 62 Rue
du Petit-Picpus, the same address as that of the Saint-Coeur-de-Marie
school where Dora was a boarder.
“At the period to which this history relates,” Victor Hugo writes, “a
boarding-school was attached to the convent.    .    .    .These young
girls  .  .  .  were dressed in blue with a white cap.  .  .  .There were in the
inclosure of the Petit Picpus three perfectly distinct buildings, the Great
Convent, in which the nuns lived, the school building, in which the pupils
lodged, and finally what was called the Little Convent.”
And, having given a minute description of the place, he continues: “We
could not pass by this extraordinary, unknown, obscure house without
entering and leading in those who accompany us, and who listen as we
relate, for the benefit of some, perhaps, the melancholy history of Jean
Valjean.”
 
Like many writers before me, I believe in coincidence and, sometimes, in
the novelist’s gift for clairvoyance—the word “gift” not being the exact
term, for it implies a kind of superiority. No, it simply comes with the
profession: the imaginative leaps this requires, the need to fix your mind on
points of detail—to the point of obsession, in fact—so as not to lose the
thread and give in to natural laziness—all this tension, this cerebral exercise
may well lead in the long run to “flashes of intuition concerning events past

and future,” as the Larousse dictionary puts it, under the heading
“clairvoyance.”
In December 1988, after reading the notice about the search for Dora in
the Paris-Soir of December 1941, I thought about it incessantly for months.
The precision of certain details haunted me: “41 Boulevard Ornano, 1 m 55,
oval-shaped face, gray-brown eyes, gray sports jacket, maroon pullover,
navy blue skirt and hat, brown gym shoes.” And all enveloped in night,
ignorance, forgetfulness, oblivion. It seemed to me that I should never
succeed in finding the faintest trace of Dora Bruder. At the time, the
emptiness I felt prompted me to write a novel, Voyage de noces, it being as
good a way as any of continuing to fix my attention on Dora Bruder, and
perhaps, I told myself, of elucidating or divining something about her, a
place where she had been, a detail of her life. When it came to her parents,
and the circumstances of her escape, I was completely ignorant. All I had to
go on was this: I had seen her name, BRUDER DORA—nothing else, no date or
place of birth—above that of her father—BRUDER ERNEST, 21.5.99, Vienna.
Stateless.—on the list of those dispatched on the transport that had left on
18 September 1942 for Auschwitz.
I was thinking, when writing Voyage de noces, of certain women whom I
knew in the sixties, women like Anne B., Bella D.—the same age as Dora,
one of them almost to the month—who, during the Occupation, were in the
same situation and might have shared her fate, and whom she probably
resembled. Today, it occurs to me that I had had to write two hundred pages
before I captured, unconsciously, a vague gleam of the truth.
It was a matter of a few words: “The terminus was Nation. Rigaud and
Ingrid had allowed Bastille, the stop where they should have changed for
Porte Dorée, to go by. Emerging from the exit, they were confronted by a
vast expanse of snow.  .  .  .The sleigh cut through the back streets to reach
the Boulevard Soult.”
These back streets lay behind the Rue de Picpus and the Saint-Coeur-de-
Marie boarding school from which Dora Bruder made her escape, one

December evening when it was probably snowing in Paris.
That was the only moment in the book when, without knowing it, I came
close to her in space and time.
OceanofPDF.com

T
……………..
HUS WE FIND NEXT TO DORA BRUDER’S NAME IN THE school register, under
the heading “Date and reason for departure”: “14 December 1941.
Pupil has run away.”
It was a Sunday. I imagine that she would have taken advantage of the
free day to visit her parents. That evening, she failed to return to the school.
Those dying weeks of the year were the blackest, most claustrophobic
period that Paris had experienced since the beginning of the Occupation.
Between 8 and 14 December, in reprisal for two assassination attempts, the
Germans ordered a curfew from six o’clock in the evening. Next came the
roundup of seven hundred French Jews on 12 December; and the fine of
one billion francs levied on the Jewish community as a whole. And then, on
the morning of the same day, the shooting of seventy hostages at the Mont-
Valérien fortress. On 10 December, by order of the Prefect of Police, French
and foreign Jews living in the department of the Seine had to submit to
“periodic checks,” producing special identity cards stamped “Jew” or
“Jewess.” Henceforth they were forbidden to travel outside the department,
and any change of address had to be registered at a police station.
In the 18th arrondissement, a curfew imposed by the Germans had been
in force since 1 December. Nobody could enter the area after six o’clock at
night. Local métro stations were closed, including Simplon, the one nearest
to where Ernest and Cécile Bruder lived. A hand grenade had been thrown
in the Rue Championnet, very close to their hotel.
The curfew lasted three days. No sooner had it been lifted than the
Germans imposed another throughout the entire 10th arrondissement,
where, on the Boulevard Magenta, persons unknown had fired at an officer
of the occupying authorities. Then came the general curfew of 8 to 14
December—the Sunday of Dora’s escape.

Around the Saint-Coeur-de-Marie boarding school, as the lights were
extinguished in district after district, the city became a dark prison. While
Dora was behind the high walls of 60–62 Rue de Picpus, her parents were
confined to their hotel room.
Her father having failed to declare her a “Jewess” in October 1940, she
had not been allotted a “Jewish dossier” number. But the decree issued by
the Prefecture of Police on 10 December, pertaining to the control of Jews,
had stipulated that “subsequent changes in the family situation must be
reported.” I doubt if Dora’s father would have had either the time or the
inclination to get her inscribed on a file before her escape. He must have
thought that the Prefecture of Police would never suspect her existence
while she remained at the Saint-Coeur-de-Marie.
What makes us decide to run away? I remember my own flight on 18
January 1960, at a period that had none of the blackness of December 1941.
Along my escape route, past the hangars of Villacoublay airfield, the only
point I had in common with Dora was the season: winter. A calm, ordinary
winter, not to be compared with the winter of eighteen years earlier. But it
seems that the sudden urge to escape can be prompted by one of those cold,
gray days that makes you more than ever aware of your solitude and
intensifies your feeling that a trap is about to close.
 
Sunday 14 December was the first day that the curfew had been lifted for
almost a week. People were now free to go out after six o’clock in the
evening. But because of German Time,1 darkness fell in the afternoon.
At what moment of the day did the Sisters of Divine Mercy first notice
that Dora was missing? It is certain to have been evening. Perhaps after
Benediction in the chapel, as the boarders went up to the dormitory. I expect
the Mother Superior tried to reach Dora’s parents at once, to find out if she
had stayed with them. Did she know that Dora and her parents were
Jewish? According to her biographical note, “Many children from the
families of persecuted Jews found refuge in the Saint-Coeur-de-Marie,

thanks to the courageous and charitable actions of Sister Marie-Jean-
Baptiste. Supported in this by the discreet and no less courageous attitude of
her nuns, she shrank from nothing, whatever the risk.”
But Dora’s was a special case. In May 1940, when she entered the Saint-
Coeur-de-Marie, the persecutions had not yet begun. She had missed the
census in October 1940. And it was not till July 1942, after the great
roundup, that religious institutions began to hide Jewish children. She had
been at the Saint-Coeur-de-Marie for a year and a half. In all likelihood, she
was its sole Jewish pupil. Was this common knowledge among the nuns,
among her fellow boarders?
The Café Marchal on the ground floor of the hotel at 41 Boulevard
Ornano had a telephone: Montmartre 44–74; but I don’t know if it had a
line to the hotel, or if that, too, was owned by Marchal. The Saint-Coeur-de-
Marie boarding school is not listed in the telephone directory for the period.
I’ve found a separate address for the Sisters of the Christian Schools of
Divine Mercy, but in 1942 this must have been an annex to the boarding
school: 64 Rue Saint-Maur. Did Dora go there? It too had no telephone
number.
Who knows? The Mother Superior may have waited till Monday morning
before telephoning the Café Marchal or, as is more likely, sending a nun to
41 Boulevard Ornano. Unless Cécile and Ernest Bruder went to the
boarding school themselves.
It would help to know if the weather was fine on 14 December, the day of
Dora’s escape. Perhaps it was one of those mild, sunny winter days when
you have a feeling of holiday and eternity—the illusory feeling that the
course of time is suspended, and that you need only slip through this breach
to escape the trap that is closing around you.
OceanofPDF.com

 
1. The occupying authorities had brought the clocks forward by one hour to
correspond with German Reich time.
OceanofPDF.com

F
……………..
OR A LONG TIME, AFTER HER ESCAPE AND THE NOTICE about the search for
her that was printed in Paris-Soir, I knew nothing about Dora Bruder.
Then I learned that, eight months later, on 13 August 1942, she had been
interned in the camp at Drancy. The dossier showed that she had come from
Tourelles camp. On that very 13 August, indeed, three hundred Jewish
women were transferred from Tourelles to Drancy.
Tourelles prison “camp,” or rather internment center, occupied former
colonial infantry barracks at 11 Boulevard Mortier, near the Porte des Lilas.
It had been opened in October 1940 for the internment of foreign Jews
whose situation was deemed “irregular.” But after 1941, while men were
sent directly to Drancy, or to camps in the Loiret, only Jewish women who
contravened German regulations were to be interned in Tourelles, together
with women who were Communists or common criminals.
When, and for what precise reasons, was Dora Bruder sent to Tourelles? I
thought there might have been a document, a clue, to provide me with the
answer. I was reduced to making assumptions. She was probably stopped in
the street. In February 1942—two months after her escape—the Germans
had issued a decree forbidding Jews to change address or leave home after
eight o’clock at night. Surveillance in the streets thus became stricter than
in preceding months. Eventually, I came to the conclusion that Dora was
captured during that dismal, icy-cold February when the Jewish Affairs
police1 set their ambushes in the corridors of the métro, at the entrances to
cinemas, the exits of theaters. In fact, it astonished me that a sixteen-year-
old girl, whose description and disappearance in December were known to
the police, had managed to elude her captors for so long. Unless she had
found a hideout. But where, in that Paris winter of 1941–42, the darkest and
most severe of the Occupation, with snow from November onward, a
temperature of –15° C in January, frozen puddles and black ice everywhere
and renewed heavy snowfalls in February? So what refuge could she have
found? And how did she manage to survive in a Paris like that?

It would have been February, I imagine, when “they” had caught her in
their net. “They” could as easily have been uniformed men on the beat as
inspectors from either the Brigade for the Protection of Minors2 or the
Jewish Affairs police carrying out an identity check in a public place  .  .  .  I
had read in a book of memoirs that girls of eighteen or nineteen, and even
some as young as sixteen, Dora’s age, had been sent to Tourelles for trivial
infringements of “German decrees.” That same February, on the evening
when the German decrees came into force, my father was caught in a
roundup on the Champs-Élysées. Inspectors of the Jewish Affairs police had
blocked the exits of a restaurant in the Rue de Marignan where he was
dining with a girlfriend. They asked everybody for their papers. My father
carried none. He was arrested. In the Black Maria3 taking them from the
Champs-Élysées to PQJ headquarters in the Rue Greffulhe, he noticed,
among other shadowy figures, a young girl of about eighteen. He lost sight
of her as they were being hustled up to the floor of this police den where its
chief, a certain Superintendent Schweblin, had his office. Then, taking
advantage of a light on a time switch that went out just as he was being
escorted downstairs to be taken to the Dépôt,4 he succeeded in making his
escape.
My father had barely mentioned this young girl when telling me about his
narrow escape for the first and only time in his life, one night in June 1953,
in a restaurant off the Champs-Élysées almost opposite the one where he
was arrested twenty years before. He had given me no details of her looks,
of her clothes. I had all but forgotten her until the day that I learned of Dora
Bruder’s existence. Then suddenly the memory of her presence among the
other unknowns who were with my father in the Black Maria on that
February night resurfaced in my mind, and it occurred to me that she might
have been Dora Bruder, that she too had just been arrested and was about to
be sent to Tourelles.
Perhaps it was that I wanted them to have met, she and my father, in that
winter of 1942. Utterly different though they were, one from the other, both,
that winter, had been classed in the same category, as outlaws. My father,

too, had missed the census in October 1940 and, like Dora Bruder, had no
“Jewish dossier” number. Consequently, no longer having any legal
existence, he had cut all threads with a world where you were nothing
without a job, a family, a nationality, a date of birth, an address. Henceforth
he was in limbo. Not unlike Dora, after her escape.
But on reflection, their respective fates were very different. There were
few courses open to a sixteen-year-old girl left to fend for herself, in Paris,
in the winter of 1942, after having escaped from a boarding school. In the
eyes of the police and the authorities of the day, her situation was doubly
“irregular”: she was not only Jewish, she was a juvenile on the run.
As for my father, who was fourteen years older than Dora Bruder, the
way was already mapped out; since they had made him into an outlaw, he
had no choice but to follow that same course, to live on his wits in Paris and
vanish into the swamps of the black market.
 
Not so long ago, I discovered that the girl in the Black Maria could not have
been Dora Bruder. I was looking for her name on the list of women who
had been interned in Tourelles camp. Of these, two, Polish Jews aged
twenty and twenty-one, had entered Tourelles on 18 and 19 February 1942.
Their names were Syma Berger and Fredel Traister. The dates fitted, but
was she in fact either girl? After passing through the Dépôt, men were sent
to the camp at Drancy, women to Tourelles. Perhaps, like my father, the
unknown girl had escaped the common fate in store for them. I believe that
she will always remain anonymous, like all those shadowy figures arrested
that night. The Jewish Affairs police having destroyed their files, there are
no records of arrests made during a roundup, nor of individuals picked up
on the street. Were I not here to record it, there would be no trace of this
unidentified girl’s presence, nor that of my father’s, in a Black Maria on the
Champs-Élysées in February 1942. Nothing but those individuals—living
or dead—officially classed as “person unknown.”

Twenty years later, my mother was acting in a play at the Théâtre Michel.
Often, I would wait for her in a café on the corner of the Rue des Mathurins
and the Rue Greffulhe. I didn’t know then that my father had risked his life
near there, or that I had entered a zone that was once a black hole. We
would dine in a restaurant on the Rue Greffulhe—perhaps on the ground
floor of the PQJ building where my father had been hustled into
Superintendent Schweblin’s office. Jacques Schweblin. Born 1901,
Mulhouse. It was his men, at the camps of Drancy and Pithiviers, who
eagerly undertook the search of internees prior to each departure for
Auschwitz:
M. Schweblin, head of the PQJ, would arrive at the camp accompanied by 5 or 6
aides whom he identified as “auxiliaries,” giving nobody’s name but his own. Each of
these plainclothes policemen wore a uniform belt with a pistol hanging from one side
and a nightstick from the other.
Once he had installed his aides, M. Schweblin left the camp, returning only in the
evening to collect the fruits of their search. Each aide would set himself up in a hut
containing a table and, beside it, two receptacles, one for cash, the other for jewelry.
The internees then filed past the men, who proceeded to subject them to a minute and
humiliating search. Very often they were beaten or forced to remove their trousers and
submit to a hard kicking, accompanied by remarks like “Hey you! Want another taste
of the police boot?” Frequently, on the pretext of expediting the search, inside and
outside pockets were torn. I will pass over the intimate body searches suffered by the
women.
Once the search was over, cash and jewelry were piled anyhow into boxes that were
bound with string and sealed before being loaded into M. Schweblin’s car.
This process was a farce, given that the sealing tongs were in the hands of the
policemen, who were free to help themselves to banknotes and jewels. In fact, these
men would openly produce a valuable ring from their pockets, saying “Hey, that’s not
bad!,” or a fistful of 1,000- or 500-franc notes, saying “Hey, I forgot this.” Bedding in
the huts was also searched: mattresses, eiderdowns, and bolsters were torn apart. Of
all the many searches performed by the Jewish Affairs police, not a single trace
remains.5
The search team always consisted of the same seven men. Plus one
woman. Their names are unknown. They were young at the time, so some
must still be alive today. But their faces would be unrecognizable.

Schweblin disappeared in 1943. The Germans disposed of him
themselves. Yet when my father was telling me about being taken to this
man’s office, he said that he was positive that he had recognized him at the
Porte Maillot, one Sunday after the war.
OceanofPDF.com

 
1. The Police aux Questions Juives (PQJ), established November 1941.
2. Brigade des mineurs.
3. The French phrase is panier à salade, a colloquial term for the police van
with an open wire cage that resembles a salad-washing basket.
4. A holding center in the Prefecture of Police.
5. Extract from an official report drawn up in November 1943 by a manager
from Pithiviers Tax Office.
OceanofPDF.com

B
……………..
LACK MARIAS REMAINED MUCH THE SAME TILL THE early sixties. The only
time I ever found myself in one it was with my father, and I wouldn’t
mention it now had not this episode taken on a symbolic character in my
eyes.
The circumstances were banal in the extreme. I was eighteen years old,
still a minor. My parents, though separated, still lived in the same block, my
father with a woman who had yellow hair the color of straw and was very
high-strung, a sort of imitation Mylène Demongeot. And I with my mother.
That day, on the landing, a quarrel had broken out between my parents
about the very modest sum that my father had been ordered to pay for my
support following a series of judicial proceedings: High Court of the Seine.
1st Auxiliary Chamber, Court of Appeals Notification of Judgment. My
mother wished me to ring at his door and demand this money, which he
hadn’t paid. It was, alas, all we had to live on. Grumbling, I did as I was
told. I rang my father’s bell meaning to ask him nicely, even to apologize
for bothering him. He slammed the door in my face; I could hear the pseudo
Mylène Demongeot on the telephone to the police emergency service,
screaming something about “a hooligan making trouble.”
They came for me at my mother’s about ten minutes later, and my father
and I climbed into the waiting Black Maria. We sat facing one another, on
wooden benches, each flanked by two policemen. I thought to myself that if
it was the first time in my life that something like this had happened to me,
my father had been through it all before, on that February night twenty
years ago when the Jewish Affairs police had taken him away in a Black
Maria much like this one. And I wondered if, at that moment, he was
thinking the same thing. But he avoided my gaze, pretending not to see me.
I remember every minute of that drive. The embankments along the
Seine. The Rue des Saint-Pères. The Boulevard Saint-Germain. The stop at
the lights opposite the terrace of the Café des Deux-Magots. I peered

enviously through the barred windows at the drinkers sitting on the terrace
in the sun. Luckily, I had little to worry about: we were in that anodyne,
innocuous period later known as the “Thirty Glorious Years.”1
Yet I was surprised that, after all he had been through during the
Occupation, my father should have offered not the slightest objection to my
being taken away in a Black Maria. Sitting there, opposite me, impassive,
with an air of faint disgust, he ignored me as if I had the plague, and,
knowing that I could expect no sympathy from him, I dreaded our arrival at
the police station. And I felt the injustice of this all the more since I had
embarked on a book—my first—in which, putting myself in his shoes, I
relived his feelings of distress during the Occupation. A few years earlier,
among his books, I had come across certain anti-Semitic works from the
forties, books that he must have bought at the time in an effort to
understand what it was that these writers had against him. And I can well
imagine his surprise at the portrayal of this imaginary, phantasmagoric
monster with clawlike hands and hooked nose whose shadow flitted across
the walls, this creature corrupted by every vice, responsible for every evil,
guilty of every crime. As for me, I wanted my first book to be a riposte to
all those who, by insulting my father, had wounded me. And, on the terrain
of French prose, to silence them once and for all. I can see now that my
plan was childishly naive: most of the authors had disappeared, executed by
firing squad, exiled, far gone in senility, or dead of old age. Yes, alas, I was
too late.
The Black Maria drew up in the Rue de l’Abbaye outside Saint-Germain
police station. Our guards led us into the superintendent’s office. Crisply,
my father explained to him that I was a “hooligan” who had been “giving
trouble” since I was sixteen years old. The superintendent declared—
addressing me in the tone you use to a delinquent—that he would keep me
in, “if there’s a next time.” I had the distinct impression that if the
superintendent had carried out his threat and sent me to the Dépôt, my
father wouldn’t have lifted a finger to help me.

My father and I left the police station together. I asked him if it was really
necessary to call the emergency service and “charge” me in front of our
guards. He didn’t answer. I bore him no grudge. Since we lived in the same
building, we set off home side by side, in silence. I was tempted to remind
him of that night in February 1942 when he too had been taken away in a
Black Maria, to ask him whether he had been thinking of that, just now. But
perhaps it meant less to him than it did to me.
On the way back, we didn’t exchange a single word, not even when we
parted on the stairs. I was to see him once or twice in August of the
following year, on an occasion when he hid my call-up papers as a ruse to
have me carted off by force to the Reuilly army barracks. I never saw him
again after that.
OceanofPDF.com

 
1. “Les Trentes Glorieuses,” the postwar boom in France.
OceanofPDF.com

W
……………..
HAT DID DORA BRUDER DO FIRST, I WONDER, AS soon as she had made her
escape on 14 December 1941. Perhaps she had decided not to return
to the boarding school the instant she had arrived at the gate, and had spent
the evening wandering the streets till curfew.
Streets that still had countrified names: Les Meuniers, La Bèche-aux-
Loups, Le Sentier des Merisiers. But at the top of the little tree-shaded
street that ran alongside the perimeter wall of the Saint-Coeur-de-Marie
there was a freight depot, and further on, if you take the Avenue Daumesnil,
the Gare de Lyon. The railway lines to this station pass within a few
hundred meters of the school where Dora Bruder had been shut up. This
peaceful quarter, seemingly remote from Paris, with its convents, its hidden
cemeteries and quiet avenues, is also a point of departure.
I don’t know if the proximity of the Gare de Lyon encouraged Dora to
run away. Whether from her dormitory in the silence of the blackout, she
could hear the rumble of freight cars or the sound of trains leaving the Gare
de Lyon for the Free Zone  .  .  .  She was doubtless familiar with those two
duplicitous words: Free Zone.
In the novel I had written at a time when I knew almost nothing about
Dora Bruder but wanted to keep her in the forefront of my mind, the girl of
her age whom I called Ingrid hides in the Free Zone with her boyfriend. I
was thinking of Bella D. who, at the age of fifteen, had smuggled herself
out of Paris across the demarcation line, only to end up in a Toulouse
prison; of Anne B., who was picked up without a travel permit on Chalon-
sur-Saône station and sentenced to twelve weeks in prison  .  .  .  These are
things that they had told me about in the sixties.
Did Dora Bruder prepare for her escape long in advance, with the
complicity of a friend, boy or girl? Did she remain in Paris, or did she in
fact try to reach the Free Zone?

OceanofPDF.com

T
……………..
HE POLICE BLOTTER AT THE CLIGNANCOURT STATION has this entry for 27
December 1941 under columns headed Date and subject. Marital
status. Summary:
27 December 1941. Bruder Dora, born Paris 12th, 25/2/26, domiciled at 41 Boulevard
Ornano. Interview with Bruder Ernest, age 42, father.
The following figures are written in the margin, but I have no idea what
they stand for: 7029 21/12.
The superintendent at Clignancourt police station, 12 Rue Lambert,
behind the Butte Montmartre, was called Siri. But Ernest Bruder probably
went to the divisional station, 74 Rue du Mont-Cenis, next to the town hall,
which was also part of the Clignancourt district: it was nearer his home. The
superintendent there was called Cornec.
Dora had run away thirteen days earlier, and Ernest Bruder had waited all
that time before notifying the police of his daughter’s disappearance. His
anguish and indecision during those long thirteen days can be imagined.
During the census of October 1940, he had omitted to register Dora at this
very police station, and they were bound to notice. By trying to find her, he
was drawing attention to her.
The transcript of Ernest Bruder’s interview is missing from the Prefecture
of Police archives. No doubt local police stations destroy documents of that
kind as they become obsolete. A few years after the war, other police
records were destroyed, such as the special registers opened during the
week in June 1942 when every Jewish person over the age of six was issued
with three yellow stars. These registers, which had a column in the margin
where you signed on receipt of your stars, recorded your civil status,
identity card number, and domicile. Police stations in Paris and the suburbs
compiled over fifty such registers.

We shall never know how Ernest Bruder answered the questions put to
him about his daughter and himself. Perhaps he chanced on a desk clerk for
whom it was a matter of routine, like before the war, and who saw no
particular difference between Ernest Bruder and his daughter and any other
French citizen. To be sure, the man was an “ex-Austrian,” and an unskilled
laborer living in a hotel. But his daughter was born in Paris and had French
nationality. A runaway adolescent. It happens more and more in these
troubled times. Did this policeman advise Ernest Bruder to put the missing
notice in Paris-Soir, given that almost two weeks had passed since Dora’s
disappearance? Or did a Paris-Soir reporter, touring the police stations in
search of “filler,” happen to see it among other incidents of the day and
glean it for the paper’s “From Day to Day” columns?
 
I remember the intensity of my feelings while I was on the run in January
1960—an intensity such as I have seldom known. It was the intoxication of
cutting all ties at a stroke: the clean break, deliberately made, from enforced
rules, boarding school, teachers, classmates; you have nothing to do with
these people from now on; the break from your parents, who have never
understood you, and from whom, you tell yourself, it’s useless to expect any
help; feelings of rebellion and solitude carried to flash point, taking your
breath away and leaving you in a state of weightlessness. It was probably
one of the few times in my life when I was truly myself and following my
own bent.
This ecstasy cannot last. It has no future. You are swiftly brought down to
earth.
Running away—it seems—is a call for help and occasionally a form of
suicide. At least you experience a moment of eternity. You have broken
your ties not only with the world but also with time. And one fine morning
you find that the sky is a pale blue and that nothing now weighs you down.
In the Tuileries garden, the hands on the clock have stopped for good. An
ant is transfixed in its journey across a patch of sunlight.

 
I think of Dora Bruder. I remind myself that, for her, running away was not
as easy as it was for me, twenty years later, in a world that had once more
been made safe. To her, everything in that city of December 1941, its
curfews, its soldiers, its police, was hostile, intent on her destruction. At
sixteen years old, without knowing why, she had the entire world against
her.
Other rebels, in the Paris of those years, equally solitary, were throwing
hand grenades at the Germans, into their conveys and meetings. They were
her age. Some of their faces appeared on the Affiche Rouge,1 and, despite
myself, I keep associating them in my mind with Dora.
 
In the summer of 1941, one of the films made under the Occupation, first
shown in Normandy, came to the local Paris cinemas. It was a harmless
comedy: Premier rendez-vous. The last time I saw it, I had a strange feeling,
out of keeping with the thin plot and the sprightly tones of the actors. I told
myself that perhaps, one Sunday, Dora Bruder had been to see this film, the
subject of which was a girl of her age who runs away. She escapes from a
boarding school much like the Saint-Coeur-de-Marie. During her flight, as
in fairy tales and romances, she meets her Prince Charming.
This film paints a rosy, anodyne picture of what had happened to Dora in
real life. Did it give her the idea of running away? I concentrated on details:
the dormitory, the school corridors, the boarders’ uniforms, the café where
the heroine waits after dark   .    .    .   I could find nothing that might
correspond to the reality, and in any case most of the scenes were shot in
the studio. And yet, I had a sense of unease. It stemmed from the film’s
peculiar luminosity, from the grain of the actual stock. Every image seemed
veiled in an arctic whiteness that accentuated the contrasts and sometimes
obliterated them. The lighting was at once too bright and too dim, either
stifling the voices or making their timbre louder, more disturbing.

Suddenly, I realized that this film was impregnated with the gaze of
moviegoers from the time of the Occupation—people from all walks of life,
most of whom would not have survived the war. They had been taken out of
themselves after having seen this film one Saturday night, their night out.
While it lasted, you forgot the war and the menacing world outside.
Huddled together in the dark of a cinema, you were caught up in the flow of
images on the screen, and nothing more could happen to you. And, by some
kind of chemical process, this combined gaze had materially altered the
actual film, the lighting, the voices of the actors. That is what I had sensed,
thinking of Dora Bruder and faced with the ostensibly trivial images of
Premier rendez-vous.
OceanofPDF.com

 
1. “Wanted” posters printed in red, put up by the Germans.
OceanofPDF.com

E
……………..
RNEST BRUDER WAS ARRESTED ON 19 MARCH 1942, or rather, that was the
day he was interned at Drancy. I’ve been unable to find any trace of the
circumstances of his arrest, nor of the reasons for it. In what was called a
“family file,” where data on each individual Jew were assembled for use at
the Prefecture of Police, his entry reads:
Bruder Ernest
21.5.99—Vienna
Jewish dossier no.: 49091
Trade or profession: None
French legionnaire, 2d class. 100% disabled. Gassed; pulmonary tuberculosis
Central police register E56404
Lower down, the file has been stamped WANTED, next to which somebody
has penciled the words: “Traced to Drancy camp.”
As a Jew and an “ex-Austrian,” Ernest Bruder could have been arrested
in the roundup of August 1941, during which the French police, backed by
the German army, had cordoned off the 11th arrondissement on 20 August
and then, in the days that followed, stopped and questioned foreign Jews in
the streets of other arrondissements, including the 18th. How had he
escaped this roundup? Thanks to his rank as an ex-French legionnaire, 2d
class? I doubt it.
Evidently, from his file, he was “wanted.” But since when? And why,
exactly? If he was already “wanted” on 27 December 1941, the day he had
notified the Clignancourt police of Dora’s disappearance, he wouldn’t have
been allowed to leave the police station. Did he draw attention to himself on
that day?
A father tries to find his daughter, reports her disappearance at a police
station, and a wanted notice is inserted in an evening newspaper. But the
father himself is “wanted.” Parents lose all trace of their daughter and, one

19 March, one of them disappears in his turn, as if the winter that year was
cutting people off from one another, muddying and wiping out their tracks
to the point where their existence is in doubt. And there is no redress. The
very people whose job it is to search for you are themselves compiling
dossiers, the better to ensure that, once found, you will disappear again—
this time for good.
OceanofPDF.com

I
……………..
DON’T KNOW WHETHER OR NOT DORA BRUDER LEARNED of her father’s arrest
at once. I imagine not. By March, she had still not returned to 41
Boulevard Ornano after her escape in December. Or so it would seem from
such traces of her as survive in the archives of the Prefecture of Police.
Now that almost sixty years have passed, these archives will gradually
reveal their secrets. All that remains of the building occupied by the
Prefecture of Police during the Occupation is a huge spectral barracks
beside the Seine. Whenever we evoke the past, it reminds us a little of the
House of Usher. And we can hardly believe that this building we pass every
day can be unchanged since the forties. We persuade ourselves that these
cannot be the same stones, the same corridors.
The superintendents and inspectors who hunted down the Jews are long
dead, and their names echo with a sombre ring and give off a smell of
rotting leather and stale tobacco: Permilleux, François, Schweblin,
Koerperich, Cougoule  .  .  .  Also dead, or far gone in senility, are the street
police, known to us as the “press-gang,” who signed the transcript of every
interview with those whom they arrested during the roundups. Every one of
those tens of thousands of transcripts was destroyed, and we shall never
know the identity of the members of the “press-gang.” But there remain, in
the archives, hundreds and hundreds of letters addressed to the Prefect of
Police of the day, and to which he never replied. They have been there for
over half a century, like sacks of airmail lying forgotten in the recesses of a
remote hangar. Now we can read them. Those to whom they were addressed
having ignored them, it is we, who were not even born at the time, who are
their recipients and their guardians.
TO THE PREFECT OF POLICE
SIR,
I humbly draw your attention to my request. It concerns my nephew Albert
Graudens, of French nationality, aged sixteen, who had been interned at  .  .  .

 
TO THE DIRECTOR OF THE POLICE FOR JEWISH AFFAIRS
SIR,
I implore you to have the great kindness to release my daughter, Nelly Trautmann,
from Drancy camp  .  .  .
 
TO THE PREFECT OF POLICE
SIR,
I venture to ask you a favor in respect of my husband, Zelik Pergricht, so that I may
know where he is and have a little news  .  .  .
 
TO THE PREFECT OF POLICE
SIR,
I humbly beg you in your great kindness and generosity for news of my daughter,
Mme Jacques Lévy, née Violette Joël, arrested about 10 September last as she was
trying to cross the demarcation line without wearing the regulation star. She was
accompanied by her son, Jean Lévy, aged eight and a half  .  .  .
Forwarded to the Prefect of Police:
I beg you to have the kindness to release my grandson, Michel Robin, aged three,
French-born of a French mother, who is interned with him at Drancy  .  .  .
 
TO THE PREFECT OF POLICE
SIR,
I would be infinitely grateful if you would be good enough to take the following
cases into consideration: my parents, both elderly and in poor health, have just been
arrested as Jews, and my little sister, Marie Grosman, aged fifteen and a half, a
French Jew, holding French identity card no. 1594936, grade B, and myself, Jeanette
Grosman, also a French Jew, aged nineteen, holding French identity card no. 924247,
grade B, have been left on our own  .  .  .
 
TO THE DIRECTOR OF THE POLICE FOR JEWISH AFFAIRS
SIR,
Excuse me if I presume to write to you in person about this, but my husband was
taken away at 4 A.M. on 16 July 1942, and as my little girl was crying, they took her

at the same time.
Her name is Pauline Gothelf, aged fourteen and a half, born 19 November 1927 in
Paris, 12th arrondissement, and she is French  .  .  .
OceanofPDF.com

F
……………..
OR THE DATE OF 17 APRIL 1942, THE POLICE BLOTTER at Clignancourt station
has this entry under its usual headings, Date and subject. Marital
status. Summary:
17 April 1942. 20998 15/24. P. Minors. Case of Bruder Dora, age 16, disappeared
following Interview 1917 has regained maternal domicile.
I don’t know what the figures 20998 and 15/24 stand for. “P. Minors”
must mean Protection of Minors. Interview 1917 is certainly the transcript
of Ernest Bruder’s deposition, and the questions concerning Dora and
himself put to him on 27 December 1941. This is the sole reference in the
archives to Interview 1917.
 
A bare three lines on the “case of Bruder Dora.” The entries that come
after it in the blotter for 17 April concern other “cases”:
Gaul Georgette Paulette, born 30.7.23 Pantin, Seine, to Georges and Pelz Rose,
spinster, lives in hotel 11 Rue Pigalle. Prostitution.
Germaine Mauraire, born 9.10.21 Entre-Deux-Eaux (Vosges). Lives in hotel. 1 P.M.
report.1
J.-R. CRETET, 9TH ARRONDISSEMENT
So the list goes on, throughout the Occupation, in the police blotters:
prostitutes, lost dogs, abandoned babies. And runaway adolescents—like
Dora—guilty of vagrancy.
Apparently, “Jews” as such never came into it. And yet they passed
through these same police stations before being taken to the Dépôt, and
from there to Drancy. And the phrase “regained maternal domicile”
suggests that the Clignancourt police were aware that Dora’s father had
been arrested the month before.

Of Dora herself, there is no trace between 14 December 1941, the day she
ran away, and 17 April 1942 when, in the words of the blotter, she regained
the maternal domicile, that is, the hotel room at 41 Boulevard Ornano. For
those four months, we have no idea where she went, what she did, whom
she was with. Nor do we know the circumstances of her return to the
“maternal domicile.” Was it of her own accord, after having heard of her
father’s arrest? Or had she in fact been stopped in the street, the Brigade for
the Protection of Minors having issued a warrant for her arrest? So far, I
haven’t found a single clue, a single witness who might shed light on these
four months of absence, for us, a blank in her life.
One way not to lose all touch with Dora Bruder over this period would be
to report on the changes in the weather. The first snow fell on 4 November
1941. Winter got off to a cold start on 22 December. On 29 December, the
temperature dropped still further, and windowpanes were covered with a
thin coating of ice. From 13 January onwards, the cold became Siberian.
Water froze. This lasted some four weeks. On 12 February, the sun came
out briefly, like a tentative annunciation of spring. The snow on the
sidewalks, trampled by pedestrians, turned to a blackish slush. It was on
that evening of 12 February that my father was picked up by the Jewish
Affairs police. On 22 February it snowed again. On 25 February, there was
a fresh, much heavier snowfall. On 3 March, just after 9 P.M., the first
bombs fell on the suburbs. Windows rattled in Paris. On 13 March, in broad
daylight, the sirens sounded a general alert. Passengers were stuck in the
métro for two hours. They were led out through the tunnel. A second alert
that same day, at 10 P.M. 15 March was a beautiful sunny day. On 28 March,
about 10 P.M., a distant air raid, lasting till midnight. On 2 April, around 4
A.M., an alert, followed by a heavy bombardment till six. More raids from
11 P.M. On 4 April, the buds on the chestnut trees burst open. On 5 April,
toward evening, a passing spring storm brought hail and, with it, a rainbow.
Don’t forget: rendezvous tomorrow afternoon, on the terrace of the Café des
Gobelins.
 

A few months ago, I managed to get hold of a photograph of Dora Bruder,
one that is in complete contrast to those already in my collection. It may be
the last ever taken of her. Her face and demeanor have none of the childlike
qualities that shine out from all the earlier photographs, in the gaze, the
rounded cheeks, the white dress worn on a school assembly day  .  .  .  I
don’t know when this photograph was taken. It could only have been in
1941, when Dora was a boarder at the Saint-Coeur-de-Marie, or else early
in the spring of 1942, when she returned to the Boulevard Ornano after her
escape in December.
She is with her mother and her maternal grandmother. The three women
are side by side, the grandmother between Cécile Bruder and Dora. Cécile
Bruder wears a black dress, her hair cut short, the grandmother’s dress is
flowered. Neither woman is smiling. Dora wears a two-piece dress in black
—or navy blue—with a white collar, but this could equally well be a
cardigan and skirt—the photograph is too dark to see. She wears stockings
and ankle-strap shoes. Her midlength hair, held back by a headband, falls
almost to her shoulders, her left arm hangs at her side, fingers clenched, her
right arm is hidden behind her grandmother. She holds her head high, her
eyes are grave, but a smile is beginning to float about her lips. And this
gives her face an expression of sad sweetness and defiance. The three
women are standing in front of a wall. The ground is paved, as in the
passage of some public place. Who could have been the photographer?
Ernest Bruder? Or does the fact that he is not present in the photograph
mean that he had already been arrested? In any case, it would seem that the
three women have put on their Sunday best to face this anonymous lens.
Could it be that Dora is wearing the navy blue skirt mentioned in the
missing notice in Paris-Soir?
 
Such photographs exist in every family. They were caught in a few seconds,
the duration of the exposure, and these seconds have become an eternity.

Why, I wonder, does the lightning strike in one place rather than another?
Suddenly, as I write these lines, I find myself thinking of former colleagues
in my profession. Today, I am visited by the memory of a German writer.
His name was Friedo Lampe.
It was his name that first caught my attention, and the title of one of his
books, Au bord de la nuit, translated into French some twenty years ago, at
which time I had come across it in a bookshop on the Champs-Élysées. I
had never heard of this writer. But even before opening the book, I had
divined its tone and atmosphere, as though I had already read him in
another life.
Friedo Lampe. Au bord de la nuit. For me, name and title evoked those
lighted windows from which you cannot tear your gaze. You are persuaded
that, behind them, somebody whom you have forgotten has been awaiting
your return for years, or else that there is no longer anybody there. Only a
lamp, left burning in the empty room.
Friedo Lampe was born in Bremen in 1899, the same year as Ernest
Bruder. He had gone to Heidelberg university. He had begun his first novel,
Au bord de la nuit, in Hamburg, where he worked as a librarian. Later, he
took a job with a publisher in Berlin. He took no interest in politics. His
passion was for writing about the port of Bremen at nightfall, the lilac-white
of the floodlights, the sailors, the wrestlers, the bands, the whistling of the
trains, the railway bridge, the siren of a steamship, and all those who seek
out their fellow beings at night  .  .  .  His novel appeared in October 1933,
by which time Hitler was already in power. Au bord de la nuit was
withdrawn from the bookshops and pulped, and its author declared
“suspect.” He was not even Jewish. To what, then, could they possibly
object? Quite simply, to the charm and nostalgia of his book. His one
ambition—he confided in a letter—was “to bring alive the atmosphere of a
port for a few hours in the evening, between eight o’clock and midnight.
I’m thinking here of the Bremen district where I grew up. Of short scenes
unfolding as in a film, interlocking people’s lives. The whole thing light and
fluid, linked together very loosely, pictorial, lyric, full of atmosphere.”

Toward the end of the war, at the time of the advance of the Russian
troops, he was living in a Berlin suburb. On 2 May 1945, he was stopped in
the street by two Russian soldiers who asked him for his papers, then
dragged him into a garden. And there, without having taken the time to
distinguish between the good and the wicked, they beat him to death. Some
neighbors buried him nearby, in the shade of a birch tree, and arranged for
the police to receive his remains: his papers and his hat.
Like Friedo Lampe, the German writer Felix Hartlaub was a native of the
port of Bremen. He was born in 1913. During the Occupation he found
himself in Paris. He had a horror of this war, and his uniform the color of
verdigris. I know very little about him. In the fifties, a magazine published
an extract, in French, from a short book of his, Von Unten Gesehen, the
manuscript of which he had entrusted to his sister in January 1945. This
extract was entitled “Notes et impressions.” In it, he observes a Paris
station-restaurant with its typical crowd, and the abandoned Ministry of
Foreign Affairs as it was when the Germans moved in, with its hundreds of
empty, dusty offices, the chandeliers left burning and the clocks all chiming
incessantly in the silence. At night, so as to forget the war and merge with
the Paris streets, he puts on civilian clothes. He gives us an account of one
of these nocturnal excursions. He takes the métro from Solférino. He gets
off at Trinité. The night is dark. It is summer. The air is warm. He walks up
the Rue de Clichy in the blackout. On a sofa, in a brothel, he spots a
solitary, pathetic Tyrolean hat. The girls file past. “They are in another
world, like sleepwalkers, under the effects of chloroform. And everything is
bathed”—he writes—“in the eerie light of a tropical aquarium under
overheated glass.” He too is in another world. He observes everything from
a distance, attentive to atmospheres, to tiny, mundane details, and at the
same time detached, estranged from everything around him, as though this
world at war was no concern of his. Like Friedo Lampe, he died in Berlin in
the spring of 1945, at the age of thirty-three, during the final battles, in the
carnage and apocalypse of a universe where he had found himself by

mistake, wearing a uniform that had been imposed on him but was not his
by choice.
 
And now, why is it that, among so many other writers, my thoughts should
turn to the poet Roger Gilbert-Lecomte? He too was struck, in the same
period as the two previous writers, as though the few must serve as
lightning conductors in order that the others may be spared.
As it happens, our paths had crossed. When I was his age, like him I lived
in the southern suburbs of Paris: Boulevard Brune, Rue d’Alésia, Hôtel
Primavera, Rue de la Voie-Verte  .  .  .  In 1938, he was still there, living
near the Porte d’Orléans with a German Jewish girl, Ruth Kronenberg.
Then, in 1939, still with her, he moved the short distance to the Plaisance
district, to a studio at 16bis Rue Bardinet. The number of times I have taken
those streets, without even knowing that Gilbert-Lecomte had been there
before me  .  .  .  And in 1965, on the Right Bank, in Montmartre, I would
spend entire afternoons in a corner café on the Square Caulaincourt and,
unaware that Gilbert-Lecomte had also stayed there thirty years earlier, in a
hotel off the Rue Caulaincourt: Montmartre 42–99  .  .  . 
About this time, I came across a doctor called Jean Puyaubert. I thought I
had a shadow on my lung. To avoid doing military service, I asked him for
a certificate. He gave me an appointment at a clinic where he worked in the
Place d’Alleray, and had me x-rayed: I had nothing on my lung, I wanted an
exemption, and it wasn’t as though there was a war on. It was simply that
the prospect of barracks life such as I had already been leading in various
boarding schools from the ages of eleven to seventeen seemed to me
unendurable.
I don’t know what became of Dr. Jean Puyaubert. Decades after I had
been to see him, I learned that Roger Gilbert-Lecomte had been one of his
closest friends, and that the poet, when my age, had asked him the same
thing: for a medical certificate confirming that he had had pleurisy—to
exempt him from military service.

Roger Gilbert-Lecomte  .  .  .  He had dragged out his last years in Paris,
under the Occupation  .  .  .  In July 1942, his friend, Ruth Kronenberg, was
arrested in the Free Zone, on her return from the seaside at Collioure. She
was deported in the transport of 11 September, a week before Dora Bruder.
A twenty-year-old from Cologne, she had come to Paris some time in 1935
because of racial laws. She enjoyed poetry and the theater. She learned to
sew in order to make theatrical costumes. It was no time before she met
Roger Gilbert-Lecomte, with other artists in Montparnasse  .  .  . 
He continued to live alone in the studio in the Rue Bardinet. Then a Mme
Firmat, who had the café opposite, took him in and looked after him. He
was a shadow of his former self. In autumn 1942, he undertook several
exhausting journeys across the suburbs to Bois-Colombes, where a Dr.
Bréavoine in the Rue des Aubépines gave him prescriptions that allowed
him to obtain a little heroin. His comings and goings were noted. On 21
October 1942, he was arrested and imprisoned in the Santé. There he
remained, in the infirmary, until 19 November. He was released with a
summons to appear in court a month later, charged with “having illegally
bought prohibited drugs in Paris, Colombes, Bois-Colombes, Asnières, in
1942, and having in his possession heroin, morphine, cocaine  .  .  . ”
For a while, in early 1943, he was in a clinic at Épernay, then Mme
Firmat put him up in a room above her café. A girl to whom he had lent the
studio in the Rue Bardinet during his stay at the clinic, a student, had left
behind a box of ampoules containing morphine that he eked out, drop by
drop. I never discovered her name.
He died from tetanus on 13 December 1943, at Broussais Hospital, aged
thirty-six. Before the war, he had published two collections of poems; one
of these books was entitled La Vie, l’Amour, la Mort, le Vide et le Vent.
 
So many friends whom I never knew disappeared in 1945, the year I was
born.

As a child, in the apartment at 15 Quai de Conti where my father had
lived since 1942—the same apartment that Maurice Sachs2 had rented the
year before—my room overlooked the courtyard. Maurice Sachs relates that
he lent these rooms to somebody called Albert, nicknamed “le Zébu.”3 And
that he in turn had filled them with “young actors who dreamed of forming
a company of their own, and with adolescents who were beginning to
write.” This “Zébu,” Albert Schaky, had the same first name as my father
and, like him, came from a family of Italian Jews in Salonika. And like me
at the same age exactly thirty years later, he published his first novel with
Gallimard, in 1938, at the age of twenty-one, under the name François
Vernet. He later joined the Resistance. The Germans arrested him. On the
wall of Cell 218, Fresnes, second division, he wrote: “Zébu arrested
10.2.44. Three months on bread and water, interrogated 9–28 May, visited
by doctor 8 June, two days after Allied landing.”
He was deported from Compiègne camp on the transport of 2 July 1944
and died in Dachau in March 1945.
Thus, in the apartment where Sachs had carried on his gold trafficking
and where, later on, under a false name, my father had hidden, Zébu had
occupied my childhood bedroom. Just before I was born, he and others like
him had taken all the punishments meted out to them in order that we
should suffer no more than pinpricks. I had already worked this out at the
age of eighteen while on that journey with my father in the police van, a
journey that was a harmless repetition, a parody, of other such journeys—in
the same police vans and to the same police stations—but from which
nobody had ever returned home, on foot, as I had on that occasion.
 
I remember, aged twenty-three, late one afternoon on 31 December when,
like today, it had grown dark very early, going to see Dr. Ferdière. This man
showed me the greatest kindness at a period of my life that, for me, was full
of anguish and uncertainty. I vaguely knew that he had admitted Antonin
Artaud to the psychiatric hospital at Rodez and had done his best to treat

him.4 But I remember that particular evening for a striking coincidence: I
had taken Dr. Ferdière a copy of my first book, La Place de l’Étoile, the
title of which surprised him. He fetched a slim, gray volume from his
library to show me: La Place de l’Étoile by Robert Desnos,5 whose friend
he was. Dr. Ferdière had had it published himself, in Rodez, a few months
after Desnos’s death in the camp at Terezin in 1945, the year I was born. I
had no idea that Desnos had written a book called La Place de l’Étoile.
Quite unwittingly, I had stolen his title from him.
OceanofPDF.com

 
1. Allusion to a report by the Police des Moeurs, or Vice Squad.
2. Writer and aesthete, Sachs describes his life as a black marketeer during
the Occupation in La Chasse à courre.
3. A zébu is a domestic camel with a muscular hump and sharp horns.
4. Artaud—actor, poet, influential cineaste, and theatrical pioneer—
remained in Rodez asylum, in the Free Zone, until 1946; he died in 1948.
5. Leading figure in Paris artistic circles, later active in the Resistance.
OceanofPDF.com

T
……………..
WO MONTHS AGO, IN THE ARCHIVES OF THE YIVO INSTITUTE in New York, a
friend of mine found the following note among the documentation
relating to the former Union Générale des Israélites de France,1 a body
founded under the Occupation:
3L/SBL/
17 JUNE 1942
0032
MEMO TO MLLE SALOMON
Dora Bruder was restored to her mother on the 15th of this month, courtesy of the
Clignancourt police.
In view of the fact that she has repeatedly run away it would seem advisable to
remand her to a juvenile home.
The father being interned and the mother in a state of penury, police social workers
(Quai de Gesvres) will take the necessary action if required.
Thus, after her return to the maternal domicile on 17 April 1942, Dora
Bruder had run away a second time. We have no means of knowing for how
long. A month, a month and a half, stolen from the spring of 1942? A week?
Where, and in what circumstances, had she been arrested and taken to
Clignancourt police station?
Since 7 June, the wearing of the yellow star had been mandatory. Jews
whose names began with A and B had been collecting theirs at police
stations since Tuesday 2 June, signing the registers opened for the purpose.
Would Dora Bruder have been wearing the star when she was taken to the
police station? I doubt it, remembering what her cousin had said about her.
A rebel, independent-minded. And besides, in all likelihood she had been on
the run long before the beginning of June.
Was she stopped in the street for not wearing the star? I have found the
circular dated 6 June 1942 specifying the lot of those picked up for
violation of the eighth statute relating to the wearing of the insignia:

From the Directors of the Criminal Investigation Department and the Metropolitan
Police:
To Divisional Chief Superintendents, Superintendents of street police for each
arrondissement, Superintendents of Paris districts, and all other metropolitan and
criminal investigation departments (copies to Directorates of Intelligence Services,
Technical Services, Alien and Jewish Affairs  .  .  .
Procedure:
1—Jews—males aged 18 and over:
Any Jew in breach of the law shall be remanded to the Dépôt by the street police
together with a specific and individual transfer warrant in duplicate (the second copy
to be sent to Divisional Superintendent Roux, chief of the Motor Vehicles Department
—Dépôt unit). This document is to specify, in addition to the place, day, time, and
circumstances of the arrest, the surname, first name, date and place of birth, family
status, occupation, domicile, and nationality of the statutory detainee.
2—Jewish females and minors of both sexes aged between 16 and 18 years.
The above shall also be remanded to the Dépôt by the street police under the terms
and conditions stated above.
Dépôt personnel are to send the original transfer warrant to the Directorate for
Alien and Jewish Affairs, which will rule on each case after consultation with the
German authorities. No release may be effected without written orders from the said
directorate.
DIRECTORATE OF CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION
TANGUY
DIRECTORATE OF METROPOLITAN POLICE
HENNEQUIN
That June, hundreds of adolescents like Dora were arrested on the street in
accordance with Tanguy’s and Hennequin’s precise and detailed
instructions. They passed through the Dépôt and then Drancy on their way
to Auschwitz. It goes without saying that the specific and individual transfer
warrants of which Superintendent Roux received copies were destroyed
after the war, or even, perhaps, as each arrest was completed. All the same,
a few remain, inadvertently overlooked.
Police report dated 25 August 1942:
I am dispatching the following to the Dépôt for failure to wear the Jewish insignia:
Sterman Esther, born 13 June 1926, Paris 12th, 42 Rue des Francs-Bourgeois.

Rotsztein Benjamin, born 19 December 1922, Warsaw, 5 Rue des Francs-
Bourgeois, arrested Gare d’Austerlitz by inspectors of the Intelligence Service,
Section 3.
Police report dated 1 September 1942:
From Inspectors Curinier and Lasalle to the Chief Superintendent, Special Branch:
We are dispatching Jacobson Louise born Paris twelfth arrondissement twenty-four
December nineteen hundred twenty-four [ .  .  . ] naturalized French nineteen hundred
twenty-five, race Jewish, spinster. Domiciled with mother, 8 Rue des Boulets,
eleventh arrondissement. Student.
Arrested today at approx. fourteen hundred hours at the maternal domicile in the
following circumstances:
The Jacobson girl returned as we were proceeding with a domiciliary visit at the
above address and we noted that she was not wearing the Jewish insignia in
accordance with a German decree.
She stated that she had left home at eight thirty hours to study for her baccalauréat
at the Lycée Henri IV, Rue Clovis. The girl’s neighbors also informed us that she often
went out without wearing the insignia.
Neither we nor the Criminal Investigation Department have any record of the
Jacobson girl in our files.
 
17 May 1944. Yesterday, at 2245 hours, on their rounds, two officers from the 18th
arrondissement arrested the French Jew Barmann Jules, born 25 March 1925, Paris,
10th, domiciled 40bis Rue du Ruisseau (18th) who being without the yellow star ran
away on being questioned by the officers. Having fired three shots without hitting
him, the officers effected the arrest on the 8th floor of the apartment building at 12
Rue Charles-Nodier (18th) where he had taken refuge.
But according to the “Memo to Mlle Salomon,” Dora Bruder had been
returned to her mother. Whether or not she was wearing the star—her
mother would have been wearing hers for at least a week—it means that, at
Clignancourt police station, she was treated the same as any other runaway
girl. Or it may be that the police themselves were responsible for the
“Memo to Mlle Salomon.”
I have been unable to trace Mlle Salomon. Is she still alive? Evidently,
she was a member of UGIF, the organization administered by leading

French Israelites who coordinated charity work among the Jewish
community during the Occupation. Unfortunately, while the Union
Générate des Israélites de France certainly came to the aid of a great many
French Jews, its origins were ambiguous: it had been founded on the
initiative of the Germans and the Vichy government on the assumption that
control of such a body would facilitate their ends, as in the case of the
Judenräte in the towns and cities of Poland.
Both patrons and staff of the UGIF carried what was called a
“legitimization card” to protect them from being rounded up or interned.
But this irregular privilege was soon to prove illusory. From 1943 onward,
leaders and employees of UGIF were arrested and deported in the hundreds.
On the list of these I have found the name of an Alice Salomon, who had
worked in the Free Zone. I doubt she could be the Mlle Salomon to whom
the memo about Dora was addressed.
Who wrote this memo? If it was somebody on the staff of the UGIF, it
suggests that Dora Bruder and her parents had been known to the UGIF for
some time. Very likely Cécile Bruder, Dora’s mother, in common with the
majority of lews living in extreme poverty with no other means of support,
had turned to this organization as a last resort. It was her only means of
getting news of her husband, interned at Drancy since March, and of
sending him food parcels. And she may have thought that, with the help of
the UGIF, she would eventually find her daughter.
“Social workers attached to the police (Quai de Gesvres) will take the
necessary action if required.” In 1942, these consisted of twenty women
attached to the Brigade for the Protection of Minors, a branch of the
Criminal Investigation Department. They formed an autonomous section
under a senior social worker.
I have found a photograph dating from this period. Two women aged
about twenty-five. They are in black—or navy blue—uniform, with a sort
of kepi that sports a badge of two intertwined Ps: Prefecture of Police. The
woman on the left, a brunette with hair almost down to her shoulders,

carries a satchel. The one on the right appears to be wearing lipstick.
Behind the brunette, two wall plaques read: POLICE SOCIAL SERVICES. Below
this, an arrow, and underneath it: “Open 0930 h. to 1200 h.” The writing on
the lower plaque is half obscured by the brunette’s head and kepi.
Nevertheless, you can read:
DEPARTMENT OF E  .  .  .
INSPECTORS
Underneath, an arrow: “Passage on Right. Door number  .  .  .”
We shall never know the number of this door.
OceanofPDF.com

 
1. In polite society, Israélite was used to avoid the connotations of the word
“Jew.”
OceanofPDF.com

W
……………..
HAT HAPPENED TO DORA, I WONDER, IN THE INTERVAL between 15 June,
when she found herself in Clignancourt police station, and 17 June,
the date of the “Memo for Mlle Salomon.” Had she been allowed to leave
the police station with her mother?
If she had been allowed to return to the Boulevard Ornano hotel with her
mother—it was no distance, just down the Rue Hermel—it means that the
social workers would have come for her three days later, after Mile
Salomon had made contact with the Quai de Gesvres.
But I have a feeling that things were not quite as straightforward as that. I
have often taken the Rue Hermel, in both directions, toward the Butte
Montmartre and toward the Boulevard Ornano, and, try as I might, closing
my eyes, I find it hard to picture Dora and her mother walking along this
street on their way back to their hotel room on a sunny June afternoon as
though it was just another day.
I believe that on 15 June, at Clignancourt police station, Dora and her
mother were caught up in a chain reaction over which they no longer had
any control. Children are liable to expect more from life than their parents
and, faced with adversity, their reaction is the more violent. They go farther,
much farther than their parents. And, thereafter, their parents are unable to
protect them.
Confronted with the police, Mlle Salomon, social workers, German
decrees and French laws, Cécile Bruder, with her yellow star, her husband
interned in Drancy and her “state of penury,” would have felt herself utterly
defenseless. And quite unable to cope with Dora, who was a rebel and had
more than once shown her determination to tear a hole in this net that had
been thrown over her and her parents.
“In view of the fact that she has repeatedly run away, it would seem
advisable to remand her to a juvenile home.”

 
Perhaps Dora was taken from Clignancourt police station to the Dépôt at
police headquarters, that being the usual practice. In which case she would
have known that huge, windowless basement, its cells, its straw mattresses
heaped with Jewish women, prostitutes, “criminals,” and “political”
prisoners huddled together anyhow. She would have known the lice, the
foul stink, and the wardresses, those terrifying blackclad nuns with little
blue veils from whom it was useless to expect the least pity.
Or else she was taken directly to the Quai de Gesvres, open 0930 h. to
1200 h. She went down the passage on the right, stopping outside the door
the number of which I shall never know.
Either way, on 19 June 1942, she must have climbed into a police van,
where she would have found five girls of her age already installed. Unless
these five were picked up as the van did the rounds of police stations. It
took them all to the internment center of Tourelles, Boulevard Mortier, at
the Porte des Lilas.
OceanofPDF.com

T
……………..
HE TOURELLES REGISTER FOR 1942 SURVIVES. ON ITS cover is one word:
WOMEN. It listed the names of internees in order of arrival. These
women had been arrested for acts of resistance, for being Communists and,
up to August 1942, in the case of Jews, for having failed to comply with
German decrees: Jews were forbidden to go out after eight o’clock at night,
compelled to wear the yellow star, forbidden to cross the demarcation line
into the Free Zone, forbidden to use the telephone, to possess a bicycle, a
radio  .  .  .
The register has the following entry for 19 June 1942:
Arrivals 19 June 1942
439. 19.6.42. Bruder Dora, 25.2.26. Paris 12th. French. 41 Bd Ornano. J. xx Drancy
13/8/42.
For the same date, there follow the names of five other girls, all about the
same age as Dora:
40. 19.6.42. 5th Winerbett Claudine. 26.11.24. Paris 9th. French. 82 Rue des
Moines. J. xx Drancy 13/8/42.
1. 19.6.42. 5th Strohlitz Zélie. 4.2.26. Paris 11th. French. 48 Rue Molière.
Montreuil. J. Drancy 13/8/42.
2. 19.6.42. Israelowicz Raca. 19.7.1924. Lodz. Ind. J. 26 Rue [illegible]. Deported
by German authorities convoy 19.7.42.
3. Nachmanowicz Marthe. 23.3.25. Paris. French. 258 Rue Marcadet. J. xx Drancy.
13/8/42.
4. 19.6.42. 5th. Pitoun Yvonne. 27.1.25. Algiers. French. 3 Rue Marcel-Sembat. J.
xx Drancy 13/8/42.
The police had allotted each girl a registration number. Dora’s was 439. I
don’t know the meaning of 5th. The letter J stands for Jewish. Drancy
13/8/42 is added in each case: on 13 August 1942, the day when the three
hundred Jewish women who were still interned at Tourelles were
transferred to Drancy camp.

OceanofPDF.com

O
……………..
N THAT THURSDAY, 19 JUNE, THE DAY THAT DORA arrived at Tourelles, all
the women were assembled on the barracks square after breakfast.
Three German officers were present. Jewish women between the ages of
eighteen and forty were ordered to line up, backs turned. One of the
Germans had ready a complete list of these women and called out their
names in the order written. The rest returned to their rooms. The sixty-six
women thus segregated from their companions were locked up in a large,
empty room without beds or chairs where they remained in isolation for
three days, a policeman guarding the door.
On Sunday 22 June, at five o’clock in the morning, buses arrived to take
them to Drancy. They were deported the same day, put on a train with over
nine hundred men. It was the first transport to leave France with women on
board. For the Jewish women in Tourelles, the hovering menace they’d
never quite been able to put a name to and, at moments, had succeeded in
forgetting, had become fact. And in this oppressive atmosphere Dora spent
the first three days of her internment. On the Sunday morning, while it was
still dark, she and all her fellow internees watched through closed windows
as the sixty-six women were driven away.
On 18 June, or else on the following morning, a desk clerk would have
made out Dora’s transfer warrant for Tourelles. Had this been done at
Clignancourt police station, or at the Quai de Gesvres? It had had to be
made out in duplicate and the copies handed, complete with check marks
and signatures, to the guards on the police van. As he signed his name, did
the clerk consider the implications of his act? After all, for him, it was
merely a routine signature, and besides, the girl was being sent to a place
still reassuringly designated by the Prefecture of Police as “Hostel.
Supervised short-term accommodation.”
I have managed to identify a few of those women who left Tourelles on
Sunday 22 June at five o’clock in the morning, and who had come into

contact with Dora after her arrival there on the Thursday.
Claude Bloch was thirty-two years old. She had been picked up while on
her way to Gestapo headquarters in the Avenue Foch to ask for news of her
husband, who had been arrested in December 1941. She was the only
person on that transport to survive.
Josette Delimal was twenty-one. Claude Bloch had met her in the Dépôt
at police headquarters, and both were taken to Tourelles on the same day.
According to Claude, “Josette had had a tough time before the war and
hadn’t built up the strength you can draw from happy memories. She broke
down completely. I did my best to comfort her [ .  .  . ]. When they took us
to the dormitory to assign us to our beds, I refused to let them separate us.
We were together until Auschwitz, where typhus soon carried her off.”
That’s all I know about Josette Delimal. I wish I knew more.
Tamara Isserlis. She was twenty-four. A medical student. She was
arrested at Cluny métro station “for concealing the French flag beneath the
star of David.” Her identity card has been found and gives her address as 10
Rue de Buzenval, Saint-Cloud. She had an oval-shaped face, light brown
hair, and dark eyes.
Ida Levine. Twenty-nine. A few of her letters to her family survive,
written first from the Dépôt, then from Tourelles. She threw her last letter
from the train at Bar-le-Duc station, where a railroad worker mailed it. She
writes: “I’m writing this on a train to an unknown destination, but it’s
traveling east, so perhaps we’re going quite far away  .  .  . ”
Hena: I shall call her by her first name. She was nineteen. She had got
herself arrested because she and her boyfriend had burgled an apartment,
stealing jewelry and cash worth one hundred and fifty thousand old francs.
Perhaps, with this money, she dreamed of leaving France and escaping the
threats hanging over her. She was taken before a magistrate and sentenced
for theft. Being Jewish, she was sent not to an ordinary prison but to
Tourelles. I feel a certain solidarity with her act of burglary. In 1942, my
father and his accomplices had plundered the SKF warehouse on the

Avenue de la Grande-Armée of its stock of ball bearings, loading their loot
onto trucks and transporting it back to the den on the Avenue Hoche from
which they operated their black market business. According to German
decrees, Vichy laws, and articles in the press, they were no better than
vermin and common criminals, so they felt justified in behaving like
outlaws in order to survive. For them, it was a point of honor. And I applaud
them for it.
The rest of what I know about Hena amounts to almost nothing: she was
born on 11 December 1922 at Pruszkow in Poland, and she lived at 42 Rue
Oberkampf, the steeply sloping street I have so often climbed.
Annette Zelman. She was twenty-one years old. She was a blonde. She
lived at 58 Boulevard de Strasbourg with a young man, Jean Jausion, the
son of a professor of medicine. His first poems had been published in Les
Réverbères, a Surrealist magazine that he had started with some friends just
before the war.
Annette Zelman. Jean Jausion. In 1942, they were often to be seen
together at the Café de Flore. For a while they had hidden in the Free Zone.
Then disaster struck. A few words in a letter from an officer in the Gestapo
tell the story:
21 MAY 1942 REFERENCE MARRIAGE BETWEEN JEWS AND NON-JEWS
It has come to my knowledge that the French national Jean Jausion (Aryan), a 24
year-old philosophy student, and the Jewess Anna Melka Zelman, born Nancy on 6
October 1921, plan to marry over the Pentecost holidays.
Jausion’s parents wish to prevent this union at all costs but lack the means to do so.
Consequently, I have taken the precaution of ordering the arrest of the Jewess
Zelman and her internment in the camp at Tourelles barracks  .  .  .
And a French police file:
Annette Zelman, Jewess, born Nancy 6 October 1921. French: arrested 23 May
1942. Held under lock and key at police headquarters Dépôt from 23 May to 10 June,
transferred to Germany 22 June. Reason for arrest: projected marriage to an Aryan,
Jean Jausion. Couple signed a written statement renouncing all plans to marry at the

express wish of Dr. H. Jausion, who hoped that they would be dissuaded thereby, and
that the Zelman girl would be returned to her family without any recriminations.
But this doctor with the strange methods of dissuasion was too trusting:
the police failed to return Annette Zelman to her family.
In 1944, Jean Jausion went off to be a war correspondent. In a newspaper
dated 11 November 1944, I came across the following announcement:
Missing. The management of our sister paper Le Franc-Tireur1 would be grateful
to anybody having information about the disappearance of one of its contributors, Jean
Jausion, born Toulouse 20 August 1917, domiciled Paris, 21 Rue Théodore-de-
Banville. Left 6 September on an assignment for Franc-Tireur, accompanied by a
young couple named Lecomte, former maquisards, in a black Citroën 11, front-wheel
drive, license number RN 6283, bearing a white Franc-Tireur sticker at the rear.
I heard that Jean Jausion launched his car at a German infantry column.
He fired a machine gun at them until they had a chance to shoot back and
give him the death that he had sought.
A book by Jean Jausion came out the following year, in 1945. It was
entitled Un Homme marche dans la ville.
OceanofPDF.com

 
1. An underground Resistance newspaper published openly after the
liberation of Paris in August 1944.
OceanofPDF.com

T
……………..
WO YEARS AGO, ON ONE OF THE BOOKSTALLS ALONG the Seine, I happened
to find the last letter written by a man who was on the transport of 22
June with Claude Bloch, Josette Delimal, Tamara Isserlis, Hena, Jean
Jausion’s girlfriend, Annette  .  .  .
The fact that the letter was for sale, like any other manuscript, suggests
that the sender and his family had disappeared in their turn. A square of thin
paper covered back and front in minuscule handwriting. It was written from
Drancy camp by a certain Robert Tartakovsky. I’ve discovered that he was
born in Odessa on 24 November 1902, and that, before the war, he wrote a
column on art for Illustration. Today, fifty years later, on Wednesday, 29
January 1997, I reproduce his letter.
19 JUNE 1942. FRIDAY.
MADAME TARTAKOVSKY
50 RUE GODEFROY-CAVAIGNAC. PARIS XIE
 
Yesterday I was picked to go. I’ve been mentally prepared for a long time. The camp
is panic-stricken, many men are crying, they are afraid. The only thing bothering me
is that most of the clothes I keep asking for still haven’t arrived. I sent off a coupon for
a clothes parcel: will what I need come in time? I don’t want my mother or any of you
to worry. I’ll do my utmost to keep safe and well. If you don’t hear from me, be patient,
if necessary, go to the Red Cross. Ask the Saint-Lambert police (town hall XVe),
Vaugiraud métro, to return the documents seized on 3/5. Be sure and ask about my
certificate of voluntary enlistment, Regimental no. 10107, it may be at the camp and I
don’t know if they’ll let me have it back. Please take a cast of Albertine to Mme
BIANOVICI, 14 Rue Deguerry, Paris XIe, it’s for a friend in my hut. She’ll give you
1,200 francs for it. Write first to be sure of finding her in. I approached M. Gompel,1
an internee at Drancy, and the sculptor is to be invited to exhibit at Les Trois
Quartiers. Should the gallery want the entire edition, keep back three casts, saying
either that they’ve been sold or else reserved for the publisher. You can make two
extra casts following said request if you think the mold will bear it. Don’t distress
yourselves too much. I wish Marthe to go on vacation. Never think that no news
means bad news. If you get this note in time, send the maximum number of food
parcels, moreover the weight will be less carefully checked. Any thing glass will be

sent back, and we are forbidden knives, forks, razor-blades, pens, etc. Even needles.
But I’ll manage somehow. Army biscuits or unleavened bread welcome. In one of my
regular notecards I mentioned a friend PERSIMAGI, see Swedish Embassy on his
behalf (Irène), he’s even taller than me and his clothes are in tatters (see Gattégno, 13
Rue Grande-Chaumière). A bar or two of good soapy some shaving soapy a shaving
brush, toothbrush, nailbrush, all welcome, I’m trying to think of everything at once, to
mix the practical with all the other things I have to say to you. Nearly a thousand of us
are to go. There are also Aryans in the camp. They are forced to wear the Jewish
insignia. SS Captain Doncker arrived at the camp yesterday, scattering people in all
directions. Advise our friends to get away somewhere if they can, for here one must
abandon all hope. We may be sent to Compiègne before we leave for good, I’m not
sure. I won’t be sending back any laundry, I’ll do it here. The cowardice of most
people here appals me. What will be its effect once we’re there, I wonder. If you can,
go and see Mme de Salzman, not to ask her for anything in particular, just for
information. Perhaps I’ll get a chance to meet the person whom Jacqueline wanted to
get released. Urge my mother to be very careful, people are being arrested daily, some
here are very young, 17, 18, others as old as 72. Up to Monday morning, you can send
parcels here as often as you like. It’s not true that they no longer accept parcels at the
usual addresses, don’t take no for an answer, telephone the UGIF at the Rue de la
Bienfaisance. I didn’t mean to alarm you in my previous letters, was only surprised
not to have received the clothes I’ll need for the journey. I’ll be sending my watch
back for Marthe, probably also my pen, I’ll entrust these to B. Put nothing perishable
in food parcels in case things have to be forwarded to me. Photographs without letters
in food parcels or underwear. I’ll probably send back the art books for which my
warmest thanks. Doubtless I’ll be spending the winter there, don’t worry, I’m
prepared. Reread my cards. You’ll see which things I’ve been asking for from the first
and have slipped my mind. Darning wool. Scarf Sterogyl 15. My mother’s metal box,
as sugar crumbles. What upsets me is that all deportees have their heads shaved, it
makes you even more conspicuous than the insignia. In the event of dispersal, I’ll go
on sending news via the Salvation Army, let Irène know.
 
SATURDAY 20 JUNE 1942.—My dear ones, case arrived yesterday, thank you for
everything. I’m not sure, but I fear a hurried departure. I am to have my head shaved
today. From tonight, deportees will probably be confined to a special hut and closely
guarded, even to the lavatory and back. A sinister atmosphere hovers over the camp. I
doubt that we’ll be going via Compiègne. I know we are to be given three days’
rations for the journey. I’m afraid I’ll begone before more parcels arrive, but don’t
worry, the last one was very generous and since being here I’ve put aside all
chocolate and jams, and the large sausage. Keep calm, I’ll be thinking of you. I
wanted to give Marthe the records of Petrouchka on 28/7, the complete set is 4 r. Saw
B. last night to thank him for all he has done, he knows I’ve been defending Leroy’s
sculptures to key people here. Am delighted with latest photos of the works but haven’t
shown them to B., apologized for not giving him one but said he could always ask you.

Sad to interrupt the edition, but there’s still time if I get back soon. I like Leroy’s work,
would gladly have brought out a reduction within my means, can’t stop thinking about
it, even though we are to leave in a few hours.
Please do all you can for my mother, by which I don’t mean that you should neglect
your personal affairs. Tell Irène that as she is her neighbour I wish her to do likewise.
Try to telephone Dr. André ABADI (if still in Paris). Tell him that I met the person
whose address he knows on 1 May and was arrested on 3 May (was it simple
coincidence?). The incoherence of this note probably surprises you; but the
atmosphere is hard to bear, it’s 6:30 A.M. I’m about to send back everything I’m not
taking with me, I’m afraid of taking too much. The searchers are liable to throw out a
case at the last moment if there’s no room, it depends on their mood (they belong to
the Jewish Affairs police, either fascists or anti-Semites). Still, that has its uses. I’ll get
my belongings sorted out. Don’t panic the moment you stop hearing from me, keep
calm, wait patiently and with trust, have faith in me, reassure my mother that, having
seen departures for the Beyond (as I told you), I prefer to be on this journey. My main
regret is to be parted from my pen, not to be allowed paper (an absurd thought crosses
my mind: knives are forbidden, and I don’t even possess a simple key to a can of
sardines). I’m not putting on a brave face, don’t have the heart in this atmosphere: a
lot of the sick and infirm are also picked for deportation. I’m also thinking of Rd,
hoping that he is safe at last. I had all sorts of things with Jacques Daumal. Probably
no point in moving my books out of the house now, I leave it to you. Let’s hope we
have good weather for the journey! Make sure my mother receives all her allowances,
get the UGIF to help her. I hope you’ve made it up with Jacqueline by now, she is a
strange girl, but good at heart (the sky is clearing, it’s going to be a fine day). I don’t
know if you got my usual card, or if I’ll get an answer before we leave. I think of my
mother, of you. Of all my loving friends who did so much to help me keep my freedom.
Heartfelt thanks to those who helped me “get through” the winter. I’m leaving this
letter unfinished. It’s time to pack my bag. Back soon. A note in case I can’t finish, pen
and watch are for Marthe whatever my mother says. I kiss you good-bye dearest
Maman, and you my dear ones, with all my love. Be brave. It’s 7 A.M., back soon.
OceanofPDF.com

 
1. Roger Gompel was the director of a chain of department stores, including
Les Trois Quartiers. He was interned at Drancy but later released.
OceanofPDF.com

T
……………..
WICE IN APRIL 1966 I SPENT A SUNDAY IN THE EASTERN districts of Paris,
looking for some trace of Dora Bruder in the areas around the Saint-
Coeur-de-Marie and Tourelles. I felt this was best done on a Sunday, when
the town is deserted, at the lowest ebb of the tide.
Nothing is left of the Saint-Coeur-de-Marie. A modern apartment block
stands at the corner of the Rue de Picpus and the Rue de la Gare-de-Reuilly.
The section that has replaced the school’s tree-shaded wall now displays the
last odd numbers in the Rue de la Gare-de-Reuilly. Opposite, a little further
along on the even-numbered side, the street is unchanged.
It’s hard to believe that one July morning in 1942, while Dora was
interned at Tourelles, the police had come to arrest nine young children and
adolescents at number 48bis, where the windows overlooked the garden of
the Saint-Coeur-de-Marie. It’s a five-story building in light-colored brick.
On each floor, two windows flank two smaller windows. Number 40 next
door is a grayish building, recessed. In front of it, a low brick wall with an
iron gate. Other small houses opposite, on the same side as the perimeter
wall of the old boarding school, have remained as they were. Number 54,
just before you reach the Rue de Picpus, used to be a café owned by a Mlle
Lenzi.
All of a sudden, I felt certain that, on the night when she had made her
escape, Dora had slipped away from the boarding school by the Rue de la
Gare-de-Reuilly. I visualized her, hugging the school wall. Perhaps streets
named after a station evoke thoughts of escape.
I wandered around for a while, and then the sadness of those other
Sundays when it was time to return to the boarding school began to weigh
me down. I felt sure that she left the métro at Nation. She put off the
moment when she must enter the gate and cross the courtyard. She
prolonged her walk, choosing streets at random. It grew dark. The Avenue
de Saint-Mandé is quiet, bordered by trees. I forget if there is open ground.

You pass the entrance to the old Picpus métro station. Did she ever emerge
from there? In comparison with the Avenue de Saint-Mandé, the Avenue de
Picpus, on the right, is cold and desolate. Treeless, I seem to remember. But
the solitude of returning, on those Sunday evenings.
 
The Boulevard Mortier is a hill. It slopes southward. On my way there, that
Sunday of 28 April 1996, I took the following route: Rue des Archives, Rue
de Bretagne, Rue des Filles-du-Calvaire. Then the hill of the Rue
Oberkampf, where Hena had lived.
To the right, the Rue des Pyrénées, offering a vista of trees. Rue de
Ménilmontant. The apartment blocks at number 140 lay deserted in the
glare of the sun. For the last part of the Rue Saint-Fargeau, I seemed to be
traversing an abandoned village.
Plane trees line the Boulevard Mortier. At the top, just before you reach
the Porte des Lilas, the old Tourelles barracks are still there.
On that particular Sunday, the boulevard was empty, lost in a silence so
deep that I could hear the rustling of the plane trees. The buildings of the
former barracks are hidden behind a high perimeter wall. I followed it.
Affixed to it was a sign that read:
MILITARY ZONE
FILMING OR PHOTOGRAPHY PROHIBITED
I told myself that nobody remembers anything anymore. Behind the wall
there lay a no-man’s-land, a zone of emptiness and oblivion. Unlike the
boarding school in the Rue de Picpus, the twin blocks of Tourelles barracks
had not been pulled down, but they might as well have been.
And yet, from time to time, beneath this thick layer of amnesia, you can
certainly sense something, an echo, distant, muted, but of what, precisely, it
is impossible to say. Like finding yourself on the edge of a magnetic field,
with no pendulum to pick up the radiation. Out of suspicion and a guilty

conscience they had put up the sign, “Military zone. Filming or
photography forbidden.”
OceanofPDF.com

I
……………..
N A DIFFERENT PART OF PARIS, WHEN I WAS TWENTY, I remember having the
same sensation of emptiness as I had had when confronted by the
Tourelles wall, without knowing the reason why.
I had a girlfriend who lived in various borrowed flats and country houses.
I regularly took advantage of this to relieve their libraries of art books and
numbered editions, which I then sold. One day, when we were by ourselves
in a flat on the Rue du Regard, I stole an antique music box and also, after
rifling the closets, several very smart suits, a few shirts, and about ten pairs
of handmade shoes. I searched the yellow pages for a secondhand dealer to
whom I could resell these items and found one in the Rue des Jardins-Saint-
Paul.
This street leads up from the Quai des Célestins on the Seine and
intersects the Rue de Charlemagne near the school where, the year before, I
had gone through the ordeal of my baccalauréat. One of the last buildings
on the right just before the Rue de Charlemagne had a rusting iron curtain at
street level, half raised. I pushed my way into a junkshop piled high with
furniture, clothes, ironwork, automobile parts. The forty-year-old man who
greeted me was most obliging, offering to come and collect the “goods” in a
few days’ time.
Having taken my leave of him, I walked down the Rue des Jardins-Saint-
Paul toward the Seine. All the buildings on the lefthand side of the street
had been pulled down not long before. As had the other buildings behind
them. In their place, nothing but a wasteland, itself surrounded by half-
demolished walls. On these walls, open to the sky, you could still make out
the patterned paper of what was once a bedroom, the trace of a chimney.
You would have said that the district had been hit by a bomb, and the vista
of the Seine at the bottom of the street only increased the impression of
emptiness.

On the following Sunday, by appointment, the secondhand dealer came to
my girlfriend’s father’s place on the Boulevard Kellermann, near the Porte
de Gentilly, where I was to hand over the “goods.” He loaded music box,
suits, shirts, and shoes on to his van, giving me seven hundred old francs for
the lot.
He suggested going for a drink. We stopped at one of two cafés opposite
Charlety stadium.
He asked me what I did for a living. I didn’t quite know what to say. In
the end, I told him that I had dropped out of school. I questioned him in
return. The junkshop in the Rue de Jardins-Saint-Paul belonged to his
cousin, who was also his business partner. He himself had another, near the
flea market at the Porte de Clignancourt. It turned out that he came from a
local family of Polish Jews.
I was the one who brought up the subject of the war and the Occupation.
He was eighteen at the time. He remembered that, one Saturday, the police
had made a swoop on the Saint-Ouen flea market to round up the Jews, and
he had escaped by a miracle. What had shocked him most was that one of
the police inspectors had been a woman.
I told him about the wasteland stretching to the foot of the apartment
blocks on the Boulevard Ney that I had noticed on the Saturdays when my
mother took me to the flea markets. That was the place where he and his
family had lived. Rue Élisabeth-Rolland. He was surprised that I should
make a note of its name. A district known as the Plain. Completely
demolished after the war, it was now a playing field.
Talking to him, I thought of my father, whom I hadn’t seen for a long
time. When he was nineteen, my age, before he lost himself in dreams of
high finance, my father had lived by wheeling and dealing at the gates of
Paris: he smuggled drums of gasoline for resale to garage owners, liquor,
and various other goods. All without paying excise tax.

As we parted, he said in a friendly way that if I had any more items for
him, I could contact him at the Rue des Jardins-Saint-Paul. And he gave me
an extra hundred francs, no doubt touched by my air of being a guileless,
likeable young chap.
I’ve forgotten his face. I remember nothing about him, apart from his
name. He could easily have met Dora Bruder, around the Porte de
Clignancourt, around the Plain. They were the same age and lived in the
same neighborhood. Perhaps he knew the full story of the times she spent
on the run  .  .  .  The fact is, there are flukes, encounters, coincidences, and
we shall never take advantage of them  .  .  .  I was thinking of that, this
autumn, when I went back to explore the area around the Rue des Jardins-
Saint-Paul. The junkshop with its iron curtain was no more, and the
buildings nearby had been restored. Once again, I had a sense of emptiness.
And I understood why. After the war, most buildings in the area had been
pulled down, methodically, in accordance with a government plan. Due for
demolition, this zone had even been allotted a name and number: Block 16.
I have found some photographs. One shows the Rue des Jardins-Saint-Paul
with the houses on the lefthand side still standing. Another, the half-
demolished buildings beside Saint-Gervais church and around the Hôtel de
Sens. Another, a wasteland along the banks of the Seine, with people
crossing it between two now useless sidewalks: all that remains of the Rue
des Nonnains-d’Hyères. And here, on this wasteland, they have put up row
upon row of houses, altering the course of an old street in the process.
The facades are rectangular, the windows square, the concrete the color
of amnesia. The street lamps throw out a cold light. Here and there, a
decorative touch, some artificial flowers: a bench, a square, some trees.
They have not been content with putting up a sign like that on the wall of
Tourelles barracks: “No filming or photography.” They have obliterated
everything in order to build a sort of Swiss village in order that nobody,
ever again, would question its neutrality.
The patches of wallpaper that I had seen thirty years ago in the Rue des
Jardins-Saint-Paul were remnants of former rooms—rooms that had been

home to young people of Dora’s age until the day when the police had come
for them in July 1942. The list of their names is always associated with the
same streets. And the street names and house numbers no longer correspond
to anything at all.
OceanofPDF.com

W
……………..
HEN I WAS SEVENTEEN, TOURELLES HAD MEANT NO more than a name I
had read at the back of a book by Jean Genet, Miracle de la Rose.
There, he lists the places where the book was written: LA SANTÉ, TOURELLES
PRISON 1943. Shortly after Dora Bruder’s departure from Tourelles, he too
had been imprisoned there, as a common criminal, and their paths may have
crossed. Miracle de la Rose is not only impregnated with memories of the
penal settlement at Mettray—one of those juvenile homes where they had
wanted to send Dora—but also, I now realize, of La Santé and Tourelles.
I know sentences from this book by heart. I remember one in particular:
“What that child taught me is that the true roots of Parisian slang lie in its
sad tenderness.” This phrase evokes Dora Bruder for me so well that I feel I
knew her. The children with Polish or Russian or Rumanian names who
were forced to wear the yellow star, were so Parisian that they merged
effortlessly into the facades, the apartment blocks, the sidewalks, the
infinite shades of gray that belong to Paris alone. Like Dora Bruder, they all
spoke with the Parisian accent, using a slang whose sad tenderness Jean
Genet had recognized.
 
At Tourelles, when Dora was a prisoner there, you could receive parcels,
and also visits, on Thursdays and Sundays. And, on Tuesdays, you could
attend Mass. The guards held roll call at eight o’clock in the morning. The
detainees stood to attention at the end of their beds. For lunch, in the
refectory, there was nothing but cabbage. Exercise period on the barracks
square. Supper at six o’clock. Another roll call. Every two weeks, a trip to
the shower, two at a time, accompanied by a guard. Whistle blasts. You
waited. To receive a visit, you had to write a letter to the prison director, and
you never knew if he would give his authorization.
Visits took place after lunch, in the refectory. Those who came had their
bags searched by the guards. Parcels were opened. Often, for no reason,

visits were canceled, and detainees informed only an hour beforehand.
 
Among the women whom Dora could have met at Tourelles were some who
were known to the Germans as “Jews’ friends”: there were about ten of
them, “Aryan” Frenchwomen, who, from the first day in June when Jews
were obliged to wear the yellow star, had had the courage to wear it
themselves out of solidarity but did so in imaginative ways that ridiculed
the occupying authorities. One had fixed the yellow star to the collar of her
dog. Another embroidered hers with PAPOU.1 Another, with JENNY. Another
attached stars to her belt, each bearing a letter, spelling out the word
VICTOIRE. All were picked up in the street and taken to the nearest police
station. Then to the Dépôt at police headquarters. Then to Tourelles. Then,
on 13 August, to Drancy camp. Between them, these “friends of Jews” had
the following occupations: Typist. Stationer. Newsdealer. Cleaner. Postal
worker. Student.
 
In August the number of arrests multiplied. Women no longer even passed
through the Dépôt but were taken directly to Tourelles. Dormitories meant
for twenty now held double that number. With the overcrowding, it was
suffocatingly hot, and anxiety mounted. It was common knowledge that
Tourelles was merely a holding yard where, from one day to the next, you
might be shunted off to an unknown destination.
Two groups of Jewish women, about a hundred in all, had already left for
Drancy camp on 19 and 27 July. Among them, an eighteen-year-old Pole,
Raca Israelowicz, who had arrived at Tourelles on the same day as Dora,
probably in the same police van. And who was doubtless one of her
neighbors in the dormitory.
 
On the evening of 12 August, a rumor spread through Tourelles that all
Jewish women and “Jews’ friends” were to leave for Drancy camp on the

following day.
At ten o’clock on the morning of 13 August, the interminable roll call
began under the chestnut trees on the barracks square. A last meal. A
meager ration that left you famished.
The buses arrived. In sufficient number—apparently—for each prisoner
to have a seat. Dora included. It was a Thursday, visiting day.
The convoy set out. It was escorted by helmeted policemen on
motorcycles. It took the route that you follow today for the Roissy airport.
More than fifty years have passed. By building a highway, razing houses to
the ground, and transforming the landscape of this northeastern suburb, they
have rendered it, like the former Block 16, as neutral and gray as possible.
But the blue road signs on the road to the airport still bear the old names:
DRANCY or ROMAINVILLE. And, stranded and forgotten on the shoulder of the
highway, near the Porte de Bagnolet, there is an old wooden barn on which
someone has painted this name, clearly visible: DUREMORD.
 
At Drancy, among the milling crowds, Dora found her father. He had been
interned there since March. That particular August, as in the Dépôt at police
headquarters, as at Tourelles, the camp filled up day by day with an
increasing flood of men and women. Some came in the thousands by freight
train from the Free Zone. Many hundreds of women, forcibly separated
from their children, came from the camps at Pithiviers and Beaune-la-
Rolande. And, from 15 August onward, after their mothers had been
deported, the children arrived in turn, four thousand of them. In many cases
their names, hastily scribbled on their clothes before they left Pithiviers and
Beaune-la-Rolande, were no longer legible. Unidentified child no. 122.
Unidentified child no. 146. Girl aged three. First name Monique.
Unidentified.
Because of the overcrowding in the camp, and in anticipation of the
convoys still to arrive from the Free Zone, on 2 and 5 September the

authorities decided to transfer Jews of French nationality from Drancy to
Pithiviers. Four girls who had arrived at Tourelles on the same day as Dora
—Claudine Winerbett, Zélie Strohlitz, Marthe Nachmanowicz, and Yvonne
Pitoun—all aged sixteen or seventeen, left on this convoy of some fifteen
hundred French Jews. They were probably under the illusion that their
nationality would protect them. Dora, being French, could have left with
them. The reason she didn’t do so is easy to guess: she preferred to stay
with her father.
Father and daughter departed Drancy on 18 September, in company with
thousands of other men and women, on a convoy of trains bound for
Auschwitz.
 
Dora’s mother, Cécile Bruder, was arrested on 16 July 1942, the day of the
great roundup, and interned at Drancy. She was reunited with her husband
for a few days while their daughter was at Tourelles. Doubtless because she
was born in Budapest and the authorities had not yet received orders to
deport Hungarian Jews, Cécile Bruder was released from Drancy on 25
July.
Had she been able to visit Dora at Tourelles, one Thursday or Sunday,
during that summer of 1942? On 9 January 1943, she was once again
interned in Drancy camp and, on 11 February 1943, five months after her
husband and daughter, she was put on a convoy for Auschwitz.
On Saturday 19 September, the day after Dora and her father left, the
occupying authorities imposed a curfew in retaliation for a bomb placed in
the Cinéma Rex. Nobody was allowed out after three o’clock in the
afternoon until the following morning. The city was deserted, as if to mark
Dora’s absence.
Ever since, the Paris wherein I have tried to retrace her steps has
remained as silent and deserted as it was on that day. I walk through empty
streets. For me, they are always empty, even at dusk, during the rush hour,

when the crowds are hurrying toward the mouths of the métro. I think of her
in spite of myself, sensing an echo of her presence in this neighborhood or
that. The other evening, it was near the Gare du Nord.
I shall never know how she spent her days, where she hid, in whose
company she passed the winter months of her first escape, or the few weeks
of spring when she escaped for the second time. That is her secret. A poor
and precious secret that not even the executioners, the decrees, the
occupying authorities, the Dépôt, the barracks, the camps, History, time—
everything that defiles and destroys you—have been able to take away from
her.
OceanofPDF.com

 
1. A native of Papua, New Guinea.
OceanofPDF.com
