The Reality Dysfunction: Expansion
The Night's Dawn [2]
Peter F. Hamilton
Grand Central Publishing (1997)
High Tech, Space warfare,
Space Opera, Space and
time, General, Science
Fiction, Fiction, Science
fiction; English
Tags:
High Techttt Space warfarettt
Space Operattt Space and
timettt Generalttt Science
Fictionttt Fictionttt Science
fiction; Englishttt
SUMMARY:
In the far future, on a primitive world called Lalonde, two
groups of humans clash in an epic confrontation. The
Edenists are genetically engineered space-dwellers
with a telepathic affinity to their homes and ships. The
Adamists reject advanced technology, but are willing to
pioneer new worlds. Under the watchful eye of
mysterious aliens, humanity must confront its most
bitter enemy--itself.

Chapter 01
^
Graeme Nicholson sat on his customary stool beside
the bar in the Crashed Dumper, the one furthest away
from the blaring audio block, and listened to Diego
Sanigra, a crewman from the Bryant, complain about
the way the ship had been treated by Colin Rexrew.
The Bryant was a colonist-carrier starship that had
arrived at Lalonde two days ago, and so far not one of
its five and a half thousand colonists had been taken
out of zero-tau. It was a ruinous state of affairs, Diego
Sanigra claimed, the governor had no right to refuse
the colonists disembarkation. And the energy
expenditure for every extra hour they spent in orbit was
costing a fortune. The line company would blame the
crew, as they always did. His salary would suffer, his
bonus would be non-existent, his promotion prospects
would be reduced if not ruined.
Graeme Nicholson nodded sympathetically as his
neural nanonics carefully stored the aggrieved
ramblings in a memory cell. There wasn’t much which
could be used, but it was good background material.
How the big conflict reached down into individual lives.
The kind of thing he covered so well.
Graeme had been a reporter for fifty-two of his
seventy-eight years. He reckoned no journalist didactic
course could teach him anything new, not now. With his
experience he should have been formatting didactic
courses, except there wasn’t a news company editor in
existence who would want junior reporters corrupted to
such an extent. In every sense he was a hack reporter,
with an unerring knack of turning daily misfortune into
spicy epic tragedy. He went for the human underbelly
every time, highlighting the suffering and misery of little
people who were trampled on, the ones who couldn’t
fight back against the massive uncaring forces of
governments, bureaucracies, and companies. It was
not from any particular moral indignation, he certainly
didn’t see himself as championing the underdog. He
simply felt emotions laid raw made for a better story,
with higher audience ratings. To some degree he had
even begun to look like the victims he empathized with
so well; it was partly reflexive, they were less
suspicious of someone whose clothes never quite
fitted, who had thick ruddy skin and watery eyes.
His brand of sensationalism went down well with the

tabloid broadcasts, but by concentrating on the seedy
aspects he knew best, building a reputation as a
specialist of dross, he found himself being squeezed
out of the more prestigious assignments; he hadn’t
covered a half-decent story for a decade. Over the last
few years his neural nanonics had been used less for
sensevise recording and more for running stimulant
programs. Time Universe had given him a roving
assignment eight years ago, pushing him off onto all the
shabby little fringe jobs that no one else with a gram of
seniority would cover. Anything to keep him out of a
studio, or an editorial office where his contemporaries
had graduated to.
Well, no more. The joke was on the office has-beens
now. Graeme Nicholson was the only man on the
ground, the one with the clout, the one with the kudos.
Lalonde was going to earn him the awards he’d been
denied all these years; then maybe after that one of
those nice cosy office seats back home on Decatur.
He had been on Lalonde for three months to do a
documentary-style report on the new world frontier, and
gather general sensevise impressions and locations for
the company library’s memory cores. Then this
wonderful calamity had fallen on Lalonde. Calamitous
for the planet and its people, for Rexrew and the LDC
career administration staff; but for Graeme Nicholson it
was manna from heaven. It being war, or an Ivet
rebellion, or a xenoc invasion, depending on who you
were talking to. He had included accounts of all three
theories on the fleks Eurydice had taken to Avon last
week. But it was strange that after two and a half weeks
the Governor had still made no official announcement
as to exactly what was happening up in the Quallheim
and Zamjan Counties.
“That executive assistant of Rexrew’s, Terrance Smith,
he’s talking about sending us to another phase one
colony world,” Diego Sanigra grumbled. He took
another gulp of bitter from his tankard. “As if that’s
going to be any help. What would you say if you were a
colonist who paid passage for Lalonde and came out of
zero-tau to find yourself on Liao-tung Wan? That’s
Chinese-ethnic, you know, they wouldn’t like the
EuroChristian-types we’ve got stored on board.”
“Is that where Terrance Smith suggested you take
them?” Graeme Nicholson asked.
He gave a noncommittal grunt. “Just giving you an

example.”
“What about fuel reserves? Have you got enough He3
and deuterium to get to another colony world and then
return to Earth?”
Diego Sanigra started to answer. Graeme Nicholson
wasn’t listening too hard, he let his eyes wander round
the hot crowded room. One of the spaceport shifts had
just come off duty. At the moment there were few
McBoeing flights. Only the three cargo ships orbiting
Lalonde were being unloaded; the six colonist-carriers
were waiting for Rexrew to decide what to do with their
passenger complements. Most of the spaceport crews
simply turned up at the start of each shift so they could
keep claiming their pay.
I wonder what they feel about the end of overtime,
Graeme asked himself.
Might be another story there.
The Crashed Dumper certainly wasn’t suffering from
the troubles afflicting the rest of the city; this outlying
district didn’t protest or riot over Rexrew and the Ivets,
it housed too many LDC worker families.
There were a lot of people in tonight, drowning their
sorrows. The waitresses were harried from one end of
the long room to the other. The overhead fans were
spinning fast, but made little impression on the heat.
Graeme heard the audio block falter, the singer’s voice
slowing, deepening to a weird bass rumble. It picked up
again, turning the voice to a girlish soprano. The crowd
clustered round started laughing, and one of them
brought his fist down on it. After a moment the loud
output returned to normal.
Graeme saw a tall man and a beautiful teenage girl walk
past. Something about the man’s face was familiar. The
girl he recognized as one of the Crashed Dumper’s
waitresses, although tonight she was dressed in jeans
and a plain cotton blouse. But the man, he was middle-
aged with a neat beard and small pony-tail, wearing a
smart leather jacket and ash-grey shorts, and he was
very tall, almost like an Edenist.
The glass of lager dropped from Graeme’s numb
fingers. It hit the mayope planks and smashed, soaking
his shoes and socks. “Holy shit,” he croaked.

The fright constricting his throat prevented the
exclamation being more than a whisper.
“You all right?” Diego Sanigra asked, annoyed at being
interrupted in mid-complaint.
He forced himself to look away from the couple. “Yes,”
he stammered.
“Yes, I’m fine.” Thank Christ nobody was paying any
attention, if he had looked round … He reddened and
bent down to pick up the shards of glass. When he
straightened up the couple were already at the bar.
Somehow they had cut straight through the crush.
Graeme ran a priority search program through his
neural nanonics. Not that he could possibly be
mistaken. The public figures file produced a visual
image from a memory cell, recorded forty years ago. It
matched perfectly.
Laton!
Lieutenant Jenny Harris twitched the reins, and the
dun-coloured horse gave the big qualtook tree a wide
berth. Her only previous experience with the animals
was her didactic course and a week in the saddle five
years ago during an ESA transportation training
exercise back on Kulu.
Now here she was, leading an expedition through one
of the toughest stretches of jungle in the Juliffe tributary
network and trying to avoid the attention of a possible
military invasion force at the same time. It wasn’t the
best reintroduction to the equestrian art. She thought
the horse could sense her discomfort, he was proving
awkward. A mere three hours’ riding and every muscle
in her lower torso was crying for relief; her arms and
shoulders were stiff; her backside had gone from
soreness to numbness and finally settled for a
progressive hot ache.
I wonder what all this bodily offensive is doing to my
implants?
Her neural nanonics were running an extended sensory
analysis program, enhancing peripheral vision and
threshold audio inputs, and scrutinizing them for any
signs of hidden hostiles. Electronic paranoia, basically.
There had been nothing remotely threatening, except

for one sayce, since they left the Isakore, and the
sayce hadn’t fancied its chances against three horses.
She could hear Dean Folan and Will Danza plodding
along behind her, and wondered how they were getting
on with their horses. Having the two ESA G66 Division
(Tactical Combat) troops backing her up was a dose of
comfort stronger than any stimulant program could
provide. She had been trained in general covert
fieldwork, but they had virtually been bred for it,
geneering and nanonic supplements combining to make
them formidable fighting machines.
Dean Folan was in his mid-thirties, a quiet ebony-
skinned man with the kind of subtle good looks most of
the geneered enjoyed. He was only medium height, but
his limbs were long and powerful, making his torso look
almost stunted by comparison. It was the boosted
muscles which did that, Jenny knew; his silicon-fibre-
reinforced bones had been lengthened to give him
more leverage, and more room for implants.
Will Danza fitted people’s conception of a modern-day
soldier; twenty-five, tall, broad, with long, sleek muscles.
He was an old Prussian warrior genotype, blond,
courteous, and unsmiling. There was an almost psychic
essence of danger emanating from him; you didn’t
tangle with him in any tavern brawl no matter how drunk
you were. Jenny suspected he didn’t have a sense of
humour; but then he’d seen action in covert missions
three times in the last three years. She’d accessed his
file when the jungle mission was being assembled; they
had been tough assignments, one had earned him eight
months in hospital being rebuilt from cloned organs, and
an Emerald Star presented by the Duke of Salion,
Alastair II’s first cousin, and chairman of the Kulu Privy
Council’s security commission. He had never talked
about it on the journey upriver.
The nature of the jungle started to change around them.
Tightly packed bushy trees gave way to tall, slender
trunks with a plume of feather-fronds thirty metres
overhead. A solid blanket of creepers tangled the
ground, rising up to hug the lower third of the tree trunks
like solid conical encrustations. It increased their
visibility dramatically, but the horses had to pick their
hoofs up sharply. High above their heads vennals leapt
between the trees in incredible bounds, streaking up the
slim trunks to hide in the foliage at the top. Jenny
couldn’t see how they clung to the smooth bark.

After another forty minutes they came to a small
stream. She dismounted in slow tender stages, and let
her horse drink. Away in the distance she could see a
herd of danderil bounding away from the trickle of softly
steaming water. White clouds were rolling in from the
east. It would rain in an hour, she knew.
Dean Folan dismounted behind her, leaving Will Danza
sitting on his horse, keeping watch from his elevated
vantage point. All three of them were dressed
identically, wearing a superstrength olive-green one-
piece anti-projectile suit, covered with an outer
insulation layer to diffuse beam weapons. The
lightweight armour fitted perfectly, with an inner sponge
layer to protect the skin. Thermal-shunt fibres woven
into the fabric kept body temperature to a pre-set norm,
which was a real blessing on Lalonde. If they were
struck by a projectile slug the micro-valency generators
around her waist would activate, solidifying the fabric
instantly, distributing the impact, preventing the wearer’s
body from being pulped by automatic fire. (Jenny’s only
regret was that it didn’t protect her from saddle sores.)
The body armour was complemented by a shell-helmet
which fitted with the same tight precision as the suit. It
gave them all an insect appearance, with its wide
goggle lenses and a small central V-shaped air-filter
vent. The collar had a ring of optical sensors which
could be accessed through neural nanonics, giving
them a rear-view capability. They could even survive
underwater for half an hour with its oxygen-recycling
capacity.
The stream was muddy, its stones slimed with algae,
none of which seemed to bother the horses. Jenny
watched them lapping it up, and requested a drink from
her shell-helmet. She sucked ice-cold orange juice from
the nipple as she reviewed their location with help from
the inertial guidance block.
When Dean and Will swapped position she datavised
the armour suit’s communications block to open a
scrambled channel to Murphy Hewlett. The ESA team
had split up from the Confederation Navy Marines after
leaving the Isakore. Acting separately they thought they
stood a better chance of intercepting one of the
sequestrated colonists.
“We’re eight kilometres from Oconto,” she said. “No
hostiles or locals encountered so far.”
“Same with us,” the marine lieutenant answered. “We’re

six kilometres south of you, and there’s nobody in this
jungle but us chickens. If Oconto’s supervisor did lead
fifty people in pursuit of the Ivets, he didn’t come this
way. There’s a small savannah which starts about
fifteen kilometres away, there are about a hundred
homesteads out there. We’ll try them.”
Static warbled down the channel. Jenny automatically
checked her electronic warfare suite, which reported
zero activity. Must be atmospherics.
“OK. We’re going to keep closing on the village and
hope we find someone before we reach it,” she
datavised.
“Roger. I suggest we make half-hourly checkins from
now on. There isn’t …” His signal dissolved into rowdy
static.
“Hell! Dean, Will, we’re being jammed.”
Dean consulted his own electronic warfare block. “No
activity detected,” he said.
Jenny steadied her horse and put her foot in the stirrup,
swinging a leg over the saddle. Will was mounting
hastily beside her. All three of them scanned the
surrounding jungle. Dean’s horse snickered nervously.
Jenny tugged at the reins to keep hers from twisting
about.
“They’re out there,” Will said in a level tone.
“Where?” Jenny asked.
“I don’t know, but they’re watching us. I can feel it. They
don’t like us.”
Jenny bit down on the obvious retort. Soldier
superstitions were hardly appropriate right now, yet Will
had more direct combat experience than her. A quick
hardware status check showed that only the
communications block was affected so far. Her
electronic warfare block remained stubbornly silent.
“All right,” she said. “The one thing we don’t want to do
is run into a whole bunch of them. The Edenists said
they were most powerful in groups. Let’s move out, and
see if we can get outside this jamming zone. We ought
to be able to move faster than them.”
“Which way?” Dean asked.

“I still want to try and reach the village. But I don’t think a
direct route is advisable now. We’ll head south-west,
and curve back towards Oconto. Any questions? No.
Lead off then, Dean.”
They splashed over the stream, the horses seemingly
eager to be on the move again. Will Danza had pulled
his thermal induction pulse carbine from its saddle
holster; now it was cradled in the crook of his right arm,
pointing upwards. The datavised information from its
targeting processor formed a quiet buzz at the back of
his mind. He didn’t even notice it at a conscious level, it
was as much a part of the moment as the easy rhythm
of the horse or the bright sunlight, making him whole.
He made up the rear of the little procession, constantly
reviewing the sensors on the back of his shell-helmet. If
anyone had asked him how he knew hostiles were
nearby he would just have to shrug and say he couldn’t
explain. But instinct was pulling at him with the same
irresistible impulse that pollen exerted on bees. They
were here, and they were close.
Whoever, or whatever, they were.
He strained round in the saddle, upping his retinal
implants’ resolution to their extreme. All he could see
was the long thin black trunks and their verdant cone
island bases, outlines wavering in the heat and unstable
magnification factor.
A movement.
The TIP carbine was discharging before he even
thought about it, blue target graphics sliding across his
vision field like neon cell doors as he dropped the barrel
in a single smooth arc. A red circle intersected the
central grid square and his neural nanonics triggered a
five-hundred-shot fan pattern.
The section of jungle in the central blue square sparkled
with orange motes as the induction pulses stabbed
against the wood and foliage. It lasted for two seconds.
“Down!” Will datavised. “Hostiles four o’clock.”
He was already slithering off the horse, feet landing
solidly on the broad triangular creeper leaves. Dean
and Jenny obeyed automatically, rolling from their
saddles to land crouched, thermal induction pulse
carbines held ready. The three of them turned
smoothly, each covering a different section of jungle.

“What was it?” Jenny asked.
“Two of them, I think.” Will quickly replayed the memory.
It was like a dense black shadow dashing out from
behind one of the trees, then it split into two. That was
when he fired, and the image jolted. But the black
shapes refused to clarify, no matter how many
discrimination programs he ran. Definitely too big for
sayce, though. And they were moving towards him,
using the shaggy treebases for cover.
He felt a glow of admiration, they were good.
“What now?” he datavised. Nobody responded. “What
now?” he asked loudly.
“Reconnaissance and evaluation,” said Jenny, who had
just realized even short-range datavises were being
disrupted. “We’re still not out of that jamming effect.”
There was a silent orange flash above her. The top
third of the tree ten metres to her left began to topple
over, hinging on a section of trunk that was mostly
charred splinters. Just as it reached the horizontal, the
rich green plumes at the top caught on fire. They
spluttered briefly, belching out a ring of blue-grey
smoke, then the fire really caught. Two vennals leapt
out, squeaking in pain, their hides badly scorched.
Before the whole length of wood crashed down, the
plumes were burning with a ferocity which matched the
sun.
The horses reared up, whinnying alarm. They were
pulled down by boosted muscles.
Jenny realized the animals were rapidly becoming a
liability as she clung on to hers. Her neural nanonics
reported the suit sensors had detected a maser beam
striking the tree, which was what snapped it. But there
was no detectable follow-up energy strike to account
for the ignition.
Dean’s sensors had also detected the maser beam. He
fired a fifty-shot barrage back along the line.
The fallen tree’s tip fizzled out. All that was left was a
tapering core of wood and a heap of ash. Blackened
ground creepers smouldered in a wide circle around it.
“What the hell did that?” Dean asked.
“No data,” Jenny answered. “But it isn’t going to be

healthy.”
Globules of vivid white fire raced up the trunks of
several nearby trees like some bizarre astral liquid.
Bark shrivelled and peeled off in long strips behind
them, the naked wood below roaring like a blast furnace
as it caught alight. The flames redoubled in vehemence.
Jenny, Will, and Dean were surrounded by twelve huge
torches of brilliant fire.
Jenny’s retinal implants struggled to cope with the vast
photon flood.
Her horse reared up again, fighting her, neck sweeping
from side to side in an effort to make her let go,
forelegs cycling dangerously close to her head. She
could see the terror in its eyes. Foam sprayed out of its
mouth to splatter her suit.
“Save the equipment,” she shouted. “We can’t hang on
to the horses in this.”
Will heard the order as his horse began bucking, its
hind legs kicking imaginary foes. He drove his fist into
its head, catching it between the eyes, and it froze for a
second in stunned surprise, then slowly buckled,
collapsing onto the ground. One of the blazing trees
gave a single creak of warning and keeled over. It
slammed down on the horse’s back, breaking ribs and
legs, searing its way into the flesh. Oily smoke billowed
up.
Will darted forward, and tugged at the saddle straps.
His suit datavised an amber alert to his neural nanonics
as the heat impact of the flames gusted against the
outer layer.
Balls of orange flame were hurtling through the air
above him, spitting greasy black liquids: vennals, fleeing
and dying as their roosts were incinerated. Small
withered bodies hit the ground all around, some of them
moving feebly.
Dean and Jenny were still struggling with their horses,
filling the air with confused curses. Will’s suit sounded a
preliminary caution that thermal input was reaching the
limit of the handling capacity. He felt the saddle strap
give, and jumped backwards, hugging the equipment
packs.
The suit’s outer dissipator layer glowed cherry red as it
radiated away the excess heat, and wisps of smoke

rose from around his feet.
More trees were falling as the flame consumed the
wood at a fantastic rate. For one nasty moment they
were completely penned in by a rippling fence made up
from solid sheets of that strange lethal white flame.
Jenny salvaged her equipment packs from her horse
and let go of the bridle. It raced away blindly, only to
veer to one side as another burning tree fell in its path.
One of the fiery vennals landed on its back, and it
charged straight into the flames, screaming piteously.
She watched it tumble over. It twitched a couple of
times, trying to regain its feet, then flopped down limply.
By now a ring of ground a hundred metres in diameter
was burning, leaving just a small patch at the centre
untouched. The three of them grouped together at the
middle as the last two trees went down. Now there was
only the ground creepers burning, sending up forked
yellow flames and heavy blue smoke.
Jenny pulled her packs towards her and ran a systems
status check. Not good. The guidance block was putting
out erratic data, and the suit’s laser rangefinder return
was dubious. The hostiles’ electronic warfare field was
growing stronger. And according to her external
temperature sensors, if they hadn’t been wearing suits
with a thermal-dispersal layer they would have been
roasted alive by now.
She gripped the TIP carbine tighter. “As soon as the
flames die down I want a sweep-scorch pattern laid
down out to four hundred metres. Fight fire with fire.
They’ve shown us what they can do, now it’s our turn.”
“All right,” Will muttered happily.
Rummaging round in her packs for one of the spherical
heavy duty power cells she was carrying, she plugged
its coiled cable into the butt of her carbine. The other
two were doing the same thing.
“Ready?” she asked. The flames were only a couple of
metres high now, the air above them swarmed with ash
flakes, blotting out the sun. “Go.”
They stood, shoulders together, forming a triangle. The
TIP carbines blazed, sending out two hundred and fifty
invisible deadly shots every second. Targeting
processors coordinated the sweep parameters,
overlapping their fields of fire. Neural nanonics ordered

their muscles to move in precise increments, controlling
the direction of the energy blitz.
A ripple of destruction roared out across the already
cremated land, then started to chew its way into the
vegetation beyond. Dazzling orange stars scintillated on
tree trunks and creepers, desiccating then igniting the
wood and tangled cords of vine. The initial ripple
became a fully-fledged hurricane firestorm,
exacerbated by the relentless push of the carbines.
“Burn, you mothers,” Will yelled jubilantly. “Burn!” The
entire jungle was on fire around them, an avalanche of
flames racing outward. One again the vennals were
dying in their hundreds, plunging out of their igneous
trees right into the conflagration.
Dean’s neural nanonics reported that his carbine was
stuttering whenever he wiped the barrel across a
certain coordinate. He brought it back and held it. The
shot rate declined to five a second.
“Shit. Jenny, they’re locking their electronic warfare into
my carbine targeting processor.”
“Let me have the section,” she said.
He datavised the coordinates over, no problem with
communication any more.
When she aimed her own TIP carbine along the line its
output dropped off almost immediately, but her suit
blocks were coming back on-line. “Jeeze, that
electronic warfare of theirs is the weirdest.”
“Want me to try?” Will asked.
“No. Finish the sweep-scorch first, we’ll deal with them
in a minute.” She turned back to her section. Watching
the invincible rampart of flame cascade over the jungle
had sent her heart racing wildly. The awe that she could
command such fearsome power was soaring through
her veins, taking her to a dangerous high. She had to
load a suppression order into her neural nanonics,
which restricted the release of natural adrenalin
sharply. The sweep pattern was completed, and her
flesh cooled. But she still felt supreme.
A holocaust of flame raged a hundred and twenty
metres away.
“OK, they’ve given their position away,” she said.

“Dean, Will: gaussguns, please. Fragmentation and
electron-explosive rounds, forty-sixty ratio.”
Will grinned inside his shell-helmet as he bent down to
retrieve the heavy-duty weapon. The gaussgun barrel
was dark grey in colour, a metre and a half long. It
weighed thirty kilograms. He picked it up as if it was
made from polystyrene, checked the feed tube was
connected to the bulky magazine box at his feet,
datavised in the ratio, and aimed it out through the
shimmering flames. Dean deployed its twin beside him.
Jenny had been probing through the flames, using her
TIP carbine to determine the extent and location of the
dead zone simply by recording where it cut out. She
datavised the coordinates over to Dean and Will: an
oval area fifty metres long, roughly three hundred
metres away.
“One hundred and fifty per cent coverage,” she said.
“Fire.” Even she had to marvel at how the two men
handled the weapons. The gaussguns hurled ten
rounds a second, leaving the muzzle at five times the
speed of sound.
Yet they hardly moved as the recoil hammered at them,
swaying gently from side to side. She doubted her
boosted muscles could cope.
Away beyond the first rank of flames, a wide island of
intact jungle erupted in violent pyrotechnics. Explosions
five metres above the ground slammed out hundreds of
thousands of slender crystallized carbon shrapnel
blades. They scythed through the air at supersonic
velocity, sharp as scalpels, stronger than diamond.
Those trees which had survived the firestorm
disintegrated, shredded instantly by the rabid aerial
swarm.
Confetti fragments blew apart like a dandelion cloud in a
tornado.
The rest of the shrapnel impacted on the ground, slicing
through the tangled mat of creepers, blades stabbing
themselves thirty to forty centimetres down into the
loose moist loam. They never had a chance to settle.
EE projectiles rained down, detonating in hard vicious
gouts of ionic flame. Plumes of black loam jetted up
high into the ash-dimmed sky.
The whole area was ruptured by steep-walled two-
metre craters, undulating like a sea swell.

Looking down on the desolation, it was hard to believe
even an insect could have survived, let alone any large
animal.
The three ESA agents stared through the ebbing flames
at the dark cyclone of loam particles and wood splinters
obscuring the sun.
Jenny’s neural nanonics ran a series of diagnostic
programs through her suit equipment blocks. “That
electronic warfare field has shut down,” she said. There
was a faint quaver to her voice as she contemplated
the destructive forces she had unleashed. “Looks like
we got them.”
“And everybody knows it,” Dean said flatly. “They must
be able to see this fire halfway back to Durringham.
The hostiles are going to come swarming to
investigate.”
“You’re right,” she said.
“They’re still there,” Will pronounced.
“What?!” Dean said. “You’ve cracked. Nothing could
survive that kind of barrage, not even an army assault
mechanoid. We blasted those bastards to hell.”
“I’m telling you; they’re still out there,” Will insisted. He
sounded nervous. Not like him at all.
His edginess crept in through the comfortable insulation
of Jenny’s suit.
Listening to him she was half convinced herself. “If
someone survived, that’s good,” she said. “I still want
that captive for Hiltch. Let’s move out. We’d have to
investigate anyway. And we can’t stay here waiting for
them to regroup.”
They quickly distributed the remaining ammunition and
power cells from their packs, along with basic survival
gear. Each of them kept their TIP carbine; Will and
Dean shouldered the gaussguns without a word of
protest.
Jenny led off at a fast trot across the smouldering
remnants of jungle, towards the area they had
bombarded with the gaussguns. She felt terribly
exposed. The fire had died down, it had nothing left to
burn. Away in the distance they could see a few
sporadic flames licking at bushes and knots of creeper.

They were in the middle of a clearing nearly a kilometre
across, the only segment of colour. Everything was
black, the remnants of creepers underfoot, tapering
ten-metre spikes of trees devoured by natural flames
(as opposed to the white stuff the hostiles threw at
them), cooked vennals that lay scattered everywhere,
other smaller animals, a savagely contorted corpse of
one of the horses, even the air was leaden with a seam
of fine dusky motes.
She datavised her communication block to open a
scrambled channel to Murphy Hewlett. To her surprise,
he responded straight away.
“God, Jenny, what’s happened? We couldn’t raise you,
then we saw that bloody great fire-fight. Are you all
OK?”
“We’re in one piece, but we lost the horses. I think we
did some damage to the hostiles.”
“Some damage?”
“Yeah. Murphy, watch out for a kind of white fire. So far
they’ve only used it to set the vegetation alight, but our
sensors can’t pick up how they direct the bloody stuff. It
just comes at you out of nowhere. But they hit you with
an electronic warfare field first. My advice is that if your
electronics start to go, then lay down a scorch pattern
immediately. Flush them away.”
“Christ. What the hell are we up against? First that
paddleboat illusion, now undetectable weapons.”
“I don’t know. Not yet, but I’m going to find out.” She
was surprised at her own determination.
“Do you need assistance? It’s a long walk back to the
boat.”
“Negative. I don’t think we should join up. Two groups
still have a better chance to achieve our objective than
one, nothing has changed that.”
“OK, but we’re here if it gets too tough.”
“Thanks. Listen, Murphy, I’m not aiming to stay in this
jungle after dark. Hell, we can’t even see them coming
at us in the daytime.”
“Now that sounds like the first piece of sensible advice
you’ve given today.”

She referred to her neural nanonics. “There are
another seven hours of daylight left. I suggest we try
and rendezvous back at the Isakore in six hours from
now. If we haven’t captured a hostile, or found out what
the hell is going down around here, we can review the
situation then.”
“I concur.”
“Jenny,” Dean called with soft urgency.
“Call you back,” she told Murphy.
They had reached the edge of the barrage zone. Not
even the tree stumps had survived here. Craters
overlapped, producing a crumpled landscape of
unstable cones and holes; crooked brown roots poked
up into the sky from most of the denuded soil slopes.
Long strands of steam, like airborne worms, wound
slowly around the crumbling protrusions, sliding into the
holes to pool at the bottom.
Over on the far side she watched three men emerging
from the craters, scrambling sluggishly for solid ground.
They helped each other along, wriggling on their bellies
when the slippery loam proved impossible to stand on.
Jenny watched their progress in the same kind of
bewildered daze which had engulfed her as the
fantastical paddle-steamer sailed down the river.
The men reached level ground sixty metres away from
the ESA team, and stood up. Two were recognizable
colonist types: dungarees, thick cotton work shirts, and
woolly beards. The third was dressed in some kind of
antique khaki uniform: baggy trousers, calves bound up
by strips of yellowish cloth; a brown leather belt round
his waist sporting a polished pistol holster; a
hemispherical metal hat with a five-centimetre rim.
They couldn’t possibly have survived, Jenny found
herself thinking, yet here they were. For one wild
second she wondered if the electronic warfare field had
won, and was feeding the hallucination directly into her
neural nanonics.
The two groups stared at each other for over half a
minute.
Jenny’s electronic warfare block reported a build-up of
static in the short-range datavise band. It broke the
spell. “OK, let’s go get them,” she said.

They started to circle round the edge of the barrage
zone. The three men watched them silently.
“Do you want all three?” Will asked.
“No, just one. The soldier must be equipped with the
most powerful systems if he can create that kind of
chameleon effect. I’d like him if we can manage it.”
“I thought chameleon suits were supposed to blend in,”
Dean muttered.
“I’m not even sure we’re seeing men,” Will added.
“Maybe the xenocs are disguising themselves.
Remember the paddle-steamer.”
Jenny ordered her suit’s laser rangefinder to scan the
soldier; its return should reveal the true outline to an
accuracy of less than half a millimetre. The blue beam
stabbed out from the side of her shell-helmet.
But instead of sweeping the soldier, it broke apart a
couple of metres in front of him, forming a turquoise
haze. After a second the rangefinder module shut
down. Her neural nanonics reported the whole unit was
inoperative.
“Did you see that?” she asked. They had covered
about a third of the distance round the barrage zone.
“I saw it,” Will said brusquely. “It’s a xenoc. Why else
would it want to hide its shape?”
The distortion in the datavise band began to increase.
Jenny saw the soldier start to unbuckle his holster.
“Stop!” she commanded, her voice booming out of the
communication block’s external speaker. “The three of
you are under arrest. Put your hands on your head, and
don’t move.”
All three men turned fractionally, focusing on her. Her
neural nanonics began to report malfunctions in half of
her suit’s electronics.
“Screw it! We must break them up, even three of them
are too powerful. Will, one round EE, five metres in
front of them.”
“That’s too close,” Dean said tensely as Will brought
the gaussgun to bear. “You’ll kill them.”
“They survived the first barrage,” Jenny said tonelessly.

“They survived the first barrage,” Jenny said tonelessly.
Will fired. A fountain of loam spurted up into the air,
accompanied by a bright blue-white sphere of flame.
The blast-wave flattened some of the nearby piles of
soil.
Jenny’s neural nanonics reported the electronics
coming back on-line. The loam subsided, revealing the
three men standing firm. A faint whistle was insinuating
itself into the datavise band; her neural nanonics
couldn’t filter it out.
“One metre,” she snapped. “Fire.”
The explosion sent them spinning, tottering about for
balance. One fell to his knees. For the first time there
was a reaction; one of the two farmer-types started
snarling and shouting. His face above the beard was
black, whether from loam or a flashburn she couldn’t
tell.
“Keep firing, keep them apart,” Jenny called to Will.
“Come on, run.”
Explosions bloomed around the three men. Will was
using the gaussgun the way riot police employed a
water cannon, harrying the men as they tried to come
together. Blasts that would rip a human to pieces barely
affected them, at the most they tumbled backwards to
sprawl on the ground. He was tempted to land a round
straight on one, just to see what it would do.
They scared him.
Jenny’s feet pounded over the scorched creepers. The
packs and the TIP carbine weighed nothing as her
boosted muscles powered up and took the full load. Will
was doing a good job, one of the men had been
separated from the other two. He was the farmer-type
who had shouted earlier. She brought her TIP carbine
round and aimed it at his left ankle, neural nanonics
allowing her to compensate for the vigorous motion of
her body.
If they could disable him, they could chase off or kill the
other two. A severed cauterized foot wasn’t lethal.
Her neural nanonics triggered a single shot. She
actually saw the induction pulse. A complete
impossibility, her mind insisted. But a slender violet line
materialized in the air ahead of her. It struck the
farmer’s ankle and splashed apart, sending luminous
tendrils clawing up his leg. He yelled wildly, and tumbled

headlong.
“Dean, subdue him,” she ordered. “I want him in one
piece. Will and I will fend off the other two.” Her
carbine’s targeting circle slithered round on the soldier
as she stopped running. He was taking aim with his
revolver. They both fired.
Jenny saw luminous purple tapeworms writhing across
the neatly pressed khaki uniform. The soldier began to
jerk about as if he was being electrocuted. Then the
bullet struck her with the force of a gaussgun’s kinetic
round. Her suit hardened instantly, and she found
herself somersaulting chaotically, grey sky and black
land streaking past in a confused blur. There was an
instant’s silence. She landed hard, and her suit unfroze.
She was rolling, arms and legs jolting the ground
sharply.
The gaussgun was roaring three metres away. Will was
standing his ground, feet apart to brace himself,
swivelling from the hip to send EE rounds chasing after
each of the men.
Jenny scrambled to her feet. The soldier and one of the
farmers were fifty metres away. They were facing Will,
but retreating in juddering steps from the onslaught of
projectiles. Somehow she had hung on to the TIP
carbine, and now she lined it up. Radiant purple lines
shivered across the soldier once more. He threw up his
hands, as if he was physically warding off the intense
energy pulses. Then both he and the farmer looked at
each other. Something must have been said, because
they both turned and ran towards the rim of the jungle
eighty metres behind them.
Dean Folan dropped his gaussgun and backpack,
which allowed him to cover the last thirty metres in two
and a half seconds. In that time he fired his TIP carbine
twice. The beams tore into glaring purple streamers
which knocked the farmer down into the soft loam. With
his opponent out for the count, Dean took the last five
metres in a flying tackle, landing straight on top of him.
The weight of his own body and the suit and his
equipment should have been enough to finish it. But the
man started to rise straight away. Dean gave a
surprised yelp as he was lifted right off the ground, and
went for a stranglehold, only to find a hand clamping
round each wrist pulling his arms apart. He fell onto his
back as the farmer regained his feet. A booted foot
kicked him in the side of his ribs. His suit hardened, and

he was thrown onto his belly by the force of the blow.
The farmer must be a construct made entirely out of
boosted muscle! His neural nanonics combat routine
programs went into primary mode. He swung the TIP
carbine round, and another vicious kick actually
cracked the casing. But he lashed out with his free arm,
knocking the farmer’s other leg out from under him. The
farmer went down heavily on his backside.
Somewhere in the distance the gaussgun was thumping
out a stream of EE projectiles.
Both of them struggled into a semi-crouch, then
launched themselves. Once again, Dean found himself
losing. The farmer’s impact sent him reeling backwards,
fighting to keep his feet. Arms with the strength of a
hydraulic ram grappled at him. His neural nanonics
reviewed tactical options, and decided his physical
strength was dangerously inferior. He let himself sway
backwards, taking the farmer with him. Then his leg
came straight up, slamming into the man’s stomach. A
classic judo throw. The farmer arched through the air,
snarling in rage. Dean drew his twenty-centimetre
fission blade and twisted round just in time to meet the
man as he charged. The blade sliced down, aiming for
the meat of the right forearm. It struck, cutting through
the cloth sleeve. But the yellow glow faded, and it
skated across the skin, scoring a shallow gash.
Dean stared at the narrow wound, partly numbed, partly
shocked. Will was right, it must be a xenoc. As he
watched, the skin on the forearm rippled, closing the
gash. The farmer laughed evilly, teeth showing white in
his grubby face. He started to walk towards Dean, arms
coming up menacingly. Dean stepped inside the
embrace, and ordered his suit to solidify below his
shoulders. The farmer’s arms closed round him in a
bear hug. Composite fibres, stiffened by the suit’s
integral valency generators, creaked ominously as the
farmer’s arms squeezed. A couple of equipment blocks
snapped. Instinct made Dean switch off the fission
blade’s power, leaving a dull black blade with wickedly
sharp edges. The hostiles seemed capable of
controlling and subverting any kind of electrical circuit,
maybe if the knife wasn’t powered up … He pressed
the tip up into the base of the farmer’s jaw.
“You can heal wounds on your arm. But can you heal
your brain as it’s sliced in half?” The blade was shoved
up a fraction until a bead of blood welled out around the
tip. “Wanna try?”

The farmer hissed in animosity. He eased off his grip
around Dean’s chest.
“Now keep very still,” Dean said as he unlocked his
suit. “Because I’m very nervous, and an accident can
happen easily and quickly.”
“You’ll suffer,” the farmer said malevolently. “You’ll
suffer longer than you have to. I promise.”
Dean took a pace to one side, the blade remaining
poised on the man’s neck. “You speak English, do you?
Where do you come from?”
“Here, I come from here, warrior man. Just like you.”
“I don’t come from here.”
“We all do. And you’re going to stay here. For ever,
warrior man. You’re never going to die, not now.
Eternity in purgatory is that which awaits you. Do you
like the sound of that? That’s what’s going to happen to
you.”
Dean saw Will walk behind the farmer, and touch the
muzzle of the gaussgun to the back of his skull.
“I’ve got him,” said Will. “Hey, xenoc man, one bad
move, one bad word, and you are countryside.” He
laughed. “You got that?”
The farmer’s dirty lips curled up in a sneer.
“He’s got it,” Dean said.
Jenny came over and studied the strange tableau. The
farmer looked perfectly ordinary apart from his
arrogance. She thought of his two comrades that had
run into the jungle, the hundreds, thousands, more just
like him out there. Maybe he had a right to be arrogant.
“What’s your name?” she asked.
The farmer’s eyes darted towards her. “Kingsford
Garrigan. What’s yours?”
“Cuff him,” Jenny told Dean. “We’ll take him back to the
Isakore. You’re going for a long trip, Kingsford
Garrigan. All the way to Kulu.” She thought she saw a
flash of surprise in his eyes. “And you’d better hope
your friends don’t try and interfere with us. I don’t know
what you are, but if you attempt to screw up our

electronics again, or if we have to cut and run, the first
thing we drop is you. And drop you we will, from a very
great height.”
The farmer spat casually on her foot. Will jabbed him
with the gaussgun.
Jenny opened a communication channel to the
geosynchronous platform, and connected into the Kulu
Embassy dumper.
“We’ve got you one of the hostiles,” she datavised to
Ralph Hiltch. “And when I say hostile, I’m not kidding.”
“Fantastic. Well done, Jenny. Now get back here
soonest. I’ve got our transport to Ombey arranged. The
ESA office there has the facilities for a total personality
debrief.”
“I wouldn’t bank on it working,” she said. “He’s immune
to a TIP shot.”
“Repeat, please.”
“I said the TIP carbine doesn’t hurt him, the energy
pulse just breaks apart. Only physical weapons seem to
have any effect. At the moment we’ve got him subdued
with a gaussgun. He’s also stronger than the G66 boys,
a lot stronger.”
There was a long silence. “Is he human?” Ralph Hiltch
asked.
“He looks human. But I don’t see how he can be. If you
want my opinion, I’d guess at some kind of super bitek
android. It’s got to be a xenoc bitek, and a pretty
advanced bitek at that.”
“Christ Almighty. Datavise a full-spectrum image over,
please. I’ll run it through some analysis programs.”
“Sure thing.”
Dean had the man’s hands behind his back to slide a
zipcuff over his wrists. It was a figure-of-eight band of
polyminium with a latch buckle at the centre. Jenny
watched Dean tighten the pewter-coloured loops; no
electronic lock, thank heavens, just simple mechanics.
She ordered her neural nanonics to encode the retinal
pixels, and datavised the complete image over to the
embassy. Infrared followed, then a spectrographic print.

Dean ejected the power magazine from his broken TIP
carbine and handed it to Jenny along with the spares,
then recovered his gaussgun. With Will covering their
prisoner, they started walking back towards the Isakore
at a brisk pace. Jenny aimed them off at a slight
tangent, taking them quickly back into the jungle. She
still felt too exposed in the firestorm clearing.
“Jenny,” Ralph called after a minute. “What did the
hostile say his name was?”
“Kingsford Garrigan,” she replied.
“He’s lying. And you’re wrong about him being a xenoc
android, too. I’ve run a search program through our
records. He’s a colonist from Aberdale called Gerald
Skibbow.”
“It is a wet, humid night here in Durringham, as they
always are on this poor benighted planet. The heat
clogs my throat and my skin sweats as though I have
caught a fever. But still I feel cold inside, a coldness
that grips the very cells of my heart.” Was that a bit too
purple? Oh well, the studio can always edit it out.
Graeme Nicholson was squatting on aching ankles in
the deepest shadows cast by one of the spaceport’s
big hangars. It was drizzling hard, and his cheap
synthetic suit was clinging to his flabby body. Despite
the warmth of the water he really was shivering, the fat
rolls of his beer belly were shaking the same way they
did when he laughed.
Fifty metres away a defeated yellow light shone from an
office in the spaceport’s single-storey administration
block. It was the only occupied office, the rest had shut
long ago. With his retinal implants straining, Graeme
could just make out Laton, Marie Skibbow, and two
other men through the grimed glass. One of them was
Emlyn Hermon, the Yaku’s second-in-command, who
had met Marie and Laton in the Crashed Dumper. He
didn’t know the fourth, but he must work for the
spaceport administration in some capacity.
He just wished he could listen to whatever deal they
were making. But his boosted hearing was only
effective inside a fifteen-metre radius. And no prize in
the universe would make him creep any closer to Laton.
Fifty metres was quite close enough, thank you.
“I have followed the arch-diabolist here from the city.
And nothing I have seen has given me the slightest

hope for the future. His interest in the spaceport can
only indicate he is ready to move on. His work on
Lalonde is complete. Violence and anarchy reign
beyond the city. What monstrous curse he has let loose
is beyond my imagination; but each new day brings
darker stories down the river, sucking away the
citizens’ hope. Fear is his real weapon, and he
possesses it in abundance.”
Marie held out a small object Graeme took to be a
Jovian Bank credit disk. The spaceport administration
official proffered its counterpart.
“The alliance has been formed. His plan advances
another notch. And I cannot believe it will bring anything
other than disaster upon us. Four decades has not
reduced the fear. What has he achieved in those four
decades? I ask myself this question time and again.
The only answer must be: evil. He has perfected evil.”
The office light went out. Graeme emerged from his
sheltered recess, and walked along the side of the
hangar until he could see the administration block’s
main entrance. The drizzle was worsening, becoming
rain. His suit felt cool, and unbearably clammy,
restricting his movements. A prodigious amount of
water was running off the ezystak-panel roof overhead,
splattering onto the chippings round his soaking feet.
Despite the physical discomfort and nagging
consternation at Laton’s presence, he felt an
excitement that had been absent for years. This was
real journalism: the million to one break, the hazardous
follow-up, getting the story at any cost. Those shits
back in the editing offices could never handle this, safe
paunchy career creatures; and they would know it too.
His real victory.
Laton and his cohorts had all emerged into the bleak
night wearing cagoules against the weather. They had
their backs to him, heading for the flight line where the
indistinct outlines of the parked McBoeings formed
windows into an even graver darkness. Laton (betrayed
by his height) had his arm around Marie.
“The beauty and the beast, look. What can she see in
him? For Marie is just a simple colony girl, proud and
decent, loving her new planet, working long hours like all
of this city’s residents. She shares the planetary ethic
of her neighbours, striving hard to achieve a better
world for her children. Yet somehow she has stumbled.
A warning that none of us is immune to the attraction of

the dark side of human nature. I look at her, and I think:
there but for the grace of God go I.”
Halfway along the McBoeings was a smaller
spaceplane. It was obviously Laton’s goal. Bright light
shone out of its open airlock, casting a grey smear
across the ground. A couple of maintenance crew
personnel were tending the mobile support units under
its nose.
Graeme sneaked up to the big undercarriage bogies of
a McBoeing forty metres away, and crouched down
below the broad tyres. The spaceplane was one of the
small swing-wing VTOL marques starships carried in
their hangars. He switched his retinal implants to full
magnification and scanned the fuselage. Sure enough,
the name Yaku was printed on the low angular tail.
Some kind of argument was going on at the foot of the
steps leading up to the airlock. The administration
official was talking heatedly to another man wearing a
cagoule with the LDC emblem on the arm. Both of them
were waving their arms around. Laton, Marie, and
Emlyn Hermon stood to one side, watching patiently.
“The last obstacle has been reached. It is ironic to
consider that all that stands between Laton and the
Confederation is one immigration official. One man
between us and the prospect of galactic tragedy.”
The argument ended. A Jovian Bank disk was offered.
“Can we blame him? Should we blame him? It is a foul
night. He has a family which looks to him for support.
And how harmless it is, a few hundred fuseodollars to
avert his eyes for one swift minute. Money which can
buy food for his children in these troubled times. Money
which can make life that fraction easier. How many of
us would do the same? How many? Would you?” Nice
touch that, involve people.
Laton and Marie went up the battered aluminium stairs,
followed by a furtive Emlyn Hermon. The administration
official was talking to the two ground crew.
Just as he reached the airlock hatch, Laton turned, the
hood of his cagoule falling back to reveal his face in full.
Handsome, well proportioned, a hint of aristocracy:
Edenist sophistication, but without the cultural heritage,
that essential counterbalance which made the affinity
gene carriers human. It looked as though he was
staring straight at Graeme Nicholson. He laughed with

a debonair raffishness. Mocking.
Everyone in the Confederation who accessed the
sensevise in the weeks which followed experienced the
old journalist’s heart thud inside his ribs. All of a sudden
breath was very hard to come by, stalling in his throat.
That pause, the derision. It wasn’t an accident, chance.
Laton knew he was there, and didn’t care. Graeme was
too far beneath him to care.
“He is going now. Free to roam the stars. Should I have
tried to stop him? Put myself up against a man who can
make entire worlds tremble at the mention of his name?
If you think I should, then I am sorry. For I am so
frightened of him. And I do not believe I would have
made any difference, not against his strength. He would
still be on his way.”
The airlock hatch shut. The two ground crew scuttled
about, hunched against the rain, unplugging the thick
dark-yellow ribbed hoses from their underbelly hatches.
Compressors wound up, kicking out micro-squalls of
the heavy rain. Their reedy sibilance built steadily until
the spaceplane rocked on its undercarriage. It lifted into
the murky sky.
“My duty now is to warn you all. I will do what I can, what
I must, to ensure this sensevise reaches you. So that
you know. He is coming. It is you who must fight him. I
wish you luck. Those of us left here have our own battle
against the calamity he has unleashed out in the
hinterlands.
It is not one for which we are well prepared, this is not a
planet of epic heroes, just ordinary people like
yourselves. As always, the burden falls upon those
least able to shoulder it; for a terrible night has fallen on
Lalonde, and I do not think we will see the dawn again.”
The spaceplane swooped up in a sharp climb, its wings
beginning to fold back. It arrowed into the low, bulging
cloud base, and disappeared from view.
A dozen paltry fires spluttered and hissed on the broad
road outside the Governor’s dumper, the flames
devouring fence posts and broken carts that had been
snatched for fuel. Little knots of protesters clustered
round them under the watchful eyes of the sheriffs and
deputies circling the carbotanium cone. An uneasy
truce had broken out after the anger and violence of the
day. The earlier barrages of stones and bottles had

been answered each time by cortical-jamming impulses
from the sheriffs.
Thankfully the protesters had refrained from using any
real weapons today. Now the chanting had stopped.
The naked menace in a thousand throats screaming in
unison wasn’t something Colin Rexrew was
accustomed to dealing with. He could never make out
what they had been chanting for these last few days; he
thought they weren’t entirely sure themselves apart
from wanting the turmoil to end. Well, so did he. Very
badly.
Each time Colin Rexrew looked out of his window he
could see some new plume of smoke rising from the
vista of dark rooftops. Tonight the horizon was dotted
with three or four fierce orange flares as buildings
burned. If it wasn’t for the rain and humidity Durringham
would have been reduced to a single giant firestorm
days ago.
And the deteriorating civic situation in the city wasn’t
even his real problem.
When Candace Elford came into the office Colin
Rexrew was behind his desk as always, gazing vacantly
at the window strip and the luckless city outside.
Terrance Smith gave her a fast, expressive grimace,
and they both sat down.
“I’m afraid I have now effectively lost control over a
third of the city,” she started.
It was the nightly situation briefing. Or the nightly crisis
meeting, depending on how cynical Colin felt. The
intensifying pressures seemed to make it hard to
concentrate at the very times he needed his full mental
resources. He would have given a lot to be able to run a
stimulant program through his neural nanonics, or even
escape into a MF album for a few hours like he used to
in his adolescence. It would have made the strain a little
easier to bear.
Not even his neural nanonics with their top of the range
managerial programs were much help. There were too
many unaccountable, downright weird, factors cropping
up to apply standard responses. Had there ever been a
stage one colony governor who had lost all control of
his planet?
The memory cells held no record of any.

What a way to get into the history books.
“Is it the invaders?” he asked.
“No, as far as we can make out they are still some
distance away. What we’re dealing with here is mainly
opportunist looting, and some organized grabs for
power. Nothing political, but there are some strong
criminal gangs who have been quick to take advantage
of the unrest. I’d point out that most of the districts my
sheriffs have been excluded from are on the south-
eastern side of town. Those are the newest and
poorest; in other words the most disaffected to begin
with. The heart of the city, and more importantly the
merchant and industrial sectors, remain stable. If
anything, the older residents resent the lawlessness.
I’m looking to recruit more deputies from them.”
“How long before you can start to regain control of the
south-east districts?” Terrance Smith asked.
“At the moment I’m just looking to contain the trouble,”
Candace Elford said.
“You mean you can’t?”
“I didn’t say that, but it isn’t going to be easy. The gangs
have captured two dumpers, and their fusion
generators. We can’t afford to damage them, and they
know that. I lost a lot of good people in Ozark and on
the Swithland fiasco. Plus we have to deal with the
transient colonists. They seem to be the biggest
problem right now; they’re holed up in the docks and I
can’t shift them. There are barricades across every
access route and there’s a lot of wanton destruction
and looting going on. So half the port is currently
unusable, which has antagonized the boat captains;
and I have to deploy a lot of people to keep an eye on
them.”
“Starve them out,” Colin said.
She nodded reluctantly. “That’s one option. About the
least expensive at the moment. But it will take time,
there was a lot of food stored in those warehouses.”
“The merchants won’t like that,” Terrance Smith said.
“Screw the merchants,” Colin said. “I’m sorry about the
transients’ gear being looted, but that doesn’t excuse
this kind of behaviour. We can help them eventually, but
not if they’re going to hamper every effort with petty-

minded belligerence.”
“Some families lost everything, “
“Tough shit! We are in danger of losing an entire planet
of twenty million people. My priority is to the majority.”
“Yes, sir.”
There were times when Colin just felt like telling his
aide: here’s my seat, you take over, you with your
situation summaries and cautiously formulated
response suggestions. Instead, the Governor walked
over to the drinks cabinet and searched through the
bottles for a decent chilled white wine, and to hell with
the chief sheriff’s disapproval.
“Can we defend Durringham from the invaders?” he
asked quietly as he flipped the neck seal and poured
out a glass.
“If we had enough time to prepare, and you declared
martial law, and if we had enough weapons.”
“Yes or no?”
Candace Elford watched the glass in the Governor’s
hand. It was shaking quite badly, the wine nearly spilling.
“I don’t think so,” she said.
“Whatever it is that’s out there, it’s strong, well armed,
and well organized. The Confederation Navy office
thinks they are using some kind of sequestration
technology to turn colonists into a slave army. Faced
with that, I don’t think we really stand much of a
chance.”
“Sequestration nanonics,” Colin mumbled as he sank
back into his chair. “Dear God, who are these
invaders? Xenocs? Some exiled group from another
planet?”
“I’m not one hundred per cent certain,” she said. “But
my satellite image analysis people found these this
morning. I think it may throw a little light on the situation.”
She datavised an order into the office’s computer. The
wall-screens lit up, showing a blank section of jungle
fifty kilometres west of Ozark.
The satellite had passed over in the middle of the
afternoon, giving a clear bright image. Trees were
compacted so tightly the jungle looked like an unbroken

emerald plain. Five perfectly straight black lines began
to probe across the green expanse, as if the talons of a
huge invisible claw were being scored down the screen.
The satellite cameras zoomed in on the head of one
line, and Colin Rexrew saw trees being bulldozed into
the ground. A big ten-wheeled vehicle rolled into view,
grey metal glinting dully, a black bubble-cab protruding
from a flat upper surface.
It had a blunt wedge-shaped front that smashed through
trunks without the slightest resistance. Viscous sprays
of red-brown mud were being flung up by its rear
wheels, caking the metal bodywork. There were another
three identical vehicles following it along the track of
shattered vegetation it was ripping through the jungle.
“We positively identified them as Dhyaan DLA404
landcruisers; they are made on Varzquez. Or I should
say, were made. The Dhyaan company stopped
producing that particular model over twenty years ago.”
Colin Rexrew datavised a search order into the office
computer. “The LDC never brought any to Lalonde.”
“That’s right. The invaders brought them. What you’re
seeing is the first definite proof that it is an external
force behind all this. And they’re heading straight
towards Durringham.”
“Dear God.” He put his empty wineglass down on the
desk, and stared at the screens. The enemy had a
physical form. After weeks of helpless wrestling with an
elusive, possibly imaginary, foe, it was finally real; but a
reason for the invasion, logical or otherwise, was
impossible to devise.
Colin Rexrew gathered up what was left of his old
determination and resolve. Something tangible gave his
psyche a fragment of very welcome confidence. He
accessed the one neural nanonics program he had
thought he would never have to use, strategic military
procedure, and put it into primary mode. “We have to
stop deluding ourselves we can handle this on our own.
I need combat troops backed up with real fire-power.
I’m going to blow these invaders right off my planet. We
only need to locate the headquarters. Kill the brain and
the body is irrelevant. We can see about removing the
sequestration nanonics from people later.”
“The LDC board will need convincing,” Terrance Smith
said. “It won’t be easy.”

“They will be told afterwards,” Colin said. “You’ve seen
those landcruisers. They’ll be here in a week. We must
move fast. After all, it’s the board’s interest I’m
ultimately protecting; without Lalonde there will be no
LDC.”
“Where can you get troops from without going through
the board?” Terrance asked.
“The same place they would ultimately get them from.
We buy them on a short-term contract.”
“Mercenaries?” the aide asked in surprised alarm.
“Yes. Candace, where’s the nearest port we can get
enough in reasonable numbers? I want armed ships,
too; they can provide the fire-power back-up from low
orbit. It’s expensive, but cheaper than buying in
strategic-defence platforms. They can also prevent any
more of the invader’s ships from landing.”
The chief sheriff gave him a long, testing stare.
“Tranquillity,” she said eventually. “It’s a base for
blackhawks and the so-called independent traders.
Where you find the ships, you find the people. Ione
Saldana might be young, but she’s not stupid, she won’t
throw out the undesirables. The plutocrats who live in
the habitat have too many uses for them.”
“Good,” Colin said decisively. “Terrance, cancel all
work on Kenyon as of now. We’ll use the money
earmarked for mining its main chamber. It always was
bloody premature.”
“Yes, sir.”
“After that, you can take one of the colonist-carrier
ships to Tranquillity and supervise the recruitment.”
“Me?”
“You.” Colin watched the protest form and die unvoiced
on the younger man’s lips. “I want at least four thousand
general troops to re-establish order in Durringham and
the immediate counties. And I also want teams of
combat scouts for the Quallheim Counties. They are
going to have to be the best, because they are going to
be assigned the search and destroy mission in the
deep jungle. Once they locate the invader’s home base
they can zero it for the starships’ weapons. We can
pound it from orbit.”

“What sort of armaments are we looking for on these
starships?” Terrance asked guardedly.
“Masers, X-ray lasers, particle beams, thermal
inducers, kinetic harpoons, and atmospheric
penetration nukes, straight fusion, I don’t want any
radioactives clogging the environment.” He caught the
aide’s eye.
“And no antimatter, not under any circumstances.”
Terrance gave a cautious grin. “Thank you.”
“What ships have we got available in orbit right now?”
“That was something I was going to mention,” Terrance
said. “The Yaku left its parking orbit this evening. It
jumped outsystem.”
“So?”
“Firstly, it was a cargo ship, and only fifty per cent of its
cargo had been unloaded. And cargo is the one thing
we are still bringing down to the spaceport. It had no
reason to leave. Secondly, it had no permission to
leave. There was no prior contact with our Civil Flight
Control Office. The only reason I found out it had left
was because Kelven Solanki got in touch with me to
query it. When I checked with flight control to ask why
they hadn’t informed us about it, they didn’t even know
Yaku had lifted from parking orbit. It turns out someone
had erased the traffic-monitor satellite data from the
spaceport computer.”
“Why?” Candace asked. “It’s not as if we have anything
that could prevent them from leaving.”
“No,” Colin said slowly. “But we could have asked
another ship to track it. Without the monitor satellite
data we don’t know its jump coordinate, we don’t know
where it went.”
“Solanki will have a copy,” Terrance said. “Ralph Hiltch
too, I suspect. If he was pressed.”
“That’s all we need, another bloody puzzle,” Colin said.
“See what you can find out,” he told Candace.
“Yes, sir.”
“Back to the original question. What other ships are
available?”

Terrance consulted his neural nanonics. “There are
eight left in orbit; three cargo ships, the rest colonist-
carriers. And we’re due for another two colonist-
carriers this week, as well as a Tyrathca merchant ship
sometime before the end of the month to check on their
farmers.”
“Don’t remind me,” Colin said sorely.
“I think the Gemal would be the best bet. That only has
forty Ivets left in zero-tau. They can be transferred to
the Tachad or the Martijn, both of them have spare
zero-tau pods. It wouldn’t take more than a few hours.”
“Get onto it tonight,” Colin said. “And, Candace, that
means the spaceport has to be defended at all costs.
We have to be able get those troops down in the
McBoeings. There’s nowhere else for them to land. The
scouts can use VTOLs to take them direct to the
Quallheim Counties, but the rest will have to use the
McBoeings.”
“Yes, sir, I am aware of that.”
“Good, start organizing for it, then. Terrance, I want you
back here in ten days. Give me one month, and I’ll have
these bastards begging me for surrender terms.”
The gaussgun’s fragmentation round hit the man full in
his chest, and penetrated to a depth of ten centimetres,
already starting to crater the flesh, impact shock
pulverizing the entire mass of organs held within his rib
cage to mucilaginous jelly. Then it exploded, silicone
shrapnel reducing the entire body to a spherical
cascade of scarlet cells.
Will Danza grunted in acute satisfaction. “Try rebuilding
yourself out of that, my xenoc friend,” he told the
slippery red leaves.
The hostiles were impervious to almost any major
injury. The little ESA team had found that out long ago.
Gaping lacerations, severed limbs, they barely slowed
the hostiles down as they emerged from the thick
bushes to harass the party. Wounds closed up, bones
knitted in seconds. Lieutenant Jenny Harris might insist
on calling the prisoner a sequestrated colonist, but Will
knew what it really was. Xenoc monster. And its friends
wanted it back.
Twice in the last three kilometres Jenny Harris had
been forced to order a sweep-scorch pattern. The

things had been throwing that eerie white fire of theirs.
Once a ball had struck Dean Folan’s arm, burning
through the suit’s energy diffusion layer as if it wasn’t
there. The medical nanonic package they’d put on his
arm looked like a tube of translucent green
exoskeleton.
“Hey!” Dean yelled. “Get back here!”
Jenny Harris looked round. Gerald Skibbow was
running into the jungle, both arms pumping wildly.
“Shitfire,” she muttered. He had been zipcuffed a
moment ago. Dean was lining up his gaussgun.
“Mine,” she called. Her blue TIP carbine targeting
graphic centred on a tree five metres ahead of the
running man; the shots punched straight through the
slim trunk, puffs of steam and flame squirted out.
Gerald Skibbow swerved frantically as the tree toppled
across his path. Another volley of shots and the jungle
around him caught light. One final shot on his knee
knocked his legs from under him.
The three of them trotted over where he lay sprawled in
the crushed muddy vines.
“What happened?” Jenny asked. She had assigned
Dean to guard the prisoner. Unless a gaussgun was in
his back the whole time, Gerald Skibbow felt free to
cause as much trouble as possible.
Dean held up the zipcuff. It was unbroken. “I saw a
hostile,” he said. “I only turned away for a second.”
“OK,” Jenny sighed. “I wasn’t blaming you.” She bent
over Gerald Skibbow, whose grimed face was grinning
up at them, and jerked his right arm up.
There was a narrow red line braceleting the wrist, an
old scar. “Very clever,” she told him wearily. “Next time,
I’ll order Dean to slice your legs off below the knee.
We’ll see how long it takes you to grow a new pair.”
Gerald Skibbow laughed. “You don’t have that much
time available, Madame bitch.”
She straightened up. Her spine creaked and groaned
as if she was a hundred and fifty. She felt older. The
fire was crackling loudly in the surrounding bushes,
flames inhibited by the green twigs.
It was another four kilometres back to the Isakore, and

the jungle was becoming progressively thicker. Vines
here wrapped the trees like major arteries, creating a
solid hurdle of verdant mesh between the trunks.
Visibility was down to less than twenty-five metres, and
that was with enhanced senses.
We’re not going to make it, she realized.
They’d been expending gaussgun ammunition at a
heavy rate ever since they set off. They had to, nothing
else worked against the hostiles. Even the two TIP
carbines were down to forty per cent of their power
reserve. “Get him up,” she ordered curtly.
Will clamped an arm round Gerald Skibbow’s shoulder
and hauled him to his feet.
White fire burst out of the ground around Jenny’s feet,
damp loam tearing open to spit out dazzling globules
which spiralled up her legs like a liquid repelled by
gravity. She screamed at the pain as her skin blistered
and burned inside the anti-projectile suit. Her neural
nanonics isolated the nerve strands, eliminating the raw
impulses with analgesic blocks.
Will and Dean started firing their gaussguns at random
into the blank impassive jungle in the vain hope of hitting
a hostile. EE projectiles mashed the nearby trees.
Shreds of sappy vegetation whirred through the air,
forming a loose curtain behind which vivid explosions
boomed.
The viscid beads of white fire evaporated as they
reached Jenny’s hips.
She clenched her teeth against the solid ache from her
legs. Frightened by the damage her neural nanonics
were shielding her from. Frightened she couldn’t walk.
The medical program was choking up her mind with red
symbols, all of them clustered around schematics of
her legs like bees round honey. She felt faint.
“We can help you,” silver voices whispered in chorus.
“What?” she asked, disorientated. She sat on the lumpy
ground to take the strain off her legs. Her trembling
muscles had been about to dump her there anyway.
“You all right, Jenny?” Dean asked. He was standing
with the gaussgun pointing threateningly into the broken
trees.

“Did you say something?”
“Yes, are you OK?”
“I …” I’m hearing things. “We’ve got to get out of here.”
“First thing you have to do is get a medical nanonic
package on those legs. I think there’s enough,” he said,
uncertainty clouding his voice.
Jenny knew there wasn’t, not to get her patched up for
a hike of four kilometres under combat conditions. The
neural nanonics prognosis wasn’t good; the program
was activating her endocrine implant, sending a potent
stew of chemicals into her bloodstream. “No,” she said
forcefully. “We’re not going to get back to the boat like
this.”
“We ain’t going to leave you,” Will said hotly.
She grinned unseen inside her shell-helmet. “Believe
me, I wasn’t going to ask you to. Even if the medical
nanonics can get me walking, we don’t have enough
ordnance left to blast our way back to the Isakore from
here.”
“What then?” Will demanded.
Jenny requested a channel to Murphy Hewlett. Static
crashed into her neural nanonics, that eerie whistling.
“Shitfire. I can’t get the marines.” She hated the idea of
abandoning them.
“I think I can see why,” Dean said. He pointed at the
treetops. “Smoke, and plenty of it. South of here. Some
distance by the look of it. They must have laid down a
sweep-scorch pattern. They got troubles, too.”
Jenny couldn’t see any smoke. Even the leaves at the
top of the trees had turned a barren grey. Her vision
was tunnelling. A physiological-status request showed
her endocrines were barely coping with the flayed legs.
“Sling me your medical nanonics,” she said.
“Right.” Will fired six EE rounds into the jungle then
hurriedly detached his backpack and tossed it over. He
was back watching the abused trees before it reached
her.
She ordered her communications block to open a
channel to Ralph Hiltch, then turned the backpack
seal’s catch and fumbled around inside. Instead of the

seal’s catch and fumbled around inside. Instead of the
subliminal digital bleep that signalled the block was
interfacing with the geosynchronous platform, all she
heard was a monotonous buzz.
“Will, Dean, open a channel to the geosync platform,
maybe a combined broadcast will get through.” She
picked up her TIP carbine, and pointed it at Gerald
Skibbow, who was squatting sullenly beside a swath of
vines four metres away. “And you, if I think you are part
of the jamming effort, I will start a little experiment to
see exactly how much thermal energy you can fight off.
You got me, Mr. Skibbow? Is this message getting
through the electronic warfare barrier?”
The communication block reported the channel to the
embassy was open.
“What’s happening?” Ralph Hiltch asked.
“Trouble, ” Jenny broke off to hiss loudly. The medical
nanonic package was contracting round her left leg, it
felt as though a thousand acid-tipped needles were
jabbing into the roasted gouges as the furry inner
surface knitted with her flesh. She had to order the
neural nanonics to block all the nerve impulses. Her
legs went completely numb, lacking even the heavy
vacuum feeling of chemical anaesthetics. “Boss, I hope
that fall-back scheme of yours works. Because we
need it pretty badly. Now, boss.”
“OK, Jenny. I’m putting it in motion. ETA fifteen minutes,
can you hang on that long?”
“No problem,” Will said. He sounded indecently
cheerful.
“Are you secure where you are?” Ralph asked.
“Our security situation wouldn’t change if we moved,”
Jenny told him, marvelling at her own understatement.
“OK, I’ve got your coordinates. Use your TIP carbines
to scorch a clearing at least fifty metres across. I’ll
need it for a landing-zone.”
“Yes, sir.”
“I’m on my way.”
Jenny swapped her TIP carbine for Dean’s gaussgun.
By sitting with her back to a tree she could keep it
pointed at Gerald Skibbow. The two G66 troops began

slashing at the jungle with their TIP carbines.
The captain of the Ekwan was a middle-aged woman in
a blue ship-suit, with the kind of robust, lanky figure that
suggested she was from a space-adapted geneered
family. The AV projector showed her floating ten
centimetres above the acceleration couch in her
compact cabin. “How did you know we were leaving
orbit?” she asked. Her voice was slightly distorted by a
curious whistle that was coming through the relay from
the LDC’s geosynchronous communication platform.
Graeme Nicholson smiled thinly at her puzzled tone. He
diverted his eyes from the projection for a second. On
the other side of Durringham spaceport’s flight control
centre Langly Bradburn rolled his eyes and turned back
to his monitor console.
“I have a contact in the Kulu Embassy,” Graeme said,
returning to the projection.
“This isn’t a commercial flight,” the captain said, a fair
amount of resentment bubbling into her voice.
“I know.” Graeme had heard of the Kulu Ambassador
throwing his authority around and virtually
commandeering the Kulu-registered colonist-carrier.
A situation which became even more interesting when
he discovered from Langly that it was Cathal Fitzgerald
who was in orbit making sure the captain did as she
was told. Cathal Fitzgerald was one of Ralph Hiltch’s
people. And now, as Graeme looked through the flight
control centre’s window, he could see a queue of
people standing on the nearby hangar apron, shoulders
angled against the rain as they embarked on a
passenger McBoeing BDA-9008. The entire embassy
staff and dependants. “But it is only one memory flek,”
he said winningly. “And the Time Universe office will pay
a substantial bonus when you hand it in to them, I can
assure you of that.”
“I haven’t been told where we’re going yet.”
“We have offices in every Confederation system. And it
would be a personal favour,” Graeme emphasized.
There was a pause as the captain worked out that she
would receive the entire carriage fee herself. “Very
well, Mr. Nicholson. Give it to the McBoeing pilot, I’ll
meet him when he docks.”

“Thank you, Captain, pleasure doing business with
you.”
“I thought you sent a flek out with the Gemal this
morning?” Langly observed as Graeme switched off the
metre-high projection pillar.
“I did, old boy. Just covering my back.”
“Are people really going to be interested in a riot on
Lalonde? Nobody even knows this planet even exists.”
“They will. Oh, indeed they will.”
Rain slammed against the little spaceplane’s fuselage
as it dived out through the bottom of the clouds. It made
a fast rattling sound against the tough silicolithium-
composite skin. Individual drops burst into streaks of
steam, vaporized by the friction heat of the craft’s
Mach five velocity.
Looking over the pilot’s shoulder Ralph Hiltch saw the
jungle blurring past below. It was grey-green, sprinkled
by flexuous strands of mist. Up ahead was a broad
band of brighter grey where the clouds ended, and
getting broader.
“Ninety seconds,” Kieron Syson, the pilot, shouted over
the noise.
A loud metallic whirring filled the small cabin as the
wings began to swing forward. The spaceplane pitched
up at a sharp angle, and the noise of the rain impacts
increased until talking was impossible. Deceleration hit
three gees, forcing Ralph back into one of the cabin’s
six plastic seats.
Sunlight burst into the cabin with a fast rainbow flash.
The sound of the rain vanished. They levelled out as
their speed dropped to subsonic.
“We’ll need a complete structure fatigue check after
this,” Kieron Syson complained. “Nobody flies
supersonic through rain, half the leading edges have
abraded down to their safety margins.”
“Don’t worry about it,” Ralph told him. “It’ll be paid for.”
He turned to check with Cathal Fitzgerald. Both of them
were wearing the same model of olive green one-piece
anti-projectile suits as Jenny and the two G66 troops. It
had been a long time since Ralph had dressed for
combat, a cool tension was compressing his body

inside and out.
“Looks like your people have been having themselves a
wild time,” Kieron said.
Away in the southern distance a vast column of dense
soot-laden smoke was rising high into the pale blue sky,
a ring of flames dancing round its base. Ten kilometres
to the east a kilometre-wide ebony crater had been
burned out of the trees.
The spaceplane banked sharply, variable-camber wings
twisting elastically to circle it round a third, smaller,
blackened clearing. This one was only a hundred
metres across. Small licks of flame fluttered from the
fallen trees around the perimeter, and thin blue smoke
formed a mushroom dome of haze. There was a small
green island of withered vegetation in the exact centre.
“That’s them,” Kieron said as the spaceplane’s
guidance systems locked on to the signal from Jenny
Harris’s communication block.
Four people were standing on the crush of vine leaves
and grass. As Ralph watched, one of them fired a
gaussgun into the jungle.
“Down and grab them,” he told Kieron. “And make it
fast.”
Kieron whistled through closed teeth. “Why me, Lord?”
he muttered stoically.
Ralph heard the fan nozzles rotate to the vertical, and
the undercarriage clunked as it unfolded. They were
swinging round the black scorch zone in decreasing
circles. He ordered his communication block to open a
local channel to Jenny Harris.
“We’re coming down in fifty seconds,” he told her. “Get
ready to run.”
The cabin airlock’s outer hatch hinged open, showing
him the fuselage shield sliding back. A blast of hot,
moist air hurtled in, along with the howl of the
compressors.
“Faster, boss,” Jenny shouted, her voice raw. “We’ve
only got thirty gaussgun rounds left. Once we stop this
suppression fire they’ll hit the spaceplane with
everything they’ve got.”

A fine black powder was churning through the cabin like
a sable sandstorm. Environment-contamination
warnings sounded above the racket from the
compressors, amber lights winked frantically on the
forward bulkhead.
“Land us now,” Ralph ordered Kieron. “Cathal, give
them some covering fire, scorch that jungle.”
The compressor noise changed, becoming strident.
Cathal Fitzgerald moved into the airlock, bracing
himself against the outer hatch rim. He began to swing
his TIP carbine in long arcs. A sheet of flame lashed
the darkening sky around the edge of the clearing.
“Ten seconds,” Kieron said. “I’ll get as close to them as
I can.”
Ash rose up in a cyclonic blizzard as the compressor
nozzle efflux splashed against the ground. Visibility was
reduced drastically. An orange glow from the flames
fluoresced dimly on one side of the spaceplane.
Jenny Harris watched the craft touch and bounce, then
settle. She could just make out the name Ekwan on the
narrow, angled tail. Ralph Hiltch and Cathal Fitzgerald
were two indistinct figures hanging on to the side of the
open airlock. One of them was waving madly; she
guessed it was Ralph.
Will Danza fired the last of his gaussgun rounds, and
dropped the big weapon. “Empty,” he muttered in
disgust. His TIP carbine came up, and he started
adding to the flames.
“Come on, move!” Ralph’s datavise was tangled with
discordant static.
“Get Skibbow in,” Jenny ordered Dean and Will. “I’ll
cover our backs.” She brought her TIP carbine to bear
on the soot-occluded jungle, putting her back to the
spaceplane.
Will and Dean grabbed Gerald Skibbow and started to
drag him towards the sleek little craft.
Jenny limped after them, trailing by several metres. The
last heavy duty power cell banged against her side, its
energy level down to seven per cent. She reduced the
carbine’s rate of fire, and fired off fifteen shots blindly.
Grunting and shuffling sounds were coming down her
headset, relayed by the suit’s audio pick-ups. She

flicked to her rear optical sensors for a moment and
saw Gerald Skibbow putting up a struggle as four
people tried to haul him through the spaceplane’s
airlock hatch. Ralph Hiltch slammed his carbine butt into
Gerald’s face. Blood poured out of the colonist’s
broken nose, dazing him long enough for Will to shove
his legs through.
Jenny switched her attention back to her forward view.
Five figures were solidifying out of the swirl of ash.
They were stooped humanoids; like big apes, she
thought. Blue targeting graphics closed like a noose
around one. She fired, sending it flailing backwards.
A ball of white fire raced out of the gloom, too fast to
duck. It splashed over her TIP carbine, intensifying. The
weapon casing distorted, buckling as though it was
made of soft wax. She couldn’t free her fingers from the
grip; it had melted round them. Her throat voiced a
desolate cry as the terrible fire bit hard into her
knuckles. The flaming remnants of the carbine fell to the
ground. She held up her hand; there were no fingers or
thumb, only the smoking stump of her palm. Her cry
turned to a wail, and she tripped over a root protruding
from the loam. The woody strand coiled fluidly round her
ankle like a malicious serpent. Four dark figures
loomed closer, a fifth lumbering up behind.
She twisted round on the ground. The spaceplane was
twelve metres away.
Gerald Skibbow was lying on the floor of the airlock with
two suited figures on top of him pinning him down. He
looked straight at Jenny, a gleeful sneer on his blooded
lips. The root tightened its vicelike grip, cutting into her
ankle. He was doing it, she knew that then.
“Lift,” she datavised. “Ralph, for God’s sake lift. Get
him to Ombey.”
“Jenny!”
“Make it mean something.”
One of the dark figures landed on her. It was a man,
strangely corpulent, bulky without being fat; thick matted
hair covered his entire body. Then she couldn’t see
anything; his belly was pressed against her shell-
helmet.
That quiet chorus spoke to her again. “There is no
need for fear,” it said. “Let us help you.”

Another of the man-things gripped her knees, his
buttocks squashing her damaged legs into the ground.
The front of her anti-projectile suit was ripped open. It
was difficult to breathe now.
“Jenny! Oh Christ, I can’t shoot, they’re on top of her.”
“Lift!” she begged. “Just lift.”
All the neural nanonics analgesic blocks seemed to
have collapsed. The pain from her legs and hand was
debilitating, crushing her thoughts. More ripping sounds
penetrated her dimming universe. She felt hot, damp air
gust across her bared crotch.
“We can stop it,” the chorus told her. “We can save
you. Let us in.” There was a pressure against her
thoughts, like a warm dry wind blowing through her skull.
“Go to hell,” she moaned. She sent one final diamond-
hard thought needling into her faltering neural nanonics,
a kamikaze code. The order was transferred into the
high-density power cell, shorting it out. She wondered if
there would be enough energy left for an explosion big
enough to engulf all the man-things.
There was.
The Ekwan fell around Lalonde’s equator, six hundred
kilometres above the brown and ochre streaks of the
deserts which littered the continent of Sarell. With its
five windmill-sail thermo-dump panels extended from its
central section, the colonist-carrier was rotating slowly
about its drive axis, completing one revolution every
twenty minutes. A passenger McBoeing BDA-9008 was
docked to an airlock tube on its forward hull.
It was a tranquil scene, starship and spaceplane sliding
silently over Sarell’s rocky shores and out across the
deepening blues of the ocean.
Thousands of kilometres ahead, the terminator cast a
black veil over half of Amarisk. Every few minutes a
puff of smoky yellow vapour would flash out of a vernier
nozzle between the starship’s thermo-dump panels,
gone in an eyeblink.
Such nonchalant technological prowess created an
effect which totally belied the spectacle inside the
airlock tube, where children cried and threw up and red-
faced parents cursed as they fended off the obnoxious
sticky globules. Nobody had been given time to prepare

for the departure; all they had brought with them was
clothes and valuable items stuffed hastily into shoulder-
bags. Children hadn’t even been given anti-nausea
drugs. The embassy staffers shouted back and forth in
angry tones, disguising both relief at leaving Lalonde
and disgust at the flying vomit. But the Ekwan’s crew
were used to the behaviour of planet dwellers; they
floated around with hand-held suction sanitizers, and
cajoled the reluctant children towards one of the five big
zero-tau compartments.
Captain Farrah Montgomery watched the picture
projected from an AV pillar on the bridge command
console, indifferent to the suffering. She’d seen it all
before, a thousand times over. “Are you going to tell me
where we are heading?” she asked the man strapped
into her executive officer’s acceleration couch. “I can
start plotting our course vector. Might save some time.”
“Ombey,” said Sir Asquith Parish, Kulu’s Ambassador
to Lalonde.
“You’re the boss,” she said acidly.
“I don’t like this any more than you.”
“We’ve got three thousand colonists left in zero-tau.
What are you going to tell them when we get to the
Principality?”
“I’ve no idea. Though once they hear what’s actually
happening down on the surface I doubt they’ll complain.”
Captain Montgomery thought about the flek in her
breast pocket with a glimmer of guilt. The reports they’d
been receiving from Durringham over the past week
were pretty garbled, too. Maybe they were better off
leaving. At least she could transfer the responsibility to
the ambassador when the line company started asking
questions.
“How soon before we can leave orbit?” Sir Asquith
asked.
“As soon as Kieron gets back. You know, you had no
right to send him on a flight like that.”
“We can wait for two more orbits.”
“I’m not leaving without my pilot.”
“If they’re not airborne by then, you don’t have a pilot

any more.”
She turned her head to look at him. “Just what is going
on down there?”
“I wish I knew, Captain. But I can tell you I’m bloody glad
we’re leaving.”
The McBoeing undocked as the Ekwan moved into the
penumbra. Its pilot fired the orbital manoeuvring
rockets, and it dropped away into an elliptical orbit
which would intercept Lalonde’s upper atmosphere.
Ekwan started her preflight checks, testing the ion
thrusters, priming the fusion tubes. The crew scurried
through the life-support capsules, securing loose
fittings and general rubbish.
“Got him,” the navigation officer called out.
Captain Montgomery datavised the flight computer,
requesting the external sensor images.
A long contrail of blue-white plasma stretched out
across Amarisk’s darkened eastern side, its star-head
racing over the seaboard mountains.
Already fifty kilometres high and rising. Bright enough to
send a backwash of lame phosphorescent light skating
over the snow-capped peaks.
Ekwan’s flight computer acknowledged a
communication channel opening.
Ralph Hiltch watched the hyped-up Kieron Syson start
to relax once he could datavise the starship again. It
should have been something for Ralph to be thankful
about, too, communications had been impossible in the
aftermath of the landing. Instead he treated it like a non-
event, he expected nothing less than the
communications block to work. They were owed
functional circuitry.
Environment-contamination warning lights were still
winking amber, though the pilot had shut off the cabin’s
audio alarm. The air was dry and calciferous,
scratching the back of Ralph’s throat. Gravity was
falling off as they soared ever higher above the ocean,
curving up to rendezvous with the big colonist-carrier.
The prolonged bass roar of the reaction rockets was
reducing.
The air they breathed was bad enough, but the human

atmosphere in the spaceplane’s confined cabin was
murderous. Gerald Skibbow sat at the rear of the cabin,
shrunk down into his plastic seat, a zipcuff restraining
each wrist against the armrests, his hands white
knuckled as he gripped the cushioning. He had been
subdued since the airlock hatch closed. But then Will
and Dean were looking hard for an excuse to rip his
head off.
Jenny’s death had been fast (thank God) but very, very
messy.
Ralph knew he should be reviewing the memory of the
ape-analogue creatures, gaining strategically critical
information on the threat they faced, but he just couldn’t
bring himself to do it. Let the ESA office on Ombey
study the memory sequence, they wouldn’t be so
emotionally involved. Jenny had been a damn good
officer, and a friend.
The spaceplane’s reaction drive cut off. Free fall left
Ralph’s stomach rising up through his chest. He
accessed a nausea-suppression program and quickly
activated it.
Huddled in his chair, Gerald Skibbow began to tremble
as the forked strands of his filthy, blood-soaked beard
waved about in front of his still-bleeding nose.
Ekwan’s hangar was a cylindrical chamber ribbed by
metal struts; the walls were composed of shadows and
crinkled silver blankets. The spaceplane, wings fully
retracted, eased its squashed-bullet nose through the
open doors into the waiting clamp ring. Actuators slid
catches into a circle of load sockets behind the radar
dome, and the craft was drawn inside.
Three of Ekwan’s security personnel, experts at
handling troublesome Ivets in free fall, swam into the
cabin, coughing at the ash dust which filled the air.
Will took the zipcuffs off Gerald Skibbow. “Run, why
don’t you,” he said silkily.
Gerald Skibbow gave him a contemptuous glance,
which turned to outright alarm as he rose into the air.
Hands clawed frantically for a grip on the cabin ceiling.
He wound up clutching a grab loop for dear life.
The grinning security personnel closed in.
“Just tow him the whole way,” Ralph told them. “And

you, Skibbow, don’t cause any trouble. We’ll be right
behind, and we’re armed.”
“You can’t use TIP carbines in the ship,” one of the
security men protested.
“Oh, really? Try me.”
Gerald Skibbow reluctantly let go of the grab loop, and
let the men tug him along by his arms. The eight-strong
group drifted out into the tubular corridor connecting the
hangar to one of the life-support capsules.
Sir Asquith Parish was waiting outside the zero-tau
compartment, a stikpad holding his feet in place. He
gave Gerald Skibbow a distasteful look. “You lost Jenny
Harris for him?”
“Yes, sir,” Will said through clamped teeth.
Sir Asquith recoiled.
“Whatever sequestrated him has several ancillary
energy-manipulation functions,” Ralph explained. “He is
lethal; one on one, he’s better than any of us.”
The ambassador gave Gerald Skibbow a fast
reappraisal. Light strips circling the corridor outside the
zero-tau compartment hatch flickered and dimmed.
“Stop it,” Dean growled. He jabbed his TIP carbine into
the small of Skibbow’s back.
The light strips came up to full strength again.
Gerald Skibbow laughed jauntily at the shaken
ambassador as the security men shoved him through
the hatch. Ralph Hiltch cocked an ironic eyebrow, then
followed them in.
The zero-tau compartment was a big sphere, sliced into
sections by mesh decking that was only three metres
apart. It didn’t look finished; it was poorly lit, with bare
metal girders and kilometres of power cable stuck to
every surface. The sarcophagus pods formed long
silent ranks, their upper surface a blank void. Most of
them were activated, holding the colonists who had
gambled their future on conquering Lalonde.
Gerald Skibbow was manoeuvred to an open pod just
inside the hatchway. He glanced around the
compartment, his head turning in fractured movements
to take in the compartment. The security men holding

him felt his muscles tensing.
“Don’t even think of it,” one said.
He was propelled firmly towards the waiting pod.
“No,” he said.
“Get in,” Ralph told him impatiently.
“No. Not that. Please. I’ll be good, I’ll behave.”
“Get in.”
“No.”
One of the security men anchored himself to the
decking grid with a toe clip, and tugged him down.
“No!” He gripped both sides of the open pod, his
features stone-carved with determination. “I won’t!” he
shouted.
“In!”
“No.”
All three security men were pushing and shoving at him.
Gerald Skibbow strove against them. Will tucked a leg
round a nearby girder, and smacked the butt of his TIP
carbine against Gerald Skibbow’s left hand. There was
a crunch as the bones broke.
He howled, but managed to keep hold. His fingers
turned purple, the skin undulating. “No!”
The carbine came down again. Ralph put his hands flat
against the decking above, and stood on Gerald
Skibbow’s back, knees straining, trying to thrust him
down into the pod.
Gerald Skibbow’s broken hand slipped a couple of
centimetres, leaving a red smear. “Stop this, stop this.”
Rivulets of white light began to shiver across his torso.
Ralph felt as though his own spine was going to snap,
the force his boosted muscles were exerting against
his skeleton was tremendous. The soles of his feet
were tingling sharply, the worms of white light coiling
round his ankles. “Dean, switch the pod on the second
he’s in.”
“Sir.”

The hand slipped again. Gerald Skibbow started a high-
pitched animal wailing. Will hammered away at his left
elbow. Firefly sparks streaked back up the carbine
every time it hit, as though he was striking flint.
“Get in, you bastard,” one of the security men shouted,
nearly purple from the effort, face shrivelled like a
rubber mask.
Gerald Skibbow gave way, the arm Will had hammered
on finally losing hold. He crashed down into the bottom
of the pod with an oof of air punched out through his
open mouth. Ralph cried out at the shock of the jolt that
was transmitted back up his cramped legs. The curving
lid of the pod began to slide into place, and he bent his
knees frantically, lifting his legs out of the way.
“No!” Gerald Skibbow shouted. He had begun to glow
like a hologram profile, rainbow colours shining bright in
the compartment’s gloom. His voice was cut off by the
lid sliding into place, and it locked with a satisfying
mechanical click. There was a muffled thud of a fist
striking the composite.
“Where’s the bloody zero-tau?” Will said. “Where is it?”
The lid of the pod hadn’t changed, there was no sign of
the slippery black field effect. Gerald Skibbow was
pounding away on the inside with the fervor of a man
buried alive.
“It’s on,” Dean shouted hoarsely from the operator’s
control panel.
“Christ, it’s on, it’s drawing power.”
Ralph stared at the sarcophagus in desperation. Work,
he pleaded silently, come on fuck you, work! Jenny died
for this.
“Switch on, you shit!” Will screamed at it.
Gerald Skibbow stopped punching the side of the pod.
A black emptiness irised over the lid.
Will let out a sob of exhausted breath.
Ralph realized he was clinging weakly to one of the
girders, the real fear had been that Gerald Skibbow
would break out. “Tell the captain we’re ready,” he said
in a drained voice. “I want to get him to Ombey as
quickly as we can.”

===========================================================================

Chapter 02
^
The event horizon around Villeneuve’s Revenge
dissolved the instant the starship expanded out to its full
forty-eight-metre size. Solar wind and emaciated light
from New California’s distant sun fell on the dark silicon
hull which its disappearance exposed. Short-range
combat sensors slid out of their jump recesses with
smooth animosity, metallic black tumours inset with
circular gold-mirror lenses. They scoured a volume of
space five hundred kilometres across, hungry for a
specific shape.
Data streams from the sensors sparkled through Erick
Thakrar’s mind, a rigid symbolic language written in
monochromic light. Cursors chased through the vast
constantly reconfiguring displays, closing in on an
explicit set of values like circling photonic-sculpture
vultures.
Radiation, mass, and laser returns slotted neatly into
their parameter definition.
The Krystal Moon materialized out of the fluttering
binary fractals, hanging in space two hundred and sixty
kilometres away. An interplanetary cargo ship, eighty
metres long; a cylindrical life-support capsule at one
end, silver-foil-cloaked tanks and dull-red fusion-drive
tube clustered at the other. Thermo-dump panels
formed a ruff collar on the outside of the environmental-
engineering deck just below the life-support capsule;
communication dishes jutted out of a grid tower on the
front of it. The ship’s midsection was a hexagonal
gantry supporting five rings of standard cargo-pods,
some of them plugged into the environmental deck via
thick cables and hoses.
A slender twenty-five-metre flame of hazy blue plasma
burnt steadily from the fusion tube, accelerating the
Krystal Moon at an unvarying sixtieth of a gee. It had
departed Tehama asteroid five days ago with its cargo
of industrial machinery and microfusion generators,
bound for the Ukiah asteroid settlement in the outer
asteroid belt Dana, which orbited beyond the gas giant
Sacramento. Of the star’s three asteroid belts, Dana
was the least populated; traffic this far out was thin.
Krystal Moon’s sole link to civilization (and navy
protection) was its microwave communication beam,
focused on Ukiah, three hundred and twenty million

kilometres ahead.
Erick’s neural nanonics reported that pattern lock was
complete. He commanded the X-ray lasers to fire.
Two hundred and fifty kilometres away, the Krystal
Moon’s microwave dishes burst apart into a swirl of
aluminium snowflakes. A long brown scar appeared on
the forward hull of the life-support capsule.
God, I hope no one was in the cabin below.
Erick tried to push that thought right back to the bottom
of his mind.
Straying out of character, even for a second, could
quite easily cost him his life. They’d drilled that into him
enough times back at the academy.
There was even a behavioural consistency program
loaded into his neural nanonics to catch any wildly
inaccurate reactions. But flinches and sudden gasps
could be equally damning.
The Villeneuve’s Revenge triggered its fusion drive,
and accelerated in towards the stricken cargo ship at
five and a half gees. Erick sent another two shots from
the X-ray cannon squirting into the Krystal Moon’s
fusion tube. Its drive flame died. Coolant fluid vented
out of a tear in the casing, hidden somewhere in the
deep shadows on the side away from the sun, the
fountain fluorescing grey-blue as it jetted out from
behind the ship.
“Nice going, Erick,” Andre Duchamp commented. He
had the secondary fire-control program loaded in his
own neural nanonics. If the newest crew-member hadn’t
fired he could have taken over within milliseconds.
Despite Erick’s performance in the Catalina Bar, Andre
had a single nagging doubt. After all, O’Flaherty was
one of their own, after a fashion, and eliminating him
didn’t require many qualms no matter who you were; but
firing on an unarmed civil ship … You have earned your
place on board, Andre said silently. He cancelled his
fire-control program.
Villeneuve’s Revenge was a hundred and twenty
kilometres from the Krystal Moon when Andre turned
the starship and started decelerating. The hangar
doors began to slide open. He started to whistle against
the push of the heavy gee force.

He had a right to be pleased. Even though it had only
been a tiny interplanetary jump, two hundred and sixty
kilometres was an excellent separation distance. Since
leaving Tehama, Villeneuve’s Revenge had been in
orbit around Sacramento. They had extended every
sensor, focusing along the trajectory Lance Coulson
had sold them until they had found the faint splash of
the Krystal Moon’s exhaust. With its exact position and
acceleration available in real time, it was just a question
of manufacturing themselves a jump coordinate.
Two hundred and sixty kilometres, there were
voidhawks that would be pushed to match that kind of
accuracy.
Thermo-dump panels stayed inside the monobonded
silicon hull as the Villeneuve’s Revenge rendezvoused
with Krystal Moon. The jump nodes were fully charged.
Andre was cautious, they might need to leave in a
hurry.
It had happened before; stealthed voidhawks lying in
wait, Confederation Navy Marines hiding in the cargo-
pods. Not to him, though.
“Bev, give our target an active sensor sweep, please,”
Andre ordered.
“Yes, Captain,” Bev Lennon said. The combat sensors
sent out fingers of questing radiation to probe the
Krystal Moon.
The brilliant lance of fusion fire at the rear of the
Villeneuve’s Revenge sank away to a minute bubble of
radiant helium clinging to the tube’s nozzle. Krystal
Moon was six kilometres away, wobbling slightly from
the impulse imparted by the venting coolant fluid.
Thrusters flared around the rear bays, trying to
compensate and stabilize.
Ion thrusters on the Villeneuve’s Revenge fired,
nudging the bulky starship in towards its floundering
prey. Brendon piloted the multifunction service vehicle
up out of the hangar and set off towards the Krystal
Moon. One of the cargo-bay doors slowly hinged
upwards behind him.
“Come on, Brendon,” Andre murmured impatiently as
the small auxiliary craft rode its bright yellow chemical
rocket exhaust across the gap.
Ukiah traffic control would know the communication link

had been severed in another twelve minutes; it would
take the bureaucrats a few minutes to react, then
sensors would review the Krystal Moon’s track. They’d
see the spaceship’s fusion drive was off, coupled with
the lack of an emergency distress beacon. That could
only mean one thing. The navy would be alerted, and if
the Villeneuve’s Revenge was really unlucky a patrolling
voidhawk would investigate. Andre was allowing twenty
minutes maximum for the raid.
“It checks out clean,” Bev Lennon reported. “But the
crew must have survived that first X-ray laser strike, I’m
picking up electronic emissions from inside the life-
support capsule. The flight computers are still active.”
“And they’ve suppressed the distress beacon,” Andre
said. “That’s smart, they must know we’d slice that can
in half to silence any shout for help. Maybe they’ll be in
a cooperative mood.” He datavised the flight computer
to open an inter-ship channel.
Erick heard the hiss of static fill the dimly lit bridge as
the AV pillar was activated. A series of musical bleeps
came with it, then the distinct sound of a child crying.
He saw Madeleine Collum’s head come up from her
acceleration couch, turning in the direction of the
communication console. Blue and red shadows flowed
over her gaunt, shaven skull.
“Krystal Moon, acknowledge contact,” Andre said.
“Acknowledge?” a ragged outraged male voice shouted
out of the AV pillar.
“You shithead animal, two of my crew are dead. Fried!
Tina was fifteen years old!”
Erick’s neural nanonics staunched the sudden damp
fire in his eyes. A fifteen-year-old girl. Great God
Almighty! These interplanetary ships were often family
operated affairs, cousins and siblings combining into
crews.
“Release the latches on pods DK-30-91 and DL-30-
07,” Andre said as though he hadn’t heard. “That’s all
we’re here for.”
“Screw you.”
“We’ll cut them free anyway, Anglo, and if we cut then
the capsule will be included. I’ll open your hull up to
space like the foil on a freeze-dried food packet.”

A visual check through the combat sensors showed
Erick the MSV was two hundred metres away from the
Krystal Moon. Desmond Lafoe had already fitted laser
cutters to the craft’s robot arms; the spindly white
waldos were running through a preprogrammed
articulation test. Villeneuve’s Revenge was lumbering
along after the smaller, more agile, auxiliary craft; three
kilometres away now.
“We’ll think about it,” said the voice.
“Daddy!” the girl in the background wailed. “Daddy,
make them go away.”
A woman shushed her, sounding fearful.
“Don’t think about it,” Andre said. “Just do it.”
The channel went silent.
“Bastards,” Andre muttered. “Erick, put another blast
through that capsule.”
“If we kill them, they can’t release the pods.”
Andre scowled darkly. “Scare them, don’t kill them.”
Erick activated one of the starship’s lasers; it was
designed for close-range interception, the last layer of
defence against incoming combat wasps. Powerful and
highly accurate. He reduced the power level to five per
cent, and lined it up on the front of the life-support
capsule.
The infrared beam sliced a forty-centimetre circle out
of the foam-covered hull. Steamy gas erupted out of the
breach.
Andre grunted at what he considered to be Erick’s
display of timidity, and opened the inter-ship channel
again. “Release the pods.”
There was no answer. Erick couldn’t hear the girl any
more.
Brendon guided the MSV around the rings of barrel-like
cargo-pods circling the Krystal Moon’s midsection. He
found the first pod containing microfusion generators,
and focused the MSV’s external cameras on it. The
latch clamps of the cradle it was lying in were closed
solidly round the load pins. Sighing regretfully at the time
and effort it would cost to cut the pod free, he engaged

the MSV’s attitude lock, keeping station above the pod,
then datavised the waldo-control computer to extend
the arm. Droplets of molten metal squirted out where
the cutting laser sliced through the clamps, a
micrometeorite swarm glowing as if they were grazing
an atmosphere.
“Something’s happening,” Bev Lennon reported. The
electronic sensors were showing him power circuits
coming alive inside the Krystal Moon’s life-support
capsule. Atmosphere was still spewing out of the
lasered hole, unchecked. “Hey, “
A circular section of the hull blew out. Erick’s mind
automatically directed the X-ray lasers towards the hole
revealed by the crumpled sheet of metal as it twirled off
towards the stars. A small craft rose out of the hole,
ascending on a pillar of flame. Recognition was
immediate: lifeboat.
It was a cone, four metres across at the base, five
metres high; with a doughnut of equipment and tanks
wrapped round the nose. Tarnished-silver protective
foam reflected distorted star-specks. The lifeboat could
sustain six people for a month in space, or jettison the
equipment doughnut and land on a terracompatible
planet. Cheaper than supplying the crew with zero-tau
pods, and given that the mother ship would only be
operating in an inhabited star system, just as safe.
“Merde, now we’ll have to laser every latch clamp,”
Andre complained. He could see that Brendon had cut
loose half of the first pod. By his own timetable, they
had nine minutes left. It was going to be a close-run
thing. “Knock that bloody lifeboat out, Erick.”
“No,” Erick said calmly. The lifeboat had stopped
accelerating. Its spent solid rocket booster was
jettisoned.
“I gave you an order.”
“Piracy is one thing; I’m not being a party to slaughter.
There are children on that lifeboat.”
“He’s right, Andre,” Madeleine Collum said.
“Merde! All right, but once Brendon has those pods cut
free I want the Krystal Moon vaporized. That bloody
captain has put our necks on the block by defying us, I
want him ruined.”

“Yes, Captain,” Erick said. How typical, he thought, we
can go in with lasers blazing, but if anyone fights back,
that’s unfair. When we get back to Tranquillity, I’m going
to take a great deal of unprofessional pride in having
Andre Duchamp committed to a penal planet.
They made it with forty-five seconds to spare. Brendon
cut both cargo-pods free, and manoeuvred them into
the waiting cargo hold in the Villeneuve’s Revenge. X-
ray lasers started to chop at the Krystal Moon as the
MSV docked with its own cradle to be drawn gingerly
into the hangar bay. The remaining cargo-pods were
split open, spilling their wrecked contents out into the
void. Structural spars melted, twisting as though they
were being chewed. Tanks were punctured, creating a
huge vapour cloud that chased outward, its fringes
swirling round the retreating lifeboat.
The starship’s hangar door slid shut. Combat sensors
retreated back into the funereal hull. An event horizon
sprang up around the Villeneuve’s Revenge. The
starship shrank. Vanished.
Floating alone amid the fragmented debris and vacuum-
chilled nebula, the lifeboat let out a passionless
electromagnetic shriek for help.
The word was out even before the Lady Macbeth
docked at Tranquillity’s spaceport. Joshua’s landed the
big one. On his first Norfolk run, for Heaven’s sake.
How does he do it? Something about that guy is
uncanny.
Lucky little sod.
Joshua led his crew into a packed Harkey’s Bar. The
band played a martial welcome with plangent trumpets;
four of the waitresses were standing on the beer-
slopped bar, short black skirts letting everyone see
their knickers (or not, in one case); crews and groups
of spaceport workers whistled, cheered, and jeered.
One long table was loaded down with bottles of wine
and champagne in troughs of ice; Harkey himself stood
at the end, a smile in place. Everyone quietened down.
Joshua looked round slowly, an immensely smug grin in
place. This must be what Alastair II saw from his state
coach every day. It was fabulous. “Do you want a
speech?”
“NO!”

His arm swept out expansively towards Harkey. He
bowed low, relishing the theatre. “Then open the
bottles.”
There was a rush for the table, conversation even loud
enough to drown out Warlow erupted as though
someone had switched on a stack of AV pillars, the
band struck up, and the waitresses struggled with the
corks.
Joshua pushed a bemused and slightly awestruck
Gideon Kavanagh off on Ashly Hanson, and snatched
some glasses from the drinks table. He was kissed a
great many times on his way to the corner booth where
Barrington Grier and Roland Frampton were waiting. He
loaded visual images and names of three of the girls
into his neural nanonics for future reference.
Roland Frampton was rising to his feet, a slightly
apprehensive smile flicking on and off, obviously
worried by exactly how big the cargo was, he had
contracted to buy all of it. But he shook Joshua warmly
by the hand. “I thought I’d better come here,” he said in
amusement. “It would take you days to reach my office.
You’re the talk of Tranquillity.”
“Really?”
Barrington Grier gave him a pat on the shoulder and
they all sat down.
“That Kelly girl was asking after you,” Barrington said.
“Ah.” Joshua shifted round. Kelly Tirrel, his neural
nanonics file supplied, Collins news corp reporter. “Oh,
right. How is she?”
“Looked pretty good to me. She’s on the broadcasts a
lot these days. Presents the morning news for Collins
three times a week.”
“Good. Good. Glad to hear it.” Joshua took a small
bottle of Norfolk Tears from the inside pocket of the
gold-yellow jacket he was wearing over his ship-suit.
Roland Frampton stared at it as he would a cobra.
“This is the Cricklade bouquet,” Joshua said smoothly.
He settled the three glasses on their table, and twisted
the bottle’s cork slowly. “I’ve tasted it. One of the finest
on the planet. They bottle it in Stoke county.” The clear
liquid flowed out of the pear-shaped bottle.

They all lifted a glass, Roland Frampton studying his
against the yellow wall lights.
“Cheers,” Joshua said, and took a drink. A dragon
breathed its diabolical fire into his belly.
Roland Frampton sipped delicately. “Oh, Christ, it’s
perfect.” He glanced at Joshua. “How much did you
bring? There have been rumours …”
Joshua made a show of producing his inventory. It was
a piece of neatly printed paper with Grant Kavanagh’s
stylish signature on the bottom in black ink.
“Three thousand cases!” Roland Frampton squeaked,
his eyes protruded.
Barrington Grier gave Joshua a sharp glance, and
plucked the inventory from Roland’s hands. “Bloody
hell,” he murmured.
Roland was dabbing at his forehead with a silk
handkerchief. “This is wonderful. Yes, wonderful. But I
wasn’t expecting quite so much, Joshua. Nothing
personal, it’s just that first-time captains don’t normally
bring back so much. There are arrangements I have to
make … the bank. It will take time.”
“Of course.”
“You’ll wait?” Roland Frampton asked eagerly.
“You were very good to me when I started out. So I
think I can wait a couple of days.”
Roland’s hand sliced through the air, he ended up
making a fist just above the table. Determination visibly
returned his old spark. “Right, I’ll have a Jovian Bank
draft for you in thirty hours. I won’t forget this, Joshua.
And one day I want to be told how you did it.”
“Maybe.”
Roland drained his glass in one gulp and stood up.
“Thirty hours.”
“Fine. If I’m not about, give it to one of the crew. I
expect they’ll still be here.”
Joshua watched the old man weave a path through the
excited crowd.

“That was decent of you,” Barrington said. “You could
have made instant money going to a big commercial
distribution chain.”
Joshua flashed him a smile, and they touched glasses.
“Like I said, he gave me a break when I needed it.”
“Roland Frampton doesn’t need a break. He thought he
was doing you a favour agreeing to buy your cargo.
First-time captains on the Norfolk run are lucky if they
make two hundred cases.”
“Yeah, so I heard.”
“Now you come back with a cargo worth five times as
much as his business. You going to tell us how you did
it?”
“Nope.”
“Didn’t think so. I don’t know what you’ve got, young
Joshua. But by God, I wish I had shares in you.”
He finished his glass and treated Barrington to an
iniquitous smile. He handed over the small bottle of
Norfolk Tears. “Here, with compliments.”
“Aren’t you staying? It’s your party.”
He looked round. Warlow was at the centre of a cluster
of girls, all of them giggling as one sat on the crook of
his outstretched arm, her legs swinging well off the
floor. Ashly was slumped in a booth, also surrounded by
girls, one of them feeding him dainty pieces of white
seafood from a plate. He couldn’t even spot the others.
“No,” he said. “I have a date.”
“She must be quite something.”
“They are.”
The Isakore was still anchored where they had left it,
prow wedged up on the slippery bank, hull secure
against casual observation by a huge cherry oak tree
which overhung the river, lower branches trailing in the
water.
Lieutenant Murphy Hewlett let out what could well have
been a whimper of relief when its shape registered. His
retinal implants were switched to infrared now the sun
had set. The fishing boat was a salmon-pink outline
distorted by the darker burgundy flecks of the cherry
oak leaves, as if it was hidden behind a solidified

waterfall.
He hadn’t really expected it to be there. Not a
quantifiable end, not to this mission. His mates treated
his name as a joke back in the barracks.
Murphy’s law: if anything can go wrong, it will. And it
had, this time as no other.
They had been under attack for five hours solid now.
White fireballs that came stabbing out of the trees
without warning. Figures that lurked half seen in the
jungle, keeping pace, never giving them a moment’s
rest.
Figures that weren’t always human. Seven times they’d
fallen back to using the TIP carbines for a sweep-
scorch pattern, hacking at the jungle with blades of
invisible energy, then tramping on through the
smouldering vine roots and cloying ash.
All four of them were wounded to some extent. Nothing
seemed to extinguish the white fire once it hit flesh.
Murphy was limping badly, his right knee enclosed by a
medical nanonic package, his left hand was completely
useless, he wasn’t even sure if the package could save
his fingers. But Murphy was most worried about Niels
Regehr; the lad had taken a fireball straight in the face.
He had no eyes nor nose left, only the armour suit
sensors enabled him to see where he was going now,
datavising their images directly into his neural nanonics.
But even the neural nanonics pain blocks and a
constant infusion of endocrines couldn’t prevent him
from suffering bouts of hallucination and disorientation.
He kept shouting for them to go away and leave him
alone, holding one-sided conversations, even quoting
from prayers.
Murphy had detailed him to escort their prisoner; he
could just about manage that. She said her name was
Jacqueline Couteur, a middle-aged woman, small,
overweight, with greying hair, dressed in jeans and a
thick cotton shirt. She could punch harder than any of
the supplement-boosted marines (Louis Beith had a
broken arm to prove it), she had more stamina than
them, and she could work that electronic warfare trick
on their suit blocks if she wasn’t being prodded with one
of their heavy-calibre Bradfield chemical-projectile
rifles.
They had captured her ten minutes after their last
contact with Jenny Harris. That was when they’d let the

horses go. The animals were panicking as balls of white
fire arched down out of the sky, a deceitfully majestic
display of borealis rockets.
Something made a slithering sound in the red and black
jungle off to Murphy’s right. Garrett Tucci fired his
Bradfield, slamming explosive bullets into the
vegetation. Murphy caught the swiftest glimpse of a
luminous red figure scurrying away; it was either a man
with a warm cloak spread wide, or else a giant bat
standing on its hind legs.
“Bloody implants are shot,” he muttered under his
breath. He checked his TIP carbine’s power reserve.
He was down to the last heavy-duty power cell: twelve
per cent. “Niels, Garrett, take the prisoner onto the boat
and get the motor going. Louis, you and I are laying
down a sweep-scorch. It might give us the time we
need.”
“Yes, sir,” he answered.
Murphy felt an immense pride in the tiny squad. Nobody
could have done better, they were the best, the very
best. And they were his.
He drew a breath, and brought the TIP carbine up
again. Niels was shoving his Bradfield’s muzzle into the
small of Jacqueline Couteur’s back, urging her towards
the boat. Murphy suddenly realized she could see as
well as them in the dark. It didn’t matter now. One of the
day’s smaller mysteries.
His TIP carbine fired, nozzle aimed by his neural
nanonics. Flames rose before him, leaping from tree to
tree, incinerating the twigs, biting deeply into the larger
branches. Vines flared and sparkled like fused
electrical cables, swinging in short arcs before falling to
the ground and writhing ferociously as they spat and
hissed. A solid breaker of heat rolled around him,
shunted into the ground by his suit’s dispersal layer.
Smoke rose from his feet. The medical nanonic
package around his knee datavised a heat-overload
warning into his neural nanonics.
“Come on, Lieutenant!” Garrett shouted.
Through the heavy crackling of the flames Murphy
could hear the familiar chugging sound of the Isakore’s
motor. The suit’s rear optical sensors showed him the
boat backing out from under the cherry oak, water

boiling ferociously around its stern.
“Go,” Murphy told Louis Beith.
They turned and raced for the Isakore. Murphy could
just targeting graphics circling his back.
We’ll never make it, not out of this.
Flames were rising thirty metres into the night behind
them. Isakore was completely free of the cherry oak.
Niels was leaning over the gunwale, holding out a hand.
The green-tinted medical nanonic package leaching to
his face looked like some massive and grotesque wart.
Water splashed around his boots. Once he nearly
slipped on the mud and tangled snowlily fronds. But then
he was clinging to the side of the wooden boat, hauling
himself up onto the deck.
“Holy shit, we made it!” He was laughing uncontrollably,
tears streaming out of his eyes. “We actually bloody
made it.” He pulled his shell-helmet off, and lay on his
back, looking at the fire. A stretch of jungle four hundred
metres long was in flames, hurling orange sparks into
the black sky far above.
The impenetrable water of the Zamjan shimmered with
long orange reflections. Garrett was turning the boat,
aiming the prow downriver.
“What about the Kulu team?” Louis asked. He’d taken
his shell-helmet off, showing a face glinting with sweat.
His breathing was heavy.
“I think that was a sonic boom we heard this afternoon,”
Murphy said, raising his voice above the flames.
“Those Kulu bastards, always one move ahead of
everyone else.”
“They’re soft, that’s all,” Garrett shouted from the
wheel-house. “Can’t take the pressure. We can. We’re
the fucking Confed fucking Navy fucking Marines.” He
whooped.
Murphy grinned back at him; fatigue pulled at every limb.
He’d been using his boosted muscles almost
constantly, which meant he’d have to make sure he ate
plenty of high-protein rations to regain his proper blood
energy levels. He loaded a memo into his neural
nanonics.

His communication block let out a bleep for the first
time in five hours; the datavise told him that there was a
channel to the navy ELINT satellite open.
“Bloody hell,” Murphy said. He datavised the block: “Sir,
is that you, sir?”
“Christ, Murphy,” Kelven Solanki’s datavise gushed into
his mind. “What’s happening?”
“Spot of trouble, sir. Nothing we can’t handle. We’re
back on the boat now, heading downriver.”
Louis gave an exhausted laugh, and flopped onto his
back.
“The Kulu team evacuated,” Kelven Solanki reported.
“Their whole embassy contingent upped and left in the
Ekwan this evening. Ralph Hiltch called me from orbit to
say there wasn’t enough room on the spaceplane to
pick you up.”
Murphy could sense a great deal of anger lying behind
the lieutenant-commander’s smooth signal. “Doesn’t
matter, sir; we got you a prisoner.”
“Fantastic. One of the sequestrated ones?”
Murphy glanced over his shoulder. Jacqueline Couteur
was sitting on the deck with her back to the wheel-
house. She gave him a dour stare.
“I think so, sir, she can interfere with our electronics if
we give her half a chance. She’s got to be watched
constantly.”
“OK, when can you have her back in, ” Kelven Solanki’s
datavise vanished under a peal of static. The
communications block reported the channel was lost.
Murphy picked up his TIP carbine and pointed it at
Jacqueline Couteur.
“Is that you?”
She shrugged. “No.”
Murphy looked back at the fire on the bank. They were
half a kilometre away now. People were walking along
the shoreline where the Isakore had been anchored.
The big cherry oak was still standing, intact, a black
silhouette against the blanket of flame.

“Can they affect our electronics from here?”
“We don’t care about your electronics,” she said. “Such
things have no place in our world.”
“Are you talking to them?”
“No.”
“Sir!” Garrett yelled.
Murphy swung round. The people on the shore were
standing in a ring, holding hands. A large ball of white
fire emerged from the ground in their midst and curved
over their heads, soaring out across the river.
“Down!” Murphy shouted.
The fireball flashed overhead, making the air roil from
its passage, bringing a false daylight to the boat.
Murphy ground his teeth together, anticipating the
strike, the pain as it vaporized his legs or spine.
There was a clamorous BOOM from behind the wheel-
house, the boat rocked violently, and the light went out.
“Oh shit, oh shit.” Garrett was crying.
“What is it?” Murphy demanded. He pulled himself onto
his feet.
The boxy wooden structure behind the wheel-house
was a smoking ruin.
Fractured planks with charred edges pointed vacantly
at the sky. The microfusion generator it had covered
was a shambolic mass of heat-tarnished metal and
dripping plastic.
“You will come to us in time,” Jacqueline Couteur said
calmly. She hadn’t moved from her sitting position. “We
have no hurry.”
The Isakore drifted round a bend in the river, water
gurgling idly around the hull, pulling the fire from view. A
duet of night and silence closed over the boat, a void
surer than vacuum.
Ione wore a gown of rich blue-green silk gauze. A single
strip of cloth which clung to her torso then flared and
flowed into a long skirt, it forked around her neck,
producing two ribbonlike tassels that trailed from each
shoulder. Her hair had been given a damp look, it was

bound up and held in place at the back by an exquisite
red flower brooch, its tissue-thin petals carved from
some exotic stone. A long platinum chain formed a
cobweb around her neck.
The trouble with looking so elegant, Joshua thought,
was that part of him just wanted to stare at her, while
the other part wanted to rip the dress to shreds so he
could get at the body beneath. She really did look
gorgeous.
He ran a finger round the collar on his own black
dinner-jacket. It was too tight. And the butterfly tie
wasn’t straight.
“Leave it alone,” Ione said sternly.
“But, “
“Leave it. It’s fine.”
He dropped his hand and glowered at the lift’s door.
Two Tranquillity serjeants were in with them, making it
seem crowded. The door opened on the twenty-fifth
floor of the StOuen starscraper, revealing a much
smaller lobby than usual. Parris Vasilkovsky’s
apartment took up half of the floor, his offices and staff
quarters took up the other half.
“Thanks for coming with me,” Joshua said as they
stood in front of the apartment door. He could feel the
nerves building in the base of his stomach. This was
the real big time he was bidding for now. And Ione on
his arm ought to impress Parris Vasilkovsky. Precious
little else would.
“I want to be with you,” Ione murmured.
He leant forward to kiss her.
The muscle membrane opened, and Dominique was
standing behind it. She had chosen a sleeveless black
gown with a long skirt and a deep, highly revealing V-
neck. Her thick honey-blonde hair had been given a
slight wave, curling around her shoulders. Broad scarlet
lips lifted in appreciation as she caught the embrace.
Joshua straightened up guiltily, though his errant eyes
remained fixed on Dominique’s cleavage. A host of
memories started to replay through his mind without any
assistance from his neural nanonics. He’d forgotten
how impressive she was.

“Don’t mind me,” Dominique said huskily. “I adore
young love.”
Ione giggled. “Evening, Dominique.”
The two girls kissed briefly. Then it was Joshua’s turn.
“Put him down,” Ione said in amusement. “You might
catch something. Heaven only knows what he got up to
on Norfolk.”
Dominique grinned as she let go. “You think he’s been
bad?”
“He’s Joshua; I know he’s been bad.”
“Hey!” Joshua complained. “That trip was strictly
business.”
Both girls laughed. Dominique led the way into the
apartment. Joshua saw her skirt was made up from
long panels, split right up to the top of her hips. The
fabric swayed apart as she walked, giving Joshua brief
glimpses of her legs, and a pair of very tight white
shorts.
He held back on a groan. It was going to be hard to
concentrate tonight without that kind of distraction.
The dining-room had two oval windows to show
Mirchusko’s dusky crescent, south of the equator two
huge white cyclone swirls were crashing, in a drama
which had been running for six days. Slabs of warmly lit
coloured glass paved the polyp walls from floor to
ceiling, each with an animal engraved on its surface by
fine smoky grooves. Most of them were terrestrial,
lions, gazelles, elephants, hawks, though several of the
more spectacular non-sentient xenoc species were
included. The grooves moved at an infinitesimal speed,
causing the birds to flap their wings, the animals to run;
their cycles lasted for hours. The table was made from
halkett wood (native to Kulu), a rich gold in colour, with
bright scarlet grain. Three antique silver candelabras
were spaced along the polished wood, with slender
white candles tipped by tiny flames.
There were six people at the dinner. Parris himself sat
at the head of the table, looking spruce in a black
dinner-jacket. The formal evening attire suited him,
complementing his curly silver-grey hair to give him a
distinguished appearance. At the other end of the table
was Symone, his current lover, a beautiful twenty-eight-

year-old whose geneered chromosomes had produced
a dark walnut skin and hair a shade lighter than
Dominique’s, a striking and delightful contrast. She was
eight months pregnant with Parris’s third child.
Joshua and Dominique sat together on one side of the
table. And Dominique’s long legs had been riding up and
down his trousers all through the meal. He had done his
best to ignore it, but his twitching mouth had given him
away to Ione, and, he suspected, Symone as well.
Opposite them were Ione and Clement, Parris’s son.
He was eighteen, lacking his big sister’s miscreant
force, but quietly cheerful. And handsome, Ione thought,
though not in the mould of Joshua’s wolfish
ruggedness; his younger face was softer, framed with
fair curly hair that was recognizably Parris’s. He had
just returned from his first year at university on Kulu.
“I haven’t been to Kulu yet,” Joshua said as the white-
jacketed waiter cleared the dessert dishes away,
assisted by a couple of housechimps.
“Wouldn’t they let you in?” Dominique asked with
honeyed malice.
“The Kulu merchants form a tight cartel, they’re hard to
crack.”
“Tell me about it,” Parris said gruffly. “It took me eight
years before I broke in with fabrics from Oshanko, until
then my ships were going there empty to pick up their
nanonics. That costs.”
“I’ll wait until I get a charter,” Joshua said. “I’m not going
to try head-butting that kind of organization. But I’d like
to play tourist sometime.”
“You did all right penetrating Norfolk,” Dominique said,
eyes wide and apparently innocent over her crystal
champagne glass.
“Hey, neat intro,” he said enthusiastically. “We just slid
into that subject, didn’t we? I never noticed.”
She stuck her tongue out at him.
“You got off lightly, Joshua,” Parris said. “Me, I get
lumbered with her subtlety all day every day.”
“I would have thought she was old enough to have left
home by now,” he said.

“Who’d have her?”
“Good point.”
Dominique lobbed a small cluster of grapes at her
father.
Parris caught them awkwardly, laughing. One went
bouncing off across the moss carpet. “Make me an
offer for her, Joshua, anything up to ten fuseodollars
considered.”
He saw the warning gleam in Dominique’s eye. “I think
I’ll decline, thanks.”
“Coward.” Dominique pouted.
Parris dropped the grapes onto a side plate, and wiped
his hand with a napkin. “So how did you do it, Joshua?
My captains don’t get three thousand cases, and the
Vasilkovsky line has been making the Norfolk run for
fifty years.”
Joshua activated a neural nanonics memory cell.
“Confidentiality coverage. Agreed?” His gaze went
round the table, recording everyone saying yes. They
were legally bound not to repeat what they heard now.
Although quite what he could do about Ione was an
interesting point, since her thought processes were
Tranquillity’s legal system. “I traded something they
needed: wood.” He explained about the mayope.
“Very clever,” Dominique drawled when he finished,
though there was a note of respect in amongst the
affected languor. “Brains as well as balls.”
“I like it,” Parris said. He studied his cut-crystal glass.
“Why tell us?”
“Supply and demand,” Joshua said. “I’ve found a
valuable hole in the market, and I want to fill it.”
“But the Lady Macbeth hasn’t got the capacity to do it
by herself,” Clement said. “Right?”
Joshua had wondered how smart the lad was. Now he
knew. A real chip off the Vasilkovsky block. “That’s
right. I need a partner, a big partner.”
“Why not go to a bank?” Dominique asked. “Charter
some ships for yourself.”

“There’s a loose end which needs tying up.”
“Ah,” Parris, showing some real interest at last, leant
forward in his seat. “Go on.”
“The power mayope has over Norfolk lies in keeping it
a monopoly, that way we can keep the price high. I have
a provisional arrangement with a distributor on Norfolk
who’s agreed to take as much as we can ship in.
What we need to do next is pin down the supply to a
single source, one that only we can obtain. That is
going to take upfront money, the kind which can’t be
explained away to bank auditors.”
“You can do that?”
“Parris, I have never been on a planet more corrupt
than Lalonde. It’s also very primitive and
correspondingly poor. If you, with all your money, went
there, you would be its king.”
“No, thank you,” Parris said sagely.
“Fine, but with money pushed into the right credit disks
we can guarantee that no one else gets an export
licence. OK, it won’t last for ever, administration people
move on, traders will offer counter-bribes when they
find what we’re doing; but I figure we ought to get two of
Norfolk’s conjunctions out of it. Two conjunctions where
your ships are filled to capacity with Norfolk Tears.”
“Every ship? I do have quite a few.”
“No, not every ship. We have to walk a fine line
between greed and squeeze. My Norfolk distributor will
give us most favoured customer status, that’s all. It’ll be
up to us to work out exactly how much we can squeeze
them for before they start to protest. You know how
jealously they guard their independence.”
“Yes.” Parris nodded thoughtfully.
“And what about Lalonde?” Ione asked quietly. Her
glass was dangling casually between thumb and
forefinger, she rocked it from side to side, swirling the
champagne around the bottom.
“What about Lalonde?” Joshua asked.
“Its people,” Symone said. “It doesn’t sound as though
they get a very good deal out of this. The mayope is
their wood.”

Joshua gave her a polite smile. Just what I need,
bleeding hearts. “What do they get at the moment?”
Symone frowned.
“He means they get nothing,” Dominique said.
“We’re developing their market for them,” Joshua said.
“We’ll be pumping hard cash into their economy. Not
much by our standards, I admit, but to them it will buy a
lot of things they need. And it will go to the people too,
the colonists who are breaking their backs to tame that
world, not just the administration staff. We pay the
loggers upriver in the hinterlands, the barge captains,
the timber-yard workers. Them, their families, the shops
they buy stuff from. All of them will be better off.
We’ll be better off. Norfolk will be better off. It’s the
whole essence of trade. Sure, banks and governments
make paper money from the deal, and we slant it in our
favour, but the bottom line is that people benefit.” He
realized he was staring hard at Symone, daring her to
disagree. He dropped his eyes, almost embarrassed.
Dominique gave him a soft, and for the first time,
sincere kiss on his cheek. “You really did pick yourself
the best, didn’t you?” she said challengingly to Ione.
“Of course.”
“Does that answer your question?” Parris asked his
lover, smiling gently at her.
“I guess it does.”
He started to use a small silver knife to peel the crisp
rind from a date-sized purple fruit. Joshua recognized it
as a saltplum from Atlantis.
“I think Lalonde would be in capable hands if we left it to
Joshua,” Parris said. “What sort of partnership were
you looking for?”
“Sixty-forty in your favour,” he said amicably.
“Which would cost me?”
“I was thinking of two to three million fuseodollars as an
initial working fund to set up our export operation.”
“Eighty-twenty,” Dominique said.

Parris bit into the saltplum’s pink flesh, watching Joshua
keenly.
“Seventy-thirty,” Joshua offered.
“Seventy-five-twenty-five.”
“I get that percentage on all Norfolk Tears carried by
the Vasilkovsky Line while our mayope monopoly is in
operation.”
Parris winced, and gave his daughter a small nod.
“If you provide the collateral,” she said.
“You accept my share of the mayope as collateral,
priced at the Norfolk sale value.”
“Done.”
Joshua sat back and let out a long breath. It could have
been a lot worse.
“You see,” Dominique said wickedly. “Brains as well as
breasts.”
“And legs,” Joshua added.
She licked her lips provocatively, and took a long drink.
“We’ll get the legal office to draw up a formal contract
tomorrow,” Parris said. “I can’t see any problem.”
“The first stage will be to set up an office on Lalonde
and secure that mayope monopoly. The Lady Mac has
still got to be unloaded, then she needs some
maintenance work, and we’re due a grade-E CAB
inspection as well thanks to someone I met at Norfolk.
Not a problem, but it takes time. I ought to be ready to
leave in ten days.”
“Good,” said Parris. “I like that, Joshua. No beating
around, you get straight to it.”
“So how did you make your fortune?”
Parris grinned and popped the last of the saltplum into
his mouth. “Given this will hopefully develop into quite a
large operation, I’ll want to send my own representative
with you to Lalonde to help set up our office. And keep
an eye on this upfront money of mine you’ll be
spending.”
“Sure. Who?”

Dominique leaned over until her shoulder rubbed
against Joshua’s, a hand made of steel flesh closed
playfully on his upper thigh. “Guess,” she whispered
salaciously into his ear.
Durringham had become ungovernable, a city living on
spent nerves, waiting for the final crushing blow to fall.
The residents knew of the invaders marching and
sailing downriver, everyone had heard the horror
stories of xenoc enslavement, of torture and rape and
bizarre bloodthirsty ceremonies; words distorted and
swollen with every kilometre, like the river down which
they travelled. They had also heard of the Kulu
Embassy evacuating its personnel in one madcap night,
surely the final confirmation, Sir Asquith wouldn’t do that
unless there was no hope left. Durringham, their homes
and jobs and prosperity, was in the firing line of an
unknown, unstoppable threat, and they had nowhere to
run. The jungle belonged to the invaders, the seven
colonist-carrier starships orbiting impotently overhead
were full, they couldn’t offer an escape route. There
was only the river and the virgin sea beyond.
The second morning after Ralph Hiltch made his dash
to the relative safety of the Ekwan, the twenty-eight
paddleboats remaining in the frightened city’s circular
harbours set off in convoy downriver. Price of a ticket
was one thousand fuseodollars per person (including a
child). No destination was named: some talked about
crossing the ocean to Sarell; Amarisk’s northern
extremity was mooted. It didn’t matter, leaving
Durringham was the driving factor.
Given the exorbitant price the captains insisted on, and
the planet’s relative poverty, it was surprising just how
many people turned up wanting passage. More than
could be accommodated. Tempers and desperation
rose with the brutal sun. Several ugly scenes flared as
the gangplanks were hurriedly drawn up.
Frustrated in their last chance to escape, the crowd
surged towards the colonists barricaded in the
transients’ dormitories at the other end of the port.
Stones were flung first, then Molotovs.
Candace Elford dispatched a squad of sheriffs and
newly recruited deputies, armed with cortical jammers
and laser rifles, to quell this latest in a long line of
disturbances. But they ran into a gang ransacking a
retail district. The tactical street battle which followed

left eight dead, and two dozen injured. They never got to
the port.
That was when Candace finally had to call up Colin
Rexrew and admit that Durringham was out of control.
“Most urban districts are forming their own defence
committees,” she datavised. “They’ve seen how little
effect the sheriffs have against any large-scale trouble.
All the riots we’ve had these last few weeks have shown
that often enough, and everyone’s heard about the
Swithland posse. They don’t trust you and me to defend
them, so they’re going to do it for themselves. There’s
been a lot of food stockpiled over the last couple of
weeks. They all think they’re self-sufficient, and they’re
not letting anyone over their district’s boundary. That’s
going to cause trouble, because I’m getting reports of
people in the outlying villages to the east abandoning
their land and coming in looking for a refuge. Our
residents aren’t letting them through. It’s a siege
mentality out there. People are waiting for Terrance
Smith to come back with a conquering army, and hoping
they can hold out in the meantime.”
“How far away are the invaders?”
“I’m not sure. We’re judging their progress by the way
our communications with the villages fail. It’s not
constant, but I’d say their main force is no more than
ten or fifteen kilometres from Durringham’s eastern
districts. The majority are on foot, which should give us
two or three days’ breathing space. Of course, you and
I know there are nests of them inside the city as well.
I’ve had some pretty weird stories about bogeymen and
poltergeists coming in for days now.”
“What do you want to do?” Colin asked.
“Revert to guarding our strategic centres; the
spaceport, this sector, possibly both hospitals. I’d like to
say the port as well, but I don’t think I’ve got the
manpower. There have been several desertions this
week, mostly among the new deputies. Besides, nearly
all of the boats have left now; there’s been a steady
exodus of fishing craft and even some barges since the
paddleboat convoy cast off this morning, so I can’t see
a lot of point.”
“OK,” Colin said with his head in his hands. “Do it.” He
glanced out of the office window at the sun-lashed
rooftops. There was no sign of any of the usual fires
that had marked the city’s torment over the last weeks.

“Can we hang on until Terrance returns?”
“I don’t know. At the moment we’re so busy fighting
each other that I couldn’t tell you what sort of resistance
we can offer to the invaders.”
“Yeah. That sounds like Lalonde through and through.”
Candace sat behind her big desk, watching the situation
reports paint unwelcome graphics across the console
displays, and issuing orders through her staff. There
were times when she wondered if anyone out there was
even receiving them, let alone obeying them.
Half of her sheriffs were deployed around the
spaceport, spending the afternoon digging in, and
positioning some large maser cannons to cover the
road. The rest took up position around the
administration district in the city, covering the
governor’s dumper, the sheriff’s headquarters, various
civic buildings, and the Confederation Navy office. Five
combined teams of LDC engineers and sheriffs went
round all the remaining dumpers they could reach,
powering down the fusion generators. If the invaders
wanted Durringham’s industrial base, such as it was,
Rexrew was determined to thwart them. The He3 and
deuterium fuel was collected and put into storage at the
spaceport. By midafternoon the city was operating on
electron-matrix power reserves alone.
That more than anything else brought home the reality
of the situation to the majority. Fights and squabbles
between gangs and districts ended, those barricades
which had been erected were strengthened, sentry
details were finalized. Everyone headed home, the
roads fell silent. The rain which had held off all day
began to slash down. Beneath its shroud of miserable
low cloud, Durringham held its breath.
Stewart Danielsson watched the rain pounding away on
the office windows as the conditioner hummed away
efficiently, sucking the humidity from the air. He had
made the office his home over the last week; Ward
Molecular had seen a busy time of it. Everybody in town
was keen to have the ancillary circuits on their electron-
matrix cells serviced, especially the smaller units which
could double as rifle power magazines at a pinch.
He’d sold a lot of interface cables as well.
The business was doing fine. Darcy and Lori would be
pleased when they got back. They hadn’t actually said

he could sleep over when they left him in charge, but
with the way things were it was only right. Twice he’d
scared off would-be burglars.
His sleeping-bag with the inflatable mattress was
comfy, and the office fridge was better than the one in
his lodgings; he’d brought the microwave cooker over
from the cabin out back of the warehouse. So now he
had all the creature comforts. It was turning into a nice
little sojourn.
Gaven Hough stayed late most nights, keeping him
company. Neither of them had seen Cole Este since
the night after the first anti-Ivet riot.
Stewart wasn’t much bothered by that.
Gaven opened the door in the glass partition wall and
stuck his head round. “Doesn’t look like Mr. Crowther is
coming to pick up his unit now, it’s gone four.”
Stewart stretched himself, and turned the processor
block off. He’d been trying to keep their work records
and payments up to date. It had always seemed so
easy when Darcy was handling it. “OK, we’ll get closed
up.”
“We’ll be the last in the city. There’s been no traffic
outside for the last two hours. Everyone else has gone
home, scared of these invaders.”
“Aren’t you?”
“No, not really. I haven’t got anything an army would
want.”
“You can stay here tonight. I don’t think it’ll be safe
walking home through this town now, not with the way
people are on edge. There’s enough food.”
“Thanks. I’ll go and shut the doors.”
Stewart watched the younger man through the glass
partition as he made his way past the workbenches to
the warehouse’s big doors. I ought to be worried, he
thought, some of the rumours flying around town are
blatantly unreal, but something is happening upriver. He
gave the warehouse a more thoughtful glance. With its
mayope walls it was strong enough to withstand any
casual attempt at damage. But there were a lot of
valuable tools and equipment inside, and everybody
knew that. Maybe we should be boarding the windows

up. There was no such thing as an insurance industry
on Lalonde, if the warehouse went so did their jobs.
He turned back to the office windows, giving them a
more objective appraisal; the frames were heavy
enough to nail planks across.
Someone was walking down the muddy road outside. It
was difficult to see with the way the rain was smearing
the glass, but it looked like a man dressed in a suit. A
very strange suit; it was grey, with a long jacket, and
there was no seal up the front, only buttons. And he
wore a black hat that looked like a fifty-centimetre
column of brushed velvet. His right hand gripped a
silver-topped cane. Rain bounced off him as though his
antique clothes were coated in frictionless plastic.
“Stewart!” Gaven called from somewhere in the
warehouse. “Stewart, come back here.”
“No. Look at this.”
“There’s three of them in here. Stewart!”
The native panic in Gaven’s voice made him turn
reluctantly from the window. He squinted through the
partition wall. It was dark in the cavernous warehouse,
and Gaven had shut the wide doors. Stewart couldn’t
see where he’d got to. Humanoid shapes were moving
around down by the stacks of crates; bigger than men.
And it was just too gloomy to make out quite what,
The window behind him gave a loud grating moan. He
whirled round. The frames groaned again as though
they had been shoved by a hurricane blast.
But the rain was falling quite normally outside. It couldn’t
be the wind.
The man in the grey suit was standing in the middle of
the road, cane pressing into the mud, both hands
resting on the silver pommel. He stared directly at
Stewart.
“Stewart!” Gaven yelled.
The window-panes cracked, fissures multiplying and
interlacing. Animal reflex made Stewart spin round, his
arms coming up to protect his head.
They’re going to smash!
A two and a half metre tall yeti was standing pressed up

against the glass of the partition wall. Its ochre fur was
matted and greasy, red baboon lips were peeled back
to show stained fangs. He gagged at it in amazement,
recoiling.
All the glass in the office shattered at once. In the
instant before he slammed his eyelids shut, he was
engulfed by a beautiful prismatic cloud of diamonds,
sparkling and shimmering in the weak light. Then the
slivers of glass penetrated his skin. Blood frothed out of
a thousand shallow cuts, staining every square
centimetre of his clothes a bright crimson.
His skin went numb as his brain rejected outright the
shocking level of pain. His sight, the misty vermilion of
tightly shut eyes, turned scarlet. Pain stars flared
purple. Then the universe went harrowingly black.
Through the numbness he could feel hot coals burning
in his eye sockets.
“Blind, I’m blind!” He couldn’t even tell if his voice was
working.
“It doesn’t have to be like that,” someone said to him.
“We can help you. We can let you see again.”
He tried to open his eyelids. There was a loathsome
sensation of thin tissues ripping. And still there was only
blackness. Pain began to ooze its way inwards, pain
from every part of his body. He knew he was falling,
plummeting to the ground.
Then the pain in his legs faded, replaced by a blissful
liquid chill, as if he was bathing in a mountain tarn. He
was given his sight back, a spectral girl sketched
against the infinite darkness. It looked as though she
was made up from translucent white membranes, folded
with loving care around her svelte body, then flowing
free somehow to become her fragile robes as well. She
was a sublime child, in her early teens, poised between
girlhood and womanhood, what he imagined an angel or
fairy would be like. And she danced all the while, twirling
effortlessly from foot to foot, more supple and graceful
than any ballerina; her face blessed by a bountiful
smile.
She held out her arms to him, ragged sleeves floating
softly in the unfelt breeze. “See?” she said. “We can
stop it hurting.” Her arms rose, palms pressing together
above her head, and she spun round again, lightsome
laughter echoing.

“Please,” he begged her. “Oh, please.”
The pain returned to his legs, making him cry out. His
siren vision began to retreat, skipping lightly over the
emptiness.
She paused and cocked her head. “Is this what you
want?” she asked, her dainty face frowning in concern.
“No! Back, come back. Please.”
Her smile became rapturous, and her arms closed
around him in a celebratory embrace. Stewart gave
himself up to her balmy caresses, drowning in a
glorious tide of white light.
Ilex coasted out of its wormhole terminus a hundred
thousand kilometres above Lalonde. The warped
gateway leading out of space-time contracted behind
the voidhawk as it refocused its distortion field.
Sensors probed round cautiously. The bitek starship
was at full combat stations alert.
Waiting tensely on his acceleration couch in the crew
toroid, Captain Auster skimmed through the wealth of
data which both the bitek and electronic systems
gathered. His primary concern was that there were no
hostile ships within a quarter of a million kilometres, and
no weapon sensors were locking on to the voidhawk’s
hull. A resonance effect in Ilex’s distortion field revealed
various ship-sized masses orbiting above Lalonde,
then there were asteroids, satellites, moons, boulder-
sized debris. Nothing large was in the starship’s
immediate vicinity. It took a further eight seconds for
Ilex and Ocyroe, the weapons-systems officer, working
in tandem, to confirm the absence of any valid threat.
<<OK, let’s go for a parking orbit; seven hundred
kilometres out,>> Auster said.
<<Seven hundred?>> Ilex queried.
<<Yes. Your distortion field won’t be so badly affected
at that altitude. We can still run if we have to.>>
<<Very well.>>
Together their unified minds arrived at a suitable flight
vector. Ilex swooped down the imaginary line towards
the bright blue and white planet.
“We’re going into a parking orbit,” Auster said aloud for

the benefit of the three Adamist naval officers on the
bridge. “I want combat stations maintained at all times;
and please bear in mind who could be here waiting for
us.” He allowed an overtone of stern anxiety to filter out
to the Edenist crew to emphasize the point. “Ocyroe,
what’s our local space situation?”
“Nine starships in a parking orbit, seven colonist-
carriers and two cargo ships. There are three
interplanetary fusion drive ships en route from the
asteroid Kenyon, heading for Lalonde orbit. Nothing
else in the system.”
“I can’t get any response from Lalonde civil flight
control,” said Erato, the spaceplane pilot. He looked up
from the communication console he was operating.
“The geosynchronous communication platform is
working, as far as I can tell. They just don’t answer.”
Auster glanced over at Lieutenant Jeroen van Ewyck,
the Confederation Navy Intelligence officer they had
brought with them from Avon. “What do you think?”
“This is a backward planet anyway, so their response
isn’t going to be instantaneous. But given the contents
of those fleks I’d rather not take any chances. I’ll try and
contact Kelvin Solanki directly through the navy ELINT
satellites. Can you see if you can get anything from
your planetside agents?”
“We’ll broadcast,” Auster said.
“Great. Erato, see what the other starship captains can
tell us. It looks like they must have been here some time
if there are this many left in orbit.”
Auster added his own voice to Ilex’s affinity call,
spanning the colossal distance to the gas giant. Aethra
answered straight away; but the immature habitat could
only confirm the data which Lori and Darcy had
included in their flek to the Edenist embassy on Avon.
Since Kelven Solanki had transmitted the files to
Murora there had only been the usual weekly status
updates from Lalonde. The last one, four days ago, had
contained a host of information on the colony’s
deteriorating civil situation.
<<Can you tell us what’s happening?>> Gaura asked
through the affinity link between Aethra and Ilex. He
was the chief of the station supervising the habitat’s
growth out at the lonely edge of the star system.

<<Nobody is answering our calls,>> Auster said.
<<When we know something, Ilex will inform you
immediately.>>
<<If Laton is on Lalonde he may make an attempt to
capture and subvert Aethra. He has had over twenty
years to perfect his technique. We have no weaponry
to resist him. Can you evacuate us?>>
<<That will depend on the circumstances. Our orders
from the First Admiral’s office are to confirm his
existence and destroy him if at all possible. If he has
become powerful enough to defend himself against the
weapons we are carrying, then we must jump back to
Fleet Headquarters and alert them. That takes priority
over everything.>> Auster extended a burst of
sympathy.
<<We understand. Good luck with your mission.>>
<<Thank you.>>
<<Can you sense Darcy and Lori?>> Auster asked
Ilex.
<<No. They do not answer. But there is a melodic in the
affinity band which I’ve never encountered before.>>
The voidhawk’s perceptive faculty expanded into
Auster’s mind. He perceived a distant soprano voice,
or a soft whistle; the effect was too imprecise to tell. It
was an adagio, a slow harmonic which slipped in and
out of mental awareness like a radio signal on a stormy
night.
<<Where is it coming from?>> Auster asked.
<<Ahead of us,>> Ilex said. <<Somewhere on the
planet, but it’s skipping about. I can’t pin it down.>>
<<Keep tuned in to it, and if you track down its origin let
me know right away.>>
<<Of course.>>
Jeroen van Ewyck datavised his console processor to
point one of Ilex’s secondary dishes at a navy ELINT
satellite orbiting Lalonde, then opened a channel down
to the office in Durringham. There was nothing like the
usual bit rate available, the microwave beam emitted by
the navy office was well below standard strength. A
flustered rating answered, and switched the call straight

through to Kelven Solanki.
“We’re here in response to the flek you sent on the
Eurydice,” Jeroen van Ewyck said. “Can you advise us
of the situation on the planet, please?”
“Too late,” Kelven datavised. “You’re too bloody late.”
Auster ordered the bitek processor in his command
console to patch him into the channel. “Lieutenant-
Commander Solanki, this is Captain Auster. We were
dispatched as soon as we were refitted for this
mission. I can assure you the Admiralty took the report
from you and our Intelligence operatives very seriously
indeed.”
“Seriously? You call sending one ship a serious
response?”
“Yes. We are primarily a reconnaissance and
evaluation mission. In that respect, we are considered
expendable. The Admiralty needs to know if Laton’s
presence has been confirmed, and what kind of force
level is required to deal with the invasion.”
There was a moment’s pause.
“Sorry if I shouted off,” Kelven said. “Things are getting
bad down here. The invaders have reached
Durringham.”
“Are these invaders acting under Laton’s orders?”
“I’ve no idea yet.” He started to summarize the events
of the last couple of weeks.
Auster listened with growing dismay, a communal
emotion distributed equally around the other Edenists
on board. The Adamists too, if their facial expressions
were an accurate reflection of their thoughts.
“So you still don’t know if Laton is behind this invasion?”
Auster asked when he finished.
“No. I’d say not; Lori and Darcy had virtually written him
off by the time they got to Ozark. If it is him backing the
invaders, then he’s pulling a very elaborate double bluff.
Why did he warn Darcy and Lori about this energy virus
effect?”
“Have you managed to verify that yet?” Jeroen van
Ewyck asked.

“No. Although the supporting circumstantial evidence
we have so far is very strong. The invaders certainly
have a powerful electronic warfare technology at their
fingertips, and it’s in widespread use. I suppose Kulu will
be the place to ask; the ESA team managed to get their
prisoner outsystem.”
<<Typical of the ESA,>> Erato said sourly.
Auster nodded silently.
“How bad are conditions in the city?” Jeroen van Ewyck
asked.
“We’ve heard some fighting around the outlying districts
this evening. The sheriffs are protecting the spaceport
and the government district. But I don’t think they’ll hold
out for more than a couple of days. You must get back
to Avon and inform the First Admiral and the
Confederation Assembly what’s happening here. At this
point we still can’t discount xenocs being involved. And
tell the First Admiral that Terrance Smith’s mercenary
army must be prevented from landing here, as well. This
is far beyond the ability of a few thousand hired soldiers
to sort out.”
“That goes without saying. We’ll evacuate you and your
staff immediately,” Auster said.
<<Forty-five of them?>> Ocyroe asked. <<That’s
pushing our life-support capacity close to the
envelope.>>
<<We can always make a swallow direct to Jospool,
that’s only seven light-years away. The crew toroid can
support us for that long.>>
“There’s some of the ratings and NCOs I’d like to get
off,” Kelven Solanki datavised. “This wasn’t supposed
to be a front-line posting. They’re only kids, really.”
“No, all of you are coming,” Auster said flatly.
“I’d like to capture one of these sequestrated invaders
if possible,” Jeroen van Ewyck put in quickly.
<<What about the marines, Erato?>> Auster asked.
<<Do you think it’s worth a try?>>
<<I’ll fly recovery if we can spot them,>> the pilot said.
His thoughts conveyed a rising excitement.
Auster acknowledged his leaked feelings with an ironic

thought. Pilots were uniformly a macho breed, unable to
resist any challenge, even Edenist ones.
<<The Juliffe basin is proving difficult to resolve,>> Ilex
said with a note of annoyance. <<My optical sensors
are unable to receive a clearly defined image of the
river and its tributaries for about a thousand kilometres
inland.>>
<<It’s night over the basin, and we’re still seventy
thousand kilometres away,>> Auster pointed out.
<<Even so, the optical resolution should be better than
this.>>
“Commander Solanki, we’re going to attempt to recover
the marines as well,” Auster said.
“I haven’t been able to contact them for over a day.
God, I don’t even know if they’re still alive, let alone
where they are.”
“None the less, they are our naval personnel. If there’s
any chance, we owe them the effort.”
The statement drew him a startled glance from Jeroen
van Ewyck and the other two Adamists on the bridge.
They quickly tried to hide their gaffe.
Auster ignored it.
“Christ but, All right,” Kelven Solanki datavised. “I’ll fly
the recovery myself, though. No point in risking your
spaceplane. It was me who ordered them in there to
start with. My responsibility.”
“As you wish. If our sensors can locate their fishing
boat, do you have an aircraft available?”
“I can get one. But the invaders knocked out the last
plane to fly into their territory. One thing I do know is
that they’ve got some lethal fire-power going for them.”
“So has Ilex,” Auster said bluntly.
Joshua Calvert fell back onto the translucent sheet and
let out a heartfelt breath. The bed’s jelly-substance
mattress was rocking him gently as the waves slowed.
Sweat trickled across his chest and limbs. He gazed up
at the electrophorescent cell clusters on Ione’s ceiling.
Their ornate leaf pattern was becoming highly familiar.
“That’s definitely one of the better ways of waking up,”

he said.
“One?” Ione unwrapped her legs from his waist and sat
back on his legs.
She stretched provocatively, hands going behind her
neck.
Joshua groaned, staring at her voraciously.
“Tell me another,” she said.
He sat up, bringing his face twenty centimetres from
hers. “Watching you,” he said in a throaty voice.
“Does that turn you on?”
“Yes.”
“Solo, or with another girl?” She felt his muscles tighten
in reflex.
Well, that’s my answer, she thought. But then she’d
always known how much he enjoyed threesomes. It
wasn’t Joshua’s cock which was hard to satisfy, just his
ego.
He grinned; the Joshua rogueish-charm grin. “I bet this
conversation is going to turn to Dominique.”
Ione gave his nose a butterfly kiss. They just couldn’t
fool each other; it was a togetherness similar to the one
she enjoyed with the habitat personality. Comforting
and eerie at the same time. “You mentioned her name
first.”
“Are you upset about her coming to Lalonde with me?”
“No. It makes sound business sense.”
“You do disapprove.” He stroked the side of her
breasts tenderly.
“There’s no need to be jealous. I have been to bed with
Dominique, you know.”
“I know. I watched you on that big bed of hers,
remember?”
He cupped her breasts and kissed each nipple in turn.
“Let’s bring her to this bed.”
She looked down on the top of his head. “Not possible,
sorry. The Saldanas eradicated the gay gene from their

DNA three hundred years ago. Couldn’t risk the
scandal, they are supposed to uphold the ten
commandments throughout the kingdom, after all.”
Joshua didn’t believe a word of it. “They missed erasing
the adultery gene, then.”
She smiled. “What’s your hurry to hit the mattress with
her? The two of you are going to spend a week locked
up in that zero-gee sex cage of yours.”
“You are jealous.”
“No. I never claimed to have an exclusive right to you.
After all, I didn’t complain about Norfolk.”
He pulled his head back from her breasts. “Ione!” he
complained.
“You reeked of guilt. Was she very beautiful?”
“She was … sweet.”
“Sweet? Why, Joshua Calvert, I do believe you’re
getting romantic in your old age.”
Joshua sighed and dropped back on the mattress
again. He wished she’d make up her mind whether she
was jealous or not. “Do I ask about your lovers?”
Ione couldn’t help the slight flush that crept up her
cheeks. Hans had been fun while it lasted, but she’d
never felt as free with him as she did with Joshua. “No,”
she admitted.
“Ah hah, I’m not the only one who’s guilty, by the looks
of it.”
She traced a forefinger down his sternum and abdomen
until she was stroking his thighs. “Quits?”
“Yes.” His hands found her hips. “I brought you another
present.”
“Joshua! What?”
“A gigantea seed. That’s an aboriginal Lalonde tree. I
saw a couple on the edge of Durringham, they were
eighty metres tall, but Marie said they were just babies,
the really big ones are further inland from the coast.”
“Marie said that, did she?”

“Yes.” He refused to be put off. “It should grow all right
in Tranquillity’s parkland. But you’ll have to plant it where
the soil is deep and there’s plenty of moisture.”
“I’ll remember.”
“It’ll grow up to the light-tube eventually.”
She pulled a disbelieving face.
<<I will have to run environmental compatibility tests
first,>> Tranquillity said. <<Our biosphere is delicately
balanced.>>
<<So cynical.>> “Thank you, Joshua,” she said out
loud.
Joshua realized he had regained his erection. “Why
don’t you just ease forward a bit?”
“I could give you a treat instead,” Ione said seductively.
“A real male fantasy come true.”
“Yes?”
“Yes. There’s a girlfriend of mine I’d like you to meet.
We go swimming together every morning. You’d like
that, watching us get all wet and slippery. She’s younger
than me. And she never, ever wears a swimming
costume.”
“Jesus.” Joshua’s face went from greed to caution.
“This isn’t on the level,” he decided.
“Yes, it is. She’s also very keen to meet you. She likes
it a lot when people wash her. I do it all the time, sliding
my hands all over her. Don’t you want to join me?”
He looked up at Ione’s mock-innocent expression, and
wondered what the hell he was letting himself in for. Gay
gene, like bollocks. “Lead on.”
They had walked fifty metres down the narrow sandy
path towards the cove, Ione’s escort of three serjeants
an unobtrusive ten paces behind, when Joshua stopped
and looked round. “This is the southern endcap.”
“That’s right,” she said slyly.
He caught up with her as she reached the top of the
bluff. The long, gently curving cove below looked
tremendously enticing, with a border of shaggy palm
trees and a tiny island offshore. Away in the distance

he could see the elaborate buildings of the Laymil
project campus.
“It’s all right,” she said. “I won’t have you arrested for
coming here.”
He shrugged and followed her down the bluff. Ione was
running on ahead as he reached the sand. Her
towelling robe was flung away. “Come on, Joshua!”
Spray frothed up as her feet reached the water.
A naked girl, a tropical beach. Irresistible. He dropped
his own robe and jogged down the slope. Something
was moving behind him, something making dull thudding
sounds as it moved, something heavy. He turned.
“Jesus!”
A Kiint was running straight at him. It was smaller than
any he’d seen before, about three metres long, only just
taller than him. Eight fat legs were flipping about in a
rhythm which was impossible to follow.
His feet refused to budge. “Ione!”
She was laughing hysterically. “Morning, Haile,” she
called at the top of her voice.
The Kiint lumbered to a halt in front of him. He was
looking into a pair of soft violet eyes half as wide as his
own face. A stream of warm damp breath poured from
the breathing vents.
“Er …”
One of the tractamorphic arms curved up, the tip
formshifting into the shape of a human hand, slightly too
large.
“Well, say hello, then,” Ione said; she had walked up to
stand behind him.
“I’ll get you for this, Saldana.”
She giggled. “Joshua, this is my girlfriend, Haile. Haile,
this is Joshua.”
<<Why has he so much stiffness?>> Haile asked.
Ione cracked up, nearly doubling over as she laughed.
Joshua gave her a furious glare.
<<Not want to shake hands? Not want to initiate human
greetings ritual? Not want to be friends?>> The Kiint

sounded mournfully disappointed.
“Joshua, shake hands. Haile’s upset you don’t want to
be friends with her.”
“How do you know?” he asked out of the corner of his
mouth.
“Affinity. The Kiint can use it.”
He put his hand up. Haile’s arm reached out, and he felt
a dry, slightly scaly, bud of flesh flow softly around his
fingers. It tickled. His neural nanonics were executing a
priority search through the xenoc files he had stored in
a memory cell. The Kiint could hear.
“May your thoughts always fly high, Haile,” he said, and
gave a slight formal bow.
<<I have much likening for him!>>
Ione gave him a calculating stare. I might have known
that charm of his would work on xenocs too, she
thought.
Joshua felt the Kiint’s flesh deliver a warm squeeze to
his hand, then the pseudo-hand peeled back. The itchy
sensation it left in his palm seemed to spread up along
his spine and into his skull.
“Your new girlfriend,” he said heavily.
Ione smiled. “Haile was born a few weeks ago. And
boy, does she grow fast.”
Haile started to push Ione towards the water, flat
triangular head butting the girl spiritedly, beak flapping.
One of her tractamorphic arms beckoned avidly at
Joshua.
He grinned. “I’m coming.” His scalp felt as if he’d been
in the sun too long, an all-over tingle.
“The water eases her skin while she’s growing,” Ione
said as she skipped ahead of the eager Kiint. “She
needs to bathe two or three times a day. All the Kiint
houses have interior pools. But she loves the beach.”
“Well, I’ll be happy to help scrub her while I’m here.”
<<Much gratitude.>>
“My pleasure,” Joshua said. He stopped. Haile was

standing at the edge of the water, big eyes regarding
him attentively. “That was you.”
<<Yes.>>
“What was?” Ione asked, she looked from one to the
other.
“I can hear her.”
“But you don’t have an affinity gene,” she said,
surprised, and maybe a little indignant.
<<Joshua has thoughts of strength. Much difficulty to
effect interlocution, but possible. Not so with most
humans. Feel hopelessness. Failure sorrow.>>
He swaggered. “Strong thoughts, see?”
“Haile hasn’t quite mastered our language, that’s all,”
Ione smiled with menace. “She’s confused strength with
simplicity. You have very elementary thoughts.”
Joshua rubbed his hands together determinedly, and
walked towards her.
Ione backed away, then turned and ran giggling into the
water. He caught her after six metres, and the two of
them fell into the small clear ripples whooping and
laughing. Haile plunged in after them.
<<Much joyness. Much joyness.>>
Joshua was interested by how well the young Kiint could
swim. He would have considered her body too heavy to
float, but she could move at a fair speed; her
tractamorphic arms spread out into flippers, and angled
back along her flanks. Ione wouldn’t let her go out to the
little island, saying it was still too far, which ruling Haile
accepted with rebellious sulks.
<<I have seen some of the all-around’s park space,>>
she told Joshua proudly as he rubbed the dorsal ridge
above her rump. <<Ione has shown me. So much to
absorb. Adventureness fun. Envy Joshua.>>
Joshua didn’t quite understand how to collect his
thoughts into a voice Haile could understand, instead
he simply spoke. “You envy me? Why?”
<<Venture as you please. Fly to stars so distant.
Welcome sights so strange. I want this, muchness!>>

“I don’t think you’d fit in the Lady Mac. Besides, human
ships that can carry Kiint have to be licensed by your
government. I haven’t got that licence.”
<<Sadness. Anger. Frustration. I may not venture
beyond adult defined constraints. Much growth before I
can.>>
“Bumming round the universe isn’t all it’s cracked up to
be. Most of the Confederation planets are pretty tame,
and travelling on a starship is boring; dangerous too.”
<<Danger? Excitement query?>>
Joshua moved down towards Haile’s flexible neck. Ione
was grinning at him over the xenoc’s white back.
“No, not excitement. There’s a danger of mechanical
failure. That can be fatal.”
<<You have excitement. Achievement. Ione narrated
many voyages you have undertaken. Triumph in Ruin
Ring. Much gratification. Such boldness exhibited.>>
Ione turned her giggle into a cough. <<You’re a flirt,
girl.>>
<<Incorrect access mode to human males, query?
Praise of character, followed by dumb admiration for
feats; your instruction.>>
<<Yes, I did say that, didn’t I. Perhaps not quite so
literally, though.>>
“That was a while ago now,” Joshua said. “Of course,
life was pretty tricky in those days. One wrong move
and it could have been catastrophic. The Ruin Ring is
an ugly place. You’ve gotta have determination to be a
scavenger. It’s a lonely existence. Not everyone can
take it.”
<<You achieved legend status. Most famous
scavenger of all.>>
<<Don’t push it,>> Ione warned.
“You mean the Laymil electronics stack? Yeah, it was a
big find, I earned a lot of money from that one.”
<<Much cultural relevance.>>
“Oh, yeah, that too.”

Ione stopped rubbing Haile’s neck and frowned.
“Joshua, haven’t you accessed the records we’ve been
decoding?”
“Er, what records?”
“Your electronics stack stored Laymil sensevise
recordings. We’ve uncovered huge amounts of data on
their culture.”
“Great. That’s good news.”
She eyed him suspiciously. “They were extremely
advanced biologically. Well ahead of us on the
evolutionary scale; they were almost completely in
harmony with their habitat environment, so now we have
to question just how artificial their habitats were. Their
entire biology, the way they approached living
organisms, is very different to our own perception.
They revered any living entity. And their psychology is
almost incomprehensible to us; they could be both
highly individual, and at the same time submerge
themselves into a kind of mental homogeneity.
Two almost completely different states of
consciousness. We think they may have been genuine
telepaths. The research project geneticists are having
furious arguments over the relevant gene sequence. It
is similar to the Edenist affinity gene, but the Laymil
psychology complements it in a way which is impossible
to human Edenist culture. Edenists retain a core of
identity even after they transfer their memories into the
habitat personality at death, whereas the Laymil
willingness to share their most private selves has to be
the product of considerable mental maturity. You can’t
engineer behavioural instinct into DNA.”
“Have you found out what destroyed their habitats yet?”
Joshua asked.
Haile shuddered below his hand, a very human reflex.
He felt a burst of cold alarm invading his thoughts.
“Hey, sorry.”
<<Fright. Scared feel. So many deaths. They had
strength. Still were defeated. Query cause?>>
“I wish I knew,” Ione said. “They seemed to celebrate
life, much more than we do.”
The Isakore was bobbing about inertly on the Zamjan
as though it was a log of elegantly carved driftwood,

ripples slopping against the hull with quiet insistence.
They had rigged up a couple of oarlike outriggers to
steer with during the first day, the rudder alone was no
good. And they’d managed to stick more or less to the
centre of the river. It was eight hundred metres wide
here, which gave them some leeway when the current
began to shift them towards one of the banks.
According to Murphy Hewlett’s inertial-guidance block
they had floated about thirty kilometres downriver since
the microfusion generator had been taken out. The
current had pushed them with dogged tenacity the
whole time, taking them away from the landing site and
the burnt antagonistic jungle. Only another eight
hundred plus kilometres to go.
Jacqueline Couteur had been no trouble, spending her
time sitting up in the prow under the canvas awning. If it
hadn’t been for the ordeal they’d been through, the
price they’d paid in their own pain and grief, to capture
her, Murphy would have tied the useless microfusion
generator round her neck and tossed her overboard.
He thought she knew that. But she was their mission.
And they were still alive, and still intact. Until that
changed, Lieutenant Murphy Hewlett was going to obey
orders and take her back to Durringham. There was
nothing else left, no alternative purpose to life.
Nobody had tried to interfere with them, although their
communication channels were definitely being jammed
(none of the other equipment blocks were affected).
Even the villages they had sailed past had shown no
interest. A couple of rowing dinghies had ventured
close the first morning, but they’d been warned off with
shots from one of the Bradfields. After that the Isakore
had been left alone.
It was almost a peaceful voyage. They’d eaten well,
cleaned and reloaded the weapons, done what they
could about their wounds. Niels Regehr swam in and
out of lucidity, but the medical nanonic package
clamped over his face was keeping him reasonably
stable.
Murphy could just about allow himself to believe they
would return to Durringham. The placid river
encouraged that kind of foolish thinking.
As night fell at the end of the second day he sat at the
stern, holding on to the tiller they had fixed up, and
doing his best to keep the boat in the centre of the river.

At least with this job he didn’t have to use his leg with its
achingly stiff knee, though his left hand was incapable
of gripping the tiller pole. The clammy air from the water
made his fatigues uncomfortably sticky.
He saw Louis Beith making his way aft, carrying a flask.
A medical nanonic package made a broad bracelet
around his arm where Jacqueline Couteur had broken
the bone and it glimmered dimly in the infrared
spectrum.
“Brought you some juice,” Louis said. “Straight out the
cryo.”
“Thanks.” Murphy took the mug he held out. With his
retinal implants switched to infrared, the liquid he
poured from the flask was a blue so deep it was nearly
black.
“Niels is talking to his demons again,” Louis said
quietly.
“Not much we can do about it, short of loading a
somnolence program into his neural nanonics.”
“Yeah, but Lieutenant; what he says, it’s like it’s for real,
you know? I thought people hallucinating don’t make any
sense. He’s even got me looking over my shoulder.”
Murphy took a swallow of the juice. It was freezing,
numbing the back of his throat. Just perfect. “It bothers
you that bad? I could put him under, I suppose.”
“No, not bad. It’s just kinda spooky, what with everything
we saw, and all.”
“I think that electronic warfare gimmick the hostiles
have affects our neural nanonics more than we like to
admit.”
“Yeah?” Louis brightened. “Maybe you’re right.” He
stood with his hands on his hips, staring ahead to the
west. “Man, that is some meteorite shower. I ain’t never
seen one that good before.”
Murphy looked up into the cloudless night sky. High
above the Isakore’s prow the stars were tumbling down
from their fixed constellations. There was a long broad
slash of them scintillating and flashing. He actually
smiled, they looked so picturesque. And the hazy slash
was still growing as more of them hit the atmosphere,
racing eastwards. It must be a prodigious swarm gliding

in from interplanetary space, the remains of some
burnt-out comet that had disintegrated centuries ago.
The meteorites furthest away were developing huge
contrails as they sizzled their way downwards. They
were certainly penetrating the atmosphere a long way,
tens of kilometres at least. Murphy’s smile bled away.
“Oh my God,” he said in a tiny dry voice.
“What?” Louis asked happily. “Isn’t that something
smooth? Wow! I could look at that all night long.”
“They’re not meteorites.”
“What?”
“They’re not meteorites. Shit!”
Louis looked at him in alarm.
“They’re bloody kinetic harpoons!” Murphy started to
run forwards as fast as his knee would allow. “Secure
yourself!” he shouted. “Grab something and hold on.
They’re coming down right on top of us.”
The sky was turning to day overhead, blackness
flushed away by a spreading stain of azure blue. The
contrails to the west were becoming too bright to look
at. They seemed to be lengthening at a terrific rate,
cracks of sunlight splitting open across the wall of night.
Kinetic harpoons were the Confederation Navy’s
standard tactical (non-radioactive) planetary surface
assault weapon. A solid splinter of toughened, heat-
resistant composite, half a metre long, needle sharp,
guided by a cruciform tail, steered by a processor with
preprogrammed flight vector. They carried no
explosives, no energy charge; they destroyed their
target through speed alone.
Ilex accelerated in towards Lalonde at eight gees,
following a precise hyperbolic trajectory. The apex was
reached twelve hundred kilometres above Amarisk, two
hundred kilometres east of Durringham. Five thousand
harpoons were expelled from the voidhawk’s weapons
cradles, hurtling towards the night-masked continent
below. Ilex inverted the direction of its distortion field’s
acceleration wave, fighting Lalonde’s gravity.
Stretched out on their couches, the crew raged
impotently against the appalling gee force, nanonic
supplement membranes turning rigid to hold soft weak
human bodies together as the voidhawk dived away

from the planet.
The harpoon swarm sheered down through the
atmosphere, hypervelocity friction ablating away the
composite’s outer layer of molecules to leave a
dazzling ionic tail over a hundred kilometres long. From
below it resembled a rain of fierce liquid light.
Their silence was terrifying. A display of such potency
should sound like the roar of an angry god. Murphy
clung to one of the rails along the side of the wheel-
house, squinting through squeezed-up eyelids as the
solid sheet of vivid destruction plummeted towards him.
He heard Jacqueline Couteur moaning in fear, and felt
a cheap, malicious satisfaction. It was the first time she
had shown the slightest emotion. Impact could only be
seconds away now.
The harpoons were directly overhead, an atmospheric
river of solar brilliance mirroring the Zamjan’s course.
They split down the centre, two solid planes of light
diverging with immaculate symmetry, sliding down to
touch the jungle away in the west then racing past the
Isakore at a speed too fast even for enhanced human
senses to follow. None of them, not one, landed in the
water.
Multiple explosions obliterated the jungle. Along both
sides of the Zamjan gouts of searing purple flame
streaked upwards as the harpoons struck the earth,
releasing their colossal kinetic energy in a single
devastating burst of heat. The swath of devastation
extended for a length of seven kilometres along the
banks, reaching a kilometre and a half inland. A thick
filthy cloud of loam and stone and wood splinters
belched up high into the air, blotting out the heat
flashes. The blast-wave rolled out in both directions,
flattening still more of the jungle.
Then the sound broke over the boat. The roar of the
explosions overlapped, merging into a single sonic
battering-ram which made every plank on the Isakore
twang as if it was an overtuned guitar string. After that
came the eternal thunderclap of the air being ripped
apart by the harpoons’ plunge; sound waves finally
catching up with the weapons.
Murphy jammed his hands across his stinging
eardrums. His whole skeleton was shaking, joints
resonating painfully.
Debris started to patter down, puckering the already

distressed surface of the river. A sprinkling of fires
burnt along the banks where shattered trees lay strewn
among deep craters. Pulverized loam and wood hung in
the air, an obscure black fog above the mortally
wounded land.
Murphy slowly lowered his hands, staring at the awful
vision of destruction. “It was our side,” he said in dazed
wonder. “We did it.”
Garrett Tucci was at his side, jabbering away wildly.
Murphy couldn’t hear a thing. His ears were still ringing
vociferously. “Shout! Datavise! My ears have packed
up.”
Garrett blinked, he held up his communications block.
“It’s working,” he yelled.
Murphy datavised his own block, which reported the
channel to the ELINT satellite was open.
A beam of bright white light slid over the Isakore,
originating from somewhere above. Murphy watched as
the beam swung out over the water, then tracked back
towards the boat. He looked up, beyond surprise. It was
coming from a small aircraft hovering two hundred
metres overhead, outlined by the silver stars. Green,
red, and white strobes flashed on the tips of its wings
and canards. His neural nanonics identified the jet-
black planform, a BK133.
Murphy’s communication block bleeped to acknowledge
a local channel opening. “Murphy? Are you there,
Murphy?”
“Sir? Is that you?” he asked incredulously.
“Expecting someone else?” Kelven Solanki datavised.
The beam found the Isakore again, and remained
trained on the deck.
“Have you still got your prisoner?”
“Yes, sir.” Murphy glanced at Jacqueline Couteur, who
was staring up at the aircraft, shielding her eyes
against the spotlight.
“Good man. We’ll take her back with us.”
“Sir, Niels Regehr is injured pretty badly. I don’t think he
can climb a rope ladder.”

“No problem.”
The BK133 was descending carefully, wings rocking in
the thermal microbursts generated by the harpoons’
impact. Murphy could feel the compressor jets gusting
against his face, a hot dry wind, pleasant after the
river’s humidity. He saw a wide hatch was open on the
side of the fuselage. A man in naval fatigues was slowly
winching down towards the Isakore.
Floodlights on the roof of the navy office showed the
grounds around the building were thick with people. All
of them seemed to be looking up into the night sky.
Murphy watched them through the BK133’s open mid-
fuselage hatch as Kelven Solanki piloted it down onto
the roof pad. A wedge-shaped spaceplane was sitting
on one side of the roof, wings retracted; it only just
fitted, tail and nose were overhanging the edges. It was
one of the most welcome sights he had seen in a long
long while.
“Who are all those people?” he asked.
“Anyone who saw Ilex’s spaceplane taking the staff
away earlier,” Vince Burtis said. He was the nineteen-
year-old navy rating who had winched the marine squad
to safety. To him the invasion was exactly what he had
signed on for, adventure on alien worlds; he was
enjoying himself. Murphy hadn’t the heart to disillusion
him. The kid would realize soon enough.
“I guess they want to leave too,” Vince Burtis said
soberly.
The BK133 settled on the roof. Kelven datavised the
flight computer to power down the internal systems.
“Everyone out,” he said.
“Hurry, please.” Erato’s appeal was relayed through his
communication block. “I’m in touch with the sheriffs
outside. They say the crowd is already at the door.”
“They shouldn’t be able to get in,” Kelven datavised.
“I think some of the sheriffs may be with them,” Erato
said hesitantly.
“They’re only human.”
Kelven released his straps and hurried back into the
cabin. Vince Burtis was guiding Niels Regehr’s tentative

footsteps, helping him down through the hatch. Garrett
Tucci and Louis Beith were already out, marching
Jacqueline Couteur towards the spaceplane at
gunpoint.
Murphy Hewlett gave his superior a tired smile. “Thank
you, sir.”
“Nothing to do with me. If the Ilex hadn’t shown up you’d
still be paddling home.”
“Is everyone else from the office out?”
“Yes, the spaceplane made a couple of flights earlier
this evening, we’re the last,” Kelven said.
They both hopped down onto the roof. The noise of the
spaceplane’s compressors rose, obscuring the sound
of the crowd below. Kelven did his best to ignore the
sensation of guilt. He had made a lot of friends among
Lalonde’s civil administration staff. Candace Elford had
turned over the BK133 as soon as he asked, no
questions. Surely some people could have been taken
up to the orbiting colonist-carriers.
Who though? And who would choose?
The best, the only, way to help Lalonde now was
through the Confederation Navy.
The stairwell door on the other side of the BK133 burst
open. People began to spill out onto the roof, shouting
frantically.
“Oh, Christ,” Kelven said under his breath. He could
see three or four sheriffs among them, armed with
cortical jammers, one had a laser hunting rifle. The rest
were civilians. He looked round. Vince Burtis and Niels
Regehr were halfway up the stairs to the airlock. One of
the Ilex’s crew was leaning out, offering a hand to Niels.
Vince was staring over his shoulder in shock.
“Get in,” Kelven datavised, waving his arms.
Two sheriffs were rounding the nose of the BK133,
more people were crouched low scuttling under the
fuselage. Still more were running out of the open door.
There must have been thirty on the roof.
“Wait for us.”
“You can carry one more.”

“I have money, I can pay.”
Murphy aimed his Bradfield into the air and fired off two
shots. The heavy-calibre weapon was startlingly loud.
Several people threw themselves down, the rest froze.
“Don’t even think about it,” Murphy said. The Bradfield
lined up on one of the ashen-faced sheriffs. A cortical
jammer fell from the man’s hands.
The noise of the spaceplane’s compressors was
becoming strident.
“There’s no room on board. Go home before anyone
gets hurt.”
Kelven and Murphy started backing towards the
spaceplane. A young brown-skinned woman who had
crawled under the BK133 straightened up, and walked
towards them defiantly. She was holding a small child in
front of her, it couldn’t have been more than two years
old. Plump face and wide liquid eyes.
Murphy just couldn’t bring himself to point the Bradfield
at her. He reached the foot of the spaceplane’s
aluminium stairs.
“Take him with you,” the woman called. She held the
child out. “For Jesus’s sake, take my son, if you have a
gram of pity in you. I’m begging you!”
Murphy’s foot found the first step. Kelven had a hand
on his arm, guiding him back.
“Take him!” she shrieked over the swelling compressor
efflux. “Take him, or shoot him.”
He shuddered at her fervour. She meant it, she really
meant it.
“It would be a kindness. You know what will happen to
him on this cursed planet.” The child was crying,
squirming about in her grip.
The other people on the roof were all motionless,
watching him with hard, accusing eyes. He turned to
Kelven Solanki, whose face was a mask of torment.
“Get him,” Kelven blurted.
Murphy dropped the Bradfield, letting it skitter away
across the silicon roof. He datavised a codelock into its
controlling processor so no one could turn it on the

spaceplane, then grabbed the child with his right hand.
“Shafi,” the woman shouted as he raced up the stairs.
“His name’s Shafi Banaji. Remember.”
He barely had a foot in the airlock when the spaceplane
lifted, its deck tilting up immediately. Hands steadied
him, and the outer hatch slid shut.
Shafi’s baggy cotton trousers were soiled and stinking;
he let out a long fearful wail.
===========================================================================

Chapter 03
^
Including Tranquillity, there were only five independent
(non-Edenist) bitek habitats to be found within the
boundaries of the Confederation.
After Tranquillity, probably the most well known, or
notorious depending on your cultural outlook and
degree of liberalism, was Valisk.
Although they were both, technically, dictatorships, they
occupied opposite ends of the political spectrum, with
the dominant ideologies of the remaining three habitats
falling between them, a well-deserved mediocrity.
Tranquillity was regarded as elitist, or even regal given
its founder: industrious, rich, and slightly raffish, with a
benevolent, chic ruler, it emphasized the grander
qualities of life, somewhere you aspired to go if you
made it. Valisk was older, its glory days over, or at the
very least in abeyance: it played host to a more
decadent population; money here (and there was still
plenty) came from exploiting the darker side of human
nature. And its strange governorship repelled rather
than attracted.
It hadn’t always been so.
Valisk was founded by an Edenist Serpent called
Rubra. Unlike Laton, who terrorized the Confederation
two and a half centuries later, his rebellion was of an
altogether more constructive nature. He was born in
Machaon, a habitat orbiting Kohistan, the largest gas
giant in the Srinagar star system. After forty-four years,
he abandoned his culture and his home, sold his not
inconsiderable share in his family’s engineering
enterprise, and emigrated to a newly opened Adamist
asteroid settlement in Kohistan’s trailing Trojan cluster.
It was a period of substantial economic growth for the
star system.
Srinagar had been colonized by ethnic-Hindus in 2178
during the Great Dispersal, a hundred and sixteen
years earlier. Basic industrialization had been
completed, the world was tamed, and people were
looking for new ways of channelling their energies. All
across the Confederation emerging colony planets
were exploiting space resources and increasing their
wealth dramatically. Srinagar was eager to be

numbered among them.
Rubra started with six leased interplanetary cargo
ships. Like all Serpents he was a high achiever in his
chosen field (nearly always to Edenist embarrassment,
for so many of them chose crime). He made a small
fortune supplying the Trojan cluster’s small but wealthy
population of engineers and miners with consumer
goods and luxuries. He bought more ships, made a
larger fortune, and named his expanding company
Magellanic Itg, joking to his peers that one day he would
trade with that distant star cluster. By 2306, after twelve
years of steady growth, Magellanic Itg owned
manufacturing stations and asteroid-mining operations,
and had moved into the interstellar transport market.
At this point Rubra germinated Valisk in orbit around
Opuntia, the fourth of the system’s five gas giants. It
was a huge gamble. He spent his company’s entire
financial reserves cloning the seed, mortgaging half of
the starships to boot. And bitek remained technology
non grata for the major religions, including the Hindu
faith. But Srinagar was sufficiently Bolshevik about its
new economic independence from its sponsoring
Govcentral Indian states, and energetic enough in its
approach to innovation, to cast a blind eye to
proscriptions announced by fundamentalist Brahmians
on a distant imperialist planet over two centuries earlier.
Planet and asteroid governments saw no reason to
impose embargoes against what was rapidly evolving
into one of the system’s premier economic assets.
Valisk became, literally, a corporate state, acting as the
home port for Magellanic Itg’s starship fleet (already
one of the largest in the sector) and dormitory town for
its industrial stations.
Although Valisk was a financially advantageous location
from which Rubra could run his flourishing corporate
empire, he needed to attract a base population to the
habitat to make it a viable pocket civilization.
Industrial stations were therefore granted extremely
liberal weapons and research licences and Valisk
started to attract companies specializing in military
hardware. Export constraints were almost non-existent.
Rubra also opened the habitat to immigration for
“people who seek cultural and religious freedom”,
possibly in reaction to his own formal Edenist
upbringing. This invitation attracted several
nonconformist religious cults, spiritual groups, and

primitive lifestyle tribes, who believed that a bitek
environment would fulfill the role of some benevolent
Gaia and provide them free food and shelter. Over nine
thousand of these people arrived over the course of
the habitat’s first twenty-five years, many of them drug-
or stimulant-program addicts. At this time, Rubra,
infuriated with their unrepentant parasitical nature,
banned any more from entering.
By 2330 the population had risen to three hundred and
fifty thousand.
Industrial output was high, and many interstellar
companies were opening regional offices inside.
Then the first blackhawks to be seen in the
Confederation began to appear, all of them registered
with Magellanic Itg, and captained by Rubra’s plentiful
offspring. Rubra had pulled off a spectacular coup
against both his competitors and his former culture.
Voidhawk bitek was the most sophisticated ever
sequenced; copying it was a triumph of genetic
retroengineering.
With blackhawks now acting as the mainstay of his
starship fleet, Rubra was unchallengeable. A large-
scale cloning programme saw their numbers rising
dramatically; neural symbionts were used to give
captaincies to Adamists who had no qualms about
using bitek, and there were many. By 2365 Magellanic
Itg ceased to use anything other than blackhawks in its
transport fleet.
Rubra died in 2390, one of the wealthiest men in the
Confederation. He left behind an industrial
conglomerate used as an example by economists ever
since as the classic corporate growth model. It should
have carried on. It had the potential to rival the Kulu
Corporation owned by the Saldana family. Ultimately it
might even have equalled the Edenist He3 cloud-mining
operation. No physical or financial restrictions existed
to limit its inherent promise; banks were more than
willing to advance loans, the markets existed, supplied
by its own ships.
But in the end, after the end, Rubra’s Serpent nature
proved less than benign after all. His psychology was
too different, too obsessional.
Brought up knowing his personality pattern would
continue to exist for centuries if not millennia, he
refused to accept death as an Adamist. He transferred

his personality pattern into Valisk’s neural strata.
From this point onward company and habitat started to
degenerate. Part of the reason was the germination of
the other independent habitats, all of whom offered
themselves as bases for blackhawk mating flights. The
Valisk/Magellanic Itg monopoly was broken. But the
company’s industrial decline, and the habitat’s parallel
deterioration, was due principally to the inheritance
problem Rubra created.
When he died he was known to have fathered over a
hundred and fifty children, a hundred and twenty-two of
whom were carefully conceived in vitro and gestated in
exowombs; all had modifications made to their affinity
gene, as well as general physiological improvements.
Thirty of the exowomb children were appointed to
Valisk’s executive committee, which ran both the habitat
and Magellanic Itg, while the remainder, along with the
rapidly proliferating third generation, became blackhawk
pilots.
The naturally conceived children were virtually
disinherited from the company, and many of them
returned to the Edenist fold.
Even this nepotistic arrangement shouldn’t have been
too much trouble.
There would inevitably be power struggles within such a
large committee, but strong characters would rise to the
top, simple human dynamics demanded it. None ever
did.
The alteration Rubra had made to their affinity gene
was a simple one; they were bonded to the habitat and
a single family of blackhawks alone.
He robbed them of the Edenist general affinity. The
arrangement gave him access to their minds virtually
from the moment of conception, first through the habitat
personality, then after he died, as the habitat
personality.
He shaped them as they lay huddled in the metal and
composite exowombs, and later in their innocent
childhood; a dark conscience nestled maggot-fashion
at the centre of their consciousness, examining their
most secret thoughts for deviations from the path he
had chosen. It was a dreadfully perverted version of the
love bond which existed between voidhawks and their
captains. His descendants became little more than

anaemic caricatures of himself at his prime. He tried to
instill the qualities which had driven him, and wound up
with wretched neurotic inadequates. The more he
attempted to tighten his discipline, the worse their
dependence upon him became. A slow change
manifested in the habitat personality’s psychology. In
his growing frustration with his living descendants he
became resentful; of their lives, of their bodily
experiences, of the emotions they could feel, the
humanness of glands and hormones running riot. Rubra
was jealous of the living.
Edenist visits to the habitat, already few and far
between, stopped altogether after 2480. They said the
habitat personality had become insane.
Dariat was an eighth-generation descendant, born a
hundred and seventy-five years after Rubra’s body
died. Physically he was virtually indistinguishable from
his peer group; he shared the light coffee-coloured skin
and raven hair that signalled the star system’s ethnic
origin. A majority of Valisk’s population originated
insystem, though few of them were practising Hindus.
Only his indigo eyes marked him out as anything other
than a straight Srinagar genotype.
He never knew of his calamitous inheritance until his
teens, although even from his infancy he knew in his
heart he was different; he was better, superior to all the
other children in his day club. And when they laughed at
him, or teased him, or sent him to Coventry, he laid into
them with a fury that none of them could match. He
didn’t know where it came from himself, only that it lay
within, like some slumbering lake-bottom monster. At
first he felt shame at the beatings he inflicted, blood for
a five-year-old is a shocking sight; but even as he ran
home crying a different aspect of the alien ego would
appear and soothe him, calming his pounding heart.
There was nothing wrong, he was assured, no crime
committed, only rightness. They shouldn’t have said
what they did, catcalled and sneered. You were right to
assert yourself, you are strong, be proud of that.
After a while the feelings of guilt ebbed away. When he
needed to hit someone he did it without remorse or
regret. His leadership of the day club was undisputed,
out of fear rather than respect.
He lived with his mother in a starscraper apartment; his
father had left her the year he was born. He knew his
father was important, that he helped to manage

Magellanic Itg; but whenever he paid mother and son
one of his dutiful visits he was subject to moody
silences or bursts of frantic activity. Dariat didn’t like
him, the grown-up was weird. I can do without him, the
boy thought, he’s weak. The conviction was as strong
as one of his didactic imprints. His father stopped
visiting after he was twelve years old.
Dariat concentrated on science and finance subjects
when he began receiving didactic courses at ten years
old, although right at the back of his mind was the
faintest notion that the arts might just have been equally
appealing. But they were despicable moments of
weakness, soon swallowed by the pride he felt
whenever he passed another course assessment. He
was headed for great things.
At fourteen the crux came. At fourteen he fell in love.
Valisk’s interior did not follow the usual bitek habitat
convenience of a tropical or sub-tropical environment.
Rubra had decided on a scrub desert extending out
from the base of the northern endcap, then blending
slowly into hilly savannah plain of terrestrial and xenoc
grasses before the standard circumfluous salt-water
reservoir at the base of the southern endcap.
Dariat was fond of hiking round the broad grasslands
with their subtle blend of species and colours. The
children’s day club which he used to dominate had long
since broken up. Adolescents were supposed to join
sports groups, or general interest clubs. He had trouble
integrating, too many peers remembered his temper
and violence long after he had stopped resorting to
such crude methods. They shunned him, and he told
himself he didn’t care. Somebody told him. In dreams
he would find himself walking through the habitat talking
to a white-haired old man. The old man was a big
comfort, the things he said, the encouragement he
gave. And the habitat was slightly different, richer, with
trees and flowers and happy crowds, families
picnicking.
“It’s going to be like this once you’re in charge,” the old
man told him numerous times. “You’re the best there’s
been for decades. Almost as good as me. You’ll bring it
all back to me, the power and the wealth.”
“This is the future?” Dariat asked. They were standing
on a tall altar of polyp-rock, looking down on a circular
starscraper entrance. People were rushing about with a

vigour and purpose not usually found in Valisk.
Every one of them was wearing a Magellanic Itg
uniform. When he lifted his gaze it was as though the
northern endcap was transparent; blackhawks flocked
around their docking rings, loaded with expensive
goods and rare artefacts from a hundred planets.
Further out, so far away it was only a hazy ginger blob,
Magellanic Itg’s failed Von Neumann machine spun
slowly against the gas giant’s yellow-brown ring array.
“It could be the future,” the old man sighed regretfully. “If
you will only listen how.”
“I will,” Dariat said. “I’ll listen.”
The old man’s schemes seemed to coincide with the
pressure of conviction and certainty which was building
in his own mind. Some days he seemed so full of ideas
and goals he thought his skull must surely burst apart,
whilst on other occasions the dream man’s long
rambling speeches seemed to have developed a
tangible echo, lasting all day long.
That was why he enjoyed the long bouts of solitude
provided by the unadventurous interior. Walking and
exploring obscure areas was the only time the raging
thoughts in his brain slowed and calmed.
Five days after his fourteenth birthday he saw
Anastasia Rigel. She was washing in a river that ran
along the floor of a deep valley. Dariat heard her
singing before he saw her. The voice led him round
some genuine rock boulders onto a shelf of naked
polyp which the water had scoured of soil. He squatted
down in the lee of the boulders, and watched her
kneeling at the side of the river.
The girl was tall and much much blacker than anyone
he’d seen in Valisk before. She appeared to be in her
late teens (seventeen, he learned later), with legs that
seemed to be all bands of muscle, and long jet-black
hair that was arranged in ringlets and woven with red
and yellow beads. Her face was narrow and delicate
with a petite nose. There were dozens of slim silver and
bronze bracelets on each arm.
She was only wearing a blue skirt of some thin cotton. A
brown top of some kind lay on the polyp beside her.
Dariat caught some fleeting glimpses of high pointed
breasts as she rubbed water across her chest and
arms. It was even better than accessing bluesense AV

fleks and tossing off. For once he felt beautifully calm.
I’m going to have her, he thought, I really am. The
certainty burned him.
She stood up, and pulled her brown top on. It was a
sleeveless waistcoat made from thin supple leather,
laced up the front. “You can come out now,” she said in
a clear voice.
Just for a moment he felt wholly inferior. Then he trotted
towards her with a casualness that denied she had just
caught him spying. “I was trying not to alarm you,” he
said.
She was twenty centimetres taller than him; she looked
down and grinned openly. “You couldn’t.”
“Did you hear me? I thought I was being quiet.”
“I could feel you.”
“Feel me?”
“Yes. You have a very anguished spirit. It cries out.”
“And you can hear that?”
“Lin Yi was a distant ancestress.”
“Oh.”
“You have not heard of her?”
“No, sorry.”
“She was a famous spiritualist. She predicted the Big
One2 quake in California back on Earth in 2058 and led
her followers to safety in Oregon. A perilous pilgrimage
for those times.”
“I’d like to hear that story.”
“I will tell it if you like. But I don’t think you will listen. Your
spirit is closed against the realm of Chi-ri.”
“You judge people very fast. We don’t stand much of a
chance, do we?”
“Do you know what the realm of Chi-ri is?”
“No.”
“Shall I tell you?”

“If you like.”
“Come then.”
She led him up the river, bracelets tinkling musically at
every motion.
They followed the tight curve of the valley; after three
hundred metres the floor broadened out, and a
Starbridge village was camped along the side of the
river.
Starbridge was the remnants of the cults and tribes and
spiritualists who had moved into Valisk during its
formative years. They had slowly amalgamated down
the decades, bonding together against the scorn and
hostility of the other inhabitants. Now they were one big
community, united spiritually with an outre fusion of
beliefs that was often incomprehensible to any outsider.
They embraced the primitive existence, living as tribes
of migrants, walking round and round the interior of the
habitat, tending their cattle, practising their handicraft,
cultivating their opium poppies, and waiting for their
nirvana.
Dariat looked out on the collection of ramshackle
tepees, stringy animals with noses foraging the grass,
children in rags running barefoot. He experienced a
contempt so strong it verged on physical sickness. He
was curious at that, he had no reason to hate the
Starbridge freakos, he’d never had anything to do with
them before. Even as he thought that, the loathing
increased. Of course he did, slimy parasites, vermin on
two legs.
Anastasia Rigel stroked his forehead in concern. “You
suffer yet you are strong,” she said. “You spend so
much time in the realm of Anstid.”
She brought him into her tepee, a cone of heavy
handwoven cloth. Wicker baskets ringed the walls. The
light was dim, and the air dusty. The valley’s pinkish
grass was matted, dry and dying underfoot. He saw her
sleeping roll bundled up against one basket, a bright
orange blanket with pillows that had some kind of green
and white tree motif embroidered across them, haloed
by a ring of stars. He wondered if that was what he’d do
it on, where he’d finally become a real man.
They sat crosslegged on a threadbare rug and drank
tea, which was like coloured water, and didn’t taste of

much. Jasmine, she told him.
“What do you think of us?” she asked.
“Us?”
“The Starbridge tribes.”
“Never really thought about you much,” Dariat said. He
was getting itchy sitting on the rug, and it was pretty
obvious there weren’t going to be any biscuits with the
tea.
“You should. Starbridge is both our name and our
dream, that which we seek to build. A bridge between
stars, between all peoples. We are the final religion.
They will all come to us eventually; the Christians and
Muslims and Hindus and Buddhists, even the Satanists
and followers of Wicca; every sect, every cult. Each
and every one of them.”
“That’s a pretty bold claim.”
“Not really. Just inevitable. There were so many of us,
you see, when Rubra the Lost invited us here. So many
beliefs, all different, yet really all the same. Then he
turned on us, and confined us, and isolated us. He
thought he would punish us, force us to conform to his
materialistic atheism. But faith and dignity is always
stronger than mortal oppression. We turned inwards for
comfort, and found we had so much that we shared.
We became one.”
“Starbridge being the one?”
“Yes. We burned the old scriptures and prayer books
on a bonfire so high the flames reached right across
the habitat. With them went all the ancient prejudices
and the myths. It left us pure, in silence and darkness.
Then we rebirthed ourselves, and renamed what we
knew was real.
There is so much that old Earth’s religions have in
common; so many identical beliefs and tenets and
wisdoms. But their followers are forced apart by names,
by priests who have grown decadent and greedy for
physical reward. Whole peoples, whole planets who
denounce one another so that a few evil men can wear
robes of golden cloth.”
“That seems fairly logical,” Dariat said enthusiastically.
“Good idea.” He smiled. From where he was sitting he

could see the whole side of her left breast through the
waistcoat’s lace-up front.
“I don’t think you have come to faith that quickly,” she
said with a trace of suspicion.
“I haven’t. Because you haven’t told me anything about
it. But if you were telling the truth about hearing my
spirit, then you’ve got my full attention. None of the
other religions can offer tangible proof of God’s
existence.”
She shifted round on the rug, bracelets clinking softly.
“Neither do we offer proof. What we say is that life in
this universe is only one segment of the great journey a
spirit undertakes through time. We believe the journey
will finish when a spirit reaches heaven, however you
choose to define that existence. But don’t ask how
close this universe is to heaven. That depends on the
individual.”
“What happens when your spirit reaches heaven?”
“Transcendence.”
“What sort?”
“That is for God to proclaim.”
“God. Not a goddess, then?” he asked teasingly.
She grinned at him. “The word defines a concept, not
an entity, not a white man with a white beard, nor even
an earth mother. Physical bodies require gender. I don’t
think the instigator and sovereign of the multiverse is
going to have physical and biological aspects, do you?”
“No.” He finished the tea, relieved the cup was empty.
“So what are these realms?”
“While the spirit is riding a body it also moves through
the spiritual realms of the Lords and Ladies who govern
nature. There are six realms, and five Lords and
Ladies.”
“I thought you said there was only one heaven?”
“I did. The realms are not heaven, they are aspects of
ourselves. The Lords and Ladies are not God, but they
are of a higher order than ourselves. They affect
events through the wisdoms and deceits they reveal to
us. But they have no influence on the physical reality of
the cosmos.

They are not the instigators of miracles.”
“Like angels and demons?” he asked brightly.
“If you like. If that makes it easier to accept.”
“So they’re in charge of us?”
“You are in charge of yourself. You and you alone
chose where your spirit roams.”
“Then why the Lords and Ladies?”
“They grant gifts of knowledge and insight, they tempt.
They test us.”
“Silly thing to do. Why don’t they leave us alone?”
“Without experience there can be no growth. Existence
is evolution, both on a spiritual and a personal level.”
“I see. So which is this Chi-ri I’m closed against?”
Anastasia Rigel climbed to her feet and went over to
one of the wicker baskets. She pulled out a small
goatskin bag. If she was aware of his hungry look
following her every move she never showed it. “These
represent the Lords and Ladies,” she said as she sat
back down. The bag’s contents were tipped out. Six
coloured pebble-sized crystals bounced on the rug.
They had all been carved, he saw; cubes with their
faces marked by small runes. She picked up the red
one. “This is for Thoale, Lord of destiny.” The blue
crystal was held up, and she told him it was for Chi-ri,
Lady of hope. Green was for Anstid, Lord of hatred.
Yellow for Tarrug, Lord of mischief. Venus, Lady of
love, was as clear as glass.
“You said there were six realms,” he said.
“The sixth is the emptiness.” She proffered a jet-black
cube, devoid of runes. “It has no Lord or Lady, it is
where lost spirits flee.” She crossed her arms in front
of herself, fingers touching her shoulders, bracelets
falling to the crook of her elbows. She reminded Dariat
of a statue of Shiva he’d seen in one of Valisk’s four
temples; Shiva as Nataraja, king of dancers. “A terrible
place,” Anastasia Rigel murmured coolly.
“You don’t think I have any hope?” he asked, suddenly
annoyed at this primitive paganish nonsense again.

“You resist it.”
“No, I don’t. I’ve got lots of hope. I’m going to run this
habitat one day,” he added. She ought to be impressed
by that.
Her head was shaken gently, hair partly obscuring her
face. “That is Anstid deceiving you, Dariat. You spend
so much time in his realm, he has an unholy grip upon
your spirit.”
“How do you know?” he said scornfully.
“These are called Thoale stones. He is the Lord I am
beholden to. He shows me what is to unfold.” A slight,
droll smile flickered over her lips. “Sometimes Tarrug
intervenes. He shows me things I should not see, or
events I cannot understand.”
“How do the stones work?”
“Each face is carved with the rune of a realm. I read the
combinations, how they fall, or in the case of the
emptiness where it falls in relation to the others. Would
you like to know what your future contains?”
“Yeah. Go on.”
“Pick up each crystal, hold it in your hands for a
moment, try to impress it with your essence, then put it
in the bag.”
He picked up the clear one, naturally. Love Lady. “How
do I impress it?”
She just shrugged.
He squeezed the crystals one at a time, feeling
increasingly stupid, and dropped them in the goatskin
bag. Anastasia Rigel shook the bag, then tipped the
crystals out.
“What does it say?” Dariat asked, a shade too eagerly
for someone who was supposed to be sceptical.
She stared at them a while, eyes flicking anxiously
between the runes.
“Greatness,” she said eventually. “You will come to
greatness.”
“Hey, yeah!”

Her hand came up, silencing him. “It will not last. You
shine so bright, Dariat, but for such a short time, and it
is a dark flame which ignites you.”
“Then what?” he asked, disgruntled.
“Pain, death.”
“Death?”
“Not yours. Many people, but not yours.”
Anastasia Rigel didn’t offer to sleep with him that time.
Nor any of his visits during the month which followed.
They walked round the savannah together, talking
inanities, almost as brother and sister. She would tell
him about the Starbridge philosophy, the idiosyncrasies
of the realms. He listened, but became lost and
impatient with a worldview which seemed to have little
internal logic. In return he told her of his father, the
resentment and the confusion of loss; mainly in the
hope she’d feel sorry for him. He took her down into a
starscraper; she said she’d never been in one before.
She didn’t like it, the confining walls of the apartments,
although she was fascinated by the slowly spinning
starfield outside.
The sexual tension died down from its initial high-
voltage peak, though it was never laid to rest. It became
a sort of game, jibes and smirks, played for points that
neither knew how to win. Dariat enjoyed her company a
lot. Someone who treated him fairly, who took time to
hear what he said. Because she wanted to. He could
never quite understand what she got out of the
arrangement. She read his future several times, though
none of the readings ever proved quite as dire as the
first.
Dariat spent more and more time with her, almost
divorcing himself from the culture lived out in the
starscrapers and industrial stations (except for keeping
up on his didactic courses). The portentous aspirations
in his mind lost their grip when he was in her presence.
He learnt how to milk a goat, not that he particularly
wanted to. They were smelly, bad-tempered creatures.
She cooked him fish which she caught in the streams,
and showed him which plants had edible roots. He
found out about the tribe’s way of life, how they sold a
lot of their handicrafts to starship crews, chiefly the
rugs and pottery, how they shunned technology.
“Except for nanonic medical packages,” she said wryly.

“Amazing how many women become technocrats
around childbirth time.” He went to some of their
ceremonies, which seemed little more than open air
parties where everyone drank a strong distilled spirit,
and sang gospel hymns late into the night.
One evening, when she was wearing just a simple white
cotton poncho, she invited him into her tepee. He felt all
the sexual heat return as the outline of her body was
revealed through the fabric by the light of the tepee’s
meagre oil lamp. There was some kind of clay pot in the
centre with a snakelike hose coming from the side. It
was smoking docilely, filling the air with a funny sweet
and sour scent.
Anastasia took a puff on the pipe, and shivered as if
she’d swallowed a triple whisky. “Try some,” she said,
her voice rich with challenge.
“What is it?”
“A wide gate into Tarrug’s realm. You’ll like it. Anstid
won’t. He’ll lose all control over you.”
He looked at the crimped end of the tube, still wet from
her mouth. He wanted to try it. He was frightened. Her
eyes were very wide.
She tipped her head back, expelling two long plumes of
smoke from her nostrils. “Don’t you want to explore the
realm of mischief with me?”
Dariat put the tube in his mouth and sucked. The next
minute he was coughing violently.
“Not so hard,” she said. Her voice sounded all furred.
“Take it down slow. Feel it float through your bones.”
He did as he was told.
“They’re hollow, you know, your bones.” Her smile was
wide, shining like the light-tube against her black face.
The world spun round. He could feel the habitat moving,
stars whipping round faster and faster, smearing
across space. Smeared like cream. He giggled.
Anastasia Rigel gave him a long, knowing grin, and took
another drag on the tube.
Space was pink. Stars were black. Water smelt of
cheese. “I love you,” he told her. “I love you, I love you.”
The tepee walls were palpitating in and out. He was in

the belly of some huge beast, just like Jonah.
<<Bloody hell.>>
“What did you say?”
<<Shit, I can’t filter … What’s green? What are you, >>
“My hands are green,” he explained patiently.
“Are they?” Anastasia Rigel asked. “That’s interesting.”
<<What has she given you?>>
“Tarrug?” Dariat asked. Anastasia had said that was
who they were going to visit. “Hello, Tarrug. I can hear
him. He’s talking to me.”
Anastasia Rigel was at right angles to him. She pulled
the poncho off over her head, sitting crosslegged and
naked on the rug. Now she was totally upside-down.
Her nipples were black eyes following him.
“That’s not Tarrug you hear,” she said. “That’s Anstid.”
“Anstid. Hi!”
<<What is it? What is in that bloody pipe? Wait, I’m
reviewing the local memory … Oh, fuck, it’s salfrond. I
can’t hold onto your thoughts when you’re tripping on
that, you little prick.>>
“I don’t want you to.”
<<Yes, you do. Oh, believe me you do, boy. I’ve got the
keys to every dark door in this kingdom, and you’re the
golden protege. Now stop smoking that mind-rotting
crap.>>
Dariat very deliberately stuck the tube in his mouth, and
inhaled until his lungs were about to burst. His cheeks
puffed out. Anastasia Rigel leant forwards and took the
tube from between his lips. “Enough.”
The tepee was spinning in the opposite direction to the
habitat, and outside it was raining shoes. Black leather
shoes with scarlet buckles.
<<Shit! I’m going to kill that little black junkie bitch for
this. It’s high bloody time I shoved the Starbridge tribes
out of the airlock. Dariat, stand up, boy. Walk outside,
get some fresh air. There’s some medical nanonic
packages in the village, the headman’s got some. They

can straighten out your blood chemistry.>>
Dariat’s giggles returned. “Piss off.”
<<GET UP!>>
“No.”
<<Weakling! Always bloody weaklings. You’re no better
than your bastard father.>>
Dariat squeezed his eyes shut. The colours were
behind his eyelids too.
“I am not like him.”
<<Yes, you are. Weak, feeble, pathetic. All of you are. I
should have cloned myself when I had the chance.
Parthenogenetics would have solved all this bullshit.
Two fucking centuries of weaklings I’ve had to endure.
Two centuries, fuck it.>>
“Go away!” Even stoned, he could tell this wasn’t part of
the trip. This was more. This was much much worse.
“Is he hurting you, baby?” Anastasia Rigel asked.
“Yes.”
<<I’ll fucking cripple you if you don’t get up. Smash your
legs, shred your hands to ribbons. Do you like the
sound of that, boy? A life spent grubbing round like a
snail. Can’t walk, can’t feed yourself, can’t wipe your
arse.>>
“Stop it,” Dariat screamed.
<<Get up!>>
“Don’t listen to him, baby. Close your mind.”
<<Tell that bitch from me, she’s dead.>>
“Please, both of you, stop it. Leave me alone.”
<<Get up.>>
Dariat tried to rise. He got up to his knees, then fell into
Anastasia’s lap.
“You’re mine now,” she said gladly.
<<No, you’re not. You’re mine. Always mine. You can
never leave. I won’t allow you to.>>

Her hands ran over his clothes, opening seals. Kisses
with the sharp cold impact of hailstones fell on his face.
“This is what you wanted, what you always wanted,” she
breathed in his ear. “Me.”
The nauseating colour stripes blitzing his sight swirled
into blackness.
Her hot skin sliding up and down against him. Weight
pressing against every part of him. He was doing it! He
was fucking! Tears poured out of his eyes.
“That’s right, baby. Up inside me. Purge him. Purge him
with me. Fly, fly into Venus and Chi-ri. Leave him
behind. Free yourself.”
<<Always mine.>>
Dariat woke feeling awful. He was lying on the stiff
tousled grass of the tepee without a stitch of clothing.
The entrance flap was open, a slice of bright morning
light sliding through. A heavy dew mottled his legs.
Something had died and decomposed in his mouth, his
tongue by the feel of it. Anastasia Rigel was lying
beside him. Naked and beautiful. Arms tucked up
against her chest.
Last night. I fucked her. I did it!
He tried to smother an ecstatic laugh.
<<Feeling better?>>
Dariat screamed. It was inside his head. Anstid. The
realm demigod.
He jerked around, hugging himself, biting his lower lip so
hard he drew blood.
<<Don’t be an idiot. I’m not a bloody spirit bogeyman.
There’s no such thing. Religion is a psychological
crutch for mental inadequates. Spiritualism is for mental
paraplegics. Think what that makes your girlie friend.>>
“What are you?”
Anastasia Rigel woke up, blinking against the light. She
ran her hand through her wild hair and sat up, looking at
him with a curious expression.
<<I’m your ancestor.>>

“A lost spirit from the emptiness?” he asked, wide eyed
with fright.
<<Give me one more word of mythology and I really will
have your legs broken. Now think logically. I’m your
ancestor. Who can I be?>>
Information from his didactic history courses tumbled
into his thoughts.
“Rubra?” The idea didn’t make him feel any better at all.
<<Well done. Now stop panicking, and stop shivering. I
don’t normally talk direct to someone your age, I like to
let you have sixteen years to yourself. But I’m not going
to allow you to become a dopehead. Do not ever
smoke that stuff again. Understand?>>
“Yes, sir.”
<<Stop vocalizing. Concentrate your thoughts.>>
“What are you saying, baby?” Anastasia Rigel asked.
“Are you still tripping?”
“No. It’s Rubra, he’s … We’re talking.”
She pulled the white poncho round herself, giving him
an alarmed look.
<<I’ve got plans for you, boy,>> Rubra said. <<Big
plans. You’re destined for Magellanic Itg’s executive
committee.>>
<<I am?>>
<<Yes. If you play your cards right. If you do as you’re
told.>>
<<I will.>>
<<Good. Now I’ve been lenient letting you sow your
oats with dinky little Anastasia. I can understand that,
she’s got a nice body, good tits, pretty face. I had a sex
drive myself, once. But you’ve had your fun now; so put
your clothes on and say goodbye. We’ll find someone a
bit more suitable.>>
<<I can’t leave her. Not after … last night.>>
<<Take a real good look at yourself, boy. Rutting with a
bubblehead primitive on a filthy mat in a tepee. Some
friend, she filled your brain with two kinds of shit. That’s

not how Valisk’s future ruler is going to behave. Is it?>>
<<No, sir.>>
<<Good boy.>>
He started to pick up his clothes.
“Where are you going?” she asked.
“Home.”
“He told you to.”
“I … What is there here?”
She gave him a forlorn look over the white poncho
which was still clasped to her body. “Me. Your friend.
Your lover.”
He shook his head.
“I’m human. That’s more than he is.”
<<Come on. Leave.>>
Dariat pulled on his shoes. He paused by the entrance
flap.
“It’s Anstid,” she said in a mournful tone. “That’s who
you really talk to.”
<<Pseudobabble. Ignore her.>>
Dariat walked slowly out of the village. Some of the
elders gave him strange looks as he passed their
steaming cooking pits. They couldn’t understand. Why
would anyone leave Anastasia’s bed?
<<That’s their trouble, boy. They’re too backward. The
real world is beyond them. I really must get round to
cleaning them out one day.>>
Now Dariat knew what he was, what he was destined
for, the didactic courses took on a whole new level of
importance. He listened to Rubra’s advice on the
specializations he needed, the grades he had to
achieve. He became obedient, and a shade resentful at
his own compliance. But what else was there?
Starbridge?
In return for acquiescence Rubra taught him how to use
the affinity bond with the habitat. How to access the
sensitive cells to see what was going on, how he could

call on vast amounts of processing power, the
tremendous amount of stored data that was available.
One of the first things Rubra did was to guide him
through a list of possible replacement girls, eager to
bury the lingering traces of yearning for Anastasia
Rigel. Dariat felt like a voyeuristic ghost, watching the
prospective candidates through the sensitive cells;
seeing them at home, talking to their friends. Some of
them he watched having sex with their boyfriends, two
with other girls, which was exciting.
Rubra didn’t seem to object to these prolonged
observations. At least it meant he didn’t have to pay for
bluesense fleks any more.
One girl he chanced on was nice, Chilone, nine months
older than him. As black as Anastasia (which was what
first caught his attention), but with dark auburn hair. Shy
and pretty, who talked a lot about sex and boys with her
girl friends.
Still he hesitated from meeting her, even though he
knew her daily routine, knew her interests, what to say,
which day clubs she belonged to. He could contrive a
dozen encounters.
<<Get on with it,>> Rubra told him after a week of
cautious scrutiny. <<Screw her brains out. You don’t
think Anastasia’s still pining over you, do you?>>
<<What?>>
<<Try using the sensitive cells around the tepee.>>
That was something he’d never done, not using the
habitat’s perception faculty to spy on her. But the tone
Rubra used had a hint of cruel amusement in it.
Anastasia had a lover, Mersin Columba, another
Starbridge. A man in his forties; overweight, balding,
with white pallid skin. They looked horrible locked
together. Anastasia flinched silently as she lay
underneath his pumping body.
The old white-hot infantile fury rose into Dariat’s mind.
He wanted to save her from the repellent humiliation;
his beautiful girl who had loved him.
<<Take my advice. Go find young Chilone.>>
Like juvenile Edenists, it hadn’t taken Dariat long to

discover how to fox the habitat’s sensitive cells. Unless
Rubra’s principal personality pattern was concentrating
on him in particular, the autonomous monitoring of the
subroutines could be circumvented.
Dariat used the sensitive cells to follow Mersin
Columba out of the tepee. The podgy oaf had a smug
smile on his face as he made his way down to the
stream. Anastasia Rigel was curled up on her rug,
staring at nothing.
Mersin Columba made his way down the valley before
stripping off his shirt and trousers. He splashed into a
wide pool, and began to wash off the smell and stains of
sex.
The first blow from Dariat’s wooden cudgel caught him
on the side of his head, tearing his ear. He grunted and
dropped to his knees. The second blow smashed
across the crown of his skull.
<<Stop it!>>
Dariat aimed another blow; laughing at the surprise on
the man’s face.
Nobody does that to my girl. Nobody does that to me! A
cascade of blows rained down on Mersin Columba’s
unprotected head. Rubra’s furious demands were
reduced to a wasp’s buzz at the back of Dariat’s raging
mind. He was vengeance. He was omnipotent, more
than any realm Lord. He struck and struck, and it felt
good.
The water pushed at Mersin Columba’s inert body.
Long ribbons of blood wept from the battered head,
turned to tattered curlicues by the current.
Dariat stood over him. The bloody length of wood
dropped from his fingers.
<<I didn’t realize what I’d created with you,>> Rubra
said. The silent voice lacked its usual conviction.
Dariat shivered suddenly. His heart was pumping hard.
<<Anastasia is mine. Well, she certainly doesn’t belong
to poor old Mersin Columba any more, and that’s a
fact.>>
The body had drifted five metres downstream. Dariat
thought it looked repugnant, sickly white, bloated.

<<Now what?>> he asked sullenly.
<<I’d better get some housechimps to tidy up. And
you’d better make tracks.>>
<<Is that it?>>
<<I’m not going to punish you for killing a Starbridge.
But we’re going to have to work on that temper of yours.
It can be useful, but only if it’s applied properly.>>
<<For the company.>>
<<Yes. And don’t you forget it. Don’t worry, you’ll
improve with age.>>
Dariat turned and walked away from the river. He hiked
up out of the valley and spent the afternoon wandering
aimlessly around the savannah.
His thoughts were glacial. He had killed a man, but
there was no remorse, no sense of guilt. No sense of
satisfaction, either. He felt nothing, as if the whole
incident was an act he’d seen on an AV recording.
When the light-tube began to dim into brassy twilight he
turned and made his way towards the Starbridge village.
<<Where do you think you’re going?>> Rubra asked.
<<She’s mine. I love her. I’m going to have her. Tonight,
always.>>
<<No. Only I am for always.>>
<<You can’t stop me. I don’t care about the company.
Keep it. I never wanted it. I want Anastasia.>>
<<Don’t be a fool.>>
Dariat detected something then, a strand of emotion
wound up with the mental voice: anxiety. Rubra was
worried.
<<What’s happened?>>
<<Nothing’s happened. Go home. It’s been a hellish
day.>>
<<No.>> He tried to use the sensitive cells to show him
the village.
Nothing, Rubra was blocking his affinity.

<<Go home.>>
Dariat started running.
<<Don’t, boy!>>
It was over a kilometre back to the valley. The pink and
yellow grass came up to his waist in places, blades
whipping his legs. He reached the brow of the slope and
looked down in dismay. The village was packing up,
moving on. Half of the tepees were already down,
folded into bundles and put on the carts. Animals were
being rounded up. All the fire pits were out. It was a
crazy time to be moving. Night was almost here. His
sense of calamity redoubled.
Dariat sprinted down the steep slope, falling twice,
grazing his knees and shins. He didn’t care. Faces
turned to watch as he dashed towards Anastasia’s
tepee.
He was shouting her name as he shoved the entrance
flap aside.
The rope had been tied to the apex of the tepee. She
must have used a stack of her wicker baskets to stand
on. They were scattered all over the floor.
Her head was tilted to one side, the rope pressing into
her left cheek, just behind the ear. She swayed slightly
from side to side, the tepee’s poles letting out quiet
creaks.
Dariat stared at her for some immeasurable time. He
didn’t understand why. Not any of it.
<<Come on, boy. Come on home.>>
<<No. You did this. You made me leave her. She was
mine. This would never have happened if you’d stayed
out of my life.>> Tears were pouring down his cheeks.
<<I am your life.>>
<<You’re not. Not not not.>> He closed out the voice.
Refusing to hear the pleas and threats.
One of the wicker baskets had a piece of paper lying on
top. It was weighted down by Anastasia’s goatskin bag.
Dariat picked it up, and read the message she’d written.
Dariat, I know it was you. I know you thought you did it
for me. You didn’t. You did it because it’s what Anstid

wanted, he will never allow you an alliance with Thoale. I
thought I could help you. But I see I can’t; I’m not strong
enough to defy a realm Lord. I’m sorry.
I can’t see any purpose in staying in this universe any
more. I’m going to free my spirit and continue my flight
towards God. The Thoale stones are my gift to you; use
them please. You have so many battles to fight.
Seeing the future may help you win some.
I want you to know I loved you for all the time we were
together.

Anastasia Rigel
He loosened the thong at the top of the bag and spilled
the six crystals onto the dusty rug. The five which were
carved with runes landed with the blank face
uppermost. He slowly picked them up, and threw them
again.
They came up blank. The empty realm, where lost
spirits go.
Dariat fled the Starbridge village. He never went back.
He stopped taking didactic courses, refused to
acknowledge Rubra’s affinity bond, argued a lot with his
mother, and moved into a starscraper apartment of his
own at fifteen.
There was nothing Rubra could do. His most promising
protege for decades was lost to him. The affinity
window into Dariat’s mind remained closed; it was the
most secure block the habitat personality pattern had
ever known, remaining in place even while the boy slept.
After a month of steady pressure Rubra gave up, even
Dariat’s subconscious was sealed against subliminal
suggestions. The block was more than conscious
determination, it was a profound psychological
inhibition. Probably trauma based.
Rubra cursed yet another failure descendant, and
switched his priority to a new fledgling. Monitoring of
Dariat was assigned to an autonomic subroutine.
Occasional checks by the personality’s principal
consciousness revealed a total drop-out, a part-time
drunk, part-time hustler picking up beer money by
knowing people and where to find them, getting involved
with deals which were dubious even for Valisk. Dariat
never got a regular job, living off the starscraper food
pap, accessing MF albums, sometimes for days on
end. He never approached a girl again.
It was a stand-off which lasted for thirty years. Rubra
had even stopped his intermittent checks on the
wrecked man. Then the Yaku arrived at Valisk.
The Yaku’s emergence above Opuntia six days after it
left Lalonde never raised a query. None of Graeme
Nicholson’s fleks had yet reached their destination
when the cargo starship asked for and was granted
docking permission. As far as both the habitat
personality and the Avon Embassy’s small Intelligence
team (the only Confederation observers Rubra would
allow inside) were concerned it was just another cargo

allow inside) were concerned it was just another cargo
starship visiting a spaceport which handled nearly thirty
thousand similar visits a year.
Yaku had emerged a little further away from Valisk than
was normal, and its flight vector required a more than
average number of corrections, the fusion drive was
fluctuating in an erratic fashion. But then a lot of the
Adamist starships using Valisk operated on the
borderline of CAB spaceworthiness requirements.
It docked at a resupply bay on the edge of the three-
kilometre-wide disk which was the habitat’s non-
rotational spaceport. The captain requested a quantity
of He3 and deuterium, as well as oxygen, water, and
some food.
Spaceport service companies were contracted within
ten minutes of its arrival.
Three people disembarked. Their passport fleks named
them as Marie Skibbow, Alicia Cochrane, and Manza
Balyuzi; the last two were members of Yaku’s crew. All
three cleared Valisk’s token immigration and customs
carrying small bags with a single change of clothing.
The Yaku undocked four hours later, its cryogenic
tanks full, and flew down towards Opuntia. Whatever its
jump coordinate was, the gas giant was between it and
Valisk when it activated its energy patterning nodes. No
record of its intended destination existed.
Dariat was sitting up at the bar in the Tabitha Oasis
when the girl caught his eye. Thirty years of little
exercise, too much cheap beer, and a diet of
starscraper gland synthesized pastes had brought
about a detrimental effect on his once slim physique.
He was fat verging on obese, his skin was flaky, his
hair was dulled by a week’s accumulation of oil.
Appearance wasn’t something he paid a lot of attention
to. A togalike robe covered a multitude of laxities.
That girl, though: teenaged, long limbed, large breasted,
exquisite face, bronzed, strong. Wearing a tight white
T-shirt and short black skirt. He wasn’t alone in
watching her. The Tabitha Oasis attracted a tough
crew.
Girl like that was a walking gang-bang invitation. It had
happened before. But she hadn’t got a care in the
world, there was an elan to her which was mesmerizing.
All the more surprising, then, was her table companion.

Anders Bospoort: physically her counterpart; late
twenties, slab muscles, the best swarthy face money
could buy. But he didn’t have her youthful exuberance,
his mouth and eyes smiled (for that money they ought
to) but there was no emotion powering the expression.
Anders Bospoort was in almost equal proportions
gigolo, pimp, pusher, and bluesense star.
Strange she couldn’t see that. But he could pile on the
charm when necessary, and the expensive wine bottle
sitting on the table between them was nearly empty.
Dariat beckoned the barkeeper over. “What’s her
name?”
“Marie. Arrived on a ship this afternoon.”
That explained a lot. Nobody had warned her. Now the
wolves of the Tabitha Oasis were circling the camp-fire,
enjoying her elaborate seduction. Later they would be
able to share the corruption of youth, sensevising
Anders Bospoort’s boosted penis sliding up between
her legs.
Have her surprise and pleading in their ears. Feel the
ripe body molested by powerful skilled hands.
Maybe Anders wasn’t so stupid, Dariat thought, bringing
her here was a good advert. He could ask an easy ten
per cent over the odds for her flek.
The barkeeper shook his head sadly. He was three
times Dariat’s age, and he’d spent his every year in
Valisk. He’d seen it all, so he claimed, every human
foible. “Pity, nice girl like that. Someone should tell her.”
“Yeah. Anywhere else, and someone might.” Dariat
looked at her again.
Surely a girl with her beauty couldn’t be that nave about
men?
Anders Bospoort extended a gracious arm as they
rose from the table.
Marie smiled and accepted it. He thought she looked
glad at the opportunity to stay close. The gazes she
drew from the men of the Tabitha Oasis weren’t exactly
coy. His size and measured presence was a
reassurance. She was safe with him.
They walked across the vestibule outside the bar, and

Anders datavised the starscraper’s mechanical
systems control processor for a lift.
“Thank you for taking me there,” Marie said.
He saw the excitement in her eyes at the little taste of
the illicit. “I don’t always go there. It can get a little
rough. Half of the regulars have Confederation
warrants hanging over them. If the navy ever comes
visiting Valisk the population on penal planets would just
about double overnight.”
The lift arrived. He gestured her through the open
doors. Halfway there, and it was going so smoothly.
He’d been a perfect gentleman from the moment they
met outside the Apartment Allocation Office (always the
best place to pick up clean meat), every word clicking
flawlessly into place.
And she’d been drawn closer and closer, hypnotized by
the old Bospoort magic.
She glanced uncertainly at the floor as the doors
closed, as if she’d only just realized how far from her
home and family she was. All alone with her only friend
in the whole star system. No going back for her now.
He felt a tightening in his stomach as the anticipation
heightened. This would all go on the flek; the prelude,
the slow-burning conquest. People appreciated the build
in tension. And he was an artiste supreme.
The doors opened to the eighty-third floor.
“It’s a walk down two floors,” Anders told her
apologetically. “The lifts don’t work below here. And the
maintenance crews won’t come down to fix them.
Sorry.”
The vestibule hadn’t been cleaned for a long time and
rubbish was accumulating in the corners. There was
graffiti on the walls, a smell of urine in the air. Marie
looked round nervously, and stayed close to Anders’
side.
He guided her to the stairwell. The light was dim, a strip
of electrophorescent cells on the wall whose output had
faded to an insipid yellow. Dozens of big pale moths
whirred incessantly against it. Water leaked down the
walls from cracks in the polyp. A cream-coloured moss
grew along the edge of every step.

“It’s very kind of you to let me stay with you,” Marie
ventured.
“Just until you get your own apartment sorted out.
There are hundreds of unused ones. It’s one of life’s
greater mysteries why it always takes so long for the
Allocation Office to assign one.”
Nobody else was using the stairs. Anders very rarely
got to meet any of his neighbours. The bottom of the
starscraper was perfect for him. No quick access,
everyone stayed behind closed doors to conduct their
chosen business in life, and no questions were ever
asked. The cops Magellanic Itg contracted to maintain
a kind of order in the rest of Valisk didn’t come down
here.
They left the stairwell on his floor, and he datavised a
code at his apartment door. Nothing happened. He
flashed her a strained smile, and datavised the code
again. This time it opened, juddering once or twice as it
slid along its rails. Marie went in first. Anders
deliberately kept the inside lights low, and codelocked
the door behind him, at least the processor
acknowledged that. He put his arm round her shoulder
and steered her into the biggest of the three bedrooms.
That door was codelocked too.
Marie walked into the middle of the room, eyes straying
to the double bed. There were long velvet straps fixed
to each corner.
“Take your clothes off,” Anders told her. An
uncompromising sternness appeared in his voice. He
datavised an order to the overhead light panel, but it
remained at its lowest level. Shit! And she was
obediently stripping off. Nothing for it, he’d have to stay
with the deep shadows and hope everyone found it
erotic.
“Now take mine off,” he ordered. “Slowly.”
He could feel her hands trembling as she pushed the
shirt off his broad shoulders, which made a nice touch.
Nervous ones were always more responsive.
His eyes ran over her with expert tracking as she
walked ahead of him to the bed, capturing every square
centimetre of flesh on display. When she was lying on
the water mattress his hands traced the same route.
Then his boosted cock was swelling to its full length,
and he focused on her face to make sure he captured

her fear. That was always a big turn on for the punters.
Marie was smiling.
The lights sprang up to full intensity.
Anders twisted round in confusion. “Hey, “
At first he thought someone had crept up and snapped
handcuffs round his wrists, but when he looked he saw
it was Marie’s elegant feminine hands gripping him.
“Let go.” The pain as she squeezed harder was
frightening. “Bitch! Let go. Christ, “
She laughed.
He looked back down at her, and gasped. She was
sprouting hair right across her chest and stomach, thick
black bristles that scratched and pricked his skin where
he lay on top of her. Individual strands began to harden.
It was like lying on a hedgehog hide. The long tips were
puncturing his own skin, needling in through the
subcutaneous layers of fat.
“Fuck me, then,” she said.
He tried to struggle, but all that did was push more
needle spines into his abdomen. Marie let go of one
wrist. He hit her then, on the side of her ribs, and her
flesh gave way below his fist. When he brought his
hand away it was covered in yellow and red slime. The
spines piercing him turned to worms, slick and greasy,
licking round inside the swath of puncture holes down
his torso. Blood trickled out.
Anders let out an insane howl. She was rotting below
him, skin melting away into a putrescent crimson film of
mucus. It was acting like glue, sticking him to her. The
stench was vile, stinging his eyes. He puked, the wine
from the Tabitha Oasis splattering down on her
deliquescing face.
“Kiss me.”
He bucked and floundered against her, weeping
helplessly, praying to a God he hadn’t addressed in
over a decade. The worms were wriggling between his
abdominal muscles, twining round tendon fibres. Blood
and pus squelched and intermingled, forming a sticky
glue which wedded them belly to belly like Siamese
twins.

“Kiss me, Anders.”
Her free hand clamped onto the back of his skull. It felt
like there was nothing left on it but bone. Sludge dripped
into his coiffeured hair.
“No!” he whimpered.
Her lips had dribbled away like candle wax, leaving a
wide gash in the bubbling corruption that was her face.
The teeth were a permanent grin.
His head was being forced down towards her. He saw
her teeth parting, then they were rammed against his
own face.
The kiss. And hot, black, gritty liquid surged up out of
her throat.
Anders couldn’t scream any more. It was in his own
mouth, kneading its way down his air passage like a fat,
eager serpent.
A voice from nowhere said: “We can stop it.”
The liquid detonated into his lungs. He could feel it, hot
and rancid inside his chest, swelling out to invade every
delicate cavity. His ribcage heaved at the alien
pressure from within. He had stopped struggling.
“She’ll kill you unless you let us help. She’s drowning
you.”
He wanted to breathe. He wanted air. He would do
anything to breathe.
Anything.
“Then let us in.”
He did.
Using the sensitive cells in the polyp above Anders
Bospoort’s bed, Dariat watched as the injuries and
manifestations reversed themselves.
Marie’s glutinous skin hardened, bristles retracting. The
wounds down Anders Bospoort’s abdomen closed up.
They became what they were before: satyr and seraph.
Anders began to stroke himself, hands tracing lines of
muscle across his chest. He looked down on his body
with a childlike expression of awe which swiftly became

a broad grin. “I’m magnificent,” he whispered.
“Utterly magnificent.” The accent was different to
Anders’ usual. Dariat couldn’t quite place it.
“Yes, you look pretty good,” she replied indifferently.
She sat up. The sheets were stained a faint pink below
her back.
“Let me have you.”
Her mouth wrinkled up with indecision.
“Please. You know I need to. Hell, it’s been seven
hundred years. Show a little compassion here.”
“All right then.” She lay back down. Anders started to
lick her body, reminding Dariat of a feeding dog. They
fucked for twenty minutes, Anders rutting with a fervour
he’d never shown in any of his fleks. Electric lights and
household equipment went berserk as they thrashed
about.
Dariat quickly checked the neighbouring apartments; a
stimulant-program writer was yelling in frustration as his
processors crashed at tremendous speed; a clone
merchant’s vats seethed and boiled as regulators fried
the fragile cell clusters which they were wired up to.
Doors all around the vestibule opened and shut like
guillotines. He had to launch a flurry of subversive
affinity orders into the floor’s neural cells to prevent the
local personality subroutines from alerting Rubra’s
principal consciousness.
When he arrived, puffing heavily, outside the
apartment, Marie and Anders Bospoort were getting
dressed. He used a black-market customized
processor block to break the door’s codelock, and
walked straight in.
Marie and Anders looked up in alarm. They ran out of
the bedroom. The processor block died in Dariat’s hand
and the apartment was plunged into pitch darkness.
“The dark doesn’t bother me,” he said loudly. The
sensitive cells showed him the two of them were walking
towards him menacingly.
“Nothing will bother you from now on,” Marie replied.
The belt of his toga robe began to tighten round his
belly. “Wrong. Firstly you won’t be able to tyrannize me

like you did poor old Anders, I’m not that weak.
Secondly, if I die Rubra will see exactly what’s been
going on, and what you are. He might be crazy, but he’ll
fight like a lion to defend his precious habitat and
corporation. Once he knows you exist you’ve lost ninety
per cent of your advantage. You’ll never take over
Valisk without my help.”
The lights came back on. His belt loosened. Marie and
Anders regarded him with expressionless faces.
“It’s only thanks to me he doesn’t know already. You
obviously don’t understand much about bitek. I can help
there as well.”
“Perhaps we don’t care if he knows,” Anders said.
“OK, fine. You want me to lift the limiter orders I put on
this floor’s sensitive cells?”
“What do you want?” Marie asked.
“Revenge. I’ve waited thirty years for you. It’s been so
long, so very tiring; I nearly broke on more than one
occasion. But I knew you would come in the end.”
“You expected me?” she asked derisively.
“What you are, yes.”
“And what am I?”
“The dead.”
===========================================================================

Chapter 04
^
Gemal emerged from its jump six hundred and fifty
thousand kilometres above Mirchusko, where the gas
giant’s gravity anchored it in a slightly elliptical orbit;
Tranquillity, in its lower circular orbit, was trailing by two
hundred thousand kilometres. Oliver Llewelyn, the
colonist-carrier’s captain, identified his starship to the
habitat personality, and requested approach and
docking permission.
“Do you require assistance?” Tranquillity asked.
“No, we’re fully functional.”
“I don’t get many colonist-carrier vessels visiting. I
thought you might have been making an emergency
maintenance call.”
“No. This flight is business.”
“Does your entire passenger complement wish to apply
for residency?”
“Quite the opposite. The zero-tau pods are all empty.
We’ve come to hire some military specialists who live
here.”
“I see. Docking and approach request granted. Please
datavise your projected vector to spaceport flight
control.”
Terrance Smith datavised a sensor access request
into the starship’s flight computer, and watched the
massive bitek habitat growing larger as they
accelerated towards rendezvous in a complex
manoeuvre at two-thirds of a gee. He opened a
channel to the habitat’s communication net, and asked
for a list of starships currently docked. Names and
classifications flowed through his mind. A collation
program sorted through them, indicating possibles and
probables.
“I didn’t realize this was such a large port,” he said to
Oliver Llewelyn.
“It has to be,” the captain replied. “There are at least
five major family-owned civil carrier fleets based here
purely because of the tax situation, and most of the
other line companies have offices in the habitat. Then

you’ve got to consider the residents. They import one
hell of a lot; everything you need to live the good life,
from food to clothes to pretentious art. You don’t think
they’ll eat the synthesized pulp the starscrapers grow,
do you?”
“No, I suppose not.”
“A lot of ships pick up contracts for them, bringing stuff
in from all over the Confederation. And of course
Tranquillity is the Confederation’s principal base for
blackhawk mating flights now Valisk is falling from
favour with the captains. The eggs gestate down in the
big inner ring. It all adds together. The Lords of Ruin
have built it into one of the most important commercial
centres in this sector.”
Terrance looked across the bridge. Seven acceleration
couches were arranged in a petal pattern on its
composite decking, and only one of them was empty.
The compartment had an industrial look, with cables
and ducts fixed to the walls rather than being tucked
neatly out of sight behind composite panels. But then
that was a uniform characteristic throughout the Gemal
and her sister ships which shuttled between Earth and
stage one colony worlds. They were bulk carriers
whose cargo happened to be people, and the line
companies didn’t waste money on cosmetic finishes.
Captain Llewelyn was lying inertly on his acceleration
couch, surrounded by a horseshoe of bulky consoles; a
well-built sixty-eight-year-old oriental with skin as
smooth as any adolescent. His eyes were shut as he
handled the datavise from the flight computer.
“Have you been here before?” Terrance asked.
“I stopped over two days, that was thirty-five years ago
when I was a junior officer in a different company. Don’t
suppose it’s changed much. Plutocrats put a lot of stock
in stability.”
“I’d like you to talk to the other captains for me, the
independent trader starships we want to hire. I haven’t
exactly done this kind of work before.”
Oliver Llewelyn snorted softly. “You let people know
what kind of flight you’re putting together, then start
flashing that overloaded Jovian Bank credit disk
around, and you’ll be beating them off with a stick.”
“What about the mercenaries and general troops?”

“The captains will put you in touch. Hell, the combat
boosted will pay the captains for an introduction. You
want my advice, delegate. Find yourself ten or twenty
officer types with some solid experience, and let them
recruit troops for you. Don’t try and do it all yourself.
We haven’t got time, for a start. Rexrew gave us a
pretty tight schedule.”
“Thanks.”
“You’re paying, remember?”
“Yeah.” It had taken twenty thousand fuseodollars just
to get Oliver Llewelyn to agree to take the Gemal to
Tranquillity. “Not part of my LDC contract,” the captain
had said stubbornly. Money was easier than datavising
legal requirements at him. Terrance suspected it was
going to cost a lot more to take the Gemal back to
Lalonde. “You sound like you know what you’re talking
about,” he said, mildly intrigued.
“I’ve flown a lot of different missions in my time,” the old
captain said indifferently.
“So where do I meet these starship captains?”
Oliver Llewelyn accessed a thirty-five-year-old file in his
neural nanonics. “We’ll start at Harkey’s Bar.”
Fifteen hours later Terrance Smith had to admit that
Oliver Llewelyn had been perfectly correct. He didn’t
need to make any effort, the people he wanted came to
him. Like iron to a magnet, he thought, or flies to shit.
He was sitting in a wall booth, feeling like an old-style
tsar holding court, receiving petitions from eager
subjects. Harkey’s Bar was full with starship crews
hunched around tables, or concentrating in small knots
at the bar. There was also a scattering of the combat
boosted in the room. He had never seen them before,
not in the flesh, if that’s what it could be called. Several
of them resembled cosmoniks, with a tough silicon
outer skin, and dual, even triple, lower arms, sockets
customized for weapons. But the majority had a sleeker
appearance than the cosmoniks, whose technology
they pilfered; they’d been sculpted for agility rather than
blunt EVA endurance, although Terrance could see one
combat boosted who was almost globular, his (her?)
head a neckless dome, with a wrap-around retinal strip,
grainy auburn below its clear lens. The lid rippled
constantly, a blink moving round and round. There were

four stumpy legs, and four arms, arranged
symmetrically. The arms were the most human part of
the modified body, since only two of them ended in
burnished metal sockets. He tried not to stare at the
assembled grotesqueries, not to show his inner nerves.
The bar’s atmosphere was subdued, heavy with
anticipation. It was long past the time the band were
usually jamming on stage, but tonight they were drinking
back in the kitchen, resigned to a blown gig.
“Captain Andre Duchamp,” Oliver Llewelyn said.
“Owner of the Villeneuve’s Revenge.”
Terrance shook hands with the smiling round-faced
captain. There was some contradiction in his mind that
such a jovial-seeming man should want to join a military
mission. “I need starships capable of landing a scout
team on a terracompatible planet, then backing them up
with tactical ground strikes,” he said.
Andre put his wineglass down squarely on the table.
“The Villeneuve’s Revenge has four X-ray lasers and
two electron-beam weapons. Planetary bombardment
from low orbit will not be a problem.”
“There could also be some anti-ship manoeuvres
required from you. Some interdiction duties.”
“Again, monsieur, this is not a problem from my
personal position; we do have combat-wasp launch-
cradles. However, you would have to provide the wasps
themselves. And I would require some reassurance that
we will not be involved in any controversial action in a
system where Confederation Navy ships are present.
As a commercial vessel I have no licence to carry such
items.”
“You would be operating under government licence,
which allows you to carry any weapons system quite
legitimately. This entire mission is completely legal.”
“So?” Andre Duchamp gave him a quizzical glance.
“This is excellent news. A legal combat mission is one I
will welcome. As I say, I have no objection to conducting
anti-ship engagements. May I ask which government
you represent?”
“Lalonde.”
Andre Duchamp had a long blink while his neural
nanonics almanac file reviewed the star system. “A

stage one colony world. Interesting.”
“I am negotiating with several astroengineering
companies with stations here at Tranquillity for combat
wasps,” Terrance Smith said. “There will also be
several nuclear-armed atmospheric-entry warheads to
be taken on the mission. Would you be prepared to
carry and deploy them?”
“Oui.”
“In that case, I believe we can do business, Captain
Duchamp.”
“You have yet to mention money.”
“I am authorized to issue a five hundred thousand
fuseodollar fee for every ship which registers for
Lalonde naval duty, payable on arrival at our
destination. Pay for an individual starship is three
hundred thousand fuseodollars per month, with a
minimum of two months’ duty guaranteed.
There will be bonuses for enemy starships and
spaceplanes destroyed, and a completion bonus of
three hundred thousand fuseodollars. We will not,
however, be providing insurance cover.”
Andre Duchamp took a leisurely sip of wine. “I have one
further question.”
“Yes?”
“Does this enemy use antimatter?”
“No.”
“Very well. I would haggle the somewhat depressing
price …” He cast a glance around the crowded room,
crews not quite watching to see what the outcome
would be. “But I feel I am not in a strong bargaining
position. Today it is a buyer’s market.”
From his table on the other side of the bar Joshua
watched Andre Duchamp rise from Terrance Smith’s
booth. The two of them shook hands again, then Andre
went back to the table where his crew were waiting.
They all went into a tight huddle. Wolfgang Kuebler,
captain of the Maranta, was shown to Smith’s booth by
Oliver Llewelyn.
“That looks like five ships signed up,” Joshua said to
his crew.

“Big operation,” Dahybi Yadev said. He drained his
beer glass and sat it down on the table. “Starships,
combat-boosted mercs, enhanced troops; that’s a long,
expensive shopping list. Big money involved.”
“Lalonde can’t be paying, then,” Melvyn Ducharme said.
“It doesn’t have any money.”
“Yes, it does,” Ashly Hanson said quietly. “A colony
world is a massive investment, and a very solid one if
you get in early enough. A healthy percentage of my
zero-tau maintenance trust-fund portfolio is made up
from development company shares, purely for the long-
term stability they offer. I’ve never, ever heard of a
colony failing once the go-ahead has been given. The
money may not be floating around the actual colonists
themselves, but the amount of financial resources
required simply to initiate such a venture runs close to a
trillion fuseodollars. And Lalonde has been running for
over a quarter of a century, they’d even started an
asteroid industrial settlement project. Remember? The
development company has the money; more than
enough to hire fifteen independent traders and a few
thousand mercenary troops. I doubt it would even
cause a ripple in their accountancy program.”
“What for, though?” Sarha Mitcham asked. “What
couldn’t the sheriffs handle by themselves?”
“The Ivet riots,” Joshua said. Even he couldn’t manage
any conviction. He shrugged under the sceptical looks
the others gave him. “Well, there was nothing else while
we were there. Marie Skibbow was worried about the
scale of the civil disturbance. Nobody quite knew what
was happening upriver. And the number of troops this
Smith character is trying to recruit implies some kind of
ground action is required.”
“Hard to believe,” Dahybi Yadev muttered. “But the
actual mission objective won’t be known until after
they’ve jumped away from Tranquillity. Simple security.”
“All right,” Joshua said. “We all know the score. With
Parris Vasilkovsky backing us on the mayope venture
we have a chance to make macro money.
And at the same time, with the money we made from
the Norfolk run we certainly don’t need to hire on with
any mercenary fleet.” He looked at each of them in
turn. “Given the circumstances, we can hardly take
Lady Mac to Lalonde ahead of the fleet. I’ve heard that

Terrance Smith has ordered a batch of combat wasps
from the McBoeing and Signal-Yakovlev industrial
stations. He’s clearly expecting some kind of conflict
after they arrive. So the question is, do we go with him
to find out what’s happening, and maybe protect our
interest, or do we wait here for news? We’ll take a vote,
and it must be unanimous.”
Time Universe’s Tranquillity office was on the forty-third
floor of the StCroix starscraper. It was the usual crush
of offices, studios, editing rooms, entertainment suites,
and electronic workshops; a micro-community where
individual importance was graded by allocated desk
space, facility size, and time allowance. Naturally, given
the make-up of the habitat’s population, it had a large
finance and commerce bureau, but it also provided
good Confederationwide news coverage.
Oliver Llewelyn walked into the wood-panelled lobby at
ten thirty local time the day after the Gemal had docked.
The receptionist palmed him off on a junior political
correspondent called Matthias Rems. In the composite-
walled office Matthias used to assemble his reports he
produced the flek Graeme Nicholson had given him and
named a carriage fee of five thousand fuseodollars.
Matthias wasn’t stupid, the fact that the Gemal’s captain
had come direct from Lalonde was enough to warrant
serious attention. By now the entire habitat knew about
the mercenary fleet being assembled by Terrance
Smith, though its purpose remained unknown. Rumour
abounded. Lalonde was immediate news; plenty of
Tranquillity residents would have LDC shares sleeping
in their portfolios. First-hand sensevises of the planet
and whatever was happening there would have strong
ratings clout. Ordinarily Matthias Rems might have
hesitated about the shameless rip-off fee (he guessed
correctly that Llewelyn had already been paid),
especially after he accessed the company personnel
file on Graeme Nicholson; but given the circumstances
he knuckled under and paid.
After the captain left, Matthias slotted the flek into his
desktop player block. The sensevise recording was
codelocked, so Graeme Nicholson had obviously
considered it important. He pulled Nicholson’s personal
code from his file, then sat back and closed his eyes.
The Crashed Dumper invaded his sensorium; its heat
and noise and smell, the taste of a caustic local beer
tarring his throat, unaccustomed weight of a swelling
belly. Graeme Nicholson held the fragments of a
broken glass in his hand, his arms and legs trembling

slightly; both eyes focused unwaveringly on a tall man
and lovely teenage girl over by the crude bar.
Twelve minutes later a thoroughly shaken Matthias
Rems burst in on Claudia Dohan, boss of Time
Universe’s Tranquillity operation.
The ripple effect of Graeme Nicholson’s flek was
similar to the sensation Ione’s appearance had caused
the previous year, in every respect save one. Ione had
been a feel-good item: Laton was the antithesis. He
was terror and danger, history’s nightmare exhumed.
“We have to show a sense of responsibility,” a twitchy
Claudia Dohan said after she surfaced from the
sensevise. “Both the Confederation Navy and the Lord
of Ruin must be told.”
The AV cylinder on her desktop processor block
chimed. “Thank you for your consideration,” Tranquillity
said. “I have informed Ione Saldana about Laton’s
reappearance. I suggest you contact Commander
Olsen Neale yourself to convey the contents of the
flek.”
“Right away,” Claudia Dohan said diligently.
Matthias Rems was glancing nervously round the
office, disturbed by the reminder of the habitat
personality’s perpetual vigilance.
Claudia Dohan broke the news on the lunchtime
programme. Eighteen billion fuseodollars was wiped off
share values on Tranquillity’s trading floor within quarter
of an hour of the sensevise being broadcast. Values
crept back up during the rest of the afternoon as
brokers assessed possible war scenarios. By the end
of the day seven billion fuseodollars had been restored
to prices, mainly on astroengineering companies which
would benefit from armaments sales.
The Time Universe office had done its work well,
considering the short period it had in which to prepare.
Its current affairs channel’s usual afternoon schedule
was replaced by library memories of Laton’s earlier
activities and earnest studio panel speculation. While
Tranquillity’s residents were being informed, Claudia
Dohan started hiring starships to distribute copies of
Graeme Nicholson’s flek across the Confederation.
This time she had a small lever against the captains,
unlike Ione’s very public appearance; she had a

monopoly on Laton’s advent and they were bidding
against each other to deliver fleks. By the evening she
had dispatched eighteen starships to various planets
(Kulu, Avon, Oshanko, and Earth being the principals).
Those Time Universe offices would in turn send out a
second wave of fleks. Two weeks ought to see the
entire Confederation brought up to speed. And warned,
Claudia Dohan thought, Time Universe alone alerting
the human and xenoc races to the resurgent danger. A
greater boost to company fortunes simply wasn’t
possible.
She took the whole office out to a five-star meal that
night. This coup, following so soon after Ione, should
bring them all some heady bonuses, as well as boosting
them way ahead of their contemporaries on the
promotion scale. She was already thinking of a seat on
the board for herself.
But it was a hectic afternoon. Matthias Rems (making
his debut as a front-line presenter) introduced forty-
year-old recordings of the broken Edenist habitat
Jantrit, its shell cracked like a giant egg where the
antimatter had detonated. Its atmosphere jetted out of a
dozen breaches in the five-hundred-metre-thick polyp,
huge grey-white plumes which acted like rockets,
destabilizing the cylinder’s ponderous rotation. The
wobble built over the period of a few hours, until it
developed into an uncontrollable tumble. On the outside,
induction cables lashed round in anarchic hundred-
kilometre arcs, preventing even the most agile
voidhawks from rendezvousing. Inside, water and soil
were tossed about, acting like a permanent floating
earthquake. Starscrapers, weakened by the blast,
broke off like rotten icicles, whirling away at terrific
velocities. And all the while their air grew thinner.
Some people were saved as the voidhawks and
Adamist starships hurtled after the spinning
starscrapers. Eight thousand out of a population of one
and a quarter million. Even then utter disaster might
have been averted. The dying Edenists should have
transferred their memories into the habitat personality.
But Laton had infected Jantrit’s neuron structure with
his proteanic virus and its rationality was crumbling as
trillions upon trillions of cells fell to the corruption every
second.
The other two habitats orbiting the gas giant were too
far away to provide much assistance; personality
transference was a complex function, distance and

panic confused the issue. Twenty-seven thousand
Edenists managed to bridge the gulf; three thousand
patterns were later found to be incomplete, reduced to
traumatized childlike entities. Voidhawks secured
another two hundred and eighty personalities, but the
bitek starships didn’t have the capacity to store any
more, and they were desperately busy anyway, chasing
the starscrapers.
For Edenists it was the greatest tragedy since the
founding of their culture. Even Adamists were stunned
by the scale of the disaster. A living sentient creature
thirty-five kilometres in length mind-raped and killed,
nearly one and a quarter million people killed, over half
a million stored personality patterns wiped.
And it had all been a diversion. A tactic to enable Laton
and his cohorts to flee without fear of capture after their
coup failed. He used the community’s deaths as a
cover; there was no other reason for it, no grand
strategic design.
Every voidhawk, every Confederation Navy ship, every
asteroid settlement, every planetary government
searched for Laton and the three blackhawks he had
escaped with.
He was cornered two months later in the Ragundan
system: three blackhawks, armed with antimatter and
refusing to surrender. Three voidhawks and five
Confederation Navy frigates were lost in the ensuing
battle. An asteroid settlement was badly damaged with
the loss of a further eight thousand lives when the
blackhawks tried to use it as a hostage, threatening to
bomb it with antimatter unless the navy withdrew.
The naval flotilla’s commanding admiral called their
bluff.
As with all space engagements there was nothing left of
the vanquished but weak nebulas of radioactive
molecules. There was no body to identify.
But it couldn’t have been anyone else.
Now it seemed there must have been four blackhawks.
Nobody could mistake that tall, imperious man standing
on the steps of the Yaku’s spaceplane, laughing at a
cowering Graeme Nicholson.
The guests Matthias Rems invited into the studio, a
collection of retired navy officers, political professors,

and weapons engineers, observed that Laton’s actual
goal had never been declared. Speculation had been
rife for years after the event. It obviously involved some
kind of physical (biological) and mental domination,
subverting the Edenists through the (fortunately)
imperfect proteanic virus he had developed. Changing
them and the habitats. But to what grandiose ideal had
been thought for ever unknown. The studio debate
concentrated on whether Laton was behind the current
conflict on Lalonde, and if it was the first stage in his bid
to impose his will on the Confederation again. Graeme
Nicholson had certainly believed so.
Laton was different to the kind of planetary disputes like
Omuta and Garissa; the perennial squabbling between
asteroid settlements and their funding companies over
autonomy. Laton wasn’t a violence-tinged argument
over resources or independence, he was after people,
individuals. He wanted to get into your genes, your
mind, and alter you, mould you to his own deviant
construct. Laton was deadly personal.
One of the keenest observers of the Time Universe
programmes was Terrance Smith. The Laton revelation
had come as a profound shock. He, and the Gemal’s
crew, became the objects of intense media interest.
Hounded every time he left the colonist-carrier, he
eventually had to appeal to Tranquillity for privacy. The
habitat personality agreed (a resident’s freedom from
intrusion was part of the original constitution Michael
Saldana had written), and the reporters were called off.
They promptly switched their attention to anyone who
had signed on as a member of the mercenary fleet, all
of whom protested (truthfully) that they knew nothing of
Laton.
“What do we do?” Terrance Smith asked in a bleak
voice. He was alone with Oliver Llewelyn on the
Gemal’s bridge. Console holoscreens were showing
the Time Universe evening news programme, cutting
between a studio presenter and segments of Graeme
Nicholson’s recording. The captain was someone
whose opinion Terrance valued, in fact he’d grown
heavily dependent on him during the last couple of days.
There weren’t many other people he confided in.
“You don’t have many options,” Oliver Llewelyn pointed
out. “You’ve already paid the registration fee to twelve
ships, and you’ve got a third of the troops you wanted.
Either you go ahead as originally planned, or you cut
and run. Doing nothing isn’t a valid alternative, not now.”

“Cut and run?”
“Sure. You’ve got enough money in the LDC’s credit
account to lose yourself. Life could get very
comfortable for you and your family.” Oliver Llewelyn
watched Terrance Smith closely, trying to anticipate his
reaction. The notion obviously appealed, but he didn’t
think the bureaucrat would have enough backbone.
“I … No, we can’t. There are too many people
depending on me. We have to do something to help
Durringham. You weren’t down there, you don’t know
what it was like that last week. These mercenaries are
the only hope they’ve got.”
“As you wish.” Pity, Oliver Llewelyn thought, a great pity.
I’m getting too old for this kind of jaunt.
“Do you think fifteen ships is enough to go up against
Laton?” Terrance Smith asked anxiously. “I have the
authority to hire another ten.”
“We’re not going up against Laton,” Oliver Llewelyn
said patiently.
“But, “
The captain gestured at one of the console
holoscreens. “You accessed Graeme Nicholson’s
sensevise. Laton has left Lalonde. All your mercenaries
are faced with is a big mopping-up operation. Leave
Laton to the Confederation; the navy and the voidhawks
will be going after him with every weapon they’ve got.”
The notion of taking on Laton was something the
starship captains had been discussing among
themselves. Only three were sufficiently alarmed to
return Terrance Smith’s registration fee. He had no
trouble in attracting replacements, and bringing the
number of the fleet up to nineteen, six blackhawks, nine
combat-capable independent traders, three cargo
carriers, and the Gemal itself. Virtually none of the
general troops or the combat-boosted mercenaries
resigned. Fighting Laton’s legions, being on the right
side, gave the whole enterprise a kudos like few others;
old hands and fresh youngsters queued up to sign on.
Three and a half days after he arrived, Terrance Smith
had all he came for. The one request from Commander
Olsen Neale to hold off and wait for a Confederation
naval investigatory flight was smilingly refused.

Durringham needs us now, Terrance told him.
Ione and Joshua walked down one of Tranquillity’s
winding valleys in the late afternoon, dew-heavy grass
staining their sandals. She was wearing a long white
cotton skirt and a matching camisole, a loose-fitting
outfit which allowed the air to circulate over her warm
skin. Joshua just wore some long dark mauve shorts.
His skin was tanning nicely, she thought, he was almost
back to his old colour. They had spent most of his
stopover outside; swimming with Haile, riding, walking,
having long sexual adventures. Joshua seemed to get
very turned on having sex beside and in the bountiful
streams meandering through the habitat.
Ione stopped at a long pool which formed the
intersection of two streams.
It was lined by mature rikbal trees, whose droopy
branches stroked the water with their long, thin leaves.
They were all in flower, bright pink blooms the size of a
child’s fist.
Gold and scarlet fish slithered through the water. It was
tranquillity, Ione thought, small t, created by big T; name
chasing form, name creating form. The lake, the whole
park, was a pause from the habitat’s bustle; the habitat
was a pause from the Confederation’s bustle. If you
wanted it to be.
Joshua pushed her gently against a rikbal trunk, kissing
her cheek, her neck. He opened the front of her
camisole.
Hair fell down across her eyes, she was wearing it
longer these days.
“Don’t go,” she said quietly.
His arms dropped inertly to his sides, head slumping
forwards until his brow touched hers. “Good timing.”
“Please.”
“You said you weren’t going to dump this possessive
scene on me.”
“This isn’t being possessive.”
“What then? It sounds like it.”
Her head came up sharply, pink spots burning on both
cheeks. “If you must know, I’m worried about you.”

“Don’t be.”
“Joshua, you’re flying into a war zone.”
“Not really. We’re flying escort duty for a troop convoy,
that’s all. The soldiers and combat boosted are in at the
hard edge.”
“Smith wants the starships to provide ground strikes;
he’s bought combat wasps for interdiction missions.
That’s the hard edge, Joshua, that’s the dead edge.
Bloody hell, you’re going up against Laton in an antique
wreck that barely rates its CAB spaceworthiness
licence. And there’s no reason.
None. You don’t need mayope, you don’t need
Vasilkovsky.” She held his arm, imploring. “You’re rich.
You’re happy. Don’t try and tell me you’re not. I’ve
watched you for three years. You’ve never had so
much fun as when you gallivanted around the galaxy in
the Lady Macbeth. Now look at what you’re doing.
Paper deals, Joshua. Making paper money you can
never spend. Sitting behind a desk, that’s your
destination. That’s where you’re flying to, Joshua, and it
isn’t you.”
“Antique, huh?”
“I didn’t mean, “
“How old is Tranquillity, Ione? At least I own the Lady
Mac, it doesn’t own me.”
“I’m just trying to shock some sense into you. Joshua,
it’s Laton you’re facing. Don’t you watch the AV
recordings? Didn’t you access Graeme Nicholson’s
sensevise?”
“Yes. I did. Laton isn’t on Lalonde. He left on the Yaku.
Did you miss that bit, Ione? If I wanted to go on suicide
flights I’d chase after the Yaku. That’s where the danger
is. That’s where the navy heroes are going. Not me, I’m
protecting my own interests.”
“But you don’t need it!” she said. God, but he could be
bonehead stubborn at times.
“You mean you don’t.”
“What?”
“Not convenient, is it? Me having that much money.

That much money would mean I make the decisions, I
make the choices. It gives me control over my life.
Where does that fit into your cosy scenario of us,
Ione? I won’t be so easy to manipulate then, will I?”
“Manipulate! One glimpse of a female nipple and your
fly seal bursts apart from the pressure. That’s how
complicated your personality is. You don’t need
manipulating, Joshua, you need hormone suppressors.
All I’m doing is trying to think ahead for you, because
God knows you can’t do it for yourself.”
“Jesus, Ione! Sometimes I can’t believe you’re bonded
to a cubic kilometre of neuron cells, you don’t display
the IQ of an ant most days. This is my chance, I can
make it. I can be your equal.”
“I don’t want an equal.” Ione jammed her mouth shut.
She’d nearly done it, nearly said: “I just want you.” But
torture wouldn’t bring that from her lips, not now.
“Yeah, so I noticed,” he said. “I started with a broken-
down ship. I made that work, I earned a living flying it.
And now I’m moving on, moving up.
That’s life, Ione. Growing, evolving. You should try it
sometime.” He turned and stomped off through the
trees, sweeping the hanging branches aside
impatiently. If she wanted to say sorry, she could damn
well come after him and do it.
Ione watched him go, and fumbled with the front of her
camisole. What an arsehole. He might be psychic, but
only at the expense of common sense.
<<I’m so sorry,>> Tranquillity said gently.
She sniffed hard. <<What about?>>
<<Joshua.>>
<<There’s no reason. If he wants to go, let him. See if I
care.>>
<<You do care. He is right for you.>>
<<He doesn’t think so.>>
<<Yes, he does. But he is prideful. As are you.>>
<<Thanks for nothing.>>
<<Don’t cry.>>

Ione glanced down, seeing her hands as blobs. Her
eyes were horribly warm. She wiped at them vigorously.
God, how could I have been so stupid?
He was just supposed to be a fun stud. Nothing more.
<<I love you,>> Tranquillity said, so full of cautious
warmth that Ione had to smile. Then she winced as her
stomach churned, and promptly threw up. The bile was
acid and disgusting. She cupped her hands to capture
some of the cool pool water so she could rinse her
mouth out.
<<You are pregnant,>> Tranquillity observed.
<<Yes. The last time Joshua came back, before he
made the Norfolk run.>>
<<Tell him.>>
<<No! That would only make it worse.>>
<<You are both fools,>> Tranquillity said with
unaccustomed ardour.
Stars slid across the window behind Commander Olsen
Neale. Choisya was the only one of Mirchusko’s moons
visible, a distant grey-brown crescent sliver peeping up
over the bottom of the oval every three minutes. Erick
Thakrar didn’t like the sight of the starfield, it was too
close, too easy to reach. He wondered, briefly, if he
was developing a space-phobia.
It wasn’t unheard of, and there were a lot of
associations involved. That horrified, distraught voice
coming from the Krystal Moon; a fifteen-year-old girl.
What had Tina looked like? It was a question he’d been
asking himself a lot recently. Did she have a boyfriend?
What mood fantasy bands did she cherish? Had she
enjoyed her life on the old interplanetary vessel? Or did
she find it intolerable?
What the fuck was she doing in the forward
compartment below the communication dishes?
“The microfusion generators were handed directly over
to the Nolana as soon as we docked,” Erick said. “They
never even passed through Tranquillity’s cargo-storage
facility. Which means there was no data work, no port
manager’s inspection. And of course we were all on
board the Villeneuve’s Revenge until the transfer was
finished. I couldn’t get a message out to you.”

“We’ll track the Nolana, of course,” Olsen Neale said.
“See where the generators go. It should expose the
distribution net. You’ve done well,” he added
encouragingly. The young captain looked haggard,
nothing like the bright eager agent who had wangled
himself a berth on the Villeneuve’s Revenge those long
months ago.
It hits us all in the end, son, Olsen Neale thought
soulfully to himself.
We deliberately bring ourselves down to their level so
we can blend in, and sometimes it costs just too much.
Because nothing can go lower than human beings.
Erick remained unmoved by the compliment. “You can
have Duchamp and the rest of the crew arrested
immediately,” he said. “My neural nanonics recording of
our attack on the Krystal Moon will be more than
enough to convict them. I want you to tell the prosecutor
to ask for maximum penalties. We can have them all
committed to a penal planet. The whole lot of them, and
that’s better than they deserve.”
And it transfers your guilt, as well, Neale thought
silently. “I don’t think we can do that right now, Erick,” he
said.
“What? Three people have died just so that you have
enough evidence against Duchamp. Two of them I killed
myself.”
“I’m truly sorry, Erick, but circumstances have changed
somewhat radically since your mission began. Have
you accessed Time Universe’s Lalonde sensevise?”
Erick gave him a demoralized stare, guessing what was
coming. “Yes.”
“Terrance Smith has signed on the Villeneuve’s
Revenge for his mercenary fleet. We’ve got to have
somebody there, Erick. It’s a legal mission for a
planetary government, there’s nothing I can do to
prevent them from leaving. Christ, this is Laton we’re
talking about. I was about ten years old when he
destroyed Jantrit. One and a quarter million people just
so he could make a clean getaway, and the habitat
itself; the Edenists had never lost a habitat before, their
life expectancy is measured in millennia. And now he’s
had nearly forty years to perfect his megalomaniac
schemes. Shit, we don’t even know what they are; but

what I’ve heard about Lalonde is enough to frighten me.
I’m scared, Erick, I’ve got a family. I don’t want him to
get his hands on them. We have to know where he went
on the Yaku. Nothing is more important than that.
Piracy and flogging off black-market goods are totally
irrelevant by comparison. The navy has to find him and
exterminate him. Properly this time. Until he’s dead, we
have no other goal. I’ve already sent a flek to Avon, a
courier left on a blackhawk an hour after the Time
Universe people told me about their recording.”
Erick’s brow crinkled in surprise.
Olsen Neale gave a modest smile. “Yes, a blackhawk.
They’re fast, they’re good. And Laton will ultimately
have them too if we don’t stop him. Their captains are
just as unnerved by him as we are.”
“All right.” Erick gave up. “I’ll go.”
“Anything. Any piece of data. What he’s done out in the
Lalonde hinterlands. Where the Yaku went. Just
anything.”
“I’ll get whatever I can.”
“You could try asking this journalist, Graeme
Nicholson.” He shrugged at Erick’s expression. “The
man’s smart, resourceful. If anyone on that planet had
the presence of mind to track the Yaku’s jump
coordinate, it’ll be him.”
Erick rose to his feet. “OK.”
“Erick … take care.”
The heavy curtains in Kelly Tirrel’s bedroom were
drawn across the two oval windows. Ornate wall-
mounted glass globes emitted a faint turquoise light. It
made the white bedsheets shimmer as if they were the
surface of a moonlit lake; human skin was dark and
tantalizing.
Kelly let Joshua run his hands over her, parting her legs
so he could probe the damp cleft hidden below her
tangle of pubic hair.
“Nice,” she purred, squirming over the rumpled sheets.
His teeth shone as he parted his lips. “Good.”
“If you take me with you, there will be five days of this.

Nonstop; and in free fall, too.”
“A powerful argument.”
“Money as well. Collins will pay triple rate for my
passage.”
“I’m already rich.”
“So get richer.”
“Jesus, you’re a pushy bitch.”
“Is that a complaint? Did you want to be with someone
else tonight?”
“Er, no.”
“Good.” Her hand slid round his balls. “This is the one
for me, Joshua. This is my make or break chance. I
blew the Ione story because of someone not a million
kilometres from here.” Her fingers tightened slightly.
“Opportunities like this don’t come to a place like
Tranquillity three times in a life. If I pull it off I’ll be made;
top of the seniority table, good assignments, a decent
bureau posting, a real salary. You owe me this, Joshua.
You owe me very big.”
“Suppose the mercenaries don’t want you with them?”
“You leave them to me. The way I’ll pitch it at them,
they’ll eat up the offer. Heroes up against frightening
odds helping to flatten Laton, rogues with a heart of
gold, sensevised into every home in the Confederation.
Come on!”
“Jesus.” There was still an uncomfortable pressure
round his balls, long red nails touching his scrotum, a
little too sharply to be described as tickling. She
wouldn’t. Would she? Her smart, expensive grey-blue
Crusto suit was folded neatly over a chair by the
dresser. It had been taken off with military
regimentation as she prepared for sex.
She probably would. Jesus.
“Of course I’ll take you.”
Thumb and forefinger nipped one ball impishly.
“Yow!” His eyes watered. “You don’t think you’re getting
carried away with this idea, do you? I mean, there are

career moves and career moves. Landing on a hostile
planet behind enemy lines is pushing company loyalty to
extremes.”
“Crap.” Kelly rolled onto one elbow and glared at him.
“Did you see who Time Universe had introducing their
studio segments? Matthias bastard Rems, that’s who.
Just because he was in the right place at the right time.
That lucky little shit. He’s younger than me, barely out of
his nursery pen. And they gave him three days prime
scheduling time. And market research says he’s
popular because he’s boyish. Some women like that, it
turns out. Eighty-year-old virgins, I should think. The
reason Time Universe won’t let him record sensevises
is because then we’d all know for sure he hasn’t got any
balls.”
“Not a problem in your case, is it?”
It came out before he could think. Kelly spent a hot
violent twenty minutes making him wish it hadn’t.
The nineteen starships under Terrance Smith’s
command assembled a thousand kilometres beyond
Tranquillity’s spaceport: the Gemal with five thousand
general troops, three cargo clippers carrying their
equipment and supplies, and fifteen combat-capable
ships, six of which were blackhawks.
Tranquillity watched their drives come on, and the flotilla
moved in towards Mirchusko at one gee. The Adamist
starships employed a single-file formation (with Gemal
leading) which the blackhawks encircled insolently.
Strategic-defence sensor-platforms detected a vast
amount of encrypted data traffic being exchanged
between the ships as communication channels were
tested and combat tactics exchanged.
They curved around the gas giant, heading towards its
penumbra. Their drive exhausts shortened and
vanished while they were still a hundred and eighty-four
thousand kilometres above the unruly cloudscape,
coasting towards the jump coordinate. Tranquillity saw
the faint blue flickers of ion jets perfecting their orbital
tracks; then the thermo-dump panels and sensor
clusters began to withdraw. The blackhawks rushed
away from the main convoy, freed of the constraints
imposed by their Adamist partners, expanding in a
perfectly spaced rosette. Then the bitek starships
performed their swallow manoeuvre, jumping on ahead
to scout for any possible trouble. Space reverberated

with the gravity-wave backwash of their wormhole
interstices snapping shut behind them, impinging on the
habitat’s sensitive mass-detection organs.
Gemal jumped. Tranquillity noted its spacial location
and velocity vector. The trajectory was aligned exactly
on Lalonde. One by one the remaining starships fell into
the same jump coordinate and triggered their energy
patterning nodes, squeezing themselves out of space-
time.
===========================================================================

Chapter 05
^
Since the advent of its independence in 2238, Avon’s
government had contracted civil astroengineering
teams to knock fifteen large (twenty-to twenty-five-
kilometre diameter) stony iron asteroids into high orbit
above the planet using precisely placed and timed
nuclear explosions.
Fourteen of them followed the standard formula of
industrialization adopted throughout the Confederation.
After their orbits were stabilized with a perigee no less
than a hundred thousand kilometres, their ores had
been mined out and the refined metal sent down to the
planet below in the form of giant lifting bodies which
coasted through the atmosphere to a splash-glide
landing in the ocean. The resulting caverns were
expanded, regularized into cylindrical shapes, the
surface sculpted into a landscape, sealed, then turned
into habitable biospheres. At the same time the original
ore refineries would gradually be replaced by more
sophisticated industrial stations, allowing the asteroid’s
economy to shift its emphasis from the bulk production
of metals and minerals to finished micro-gee
engineered products. The refineries moved on to a
fresh asteroid in order to satisfy the demand of the
planetary furnaces and steel mills, keeping the worst
aspects of raw-material exploitation offplanet where the
ecological pollution on the aboriginal biota was zero.
Anyone arriving at a terracompatible planet in the
Confederation could tell almost at a glance how long it
had been industrialized by the number of settled
asteroids in orbit around it.
Avon had been opened for colonization to ethnic
Canadians in 2151 during the Great Dispersal, and
conformed to the usual evolutionary route out of an
agrarian economy into industrialization in slightly less
than a century. A satisfactory achievement, but nothing
remarkable. It remained a pedestrian world until 2271
when it played host to the head of state conference
called to discuss the worrying upsurge in the use of
antimatter as a weapon of mass destruction. From that
conference was born the Confederation, and Avon
seized its chance to leapfrog an entire developmental
stage by offering itself as a permanent host for the
Assembly. Without any increase in exports, foreign
currency poured in as governments set up diplomatic

missions; and the lawyers, interstellar companies,
finance institutions, influence peddlers, media
conglomerates, and lobbyists followed, each with their
own prestige offices and staff and dependents.
There was also the Confederation Navy, which was to
police the fragile newfound unity between the inhabited
stars. Avon contributed to that as well, by donating to
the Assembly an orbiting asteroid named Trafalgar
which was in the last phase of mining.
Trafalgar was unique within the Confederation in that it
had no industrial stations after the miners moved out. It
was first, foremost, and only, a naval base, developing
from a basic supply and maintenance depot for the
entire Confederation Navy (such as it was in the early
days) up to the primary military headquarters for the
eight hundred and sixty-two inhabited star systems
which made up the Confederation in 2611.
When First Admiral Samual Aleksandrovich took up his
appointment in 2605 it was the home port for the 1st
Fleet and headquarters and training centre for the
Marine Corps. It housed the career Officer Academy,
the Engineering School, the Navy Technical Evaluation
Office, the First Admiral’s Strategy Office, the Navy
Budget Office, the principal research laboratories for
supralight communications, and (more quietly) the
headquarters of the Fleet Intelligence Arm. A black and
grey peanut shape, twenty-one kilometres long, seven
wide, rotating about its long axis; it contained three
cylindrical biosphere caverns which housed a mixed
civilian and military population of approximately three
hundred thousand. There were non-rotational
spaceports at each end: spheres two kilometres in
diameter, the usual gridwork of girders and tanks and
pipes, threaded with pressurized tubes carrying
commuter cars, and docking-bays ringed by control
cabins. Their surface area was just able to cope with
the vast quantity of spaceship movements. The
spindles were both fixed to Trafalgar’s axis at the
centre of deep artificial craters two kilometres wide
which the voidhawks used as docking-ledges.
As well as its responsibility for defence and anti-pirate
duties across the Confederation it coordinated Avon’s
defence in conjunction with the local navy. The
strategic-defence platforms protecting the planet were
some of the most powerful ever built. Given the huge
numbers of government diplomatic ships, as well as the
above average number of commercial flights using the

low-orbit docking stations, security was a paramount
requirement. There hadn’t been an act of piracy in the
system for over two and a half centuries, but the
possibility of a suicide attack against Trafalgar was
uppermost in the minds of navy tacticians.
Strategic sensor coverage was absolute out to a
distance of two million kilometres from the planetary
surface. Reaction time by the patrolling voidhawks was
near instantaneous. Starships emerging outside
designated areas took a formidable risk in doing so.
Ilex was calling for help even before the wormhole
terminus closed behind it. Auster had ordered the
voidhawk to fly straight to Avon, over four hundred light-
years from Lalonde. Even for a voidhawk, the distance
was excessive. Ilex needed to recharge its energy
patterning cells after ten swallows, which involved a
prolonged interval of ordinary flight to allow its distortion
field to concentrate the meagre wisps of radiation which
flittered through the interstellar medium.
The voyage had taken three and a half days. There
were sixty people on board, and the bitek life-support
organs were rapidly approaching their critical limit. The
air smelt bad, membrane filters couldn’t cope with the
body gases, CO2 was building up, oxygen reserves
were almost exhausted.
Trafalgar was five thousand kilometres away when the
wormhole terminus sealed. Legally, it should have been
a hundred thousand. But a long sublight flight to a
docking-ledge would have pushed Ilex’s life-support
situation from critical to catastrophic.
The asteroid immediately went to defence condition C2,
allowing the duty officer to engage all targets at will.
Nuclear-pumped gamma-ray lasers locked onto the
voidhawk’s hull within three-quarters of a second of the
wormhole opening.
Every Edenist officer in Trafalgar’s strategic-defence
command-centre heard Ilex’s call. They managed to
load a five-second delay order into the defence
platforms. Auster gave a fast resume of the voidhawk’s
situation. The delay was extended for another fifteen
seconds while the duty officer made her evaluation. A
squadron of patrol voidhawks closed on Ilex at ten
gees.
“Stand down,” the duty officer told the centre, and
datavised a lockdown order into the fire-command

computer. She looked across at the nearest Edenist.
“And tell that idiot captain from me I’ll fry his arse off
next time he pulls a stunt like this.”
Ilex swooped in towards Trafalgar at five gees as traffic
control cleared a priority approach path ahead of it. Six
patrol voidhawks spiralled round it like over-protective
avian parents, all seven bitek starships exchanging fast
affinity messages of anxiety, interest, and mild rebuke.
The northern axial crater was a scene of frantic activity
while Ilex chased the asteroid’s rotation, looping around
the globular non-rotating spaceport to fly in parallel to
the spindle. It settled on a titanium pedestal with eight
balloon-tyre maintenance vehicles and crew buses
racing towards it, bouncing about in the low gravity.
Lalonde’s navy office personnel disembarked first,
hurrying along the airlock tube to the waiting bus, all of
them taking deep gulps of clean, cool air. A medic team
carried Niels Regehr off in a stretcher, while two
paediatric nurses soothed and patted a blubbering
Shafi Banaji.
Environment-maintenance vehicles plugged hoses and
cables into the crew toroid’s umbilical sockets, sending
gales of fresh air gusting through the cabins and central
corridor. Resenda, Ilex’s life-support officer, simply
vented the fouled atmosphere they’d been breathing
throughout the voyage, and grey plumes jetted up out of
the toroid, seeded with minute water crystals that
sparkled in the powerful lights mounted on the spindle to
illuminate the crater.
Once the first bus trundled away, a second nosed up to
the airlock. A ten-strong marine squad in combat
fatigues and armed with chemical projectile guns
marched on board. Rhodri Peyton, the squad’s captain,
saluted an exhausted, unwashed, and unshaven
Lieutenant Murphy Hewlett.
“This is her?” he asked sceptically.
Jacqueline Couteur stood in the middle of the corridor
outside the airlock, with Jeroen van Ewyck and Garrett
Tucci training their Bradfields on her. She was even
dirtier than Murphy, the check pattern of her cotton shirt
almost lost below the engrained grime picked up in the
jungle.
“I’m tempted to let her show you what she can do,”
Murphy said.

Kelven Solanki stepped forwards. “All right, Murphy.” He
turned to the marine captain. “Your men are to have at
least two weapons covering her at all times. She’s
capable of emitting an electronic warfare effect, as well
as letting loose some kind of lightning bolt. Don’t try to
engage her in physical combat, she’s quite capable of
ripping you apart.”
One of the marines snickered at that. Kelven didn’t
have the energy left to argue.
“I’ll go with her,” Jeroen van Ewyck said. “My people
need to be briefed anyway, and I’ll let the science
officers know what’s required.”
“What is required?” Jacqueline Couteur asked.
Rhodri Peyton turned, and gave a start. In place of the
dumpy middle-aged woman there was a tall, beautiful,
twenty-year-old girl wearing a white cocktail gown. She
gave him a silent entreating look, the maiden about to
be offered to the dragon. “Help me. Please. You’re not
like them. You’re not an emotionless machine. They
want to hurt me in their laboratories. Don’t let them.”
Garrett Tucci jabbed the Bradfield into her back. “Pack
it in, bitch,” he said roughly.
She twisted, like an AV projection with a broken focus,
and the old Jacqueline Couteur was standing there, a
mocking expression on her face.
Her jeans and shirt were now clean and pressed.
“My God,” Rhodri Peyton gasped.
“Now do you see?” Kelven asked.
The now nervous marine squad escorted their prisoner
along the connecting tube to the bus. Jacqueline
Couteur sat beside one of the windows, five guns lined
up on her. She watched the bare walls of sterile rock
impassively as the bus rolled back across the crater
and into a downward sloping tunnel that led deep into
the asteroid.
First Admiral Samual Aleksandrovich hadn’t set foot on
his native Russian-ethnic birth planet Kolomna for the
last fifty-three of his seventy-three years; he hadn’t
been back for a holiday, nor even his parents’ funeral.
Regular visits might have been deemed inappropriate
given that Confederation Navy career officers were

given that Confederation Navy career officers were
supposed to renounce any national ties when they
walked through the academy entrance; for a First
Admiral to display any undue interest would have been
a completely unacceptable breach of diplomatic
etiquette. People would have understood his attending
the funerals, though. So everyone assumed he was
applying the same kind of steely discipline to his private
affairs that ruled his professional life.
They were all wrong. Samual Aleksandrovich had never
been back because there was nothing on the wretched
planet with its all-over temperate climate which
interested him, not family nor culture nor nostalgic
scenery. The reason he left in the first place was
because he couldn’t stand the idea of spending a
century helping his four brothers and three sisters run
the family fruit-farming business. The same geneering
which had produced his energetic one metre eighty
frame, vivid copper hair, and enhanced metabolism,
bestowed a life expectancy of at least a hundred and
twenty years.
By the time he was nineteen years old he had come to
realize that such a life would be a prison sentence
given the vocations available on a planet just emerging
from its agrarian phase. A potentially blessed life should
not be faced with such finite horizons, for if it was it
would turn from being a joy into a terrible burden.
Variety was sanity. So on the day after his twentieth
birthday he had kissed his parents and siblings
goodbye, walked the seventeen kilometres into town
through a heavy snowfall, and signed on at the
Confederation Navy recruitment office.
Metaphorically, and otherwise, he had never looked
back. He had never been anything other than an
exemplary officer; he’d seen combat seven times, flown
anti-pirate interdictions, commanded a flotilla raiding an
illegal antimatter-production station, and gained a
substantial number of distinguished service awards. But
appointment to the post of First Admiral required a
great deal more than an exemplary record. Much as he
hated it, Samual Aleksandrovich had to play the political
game; appearing before Assembly select committees,
giving unofficial briefings to senior diplomats, wielding
Fleet Intelligence information with as much skill as he
did the rapier (he was year champion at the academy).
His ability to pressure member states was admired by
the Assembly President’s staffers, as much for its
neatness as the millions of fuseodollars saved by
circumventing fleet deployment to trouble spots; and

their word counted for a great deal more than the
Admiralty, who advanced the names of candidates to
the Assembly’s Navy Committee.
In the six years he had held the office he had done a
good job keeping the peace between sometimes
volatile planetary governments and the even more
mercurial asteroid settlements. Leaders and politicians
respected his toughness and fairness.
A great deal of his renowned even-handed approach
was formed when at the age of thirty-two he was
serving as a lieutenant on a frigate that had been sent
to Jantrit to assist the Edenists in some kind of armed
rebellion (however unbelievable it sounded at the time).
The frigate crew had watched helplessly while the
antimatter was detonated, then spent three days in
exhausting and often fruitless manoeuvres to rescue
survivors of the tragedy. Samual Aleksandrovich had
led one of the recovery teams after they rendezvoused
with a broken starscraper. With heroic work that won
him a commendation he and his crew-mates saved
eighteen Edenists trapped in the tubular honeycomb of
polyp. But one of the rooms they forced their way into
was filled with corpses. It was a children’s day club that
had suffered explosive decompression. As he floated in
desolated horror across the grisly chamber, he realized
the Edenists were just as human as himself, and just as
fallible. After that the persistent snide comments from
fellow officers about the tall aloof bitek users annoyed
him intensely. From then on he devoted himself body
and soul to the ideal of enforcing the peace.
So when the Eurydice had docked at Trafalgar carrying
a flek from Lieutenant-Commander Kelven Solanki
about the small possibility (and he had been most
unwilling to commit himself) that Laton was still alive and
stirring from his self-imposed exile, First Admiral
Samual Aleksandrovich had taken a highly personal
interest in the Lalonde situation.
Where Laton was concerned, Samual Aleksandrovich
exhibited neither his usual fairness nor a desire for
justice to be done. He just wanted Laton dead. And this
time there would be no error.
Even after his staff had edited down Murphy Hewlett’s
neural nanonics recording of the marine squad’s fateful
jungle mission, to provide just the salient points, there
was three hours of sensorium memory to access.

When he surfaced from Lalonde’s savage heat and
wearying humidity, Samual Aleksandrovich remained
lost in thought for quarter of an hour, then took a
commuter car down to the Fleet Intelligence
laboratories.
Jacqueline Couteur had been isolated in a secure
examination room. It was a cell cut into living rock with a
transparent wall of metallized silicon whose structure
was reinforced with molecular-binding-force
generators.
On one side it was furnished with a bed, wash-basin,
shower, toilet, and a table, while the other side
resembled a medical surgery with an adjustable couch
and a quantity of analysis equipment.
She sat at the table, dressed in a green clinical robe.
Five marines were in the cell with her, four of them
carrying chemical-projectile guns, the fifth a TIP
carbine.
Samual Aleksandrovich stood in front of the transparent
wall looking at the drab woman. The monitoring room he
was in resembled a warship’s bridge, a white composite
cube with a curved rank of consoles, all facing the
transparent wall. The impersonality disturbed him
slightly, an outsized vivarium.
Jacqueline Couteur returned his stare levelly. She
should never have been able to do that, not a simple
farmer’s wife from a backwoods colony world. There
were diplomats with eighty years of experienced
duplicity behind them who broke into a sweat when
Samual Aleksandrovich turned his gaze on them.
He likened the experience to looking into the eyes of an
Edenist habitat mayor at some formal event, when the
consensus intellect of every adult in the habitat looked
back at him. Judging.
Whatever you are, he thought, you are not Jacqueline
Couteur. This is the moment I’ve dreaded since I took
my oath of office. A new threat, one beyond anything
we know. And the burden of how to deal with it will
inevitably fall heaviest on my navy.
“Do you understand the method of sequestration yet?”
He asked Dr Gilmore, who was heading the research
team.
The doctor made a penitent gesture. “Not as yet. She’s

certainly under the control of some outside agency, but
so far we haven’t been able to locate the point where it
interfaces with her nervous system. I’m a neural
nanonics expert, and we’ve got several physicists on
the team. But I’m not entirely sure we even have a
specialization to cover this phenomenon.”
“Tell me what you can.”
“We ran a full body and neural scan on her, looking for
implants. You saw what she and the other sequestrated
colonists could do back on Lalonde?”
“Yes.”
“That ability to produce the white fireballs and electronic
warfare impulses must logically have some kind of
focusing mechanism. We found nothing. If it’s there it’s
smaller than our nanonics, a lot smaller. Atomic sized,
at least, maybe even subatomic.”
“Could it be biological? A virus?”
“You’re thinking of Laton’s proteanic virus? No, nothing
like that.” He turned and beckoned to Euru.
The tall black-skinned Edenist left the monitor console
he was working at and came over. “Laton’s virus
attacked cells,” he explained.
“Specifically neural cells, altering their composition and
DNA. This woman’s brain structure remains perfectly
normal, as far as we can tell.”
“If she can knock out a marine’s combat electronics at
over a hundred metres, how do you know your analysis
equipment is giving you genuine readings?” Samual
Aleksandrovich asked.
The two scientists exchanged a glance.
“Interference is a possibility we’ve considered,” Euru
admitted. “The next stage of our investigation will be to
acquire tissue samples and subject them to analysis
outside the range of her influence, if she lets us take
them. It would require a great deal of effort if she
refused to cooperate.”
“Has she been cooperative so far?”
“For most of the time, yes. We’ve witnessed two
instances of visual pattern distortion,” Dr Gilmore said.
“When her jeans and shirt were removed she assumed

the image of an apelike creature. It was shocking, but
only because it was so unusual and unexpected. Then
later on she tried to entice the marines to let her out by
appearing as an adolescent girl with highly developed
secondary sexual characteristics. We have AV
recordings of both occasions; she can somehow
change her body’s photonic-emission spectrum. It’s
definitely not an induced hallucination, more like a
chameleon suit’s camouflage.”
“What we don’t understand is where she gets the
energy to produce these effects,” Euru said. “The cell’s
environment is strictly controlled and monitored, so she
can’t be tapping Trafalgar’s electrical power circuits.
And when we ran tests on her urine and faeces we
found nothing out of the ordinary. Certainly there’s no
unusual chemical activity going on inside her.”
“Lori and Darcy claimed Laton warned them of an
energy virus,” Samual Aleksandrovich said. “Is such a
thing possible?”
“It may well be,” Euru said. His eyes darkened with
emotion. “If that creature was telling the truth he would
probably have been attaching the nearest linguistic
equivalents to a totally new phenomenon. An organized
energy pattern which can sustain itself outside a
physical matrix is a popular thesis with physicists.
Electronics companies have been interested in the idea
for a long time. It would bring about a radical
transformation in our ability to store and manipulate
data. But there has never been any practical
demonstration of such an incorporeal matrix.”
Samual Aleksandrovich switched his glance back to the
woman behind the transparent wall. “Perhaps you are
looking at the first.”
“It would be an extraordinary advance from our present
knowledge base,” Dr Gilmore said.
“Have you asked the Kiint if it is possible?”
“No,” Dr Gilmore admitted.
“Then do so. They may tell us, they may not. Who
understands how their minds work? But if anyone
knows, they will.”
“Yes, sir.”

“What about her?” Samual Aleksandrovich asked. “Has
she said anything?”
“She is not very communicative,” Euru said.
The First Admiral grunted, and activated the intercom
beside the cell’s door. “Do you know who I am?” he
asked.
The marines inside the cell stiffened. Jacqueline
Couteur’s expression never changed; she looked him
up and down slowly.
“I know,” she said.
“Who exactly am I talking to?”
“Me.”
“Are you part of Laton’s schemes?”
Was there the faintest twitch of a smile on her lips?
“No.”
“What do you hope to achieve on Lalonde?”
“Achieve?”
“Yes, achieve. You have subjugated the human
population, killed many people. This is not a situation I
can allow to continue. Defending the Confederation
from such a threat is my responsibility, even on a little
planet as politically insignificant as Lalonde. I would like
to know your motives so that a solution to this crisis
may be found which does not involve conflict. You must
have known that ultimately your action would bring about
an armed response.”
“There is no achievement’ sought.”
“Then why do what you have done?”
“I do as nature binds me. As do you.”
“I do what my duty binds me to do. When you were on
the Isakore you told the marines that they would come
to you in time. If that isn’t an objective I don’t know what
is.”
“If you believe I will aid you to comprehend what has
happened, you are mistaken.”
“Then why did you allow yourself to be captured? I’ve

seen the power you possess; Murphy Hewlett is good,
but not that good. He couldn’t get you here unless you
wanted to come.”
“How amusing. I see governments and conspiracy
theories are still inseparable. Perhaps I’m the lovechild
of Elvis and Marilyn Monroe come to sue the North
American Govcentral state in the Assembly court for
my rightful inheritance.”
Samual Aleksandrovich gave her a nonplussed look.
“What?”
“It doesn’t matter. Why did the navy want me here,
Admiral?”
“To study you.”
“Precisely. And that is why I am here. To study you.
Which of us will learn the most, I wonder?”
Kelven Solanki had never envisaged meeting the First
Admiral quite so early in his career. Most commanders
were introduced, certainly those serving in the 1st
Fleet. But not lieutenant-commanders assigned to
minor field-diplomat duties. Yet here he was being
shown into the First Admiral’s office by Captain
Maynard Khanna. Circumstances muted the sense of
excitement. He wasn’t sure how the First Admiral
viewed his handling of events on Lalonde, and the staff
captain had given him no clues.
Samual Aleksandrovich’s office was a circular chamber
thirty metres across, with a slightly domed ceiling. Its
curving wall had one window which looked out into
Trafalgar’s central biosphere cavern, and ten long
holoscreens, eight slowly flicking through images from
external sensors and the remaining two showing
tactical displays. The ceiling was ribbed with bronze
spars, with a fat AV cylinder protruding from the apex
resembling a crystalline stalactite. There were two
clusters of furniture; a huge teak desk with satellite
chairs; and a sunken reception area lined by padded
leather couches.
Maynard Khanna showed him over to the desk where
the First Admiral was waiting. Auster, Dr Gilmore,
Admiral Lalwani, the Fleet Intelligence chief, and
Admiral Motela Kolhammer, the 1st Fleet Commander,
were all sitting before the desk in the curved blue-steel
chairs that had extruded out of the floor like pliable
mercury.

Kelven stood to attention and gave a perfect salute,
very conscious of the five sets of eyes studying him.
Samual Aleksandrovich smiled thinly at the junior
officer’s obvious discomfort. “At ease, Commander.”
He gestured at one of the two new chairs formatting
themselves out of the floor material. Kelven removed
his cap, tucked it under his arm, and sat next to
Maynard Khanna.
“You handled Lalonde quite well,” the First Admiral said.
“Not perfectly, but then you weren’t exactly prepared for
anything like this. Under the circumstances I’m satisfied
with your performance.”
“Thank you, sir.”
“Bloody ESA people didn’t help,” Motela Kolhammer
muttered.
Samual Aleksandrovich waved him quiet. “That is
something we can take up with their ambassador later.
Though I’m sure we all know what the outcome will be.
Regrettable or not, you acted properly the whole time,
Solanki. Capturing one of the sequestrated was exactly
what we required.”
“Captain Auster made it possible, sir,” Kelven said. “I
wouldn’t have got the marines out otherwise.”
The voidhawk captain nodded thankfully in
acknowledgement.
“None the less, we should have given your situation a
higher priority to begin with, and provided you with
adequate resources,” Samual Aleksandrovich said. “My
mistake, especially given who was involved.”
“Has Jacqueline Couteur confirmed Laton’s
existence?” Kelven asked. Part of him was hoping that
the answer was going to be a resounding no.
“She didn’t have to.” Samual Aleksandrovich sighed
ponderously. “A blackhawk”, he paused, raising his
bushy ginger eyebrows in emphasis, “has just arrived
from Tranquillity with a flek from Commander Olsen
Neale. Under the circumstances I can quite forgive him
for using the ship as a courier. If you would like to
access the sensevise.”
Kelven sank deeper into the scoop of his chair as
Graeme Nicholson’s recording played through his

brain. “He was there all along,” he said brokenly. “In
Durringham itself, and I never knew. I thought the
Yaku’s captain left orbit because of the deteriorating
civil situation.”
“You are not in any way to blame,” Admiral Lalwani said.
Kelven glanced over at the grey-haired Edenist woman.
There was an inordinate amount of sympathy and
sadness in the tone.
“We should never have stopped checking, all those
years ago,” she continued. “The presence of Darcy
and Lori on Lalonde was a rather miserable token to
appease our paranoia. Even we were guilty of wishing
Laton dead. The hope overwhelmed reason and
rational thought. All of us knew how resourceful he was,
and we knew he had acquired data on Lalonde.
The planet should have been thoroughly searched. Our
mistake. Now he has returned. I don’t like to think of the
price we will all have to pay before he is stopped this
time.”
“Sir, Darcy and Lori seemed very uncertain that he was
behind this invasion,” Kelven said. “Laton actually
warned them of this illusion-creating ability the
sequestrated have.”
“And Jacqueline Couteur agrees he isn’t a part of this,”
Dr Gilmore said.
“That’s one of the few things she will admit to.”
“I hardly think we can take her word for it,” Admiral
Kolhammer said.
“Precise details are for later,” Samual Aleksandrovich
said. “What we have with Lalonde is shaping up into a
major, and immediate, crisis. I’m tempted to ask the
Assembly President to declare a state of emergency;
that would put national navies at my disposal.”
“In theory,” Admiral Kolhammer said drily.
“Yes, and yet anything less may not suffice. This
undetectable sequestration ability has me deeply
worried. It has been used so freely on Lalonde,
hundreds of thousands of people, if not millions. How
many people does the agency behind it intend to
subjugate? How many planets? It is a threat which the
Assembly cannot be allowed to ignore in favour of its

usual horse trading.” He considered the option of total
mobilization before reluctantly dismissing it. There
wasn’t enough evidence to convince the president, not
yet. It would come eventually, he was in no doubt of
that. “For the moment we will do what we can to contain
the spread of this plague, whilst trying to find Laton. The
flek from Olsen Neale also went on to report that
Terrance Smith has met with some success in
recruiting mercenaries and combat-capable starships
for Governor Rexrew. That blackhawk made excellent
time from Tranquillity; a little over two days, the captain
told me. So we may just be able to put a brake on
Lalonde before it gets totally out of hand. Terrance
Smith’s ships are scheduled to depart from Tranquillity
today. Lalwani, you estimate it will take them a week to
reach Lalonde?”
“Yes,” she said. “It took the Gemal six days to get from
Lalonde to Tranquillity. With the starships in Smith’s
fleet having to match formation after each jump, a
single extra day is a conservative estimate. Even a
navy flotilla would be hard pushed to match that. And
those are not front-line ships.”
“Apart from the Lady Macbeth,” Maynard Khanna said
in a quiet voice. “I accessed the list of ships Smith
recruited; the Lady Macbeth is a ship I am familiar with.”
He glanced at the First Admiral.
“I know that name …” Kelven Solanki ran a search
program through his neural nanonics. “The Lady
Macbeth was orbiting Lalonde when the trouble first
broke out upriver.”
“That wasn’t mentioned in any of your reports,” Lalwani
said. Her slim forehead showed a frown.
“It was a commercial flight. Slightly odd, the captain
wanted to export aboriginal wood, but as far as we
could tell perfectly legitimate.”
“This name does seem to be popping up with
suspicious regularity,” Maynard Khanna said.
“We should be able to look into it easily enough,”
Samual Aleksandrovich said. “Commander Solanki, the
principal reason I asked you here was to inform you
that you are to act as an adviser to the squadron which
will blockade Lalonde.”
“Sir?”

“We’re launching a dual programme to terminate this
threat. The first aspect is a Confederationwide alert for
Laton. We have to know where the Yaku went, where it
is now.”
“He won’t stay on board,” Lalwani said. “Not after he
reaches a port. But we’ll find him. I’m organizing the
search now. All the voidhawks in the Avon system will
be conscripted and dispatched to alert national
governments. I’ve already sent one to Jupiter; once the
habitat consensus is informed, every voidhawk in the
Sol system will be used to relay the news. I estimate it
will take four to five days to blanket the Confederation.”
“Time Universe will probably beat you to it,” Admiral
Kolhammer said gruffly.
Lalwani smiled. The two of them were sparring partners
from way back. “In this case I wouldn’t mind in the
least.”
“Be a lot of panic. Stock markets will take a tumble.”
“If it makes people take the threat seriously, so much
the better,” Samual Aleksandrovich said. “Motela, you
are to assemble a 1st Fleet squadron, a large one, to
be held on fifteen-minute-departure alert. When we find
Laton, eliminating him is going to be your problem.”
“What problem?”
“I admire the sentiment,” Samual Aleksandrovich said
with a touch of censure. “But kindly remember he
escaped from us last time, when we were equally
hungry for blood. That mistake cannot be repeated.
This time I shall require proof, even though it will no
doubt be expensive. I imagine Lalwani and Auster will
agree.”
“We do,” Lalwani said. “All Edenists do. If there is any
risk in confirming the target is Laton, then we will bear
it.”
“In the meantime, I want Lalonde to be completely
isolated,” Samual Aleksandrovich said. “The mercenary
force is not to be allowed to land, nor do I want any
surface bombardments from orbit. Those colonists
have suffered enough already. The solution to this
sequestration lies in discovering the method by which it
is implemented, and devising a counter. Brute force is
merely dumping plutonium in a volcano. And I suspect
the mercenaries would simply be sequestrated

themselves should they land. Dr Gilmore, this is your
field.”
“Not really,” the doctor said expressively. “But we shall
put our female subject through an extensive series of
experiments to see if we can determine the method of
the sequestration and how to cancel it. However,
judging by what we know so far, which is virtually
nothing, I have to say an answer is going to take a
considerable time to formulate. Though you are quite
right to instigate a quarantine. The less contact Lalonde
has with the rest of the Confederation the better,
especially if it turns out Laton isn’t behind the invasion.”
“The doctor has a point,” Lalwani said. “What if the
Lalonde invasion is the start of a xenoc incursion, and
Laton himself has been sequestrated?”
“I’m keeping it in mind,” Samual Aleksandrovich said.
“We need to know more, either from the Couteur
woman or Lalonde itself. Our principal trouble remains
what it has always been: reaction time. It takes us far
too long to amass any large force. Always our conflicts
are larger than they would have been if we had
received a warning of problems and threats earlier in
their development. But just this once, we may actually
be in luck. Unless there was some supreme diplomatic
foul-up, Meredith Saldana’s squadron was due to leave
Omuta three days ago. They were in the system mainly
for pomp and show, but they carried a full weapons
load. A squadron of front-line ships already assembled
and perfectly suited to these duties; we couldn’t have
planned it better. It’ll take them five days to get back to
Rosenheim. Captain Auster, if Ilex can get there before
they dock at 7th Fleet headquarters and all the crews
go on leave, then Meredith might just be able to get to
Lalonde before Terrance Smith. And if not before, then
certainly in time to prevent the bulk of the mercenary
troops from landing.”
“Ilex will certainly try, First Admiral,” Auster said. “I have
already asked for auxiliary fusion generators to be
installed in the weapons bays. The energy patterning
cells can be recharged directly from them, reducing the
flight time between swallows considerably. We should
be ready to depart in five hours, and I believe we can
make the two-day deadline.”
“My thanks to Ilex,” Samual Aleksandrovich said
formally.

Auster inclined his head.
“Lieutenant-Commander Solanki, you’ll travel with
Captain Auster, and carry my orders for Rear-Admiral
Saldana. And I think we can manage a promotion to full
commander before you go. You’ve shown considerable
initiative over the last few weeks, as well as personal
courage.”
“Yes, sir, thank you, sir,” Kelven said. The promotion
barely registered, some irreverent section of his mind
was counting up the number of light-years he had flown
in a week. It must be some kind of record. But he was
going back to Lalonde, and bringing his old friends help.
That felt good. I’ve stopped running.
“Add an extra order that the Lady Macbeth and her
crew is to be arrested,” Samual Aleksandrovich told
Maynard Khanna. “They can try explaining themselves
to Meredith’s Intelligence officers.”
The Santa Clara materialized a hundred and twenty
thousand kilometres above Lalonde, almost directly in
line between the planet and Rennison.
Dawn was racing over Amarisk, half of the Juliffe’s
tributary network flashing like silver veins in the low
sunlight. The early hour might have accounted for the
lack of response from civil traffic control. But Captain
Zaretsky had been to Lalonde before, he knew the way
the planet worked. Radio silence didn’t particularly
bother him.
Thermo-dump panels slid out of the hull, and the flight
computer plotted a vector which would deliver the
starship to a five hundred kilometre equatorial orbit.
Zaretsky triggered the fusion drive and the ship moved
in at a tenth of a gee. Santa Clara was a large cargo
clipper, paying a twice-annual visit to the Tyrathca
settlements, bringing new colonists and shipping out
their rygar crop. There were over fifty Tyrathca
breeders on board, all of them shuffling round the
cramped life-support capsules; the dominant xenocs
refused to use zero-tau pods (though their vassal
castes were riding the voyage in temporal suspension).
Captain Zaretsky didn’t particularly like being chartered
by Tyrathca merchants, but they always paid on time,
which endeared them to the ship’s owners.
Once the Santa Clara was underway, he opened
channels to the nine starships in parking orbit. They told
him about the riots, and rumours of invaders, and the

fighting in Durringham which had lasted four days.
There had been no information coming up from the city
for two days now, they said, and they couldn’t decide
what to do.
Zaretsky didn’t share their problem. Santa Clara had a
medium-sized VTOL spaceplane in its hangar, his
contract didn’t call for any contact with the human
settlements. Whatever rebellion the Ivets were staging,
it didn’t affect him.
When he opened a channel to the Tyrathca farmers on
the planet they reported a few skirmishes with humans
who were “acting oddly;” but they had prepared their
rygar crop, and were waiting for the equipment and new
farmers the Santa Clara was bringing. He
acknowledged the call, and continued the slow powered
fall into orbit, the Santa Clara’s fusion exhaust drawing
a slender thread of incandescence across the stars.
Jay Hilton sat on the rock outcrop fifty metres from the
savannah homestead cabin, her legs crossed, head
tipped back to watch the starship decelerating into orbit,
and mournful curiosity pooling in her eyes. The weeks
of living with Father Horst had brought about a
considerable change in her appearance. For a start her
lush silver-white hair had been cropped into a frizz
barely a centimetre long, making it easier to keep clean.
She had cried bucketfuls the day Father Horst took the
scissors to it. Her mother had always looked after it so
well, washing it with special shampoo brought from
Earth, brushing it to a shine each night.
Her hair was her last link with the way things used to be,
her last hope that they might be that way again. When
Father Horst had finished his snipping she knew in her
heart that her most precious dream, that one day she’d
wake up to find everything had returned to normal, was
just a stupid child’s imagination. She had to be tough
now, had to be adult. But it was so hard.
I just want Mummy back, that’s all.
The other children looked up to her. She was the oldest
and strongest of the group. Father Horst relied on her a
great deal to keep the younger ones in order. A lot of
them still cried at night. She heard them in the
darkness, crying for their lost parents or siblings, crying
because they wanted to go back to their arcology
where none of this horrid confusion and upset

happened.
Dawn’s rosy crown gave way to a tide of blue which
swept across the sky, erasing the stars. Rennison
faded to a pale crescent, and the starship’s exhaust
became more difficult to see. Jay unfolded her legs and
clambered down off the rocks.
The homestead on the edge of the savannah was a
simple wooden structure, its solar-cell roof sheets
glinting in the strong morning light. Two of the dogs, a
Labrador and an Alsatian, were out and about. She
patted them as she went up the creaking wooden stairs
to the porch. The cows in the paddock were making
plaintive calls, their udders heavy with milk.
Jay went in through the front door. The big lounge
whiffed strongly, of food, and cooking, and too many
people. She sniffed the air suspiciously.
Someone had wet their bedding again, probably more
than one.
The floor was a solid patchwork of sleeping-bags and
blankets, their occupants only just beginning to stir.
Grass stuffing from the makeshift mattresses of
canvas sacks had leaked out again.
“Come on! Come on!” Jay clapped her hands together
as she pulled the reed blinds open. Streamers of gold-
tinged sunlight poured in, revealing children blinking
sleep from their eyes, wincing at the brightness.
Twenty-seven of them were crammed together on the
mayope floorboards, ranging from a toddler about two
years old up to Danny, who was nearly the same age
as Jay. All of them with short haircuts and rough-
tailored adult clothes which never quite fitted. “Up you
get! Danny, it’s your gang’s turn to do the milking.
Andria, you’re in charge of cooking this morning: I want
tea, oatmeal, and boiled eggs for breakfast.” A groan
went up, which Jay ignored; she was just as fed up with
the changeless diet as they were. “Shona, take three
girls with you and collect the eggs, please.”
Shona gave a timid smile as well as she could, grateful
for being included in the work assignments and not
being treated any differently to the others. Jay had
drilled herself not to flinch from looking at the poor girl.
The six-year-old’s face was covered in a bandage
mask of glossy translucent epithelium membrane, with
holes cut out for her eyes and mouth and nose. Her

burn marks were still a livid pink below the overlapping
membrane strips, and her hair was only just beginning
to grow back. Father Horst said she ought to heal
without any permanent scarring, but he was forever
grieving over the lack of medical nanonic packages.
Coughs and grumbles and high-pitched chattering filled
the room as the children struggled out of bed and into
their clothes. Jay saw little Robert sitting brokenly on
the side of his sleeping-bag, head in his hands, not
bothering to get dressed. “Eustice, you’re to get this
room tidied up, and I want all the blankets aired properly
today.”
“Yes, Jay,” she answered sullenly.
The outside door was flung open as five or six children
rushed out laughing, and ran for the lean-to, which they
used as a toilet.
Jay picked her way over the rectangles of bedding to
Robert. He was only seven, a black-skinned boy with
fluffy blond hair. Sure enough, the navy blue pants he
wore were damp.
“Pop down to the stream,” she said kindly. “There will be
plenty of time to wash before breakfast.”
His head was lowered even further. “I didn’t mean to,”
he whispered, on the verge of tears.
“I know. Remember to wash out your sleeping-bag as
well.” She caught the sound of someone giggling. “Bo,
you help him take the bag down to the stream.”
“Oh, Jay!”
“It’s all right,” Robert said. “I can manage.”
“No, you won’t, not if you want to be back in time for
breakfast.” The big table was already being pulled out
from the kitchen corner by three of the boys, scraping
loudly across the floor. They were shouting for people
to get out of the way.
“Don’t see why I should have to help him,” Bo said
intransigently. She was an eight-year-old, meaty for her
age, with chubby red cheeks. Her size was often
deployed to help boss the smaller children around.
“Chocolate,” Jay said in warning.
Bo blushed, then stalked over to Robert. “Come on

then, you.”
Jay knocked once on Father Horst’s door and walked
in. The room had been the homestead’s main bedroom
when they moved in; it still had a double bed in it, but
most of the floor space was taken up with packets, jars,
and pots of food they’d taken from the other deserted
homestead cabins.
Clothes and cloth and powered tools, anything small or
light enough to be carried, filled the second bedroom in
piles that were taller than Jay.
Horst was getting up as the girl came in. He’d already
got his trousers on, thick denim jeans with leather
patches, a working man’s garment, requisitioned from
one of the other savannah homesteads. She picked up
the faded red sweatshirt from the foot of the bed and
handed it to him.
He had lost a lot of weight, a lot of fat, over the last
weeks; slack bands of flesh hung loosely from his
torso. But even the folds were shrinking, and the
muscles they covered were harder than they had ever
been, though at night they felt like bands of ignescent
metal. Horst spent most of every day working, hard
manual work; keeping the cabin in shape, repairing and
strengthening the paddock fence, building a chicken
run, digging the latrines; then in the evening there would
be prayers and reading lessons. At night he dropped
into bed as if a giant had felled him with its fist. He had
never known a human body could perform such feats of
stamina, least of all one as old and decrepit as his.
Yet he never wavered, never complained. There was a
fire in his eyes that had been ignited by his
predicament. He was embarked on a crusade to
survive, to deliver his charges to safety. The bishop
would be hard pressed to recognize that dreamy well-
meaning Horst Elwes who had left Earth last year. Even
thinking about his earlier self with its disgusting self-pity
and weaknesses repelled him.
He had been tested as few had ever been before, his
faith thrown onto towering flames that had threatened to
reduce him to shreds of black ash so powerful was the
doubt and insecurity fuelling them: but he had emerged
triumphant. Born of fire, and reforged, his conviction in
self, and Christ the Saviour, was unbreakable.
And he had the children to thank. The children who were
now his life and his task. The hand of God had brought

them together. He would not fail them, not while there
was a breath left in his body.
He smiled at Jay who was as grave faced as she
always was at the break of day. The sounds of the
usual morning bedlam were coming through the door as
bedding was put away and the furniture brought out.
“How goes it today, Jay?”
“Same as always.” She sat on the end of the bed as he
pulled on his heavy hand-tooled boots. “I saw a starship
arrive. It’s coming down into low orbit.”
He glanced up from his laces. “Just one?”
“Uh huh,” she nodded vigorously.
“Ah well, it’s not to be today, then.”
“When?” she demanded. Her small beautiful face was
screwed up in passionate rage.
“Oh, Jay.” He pulled her against him, and rocked her
gently as she sniffled. “Jay, don’t give up hope. Not
you.” It was the one thing he promised them, repeating
it every night at prayers so they would believe.
On a world far away lived a wise and powerful man
called Admiral Aleksandrovich, and when he heard what
terrible things had happened on Lalonde he would send
a fleet of Confederation Navy starships to help its
people and drive away the demons who possessed
them. The soldiers and the navy crews would come
down in huge spaceplanes and rescue them, and then
their parents, and finally put the world to rights again.
Every night Horst said it, with the door locked against
the wind and rain, and the windows shuttered against
the dark empty savannah. Every night he believed and
they believed. Because God would not have spared
them if it was not for a purpose. “They will come,” he
promised. He kissed her forehead. “Your mother will be
so proud of you when she returns to us.”
“Really?”
“Yes, really.”
She pondered this. “Robert wet his bed again,” she
said.
“Robert is a fine boy.” Horst stomped on the second
boot. They were two sizes too large, which meant he

had to wear three pairs of socks, which made his feet
sweat, and smell.
“We should get him something,” she said.
“Should we now? And what’s that?”
“A rubber mat. There might be one in another cabin. I
could look,” she said, eyes all wide with innocence.
Horst laughed. “No, Jay, I haven’t forgotten. I’ll take you
out hunting this morning, and this time it will be Danny
who stays behind.”
Jay let out a squeal of excitement and kicked her legs
in the air. “Yes! Thank you, Father.”
He finished tying his laces and stood up. “Don’t mention
the starship, Jay. When the navy comes it will be in a
mighty flotilla, with their exhaust plumes so strong and
bright they will turn night into day. Nobody will mistake it.
But in the meantime we must not pour cold water on the
others’ hopes.”
“I understand, Father. I’m not as dumb as them.”
He ruffled her hair, which she pretended not to like,
wriggling away.
“Come along now,” he said. “Breakfast first. Then we’ll
get our expedition sorted out.”
“I suppose Russ will come with us?” she asked in a
martyred voice.
“Yes, he will. And stop thinking uncharitable thoughts.”
The children already had most of the bedding off the
floor. Two boys were sweeping up the dried grass from
the sack mattresses (Must find a better replacement,
Horst thought). Eustice’s voice could be heard through
the open door, yelling instructions to the children airing
the linen outside.
Horst helped to pull the big table into the middle of the
room. Andria’s team were scurrying round the kitchen
corner, tending the equipment and the meal. The big urn
was just starting to boil, and the three IR plates were
heating up the boiling pans ready for the eggs.
Once again Horst gave a fast prayer of thanks that the
solar-powered equipment functioned so well. It was
easy enough for the children to use without hurting

themselves, and most of them had helped their mothers
with the cooking before. All they needed was some
direction, as they did in every task he set them. He
didn’t like to think how he would have coped if the
homestead hadn’t been empty.
It took another fifteen minutes before Andria’s cooking
party were ready to serve breakfast. Several of the
eggs Shona brought back were broken, so Horst
himself scrambled them up in a pan on a spare IR plate.
It was easier to feed Jill, the toddler, that way.
The tea was finally ready, and the eggs boiled.
Everyone lined up with their mug and cutlery and
eggcup, and filed past the kitchen bar which doubled as
a serving counter. For a few wonderful minutes the
room was actually quiet as the children drank, and
cracked their eggs open, and pulled faces as they
munched the dry oatmeal biscuits, dunking them in the
tea to try and soften them up first. Horst looked round
his extended family and tried not to feel frightened at
the responsibility. He adored them in a way he had
never done with his parishioners.
After breakfast it was wash time, with the extra two
tanks he had installed in the rafter space struggling to
provide enough hot water.
Horst inspected them all to make sure they were clean
and that they had jell-rinsed their teeth. That way he
could have a few words with each of them, make them
feel special, and wanted, and loved. It also gave him the
chance to watch for any sign of illness. So far there had
been remarkably little, a few colds, and one nasty
outbreak of diarrhoea a fortnight ago, which he
suspected was from a batch of jam that had come from
another homestead.
The morning would follow its standard pattern while he
and Jay were away.
Clothes to be washed in the stream and hung out to dry.
Hay to be taken into the cows, corn to be measured out
into the chicken-run dispensers (they never did that
very well), lunch to be prepared. When he went away it
was always the packets of protein-balanced meals from
Earth, all they had to do was put them in the microwave
for ninety seconds, and nothing could go wrong.
Sometimes he allowed a group to pick elwisie fruit from
the trees on the edge of the jungle. But not today; he
gave Danny a stern lecture that no one was to wander

more than fifty metres from the cabin, and someone
must be on watch the whole time in case a kroclion
turned up.
The plains carnivores hadn’t often plagued the
homesteads, but his didactic memory showed what a
menace the lumbering animals could be. The boy
nodded earnestly, eager to prove his worth.
Horst was still suffering from stings of doubt when he
led the group’s one horse from its stable. He trusted
Jay to be left in charge, she acted far older than her
years. But he had to hunt for meat, there were hardly
any fish in the nearby stream. If they stuck to the cache
of food in his bedroom it would be gone within ten days;
it existed to supplement what he killed and stored in the
freezer, and acted as an emergency reserve just in
case he ever did get ill. And Jay deserved a break from
the homestead, she hadn’t been away since they
arrived.
He took two other children with him as well as Jay. Mills,
an energetic eight-year-old from Schuster village, and
Russ, a seven-year-old who simply refused to ever
leave Horst’s side. The one and only time he had gone
hunting without him the boy had run off into the
savannah and it had taken the whole afternoon to find
him.
Jay was grinning and waving and playing up to her
jealous friends when they set off. The savannah grass
quickly rose up around their legs; Horst had made Jay
wear a pair of trousers instead of her usual shorts. A
thick layer of mist started to lift from the waving stalks
and blades now the sun was rising higher into the sky.
Haze broke the visibility down to less than a kilometre.
“This humidity is worse than the Juliffe back in
Durringham,” Jay exclaimed, waving her hand frantically
in front of her face.
“Cheer up,” Horst said. “It might rain later.”
“No, it won’t.”
He glanced round to where she was walking in the track
he was making through the stiff grass. Bright eyes
gleamed mischievously at him from below the brim of
her tatty felt sun-hat.
“How do you know?” he asked. “It always rains on
Lalonde.”

“No, it doesn’t. Not any more, not during the day.”
“What do you mean?”
“Haven’t you noticed? It only ever rains at night now.”
Horst gave her a perplexed stare. He was about to tell
her not to be silly. But then he couldn’t remember the
last time he’d rushed indoors to shelter from one of
Lalonde’s ferocious downpours, a week, ten days? He
had an uncomfortable feeling it might even have been
longer. “No, I hadn’t noticed,” he said temperately.
“That’s all right, you’ve had a lot on your mind lately.”
“I certainly have.” But the chirpy mood was broken now.
I should have noticed, he told himself. But then who
regards the weather as something suspicious? He was
sure it was important though, he just couldn’t think how,
or why. Surely they couldn’t change the weather.
Horst made it a rule that he was never away for more
than four hours.
That put seven other homestead cabins within reach
(eight counting the ruins of the Skibbow building) as well
as allowing enough time to shoot a danderil or some
vennals. Once he had shot a pig that had run wild, and
they’d eaten ham and bacon for the rest of the week. It
was the most delicious meat he’d ever tasted,
terrestrial beasts were pure ambrosia compared to the
coarse and bland aboriginal animals.
There was hardly anything of any value left in the
cabins now, he had stripped them pretty thoroughly.
After another couple of visits there would be little point
in returning. He caught himself before brooding turned
to melancholia; he wouldn’t need to go back, the navy
would come.
And don’t ever think anything different.
Jay bounded up to walk beside him, adjusting her stride
to match his. She gave him a sideways smile, then
returned her gaze to the front, perfectly content.
Horst felt his own tensions seeping away. Having her
so close was like the time right after that dreadful night.
She had screamed and fought him as he pulled her
away from Ruth and Jackson Gael. He had forced her
through the village towards the jungle, only once looking

back. He saw it all then, in the light of the fire which
pillaged their sturdy tranquil village, snuffing out their
ambitions of a fair future as swiftly as rain dissolved the
mud castles the children built on the riverbank. Satan’s
army was upon them. More figures were marching out
of the dark shadows into the orange light of the flames,
creatures that even Dante in his most lucid fever-
dreams had never conceived, and the screams of the
ensnared villagers rose in a crescendo.
Horst had never let Jay look back, not even after they
reached the trees.
He knew then that waiting for the hunting party to return
was utter folly. Laser rifles could not harm the demon
legions Lucifer in his wrath had loosed upon the land.
They had carried on far into the jungle, until a numbed,
petrified Jay had finally collapsed. Dawn found them
huddled together in the roots of a qualtook tree, soaked
and shivering from a downpour in the night. When they
eased their way cautiously back towards Aberdale and
hid themselves in the vines ringing the clearing they
saw a village living a dream.
Several buildings were razed to the ground. People
walked by without paying them a glance. People Horst
knew, his flock, who should have been overwrought by
the damage. That was when he knew Satan had won,
his demons had possessed the villagers. What he had
seen at the Ivet ceremony had been repeated here,
again and again.
“Where’s Mummy?” Jay asked miserably.
“I have no idea,” he said truthfully. There were fewer
people than there should have been, maybe seventy or
eighty out of the population of five hundred. They acted
as though devoid of purpose, walking slowly, looking
round in befogged surprise, saying nothing.
The children were the exception. They ran around
between the somnolent, shuffling adults, crying and
shouting. But they were ignored, or sometimes cuffed
for their trouble. Horst could hear their distraught
voices from his sanctuary, deepening his own torment.
He watched as a girl, Shona, trailed after her mother
pleading for her to say something.
She tugged insistently at the trousers, trying to get her
to stop. For a moment it looked like she had
succeeded. Her mother turned round.

“Mummy,” Shona squealed. But the woman raised a
hand, and a blast of white fire streamed from her
fingers to smite the girl full in the face.
Horst cringed, crossing himself instinctively as she
dropped like a stone, not even uttering a cry. Then
anger poured through him at his own cravenness. He
stood up and strode purposefully out of the trees.
“Father,” Jay squeaked behind him. “Father, don’t.”
He paid her no heed. In a world gone mad, one more
insanity would make no difference. He had sworn
himself to follow Christ, a long time ago, but it meant
more to him now than it ever had. And a child lay
suffering before him. Father Horst Elwes was through
with evasions and hiding.
Several of the adults stopped to watch as he marched
into the village, Jay scuttling along behind him. Horst
pitied them for the husks they were. The human state of
grace had been drained from their bodies. He could tell,
accepting the gift of knowledge as his right. Six or
seven villagers formed a loose group standing between
him and Shona, their faces known but not their souls.
One of the women, Brigitte Hearn, never a regular
churchgoer, laughed at him, her arm rising. A ball of
white fire emerged from her open fingers and raced
towards him. Jay screamed, but Horst stood perfectly
still, face resolute. The fireball started to break apart a
couple of metres away from him, dimming and
expanding. It burst with a wet crackle as it touched him,
tiny strands of static burrowing through his filthy
sweatshirt. They stung like hornets across his belly, but
he refused to reveal his pain to the semicircle of
watchers.
“Do you know what this is?” Horst thundered. He lifted
the stained and muddied silver crucifix that hung round
his neck, brandishing it at Brigitte Hearn as though it
was a weapon. “I am the Lord’s servant, as you are the
Devil’s. And I have His work to do. Now stand aside.”
A spasm of fright crossed Brigitte Hearn’s face as the
silver cross was shaken in front of her. “I’m not,” she
said faintly. “I’m not the Devil’s servant. None of us
are.”
“Then stand aside. That girl is badly hurt.”

Brigitte Hearn glanced behind her, and took a couple of
steps to one side. The other people in the group
hurriedly parted, their faces apprehensive, one or two
walked away. Horst gestured briefly at Jay to follow him,
and went over to the fallen girl. He grimaced at the
singed and blackened skin of her face. Her pulse was
beating wildly. She had probably gone into shock, he
decided. He scooped her up in his arms, and started
for the church.
“I had to come back,” Brigitte Hearn said as Horst
walked away. Her body was all hunched up, eyes
brimming with tears. “You don’t know what it’s like. I had
to.”
“It?” Horst asked impatiently. “What is it?”
“Death.”
Horst shuddered, almost breaking his stride. Jay looked
round fearfully at the woman.
“Four hundred years,” Brigitte Hearn called out
falteringly. “I died four hundred years ago. Four hundred
years of nothing.”
Horst barged into the small infirmary at the back of the
church, and laid Shona down on the wooden table which
doubled as an examination bed. He snatched the
medical processor block from its shelf and applied a
sensor pad to the nape of her neck. The metabolic
display appeared as he described her injuries to the
processor. Horst read the results and gave the girl a
sedative, then started spraying a combination analgesic
and cleansing fluid over the burns.
“Jay,” he said quietly. “I want you to go into my room
and fetch my rucksack from the cupboard. Put in all the
packets of preprocessed food you can find, then the
tent I used when we first arrived, and anything else you
think will be useful to camp out in the jungle, the little
fission blade, my portable heater, that kind of stuff. But
leave some space for my medical supplies. Oh, and I’ll
need my spare boots too.”
“Are we leaving?”
“Yes.”
“Are we going to Durringham?”
“I don’t know. Not straight away.”

“Can I go and fetch Drusilla?”
“I don’t think it’s a good idea. She’ll be better off here
than tramping through the jungle with us.”
“All right. I understand.”
He heard her moving about in his room as he worked
on Shona. The younger girl’s nose was burnt almost
down to the bone, and the metabolic display said only
one retina was functional. Not for the first time he
despaired the lack of nanonic medical packages; a
decent supply would hardly have bankrupted the
Church.
He had flushed the dead skin from Shona’s burns as
best he could, coating them in a thin layer of
corticosteroid foam to ease the inflammation, and was
binding her head with a quantity of his dwindling stock of
epithelium membrane when Jay came back in carrying
his rucksack, It was packed professionally, and she had
even rolled up his sleeping-bag.
“I got some stuff for myself,” she said, and held up a
bulging shoulder-bag.
“Good girl. You didn’t make the bag too heavy, did you?
You might have to carry it a long way.”
“No, Father.”
Someone knocked timidly on the door post. Jay shrank
into the corner of the infirmary.
“Father Horst?” Brigitte Hearn poked her head in.
“Father, they don’t want you here. They say they’ll kill
you, that you can’t defend yourself against all of them.”
“I know. We’re leaving.”
“Oh.”
“Will they let us leave?”
She swallowed and looked over her shoulder. “Yes. I
think so. They don’t want a fight. Not with you, not with a
priest.”
Horst opened drawers in the wooden cabinet at the
back of the infirmary, and started shoving his medical
equipment into the rucksack. “What are you?” he
asked.

“I don’t know,” she said woefully.
“You said you had died?”
“Yes.”
“What is your name?”
“Ingrid Veenkamp, I lived on Bielefeld when it was a
stage one colony world, not much different to this
planet.” She twitched a smile at Jay.
“I had two girls. Pretty, like you.”
“And where is Brigitte Hearn now?”
“Here, in me. I feel her. She is like a dream.”
“Possession,” Horst said.
“No.”
“Yes! I saw the red demon sprite. I witnessed the rite,
the obscenity Quinn Dexter committed to summon you
here.”
“I’m no demon,” the woman insisted. “I lived. I am
human.”
“No more. Leave this body you have stolen. Brigitte
Hearn has a right to her own life.”
“I can’t! I’m not going back there. Not to that.”
Horst took a grip on his trembling hands. Thomas had
known this moment, he thought, when the disciple
doubted his Lord’s return, when in prideful arrogance
he refused to believe until he had seen the print of nails
in His hand. “Believe,” he whispered. “Jesus is the
Christ, the Son of God; and that believing ye might have
life through His name.”
The Brigitte/Ingrid woman bowed her head.
Horst asked the question that should never be asked:
“Where? Where, damn you!”
“Nowhere. There is nothing for us. Do you hear?
Nothing!”
“You lie.”
“There is nothing, just emptiness. I’m sorry.” She took
an unsteady breath, seemingly gathering up a remnant

of dignity. “You must leave now. They are coming
back.”
Horst shut the flap on his rucksack and sealed it.
“Where are the rest of the villagers?”
“Gone. They hunt fresh bodies for other souls trapped
in the beyond, it has become their quest. I haven’t the
stomach for it, nor have the others who remained in
Aberdale. But you take care, Father. Your spirit is hale,
but you could never withstand one of us for long.”
“They want more people to possess?”
“Yes.”
“But why?”
“Together we are strong. Together we can change what
is. We can destroy death, Father. We shall bring
eternity into existence here on this planet, perhaps
even across the entire Confederation. I shall stay as I
am for all time now; ageless, changeless. I am alive
again, I won’t give that up.”
“This is lunacy,” he said.
“No. This is wonder, it is our miracle.”
Horst pulled his rucksack onto his back, and picked
Shona up. Several adults had started to gather around
the church. He walked down the steps pointedly
disregarding them, Jay pressing into his side. They
stared at him, but no one made a move. He turned and
headed for the jungle, mildly surprised to see Ingrid
Veenkamp walking with him.
“I told you,” she said. “They lack nerve. You will be
safer if I am with you. They know I can strike back.”
“Would you?”
“Perhaps. For the girl’s sake. But I don’t think we will
find out.”
“Please, lady,” Jay said, “do you know where my
mummy is?”
“With the others, the pernicious ones. But don’t look for
her, she is no longer your mother. Do you understand?”
“Yes,” she mumbled.

“We’ll get her back for you, Jay,” Horst said. “One day,
somehow. I promise.”
“Such faith,” Ingrid Veenkamp said.
He thought she was mocking, but there was no trace of
a smile on her face. “What about the other children?”
he asked. “Why haven’t you possessed them?”
“Because they are children. No soul would want a
vessel so small and frail, not when there are plentiful
adults to be had. Millions on this planet alone.”
They had reached the fields, and the soft loam was
clinging to Horst’s feet in huge claggy lumps. With the
weight of the rucksack and Shona conspiring to push
him into the ground he wasn’t even sure he could make
it to the first rank of trees. Sweat was dripping from his
forehead at the effort. “Send the children after me,” he
wheezed. “They are hungry and they are frightened. I
will take care of them.”
“You make a poor Pied Piper, Father. I’m not even sure
you’ll last until nightfall.”
“Mock and scorn as you like, but send them. They’ll find
me. For God knows I’ll not be able to travel far or fast.”
She dipped her head briefly. “I’ll tell them.”
Horst staggered into the jungle with Jay beside him, her
big shoulder-bag knocking against her legs. He
managed another fifty metres through the inimical vines
and undergrowth, then sank panting painfully to his
knees, face perilously red and hot.
“Are you all right?” Jay asked anxiously.
“Yes. We’ll just have to take it in short stages, that’s all.
I think we’re safe for now.”
She opened the shoulder-bag’s seal. “I brought your
cooler flask, I thought you might need it. I filled it with the
high-vitamin orange juice you had in your room.”
“Jay, you are a twenty-four-carat angel.” He took the
flask from her and drank some of the juice; she had set
the thermostat so low it poured like slushy snow. They
heard someone pushing their way through the
undergrowth behind them, and turned. It was Russ and
Andria, the first of the children.
Trudging across the savannah wasn’t quite the holiday

Jay had told herself it would be. But it was lovely being
away from the homestead, even if it was only going to
be for a few hours. She longed to ride the horse, too;
though there was no way she was going to plead with
Father Horst in front of the boys.
They arrived at the Ruttan family’s old homestead after
forty minutes’ walking. Untended, it had suffered from
Lalonde’s rain and winds. The door which had been left
open had swung to and fro until the hinges broke, and
now it lay across the small porch. Animals (probably
sayce) had used it for shelter at some time, adding to
the disarray inside.
Jay waited with the two boys while Father Horst went in,
carrying his laser hunting rifle, and checked over the
three rooms. The abandoned cabin was eerie after the
noise and bustle of their own homestead. She heard a
distant rumble, and looked up, thinking it was
approaching thunder. But the sky remained a perfect
basin of blue. The noise grew louder, swelling out of the
west.
Father Horst emerged from the homestead carrying a
wooden chair. “It sounds like a spaceplane,” he said.
The grimed window-panes were rattling in their frames.
Jay searched the sky frantically as the sound began to
fade into the east. But there was nothing to be seen,
the spaceplane was too high. She gave the distant
mountains to the south a forlorn glance. It must have
been going to the Tyrathca farmers, she thought.
“Have a hunt round,” Horst said. “See if you can find
anything useful; you might try the barn as well. I’m going
to the roof to cut the solar-cell sheets down.” He put the
chair down under the eaves, and stood on it, squirming
his way up onto the roof.
There was nothing much in the cabin; fans of grey
fungus had established a foothold in the cracks
between the planks, and greenish ripples of mould
patterned the damp mattresses. She pulled a couple of
clay mugs out from under one of the beds, and Russ
found some shirts in a box below the kitchen
workbench.
“They’ll be all right once we wash them,” Jay declared,
holding up the smelly, soiled garments.
They had more luck in the barn: two sacks of protein-
concentrate cakes used to feed young animals that had

just come out of hibernation, and Mills discovered a
small fission-blade saw behind a pile of old cargo-pods.
“Good work!” Horst told them as he clambered down.
“And look what I got, all three sheets. We’ll be able to
heat the water tanks up in half the time now.”
Jay rolled up the solar-cell sheets while he lifted the
sacks into the plough horse’s big saddle-bags.
Horst handed round his chill flask full of icy elwisie juice,
then they set off again. Jay was glad of her hat. The
sunlight was scorchingly hot on her arms and back, air
rippled and shimmered all around. I never thought I’d
miss the rains.
There was a river to cross before they reached the
Soebergs’ homestead.
It was less than a metre deep, but about fifteen metres
wide. A fast, steady flow from the mountains, winding in
broad curves along the savannah’s gentle contours.
The bottom was smooth rock and rounded pebbles.
Snowlily plants were growing right across it, their long
fronds waving in the current. Flower buds as big as her
head bobbed on the surface, the first splits starting to
appear in their sides.
Jay and Horst took their boots off, and waded across
clinging to the side of the horse. The water was
invigorating, numbing her toes. She could easily believe
it must have come directly from the snow peaks
themselves, she wouldn’t have been surprised to see
nuggets of ice bobbing about.
After she sat on the bottom of the bank and dried her
feet she thought she could walk for another hundred
kilometres. Her skin was still tingling delightfully when
they started up the bank.
They had been walking for another ten minutes when
Horst held up his hand. “Mills, Russ, come down off the
horse,” he said with quiet insistence.
The tone he used set up an uncomfortable prickling
along Jay’s spine.
“What is it?” she asked.
“The Soebergs’ homestead. I think.”
She peered over the tops of the wavering grass stems.
There was something up ahead, a white silhouette

against the indistinct horizon, but the sun-roiled air
made it hard to tell exactly what.
Horst fished his optical intensifier from a pocket. It was
a curving band of black composite that fitted over his
eyes. He studied the scene ahead for a while, his right
forefinger adjusting the magnification control.
“They are coming back,” he said in a soft murmur.
“Can I see?” she asked.
He handed her the band. It was large and quite heavy;
the edges annealed to her skin with a pinching
sensation.
She thought she was looking at some kind of AV
recording, a drama play perhaps. Sitting in the middle of
the savannah was a lovely old three-storey manor
house, surrounded by a wide swath of tidy lawns. It was
made of white stone, with a grey slate roof and large
bay windows.
Several people were standing under the portico.
“How do they do that?” Jay asked, more curious than
alarmed.
“When you sell your soul to Satan, the material rewards
are generous indeed. It is what he asks in return you
should fear.”
“But Ingrid Veenkamp said, “
“I know what she said.” He removed the band from her
face, and she blinked up at him. “She is a lost soul, she
knows not what she does. Lord forgive her.”
“Do they want our homestead too?” Jay asked.
“I shouldn’t think so. Not if they can build that in a
week.” He sighed, and took one final look at the
miniature mansion. “Come along, we’ll see if we can
find a nice fat danderil. If we get back early I’ll have time
to mince the meat, and you can have burgers tonight.
What do you say?”
“Yeah!” the two boys chanted in chorus, grinning.
They turned round, and started to trek back across the
heat-soaked savannah to the homestead.
Kelven Solanki floated through the open hatch into the

Arikara’s bridge.
The blue-grey compartment was the largest he’d ever
seen in a warship before. As well as the normal flight
crew it had to accommodate the admiral’s twenty-strong
squadron-coordination staff. Most of their couches
were empty now. The flagship was orbiting Takfu, the
largest gas giant in the Rosenheim star system, taking
on fuel.
Commander Mircea Kroeber was stretched out along
his couch, supervising the fuelling operation with three
other crew-members. Kelven had seen the cryogenic
tanker as Ilex docked with the huge flagship. A series of
spherical tanks stacked on top of a reaction drive
section, and sprouting thermo-dump panels like the
wings of a mutant butterfly.
The squadron of twenty-five ships was in formation
around the Arikara, holding station five hundred
kilometres away from Uhewa, the Edenist habitat which
was resupplying them with both fuel and consumables. It
was just one of the priority operations Ilex’s arrival in
the star system had kicked off ten hours ago.
Rosenheim’s planetary government had immediately
placed a restriction on all starship passengers and
crew wanting to visit the surface. They now had to go
through a rigorous screening process to make sure
Laton wasn’t amongst them, creating a vast backlog in
the low orbit port stations. The system’s asteroid
settlements had swiftly followed suit. Reserve naval
officers were being called up, and the 7th Fleet
elements present in the system had been put on alert
status along with the national navy.
Kelven was beginning to feel like a plague carrier,
infecting the Confederation with panic.
Rear-Admiral Meredith Saldana was hanging in front of
a console in the C&C section of the bridge, his soles
touching the decking’s stikpads. He was wearing an
ordinary naval ship-suit, but it seemed so much smarter
on him, braid stripes shining brightly on his arm. A
couple of his staff officers were in attendance behind
him. One of the console’s AV projection pillars was
emitting a low-frequency laser sparkle. When Kelven
looked straight at it he saw Jantrit breaking apart.
Meredith Saldana datavised a shutdown order at the
console as Kelven let the stikpad claim his shoes. The
Rear-Admiral was six centimetres taller than him, and

possessed a more distinguished appearance than the
First Admiral. Could the Saldanas sequence dignity into
their genes?
“Commander Kelven Solanki reporting as ordered, sir.”
Meredith Saldana gave him a frank stare. “You are my
Lalonde advisory officer?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Just been promoted, Commander?”
“Yes, sir.”
“It always shows.”
“Sir, I have your orders flek from the First Admiral.”
Kelven held it out.
Meredith Saldana took the black coin-sized disk with
some reluctance. “I don’t know which is worse. Three
months of these ridiculous ceremonial fly-bys and flag-
waving exercises in the Omutan system, or a combat
mission which is going to get us shot at by unknown
hostiles.”
“Lalonde needs our help, sir.”
“Was it bad, Kelven?”
“Yes, sir.”
“I suppose I’d better access this flek, hadn’t I? All we’ve
received so far are the emergency deployment orders
from Fleet headquarters and the news about Laton
showing up again.”
“There is a full situation briefing included, sir.”
“Excellent. If we run to schedule we should be departing
for Lalonde in eight hours. I’ve requested another three
voidhawks be assigned to the squadron for liaison and
interdiction duties. Is there anything else you think I
need immediately? This mission’s code rating gives me
the authority to requisition almost any piece of
hardware the navy has in the system.”
“No, sir. But you will have a fourth extra voidhawk, Ilex
has been assigned to the squadron as well.”
“You can never have too many voidhawks,” Meredith
said lightly. There was no response from the young

commander. “Carry on, Kelven. Find yourself a berth,
and get settled in. Report for duty here to me an hour
before departure time, you can give me a first-hand
account of what we can expect. I always feel a lot
happier being brought up to date by someone with
hands-on experience. Meanwhile I suggest you get
some sleep, you look like you need it.”
“Yes, sir, thank you, sir.”
Kelven twisted his feet free of the stikpad, and pushed
off towards the hatch.
Meredith Saldana watched him manoeuvre through the
open oval without touching the rim. Commander Solanki
seemed to be a very tense man. But then I’d probably
be the same in his place, the admiral thought. He held
up the flek with a sense of foreboding, then slotted it
into his couch player to find out exactly what he was up
against.
Horst was always glad to get back to the homestead
and greet his scampish charges; after all, when all was
said and done, they were only children.
And profoundly shocked children at that. They should
never be left on their own, and if he had his way they
never would. Practicality dictated otherwise, of course,
and there had never yet been any major disaster while
he was roaming the savannah for meat and foraging
the other homesteads. To some extent he had grown
blase about his trips. But this time, after encountering
the possessed out at the Soeberg homestead, he had
forced the return pace, stopping only to kill a danderil,
his mind host to a whole coven of thoughts along the
theme of what if.
When he topped a small rise six hundred metres away
and saw the familiar wood cabin with the children
sporting around outside he felt an eddy of relief. Thank
you, Lord, he said silently.
He slowed down for the last length, giving Jay a respite.
Sweat made her blue blouse cling to her skinny frame.
The heat was becoming a serious problem. It seemed
to have banished the hardy chikrows back into the
jungle. Even the danderil he’d shot had been sheltering
in the shade of one of the savannah’s scarce trees.
Horst blinked up at the unforgiving sky. Surely they don’t
mean to burn this world to cinders? They have form
now, stolen bodies; and all the physical needs, urges,

and failings which go with them.
He squinted at the northern horizon. There seemed to
be an effete pink haze above the jungle, dusting the
sharp seam between sky and land, like the flush of
dawn refracted over a deep ocean. The harder he tried
to focus upon it, the more insubstantial it became.
He couldn’t believe it was a natural meteorological rara
avis. More an omen. His humour, already tainted by the
Soeberg homestead, sank further.
Too much is happening at once. Whatever polluted
destiny they are manufacturing, it is reaching its zenith.
They were a hundred metres from the cabin when the
children spotted them.
A scrum of small bodies came running over the grass,
Danny in the lead.
Both of the homestead’s dogs chased around them,
barking loudly.
“Freya’s here,” the boy yelled out at the top of his voice.
“Freya’s here, Father. Isn’t it wonderful?”
Then they were all clinging to him, shouting jubilantly and
smiling up with enthusiasm as he laughed and patted
them and hugged them. For a moment he revelled in the
contact, the hero returning. A knight protector and
Santa Claus rolled into one. They expected so much of
him.
“What did you find in the cabins, Father?”
“You were quick today.”
“Please, Father, tell Barnaby to give my reading tutor
block back.”
“Was there any more chocolate?”
“Did you find any shoes for me?”
“You promised to look for some story fleks.”
With his escort swirling round and chattering happily,
Horst led the horse over to the cabin. Russ and Mills
had slithered off its back to talk with their friends.
“When did Freya arrive?” Horst asked Danny. He
remembered the dark-haired girl from Aberdale, Freya

Chester, about eight or nine, whose parents had
brought a large variety of fruit trees with them. Kerry
Chester’s grove had always been one of the better
maintained plots around the village.
“About ten minutes ago,” the boy said. “It’s great, isn’t
it?”
“Yes. It certainly is.” Remarkable, in fact. He was
surprised she had survived this long. Most of the
children had turned up during the first fortnight while
they were still camping in a glade a kilometre away from
Aberdale. Five of them walking from Schuster. They
had said a woman was with them for most of the
journey, Horst suspected it was Ingrid Veenkamp.
Several others, the youngest ones, he had found
himself as they wandered aimlessly through the jungle.
He and Jay made a regular circuit of the area round the
village in the hope of finding still more. And for every
one they did save he suffered the images of ten more
lost in the ferocious undergrowth, stalked by sayce and
slowly starving to death.
At the end of a fortnight it was obvious that the messy,
hot, damp glade was totally impractical as a permanent
site. By that time he had over twenty children to look
after. It was Jay who suggested they try a homestead
cabin, and four days later they were safely installed.
Only five more children had turned up since then, all of
them in a dreadful state as they tramped down the
overgrown track between Aberdale and the savannah.
Dispossessed urchins, totally unable to fend for
themselves, sleeping in the jungle and stealing food
from the village when they could, which wasn’t anything
like often enough. The last had been Eustice, two
weeks ago when Horst skirted the jungle on a hunting
trip; a skeleton with skin, her clothes reduced to tattered
grey rags. She couldn’t walk, if the Alsatian hadn’t
scented her and raised the alarm she would have been
dead inside of a day. As it was, he had nearly lost her.
“Where is Freya?” Horst asked Danny.
“Inside, Father, having a rest. I said she could use your
bed.”
“Good lad. You did the right thing.”
Horst let Jay and some of the girls lead the horse over
to the water trough, and detailed a group of boys to
remove the danderil carcass he’d secured to its back.

Inside the cabin it was degrees cooler than the air
outside, the thick double layer of mayope planks which
made up the walls and ceiling proving an efficient
insulator. He said a cheery hello to a bunch of children
sitting around the table who were using a reading tutor
block, and went into his own room.
The curtains were drawn, casting a rich yellow light
throughout the room.
There was a small figure lying on the bed wearing a
long navy-blue dress, legs tucked up. She didn’t appear
starved, or even hungry. Her dress was as clean as
though it had just been washed.
“Hello, Freya,” Horst said softly. Then he looked at her
fully, and even more of the savannah’s warmth was
drained from his skin.
Freya raised her head lazily, brushing her shoulder-
length hair from her face. “Father Horst, thank you so
much for taking me in. It’s so kind of you.”
Horst’s muscles froze the welcoming smile on his face.
She was one of them! A possessed. Below the healthy
deeply tanned skin lay a wizened sickly child, the dark
dress hid a stained adult’s T-shirt. The two images
overlapped each other, jumping in and out of focus.
They were enormously difficult to distinguish, obscured
by a covering veil which she drew over his mind as well
as his eyes. Reality was repugnant, he didn’t want to
see, didn’t want truth. A headache ignited three
centimetres behind his temple.
“All are welcome here, Freya,” he said with immense
effort. “You must have had a terrible time these last
weeks.”
“I did, it was horrible. Mummy and Daddy wouldn’t speak
to me. I hid in the jungle for ages and ages. There were
berries and things to eat. But they were always cold.
And I sometimes heard a sayce. It was really scary.”
“Well, there are no sayce around here, and we have
plenty of hot food.” He walked along the side of the bed
towards the dresser below the window, every footfall
magnified to a strident thump in the still room. The noise
of the children outside had perished. There was just the
two of them now.
“Father?” she called.

“What do you want here?” he whispered tightly, his
back towards her. He was afraid to pull the curtains
open, afraid there might be nothing outside.
“It is a kindness.” Her voice was deepening, becoming
a morbid atonality. “There is no place for you on this
world any more. Not as you are. You must change,
become as us. The children will come to you one at a
time when you call. They trust you.”
“A trust that will never be betrayed.” He turned round,
Bible in hand.
The leather-bound book his mother had given him when
he became a novice; it even had a little inscription she
had written in the cover, the black ink fading to a watery
blue down the decades.
Freya gave him a slightly surprised look, then sneered.
“Oh, poor Father! Do you need your crutch so badly?
Or do you hide from true life behind your belief?”
“Holy Father, Lord of Heaven and the mortal world, in
humility and obedience, I do ask Your aid in this act of
sanctification, through Jesus Christ who walked among
us to know our failings, grant me Your blessing in my
task,” Horst incanted. It was so long ago since he had
read the litany in the Unified prayer-book; and never
before had he spoken the words, not in an age of
science and universal knowledge, living in an arcology
of crumbling concrete and gleaming composite. Even
the Church questioned their need: they were a relic of
the days when faith and paganism were still as one. But
now they shone like the sun in his mind.
Freya’s contempt descended into shock. “What?” She
flung her legs off the bed.
“My Lord God, look upon Your servant Freya Chester,
fallen to this unclean spirit, and permit her cleansing; in
the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost.”
Horst made the sign of the cross above the furious little
girl.
“Stop it, you old fool. You think I fear that, your blind
faith?” Her control over her form was slipping. The
healthy clean image flickered on and off like a faulty
light, exposing the frail malnourished child underneath.
“I beseech You to grant me Your strength, O Lord; so
that her soul may be saved from damnation.”

The Bible burst into flames. Horst groaned as the heat
gnawed at his hand. He dropped it to the floor where it
sputtered close to the leg of the bed. His hand was
agony, as though it was dipped in boiling oil.
Freya’s face was screwed up in determination, great
rubberlike folds of skin distorting her pretty features
almost beyond recognition. “Fuck you, priest.” The
obscenity seemed ludicrous coming from a child. “I’ll
burn your mind out of your skull. I’ll cook your brain in its
own blood.” Her possessed shape shimmered again.
The lame Freya below was choking.
Horst clutched at his crucifix with his good hand. “In the
name of our Lord Jesus Christ, I order you, servant of
Lucifer, to be gone from this girl. Return to the formless
nothing where you belong.”
Freya let out a piercing shriek. “How did you know!”
“Begone from this world. There is no place in the sight
of God for those who would dwell in Evil.”
“How, priest?” Her head turned from side to side, neck
muscles straining as though she was fighting some
invisible force. “Tell me …”
Heat was building along Horst’s spine. He was
sweating profusely, frightened she really would burn
him. It was like the worst case of sunburn he had ever
known, as though his skin was splitting open. His
clothes would catch fire soon, he was sure.
He thrust the crucifix towards the girl. “Freya Chester,
come forth, come into the light and the glory of our
Lord.”
And Freya Chester was solidly before him, thin sunken
face racked by pain, spittle on her chin. Her mouth was
working, struggling around complex words. Terror
pounced from her black eyes.
“Come, Freya!” Horst shouted jubilantly. “Come forth,
there is nothing to fear. The Lord awaits.”
“Father.” Her voice was tragically frail. She coughed,
spewing out a meagre spray of saliva and stomach
juices. “Father, help.”
“In God we trust, to deliver us from evil. We seek Your
justice, knowing we are not worthy. We drink of Your
blood, and eat of Your flesh so we may share in Your

glory. Yet we are but the dust from which You made us.
Guide us from our errors, Lord, for in ignorance and sin
we know not what we do. And we ask for Your holy
protection.”
For one last supremely lucid moment the demon
possessor returned. Freya glared at him with a ferocity
which withered his resolution by its sheer malice.
“I won’t forget you,” she ground out between her curled
lips. “Never in all eternity will I forget you, priest.”
Unseen hands scrabbled at his throat, tiny fingers, like
an infant’s.
Blood emerged from the grazes sharp nails left around
his Adam’s apple.
He held the crucifix on high, defiant that Christ’s symbol
would triumph.
Freya let out a last bellow of rage. Then the demon
spirit was gone in a blast of noxious arctic air which
blew Horst backwards. Neatly stacked piles of food
packets went tumbling over, the bedlinen took flight,
loose articles stampeded off the dresser and table.
There was a bang like a castle door slamming in the
face of an invading army.
Freya, the real Freya, all crusty sores, ragged clothes,
and bony famined figure, was stretched out on the bed,
emitting quiet gurgles from her chapped mouth. She
started to cry.
Horst clambered to his feet, hanging on to the edge of
the bed for support. He drew a gasping breath, his body
aching inside and out, as though he had swum an
ocean.
Jay and a troop of frantic children rushed in, shouting in
a confused babble.
“It’s all right,” he told them, dabbing at the scratch marks
on his throat. “Everything’s all right now.”
When Jay awoke the next morning she was surprised
to see she had overslept. She hardly ever did that, the
few minutes alone to herself at the start of each
morning were among the most precious of the day. But
it had to be dawn. A pale tinge of hoary light was
creeping into the cabin’s main room around the reed
blinds. The other children were all still sound asleep.

She quickly pulled on her shorts, boots, and an adult-
sized shirt she had altered to something approximating
her own size, and slipped quietly out of the door. Thirty
seconds later she ran back in shouting for Father Horst
at the top of her voice.
Far above the lonely savannah cabin, the long vivid
contrails of thirteen starship fusion drives formed a
cosmic mandala across the black pre-dawn sky.
===========================================================================

Chapter 06
^
Lewis Sinclair had been born in 2059. He lived in
Messopia, one of the first purpose-built
industrial/accommodation/leisure complexes to be
constructed on Spain’s Mediterranean coast; a
cheerless mathematical warren of concrete, glass, and
plastic which covered five square kilometres and
sheltered ninety thousand people against the ferocious
armada storms which were beginning to plague Earth. It
was a heavily subsidized experiment by the European
Federal Parliament, by that time desperate to tackle the
cancerous underclass problem thrown up by the
continent’s eighty-five million unemployed. Messopia
was a qualified success; its medium-scale engineering
industries provided only a minimal return for investors,
but it provided a foretaste of the huge arcologies which
in the centuries to come would house, protect, and
employ Earth’s dangerously expanded population.
His path through life was never going to be anything
other than troublesome; born to low-income parents,
who were only in the new microcosm city because of
the parliamentary law requiring a socially balanced
population. There was no real niche for him in an
enterprise geared so resolutely towards the middle-
class job/family/home ethic. He played truant from
school, turned to crime, drugs, violence. A textbook
delinquent, one of thousands who ran through
Messopia’s architecturally bankrupt corridors and
malls.
It could have been different, if the education system
had caught him early enough, if he had had the strength
to hold out against peer pressure, if Messopia’s
technocrat designers had been less contemptuous of
the social sciences. The opportunities existed. Lewis
Sinclair lived in an age of quite profound technological
and economic progress, and never really knew it, let
alone shared in it. The first batches of asteroid-mined
metal were starting to supplement depleted planetary
reserves; biotechnology was finally living up to its initial
promise; crude examples of the affinity bond were
being demonstrated; more and more non-polluting
fusion plants were coming on-stream as the supplies of
He3 mined from Jupiter’s atmosphere increased. But
none of it reached down to his level of society. He died
in 2076, seventeen years old; one year after the bitek
habitat Eden was germinated in orbit around Jupiter,

and one year before the New Kong asteroid settlement
began its FTL stardrive research project. His death
was as wasteful as his life, a fight with power-blade
knives in a piss-puddled subterranean warehouse, him
and his opponent both high on synthetic crack. The fight
was over a thirteen-year-old girl they both wanted to
pimp.
He lost, the power blade chopping through his ribs to
slice his stomach into two unequal portions.
And Lewis Sinclair made the same discovery as every
human eventually made. Death was not the end of
being. In the centuries that followed, spent as a virtually
powerless astral entity suspended in dimensional
emptiness, perceiving and envying mortals in their rich
physical existence, he simply wished it were so.
But now Lewis Sinclair had returned. He wore a body
again, weeping for joy at such simple magnificence as
raindrops falling on his upturned face. He wasn’t going
to go back into the deprivation which lay after physical
life, not ever. And he had the power to see that it was
so; him and all the others, acting in combination, they
were supreme badasses.
There was more to him than before, more than the
strength which flesh and blood provided. Part of his soul
was still back there in the terrible empty gulf; he hadn’t
emerged fully into life, not yet. He was trapped like a
butterfly unable to complete the transformation from
dirt-bound pupa to wing-free ephemeral. Often he felt
as though the body he had possessed was simply a
biological sensor mechanism, a mole’s head peeking
out from the earth, feeding sensations back to his
feeling-starved soul via an incorporeal umbilical cord.
Strange energistic vortices swirled around the
dimensional twist where the two continua intermingled,
kinking reality. The bizarre effect was usable, bending
to his will. He could alter physical structures, sculpt
energy, even prise open further links back into the
extrinsic universe. His mastery of this power was
increasing gradually, but its wild fluxes and resonances
caused havoc in cybernetic machinery and electronic
processor blocks around him.
So he watched through the spaceplane’s narrow
curving windscreen as the Yaku (now operating under a
forged registration) dwindled against the sharp-etched
stars, and felt his new muscles relaxing below the seat
webbing. The spaceplane systems were an order of

magnitude simpler than the Yaku’s, and critical
malfunctions were highly unlikely now.
Starflight was a disturbing business, so very technical.
His dependency on the machines which his very
presence disrupted was unnerving. With some luck he
would never have to venture across the interstellar gulf
again. He and his five colleagues riding down to the
surface would be sufficient to conquer this
unsuspecting world, turning it into a haven for other
souls. Together they would make it their own.
“Retro burn in five seconds,” Walter Harman said.
“OK,” Lewis said. He concentrated hard, feeling round
a chorus of distant voices with the peculiar cell cluster
in this body’s brain. <<We’re coming down now,>> he
told Pernik Island.
<<I look forward to your arrival,>> the island personality
replied.
The affinity voice sounded clear and loud in his mind.
Bitek functioned almost flawlessly despite the energistic
turmoil boiling around his cells. It was one reason for
selecting this particular planet.
The manoeuvring rockets at the rear of the little
spaceplane fired briefly, pushing him down into the
angle of the seat. The conditioning grille above his head
was emitting an annoyingly loud whine as the fan motor
spun out of control. His fingers tightened their grip on
the armrests.
Walter Harman claimed to have been a spaceplane
pilot back in the 2280s, serving in the Kulu Navy. As
only three of them had even been in space before, his
right to pilot the spaceplane went unchallenged. The
body he used belonged to one of Yaku’s crew,
possessed within minutes of Lewis boarding the
starship. It was equipped with neural nanonics, which
unlike bitek proved almost useless in the constant
exposure to the hostile energistic environment a
possession generated, so Walter Harman had
activated the spaceplane’s manual-control system, an
ergonomic joystick which deployed from the console in
front of the pilot’s seat. A projection pillar showed
trajectory graphics and systems information, updating
constantly as he muttered instructions to the flight
computer.
The spaceplane rolled, and Lewis saw the mass of the

planet slide round the windscreen. They were over the
terminator now, heading into the penumbra.
Night was always their best time, putting mortal humans
at a disadvantage, adding to their own potency.
Something about the darkness embraced their nature.
The spaceplane shook gently as the upper atmosphere
began to strike the heatshield belly. Walter Harman
pitched them up at a slight angle, and swung the wings
out a few degrees, beginning the long aerobrake glide
downwards.
They were still in the darkness when they dropped
below subsonic. Lewis could see a hemispherical
bauble of light glinting on the horizon ahead.
“Your approach is on the beam,” the island personality
informed them over the microwave channel. “Please
land on pad eighteen.” A purple and yellow flight vector
diagram appeared on the console’s holoscreen.
“Acknowledged, Pernik,” Walter Harman said. A three-
dimensional simulacrum of the island materialized
inside Lewis’s skull, an image far sharper than the
porno holographs he used to peddle back in Messopia.
He automatically knew which pad eighteen was. A burst
of doubt and anxiety blossomed in his mind, which he
did his best to prevent from leaking back down the
affinity bond to the island personality. This Edenist
consensual set-up was so smooth. He worried that they
might be taking on more than they could reasonably
expect to accomplish.
The island personality had accepted his explanation
that he was representing his merchant family enterprise
from Jospool. Not every Edenist used the voidhawks to
carry freight, there simply weren’t enough to go round.
Lewis studied the mental simulacrum. Pad eighteen was
close to the rim and the floating quays, there would be
machinery there. It would be easy.
Pernik’s coating of moss made the two-kilometre disk a
black hole in the faintly phosphorescent ocean. Pale
yellow radiance shone from a few windows in the
accommodation towers, and floodlights illuminated all
the quays. It was 4 a.m. local time, most of the
inhabitants were asleep.
Walter Harman set the spaceplane down on pad
eighteen with only a minor wobble.

<<Welcome to Pernik,>> the personality said formally.
<<Thank you,>> Lewis replied.
<<Eysk is approaching. His family runs one of our
premier fishing enterprises. He should be able to fill
your requirements.>>
<<Excellent,>> Lewis said. <<My thanks again for
receiving me so promptly. I have spent weeks on that
Adamist starship; it was becoming somewhat
claustrophobic.>>
<<I understand.>>
Lewis wasn’t sure, but he thought there was a mild dose
of puzzlement in the personality’s tone. Too late now,
though, they were down. Excitement was spilling into his
blood. His part of the scheme was by far the most
important.
The airlock opened with a couple of jerky motions as
the actuators suffered power surges. Lewis went down
the aluminium stairs.
Eysk was walking across the polyp apron towards pad
eighteen. A ridge of electrophorescent cells circling the
pad were casting an austere light over the spaceplane.
Lewis could see very little of the island beyond; there
was one accommodation tower forming a slender black
rectangle against the night sky, and the sound of waves
sloshing against the rim came from the other side of the
spaceplane.
“Keep him busy,” Lewis ordered Walter Harman as the
pilot followed him down the stairs.
“No problem, I’ve got a thousand dumb questions lined
up. Atlantis hadn’t been discovered when I was alive.”
Lewis reached the landing pad and tensed, this was it,
make or break time.
He had altered his facial features considerably during
the starflight; that old journalist back on Lalonde had
given him a nasty moment. He waited for the
approaching Edenist to shout an alarm to the island.
Eysk gave a slight bow in greeting, and directed an
identity trait at Lewis. He waited politely for Lewis to
return the punctilio.

Lewis didn’t have one. He hadn’t known. His only
source of data on Edenist customs was far beyond his
grasp.
Deep down at the centre of his brain there was a
presence, the soul which used to own the body he now
possessed. A prisoner held fast by the manacle bonds
of Lewis’s thoughts.
All of the possessors had a similar prisoner, visualized
as a tiny homunculus contained within a sphere of
cephalic glass. They pleaded and they begged to be let
out, to come back; annoying background voices, a
gnat’s buzz across consciousness. The possessed
could use them, torment them with glimpses of reality in
return for information, learning how to blend in with the
modern, starkly alien society into which they had come
forth.
But the centre of Lewis’s mind contained only a heavy
darkness. He hadn’t told the others that, they were all
so boastful of how they controlled their captives, so he
just brazened it out. The soul he had usurped as he
came to this body neither entreated nor threatened.
Lewis knew it was there, he could sense the surface
thoughts, cold and hard, formidable with resolution.
Waiting. The entity frightened him, he had come to
possess the body the same way he had walked
Messopia’s corridors, The King of Strut, thinking he
could handle it. Now the first fractures of insecurity in
his hyped-up confidence were multiplying. The usurped
soul’s personality was far stronger than him; he could
never have withstood such dread isolation, not simply
beyond sensation, but knowing sensation was possible.
What kind of person could?
<<Are you all right?>> Eysk asked kindly.
<<I’m sorry. I think it may have been something I ate.
And the ride down was a god-fucking bitch.>>
Eysk’s eyebrow rose. <<Indeed?>>
<<Yeah, feel like I’m gonna puke. Be all right in a
minute.>>
<<I do hope so.>>
“This is Walter Harman,” Lewis said out loud, knowing
he was making a colossal balls-up of things. “A pilot, so
he claims. After that flight, think I’m going to ask the
captain for a dekko at his licence.” He laughed at his

witticism.
Walter Harman smiled broadly, and put out his hand.
“Pleasure to meet you. This is one hell of a planet. I’ve
never been here before.”
Eysk seemed taken aback. “Your enthusiasm is most
gratifying. I hope you enjoy your stay.”
“Thanks. Say, I tasted some gollatail a year back, have
you got any round here?”
<<I’m just going for a walk, get some air,>> Lewis said.
Down in his memories were a thousand hangovers; he
gathered together the phantom sensation of nausea
and cranial malaise, then broadcast them into the
affinity band. <<It ought to clear my head.>>
Eysk flinched at the emetic deluge. <<Quite.>>
“I’d like to try some again, maybe take back a stock of
my own,” Walter Harman prompted. “Old Lewis here
can tell you what our ship’s rations are like.”
“Yes,” Eysk said. “I believe we have some.” His gaze
never left Lewis’s back.
“Great, that’s just great.”
Lewis stepped over the half-metre ridge of
electrophorescent cells around the pad, and headed
towards the island’s rim. There was one of the floating
quays ahead, a twenty-metre crane to one side for
lifting smaller boats out of the water.
<<Sorry about this,>> Lewis told the island personality.
<<A flight has never had this effect before.>>
<<Do you require a medical nanonic package?>>
<<Let’s leave it a minute and see. Sea wind always was
the best cure for headaches.>>
<<As you wish.>>
Lewis could hear Walter Harman chattering away
inanely behind him. He reached the metal railing that
guarded the rim, and stood beside the crane. It was a
spindly column and boom arrangement made from
monobonded carbon struts, lightweight and strong. But
heavy enough for his purpose.
He closed his eyes, focusing his attention on the

structure, feeling its texture, the rough grain of carbon
crystals held together with hard plies of binding
molecules. Atoms glowed scarlet and yellow, their
electrons flashing in tight fast orbits.
Miscreant energistic pulses raced up and down the
struts, sparking between molecules. He felt the others
in the spaceplane cabin lending their strength,
concentrating on a point just below the boom pivot. The
carbon’s crystalline lattice began to break down.
Spears of St Elmo’s fire flickered around the pivot.
A tortured creaking sound washed across the rim of the
island. Eysk looked round in confusion, peering against
pad eighteen’s glare.
<<Lewis, move now please,>> the island personality
said. <<Unidentified static discharge on the crane. It is
weakening the structure.>>
<<Where?>> He played it dumb, looking round, looking
up.
<<Lewis, move.>>
The compulsion almost forced his legs into action. He
fought it with bursts of mystification, then panic.
Remembering the power blade as it descended, the
sight of blood and chips of bone spewing out of the
wound.
It hadn’t happened to him, it was some horror holo he
was watching on the screen. Distant. Remote.
<<Lewis!>>
Carbon shattered with a sudden thunderclap. The boom
jerked, then began to fall, curving down in that unreal
slow motion he’d seen once before.
And nothing had to be faked any more. Fear staked him
to the ground. A yell started to emerge from his lips,
, Mistake. Your greatest and your last, Lewis. When
this body dies my soul will be free. And then I can return
to possess the living. And when that happens I will have
the same power as you. After that we shall meet as
equals, I promise you,
, as the edge of the boom smashed into his torso.
There was no pain, shock saw to that. Lewis was aware
of the boom finishing its work, crushing him against the

polyp. Body ruined.
His head hit the ground with a brutish smack, and he
gazed up mutely at the stars. They started to fade.
<<Transfer,>> Pernik ordered. The mental command
was thick with sympathy and sorrow.
His eyes closed.
Pernik awaited. Lewis saw it through a long dark tunnel,
a vast bitek construct glowing with the gentle emerald
aura of life. Colourful phantom shapes slithered below
its translucent surface, tens of thousands of
personalities, at once separate and in concord: the
multiplicity. He felt himself drifting towards it along the
affinity bond, his energistic nexus abandoning the
mangled body to infiltrate the naked colossus. Behind
him the dark soul rose as smoothly as a shark seeking
wounded prey to re-inherit the dying body. Lewis’s
tightly whorled thoughts quaked in fright as he reached
the island’s vast neural strata. He penetrated the
surface, and diffused himself throughout the network,
instantly surrounded by a babble of sights and sounds.
The multiplicity murmuring amongst itself, autonomic
subroutines emitting pulses of strictly functional
information.
His dismay and disorientation was immediately
apparent. Ethereal tentacles of comfort reached out to
reassure him.
<<Don’t worry, Lewis. You are safe now …>>
<<, >>
<<What are you?>>
The multiplicity recoiled from him, a tide of thoughts in
swift retreat, leaving him high and dry. Splendidly alone.
Emergency autonomic routines to isolate him came on-
line, erecting axon blockades around the swarm of
neural cells in which he resided.
Lewis laughed at them. Already his thoughts were
spread through more cells than the body which he’d
abandoned had contained. The energistic flux resulting
from such possession was tremendous. He thought of
fire, and began to extend himself, burning through the
multiplicity’s simplistic protection, seeping through the
neural strata like a wave of searing lava, obliterating
anything in his path. Cell after cell fell to his domination.

The multiplicity shrieked, trying to resist him. Nothing
could. He was bigger than them, bigger than worlds.
Omnipotent. The cries began to die away as he
engulfed them, receding as though they were falling
down some shaft that pierced clean to the planet’s
core.
Squeezing. Compressing their fluttering panicked
thoughts together. The polyp itself was next,
contaminated by swaths of energy seething out of the
transdimensional twist. Organs followed, even the
thermal potential cables dangling far below the surface.
He possessed every living cell of Pernik. At the heart of
his triumphant mind the multiplicity lay silent, stifled.
He waited for a second, savouring the nirvana-high of
absolute mastery.
Then the terror began.
Eysk had started to run towards the rim as the crane
creaked and groaned.
Pernik showed him the boom starting to topple down.
He knew he was too late, that there was nothing he
could do to save the strangely idiosyncratic Edenist
from Jospool. The boom picked up speed, slamming
into the apparently dumbfounded Lewis. Eysk closed
his eyes, mortified by the splash of gore.
<<Calm yourself,>> the personality said. <<His head
survived the impact. I have his thoughts.>>
<<Thank goodness. Whatever caused the crane to fail
like that? I’ve never seen such lightning on Atlantis
before.>>
<<It … I …>>
<<Pernik?>>
The mental wail which came down the affinity link
seemed capable of bursting Eysk’s skull apart. He
dropped to his knees, clamping his hands to his head,
vision washed out by a blinding red light. Steel claws
were burrowing up out of the affinity link, ripping through
the delicate membranes inside his brain, shiny silver
smeared with blood and viscid cranial fluid.
“Poor Eysk,” a far-off chorus spoke directly into his
mind, so very different to affinity, so very insidious. “Let
us help you.” The promise of pain’s alleviation hummed

in the air all around.
Even numbed and bruised he recognized the gentle
offer for the Trojan it was. He blinked tears from his
eyes, closing his mind to affinity. And he was abruptly
alone, denied even an echo of the emotional fellowship
he had shared for his entire life. The grotesque mirage
of the claw vanished. Eysk let out a hot breath of relief.
The polyp below his trembling hands was glowing a
sickly pink, that was real.
“What, “
Hairy cloven feet shuffled into view. He gasped and
looked up. The hominid creature with a black-leather
wolf’s head howled victoriously and reached down for
him.
Laton opened his eyes. His crushed, faltering body was
suffused with pain. It wasn’t relevant, so he ignored it.
There wasn’t going to be much time before oxygen
starvation started to debilitate his reasoning.
Physical shock was already making concentration
difficult. He quickly loaded a sequence of localized
limiter routines into the neuron cells buried beneath the
polyp on which he was pinned by the twisted crane
boom. Developed for his Jantrit campaign, their
sophistication was orders of magnitude above the usual
diversionary orders juvenile Edenists employed to avoid
parental supervision. Firstly he regularized the image
which the surrounding sensitive cells were supplying to
the neural strata, freezing the picture of his body.
At that point his heart gave its last beat. He could sense
the desperate attempts by the multiplicity to ward off
Lewis’s subsumption of the island. Laton was banking
everything on the primitive street boy using brute force
to take over. Sure enough Lewis’s eerily potent, but
crude, thought currents flowed through the neural strata
below, flushing every other routine before him; though
even his augmented power failed to root out Laton’s
subversive routines. They were symbiotic rather than
parasitic, working within the controlling personality not
against it. It would take a highly experienced Edenist
bitek neuropathologist to even realize they were there,
let alone expunge them.
Laton’s lips gave a final quirk of contempt. He cleared a
storage section in the neuron cells, and transferred his
personality into it. His final act before consciousness
and memory sank below the polyp was to trigger the

proteanic virus infecting every cell in his body.
Mosul dreamed. He was lying in bed in his
accommodation tower flat, with Clio beside him. Mosul
woke. He looked down fondly at the sleeping girl; she
was in her early twenties with long dark hair and a pretty
flattish face. The sheet had slipped from her shoulders,
revealing a pert rounded breast. He bent over to kiss
the nipple. She stirred, smiling dreamily as his tongue
traced a delicate circle. A warm overspill of gently erotic
images came foaming out of her drowsy mind.
Mosul grinned in anticipation, and woke. He frowned
down in puzzlement at the sleeping girl beside him. The
bedroom was illuminated by a sourceless rosy glow. It
shaded Clio’s silky skin a dark burgundy colour. He
shook the sleep from his head. They had been making
love for hours last night, he was entitled to some
lassitude after that.
She responded eagerly to his kisses, throwing aside
the sheet so he could feast on the sight of her. Her skin
hardened and wrinkled below his touch. When he
looked up in alarm she had become a cackling white-
haired crone.
The pink light shifted into bright scarlet, as though the
room was bleeding. He could see the polyp walls
palpitating. In the distance a giant heartbeat thudded.
Mosul woke. The room was illuminated by a sourceless
rosy glow. He was sweating, it was intolerably hot.
<<Pernik, I’m having a nightmare … I think. Am I awake
now?>>
<<Yes, Mosul.>>
<<Thank goodness. Why is it so hot?>>
<<Yes, you are having a nightmare. My nightmare.>>
<<Pernik!>>
Mosul woke, jerking up from the bed. The bedroom
walls were glowing red; no longer safe hard polyp but a
wet meat traced with a filigree of purple-black veins.
They oscillated like jelly. The heartbeat sounded again,
louder than before. A damp acrid smell tainted the air.
<<Pernik! Help me.>>
<<No, Mosul.>>

<<What are you doing?>>
Clio rolled over and laughed at him. Her eyes were
featureless balls of jaundiced yellow. “We’re coming for
you, Mosul, you and all your kind. Smug arrogant
bastards that you are.”
She elbowed him in the groin. Mosul shouted at the
vicious pain, and tumbled off the raised sponge cushion
which formed his bed. Sour yellow vomit trickled out of
his mouth as he writhed about on the slippery floor.
Mosul woke. It was real this time, he was sure of that.
Everything was dangerously clear to his eyes. He was
lying on the floor, all tangled up in the sheets. The
bedroom glowed red, its walls raw stinking meat.
Clio was locked in her own looped nightmare, hands
raking the top of the bed, staring sightlessly at the
ceiling. Unformed screams stalled in her throat, as
though she was choking. Mosul tried to get up, but his
feet slithered all over the slimed quaking floor. He
directed an order at the door muscle membrane. Too
late he saw its shape had changed from a vertical oval
to a horizontal slash. A giant mouth. It parted, giving him
a brief glimpse of stained teeth the size of his feet, then
thick yellow vomit discharged into the bedroom. The
torrent of obscenely fetid liquid hit him straight on, lifting
him up and throwing him against the back wall. He didn’t
dare cry out, it would be in his mouth. His arms
thrashed about, but it was like paddling in glue. There
seemed no end to the cascade, it had risen above his
knees. Clio was floundering against the wall a couple of
metres away, her body spinning in the hard current. He
couldn’t reach her. The vomit’s heat was powerful
enough to enervate his muscles, and the stomach acid
it contained was corroding his skin. It had risen up to
his chest. He struggled to stay upright. Clio had
disappeared below the surface, not even waking from
her nightmare. And still more poured in.
As far as Lewis Sinclair was aware, Laton’s corpse lay
perfectly still under the crumpled crane boom. Not that
he bothered to check. Pernik Island was big, much
larger than his imagination had ever conceived it, and
for someone with his background difficult to
comprehend. Every second yelled for his attention as
he sent out phobic fantasies through his affinity bonds
with the slumbering populace, invading their dreams,
breaking their minds wide open with insane fear so

more souls could come through and begin their reign of
possession. He ignored the bitek’s tedious minutiae,
autonomic organ functions, the monitoring routines
which the old multiplicity employed, enacting muscle
membrane functions. All he cared about was eliminating
the remaining Edenists; that task received his total
devotion.
The island’s cells glimmered a faint pink as a result of
the energistic arrogation, even the shaggy coat of
moss shone as though imbued with firefly
luminescence. Pernik twinkled like a fabulous inflamed
ruby in the funereal gloom of Atlantis’s moonless night,
sending radiant fingers probing down through the water
to beckon curious fish. An observer flying overhead
would have noticed flashes of blue light pulsing at
random from the accommodation tower windows, as
though stray lightning bolts were being flung around the
interior.
Long chill screams reverberated around the borders of
the park, emerging from various archways at the base
of the towers. By the time they reached the rim they had
blended into an almost musical madrigal, changes in
pitch matching the poignant lilt of the waves washing
against the polyp.
Housechimps scampered about, yammering frantically
at each other. Their control routines had been wiped
clean by Lewis’s relentless purge of the multiplicity and
all its subsidiaries, and long-suppressed simian tribal
traits were surfacing. Fast, violent fights broke out
among them as they instinctively fled into the thicker
spinneys growing in the park.
The remaining sub-sentient servitor creatures, all
eighteen separate species necessary to complement
the island’s static organs, either froze motionless or
performed their last assigned task over and over again.
Unnoticed amid the bedlam and horror, Laton’s corpse
was quietly dissolving into protoplasmic soup.
Edenist biotechnicians examining the wreckage of
Jantrit had called the process Laton used to doctor the
habitat’s neural strata a proteanic virus. In fact, it was
far more complex than that. Affinity-programmable
organic molecules was a term one researcher used.
Deeply disturbed by the technology and its implications,
the Jovian consensus released little further information.
Research continued, a classified high-priority project,

which concentrated on developing methods to warn
existing habitats of the sub-nanonic weapon being
deployed against them, and a means of making future
habitats (and people) immune. Progress over the
intervening forty years was slow but satisfactory.
Of course, unknown to the Edenists, at the same time
Laton was equally busy on Lalonde refining his
process, and meeting with considerable success.
In its passive state, the updated proteanic virus
masqueraded as inert organelles within his body cells,
no matter what their nature, from liver to blood
corpuscles, muscles to hair. When his last affinity
command activated them, each organelle released a
batch of plasmids (small, artificially synthesized DNA
loops) and a considerable quantity of transcription
factors, proteins capable of switching genes on or off.
Once the plasmids had been inserted into the cell’s
DNA, mitosis began, forcing the cells to reproduce by
division. Transcription factors switched off the human
DNA completely, as well as an entire series of the new
plasmids, leaving them to be carried passively while just
one type of plasmid was activated to designate the
function of the new cell. It was a drastic mutation.
Hundreds of thousands of Laton’s cells were already
dying, millions more were killed by the induced mitosis;
but over half fissioned successfully, turning into
specialist diploid gametes.
They spilled out of the arms, legs, and collar of his one-
piece ship-suit in a magenta sludge, draining away from
stubborn clusters of dead cells that retained their
original pattern, kernels of lumpy organs, slender ribs, a
rubbery dendritic knot of veins. As they spread across
the polyp they started to permeate the surface, slipping
through microscopic gaps in the grainy texture, seeping
down towards the neural stratum four metres below.
Pernik’s nutrient capillaries and axon conduits speeded
their passage.
Four hours later, when dawn was breaking over the
condemned island, the majority of the gametes had
reached the neural stratum. Stage two of the proteanic
virus was different. A gamete would penetrate a neural
cell’s membrane and release the mission-specific
plasmid Laton had selected (he had four hundred to
choose from). The plasmid was accompanied by a
transcription factor which would activate it.

Mitosis produced a neuron cell almost identical to the
original it replaced. Once begun, the reproduction cycle
was unstoppable; new cells started to supplant old at an
ever-increasing rate. A chain reaction of subtle
modification began to ripple out from the rim of the
island. It went on for a considerable time.
Admiral Kolhammer was almost correct about Time
Universe beating the Edenists to inform the
Confederation about Laton. Several dozen star
systems heard the news from the company first.
Governments were put in an embarrassing position of
knowing less than Time Universe until the voidhawks
carrying diplomatic fleks from Admiral Aleksandrovich
and the Confederation Assembly President arrived,
clarifying the situation.
Naturally enough, public perception was focused almost
exclusively on Laton: the threat from the past risen like
the devil’s own phoenix. They wanted to know what was
being done to track him down and exterminate him.
They were quite vociferous about it.
Presidents, kings, and dictators alike had to release
statements assuring their anxious citizens that every
resource was being deployed to locate him.
Considerably less attention was drawn to the apparent
persona sequestration of Lalonde’s population.
Graeme Nicholson hadn’t placed much emphasis on
the effect, keeping it at the rumour level. It wasn’t until
much later that news company science editors began to
puzzle about the cost-effectiveness of sequestrating an
entire backward colony world, and question exactly
what had happened in the Quallheim Counties. Laton’s
presence blinded them much as it did everyone else.
He was on Lalonde, therefore Lalonde’s uprising
problem was instigated by him. QED.
Privately, governments were extremely worried by the
possibility of an undetectable energy virus that could
strike at people without warning. Dr Gilmore’s brief
preliminary report on Jacqueline Couteur was not
released for general public access.
Naval reserve officers were called in, warships were
placed on combat alert and brought up to full flight-
readiness status. Laton gave governments the excuse
to instigate rigorous screening procedures for visiting
starships. Customs and Immigration officers were told
to be especially vigilant for any electronic warfare

nanonics.
There was also an unprecedented degree of
cooperation between star systems’ national groupings
to ensure that the warning reached everybody and was
taken seriously. Within a day of a flek courier voidhawk
arriving, even the smallest, most distant asteroid
settlement was informed and urged to take precautions.
Within five days of Admiral Lalwani dispatching the
voidhawks, the entire Confederation had been told, with
just a few notable exceptions. Most prominent of these
were starships in transit.
Oenone raced in towards Atlantis at three gees. There
were only sixty cases of Norfolk Tears left clamped into
its lower hull cargo bay. Since leaving Norfolk, Syrinx
had flown to Auckland, a four-hundred-light-year trip.
Norfolk Tears increased in price in direct proportion to
the distance from Norfolk, and Auckland was one of the
richer planets in its sector of the Confederation. She
had sold sixty per cent of her cargo to a planetary
retailer, and another thirty per cent to a family merchant
enterprise in one of the system’s Edenist habitats. It
was the first shipment the Auckland system had seen
for fifteen months, and the price it raised had been
appropriately phenomenal. They had already paid off
the Jovian Bank loan and made a respectable profit.
Now she was back to honour her deal with Eysk’s
family.
She looked through Oenone’s sensor blisters at the
planet as they descended into equatorial orbit. Cool
blues and sharp whites jumbled together in random
splash patterns. Memories played below her surface
thoughts, kindled by the sight of the infinite ocean.
Mosul’s smiling face.
<<We’re not going to stay very long, are we?>>
Oenone asked plaintively.
<<Why?>> she teased. <<Don’t you like talking to the
islands? They make a change from habitats.>>
<<You know why.>>
<<You stayed in Norfolk orbit for over a week.>>
<<I had lots of voidhawks to talk to. There are only
fifteen here.>>
<<Don’t worry. We won’t stay long. Just enough time to

unload the Norfolk Tears, and for me to see Mosul.>>
<<I like him.>>
<<Thank you for the vote of confidence. While we’re
here, would you ask the islands to see if anyone has a
cargo they need shipping outsystem.>>
<<I’ll start now.>>
<<Can you give me a link through to Mosul first,
please.>>
<<It is midnight on Pernik. The personality says Mosul
is unobtainable at the moment.>>
<<Oh dear. I wonder what her name is?>>
<<Syrinx.>>
<<Yes?>>
<<Pernik is wrong.>>
<<What do you mean? Mosul is available?>>
<<No, I mean the personality is different, altered. There
is no joy in its thoughts.>>
Syrinx opened her eyes and stared round the
contoured walls of her cabin.
Familiar trinkets she had picked up on her voyages
were lined up in glass-fronted alcoves. Her eyes found
the fifteen-centimetre chunk of whalebone carved into a
squatting Eskimo which Mosul had given her. But
Oenone’s unease was too unsettling for the crude
statue to register the way it usually did, bringing forth a
warm recollection intrinsic to both of them.
<<Perhaps there has been an accident on one of the
fishing boats,>> she suggested.
<<Then the grief should be shared, as is proper.>>
<<Yes.>>
<<Pernik hides behind a faade of correctness.>>
<<Is Eysk available?>>
<<One moment.>>
Syrinx felt the voidhawk’s mind reach out, then Eysk

was merging his thoughts with her. Still the same old
kindhearted family elder, with that deeper layer of
toughness that made him such a shrewd businessman.
<<Syrinx,>> he exclaimed happily, <<we were
wondering where you had got to.>>
<<Did you think I’d skipped out on you?>>
<<Me?>> He projected mock horror. <<Not at all. The
arrest warrant we had drawn up was a mere
precaution.>>
She laughed. <<I’ve brought your cases of Norfolk
Tears.>>
<<How many?>>
<<Sixty.>>
<<Ah well, my family will be through that lot before the
week’s out. Are you coming down tonight?>>
<<Yes, if it’s not too late.>>
<<Not at all. I’ll have some servitors lined up to unload
your flyer by the time you get down.>>
<<Fine. Is everything all right on the island?>>
There was a moment’s hesitation, a thought-flash of
bemused incomprehension. <<Yes. Thank you for
asking.>>
<<Is Mosul there?>>
<<Sex, that’s all you young people think of.>>
<<We learn by example. Is he there?>>
<<Yes. But I don’t think Clio will welcome an interruption
right now.>>
<<Is she very pretty?>>
<<Yes.>> He generated an image of a girl’s grinning
face, half hidden by long dark hair. <<She’s bright, too.
They are on the point of formalizing the arrangement.>>
<<I’m happy for him, for both of them.>>
<<Thank you. Don’t tell Mosul I said so, but she’ll make
a splendid addition to the family.>>

<<That’s nice. I’ll see you in a couple of hours.>>
<<I’ll look forward to it. Just remember, Mosul learnt
everything he knows from me.>>
<<As if I could forget.>> She broke the contact.
<<Well?>> Oenone asked.
<<I don’t know. Nothing I could put my finger on, but he
was definitely stilted.>>
<<Shall I ask the other islands?>>
<<Goodness, no. I’ll find out what’s troubling them once
I’m down. Mosul will tell me, he owes me that much.>>
Hooked into the flyer’s sensors, Syrinx couldn’t be
sure, but Pernik appeared aged somehow. Admittedly it
was darkest night, but the towers had a shabby look,
almost mouldered. They put her in mind of Earth’s
Empire State Building, now carefully preserved in its
own dome at the centre of the New York arcology.
Structurally sound, but unable to throw off the greying
weight of centuries.
Thirty-two years old, and you see everything in such
jaded terms, she told herself wearily. Pity that Mosul
had formed a permanent attachment, though. He would
have made a good father.
She clucked her tongue in self-admonition. But then her
mother had conceived two children by the time she was
thirty.
<<There’s always Ruben,>> Oenone suggested.
<<It wouldn’t be fair to him, not even to ask. He’d feel
obligated to say yes.>>
<<I would like you to have a child. You are feeling
incomplete. It upsets you. I don’t like that.>>
<<I am not feeling incomplete!>>
<<You haven’t even prepared any zygotes for my
children yet. You should think about these things.>>
<<Oh goodness. You’re starting to sound like
Mother.>>
<<I don’t know how to lie.>>

<<Rubbish!>>
<<Not to you. And it was you who was thinking of Mosul
in that light.>>
<<Yes.>> Syrinx stopped trying to argue, it was stupidly
blinkered. <<What would I do without you?>>
Oenone wrapped her thoughts with a loving embrace,
and for a moment Syrinx imagined the flyer’s ion field
had leaked inside the cabin, filling it with golden haze.
They landed on one of the pads in the commercial
section. The electrophorescent-cell ridge around the
metal grid shone with a strong pink radiance. Few of the
accommodation tower windows were lit.
<<It looks like they’re in mourning,>> Syrinx said to
Oxley in singular engagement mode as she walked
down the aluminium stair. They had flown down alone
so that the little flyer could carry more cargo, but it was
still going to take three trips to bring all sixty cases
down.
<<Yes.>> He glanced about, frowning. <<There aren’t
many fishing boats in dock, either.>>
Eysk and Mosul walked out of the shadows beyond the
ridge.
Syrinx forgot everything else as Mosul sent out a burst
of rapturous greeting, mingled with mischievously erotic
subliminals.
She put her arms around him and enjoyed a long kiss.
<<I’d like to meet her,>> she told him. <<Lucky thing
that she is.>>
<<You shall.>>
They stood about on the pad, chatting idly, as the
island’s lizard-skinned housechimps unloaded the first
batch of cases under Oxley’s careful direction and
stacked them on a processor-controlled flat-top trolley.
When all eighteen cases were on, the drone trundled
off towards one of the low warehouse domes ringing
the park.
<<Do you want me to bring the rest down tonight?>>
Oxley asked.
<<Please,>> Eysk said. <<I have already organized

sales with other families.>>
The pilot nodded, winked at Syrinx, who was still
standing with Mosul’s arm around her shoulder, and
went back into the flyer. Sitting in the command seat he
linked his mind with the controlling processor array.
Something was affecting the coherent magnetic-field
generation. It took a long time to form, and he had to
bring compensator programs on-line. By the time he
finally lifted from the pad the fusion generator was
operating alarmingly close to maximum capacity.
He almost turned back there and then. But once he
rose above a hundred metres the field stabilized
rapidly. He had to cut the power levels back.
Diagnostic programs reported the systems were all
functioning flawlessly.
With a quick curse directed at all Kulu-produced
machinery, he ordered the flight computer to design an
orbital-injection trajectory that would bring him to a
rendezvous with Oenone.
<<See you in three hours,>> Syrinx called as the
sparkling artificial comet performed a tight curve around
the accommodation towers before soaring up into the
night sky.
<<Three hours!>> Oxley let his groan filter back down
the affinity link.
<<You’re professionals. You can handle it.>>
He put the flyer into a steep climb. One thing about an
oceanic world, there was no worry about supersonic-
boom footprints stomping all over civic areas. He was
doing Mach two by the time he was fifteen kilometres
away.
Pernik vanished from his affinity perception. Ordinarily
a contact would simply fade with distance until it was no
more. But this was different, like steel shutters
slamming into place. Oxley was over a hundred and fifty
years old, in his time he’d visited almost ninety per cent
of the Confederation, and he had never known an
Edenist habitat to react in such a manner. It was alien
to the whole creed of consensual unity.
He switched in the aft sensors. A luminous red pearl
haunted the horizon, sending shimmer-spears of light

dancing across the black water.
“What is …” The words dried up at the back of his
throat.
<<Pernik?>> he demanded. <<Pernik, what is going
on? What is that light?>>
The silence was total. There wasn’t the slightest trace
of the personality’s thoughts left anywhere in the affinity
band.
<<Syrinx?>>
Nothing.
<<Oenone, something’s happening on Pernik, can you
reach Syrinx?>>
<<She is there,>> the worried voidhawk answered.
<<But I cannot converse with her. Something is
interfering.>>
<<Oh, heavens.>> He banked the flyer round, heading
back for the island.
Affinity broadened out from the single tenuous thread to
the orbiting voidhawk, offering him the support of
innumerable minds combining into a homogenized
entity, buoying him up on a tide of intellect. He wasn’t
alone, and he wasn’t anxious any more. Doubts and
personal fears bled away, exchanged for confidence
and determination, a much-needed reinforcement of his
embattled psyche. For a moment, flying over the
gargantuan ocean in a tiny machine, he had been
horribly lonely; now his kind had joined him, from the
eager honoured enthusiasms of sixteen-year-olds up to
the glacial thoughts of the islands themselves.
He felt like a child again, comforted by the loving arms
of an adult, wiser and stronger. It was a reconfirmation
of Edenism which left him profoundly grateful for the
mere privilege of belonging.
<<This is Thalia Island, Oxley, we are aware of Pernik’s
withdrawal from affinity and we are summoning a
planetary consensus to deal with the problem.>>
<<That red lighting effect has me worried,>> he replied.
The flyer had dropped below subsonic again. Pernik
gleamed a sickly vermilion eight kilometres away.
Around the planet, consensus finalized, bringing

together every sentient entity in an affinity union
orchestrated by the islands. Information, such as it had,
was reviewed, opinions formed, discussed, discarded,
or elaborated. Two seconds after considering the
problem the consensus said: <<We believe it to be
Laton. A ship of the same class as the Yaku arrived
last night and sent a spaceplane down to the island.
From that time onward Pernik’s communication has
declined by sixty per cent.>>
<<Laton?>> The appalled question came from Oenone
and its crew.
<<Yes.>> The Atlantean consensus summarized the
information that had been delivered by a voidhawk two
days earlier. <<As we have no orbital stations our
checks on arriving ships were naturally less than ideal,
depending solely on civil traffic control satellite-platform
sensors. The ship has of course departed, but the
spaceplane remained. Pernik and its population must
have been sequestrated by the energy virus.>>
<<Oh no,>> Oxley cried brokenly. <<Not him. Not
again.>>
Ahead of him, Pernik issued a brilliant golden light, as
though sunrise had come to the ocean. The flyer gave
a violent lurch to starboard, and began to lose height.
Syrinx watched the little flyer disappear into the east.
The night air was cooler than she remembered from
her last visit, bringing up goosebumps below her ship-
tunic. Mosul, who was dressed in a baggy sleeveless
sweatshirt and shorts, seemed completely unaffected.
She eyed him with a degree of annoyance. Macho
outdoors type.
This Clio was a lucky woman.
<<Come along,>> Eysk said. <<The family is dying to
meet you again. You can tell the youngsters what
Norfolk was like.>>
<<I’d love to.>>
Mosul’s arm tightened that bit extra round her shoulder
as they headed for the nearest tower. Almost
proprietary, she thought.
<<Mosul,>> she asked on singular engagement,
<<what’s wrong down here? You all seem so tense.>> It
was a struggle to convey the emotional weight she

wanted.
<<Nothing is wrong.>> He smiled as they passed under
the archway at the foot of the tower.
She stared at him, dumbfounded. He had answered on
the general affinity band, an extraordinary breach of
protocol.
Mosul caught her expression, and sent a wordless
query.
<<This is …>> she began. Then her thoughts flared in
alarm. Oenone, she couldn’t perceive Oenone! “Mosul!
It’s gone. No, wait. I can feel it, just. Mosul, something is
trying to block affinity.”
“Are they?” His smile hardened into something which
made her jerk away in consternation. “Don’t worry, little
Syrinx. Delicate, beautiful little Syrinx, so far from
home. All alone. But we treasure you for the gift you
bring. We are going to welcome you into a brotherhood
infinitely superior to Edenism.”
She spun round, ready to run. But there were five men
standing behind her. One of them, she gasped, his
head had grown until it was twice the size it should be.
His features were a gross caricature, cheeks deep and
lined, eyes wide and avian; his nose was huge, coming
to a knife edge that hung below his black lips, both ears
were pointed, rising above the top of his skull.
“What are you?” she hissed.
“Don’t mind old Kincaid,” Mosul said. “Our resident
troll.”
It was getting lighter, the kind of liquid redness creeping
across the island’s polyp which she associated with
Duchess-night on Norfolk. Her legs began to shake. It
was shameful, but she was so alone. Never before had
she been denied the community of thoughts that was
the wonder of Edenism. <<Oenone!>> The desperate
shout crashed around the confines of her own skull.
<<Oenone, my love. Help me!>>
There was an answer. Not coherent, nothing she could
perceive, decipher.
But somewhere on the other side of the blood-veiled
sky the voidhawk cried in equal anguish.

“Come, Syrinx,” Mosul said. He held out his hand.
“Come with us.”
It wasn’t Mosul. She knew that now.
“Never.”
“So brave,” he said pityingly. “So foolish.”
She was physically strong, her genes gave her that
much. But there were seven of them. They half carried,
half pushed her onwards.
The walls became strange. No longer polyp but stone.
Big cubes hewn from some woodland granite quarry;
and old, the age she thought she had seen on the
approach flight. Water leaked from the lime-encrusted
mortar, sliming the stone.
They descended a spiral stair which grew narrower until
only one of them could march beside her. Syrinx’s ship-
tunic sleeve was soon streaked with water and coffee-
coloured fungus. She knew it wasn’t real, that it couldn’t
be happening. There was no “down” in an Atlantean
island. Only the sea. But her feet slipped on the worn
steps, and her calves ached.
There was no red glow in the bowels of the island.
Flaming torches in black iron brands lighted their way.
Their acrid smoke made her eyes water.
The stairway came out onto a short corridor. A sturdy
oak door was flung open, and Syrinx shoved through.
Inside was a medieval torture chamber.
A wooden rack took up the centre of the room; iron
chains wound round wheels at each end, manacles
open and waiting. A brazier in one corner was sending
out waves of heat from its radiant coals. Long slender
metal instruments were plunged into it, metal sharing
the furnace glow.
The torturer himself was a huge fat man in a leather
jerkin. Rolls of hairy flesh spilled over his waistband. He
stood beside the brazier, cursing the slender young
woman who was bent over a pair of bellows.
“This is Clio,” Mosul’s stolen body said. “You did say
you wanted to meet her.”
The woman turned, and laughed at Syrinx.
“What is the point?” Syrinx asked weakly. Her voice

was very close to cracking.
“This is in your honour,” the torturer said. His voice was
a deep bass, but soft, almost purring. “You, we shall
have to be very careful with. For you come bearing a
great gift. I don’t want to damage it.”
“What gift?”
“The living starship. These other mechanical devices
for sailing the night gulf are difficult for us to employ. But
your craft has elegance and grace. Once we have you,
we have it. We can bring our crusade to new worlds
with ease after that.”
<<FLEE! Flee, Oenone. Flee this dreadful world, my
love. And never come back.>>
“Oh, Syrinx.” Mosul’s handsome face wore the old
sympathetic expression she remembered from such a
time long ago now. “We have taken affinity from you.
We have sent Oxley away. We have taken everybody
from you. You are alone but for us. And believe me, we
know what being alone does to an Edenist.”
“Fool,” she sneered. “That wasn’t affinity, it is love
which binds us.”
“And we shall love the Oenone too,” a musical chorus
spoke to her.
She refused to show any hint of surprise. “Oenone will
never love you.”
“In time all things become possible,” the witching chorus
sang. “For are we not come?”
“Never,” she said.
The corpulent paws of Kincaid the troll tightened around
her arms.
Syrinx closed her eyes as she was forced towards the
rack. This is not happening therefore I can feel no pain.
This is not happening therefore I can feel no pain.
Believe it!
Hands tore at the collar of her ship-tunic, ripping the
fabric. Hot rancid air prickled her skin.
This is NOT happening therefore I can feel no pain. Not
not not,

Ruben sat at his console station in Oenone’s bridge
along with the rest of the crew. There were only two
empty seats. Empty and accusing.
I should have gone down with her, Ruben thought.
Maybe if I could have provided everything she needed
from life she wouldn’t have gone running to Mosul in the
first place.
<<We all share guilt, Ruben,>> the Atlantean
consensus said. <<And ours is by far the larger failing
for letting Laton come to this world. Your only crime is
to love her.>>
<<And fail her.>>
<<No. We are all responsible for ourselves. She knows
that as well as you do. All individuals can ever do is
share happiness wherever they can find it.>>
<<We’re all ships that pass in the night?>>
<<Ultimately, yes.>>
Consensus was so large, so replete with wisdom, he
found it easy to believe. An essential component of the
quiddity.
<<She is in trouble down there,>> he said.
<<Frightened, alone. Edenists shouldn’t be alone.>>
<<I am with her,>> Oenone said. <<She can feel me
even though we cannot converse.>>
<<We are doing what we can,>> the consensus said.
<<But this is not a world equipped for warfare.>>
The part of Ruben which had joined with the consensus
was suddenly aware of Pernik igniting to solar
splendour, and he was sitting strapped into a metal flea
that spun and tossed erratically as it fell from the sky.
<<SYRINX!>> Oenone cried. <<Syrinx. Syrinx. Syrinx.
Syrinx. Syrinx.>>
The voidhawk’s affinity voice was a thunderclap roar
howling through the minds of its crew. Ruben thought he
would surely be deafened. Serina sat with her mouth
gaping wide, hands clamped over her ears, tears
streaming down her face.
<<Oenone>> <<, restrain yourself,>> the consensus
demanded.

But the voidhawk was beyond reason. It could feel its
captain’s pain, her hopelessness as the white-hot metal
seared into her flesh with brutal intricate skill while in
her heart she thought of nothing but their love.
Lost in helpless rage its distortion effect twisted and
churned like a frenzied captured beast pummelling at its
cage bars.
Gravity rammed Ruben down into his seat, then swung
severely. His arms outside the webbing were sucked up
towards the ceiling, their weight quadrupling. Oenone
was tumbling madly, its energy patterning cells sending
out vast random surges of power.
Tula was yelling at the voidhawk to stop. Loose pieces
of junk were hurtling round the bridge, cups and plastic
meal trays, a jacket, cutlery, several circuit wafers.
Gravity was fluctuating worse than a roller-coaster ride.
One moment they appeared to be hanging upside-
down, the next they were at right angles, and always
weighing too much. A spinning circuit wafer sliced past
Edwin, nicking his cheek. Blood squirted out.
Ruben could just make out the calls of the other
voidhawks in orbit above Atlantis, trying to calm their
rampant cousin. They all started to alter course for a
rendezvous. Together their distortion fields could
probably nullify Oenone’s supercharged flailings.
Then the most violent convulsion of all kicked the crew
toroid. Ruben actually heard the walls give a warning
creak. One of the consoles buckled, big skinlike
creases appearing in its composite sides as it
concertinaed down towards the decking. Coolant fluid
and sparks burst out of the cracks. He must have
blacked out for a second.
Gravity was at a forty-degree angle to the horizontal
when he came to, and holding steady.
<<I’m coming. I’m coming. I’m coming,>> Oenone was
braying.
Horrified, Ruben linked into the voidhawk’s sensor
blisters. They were heading down towards Atlantis at
two and a half gees. Reaction to the berserker power
thundering through the energy patterning cells made the
muscles in his arms and legs bunch like hot ropes.
Fast-moving specks were rising above the hazy blue-

white horizon, skimming over the atomic fog of the
thermosphere like flat stones flung across a placid sea.
The other voidhawks: their calls redoubled in urgency.
But Oenone was immune to them, to the Atlantean
consensus’ imperious orders. Rushing to help its
beloved.
They’re too far away, Ruben realized in dismay, they
won’t reach us in time.
The consensus relaxed its contact with Oxley, allowing
him complete independence to pilot the floundering
flyer, letting his instinct and skill attempt to right the craft
unencumbered. He shot order after order into the bitek
processors, receiving a stream of systems information
in return. The coherent magnetic generators were
failing, databuses were glitched, the fusion generator
was powering down, electron-matrix crystal power
reserves were dropping. Whatever electronic warfare
techniques Pernik had, they were the best he had ever
encountered, and they were trying to kill him.
He concentrated on the few control channels which
remained operational, reducing the spin and flattening
out the dive. The faltering magnetic fields squeezed and
pushed at glowing ion streams, countering the
corkscrew trajectory. Black ocean and lustrous island
chased each other round the sensor images at a
decreasing rate.
There was no panic. He treated it as though it was just
another simulation run. An exercise in logic and
competence set by the CAB to try and trip him.
At the back of his mind he was aware of further
pandemonium breaking out amid the consensus. A
ghost image lying across the flyer’s sensor input
visualization showed him Oenone plummeting towards
the planet.
With only a kilometre of altitude left the flyer lost its
spin. The nose was dangerously low. He poured the
final power reserves into raising it, using the craft’s
ellipsoid surface as a blunt wing, gaining a degree of lift
in an attempt to glide-curve away from the island.
Distance was his only chance of salvation now. Streaks
of reflected starlight blurred on the sable water below,
growing closer. There was no sign of the electronic
warfare assault abating.
Pernik’s resplendent silhouette winked out. Silence
detonated into the affinity consensus, absorbing the

entire planet’s mental voice.
Into the emptiness came a single devastating identity
trait.
<<Your attention, please,>> Laton said. <<We don’t
have much time. Oenone, resume your orbit now.>>
The flyer’s crashed systems abruptly sprang back into
zealous life. And a shock-numbed Oxley was pressed
deep into his seat as it vaulted back into the sky.
Lewis Sinclair watched keenly as the torturer
manipulated Syrinx’s mangled leg with a pair of ruddy
glowing tongs and a mallet. She wasn’t screaming so
loudly now. The fight was going out of her. But not the
spirit, he suspected. She was one tough lady. He had
seen the type before back in Messopia; cops mainly,
the special forces mob, hard-eyed and dedicated. A
pusher Lewis worked for had captured one once, and it
didn’t matter what was done to the man, they couldn’t
get him to tell them anything.
Lewis didn’t think the possessed were going to gain
control of the voidhawk through Syrinx. But he didn’t say
anything, let them sweat it.
It wasn’t so much his problem, possessing the island
gave him a measure of security a mere human body
could never offer. The range of physical sensations
and experiences available to him was truly astonishing.
The sensitive cells woven through the polyp were
fantastically receptive; people with their mundane eyes
and ears and nose were almost insensate by
comparison. His consciousness roved at random
through the huge structure, tasting and sampling. He
was getting the hang of splitting himself into multiples,
supervising a dozen actions at once.
Syrinx groaned again as the souls from beyond sang
into her mind with their strange icy promises. And Lewis
saw a girl standing at the back of the dungeon. The
quake her presence sent through his psyche
perceptibly rocked the entire island, as though it had
ridden over a tidal wave. It was her! The girl from
Messopia, Therse, the one he’d fought and died over.
Therse was tall for thirteen, skinny, with breasts that
had been pushed into maturity by a course of tailored
growth hormones. Long raven hair, brown eyes, and a
pretty, juvenile face with just the right amount of

cuteness; everybody’s girl next door. She was wearing
black leather shorts to show off her tight little arse, and
her breasts were almost falling out of a scarlet halter
top. Her pose was indolent, chewing at her gum, one
hand on her hip.
<<Where the hell did she come from?>> Lewis asked.
<<What?>> the possessed Eysk asked.
<<Her. Therse. There, behind you.>>
Eysk turned round, then frowned angrily at the ceiling.
<<Very funny. Now fuck off.>>
<<But, >>
Therse gave a bored sigh and sauntered out of the
dungeon.
<<Can’t you see her?>>
None of them answered him. He knew she was real, he
could hear her clicking walk, feel the weight of her black
stilettos on his polyp, olfactory cells picked up the
sugary whiff of gum on her exhaled breath.
She walked away from the dungeon, down a long
corridor. For some reason it was difficult to keep his
perception focused on her. She was only walking, but
she seemed to be moving so fast. He barely noticed as
the polyp of the corridor gave way to concrete. The light
became a harsh electric yellow coming from bulbs on
the ceiling, each one cupped by a protective wire cage.
She hurried on ahead of him, feet sending out that
regular click click click as her stilettos rapped the
ground. His filthy jeans restricted his movements,
clinging to his legs as he trailed after her. The air was
cooler here, he could see his breath emerging as white
streamers.
Therse slipped through a big set of grey-painted metal
doors ahead.
Lewis followed her into the empty subterranean
warehouse in Messopia five hundred and fifty years
ago. He gagged. It was a square chamber, sixty metres
to a side, twenty metres high, rough poured concrete
ribbed with steel beams coated in red-oxide paint.
Striplights cast a feeble moon-white glow from on high.
As before, leaking sewage pipes dripped rank liquids
onto the floor.

She stood in the middle of the floor, looking at him
expectantly.
He glanced down, seeing his body for the first time. “Oh
no,” he said in a desperate voice. “This isn’t
happening.”
Loud, positive footsteps sounded from the far end of
the warehouse. Lewis didn’t wait to see who was
emerging from the gloom, he spun round. There was no
door any more, just a concrete wall. “Jesus Almighty.
Fuck!”
“Hello, Lewis.”
His body was compelled to turn, leg muscles working
like dead meat fired by a cattle prod. He bit hard on his
trembling lip.
Therse had gone. The person walking towards him was
the body he had possessed on Lalonde.
“You’re dead,” Lewis whispered through a fear-knotted
throat.
Laton merely smiled his superior smile. “Of all the
people resident in this universe today, Lewis, you
should know there is no such thing as death.”
“I’m in charge here,” Lewis yelled. “I am Pernik.” He
tried to fling the white fire, to conjure up energistic
devastation, to flay the zombie to its stinking corrupt
bones and beyond.
Laton halted five metres away. “You were Pernik. I told
you once that we would meet again as equals. I lied.
You cannot even begin to conceive the processes
involved in your manifestation within this universe. You
are a Neanderthal out of time, Lewis. You believed
brute force was the key to conquest. Yet you failed to
even think about the source of your energistic power. I
know, I’ve been analysing your tiresomely sluggish
thoughts ever since you possessed my body.”
“What have you done to me?”
“Done? Why, Lewis, I have made you a part of me.
Possession of the possessor. It is possible given the
right circumstances. In this case I simply corrupted
Pernik’s neural stratum with my biological weapon. The
neuron cells and nerve paths only conduct my thought
impulses now. You can kill the cells, but you can’t

subvert them. It’s a question of coding, you see. I know
the codes, you don’t. And please don’t ask me for them,
Lewis, it’s nothing as simple as a number. You now
operate only as a subsidiary part of me, you only think
because I allow you to. That is how I summoned you
here.”
“I think because I am! I have been me for centuries,
you bastard.”
“And were you to go back there to the beyond, you
would be you again. Free and independent. Do you
want to go, Lewis? That is your escape from my
bondage. In this universe you require a physical, living
biological matrix in which to function. You may depart
now if you wish.”
A weight pulled at Lewis’s belt. When he looked down
he saw it was the power-blade knife hanging in its
sheath. “No.” He shook his head feebly, quailing at the
prospect. “No, I won’t. That’s what you want. Without
me Pernik would be free again. I’m going to stop that,
I’m going to beat you.”
“Don’t flatter yourself, Lewis. I will never allow you to
resume your barbaric act of sodomy. You think of
yourself as strong, as purposeful. You are entirely
incorrect. You and the other returners have a nebulous
plan to re-establish yourselves permanently in this
physical universe. You do so because of your own quite
pathetic psychological weaknesses.”
Lewis snarled at his tall tormentor. “So fucking smart,
aren’t you. Let’s see what you’re like after a hundred
fucking years of nothing; no food, no breathing, no
touch, just fucking nothing. You’ll be begging to join us,
shithead.”
“Really?” Laton’s smile no longer contained even a
vestige of humour.
“Think what you are, Lewis. Think what all the returners
are. Then ask yourself, where is the rest of the human
race? The hundreds of billions who have died since the
day our ancestors first struck two flints together, from
the time we watched the glaciers retreating as we
battled with mammoths.”
“They’re with me, billions of them. They’re waiting for
their chance. And when they get into this universe
they’re gonna come gunning for you, shithead.”

“But they’re not with you in the beyond, Lewis, there are
nothing like enough souls to account for everyone. You
cannot lie to me, you are part of me. I know. They’re not
there. Ask yourself who and why, Lewis.”
“Fuck you.” Lewis drew the knife from its scabbard. He
thumbed the switch in a smooth motion and the silver
blade emitted a dangerous buzz.
“Lewis, kindly behave yourself; this is my perceptual
reality, after all.”
Lewis watched the solid blade curve round towards his
fingers. He dropped the knife with a yell. It vanished
before it reached the floor, making as little fuss as a
snowflake landing on water. “What do you want with
me?” He raised his clenched fists, knowing that it was
all futile. He wanted to pound his knuckles into the
concrete.
Laton took another few paces towards him. And Lewis
came to realize just how imposing the big Edenist was.
It was all he could do not to back away.
“I want to make amends,” Laton said. “At least part way.
I doubt I will ever be fully forgiven in this universe, not
for my crime. And it was a crime, I admit that now. You
see, from you I have learnt how wrong I was before.
Immortality is a notion we all grasp at because we can
sense that there is continuity beyond death. It is an
imperfect realization due to the weakness of the fusion
between this continuum and the state of emptiness
which follows. So much of our misunderstanding of life
is rooted in this, so many wasted opportunities, so
much religious claptrap born. I was wholly wrong to try
and achieve a physical life extension, when corporeal
life is but the start of existence. I was no better than a
monkey trying to grasp a hologram banana.”
“You’re mad!” Lewis shouted recklessly. “You’re
fucking mad!”
Laton became pitying. “Not mad, but very human. Even
in this hiatus state I have emotions. And I have
weaknesses. One of them is the desire for revenge.
But then you know all about that, don’t you, Lewis?
Revenge is a prime motivator; glands or no glands,
chemical fury or otherwise. You burnt for it in the empty
beyond, revenge on the living for the crime of living.
“Well, now I shall have my revenge for the agonies and
degradations you so joyfully submitted my kind to. My

kind being the Edenists. For I am one. At the end.
Flawed, but proud of them, their silly pride and honour.
They are a basically peaceful people, those of Pernik
more than most, and you delighted in shattering their
sanity. You also destroyed my children, and you
revelled in it, Lewis.”
“I still do! I hope it fucking hurt you watching! I hope the
memory makes you scream at nights. I want you in
pain, you shit, I want you weeping. If I’m part of your
memories then you won’t ever be able to forget, I won’t
let you.”
“Oh, Lewis, haven’t you learnt anything yet?” Laton
drew his own knife from a scabbard he brought into
existence. Its wickedly thrumming power-blade was half
a metre long. “I’m going to free Syrinx and warn the
Atlantean consensus as to the exact nature of the
threat they face. However, the remaining possessed do
present a slight problem. So I need you to overcome
them, Lewis. I shall consume you, completely.”
“Never! I won’t help.”
Laton took a pace forwards. “It isn’t a question of
choice. Not on your part.”
Lewis tried to run. Even though he knew it was
impossible. The concrete closed in, shrinking the
warehouse to the size of a tennis court, a room, a cube
five metres across.
“I require control of the energistic spillover, Lewis. The
power which comes from colliding continua. For that I
must have the you which is you. I must complete my
possession.”
“No!” Lewis raised his arms as the blade came
whistling down. Once again there was the dreadful
grinding sound as bone was pierced and fragmented.
A flash of intolerable pain followed by the devastating
numbness. His blood spilled onto the floor in great
spurts from his elbow stump.
“Goodbye, Lewis. It may be some time before we
encounter one another again. But none the less I wish
you luck in your search for me.”
Lewis had collapsed twitching into a corner, soles of his
boots slipping on his own blood. “Bastard,” he spat

through white lips. “Just do it. Get it over with and laugh,
you shithead prick sucker.”
“Sorry, Lewis. But like I told you, I shall consume you in
your entirety. It’s almost a vampiric process, really,
though I expect that particular irony is sadly lost on you.
And in order for the transfer to work you must remain
conscious for the entire feast.” Laton gave him a
lopsided, half-apologetic smile.
The true meaning of what the Edenist was saying finally
sank in. Lewis started to scream. He was still
screaming when Laton picked up his severed arm and
bit into it.
Pernik’s illumination returned to normality with eye-
jarring suddenness.
The accommodation towers blazed with diamond-blue
light from every window, winding pathways through the
park were set out by orange fairy lanterns, circular
landing pads glowed hotly around the entire rim, the
floating quays were like fluorescent roots radiating out
into the opaque glassy water.
Oxley thought it looked quite magnificent. So cruelly
treacherous, that a creation of such beauty could play
host to the most heinous evil.
<<Land immediately please, Oxley,>> Laton said. <<I
don’t have much time. They are resisting me.>>
<<Land?>> Oxley felt his throat snarl up as outrage
vied with a shaky form of laugh. <<Show me where you
are, and I’ll come to you, Laton. I’ll be doing around
Mach twenty when we embrace. Show yourself!>>
<<Don’t be a fool. I am Pernik now.>>
<<Where’s Syrinx?>>
<<She lives. Oenone will confirm that. But you must pick
her up now, she requires urgent medical attention.>>
<<Oenone>> << ?>> He sent the querying thought
lancing upwards, while at the back of his mind he was
aware of Laton delivering a vast quantity of information
to the Atlantean consensus.
The voidhawk registered as a subdued jumble of
thoughts. It had stopped its crazed descent; now it was
rising laboriously up out of the mesosphere, its

distortion effect generating barely a tenth of a gee.
<<Oenone>> <<, is she alive?>>
<<Yes.>>
The emotional discharge in the voidhawk’s thought
brought tears to his eyes.
<<Oxley,>> Ruben called, <<if there’s any chance …
please.>>
<<OK.>> He studied the island. Pinpricks of light were
blooming and dying right across it, stars with a lifetime
measurable in fractions of a second. It looked quite
magical, though he didn’t like to dwell too hard upon
what their cause would be.
<<Consensus, should I go in?>>
<<Yes. No other spaceplanes can reach Pernik in time.
Trust Laton.>>
That was it, the universe had finally gone totally insane.
<<Oh, shit. OK, I’m taking the flyer down.>>
Fires had taken hold in the central park when Oxley
piloted the flyer down onto one of the pads. He could
see a spaceplane further along the row, wings
retracted, lying on its side with its undercarriage struts
sticking up in the air and its fuselage cracked open
around the midsection. Bodies were sprawled on the
polyp around the base of the nearest accommodation
tower; most of them looked as though they had been
caught in a firestorm, skin blackened, faces
unrecognizable, clothes still smoking.
An explosion sounded in the distance, and a ball of
orange flame rolled out of a window on the other side of
the park.
<<They are learning,>> Laton said impassively.
<<Grouped together they can ward off my energistic
assaults. It won’t do them any good in the long run, of
course.>>
Oxley’s nerves were raw edged. He still thought this
was some giant trap.
The steel-clad jaws would snap shut any second;
conversation might just be the trigger. <<Where’s
Syrinx?>>

<<Coming. Open the flyer airlock.>>
He felt the consensus balance his insecurities with an
injection of urbane courage. Somehow he was giving
the order to cut the ion field and open the airlock.
Faint shouts and the drawn out screeching of metal
under tremendous stress penetrated the cabin. Oxley
sniffed the air. Mingled with the brine was a frowsty
putrescence which furred the roof of his mouth. With
his hand clamped firmly over his nose he made his way
aft.
Someone was walking towards the flyer. A giant, three
metres tall, hairless, naked skin a frail cream colour,
virtually devoid of facial features. It was holding a figure
in its outstretched arms.
“Syrinx,” he gasped. He could feel Oenone pushing
behind his eyes, desperate to see.
Three-quarters of her body was engulfed by green
medical nanonic packages. But even that thick covering
couldn’t disguise the terrible damage inflicted on her
limbs and torso.
<<The nanonic packages do not function well in this
environment,>> Laton said as the giant mounted the
flyer’s airstairs. <<Once you are airborne their
efficiency will recover.>>
<<Who did this?>>
<<I do not know their names. But I assure you the
bodies they possessed have been rendered
nonfunctional.>>
Oxley backed into the cabin, too shaken to offer further
comment. Laton must have loaded an order into the
flight-control processors, because the front passenger
seat hinged open to form a flat couch. It was the one
designed for transporting casualty cases. Basic
medical monitor and support equipment slid out from
recesses in the cabin wall above it.
The giant laid Syrinx down gently, then stood, its head
touching the cabin ceiling. Oxley wanted to rush over to
her, but all he could do was stare dumbly at the hulking
titan. Its blank face crawled as though the skin was
boiling. Laton looked down at him.
“Go to the Sol system,” the simulacrum said. “There

are superior medical facilities available there in any
case. But the Jovian consensus must be informed of
the true nature of the threat these returning souls pose
to the Confederation; indeed to this whole section of
the galaxy. That is your priority now.”
Oxley managed to jerk a nod. “What about you?”
“I will hold the possessed off until you leave Pernik.
Then I will begin the great journey.” The big lips pressed
together in compassion. “If it is of any comfort, you may
tell our kind I am now truly sorry for Jantrit. I was utterly
and completely wrong.”
“Yes.”
“I do not ask forgiveness, for it would not be in
Edenism’s power to grant. But tell them also that I came
good in the end.” The face managed a small, clumsy
smile. “That ought to set the cat among the pigeons.”
The giant turned and clumped out of the cabin. When it
reached the top of the airlock stairs it lost all cohesion.
A huge gout of milky white liquid sloshed down onto the
metal grid of the landing pad, splattering the flyer’s
landing gear struts.
The flyer was five hundred kilometres from Pernik and
travelling at Mach fifteen up through the ionosphere
when the end came.
Laton waited until the diminutive craft was beyond any
conceivable blast range, then used his all-pervasive
control to release every erg of chemical energy stored
in the island’s cells simultaneously. It produced an
explosion to rival an antimatter planetbuster strike.
Several of the tsunami which raced out from the
epicentre were powerful enough to traverse the world.
===========================================================================

Chapter 07
^
It was a quiet evening in Harkey’s Bar. Terrance
Smith’s bold little fleet had departed the previous day,
taking with it a good many regulars.
The band audibly lacked enthusiasm, and only five
couples were dancing on the floor. Gideon Kavanagh
sat at one table; the medical nanonic package
preparing his stump for a clone graft was deftly covered
by a loose-fitting purple jacket. His companion was a
slim twenty-five-year-old girl in a red cocktail dress who
giggled a lot. A group of bored waitresses stood at one
end of the bar, talking among themselves.
Meyer didn’t mind the apathetic atmosphere for once.
There were some nights when he really didn’t feel like
maintaining the expected image of combination
raconteur, bon viveur, ace pilot, and sex demon, the
qualities that independent starship captains were
supposed to possess in abundance.
He was too old to be keeping up that kind of nonsense.
Leave it to the young ones like Joshua, he thought.
Although with Joshua it was hardly an act.
<<Nor was it always an artificial pose for you,>> Udat
said.
Meyer watched one of the young waitresses swish past
the end of the booth, an oriental with blonde hair whose
long black skirt was split up to her hips. He didn’t even
feel remotely randy, just appreciative of the view.
<<Those days seem to be long gone,>> he told the
blackhawk with an irony that wasn’t entirely insincere.
Cherri Barnes was sitting in the booth with him; the two
of them sharing a chilled bottle of imported white
Valencay wine. Now there was a woman he felt
perfectly comfortable with. Smart, attractive, someone
who didn’t feel compelled to talk into any silences, a
good crew member too; and they’d been to bed on
several occasions over the years. No incompatibility
there.
<<Her company lightens you,>> Udat proclaimed.
<<That makes me happy.>>
<<Oh, well, as long as you’re happy …>>

<<We need a flight. You are growing restless. I am
eager to leave.>>
<<We could have gone to Lalonde.>>
<<I think not. Such missions do not sit well with you any
more.>>
<<You’re right. Though Christ knows I would have liked
a crack at that bastard Laton. But I suppose that’s
something else best left to Joshua and his ilk. Though
what he wanted to go for after the money he pulled in on
the Norfolk run beats me.>>
<<Perhaps he feels he has something to prove.>>
<<No. Not Joshua. There’s something odd going on
there. And knowing Joshua, money is at the root of it.
But no doubt we’ll hear about it in due course. In the
meantime the Lalonde mission has left a pleasing
shortage of starships docked here. Finding a charter
should be relatively easy.>>
<<There were those Time Universe charters available.
Claudia Dohan specifically wanted blackhawks to
deliver the fleks of Graeme Nicholson’s sensevise.
Time was of the essence, she said.>>
<<Those charters were all rush and effort.>>
<<It would have been a challenge.>>
<<If I’d wanted my mother as a permanent companion
rather than a blackhawk I would never have left
home.>>
<<I am sorry. I have upset you.>>
<<No. It’s this Laton business. It has me worried. Fancy
him turning up again after all this time.>>
<<The navy will find him.>>
<<Yeah. Sure.>>
“What are you two talking about?” Cherri asked.
“Huh? Oh, sorry,” he grinned sheepishly. “It’s Laton, if
you must know. Just thinking of him running round free
again …”
“You and fifty billion others.” She picked up one of the
menu sheets.

“Come on, let’s order. I’m starving.”
They chose a chicken dish with side salad, along with a
second bottle of wine.
“The trouble is, where can you travel to that’s
guaranteed safe?” Meyer said after the waitress
departed. “Until the Confederation Navy finds him, the
interstellar cargo market is going to be very jumpy. Our
insurance rates are going to go through the roof.”
“So shift to data-courier work. That way we don’t have
to physically dock with any stations. Alternatively, we
just fetch and carry cargo between Edenist habitats.”
He shifted his wineglass about on the table,
uncomfortable with the idea.
“That’s too much like giving in, letting him win.”
“Well, make up your mind.”
He managed a desultory smile. “I dunno.”
“Captain Meyer?”
He glanced up. A smallish black woman was standing at
the end of the booth’s table, dressed in a conservative
grey suit; her skin was black enough to make Cherri
seem white. He guessed she was in her early sixties.
“That’s me.”
“You are the owner of the Udat?”
“Yes.” If it had been anywhere else but Tranquillity,
Meyer would have pegged her as a tax inspector.
“I am Dr Alkad Mzu,” she said. “I wonder if I could sit
with you for a moment? I would like to discuss some
business.”
“Be my guest.”
He signalled to a waitress for another wineglass, and
poured out the last of the bottle when it arrived.
“I require some transportation outsystem,” Alkad said.
“Just for yourself? No cargo?”
“That is correct. Is it a problem?”
“Not for me. But the Udat doesn’t come cheap. In fact, I

don’t think we’ve ever carried just one passenger
before.”
<<We haven’t,>> Udat said.
Meyer quashed a childish grin. “Where do you want to
travel? I can probably give you a quote straight away.”
“New California.” She sipped her wine, peering at him
over the rim of the glass.
Out of the corner of his eye, Meyer could see Cherri
frowning. There were regular commercial flights to the
New Californian system from Tranquillity three or four
times a week, and more non-scheduled charter flights
on top of that. The Laton scare hadn’t stopped any
departures yet. He was suddenly very curious about
Alkad Mzu.
OK, let’s see how badly she wants to get there. “That
would be at least three hundred thousand fuseodollars,”
he told her.
“I expected it to be about that,” she replied. “Once we
arrive, I may wish to pick up some cargo to carry on to
a further destination. Could you supply me with the
Udat’s performance and handling parameters, please?”
“Yes, of course.” He was only slightly mollified. Taking a
cargo on somewhere was a viable excuse for an
exclusive charter. But why not travel to New California
on a regular civil flight, then hire a starship after she
arrived? The only reason he could think of was that she
specifically wanted a blackhawk. That wasn’t good, not
good at all. “But Udat is only available for civil flights,”
he stressed the word lightly.
“Naturally,” Alkad Mzu said.
“That’s all right then.” He opened a channel to her
neural nanonics and datavised the blackhawk’s
handling capacity over.
“What sort of cargo would we pick up?” Cherri asked.
“I’m the Udat’s cargo officer, I may be able to advise on
suitability.”
“Medical equipment,” Alkad said. “I have some type-
definition files.” She datavised them to Meyer.
The list expanded in his mind, resembling a three-
dimensional simulacrum of magnified chip circuitry, with

every junction labelled. There seemed to be an awful lot
of it. “Fine,” he said, slightly at a loss. “We’ll review it
later.” Have to run it through an analysis program, he
thought.
“Thank you,” Alkad said. “The journey from New
California will be approximately two hundred light-years,
if you’d care to work out a quote based on the cargo’s
mass and environmental requirements. I will be asking
other captains for quotes.”
“We’ll be tough to beat,” he said smoothly.
“Is there any reason why we can’t know where we’re
going?” Cherri asked.
“My colleagues and I are still in the preliminary planning
stage of the mission. I’d prefer not to say anything more
at this time. But I shall certainly inform you of our
destination before we leave Tranquillity.” Alkad stood
up. “Thank you for your time, Captain. I hope we see
each other again. Please datavise your full quote to me
at any time.”
“She hardly touched her wine,” Cherri said as the
doctor departed.
“Yes,” Meyer said distantly. Five other people were
leaving the bar. None of them space industry types.
Merchants? But they didn’t look rich enough.
“Are we putting in a formal bid?”
“Good question.”
<<I would like to visit New California,>> Udat said
hopefully.
<<We’ve been before. You just want to fly.>>
<<I do. It is boring sitting on this ledge.>> Udat relayed
an image of whirling stars as seen from Tranquillity’s
docking-ledge, speeded up, always tracing the same
circles. The edge of the habitat’s spaceport disk started
to grey, then crumbled and broke apart with age.
Meyer grinned. <<What an imagination you have. I’ll get
us a charter soon. That’s a promise.>>
<<Good!>>
“I think we need to know a little bit more about this Mzu
woman,” he said out loud. “No way is she on the level.”

“Oh, really?” Cherri cooed; she cocked her head on
one side. “You noticed that, did you?”
Ione let go of the image. Her apartment rematerialized
around her.
Augustine was walking determinedly across the dining-
room table towards the remains of the salad she had
pushed away, moving at a good fifty centimetres a
minute. At the back of her mind she was aware of Alkad
Mzu standing in the vestibule of the thirty-first floor of
the StMartha starscraper waiting for a lift. There were
seven Intelligence agency operatives hanging around in
the park-level foyer above her, alerted by their
colleagues in Harkey’s Bar. Two of them, a female
operative from New Britain, and the second-in-
command of the Kulu team, resolutely refused to make
eye contact. Strange really. For the last three weeks
they had spent most of their off-duty hours in bed
together screwing each other into delirious exhaustion.
<<In my history courses I recall an incident in the
twentieth century when the American CIA tried to get rid
of a Caribbean island’s Communist president by giving
him an exploding cigar,>> Ione said.
<<Yes?>> Tranquillity asked loyally.
<<Six hundred years of progress, human style.>>
<<Would you like me to inform Meyer that Alkad Mzu
will not be granted an exit visa?>>
<<Informing him I’ll blow him and the Udat out of
existence if he leaves with her would be more to the
point. But no, we won’t do anything yet. How many
captains has she contacted now?>>
<<Sixty-three in the last twenty months.>>
<<And every contact follows the same pattern,>> she
mused. A request for a charter fee quote to carry her to
a star system, then picking up a cargo to take onwards.
But never the same star system; and it was Joshua
who was asked to quote for Garissa. Ione tried not to
consider the implications of that. It had to be
coincidence.
<<I am sure it is,>> Tranquillity said.
<<I was leaking. Sorry.>>

<<There was never any follow-up to her meeting with
Joshua.>>
<<No. But what is she doing, I wonder?>>
<<I have two possible explanations. First, she is aware
of the agency observers, and it would be hard to
believe she is not, and she is simply having fun at their
expense.>>
<<Fun? You call that fun? Threatening to recover the
Alchemist?>>
<<Her home planet has been annihilated. If the humour
is somewhat rough, that is to be expected.>>
<<Of course. Go on.>>
<<Secondly, she is attempting to produce a range of
escape options which exceed the observers’ ability to
keep track of. Sixty-three is an excessive number of
captains to contact even for a warped game.>>
<<But she must know it isn’t possible to confuse you.>>
<<Yes.>>
<<Strange woman.>>
<<A very intelligent woman.>>
Ione reached over to her discarded plate, and began
shredding one of the lettuce leaves. Augustine crooned
adoringly as he finally reached the pile of shreds, and
started to munch at them.
<<Is it possible for her to circumvent your observation?
Apparently Edenists can induce localized blindspots in
their habitats’ perception.>>
<<I would say it is extremely unlikely. No Edenist has
ever succeeded in evading me, and there were many
attempts in your grandfather’s day.>>
<<Really?>> She perked up.
<<Yes, by their Intelligence agency operatives. All
failed. And I acquired some valuable information on the
nature of localized circumvention patterns they
employed. Fortunately I do not use quite the same
thought routines as Edenist habitats, so I am relatively
insusceptible. And Alkad Mzu does not have affinity.>>

<<Are we sure? She was missing for some time
between Garissa’s destruction and turning up here, four
years. She could have had neuron symbionts
implanted.>>
<<She did not. A complete medical body scan is
required for health-insurance coverage for all Laymil
project staff when they start work. She has neural
nanonics, but no affinity symbionts. Nor any other
implants, for that matter.>>
<<Oh. I’m still unhappy over these continual encounters
with starship captains. Perhaps if I had a private word
with her … explain how upsetting it is.>>
<<That might work.>>
<<Did Father ever meet her?>>
<<No.>>
<<I’ll think about what to say then, I don’t want to come
over all heavy handed. Perhaps I could invite her for a
meal, keep it informal.>>
<<Certainly. She always maintains her social
propriety.>>
<<Good. In the meantime, I’d like you to double the
number of serjeants we keep in her immediate vicinity.
With Laton running loose in the Confederation, we
really don’t want to add to Admiral Aleksandrovich’s
troubles right now.>>
Meyer and Cherri Barnes took a lift up from Harkey’s
Bar to the StMartha’s foyer. He walked with her down a
flight of stairs to the starscraper’s tube station, and
datavised for a carriage.
“Are we going back to the hotel or Udat?” Cherri asked.
“My hotel flat has a double bed.”
She grinned, and tucked his arm round hers. “Mine
too.”
The carriage arrived, and he datavised the control
processor to take them to the hotel. There was a slight
surge of acceleration as it got under way. Meyer sank
deeper into his cushioning; Cherri still hadn’t let go of
him.
His neural nanonics informed him a file stored in one of

the memory cells was altering. Viral safeguard
programs automatically isolated the cell.
According to the menu, the file was the cargo list Alkad
Mzu had datavised to him.
The viral safeguard programs reported the change had
finished; tracer programs probed the file’s new format.
It wasn’t hostile. The file had contained a time-delay
code which simply rearranged the order of the existing
information into something entirely different. A hidden
message.
Meyer accessed the contents.
“Holy shit,” he muttered fifteen seconds later.
<<Now that would be a real challenge,>> Udat said
excitedly.
Ombey was the newest of Kulu’s eight principality star
systems. A Royal Kulu Navy scoutship discovered the
one terracompatible planet in 2457, orbiting a hundred
and forty-two million kilometres from its G2 star.
After an ecological certification team cleared its
biosphere as non-harmful, it was declared a Kulu
protectorate and opened for immigration by King Lukas
in 2470. Unlike other frontier worlds, such as Lalonde,
which formed development companies and struggled to
raise investment, Ombey was funded entirely by the
Kulu Royal Treasury and the Crown-owned Kulu
Corporation. Even at the beginning it couldn’t be
described as a stage one colony. It couldn’t even be
said to have gone through a purely agrarian phase. A
stony iron asteroid, Guyana, was manoeuvred into orbit
before the first settler arrived, and navy engineers
immediately set about converting it into a base. Kulu’s
larger astroengineering companies brought industry
stations to the system to gain a slice of the military
contracts involved, and to take advantage of the huge
start-up tax incentives on offer. The Kulu Corporation
began a settlement on an asteroid orbiting the gas giant
Nonoiut, which assembled a cloudscoop to mine He3.
As always within the Kingdom, the Edenists were
excluded from germinating a habitat and building an
adjunct cloudscoop, a prohibition rationalized by the
Saldanas on religious grounds.
By the time the first wave of farmers arrived, the
already substantial government presence produced a
large ready-made consumer base for their crops.

Healthcare, communications, law enforcement, and
didactic education courses, although not quite up to the
level of the Kingdom’s more developed planets, were
provided from day one. Forty hectares of land were
given to each family, along with a generous low-interest
loan for housing and agricultural machinery, with the
promise of more land for their children. Basic planetary
industrialization was given a high priority, and entire
factories were imported to provide essentials for the
engineering and construction business. Again,
government infrastructure contracts provided a
massive initial subsidy. The company and civil workers
arriving during the second ten-year period was equal to
the number of farmers.
In 2500 its population rose above the ten million mark,
and it officially lost its protectorate status to become a
principality, governed by one of the King’s siblings.
Ombey was a meticulously planned endeavour, only
possible to a culture as wealthy as the Kulu Kingdom.
The Saldanas considered the investment costs more
than worthwhile. Although the Principality didn’t start to
show a return for over ninety years, it allowed them to
expand their family dynasty as well as their influence,
both physical (economic and military) and political,
inside the Confederation. It made their position even
more secure, although by that time a republican
revolution was virtually impossible. And it was all done
without conflict or opposition with neighbouring star
systems.
By 2611 there were twelve settled asteroids in orbit and
two more on their way. Planetary population was a
fraction under two hundred million, and the twelve
settled asteroids in the system’s dense inner belt were
home to another two million people. Subsidies and
loans from Kulu had long since ended, self-sufficiency
both industrially and economically had been reached in
2545, exports were accelerating. Ombey was a thriving
decent place to live, bristling with justified optimism.
Captain Farrah Montgomery had expected the flight
from Lalonde to take four days. By the time the Ekwan
finally jumped into the Ombey system, emerging two
hundred thousand kilometres above the planet’s
surface, they had been in transit for eight. The big
colonist-carrier had endured a multitude of irritating
systems failures right from the very first minute of
getting underway. Mechanical components had broken
down, electrical circuits suffered a rash of surges and

drop-outs. Her crew had been harried into short-
tempered despair as they attempted patchwork repairs.
Most worrying, the main fusion tubes produced erratic
thrust levels, adding to the difficulty of reaching plotted
jump coordinates, and increasing the flight duration
drastically.
Fuel levels, while not yet critical, were uncomfortably
low.
Sensors slid out of their jump recesses, and Captain
Montgomery performed a preliminary visual orientation
sweep. Ombey’s solitary moon, Jethro, was rising
above the horizon, a large grey-yellow globe peppered
with small deep craters, and streaked with long white
rays. They were above the planet’s night side; the
Blackdust desert continent straddling the equator was a
huge ebony patch amid oceans that reflected jaundiced
moonlight. On the eastern side of the planet the
coastline of the Espartan continent was picked out by
the purple-white lights of towns and cities; there were
fewer urban sprawls in the interior, declining to zero at
the central mountain range.
After Captain Montgomery had cleared their arrival with
civil flight control, Ralph Hiltch contacted the navy base
on Guyana, and requested docking permission along
with a code four status alert. Ekwan closed on the
asteroid at one and a quarter gravities, holding
reasonably steady.
The base admiral, Pascoe Farquar, after receiving
Ralph’s request, backed by Sir Asquith, authorized the
alert. Nonessential personnel were cleared from the
habitation cavern the navy used. Commercial traffic
was turned away. Xenobiology, nanonic, and weapons
specialists began to assemble an isolation confinement
area for Gerald Skibbow.
The Ekwan docked at Guyana’s non-rotating spaceport
amid a tight security cordon. Royal Marines and port
personnel worked a straight five-hour shift to bring the
Ekwan’s three thousand grumbling, bewildered colonists
out of zero-tau and assign them quarters in the navy
barracks. Ralph Hiltch and Sir Asquith spent most of
that time in conference with Pascoe Farquar and his
staff. After he accessed sensorium recordings Dean
Folan made during the jungle mission, as well as the
garbled reports of Darcy and Lori claiming Laton was
on Lalonde, the admiral decided to raise the alert status

to code three.
Ralph Hiltch watched the last of the fifty armour-suited
marines floating into the Ekwan’s large zero-tau
compartment. They were all muscle boosted and
qualified in free fall combat routines; eight of them
carried medium-calibre automatic recoilless projectile
carbines. The sergeants followed Cathal Fitzgerald’s
directions and started positioning them in three
concentric circles surrounding Gerald Skibbow’s zero-
tau pod, with five on the decks either side in case he
broke through the metal grids.
Extra lights had been attached to the nearby support
girders, beams focused on the one pod in the
compartment which was still encased by an absorptive
blackness, casting a weird jumble of multiple shadows
outside the encircling ring of marines.
Ralph’s neural nanonics were relaying the scene to the
admiral and the waiting specialists. It made him slightly
self-conscious as he anchored himself to a girder to
address the marine squad.
“This might look excessive for one man,” he said to the
marines, “but don’t drop your guard for an instant.
We’re not entirely sure he is human, certainly he has
some lethal energy-projecting abilities that come
outside anything we’ve encountered before. If it’s any
comfort, free fall does seem to unnerve him slightly.
Your job is just to escort him down to the isolation area
that’s been prepared. Once he’s there, the technical
people will take over. They think the cell they’ve
prepared will be able to confine him. But getting him
there could get very messy.”
He backed away from the pod, noting the half-
apprehensive faces of the first rank of marines.
God, they look young. I hope to hell they took my
warning seriously.
He checked his own skull-helmet, and took a deep
breath. “OK, Cathal, switch it off.”
The blackness vanished from the pod revealing the
smooth cylindrical composite sarcophagus. Ralph
strained to hear the manic battering which Skibbow had
been giving the pod before the zero-tau silenced him.
The compartment was quiet apart from the occasional
scuffling of the marines as they craned for a glimpse.

“Open the lid.”
It began to slide back. Ralph braced himself for
Skibbow to burst out of the opening like a runaway
combat wasp with a forty-gee drive. He heard a
wretched whimpering sound. Cathal gave him a puzzled
glance.
God, did we get the right pod?
“All right, stay back,” Ralph said. “You two,” he indicated
the marines with the carbines, “cover me.” He pulled
himself cautiously across the grid towards the pod, still
expecting Skibbow to spring up. The whimpering grew
louder, interspersed with low groans.
Very, very carefully, Ralph eased himself up the side of
the pod, and peeked in. Ready to duck down fast.
Gerald Skibbow was floating listlessly inside the curving
cream-white composite coffin. His whole body was
trembling. He clutched his shattered hand to his chest.
Both eyes were red rimmed, blood was still oozing from
his mashed nose. The smell of jungle mud and urine
clogged in Ralph’s nose.
Gerald continued his weak gurglings, bubbles of saliva
forming at the corner of his mouth. When Ralph
manoeuvred himself right over the pod there was no
reaction from the unfocused eyes.
“Shit.”
“What’s happened?” Admiral Farquar datavised.
“I don’t know, sir. It’s Skibbow all right. But it looks like
he’s gone into some kind of shock.” He waved a hand
in front of the colonist’s filthy, bloody face. “He’s
virtually catatonic.”
“Is he still dangerous, do you think?”
“I don’t see how he could be, unless he recovers.”
“All right, Hiltch. Have the marines take him down to the
isolation area as quickly as possible. I’ll have an
emergency medical team there by the time you arrive.”
“Yes, sir.” Ralph pushed himself away, allowing three
marines to pull the still unresisting Skibbow from the
zero-tau pod. His neural nanonics informed him the
asteroid was being stood down to code six status.

I don’t understand, he thought bleakly, we brought a
walking nuke on board, and wind up with a pants-wetting
vegetable. Something wiped that sequestration from
him. What?
The marine squad departed the compartment noisily,
joking and catcalling.
Relieved they hadn’t been needed after all. With one
hand holding idly on a girder, Ralph hung between the
two decking grids long after the last of them left, staring
at the zero-tau pod.
Three hours after Guyana’s alert status was reduced to
code six, life inside had almost returned to normal.
Civilians with jobs in the military-run cavern were
allowed to resume their duties. Restrictions on
communication and travel were lifted from the other two
caverns.
Spaceships were permitted to dock and depart,
although the spaceport where the Ekwan was berthed
was still off-limits to anything but navy ships.
Three and a half hours after the marines delivered a
virtually comatose Gerald Skibbow to the isolation cell,
Captain Farrah Montgomery walked into the small
office Time Universe maintained on Guyana and
handed over Graeme Nicholson’s flek.
It was an hour after the maids had served Cricklade’s
breakfast, and Duke was already rising across a sky
that was ribbed with slender bands of flimsy cloud.
Duchess-night had seen the first sprinkling of rain since
the midsummer conjunction. The fields and forests
glimmered and shone under their glace coating of
water. Aboriginal flowers, reduced to wizened brown
coronets after discharging their seeds, turned to a
pulpy mess and started to rot away. Best of all, the dust
had gone from the air. Cricklade’s estate labourers had
started their morning in a cheerful mood at the omen.
Rain this early meant the second crop of cereals
should produce a good heavy harvest.
Louise Kavanagh didn’t care about the rain, nor the
prospect of an impending agricultural bounty. Not even
Genevieve’s playful enthusiasm could summon her for
their usual stroll in the paddock. Instead, she sat on the
toilet in her private bathroom with her panties round her
ankles and her head in her hands. Her long hair hung
lankly, tasselled ends brushing her shiny blue shoes. It
was stupid to have hair so long, she thought, stupid,

snobbish, impractical, a waste of time, and insulting.
Why should I have to be preened and groomed like I’m
a pedigree show horse? It’s a wicked, filthy tradition
treating women like that. Just so that I look the classic-
beauty part for some ghastly clot-head young
gentleman’. What do looks matter, and especially looks
that come from a pseudo-mythical past on another
planet? I already have my man.
She clenched her stomach muscles again, squeezing
her guts hard as she held her breath. Her nails dug into
her palms painfully with the effort.
Her head started to shake, skin reddening.
It didn’t make the slightest difference. She let the air out
of her straining lungs in a fraught sob.
Angry now, she squeezed again. Let out her breath.
Squeezed.
Nothing.
She wanted to cry. Her shoulders were shivering, she
even had the hot blotches round her eyes, but there
were no tears left. She was all cried out.
Her period was at least five days overdue. And she
was so regular.
She was pregnant with Joshua’s baby. It was wonderful.
It was horrible.
It was … a wretched great mess.
“Please, Jesus,” she whispered. “What we did wasn’t
really a sin. It wasn’t. I love him so. I really do. Don’t let
this happen to me. Please.”
There was nothing in the world she wanted more than to
have Joshua’s baby. But not now. Joshua himself still
seemed like a gorgeous fantasy she had made up to
amuse herself during the long hot months of Norfolk’s
quiescent summer. Too perfect to be real, the kind of
man who melted her inside even as he set her on fire
with passion. A passion she didn’t quite know she had
before. Previous daydreams of romance had all sort of
blurred into vague unknowns after her tall, handsome
champion kissed her.
But lying in bed at night the memory of Joshua’s

cunning hands exploring her naked body brought some
most unladylike flushes below the sheets.
There hadn’t been a day gone by when she didn’t visit
their little glade in Wardley Wood, and the smell of dry
hay always kindled a secret glow of arousal as she
thought of their last time together in the stable.
“Please, my Lord Jesus.”
Last year one of the girls at the convent school, a year
older than Louise, had moved away from the district
rather abruptly. She was from one of Stoke County’s
more important families, her father was a landowner
who had sat on the local council for over a decade.
Gone to stay with a wealthy sheep-farming relative on
the isle of Cumbria, the Mother Superior had told the
other pupils, where she will learn the practical aspects
of house management which will adequately prepare
her for the role of marriage. But everyone knew the real
reason. One of the Romany lads, in Stoke for the rose
crop, had tumbled her in his caravan. The girl’s family
had been more or less shunned by decent folk after
that, and her father had to resign his council seat,
saying it was due to ill health.
Not that anyone would dare do that to any branch of the
Kavanagh family.
But the whispers would start if she took a sudden
holiday; the tarnish of shame would never be lifted from
Cricklade. And Mummy would cry because her daughter
had let her down frightfully badly. And Daddy would …
Louise didn’t like to think what her father would do.
No! she told herself firmly. Stop thinking like that.
Nothing terrible is going to happen.
“You know I’m coming back,” Joshua had told her as
they lay entwined by the side of the sun-blessed
stream. And he said he loved her.
He would return. He promised.
Everything would be all right after that. Joshua was the
one person in the galaxy who could face up to her
father unafraid. Yes, everything would be fine just as
soon as he arrived.
Louise brushed her, fearsomely annoying, hair from her
face, and slowly stood up. When she looked in the

mirror she was an utter ruin. She started to tidy herself
up, pulling up her panties, splashing cold water on her
face. Her light flower-pattern dress with its long skirt
was badly creased. Why couldn’t she wear trousers, or
even shorts? She could just imagine Nanny’s reaction
to that innocent suggestion. Legs on public display?
Good grief! But it would be so much more practical in
this weather. Lots of the women working in the groves
did; girls her age, too.
She started to plait her hair. That would be something
else which changed after she was married.
Married. She grinned falteringly at her reflection.
Joshua was going to be in for a monumental shock
when he returned and she told him the stupendous
news. But, ultimately, he would be happy and rejoice
with her.
How could he not? And they would be married at the
end of summer (which was as quick as decency versus
a swelling belly could allow), when the Earth flowers
were at their peak and the granaries were full from the
second harvest. Her bulge probably wouldn’t show, not
with an adequately designed dress. Genevieve would
adore being chief bridesmaid. There would be huge
marquees on the lawns for the reception. Family
members she hadn’t seen for years. It would be the
biggest celebration in Stoke County for decades,
everyone would be happy and they would dance under
the neon-red night sky.
People might guess because of the speed. But Joshua
was going to be her father’s business partner in this
exciting mayope venture. He was rich, of good blood
(presumably, how else would he inherit a starship?), a
fine manager able to take on Cricklade. An eminently
suitable (if unusual) match for the Cricklade heir. Their
marriage wouldn’t be that extraordinary. Her reputation
would remain intact. And the Kavanaghs’ respectability
would remain unblemished.
After the wedding they could travel Norfolk’s islands for
their honeymoon. Or maybe even to another planet in
his starship. What was important was that she wouldn’t
have the baby here, with everyone noting the date of
birth.
Real life could match up to her most fantastical
daydreams. With a fabulous husband, and a beautiful
baby.

If Joshua …
Always, if Joshua …
Why did it have to be like that?
The lone Romany caravan stood beside a tall Norfolk-
aboriginal pine in a meadow which until recently had
been a site for more than thirty similar caravans. Rings
of flat reddish stones confined piles of ash, cold now.
Grass along the bank of the little stream was trampled
down where horses and goats had drunk and people
had scooped water into pails. Several piles of raw earth
marked the latrines, their conical sides scored with
fresh runnels, evidence of last Duchess-night’s rain.
The caravan, a hybrid of traditional design riding
modern lightweight wheels, had seen more prosperous
times. Its jaunty and elaborate paintwork was fading, but
the wood was sound. Three goats were tethered to its
rear axle. Two horses waited outside, one a mud-
spotted piebald shire-horse with a wild shaggy mane
which was used to pull the caravan, the other a black
riding stallion, its coat sleek and glossy, the expensive
leather saddle on its back polished to a gleam.
Grant Kavanagh stood inside the caravan, stooping so
he didn’t knock his head on the curving ceiling. It was
dark and faintly dusty, smelling of dried herbs. He
enjoyed that, it brought back sharp memories of his
teenage years. Even now, the sight of the Romany
caravans winding their way through Cricklade’s wolds
as midsummer approached always made him feel
incredibly randy.
The girl pulled back the heavy curtains hanging on a
cord across the middle of the caravan. Her name was
Carmitha, twenty years old, with a big broad-shouldered
body, which, Grant knew with depressing instinct, would
be horribly overweight in another six or seven years.
Rich black hair hanging below her shoulders
harmonized with dark, smooth skin. She had changed
into a flimsy white skirt and loose-fitting top.
“That looks fantastic,” he said.
“Why, thank you, kind sir.” She curtsied, and giggled
effusively.
Grant drew her closer and started to kiss her. His
hands fumbled with the buttons down the front of her

blouse.
She pushed him away gently, and removed his hands,
kissing the knuckles lightly. “Let me do that for you,” she
said coquettishly. Her fingers moved down to the top
button in a slow, taunting caress. He looked in delight
as her body was exposed. He pulled her down onto the
bed, immensely gratified by her ardour.
The caravan squeaked as it started rocking. A
hurricane lantern hanging from a brass chain on the
ceiling clanged loudly as it swayed gently to and fro. He
barely heard it above Carmitha’s exuberant whoops of
joy.
After a time which was nowhere near long enough, he
came in drastic shudders, his spine singing raptures.
Carmitha quickly squealed, claiming multiple orgasms
were nearly making her swoon.
He collapsed onto the bed, prickly blankets scratching
his back. Dust mingled with sweat and trickled among
the curly hair on his chest.
By God but summer conjunction makes life worth living,
he thought. A time when he could prove himself again
and again. The Tear crop had been one of the best
ever; the estate had made its usual financial killing. He
had tumbled nearly a dozen young girls from the grove
teams. The meteorological reports were predicting a
humid month ahead, which meant a good second
harvest. Young Joshua’s audacious mayope proposal
could only add to the family’s wealth and influence.
The only blot on the horizon was the reports coming out
of Boston on the disturbances. It looked like the
Democratic Land Union was stirring up trouble again.
The Union was a motley collection of reformists and
political agitators, a semi-subversive group who wanted
to see land distributed “fairly” among the People, the
foreign earnings from the sale of Norfolk Tears
invested with social relevance, and full democracy and
civil rights awarded to the population. And free beer on
Friday nights, too, no doubt, Grant thought caustically.
The whole blessing of a Confederation of eight hundred
plus planets was that it gave people a massive variety
of social systems to choose from. What the
Democratic Land Union activists failed to appreciate
was that they were free to leave for their damned
Communistic workers’ paradise as soon as the
workshy little buggers earned enough cash to pay their

passage. But oh no, they wanted to liberate Norfolk, no
matter how much damage and heartache they caused
in the process of peddling their politics of envy.
A chapter of the Democratic Land Union had tried to
spread its sedition in Stoke County about ten years
ago. Grant had helped the county’s chief constable
round them up. The leaders had been deported to a
Confederation penal planet. Some of the nastier
elements, the ones found with home-made weapons,
had been handed over to a squad of special operations
constables from the capital, Norwich. The rest, the
pitiful street trash who handed out leaflets and drank
themselves into a coma on the Union-supplied beer,
had been given fifteen years’ hard labour in the polar
work gangs.
There hadn’t been sight or sign of them on Kesteven
ever since. Some people, he thought sagely, just never
learn. If it works, don’t try and fix it. And Norfolk worked.
He kissed the crown of Carmitha’s head. “When do you
leave?”
“Tomorrow. Most of my family has already left. There is
fruit-picking work in Hurst County. It pays well.”
“And after that?”
“We’ll winter over in Holbeach. There are many deep
caves in the cliffs above the town. And some of us get
jobs in the harbour market gutting fish.”
“Sounds like a good life. Don’t you ever want to settle
down?”
She shrugged, thick hair sloshing about. “Be like you,
tied to your cold stone palace? No thanks. There might
not be much to see in this world, but I want to see it all.”
“Better make the most of the time we’ve got, then.”
She crawled on top of him, calloused hands closing
round his limp penis.
There was a pathetic scratching knock on the
caravan’s rear door. “Sir? Are you there, sir?” William
Elphinstone asked. The voice was as quavery as the
knock.
Grant chopped back on an exasperated groan. No, I’m
not in here, that’s why my bloody horse is outside.

“What do you want?”
“Sorry to bother you, sir, but there’s an urgent phone
call for you at the house. Mr. Butterworth said it was
important, it’s from Boston.”
Grant frowned. Butterworth wasn’t going to send
anyone after him unless it was genuinely important. The
estate manager knew full well what he was up to at a
slack time like this. He was also wily enough not to
come looking himself.
I wonder what young Elphinstone has done to annoy
him, Grant thought irreverently.
“Wait there,” he shouted. “I’ll be with you in a minute.”
He deliberately took his time dressing. No damn way
was he going to come dashing out of the caravan
tucking his shirt into his trousers and give the lad
something to tell all the other junior estate managers.
He straightened his tweed riding jacket, smoothed down
his muttonchops with his hands, and settled his cap.
“How do I look?”
“Masterful,” Carmitha said from the bed.
There was no detectable irony. Grant fished around in
his pocket and found two silver guineas. He dropped
the gratuity into a big china bowl sitting on a shelf
beside the door as he went out.
Louise watched her father and William Elphinstone ride
up to the front door. Grooms appeared, and took
charge of the horses. From the way the animals were
sweating it had been a hard ride. Her father hurried into
the house.
Poor old Daddy, always busy.
She strolled over to where William was talking to the
grooms, both boys younger than her. He saw her
coming and dismissed them. Louise stroked the black
stallion’s flank as the big animal was led past her.
“Whatever is all the fuss about?” she asked.
“Some call from Boston. Mr. Butterworth thought it
important enough to send me out looking for your
father.”
“Oh.” Louise started to move away. Rather annoyingly,
William walked in step with her. She wasn’t in the mood

for company.
“I’ve been asked to the Newcombes’ bash on Saturday
evening,” he said. “I thought it might be rather fun.
They’re not quite our people, but they set a decent
table. There will be dancing afterwards.”
“That’s nice.” Louise always hated it when William tried
to put on graces. “Our people” indeed! She went to
school with Mary Newcombe.
“I hoped you would come with me.”
She looked at him in surprise. Eagerness and anxiety
squabbled over his face. “Oh, William, that’s jolly nice of
you to ask. Thank you. But I really can’t. Sorry.”
“Really can’t?”
“Well, no. The Galfords are coming to dinner on
Saturday. I simply must be there.”
“I thought that perhaps now he’s left, you might find
more time for my company.”
“Now who’s left?” she asked sharply.
“Your friend, the gallant starship captain.”
“William, you really are talking the most appalling tosh.
Now I’ve said I can’t attend the Newcombes’ party with
you. Kindly leave the subject.”
He stopped and took hold of her arm. She was too
surprised to say anything. People simply did not take
such liberties.
“You always found plenty of time for him,” he said in a
flat tone.
“William, desist this instant.”
“Every day, it was. The two of you galloping off to
Wardley Wood.”
Louise felt the blood rising to her cheeks. What did he
know? “Remove your hand from me. Now!”
“You didn’t mind his hands.”
“William!”
He gave her a humourless smile and let go. “I’m not
jealous. Don’t get me wrong.”

“There is nothing to be jealous of. Joshua Calvert was
a guest and friend of my father’s. That is the end of the
matter.”
“Some fiances would think otherwise.”
“Who?” she squawked.
“Fiances, my dearest Louise. You must be aware there
is some considerable speculation upon whom you are
to marry. All I’m saying is that there are some Kesteven
families of good breeding, and eligible sons, who would
take exception to your … shall we call it, indiscretion.”
She slapped him. The sound rang across the lawn as
her palm struck his cheek. “How dare you!”
He dabbed at his cheek with the fingers of his right
hand, a look of distaste on his face. The imprint of her
palm was clearly etched in pink.
“What an impetuous creature you are, Louise. I had no
idea.”
“Get out of my sight.”
“Of course, if that’s what you wish. But you might like to
consider that should word get out, your currently
enviable position may well become less than secure. I
don’t want to see that happen, Louise, I really don’t. You
see, I am genuinely very fond of you. Fond enough to
make allowances.”
She seemed utterly incapable of movement,
condemned to stand there in front of him, gaping in
astonishment. “You …” It came out in a crushed gasp.
For a distressing instant she thought she was going to
faint.
William knelt in front of her.
No, she thought, oh no no no, this can’t be happening.
Joshua bloody Calvert, where are you?
“Marry me, Louise. I can obtain your father’s approval,
have no fear of that. Marry me, and we can have a
wonderful future together here at Cricklade.” He held
his hand out, face soft with expectancy.
She drew herself up into the most regal pose she could
manage. And very clearly, very calmly said: “I would
sooner shovel bullock manure for a living.” One of

Joshua’s better expressions, though admittedly not
verbatim.
William paled.
She turned on a heel and walked away. Her back held
straight.
“This is not the last time we shall pursue this topic,” he
called after her. “Believe me, dearest Louise, I will not
be defeated in my suit for you.”
Grant Kavanagh sat himself down behind the desk in
his study and picked up the phone. His secretary had
put a call through to Trevor Clarke, Kesteven’s lord
lieutenant. Grant didn’t like the implications of that one
jot.
“I need you to bring Stoke’s militia to Boston,” Trevor
Clarke said as soon as they had exchanged greetings.
“A full turnout, please, Grant.”
“That might be difficult,” Grant said. “This is still a busy
time here. The rosegroves need pruning, and there’s
the second grain crop to drill. We can hardly take able
men from the land.”
“Can’t be helped. I’m calling in all the county militias.”
“All of them?”
” Fraid so, old chap. We’ve blacked it from the news,
you understand, but the situation in Boston, frankly,
doesn’t look good.”
“What situation? You’re not seriously telling me that
bloody Union rabble worries you?”
“Grant …” Trevor Clarke’s voice dropped an octave.
“Listen, this is totally confidential, but there are already
five districts in Boston that have been completely taken
over by this mob, rendered ungovernable. We have a
state of open insurrection here. If we send the police in
to re-establish order they don’t come out again. The
city is under martial law, insofar as we can enforce it.
I’m worried, Grant.”
“Dear Christ! The Democratic Land Union has done
this?”
“We’re not sure. Whoever these insurrectionists are,
they seem to be armed with energy weapons. That
means offplanet complicity. But it’s hard to believe the

Union could ever organize something like that. You
know what they’re like, hotheads smashing up tractors
and ploughs. Energy weapons break every letter in our
constitution; they are everything this society was set up
to avoid.”
“An outside force?” Grant Kavanagh could hardly
believe what he was hearing.
“It may be. I have asked the Chancellor’s office in
Norwich to request the Confederation Navy squadron
extends its duty tour. Fortunately the personnel are all
still here having their shore leave. The squadron
commander is recalling them back up to orbit now.”
“What good is that?”
“The navy starships can make damn sure nothing else
is delivered to the insurrectionists from outsystem. And
as a last resort they can provide our ground forces with
strike power.”
Grant sat perfectly still. Ground forces. Strike power. It
was unreal.
Through the windows he could see Cricklade’s peaceful
wolds, rich and verdant. And here he was calmly talking
about virtual civil war. “But God’s teeth, man, this is a
city we’re talking about. You can’t use starship weapons
against Boston. There are a hundred and twenty
thousand people living there.”
“I know,” Trevor Clarke said mordantly. “One of the
militia’s major assignments will be to help evacuate the
civilians. You will be minimizing casualties, Grant.”
“Have you told the Chancellor what you’re planning?
Because if you haven’t, I damn well will.”
There was a silence which lasted for several seconds.
“Grant,” Trevor Clarke said gently, “it was the
Chancellor’s office that recommended this action to
me. It must be done while the insurrectionists are
concentrated in one place, before they have a chance
to spread their damnable revolution. So many people
are joining them. I … I never thought there was so much
dissatisfaction on the planet. It has to be stopped, and
stopped in a way that forbids repetition.”
“Oh, my God,” Grant Kavanagh said brokenly. “All right,
Trevor, I understand. I’ll call in the militia captains this
afternoon. The regiment will be ready for you by

tomorrow.”
“Good man, Grant. I knew I could rely on you. There will
be a train to collect you from Colsterworth Station. We’ll
billet you in an industrial warehouse outside town. And
don’t worry, man, the starships are only a last resort. I
expect we’ll only need one small demonstration and
they’ll cave in.”
“Yes. I’m sure you’re right.” Grant returned the pearl-
handled phone to its cradle, a morbid premonition telling
him it could never be that simple.
The train had six passenger carriages, room enough
for all of the Stoke county militia’s seven hundred men.
It took them twenty-five minutes to embark. The station
was a scene of pure chaos; half of the town’s streets
were clogged with carts, carriages, buses, and farm-
ranger vehicles.
Families took a long time saying goodbye. Men were
shifty and irritable in their grey uniforms. Complaints
about ill-fitting boots rippled up and down the platform.
Louise and Marjorie were pressed against the wall of
the station with a pile of kitbags on one side, and olive-
green metal ammunition boxes on the other. Some of
the boxes had date stamps over ten years old. Three
hard-faced men were guarding the ammunition, stumpy
black guns cradled in their arms. Louise was beginning
to regret coming, Genevieve hadn’t been allowed.
Mr Butterworth, in his sergeant-major’s uniform,
marched up and down the platform, ordering people
about. The train was gradually filled; work teams began
to load the kitbags and ammunition into the first
carriage’s mail compartment.
William Elphinstone came down the platform, looking
very smart in his lieutenant’s uniform. He stopped in
front of them. “Mrs Kavanagh,” he said crisply. “Louise.
It looks like we’re off in five minutes.”
“Well, you mind you take great care, William,” Marjorie
said.
“Thank you. I will.”
Louise let her gaze wander away with deliberate
slowness. William looked slightly put out, but decided
this wasn’t the time to make an issue of it. He nodded
to Marjorie and marched off.

She turned to her daughter. “Louise, that was extremely
rude.”
“Yes, Mother,” Louise said unrepentantly. How typical
of William to volunteer even though it wasn’t his militia,
she thought. He only did it to be covered in glory, so he
would seem even more acceptable to Daddy.
And he would never be in the front line sharing the risk
with the poor common troops, not him. Joshua would.
Marjorie gave her daughter a close look at the
unexpected tone, seeing the sulky stubborn expression
on her usually placid face. So Louise doesn’t like
William Elphinstone. Can’t say I blame her. But to be so
public was totally out of character. Louise’s decorum
was always meticulously formal and correct, gratingly
so. Suddenly, despite all the worry of Boston, she felt
delighted. Her daughter wasn’t the meek-minded little
mouse any more. She wanted to cheer out loud. And I
wonder what started this episode of independent
thinking, though I’ve a pretty shrewd idea. Joshua
Calvert, if you laid one finger on her …
Grant Kavanagh strode vigorously along the side of the
train, making sure his troops were settled and
everything was in place. His wife and daughter were
waiting dutifully at the end of the platform. Both of them
quite divine, Marjorie especially.
Why do I bother with those little Romany tarts?
Louise’s face was all melancholic. Frightened, but trying
not to show it.
Trying to be brave like a good Kavanagh. What a
wonderful daughter.
Growing up a treat. Even though she had been a bit
moody these last few days. Probably missing Joshua,
he thought jovially. But that was just another reminder
that he really would have to start thinking seriously
about a decent bloodmatch for her. Not yet though, not
this year.
Cricklade Manor would still echo with her laughter over
Christmas, warming his heart.
He hugged her, and her arms wrapped round his waist.
“Don’t go, Daddy,” she whispered.
“I have to. It won’t be for long.”

She sniffed hard, and nodded. “I understand.”
He kissed Marjorie, ignoring the whistles and cheers
which rang out from the carriages at the rear of the
train.
“Now don’t you try and prove anything,” she said in that
weary half-censorious way which meant she was
scared to the core. So he said, “Of course I won’t, I’ll
just sit in the command tent and let the youngsters get
on with it.”
Marjorie put her arm around Louise as they waved the
train out of the station. The platform was a solid mass
of women with handkerchiefs flapping from frantic
wrists. She wanted to laugh at how silly they must all
look to the men on the train. But she didn’t because she
was a Kavanagh, and must set an example. Besides,
she might have started crying at the futility and stupidity
of it all.
In the clear sky above, silver lights flashed and twisted
as the navy squadron changed formation and orbital
inclination so that Boston was always in range to one of
their number.
Dariat was nerving himself up to commit suicide. It
wasn’t easy. Suicide was the culmination of failure, of
despair. Since the return of the dead from the realm of
emptiness, his life had become inspiring.
He watched the couple make their cautious way down
the starscraper’s fetid stairwell. Kiera Salter had done
well seducing the boy, but then what fifteen-year-old
male could possibly resist Marie Skibbow’s body?
Kiera didn’t even have to enhance the physique she
had possessed. She just put on a mauve tank top and a
short sky-blue skirt and let nature wreak havoc on the
boy’s hormone balance, as she had done with Anders
Bospoort.
The monitoring subroutine assigned to observe Horgan
flowed through the neural cells behind the stairwell’s
polyp walls, spreading out through the surrounding
sectors to interface with the starscraper’s existing
routines. An invisible, all-encompassing guardian angel.
It was checking for threats, the possibility of danger.
Horgan was another of Rubra’s myriad descendants.
Cosseted, privileged, and cherished; his mind silently,
stealthily guided into the correct academic spheres of

interest, and bequeathed a breathtaking arrogance for
one so young. He had all the hallmarks of conceit
endemic to Rubra’s tragic proteges.
Horgan was proud and lonely and foul tempered. A
lanky youth with dark Asian skin, and giveaway indigo
eyes, if his chromosomes had granted him the muscle
weight to back up his narcissistic personality he would
have been involved in as many fights as the young
Dariat.
Naturally he admitted no surprise when Kiera/Marie
confided her attraction to him. A girl like that was his
due.
Kiera and Horgan stepped out of the stairwell onto the
eighty-fifth-floor vestibule.
Dariat felt the monitoring routine flood into the
apartment’s stratum of neural cells and interrogate the
autonomic routines within, reviewing local memories.
This was the crux. It had taken him two days to modify
the apartment’s routines. None of his usual evasions
had ever had to withstand examination by such a large
personality subroutine before, it was virtually sentient in
its own right.
There was no alarm, no bugle for help to Rubra’s
principal consciousness.
The monitor routine saw only an empty apartment
waiting for Horgan.
“They are coming,” Dariat told the others in Anders
Bospoort’s bedroom.
All three possessed were with him. Ross Nash who
rode in Bospoort’s own body, a Canadian from the
early twentieth century. Enid Ponter, from the
Australian-ethnic planet Geraldton, dead for two
centuries, who occupied Alicia Cochrane’s mortal form.
And Klaus Schiller, possessing Manza Balyuzi’s body, a
German who muttered incessantly about his Fhrer, and
seemingly angered at having to take on an Asian
appearance. The body was now markedly different to
the image contained in his passport flek the day he
disembarked from the Yaku. His skin was blanching; jet-
black hair streaked with expanding tufts of fine blond
strands; the gentle facial features shifting to rugged
bluntness, eyes azure blue. He had even grown a
couple of centimetres taller.

“And Rubra?” Enid Ponter asked. “Does he know?”
“My disruption routines have worked. The monitor can’t
see us.”
Ross Nash looked slowly round the bedroom, almost as
though he was sniffing a trace of some exotic scent in
the air. “I sense it. Behind the walls, there is a coldness
of heart.”
“Anstid,” Dariat said. “That’s what you sense. Rubra is
just an aspect of him, a servant.”
Ross Nash made no attempt to hide his disgust.
None of them really trusted him, Dariat knew. They
were strong enemies who had agreed a precarious
truce because of the damage they could each inflict on
the other. Such a stand-off could never last long.
Human doubts and insecurities gnawed at such
restraints, chafing at reasonableness. And the stakes
on both sides were high, accelerating the devout need
to see treachery in every hesitant breath and wary
footstep.
But he would prove his worthiness as few had done
before. Entrusting them with not merely his life, but his
death as well. It was all so absurdly logical.
He needed their awesome powers of manifestation,
and at the same time retain his affinity. Their power
came from death, therefore he must die and possess a
body with the affinity gene. So simple when you say it
quick. And completely mad. But then what he had seen
these last few days defied sanity.
Horgan and Kiera entered the apartment. They were
kissing even as the door closed.
Dariat concentrated hard, his affinity strumming the
new neural routines alive with a delicate harmony of
deceit. The image of the twined figures was
incorporated into one of them. An illusive fallacy;
generated by a misappropriated section of the habitat’s
neural cells massing ten times that of the human brain.
Small in relation to the total mass of the neural strata,
but enough to make the illusion perfect, giving the
phantom Horgan and Kiera weight and texture and
colour and smell. Even body heat. The sensitive cells
registered that as they started to tug each other’s
clothes off with the typical impatience of teenagers in
lust.

Most difficult of all for Dariat to mimic was the constant
flow of emotion and feeling Horgan emitted
unconsciously into the affinity band.
But he managed it, by dint of careful memory and
composition. The monitor routine looked on with tranquil
disinterest.
There was a split in Dariat’s mind, like alternative
quantum-cosmology histories, two realities diverging. In
one, Horgan and Kiera raced for the bedroom,
laughing, clothes flying. In the other …
Horgan’s eyes blinked open in surprise. The kiss had
delivered every promise her body made. He was
primed for the greatest erotic encounter of his life. But
now she was sneering contemptuously. And four other
people were coming into the lounge from one of the
bedrooms. Two of the men were huge, in opposite
directions.
Horgan barely paid them any attention. He had heard of
deals like this, whispered terrors amongst the kids in
the day clubs. Snuffsense. The bitch had set him up as
the meat they would rape to death. He turned, his leg
muscles already taut.
Something, strange, like a hard ball of liquid, hit him on
the back of the head. He was falling, and in the distance
a choir of infernal angels was singing.
Dariat stood aside as Ross Nash hauled the
semiconscious Horgan into the bedroom. He tried not
to stare at the boy’s feet, they were floating ten
centimetres in the air.
“Are you ready?” Kiera asked, her tone dripping with
disdain.
He walked past her into the bedroom. “Do we get to
screw afterwards?”
Dariat had favoured an old-fashioned capsule you
swallowed rather than a transfusion pad or medical
package. It was black, naturally, two centimetres long.
He had acquired it from his regular narkhal supplier. A
neurotoxin, guaranteed painless, she promised. As if
he could complain if it wasn’t.
He grinned at that. And swallowed, almost while his
conscious mind was diverted. If it did hurt she was due
for some very pointed lessons on consumer rights from

an unexpected direction.
“Get on with it,” he told the figures grouped round the
bed. Tall and reedy, they were now, mud-brown effigies
a sculptor had captured through a blurred lens. They
bent over the spreadeagled boy and sent cold fire
writhing up and down his spine.
The poison was fast acting. Guaranteed. Dariat was
losing all feeling in his limbs. Sight greyed out. His
hearing faded, which was a relief. It meant he didn’t
have to listen to all that screaming. “Anastasia,” he
muttered. How easy it would be to join her now. She
only had a thirty-year head start, and what was that
compared to infinity? He could find her.
Death.
And beyond.
A violent jerk of both body and mind. The universe blew
away in all directions at once, horrifying in its
immensity. Silence shrouded him; a silence he
considered only possible in the extremity of
intergalactic space. Silence without heat or cold, without
touch or taste. Silence singing with thoughts.
He didn’t look around. There was nothing to look with,
nowhere to look, not in this, the sixth realm. But he
knew, was aware of, what shared this state with him,
the spirits Anastasia had told him about as they sat in
her tepee so long ago.
Nebulous minds wept tears of emotion, their sorrow
and lamentation splashing against him. And whole
spectra of hatreds; jealousy and envy, but mostly self-
loathing. They were spirits, all of them, lost beyond
redemption.
Outside of this was colour, all around, but never
present. Untouchable and taunting. A universe he was
pleased to call real. The realm of the living. A wondrous,
beautiful place, a corporeality crying out for belonging.
He wanted to beat against it, to demand entry. He had
no hands, and there was no wall. He wanted to call to
the living to rescue him. He had no voice.
“Help me!” his mind shrieked.
The lost spirits laughed cruelly. Their numbers pressed
against him, vast beyond legion. He had no single

defined location, he found, no kernel with a protective
shell. He was everywhere at once, conjunctive with
them. Helpless against their invasion. Lust and avarice
sent them prising and clawing at his memories, suckling
the sweet draught of sensations he contained. A poor
substitute for intrinsicality, but still fresh, still juicy with
detail. The only sustenance this arcane continuum
boasted.
“Anastasia, help me.”
They adored his most shameful secrets, for they
carried the strongest passion, stolen glances at women
through the habitat sensitive cells, masturbating, the
hopeless yearning for Anastasia, impossible promises
made in the depth of night, hangovers, gluttony, glee as
the club smashed against Mersin Columba’s head,
Anastasia’s vital body hot against him, limbs locking
together. They drank it all, deriding him even as they
idolized him for the glimpse of life he brought.
Time. Dariat could sense it going by outside. Seconds,
mere seconds had elapsed. Here, though, it had little
relevance. Time was the length of every memory,
governed by perception. Here it was defied as his rape
went on and on. A rape which wasn’t going to end. Not
ever. There were too many of them for it to end.
He would have to abide by it, he realized in dread. And
join in. Already he craved the knowledge of warmth, of
touch, of smell. Memories of such treasures were all
around. He had only to reach out,
The bedroom was damp and cold, its furniture cheap.
But he couldn’t afford anything more. Not now. The
dismissal papers were still in his jacket pocket. The last
pay packet was in there with it, but slim now. It had been
fatter this afternoon. Before he went to the bar, doing
what any man would.
Debbi was rising from the bed, blinking drowsily up at
him. Voice like a fucking cat, complaining complaining
complaining. Where had he been with his no-good
friends? Did he know what time it was? How much had
he drunk?
Like she always did.
So he told the bitch to shut up, because for once he
was utterly pissed off with all the grief she gave him.
And when she didn’t quieten down he hit her. Even that
didn’t do it. She was shrieking real loud now, waking up

the whole goddamn neighbourhood. So he hit her again,
harder this time.
, to devour the pitiful echoes of sensation.
“Holy Anstid, help me your eternal servant. For pity’s
sake. Help!”
Laughter, only laughter. So he raged back and lost
himself from the mockery in,
The sun glinting off the Inca temple that rose
unchallenged into the sky.
It was greater than any cathedral he had ever seen. But
its builders were now a nation quelled before Spain’s
might. And the wealth inside the broken city was beyond
that of kings. A life of glory awaited its conquerors.
His armour acted like a furnace in the heat. And the
gash on his leg was host to strange brown pustular
styes, spores of accursed jungle. Already he was
frightened he wouldn’t live to see Spain’s shores again.
, which wasn’t an answer. Calamity and pain were thin
substitutes for the explosion of experience which lay in
the vaguely perceived extrinsic universe.
Ten seconds. That was all the time that had passed
there since he died.
And how long had some of the spirits been here? How
could they stand it,
Centuries which ache like a lover’s heart laid still. To
leech and leech what is new to find only that which is
stale. Yet even such an insipid taste surpasses the hell
which lies further from the taunting glimmer of the lost
home of our flesh. Madness and dragons lie in wait for
those that venture away from what we discern. Safer to
stay. Safer to suffer the known rather than the
unknown.
, Dariat could distinguish bursts of Horgan’s pain,
flashing into the nothingness of the sixth realm like
flames licking through black timber.
They came from where the spirits were clustered
thickest, as though they were dogs fighting for scraps
of the rarest steak.
Colours were stronger there, oozing through cracks
that curved across dimensions. And the lost spirits

howled in a unison of hatred, tempting and taunting
Horgan to accede, to surrender. Maidens promised
oceans of pleasure while malefactors threatened
eternities of torment.
The cracks from which the rich slivers of pain emerged
were growing wider as Kiera, Ross, Enid, and Klaus
exerted their power.
“Mine,” Dariat proclaimed in defiance. “He is mine.
Prepared for me. He belongs to me.”
“No, mine.”
“Mine.”
“Mine.”
“Mine,” rose the cry.
“Kiera, Ross, help me. Let me come back.” He knew he
could not stay here.
Cool quiet darkness called, away from the universe of
birth. Where Anastasia had gone, where they would
meet again. To linger here with only the memories of
yesterday’s dreams as a reason was insanity.
Anastasia was brave enough to venture forth. He could
follow in her wake, unworthy though he was.
“Stop it, I beg,” Horgan called. “Rescue me.”
The uniformity in which Dariat was suspended began to
warp. A tight narrow funnel resembling a cyclone vortex
that led down into the fathomless unknowable heart of a
gas giant. Spirits were compelled towards it, into it.
Dariat was one of them, pressed ever tighter against,
A poorly cobbled street with cottages on either side. It
was raining hard. His bare feet were numb with cold.
Wood smoke hung in the air, wisps from the chimneys
swirled low by the wind. Water was soaking his ragged
coat and making his cough worse. His thin chest
vibrated as the air bucked in his throat. Ma had taken to
giving him sad smiles whenever he told her how bad it
felt inside.
Beside him his little sister was sniffling. Her face was
barely visible below her woolen bonnet and above her
coat collar. He held her hand in his as she tottered
along unquestioningly. She looked so frail, worse than
him. And winter was only just beginning. There never

seemed to be enough broth; and the portions they had
were made mostly from vegetables.
It didn’t fill the belly. Yet there was meat in the butchers.
Townsfolk walked along with them as the church bell
pealed incessantly, summoning them. His sister’s
wooden clogs made dull rapping sounds against the
cobbles. They were full with water, swelling her small
white feet, and making the sores worse.
Da earned a good wage labouring in the squire’s fields.
But there was never extra money to spend on food.
The worn penny piece with Queen Victoria’s face was
clutched in his free hand. Destined for the smiling,
warmly dressed pastor.
It just didn’t seem right.
“Please,” Horgan called, weaker now, thoughts bruised
by the pain.
Dariat slid in towards the boy. “I’ll help, I’ll help,” he lied.
Light trickled through from the far end of the tunnel,
flickering and shifting, glowing like sunlight shining
through stained glass into a dusty church.
But the other spirits were promising the boy salvation
as well,
Cold claimed the whole world. There was no such thing
as warmth, not even inside his stiff, stinking furs. In the
distance the ice wall glared a dazzling silver-white as
the sun beat upon it. The others of the tribe were
spread out across the grassy plain, sloshing their way
through ice-mushed puddles. And glimpsed up ahead
through the tall, swaying spires of grass was the
mammoth.
“Come then, Dariat,” Ross Nash called.
Dariat saw his thoughts take form, become harder, as
groping fingers of energy reached for him. He was
strengthened from the touch, given weight, given
volume; hurtling past the other spirits, victory rapturous
in his mind. They howled and cursed as he was sucked
down and down. Faster, in.
Even midnight-blackness was a sight to rejoice.
Eyelids blinked away tears of joy. Pain was glorious
because it was real.

He moaned at the wounds scored across his thin body,
and felt a strange sensation of dry fluid bathe his skin. It
flowed where his mind directed.
So he put forth his will and watched the lacerations
close. Yes!
Oh, my darling Anastasia, you were right all along. And
always I doubted, at the core, in my secret spirit. What
have I done?
Kiera smiled scornfully down at him. “Now you will forget
your feeble quest for revenge against Rubra, and work
with us to capture Magellanic Itg’s blackhawks with your
affinity so we may spread ourselves across the stars.
Because to lose now will mean returning to the
incarceration of the beyond. You were there for fifteen
seconds, Dariat. Next time it will be for ever.”
Ione didn’t sleep. Her body was drowsy, and her eyelids
were heavy enough to remain closed. But her mind
floated at random through the habitat’s perception
images. She reacquainted herself with favourite slices
of landscape, checking on the residents as they
slumbered or partied or worked their way through the
small hours. Young children were already stirring,
yawning staff arrived at the restaurants which served
breakfast. Starships came and (a lower number than
normal) went from the spaceport outside. A couple of
oddball scavenger craft were rising slowly out of the
Ruin Ring along Hohmann transfer orbits which would
bring them to an eventual rendezvous with the habitat.
Mirchusko was ninety per cent full, its ochre-on-saffron
storm-bands bold against the starfield. Five of its seven
major moons were visible, various lacklustre crescents
strung out across the ring plane.
Far inside the gossamer ribbon of the Ruin Ring two
dozen blackhawks were rushing towards the gas giant’s
equator on a mating flight. Three eggs had already
been ejected into Mirchusko’s thick inner rings. She
listened to their awed, inquisitive exchanges with the
blackhawks who had helped stabilize them; whilst racing
on ahead their dying parent radiated sublime
gratification.
Life goes on, Ione thought, even in dire times like these.
A subroutine pervading the lakeside house warned her
Dominique was approaching the bedroom. She
dismissed the habitat perception and opened her eyes.

Clement was lying on the furred air mattress beside
her, mouth open, eyes tight shut, snoring softly.
Ione recalled the night fondly. He was a good lover,
enthusiastic, knowledgeable, slightly selfish, but that
was most likely due to his age.
And for all the enjoyment, he wasn’t Joshua.
The muscle membrane door opened to allow Dominique
in. She was dressed in a short royal-purple robe,
carrying a tray. “So how was my little brother?” She
leered down at the two naked bodies.
Ione laughed. “Growing up big and strong.”
“Really? You should abolish incest, I could find out for
myself then.”
“Ask the bishop. I only do civil and financial laws.
Morals are all down to him.”
“Breakfast?” Dominique asked, perching on the end of
the bed. “I’ve got juice, toast, coffee, and quantat
slices.”
“Sounds fine.” Ione nudged Clement awake, and
ordered the window to clear. The glass lost its deep
hazel tint to reveal the placid lake at the foot of the cliff.
Tranquillity’s axial light-tube was just starting to
fluoresce its way up through the orange spectrum.
“Any word in about Laton?” Dominique asked. She sat
crosslegged facing Ione and Clement, pouring juice and
handing round toast.
“Nothing to add to what the navy voidhawk brought
yesterday,” Ione said.
It was one of the reasons she had turned to Clement,
for the comfort of physical contact, the need to be
wanted. She had accessed the Confederation Navy’s
classified report on the energy virus with growing
concern.
As soon as Tranquillity reported the contents of
Graeme Nicholson’s flek she had placed an order for
another ten strategic-defence platforms from the
industrial stations orbiting outside the spaceport,
supplementing the thirty-five which already protected
the habitat. The companies were glad of the work,
starship component manufacturing was slowing along

with the declining number of flights. It didn’t take a
military genius to work out that Laton was going to try
and spread his revolution; and Tranquillity was almost
on a direct line between Lalonde and Earth, the core of
the Confederation. The first pair of new platforms were
nearly ready to deploy, with the rest being completed
over another six days. And she was already wondering
if she should order more.
Within an hour of the navy voidhawk delivering the
warning flek from Trafalgar, she had hired twelve
blackhawks to act as close-range patrol vessels, and
equipped them with nuclear-armed combat wasps from
Tranquillity’s reserve stocks. She was thankful there
were enough of the bitek craft available to charter. But
then since her grandfather opened the habitat as a
base for mating flights the blackhawks and their
captains had been pretty loyal to Tranquillity and the
Lord of Ruin.
What with the extra defences and the patrols, the
habitat was developing a siege mentality in the wake of
Terrance Smith’s departure.
But were her precautions enough?
“How is the alert hitting the Vasilkovsky Line?” Ione
asked.
Dominique took a drink of juice. “Hard. We’ve got
twenty-five ships idle in Tranquillity’s dock right now. No
merchant is going to risk sending cargo until they know
for sure Laton isn’t at the destination. Three of our
captains arrived yesterday, all from different star
systems. They all said the same thing. Planetary
governments are virtually quarantining incoming
starships, asteroid governments too. Give it another
week, and interstellar trade will have shut down
altogether.”
“They’ll find the Yaku by then,” Clement said, tearing a
corner off his toast. “Hell, they’ve probably found it
already. The navy voidhawk said it was a
Confederationwide alert. No ship is ever more than ten
days from a star system. I bet a navy squadron is
blowing it to smithereens right now.”
“That’s what gets me the most,” Ione said. “No knowing,
having to wait for days for any news.”
Dominique leant forwards and squeezed her knee.
“Don’t worry. The 7th Fleet squadron will stop him from

becoming involved. They’ll all be back here in a week
with their tails between their legs complaining they didn’t
get a chance to play soldier.”
Ione looked up into deep, surprisingly understanding
eyes. “Yeah.”
“He’ll be all right. He’s the only man I know who could lie
his way out of a supernova explosion. Some leftover
megalomaniac isn’t going to be a problem.”
“Thanks.”
“Who?” Clement asked around a full mouth, looking
from one girl to another.
Ione bit into a slice of her orange-coloured quantat. It
had the texture of a melon, but tasted like spicy
grapefruit. Dominique was grinning roguishly at her over
a coffeecup.
“Girls’ talk,” Dominique said. “You wouldn’t understand.”
Clement threw a quantat rind at her. “It’s Joshua.
You’ve both got the hots for him.”
“He’s a friend,” Ione said. “And he’s in way over his silly
little head, and we’re worried about him.”
“Don’t be,” Clement said briskly. “Joshua showed me
round the Lady Macbeth. She’s got more combat
potential than a front-line frigate, and Smith armed her
with combat wasps before they left. Anyone damn
stupid enough to go up against that starship is dead
meat.”
Ione gave him a kiss. “Thank you, too.”
“Any time.”
They ate the rest of their breakfast in companionable
peace. Ione was debating what to do for the rest of the
day when Tranquillity called.
That was the thing with being the absolute ruler of a
bitek habitat, she reflected, you don’t really have to do
anything, thoughts were acted on instantly. But there
was the human side to consider. The Chamber of
Trade was nervous, the Financial and Commerce
Council more so, ordinary people didn’t know what was
going on. Everybody wanted reassurance, and they
expected her to provide it. She had done two interviews
with news companies yesterday, and there were three

delegations who wanted personal audiences.
<<Parker Higgens is requesting an immediate
interview,>> Tranquillity told her as she was finishing
her coffee. <<I recommend you grant it.>>
<<Oh, you do, do you? Well, I think there are more
important things for me to attend to right now.>>
<<I believe this to be more important than the Laton
crisis.>>
<<What?>> It was the ambiguity which made her sit up
straighter on the furry bed. Tranquillity was emitting a
strong impression of discomfort, as if it was unsure of a
subject. Unusual enough to intrigue her.
<<There has been some remarkable progress with the
Laymil sensorium recordings in the last seventy hours. I
did not wish to trouble you with the project while you
were involved with upgrading my defence and soothing
the residents. That may have been my mistake. Last
night some of the researchers made an extremely
important find.>>
<<Which is?>> she asked avidly.
<<They believe they have located the Laymil home
planet.>>
The path leading from the tube station to the octagonal
Electronics Division building was littered with ripe
bronze berries fallen from the tall chuantawa trees.
They crunched softly as Ione’s shoes helped flatten
them further into the stone slabs.
Project staff emerging from the stations gave her the
faintly guilty glance of all workers arriving early and
finding the boss already in.
Oski Katsura greeted her at the entrance, dressed in
her usual white lab smock, one of the few people in the
habitat who never seemed perturbed by Ione’s escort
of serjeants. “We haven’t made an announcement yet,”
she said as they went inside. “Some of the implications
are only just sinking in.”
The hall where the Laymil stack was kept had changed
considerably since Ione’s first visit. Most of the
experimental electronic equipment had been cleared
out. Processor blocks and AV projectors were lined up
along the benches, forming individual research stations,

each with a rack of fleks. Workshop cubicles behind the
glass wall had been converted into offices. The
impression was one of academic endeavour rather
than out and out scientific pioneering.
“We use this mainly as a sorting centre now,” Oski
Katsura said. “As soon as they have been decrypted,
the sensorium memories are individually reviewed by a
panel of experts drawn from every discipline we have
here at the project. They provide a rough initial
classification, cataloguing incidents and events
depicted, and decide if there is anything which will
interest their profession. After that the relevant memory
is datavised to an investigatory and assessment
committee which each division has formed.
As you can imagine, most of it has been sent to the
Cultural and Psychology divisions. But even seeing
their electronics used in the intended context of
mundane day-to-day operation has been immensely
useful to us here. And the same goes for most of the
physical disciplines, engineering, fusion, structures.
There’s something in most memories for all of us. I’m
afraid a final and exhaustive analysis is going to take a
couple of decades at least. All we are doing for now is
providing a preliminary interpretation.”
Ione nodded silent approval. Tranquillity’s background
memories were revealing how hard the review teams
were working.
There were only five other people in the hall, as well as
Lieria. They had all been working through the night, and
now they were clustered round a tray from the canteen,
drinking tea and eating croissants. Parker Higgens
rose as soon as she came in. His grey suit jacket was
hanging off the back of one of the chairs, revealing a
crumpled blue shirt. All-night sessions were obviously
something the old director was finding increasingly
difficult to manage. But he proffered a tired smile as he
introduced her to the other four. Malandra Sarker and
Qingyn Lin were Laymil spaceship experts, she a
biotechnology systems specialist, while his field was the
mechanical and electrical units the xenocs employed in
their craft. Ione shook hands while Tranquillity silently
supplied profile summaries of the two. Malandra Sarker
struck her as being young for the job at twenty-eight, but
she had her doctorate from the capital university on
Quang Tri, and references which were impeccable.
Ione knew Kempster Getchell, the Astronomy Division’s

chief; they had met during the first round of briefings,
and on several formal social occasions since then. He
was in his late sixties, and from a family which lacked
any substantial geneering. But despite entropy’s
offensive, leaving him with greying, thinning hair, and a
stoop to his shoulders, he projected a lively puckish
attitude, the complete opposite to Parker Higgens.
Astronomy was one of the smallest divisions in the
Laymil project, concerned mainly with identifying stars
which had Laymil-compatible spectra, and searching
through radio astronomy records to see if any
abnormality had ever been found to indicate a
civilization.
Despite frequent requests, no Lord of Ruin had ever
agreed to fund the division’s own radio-telescope array.
They had to make do with library records from
universities across the Confederation.
Kempster Getchell’s assistant was Renato Vella, a
swarthy thirty-five-year-old from Valencia, on a four-
year sabbatical from one of its universities. He acted
both excited and awed when Ione greeted him.
She wasn’t quite sure if it was her presence or their
discovery which instigated his jitters.
“The Laymil home planet?” Ione asked Parker Higgens,
permitting a note of scepticism to sound.
“Yes, ma’am,” the director said. The joy that should
have been present at making the announcement was
missing, he seemed more apprehensive than
triumphant.
“Where is it?” she asked.
Parker Higgens traded a pleading glance with Kempster
Getchell, then sighed. “It used to be here, in this solar
system.”
Ione counted to three. “Used to be?”
“Yes.”
<<Tranquillity? What is going on?>>
<<Although it is an extraordinary claim, the evidence
does appear to be slanted in their favour. Allow them to
complete their explanation.>>
<<All right.>> “Go on.”

“It was a recording that was translated two days ago,”
Malandra Sarker said. “We found we had got the
memory of a Laymil spaceship crew-member.
Naturally we were delighted, it would give us a definite
blueprint for one of their ships, inside and out, as well
as the operating procedures.
Up until now all we’ve had is fragments of what we
thought were spaceship parts. Well we found out what a
Laymil ship looks like all right.” She datavised one of the
nearby processor blocks; its AV pillar shone an image
into Ione’s eyes.
The Laymil ship had three distinct sections. At the front
were four white-silver metal ovoids; the large central
unit was thirty metres long, with the three twenty-metre
units clustered around it, obviously life-support cabins.
The midsection was drum shaped, its sides made up
from interlaced stone-red pipes packed so tightly there
was no chink between them, an almost intestinal
configuration. Five black heat-radiation tubes protruded
at right angles from its base, spaced equally around the
rim. At the rear was a narrow sixty-metre-long tapering
fusion tube, with slim silver rings running along its length
at five-metre intervals. Right at the tip, around the
plasma exhaust nozzle, was a silver foil parasol.
“Is it organic?” Ione asked.
“We think about eighty per cent,” Qingyn Lin said. “It
matches what we know of their use of biotechnology.”
Ione turned away from the projection.
“It is a passenger ship,” Malandra Sarker said. “From
what we can make out, the Laymil didn’t have
commercial cargo ships, although there are some
tankers and specialist industrial craft.”
“This would seem to be correct,” Lieria said, speaking
through the small white vocalizer block held in one of
her tractamorphic arms. “The Laymil at this cultural
stage did not have economic commerce. Technical
templates and DNA were exchanged between clan
units, but no physical or biotechnology artefacts were
traded for financial reward.”
“The thing is,” Malandra Sarker said, sinking down into
a chair, “it was leaving a parking orbit around their
home planet to fly to Mirchusko’s spaceholms.”

“We always wondered why the ship fuel tanks we found
were so large,” Qingyn Lin said. “There was far too
much deuterium and He3 stored for simple inter-habitat
voyages, even if they made fifteen trips in a row without
refuelling. Now we know. They were interplanetary
spaceships.”
Ione gave Kempster Getchell a questioning look. “A
planet? Here?”
A wayward smile formed on his lips, he appeared
indecently happy about the revelation. “It does look that
way. We checked the star and planet positions
gathered from the spacecraft’s sensor array most
thoroughly.
The system we saw is definitely this one. The Laymil
home planet used to orbit approximately one hundred
and thirty-five million kilometres from the star. That
does put it rather neatly between the orbits of Jyresol
and Boherol.” He pouted sadly. “And here I’ve spent
thirty years of my life looking at stars with spectra
similar to this one. All the time it was right under my
nose. God, what a waste. Still, I’m back on the cutting
edge of astrophysics now, and no mistake. Trying to
work out how you make a planet disappear … ho, boy.”
“All right,” Ione said with forced calm. “So where is it
now? Was it destroyed? There isn’t an asteroid belt
between Jyresol and Boherol. There isn’t even a dust
belt as far as I know.”
“There is no record of any extensive survey being
made of this system’s interplanetary medium,”
Kempster said. “I checked our library. But even
assuming the planet had literally been reduced to dust,
the solar wind would have blown the majority of particles
beyond the Oort cloud within a few centuries.”
“Would a survey now help?” she asked.
“It might be able to confirm the dust hypothesis, if the
density is still higher than is usual. But it would depend
on when the planet was destroyed.”
“It was here two thousand six hundred years ago,”
Renato Vella said. “We know that from analysing the
position of the other planets at the time the memory
was recorded. But if we are to look for proof of the dust
I believe we would be better off taking surface samples
from Boherol and the gas giant moons.”

“Good idea, well done, lad,” Kempster said, patting his
younger assistant on the shoulder. “If this wave of dust
was expelled outwards then it should have left traces on
all the airless bodies in the system. Similar to the way
sediment layers in planetary core samples show
various geological epochs. If we could find it, we would
get a good indication of when it actually happened as
well.”
“I don’t think it was reduced to dust,” Renato Vella said.
“Why not?” Ione asked.
“It was a valid idea,” he said readily. “There aren’t many
other ways you can make something that mass
disappear without trace. But it’s a very theoretical
solution. In practical terms the energy necessary to
dismantle an entire planet to such an extent is orders of
magnitude above anything the Confederation could
muster. You have to remember that even our outlawed
antimatter planetbuster bombs don’t harm or ablate the
mass of a terracompatible-sized planet, they just wreck
and pollute the biosphere. In any case an explosion,
multiple explosions even, wouldn’t do the trick, they
would just reduce it to asteroidal fragments. To turn it
into dust or preferably vapour you would need some
form of atomic disrupter weapon, probably powered by
the star, I can’t think what else would produce enough
energy. That or a method of initiating a fission chain
reaction in stable atoms.”
“Perfect mass-energy conversion,” Kempster muttered,
his eyebrows beetled in concentration. “Now there’s an
idea.”
“And why wasn’t the same method used against the
Laymil habitats?” Renato Vella said, warming to his
theme. “If you have a weapon which can destroy a
planet so thoroughly as to eradicate all traces of it, why
leave the remnants of the habitats for us to find?”
“Yes, yes, why indeed?” Kempster said. “Good point,
lad, well done. Good thinking.”
His assistant beamed.
“We still think the habitats destroyed themselves,”
Parker Higgens said.
“It fits what we know, even now.” He looked at Ione,
visibly distressed.

“I think the memory may show the start of the planet’s
destruction. There is clearly some kind of conflict being
enacted on the surface as the ship leaves orbit.”
“Surely that was an inter-clan dispute, wasn’t it?”
Qingyn Lin asked dubiously. “That’s what it sounded like
to me.”
“You are all mistaken in thinking of this problem purely
in terms of the physical,” Lieria said. “Consider what we
now know. The planet is confirmed to have been in
existence at the same time the habitats were broken.
The Laymil entity whose memory we have accessed is
concerned about the transformation in the life-harmony
gestalt which is being propagated across an entire
continent. A drastic metaphysical change which
threatens nothing less than the entire Laymil racial
orientation. Director Parker Higgens is correct, these
events cannot be discounted as coincidence.”
Ione glanced round the group. None of them looked as
though they wished to contradict the Kiint. “I think I’d
better review this memory myself.” She sat in the chair
next to Malandra Sarker. <<Show me.>>
As before, the Laymil body hardened around her own,
an exoskeleton which did not, could never, fit. The
recording quality was much higher than before. Oski
Katsura and her team had been working long hours on
the processors and programs required to interpret the
stored information.
There were hardly any of the black specks which
indicated fragmentary data drop-outs. Ione relaxed
deeper into the chair as the sensorium buoyed her
along.
The Laymil was a shipmaster, clan-bred for a life
traversing the barren distance between the spaceholm
constellation and Unimeron, the prime lifehost. It hung
at the hub of the ship’s central life-support ovoid as the
drive was readied for flight. There was nothing like the
human arrangement of decks and machinery, present
even in voidhawks. The protective metal shell contained
a biological nest-womb, a woody growth honeycombed
with chambers and voyage-duration pouches for
travellers, creating an exotic organic grotto. Chambers
were clustered together without logic, like elongated
bubbles in a dense foam; the walls had the texture of
tough rubber, pocked with hundreds of small holes to
restrain hoofs, and emitting a fresh green radiance.

Organs to maintain the atmosphere and recycle food
were encased in the thicker partitions.
The all-pervasive greenness was subtly odd to Ione’s
human brain. Tubular buttress struts curved through the
chamber around the Laymil body, flaring out where they
merged with a wall. Its three hoofs were pushed into
holes, buttocks resting on a grooved mushroom-stool;
its hands were closed on knobby protrusions. A teat
stalactite hung centimetres from the feeding mouth. The
position was rock solid and immensely comfortable, the
nest-womb had grown into a flawlessly compatible
layout with the shipmaster’s body. All three heads slid
around in slow weaving motions, observing small
opaque composite instrument panels that swelled out of
the wall. Ione found it hard to tell where the plastic
began and the cells ended; the cellular/mechanical
fusion was seamless, as though the womb-nest was
actually growing machinery. Panel-mounted lenses
projected strange graphics into the Laymil’s eyes, in a
fashion similar to human AV projectors.
As the heads moved they provided snatched glimpses
into other chambers through narrow passageways. She
saw one of the Laymil passengers cocooned in its
voyage-duration pouch. It was swaddled in translucent
glittery membranes that held it fast against the wall, and
a waxy hose supplying a nutrient fluid had been inserted
into its mouth, with a similar hose inserted into its anus,
maintaining the digestive cycle. A mild form of
hibernation.
The Laymil shipmaster’s thoughts were oddly twinned,
as though the recording was of two separate thought
patterns. On a subsidiary level it was aware of the
ship’s biological and mechanical systems. It controlled
them with a processor’s precision, preparing the fusion
tube for ignition, maintaining attitude through small
reaction thrusters, computing a course vector,
surveying the four nest-wombs. There was a similarity
here to the automatic functions a human’s neural
nanonics would perform; but as far as she could
ascertain the shipmaster possessed no implants. This
was the way its brain was structured to work. The ship’s
biotechnology was sub-sentient, so, in effect, the
shipmaster was the flight computer.
On an ascendant level its mind was observing the
planet below through the ship’s sensor faculty.
Unimeron was remarkably similar to a terracompatible
world, with broad blue oceans and vast white cloud

swirls, the poles home to smallish ice-caps. The visual
difference was provided by the continents; they were a
near-uniform green, even the mountain ranges had
been consumed by the vegetation layer. No piece of
land was wasted.
Vast blue-green cobweb structures hung in orbit, slightly
below the ship’s thousand-kilometre altitude. These
were the skyhavens, most two hundred kilometres in
diameter, some greater, rotating once every five or
more hours, not for artificial gravity but simply to
maintain shape. They were alive, conscious with vibrant
mentalities, greater than that of a spaceholm even. A
combination of spaceport and magnetosphere energy
node, with manufacturing modules clumped around the
hub like small bulbous tangerine barnacles. But the
physical facets were just supplementary to their
intellectual function. They formed an important aspect
of the planet’s life-harmony, smoothing and weaving the
separate continental essence thoughts into a single
unified planetwide gestalt. Mental communication
satellites, though they contributed to the gestalt as well,
sang to distant stars. That voice was beyond Ione
completely, both its message and its purpose,
registering as just a vague cadence on the threshold of
perception. She felt a little darker for its absence, the
Laymil shipmaster considered it magnificent.
The skyhavens were packed close together, with small
variants in altitude, allowing them to slide along their
various orbital inclinations without ever colliding. No
segment of the planet’s sky was ever left open. It was
an amazing display of navigational exactitude. From a
distance it looked as though someone had cast a net
around Unimeron. She tried to gauge the effort involved
in their growth, a planet-girdling structure, and failed.
Even for a species with such obvious biotechnology
and engineering supremacy the skyhavens were an
awesome achievement.
<<”Departure initiation forthcoming,”>> the shipmaster
called.
<<”Venture boldness reward,”>> the skyhaven essence
replied. <<”Anticipate hope.”>>
Unimeron’s terminator was visible now, blackness biting
into the planet.
Nightside continents were studded with bright green
lightpoints, smaller than human cities, and very regular.

One southern continent, curving awkwardly around the
planet’s mass away from the ship’s sensors, had
delicate streamers of phosphorescent red mist
meandering along its coastal zones with exploratory
tendrils creeping further inland. The edges were visibly
palpitating like the fringes of a terrestrial jellyfish as they
curled and flowed around surface features, yet all the
while retaining a remarkable degree of integrity. There
was none of the braiding or churning of ordinary clouds.
Ione considered the effect quite delightful, the mist
looked alive, as though the air currents were infected
with biofluorescent spoors.
But the Laymil shipmaster was physically repelled by
the sight. <<”Galheith clan essence asperity woe.”>>
His heads bobbed around in agitation, letting out low
hoots of distress. <<”Woe. Folly acknowledgement
request.”>>
<<”No relention,”>> the skyhaven essence answered
sadly.
As their orbits took them over the continent, the
skyhavens would hum in dismay. The life-harmony of
Unimeron was being disrupted, with the skyhavens
refusing to disseminate the Galheith clan essence into
the gestalt. It was too radical, too antagonistic. Too
different. Alien and antithetical to the harmony ethos
that had gone before.
A tiny flare of sharp blue-white light sprang out of the
red mist, dying down quickly.
<<”Reality dysfunction,”>> the shipmaster called in
alarm.
<<”Confirm.”>>
<<”Horror woe. Galheith research death essence
tragedy.”>>
<<”Concord.”>>
<<”Impetuosity woe release. Reality dysfunction
exponential. Prime lifehost engulfed fear.”>>
<<”Reality dysfunction counter. Spaceholm
constellation prime essence continuation hope.”>>
<<”Confirm. Hope carriage.”>> The shipmaster quickly
reviewed the other Laymil hibernating in the nest-
wombs; both mental traits converging for the evaluation.

<<”Essencemasters condition satisfactory. Hope
reality dysfunction defeat. Hope Galheith
atonement.”>>
<<”Hope joined. Rejoice unity commitment.”>>
Where the flare of light had sprung, the jungle was now
alight. Ione realized the glimmer of orange must be a
firestorm easily over ten kilometres wide.
The spaceship was crossing the terminator. Skyhavens
ahead glowed a fragile platinum as the Van Allen
radiation belt particles gusted across their web strands.
<<”Departure initiation,”>> the shipmaster announced.
Ionized fuel was fired into the fusion drive’s magnetic
pinch. A jet of plasma slowly built up. Information
streamed into the Laymil’s brain, equations were
performed, instructions were pushed into the nest-
womb’s neurons and the coincident hardware’s circuits.
There was never any doubt, any self-questioning. The
terms did not apply.
Unimeron began to shrink behind the ship. The
shipmaster focused his attention on the spaceholm
constellation, and the frail song of welcome it emitted,
so much quieter than the prime lifehost’s joyous spirit.
And the memory expired.
Ione blinked free of the stubbornly persistent, green-
polluted images.
Emotions and sensations were harder to discard.
“What is a reality dysfunction?” she asked. “The
shipmaster seemed frightened half to death by it.”
“We don’t know,” Parker Higgens said. “There has
never been any reference to it in any of the other
memories.”
“Ione Saldana, I believe the term reality dysfunction
refers to a massive malevolent violation within the
Laymil life-harmony essence,” Lieria said. “The nature
of the Galheith clan was being radically altered by it.
However, the impression conveyed by the memory is
that it is more than a mental reorientation, it also
incorporated a distortion within the local physical matrix.
Example: the energy flare.”
“It was a weapon?” She shot a tense glance at the two

astronomers.
Kempster scratched at his shadow of stubble. “That
flare definitely started a fire, so I would have to say yes.
But one forest fire is a little different from something
which can cause a planet to vanish.”
“If it went on to spread through the entire planet’s life
essence, as seems more than likely,” Malandra Sarker
said, “then it would have Unimeron’s entire technical
resources at its disposal. Placed on a war footing, a
race like that would have a frightening armaments-
production wherewithal.”
“I disagree,” Renato Vella said. “Granted they could
build fleets of ships, and hundreds of thousands of
nukes, probably antimatter too. But they are not that
much further advanced than us. I still maintain the
energy required to destroy a planet is beyond this level
of technology.”
<<I was just thinking of the Alchemist,>> Ione said to
Tranquillity. She was almost afraid to mention it in case
Lieria could intercept the thought. <<What was it
Captain Khanna said? One idea in a lifetime is all it
takes. The Laymil might not have had the initial physical
resources, but what about the mental potential of a
planetary mind devoted to weapons design?>>
<<The possibility is an alarming one,>> Tranquillity
agreed. <<But why would they turn it on themselves?>>
<<Good question.>> “Even if they built a weapon, why
would they turn it on themselves?”
The group regarded her with puzzled faces, a child
innocently flooring adult logic with a simple question.
Then Renato Vella smiled suddenly.
“We’ve been assuming it was destroyed, how about if
they just moved it instead?”
Kempster Getchell chuckled. “Oh my boy, what a
wonderful notion.”
“I bet it would require less energy than obliteration.”
“Good point, yes.”
“And we’ve seen they can build massive space
structures.”
“We are evading the point,” Parker Higgens said

sternly. “We believe this reality dysfunction, whatever it
is, is behind both the removal of the Laymil planet and
the suicide of the spaceholms. Our priority now has to
be to establish what it was, and if it still exists.”
“If the planet was moved, then the reality dysfunction is
still around,” Renato Vella said, refusing to be
deflected. “It is wherever the planet is.”
“Yes, but what is it?” Oski Katsura asked with some
asperity. “It seems to be many things, some kind of
mental plague and a weapon system at the same time.”
“Oh shit,” Ione said out loud as she and Tranquillity
made the connection simultaneously. “Laton’s energy
virus.”
Tranquillity allowed the group to access the report from
Dr Gilmore through the hall’s communication net
processors, giving the images direct to Lieria via
affinity.
“My God,” Parker Higgens said. “The similarities are
startling.”
“Similarities, hell,” Kempster half-shouted. “That
fucker’s come back!”
The director flinched at the astronomer’s coarse anger.
“We can’t be sure.”
“I’m sorry, Parker, but I cannot in all sincerity consider
this to be a coincidence,” Ione told him.
“I concur,” Lieria said.
“The Confederation, specifically the First Admiral, must
be informed immediately,” Ione said. “That goes without
question. The navy must understand that they are not
facing Laton himself but something far more serious.
Parker, you will act as my representative in this matter;
you have both the authority and knowledge necessary
to convey the severity of this reality dysfunction to the
First Admiral.”
He looked shocked at first, then bowed. “Yes, ma’am.”
“Oski, prepare copies of every Laymil memory we
have. The rest of you put down what observations you
can for the navy staff, whatever you think may help.
Tranquillity is recalling one of the patrol blackhawks
now, it will be ready to leave for Avon in an hour. I will

ask the Confederation Navy office to provide an officer
to escort you, Parker, so you had better get ready.
Time is important here.”
“Yes, ma’am.”
<<Ione Saldana, I also request a blackhawk to convey
one of my colleagues home to Jobis,>> Lieria said. <<I
judge these events to be of sufficient portent to warrant
informing my race.>>
<<Yes, of course.>> She was aware of Tranquillity
summoning a second armed blackhawk back to the
docking-ledges even as she acknowledged the Kiint’s
request. All the remaining resident blackhawks would
have to be conscripted for patrol duties now, she
thought tersely, probably the independent traders too.
Then a stray thought struck. <<Lieria, did the Kiint ever
hear the skyhavens’ starsong?>>
<<Yes.>>
The finality of the tone stopped Ione from enquiring
further. But only for now, she promised herself. I’ve had
enough of this mystic superiority crap they keep
peddling. “Kempster, that red mist over Unimeron’s
southern continent, was that a part of the reality
dysfunction, do you think? There’s no mention of it
being present on Lalonde.”
“Its nature would suggest so,” Kempster said. “I can’t
see that it’s a natural phenomenon, not even on that
planet. Possibly a secondary effect, a by-product of the
interaction with Unimeron’s life essence, but definitely
connected. Wouldn’t you agree, lad?”
Renato Vella had been lost in deep contemplation ever
since he accessed Dr Gilmore’s report. Now he
nodded briefly. “Yes, it is likely.”
“Something on your mind?” the old astronomer asked,
his cheerfulness reasserting itself.
“I was just thinking. They could build living space
structures that completely encircled their world, yet this
reality dysfunction still defeated them. Their
spaceholms were so frightened of it they committed
suicide rather than submit. What do you think is going
to happen to us when we confront it?”
===========================================================================

Chapter 08
^
“Jesus, what’s all that red gunk in the air? I don’t
remember that from the last time we were here. It’s
almost as if it’s glowing. The bloody stuff’s covering the
whole of the Juliffe tributary network, look.” Joshua
abandoned the Lady Mac’s sensor input and turned to
Melvyn Ducharme on the acceleration couch next to
his.
“Don’t look at me, I’m just a simple fusion engineer. I
don’t know anything about meteorology. Try the mercs,
they’re all planet-bred.”
“Humm,” Joshua mused. Relations between the Lady
Mac’s crew and the mercenary scout team they were
carrying hadn’t been exactly optimal during the voyage.
Both sides kept pretty much to themselves, with Kelly
Tirrel acting as diplomatic go-between, when she was
out of the free-fall sex cage. That girl had certainly lived
up to her side of the bargain, he thought contentedly.
“Anybody care to hazard a guess?” he called.
The rest of the crew on the bridge accessed the
images, but no one volunteered an opinion.
Amarisk was slowly turning round into their line of sight
as they closed on the planet. Nearly half of the
continent was already in daylight. From where they
were, still a hundred thousand kilometres out, the Juliffe
and most of its tributaries were smothered in a
nebulous red haze. At first inspection it had looked as
though some unique refraction effect was making the
water gleam a bright burgundy. But once the Lady
Mac’s long-range optical sensors were focused on
Lalonde, that notion had quickly been dispelled. The
effect was caused by thousands of long narrow cloud
bands in the air above the surface of the water, clinging
to the tributary network’s multiple fork pattern with
startling accuracy.
Although, Joshua realized, the bands were much
broader than the actual rivers themselves; where the
first band started, just inland from the mouth of the
Juliffe, it was almost seventy kilometres across.
“I’ve never seen anything like it on any planet,” Ashly
said flatly.

“Weird stuff; and it is glowing, Joshua. You can see it
stretching beyond the terminator, all the way to the
coast.”
“Blood,” Melvyn intoned solemnly. “The river’s awash
with blood, and it’s starting to evaporate.”
“Shut it,” Sarha snapped. The idea was too close to the
thoughts bubbling round in her own mind. “That’s not
funny.”
“Do you think it’s hostile?” Dahybi asked. “Something of
Laton’s?”
“I suppose it must be connected with him,” Joshua
admitted uneasily. “But even if it is hostile, it can’t harm
us at this distance. It’s strictly lower atmosphere stuff.
Which means it may be a hazard for the merc scouts,
though. Sarha, tell them to access the image, please.”
They were less likely to insult a woman.
A grumbling Sarha requested a channel to the lounge in
capsule C where the seven mercenary scouts and Kelly
Tirrel were lying on acceleration couches as the Lady
Mac accelerated in towards Lalonde. There was a gruff
acknowledgment from her AV pillar, and Joshua grinned
in private.
The flight computer alerted him that a coded signal was
being transmitted from the Gemal. “We’ve detected an
unknown atmospheric phenomenon above Amarisk,”
Terrance Smith said pedantically.
“Yeah, those red clouds sticking to the tributaries,”
Joshua answered. “We see it too. What do you want us
to do about it?”
“Nothing yet. As far as we can make out it is simply
polluted cloud, presumably coming from the river itself.
If a sensor sweep shows it to be radioactive then we
will reassess the landing situation. But until then,
proceed as ordered.”
“Aye, aye, Commodore,” Joshua grunted when the
channel was closed.
“Polluted cloud,” Melvyn said in contempt.
“Biological warfare,” Ashly suggested in a grieved tone.
“Not nice. Typical of Laton, mark you. But definitely not
nice.”

“I wonder if it’s his famed proteanic virus?” Dahybi said.
“Doubt it, that was microscopic. And it didn’t glow in the
dark, either. I’d say it has to be radioactive dust.”
“Then why isn’t the wind moving it?” Sarha asked. “And
how did it form in the first place?”
“We’ll find out in due course,” Warlow said with his
usual pessimism.
“Why hurry the process?”
“True enough,” Joshua agreed.
The Lady Mac was heading in towards the planet at a
steady one gee. As soon as each ship in the little fleet
had emerged from its final jump into the Lalonde
system, it had accelerated away from the coordinate,
the whole fleet spreading out radially at five gees to
avoid presenting an easy target grouping. Now they
were holding a roughly circular formation twenty
thousand kilometres wide, with Gemal and the cargo
ships at the centre.
The six blackhawks were already decelerating into low
orbit above Lalonde to perform a preliminary threat
assessment. Bloody show-offs, Joshua thought. Lady
Mac could easily match their six gee manoeuvres if she
wasn’t encumbered with escort duties.
Even with naval tactics programs running in primary
mode, Terrance Smith was ever cautious. The lack of
any response from Durringham was extremely bad
news, although admittedly half anticipated. What had
triggered the fleet commander’s paranoia was the total
absence of any orbital activity.
The colonist-carrier starships had gone, along with the
cargo ships. The inter-orbit craft from Kenyon were
circling inertly in a five-hundred-kilometre equatorial
parking orbit, all systems powered down, even their
navigation beacons, which was contrary to every CAB
regulation in the flek. Of the sheriff’s office’s ageing
observation satellite there was no trace. Only the
geosynchronous communication platform and civil
spaceflight traffic monitoring satellites remained active,
their on-board processors sending out monotonously
regular signals. He lacked the transponder interrogation
code to see if the navy ELINT satellites were functional.
After a quick appraisal, Smith had ordered a descent

into a thousand-kilometre orbit. His fleet moved in, the
combat-capable starships dumping small satellites in
their wake to form an extensive high-orbit gravitonic-
distortion-detector network. If any starship emerged
within five hundred thousand kilometres of the planet,
the satellites would spot it.
The blackhawks released a quintet of military-grade
communication satellites as they raced towards the
planet. Ion engines pushed the comsats into
geostationary orbit, positioning them to give complete
coverage of the planet, with overlapping reception
footprints covering Amarisk in its entirety.
Twenty thousand kilometres out from Lalonde, the
blackhawks split into two groups and swept into a
seven-hundred-kilometre orbit at differing inclinations.
Each of them released a batch of fifteen observation
satellites, football-sized globes that decelerated further,
lowering themselves into a two-hundred-kilometre orbit;
their parallel tracks provided a detailed coverage
sweep over a thousand kilometres wide. The
blackhawks themselves, with their powerful sensor
blisters augmented by electronic scanner pods, were
integrated into the effort to reconnoitre Durringham and
the Juliffe tributary basin. The intention was to compile
a comprehensive survey with a resolution below ten
centimetres for the mercenary scouts to use.
“It’s virtually impossible,” Idzerda, the captain of the
blackhawk Cyanea, told Terrance Smith after the first
pass. “That red cloud is completely opaque, except for
the edges where it thins out, and even there the images
we’re receiving of the land below are heavily distorted.
I’m not even sure cloud is the word for it. It doesn’t
move like cloud should. It’s almost as if a film of
electrophorescent cells has been solidified into the air.
Spectrographic analysis is useless with that light it
emits. One thing we have noticed; we ran a comparison
with the old cartography memory from the sheriff’s
observation satellite which you supplied. The cloud is
brightest over towns and villages. Durringham shines
like there’s a star buried under there. There is no way
of telling what is going on below it. The only villages we
can even see are the ones furthest up the tributaries
where the glow peters out. And they are wrong.”
“Wrong?” Terrance Smith asked.
“Yes. They’re the most recently settled, the most

primitive ones, right?”
“Yes.”
“We’ve seen stone houses, gardens, domelike
structures, metalled roads, heck, even windmills. None
of it was there on the old images you gave us, and they
were only recorded a month ago.”
“That can’t possibly be correct,” Terrance said.
“I know that. So either the whole lot are holograms, or
it’s an illusion loaded directly into the observation
satellite processors by this electronic warfare gimmick
you warned us about. Although we can’t see how it
disrupts the blackhawks’ optical sensors as well. The
people who put up that cloud have got some startlingly
potent projection techniques. But why bother? That’s
what we don’t understand. What’s the point of these
illusions?”
“What about power emission centres?” Terrance Smith
asked. “It must take a lot of energy to generate a
covering layer like that red cloud.”
“We haven’t found any. Even with their electronic
jamming we should be able to spot the flux patterns
from a medium-sized fusion generator. But we haven’t.”
“Can you locate the jamming source?”
“No, sorry, it’s very diffuse. But it’s definitely ground
based. It only affects us and the satellites when we’re
over Amarisk.”
“Is the red cloud radioactive?”
“No. We’re fairly sure of that. No alpha, beta, or
gamma emission.”
“What about biological contamination?”
“No data. We haven’t attempted to sample it.”
“Make that your priority,” Terrance said. “I have to know
if it’s safe to send the combat scout teams down.”
On its following pass, the Cyanea released two
atmospheric probes. The vehicles were modified
versions of the marque used by planet-survey
missions, three-metre delta-wing robots with the central
cylindrical fuselage crammed full of biological sampling
and analysis equipment.

Both of them pitched up to present their heatshield
bellies to the atmosphere, curving down towards the
surface as they aerobraked. Once they had fallen
below subsonic velocity, airscoop intake ramps hinged
back near the nose, and their compressor engines
whirred into silent life. A preprogrammed flight plan sent
them swooping over the first fringes of the red cloud,
fifteen kilometres to the south-east of Durringham.
Encrypted data pulsed up to the newly established
bracelet of communication satellites.
The air was remarkably clear, with humidity thirty per
cent down on Lalonde’s average. Terrance Smith
accessed the raw image from a camera in the nose of
one probe. It looked as though it was flying over the
surface of a red dwarf star. A red dwarf with an azure
atmosphere. The cloud, or haze, whatever, was
completely uniform, as though, finally, an
electromagnetic wavefront had come to rest and
achieved mass, then someone had polished it into a
ruby surface. There was nothing to focus on, no
perspective, no constituent particles or spores; its
intensity was mechanically constant. An optically
impenetrable layer floating two kilometres above the
ground. Thickness unknown. Temperature unknown.
Radiating entirely in the bottom end of the red
spectrum.
“No real clouds anywhere above it,” Joshua murmured.
Like most of the fleet’s crews he had accessed the
datavise from the atmospheric probes.
Something had bothered him about that lack; ironically,
more than the buoyant red blanket itself. “Amarisk
always had clouds.”
Sarha quickly ran a review of the images the fleet had
recorded on their approach, watching the cloud
formations. “Oh my Lord, they split,” she said
disbelievingly. “About a hundred kilometres offshore the
clouds split like they’ve hit something.” She ran the
time-lapse record for them, letting the tumbling clouds
sweep through their neural nanonics’ visualization.
Great billowing bands of cumulus and stratocumulus
charged across the ocean towards Amarisk’s western
shoreline, only to branch and diverge, raging away to
the north and south of the Juliffe’s mouth.
“Jesus. What would it take to do that? Not even Kulu
tries to manipulate its climate.” Joshua switched back to

a real-time view from Lady Mac’s sensor clusters. A
cyclone was being visibly sawed into two unequal
sections as it pirouetted against the invisible boundary.
He ordered the flight computer to open a channel to the
Gemal.
“Yes, we’ve seen it,” Terrance Smith said. “It has to be
tied in with the red cloud cover. Obviously the invaders
have a highly sophisticated method of energy
manipulation.”
“No shit? The point is, what are you going to do about
it?”
“Destroy the focal mechanism.”
“Jesus, you can’t mean that. This fleet can’t possibly go
into orbit now. With that kind of power available they’ll
be able to smash us as soon as we’re within range.
Hell, they can probably pull us down from orbit. You’ll
have to abort the mission.”
“It’s ground based, Calvert, we’re sure of that. It can’t
be anywhere else. The blackhawks can sense the
mass of anything larger than a tennis ball in orbit, you
can’t disguise mass from their distortion fields. All we
have to do is send in the combat scout teams to locate
the invader’s bases. That’s what we planned on doing
all along. You knew that when you signed on. Once we
find the enemy, the starships can bombard them from
orbit. That’s what you’re here for, Calvert. Nobody
promised you an easy ride. Now hold formation.”
“Oh, Jesus.” He looked round the bridge to make sure
everyone shared his dismay. They did. “What do you
want to do? At five gees I can get us to a suitable jump
coordinate in twelve minutes, mark.”
Melvyn looked thoroughly disgusted. “That bloody
Smith. His naval programs must have been written by
the most gung-ho admiral in the galaxy. I say jump.”
“Smith has a point,” Warlow rumbled.
Joshua glanced over at the big cosmonik in surprise.
Of everyone, Warlow had been the least eager to
come.
“There is nothing hostile in orbit,” the bass voice
proclaimed.
“It can chop up a bloody cyclone,” Ashly shouted.

“The red cloud is atmospheric. Whatever generates it
affects lower atmospheric weather. It is planet based,
centred on Amarisk. The blackhawks have not been
destroyed. Can we really desert the fleet at this
juncture? Suppose Smith and the others do liberate
Lalonde? What then?”
Jesus, he’s right, Joshua thought. You knew you were
committed after you took the contract. But … Instinct.
That bloody obstinate, indefinable mental itch he
suffered from, and trusted. Instinct told him to run. Run
now, and run fast.
“All right,” he said. “We stay with them, for now. But at
the first, and I really mean first, Warlow, sign of the shit
hitting the fan, then we are out of orbit at ten gees.
Commitment or no commitment.”
“Thank God somebody’s got some sense,” Melvyn
murmured.
“Sarha, I want a constant monitor of all the observation
satellite data from now on. Any other shit-loopy
atmospheric happenings pop up and I want to be
informed immediately.”
“Yes, Captain.”
“Also, Melvyn, set up a real-time review program of the
grav-detector satellite’s data. I don’t intend us to be
dependent on the Gemal informing us whether we’ve
got company.”
“Gotcha, Joshua,” Melvyn sang.
“Dahybi, nodes to be charged to maximum capacity
until further notice. I want to be able to jump within thirty
seconds.”
“They aren’t designed for long-term readiness, “
“They’ll last for five days in that state. It’ll be settled one
way or another by then. And I have the money for
maintenance.”
Dahybi shrugged his shoulders against the couch
webbing. “Yes, sir.”
Joshua tried to relax his body, but eventually gave up
and ordered his neural nanonics to send overrides into
his muscles. As they began to slacken he accessed the
fleet’s command communication channels again, and

started to format a program which would warn him if
one of the ships dropped out of the network
unexpectedly. It wasn’t much, but it might be worth a
couple of seconds.
The atmospheric probes began to lose height, sliding
down towards the surface of the red cloud. “Systems
are functioning perfectly,” the flight’s controlling officer
reported. “There’s no sign of the electronic warfare
effect.” She flew them to within five metres of the top,
then levelled them out. There was no reaction from the
serene red plain. “Air analysis is negative. Whatever
holds the boundary together seems to be impermeable.
None of it is drifting upwards.”
“Send the probes in,” Terrance ordered.
The first probe eased its way towards the surface,
observed by cameras on the second. As it touched the
top of the layer a fan of red haze jetted up behind it,
arcing with slow smoothness, like powder-fine dust in
low gravity.
“It is a solid!” Terrance exclaimed. “I knew it.”
“Nothing registering, sir, no particles. Only water
vapour, humidity rising sharply.”
The probe sank deeper, vanishing from its twin’s view.
Its data transmission began to fissure.
“High static charge building up over the fuselage,” the
control officer reported. “I’m losing it.”
The probe’s datavise dissolved into garbage, then cut
off. Terrance Smith ordered the second one down.
They didn’t learn anything new. Contact was lost twenty-
five seconds after it ploughed into the cloud.
“Static-charged vapour,” Terrance said in confusion.
“Is that all?”
Oliver Llewelyn cancelled the datavise from Gemal’s
flight computer. The bridge was dimly lit, every officer
lying on an acceleration couch, eyes closed as they
helped coordinate the fleet’s approach. “It reminds me
of a gas giant’s rings,” the captain said. “Minute
charged particles held together with a magnetic flux.”
“The blackhawks say there is no magnetic flux, only the
standard planetary magnetic field,” Terrance corrected
automatically. “Was there any sign of biological

activity?” he asked the flight control officer on the
Cyanea.
“No, sir,” she said. “No chemicals present either. Just
water.”
“Then why is it glowing?”
“I don’t know, sir. There must be a light-source of some
kind deeper inside, where the probes can’t reach.”
“What are you going to do?” Oliver Llewelyn asked.
“It’s a screen, a canopy; they’re covering up whatever
they’re doing below. It’s not a weapon.”
“It might only be a screen. But it’s beyond our ability to
create. You can’t commit your forces against a total
unknown, and certainly not one of that magnitude.
Standard military doctrine.”
“There are over twenty million people down there,
including my friends. I can’t leave without at least
making one attempt to find out what’s going on.
Standard military doctrine is to scout first. That’s what
we’ll do.” He drew a breath, entering the newly
formatted data from the probes into his neural nanonics
and letting the tactics program draw up a minimum-risk
strategy for physical evaluation of the planetary
situation.
“The combat scout teams go in as originally planned,
although they land well clear of the red cloud. But I’m
altering the search emphasis. Three teams into the
Quallheim Counties to find the invader’s landing site
and base; that section of the mission hasn’t changed.
Then nine teams are to be distributed along the rest of
the Juliffe tributaries to appraise the overall status of
the population and engage targets of opportunity. And I
want the last two teams to investigate Durringham’s
spaceport; they now have two objectives. One, find out
if the McBoeing spaceplanes are still available to effect
a landing for the general troops we’re carrying in the
Gemal. Secondly, I want them to access the records in
the flight control centre and find out where the starships
went. And why.”
“Suppose they didn’t go anywhere?” Oliver Llewelyn
said. “Suppose Captain Calvert is right, and your
invaders can just reach up and obliterate ships in
orbit?”

“Then where is the wreckage? The blackhawks have
catalogued every chunk of matter above the planet,
there’s nothing incongruous this side of Rennison’s
orbit.”
Oliver Llewelyn showed him a morbid grin. “Lying in the
jungle below that red cloud.”
Terrance was becoming annoyed with the captain’s
constant cavils. “They were unarmed civil ships, we’re
not. And that makes a big difference.” He put his head
back down on the couch’s cushioning, closed his eyes,
and began to datavise the revised landing orders
through the secure combat communication channels.
The fleet decelerated into a one-thousand-kilometre
orbit, individual ships taking up different inclinations so
that Amarisk was always covered by three of them.
Repeated sweeps by the swarm of observation
satellites had revealed no new information on ground
conditions below the red cloud.
The six blackhawks rose up from their initial seven-
hundred-kilometre orbit to join the rest of the starships,
their crews quietly pleased at the extra distance
between them and the uncanny aerial portent.
After one final orbit, alert for any attack from the
invaders, the mercenary scout teams clambered into
the waiting spaceplanes, and Terrance Smith gave the
final go ahead to land. As each starship crossed into
the umbra its spaceplane undocked and performed a
retro-burn which pushed it onto an atmosphere
interception trajectory. They reached the mesosphere
nine thousand kilometres west of Amarisk and
aerobraked over the nightside ocean, sending a
multitude of hypersonic booms crashing down over the
waves.
Brendon couldn’t keep his attention away from the red
cloud. He was piloting the spaceplane from the
Villeneuve’s Revenge, taking the six-strong mercenary
scout team down to their designated drop zone a
hundred kilometres east of Durringham. The cloud had
been visible to the forward sensors when they were still
six hundred kilometres offshore.
From there it hadn’t been so bad, a colossal
meteorological marvel. Now though, up close, the sheer
size was intimidating him badly. The thought that some
entity had constructed it, deliberately built a lightway of
water vapour in the sky, was acutely disconcerting. It

hung twenty kilometres off the starboard wing, inert and
immutable. Far ahead he could just see the first fork as
it split to follow one of the tributaries. That more than
anything betrayed its artificiality, the fact that it had
intent.
As the spaceplane eased down level with it he could
see the land underneath. Unbroken jungle, but dark,
tinted a deep maroon.
“It’s blocking a lot of light under there,” said Chas
Paske, the mercenary team’s leader.
“Oui,” Brendon agreed, without looking round. “The
computer estimates it’s about eight metres thick at the
edge, getting thicker deeper in, though,” he reported.
“Probably three or four hundred metres at the centre,
over the river itself.”
“What about the electronic warfare field?”
“It’s there all right, I’m having some trouble with the flight
control processors, and the communication channel is
suffering from interference, the bit rate is way down.”
“As long as we can transmit the coordinates for the
starships to bombard,” Chas Paske said. “That’s all we
need.”
“Oui. Landing in three minutes.”
The spaceplane was approaching the natural clearing
they had chosen.
Brendon checked with the blackhawks, which were still
supervising the observation. He was assured there was
no human activity within at least two kilometres of the
clearing.
Qualtook and baby giganteas ringed their allocated
landing site. Inside them, burnt and broken stumps were
still visible through the mantle of vines, evidence of the
fire which had raged decades ago. The spaceplane
nosed its way cautiously over the edge of the trees, as
if afraid of what it might find. Birds took to the air in
dismay at the huge predator shape and the clarion
squealing it emitted. A radar pulse slashed across the
ground, slicing straight through the vine leaves to
uncover the extent of the stumps. Landing struts
unfolded from the fuselage, and after a minute of
jostling to avoid the more hazardous protrusions it
settled gently on the ground, compressor nozzles

blasting dusty fountains of dead leaves and twigs into
the air.
Even as silence stole back into the clearing the outer
airlock hatch was opening. Chas Paske led his team
out. Five disc-shaped aerovettes swooped into the sky,
rim-mounted sensors probing the encircling jungle for
motion or infrared signatures.
The mercenaries began to unload their equipment from
the open belly holds. They were all boosted, their
appearance way outside the human norm. Chas Paske
was bigger than any cosmonik, his synthetic skin the
colour of weather-worn stone. He didn’t bother with
clothes other than weapon belts and equipment straps.
“Hurry it up,” Brendon said. “The jamming is getting
worse, I can hardly get a signal through to the
satellites.”
Pods and cases began to accumulate on the battered
carpet of vines. Chas was hauling down a portable
zero-tau pod containing an affinity-bonded eagle when
an aerovette datavised him that there was a movement
among the trees. He picked up a gaussrifle. The
aerovette was hovering a metre over the trees,
providing him an image of heads bobbing about through
the undergrowth. Nine of them, making no attempt to
hide.
“Hey,” a woman’s voice shouted.
The mercenaries were fanning out, positioning the
aerovettes to provide maximum coverage.
“The blackhawks said there was no one here,” Chas
Paske said. “For Christ’s sake.”
“It’s the optical distortion,” Brendon replied. “It’s worse
than we thought.”
The woman emerged into the clearing. She shouted
again and waved. More people came out of the trees
behind her, women and a couple of boys in their early
teens. All of them in dirty clothes.
“Thank God you’re here,” she said as she hurried over
to Chas. “We waited and waited. It’s terrible back
there.”
“Hold it,” Chas said.

She didn’t hear him, or ignored him. Looking down to
pick her way over thick tangles of vines. “Take us away.
Up to the starships, anywhere. But get us off this
planet.”
“Who the hell are you? Where do you come from?” At
the back of his mind Chas thought how odd it was that
his appearance didn’t affect her. People normally
showed at least some doubt when they saw his size
and shape.
This woman didn’t.
His neural nanonics cautioned him that the gaussrifle’s
targeting processor was malfunctioning. “Stop,” he
bellowed when she was six metres away. “We can’t
take any chances; you may have been sequestrated.
Now, where are you from?”
She jerked to a halt at the volume he poured into his
voice. “We’re from the village,” she said, slightly
breathless. “There’s a whole group of them devils back
there.”
“Where?”
The woman took another pace forward and pointed
over her shoulder.
“There.” Another step. “Please, you must help us.” Her
haggard face was imploring.
All five aerovettes fell out of the sky. The ground below
Chas Paske’s feet began to split open with a wet
tearing sound, revealing a long fissure from which bright
white light shone upwards. Neural nanonics overrode all
natural human feelings of panic, enforcing a smooth
threat response from his body. He jumped aside,
landing beside the smiling woman. She hit him.
Terrance Smith had lost contact with three of the
eleven spaceplanes which had landed, and the
remaining three in the air were approaching the
Quallheim Counties. The observation satellites were
unable to provide much information on the fate of those
that had been silenced, the images they produced of
the drop zones were decaying by the minute. None of
them had crashed, though, the blackout had come after
they landed. Encouraged by his tactics program, which
estimated forty per cent losses at the first landing
attempt, Terrance assumed the worst, and contacted
the last three spaceplanes.

“Change your principal drop zone to one of the
backups,” he ordered. “I want you to land at least a
hundred and fifty kilometres from the red cloud.”
“It’s moving!” Oliver Llewelyn shouted as Terrance was
receiving acknowledgements from the pilots.
“What is?”
“The red cloud.”
Terrance opened a channel to the processor array
which was correlating the observation satellite images.
Whorls and curlicues were rippling along the edges of
the red bands, flat streamers, kilometres long, were
shooting out horizontally, like solar prominences. The
eerie symmetry of the velvet-textured clouds was
rupturing, their albedo fluctuating as vast serpentine
shadows skated erratically from side to side.
“It knows we’re here,” Oliver Llewelyn said. “We’ve
agitated it.”
For one brutally nasty second Terrance Smith had the
idea that the massive formation of forking cloud bands
was alive, a gas-giant entity that had migrated across
interplanetary space from Murora. Damn it, the thing did
resemble the kind of convoluted storm braids which
curled and clashed in week-long hostilities among the
hydrogen and frozen ammonia crystals of gas-giant
atmospheres. “Don’t be absurd,” he said. “Something is
deliberately causing those disturbances. This may be
our best chance yet to discover how they shape that
thing. Get onto the blackhawk captains, I want every
sensor we have available focused on it. There has to
be some kind of energy modulation going on down
there. Something has to register on some spectrum
we’re covering.”
“Want to bet?” Oliver Llewelyn muttered under his
breath. He was beginning to wish he had never agreed
to fly the Gemal for Smith, and to hell with the legalities
of refusing. Some things were more important than
money, starting with his life. He grudgingly began
datavising instructions round the blackhawks.
The communication links with another two spaceplanes
dropped out. But three had landed their mercenary
teams without incident and were already back in the air.
It is possible, Terrance told himself fiercely as the

pearl-white specks soared to safety above the tangled
tributary basin. We can find out what’s happening down
there.
He observed the red cloud sending huge pseudostorm
streamers boiling ferociously out across the jungle. A
navigational graphics overlay revealed the position of
the spaceplanes still on the ground. The largest
swellings were heading for the landing zones with
unerring accuracy.
“Come on,” he urged them through clenched teeth. “Get
up. Get out of there.”
“Sensors report no energy perturbation of any kind,”
Oliver Llewelyn said.
“Impossible. It’s being directed. What about the
sensors the invaders used to track our spaceplanes,
have we detected those?”
“No.”
Five more spaceplanes were back in the air, streaking
away from the grasping claws of red cloud. Two of them
were ones they had lost contact with earlier. Terrance
heard a cheer go round the Gemal’s bridge, and added
his own whoop of exhilaration.
Now the mission was starting to come together. With
the combat scout teams on the ground they would have
targets soon. They could start hitting back.
The last three spaceplanes landed in the Quallheim
Counties. One of them was from the Lady Macbeth.
The Villeneuve’s Revenge had the standard pyramid
structure of four life-support capsules at its core. They
were spherical, divided into three decks, with enough
volume to make life for the crew of six very agreeable.
Fifteen passengers could be accommodated with only a
modest reduction in comfort. None of the six
mercenaries they had brought to Lalonde had
complained. The fittings, like the rest of the ship’s
systems, could be classed as passable with plenty of
room for improvement, upgrading, or preferably
complete replacement.
Erick Thakrar and Bev Lennon sailed headfirst through
the ceiling hatch of the lounge deck above the
spaceplane hangar. The compartment’s surfaces were
coated in a thin grey-green foam with stikpads at

regular intervals, though most of them had lost their
cohesiveness. Furniture was all lightweight composite
that had been folded back neatly into alcoves,
producing a floor made up of labelled squares,
hexagons, and circles like some mismatched mosaic.
Walls were principally storage lockers, broken by
hatchways into personal cabins, the red panels of
emergency equipment cubicles, and inbuilt AV player
blocks with their projector pillars.
There was a watery vegetable smell in the air. Only two
of the lightstrips were on. Several purple foil food
wrappers were drifting through the air like lost aquatic
creatures, with a couple more clamped against the roof
grilles by the gentle air flow. A black flek was spinning
idly. It all added up to lend the lounge a discarded
appearance.
Erick slapped casually at the plastic-coated ladder
stretching between floor and ceiling, angling for the floor
hatch. His neural nanonics reported Andre Duchamp
opening a direct communication channel.
“He’s docking now,” the captain datavised. “Or
attempting to.”
“How is the communication link? Can you get anything
from inside?”
“Nothing. It’s still a three per cent bit rate, just enough to
correlate docking procedures. The processors must
have been bollocksed up quite badly.”
Erick glanced over his shoulder at Bev, who shrugged.
The two of them were armed; Bev with a neural jammer,
Erick a laser pistol he hoped to God he wouldn’t have to
use.
The spaceplane had emerged from the upper
atmosphere and re-established contact with a weak
signal from a malfunctioning reserve transmitter.
Brendon claimed the craft had been subject to a
ferocious electronic warfare attack which had
decimated the on-board processors. They only had his
word for it, the link had barely enough power to
broadcast his message, a full-scale datavise to assess
the internal electronic damage was impossible.
In view of the known sequestration ability of the
invaders, Andre Duchamp wasn’t taking any chances.

“That anglo Smith should have anticipated this,” Andre
grumbled. “We should have had an examination
procedure set up.”
“Yes,” Erick agreed. He and Bev traded a grin.
“Typical of this bloody bodge-up mission,” Andre
chuntered on. “If he wants proper advice he should
have experienced people like me on his general staff,
not that arsehole Llewelyn. I could have told him you
need to be careful when it comes to sequestration. Fifty
years of experience, that’s what I’ve got, that counts for
a hell of a lot more than any neural nanonics tactics
program. I’ve had every smartarse weapon in the
Confederation thrown at me, and I’m still alive. And he
goes and chooses a Celt who makes a living from flying
the brain dead. Merde!”
Bev’s legs cleared the rim of the hatch into the lounge,
and he datavised a codelock at it. The carbotanium
hatch slid shut, its seal engaging with a solid clunk.
“Come on, then,” Erick said. He slipped through the
floor hatch into the lower deck. His neural nanonics
provided him with an image from the starship’s external
sensor clusters. The spaceplane was floundering, just
metres away from the hull. Without a full navigational
datalink, Brendon was having a great deal of trouble
inserting the spaceplane’s nose into the hangar’s
docking collar. Novice pilots could do better, Erick
thought, wincing as reaction-control thrusters fired
hard, seconds before the radar dome tip scraped the
hull. “Ye gods. We might not have anything left to
inspect at this rate.”
The lower deck was severely cramped, comprising an
engineering shop for medium-sized electromechanical
components, a smaller workshop for electronic repairs,
two airlocks, one for the spaceplane hangar, one for
EVA work, storage bins, and space armour lockers. Its
walls were naked titanium, netted with conduits and
pipes.
“Collar engaged,” Andre said. “Madeleine is bringing
him in now.”
The whine of actuators carried faintly through the
starship’s stress structure into the lower deck. Erick
accessed a camera in the hangar, and saw the
spaceplane being pulled into the cylindrical chamber. A
moth crawling back inside a silver chrysalis. The
retracted wings had a clearance measured in

centimetres.
He datavised orders into the hangar systems
processors. When the spaceplane came to rest, power
lines, coolant hoses, and optical cables plugged into
umbilical sockets around its fuselage.
“There’s very little data coming out,” Erick said,
scanning the docking operations console holoscreen to
see the preliminary results of the diagnostic checks. “I
can’t get any internal sensors to respond.”
“Is that the processors or the sensors themselves
which are malfunctioning?” Andre asked.
“Difficult to tell,” Bev said, hanging from a grab hoop
behind Erick to look over his shoulder. “Only ten per
cent of the internal databuses are operational, we can’t
access the cabin management processors to see
where the fault lies. God knows how Brendon ever
piloted that thing up here. He’s missing half of his
control systems.”
“Brendon is the best,” Madeleine Collun said.
The console’s AV pillar bleeped, showing a single
communication circuit was open from the spaceplane.
Audio only.
“Anyone out there?” Brendon asked. “Or have you all
buggered off to lunch?”
“We’re here, Brendon,” Erick said. “What’s your
situation?”
“The atmosphere is really bad, total life-support failure
as far as I can make out … I’m gulping oxygen from an
emergency helmet … Get that airlock connected now
… This is killing my lungs … I can smell some kind of
plastic burning … Acid gas …”
“I can’t cycle the cabin atmosphere for him,” Erick
datavised to Andre.
“Our pumps are working and the hose seals are
confirmed, but the spaceplane pressure valves won’t
open, there’s no environmental circuit.”
“Get him into the airlock, then,” Andre said. “But don’t
let him into the life-support cabin, not yet.”
“Aye, aye.”

“Come on!” Brendon shouted.
“On our way, Brendon.”
Bev ordered the airlock tube to extend. The
spaceplane’s fuselage shield panel slid back to reveal
the circular airlock hatch below.
“Lucky that worked,” Erick muttered.
Bev was staring into the AV pillar’s projection, watching
the airlock tube seal itself to the hatch rim. “It’s a simple
power circuit. Nothing delicate about that.”
“But there’s still a supervising processor, Hell.”
Environment sensors inside the airlock tube were
picking up traces of toxic gases as the spaceplane’s
hatch swung open. The console holoscreen switched to
a camera inside the metal tube. A curtain of thin blue
smoke was wafting out of the hatch. A flickering green
light shone inside the cabin.
Brendon appeared, pulling himself along a line of
closely spaced grab hoops. His yellow ship’s one-piece
was smeared with dirt and soot. The copper-mirror
visor of the shell-helmet he was wearing covered his
face, it was connected to a portable life-support case.
“Why didn’t he put his spacesuit on?” Erick asked.
Brendon waved at the camera. “God, thanks, I couldn’t
have lasted much longer. Hey, you haven’t opened the
hatch.”
“Brendon, we have to take precautions,” Bev said. “We
know the invaders can sequestrate people.”
“Oh, sure, yes. One moment.” He started coughing.
Erick checked the environmental readings again.
Fumes were still pouring out of the spaceplane cabin;
the airlock tube filters could barely cope.
Brendon opened his visor. His face was deathly white,
sweating heavily.
He coughed again, flinching at the pain.
“Christ,” Erick muttered. “Brendon, datavise a
physiological reading please.”
“Oh God it hurts.” Brendon coughed again, a hoarse
croaking sound.

“We’ve got to get him out,” Bev said.
“I don’t get any response from his neural nanonics,”
Erick said. “I’m trying to datavise them through the
airlock tube’s processor but there isn’t even a carrier
code acknowledgement.”
“Erick, he’s in trouble!”
“We don’t know that!”
“Look at him.”
“Look at Lalonde. They can build rivers of light in the
sky. Faking up one injured crewman isn’t going to tax
them.”
“For God’s sake.” Bev stared at the holoscreen.
Brendon was juddering, one hand holding a grab loop
as he vomited. Sallow globules of fluid burped out of his
mouth, splashing and sticking to the dull-silver wall of
the tube opposite.
“We don’t even know if he’s alone,” Erick said. “The
hatch into the spaceplane isn’t shut. It won’t respond to
my orders. I can’t even shut it, let alone codelock it.”
“Captain,” Bev datavised. “We can’t just leave him in
there.”
“Erick is quite right,” Andre replied regretfully. “This
whole incident is highly suspicious. It is convenient for
somebody who wants to get inside the ship. Too
convenient.”
“He’s dying!”
“You may not enter the airlock while the hatch into the
spaceplane remains open.”
Bev looked round the utilitarian lower deck in
desperation. “All right. How about this? Erick goes up
into the lounge and codelocks that hatch behind him,
leaving me in here. That way I can take a medical
nanonic in to Brendon, and I can check out the
spaceplane cabin to make sure there aren’t any xenoc
invaders on board.”
“Erick?” Andre asked.
“I’ve no objection.”
“Very well. Do it.”

Erick swam up into the empty lounge, and poised
himself on the ladder.
Bev’s face was framed by the floor hatch, grinning up at
him. “Good luck,” Erick said. He datavised a codelock
at the hatch’s seal processor, then turned the manual
fail-safe handle ninety degrees.
Bev twisted round as soon as the carbotanium square
closed. He pulled a medical nanonic package from a
first aid case on the wall. “Hold on, Brendon. I’m coming
in.” Red environmental warning lights were flashing on
the panel beside the circular airlock tube hatch. Bev
datavised his override authority into the management
processor, and the hatch began to swing back.
Erick opened a channel into the lounge’s
communication net processor, and accessed the lower
deck cameras. He watched Bev screw up his face as
the fumes blew out of the open hatchway. Emerald
green light flared out of the spaceplane’s cabin, sending
a thick, blindingly intense beam searing along the
airlock tube to wash the lower deck. Caught full square,
Bev yelled, his hands coming up instinctively to cover
his eyes. A ragged stream of raw white energy shot
along the centre of the green light, smashing into him.
The camera failed.
“Bev!” Erick shouted. He sent a stream of instructions
into the processor. A visualization of the lower deck’s
systems materialized, a ghostly reticulation of coloured
lines and blinking symbols.
“Erick, what’s happening?” Andre demanded.
“They’re in! They’re in the fucking ship. Codelock all the
hatches now. Now, God damn it!”
The schematic’s coloured lines were vanishing one by
one. Erick stared wildly at the floor, as if he could see
what was happening through the metal decking. Then
the lounge lights went out.
“Five minutes until we land at our new drop zone, and
the tension in the cabin is really starting to bite,” Kelly
Tirrel subvocalized into a neural nanonics memory cell.
“We know something has happened to at least five
other spaceplanes. What everyone is now asking
themselves is, will the extra distance protect us? Do the
invaders only operate below their protective covering of

red cloud?”
She accessed the spaceplane’s sensors to observe
the magnificent, monstrous spectacle again. Thousand-
kilometre-long bands of glowing red nothingness
suspended in the air. Astounding. This far inland they
were slim and complex, interwoven like the web of a
drunken spider above the convoluted tributaries. When
she had seen them from orbit, calm and regular, they
had intimidated her; up close and churning like this they
were just plain frightening.
Coiling belts were edge-on with the starboard wing,
growing larger as they spun through the sky towards the
spaceplane. It was an excellent image, a little bit too
realistic for peace of mind. But then the spaceplane’s
sensor array was all military-grade. Long streamlined
recesses on both sides of the fuselage belly were now
holding tapering cylindrical weapons pods, maser
cannons providing a three-hundred-and-sixty-degree
cover, an electronic warfare suite, and a stealth
envelope. They weren’t quite an assault fighter, but
neither were they a sitting duck like some of the
spaceplanes.
Typical that Joshua would have a multi-role spaceplane.
No! Thank God Joshua had a multi-role spaceplane.
Forty minutes into the descent, and already she missed
him. You’re so weak, she swore at herself.
Kelly was starting to have serious second thoughts
about the whole assignment. Like all war
correspondents, she supposed. Being on the ground
was very different to sitting in the office anticipating
being on the ground. Especially with the appearance of
that red cloud.
The seven mercenaries had discussed that
appearance ad nauseam the whole way in from the
emergence point. Reza Malin, the team’s leader, had
seemed almost excited by the prospect of venturing
below it. Such adverse circumstances were a
challenge, he said. Something new.
She had taken time to get to know all of them
reasonably well. So she knew what Reza said wasn’t
simple bravado. He had been a Confederation Navy
Marine at one time. An officer, she guessed; he wasn’t
very forthcoming about that period of his life, nor
subsequent contracts as a marshal on various stage
one colony planets. But he must have been good at the

second oldest profession, money in large quantities
had paid for a considerable number of physical
enhancements and alterations. Now he was one of the
elite. Like a cosmonik, blurring the line between
machine and human. The kind of hyper-boosted
composite the mundane troops stored in zero-tau on
the Gemal aspired to become.
Reza Malin retained a basic humanoid shape, although
he was now two metres tall, and proportionally broad.
His skin was artificial, a tough neutral grey-blue impact-
resistant composite with a built-in chameleon layer. He
didn’t bother with clothes any more, and there were no
genitalia (rather, no external genitalia, Kelly recorded
faithfully).
Cybernetic six-finger claws replaced his natural hands.
Both forearms were wide, with integral small-calibre
gaussrifles, his skeleton rigged to absorb recoil. Like
Warlow, his face was incapable of expression.
Black glass bubble-shields covered both eyes; the nose
was now a flat circular intake which could filter chemical
and biological agents. The back and sides of his bald
skull were studded with a row of five sensor implants,
smooth centimetre-wide ulcerlike bulges.
Despite the lack of expression, she learned a lot from
his voice, which was still natural. Reza wasn’t easily
flustered. That and a civilized competence, the way the
other six followed his orders without question, gave her
more confidence than she would otherwise have had in
the scouting mission. In the final analysis, she realized,
she trusted him with her life.
The spaceplane banked sharply. Kelly was aware of
Ashly Hanson focusing the optical sensors on a small
river three kilometres below. The silvery water had a
curious speckling of white dots.
“What does he think he’s doing?” Pat Halahan asked.
The team’s second in command was sitting in the seat
next to her. A ranger-scout, as he described himself,
slimmer and smaller than Reza, but with the same blue-
grey skin, and powerful adipose legs. Each forearm had
twin wrists, one for ordinary hands, one a power data
socket for plug-ins, weapons or sensors. His senses
were all enhanced, with a raised rim of flesh running
from the corner of his eyes right around the back of his
skull.

“Hey, what’s happening, Ashly?” he called out.
Electronic warfare was a thought all the mercenaries
were sharing.
“I’m going to land us here,” Ashly said.
“Any particular reason?” Reza Malin asked with quiet
authoritativeness.
“The surveyed back-up landing site is another seventy
kilometres south-east.”
“Listen, anyone who can create that damn cloud can
intercept our communications without even trying.
They’ll have every site Terrance Smith ever reviewed
marked in a big red circle that says hit this’.”
There was a moment’s silence.
“Smart man,” Pat Halahan muttered to Kelly. “I wish
we’d had him on the Camelot operation. Lost a lot of
good people because the general hired too many
virgins.”
“Go ahead,” Reza said.
“Thank you,” Ashly sang back. The spaceplane dived
steeply, spiralling at an angle which sent Kelly’s
stomach pressing up against her collar bones.
“Are you quite sure you want to land?” the pilot asked.
“You ask me, we’re in way over our heads. Terrance
Smith couldn’t organize a gang-bang in a brothel.”
“If Smith is going to beat the invaders, the starships
have to know where to hit them,” Reza said. “For that
you need us. We always go in at the shit end. It’s what
we’re good at.”
“Whatever you say.”
“Don’t worry about us. Ultra-tech never works well in
jungle terrain, nature is just too damn messy. And I don’t
think I’ve seen many jungles worse than this one. They
can probably swat us with some energy blast, even lob
a baby-nuke on us if they’re feeling particularly bitchy.
But they’ve got to find us first. And rooting us out of that
forest wilderness is going to be tricky, I’ll make bloody
sure of that. You just make sure you and young Joshua
stay intact to pick us up afterwards.”
“If I’m alive, I’ll pick you up.”

“Good, I’ll hold you to that.”
The spaceplane’s yaw angle reversed as it performed
an abrupt roll. Kelly clung to the armrests with white
knuckles as the webbing shifted its hold around her
body. This wasn’t a clean aerodynamic dive, it was a
death plummet.
“How you doing, Kell?” Sewell shouted, sounding hugely
amused. Sewell was one of the team’s three combat-
adept types, and looked it. Standing two metres thirty,
his leathery skin matte-black, and woven through with a
web of energy absorption/dispersal fibres. His head
was virtually globular, a glossy shell that protected his
sensors, sitting on a short neck.
Trunklike upper arms supported dual elbows; he had
attached heavy-calibre gaussrifles to the top joints.
Chuckles went round the cabin. Kelly realized her eyes
were tight shut, and forced herself to open them. The
spaceplane was shaking.
“You should eat, take your mind off it,” Sewell crowed.
“I’ve got some big gooey slices of strawberry
creamcake in my pack. Want some?”
“When you were boosted, the doctors wired your neural
nanonics to your liver,” she said. “It was one fuck of a
lot smarter than your brain, bollockhead.”
Sewell laughed.
A judder ran through the cabin as the wings began to
sweep out.
“Irradiate the drop zone, Ashly, please,” Reza said.
“Affirmative.”
“There might be civilians down there,” protested Sal
Yong, another of the combat-adepts.
“Doubt it,” Ashly said. “The nearest village is fifty
kilometres away.”
“We’re not on a Red Cross mission, Sal,” Reza said.
“Yes, sir.”
The spaceplane twisted again.
Great swaths of maser radiation poured out of the

unblemished sky around the small shallow river.
Hundreds of birds dropped to the ground or splashed
into the water, charred feathers smoking; vennals
tumbled from the trees, limbs still twitching; sayce
howled briefly as their hides wizened and cracked, then
died as their brains broke apart from the intense heat;
danderil nibbling at the vegetation collapsed, their long
elegant legs buckling as their viscera boiled. The
verdant emerald leaves of the trees and vines turned a
darker, bruised shade of green. Flowers shrivelled up.
Berries and fruit burst open in puffs of steam.
The spaceplane came down fast and level. It actually
landed in the river, undercarriage struts crushing the
stony bed, nose jutting over the grassy bank. Steam
and spray erupted from the water as it was struck by
the compressor jets, sending a large circular wave
sloshing outwards over the bank.
Sewell and Jalal were first out, the two big combat-
adept mercenaries didn’t wait for the aluminium airlock
stairs to extend. They jumped down into the lathery
water, covering the quiet wilting trees with their
gaussrifles, and sprinted ashore. The half-metre depth
didn’t even slow them down.
Reza released a couple of aerovettes, ordering them to
scan the immediate jungle. The stealthed, disc-shaped
aerial combat robots were a metre and a half wide, their
central section a curving mesh-grid to protect the wide-
cord contra-rotating fans in the middle. Five infrared
lasers were mounted around their rim, along with a
broad passive-sensor array. They hummed softly and
slipped through the air, climbing up to traverse the top
of the nearby trees.
Pat Halahan and Theo Connal were second to emerge,
following the first two mercenaries ashore. Theo
Connal had a short body, one and a half metres tall,
boosted for jungle roving. His skin was the same tough
chameleon envelope as Reza and Pat, but his legs and
arms were disproportionately long. Both feet were
equipped with fingers instead of toes. He walked with
an apeish stoop. Even his bald head portrayed simian
characteristics, with a tiny button nose, squashed circle
mouth, and slanted eyes, heavily lidded.
He activated the chameleon circuit when he landed in
the water, and scrambled up the shallow incline of the
bank. Only a faint mauve optical shimmer betrayed his
silhouette. As soon as he reached a tree he seemed to

embrace it, then levitated, spiralling round the trunk. At
which point the spaceplane sensors lost him, even the
infrared.
“My God,” Kelly said. She had wondered why Reza had
included someone as basically harmless-looking as
Theo on the team. A small buzz of excitement began in
her belly. This kind of flawless professionalism was
darkly enticing; it was easy to see how combat
missions became so narcotic.
Another pair of aerovettes skimmed off over the trees.
Sal Yong and Ariadne, the second ranger, came down
the airlock steps. Ariadne was the only other female on
the team, although her gender was obscured like all the
others. There was very little difference between her and
Pat, maybe lacking just a few centimetres in height, and
her sensor band was broader.
“Now or never, Kelly,” Reza said.
“Oh, now,” she said, and stood up. “Definitely.” The
visor of her shell-helmet slid down. Collins had given
her carte blanche on selecting her equipment back in
Tranquillity, so she had asked for Reza’s advice and
bought what he suggested. After all, it was in his own
interest not to have a liability tramping through the jungle
with the scout team.
“Keep it simple, and make it the best,” he’d said.
“You’re not combat trained, so all you have to do is
keep up with us and stay undetected.”
“I can load combat programs into my neural nanonics,”
she’d offered generously.
Reza simply laughed.
She had wound up with a one-piece suit of rubbery
body-armour, produced in the New Californian system,
that would protect her from a modest level of attack
from both projectile and energy beam weapons. Reza
had taken her to an armourer who serviced mercenary
equipment, and had a chameleon layer added.
More aerovettes whirred overhead as she hurried down
the airlock steps into the river. Steam hung in the air.
She was glad of the shell-helmet’s air filters, cremated
birds bobbed around her ankles.
Pat Halahan and Jalal were unloading the gear from the
forward cargo hold.

“Help them,” Reza ordered Kelly. He was wading
through the shallows, carrying some composite
containers. A nylon harness held a black metallic
sphere about twenty centimetres in diameter to his right
side, just above his equipment belt. Kelly wondered
what it was, her neural nanonics couldn’t identify it,
there were no visible features to assist the search and
comparison program. None of the other mercenaries
had one. She knew this wasn’t the time to ask.
The spaceplane’s steps were already folding back into
the fuselage. She set to, stacking the metal cases and
composite containers on the muddy grass of the bank.
Reza and Pat carried a trunk-sized zero-tau pod
ashore. The black negating surface evaporated to
reveal a white plastic cylinder. It split open, and a
mahogany-coloured geneered hound lumbered out.
Kelly thought its fangs could probably cut through her
armour suit.
Reza knelt down beside the big beast and ruffled its
head fondly with his hand. “Hello, Fenton. How are you,
boy?”
Fenton yawned, pink tongue hanging limply between his
front fangs.
“Go have a look round for me. Go on.”
Reza patted his hindquarters as he rose. Fenton swung
his neolithic head round to give his master a slightly
maligning look, but trotted off obediently into the
undergrowth.
Kelly had been standing perfectly still. “He’s well
trained,” she said vaguely.
“He’s well bonded,” Reza replied. “I have affinity neuron
symbionts fitted.”
“Ah.”
Pat and Jalal were wading ashore with a second zero-
tau pod.
“Adieux,” Ashly datavised.
The spaceplane lifted with a brassy shriek. Vigorous
geysers of water sprouted under the compressor
nozzles, splashing up against the carbotanium
fuselage. Then it was above the trees, undercarriage

folding up, and the geysers withering away to white-
foam ripples.
Kelly tracked her shell-helmet sensors round the
forbidding wall of water-basted jungle. Oh, crap, I’m
committed now.
She watched the spaceplane pitch up nearly to the
vertical and accelerate away into the eastern sky at
high speed. Her neural nanonics said they had landed
less than three minutes ago.
The explosion was large enough for the Gemal’s
ordinary sensor clusters to pick it up as the starship fell
into the planet’s umbra, leaving Amarisk behind. For the
vastly more sensitive observation satellites in low orbit
it registered as a savage multi-spectrum glare,
overloading some scanners.
Terrance Smith’s neural nanonics informed him it was
the spaceplane from the blackhawk Cyanea, which had
been landing a scout team in the Quallheim Counties. It
had been on the ground when the blast happened.
“What the hell did that?” he demanded.
“No idea,” Oliver Llewelyn replied.
“Shit. It was over seventy kilometres from the nearest
piece of red cloud. Did the scout team get clear?”
“No response from any of their personal communicator
blocks,” one of the bridge’s communication officers
reported.
“Bugger.” His neural nanonics’ strategic display showed
him the remaining four spaceplanes climbing into orbit.
Seven more had already docked with their parent
starships. Two were manoeuvring for a rendezvous.
“Do you want to divert a spaceplane for a rescue?”
Oliver asked.
“Not without confirmation that someone is alive down
there. It was a hell of an explosion. The electron
matrices must have shorted out.”
“Neat trick if you can do it,” Oliver said. “They have a
lot of safeguards built in.”
“Do you suppose that electronic warfare, “
“Sir, message from the Villeneuve’s Revenge,” the

communications officer said. “Captain Duchamp says
the invaders have boarded his ship.”
“What?”
“That was one of the spaceplanes we lost contact with,”
Oliver said.
“You mean they’re up in orbit?” Terrance asked.
“Looks like it.”
“Christ.” He datavised the processor managing the
command communication channels, ready to issue a
general alert. But his neural nanonics informed him a
couple of starships were leaving their assigned orbital
slots. When he requested the strategic display it
showed him Datura and Gramine under acceleration,
rising out of the thousand-kilometre orbit.
His fist hit the acceleration couch cushioning. “What is
happening?”
“The spaceplanes from both the Datura and Gramine
experienced communication difficulties,” Oliver said in
a strained voice. He glanced over at Terrance Smith.
The ordinarily prim bureaucrat looked haunted.
“Cut them out of our communication net,” Terrance
ordered. “Now. I don’t want them to access our
observation satellite data.”
“They’re running,” Oliver said. “They must be heading
for a jump coordinate.”
“Not my problem.”
“The hell it isn’t. If they are xenocs, you’ll be letting them
loose in the Confederation.”
“If they have the technology to put together that cloud,
they already have bloody starships. My concern and
mission is Lalonde. I’m not sending the blackhawks to
intercept them, we don’t have the numbers to send
ships off on wild-goose chases.”
“Their drives aren’t right,” Oliver said. “They aren’t
burning the fuel cleanly. Look at the spectroscopic
analysis.”
“Not now, fuck it!” Terrance shouted. He glared at
Oliver. “Contribute something positive or shut up.” His
neural nanonics linked him in to the communication

processor, opening direct channels to the remaining
starships. “This is an emergency warning,” he
datavised. Even as the painful phrase emerged, he
wondered how many listeners were still under his
command.
The Lady Macbeth’s bridge was completely silent as
Terrance Smith’s voice came out of the AV pillars.
“Oh, Jesus,” Joshua moaned. “This is all we need.”
“It looks like Datura and Gramine are preparing to
jump,” Sarha said.
“Sensor clusters and thermo-dump panels are
retracting.” She frowned.
“Most of them, anyway. Their thrust is very erratic.
They should be above the five-thousand-kilometre
gravity-field boundary in another four minutes.”
“This invasion force is too big, isn’t it,” Joshua said.
“We’re not going to save Lalonde, not with what we’ve
got.”
“Looks that way,” Dahybi said in a subdued tone.
“Right then.” Joshua’s mind was immediately full of
trajectory graphics.
A whole range of possible jump coordinates to nearby
inhabited star systems popped up.
You’ll be abandoning Kelly, a voice in his head said.
It’s her choice.
But she didn’t know what was happening.
He instructed the flight computer to retract the thermo-
dump panels.
Fully extended, the panels couldn’t withstand high-gee
acceleration. And if he was going to run, he wanted to
do it fast.
“As soon as Ashly returns we’re leaving,” he
announced.
“What about the merc team?” Warlow asked. “They are
dependent on us knocking out the invader’s bases.”
“They knew the risks.”

“Kelly is with them.”
Joshua’s mouth tightened into a hard line. The crew
were looking at him with a mixture of sympathy and
concern.
“I’m thinking of you, too,” he said. “The invaders are
coming up here after us. I can’t order you to stay in
these circumstances. Jesus, we gave it our best shot.
There isn’t going to be any mayope again. That’s all we
ever really came for.”
“We can make one attempt to pick them up,” Sarha
said. “One more orbit. A hundred minutes isn’t going to
make much difference.”
“And who’s going to tell Ashly he has to go down there
again? The invaders will know he’s coming down for a
pick-up.”
“I’ll pilot the spaceplane down,” Melvyn said. “If Ashly
doesn’t want to.”
“She’s my friend,” Joshua said. “And it’s my
spaceplane.”
“If there’s any trouble in orbit, then we’ll need you,
Joshua,” Dahybi said. The slightly built node specialist
was uncharacteristically firm.
“You’re the best captain I’ve ever known.”
“This is both melodramatic and unnecessary,” Warlow
said. “You all know that Ashly will pilot it.”
“Yes,” Joshua said.
“Joshua!” Melvyn shouted.
But Joshua’s neural nanonics were already feeding him
an alarm. The gravitonic distortion warning satellites
were recording nine large gaps in space being forcibly
opened.
Thirty-five thousand kilometres above Lalonde, the
voidhawks from Meredith Saldana’s 7th Fleet squadron
had arrived.
An electronic warfare technique that can knock out
power circuits as well as processors? What the hell
have we come up against?
A single gleam of bright pale green light shone up into

the lounge through the inspection window in the middle
of the floor hatch. There was movement below.
“Erick, what’s happening?” Andre Duchamp datavised.
The channel to the lounge’s net processor was thick
with interference.
Erick’s neural nanonics had to run a discriminator
program to make any sense of the captain’s signal.
“We’re getting power drop-outs all over the ship!”
Madeleine called.
Erick pushed off from the ladder, and grasped the floor
hatch’s handle to steady himself. Very gingerly he
edged his face over the fifteen centimetre diameter
window and directly into the beam of light. A second
later he was airborne, arms and legs cycling madly as a
twisted shout burst from his lips. He hit the ceiling.
Bounced. Grabbed at the ladder as his body spasmed
in reaction.
Erick had looked into hell. It was occupied by
goblinesque figures with hideous bone faces, long,
reedy limbs, large arthritis-knobbed hands.
They dressed in leather harnesses sewn together with
gold rings. A dozen at least, boiling out of the airlock
tube. Grinning with tiny pointed teeth.
Three of them had clung to Bev, yellow talon fingers
slashing rents in his ship-suit. His head had been flung
back, mouth open in black horror as the abdominal
gashes spewed entrail strands of translucent turquoise
jelly. And suicide-terror shone in his eyes.
“Did you see that?” Erick wailed.
“See what? Merde! The net is screwed, our databuses
are glitched. I’m losing all control.”
“Dear God, they’re xenocs. They’re fucking xenocs!”
“Erick, enfant, dear child, calm down.”
“They’re killing him! They love it!”
“Calm! You are an officer on my ship. Now calm.
Report!”
“There’s twelve, fifteen of them. Humanoid. They’ve got
Bev. Oh, God, they’re chopping him to pieces.” Erick

shifted a stored sedative program into primary mode,
and immediately felt his breathing regularize. It seemed
heartless, callous even, wrapping Bev’s suffering away
behind an artificial cliff of binary digits. But he needed to
be calm. Bev would understand.
“Are they heavily armed?” Andre asked.
“No. No visible weapons. But they must have something
in the spaceplane, that light I saw, “
All six electronically operated bolts on the floor hatch
thudded back together. The metallic bang rang clear
across the lounge.
“God … Andre, they just cracked the hatch’s codelock.”
He stared at it, expecting the manual bolts to slide
open.
“But none of the systems processors are working in
that capsule!”
“I know that! But they cracked it!”
“Can you get out of the lounge?”
Erick turned to the ceiling hatch and datavised the code
at it. The bolts remained stubbornly in place. “The hatch
won’t respond.”
“Yet they can open it,” Andre said.
“We can cut through it,” Desmond Lafoe suggested.
“Our hatches and the capsule decking have a
monobonded carbon layer sandwiched in,” Erick
replied. “You’d never get a fission blade through that
stuff.”
“I can use a laser.”
“That will allow them into the other capsules, and the
bridge,” Andre said. “I cannot permit that.”
“Erick’s trapped in there.”
“They will not take my ship.”
“Andre, ” Madeleine said.
“Non. Madeleine, Desmond, both of you into the
lifeboats. I will stay. Erick, I am so sorry. But you
understand. This is my ship.”

Erick thumped the ladder, grazing his knuckles. This
life-support capsule’s lifeboats were accessed from the
lower deck. “Sure.” You murdering pirate bastard. What
the fuck do you know about honour?
Someone started hammering on the floor hatch.
They’ll be through soon, Erick thought, monobonded
carbon or not. Count on it.
“Call Smith for help,” Desmond said. “Hell, he’s got five
thousand troops on the Gemal, armed and itching to
kill.”
“It will take time.”
“You got an alternative?”
Erick looked round the lounge, inventorying everything
in sight, cabins, lockers filled with food and clothes,
emergency equipment cubicles. All he had was a laser
pistol.
Think!
Open the floor hatch and pick them off one at a time as
they come through?
He aimed the laser at a cabin door, and pressed the
trigger stud. A weak pink beam stabbed out, then
flickered and died. Several small blisters popped and
crackled where it had struck the composite.
“Bloody typical,” he said out loud.
Look round again. Come on, there must be something.
Those dreary months spent on CNIS initiative courses.
Adapt, improvise. Do something.
Erick dived across the intervening space to a wall of
lockers, catching a grab loop expertly. There wasn’t
much in the emergency cubicle: medical nanonics,
pressure patches, tools, oxygen bottles and masks,
torch, processor blocks with ship’s systems repair
instructions, fire extinguishers, hand-held thermal
sensor. No spacesuit.
“Nobody said it was going to be easy.”
“Erick?” Andre asked. “What is happening?”
“Got an idea.”

“Erick, I have spoken with Smith. Several other ships
have been hijacked. He is taking some of his troops out
of zero-tau, but it will be at least another thirty minutes
before anyone can rendezvous with us.”
The lounge was getting lighter. When Erick looked over
his shoulder he saw a ring of small hemispherical blue
flames chewing at a patch of the hard grey-green foam
on the floor decking. Little twisters of smoke writhed out
from the edge. When a circle of titanium roughly a
metre in diameter had been exposed it began to glow a
dull orange. “No good, Captain. They’re coming through
the decking, some sort of thermal field. We haven’t got
five minutes.”
“Bastards.”
Erick opened the tool-box, and took out a fission-blade
knife. Please, he prayed. The blade shone a cool lemon
when he thumbed the actuator. “Sweet Jesus, thank
you.”
He flew cleanly through the air. A stikpad anchored him
near the middle of the ceiling. He pushed the fission
blade into the reinforced composite conditioning duct,
and started to saw a circle about thirty centimetres
wide.
“Madeleine? Desmond?” he datavised. “Are you in
spacesuits yet?”
“Yes,” Desmond replied.
“You want to do me a real big favour?”
“Erick, they cannot stay on board,” Andre warned.
“What do you want, Erick?” Desmond asked.
“Hauling out of here. Soon.”
“I forbid it,” Andre said.
“Stuff you,” Desmond retorted. “I’m coming down, Erick.
You may count on me, you know you can.”
“Desmond, if they break into the lounge I will scuttle the
ship,” Andre datavised. “I must do it before they glitch
the flight computer.”
“I know. My risk,” Desmond replied.
“Wait to see if they break out of the lounge first,” Erick

said. “That’ll give Desmond a chance to get clear if this
doesn’t work.”
There was no answer.
“You owe me that! I’m trying to save your ship, damn
you.”
“Oui, d’accord. If they get out of the lounge.”
The yellow patch on the floor had turned white. It started
to hiss, bulging up in the centre, rising into a metre-high
spike of light. A ball of fire dripped off the end, gliding up
to hit the ceiling where it broke into a cluster of smaller
globes that darted outwards.
Erick ducked as several rushed past. He finished
cutting a second circle out of the duct and moved along.
Another ball of fire dripped off the spike. Then another.
The patch was spreading out over the floor decking,
scorching away more of the foam.
“I’m by the hatch, Erick,” Desmond datavised.
The empty lounge was awhirl with small beads of white
fire. They had stung Erick several times now, vicious
skewers of pain that charred out a centimetre-wide
crater of skin. He glanced at the ceiling hatch’s
inspection window to see the sensor-studded collar of
an SII spacesuit pressed against it, and waved.
Erick had cut eight holes in the duct when he heard a
shrill creaking sound rise above the hiss. When he
glanced down he saw the floor decking itself had
started to distend. The metal was cherry red, swelling
and distorting like a cancerous volcano.
He watched, mesmerized, as the top burst open.
“Erick,” a voice called out of the rent. “Let us out, Erick.
Don’t make it hard on yourself. It’s not you we want.”
The triangular rips of radiant metal began to curl back
like petals opening to greet the dawn. Shapes scuttled
about in the gloom below.
Erick kicked away from the stikpad that was holding him
to the ceiling.
He landed beside the floor hatch.
“We want the ship, Erick, not you. You can go in peace.

We promise.”
A big bloodshot eye with a dark green iris was looking
at him through the floor hatch’s inspection window. It
blinked, and the lounge lights came back on.
Erick gripped the manual lock handle, twisted it ninety
degrees, and pulled up.
The possessed came up through the open hatch,
cautiously at first, glancing round the sweltering smoky
lounge with wide eyes. Their skin was as white as
bleached bone, stretched tight over long wiry muscles.
Oily black hair floated limply. They started to advance
towards him, grinning and chittering.
“Erick,” they cooed and giggled. “Erick, our friend. So
kind to let us in when we knocked.”
“Yeah, that’s me,” Erick said. He had positioned himself
beside one of the cabin doors, a silicon-fibre strap
round his waist tethering him to a grab hoop. Level with
his shoulder, the environment control panel’s cover
swung free. Erick’s right hand rested on a fat red lever
inside. “Your friend.”
“Come with us,” the one in front said as they floated
sedately towards him. “Come join us.”
“I don’t think so.” Erick yanked the atmosphere-vent
lever down.
The vent system on board a starship was included as a
last resort to extinguish fire. It dumped the affected life-
support capsule’s air straight out of the hull, cutting off
oxygen to the flames and killing them dead. And
because of the danger a fire represented inside the
confined cabin space of a starship, the vent was
designed to be quick acting, evacuating an entire deck
within a minute.
“NO!” The leader of the possessed screamed in fury
and panic. His hands were flung forwards towards Erick
in a futile belated attempt to stop the lever clicking
home. Spears of white fire arced out of his fingertips.
The panel, its lever, the circuitry behind, Erick’s hand,
and a half metre circle of wall composite flamed into
ruin. Molten metal and a fount of incendiary composite
blasted outwards.
Erick cried out in agony as his entire right arm was

flayed down to the bone. His neural nanonics
responded instantly, erecting an analgesic block. But
the shock was too much, he lurched away from
consciousness, only to have stimulant programs bully
him back. Menus and medical physiological schematics
appeared inside his dazed fragile mind. Options flashed
in red. Demands for drugs and treatments to be
administered at once. And a single constant pressure
alarm.
The very air itself howled like a tormented banshee in
its rush to escape from the lounge. Thin, layered sheets
of smoke drifting around the ruddy cone torn in the floor
condensed to form airborne whirlpools underneath the
five ceiling grilles. They spun at a fantastic rate,
betraying the speed of the air molecules as they were
sucked into the duct.
The possessed were in turmoil, clinging desperately at
grab hoops and each other, their assumed shapes
withering like glitched AV projections to reveal ordinary
bodies underneath. All of them were buffeted savagely
by the tempest force drawing them inexorably towards
the ceiling. One flew up through the hatch from the
lower deck, curving helplessly through the air to slam
against a ceiling grille. Suction held him there, squirming
in pain.
Another lost hold of a grab hoop, to be sucked
backwards up to a grille.
Both of them tried to push their way off, only to find it
was impossible.
The strength that the external vacuum exerted was
tremendous. They could feel themselves being pulled
through the narrow metal bands of the grille. Sharp
edges cut their clothes and began shredding the flesh
underneath. Ripples of blue and red energy shimmered
around their bodies for a short time, delaying the
inevitable; but the exertion proved too much, and the
ghostlight quickly faded. The bands of metal sawed
down to their ribs. Strips of lacerated flesh were torn
off. Blood burst free from a hundred broken veins and
arteries, foaming away down the conduit.
Organs started to swell through the gaps between the
ribs.
Erick activated the Confederation Navy’s emergency
vacuum-survival program stored in his neural nanonics.
His heart began to slow; muscles and organs were shut

down, reducing the amount of oxygen they took from his
blood, extending the time which the brain could be kept
alive. He hung inertly from the strap fastening him to the
wall, limbs pulled towards the ceiling. The charred
remnant of his right hand broke off and smacked
against a grille.
Blood oozed from the blackened meat of his upper arm.
Scraps of paper, clothing, tools, miscellaneous litter,
and personal items from the cabins and lower deck
plunged through the lounge to crash into the grilles.
There might have been enough material to block them,
at least long enough for the possessed to rally and try
and shut down the vent or retreat back into the
spaceplane. But the extra holes Erick had cut into the
duct allowed an unrestricted flow of smaller articles into
space. Tattered ribbons of water from the shower and
taps in the bathroom poured through the open door to
streak through the nearest hole.
The uproarious torrent of air began to abate.
Through pain-hazed eyes, Erick had watched the
group’s leader turn from semi-naked ogre to a podgy
forty-year-old man in dungarees as the micro-storm
raged. He was hanging onto a grab loop two metres
away, legs pointing up rigidly at the nearest grille,
trousers and shirt flapping madly. His mouth worked,
bellowing curses and obscenities that were snatched
away. A red glow grew around his hand, bloodlight
shining through the skin, illuminating the bones within.
Mucus and saliva streamed from his nose, joining the
flood of debris and liquids vanishing into the duct. The
seepage began to turn pink, then crimson.
Now the glow from his hand was fading along with the
sound and the fury of the evacuating air. He fixed Erick
with a disbelieving stare as tears began to bubble and
boil from the surface of his eyes. Balls of blood were
spitting out of his nostrils with each beat of his heart.
The last wisp of air vanished.
Erick swung round as the force waned, rotating
languidly on the end of the tether strap. The
physiological medical schematic his neural nanonics
were displaying appeared to be a red statue, except for
the right arm which was completely black. Each turn
swept the lounge into view. He saw the surviving
possessed struggling through the solid cloud of junk that

filled the achingly silent compartment. It was difficult to
tell which of them were alive. Corpses, two badly
mutilated, floated and tumbled and collided with the
ones trying to reach the floor hatch. Dead or alive,
everyone was weeping blood from their pores and
orifices as capillaries ruptured and membranes tore
from the immense pressure gradient. They were acting
out a bizarre three-dimensional wrestling match in slow
motion, with the hatch as their prize. It was macabre. It
swam from his view.
Next time round there were fewer movements. Their
faces, those he would remember without any help from
his neural nanonics image-storage program.
Turning.
They were slowing, running down like mechanoids
suffering a power drain.
The vacuum was turning foggy with fluid. He realized
some of it was his own. Red. Very red.
Turning.
All purposeful movement had ceased within the lounge.
There was only the gentle stirring of soggy dross.
Around and around. And the redness was fading to grey
with the ponderous solemnity of a sunset.
Around.
Ilex and its eight cousins flew into a standard defence
sphere formation two and a half thousand kilometres
wide. Their distortion fields flared out to sample the
masses and structure of local space. In their unique
perceptive spectrum Lalonde hung below them like a
deep shaft bored into the uniformity of space, radiating
weak gravity streams to bind its three smaller moons
and Kenyon, as it in turn was bound to the bright blue-
white star. The interplanetary medium was rich with
solar and electromagnetic energy; Van Allen belts
encircling the planet shone like sunlight striking an
angel’s wings. Starships and spaceplanes were
revealed in orbit, dense knots in the fabric of space-
time, pulsing hotly with electrical and magnetic forces.
Electronic sensors detected a barrage of narrow-beam
maser radiation flying between small high-orbit sensor
satellites, communication-relay satellites, and the
starships. Terrance Smith was being informed of their

presence, but there was no hostile response. Satisfied
there was no immediate threat, the voidhawks
maintained their relative positions for another ninety
seconds.
Near the centre of the formation a zone of space the
size of a quark warped to an alarming degree as its
mass leapt towards infinity, and the first frigate
emerged. The remaining twenty warships jumped
insystem over the next six minutes. It was a textbook-
sharp manoeuvre, giving Admiral Meredith Saldana the
widest possible number of tactical options. All he
needed was the relevant data to evaluate.
The normal background murmur of voices on Arikara’s
bridge died away into a shocked hush as the first
sensor scans came in. Amarisk occupied the centre of
the planet’s daylight hemisphere, the red cloud bands
above the Juliffe resembling a jagged thunderbolt
captured in mid-discharge.
“Was there ever anything like that on this God-blighted
planet before?” Meredith Saldana asked in a voice that
strained for reasonableness.
“No, sir,” Kelven replied.
“Then it is part of the invasion, a new phase?”
“Yes, sir. It looks that way.”
“Captain Hinnels, do we know what it is?” the Admiral
asked.
The staff science officer looked round from a
discussion with two of the sensor evaluation team.
“Haven’t got a clue, Admiral. It’s definitely optically
radiant, but we’re not picking up any energy emission.
Of course, we’re still a long way off. It’s rearranging the
local weather patterns, too.”
Meredith datavised for the sensor image again, and
grunted when he saw the clouds being parted like
candyfloss curtains. “How much power would that
take?”
“It would depend on the focal accuracy, ” Hinnels broke
off at the Admiral’s gaze. “Controlling the weather over
a quarter of a continent? A hundred, two hundred
gigawatts at least, sir; I can’t be more specific, not until I
understand how they apply it.”

“And they have that much power to spare,” Meredith
mused out loud.
“More importantly, where’s it coming from?” Kelven
said. “Durringham had thirty-five fusion generators in
the dumpers, and three smaller units in the navy office.
Their entire power output didn’t add up to more than
twenty megawatts.”
“Interesting point, Commander. You think there has
been a massive landing operation since you left?”
“Shipping generators in would be the logical answer.”
“But?”
“I don’t believe it. The amount of organization
necessary to set it up would be incredible, not to
mention the number of starships involved. And you saw
the flek of Jacqueline Couteur, she can summon up
energy from nowhere.”
The admiral gave him a dubious stare. “There is a
difference between flinging fireballs and this.” His hand
waved expansively at one of the big bridge holoscreens
showing the planet.
“A difference of scale, sir. There are twenty million
people on Lalonde.”
Meredith didn’t like either alternative. Both implied
forces immeasurably superior to that available to his
squadron. Probably superior to the whole damn navy,
he thought in apprehension. “Hinnels? Give me an
evaluation. Is it safe to move the squadron closer?”
“Given the capability the invaders are demonstrating, I’d
say it’s not safe even being here, Admiral. Moving into
low orbit will obviously increase the risk, but by how
much I wouldn’t like to say.”
“Thank you,” Meredith said acidly. He knew he shouldn’t
take out his anxiety on the crew. But damn, that red
cloud was unnerving. The size of it.
“Very well, we shall attempt to accomplish the First
Admiral’s orders and halt any use of force by Smith’s
starships, with the proviso that at the first sign of
aggression from the invaders we withdraw at once. I’m
not committing the squadron to fight that … whatever it
is.” He was aware of the relieved looks flashing round
the bridge, and diplomatically ignored them. “Lieutenant

Kanuik, have you completed a status review of the
mercenary ships?”
“Yes, sir.”
Meredith datavised the computer for a tactical situation
display. The mercenary starships seemed to be in
considerable disarray, with three under power, heading
out of orbit. Probably running for a jump coordinate.
Small VTOL spaceplanes were docked to five of the
blackhawks.
The Adamist craft left in orbit all had their hangar doors
open. Another two spaceplanes were rising up from the
planet. He cursed silently. They must have landed their
scout teams already.
One of the Adamist starships was venting heavily, a
grey jet of atmospheric gas shooting out of the hull. Its
ion thrusters glowed bright blue to compensate the
wayward thrust.
He saw a blackhawk’s purple vector line begin to curl up
like a corkscrew. Long-range optical sensors showed
him the bitek starship tumbling and twisting hectically.
“Sir!”
He cancelled the datavise. Lieutenant Rhoecus, his
staff voidhawk coordination officer, was wincing. “One
of the blackhawks, it’s …” The Edenist puffed his
cheeks out and jerked up from his acceleration couch
as though someone had thumped him in the belly. “Its
captain is being attacked … tortured. There are voices.
Singing. The blackhawk’s frightened.” He closed his
eyes, teeth gritted. “They want the captain.”
“Who does?”
Rhoecus shook his head. “I don’t know. It’s fading. I had
the impression of thousands speaking to the captain. It
was almost like a habitat multiplicity.”
“Signal from the Gemal, Admiral,” a communications
rating said. “Terrance Smith wants to talk to you.”
“Does he now? Put him on.”
Meredith looked into his console’s AV projection pillar,
seeing an exceptionally handsome man with perfectly
arranged black hair. Corporate clone, the Admiral
thought. Although the usual smooth flair of competence

endemic to the type was in danger of crumbling.
Terrance Smith looked like a man under a great deal of
pressure.
“Mr Smith, I am Admiral Saldana, commander of this
squadron; and under the authority invested in me by the
Confederation Assembly I am now ordering you to
suspend your military operation against Lalonde. Recall
all your personnel from the planetary surface and do
not attempt to engage the invader’s forces. I also
require you to hand over all combat wasps and nuclear
devices to the navy. The starships currently under your
command are free to leave this system once they have
complied with my instructions, except for the Lady
Macbeth, which is now under arrest. Do you
understand?”
“They’re up here.”
“Pardon me?”
Terrance Smith’s eyes flicked to one side, glancing at
someone out of pick-up range. “Admiral, the invaders
are up here. They came up in the spaceplanes that
took my scout teams down. They’re sequestrating my
crews.”
Meredith took a second to compose himself. Four
minutes into the mission, and already it was
catastrophe. “Which crews? Which starships?” He
suddenly looked across the bridge at Lieutenant
Rhoecus. “Is that what was happening to the blackhawk
captain? Sequestration?”
“It could be, yes,” the startled Edenist replied.
“I want two voidhawks on that blackhawk, now. Restrain
it, I don’t want it to leave this system. They are
authorized to engage it with combat wasps if it resists.
Deploy the remaining voidhawks to prevent any of the
Adamist starships from leaving. Commander Kroeber.”
“Sir?”
“Squadron to move in now. Full interception duties, I
want those starships neutralized. Alert the marine
squads, have them stand by for boarding and
securement.”
“Aye, aye, sir.”
He turned back to the AV pillar. “Mr Smith.”

“Yes, Admiral?”
“Which ships have been taken over?”
“I don’t know for certain. The only ones which haven’t
sent spaceplanes down to the surface are the Gemal,
the Lythral, the Nicol, and the Inula. But the Cyanea’s
spaceplane never made it back.”
“Admiral,” Kelven interjected.
“Yes, Commander?”
“We don’t know the Gemal didn’t send a spaceplane
down. There is no visible evidence of sequestration,
certainly not over a communication channel.”
Gravity returned to the Arikara’s bridge as the fusion
drive came on, building swiftly. The Admiral squirmed
his shoulders, trying to get completely comfortable
before the high gees squashed him. “Point taken,
Commander Solanki, thank you. Commander Kroeber,
all starships are to be intercepted, no exceptions.”
“Aye, aye, sir.”
Meredith checked the tactical situation display again.
There was only one spaceplane which hadn’t
rendezvoused with its parent starship now. “And tell that
spaceplane to remain where it is. It is not to dock.
Solanki, start working out how we are going to restrain
any starship crew-members that have been
sequestrated.”
“Sir, if this sequestration produces the same energy-
control ability in the crews that it has in Jacqueline
Couteur, I recommend the marines aren’t sent into the
ships at all.”
“I’ll bear that in mind. However, we will certainly have to
make at least one attempt.”
“Admiral,” Lieutenant Rhoecus called through gritted
teeth. “Another blackhawk captain is being
sequestrated.”
“Acknowledged, Lieutenant.” Meredith reviewed the
tactical display again, observing the blackhawk’s crazed
course, a moth caught in a tornado.
“Send a voidhawk to intercept, full interdiction authority.”
That was a third of his voidhawk force committed
already. He needed the rest to contain the Adamist

already. He needed the rest to contain the Adamist
starships. If any more blackhawks were taken over he
would have to order a combat wasp launch. They would
probably fight back.
With his options diminishing before his eyes, Meredith
let out a pained hiss of breath as the Arikara
accelerated past six gees. Sensors reported another
mercenary starship’s fusion drive igniting.
Ashly Hanson came through the airlock tube from the
spaceplane and drifted straight into the barrel of a laser
rifle. Warlow was holding it, aiming it directly at his
forehead.
“Sorry,” the hulking cosmonik boomed. “But we have to
be sure.”
Ashly realized there was a fission saw plugged into his
spare left elbow socket, a glowing saffron blade nearly
a metre long.
“Sure of what?”
Warlow rotated his principal left arm around the blade.
He held a processor block in his hand. “Datavise
something into this.”
“Like what?”
“Anything, doesn’t matter.”
Ashly datavised a copy of the spaceplane’s
maintenance record.
“Thanks. It was Joshua’s idea. From the reports we’ve
had it looks like they can’t use their neural nanonics.”
“Who can’t?”
“Spaceplane pilots who have been sequestrated.”
“Oh, God. I knew it, they can intercept our
communications.”
“Yes.” Warlow executed a perfect mid-air roll, and
headed for the airlock tube. “I’m going to check the
spaceplane’s cabin, make sure you didn’t bring any up.
Nothing personal.”
Ashly eyed the deck’s ceiling hatch. It was locked, red
LEDs blinking to show the manual bolts were engaged
on the other side. “The invaders are up in orbit?”

“Yes. Busy hijacking starships.”
“What’s Smith doing about it?”
“Nothing. A naval squadron has arrived, it is in their
hands now. They have aborted our mission. Oh, and
we’re under arrest, too.” His diaphragm rattled a
metallic approximation of a chuckle.
“The whole fleet? They can’t do that. We’re operating
under bona fide contract to the Lalonde government.”
“No, just the Lady Mac.”
“Why us?” But he was talking to a pair of disappearing
horned feet.
“Erick? Erick, are you receiving this?”
“His organs are critical, heading for all-out cellular
collapse. For God’s sake cancel that suspension
program.”
“Got it. Physiological data coming through.”
“Program the nanonic packages for total cranial
function support. We have to sustain the brain. Andre,
where the hell’s that plasma? He’s lost litres of blood.”
“Here, Madeleine. Erick, you wonderful crazy Anglo.
You got them, do you hear me? You got them!”
“Mesh the infuser with his carotid.”
“It was magnificent. Pull one little lever and all of them,
baboom, dead.”
“Shit. Desmond, slap a nanonic package on that stump,
the epithelium membrane isn’t strong enough, he’s
leaking plasma everywhere.”
“His lungs are filling up too, they must be ruptured. Up
the oxidization factor. His brain is still showing electrical
activity.”
“It is? Oh, thank God.”
“Erick, don’t try and datavise. We’ve got you. We won’t
let you go.”
“Do you want to put him in zero-tau?”
“Hell, yes. We’re days from a decent hospital. Just let
me try and get him stabilized first.”

“Erick, my dear one, don’t you worry about a thing. For
this I will buy you the best, the greatest, clone body in
Tranquillity. I swear. Whatever the cost.”
“Shut up, Captain. He’s in enough shock as it is. Erick,
I’m going to put you back under. But don’t worry,
everything is going to be just fine.”
The last of the six aerovettes stopped transmitting.
Reza Malin upped his cranial audio receptors to full
sensitivity, trying to hear the noise of the little vehicle’s
impact. The sounds of the jungle invaded his brain,
insect chirps, animal warbles, leaves crackling, filtered
and reduced by discrimination programs. He counted to
ten, but there was no crash.
“We’re on our own now,” he said. The aerovettes had
been sent off to the west at a fast walking pace as a
decoy, giving the scout team time to melt away into the
jungle. He had guessed the invaders could track
anything electronic; as Ashly said, if they could create
the cloudbands, they could do almost anything. They
weren’t invincible though, the fact that the team had
landed was proof of that. But they were definitely going
to provide a formidable challenge. Possibly the greatest
Reza would ever face. He liked that idea.
His two hounds, Fenton and Ryall, were slinking through
the undergrowth two hundred metres ahead of the
scout team, sniffing out people. So far the jungle had
been deserted. Pat Halahan’s affinity-bonded harpy
eagle, Octan, was skimming the treetops, retinal
implants alert for the slightest motion below the fluttering
leaves. The animals provided a coverage almost as
good as the aerovettes.
The team was following a danderil track, heading
roughly north-east towards its operational target, the
Quallheim Counties. Sal Yong was leading, brushing
through the dense vines with barely a sound. With his
chameleon circuit activated it looked as though a heavy
miniature breeze was whirling along the track. The other
six followed quickly (Theo was up overhead
somewhere), all of them loaded down with packs, even
Kelly. He was pleased to see she was keeping up. If
she didn’t, it would be a maser pulse through her brain,
which would upset some of the team. But he wasn’t
having a liability of a reporter holding them back. He
wondered if she realized that, if it lent a note of urgency
to her steps. Probably.

She was smart enough, and her bureau chief would
certainly have known the deal. So would Joshua, for all
his youth, wise beyond his years.
Fenton arrived at a river, and peered out of the bushes
lining the steep bank. Reza requested a chart from his
inertial-guidance block, and confirmed their position.
“Pat, there’s a river one eighty metres ahead, it leads
into the Quallheim eventually. Send Octan along it to
check for any boat traffic.”
“Right.” The voice seemed to emerge from a small
qualtook tree.
“Are we going to use it?” Ariadne asked, a clump of
knotted tinnus vines.
“Yes, providing Octan says nobody else is. It’s narrow
enough, good tree cover. We can cut a day off our
time.” He called silently to his hounds, and ordered
them to cut back behind the team, covering their rear.
They reached the river three minutes later, and stood at
the top of the four-metre bank.
“What is that stuff?” Jalal asked.
The water was clotted with free-floating fleshy leaves,
pure white discs a couple of metres in diameter, a tiny
purple star in their centre. Each had an upturned rim of
a few centimetres, natural coracles. They bobbed and
spun and sailed calmly along with the current, undulating
with the swell. Some overlapped, some collided and
rebounded, but they all kept moving along. Upstream or
downstream, whichever way the team looked, the river
was smothered in them.
Kelly smiled inside her shell-helmet as the daylight
dream of her Lalonde didactic course came slithering
into her conscious thoughts. “They’re snowlilies,” she
said. “Quite something, aren’t they? Apparently they all
bloom at the same time then drift downstream to drop
their kernel. It really screws up the Juliffe basin for boat
traffic while they’re in season.” She tracked her retinal
implants along the river. It was all going into a neural
nanonics memory cell, scenes of Lalonde. Capturing
the substance of a place was always important, it gave
the report that little edge, adding to reality.
“They’re a bloody nuisance,” Reza said curtly. “Sewell,
Jalal, activate the hovercraft; Pat, Ariadne, point

guard.”
The two combat-adepts unslung the big packs they
were carrying, and took out the programmed silicon
craft, cylinders sixty centimetres long, fifteen wide.
They slithered down the bank to the water’s edge.
Kelly focused on the sky downstream. At full
magnification the northern horizon was stained a pale
red. “It’s close,” she said.
“An hour away,” Reza said. “Maybe two. This river
winds a crooked course.”
Sewell shoved a couple of snowlilies aside and dropped
his cylinder into the clear patch of water. The hovercraft
began to take shape, its gossamer-thin silicon
membrane unfolding in a strict sequence, following the
pattern built into its molecules. A flat boat-shaped hull
was activated first, five metres long, fifteen centimetres
thick. Water was pumped into its honeycomb structure,
ballast to prevent it from blowing away. The gunwales
started to rise up.
Theo Connal dropped lightly to the ground beside Kelly.
She gave a slight start as he turned off his chameleon
circuit.
“Anything interesting?” Reza asked.
“The cloud is still shifting about. But it’s slower now.”
“Figures, the spaceplanes have gone.”
“All the birds are flying away from it.”
“Don’t blame ‘em,” Pat said.
Kelly’s communication block reported that a signal was
being beamed down from the geostationary satellites,
coded for their team. It was a very powerful broadcast,
completely non-directional.
“Kelly, Reza, don’t respond to this,” Joshua said. “It
looks like our communications are wide open to the
invaders, which is why I’m transmitting on a wide
footprint, a directional beam will pinpoint you for them.
OK, situation update; we’ve got big problems up here.
Several spaceplanes were taken over while they were
on the ground, the invaders are now busy hijacking
starships, but nobody can tell which ones. You know
Ashly wasn’t sequestrated, so that means you should

be able to trust me. But don’t take orders from anyone
else, especially don’t broadcast your location. Problem
two, a navy squadron has just arrived and shut down
the strike mission. Jesus, it’s a total fucking shambles
in orbit right now. Some of the hijacked ships are trying
to run for a jump coordinate, I’ve got voidhawks
blocking the Lady Mac’s patterning nodes, and two of
my fellow combat-capable trader starships are heading
up to intercept the navy squadron.
“Your best bet is to turn round from that cloud and just
keep going, out into the hinterlands somewhere.
There’s no point in trying to locate the invader’s bases
any more. I’ll do my best to pick you up in a day or two,
if this cockup gets sorted by then. Stay alive, that’s all
you have to worry about now. I’ll keep you informed
when I can. Out.”
The two hovercraft had finished erecting themselves.
Sewell and Jalal were unpacking the energy matrices
and superconductor fan motors ready to slot them into
place.
“Now what?” Ariadne asked. The team had all gathered
around Reza.
“Keep going,” he said.
“But you heard what Joshua said,” Kelly exclaimed.
“There’s no point. We have no orbital fire-power back-
up, and no mission left. If we just manage to survive for
the next few days it’s going to be a bloody miracle.”
“You still haven’t grasped it yet, have you, Kelly?” Reza
said. “This is bigger than Lalonde; this isn’t about doing
a dirty job for money, not any more. These invaders are
going to challenge the entire Confederation.
They have the power. They can change people, their
minds, their bodies; mould whole planets into something
new, something that we have no part in. Some time
soon those ships in orbit are going to have to try and
attack, to put a stop to it all. It doesn’t matter whether it
is Smith or the navy squadron. If the invaders aren’t
stopped here, they’ll keep on coming after us. Sure we
can run, but they’ll catch us, if not out in the hinterlands
than back at Tranquillity, or even Earth if you want to
run that far. But not me. Everyone has to make a stand
eventually, and mine is right here. I’m going to find a
base and let the ships know.”
Kelly held her tongue, she could well imagine how Reza

would react to her wheedling.
“More like it!” Sal Yong proclaimed.
“OK,” Reza said. “Finish fitting out the hovercraft, and
get our gear stowed.”
It took a surprisingly short five minutes to complete their
preparations and clamber in. Fully assembled the
hovercraft was a simple affair, with a big fan at the rear
and two cycloidal impellers filling the skirt with air. It was
steered mechanically, by vanes behind the fan.
Kelly sat on a bench at the rear of her craft, riding with
Sal Yong, Theo Connal, and Ariadne. Now the decision
had been made, she was quite glad to be free of the
pack and walking through the jungle.
Reza’s lead hovercraft moved out from the bank,
skimming easily over the snowlilies, and turned
downstream. Fenton and Ryall sat in the prow, blunt
heads thrust out into the wind as they picked up speed.
===========================================================================

Chapter 09
^
One thing Princess Kirsten had always insisted on after
ascending to the throne of the Principality of Ombey
was keeping breakfast a family affair. Crises could
come and go, but giving the children quality time was
sacrosanct.
Burley Palace, where she ruled from, was situated at
the top of a gently sloping hill in the middle of Ombey’s
capital, Atherstone. Its pre-eminent location gave the
royal apartments at the rear of the sprawling stone
edifice a grand view over the parks, gardens, and
elegant residential buildings which made up the city’s
eastern districts. Away in the distance was the haze-
blurred line of deeper blue that was the ocean.
Atherstone was only fifteen degrees south of the
equator, putting it firmly in the tropical climate belt, but
the early morning breeze coming in off the ocean kept
the temperature bearable until about ten o’clock.
So Kirsten had the servants set the table on the broad,
red-tiled balcony outside her bedroom, where she could
sit amid the yellow and pink flowers of the aboriginal
tolla vines that choked the back of the palace, and have
a leisurely hour with her husband and three natural-born
children.
Zandra, Emmeline, and Benedict were aged seven,
five, and three respectively, the only naturally
conceived children she and Edward had produced.
Their first five offspring had been gestated in
exowombs after the zygotes had been carefully
geneered to the latest physiological pinnacle which the
Kulu geneticists had achieved. It was the Saldana
family way; incorporating the freshest advances into
each new generation, or at least that part of it destined
to actually hold high office. Always the elder children,
following the old Earth European aristocratic tradition.
Kirsten’s first five children would probably live for
around two hundred years, whereas she herself and
the natural-born three could only hope for about a
hundred and eighty years. She had been sixty-six in
2608, when she was crowned in Atherstone Cathedral,
two months after her brother Alastair II had assumed
the throne on Kulu. As the ninth child, she had always
been destined (barring an accident among her older

brothers and sister) to rule Ombey, the newest
principality.
Like all her nine exowomb siblings, and the five natural-
born children of her mother and father, she was tall and
physically robust; geneering gave her dark red hair and
an oval face with well-rounded cheeks, and of course a
thin nose with a tip that curved down.
But geneering could only provide the physical stamina
necessary for the stresses resulting in a century of
wielding the supreme authority vested in a reigning
monarch. She had been in training for the intellectual
challenge from birth; first loaded up with the theory,
endless politics and economics and management
didactic courses, then five years at Nova Kong
University learning how to apply them. After serving a
twelve-year naval commission (compulsory for all
senior Saldanas) she was given divisional management
positions in the Kulu Corporation, the massive kingdom-
wide utilities, transport, engineering, energy, and mining
conglomerate founded by Richard Saldana when he
settled Kulu (and still owned solely by the king),
graduating up to junior cabinet posts. It was career
designed with the sole intent of giving her unrivalled
experience on the nature and use of power for when
she came to the throne.
Only the siblings of the reigning monarch ruled the
Kingdom’s principalities on his behalf, keeping the
family in direct command. The hierarchy was long
established and extraordinarily successful in binding
together nine star systems which were physically
spread over hundreds of light-years. The only time it
had ever come near to failure was when Crown Prince
Michael germinated Tranquillity; and the Saldana family
would never let anything like that happen again.
Kirsten came out onto the balcony the morning after the
Ekwan’s arrival feeling distinctly edgy. Time Universe
had been triumphantly broadcasting its Laton exclusive
since yesterday evening. She had given the news
programmes a quick scan after she woke, and the
deluge hadn’t yet abated.
Speculation over the Ekwan and Guyana’s code two
alert was red hot. For the first time since her coronation
she found herself considering censorship as an option
for calming the mounting media hysteria.
Certainly there would have to be some sort of official

statement before the day was over.
She pushed up the voluminous sleeves of her rising
robe and looked out over the superb lawns with their
mixture of terrestrial and xenoc flower-beds, and the
artificial lakes graced by black swans. The sky was a
deep indigo, without any cloud. Another gorgeous,
balmy day; if not in paradise, then as close as she
would ever see. But the sunshine panorama left her
unmoved. Laton was a name which carried too many
adolescent fear-images with it. Her political instinct was
telling her this wasn’t a crisis that would blow over in the
night. Not this one.
That same political instinct which had kept the Saldana
family securely on their various thrones for four
hundred years.
The children’s nanny brought her excitable charges out
of the nursery, and Kirsten managed to smile and kiss
them all and make a fuss. Edward lifted little Benedict
into his lap, while she seated Emmeline next to her own
chair. Zandra sat at her place and reached eagerly for
the jug of dorze juice.
“Grace first,” Kirsten admonished.
“Oh, Mummy!”
“Grace.”
Zandra sighed woundedly, clasped her hands together
and moved her lips.
“Now can I eat?”
“Yes, but don’t bolt it.” She signalled one of the four
attendant footmen to bring her own tea and toast.
Edward was feeding Benedict slim slices of bread along
with his boiled egg. “Is the news still all Laton?” he
asked over Emmeline’s head.
“Yes,” Kirsten said.
He pulled a sympathetic face, and dangled another
bread soldier in front of a cheerful Benedict.
They had been married forty years. A good marriage by
any reasonable standards, let alone an institution as
odd as a royal marriage. Edward was old money, titled
as well, and an ex-navy officer who had served with
some distinction. He was also geneered, which was a

big plus; the court liked matches with the same range of
life expectancy, it made things tidy.
They hadn’t quite been pushed into it by the family, but
the pressure had been there for someone like him. All
the senior Saldanas displayed for public consumption
the Christian monogamy ideal. Divorce was, of course,
out of the question. Alastair was head of Kulu’s Church,
Defender of the Faith throughout the Kingdom. Royalty
didn’t break the commandments, not publicly.
However, she and Edward enjoyed a relationship of
mutual respect, and trust, and even considerable
fondness. Maybe love had been there too at the start of
it, forty years ago. But what they had now was enough
to carry them through the next century together without
bitterness and regret. Which was an achievement in
itself. When she thought of her brother Claude’s
marriage …
“Mummy’s thinking again,” Emmeline announced loudly.
Kirsten grinned. “Thinking what to do with you.”
“What?” Emmeline squealed.
“Depends what you’ve done wrong.”
“Nothing! Ask Nanny, I’ve been good. All day.”
“She pinched Rosy Oldamere’s swimming towel
yesterday,” Zandra said.
Emmeline burst into giggles. “You said you wouldn’t tell.”
“It was so funny. Miss Eastree had to lend Rosy hers,
she was shivering all over.”
“Her skin was turning blue,” Emmeline said proudly.
“Who’s Laton?” Zandra asked.
“A bad man,” Edward said.
“Is he on Ombey?”
“No,” Kirsten said. “Now eat your rice chips.”
Her neural nanonics gave a silent chime, which warned
her from the start it was going to be bad news; her
equerry would never allow a datavised message
through unless it was serious, not at breakfast. She
accessed the Defence and Security Council

datapackage.
“Trouble,” she said resentfully.
Edward glanced over as she rose.
“I’ll help get them ready for day club,” he said.
“Thanks.” He was a good man.
She walked through the private apartments and
emerged into the wide marbled corridor which led to the
cabinet offices, drawing startled looks and hurried bows
from staff who were in early. She was still dressed in
her turquoise and grey rising robe.
The official reception room was a decagonal chamber
with a vaulting roof that dripped chandeliers. A
horizontal sheet of sunlight was pouring in through a
ring of azure windows halfway up the walls. Pillars were
inlaid with gold and platinum under a lofriction gloss
which kept the metal permanently agleam. Holoprints of
impossibly violent stellar events alternated with oil
paintings around the walls. There were no modern
dreamphase or mood-effusion works; the Saldanas
always favoured antiquity for the intimation of timeless
dignity it gave.
Three people were waiting for her in the middle of the
black tushkwood tile floor. Sylvester Geray was at their
head; her equerry, a thirty-six-year-old captain wearing
his Royal Kulu Navy dress uniform.
Hopelessly formal, she always thought, but he hadn’t
put a foot wrong since he took up the post three months
after her coronation.
The other two, both wearing civilian suits, were a less
welcome sight.
Roche Skark, the director of the ESA office on Ombey,
smiled politely at his princess and inclined his head.
Despite geneering, he was a rotund man, in his
eighties, and twenty centimetres shorter than Kirsten.
He had held his post for thirteen years, dealing with
threats and perceived threats throughout the sector
with pragmatism and a judicious application of abstruse
pressure on the people who counted. Foreign
governments might grumble endlessly about the ESA
and its influence and meddling in local internal politics,
but there was never any solid proof of involvement.

Roche Skark didn’t make the kind of elementary
mistakes which could lead to the diplomatic
embarrassment of his sovereign.
Jannike Dermot, on the other hand, was quite the
opposite of the demure ESA director. The fifty-year-old
woman wore a flamboyant yellow and purple cord stripe
suit of some expensive silk-analogue fabric, with her
blonde hair arranged in a thick, sweep-back style. It
was the kind of consummate power dressing favoured
by corporate executives, and she looked the part.
However, her business was strictly the grubbier side of
the human condition: she was the chief of the Internal
Security Agency on Ombey, responsible for the
discreet maintenance of civil order throughout the
principality. Unlike its more covertly active sister
agency, the ISA was mostly concerned with vetting
politicians and mounting observations on subversives
or anyone else foolish enough to question the Saldana
family’s right to rule. Ninety-five per cent of its work was
performed by monitor programs; fieldwork by
operatives was kept to a minimum. Also within its
province was the removal of citizens deemed to be
enemies of the state; which, contrary to popular myth,
was actually a reasonably benign affair. Only people
who advocated and practised violence were physically
eliminated, most were simply and quietly deported to a
Confederation penal planet from which there was never
any return.
Quite where the boundaries of the respective agencies’
operational fields were drawn tended to become a little
blurred at times, especially in the asteroid settlements
or the activities of foreign embassy personnel.
Kirsten, who chaired Ombey’s Defence and Security
Council, often found herself arbitrating such disputes
between the two. It always privately amused her that
despite the nature of their work the agencies were both
basically unrepentant empire-building bureaucracies.
“Sorry to disturb you, ma’am,” Sylvester Geray said.
“The matter was deemed urgent.”
“Naturally,” Kirsten said. She datavised a code at one
set of high double doors, and gestured for them to
follow. “Let’s get on with it.”
The doors opened into her private office. It was a
tastefully furnished room in white and powder blue,
though lacking in the ostentation of the formal State

Office next door where she received diplomats and
politicians. French windows looked out into a tiny walled
garden where fountains played in a couple of small
ornamental ponds. Glass-fronted cabinets and
bookshelves stood around the walls, heavy with
exquisite gifts from visitors and institutions who enjoyed
her patronage. A malachite bust of Alastair II sat on a
pedestal in an alcove behind her desk (Allie looking
over her shoulder, as always). A classic Saldana face,
broadly handsome, with a gravity the sculptor had
captured perfectly. She remembered her brother
practising that sombre poise in the mirror when he was
a teenager.
The doors swung shut and Kirsten datavised a
codelock at them. The processor in her desk confirmed
the study was now physically and electronically secure.
“The datapackage said there has been a new
development in the Ekwan case,” she said as she sat in
her high-backed chair behind the desk.
“Yes, ma’am,” Jannike Dermot said. “Unfortunately
there has.”
Kirsten waved a hand for them to sit. “I didn’t think it
would be good news.”
“I’d like to bring in Admiral Farquar,” Sylvester Geray
said.
“Of course.” Kirsten datavised the processor for a
security level one sensenviron conference and closed
her eyes.
The illusion was of a curving featureless white chamber
with a central oval table; Kirsten sat at the head, with
Roche Skark and Pascoe Farquar on one side, and
Jannike Dermot and Sylvester Geray on the other.
Interesting that the computer should be programmed to
seat the two agency directors opposite each other, she
thought.
“I would like to formally request a system-wide code two
defence alert,” the Admiral said as his opening gambit.
Kirsten hadn’t been expecting that. “You believe Laton
will attack us?” she asked mildly. Only she could issue a
code two alert, which allowed the military to supersede
all civil administration, and requisition whatever
personnel and materials it required. Basically it was a

declaration of martial law. (A code one alert was a full
declaration of war, which only Alastair could proclaim.)
“It’s a little more complicated than that, ma’am,” the
Admiral said. “My staff have been reviewing the whole
Lalonde-Laton situation. Now this reporter Graeme
Nicholson has confirmed Laton was present on the
planet, we have to begin to consider other factors,
specifically this energy virus which the Edenists
reported.”
“I find it quite significant they wanted their findings to be
known,” Roche Skark said. “In fact they actually
requested that we should be told. Which is an unusual
step given the Kingdom’s standard relationship with
Edenism. They obviously considered the threat
dangerous enough to exceed any political differences.
And considering what happened to our G66 troops in
Lalonde’s jungle I believe they were totally justified.”
“Our analysis of both Jenny Harris’s jungle mission and
subsequent events on Lalonde suggests that the
energy virus and this prevalent sequestration are the
same thing,” said the Admiral. “What we are dealing
with is an invisible force that can take over human
thought processes and bestow an extremely advanced
energy manipulation ability. Sophisticated enough to act
as an electronic warfare field, and construct those
white fireballs out of what appears to be thin air.”
“I reviewed parts of the jungle mission,” Kirsten said.
“The physical strength those people had was
phenomenal. Are you suggesting anyone who is
infected will acquire similar capabilities?”
“Yes, ma’am.”
“How is the energy virus transmitted?”
“We don’t know,” the Admiral admitted. “Though we do
consider the fact that Laton called it a virus to be
significant. The very nature of the term virus, whether
employed in the biological or software sense, implies a
pattern that can reproduce itself within its host, usually
at an exponential rate. But again, I’m not sure. We
really are working in the dark on this one, putting
together appraisals from observed data. There has to
be a priority to discover its exact nature.”
“We can find out relatively easily,” Jannike Dermot
said. “The answer is in Gerald Skibbow’s memory, how
he was infected and sequestrated, how the energy

virus behaves, what its limits are. I consider him to be
the key to alleviating our lack of knowledge.”
“Has he recovered yet?” Kirsten asked.
“No. The doctors say he is suffering from a case of
profound trauma; it’s touch and go if he ever will
recover his full intellectual faculties. I want him to
undergo a personality debrief.”
“Is that wise, in his state?”
The ISA director showed no emotion. “Medically, no,
not making him relive the events. But a debrief will
provide us with the information we require.”
It was a responsibility Kirsten could have done without;
Skibbow was somebody’s child, probably had children
of his own. For a moment she thought of Benedict
sitting in Edward’s lap. “Proceed,” she said, trying to
match the ISA director’s impersonality.
“Thank you, ma’am.”
“The report from Lalonde said it was Laton himself who
warned the Edenists of this energy virus? He claimed
he was being attacked by it.”
“That’s right, ma’am,” Admiral Farquar said. “Which is
what makes our current problem even more acute.”
“You think he was telling the truth, that it is a xenoc
incursion?”
“Under the circumstances, I have to give it strong
consideration. Which is why I want a code two alert. It
will give me the resources to defend the Ombey system
should they back up the virus with a physical invasion.”
Kirsten felt her palms tingle, that earlier unsettling notion
that this wasn’t just an ordinary crisis was abruptly
resumed. “What do you mean: back up the virus?”
The Admiral flicked a glance at Roche Skark. “It is a
possibility that the Ekwan brought it to Ombey,” he said.
“Oh, dear God. Do you have any proof?”
“We are ninety per cent convinced Gerald Skibbow has
been purged, although none of the science team can
offer an explanation as to how that happened.
However, in their haste to get him here, the Lalonde
Embassy’s Intelligence team may have overlooked the

fact that some of their own people were carrying it.
After all, Graeme Nicholson’s report confirms that
Laton, presumably a sequestrated Laton, was in
Durringham the day they left. We have to assume the
virus was also present in the city’s population at that
time.”
“When the Admiral’s staff informed me of this
probability, my Guyana operatives immediately tried to
round up the Ekwan’s crew and all the embassy staff,”
the ISA director said. “Three embassy people were
unaccounted for: Angeline Gallagher, Jacob Tremarco,
and Savion Kerwin.
We subsequently found that all three took a spaceplane
down to Ombey as soon as the code three restrictions
were lifted. We know they landed at Pasto Spaceport
seven hours ago. The spaceplane which brought them
down suffered from several systems failures and
processor glitches during the flight.”
“Ekwan’s flight from Lalonde was one long list of
malfunctions. But since it docked at Guyana its
systems have functioned smoothly,” the Admiral said.
“And the spaceplane?” Kirsten asked, guessing.
“When my people arrived at the spaceport it was in the
line company’s engineering hangar,” Jannike Dermot
said. “The maintenance crews couldn’t find a thing
wrong with it.”
“And there was some difficulty with the zero-tau pod
when Gerald Skibbow was put in it,” Roche Skark
added. “The implication is that this energy virus isn’t
quite under control, it interferes with nearby electronic
equipment on a permanent basis.”
“So what you’re telling me is that they’re down here,”
Kirsten said.
“Yes, ma’am,” the ISA director acknowledged. “I’m
afraid we have to assume they are. We’re hunting
them, of course. I’ve already alerted the police.”
“What about the others who were on board the
Ekwan?”
“As far as we can tell, they have not been infected.”
“Exactly how do you tell?”

“Those that have neural nanonics can use them. We
thought that if the energy virus does have an
unrestrained capacity to interfere with circuitry then
implants would be the first to suffer a loss of efficiency.”
“Good idea,” she said.
“The rest of Ekwan’s complement of colonists are being
brought into close proximity with delicate electronics.
So far none of the processor arrays have been
affected, but we’re repeating the procedure every few
hours just to be sure.”
“What about people the three from the embassy came
into contact with while they were in Guyana?”
“We have reviewed the spaceport crews,” the Admiral
said. “And we’re drawing up a schedule now to run the
entire asteroid population through these assessments.
Including myself, no exceptions.”
“I see.”
“Will you declare a code two alert, ma’am?”
“I would point out that a code two alert will allow me to
quarantine the Xingun continent,” Jannike Dermot said.
“It is unlikely that Gallagher, Tremarco and Kerwin have
left yet. I can shut down all air transport to and from the
rest of Ombey. I can also order all road traffic to be
suspended, though it may prove difficult to enforce in
practice. We might get lucky and trap them in Pasto
City itself.”
Kirsten summoned up the emergency statutes file from
a memory cell and began to review it. Her neural
nanonics started to chart a course of action, balancing
necessity against the chaos that would come with an
attempt to suspend all Ombey’s civil and industrial
activities. “Without direct evidence of a physical threat I
cannot issue a code two alert,” she said. “However, I
am declaring a code three alert, and a biohazard
isolation order for the orbiting asteroids. I want them
insulated from each other, from the planet, and from
incoming starships. Our orbital facilities are essential to
our defence, and I agree that they must be
safeguarded against the carriers of this virus. Admiral
Farquar, you are to order and enforce a complete
quarantine as of now. All civil spacecraft in transit to
return to their port of origin.
“Your primary military task is the defence of Ombey and

the orbital asteroids with their associated strategic-
defence systems. A code three alert will give you the
authority to mobilize our resident naval reserve forces;
although if it is to mean anything the quarantine order
must apply equally to the fleet. Crews will have to be
rearranged to ensure that personnel from different
asteroid bases are not mixed together. The navy’s
secondary role will be guarding against further risk of
infiltration within the star system as a whole. That
means all incoming starships to be refused docking
permission.
“As to Xingu, I agree that it should be segregated from
the rest of the planet. Sylvester, you are to inform the
Xingun continental parliament’s speaker that there is
now a state of civil emergency in existence. Shut down
its air transport links now. And I do mean now, all planes
in the air to return to their departure airport. Admiral, if
any refuse to comply you are ordered to shoot them out
of the sky. Use the low-orbit strategic-defence
platforms.”
“Yes, ma’am.”
Kirsten watched Sylvester Geray’s image freeze as he
started to datavise her orders into the secure
government communication net. “Roche, do you believe
the embassy three are going to try and spread the virus
among our population?”
“Their actions so far indicate that is their main goal,
yes, ma’am.”
“So it’s not just them we’re looking for, we’re going to
have to round up anyone they came into contact with?”
“Yes, ma’am. Speed in this instance is going to be
essential; the faster they are caught, the fewer possible
contamination cases we will have to worry about. It’s an
exponential problem again. If they go free for too long
then it may well escalate beyond our ability to contain,
as it did on Lalonde.”
“Jannike, do the police on Xingu have sufficient
resources to track them down?”
“I believe so, ma’am,” the ISA director said.
“May I suggest we use someone more familiar with
people who have been sequestrated by the virus?”
Roche Skark said smoothly. “I’m sure the civil
authorities are capable, Jannike, but I feel hands-on

experience will be of immense benefit in this instance.
Someone who is perfectly aware of the urgency, and
knows how to react should things turn ugly. And judging
by Lalonde that may well happen.”
The ISA director stared at him levelly. “One of your
agents, you mean?”
“It is a logical appointment. I recommend Ralph Hiltch is
sent to Xingu to oversee the search.”
“Him? The man who didn’t even know Laton was on
Lalonde, the greatest criminal psychopath the
Confederation has ever known!”
“I feel that’s slightly unfair, Madam Director. The
Confederation and the Edenists believed Laton was
dead after the navy destroyed his blackhawks. How
many corpses are you currently investigating?”
“Enough,” Kirsten said. “That will do, both of you. In this
situation I think every resource has to be deployed
without prejudice; I’d like to believe we can deal with this
incident better than a stage one colony planet. That was
a good suggestion, Roche; have Ralph Hiltch sent to
Pasto immediately. He is to liaise with the civil
authorities there, with a brief to advise and assist with
the capture of the embassy personnel and identification
of anyone else who has been sequestrated.”
“Thank you, ma’am. I’ll inform him at once.”
“I just hope he can contain them,” she said, allowing her
deeper worries to surface momentarily. “If not, he could
be facing a one-way trip.”
The cloudband which lay over the Quallheim was a
muddy rouge colour when seen from the underside,
streaked with long rusty gold ridges as though it was
reflecting the twilight rays of a sinking sun. It grew ever
broader, the frayed edges stirring and flexing in disquiet
as it swam out lazily over the sweltering jungle.
Kelly, casually accustomed to the enormousness of
Tranquillity, was dumbfounded by its size. To the west
and east there was no visible end, the band could
encircle the world for all those sitting in the hovercraft
knew. Straight ahead, to the north, there might have
been a hairline of blue sky above the black treetops.
Amarisk was slipping gently into a deep luminous
cavern.

Thunder, strident bass rumbles that echoed strangely,
taking a long time to fade, had been audible for the last
twenty minutes as the two hovercraft eased their way
towards the Quallheim over the buoyant mass of
snowlilies coating the unnamed tributary. There was no
sign of any lightning.
The hovercraft slipped under the tempestuous lip of
cloud, and red-tinged darkness tightened around them
like a noose. With the morning sun high in the sky, the
transition into shadow was abrupt, leaving none of the
scout team in any doubt of the change. Kelly couldn’t
help a shiver inside her armour even though the suit
kept her skin temperature at a comfortable constant.
Reza’s communication block reported it had lost the
geosynchronous communication-satellite’s beacon.
They were cut off from Smith, Joshua, and the navy
squadron.
Trees lining the bank became dark and sullen, even the
flowers which eternally sprouted from the vines lost
their perky glimmer. Snowlilies were the rancid colour of
drying blood. High overhead large flocks of birds were
embarking on their first ever migration, flapping and
gliding towards the brightness sleeting down beyond the
cloud.
“The cloud stretches across the heavens like the
Devil’s own wedding veil. It is the coming of an immortal
penumbra as Lalonde is eclipsed by a force before
which nature trembles in fear. The planet is being
forcibly wedded to a dark lord, and the prospect of cold
alien offspring issuing forth is one which gnaws
menacingly at the team’s fragile spirit.”
“Please!” Sal Yong protested loudly. “I want to eat
sometime today.” The big combat-adept mercenary
was sitting on the bench ahead of Kelly, shoulders
slewed so the front of his rounded, dull-gloss head was
aligned on her.
“Sorry,” she said. She hadn’t been aware she was
talking out loud. “This is crazy, you know. We should be
running the opposite way.”
“Life is crazy, Kell. Don’t let that stop you from enjoying
it.” He swung his doughty shoulders back.
“The problem is, I’d like to go on enjoying it, preferably
for decades.”

“Then why come here?” Ariadne asked. She was sitting
next to Sal Yong, steering the hovercraft with a small
joystick.
“Born stupid, I guess.”
“I’ve been with Reza for a decade now,” the female
ranger scout said.
“I’ve seen atrocities and violence even your scoop-
happy company would never show for public
consumption. We’ve always made it home. He’s the
best combat scout team leader you’ll ever meet.”
“On a normal mission, yes. But this bloody thing, ” Her
arm rose to take in the cloud and gloomy jungle with an
extravagant sweep. “Look at it, for Christ’s sake. Do
you really think a couple of well-placed maser blasts
from orbit are going to knock it out? We need the whole
Confederation Navy armed with every gram of
antimatter they’ve ever confiscated.”
“Still got to have somewhere to shoot that antimatter
down at,” Sal Yong said. “The navy would have to send
the marines in if we weren’t already here shovelling shit.
Think of the money we’re saving the Confederation
taxpayer.”
Beside Kelly, Theo broke into a high-pitched chuckle.
He even sounds like a monkey, she thought.
“Regular marines couldn’t handle this,” Ariadne said
cheerfully, guiding the hovercraft round a rock. “You’d
need the Trafalgar Greenjackets. Special-forces types,
boosted like us.”
“Bunch of knuckle shufflers, all theory and drills,” Sal
Yong said witheringly. The two of them started arguing
over the merits of various regiments.
Kelly gave up. She just couldn’t get through to them.
Perhaps that was what made mercenaries so different,
so fascinating. It wasn’t just the physical supplement
boosting, it was the attitude. They really didn’t care
about the odds, staking their life time and again. That
would make a good follow-up story back at Tranquillity;
interview some ex-mercs, find out why they had quit.
She loaded a note in her neural nanonics. The pretence
of normality. Keep the mind busy so it doesn’t have time
to brood.
The hovercraft arrived at the Quallheim itself after

another forty minutes. It was four or five times the width
of the tributary, over two hundred and fifty metres
broad. Both banks were overrun with tall trees that leant
over the river at sharp angles, plunging aerial roots and
thick vines into the water. Snowlilies lay three deep on
the surface, moving at an infinitesimal pace. Where the
tributary emptied into the Quallheim they formed a
mushy metre-high dune on top of the water.
Now the scout team headed upriver, keeping close to
the northern bank and the paltry cover of the trees.
Reza seemed more concerned about lying exposed to
the cloud than proximity to possible hostiles on the land.
With nothing but the lightly furrowed carpet of snowlilies
opening out like an empty ten-lane motorway ahead, the
hovercraft began to pick up speed.
It was dark on the river, under the centre of the
cloudband, an occultation which made all the team
switch to infrared vision. The trees blocked any sight of
the natural sunlight beyond it. Thunder was a constant
companion, booms slithering up and down the river like
the backwash of some vast creature burrowing its way
through the vermilion vapour above. Big insects, similar
to terrestrial dragonflies but without wings, skipped
across the snowlilies, only to be hurled tumbling by the
wind of the hovercraft’s passage. Vennals, burning with
a pink-blue radiance of charcoal embers, hung in the
branches of the trees, watching the small convoy rush
past with wide, soft eyes.
Towards the middle of the morning, Reza stood up and
signalled the second hovercraft towards the northern
bank where there was a break in the trees. Ariadne
rode the craft up the lush grass to a halt next to its twin.
Fenton and Ryall were already bounding off into the
undergrowth.
“I didn’t want to datavise,” Reza said when they all
gathered round. “And from now on we’ll operate a policy
of minimal electronic emission. Ariadne, have you
detected any broadcasts from the invaders?”
“Not yet. I’ve had our ELINT blocks scanning since we
landed. The electromagnetic spectrum is clean. If
they’re communicating it’s either by ultra-tight beam, or
fibre optics.”
“They could be using affinity, or an analogue,” Pat said.
“In that case, you can forget homing in on them,” she

said. “Nobody can intercept that kind of transmission.”
“What about the blackhawks?” Jalal asked. “Could they
detect it?”
“No good,” Pat said. “They can’t even detect the bond
between me and Octan, let alone some xenoc variant.”
“Never mind,” Reza said. “The Quallheim Counties
were the origin of the invasion. There has to be a large
base station around here somewhere. We’ll find it. In
the meantime, there is a village called Pamiers a couple
of kilometres ahead. Pat says Octan has located it.”
“That’s right,” Pat Halrahan said. “He’s circling it now,
at a reasonable distance. The whole place is illuminated
with white light, yet there is no break in the cloud
overhead. There are houses there as well, about thirty
or forty proper stone buildings alongside the wood
shacks the colonists build.”
“Smith said there were buildings like that in villages the
observation satellites did manage to view,” Reza said.
“Yeah, but I can’t see where they came from,” Pat said.
“There are no roads at all, no way to bring the stone in.”
“Air or river,” Sewell suggested.
“Invade a planet then airlift in stone houses for the
population?” Pat said. “Come on, this is weird, but not
insane. Besides, there is no sign of any construction
activity. The grass and paths haven’t been churned up.
And they should have been, the houses have only been
here a fortnight at most.”
“They could be something like our programmed silicon,”
Kelly said, and rapped a gloved knuckle on the hard
gunwale behind her. “Assembled in minutes, and easily
airlifted in.”
“They look substantial,” Pat said with vague unease. “I
know that’s not an objective opinion, but that’s the way it
feels. They’re solid.”
“How many people?” Reza asked.
“Twenty or twenty-five walking about. There must be
more inside.”
“OK, this is our first real chance to obtain serious
Intelligence data as to what’s going on down here,”
Reza said. “We’re going to deactivate the hovercraft

and cut through the jungle around the back of Pamiers.
After we’ve reached the river again and set up a retreat
option, I’ll take Sewell and Ariadne with me into the
village, while the rest of you provide us with some
cover. Assume anyone you meet is hostile and
sequestrated. Any questions?”
“I’d like to come into Pamiers with you,” Kelly said.
“Your decision,” Reza said indifferently. “Any real
questions?”
“What information are we looking for?” Ariadne asked.
“Intent and capability,” Reza said. “Also physical
disposition of their forces, if we can get it.”
Hackles raised inside her armour, Kelly let the team
shove a couple of hovercraft electron matrices into her
pack before they all set off again.
Reza didn’t want them to walk in single file, for fear of
ambush; instead they fanned out through the trees with
chameleon circuits on, avoiding animal paths. There
was a method of trekking through the raw jungle, Kelly
learnt, and for her it was always walking where Jalal
walked. He seemed to instinctively find the easiest way
around trees and thick undergrowth, avoiding having to
force his way against the clawing branches and heavy
loam. So she kept her helmet sensors focused on the
low-power UV pinpoint light at the nape of his neck, and
bullied her legs to keep up.
It took them fifty minutes to skirt the village and wind up
back at the river. Sewell and Jalal set to activating the
hovercraft at the top of a short slope above the water.
Kelly dumped her pack into the locker at the rear of the
second craft, and felt as though she could fly without
the extra weight. With equipment stowed, the team fitted
their weapons, checked power and projectile
magazines, and set off back towards Pamiers.
Reza found the first corpse two hundred metres short
of the village clearing. It was Ryall who smelt it for him,
a sharp tang of dead flesh which even the jungle’s
muggy air couldn’t disguise. He sent the hound veering
off towards it. Ryall promptly smelt another corpse,
causing Reza to hurriedly damped down his reception
of the hound’s olfactory sense.
It was a child, about five or six, he guessed. Ryall had
found it sitting huddled up at the foot of a mayope tree.

Age was hard to determine; there wasn’t a lot left, so he
had to go by size. Insects and humidity had accelerated
the decomposition, though it was strange no animal had
disturbed it. According to his didactic memory, sayce
were supposed to be fairly brutal carnivores.
He led Sewell, Kelly, and Ariadne through the trees to
the body, and dispatched Ryall to the second.
“It’s a girl,” Ariadne said after examining the remains.
She held up a nondescript length of filthy, dripping-wet
fabric. “This is a skirt.”
Reza wasn’t going to argue. “How did she die?” he
asked.
“There are no broken bones, no sign of violence.
Judging by the way she’s curled up between the roots
I’d say she crawled here to die. Poisoned? Starving?
No way of knowing now.”
“Scared of the invaders,” Reza said thoughtfully. “They
probably didn’t bother to sequestrate the children.”
“You mean the adults just ignored her?” Kelly asked in
disgust.
“Ignored her, or drove her away. A child like this
wouldn’t walk around in the jungle by herself. The village
had been established long enough for her to pick up
basic jungle lore.”
Ryall trotted up to the second corpse, emitting a warm
feeling of satisfaction as his muzzle touched the
putrefying flesh. Reza picked up the sense of
accomplishment and expanded the affinity band
allowing himself to see through the hound’s enhanced
retinas. “It’s another kid,” he told them. “A bit older,
there’s a baby in its arms.” Ryall could scent more
decaying meat in the humid air, three or four blends, all
subtly different. Closer to the river, Fenton had picked
up a further series of traces. “My God,” Reza growled
in a dismayed whisper. “They’re everywhere, all
around.”
A village like Pamiers would start off with a population of
about five hundred. Say two hundred families, and
they’ve been here a couple of years. That would mean
about a hundred and fifty children.
He stood, scanning the jungle. Slender yellow target
graphics slid up over the black and red image in an

uncomplicated, unprogrammed reflex. He wanted to
shoot something dead. His neural nanonics ordered a
slight endocrine effusion, stabilizing the sudden
hormonal surge.
“Come on, she can’t help us any more,” he said, and
began pushing briskly through the bushes and vines
towards the village. He turned his chameleon circuit off,
and after a few paces the others followed suit.
Pamiers followed the standard configuration of
settlements along the Juliffe’s tributaries. A
semicircular clearing chopped out of the jungle along
the side of the river. Crude single-storey houses
clustered together in no particular order at the centre,
along with larger barns, a church, a meeting hall, an Ivet
compound. Wooden jetties ventured ten or fifteen
metres into the water, with a few fishing skiffs tied up.
Fields and plots ringed the outside, a surfeit of crops
pushing out of rich black loam.
However, Pamiers’ layout was all that remained
recognizable as the four of them stepped out of the
trees.
“Where is this light coming from?” Kelly asked, looking
round in surprised confusion. As Pat had reported, the
village bathed luxuriantly in a bright pool of sunlight, and
yellow pollen was thick in the air. She scanned the cloud
overhead, but there was no break. Thunder, muted
while they were in the trees, rolled insistently around
them once more.
Ariadne walked on a few paces, activating her full
implant sensor suite as well as the specialist blocks
clipped to her belt. She turned a complete circle,
sampling the environment. “It’s omnidirectional. We’re
not even leaving shadows. See?”
“Like an AV projection,” Reza said.
“Yes and no. The spectrum matches Lalonde’s sun.”
“Let’s go see what those new houses are made of,” he
said.
Pamiers’ fields had been left untended. Terrestrial
plants were fighting a fierce battle for light and height
with the vines that had surged out of the jungle to
reclaim their native territory. Fruit was hanging in
mouldy white clusters.

Yet inside the ring of fields, the grass around the
houses was short and tidy, studded with what looked
suspiciously like terrestrial daisies.
When he had studied the sheriff’s satellite images on
the flight from Tranquillity Reza had seen the way the
village clearings were worn down and streaked with
muddy runnels. Grass and weeds grew in patchy
clumps.
But this was an even, verdant carpet that matched
Tranquillity’s parkland for vitality.
Stranger still were the houses.
Apart from three burnt-out ruins, the original wooden
shacks had been left standing, their planks bleached a
pale grey, shuttered windows open to the weather, bark
slates slipping and curling, solar-cell panels flapping
loosely. They were uninhabited, that was obvious at a
glance.
Mosses, tufts of grass, and green moulds were tucked
into corners and flourishing promisingly. But jammed at
random between the creaky cabins were the new
structures. None of them was the same, with
architectural styles ranging across centuries, a
beautiful two-storey Tudor cottage, an Alpine lodge, a
Californian millionaire’s cinderblock ranch, a circular
black landcoral turret, a marble and silverglass pyramid,
a marquee which resembled a cross between a
Bedouin tent and a medieval European pavilion,
complete with heraldic pennants fluttering on tall poles.
“Having some trouble with my blocks,” Ariadne said.
“Several malfunctions. Guido and communications are
right out.”
“If it begins to affect the weapons we’ll pull back,” Reza
cautioned.
“Keep running diagnostic programs.”
They cleared the fields and started to walk over the
grass. Ahead of them a woman in a long blue polka-dot
dress was pushing a waist-high gloss-black trolley that
had a white parasol above it, and huge spindly wheels
with chrome wire spokes. Whatever it was, it was
impossibly primitive. Reza loaded the image’s pixel
pattern into his neural nanonics with an order to run a
comparison search program through his
encyclopaedia. Three seconds later the program

reported it was a European/North American style pram
circa 1910-50.
He walked over to the woman, who was humming softly.
She had a long face that was crudely painted in so
much make-up it was almost a clown’s mask, with dark
brown hair worn in a severe bun, encased by a net. She
smiled up happily at the four members of the team, as
though their weapons and equipment and boosted form
were of no consequence.
That simpleton smile was the last straw for Reza,
whose nerves were already stretched painfully thin.
Either she was retarded, or this whole village was an
incredibly warped trap. He activated his short-range
precision sensors, and scanned her in both
electromagnetic and magnetic spectrums, then linked
the return into a fire-command protocol. Any change in
her composition (such as an implant switching on or a
neural nanonics transmission) and his forearm rifle
would slam five EE rounds into her. The rest of his
sensors were put into a track-while-scan mode,
allowing his neural nanonics to keep tabs on the other
villagers he could see walking about among the
buildings behind her. He had to use four backup units,
several principal sensors had packed up altogether.
The overall resolution was way down on the clarity he
was used to.
“What the fucking hell’s going on here?” he demanded.
“I have my baby again,” she said in a lilting tone. “Isn’t
he gorgeous?”
“I asked you a question. And you will now answer.”
“Do as he says,” Kelly said hastily. “Please.”
The woman turned to her. “Don’t worry, my dear. You
can’t hurt me. Not now, not any more. Would you like to
see my baby? I thought I’d lost him. I lost so many back
then. It was horrible, all those dead babies. The
midwives tried to stop me seeing them; but I looked just
the same. They were all perfect, so beautiful, my
babies. An evil life it was.” She bent forwards over the
pram and lifted out a squirming bundle draped in lacy
white cloth. The baby cooed as she held it out.
“Where have you come from?” Reza asked. “Are you
the sequestration program?”
“I have my life back. I have my baby back. That’s what I

am.”
Ariadne stepped forward. “I’m going to get a sample
from one of those buildings.”
“Right,” Reza said. “Sewell, go with her.”
The two of them walked round the woman and started
off towards the nearest house, a whitewashed Spanish
hacienda.
The baby let out a long gurgle, smiling blithely, feet
kicking inside the wrap. “Isn’t he just adorable,” the
woman said. She tickled his face with a finger.
“One more time,” Reza said. “What are you?”
“I am me. What else could I be?”
“And that?” He pointed to the cloud.
“That is part of us. Our will.”
“Us? Who is us?”
“Those who have returned.”
“Returned from where?”
She rocked the baby against her chest, not even
looking up. “From hell.”
“She’s either nuts, or she’s lying,” Reza said.
“She’s been sequestrated,” Kelly said. “You won’t get
anything out of her.”
“So sure of yourselves,” the woman said. She gave
Kelly a sly look as she cuddled the baby. “So stupid.
Your starships have been fighting among themselves.
Did you know that?”
Reza’s neural nanonics’ optical-monitor program
reported more people were appearing from the houses.
“What do you know about it?”
“We know what we feel, the pain and the iron fire. Their
souls weeping in the beyond.”
“Can we check?” Kelly asked urgently.
“Not from here.”
The woman laughed, a nervous cackle. “There aren’t

many left to check, my dear. You won’t hear from them
again. We’re taking this planet away, right away.
Somewhere safe, where the ships can never come to
find us. It will become paradise, you know. And my baby
will be with me always.”
Reza regarded her with a chill of foreboding. “Yes, you
are a part of this,” he said quietly. The yellow target
graphics locked on to her torso. “What is happening
here?”
“We are come, and we are not going to leave. Soon the
whole world will be hiding from the sky. From heaven.
And we shall live on in peace for ever.”
“There will be more of this red cloud?”
The woman slowly tilted her head back until she was
staring straight up.
Her mouth fell open as though in wonder. “I see no
clouds.” She started to laugh wildly.
Reza saw Ariadne had reached the hacienda. The
ranger scout was bending over, scraping at the wall with
some kind of tool. Sewell was standing behind her, the
long gaussrifle barrels he had plugged into his lower
elbow sockets swivelling from side to side in an
automatic sweep pattern.
“Ariadne,” Reza bellowed. “Get back here. We’re
leaving now.”
The woman’s laughter chopped off. “No, you’re not.”
She dropped the baby.
It was Reza’s infrared sensors which caught the
change. A wave of heat emerged right across her body
and started to flow like a film of liquid, rushing along her
arms as she brought them up, becoming denser, hotter.
His left forearm’s gaussgun fired five electron
explosive rounds just as a white light ignited around her
hands. There was three metres between them. Impact
velocity alone would have been enough to tear her body
apart, with the EEs detonating as well there was nothing
left for the last three rounds to hit.
Kelly’s armour hardened protectively as the blast wave
slammed into her.
Then she screamed as a jet of spumescent gore

slopped across the front of the paralysed fabric.
“Sewell, zero the area!” Reza shouted.
The twin heavy-calibre gaussrifles the big combat-
adept mercenary carried began to blaze, squirting out a
barrage of EE projectiles. Emerald-green laser beams
emerging from Reza and Ariadne snapped on and off,
traversing the clearing in a strobe waltz as their lighter
weapons picked off targets.
Kelly’s armour unlocked. She fell to her knees,
centimetres from the baby. Her hand went out
instinctively, twitching the blood-soaked lace aside to
see if it was still alive.
There was a vennal inside the wrap. The little xenoc
creature had been distorted, its vulpine skull swollen
and moulded into a more globular shape, scales melded
together and stretched. They were losing their
distinctive blue-green pigmentation, fading to pale pink.
Its forepaws had become chubby, tiny human hands
scrabbled feebly at the air. Squeals of terror emerged
from its toothless mouth.
Her neural nanonics were unable to quell her stomach
spasm in time. An emergency program triggered the
shell-helmet’s quick-release seal, and the visor sprang
open. She vomited onto the neatly mown grass.
Sewell ran backwards across the grass, making almost
as much speed as he could travelling forward. An
autonomic locomotion program took care of that,
guiding his feet round possible obstacles, leaving his
conscious thoughts free to assist with target selection.
The first fire sequence had ripped into the houses,
smashing them apart in plumes of ionic flame and
smoke. Even Sewell, who was aiming for maximum
destruction, was surprised by the devastating effect the
rifles inflicted. As soon as the first EE projectile hit the
buildings their bright colours switched off, leaving
behind a neutral grey. The rifles laid down a
comprehensive fire pattern. Walls and roofs buckled
and collapsed, sending out billowing clouds of thick
dust, support timbers splintered then seemed to
crumble. Within seconds the whole area had been
reduced to pulverized rubble. The old shacks bent and
bowed before the pressure blasts; they were far
sturdier than the new houses. Several keeled over,
wood twisting and shrieking. Slate-tile roofs
somersaulted, intact walls slewed through the air

rippling like giant mantas.
Sewell switched to the people, concentrating on
coordinates where the target-allocation program had
located individuals. The feed tubes from his backpack
magazine hummed smoothly as they supplied the
gaussrifles with fresh ammunition. There had been
eighteen people visible to his sensors before Reza’s
shouted order. He pumped airburst shrapnel rounds
after them as they dived for cover amid the shattered
houses.
Infrared sensors showed him eccentric waves of heat
shimmering amid the expanding dust. White fire, like an
earthbound comet, streaked towards him. Boosted
muscles flung him aside. The gaussrifles swung round
to the origin, compensating for his dive. EE projectiles
pummelled the area.
“Up, you bitch!” Reza yelled at Kelly. “Back to the
hovercraft.”
She rolled over, seeing a fermenting red cloudscape
sky lit by green lasers and white fireballs. Fear and
hatred fired her limbs and she jerked to her feet. The
houses were a flattened circle belching smoke and
dust. White fire raged in a spiral maelstrom above
them, slinging out splinters that arced overhead. Trees
fell and fire bloomed where they struck the wall of
jungle. Sewell and Ariadne were charging towards her,
both firing back into the rubble.
Kelly took three paces towards the trees then stopped.
She pulled her nine-millimetre automatic pistol from her
holster in one smooth movement.
The gun’s familiarization and targeting program went
into primary mode, and she fired two bullets into the
mutated vennal. Then she sprinted after Reza, neural
nanonics releasing a torrent of adrenalin and
amphetamines into her bloodstream.
Pain stabbed into the back of Ariadne’s left thigh as the
fireball struck her. Neural nanonics erected an
analgesic block straight away.
Compensator programs shifted her balance, favouring
her right leg, activating those left thigh muscles which
remained functional. Valves in the veins and arteries of
her pelvis and knee sealed, limiting the blood loss. Her
speed was barely reduced. She caught up with Kelly just
as a fireball hit the reporter in the side of her ribs.

Kelly’s armour gleamed an all-over ruby as it tried to
disperse the energy. A circle of the suit flared as it
melted. The fire lingered round the rent, chewing at the
exposed skin. She stumbled and fell, rolling on the damp
loam of an overgrown strawberry patch, beating wildly
at the flame with her gauntlets.
“Keep going,” Ariadne shouted. Her targeting program
located another figure moving through the thinning dust
cloud. The TIP pistol plugged into her wrist socket fired
a burst of energy at it.
The entire left side of Kelly’s ribs had gone numb,
frightening her at a deeper level than programs or
chemicals could relieve. None of the mercenaries were
slowing down. They’re not going to help me!
Kelly ordered her neural nanonics to override her
trembling muscles and scrambled to her feet. Her
integral medical program was signalling for attention.
She ignored it and ran on. The clearing’s sourceless
sunlight went out, plunging her back into the stark red
and black landscape of the infrared image.
It took her eight minutes to reach the hovercraft. Eight
minutes of furiously punching vines out of her way and
skidding on mud while the three mercenaries hurled out
a barrage of fire through the jungle to cover their
retreat. Eight minutes of white fireballs twisting and
swerving round trunks, pursuing the team with the
tenacity of smart seeker missiles. Of thunder roaring
overhead and flinging down stupendous lightning bolts
that rocked the ground. Sudden impossible gusts of
wind rising from nowhere to slap her around like a
lightweight doll. Of neural nanonic programs and
endocrine implant effusions assuming more and more
control of her body as its natural functions faltered
under the unrelenting demands of her flight.
One hovercraft was already rushing down the slope into
the snowlily-congested river when she arrived at the
little glade.
“Bastards!” she yelled weakly.
Lightning struck twenty metres behind her, sending her
sprawling. Reza was sitting behind the second
hovercraft’s control panel, hand playing over the
switches. The impeller fans began to spin, forcing air
into the skirt. It began to rise slowly upwards; Sewell
and Sal Yong stood on either side of it, their gaussrifles

blasting away at unseen targets.
Kelly started to crawl. The first of the white fireballs shot
out of the trees, curving round to drop on the
hovercraft. Lightning flashed down again. A mayope
tree toppled over with a sepulchral splintering. It
crashed down ten metres behind her, one of the upper
boughs coming down straight on top of her legs. Her
armour stiffened, and her bent knees were pushed
sharply into the yielding loam.
“Wait!” Kelly begged in a rasp. “For fuck’s sake, you
shitheads. Wait!”
The hovercraft’s skirt was fully inflated, twigs and
leaves were thrown out from under the thick rubbery
fabric. Sewell hopped over the gunwale.
“Jesus God, I can’t move. Help me!” Her vision
contracted to a tunnel with the hovercraft at the far end.
“Help me!”
Sewell was standing in the middle of the hovercraft.
One of his gaussrifles turned towards her. Leaves and
small branches rustled and slithered like serpents over
her legs, she could feel them coiling round her calves.
Then Sewell fired. The explosions sent her cartwheeling
over the ground. She slammed into something hard. It
grated along the side of her armour suit. Moving.
Hovercraft! Her hands scrabbled with animal passion
against it. And she was being lifted effortlessly into the
air.
Rationality ended there and she kicked and flailed
against the air. “No! No! No!”
“Easy there, Kell, I’ve got you.”
Her world spun round as the big mercenary dumped her
unceremoniously on the floor of the hovercraft. She
gagged, limbs juddering as the neural nanonics stopped
sending out compulsive overrides. After a minute she
began to sob, the quivering muscle motions starting
deep in her belly and emerging through her mouth.
“You made it,” Sal Yong said later. How much later Kelly
didn’t know, her mind was furred with tranquillizers,
thoughts slow. She tried to sit up, and winced at the
bands of pain tightening around her ribs. A medical
diagram unfolded inside her skull. Her body’s decay in
unwelcome detail.

“The tree!” she barked hoarsely.
“We got it,” Sewell said. “Shitfire, but that was weird.”
“You were going to leave me!” Panic set her skin
crawling. Blue lights flashed silently around the
physiological display. More tranquillizers.
“You’re going to have to learn to keep up, Kell,” Reza
said in his normal level tones. “We’re on a combat
mission. I told you when we started, I can’t spare
anyone for baby-sitting duties.”
“Yes.” She flopped back down. “So you did. I’m sorry.” I
simply didn’t realize you were serious, that you would
leave a fellow human being behind, to face … that.
“Hey, you did all right,” Sal Yong said. “Lotsa people
would have screwed up, they had all that shit thrown at
them.”
“Oh, thanks.”
There were mechanical clunks from somewhere behind
her as Sewell detached his gaussrifles. “Let’s see
about getting that armour off you, Kell. You look like you
could do with some field aid.” She felt him touch the
suit’s seal catch, and then humid sticky air was sliding
over her skin.
Her helmet came off, and she blinked dizzily.
Sewell was sitting on a bench above her, holding a
couple of medical nanonic packages. Kelly avoided
looking at her ribs; the physiological display was bad
enough.
“Looks like I’m not the only one,” she said, smiling
bravely. His artificial skin was pitted with small deep
blackened craters where the white fire had struck,
including a long score on the side of his glossy head.
Blood and fluid dribbled out of the cracks each time he
moved. “Or are you going to say they’re just flesh
wounds?”
“Nothing critical.”
“Oh, crap, I’m drowning in macho culture.”
“You can put your gun down now, Kell.”
The nine-millimetre pistol was still in her hand, fingers
solidified round its grip. She gave it a bewildered stare.

solidified round its grip. She gave it a bewildered stare.
“Right. Good idea.”
He tilted her gently on her right side, then peeled the
covering off the nanonic package. It moulded itself to
her left side, curving round to cover her from her navel
to her spine. The colours of her physiological display
changed, reds diluting to amber, as it began knitting
itself to her wound.
“Where are we going?” she asked. The hovercraft was
moving faster than it had before. Humidity was making
her sweat all over, the smell of vegetation was rank,
itching her throat. Lying half-naked racing through a
xenoc jungle being chased by monsters and cut off
from any hope of rescue. She knew she ought to be
reduced virtually to hysterics, yet really it was almost
funny. You wanted a tough assignment, my girl.
“Aberdale,” Reza said. “According to the LDC’s chief
sheriff, that’s where the first reported trouble started.”
“Of course,” Kelly answered. There was a strange kind
of strength on the far side of utter despair, she found,
or maybe it was just the tranquillizers.
“Kell?”
She closed her leaden eyelids. “Yes.”
“Why did you shoot the baby?”
“You don’t want to know.”
The navy squadron closed on Lalonde at seven gees,
crews prone on their acceleration couches with faces
screwed up against the lead-weighted air which lay on
top of them. When they were seventeen thousand
kilometres out, the fusion flames died away and the
starships rotated a hundred and eighty degrees in a
virtuoso display of synchronization, ion thrusters
crowning them in a triumphant blue haze. The Arikara
and the Shukyo released twenty combat
communication-relay satellites, streaking away at ten
gees to englobe the planet. Then the warships began to
decelerate.
As the merciless gee force returned to Arikara’s bridge
Meredith Saldana accessed the tactical display. The
voidhawks had performed small swallow manoeuvres,
taking them to within two and a half thousand kilometres
of the planet and curving into orbit ahead of the Adamist
warships to which such short-range precision jumps

were impossible. But the mercenary fleet was leading
the bitek starships a merry dance. Three blackhawks
were racing away from Lalonde, striving for the magic
two thousand kilometre altitude where they would be
outside the influence of the planet’s gravitational field,
allowing them to swallow away. Voidhawks were in
pursuit. Four of the nine combat-capable independent
traders were also under acceleration. Two of them,
Datura and Cereus, were heading on a vector straight
towards the squadron at two and a half gees. They
wouldn’t respond to any warning calls from the Arikara,
nor Terrance Smith.
“Haria, Gakkai, go to defensive engagement status,
please,” Meredith datavised. The situation display
showed him the two frigates end their deceleration
burn, flip over, and accelerate ahead of the rest of the
squadron.
“What is the state of the remaining mercenary ships?”
the Admiral enquired.
“Smith claims the starships remaining in orbit are
obeying his orders, and therefore haven’t been
hijacked,” said Lieutenant Franz Grese, the squadron
Intelligence officer.
“What do you think?”
“I think Commander Solanki was right, and we’d better
be very careful, Admiral.”
“Agreed. Commander Kroeber, we’ll send a marine
squad into the Gemal first. If we can verify that Smith
himself hasn’t been hijacked or sequestrated it may just
make our job that bit easier.”
“Aye, aye, sir.”
The tactical situation warned him the Datura and
Cereus were launching combat wasps. Meredith
observed in astonishment as each of them released a
salvo of thirty-five; according to the accompanying
identification codes the starships were small vehicles,
forty to forty-five metres in diameter. They couldn’t
have held back any reserves, what absurd tactics.
The drone armaments began to accelerate from their
launch craft at twenty gees.
“No antimatter, Admiral,” datavised Second Lieutenant
Clark Lowie, the Arikara’s weapons officer. “Fusion

drives only.”
That’s something, Meredith thought. “What’s their
storage capacity?”
“Best estimate would be forty combat wasps maximum,
Admiral.”
“So they haven’t left any for their own defence?”
“Looks that way, sir.”
Haria and Gakkai launched a counter salvo; eighty
combat wasps leaping ahead to intercept the incoming
hostiles at twenty-seven gees. Purple, red, and green
vector lines sprang up in Meredith’s mind, as if
someone was performing laser acupuncture right
across his skull. The combat wasps started to squirt
megawatt electronic warfare pulses at each other.
Active and kinetic submunitions began to scatter. Two
disc-shaped swarms formed, five hundred kilometres
across, alive with deceitful impulses and infrared
signatures. Electron beams flashed out, perfectly
straight lightning bolts glaring against the starfield. The
first explosions flared. Kiloton nuclear devices were
detonated on each side. Smaller explosions followed as
combat wasps blew apart under the prodigious energy
impact.
A second, smaller, salvo was launched by the frigates,
compensating for the loss.
“Admiral, the Myoho reports the blackhawk it’s chasing
is about to swallow outsystem,” Lieutenant Rhoecus
called. “Request permission to follow.”
“Granted. Follow and interdict; it is not to come into
contact with inhabited Confederation territory.”
“Aye, aye, sir.”
A vast circle of space burst into pyrotechnic oblivion as
the two antagonistic combat wasp swarms collided, as
though a giant wormhole had been torn open into the
heart of a nearby star. The annular plasma storm
eddied violently, radiating down through the visible
spectrum in seconds until only nebulous violet mists
were left.
Arikara’s sensor clusters struggled to burn through the
conflagration and present an accurate representation

of events through the tactical situation display. Some
submunitions from both sides had survived. Now they
were accelerating towards their intended targets. All
four combatant ships began high-gee evasive
manoeuvres.
Myoho and its blackhawk disappeared from the display.
Granth and Ilex both fired a volley of combat wasps at
their respective prey.
Haria’s masers began to fire as the remaining
submunitions closed on it.
Small vivid explosions peppered nearby space. Rail
guns thumped out a stream of steel spheres which
formed a last-ditch kinetic umbrella. Eight surviving
submunitions drones detected it, three of them were
gamma-pulse lasers. A second before they struck the
umbrella they fired.
Large oval sections of the frigate’s hull turned cherry
red under the radiation assault. Molecular-binding
generators maxed out as they fought to keep the
monobonded silicon’s structure intact. The energy-
dispersal web below the silicon struggled to absorb and
redistribute the intense influx. All the sensor clusters
either melted or had their electronics burnt out by the
gamma-ray deluge. Replacement clusters rose
immediately; but the starship was blind for a period of
three seconds.
In that time the remaining five submunitions hit the
kinetic umbrella.
They disintegrated instantly, but hypervelocity
fragments kept coming.
With the sensors unable to see them and direct the
frigate’s close-range weapons they struck the hull and
vaporized. The binding generators, already heavily
stressed, couldn’t handle the additional loading. There
were half a dozen localized punctures. Fists of plasma
punched inwards.
Internal systems melted and fused as they were
exposed. Fuel tanks ripped open sending hundred-
metre fountains of vaporizing deuterium shooting out.
“Bellah, assist, please,” Commander Kroeber ordered.
“Rescue and recovery.” The stricken frigate’s
emergency beacon was howling across the distress
bands. The life-support capsules should have easily

withstood the strike. Even as he requested more
information from the computer the sensor image
showed him ion thrusters firing to slow the frigate’s
wayward tumble.
With all of their combat-wasp stocks exhausted in the
first salvo, Datura and Cereus were left with only short-
range masers to defend themselves against the assault
from the frigates’ drones. The electronic warfare
barrage was unrelenting as the drones closed at twenty
gees, defeating the starships’ sensors. The two
mercenary starships exploded within seconds of each
other.
A cheer went round the Arikara’s bridge. Meredith felt
like joining in.
“Admiral, another blackhawk is leaving orbit,” Lieutenant
Rhoecus said.
Meredith cursed, he really couldn’t spare another
voidhawk. A quick check on the tactical display
revealed little information, the blackhawk was on the
other side of Lalonde from the squadron. “Which is the
nearest voidhawk?”
“The Acacia, Admiral.”
“Can they hit it with combat wasps?”
“They have a launch window, but estimate only a thirty
per cent chance of success.”
“Tell them to launch, but remain in orbit.”
“Aye, aye, sir.”
“Bellah reports survivors from the Haria have been
detected, Admiral,” Commander Kroeber said. “They’re
matching velocities.”
“Good. Hinnels, has there been any reaction from the
Juliffe cloud bands?”
“Nothing specific, sir. But they’ve been growing wider at
a constant rate, the area they’re covering has
increased by one and a half per cent since we arrived.
It adds up to a respectable volume.”
Another combat-wasp battle raged high above
Lalonde’s terminator as the drones from the Granth
encountered defences fired by their prey. Then the
blackhawk vanished down a wormhole interstice. Three

seconds later Granth followed.
“Damn,” Meredith muttered.
But the Ilex was having better luck. Its combat-wasp
salvo had forced the blackhawk it was chasing to flee
back down towards the planet.
The Admiral requested a channel to the Gemal. “We
shall be boarding you first, Smith. Any resistance and
the marines will shoot to kill, understood?”
“Yes, Admiral,” Terrance Smith replied.
“Have you received any updates from the teams you
landed?”
“Not yet. I expect most of them were sequestrated,” he
added gloomily.
“Tough. I want you to broadcast a message that their
mission is over. We will pick up any survivors if at all
possible. But none of them is to attempt to penetrate
under the cloud, no hunting of enemy bases. This is
now a Confederation Navy problem. I don’t want the
invaders antagonized unduly.” Not while my squadron is
so close to that bloody cloud, he finished silently. It was
the sheer quantity of power involved again.
Frightening. And the berserk way the hijacked ships
were behaving didn’t help.
“I’m not sure I can guarantee that, Admiral,” Smith said.
“Why not?”
“I issued the team leaders with kiloton nukes. It would
give them a fall-back in case the starships were unable
to provide strike power. I was worried the captains
might balk at bombarding a planetary surface.”
If it hadn’t been for the fierce gee force Meredith would
have put his head in his hands. “Smith, if you get out of
this with your life, it won’t be on my account.”
“Well, fuck you!” Terrance Smith yelled. “You Saldana
bastard, why do you think I had to hire these people in
the first place? It’s because Lalonde is too poor to rate
decent navy protection. Where were you when the
invaders landed? You would never have come to help
us put down that first insurrection, because it didn’t
affect your precious financial interests.

Money, that’s what you shits respect. What the hell
would you know about ordinary people suffering? You
were born with a silver spoon in your mouth that’s so
big it’s sticking out through your arse. The only reason
you’re here now is because you’re frightened the
invasion might spread to worlds you own, that it might hit
your credit balance. I’m doing what I can for my people.”
“And that includes nuking them, does it?” Meredith
asked. He’d been subject to anti-Saldana bigotry for so
long now the insults never even registered. “They’re
sequestrated, you cretin, they don’t even know they’re
your people any more. This invasion isn’t going to be
beaten by brute force. Now, you will broadcast that
message, make the mercenary teams turn back.”
The tactical display sounded an alarm. A broad fan of
curving purple vector lines were rising high over
Wyman, Lalonde’s small arctic continent. Someone
behind the planet had launched a salvo of fifty-five
combat wasps.
“My God,” Meredith muttered. “Lowie, what are they
aimed at?”
“Unclear, Admiral. There is no single target, it’s a rogue
salvo. But from the vectors I’d say they were seeking to
engage anything in the thousand-kilometre orbit …
Bloody hell.”
A second salvo, of equal size, was curving round the
south pole.
“Jesus, that’s a neat pincer movement,” Joshua said.
At some ridiculous private level he was delighted he
didn’t need any intervention from his neural nanonics to
remain calm. He felt his mind function with that same
cool reserve which had manifested itself back in the
Ruin Ring when Neeves and Sipika appeared.
This is me, what I am: a starship captain.
The Lady Mac’s three fusion drives came on almost
without conscious thought. “Stand by for combat gees,”
he warned.
“How many?” Sarha asked nervously.
“How high is up?”
Other starships were getting under way, retracting their
thermo-dump panels. Three of them launched combat

wasps in a defensive cluster formation.
“Remain in orbit,” Smith ordered over the command net.
“The navy squadron will provide us with protective
cover from the salvo.”
“Like bollocks they will,” Joshua said. The squadron
was still four minutes from orbital injection. A sensor
scan revealed blackhawks and voidhawks alike racing
up for a higher altitude; the slower Adamist starships
were following, with three exceptions, Gemal one of
them.
The gee force in Lady Mac’s bridge passed five gees.
Ashly groaned in dismay. “My bones can’t take this.”
“You’re younger than me,” Warlow countered.
“I’m more human, too.”
“Wimp.”
“Castrated mechanoid.”
Sarha suddenly noticed the trajectory Joshua had
loaded into the flight computer. “Joshua! Where the hell
are you taking us?”
Lady Mac was rising above the equatorial plane at
seven gees, decreasing altitude at the same time.
“We’re going under them.”
“This trajectory is going to graze the atmosphere!”
He watched more of the mercenary starships launching
combat wasps. “I know.” It had been an instinctive
manoeuvre, opposing every tactic program in the flight
computer’s memory core; they all said altitude was the
key in orbital combat situations, giving you more room
to manoeuvre, more flexibility. Everyone else in the little
mercenary fleet was clinging to that doctrine, escaping
from Lalonde with fusion drives operating way out on
the limit. “Dad was always telling me about this one,” he
said in what he hoped was a confident manner. “He
always used it in a scrape. Lady Mac’s still about, isn’t
she?”
“Your bloody father isn’t!” Sarha had to datavise, she
couldn’t expel enough air from her lungs to talk. The
acceleration had reached nine gees. She hadn’t known
even Lady Mac could produce that kind of drive level.
Every internal membrane supplement had turned rock

hard. An arterial implant at the base of her neck was
injecting oxygen into her bloodstream, making sure her
brain didn’t starve. She couldn’t ever remember having
to use it before. Joshua Calvert, we are not a bloody
combat wasp!
“Look, it’s very simple,” he explained, trying to sort out
the logic in his own mind. As usual, rationality was
trailing well behind impetuosity.
“Combat wasps are designed for deep-space
operations. They can’t operate in the atmosphere.”
“We are designed for deep-space operations!”
“Yes, but we’re spherical.”
Sarha couldn’t snarl, she would have dislocated her jaw
bone; but she managed to grate her teeth together.
Lady Macbeth flew over the Sarell continent in forty-five
seconds, arching down sharply towards the brown and
yellow volcanic deserts. She was three hundred
kilometres in altitude when she passed over the
northern coastline; the north pole was two and a half
thousand kilometres ahead. Seven hundred kilometres
above, and four thousand kilometres ahead, the
combat wasp salvo spotted her. Six of them abruptly
altered course and dived down.
“Here they come,” Joshua said. He fired eight of Lady
Mac’s combat wasps, programming them for a tight
defence-shield formation. The drones leapt upwards at
twenty gees, scattering submunitions almost
immediately.
Aft sensors showed the starships in orbit behind and
above were releasing more and more combat wasps.
Even the Gemal was breaking out of its thousand-
kilometre orbit, the old colonist-carrier could only make
one and a half gees. And there was no escort, Joshua
saw sadly. Far away to the east, barely above the
horizon, there was a volley of explosions followed by
the unmistakable larger smeared detonation of a
starship.
Wonder who that was? It didn’t seem to matter much,
only that it wasn’t him.
“Melvyn, keep monitoring the grav-detector satellite
data. I want to know if any ships start jumping
outsystem, and if possible where to.”

“I’m on it, Joshua.”
“Dahybi, I can’t believe the voidhawks can keep
jamming our nodes with all this going on, the second
they slip I want to know.”
“Yes, Captain.”
The sensors showed Joshua the attacking combat
wasps releasing their submunitions. Particle beams
lanced out from both swarms. “OK, everybody, here we
go.” He shot an order directly into the drive deflector
coils, and Lady Mac lurched downwards.
Meredith Saldana caught the crazy flight vector
developing and datavised a request into the tactical
situation computer for confirmation. The vector was
recomputed and verified. Half of the squadron’s
frigates would be unable to produce a nine-gee thrust.
“Who’s that idiot?” he asked in reflex.
“Lady Macbeth, sir,” Lieutenant Franz Grese said.
“None of the others have triple-fusion drives.”
“Well, if they all suicide on us I shall be a very happy
man.”
It wasn’t looking good. He had already changed the
squadron’s operational orbit from one thousand
kilometres to two thousand three hundred, which would
give them a superior look-down shoot-down position,
but only if the mercenary ships stayed put. Injection was
in ninety seconds. Combat wasps were being launched
at a prodigious rate from the mercenary fleet.
Intelligence and tactics programs couldn’t say which
were defensive and who was attacking whom. Each of
his squadron’s ships had launched a defence cluster
salvo.
One of the voidhawks exploded with appalling savagery,
and the victorious blackhawk skirted its roiling debris
plume to vanish into a wormhole interstice.
“Who?” he asked Rhoecus.
“Ericra, but they saw the combat-wasp barrage
approaching. Ilex has their memory patterns safe.”
Even now, after all the truths he had seen in his
cosmopolitan life, Meredith felt the old twang of
prejudice. Upon death, souls departed this life for ever.

It was the Christian way. They were not to be ensnared
in a mockery of God’s living creatures.
You can leave the Kingdom, he acknowledged jadedly,
but it never leaves you.
Go in peace, he prayed silently for the dead Edenists.
Wherever you roam.
On a more pertinent level he was down to six
voidhawks.
“Combat wasps have locked on to the Gemal, sir,”
Clarke Lowie reported.
The gee force on the bridge was reducing rapidly as the
Arikara slid into orbit.
Thank Christ for small mercies, Meredith thought.
“Commander Kroeber, squadron to engage all combat
wasps launched by the mercenary fleet. We’ll sort out
who’s friendly and who isn’t when events become a little
less immediate.”
“Aye, aye, sir.”
Arikara trembled as a salvo was fired.
“Issue a blanket order for all mercenary starships to
cease acceleration and evasive manoeuvres as soon
as the combat wasps have been cleared. Failure to
comply will result in naval fire.”
“Aye, aye, sir.”
When the Lady Mac reached one hundred kilometres’
altitude Joshua withdrew all but five sensor clusters.
Wyman’s fjord-etched coastline was directly below.
Three hundred kilometres overhead, the two combat-
wasp swarms were firing a fusillade of kinetic missiles
and coherent radiation at each other. They clashed at a
closing speed of over seventy kilometres per second. A
patch of sky burst into pure white atomic fury, bringing a
transient dawn to the arctic continent’s month-long night
underneath.
Eleven submunitions broke through to descend on the
Lady Macbeth with cybernetic mayhem in their silicon
brains. Two of them were one-shot gamma pulsers.
They tracked the hurtling starship as it buffeted its way
through the upper atmosphere, then discharged the
energy in their electron matrices with one swift burst.

The resulting gamma-ray beam lasted for a quarter of a
second.
A sheath of ions had already built up around the Lady
Macbeth’s hull, a tangerine florescence that radiated
away from the forward fuselage in hypersonic ripples.
But they were swiftly lost against the incandescent
streams of energized helium emerging from the fusion
tubes. The stratosphere reeled from the unrestrained
tumult of the starship’s passage. Her exhaust stretched
out over a hundred and fifty kilometres behind her,
evanescing into titanic electrical storms which lashed
the sharp icy steppes seventy-five kilometres below
with a vigour that threatened to split the glaciers open to
the bedrock. Insubstantial green and scarlet borealis
spectres cavorted over the ice-encrusted continent in a
display which rivalled the bands over the Juliffe in scale.
“Breakthrough!” Warlow cried.
Systems schematics filled Joshua’s mind, laced with
red symbols. The hull’s molecular-binding generators,
already labouring with the burden imposed by the ion
sheath, had overloaded in half a dozen places as the
gamma pulses drilled into the monobonded silicon.
He switched back to the flight management display. The
thrust from one of the fusion tubes was reducing. “Any
physical violation?” The thought of needles of blazing
atmospheric gases searing in over the delicate
modules and tanks at this velocity was terrifying. Neural
nanonics effused an adrenalin antidote into his
bloodstream.
“Negative, it’s all energy seepage. But there’s some
heavy component damage. Losing power from
generator two, and I’ve got cryogenic leakages.”
“Compensate, then, just keep us functional. We’ll be
through the atmosphere in another twenty seconds.”
Sarha was already datavising a comprehensive list of
instructions into the flight computer, closing pipes and
tanks, isolating damaged sub-components, pumping
vaporized coolant fluid from the malfunctioning
generator into emergency dump stores. Warlow began
to help her, prioritizing the power circuits.
“Three nodes are out, Joshua,” Dahybi reported.
“Irrelevant.” He took the starship down to sixty
kilometres.

The nine remaining kinetic missile drones followed.
They were, as Joshua said, intended for deep space
operation: basically a sensor cluster riding on top of
fuel tanks and a drive unit. There was no streamlining,
no outer fuselage; in a vacuum there was no need for
such refinements.
All they had to do was collide with their victim, mass and
velocity would obey Newton’s equations and combine to
complete the task. But now they were flying through the
mesosphere, a medium implacably alien and hostile.
Ionization started to accumulate around their blunt
circular sensor heads as the gas thickened, turning to
long tongues of violet and yellow flame which licked
back along the body. Sensors burnt away in seconds,
exposing the guidance electronics to the radiant
incoming molecules. Blinded, crippled, subject to
intolerable heat and friction pressures, the kinetic
drones detonated in garish starburst splendour twenty
kilometres above the Lady Macbeth.
The Arikara’s tactical situation display showed their
vectors wink out almost simultaneously. “Very smart,”
Meredith said grudgingly. It took a hell of a nerve to pilot
a starship like that, nerve and egomaniacal self-
confidence. I doubt I would have that much gumption.
“Stand by. Evasive manoeuvring,” Commander Kroeber
said.
And Meredith had no more time to reflect on the
singular antics of Joshua Calvert. Punishing gravity
returned abruptly to the flagship’s bridge. A third salvo
of combat wasps leaped out of their launch-tubes.
Lady Macbeth soared out of the mesosphere, throwing
off her dangerous cloak of glowing molecules. Behind
her, Wyman’s ice-fields glimmered under eerie
showers of ethereal light. Combat-sensor clusters rose
out of their hull recesses on short stalks, their golden-
lensed optical scanners searching round.
“We’re in the clear. Thank you, sweet Jesus.” Joshua
reduced the thrust from the fusion drives until it was a
merely uncomfortable three gees.
Their trajectory was taking them straight away from the
planet at a high inclination. There were no combat
wasps within four thousand kilometres.
I knew the old girl could do it. “Told you so,” he sang at

the top of his voice.
“Awesome,” Ashly said, and meant it.
On the couch next to Joshua, Melvyn shook his head in
dazed admiration despite the gee force.
“Thanks, Joshua,” Sarha said gently.
“My pleasure. Now, damage assessments please.
Dahybi, can we jump?”
“I’ll need time to run more diagnostics. But even if we
can jump it isn’t going to be far. Those three nodes
were physically wrecked by the gamma pulses. Our
energy patterns will have to be recalculated. Ideally, we
need to replace the nodes first.”
“We’re only carrying two spares. I’m not made of
money. Dad always jumped with nodes damaged and, “
“Don’t,” Sarha pleaded. “Just for once, Joshua. Let’s
deal with the present, OK?”
“Somebody’s jumped outsystem,” Melvyn said. “The
grav-detector satellites registered at least two
distortions while we were performing our dodo
impersonation, I think there may have been a wormhole
interstice opened as well. I can’t tell for sure, half of the
satellites have dropped out.”
“There is no jamming from the voidhawks any more,”
Dahybi said.
“OK, great. Warlow, Sarha, how are our systems
coping?”
“Number two generator’s out,” Warlow said. “I’ve shut it
down. It took the main strike from the gamma rays.
Lucky really, most of the energy was absorbed by its
casing. We’ll have to dump it when we dock, it’s got a
half-life longer than some geological eras now.”
“And I’d like you to stop using the number one fusion-
drive tube,” Sarha said. “The injection ionizers are
damaged. Other than that, nothing serious, we’ve got
some leaks and some component glitches. But none of
the life-support capsules were breached, and our
environmental-maintenance equipment is fully
functional.”
“Got another jumper,” Melvyn called out.

Joshua reduced thrust to one gee, cutting drive tube
one altogether, then accessed the sensors. “Jesus, will
you look at that?”
Lalonde had acquired its own ring, gloriously radiant
stripes of fusion fire twining together to form a platinum
amulet of immense complexity.
Over five hundred combat wasps were in flight, and
thousands of submunitions wove convoluted
trajectories. Starships initiated high-gee evasive
manoeuvres. Nuclear explosions blossomed.
The Lady Macbeth’s magnetic and electromagnetic
sensors were recording impulses nearly off the scale. It
was a radiative inferno.
“Two more wormhole interstices opening,” Melvyn said.
“Our bitek comrades are leaving in droves.”
“I think we’ll join them,” Joshua said. Just for once in
her life, Sarha might be right, he conceded. It was the
now which counted. Lady Mac was already two
thousand kilometres in altitude, and rising steeply from
the pole; he shifted their inclination again, carrying them
further north of the ecliptic and away from the conflict
raging above the planet’s equatorial zones. Another
three thousand kilometres and they would be out of the
influence of Lalonde’s gravity field, and free to jump. He
made a mental note to travel an additional five hundred
klicks, no point in stressing the nodes, given their state.
About a hundred seconds at their current acceleration.
“Dahybi, how is the patterning coming?”
“Reprogramming. Another two minutes. You really don’t
want to rush me with this one, Joshua.”
“Fine, the further we are from the gravity field the
better.”
“What about the mercs?” Ashly said. It wasn’t loud, but
his level voice carried the bridge easily.
Joshua banished the display showing him possible jump
coordinates. He turned his head and glared at the pilot.
Why was there always one awkward bastard? “We
can’t! Jesus, they’re killing each other back there.”
“I promised them, Joshua. If they were alive I said I
would go down and pick them up. And you said
something similar in your message.”

“We’ll come back.”
“Not in this ship, not in a week. If we dock at a port, it’ll
take a month to refit. That’s without any hassle from the
navy. They won’t be alive in two days, not down there.”
“The navy said they’d pick up any survivors.”
“You mean that same navy which right now is shooting
at our former colleagues?”
“Jesus!”
“There isn’t going to be a combat wasp left in thirty
minutes,” the pilot said reasonably. “Not at the rate
they’re expending them. All we have to do is sit tight for
a couple of hours out here.”
Instinct pushed Joshua, repelled him from Lalonde and
the red cloud bands. “No,” he said. “I’m sorry, Ashly, but
no. This is too big for us.” The coordinate display
flipped up in his mind.
Ashly looked desperately round the bridge for an ally.
His eyes found Sarha’s guilty expression.
She let out an exasperated sigh. “Joshua?”
“Now what!”
“We should jump to Murora.”
“Where?” His almanac file produced the answer,
Murora was the largest gas giant in the Lalonde
system. “Oh.”
“Makes sense,” she said. “There’s even an Edenist
station in orbit to supervise their new habitat’s growth.
We can dock there and replace the failed nodes with
our spares. Then we can jump back here in a day or so
and do a fast fly-by. If we get an answer from the
mercs, and the navy doesn’t shoot us on sight, Ashly
can go down to pick them up. If not, we just head
straight back to Tranquillity.”
“Dahybi, what do you think?” Joshua asked curtly. Most
of his anger was directed at himself; he should have
thought of Murora as an alternative destination.
“Gets my vote,” the node specialist said. “I really don’t
want to try an interstellar jump unless we absolutely
have to.”

“Anybody else object? No? OK, nice idea, Sarha.” For
the third time, the jump coordinate display appeared in
his mind. He computed a vector to align the Lady Mac
on the gas giant, eight hundred and fifty-seven million
kilometres distant.
Ashly blew Sarha a kiss across the bridge. She grinned
back.
Lady Macbeth’s two remaining fusion drives powered
down. Ion thrusters matched her course to the Murora
jump coordinate with tiny nudges. Joshua fired a last
coded message at the geostationary communications
satellites, then the dish antenna and various sensor
clusters started to sink down into their jump recesses.
“Dahybi?” Joshua asked.
“I’ve programmed in the new patterns. Look at it this
way, if they don’t work, we’ll never know.”
“Fucking wonderful.” He ordered the flight computer to
initiate the jump.
Two kinetic missiles hammered into the frigate
Neanthe, almost severing it in half. When the venting
deuterium and glowing debris cleared, Arikara’s
sensors observed Neanthe’s four life-support capsules
spinning rapidly. Still intact. Kinetic missiles found two of
them while a one-shot pulser discharged eighty
kilometres away, stabbing another with a beam of
coherent gamma radiation.
Admiral Saldana clenched his teeth in helpless fury.
The battle had rapidly escalated out of all control, or
even sanity. All the mercenary ships had fired salvos of
combat wasps, there was simply no way of telling which
were programmed to attack ships (or which ships) and
which were for defence.
The tactical situation computer estimated over six
hundred had now been launched. But communications
were poor even with the dedicated satellites, and
sensor data was degraded by the vast amount of
electronic warfare signals emitted by everybody’s
combat wasps. One of the bridge ratings had said
they’d be better off with a periscope.
When it came, the explosion was intense enough to
outshine the combined photonic output of the six
hundred-plus fusion drives whirling round above
Lalonde. An unblemished radiation nimbus expanded

outwards at a quarter of the speed of light, engulfing
starships, combat wasps, submunitions, and
observation satellites with complete dispassion; hiding
their own detonation behind a shell of scintillating
molecules. When it was five hundred kilometres in
diameter it began to thin, swirling with secondary
colours like a solar soap bubble. It was three thousand
kilometres ahead of the Arikara, yet it was potent
enough to burn out every one of the sensors which the
flagship had orientated on that sector of space.
“What the hell was that?” Meredith asked. The fear was
there again, as always. Antimatter.
Seven gees slammed him down in his couch as the
starship accelerated away from the planet and the
dwindling explosion.
Clark Lowie and Rhys Hinnels reviewed the patchy
tactical situation data leading up to the explosion. “It
was one of their starships which imploded, sir,” Clarke
Lowie said after a minute’s consultation. “The
patterning nodes were activated.”
“But it was only three thousand kilometres above
Lalonde.”
“Yes, sir. They must have known that. But they took out
the Shukyo and the Bellah. I’d say it was deliberate.”
“Suicide?”
“Looks that way, sir.”
Five ships. He had lost five ships, and God knows how
much damage inflicted on the rest of them. Mission
elapsed time was twenty-three minutes, and most of
that had been spent flying into orbit from the emergence
point.
“Commander Kroeber, withdraw all squadron ships
from orbit immediately. Tell them to rendezvous at the
jump coordinate for Cadiz.”
“Aye, aye, sir.”
A direct repudiation of the First Admiral’s orders, but
there was no mission left, not any more. And he could
save some crews by retreating now. He had that
satisfaction, for himself.
The gravity plane shifted slightly as the Arikara came

round onto its new vector, then reduced to five gees.
Another salvo of combat wasps was fired as enemy
drones curved round to intercept them.
Madness. Utter madness.
The river was one of the multitude of smaller unnamed
tributaries that covered the south-western region of the
colossal Juliffe basin. Its roots were the streams
wandering round the long knolls which made up the land
away to the south of Durringham, merging and splitting
a dozen times until finally becoming a single steadfast
river two hundred kilometres from the Juliffe itself.
At the time the spaceplanes brought down the
mercenary scout teams there was still a respectable
current running through it, the deflected rains hadn’t yet
begun to affect the flow of water. In any case, the lakes
and swamps which accounted for a third of its length
formed a considerable reservoir, capable of sustaining
the level for months.
The snowlilies, too, were relatively unaffected. The only
difference the red cloud made was to extend the period
it took for the aquatic leaves to ripen and break free of
their stems. But where it ran through the thickest jungle
that made up the majority of the Juliffe basin, the
snowlilies seemed almost as numerous as always.
Certainly they managed to cover the river’s thirty-metre
width, even if they weren’t layered two or three deep as
they had been in previous seasons.
Where the tributary ran through a quiet section of
deepest jungle, one of the snowlilies five metres from
the bank bulged up near the centre, then tore. A fist with
grey water-resistant artificial skin punched through and
began to widen the tear. Chas Paske broke the
surface, and looked round.
The banks on either side of him were steep walls made
from the knotted roots of cherry oak trees. Tall trunks
straddled the summit, their white bark stained magenta
from the light filtering through the tenebrous canopy far
overhead. As far as the combat-boosted mercenary
could see there was nobody around. He struck out for
the shore.
His left thigh had been badly damaged by the white fire
flung by the women who’d ambushed them. It was one
reason for diving into the river as his team fled from the
spaceplane’s landing zone. Nothing else seemed to
extinguish the vile stuff.

Their shrill, delighted laughter had reverberated through
the trees as the mercenaries crashed through the
undergrowth. If he had just been granted another minute
to unload their gear, establish a perimeter defence
formation, the outcome would have been so very
different. They had enjoyed it, those vixen women, that
was the terrifying part of it, calling happily to each other
as the mercenaries ran in panic. It was a game to them,
exhilarating sport.
They weren’t people as he understood. Chase Paske
was neither a superstitious nor religious man. But he
knew that whatever evil had befallen Lalonde had
nothing to do with Laton, nor was it going to be solved
by Terrance Smith and his rag-tag forces.
He reached the bank and started to climb. The roots
were atrociously slippery, his left leg dangled uselessly,
and his arms and back were badly burnt, debilitating the
boosted muscles. It was a slow process, but by
jamming his elbows and right knee into crannies he
could lever and pull himself upwards.
The women, it appeared, hadn’t understood the feats a
boosted metabolism was capable of. He could survive
for an easy four hours underwater without taking a
breath. A useful trait when chemical and biological
agents were being used.
Chas scrambled up the last couple of metres to the top
of the woody bank, and rolled into the lee of a crooked
trunk. Only then did he start to review the bad news his
neural nanonics medical program was supplying.
The shallow flesh burns he could ignore for now,
although they would need treating eventually. Almost
half of his outer thigh had been burnt away, and the dull
glint of his silicolithium femur was visible through the
minced and charred muscle tissue. Nothing short of a
total rebuild was going to get his leg functioning again.
He started picking long white worm-analogues from the
lairs they were burrowing into the naked wound.
He didn’t even have his pack with him when the women
attacked. There was only his personal equipment belt.
Which was better than nothing, he thought
phlegmatically. It contained two small neural nanonic
packages, which he wrapped round the top of his thigh
like an old-fashioned bandage. They didn’t cover half
the length of the wound, but they would stop poisoned

blood and aboriginal bacteria from getting into the rest
of his circulatory system. The remainder of it was going
to fester, he realized grimly.
Taking stock, he had a first aid kit, a laser pistol with
two spare power magazines, a small fission-blade
knife, a hydrocarbon analyser to tell him which
vegetation contained toxins his metabolism couldn’t
filter, a palm-sized thermal inducer, and five EE
grenades. He also had his guido block, a
biological/chemical agent detector block, and an
electronic warfare detector block. No communications
block, though, which was a blow; he couldn’t check in
with Terrance Smith to request evacuation, or even find
out if any other members of his team had survived.
Finally there was the kiloton fusion nuke strapped to his
side in its harness. A black carbotanium sphere twenty
centimetres in diameter, thoroughly innocuous looking.
Chas did nothing for five minutes while he thought about
his situation; then he began to cut strips of wood from
the cherry oaks to form a splint and a crutch.
Hidden behind its event horizon, the singularity came
into being two hundred and twenty thousand kilometres
above Murora, its intense mass density bending the
course of nearby photons and elementary particles in
tight curves. It took six milliseconds to expand from its
initial subatomic size out to fifty-seven metres in
diameter. As it reached its full physical dimensions the
internal stresses creating the event horizon ceased to
exist.
Lady Macbeth fell in towards the gas giant, ion thrusters
squirting out long spokes of cold blue fire to halt the
slight spin caused by venting coolant gases. Thermo-
dump panels stretched wide to glow a smoky cardinal
red as they disposed of the excess thermal energy
acquired during the starship’s frantic flight through
Lalonde’s polar atmosphere. Sensor clusters swept the
local environment for hazards while star trackers fixed
their exact position.
Joshua exhaled loudly, allowing his relief to show. “Well
done, Dahybi. That was good work under pressure.”
“I’ve been in worse situations.”
He refused to rise to the bait. “Sarha, have you locked
down those malfunctioning systems yet?”

“We’re getting there,” she said blandly. “Give me
another five minutes.”
“Sure.” After the harsh acceleration of Lalonde orbit,
free fall was superbly relaxing. Now, if she’d just give
him a massage …
“That was one hell of a scrap back there,” Melvyn said.
“We’re well out of it,” Warlow rumbled.
“Feel sorry for the scout teams, trapped on a planet full
of people who behave like that.” Melvyn stopped and
winced, then gave Joshua a cautious glance.
“She knew what she was going down to,” Joshua said.
“And I meant what I said about going back to check.”
“Reza Malin knew what he was about,” Ashly said.
“She’ll be safe enough with him.”
“Right.” The flight computer datavised an alarm into
Joshua’s neural nanonics. He accessed the sensor
array.
Murora’s storm bands were smears of green and blue,
mottled with the usual white ammonia cyclones. A thick
whorl of ochre and bronze rings extended from the
cloud tops out to a hundred and eighty thousand
kilometres, broken by two major divisions. The gas
giant boasted thirty-seven natural satellites, from a
quartet of hundred-kilometre ring-shepherds up to five
moons over two thousand kilometres in diameter; the
largest, M-XI, named Keddie, had a thick nitrogen
methane atmosphere.
Aethra had been germinated in a two hundred thousand
kilometre orbit, far enough outside the fringes of the
ring to mitigate any danger of collision from stray
particles. The seed had been brought to the system in
2602 and attached to a suitable mineral-rich asteroid; it
would take thirty years to mature into a structure
capable of supporting a human population, and another
twenty years to reach its full forty-five-kilometre length.
After nine years of untroubled development it was
already three and a half kilometres long.
In the same orbit, but trailing five hundred kilometres
behind the young habitat, was the supervisory station,
occupied by fifty staff (it had accommodation for a
thousand). The Edenists didn’t use bitek for such a
small habitational environment; it was a carbotanium

wheel seven hundred and fifty metres in diameter,
eighty metres wide, containing three long gardens
separated by blocks of richly appointed apartments. Its
hub was linked to a large non-rotating cylindrical port,
grossly under-used, but built in anticipation of the traffic
which would start to arrive once the habitat reached its
median size and He3 cloudscoop mining began in
Murora’s atmosphere. During the interim there were
just two inter-orbit vessels docked, which the station
staff used to commute to Aethra on their inspection
tours.
Lady Macbeth had emerged forty thousand kilometres
away from the solitary Edenist outpost, a jump
accuracy Joshua was entirely satisfied with considering
the conditions. Her sensors focused on the station in
time to see it break apart. The rim had been sliced
open in several places, allowing the atmosphere to jet
out. Small thrusters were still firing in a useless attempt
to halt the ominous wobble which had developed.
Optical sensors revealed trees, bushes, and oscillating
slicks of water rushing out of the long gashes.
“Like the Ruin Ring,” Joshua whispered painfully.
Small circular spots on the carbotanium shell glowed
crimson. The tough metal was visibly undulating as the
structure’s seesaw fluctuations increased. Then one of
the cryogenic fuel-storage tanks in the non-rotating port
exploded, which triggered another two or three tanks.
It was hard to tell the exact number, the entire station
was obscured by the white vapour billowing out.
As the cloud dispersed large sections of the wheel
tumbled out of the darkening centre.
A hundred kilometres away, two fusion drives burnt
hotly against the icy starscape, heading for the
immature habitat. One of the ships was emitting a
steady beat of microwaves from its transponder.
“They’re here already,” Melvyn said. “Bloody hell. They
must have jumped before we did.”
“That is the Maranta’s transponder code,” Warlow said
without any notable inflection. “Why would Wolfgang
leave it transmitting?”
“Because he’s not the captain any more,” Ashly said.
“Look at the vectors. Neither of them is maintaining a
steady thrust. Their drives are unstable.”

“They’re going to kill the habitat, aren’t they?” Sarha
said. “Just like Laton did all those years ago. Those
bastards! It can’t hurt them, it can’t hurt anybody. What
kind of sequestration is this?”
“A bad one,” Warlow grumbled at an almost subliminal
volume. “Very bad.”
“I’m picking up lifeboat beacons,” Melvyn said with a
rush of excitement.
“Two of them. Somebody escaped.”
Joshua, who had felt eager triumph at their successful
jump to Murora and anger at the station’s violation, was
left empty, leaving his mind in an almost emotion-free
state. His crew was looking at him. Waiting. Dad never
mentioned this part of captaining a ship.
“Melvyn, Sarha; recalibrate the injection ionizers for the
number one fusion tube. Whatever thrust we can get,
please. I’m going to need it. Ashly, Warlow, get down to
the airlock deck. We won’t have much time to bring
them on board, make sure they come through as fast
as possible.”
Warlow’s couch webbing peeled back immediately. The
cosmonik and the pilot went through the floor hatch as
though they were in a race.
“Dahybi, recharge the nodes. I’ll jump outsystem as
soon as we have them on board.” If we get them on
board.
“Yes, Captain.”
“Stand by for combat gees. Again!”
On the other side of hugely complex schematic
diagrams, Sarha smiled knowingly at the hard-used
martyred tone.
Lady Macbeth’s fusion drives ignited, driving the ship
towards the twirling wreckage of the station. Thermo-
dump panels hurried back into their recesses as the
gee force climbed. The starship’s sensors tracked the
two fusion drives forty thousand kilometres ahead.
Joshua was wondering how long it would take for them
to spot the rescue attempt. If they use the sensors the
way they do the fusion drives they may never see us.
Maranta was only accelerating at half a gee.

Melvyn and Sarha finished their work on fusion tube
number one, and gave him control, warning it wouldn’t
last for long. Joshua brought Lady Mac up to five gees,
and held her there.
“They’re launching combat wasps,” Dahybi said.
Joshua observed the flight computer plotting purple
vector lines. “That’s odd.” The six combat wasps were
flying around Aethra, forming a loose ring. Their drives
went off when they were two hundred kilometres from
the habitat, coasting past it. Submunitions burst out
from two, and accelerated towards the slowly rotating
cylinder.
“Kinetic missiles,” Joshua said. “What the hell are they
doing?”
Bright orange explosions rippled across the rustred
polyp surface.
“Injuring it,” Sarha said with terse determination. “That
kind of assault won’t destroy it, but they’ll inflict a lot of
harm. Almost as if they’re deliberately mutilating it.”
“Injuring it?” Dahybi asked. The normally composed
node specialist was openly incredulous. “What for?
People injure. Animals injure. Not habitats. You can’t
hurt them like you can a mammal.”
“That’s what they’re doing,” Sarha insisted.
“It does look that way,” Joshua said.
The Maranta’s drive came on again, followed a few
seconds later by the second ship.
“They’ve seen us,” Joshua said. It had taken eight
minutes, which was appallingly sloppy detection work.
Lady Mac was over halfway towards the lifeboats. Less
than twenty thousand kilometres away now. The other
ships were barely five hundred kilometres distant from
the squealing beacons.
“This is where it gets interesting.” He launched eight
combat wasps and upped the Lady Mac’s acceleration
to seven gees. The drones shot ahead at twenty-five
gees. An answering salvo of twelve emerged from the
two starships.
“Shit,” Joshua exclaimed. “They’re running for Aethra.”
“Clever,” Melvyn said. “We can’t use the nukes when

they’re close to it.”
“No, but I can still use the gamma pulsers for offence.”
He fired off a string of coded instructions to the combat
wasps. “And it may give us the time we need to pick up
the lifeboats. None of their combat wasps are targeting
them.” He thought for a moment. “Sarha, broadcast a
tight-beam warning to the lifeboats. Tell them to
deactivate their beacons now. Anyone warped enough
to maim a habitat won’t think twice about snuffing
refugees.”
The first combat-wasp conflict took place five thousand
kilometres from Aethra, a ragged rosette of plasma
sprawling across six hundred kilometres. Joshua
watched several attackers come through unscathed
and launched another salvo of five drones,
programming three to form a defence-shield formation.
The bridge’s gravity plane shifted sharply as he initiated
an evasion manoeuvre.
The children were crying with their voices and minds.
Gaura broadcast a soothing harmonic in the general
affinity band, adding to the compulsion of the other
adults. What I need, he thought, is someone to calm
me.
The lifeboat was a sturdy cylinder ten metres long and
four wide. It had no propulsion system apart from the
solid-fuel booster to fire it clear of any conceivable
emergency, and reaction thrusters to hold it stable while
the refugees waited for rescue. Like all the systems on
the station it was spacious and well equipped. There
were eight seats, lockers with enough food for a
fortnight, and a month-long oxygen supply. For
Edenists, even disasters would be inconvenient rather
than dangerous.
Such arrogance, he cursed inside the confines of his
own skull, such stupid blind faith in our technological
prowess.
Right now there were fourteen adults and five children
crammed inside.
There hadn’t been time for them to reach another
lifeboat. With a hubris which hindsight revealed to be
quite monstrous, the disasters which the designers
anticipated had all been natural. Even a meteorite strike
would leave most of the wheel intact, and evacuation
would be a calm rational process.

What had never been even a theoretical contingency
was insane Adamist starships slicing the station apart
with lasers.
It had all happened so fast. Now little Gatje and Haykal
hugged Tiya, their mother, faces distraught as she kept
them anchored. The air was too hot, it stank of vomit.
Aethra couldn’t hide its torment over the kinetic missile
attack that bit deep into its shell from the young
impressionable minds. Candre’s death convulsions as
she went through explosive decompression was still
causing wintry shivers along Gaura’s spine. The
combined psychological stresses of the last fifteen
minutes was going to leave a trauma scar that would
take a long time to heal even for the well-balanced
psyche of an Edenist.
And it was all his fault. As station chief he should have
taken precautions. He had known about the civil strife
on Lalonde. Yet he had done nothing.
<<It is not your fault,>> Aethra said softly into his mind.
<<Who could have anticipated this?>>
<<I should have.>>
<<From the information you had, this was not
predictable.>>
<<I had enough data from Ilex. It was chaos on the
planet when they left.>>
<<These starships did not come from Lalonde. They
are mercenaries, recruited elsewhere.>>
<<I could still have done something. Put people into
apartments closer to the lifeboats. Something! How are
Candre and the others?>>
<<I have them. But now is not a good time to begin
raising my consciousness to multiplicity status.>>
<<No. And you? How are you?>>
<<I was angry, frightened. Now I feel sorrow. It is a sad
universe where such wanton acts can take place.>>
<<I’m sorry we brought you into existence. You have
done nothing to deserve this.>>
<<I am glad I live. And I may yet continue to live. None
of the craters is more than twenty metres deep. I have
lost a lot of nutrient fluid though, and my mineral-

digestion organs have been damaged from the
shockwaves.>>
Gaura’s hand squeezed the grab hoop he was holding.
Fury and helplessness were alien to him, but he felt
them now with a daunting strength. <<The physical
damage can be repaired. It will be repaired, never doubt
that. Not as long as one Edenist remains alive.>>
<<Thank you, Gaura. You are a fine supervisor. I am
privileged to have you and your staff attend the dawn of
my intellect. And one day Gatje and Haykal shall run
around in my park. I will enjoy their laughter.>>
A solid beam of intolerable white light stabbed into the
lifeboat through its one small, heavily shielded port.
Space was being devastated by another hail of fusion
explosions. The children started crying again.
Through Aethra’s much-degraded perception he saw
the long white fusion exhaust of the third Adamist
starship decelerating towards them. With its
tremendous velocity it had to be a warship, but there
had been no contact apart from the curt woman telling
them to switch off the beacon. Who were they? Who
were the other two? Why had they attacked Aethra?
Not knowing was difficult for an Edenist.
<<You will soon be safe,>> Aethra said. It widened its
broadcast to include the Edenists on both lifeboats.
<<All of you will be safe.>>
Gaura met his wife’s frightened stubborn eyes. <<I love
you,>> he said for her alone.
The blast light was fading. He looked out of the port, his
mind welcoming inquisitive contacts, showing the
children their solidly real rescuer approaching.
Whoever the pilot was, he was coming very close. And
moving far too fast.
Space directly outside the lifeboat was filled with the
brilliant fusion exhaust. Gaura flinched, jerking back
from the port. <<It’s going to hit!>>
There were screams behind him. Then the exhaust
vanished, and a huge spherical starship was a hundred
metres away, small sensor clusters sticking out of its
dark silicon hull like metallized insect antenna. Its
equatorial ion thrusters exhaled fountains of sparkling

blue ions, halting its minute drift.
<<Bloody hell!>> It was a collective sentiment from the
adults.
The starship rolled towards the lifeboat as though there
was a solid surface below it. And its extended airlock
tube was suddenly coming round to clang against the
hatch.
Gaura took a moment to recover his poise. A voidhawk
would be very hard put to match that display of
precision manoeuvring.
The lifeboat’s bitek processors reported the short-
range inter-ship channel was picking up a transmission.
“You people in the lifeboat, as soon as the hatch opens
we want you through the tube and into the lounge,”
commanded the female voice they’d heard earlier.
“Make it fast! We’re running out of combat wasps and
we’ve got to pick your friends up as well.”
The hatch seal popped and it swung back. Little Gatje
squealed in alarm as one of the biggest cosmoniks
Gaura had ever seen floated in the airlock tube.
<< It’s all right,>> he told his dismayed daughter.
<<He’s a … friend. Really.>>
Gatje clutched at the fabric of her mother’s suit.
<<Promise, Daddy?>>
“Shift your bastard arses through here now!” Warlow
bellowed.
The children gulped into fearful silence.
Gaura couldn’t help it, after all the horror they’d been
through to be greeted by such utter normality, he
started to laugh. <<I promise.>>
“Oh, Jesus, they’ve cracked it,” Joshua told the three
crew-members left on the bridge when Lady Mac
rendezvoused with the second lifeboat.
Another combat wasp was curving round over Aethra’s
bulk, accelerating sharply. “I knew they’d work out the
numbers game eventually.” He fired a salvo of three
drones in defence. It was a terrible ratio. One which the
Lady Mac could only ever lose. Three defenders was
an absolute minimum to guarantee an attacker didn’t
get through. If he could just have flown evasive

manoeuvres, or attacked, or been able to run, the
numbers would have shifted back towards something
near favourable.
“Jesus!” The fourth solo combat wasp appeared from
behind Aethra. He had to launch another three from
Lady Mac’s diminishing reserves.
“Fifteen left,” Sarha said with morbid cheerfulness. The
starship’s maser cannons fired at a kinetic missile that
was sixty kilometres away. Five nuclear-tipped
submunitions exploded perilously close to Aethra,
reducing the latest attacking combat wasp to its
subatomic constituents.
“Did you have to tell us that?” Melvyn said laboriously.
“You mean you didn’t know?”
“Yes. But I could always hope I was wrong.”
Joshua accessed a camera on the airlock deck.
Warlow had anchored himself to a stikpad beside the
airlock tube. He was grabbing people as they came out
and slinging them into the chamber. Ashly and one of
the Edenist men were on a stikpad below the ceiling
hatch, catching then shoving the human projectiles up
into the lounge above.
“How many more to come, Warlow?” Joshua
datavised.
“Six. That makes forty-one in total.”
“Wonderful. Stand by for combat acceleration the
second the airlock seals.” He sounded the audio
warning so the Edenists would know. The flight
computer showed his plot of an open-ended vector
heading away from Murora. At eight gees they could
outrun the other starships easily, and jump outsystem.
That kind of prolonged acceleration would be tough on
the Edenists (no sinecure for the crew, either), but it
was one hell of a lot better than staying here.
“Joshua, Gaura has asked me to say some of the
children are very young, they can’t possibly survive high
gees,” Warlow datavised. “Their bones aren’t strong
enough.”
“Jesus shit! Kids? How old? How many gees?”
“One girl was about three. There were a couple of five-

year-olds as well.”
“Fuck it!”
“What is it?” Sarha asked, real concern darkening her
sea-green eyes for the first time since they’d entered
the Lalonde system.
“We’re not going to make it.”
The fifth solo combat wasp appeared from behind
Aethra. Seven of the Lady Mac’s submunition drones
detonated their nuclear explosives in immediate
response. Joshua launched two more.
“Even if we jump without an alignment trajectory, from
here, it’ll take us fifteen seconds to retract the sensors
and prime the nodes,” he said.
“We’ll be blind for ten seconds. It’s not long enough.”
“So run,” Sarha said. “Fire every last combat wasp at
them and go. Lady Mac can make eight gees even with
tube one down. Maranta can’t make more than four
gees. We can get clear.”
“That vector’s already loaded. But we’ve got kids on
board. Shit! Shit! Shit!” He saw the last Edenist being
yanked out of the airlock tube by Warlow. The flight
computer was shutting the hatch before his feet were
fully clear.
Do something, and do it now, Joshua Calvert, he told
himself. Because you’re going to be dead in twenty
seconds if you don’t.
His mind ordered the flight computer to start the fusion
tube ignition sequence.
Another whole two seconds to think in.
There was nothing in the tactics programs, even Dad
had never dug himself a hole this deep in the shit.
Can’t run, can’t fight, can’t jump out, can’t hide …
“Oh yes I can!” he whooped.
The fusion drives came on, and the Lady Mac
accelerated down the vector plot that sprang from
Joshua’s mind even as the idea unrolled. Three gees,
heading straight in towards the gas giant.

“Joshua!” Dahybi complained. “We can’t jump if you
take us inward.”
“Shut up.”
Dahybi settled back and started into a recital of a
scripture he remembered from his youth. “Yes,
Captain.”
“Warlow, activate the three zero-tau pods we’ve got in
capsule C, and cram the children in. You’ve got four
minutes maximum before we start accelerating
properly.”
“Right, Joshua.”
The sensors reported that four combat wasps were
pursuing them. Joshua fired an answering salvo of five.
He could hear Dahybi muttering something that
sounded like a prayer, it had the right dirge-like
resonance.
“They’re coming after us,” Melvyn said a minute later.
Maranta and its cohort were accelerating away from
Aethra.
“That’s the Gramine,” Sarha said after studying the
image. “Look at the angle its drive is deflected through.
There isn’t another starship that can do that. Wissler
was always boasting about their combat agility.”
“Just wonderful, Sarha, thanks,” Joshua proclaimed.
“You got any other morale boosters for us?”
Warlow climbed the ladder into the lounge deck,
boosted muscles lifting him easily against the heavy
gravity. Carbon composite rungs creaked in dismay
under his tripled weight. There were Edenists packed
solid across the lounge floor, none of the acceleration
couches had been activated, not that there were
enough anyway. They didn’t have neural nanonics, the
cosmonik realized. And because of it their children
whimpered and snivelled in wretched distress without
any cushioning below them.
He walked over to the smallest girl, who was lying wide-
eyed and terribly pale beside her mother. “I’m putting
her into zero-tau,” he announced shortly, and bent
down. He had plugged a pair of cargo-handling arms
into his elbow sockets before coming up the ladder,
they had wide metal manipulator forks which would act

as a good cradle. The girl started crying again. “There
will be none of this acceleration in the pod. Explain to
her. She must not squirm when I pick her up. Her spine
will break.”
<<Be brave,>> Tiya told her daughter. <<He will take
you to a safe place where you won’t hurt so.>>
<<He’s horrible,>> Gatje replied as the metal prongs
slid underneath her.
<<You will be all right,>> Gaura said, reinforcing the
pacific mental subliminal Tiya was radiating.
Warlow took care to keep Gatje’s spine level,
supporting her head with one set of forks while the
other three arms were positioned under her torso and
legs. He lifted gingerly.
“Can I help?” Gaura asked, levering himself onto his
elbows. His neck felt as though it was being slowly
compressed in a hydraulic vice.
“No. You are too weak.” Warlow clumped out of the
lounge, an outlandish faerie-legend figure walking
amongst the prone hurting bodies with a grace
completely at variance with his cumbersome
appearance.
There were seven children under ten years old. It took
him nearly five minutes to shift them from the lounge to
the zero-tau pods. His neural nanonics monitored their
flight on a secondary level. The attacking starships
were matching Lady Mac’s three-gee acceleration.
Combat-wasp submunitions produced a continual astral
fire of plasma between them.
Lady Mac swept over the fringes of the ring, two
thousand kilometres above the ecliptic as Warlow
lowered the last child into the zero-tau pod.
“Thank Christ for that,” Joshua said when the pod was
enveloped by the black field. “OK, people, stand by for
high acceleration.”
Lady Mac’s thrust increased to seven gees, tormenting
the Edenists in the lounge still further. For all the
stamina of their geneered bodies they had never been
supplemented to withstand the onerous burden of
combat spaceflight.
Maranta and Gramine began to fall behind. Sensors

showed three more combat wasps eating up the
distance.
“Jesus, how many of the fucking things have they got
left?” Joshua asked as he launched four of the Lady
Mac’s remaining six drones in response.
“I estimate ten,” Melvyn datavised. “Possibly more.”
“Wonderful.” Joshua angled the Lady Mac down
sharply towards the rings.
The slow moving pack of dusty ice chunks reflected an
unaccustomed radiance as the three starships
streaked past. After millennia of stasis, stirred only by
the slow heartbeat of the gas giant’s magnetosphere,
the ring’s micrometre dust was becoming aroused by
the backwash of electromagnetic pulses from the
fusion bombs exploding above it. Dark snowflake-
crystal patterns rippled elegantly over its surface. The
temperature rose by several fractions of a degree,
breaking up the unique and fantastically delicate
valency bonds between disparate atoms which free fall
and frigidity had established. Behind the starships, the
rings quivered like a choppy sea before the storm was
unleashed.
Those on board the Lady Macbeth able to receive the
sensor images watched with numbed fascination as the
ring particles grew larger, changing from a grainy mist
to a solid plain of drifting mud-yellow boulders. It took up
half of the image; they were close enough now to make
it seem like the floor of the universe.
The penultimate combat wasp darted out of the Lady
Macbeth’s launch-tubes. Submunitions ejected almost
at once, scattering like a shoal of startled fish. A
hundred kilometres behind her, twenty-seven fusion
bombs arrayed in an ammonite maculation detonated
simultaneously, throwing up a temporary visual and
electronic barrier. She turned, unseen by her pursuers,
triple drive exhausts scoring vast arcs across the stars.
Then the three barbs of superenergized helium were
searing into the ice and rock of the ring. No physical
structure was capable of withstanding that starcore
temperature. The agitated surface cratered and
geysered as though a depth charge had been set off
far below.
Lady Macbeth dived straight into the rings, decelerating
at eleven gees.

===========================================================================

Chapter 10
^
The watchers were there when Alkad Mzu arrived at the
shoreline of Tranquillity’s circumfluous salt-water sea.
As always they remained several hundred metres
behind, innocuous fellow hikers enjoying the balmy
evening, even a couple on horses trekking along the
wilder paths of the habitat. She counted eight of them
as she walked along the top of the steep rocky
escarpment to the path which led down to the beach.
This cove was one of the remoter stretches of the
northern shoreline; a broad curve of silver-white sand
two kilometres long, with jutting headlands of polyp-rock
cliffs. Several small islands were included within the
bay’s sweeping embrace, tenanted by willowy trees and
a fur of colourful wild flowers. A river emptied over the
escarpment two hundred metres from the path where
she stood, producing a foaming waterfall which fell into
a rock pool before draining away over the sands.
Overhead, the giant habitat’s light-tube had languished
to an apricot ember strung between its endcap hubs.
Vitric water caught the final rays to produce a soft-
focus copper shimmer across the wavelets.
Alkad picked her way carefully along the shingle-strewn
path. An accident now would be the ultimate irony, she
thought. There was the familiar nagging ache in her left
leg, exacerbated by the rough incline.
Her retinal implants located a pair of adolescent lovers
in the dunes at the far end of the beach. Craving
solitude amid the deepening shadows, their dark
entwined bodies were oblivious to the world, and nearly
invisible. The girl’s baby-blonde hair provided a rich
contrast to her ebony skin, while the boy reminded
Alkad of Peter as he stroked and caressed his willing
partner. An omen, though Alkad Mzu no longer really
believed in deities.
She reached the warm, dry sands and adjusted the
straps of her lightweight backpack. It was the one she
had brought with her to the habitat twenty-six years ago;
it contained the cagoule and flask and first aid kit which
she carried unfailingly on every ramble through the
interior. By now the routine of her hike was scribed in
stone. If she hadn’t worn it, the Intelligence agencies
would have been suspicious.
Alkad cut across the dunes at an angle, aiming for the

middle of the beach, her feet leaving light imprints in the
powdery sand. Three watchers made their way down
the path behind her, the rest carried on walking along
the top of the escarpment. And, a recent development,
this, a couple of Tranquillity serjeants stood impassively
at the foot of the escarpment beside the waterfall. She
only saw them against the craggy polyp because of
their infrared emission. They must have been
positioned there in anticipation of her route.
It wasn’t entirely unexpected. Tranquillity would have
informed Ione Saldana about all those agency-teasing
meetings with starship captains.
The girl was erring on the side of caution, which was
quite acceptable.
She did have the rest of the population to think about,
after all.
Alkad peered ahead, out over the huge grey valley of
water to the southern shore, searching. There, to the
right, twenty degrees up the curve. The Laymil project
campus was a unique splash of opal light on the
darkened terraces of the southern endcap. Such a
shame, really, she thought with a tinge of regret. The
work had been an interesting challenge, interpreting and
extrapolating xenoc technology from mere fragments of
clues. She had made friends there, and progress. And
now the whole campus was animated with the discovery
of the Laymil sensorium memories that young
scavenger had found. It was an exciting time to be a
project researcher, full of promise and reward.
In another life she could easily have devoted herself to
it.
Alkad reached the water’s edge as the light-tube cooled
to a smirched platinum. Ripples sighed contentedly
against the sand. Tranquillity really was a premium
place to live. She shrugged out of her backpack, then
touched the seal on her boots and started to pull them
off.
Samuel, the Edenist Intelligence operative, was six
metres from the foot of the scarp path when he saw the
lone figure by the water bend over to take her boots off.
That wasn’t part of the humdrum formula which
governed Mzu’s activities. He hurried after Pauline
Webb, the CNIS second lieutenant, who had reached
the beach ahead of him. She dithered in the grove of
palm trees which huddled along the base of the

escarpment, debating whether to break cover and walk
openly on the sands.
“It looks like she’s going for a swim,” he said.
Pauline gave him a cursory nod. The CNIS and the
Edenists cooperated to a reasonable degree in their
observation.
“At night?” she said. “By herself?”
“The doctor is a solitary soul, but I concede this isn’t the
most sensible thing she’s ever done.” Samuel was
thinking back to that morning when the news of Omuta’s
sanctions being lifted had appeared in the AV projection
at Glover’s restaurant.
“So what do we do?”
Monica Foulkes, the ESA operative, caught up with
them. She increased the magnification factor of her
retinal implants just as Alkad Mzu pulled her sweatshirt
off over her head. “I don’t know what you two are
panicking over. Nobody as smart as Dr Mzu would
choose drowning as a method of suicide. It’s too
prolonged.”
“Maybe she is just going for a quick swim,” Pauline
suggested, without much hope. “It’s a pleasant enough
evening.”
Samuel kept watching Mzu. Now her boots and clothes
were off she was removing the contents of her
backpack and dropping them on the sand. It was the
casual way she did it which bothered him; as if she was
without a care. “I somehow doubt it.”
“We’re going to look particularly stupid charging over
there to rescue her if all she’s doing is taking a dip to
cool off,” Monica groused.
The middle-aged Edenist’s lips pursed in amusement.
“You think we don’t look stupid anyway?”
She scowled, and ignored him.
“Does anyone have any relevant contingency orders?”
Pauline asked.
“If she wants to drown herself, then I say let her,”
Monica said.
“Problem solved at long last. We can all pack up and go

home then.”
“I might have known you’d take that attitude.”
“Well, I’m not swimming after her if she gets into
trouble.”
“You wouldn’t have to,” Samuel said, without shifting his
gaze.
“Tranquillity has affinity-bonded dolphins. They’ll assist
any swimmers that get into difficulties.”
“Hoo-bloody-rah,” Monica said. “Then we can have
another twenty years of worrying about who the daft old
biddy will talk to and what she’ll say.”
Alkad datavised a code to the processor in her empty
backpack. The seal around the bottom opened, and the
composite curled up revealing the hidden storage
space. She reached in to remove the programmable
silicon spacesuit which had lain there undisturbed for
twenty-six years.
<<Ione,>> Tranquillity said urgently. <<We have a
problem developing.>>
“Excuse me,” Ione said to her cocktail party guests.
They were members of the Tranquillity Banking
Regulatory Council, invited to discuss the habitat’s
falling revenue which the massive decrease in starship
movements was causing. Something needed to be
done to halt the stock market’s wilder fluctuations, so
she had thought an informal party was the best way of
handling it. She turned instinctively to face her
apartment’s window wall and the shoals of yellow and
green fish nosing round the fan of light it threw across
the dusky sand. <<What?>>
<<It’s Alkad Mzu. Look.>>
The image fizzed up into her mind.
Samuel frowned as Mzu drew some kind of object from
deep inside her backpack. It looked ridiculously like a
football, but with wings attached. Even with his retinal
implants on full magnification he couldn’t quite make it
out. “What is that?”
Mzu fastened the collar round her neck, and bit down
on the nozzle of the respirator tube. She datavised an
activation code into the suit’s control processor. The

black ball flattened itself against her upper chest and
started to flow over her skin.
Both the other Intelligence operatives turned to look at
the sharpness in Samuel’s voice. The two serjeants
began to walk forwards over the beach.
<<Ione!>> Tranquillity’s thoughts rang with surprise,
turning to alarm.
<<I can sense a gravitonic-distortion zone building.>>
<<So?>> she asked. Every starship emerging above
Mirchusko registered in the habitat’s mass-sensitive
organs. There was no requirement for the usual
network of strategic warning grav-distortion-detector
satellites which guarded ordinary asteroid settlements
and planets, Tranquillity’s perception of local space was
unrivalled, making threat response a near-
instantaneous affair. <<Is the starship emerging too
close? Arm the strategic-defence platforms.>>
<<No use. It’s, >>
At first Samuel mistook it for a shadow cast by an
evening cloud. There was still enough pearly radiance
coming from the light-tube to give the circumfluous sea
a sparse shimmer, a cloud would produce exactly that
patch of darkness. But there was only one patch of
darkness; and when he glanced up the air was clear.
Then the noise began, a distant thunderclap which
lasted for several seconds, then chopped off abruptly.
A brilliant star shone at the centre of the darkness,
sending long radials of frigid white light into the habitat.
Mzu was silhouetted perfectly against the white blaze
reflected off the sea, encased in the black skin of the
spacesuit, a consummate monochrome picture.
Shock immobilized Samuel’s body for a precious
second. Out of the centre of the fading star a
blackhawk came skimming silently over the sea towards
Mzu; a compressed ovoid one hundred and thirty
metres long, with a horseshoe life-support section
moulded round the rear dorsal bulge. Its blue polyp hull
was marbled with an imperial-purple web.
“Jesus wept!” Pauline said in an aghast whisper. “It
jumped inside. It’s come right into the fucking habitat!”
“Get her!” Monica cried. “For Christ’s sake stop the
bitch!” She ran forwards.

“No, stop! Come back,” Samuel yelled. But Pauline was
already charging out of the trees after the ESA agent,
boosted muscles accelerating her to a phenomenal
speed. “Oh, shit.” He started to run.
Meyer saw the small spacesuited woman standing at
the water’s edge, and Udat obligingly angled round
towards her. Tension had condensed his guts into a
solid lump. Swallowing inside a habitat, it had to be the
craziest stunt in the history of spaceflight. Yet they’d
done it!
<<We are in,>> Udat observed sagely. <<That’s
halfway.>>
<<And don’t I know it.>>
<<WHAT ARE YOU DOING?>> Tranquillity’s outraged
broadcast thundered into the blackhawk’s mind.
Meyer winced. Even Udat’s calm thoughts fluttered.
<<The woman is a political dissident being persecuted
by the Kulu ESA,>> Meyer replied with shaky bravado.
<<Of all people, Ione Saldana should sympathize with
that. We’re taking her where she will be safe.>>
<<STOP IMMEDIATELY. I WILL NOT PERMIT THIS.
UDAT, SWALLOW OUT NOW.>> The force of the
mental compulsion which the habitat personality exerted
was incredible. Meyer felt as though someone had
smashed a meat hook into his skull to pull his brain out
by the roots. He groaned, clutching at the cushioning of
his acceleration couch, heart pounding in his ears.
<<STOP!>>
“Keep going,” he gasped. His nose started to bleed.
Neural nanonics sent out a flurry of metabolic
overrides.
Alkad waded through the shallows as the blackhawk
descended, gliding fastidiously round one of the cove’s
small islands. She hadn’t grasped how big the bitek
creature was. To see that almighty bulk suspended so
easily in the air was an uncanny marvel. Its rounded
nose was streaked with long frost rays as the sea’s
humidity gusted over polyp which was accustomed to
the radiative chill of deep space. A huge patch of water
below the hull began to foam and churn as the distortion
field interacted with it. She suddenly felt as though the
horizontal was rolling. Udat turned through ninety

degrees, and tilted sharply, bringing the portside wing of
its life-support horseshoe down towards the water. An
airlock slid open. Cherri Barnes stood inside, wearing
her spacesuit. Orange silicon-fibre straps tethered her
securely to the sides of the small chamber. She threw a
rope-ladder down.
On the beach five figures were racing over the dunes.
Ione said: <<Kill her.>>
The serjeants pulled laser pistols from their holsters.
Alkad Mzu already had her foot on the first rung.
Udat’s maser cannon fired.
Monica Foulkes pounded hard across the sand, neural
nanonics commands and boosted muscles meshing so
that her body ate the distance effortlessly, a hundred
and fifty metres in nine seconds. The prime order of the
ESA’s Tranquillity operation was to prevent Mzu from
leaving, that took precedence over everything. It didn’t
look like Monica was going to get to the blackhawk in
time, Mzu had started to claw her way up the rocking
ladder. She reviewed which of her weapon implants
would have the best chance; the trouble was most of
them were designed for unobtrusive close-range work.
And that bloody Lunar SII spacesuit didn’t help. It would
have to be a microdart, and hope the tip penetrated.
She was aware of the serjeants off to her left pulling out
their laser pistols.
A metre-wide column of air fluoresced a faint violet,
drawing a line from a silver bubble on the blackhawk’s
lower hull to a serjeant. The bitek servitor blew apart in
an explosion of steam and carbon granules. Fifteen
metres behind it, where the beam struck the beach, a
patch of sand became a puddle of glass, glowing a vivid
rose-gold.
Over-hyped nerves sent Monica diving for cover the
instant the beam appeared. She hit the loose sand,
momentum ploughing a two and a half metre long
furrow. There were two near-simultaneous thuds behind
her as Samuel and Pauline flung themselves down. The
second serjeant erupted into a black-grain mist with a
loud burping sound as the maser hit it.
Monica’s mind gibbered as she waited, head buried in
the sand. At least with that power rating it’ll be quick …
A wind began howling over the dunes.

Samuel raised his head to see his worst expectation
confirmed. A wormhole interstice was opening around
the nose of the blackhawk. Alkad Mzu was halfway up
the rope-ladder.
<<You must not take her from here,>> he pleaded with
the starship. <<You must not!>>
The interstice widened, a light-devouring tunnel boring
through infinity.
Air streamed in.
“Hang on!” Samuel shouted to the two women agents.
<<COME BACK!>> Tranquillity commanded.
Meyer, his mind twinned with the blackhawk, quailed
under the habitat’s furious demand. It was too much,
the storm voice had raged inside his skull for what
seemed like days, bruising his neurons with its violence.
Welcome surrender beckoned, to hell with Mzu, nothing
was worth this. Then he felt local space twisting under
the immense distortion which Udat’s energy patterning
cells exerted. A pseudoabyss leading into freedom
opened before him. <<Go,>> he ordered. The cold
physical blackness outside invaded his mind, plunging
him into glorious oblivion.
A small but ferocious hurricane set Alkad spinning like a
runaway propeller at the end of her precarious silicon-
fibre ladder. “Wait!” she datavised in mounting terror.
“You’re supposed to wait till I’m in the airlock.” Her
digitalized vehemence made no impression on Udat.
The air buoyed her up as though she had become
weightless, swinging her round until the ladder was
horizontal. Oscillating gravity was doing terrible things to
her inner ears. Screaming air tried to tear her from the
ladder. Neural nanonics pumped muscle-lock orders
into her hands and calves to reinforce her grip. She
could feel ligaments ripping. Collar sensors showed her
the fuzzy rim of the wormhole interstice sliding
inexorably along the hull towards her. “No. In the name
of Mary, wait!” And then Dr Alkad Mzu was suddenly
presented with every physicist’s dream opportunity:
observing the fabric of the universe from the outside.
Monica Foulkes heard Samuel’s shouted warning and
instinctively grabbed a tuft of reedy dune grass. The
wind surged with impossible strength.

Gravity shifted round until the beach was above her.
Monica wailed fearfully as sand fell up into the sky. She
felt herself following it, feet pulled into the air and sliding
round to point at the interstice surrounding the
blackhawk’s nose. The grass clump made an awful slow
tearing sound. Her hips and chest left the ground. Sand
was blasting directly into her face. She couldn’t see,
couldn’t breathe. The grass clump moved several
centimetres. “OhdearGodpreservemeee!”
A long-fingered hand clamped around her free wrist.
The grass clump left the sand with a sharp sucking
noise, its weight wrenching her arm out towards the
blackhawk. For an eternal second Monica hung splayed
in the air as the sand scudded around her. Someone
groaned with pained effort.
The wormhole interstice closed behind Udat.
Sand, water, mangled vegetation, and demented fish
cascaded down out of the sky. Monica landed flat on
her belly, breath knocked out of her. “Oh my God,” she
wheezed. When she looked up, the haggard Edenist
was crouched on his knees, panting heavily as he
clutched his wrist.
“You”, the words were difficult to form in her throat, “you
held on to me.”
He threw her a nod. “I think my wrist is broken.”
“I would have …” She shuddered, then gave a foolish
jittery laugh.
“God, I don’t even know your name.”
“Samuel.”
“Thank you, Samuel.”
He rolled onto his back and sighed. “Pleasure.”
<<Are you all right?>> Tranquillity asked the Edenist.
<<My wrist is very painful. She’s heavy.>>
<<Your colleagues are approaching. Three of them are
carrying medical nanonic packages in their aid kits.
They will be with you shortly.>>
Even after all this time spent in Tranquillity, he couldn’t
get used to the personality’s lack of empathy. Habitats
were such an essential component of Edenism. It was

disconcerting to have one treat him in this cavalier
fashion. <<Thank you.>>
“I didn’t think voidhawks and blackhawks could operate
in a gravity field,” Monica said.
“They can’t,” he told her. “This isn’t gravity, it’s
centrifugal force. It’s no different to the docking-ledges
they use outside.”
“Ah, of course. Have you ever heard of one coming
inside a habitat before?”
“Never. A swallow like that requires phenomenal
accuracy. From a strictly chauvinistic point of view I
hate to say this, but I think it would be beyond most
voidhawks. Even most blackhawks, come to that. Mzu
made an astute choice. This was a very well thought out
escape.”
“Twenty-six years in the making,” Pauline said. She
climbed slowly to her feet, shaking her cotton top, which
had been soaked by the falling water.
A fat blue fish, half a metre long, was thrashing
frantically on the sand by her shoes. “I mean that
woman had us fooled for twenty-six goddamn years.
Acting out the role of a flekhead physics professor with
all the expected neuroses and eccentricities slotting
perfectly into place. And we believed it. We patiently
watched her for twenty-six years and she behaved
exactly as predicted. If my home planet had been blown
to shit, I’d behave like that. She never faltered, not
once. But it was a twenty-six-year charade. Twenty-six
goddamn years! What kind of a person can do that?”
Monica and Samuel exchanged an anxious look.
“Someone pretty obsessive,” he said.
“Obsessive!” Pauline’s face darkened. She leant over
to pick the big fish up, but it squirmed out of her hands.
“Keep bloody still,” she shouted at it. “Well, God help
Omuta now she’s loose in the universe again.” She
finally succeeded in grabbing hold of the fish. “You do
realize that thanks to our sanctions they haven’t got a
defensive system which can even fart loudly?”
“She won’t get far,” Monica said. “Not with this Laton
scare closing down all the starship flights.”
“You hope!” Pauline staggered off towards the

waterline with her wriggling burden.
Monica clambered to her feet and brushed the sand off
her clothes, shaking it out of her hair. She looked down
at the lanky Edenist. “Dear me, CNIS entrance
standards have really gone downhill lately.”
He grinned weakly. “Yeah. But you know she’s right
about Mzu. The good doctor had us all fooled. Clever
lady. And now there’s going to be hell to pay.”
She put her hand under his shoulder and helped him up.
“I suppose so. One thing’s for certain, there’s going to
be a mad scramble to catch her.
Every government is going to want her tucked away on
their own planet in order to safeguard democracy. And,
my new friend, there are some democrats in this
Confederation I don’t ever want to find her.”
“Us, for instance?”
Monica hesitated, then gave her head a rueful shake.
“No. But don’t tell my boss I said that.”
Samuel watched the two agents on horseback galloping
across the beach toward them. Right now he couldn’t
even remember which services they belonged to. Not
that it mattered. In a few hours they’d all be going their
separate ways again. “Damn, Tranquillity really was the
only place for her, wasn’t it?”
“Yes. Come on, let’s see if these two have got anything
for your wrist. I think that’s Onku Noi on the second
horse. The Imperial Oshanko mob are always loaded
down with gadgets.”
According to his neural nanonics’ timer function it was
high noon. But Chas Paske wasn’t sure how to tell any
more. There hadn’t been any fluctuation in the red
cloud’s lambent emission since he started walking,
hobbling, rather. The black and red jungle remained
mordantly uninviting. Every laboured step was
accompanied by the incessant hollow rolls and booms
of thunder from high above.
He had managed to splint his leg, after a fashion: five
laths of cherry oak wood that stretched from his ankle
to his pelvis, lashed into place by ropy vines. The thigh
wound was still a real problem. He had bound it with
leaves, but every time he looked it seemed to be
leaking capacious amounts of ichor down his shin. And

it was impossible to keep the insects out. Unlike what
appeared to be every other living creature, they hadn’t
abandoned the jungle. And devoid of other targets, they
massed around him, mosquito-analogues, maggot-
analogues, things with legs and wings and pincers that
had no analogue. All of them suckling at his tender
flesh.
Twice now he’d changed the leaves, only to find a
seething mass of tiny black elytra underneath. Flies
crawled round his skin burns as though they were the
only oases of nourishment in a barren world.
According to his guidance block he had come two and a
half kilometres in the last three hours. It was hard going
through the virgin undergrowth which lay along the side
of the river. His crutch kept getting snagged by the thick
cords that foamed over the loam. Slender low-hanging
branches had a knack of catching the splint laths.
He picked the small wrinkled globes of abundant vine
fruit as he went, chewing constantly to keep his fluid
and protein levels up. But at this rate it was going to
take him weeks to get anywhere.
Durringham was his ultimate goal. Whatever resources
and wealth existed on this misbegotten planet, they
resided in the capital. Scouting it had been his team’s
mission. He saw no reason to abandon that
assignment.
Sitting waiting to die in the jungle wasn’t a serious
option. Recovery and evacuation was obviously out of
the question now. So, there it was, an honourable
solution; one which would keep him occupied and
motivated, and, should he achieve the impossible and
make it, might even accomplish something worthwhile.
Chas Paske was going to go down swinging.
But for all his determination he knew that he was going
to have to find an easier way to travel. The medical
program was releasing vast amounts of endocrines
from his implants, analgesic blocks had been thrown
across a good twenty per cent of his nerve fibres.
Boosted metabolism or not, he couldn’t keep expending
energy at this rate.
He accessed his guidance block and summoned up the
map. There was a village called Wryde fifteen hundred
metres downstream on the other bank.
According to the LDC file it had been established nine

years ago.
It would have to do.
He plucked another elwisie fruit, and limped on. One
advantage of the thunder was that no one would hear
the racket he made ploughing through the vegetation.
The light was visible long before the first of the houses.
A welcome gold-yellow nimbus shrouding the river.
Snowlilies glinted and sparkled with their true opulence.
Chas heard a bird again, the silly surprised warble of a
chikrow. He lowered himself in tricky increments, and
started to slither forward on his belly.
Wryde had become a thriving, affluent community, far
beyond the norm for a stage one colony planet. The
town nestled snugly in a six-square-kilometre clearing
that had been turned over to dignified parkland. It was
comprised of large houses built from stone or brick or
landcoral, all of them the kind of elegantly sophisticated
residence that a merchant or wealthy farmer would
own. The main street was a handsome tree-lined
boulevard, bustling with activity: people wandering in
and out of the shops, sitting at the tables of pavement
cafes. Horse-drawn cabs moved up and down. An
impressive red-brick civic hall stood at one end, four
storeys high, with an ornate central clock tower. He saw
some kind of sports field just outside the main cluster of
houses. People dressed all in white were playing a
game he didn’t know while spectators picnicked round
the boundary. Close to the jungle at the back of the
park, five windmills stood alongside a lake, their huge
white sails turning steadily even though there was very
little breeze. Grandiose houses lined the riverbank,
lawns extending down to the water. They all had boat-
houses or small jetties; rowing-boats and sailing
dinghies were moored securely against the sluggish
tide of snowlilies. Larger craft had been drawn up on
wooden slipways.
It was the kind of community every sane person would
want to live in; small-town cosiness, big-city stability.
Even Chas, lying in muddy loam under a bush on the
opposite bank, felt the subtle attraction of the place. By
simply existing it offered the prospect of belonging to a
perpetual golden age.
His retinal implants showed him the sunny, happy faces
of the citizens as they went about their business.
Scanning back and forth he couldn’t see anyone

labouring in the pristine gardens, or sweeping the
streets; no people, no bitek servitors, no mechanoids.
The nearest anyone came to work was the cafe
proprietors, and they seemed cheerful enough, chatting
and laughing with their customers. All generals and no
privates, he thought to himself. It isn’t real.
He accessed the guidance block again. A green
reference grid slipped up over his vision and he
focused on a jetty at the far end of the town’s clearing.
The block calculated its exact coordinate and
integrated it into the map.
When he checked his physiological status, the neural
nanonics reported his haemoglobin reserve was down
to half an hour. His metabolism wasn’t producing it with
anything like its normal efficiency. He ran through the
guidance block’s display one last time. Half an hour
ought to be enough.
Chas started to crawl forwards again, easing himself
down the muddy slope and into the water like an arthritic
crocodile.
Twenty minutes later he judiciously parted a pair of
snowlilies and let his rigid moulded face stick up out of
the water. The guidance block had functioned
flawlessly, delivering him right beside the jetty. A trim
blue-painted rowing-boat was pulling gently against its
mooring two metres away. There was nobody anywhere
near. He reached up and cut the pannier with his fission
blade, grabbing the end as it fell into the water.
The boat started to drift with the snowlilies. Chas
dropped below the surface.
He waited as long as he dared. The neural nanonics’
physiological monitor program was flashing dire
warnings of oxygen starvation into his brain before he
risked surfacing.
Wryde was out of sight round a curve, although the
ordinary light which clung to its rolling parkland was
spilling round the trees on the bank.
When he looked at his prize it had changed from the
well-crafted skiff he had stolen to a dilapidated punt that
was little more than a raft.
Tissue-thin gunwales, which had been added in what
must have been a surreal afterthought, were crumbling
like rotten cork before his eyes.

They left a wake of dark mushy dust on the snowlilies.
Chas waited a minute to see if any other drastic
changes were going to occur. He rapped
experimentally on the wood which was left. It seemed to
be solid enough. So with a great deal of effort, and
coming dangerously near to capsizing, he managed to
half-clamber, half-roll into the shallow bottom of the
boat.
He lay there inertly for a long time, then ponderously
raised himself onto his elbows. The boat was drifting
slowly into the bank. Long slippery ribbons of foltwine
were trailing from his splint. River beetles crawled over
his thigh wound. Both the medical nanonic packages
were approaching overload trying to screen the blood
from the lower half of his leg.
“Apart from that, fine,” he said. His grating voice
provided a harsh discord to the persistent fruity rumble
of thunder.
He crushed or swept away as many of the beetles and
other insects as he could. Naturally there weren’t any
oars. He cut through the vines holding his splint
together, and used one of the laths to scull away from
the bank and back into the main current. It took a while,
with the snowlilies resisting him, but when he was back
in the middle of the river the boat began to move
noticeably swifter. He made himself as comfortable as
possible, and watched the tall trees go past with an
increasing sense of eagerness. A keen amateur
student of military history, Chas knew that back on old
Earth they used to say all roads led to Rome. Here on
Lalonde, all the rivers led to Durringham.
A bubble of bright white light squatted possessively over
Aberdale. From the air it appeared as though the village
was sheltering below a translucent pearl dome to ward
off the perverse elements assailing the jungle. Octan
circled it at a respectable distance, wings outstretched
to their full metre and a half span, riding the thermals
with fluid ease, contemptuous of gravity. The jungle
underneath him was the same discoloured maroon as
the sky. But away to the south a single narrow
horizontal streak of bright green shone with compulsive
intensity.
Instinctively he wanted to soar towards it, to break out
into the cleanliness of real light.

Tandem thoughts circulated through the bird’s brain, his
kindly master’s wishes directing his flight away from the
purity, and tilting his head so that he looked at the
buildings in the middle of the illuminated clearing.
Enhanced retinas zoomed in.
“It’s virtually the same as Pamiers,” Pat Halahan said.
“They’ve got maybe fifty of those fancy houses put up.
The ground is all lawns and gardens, right out to the
jungle. No sign of any fields or groves.” He leaned
forwards blindly. Octan casually curved a sepia wing-tip,
altering his course by a degree. “Now that is odd.
Those trees along the riverbank look like terrestrial
weeping willows. But they’re big, twenty metres plus.
Got to be thirty years old.”
“Don’t count on it,” Kelly muttered in a surly undertone,
covering subtler emotions. “In any case, this is the
wrong climate.”
“Yeah, right,” Pat said. “Switching to infrared. Nope.
Nothing. If there’s any installation underground, Reza,
then they’re dug in way deep.”
“OK,” the team commander said reluctantly. “Have
Octan scout further east.”
“If you want. But it doesn’t look like there are any more
inhabited clearings in the jungle that way. He can see
the light from Schuster quite plainly from his altitude.
There’s nothing like that eastwards.”
“They aren’t going to advertise with hundred-kilowatt
holograms, Pat.”
“Yes, sir. East it is.”
A crucial urge to explore the as-yet-unseen land
beyond the village flowed through Octan’s synapses,
and the big eagle wheeled abruptly, reducing landscape
and injured sky to chaotic smears.
The mercenary team were also marching eastwards,
but they were on the Quallheim’s northern shore,
keeping roughly parallel to the water, a kilometre inland.
They had come ashore west of Schuster where deirar
trees covered the ground as thoroughly as though they
were a plantation.
Such regularity made the team’s journey much easier
than their first venture ashore when they had bypassed
Pamiers.

The deirars’ thick smooth boles rose straight up for
twenty-five metres then opened into an umbrella of
vegetation that formed a near-solid roof.
Together they formed a sylvestral cathedral of
enormous proportions.
Everywhere the mercenaries looked they could see
sturdy jet-black bark pillars supporting the dovetailing
leaf domes. On this side of the river the usual deluge of
vines and undergrowth was little more than a wispy
clutter of straggly sun-starved weeds, long stemmed
and pale, heavy with grey mould.
It was Reza who led the march, although he had sent
Theo scampering across the treetop canopy on the
lookout for hostiles. Few of them had escaped from
Pamiers uninjured. He counted himself among the
fortunate, with a burn on the rear of his skull that had
scorched a couple of sensor warts down to the
monobonded carbon reinforced bone; torso scores,
and a spiral weal on his right leg. Of all of them, Kelly
had borne the worst injury; but the medical packages
had resuscitated her to mobile status.
She walked with a small cylindrical shoulder-bag
carrying her kit; her armour trousers protected her legs
from thorns, and an olive-green T-shirt which the red
light had turned a raw umber covered the bulge of
medical packages on her side.
Pamiers had delivered a deft lesson, bruising their pride
as well as their skin. But an important lesson, to Reza’s
mind. The team had learnt to give the sequestrated
population a proper degree of respect. He wasn’t going
to risk probing a village again.
Fenton and Ryall padded tirelessly through the jungle on
the southern bank, skirting Aberdale by a wide margin.
Jungle sounds filled their ears in the short gaps
between the red cloud’s perpetual thunder peals. The
organic perfume of a hundred different flowers and
ripening vine fruits trickled through the muggy air, a vital
living counterpoint to the stink of dead children.
Reza nudged the hounds further south, away from the
now-foreign village, from the smell of the small decaying
bodies, its voodoo fence, away from the terrible price
Lalonde’s populace had paid under the invaders’
regime. Narrow leaves, mottled with fungal furs, parted
round the hounds’ muzzles. Chilly distaste and shame,

almost inevitably, shame, wormed its trenchant way into
their minds along the affinity bond; they shared their
master’s susceptibilities, becoming as keen as he to
leave the heartbreaker calamity behind.
New scents rode the air: sap dripping from snapped
vine strands, crushed leaves, loam ruffled by footprints
and wheel tracks. The hounds raced ahead, guided by
primal senses. People had been this way recently.
Some, but not many.
Reza saw a path through the jungle. An old animal track
running north-south, enlarged some time ago, branches
cut back by fission blades, bushes hacked away, only
to fall into disuse again. Almost, but not quite.
Somebody still used it. Someone had used it less than
two hours ago.
Nerves and instinct fired now, Fenton and Ryall loped
through the moist grass towards the south. After two
kilometres they found a scent trail branching off into the
jungle. One person, male. His clothes smearing the
leaves with sweat and cotton.
“Pat, bring Octan back. I think we’ve got our man.”
Reza kept the snatch mission simple. The team
activated their hovercraft again when they were back
on the Quallheim east of Aberdale and started
searching for a tributary fork on the south bank.
According to the map stored in his guidance block there
was a modest river which ran south through the jungle,
coming from the mountains on the far side of the
savannah. It took them five minutes to find it, and the
hovercraft nosed over the clot of snowlilies guarding its
mouth. Plaited tree boughs formed an arched screen
overhead.
“After the snatch we’ll keep going up this river and out
onto the savannah,” Reza said when they had left the
Quallheim behind. “I want to get him and us out from
under this bloody cloud as quickly as possible.
We should be able to access the communication
satellites as well once we’re clear of it. That way if we
can extract any useful information it can be delivered
straight up to Terrance Smith.”
If Smith is still up there, Kelly thought. She couldn’t
forget what the woman in Pamiers had said about the
starships fighting. But Joshua had promised to stay and

pick them up. She gave a cynical little sniff. Oh yes, the
Confederation’s Mr. Dependable himself.
“You all right?” Ariadne asked, raising her voice above
the steady propeller whine and the rambling thunder
booms.
“My analgesic blocks are holding,” Kelly said. “It was
just the size of the burn which shocked me.” She
resisted the urge to scratch the medical nanonic
packages.
“Adds a bit of spice to the recording, a bit of drama,”
Ariadne said.
“Speaking of which, you’re not going to blow us out, are
you? I mean, we are the good guys.”
“Yeah. You’re the good guys.”
“Great, always wanted to be a sensevise star.”
Kelly accessed her Lalonde sensevise report memory
cell file and turned her head until Ariadne was in the
centre of her vision field (wishing the combat-boosted
could produce some halfway decent facial
expressions).
“What did you learn from the sample you took from the
houses?”
“Nowt. It was dust, that’s all. Literally, dry loam.”
“So these ornamental buildings are just an illusion?”
“Half and half. It isn’t a complete fiction; they’ve
moulded the loam into the shape you see and cloaked it
with an optical illusion. It’s similar to our chameleon
circuit, really.”
“How do they do that?”
“No idea. The closest human technology can come is
the molecular-binding generators starships use to
strengthen their hulls. But they’re expensive, and use up
a lot of power. Be cheaper to build a house, or use
programmed silicon like you suggested. Then again”,
she tilted her head back to focus her sensors on the
cloudband above the trees, “logic doesn’t seem to be
playing a large part in life on Lalonde right now.”
The hovercraft eased in against the crumbling loam
bank. Ryall was standing among the qualtook trees

above the water, waiting for them. Reza jumped ashore
and ruffled the big hound’s head. It pressed against his
side in complete devotion.
“Jalal and Ariadne, with me,” Reza said. “The rest of
you stay here and keep the hovercraft ready. Pat,
monitor us through Octan. If we blow the snatch, I
suggest you keep heading south. There’s a Tyrathca
farming settlement on the other side of the savannah.
It’s as good a place as any to hide out. This snatch is
our last stab at completing the mission. Don’t waste
yourselves trying to gather further Intelligence, and
don’t attempt a rescue. Got that?”
“Yes, sir,” Pat said.
Jalal and Ariadne joined Reza on the top of the bank.
The big combat-adept mercenary had plugged a
gaussrifle into one elbow socket and a TIP rifle into the
other; power cables and feed tubes looped round into
his backpack.
“Kelly?” Reza asked ingenuously. “Not wanting to come
with us this time?”
“It took eight generations of cousins marrying to
produce you,” she told him.
The three mercenaries on the bank activated their
chameleon circuits.
Laughter floated down to the hovercraft out of unbroken
jungle.
Fenton watched the little clearing from under the sloping
lower branches of an infant gigantea. The light here
wasn’t the pure solar white of the villages, but the
universal redness had veered into a pale pink shade. A
log cabin had been built in the centre, not the kind of
frame and plank arrangement favoured by the colonists
but a rugged affair that could have come straight from
some Alpine meadow. A stone chimney-stack formed
almost all of one side, smoke wound drowsily upwards.
A lot of trouble had been taken to transform the
clearing; undergrowth had been trimmed back, animal
hides were stretched drying over frames, timber had
been cut and stacked, a vegetable plot planted.
The man who had done it was a well-built thirty-five-
year-old with inflamed ginger hair, wearing a thick red
and blue check cotton shirt and mud-caked black denim
jeans. He was working at a sturdy table outside his front

door, sawing up wood with old-fashioned manual tools.
A half-completed rocking chair stood on the ground
behind him.
Fenton moved forwards surreptitiously out of the
shaggy gigantea’s shade, but keeping to the cover
provided by bushes and smaller trees ringing the
clearing. Between thunder broadsides he could hear
the regular stifled ripping sound as the man planed a
piece of wood on the table. Then the sound stopped
and his shoulders stiffened.
Reza wouldn’t have thought it possible. The man was a
good fifty metres away, with his back to the hound, and
the thunder was unrelenting. Even his enhanced
senses would have difficulty picking out Fenton under
such circumstances. He and the other two mercenaries
were still four hundred metres away. Nothing else for it
… Fenton cantered eagerly into the clearing.
The man looked round, bushy eyebrows rising. “What’s
this, then? My, you’re a roguish looking brute.” He
clicked his fingers, and Fenton trotted up to him. “Ah,
you’ll not be on your own, then. That’s a shame, a
crying shame. For all of us. Your master won’t be far
behind, I’ll warrant. Will you? Came down on the
spaceplanes this morning no doubt, didn’t you? That
must have been a trip and a half. Aye, well, I’ll not be
finishing my chair this afternoon then.” He sat down on
a bench beside the table, and started to change, his
shirt losing colour, hair fading, thinning, stature
diminishing.
By the time Reza, Jalal, and Ariadne walked into the
clearing he had become an undistinguished middle-
aged man with brown skin and thin features, wearing an
ageing LDC one-piece jump suit. Fenton was noisily
lapping up water out of a bowl at his feet, mind radiating
contentment with his new friend.
Reza walked over cautiously. His retinal implants
scanned the man from head to toe, and he datavised
the pixel sequence into his processor block for a
search and identify program. Although the earlier
phantom lumberjack image had vanished, Reza saw the
roots of the man’s black hair were a dark ginger.
“Afternoon,” he said, not quite sure how to react to this
display of passivity.
“Good afternoon to you. Not that I’ve seen anything like
you before, mind. Not outside a kinema, and perhaps

not even there.”
“My name is Reza Malin. We’re part of a team
employed by the LDC to find out what’s going on down
here.”
“Then with every ounce of sincerity I own, I wish you
good luck, my boy. You’re going to need it.”
An ounce was an ancient unit of measure, Reza’s
neural nanonics informed him (there was no reference
to kinema in any file). “Are you going to help me?”
“It doesn’t look to me like I’ve got a lot of choice, now
does it? Not with your merry gang and their big, big
weapons.”
“That’s true. What’s your name?”
“My name? Well, now, that’d be Shaun Wallace.”
“Bad move. According to the LDC files you’re Rai
Molvi, a colonist who settled Aberdale.”
The man scratched his ear and gave Reza a bashful
grin. “Ah now, you’ve got me there, Mr. Malin. I must
admit, I was indeed old Molvi. Charmless soul he is,
too.”
“OK, smartarse, game over. Come on.”
Reza led the way back to the hovercraft, with Jalal
walking right behind their captive, gaussrifle trained on
the back of his skull. A couple of minutes after they left
the clearing the pink light began to dim back into the
same lustreless burgundy of the surrounding jungle. As
if immediately aware of the abandonment, playful
vennals slithered into the trees around the edge of the
clearing. The more venturesome among them dared to
scamper over the grass to the cabin itself, searching
for titbits. After quarter of an hour the cabin emitted a
vociferous creak.
The vennals fled en masse back into the trees.
It was another couple of minutes before anything else
happened. Then, with the tardiness of a sinking moon,
its surface texture leaked away to reveal a starkly
primitive mud hut. Tiny arid flakes moulted from the
roof, resembling a sleet of miniature autumn leaves as
they scattered over the grass below; rivulets of dust
trickled down the walls. Within twenty minutes the entire

edifice had dissolved like a sugar cube in soft, warm
rain.
Forget discovering Ione Saldana existed, forget
discovering Laton was still alive, this was the ultimate
interview. For this Collins would make her their premier
anchorwoman for the rest of time. For this she would be
respected and lionized across the Confederation. Kelly
Tirrel was the first reporter in history to interview the
dead.
And as the dead went, Shaun Wallace was agreeable
enough. He sat on the rear bench of the lead
hovercraft, facing Kelly, and stroking Fenton the whole
while. Jalal kept a heavy-calibre gaussrifle levelled at
him. On the front bench beside her, Reza was listening
intently, making the occasional comment.
The trees were thinning out as they raced for the end of
the jungle. She could see more of the red cloudband
through the black filigree of leaves overhead. It too was
becoming flimsier; there were definite fast-moving
serpentine currents straining its uniformity. Strangely,
for there was no wind at ground level.
Shaun Wallace claimed he had lived in Northern Ireland
during the early twentieth century. “Terrible times,” he
said softly. “Especially for someone with my beliefs.”
But he had just shaken his head and smiled distantly
when she asked what those beliefs were. “Nothing a
lady like yourself would want to know.” He died, he said,
in the mid-1920s, another martyr to the cause, another
victim of English oppression. The reason the soldiers
shot him was not volunteered. He claimed he hadn’t
died alone.
“And after?” Kelly said.
“Ah, now, Miss Kelly, afterwards is the work of the
Devil.”
“You went to hell?”
“Hell is a place, so the good priests taught me. This
beyond was no place. It was dry and empty, and it was
cruel beyond physical pain. It was where you can see
the living wasting their lives, and where you drain the
substance from each other.”
“Each other? You weren’t alone?”
“There was millions of us. Souls beyond the counting of

a simple Ballymena lad like myself.”
“You say you can see the living from the other side?”
“From the beyond, yes. ‘Tis like through a foggy
window. But you strive to make out what it is that’s
happening in the living world. All the time you strive. And
you yearn for it, you yearn for it so hard, lass, that you
feel your heart should be bursting apart. I saw wonders
and I saw terrors, and I could touch neither.”
“How did you come back?”
“The way was opened for us. Something came through
from this side, right here on this sodden hot planet. I
don’t know what the creature was. Nothing Earthly,
though. After that, there was no stopping us.”
“This xenoc, the creature you say let you through; is it
still here, still bringing souls back from the beyond?”
“No, it was only here for the first one. It vanished after
that. But it was too late, the trickle was already
becoming a flood. We bring ourselves back now.”
“How?”
Shaun Wallace gave a reluctant sigh. He was quiet for
so long Kelly thought he wasn’t going to answer; he
even stopped stroking Fenton.
“The way the devil-lovers of yesterday always tried to
do it,” he said heavily. “With their ceremonies and their
pagan barbarism. And God preserve me for doing such
things, I used to think what I did before was sinful. But
there’s no other way.”
“What is the way?”
“We break the living. We make them want to be
possessed. Possession is the end of torment, you see.
Even with our power we can only open a small gateway
to the beyond, enough to show the lost souls the way
back. But there has to be somewhere waiting for them,
some host. And the host has to be willing.”
“You torture them into submission,” Reza said bluntly.
“Aye, that we do. That we do, indeed. And, mark you,
there’s no pride in me for saying it.”
“You mean, Rai Molvi is still there? Still alive inside
you?”

“Yes. But I keep his soul locked away in a dark, safe
place. I’m not sure you could call it living.”
“And this power you mentioned.” Kelly pressed the
point. “What is your power?”
“I don’t know for sure. Magic of a kind. Though not a
witch’s magic with its spells and potions. This is a
darker magic, because it’s there at a thought. So easy,
it is. Nothing like that should be given easily to a man.
The temptations are too strong.”
“Is that where the white fire comes from?” Reza asked.
“This power you have?”
“Aye, indeed it is.”
“What’s its range?”
“Ah now, Mr. Malin, that’s difficult to say. The more of
you that fling it, the further it will go. The more
impassioned you are, the stronger it will be. For a cool
one such as yourself, I doubt it would be far.”
Reza grunted and shifted back on the bench.
“Could you demonstrate the power for me, please?”
Kelly asked. “Something I can record and show people.
Something that will make them believe what you say is
true.”
“I’ve never known a newspaper gal before. You did say
you were from a newspaper, now didn’t you?”
“What newspapers eventually became, yes.” She ran a
historical search request through her neural nanonics.
“Something like the Movietone and Pathe reels at the
cinema, only with colour and feeling. Now, that
demonstration?”
“I normally prefer gals with longer hair, myself.”
Kelly ran her hand self-consciously over her scalp. She
had shaved her hair to a blueish stubble so she could
wear the armour’s shell-helmet. “I normally have longer
hair,” she said resentfully.
Shaun Wallace winked broadly, then leant over the
gunwale and scooped up one of the long-legged insects
scampering over the snowlilies. He held it up in the palm
of his hand; a long spindly tube body, dun brown, with a
round bulb of a head sprouting unpleasant pincer

mandibles. It was quivering, but stayed where it was as
though glued to his skin. He brought his other hand
down flat on top of it, making a show of pressing them
together, squashing the insect. Kelly’s eyes never
wavered.
When he parted his hands the prince of butterflies was
revealed, wings almost the size of his palms, patterned
in deep turquoise and topaz and silver, colours
resistant to the red light of the cloud, shining in their
own right. Its wings flexed twice, then it flew off, only to
be kicked about in the air by the wash of the
hovercraft’s powerful slipstream.
“There, you see?” Shaun Wallace said. “We don’t
always destroy.”
Kelly lost sight of the delightful apparition. “How long will
it stay like that?”
“Mortality is not something you measure out like a pint
of ale, Miss Kelly. It will live its life to the full, and that’s
all that can be said.”
“He doesn’t know,” Reza muttered curtly.
Shaun Wallace practised a knowing, slightly
condescending smile.
It was growing lighter around the hovercraft. Up ahead,
Kelly could see the wonderfully welcome glare of pure
sunlight striking emerald foliage.
A colour that wasn’t red! She had begun to believe that
red was all there ever was, all there ever had been.
The hovercraft skimmed out from under the chafed
edge of the cloudband.
All of the mercenaries broke into a spontaneous cheer.
“What is that thing?” Kelly shouted above the rebel
whoops, pointing up at the cloud.
“A reflection of ourselves, our fear.”
“What do you fear?”
“The emptiness of the night. It reminds us too much of
the beyond. We hide from it.”
“You mean you’re making that?” she asked, scepticism
warring with astonishment. “But it covers thousands of

kilometres.”
“Aye, that it does. ‘Tis our will that creates it; we want
shelter, so shelter we have. All of us, Miss Kelly, even
me who shuns the rest of them, we all pray for
sanctuary with every fibre of being. And it’s growing,
this will of ours, spreading out to conquer. One day
soon it will cover all of this planet. But even that is only
the first chapter of salvation.”
“What’s the second?”
“To leave. To escape the harsh gaze of this universe
altogether. We’ll withdraw to a place of our own making.
A place where there is no emptiness hanging like a
sword above the land, no death to claim us. A place
where your butterfly will live for ever, Miss Kelly. Now
tell me that isn’t a worthy goal, tell me that isn’t a dream
worth having.”
Reza watched the last of the jungle’s trees go past as
the hovercraft reached the savannah. The lush green
grassland seemed to unroll on either side of the river
as though it was only just coming into existence. He
wasn’t really paying much attention; the strange
(supposed) Irishman was a captivating performer. “A
closed universe,” he said, and the earlier scorn was
lacking.
Kelly gave him a surprised glance. “You mean it is
possible?”
“It happens thousands of times a day. The blackhawks
and voidhawks open interstices to travel through
wormholes every time they fly between stars.
Technically they’re self-contained universes.”
“Yes, but taking a planet, “
“There are twenty million of us,” Shaun Wallace purred
smoothly. “We can do it, together, we can pull open the
portal that leads away from mortality.”
Kelly’s neural nanonics faithfully recorded the silver chill
tickling her nerves at the naked conviction in his voice.
“You’re really planning to generate a wormhole large
enough to enclose the whole of Lalonde? And keep it
there?”
Shaun Wallace wagged his finger at her. “Ah, now there
you go again, Miss Kelly, putting your fine, elegant
words in my mouth. Plans, such a grand term. Generals

and admirals and kings, now they have plans. But we
don’t, we have instinct. Hiding our new world from this
universe God created, that comes as naturally as
breathing.” He chuckled. “It means we can go on
breathing, too. I’m sure you wouldn’t want to stop me
from doing that, would you now? Not a sweet lass like
yourself.”
“No. But what about Rai Molvi? Tell me what happens
to him afterwards?”
Shaun Wallace scratched his chin, looked round at the
savannah, shifted the jump-suit fabric round his
shoulders, pulled a sardonic face.
“He stays, doesn’t he?” Kelly said stiffly. “You won’t let
him go.”
“I need the body, miss. Real bad. Perhaps there’ll be a
priest amongst us I can visit for absolution.”
“If what you’re saying is true,” Reza said charily,
focusing an optical sensor on the cloudband behind,
“then we really don’t want to be staying here any longer
than we have to. Wallace, when is this planetary
vanishing act supposed to happen?”
“You have a few days’ grace. But there are none of
your starships left to sail away on. Sorry.”
“Is that why you didn’t resist, because we can’t
escape?”
“Oh, no, Mr. Malin, you’ve got me all wrong. You see, I
don’t want much to do with my fellows. That’s why I live
out in the woods, there. I prefer being on my own, I’ve
had a bucketful of their company. Seven centuries of it,
to be precise.”
“So you’ll help us?”
He gathered himself up and threw a glance over his
shoulder at the second hovercraft. “I won’t hinder you,”
he announced magnanimously.
“Thank you very much.”
“Not that it will do you much good, mind.”
“How’s that?”
“There’s not going to be many places you can run to,
I’m afraid. Quite a few of us have sailed away already.”

“Fucking hell,” Kelly gasped.
Shaun Wallace frowned in disapproval. “To be sure,
that’s no word for a lady to be going and using.”
Kelly made sure he was in perfect focus. “Are you
telling me that what’s happening on Lalonde is going to
happen on other planets as well?”
“Indeed I am. There’s a lot of very anguished souls
back there in the beyond. They’re all in dire need of a
clean handsome body, every one of them. Something
very much like the one you’ve got there.”
“This is occupied, to the hilt.”
His eyes flashed with black amusement. “So was this
one, Miss Kelly.”
“And all these worlds the possessed have gone to, are
you going to try and imprison them in wormholes?”
“That’s a funny old word you’re using there: wormholes.
Little muddy tunnels in the ground, with casts on top to
show the fishermen where they are.”
“It means chinks in space, gaps you can fall through.”
“Does it now? Well, then, I suppose that’s what I mean,
yes. I like that, a gap in the air which leads you through
to the other side of the rainbow.”
Surreal. The word seemed to be caught on some
repeater program in Kelly’s neural nanonics, flipping up
in hologram violet over the image of a mad, dead
Irishman sitting in front of her, grinning in delight at her
discomfort. Worlds snatched out of their orbits by
armies of the dead.
Surreal. Surreal. Surreal.
Fenton rose growling to his feet, fangs barred, hackles
sticking up like spikes. Shaun Wallace gave the hound
an alarmed look, and Kelly’s retinas caught the minutest
white static flames twinkle over his fingertips. But
Fenton swung his head round to the prow and barked.
Jalal’s gaussrifle was already coming round. He saw
the huge creature crouched down in the long grass at
the side of the water thirty-five metres ahead of the
hovercraft. The Lalonde generalist didactic memory
called it a kroclion, a plains-dwelling carnivore which

even the sayce ran from. He wasn’t surprised, the
beast must have been nearly four metres long, weighing
an easy half-tonne. Its hide was a sandy yellow, well
suited to the grass, making visual identification hard
(infrared was, thankfully, a furnace flame). The head,
like a terrestrial shark, had been grafted on, all teeth
and tiny killer-bright eyes.
Blue target graphics locked on. He fired an EE round.
Everyone ducked, Kelly jamming her hands over her
ears. A dazzling explosion sent a pillar of purple plasma
and mashed soil spouting twenty metres into the air. Its
vertex flattened out, a ring of soot-choked orange flame
rolling across the river. The ululate crack was loud
enough to drown out the tattoo of thunder chasing them
from the red cloud.
Kelly lifted her head carefully.
“I think you got him,” Theo said drily, as he steered the
hovercraft away from the quaking water sloshing round
the new crater. A semicircle of grass on the bank was
burning.
“They’re vicious bastards,” Jalal protested.
“Not that one, not any more, as anyone within five
kilometres will tell you,” Ariadne said.
“And you could have dealt with it better?”
“Forget it,” Reza said. “We’ve got more important
things to worry about.”
“You believe what this dickhead has been telling us?”
Ariadne asked, jerking a thumb at Shaun Wallace.
“Some of it,” Reza said noncommittally.
“Why thank you, Mr. Malin,” Shaun Wallace said. He
watched the burning crater closely as the hovercraft
sped past. “Fine shooting there, Mr. Jalal. Those old
kroclions, they put the wind up me and no mistake. Old
Lucifer was on form the day he made them.”
“Shut up,” Reza said. The one optical sensor he had
left focused on the edge of the red cloud showed him a
lone tendril starting to swell out, extending along the line
of the narrow river behind them. Too slow to catch
them, he estimated, but it was a graphically disturbing
demonstration that the cloud and the possessed

inhabitants were aware of the team’s presence.
He opened a channel to his communication block and
datavised a sequence of orders in. It began scanning
the sky for communication-satellite beacons. Two of
the five satellites the blackhawks had delivered into
geosynchronous orbit were above the horizon and still
broadcasting. The block aimed a tight beam at one,
requesting contact with any of Terrance Smith’s fleet.
No ship was left in the command net, the satellite’s
computer reported, but there was a message stored in
its memory. Reza datavised his personal code.
“This is a restricted access message for Reza’s team,”
Joshua Calvert’s voice said from the communication
block. “But I have to be sure it is you and only you
receiving it. The satellite is programmed to transmit it
on a secure directional beam. If there is any hostile
within five hundred metres of you who can intercept
then do not request access. In order to access the
recording, enter the name of the person who came
between me and Kelly last year.”
The tip of the cloud tendril was a couple of kilometres
away. Reza turned to face Shaun Wallace. “Can any of
your friends intercept a radio transmission?”
“Well, now, there’s some of them living in one of the old
savannah homesteads. But they’re a few miles from
here, yet. Is that more than five hundred metres?”
“Yes. Kelly, the name please.”
She gave him a stonefaced smile. “Aren’t you glad you
didn’t leave me behind at Pamiers?”
Jalal laughed. “She got you there, Reza.”
“Yes,” Reza said heavily. “I’m glad we didn’t leave you
behind. The name?”
Kelly opened a channel to his communication block and
datavised: “Ione Saldana.”
There was a moment’s silence while the satellite’s
carrier wave emitted a few electronic bleeps.
“Well remembered, Kelly. OK, this is the bad news: the
hijacked starships have started fighting us and the
navy. There’s a real vicious battle going on in orbit right
now. Lady Mac got clear, but we’ve taken a bit of
punishment in the process. Another story for you

sometime. I’m about to jump us out to Murora. There’s
an Edenist station in orbit there, and we’re hoping to
dock with it to make our repairs. We estimate the
damage can be patched up in a couple of days, after
which we’ll come back for you. Kelly, Reza, the rest of
you; we’re only going to make one fly-by.
Hopefully you took my earlier advice and are now
heading hell for leather away from that bloody cloud.
Keep going, and leave your communication block
scanning for my transmission. If you want to be picked
up then you’ll have to stay away from any hostiles.
That’s about it, we’re battening down to jump now. Good
luck, I’ll see you in two, maybe three days.”
Kelly rested her head in her hands. Just hearing his
voice again was a fantastic tonic. And he was alive,
smart enough to elude a battle. And he was going to
come back for them. Joshua, you bloody splendid
marvel. She wiped tears from her cheeks.
Shaun Wallace patted her shoulder tenderly. “Your
young man, is it?”
“Yes. Sort of.” She sniffed, and brushed away the last
of the tears in a businesslike manner.
“He sounds like a fine boy to me.”
“He is.”
Reza datavised a summary of events to the second
hovercraft. “I’m in complete agreement with Joshua
about keeping clear of the cloud and the possessed. As
of now our original mission is over. Our priority now is
just to stay alive and make sure what information we
have gets back to the Confederation authorities. We’ll
keep going up this river to the Tyrathca farmers and
hope that we can hold out there until the Lady Macbeth
comes back for us.”
It was the rygar bush which had brought the Tyrathca
farmers to Lalonde.
When they were searching for their initial backing, the
LDC sent samples of Lalonde’s aboriginal flora to both
of the xenoc members of the Confederation; it was
standard practice to try and attract as wide a spectrum
of support as possible for such ventures. The Kiint, as
always, declined to participate. But the Tyrathca
considered the small berries of the rygar bush a
superlative delicacy. Ripe berries could be ground up to

produce a cold beverage, or mixed with sugar to form a
sticky fudge; LDC negotiators claimed it was the
Tyrathcan equivalent of chocolate. The normally
cloistered xenocs were so enamoured at the prospect
of wholesale rygar cultivation they agreed to a joint
colony enterprise with their merchant organization
taking a four per cent stake in the LDC. It was only the
third time since joining the Confederation that they had
ever participated in a colony, a fact which lent the hard-
pressed LDC considerable badly needed respectability.
Even better for the LDC board: to a human palate the
rygar berries tasted like oily grapes, so there would
never be any conflict of interest arising.
Five years after the dumpers had dropped out of the
sky to form the nucleus of Durringham the first batch of
Tyrathcan breeder pairs arrived and settled in the
foothills of the mountain range which made up the
southern border of the Juliffe basin where the rygar
bushes flourished.
The LDC’s long-range economic plans foresaw both
the human and Tyrathcan settlements expanding from
their respective centres until they met at the roots of
the tributaries. By the time that happened both groups
would have risen above their initial subsidence level
and be prosperous enough to trade to their mutual
enrichment. But that date was still many years in the
future. The human villages furthest from Durringham
were all as poor as Aberdale and Schuster, while the
Tyrathcan plantations had barely cultivated enough
rygar to fill the holds of the starships their merchants
sent twice a year. Contact had so far been minimal.
It was late afternoon, and the savannah was already
giving way to low humpbacked foothills when the
mercenary team saw their first Tyrathcan house. There
was no mistaking it, a dark cinnamon-coloured tower
twenty-five metres high with slightly tapering walls, and
circular windows sealed over with ebony blisters. The
design had evolved on the abandoned Tyrathcan
homeworld, Mastrit-PJ, over seventeen thousand years
ago, and was employed on every planet their arkships
had colonized right across the galaxy. They never used
anything else.
This one stood like a border sentry castle overlooking
the river. Octan glided round it a couple of times, seeing
the vague outlines of fields and gardens reclaimed by
grass and small scrub bushes. Moss and weeds were
growing around the inside of the roof’s turret wall where

soil and dust had drifted.
“Nothing moving,” Pat reported to Reza. “I’d say it was
deserted three or four years ago.”
They had gathered together on the riverbank just
downstream from the tower house, hovercraft drawn up
on the grass. The river was getting narrower, little more
than a stream, down to about eight metres wide, and
littered with boulders which made it virtually unnavigable.
For the first time since they had landed that morning
there were no snowlilies in sight, only the broken tips of
their stems trailing limply.
“The Tyrathca do that,” Sal Yong said. “A house is only
ever used once. When the breeders die it’s sealed up
as their tomb.”
Reza consulted his guidance block. “There’s a
plantation village called Coastuc-RT six kilometres
south-east of here. The other side of that ridge,” he
pointed, datavising the map image to them. “Ariadne,
can the hovercraft take it?”
She focused her optical sensors on the rolling land
which skirted the mountains. “Shouldn’t be a problem,
the grass is a lot shorter here than the savannah and
there isn’t much stone about.” When she looked west
she could see another three of the dark towers sticking
out of the bleak countryside. They were all in shadow;
thick black rain-clouds were surging towards them along
the side of the mountains. The wind had freshened
appreciably since they had left the jungle. Looking back
to the north she could see the red cloud over the
Quallheim forging the entire northern horizon; it was
almost edge on, they had climbed steadily since leaving
it behind. The sky above it was a perfect unblemished
blue.
Kelly felt the first smattering of the drizzle on her bare
arms as she clambered back into the hovercraft. She
dug into her cylindrical kitbag for a cagoule, her burnt
armour-suit jacket had been left behind in the jungle, in
that state it wouldn’t have been any use anyway. “I’m
sorry,” she told Shaun Wallace as he sat beside her.
“I’ve only got the one, and the others don’t need them.”
“Ah now, don’t you go worrying yourself over me, Miss
Kelly,” he said.
The jump suit he wore turned a rich indigo, then the
fabric became stiffer. He was wearing a cagoule which

was identical to the one in her hands, right down to the
unobtrusive Collins logo on the left shoulder.
“There, see? Old Shaun can look after himself.”
Kelly gave him a flustered nod (thankful her memory cell
was still recording), and hurriedly struggled into her own
cagoule as the warm drizzle thickened. “What about
food?” she asked the Irishman as Theo goaded the
hovercraft over the summit of the riverbank and started
off towards the Tyrathca village.
“Don’t mind if I do, thanks. Nothing too rich mind, not for
me. I likes me pleasures simple.”
She dug round in the bag and found a bar of tarrit-
flavoured chocolate.
None of the mercenaries had brought any food, with
their metabolisms they could graze off the vegetation
indefinitely, potent intestinal enzymes breaking up
anything with proteins and hydrocarbons.
Shaun Wallace chewed in silence for a minute. “That’s
nice,” he said, “reminds me a little of bilberries on a
cold morning,” and he grinned.
Kelly found she was smiling back at him.
The hovercraft moved a lot slower over the land than on
water. Cairnlike clusters of weather-smoothed stone
and sudden pinched gullies made the pilots’ task a
demanding one. The rain, which was now a solid
downpour of heavy grey water, added to the difficulty.
Pat had sent Octan northward to avoid the worst of the
deluge. Back out on the savannah it was still dry and
sunny, a buffer zone between nature and supernature.
Reza dispatched Fenton and Ryall to survey the ground
ahead. Lightning began to spear down.
“I think I preferred the river,” Jalal said glumly.
“Ah, Mr. Jalal, buck up now, this is nothing for Lalonde,”
Shaun Wallace said. “A little shower, that’s all. It was
much worse than this before we returned from beyond.”
Jalal ignored the casual reference to the power of the
possessed; Shaun Wallace, he thought, was playing a
subtle war of nerves against them.
Sowing the seeds of doubt and despondency.

“Hold it,” Reza datavised to Theo, and Sal Yong, who
was piloting the second hovercraft. “Deflate the skirts.”
The hovercraft sank onto their hulls with flagging
whines, crushing the sturdy grass tufts, settling at
awkward angles. Rain had reduced visibility to less than
twenty-five metres even with enhanced sight.
Kelly could just make out Ryall up ahead. The hound
was shifting about uneasily in front of a big sandy-
brown boulder.
Reza took off his magazine belt, and left the TIP
carbine he’d been carrying with it. He hopped over the
gunwale and started to trudge towards the restive
animal. Kelly had to wipe a slick film of water from her
face. The rain was worming its way round her cagoule
hood to run down her neck. She toyed with the idea of
putting on her shell-helmet again, anything to stop this
insidious clammy invasion.
Reza stopped five metres short of the brown lump, and
slowly opened his arms, rain dripping from his grey-
skinned fingers. He shouted something even Kelly’s
studio-grade audio-discrimination program couldn’t
catch above the wind and rain. She squinted, the rain
suddenly chilling inside her T-shirt. The boulder rose up
smoothly on four powerful legs. Kelly gasped. Her
Confederation generalist didactic memory identified it
immediately: a soldier-caste Tyrathca.
“Oh bugger,” Jalal muttered. “They’re clan creatures, it
won’t be alone.” He started to scan around. It was
hopeless in the rain, even infrared was washed out.
The soldier-caste Tyrathca was about as big as a
horse, although the legs weren’t as long. Its head, too,
was faintly equine, tilted back at a shallow angle at the
end of a thick muscular neck. There were no visible
ears, or nostrils; the mouth had a complex double-lip
arrangement resembling overlapping clam shells. The
sienna hide, which Kelly had thought solid like an
exoskeleton, was actually scaled, with a short-cropped
chestnut-brown mane running along its entire spine.
Two arms extended from behind the base of its neck,
ending in nine-fingered circular hands. A pair of slender
antennae also protruded from its shoulder joints, swept
back along the length of its body.
Although it had a strong animal appearance, it was
holding a large very modern-looking rifle. A broad
harnesslike belt hung round its neck, with grenades and

power magazines clipped on.
It held out a processor block, and a slim AV projection
pillar telescoped out. “Turn your vehicles around,” a
synthetic voice clanged through the rain. “Humans are
no longer permitted here.”
“We need somewhere to shelter for the night,” Reza
replied. “We can’t go back north; you must have seen
the red cloud.”
“No humans.”
“Why not? We must have somewhere to stay. Tell me,
why?”
“Humans have become, ” The block gave a melodic
cheep. “No direct translation available; similarity to:
elemental. Coastuc-RT has suffered damage,
merchant spaceplane has been stolen. Breeders and
other castes have been killed by amok humans. You
are not permitted entry.”
“I know about the disturbances in the human villages. I
have been sent by the Lalonde Development
Corporation to try and restore order.”
“Then do that. Go to your own race’s villages and bring
order.”
“We have tried, but the situation was beyond our
capability to resolve. There has been a major invasion
of an unknown origin.” He just couldn’t bring himself to
say possession. The processor block was quiet; he
guessed he was talking to a breeder, the soldier caste
were only marginally sentient, not that he’d like to go up
against one. “I would like to discuss what can be done
to protect you from further attack. My team are combat
trained and well equipped, we should be able to
augment whatever defences you have.”
“Acceptable. You may enter Coastuc-RT by yourself to
view the situation. If you believe you are able to
increase our defences your team will be allowed to
enter and stay.”
“Reza,” Kelly datavised. “Ask if I can come with you,
please.”
“I will need to bring two others to assess the area
around Coastuc-RT with any degree of accuracy
before nightfall,” he said out loud, then datavised: “That

makes us quits now.”
“Absolutely,” she replied.
“Two only,” the synthetic voice agreed. “None may
carry weapons. Our soldiers will provide protection.”
“As you wish.” He turned and walked back to the first
hovercraft, feet sinking up to his ankles in slimy
puddles. The processor block AV projection pillar began
to emit the reverberative whistles and hoots which were
the Tyrathcan speech. Answering calls shrilled through
the rain, causing the mercenaries to up their sensor
resolution to the maximum in a vain attempt to locate
the other soldier castes.
“Ariadne, you come with me and Kelly,” Reza said. “I’ll
need someone who can review the area properly. The
rest of you wait here. We’ll try and get back before
dusk. I’ll leave Fenton and Ryall on picket duty for you.”
Two seemingly tireless soldiers ran alongside the
hovercraft all the way to the village, antennae whipping
back and forth (they were tail-analogues, helping with
balance, according to Kelly’s didactic memory). Kelly
wasn’t sure whom they were supposed to be protecting.
The guns still appeared incongruous; for creatures that
had evolved during the pre-technology tribal era to fight
the Tyrathcan version of rough and tumble against
enemy tribe soldiers bows and arrows would be more
suited.
When she reviewed the entire didactic memory she
found that the breeders (the only fully sentient
Tyrathca) secreted what amounted to chemical control
programs in specialist teats. A breeder would think out
a sequence of orders, which plants were edible, how to
operate a specific power tool, that would be edited into
a chain of molecules by the teat gland. Once
instructions were loaded in the brain of a vassal-caste
species (there were six types) they could be activated
by a simple verbal command whenever required. The
chemicals were also used to educate young breeders,
making the process a natural equivalent to Adamist
didactic imprints and Edenist educational affinity
lessons.
The rain was easing off when the hovercraft cleared
the crest above Coastuc-RT. Kelly looked down on a
broad, gentle valley with extensively cultivated terraces
on both sides. An area of nearly twenty square
kilometres had been cleared of scrub and grass, rebuilt

into irrigated ledges, and planted with young rygar
bushes. Coastuc-RT itself sat on the floor of the valley,
several hundred identical dark brown towers
regimented in concentric rings around a central park
space.
Reza steered the hovercraft onto a rough switchback
track and set off down the slope. Numerous farmer-
caste Tyrathca were out tending the emerald-green
bushes, pruning, weeding, patching up the shallow
drainage ditches. The farmers were slightly smaller
than the soldiers but with thicker arms, endowed with
the kind of plodding durability associated with oxen or
shire-horses. They saw one or two hunter caste
skulking among the bushes, about the same size as
Reza’s hounds, but with a streamlined fury that could
probably give a kroclion a nasty fright. The escort
soldiers whistled and hooted every time the hunters
appeared, and they turned away obediently.
The first signs of damage were visible when the
hovercraft reached the valley floor. Several towers in
the village’s outer ring were broken, five had been
reduced to jagged stumps sticking up out of the rubble.
Scorch marks formed barbarous black graffiti across
the tower walls.
Fields on either side of the road had been churned up
by fresh craters.
EE explosives, Reza guessed, the village soldier caste
had put up a good fight. The road itself had been
repaired in several places. An earth rampart had been
thrown up around the perimeter, a hundred metres from
the outer turret houses. Farmers were still working
around its base, using shovels which even Sewell would
have been hard pressed to raise.
“Leave your vehicle now,” the synthesized voice from
the processor block told them when they were twenty
metres away from the barricade of raw loam.
Reza cut the fans and codelocked the power cells. The
soldiers waited until they had climbed out, then walked
them into the village.
Up close the tower houses were utilitarian, each with
four floors, their windows arranged at precise levels.
They were made by the builder caste, the largest of all
the vassals, who chewed soil and mixed it with an epoxy
chemical extravasated in their mouth ducts, producing a

strong cement. It gave the walls a smooth, extruded
feel, as though the towers had come intact from some
giant kiln. There were some modern amenities, bands
of solar cell panels tipped most of the turret walls; metal
water pipes lay bent and tangled among the rubble. The
windows were all glazed.
Arable gardens encircled every tower, trellises and
stakes supporting the grasping yellow confusion of
native Tyrathcan vegetation. Fruit trees lined the paved
roads, huge leaves providing ample shade.
Smaller rounded silos and workshops were spaced
between the towers, each with a single semicircular
door. Carts and even small power trucks were parked
outside.
“I don’t know who is jumpier, us or them,” Kelly
subvocalized into her neural nanonics memory cell.
“The Tyrathcan soldiers are clearly immensely capable,
to say nothing of the hunter caste. Yet the possessed
have hurt them badly. The vassal-caste bodies you can
see half buried in the rubble of the outer towers have
been left untended in the haste to fortify Coastuc-RT. A
large breach of the Tyrathcan internment ritual, they
obviously consider the threat humans present to be of
more pressing importance.
“But now we are inside the village I can see very little
activity apart from those vassals working on the
rampart. The roads are empty. No breeder has
appeared. The soldiers seem certain of their
destination, leading us deeper into the village. I can now
hear a great many Tyrathca away towards the park at
the centre of Coastuc-RT. Yes, listen, a whistle that
rises and falls in a slow regular beat. There must be
hundreds of them doing it in unison to achieve that
effect.”
The soldiers led them out onto one of the village’s radial
roads, cutting straight down past the tower houses into
the central park. Right in the middle was a vast
impossible dull-silver edifice. At first glimpse it looked
like a hundred-metre-wide disc suspended fifty metres
in the air by a central conical pillar whose tip only just
touched the ground; another, identical, cone rose from
the top of the disc. It was perfectly symmetrical, shining
a lurid red-gold under the sinking sun. Six elaborate
flying buttresses arched down from the rim of the disc,
preventing the top-heavy structure from falling over.

The three humans stared in silence at the imposing
artefact. Big builder-caste Tyrathca walked ponderously
along the buttresses and over the surface of the disc.
The pinnacle of the upper cone wasn’t quite finished,
showing a geodesic grid of timber struts which a rank of
builder caste clung to as they slowly covered it with their
organic cement. Another team were following them up,
spraying the drying cement with a gelatin mucus that
shimmered with oil-slick marquetry until it hardened into
the distinctive silverish hue.
Kelly took the structure in with one swift professional
sweep, then focused on the park. It had been reduced
to a shallow clay quarry in the haste to extract soil for
the disc and its buttresses. This was where the
Tyrathca breeders had gathered; several thousand of
them, circling round the outside of the disc. They sat on
their hindquarters in the mud, short antennae standing
proud, whistling in a long slow undulation. It sounded
poignant, imploring even. Entities that had been
needlessly hurt questioning the reason, the same the
galaxy over.
Kelly’s didactic memory didn’t have any reference to a
Tyrathcan religion. A more comprehensive search
program running through her neural nanonics said the
Tyrathca didn’t have a religion, and there was no
explanation for the disc, either.
“If I didn’t know better, I’d say they were at prayer,”
Reza datavised.
“Could be the local version of the town meeting,”
Ariadne suggested.
“Trying to decide what to do about us wild humans.”
“They’re not talking about anything,” Kelly said. “It’s
more like a song.”
“The Tyrathca don’t sing,” Reza replied.
“What’s that disc for? There’s no way in at the bottom
of the cone pillar, not from this side, but it’s definitely
hollow. Nothing solid like that would be able to stand up,
it’s almost like a mock-up. I can’t find any record of
them ever building anything like it before. And why build
it now for Christ’s sake, when they need all the builder
caste to construct defences? Something that size has
taken a hell of a lot of effort to put up.”
He put his hand on her shoulder. “Looks as if you’ll be

able to ask in a minute.”
The soldiers halted when they came level with the
innermost ring of house towers. All of the buildings had
been sealed up, black lids capping the windows, cement
slabs erected over the door arches. Colourful flowering
plants swamped their gardens.
A lone breeder was walking towards them from the
park. Male or female, Kelly couldn’t tell, not even
comparing it to the images stored in a memory cell,
females were supposed to be slightly larger. It was
bigger than the soldiers by about half a metre, the scale
hide several shades lighter, dorsal mane neatly
trimmed. Apart from its stumpy black antennae, the one
physiological aspect which most distinguished it from
the vassal castes was a row of small chemical program
teats dangling flaccidly from its throat like empty leather
pouches, although the long supple fingers intimated it
was a sophisticated tool user.
She saw an almost subliminal hazy film twinkling briefly
on the road behind it. Superfine bronze powder, similar
to the dusting on a terrestrial moth, was sprinkling down
from its flanks.
The Tyrathca breeder stopped beside the soldier
carrying the processor block. Its outer mouth hinged
back, allowing it to whistle a long tune.
Flute music, Kelly thought.
“I am Waboto-YAU,” the processor block voice
translated. “I will mediate with you on behalf of Coastuc-
RT.”
“I’m Reza Malin, combat scout team leader, under
contract to the LDC.”
“Are you able to assist in our defence?”
“You’ll have to tell me what happened, first, give us
some idea of what we’re up against.”
“Starship Santa Clara arrived yesterday. Spaceplane
landed, bringing new Tyrathca, new equipment. Much
needed. Collect rygar crop. Amok elemental humans
attacked; stole spaceplane. No provocation. No
reason. Twenty-three breeder-caste killed. One
hundred and ninety vassal castes killed. Extensive
damage. You can see this.”

Reza wondered how he would react if it was xenocs
who had attacked a human village in a similar fashion.
Allow a group of those same xenocs in afterwards to
talk? Oh no, no way. The human response would be far
more basic.
He felt mortally humbled as the breeder’s glassy hazel
eyes stared at him. “How many humans took part in this
attack?” he asked.
“Numbers not known with accuracy.”
“Roughly, how many?”
“No more than forty.”
“Forty people did all this?” Ariadne muttered.
Reza waved her quiet. “Did they use a kind of white
fire?”
“White fire. Yes. Not true fire. Elemental fire. Tyrathca
have not been told of human elemental ability before.
Many times witnessed delusion of form on attacking
humans. Elemental changes of colour and shape
confused soldier caste. Some amok humans stole
Tyrathca hunter-caste form. Much damage before
repelled.”
“On behalf of the LDC I apologize profoundly.”
“What use apology? Why not told of human elemental
ability? Breeder ambassador family assigned to
Confederation Assembly will be informed.
Denouncement of humans in Assembly. Tyrathca would
never have joined Confederation if had known.”
“I’m sorry. But these humans have been taken over by
an invading force. We don’t normally possess this
ability. It’s as foreign to us as it is to you.”
“Lalonde Development Company must remove all
elemental humans from planet. Tyrathca will not inhabit
same planet.”
“We’d love to. But right now it’s all we can do just to stay
alive. These elemental humans now control the entire
Juliffe basin. We need somewhere to stay until a
starship can lift us off and we can inform the
Confederation what is happening.”
“Starships battle in orbit this day. Double sun in sky. No
starships left.”

“One is coming back for us.”
“When?”
“In a few days.”
“Does starship have the power to kill elemental cloud?
Tyrathca scared of cloud over rivers. We cannot
defeat it.”
“No,” Reza said forlornly. “The starship can’t kill the
cloud.” Especially if Shaun Wallace is telling the truth.
The thought was one he had been firmly suppressing.
The implications were too frightening. Just how would
we actually go about fighting them?
The Tyrathca let out a clamorous hoot, almost a wail.
“Cloud will come here. Cloud will devour us; breeders,
children, vassals. All.”
“You could leave,” Kelly said. “Keep ahead of the
cloud.”
“Nowhere is ahead of the cloud for long.”
“What are you doing here?” she asked, raising her arm
to point at the park, the congregation of breeders.
“What is that structure you have built?
“We are not strong. We have no elementals among us.
Only one can now save us from elemental humans. We
call to our Sleeping God. We show our belief by our
homage. We call and call, but the Sleeping God does
not yet awake.”
“I didn’t know you had a God.”
“The family of Sireth-AFL is a custodian of the memory
from the days of voyage on flightship Tanjuntic-RI. He
shared the memory with us all after attack by elemental
humans. Now we are united in prayer. The Sleeping
God is our hope for salvation from elemental humans.
We build its idol to show our faith.”
“This is it?” she asked. “This is what the Sleeping God
looks like?”
“Yes. This is the memory of shape. This is our Sleeping
God.”
“You mean the Tyrathca on the Tanjuntic-RI actually
saw a God?”

“No. Another flightship passed the Sleeping God. Not
Tanjuntic-RI.”
“The Sleeping God was in space, then?”
“Why you want to know?”
“I want to know if the Sleeping God can save us from
the elementals,” she said smoothly. “Or will it only help
Tyrathca?” Christ, this was beautiful, the story to end all
stories; human dead and secrets the Tyrathca had kept
since before Earth’s ice age. How long had their
arkships been in flight? Thousands of years at least.
“It will help us because we ask,” Waboto-YAU said.
“Do your legends specifically say it will return to save
you?”
“Not legend!” the breeder hooted angrily. “Truth.
Humans have legends. Humans lie. Humans become
elemental. The Sleeping God is stronger than your
race. Stronger than all living things.”
“Why do you call it ” Sleeping’?”
“Tyrathca say what is. Humans lie.”
“So it was Sleeping when your flightship found it?”
“Yes.”
“Then how do you know it is strong enough to ward off
the elementals?”
“Kelly!” Reza said with edgy vexation.
Waboto-YAU hooted again. The soldiers shifted
restlessly in response, eyes boring into the obsessed
reporter.
“Sleeping God strong. Humans will learn. Humans must
not become elemental. Sleeping God will awaken.
Sleeping God will avenge all Tyrathca suffering.”
“Kelly, shut up, now. That’s an order,” Reza datavised
when he saw her gathering herself for more questions.
“Thank you for telling us of the Sleeping God,” he said
to Waboto-YAU.
Kelly fumed in moody silence.
“Sleeping God dreams of the universe,” the breeder

said. “All that happens is known to it. It will hear our call.
It will answer. It will come.”
“The human elementals may attack you again,” Reza
warned. “Before the Sleeping God arrives.”
“We know. We pray hard.” Waboto-YAU twittered
mournfully, head swinging round to gaze at the disk.
“Now you have heard the fate of Coastuc-RT. Are you
able to assist soldier caste in defence?”
“No.” Reza heard Kelly’s hissed intake of breath. “Our
weapons are not as powerful as those of your soldiers.
We cannot assist in your defence.”
“Then go.”
Vast tracts of electric, electromagnetic, and magnetic
energy seethed and sparked across a roughly circular
section in the outermost band of Murora’s rings, eight
thousand kilometres in diameter. Dust, held so long in
equilibrium, exploited its liberation to squall in
microburst vortices around the solid imperturbable
boulders and jagged icebergs which made up the bulk
of the ring, their gyrations mirroring the rowdy
cloudscape a hundred and seventy thousand kilometres
below. The epicentre, where the Lady Macbeth had
plunged into the drive-fomented particles, was still
glowing a nervous blue as brumal waves of static
washed through the thinning molecular zephyr of
vaporized rock and ice.
The total energy input from the starship’s fusion drives
and the multiple combat-wasp explosions was taking a
long time to disperse. Their full effect would take
months if not years to sink back to normality.
Thermally and electromagnetically, the rippling circle
was the equivalent of an Arctic whiteout to any probing
sensors.
It meant the Maranta and the Gramine knew little of
what was going on below the surface. They kept station
ten kilometres above the fuzzy boundary where
boulders and ice gave way first to pebbles and then
finally dust; all sensor clusters extended, focused on
the disquieted strata of particles under their hulls. For
the first couple of kilometres the image was sharp and
reasonably clear, below that it slowly disintegrated until
at seven kilometres there was nothing but a sheet of
electronic slush.

The possessed who commanded the starships now had
started their search right at the heart, the exact
coordinate where Lady Macbeth had entered.
Then Maranta had manoeuvred into an orbit five
kilometres lower, while the Gramine had raised its
altitude by a similar amount. They slowly drifted apart,
Maranta edging ahead of the phosphorescent blue
splash, Gramine falling behind.
There had been no sign of their prey. Nor any proof to
confirm the Lady Macbeth had survived her impact with
the rings. No wreckage had been detected. Although it
was a slim chance any ever would. If she had
detonated when she hit, the blowout of her drive tubes’
escaping plasma would probably have vaporized most
of her. And any fragments which did survive would have
been flung over a huge area. The ring was eighty
kilometres thick, enough volume to lose an entire
squadron in.
They were further hindered by the way their
energistically charged bodies interfered with on-board
systems. Sensors already labouring at the limit of their
resolution to try and unscramble the chaos suffered
infuriating glitches and power surges, producing gaps in
the overall coverage.
But the crews persevered. Debris was virtually
impossible to locate, but an operating starship emitted
heat, and electromagnetic impulses, and a strong
magnetic flux. If she was there, they would find her
eventually.
The soldier-caste vassals stayed with them until the
hovercraft reached the top of the Coastuc-RT’s valley.
More tumid rain-clouds were approaching fast from the
east, borne by the obdurate breeze. Reza judged they
should just about reach the other hovercraft by the time
they arrived. Both land and sky ahead were grey.
Northwards, the red cloud cast a dispiriting corona,
looking for all the world as though magma was floating,
light as thistledown, through the air.
“But why?” Kelly demanded as soon as the soldiers
were left behind. “You saw how well armed they were,
we would have been safe there.”
“Firstly, Coastuc-RT is too close to the Juliffe basin. As
your friend Shaun Wallace said, the cloud is spreading.
It would reach the valley long before Joshua gets back.
Secondly, that valley is tactical suicide.

Anyone who gets onto the high ground above the village
can simply bombard it into submission, or more likely
destruction. There aren’t enough soldier and hunter
vassals to keep the slopes clear. Right now Coastuc-
RT is wide open to anything the possessed care to
throw at it. And all the Tyrathca are doing to defend
themselves is building giant effigies of spacegods and
having a pray-in. We don’t need that kind of shit. By
ourselves we stand a much better chance; we’re mobile
and well armed. So tomorrow at first light we start doing
exactly what Joshua said: we run for it, through the
mountains.”
Violent rain made a mockery of the hovercraft’s blazing
monochrome headlight beams, chopping them off after
five or six metres. It obscured the moons, the red cloud,
it damn near hid the drooping, defeated grass below the
gunwale. The pilots navigated by guidance blocks
alone. It took them forty minutes to retrace their route
back to the first tower house above the river.
Sewell plugged a half-metre fission blade into his left
elbow socket and confronted the blocked-up doorway.
Water steamed and crackled as the blade came on. He
placed the tip delicately against the wind-fretted
cement, and pushed. The blade sank in, sending out a
thick runnel of ginger sand which the rain smeared into
the reeds at his feet. Relieved at how easy it was to
cut, he started to slice down.
Kelly was fourth in. She stood in musty darkness
shaking her arms and easing her cagoule hood back.
“God, there’s as much water inside this cagoule as out.
I’ve never known rain like this.”
” Tis a bleak night, this one,” Shaun Wallace said
behind her.
Reza stepped through the oval Sewell had cut, carrying
two bulky equipment packs, TIP carbines slung over his
shoulder. “Pat, Sal, check this place out.” Fenton and
Ryall hurried in after their master, and immediately
shook their coats, sending out a fountain of droplets.
“Great,” Kelly muttered. The blocks clipped to her broad
belt were slippery with water. She wiped them
ineffectually on her T-shirt. “Can I come with you,
please?”
“Sure,” Pat said.

She turned the seal catch on her bag, and searched
round until she found a light stick. Shadows fled away.
Collins disapproved of infrared visuals unless
absolutely unavoidable.
They were in a hall that ran the diameter of the tower.
Archways led off into various rooms. A ramp at the far
wall started to spiral upwards.
Tyrathca didn’t, or couldn’t, use stairs, according to her
didactic memory.
Pat and Sal Yong started down the hall, Kelly followed.
She realized Shaun Wallace was a pace behind. He
was back in his LDC jump suit.
Completely dry, she noticed enviously. Her armour-suit
trousers squelched as she walked.
“You don’t mind if I tag along, do you, Miss Kelly? I’ve
never seen one of these places before.”
“No.”
“That Mr. Malin there, he’s a right one for doing things
by the book. This place has been sealed up for years.
What does he expect us to find?”
“We won’t know till we look, will we?” she said coyly.
“Why, Miss Kelly, I do believe you’re running me a
ragged circle.”
The house was intriguing: strange furniture, and
startlingly human utensils. But there was little
technology, the builders had obviously been given
instructions on how to utilize wood. They were excellent
carpenters.
Rain drummed on the walls, adding to the sense of
isolation and displacement as they mounted the ramp.
Vassal castes had their own rooms; Kelly wasn’t sure if
they could be called stables. Some rooms, for the
soldiers, she guessed, had furniture. There was only a
thin layer of dust. It was as though the tower had been
set aside rather than abandoned. Given her current
circumstances, it wasn’t the most reassuring of
thoughts. The neural nanonics drank it all in.
They found the first bodies on the second floor. Three
housekeeper castes (the same size as a farmer), five
hunters, and four soldiers. Desiccation had turned them

into creased leather mummies. She wanted to touch
one, but was afraid it would crumble to dust.
“They’re just sitting there, look,” Shaun Wallace said in
a tamed voice.
“There’s no food anywhere near them. They must have
been waiting to die.”
“Without the breeders, they are nothing,” Pat said.
“Even so, ‘tis a terrible thing. Like those old Pharaohs
who had all their servants in their tombs with them.”
“Were there any Tyrathcan souls in the beyond?” Kelly
asked.
Shaun Wallace paused at the bottom of the ramp to the
third floor, his brow crinkling. “Now there’s a thing. I
don’t think there were. Or at least, I never came across
one.”
“Different afterworld, perhaps,” Kelly said.
“If they have one. They seem heathen creatures to me.
Perhaps the Good Lord didn’t see fit to give them
souls.”
“But they have a god. Their own god.”
“Do they now?”
“Well, they’re hardly likely to have Jesus or Allah, are
they? Not human messiahs.”
“Ah, you’re a smart one, Miss Kelly. I take my hat off to
you. I’d never have thought of that in a million years.”
“It’s a question of environment and upbringing. I’m used
to thinking in these terms. I’d be lost in your century.”
“Oh, I can’t see that. Not at all.”
There were more vassal-caste bodies on the third floor.
The two breeders were together on the fourth.
“Do they have love, these beasties?” Shaun Wallace
asked, looking down at them. “They look like they do, to
me. Dying together is romantic, I think. Like Romeo and
Juliet.”
Kelly ran her tongue round her cheeks. “You didn’t
strike me as the Shakespeare type.”

“Now don’t you go writing me off so quickly, you with
your classy education. I’m a man of hidden depths, I
am, Miss Kelly.”
“Did you ever meet anyone famous in the beyond?” Pat
asked.
“Meeting!” He wrung his hands together with fulsome
drama. “You’re talking about the beyond as if it’s some
kind of social gathering. Lords and ladies spending the
evening together over fine wine and a game of bridge.
It’s not like that, Mr. Halahan, not at all.”
“But did you?” the mercenary scout persisted. “You
were there for centuries. There must have been
someone important.”
“Ah now, there was that, as I recall. A gentleman by the
name of Custer.”
Pat’s neural nanonics ran a fast check. “An American
army general? He lost a fight with the Sioux Indians in
the nineteenth century.”
“Aye, that’s the one. Don’t be telling me you’ve heard of
him in this day and age?”
“He’s in our history courses. How did he feel about it?
Losing like that?”
Shaun Wallace’s expression cooled. “He didn’t feel
anything about it, Mr. Halahan. He was like all of us,
crying without tears to shed. You’re equating death with
sanity, Mr. Halahan. Which is a stupid thing to do, if you
don’t mind me saying. You’ve heard of Hitler now?
Surely, if you’ve heard of poor damned George
Armstrong Custer?”
“We remember Hitler. Though he was after your time, I
think.”
“Indeed he was. But do you think he changed after he
died, Mr. Halahan? Do you think he lost his conviction,
or his righteousness? Do you think death causes you
to look back on life and makes you realize what an ass
you’ve been? Oh no, not that, Mr. Halahan. You’re too
busy screaming, you’re too busy cursing, you’re too
busy coveting your neighbour’s memory for the bitter
dregs of taste and colour it gives you. Death does not
bestow wisdom, Mr. Halahan. It does not make you
humble before the Lord. More’s the pity.”

“Hitler,” Kelly said, entranced. “Stalin, Genghis Khan,
Jack the Ripper, Helmen Nyke. The butchers and the
warlords. Are they all there? Waiting in the beyond?”
Shaun Wallace gazed up at the domed ceiling partially
lost amid a tapestry of shadows thrown by sparse alien
architecture; for a moment his features portraying
every year of his true age. “Aye, they’re all there, Miss
Kelly, every one of the monsters the good earth ever
spawned. All of them aching to come back, waiting for
their moment to be granted. Us possessed, we might
be wanting to hide from the open sky, and death; but it’s
not paradise we’re going to be making down here on
this planet. It couldn’t be, there’ll be humans in it, you
see.”
It wasn’t true daybreak, not yet. The sun was still half an
hour from bringing any hint of grizzled light to the
eastern horizon. But the rain-clouds had blown over,
and night had sapped the wind’s brawn. The northern
sky glowed with a grievous fervour, blemishing the
savannah grass a murky crimson.
Octan watched the dark speck moving along the side of
the river, heading upstream towards the Tyrathcan
tower house. Heavy moist air stroked the eagle’s
feathers as he dipped a wing, curving down in a giddy
voluted dive. Pat Halahan gazed out at the lonely
nocturnal wanderer through his affinity bonded friend’s
narrow peerless eyes.
Kelly came awake at the touch of a hand on her
shoulder, and the sound of feet rapping on the hard dry
floor of the second storey, where the team had rested
up for the night. Neural nanonics accelerated her
fatigue-soaked brain into full alertness.
The last of the combat-boosted mercenaries were
disappearing down the ramp.
“Someone coming,” Shaun Wallace said.
“Your people?”
“No. I’d know if it was. Not that Mr. Malin asked, mind
you.” He sounded cheerful.
“Good heavens, anyone would think he doesn’t trust
you.” She shoved back the foil envelope she’d been
sleeping in. Shaun Wallace offered his hand to help her
to her feet. They made their way down the ramp to the
ground-floor hall.

The seven mercenaries were clustered round the hole
in the door, red light shining dully off their artificial skin.
Fenton and Ryall were on their feet, growling softly as
they were caught in the backwash of agitation coming
from their master’s mind.
Reza and Sewell slipped through the hole as Kelly
reached them.
“What is it?” she asked.
“Horse coming,” Pat told her. “Two riders.”
Kelly peered round him just as Reza and Sewell
activated their chameleon circuits and flicked into the
landscape. For a few seconds she tracked them thanks
to the circular medical nanonic package on the big
combat-adept’s leg, but even that was soon lost
amongst the unsavoury coloured grass.
It was one of the plough horses favoured by the
colonists. A young one, but clearly on its last legs; the
neck was drooping as it plodded gamely along, mouth
flecked with foam. Reza worked his way unobtrusively
down the slope from the tower house towards the
animal, leaving Sewell to cover him. His optical sensors
showed him the two people on its back; both wore
stained poncho capes cut from a canvas tarpaulin. The
man was showing the first signs of age, stubble shading
heavy jowls, temples touched with grey; and he’d
recently lost a lot of weight by the look of him. But he
had a vigour animating his frame which was visible
even from Reza’s position across the swaying grass.
The young boy behind him had been crying at some
time, he had also been soaked during the ride, and now
he was shivering, clinging to the man in a wearied daze.
They didn’t pose any threat, Reza decided. He waited
until the horse was twenty metres away, then switched
off his chameleon circuit. The horse took a few more
paces before the man noticed him with a start. He
reined in the lethargic animal and leaned over its neck
to peer at Reza in bewilderment.
“What manner of … You’re not a possessed, you don’t
have their emptiness.” His fingers clicked. “Of course!
Combat boosted, that’s what you are. You came down
from the starships yesterday.” He smiled and whooped,
then swung a leg over the horse and slithered to the
ground.

“Come on, Russ, down you come, boy. They’re here,
the navy marines are here. I said they’d come, didn’t I?
I told you, never give up faith.” The boy virtually fell off
the horse into his arms.
Reza went over to help. The man was none too steady
on his feet, either, and one of his hands was heavily
bandaged.
“Bless you, my son.” Horst Elwes embraced the
surprised mercenary with tears of gratitude and
supreme relief shining in his eyes. “God bless you.
These weeks have been the sorest trial my Lord has
ever devised for this weak mortal servant. But now you
are here after all this time spent alone in the Devil’s
own wilderness. Now we are saved.”
===========================================================================

Chapter 11
^
Boston had fallen to the possessed, not that the rapidly
disintegrating convocation of Norfolk’s martial
authorities would admit it.
Edmund Rigby looked out of the hotel window, across
the provincial city’s steep slate rooftops. Fires were still
burning in the outlying districts where the militia troops
had tried to force their way in. The Devonshire market
square had been struck by a navy starship’s maser last
Duchess-night. Its granite cobbles had transmuted to a
glowing lava pool in less than a second. Even now, with
its surface congealing and dimming, the heat was
enough to barbecue food. Nobody had been in the
square at the time; it was intended as a demonstration
only. A show of naval might: you there, ant folk crawling
on the filthy ground far below, we angels above have
the very power of life and death over all of you. As one,
the possessed had laughed at the circling starships,
rendered impotent by their lack of targets. Yes, they
had the physical power to destroy, but the fingers on
the trigger were snared in the perpetual dilemma of the
great and the good. Hostages had always struck a
paralysing blow into the heart of governments. The
starships wanted to pour sterilizing fire down from the
sky, the officers yearning to burn the loathsome low-life
crop of anarchists and revolutionaries from the pastoral
idyll planet, but the city hadn’t been cleaned of decent
people, the women and children and frail, kindly
grandparents. As far as the planetary authorities and
navy officers knew this was just an uprising, a political
revolt, they believed the meek were still mingled with the
wolves. The lofty orbiting angels had been castrated.
Even if they suspected, believed the rumours of
atrocities and massacres flittering from mouth to mouth
through the nearby countryside, they could do nothing.
Boston was no longer alone in its dissent, it was simply
the first. Edmund Rigby had planted the germs of
insurgency in every city across the planet’s islands,
cabals of possessed who were already annexing the
populace. A captain in the Australian Marines, he had
died from a landmine explosion in Vietnam in 1971; but
he had studied military tactics, had even been sent to
the Royal Naval College in Dartmouth for officer
training. And this vast space empire of Confederated
planets, for all its awesome technology, was no
different to the Earth upon which he had once walked.

Vietcong insurgency tactics from the past were just as
applicable now, and he knew them by heart. Securing
the entire planet had been his principal objective since
the vast merchant fleet had left Norfolk after
midsummer.
Since he arrived he had been busy indeed. Toiling in
the squalor and the horror and the blood which soiled
the heart of every human soul. Those living, and those
dead … and the ones trapped between.
He closed his eyes as if to shut out the memories of
recent weeks and what he had become. But there was
no respite. The hotel took on substance in his mind,
walls and floors woven from shadows. People, us and
them, glided through it, dopplered laughs and screams
ricocheting through the grand corridors and sumptuous
rooms. And, always, there, on the other side of the
shadows, on the other side of everything: the beyond.
Chittering souls clamouring for existence, silky
insidious promises to be his lover, his slave, his
acolyte. Anything, anything at all to be brought back.
Edmund Rigby shuddered in revulsion. Please, God,
when we hide Norfolk from this universe let it also be
hidden from the beyond. Let me have peace, and an
end to all this.
Three of his lieutenants, selected from the more stable
among the newly possessed, were dragging a captive
along the corridor outside to his room.
He stiffened his shoulders, letting the power swell
within, giving his new body grandeur and poise, as well
as a Napoleonic uniform, and turned to face the door.
They burst in, cheering and jeering, young turks from
the worst of the backstreets, believing swagger and
noise was an easy substitute for authority. But he
grinned welcomingly at them anyway.
Grant Kavanagh was flung on the floor, bleeding from
cuts on his face and hands, smeared in dirt, his fine
militia uniform torn. Even so, he refused to be cowed.
Edmund Rigby respected that, amongst the sadness.
This one, with his conviction in God and self, would be
hard to break.
The thought pained him. Why oh why can’t they just give
in?

“Present for you, Edmund,” Iqabl Geertz said. He had
assumed his ghoul appearance, skin almost grey,
cheeks sunken, eyeballs a uniform scarlet; thin frame
dressed all in black. “One of the nobs. Got some fight in
him. Thought he might be important.”
Don Padwick, in his lion-man state, growled
suggestively. Grant Kavanagh twitched as the big yellow
beast dropped onto all fours and padded over to him,
tail whisking about.
“We captured his troops,” Chen Tambiah informed
Edmund quietly. “They were about the last militia
roaming free. Inflicted heavy casualties. Eight of us
winged back to the beyond.” The dapper oriental, in
ancient black and orange silks, cocked his head
grudgingly towards Grant Kavanagh. “He’s a good
leader.”
“Is that so?” Edmund Rigby asked.
Iqabl Geertz licked his lips with a long yellowed tongue.
“It doesn’t make any difference in the end. He’s ours
now. To do with as we like. And we know what we like.”
Grant Kavanagh looked up at him, one eye swollen
shut. “When this is over, you mincing shit, and the rest
of your friends have been shot, I will take a great deal
of pleasure in ripping every one of your deviant
chromosomes from your body with my own hands.”
“Now there’s a man’s man if ever I saw one,” Iqabl
Geertz said, putting on an histrionically effeminate tone.
“Enough,” Edmund Rigby said. “You put up a good
fight,” he told Grant, “now it’s over.”
“Like hell! If you think I’m going to let you Fascist scum
take over the planet my ancestors sweated blood to
build you don’t know me.”
“Nor shall we ever,” Edmund Rigby said. “Not now.”
“That’s right, takes bloody four of you.” Grant Kavanagh
grunted in shock as Don Padwick put a paw on his ribs,
talons extended.
Edmund Rigby rested his hand on Grant’s head. There
was so much resilience and anger in the man. It
enervated him, sending the pretentious uniform
shimmering back into his ordinary marine fatigues.

The souls of the beyond were clamouring as he began
to gather his power, flocking to the beacon of his
strength.
“Don’t fight me,” he said, more in hope than in
expectation.
Grant snarled. “Screw you!”
Edmund Rigby heard the vile rapturous imploring
chorus of the souls beginning. Weariness engulfed him,
there had been so much of this since he had returned.
So much pain and torment, so willfully inflicted. At first
he had laughed, and enjoyed the fear. Now, he simply
wished it over.
He hesitated, and the captive soul stirred in the prison
he had forged for it within his own mind.
“There are ways,” the other soul said, and showed,
obedient as always to his captor. “Ways to make Grant
Kavanagh submit quickly, ways no flesh can withstand
for long.”
And the desire was there, oozing up out of the prison,
corrupt and nauseous.
“But it’s a part of all of us,” the other soul whispered
quickly. “We all share the shame of having the serpent
beast in our secret heart of hearts. How else could you
have accomplished what you have the way you have if
you did not let it free?”
Trembling, Edmund Rigby let the desire rise, let it
supersede the loathing and revulsion that was his own.
Then it was easy. Easy to make Grant hurt. Easy to
commit the profanities which quietened his lieutenants.
Easy to feed the desire. And go on feeding.
It was good, because it was freedom. Complete and
utter freedom. Desire ruled as it should, unrestrained. It
nurtured the psyche, these heinous abominations Grant
Kavanagh was forced to endure. They were sublime.
Iqabl Geertz and Chen Tambiah were yelling at him to
stop. But they were nothing, less than dirt.
The souls were in retreat, fearing what was leaking
from him into the beyond.
“Weak, they are all weaker than us. Together we
surpass them all.”

Was that his own voice?
And still the savagery went on. It was impossible to
stop. The other soul had gone too far, it had to be seen
through now. To the terrible end.
Edmund Rigby rebelled in horror.
“But you did it yourself,” said the captive soul.
“No. It was you.”
“I only showed you how. You wanted it. The desire was
yours, the yearning.”
“Never! Not for this.”
“Yes. You gave way to yourself for the first time. The
serpent beast is in all of us. Embrace it and be at peace
with yourself. Know yourself.”
“I am not that. I am not!”
“But you are. Look. Look!”
“No.” Edmund Rigby shrank from what he had done.
Fleeing, hurtling, away, as though speed alone was
proof of his innocence. Locking out the world and what
he had been a party to, down in that empty vault waiting
at the centre of his mind. Where it was quiet, and dark,
and tasteless.
Sanctuary without form. It hardened around him.
“And there you will stay; a part of me for ever.”
Quinn Dexter opened his eyes. Before him the three
possessed, their exotic appearances bleached off to
reveal young men with ashen faces, backed away in
consternation; their confidence in their supremacy
jarringly fractured. Grant Kavanagh’s decimated body
quivered amid the blood and piss curdling on the carpet
as the soul it now hosted tried valiantly to repair the
colossal tissue damage. Deep inside himself he heard
Edmund Rigby’s soul whimpering quietly.
Quinn smiled beatifically at his rapt audience. “I have
returned,” he said softly, and raised his hands in
invocation. “Out of the half-night; strengthened by the
darkness as only a true believer could be. I saw the
weakness in my possessor, his fright of his serpent
beast. He is in me now, weeping and pleading as he
denies form to his true nature. As it should be. God’s

Brother showed me the way, showed me the night holds
no dread for those who love their real selves as He
commands us to do. But so few obey. Do you obey?”
They tried then, Iqabl Geertz, Don Padwick, and Chen
Tambiah, combining their energistic strength in a
desperate attempt to blast the deranged usurper out of
his body and into the beyond. Quinn laughed
uproariously, steadfast at the calm centre of a fantastic
lightning storm which filled the room. Dazzling whips of
raw electricity slashed at the walls and floor and ceiling
like the razor claws of a maddened gryphon. None of
them could touch him, he was held inviolate in a cocoon
of luminous violet silk mist.
The lightning stopped roaring, ebbing in spits and
crackles to disappear behind charred furniture and
back into the bodies of the would-be thunder gods.
Smoke hazed the blackened room, small flames licking
greedily at the cushions and tattered curtains.
Quinn wished for justice.
Their bodies fell, cells performing the refined
perversions he dreamed of, turning against themselves.
He watched impassively as the terrorized, humiliated
souls fled from the glistening deformities he had
created, back to the beyond crying in dire warning.
Then the second souls, the ones held captive,
abandoned the macerated flesh.
Grant Kavanagh’s body groaned at Quinn’s feet, the
possessing soul looking up at him in numb trepidation.
The worst of the lacerations and fractures had healed,
leaving a crisscross scar pattern of delicate pink skin.
“What is your name?” Quinn asked.
“Luca Comar.”
“Did you see what I performed on them, Luca?”
“Yes. Oh God, yes.” He bowed his head, bile rising in
his throat.
“They were weak, you see. Unworthy fuck-ups. They
had no real faith in themselves. Not like me.” Quinn
took a deep breath, calming his euphoric thoughts. His
marine fatigues billowed out into a flowing priest’s robe,
fabric turning midnight black. “Do you have faith in
yourself, Luca?”

“Yes. I do. I have faith. Really I do.”
“Would you like me to tell you of the serpent beast?
Would you like me to show you your own heart and set
you free?”
“Yes. Please. Please show me.”
“Good. I think that is my role now the portents walk
abroad. Now the dead are risen to fight the last battle
against the living and the time of the Light Bringer draws
near. I have been blessed, Luca, truly blessed with His
strength. My belief in Him brought me back, me alone
out of all the millions who are possessed. I am the one
God’s Brother has chosen as His messiah.”
When the tributary river finally spilled into the Juliffe it
was a hundred and thirty metres wide. Villages had
claimed both banks, buildings gleaming inside their safe
enclave bubbles of white light. By now Chas Paske was
used to the striking fantasy images of halcyon hamlets
dozing their life away. He had passed eight or nine of
them during his slow progress down the river. All of
them the same. All of them unreal.
Warned by the twin coronae ahead he had sculled his
little boat back into the middle of the river, fighting the
thick gunge of melding snowlilies every centimetre of
the way. Now he was in a narrow channel of vermilion
light which fell between the two pools of native radiance,
crouched down as best he could manage.
His body was in a poor way. The nanonic medical
packages had been exhausted by the demand of
decontaminating his blood some time ago; now it was all
they could do to stop the blood vessels they had knitted
with from haemorrhaging again. His neural nanonics
still maintained their analgesic blocks, delivering him
from pain. But that didn’t seem to be enough any more.
A cold lethargy was creeping into him through his
damaged leg, syphoning his remaining strength away.
Any movement was a complicated business now, and
muscles responded with geriatric infirmity.
Several times in the last few hours he had been
stricken by spasms which vibrated his arms and torso.
His neural nanonics seemed incapable of preventing or
halting them. So he lay on the bottom of the boat gazing
up at the throbbing red cloud waiting for the ignominious
spastic twitches to run their course.
At these times he thought he could see himself, a tiny

shrivelled black figure, spreadeagled on the bottom of a
rowing dinghy (like the one he thought he had been
stealing), being borne along a sticky white river that
stretched out to a terrible length. There was nothing
around the river, no banks or trees, it just wound
through a red sky all by itself, a silk ribbon waving in the
breeze, while far, far ahead a speck of starlight twinkled
with elusive, enticing coyness. Skittering voices on the
brink of audibility circled round him. He was sure they
talked about him even though he could never quite
make out whole words. The tone was there all right,
dismissive and scornful.
Not quite a dream.
He remembered, as he sailed on gently, his past
missions, past colleagues, old battles, victories and
routs. Half the time never knowing who he was really
fighting for or what he was fighting against. For the right
side or the wrong side? And how was he supposed to
know which was which anyway? Him, a mercenary, a
whore of violence and destruction and death. He fought
for the ones with the most money, for companies and
plutocrats, and sometimes maybe even governments.
There was no right and wrong in his life. In that respect
he had it easy, none of the big decisions.
So the river carried him on, that white band flowing
through the red sky, ever onwards. The voyage was his
life. He could see where he had come from, and he
could see where he was going. Destination and
departure were no different. And there was no way to
get off. Except to jump, to drown in the vast guileful sky.
That will come anyway, he thought, no need to hurry.
The old resolve was still there, among the superficial
self-pity and growing concern over his physical state,
still holding together. He was glad of that. Right to the
bitter end, that’s where he was heading. The star glinted
strongly, virtually a heliograph. It seemed nearer.
No, not quite a dream.
Chas jerked up with a start, rocking the boat
hazardously. The twin villages guarding the tributary
mouth were behind him now. He was out on the Juliffe
itself. There was no sign of the Hultain Marsh which
made up the northern side. The river could have been
an ocean for all he could tell. An ocean paved with
snowlilies as far as his enhanced eyes could see. This
was their meridian, the end of their continental crusade.

They were packed four or five deep, crumpled up
against each other; decaying now, but wadded so tight
they formed a serried quilt. It was a perfect reflector for
the carmine light falling from the cloud, turning his world
to a dimensionless red nebula.
The flimsy boat creaked and shivered as the current
forced it deeper into the floating pulp. Chas gripped the
gunwale in reflex. He had a nasty moment when
something popped and splintered up at the prow, but the
hull was so shallow it was squeezed up rather than in.
He was sure it was riding on a patina of rotting leaves
rather than actual water.
For all their stupendous mass, the snowlilies had no
effect on the river’s unflagging current. The boat began
to pick up speed, moving further out from the southern
bank with its near-continual chain of villages and towns.
Now he was sure he wasn’t going to capsize, Chas
relaxed his grip, and eased himself down again,
breathing hard at the simple exertion of lifting himself.
Up ahead the massive ceiling of red cloud became a
bright tangerine cyclone with a concave heart, its apex
hidden by distance. He could see the gravid billows of
stratus being torn out of their constricted alignment,
sucked over the lip to spiral upwards in a leisurely
procession. It must have been twenty kilometres across
at the base: an inverted whirlpool which drained away
into the other side of the sky.
He realized its sharp living tangerine hue came from a
fierce light shining down out of its secret pinnacle.
Below it, the city of Durringham gleamed in empyrean
glory.
Gaura floated through the floor hatch into the Lady
Macbeth’s bridge. He took care not to move his neck
suddenly, or his arms come to that; his whole body was
one giant ache. He had been lucky not to break
anything in that last agonizing burst of deceleration.
Even watching the starships attacking the station he
hadn’t felt as utterly helpless as he had then, lying flat
on the groaning decking of the lounge feeling his ribs
bowing in, while blackness tightened its grip on his
vision. Three times he had heard bone splintering,
accompanied by a mental howl, it was impossible to
make any sound. Together the Edenists had toughed it
out, their minds embraced, sharing and mitigating the
pain.

When it was over he hadn’t been alone in wiping tears
from his eyes.
Aethra had followed their entire heart-stopping plummet
into the ring, showing it to them. He had thought the end
had surely come, for the second time in an hour. But
the Adamist starship’s exhaust had obliterated the ring
particles as it crashed below the surface, eliminating
any danger of collision; and the captain had matched
velocities perfectly (for the second time in an hour),
slotting them neatly into a circular orbit buried right in
the middle of the ring. The swarm of pursuing combat
wasps and their submunitions had impacted seconds
behind them, kinetic explosions tossing out a ragged
sheet of fire. None had penetrated more than a
hundred metres below the surface.
It had been an astounding piece of flying. Gaura was
very curious to meet the person who had such sublime
control over a starship. It rivalled the union between a
voidhawk and its captain.
There were three people standing on a stikpad around
one of the consoles, two men and a woman, talking in
low tones. It didn’t help Gaura’s composure to see that
it was the youngest, a man with a flat-featured face,
who had the captain’s star on his ship-suit shoulder. He
had been expecting someone … different.
<<Don’t prejudge,>> Tiya admonished sternly. Most of
the Edenists were using his senses to observe the
scene. <<Voidhawk captains are only eighteen when
they start flying.>>
<<I wasn’t going to say a word,>> Gaura objected
mildly. He swam past the ring of acceleration couches
to touch his toes to a stikpad on the decking. “Captain
Calvert?”
The young man shrugged. “It’s Joshua, actually.”
Gaura felt his bottled-up emotions come close to
brimming over. “Thank you, Joshua. From all of us.”
Joshua nodded shortly, the faintest blush colouring his
cheeks. The woman beside him caught his discomfort
and smiled secretively.
<<There,>> Tiya said in satisfaction. <<A perfectly
ordinary young man, if exceptionally talented. I like
him.>>

Joshua introduced Sarha and Dahybi then apologized
for the acceleration.
“But I had to stop us dead inside the ring,” he said. “If
we had gone through, south of the ecliptic, the other
starships would have seen us, and come after us. Their
drives could burn through the particles just as easily as
Lady Mac did, then we would have been sitting ducks
for their combat wasps.”
“I wasn’t complaining. In fact, we’re really all rather
surprised that we’re still alive.”
“How are your people holding out?”
“Liatri, our doctor, says none of us have acquired any
fatal internal injuries. Melvyn Ducharme is helping her
review my people in your surgery cabin. Metabolic
scanning has revealed several broken bones and a lot
of pulled muscles. She was most concerned about
internal membrane damage, it could prove a problem
unless treated swiftly. But Melvyn Ducharme is rigging
up a processor block that can interface her with your
medical nanonic packages.”
Joshua blinked, nonplussed.
“Our own medical packages all use bitek processors,”
Gaura explained.
“Ah, right.”
“Liatri says we’ll pull through. Mind you, it’s going to take
a long fortnight for the bruising to fade.”
“You’re not the only one,” Sarha grimaced. “And you
should take a look at where my bruises are.”
Joshua leered. “Promises, promises.”
“That was an awesome piece of flying you pulled off
back there, Joshua,” Gaura said. “Eluding two starships
…”
“It’s in the blood,” he said, not quite nonchalantly. “Glad
to be of help, really. We certainly haven’t been much
use to anybody else since we arrived in this star
system.”
<<Go on,>> Tiya urged. <<Ask.>>
<<But suppose it’s an illegal flight? He was carrying
combat wasps, don’t forget. We’d have to give

evidence.>>
<<Then the law is an ass, and we’ll all develop amnesia.
Ask.>>
Gaura smiled awkwardly. “Joshua, exactly who are
you? I mean, why come to Lalonde?”
“Er … Good question. Technically, Lady Mac is part of
the Lalonde government’s starship fleet, helping to
restore civil order. The Confederation Navy squadron
has other ideas, and according to them we’re under
arrest.”
“Navy squadron?”
Joshua sighed theatrically, and started to explain.
The Edenists crowding the cabin in life-support capsule
D, which doubled as the surgery, listened with a mixture
of gloomy dismay and confusion.
“This sequestration ability sounds appalling,” Gaura
said, summarizing the Edenists’ unified feelings.
“You should see the red cloud,” Joshua told him. “That
really gives me the creeps. It’s an instinct thing with me,
I know it’s wrong.”
Gaura gestured to the console they had been
consulting; its holoscreen was alive with blue and yellow
data displays. “What is our current situation?”
“I’m playing a waiting game,” Joshua said, and
datavised an order into the console processor. The
holoscreen switched to an image from an external
sensor cluster, showing a very dark expanse of crinkled
rock.
Scale was impossible to gauge. “See that? That’s the
largest ring particle I could find at such short notice,
near-solid stone about two hundred and fifty metres in
diameter. It’s twenty-five kilometres inward from the
northern surface. We’re keeping station directly
underneath it, and I do mean directly; Lady Mac’s
forward hull is about three metres away. Right now
Warlow and Ashly are outside drilling load pins into the
rock so we can tether Lady Mac in place with silicon
fibre. That way I won’t have to use the thrusters to hold
our position. Maranta and Gramine would be able to
spot any ion plumes easily when the rings calm down.
Our on-board electronic systems are designed for

minimal emission anyway, but with that rock as a shield
we’ll make absolutely sure we’re undetectable to their
sensors. It can also absorb our thermal output as well;
I’ve deployed the thermo-dump panels so that they’re
radiating all our excess heat directly at the rock, it will
take months to seep through. All the drive tubes and the
five main fusion generators have been powered down,
so our magnetic flux is negligible. We’re operating on
one auxiliary fusion generator which is well screened by
the hull. All in all, it’s a very reasonable position. As long
as Maranta and Gramine stay north of the ring we’ll be
invisible to them.”
“And if one of them moves to a southern inclination?”
“There is fifty-five kilometres’ worth of particles
between us and the southern surface. It’s a risk I’m
prepared to take, especially with the ring so electrically
and thermally active right now.”
“I see. How long do you think we’ll be here?”
Joshua pulled a face. “Hard to say. Right now we’re
only a hundred and seventy thousand kilometres above
Murora, Lady Mac needs to be at least two hundred
thousand out before she can jump. So if we want to
leave, we either wait until Maranta and Gramine decide
to call it a day and quit, or hang on until their search
pattern carries them far enough away to allow us to
make a dash for a jump coordinate. Whichever one it
is, I think we’ll be here for some time. Weeks at least.”
“I understand. Do you have enough fuel and supplies to
last that long?”
“Yes, fuel’s down to forty-seven per cent, those high-
gee manoeuvres use up cryogenics at a hell of a rate,
but what’s left can supply our present consumption rate
for years. So that’s no problem. But we’ll have to
monitor our environmental systems closely given
there’s thirty-six of you. The limiting factor is going to be
food; that’ll have to be rationed pretty carefully. All of
which means I really don’t want you to take your
children out of zero-tau just yet.”
“Of course. They will be much better off in the pods
anyway. But what about your mercenary scout team?”
Joshua exchanged a significant glance with Sarha. “Not
a damn thing we can do about that. They’re tough and
they’re mean. If anyone can survive down there, they
can.”

“I see. Well if the opportunity arises to go back, then
please do not hesitate on our account.”
“We’ll see. It would be difficult jumping to Lalonde with
Maranta and Gramine following us. Ideally I’d like to
hang on until they leave Murora. Our major problem is
going to be tracking them. When you came in we were
discussing mounting a sensor cluster on the other side
of the rock. Before we started hiding we caught a
glimpse of their ion thrusters, so we know they’re still
out there. But we have the same problem as them, this
ring is pure hell to see through. Without reliable data
we’re at a nasty disadvantage.”
“Ah,” Gaura smiled happily. “I think I may be able to help
there.” <<Aethra? Can you see the two starships which
attacked us?>>
<<Yes,>> the habitat replied. <<They are orbiting
slightly above the ring’s northern surface.>>
An image formed in his mind, the dusky plain of the ring
slicing across Murora, blanched of most colour. The
habitat’s external sensitive cells could just sense a
broad zone agitated by heat and electricity. Two dull
specks were poised slightly above it, ion thrusters firing
intermittent tattoos to maintain their attitude.
<<Excellent.>> “Aethra can see them.”
Joshua brightened. “Jesus, that’s great news. They’re
both still here, then?”
“Yes.”
“How is Aethra?” he asked belatedly.
“The shell was extensively damaged. However, there is
no catastrophic internal injury, its main organs remain
functional. It is going to require a considerable amount
of repair work before it can resume its growth. My
colleagues, the ones who were killed in the attack, their
memories have been stored by the personality.”
“That’s something, then.”
“Yes.”
“Can Aethra work out the exact spacial locations of the
other starships for me? If we can keep updated I’ll know
when we can risk breaking cover and flying for a jump
coordinate.”

“I can go one better than that.” Gaura slipped a
processor block from his breast pocket. The slim palm-
sized plastic rectangle had produced a spectacular gold
and blue bruise on his pectoral muscle during the flight.
“Aethra can communicate through the bitek processor,
and if you can interface this with your flight computer
you’ll be able to receive the images directly. And the
starships hunting us will never know, affinity is
undetectable.”
“Wonderful.” Joshua accepted the block. It was slightly
smaller than the Kulu Corporation model he used.
“Sarha, get to work on an interface. I want Aethra tied in
to our navigation processor array pronto.”
“Consider it done.” She plucked it from his fingers and
datavised her systems memory core for appropriate
electronic module specifications and adaptor programs.
Joshua thought the Edenist station chief still looked
wrecked. “You know, we come from Tranquillity,” he
said. “It’s Lady Mac’s home port.”
Gaura looked at him, a surprised light showing in his
worn eyes. “Yes?”
“Yeah. I’ve lived there all my life, I was born there, so I
know how beautiful habitats are, and I don’t just mean
their physical structure either. So I suppose I can
empathize with what you’re feeling more than most
Adamists. Don’t worry. We’ll get out of this and bring
help back for Aethra, and Lalonde too. All we need now
is time, and we’re home free. Fortunately time is one
thing we have plenty of.”
“So you’re not Confederation Navy marines then?”
Horst asked, trying to hide his disappointment.
“No, I’m sorry, Father,” Reza said. “The LDC hired us
to scout round the Quallheim Counties and find out what
was going on down here. I believe you can say we’ve
certainly done that.”
“I see.” Horst looked round the simplicity of the
Tyrathcan tower house’s hall, its smooth curves
illuminated by the light stick, solid shadows blending
seamlessly with dark-grey arches. The red light outside
was kept at bay, silhouetting the hole sliced into the
doorway. In spite of the warmth he felt chilled.
“How did you know we were here?” Pat asked.

“I didn’t, not that you were in this particular tower. We
saw the starships arrive yesterday morning, of course.
Then in the afternoon there was an explosion on the
river.”
“The kroclion,” Ariadne said.
“Could be,” Reza said. “Go on.”
“Young Russ saw it,” Horst said. “I thought it best that
we keep a watch on the savannah; that morning was
the first time the red cloud appeared, and with the
starships as well, it seemed sensible. By the time I got
my optical intensifier band on there was only the smoke
left. But it didn’t look like anything the possessed do, so
I rode out to see. I thought, I prayed, that it might have
been the marines. Then that bedamned kroclion was
skulking about in the grass. I just kept going up the river
to keep ahead of it. And here we are. Delivered up to
you by God’s hand.” He lifted his lips in a tired
victorious smile. “Mysterious ways His wonders to
perform.”
“Certainly does,” Reza said. “That kroclion was
probably the mate of the one we killed.”
“Yes. But tell me of the starships. Can they take us off
this terrible planet? We saw an almighty battle in orbit
before the red cloud swelled over the sky.”
“We don’t know much about the events in orbit. But that
was a fight between some of our starships and a
Confederation Navy squadron.”
“Your starships? Why did they fight the navy?”
“Some of them. The possessed got into orbit on the
spaceplanes which brought us down, they hijacked the
starships and took over the crew.”
“Merciful Lord.” Horst crossed himself. “Are there any
starships left now?”
“No. Not in orbit.”
Horst’s shoulders sagged. He sipped listlessly at the
carton of hot coffee they had given him. This was the
cruellest blow of all, he thought wretchedly, to be shown
salvation shining so close and then to have it snatched
away as my fingers close around it. The children cannot
be made to suffer any more, merciful Lord hear me this
once, they cannot.

Russ was sitting in Kelly’s lap. He seemed shy of the
combat-boosted mercenaries, but was content to let
her spray a salve on his saddle sores. She smoothed
down the damp hair on his forehead, and grinned as
she offered him one of her chocolate bars. “You must
have been through a lot,” she said to Horst.
“We have.” He eyed Shaun Wallace, who had kept to
the back of the hall since he had arrived. “The Devil has
cursed this planet to its very core.
I have seen such evil, foul, foul deeds. Such courage
too. I’m humbled, the human spirit is capable of quite
astonishing acts of munificence when confronted by
fundamental tests of virtue. I have come to believe in
people again.”
“I’d like to hear about it some time,” she said.
“Kell’s a reporter,” Sewell said mockingly. “Someone
else who makes you sign contracts in blood.”
She glared at the big mercenary. “Being a reporter isn’t
a crime. Unlike some people’s occupation.”
“I shall be happy to tell you,” Horst said. “But later.”
“Thank you.”
“You’ll be safe enough now you’re hooked up with us,
Father,” Reza said.
“We’re planning to head south, away from the cloud.
And the good news is that we’re expecting a starship to
come back for us in a couple of days. There’s plenty of
room for you and Russ on our hovercraft. Your ordeal’s
over.”
Horst let out an incredulous snort, then put the coffee
carton down ruing his slowness. “Oh, my Lord, I haven’t
told you yet, have I? I’m sorry, that ride must have
addled my brain. And I’ve had so little sleep these last
days.”
“Told us what?” Reza asked edgily.
“I gathered what children I could after the possession
began. We are all living together in one of the savannah
homesteads. They must be terrified. I never intended to
be away all night.”
There was complete silence for a second, even the red

cloud’s hollow thunder was hushed.
“How many children?” Reza asked.
“Counting young Russ here, twenty-nine.”
“Fucking hell.”
Horst frowned and glanced pointedly at Russ who was
staring at the mercenary leader with apprehensive eyes
over his half-eaten chocolate.
Kelly held him a fraction tighter.
“Now what?” Sal Yong asked bluntly.
Horst looked at him in some puzzlement. “We must go
back to them in your hovercraft,” he said simply. “I fear
my poor old horse can travel no further. Why? Have
you some other mission?”
The combat-adept mercenary kept still. “No.”
“Where exactly is this homestead?” Reza asked.
“Five or six kilometres south of the jungle,” Horst
replied. “And forty minutes’ walk east from the river.”
Reza datavised his guidance block for a map, and ran
a search through LDC habitation records, trying to
correlate. “In other words, under the red cloud.”
“Yes, that abomination spread at a fearsome rate
yesterday.”
“Reza,” Jalal said. “The hovercraft can’t possibly carry
that many people. Not if we’re going to keep ahead of
the cloud.”
Horst looked at the hulking combat adept in growing
amazement. “What is this you are saying? Can’t?
Can’t? They are children! The eldest is eleven years
old! She is alone under that Devil’s spew in the sky.
Alone and frightened, holding the others to her as the
sky turns to brimstone and the howling demon horde
closes in. Their parents have been raped by unclean
spirits. They have nothing left but a single thread of
hope.” He stood abruptly, clamping down on a groan as
his ride-stiffened muscles rebelled against the sharp
movement, face reddening in fury. “And you, with your
guns and your mechanoid strength, you sit here thinking
only of saving your own skin. You should run to
embrace the possessed, they would welcome you as

their own. Come along, Russ, we’re going home.”
The boy started sobbing. He struggled in Kelly’s grip.
She climbed to her feet, keeping her arms protectively
around his thin frame. Quickly, before she lost all
courage, she said: “Russ can have my place on the
hovercraft. I’ll come with you, Father.” Retinas switched
to high resolution, she looked at Reza. Recording.
“I knew you’d be trouble,” he datavised.
“Tough,” she said out loud.
“For a reporter you have very little understanding of
people if you think I’d desert his children after all we’ve
seen.”
Kelly pouted her lips sourly and switched her visual
focus to Jalal. That exchange would have to be edited
out.
“Nobody is going to leave the children behind, Father,”
Reza said.
“Believe me, we have seen what happens to children
driven away by the possessed. But we are not going to
help them by rushing in blindly.” And he stood, rising a
good thirty centimetres higher than the priest.
“Understand me, Father?”
A muscle twitched on Horst’s jaw. “Yes.”
“Good. Now they obviously can’t stay at the savannah
homestead. We have to take them south with us. The
question is how. Are there any more horses at the
homestead?”
“No. We have a few cows, that’s all.”
“Pity. Ariadne, can the hovercraft carry fifteen children
apiece?”
“Possibly, if we ran alongside. But it would put a hell of a
strain on the skirt impellers. And it would definitely drain
the electron matrices inside of six or seven hours.”
“Running like that would drain us too,” Pat said.
“I can’t even recharge the matrices, not under this
cloud,” Ariadne said.

“The solar-cell panels don’t receive anything like
enough photonic input.”
“We might be able to build some kind of cart,” Theo
suggested. “Hitch it up to the cows. It would be better
than walking.”
“It would take time,” Sal Yong said. “And there’s no
guarantee it would work.”
“Tow them,” Sewell said. “Slap together a couple of
rafts, and tow them back up the river. All you need is
planks, we can get them from the homestead itself if
need be.”
Ariadne nodded her rounded head. “Might just work.
The hovercraft could handle that. We could certainly
get back here by the middle of the afternoon.”
“Then what?” Jalal said. “Look, I’m not being a downer.
But just getting them back here isn’t the solution. We
have to keep going. Wallace says the cloud is going to
cover the whole planet, we have to find a way to outrun
it, or this will all be for nothing.”
Reza turned to look at the possessed man who had
kept silent and unobtrusive up until now. “Mr Wallace,
will your kind know if we return to the homestead?”
“Aye, Mr. Malin,” he said sorrowfully. “That they will. The
cloud and the land are becoming one with us. We can
feel you moving inside us. When you pass back under
the cloud the sensation will be like treading on a nail.”
“How will they react?”
“They’ll come after you, Mr. Malin. But then they’ll do
that anyway if you stay on this world.”
“I think he’s speaking the truth,” Horst said. “One of
them came to the homestead two days ago. She
wanted me and the children. Our bodies, anyway.”
“What happened?” Kelly asked.
Horst forced a vapid smile. “I exorcised her.”
“What?” Kelly blurted in greedy delight. “Really?”
The priest held up his bandaged hand. The dark strips
of cloth were stained with blood. “It wasn’t easy.”
“Shit Almighty. Shaun, can you be exorcised?”

Shaun Wallace had locked his gaze to that of the priest.
“If it’s all the same to you, Miss Kelly, I’d be obliged if
you didn’t try.”
“He can,” she subvocalized into her neural nanonics
memory cell, “he really can! You can see it in his eyes.
He fears the priest, this ageing worn-out man in shabby
clothes. I can barely believe it. A ceremony left over
from medieval times that can thwart these almost-
invincible foes.
Where all our fantastic technology and knowledge fails,
a prayer, a simple anachronistic prayer could become
our salvation. I must tell you of this, I must find a way to
get a message out to the Confederation.” Damn, that
sounded too much like Graeme Nicholson’s recording.
For a moment she wondered what had happened to the
old hack.
“Interesting,” Reza said. “But it doesn’t help our present
dilemma. We have to find a way of keeping ahead of
the cloud until Joshua comes back for us.”
“Christ, we don’t even know when he’s coming back,”
Sal Yong said. “And taking a bunch of children through
these mountains isn’t going to be easy, Reza, there are
no roads, no detailed map image. We’ve got no
camping equipment, no boots for them, no food
supplies. It’s going to be wet, slippery. I mean, God! I
don’t mind giving it a go if there’s even a remote chance
of pulling it off, but this …”
“Mr Wallace, would your kind consider letting the
children go?” Reza asked.
“Some would, I would, but the rest … No, I don’t think
so. There are so few living human bodies left here, and
so many souls trapped in the beyond. We hear them
constantly, you know, they plead with us to bring them
back. Giving in is so easy. I’m sorry.”
“Shit.” Reza flexed his fingers. “OK, we’ll take it in
stages. First we bring the children back here, get them
and us out from under that bloody cloud today. That’s
what is important right now. Once we’ve done that we
can start concentrating on how to get them through the
mountains. Maybe the Tyrathca will help.”
“No chance,” Ariadne said flatly.
“Yeah. But all of you keep thinking. Mr. Wallace, can

you tell me what sort of opposition we’ll be facing? How
many possessed?”
“Well now, there’s a good hundred and fifty living in
Aberdale. But if you race in on those fancy hover
machines of yours you ought to be away again before
they reach you.”
“Great.”
Shaun Wallace held up his hand. “But there’s a family
of ten living in one of the other homesteads not far from
the children. They can certainly cause you problems.”
“And you believe him?” Sewell asked Reza.
Shaun Wallace put on a mournfully injured expression.
“Now then, Mr. Sewell, that’s no way to be talking about
someone who’s only doing his best to help you. I didn’t
stick out my thumb and hitch here, you know.”
“Actually, he’s right about the homestead family,” Horst
said. “I saw them a couple of days ago.”
“Thank you, Father. There now, you have the word of a
man of the cloth. What more do you want?”
“Ten of them on open ground,” Reza said. “That’s
nothing like as bad as Pamiers. I think we can take care
of them. Are you going to add your fire-power to ours,
Mr. Wallace?”
“Ah now, my fire-power is a poor weak thing compared
to yours, Mr. Malin. But even if it were capable of
shifting mountains, I would not help you in that way.”
“That makes you a liability, Mr. Wallace.”
“I don’t think much of a man who asks another to kill his
cousins in suffering, Mr. Malin. Not much at all.”
Horst took a pace forwards. “Perhaps you could
mediate for us, Mr. Wallace? Nobody wants to see any
more death on this world, especially as those bodies
still contain their rightful souls. Could you not explain to
the homestead family that attacking the mercenaries
would be foolhardy in the extreme?”
Shaun Wallace stroked his chin. “Aye, now, I could
indeed do that, Father.”
Horst glanced expectantly at Reza.

“Suits me,” the mercenary leader said.
Shaun Wallace grinned his wide-boy grin. “The priests
back in Ireland were all wily old souls. I see nothing’s
changed in that department.”
Nobody had noticed the balmy smile growing on Kelly’s
face during the exchange. She let go of Russ, and
slapped her hands together with surefire exultation.
“Yes! I can get Joshua back here. I think. I’m sure I
can.”
They all looked at her.
“Maybe even by this afternoon. We won’t have to worry
about going through the mountains. All we’ll have to do
is get clear of the red cloud so that Ashly can land.”
“Spare us how wonderful you are, Kelly,” Reza said.
“How?”
She dived into her bag and pulled out her
communication block, brandishing it as though it were a
silver trophy. “With this. The LDC’s original
geosynchronous communication platform had a deep-
space antenna to keep in touch with the Edenist station
orbiting Murora. If the platform didn’t get hit in the orbital
battle, we can just call him up.
Send a repeating message telling him how badly we
need him. Murora is about nine hundred million
kilometres away, that’s less than a light-hour. If he
leaves as soon as he receives it, he could be here
inside three or four hours. Lady Mac might not be able
to jump outsystem, but if she can jump to Murora she
can jump back again. At least we’d be safely off
Lalonde.”
“Can you get the platform computer to send a
message?” Reza asked. “Terrance Smith never gave
us any access codes for it.”
“Listen, I’m a bloody reporter, there’s nothing I don’t
know about violating communication systems. And this
block has quite a few less than legal chips added.”
She waited for an answer, her feet had developed a life
of their own, wanting to dance.
“Well, get on with it then, Kelly,” Reza said.
She ran for the hole in the door, startling Fenton and

Ryall lying on the grass outside. The sky over the
savannah was split into two uneven portions of redness
as the cloud band clashed with the dawn sun. She
datavised an instruction into the block and it started
scanning across the dissonant shades above for the
platform’s beacon.
Joshua dozed fitfully in his cabin’s sleep cocoon. The
envelope was a baggy lightweight spongy fabric, big
enough to hold him without being restrictive. Sarha had
offered to sleep with him, but he’d tactfully declined. He
was still feeling the effects of that eleven-gee thrust.
Even his body hadn’t been geneered with that much
acceleration in mind.
There were long bruise crinkles on his back where the
creases on his ship-suit had pressed into his skin, and
when he looked into the mirror his eyes were bloodshot.
He and Sarha wouldn’t have had sex anyway, he really
was tired. Tired and stressed out.
Everyone had been so full of praise for the way he had
flown Lady Mac. If only they knew the emotional cold
turkey that hit him once the danger was over and he
stopped operating on nerve energy and arrogance. The
fear from realizing what one, just one, mistake would
have spelt.
I should have listened to Ione. What I had before was
enough.
He held her image in his mind as he fell asleep, she
made it a lot easier to relax, floating away on the rhythm
of night. When he woke, drowsy, warm, and randy, he
accessed a memory of their time back in Tranquillity.
Out in the parkland, lying on the thick grass beside a
stream. The two of them clinging together after sex;
Ione on top, sweaty and dreamily content, light glinting
an opulent gold off her hair, skin warm and soft against
him, kissing him oh so slowly, lips descending along his
sternum.
Neither spoke, the moment was too perfect for that.
Then her head lifted and it was Louise Kavanagh, all
trusting and adoring in that way only the very innocent
can achieve. She smiled hesitantly as she rose up, then
laughed in rapturous celebration as she was impaled
once again, luscious dark hair tossed about as she
rode him. Thanking him. Praising him. Promising herself

for ever his.
And loving a girl hadn’t been that sweet since he was
her age.
Jesus! He cancelled the memory sequence. Even his
neural nanonics were playing him dirty.
I do not need reminding. Not right now.
The flight computer datavised that Aethra was
requesting a direct channel. Joshua acknowledged the
distraction with guilty relief. Space warfare was easy.
Sarha had done a good job interfacing the bitek
processor to Lady Mac’s electronics. He had talked to
the habitat yesterday, which was engrossing; it came
across as a mixture of child and all-knowing sage.
But it had been very interested in hearing about
Tranquillity. The images he received from its shell’s
sensitive cells were different to the Lady Mac’s sensor
clusters. They seemed more real, somehow, bestowing
a texture of depth and emptiness which space had
always lacked before.
Joshua unsealed the side of the sleep cocoon and
swung his legs out. He opened a locker for a fresh
ship-suit. There were only three left.
Sighing, he started to pull one on. “Hello, Aethra,” he
datavised.
“Good morning, Joshua. I hope you slept well.”
“Yeah, I got a few hours.”
“I am picking up a message for you.”
He was instantly alert, without any stimulus from his
neural nanonics.
“Jesus. Where from?”
“It is a microwave transmission originating from the civil
communication platform orbiting Lalonde.”
He was shown the starfield outside. The sun was a
white glare point, nine hundred and eighty-nine million
kilometres distant; to one side Lalonde shone steadily,
if weakly, a sixth-magnitude star. It had now become a
binary, twinned with a violet glint.

“You can see microwaves?” he asked.
“I sense, eyes see. It is part of the energy spectrum
which falls upon my shell.”
“What is the message?”
“It is a voice-only transmission to you personally from a
Kelly Tirrel.”
“Jesus. Let me hear it.”
” This is Kelly Tirrel calling Captain Joshua Calvert.
Joshua, I hope you’re receiving this OK; and if not,
could someone at Aethra’s supervisory station please
relay this to him immediately. It’s really important.
Joshua, I’m not sure if the possessed can overhear
this, so I won’t say anything too exact, OK? We got
your message about returning.
And the time-scale you mentioned is no use to us.
Joshua, virtually everyone down here has been
possessed. It’s like the worst of the Christian Bible
gospels are coming true. Dead people are coming back
and taking over the living. I know that sounds crazy to
you; but believe me it isn’t sequestration, and it isn’t a
xenoc invasion. I’ve talked to someone who was alive
at the start of the twentieth century. He’s real, Joshua.
So is their electronic warfare ability, only it’s more like
magic. They can do terrible things, Joshua, to people
and animals. Truly terrible. Shit, I don’t suppose you
believe any of this, do you? Just think of them as an
enemy, Joshua. That’ll help make them real for you.
And you saw the red cloudbands over the Juliffe basin,
you know how powerful that enemy is.
” Well, the red cloud is swelling, Joshua, it’s spreading
over the planet. We were heading away from it. Just
like you said we should, remember? But we’ve found
someone who has been in hiding since the possession
started, a priest. He’s been looking after a bunch of
young children. There’s twenty-nine of them. And now
they’re trapped under that cloud. They’re near the
village that was our original target, so that gives you a
rough idea where we are. We’re going back for them,
Joshua, we’ll be on our way by the time this message
reaches you. They’re only children, for Christ’s sake,
we can’t leave them. The trouble is that once we’ve got
them we won’t be able to run far, not with our transport.
But we’re pretty sure we can get the children out from

under the cloud by this afternoon. Joshua … you have
to pick us up. Today, Joshua. We won’t be able to hold
out for long after sunset. I know your lady friend wasn’t
feeling too well when you left, but bandage her up as
best you can, as soon as you can. Please. We’ll be
waiting for you. Our prayers are with you. Thank you,
Joshua.’ “
“It is repeating,” Aethra said.
“Oh, Jesus.” Possession. The dead returned. Child
refugees on the run.
“Jesus fucking wept. She can’t do this to me! She’s
mad. Possession? She’s fucking flipped.” He stared
aghast at the ancient Apollo computer, arms half in his
sleeves. “No chance.” His arms were rammed into the
ship-suit sleeves. Sealing up the front. “She needs
locking up for her own good. Her neural nanonics are
looped on a glitched stimulant program.”
“You said you believed the red cloud effect was
fundamentally wrong,” Aethra said.
“I said it was a little odd.”
“So is the notion of possession.”
“When you’re dead, you’re dead.”
“Twelve who died when the station was destroyed are
stored within me. You make continual references to
your deity, does this not imply a degree of belief in the
nature of spirituality?”
“Je, Shit! Look, it’s just a figure of speech.”
“And yet humans have believed in gods and an afterlife
since the day you gained sentience.”
“Don’t you fucking start! Your lot are supposed to be
atheists, anyway.”
“I apologize. I can sense you are upset. What are you
going to do about rescuing the children?”
Joshua pressed his fingers to his temple in the vain
hope it would halt the dizzy sensation. “Buggered if I
know. How do we know there really are any children?”
“You mean it is just a bluff to trick you into returning to
Lalonde?”

“Could be, yeah.”
“That would imply that Kelly Tirrel has been possessed.”
Very calmly, he datavised: “Sequestrated. It implies she
has been sequestrated.”
“Whatever has befallen her, you still have a decision to
make.”
“And don’t I know it.”
Melvyn was alone on the bridge when Joshua came
gliding through the hatch from his cabin.
“I just heard the message,” the fusion expert said. “She
can’t mean it.”
“Maybe.” Joshua touched his feet to a stikpad beside
his acceleration couch. “Call the crew in, and Gaura as
well. I suppose the Edenists are entitled. It’s their arses
on the line as well.”
He tried to think in the short time it took for them to drift
into the bridge, make some kind of sense out of Kelly’s
message. The trouble was she had sounded so
convincing, she believed what she said. If it was her.
Jesus. And it was a very strange sequestration. He
couldn’t forget the chaos in orbit.
He accessed the navigation display to see just how
practical any sort of return flight was. It didn’t look good.
Maranta and Gramine had confined their search to the
section of ring which was electrically charged, which
meant one of them was always within three thousand
kilometres of Lady Mac. The jump coordinate for
Lalonde was a third of the way round the gas giant,
over two hundred and seventy thousand kilometres
from their present position. Out of the question. He
started to hunt round for options.
“I think it’s a load of balls,” Warlow said when they were
all assembled.
“Possession! Kelly’s cracked.”
“You said it yourself,” Ashly said. “It’s a bad form of
sequestration.”
“Do you believe in the dead coming back?”
The pilot grinned at the huge ochre cosmonik clinging to

a corner of an acceleration couch. “It would make life
interesting. Admit it.”
Warlow’s diaphragm issued a sonic boom snort.
“It doesn’t matter what name we choose to call the
process,” Dahybi said.
“The sequestration ability exists. We know that. What
we have to decide is whether or not Kelly has been
taken over by it.” He glanced at Joshua and offered a
lame shrug.
“If she hasn’t then we’re all in a great deal of trouble,”
Sarha said.
“If she hasn’t?” Melvyn asked.
“Yes. That will mean there are twenty-nine children we
have to get off that planet by this afternoon.”
“Oh, hell,” he mumbled.
“And if she has been sequestrated then she knew we
were coming back anyway. So why try and get us to
come back earlier? And why include all that crap about
possession, when all it would do was make us more
cautious?”
“Double bluff?” Melvyn said.
“Come on!”
“Sarha’s right,” Ashly said. “We always planned to go
back; as far as Kelly knew, in a couple of days. There’s
no logical reason to hurry us.
And we know they try and hijack the spaceplanes which
land. It’s not as if we wouldn’t have taken precautions.
All this has done is make us even more cautious. My
vote says she is in trouble, and they have found these
stray children.”
“And me,” Dahybi said. “But it’s not our decision.
Captain?”
It was the kind of oblique compliment about his status
Joshua could really have done without. “Kelly would
never call unless she really was desperate,” he said
slowly. “If she has managed to avoid sequestration, or
whatever, she would never have mentioned possession
unless it was true. You all know what she’s like: facts no
matter what it costs. And if she had been possessed,

she wouldn’t tell us.” Oh, Jesus, be honest, I know she’s
in deep shit. “They need to be picked up. Like she said:
today.”
“Joshua, we can’t,” Melvyn said. He looked desperately
torn. “I don’t want to abandon a whole bunch of kids
down there any more than you. Even if we don’t know
exactly what’s going on below those bloody cloudbands,
we’ve seen and heard enough to know it ain’t good. But
we’re never going to get past the Maranta and the
Gramine. And I’ll give you good odds they’ve picked up
Kelly’s message as well. They’ll be extra vigilant now.
Face it, we’ve got to wait. They’ll spot us the second we
turn our drive on.”
“Maybe,” Joshua said. “Maybe not. But first things first.
Sarha, can our environmental systems cope with thirty
kids and the mercenaries as well as the Edenists?”
“I dunno how big the kids are,” Sarha said, thinking out
loud. “Kelly did say young. There’s probably room for
four more in the zero-tau pods if we really cram them in.
We can billet some in the spaceplane and the MSV,
use their atmospheric filters. Carbon dioxide build-up is
our main problem, the filters could never scrub the
amount seventy people produce.
We’d have to vent it and replace it from the cryogenic
oxygen reserve.” Neural nanonics ran a best and worst
case simulation. She didn’t like the margins on the
worst case, not one bit. “I’ll give you a provisional yes.
But thirty is the absolute limit, Joshua. If the
mercenaries run into any other worthy cause refugees,
they’re just going to have to stay down there.”
“OK. That leaves us with picking them up. Ashly?”
The pilot gave one of his engaging grins. “I told you,
Joshua, I promised them I’d go down again.”
“Fine. That just leaves you, Gaura. You’ve been very
quiet.”
“It’s your ship, Captain.”
“Yes, but your children are on board, and your friends
and family. They’ll be exposed to a considerable risk if
Lady Mac attempts to go back to Lalonde. That entitles
you to a say.”
“Thank you, Joshua. We say this: if it was us stranded

on Lalonde right now, we would want you to come and
pick us up.”
“Very well. That’s settled then. We’ll try and rescue the
mercenaries and the children.”
“One small point, Joshua,” Melvyn said loudly. “We’re
stuck in the rings, with one combat wasp left, forty
thousand kilometres from the edge of Murora’s gravity
field. If we stick our heads up, they’ll be shot to
buggery.”
“I was in a similar situation to this a year ago.”
“Joshua!” Sarha chided.
He ignored her. “It was the Ruin Ring, when Neeves
and Sipika were coming after me. Look at where the
Maranta and the Gramine are right now.”
They all accessed the navigational display, neon-sharp
graphics unfurling in their minds. The two searching
starships extruded curved yellow orbital trajectory plots
paralleling the thick gauzy green slab of the ring which
filled the bottom half of the projection. Lady Macbeth
lurked below the ring surface like some outlandish
slumbering marine creature.
“Maranta and Gramine are now six thousand kilometres
apart,” Joshua said.
“They’ve got a reasonable idea of the general area
where we have to be hidden, and they’ve changed
altitude twice in the last fifteen hours to cover different
sections of the ring. If they stick to that pattern they’ll
change again in another four hours.” He ordered the
display to extrapolate their positions. “Gramine will be
about three hundred kilometres from us, she actually
passes over us in another ninety minutes; and Maranta
is going to be right out at the extreme, about seven and
a half thousand kilometres away. After that they’ll swap
orbital tracks and begin a new sweep.
“So if we can break out when Maranta is seven and a
half thousand klicks away, we’ll be far enough ahead of
it to escape.”
“And Gramine?” Melvyn asked. He didn’t like Joshua’s
quiet tone, as if the young captain was afraid of what he
was going to say.
“We know where it’s going to be, we can leave one of

the megaton nukes from the combat wasp waiting for it.
Mine the ring where it will pass overhead, attach the
nuke to a large rock particle. Between them, the emp
pulse, the plasma wave, and the rock fragments should
disable it.”
“How do we get it there?” Melvyn asked.
“You know bloody well how we get it there,” Sarha said.
“Someone’s got to carry it using a manoeuvring pack,
right Joshua? That’s what you did in the Ruin Ring, isn’t
it?”
“Yeah. They can’t detect one person fifteen kilometres
deep in the ring, not using cold gas to manoeuvre.”
“Wait a minute,” Dahybi said. He had been running
flight trajectory simulations in the navigation display.
“Even if you did knock out the Gramine, and that’s a
bloody long shot, we’re still no better off.
Maranta will just launch her combat wasps straight at
us. There’s no way we can out-run them, they’ll get us
before we’re halfway to the edge of Murora’s gravity
field, let alone Lalonde’s jump coordinate.”
“If we accelerate at eight gees, we’ll have seven
minutes fifteen seconds before the Maranta’s combat
wasps will catch us,” Joshua said.
“Distance-wise that works out at about sixteen
thousand kilometres.”
“That still won’t get us outside Murora’s gravity field.
We couldn’t even jump blind.”
“No, but there is one place we can jump from. It’s only
fifteen thousand kilometres away; we would have a
twenty-second safety margin.”
“Where?” Melvyn demanded.
Joshua datavised an instruction into the flight computer.
The navigational display drew a violet trajectory line
from the Lady Mac towards the edge of the ring, sliding
round in a retrograde curve to end at one of the four
tiny ring-shepherd moonlets.
“Murora VII,” Joshua said.
A terrible realization came to Dahybi; his balls retracted
as though he’d dived into an icy lake. “Oh, Christ, no,
Joshua. You can’t be serious, not at that velocity.”

“So give me an alternative.”
“An alternative to what?” Sarha asked petulantly.
Still looking at Joshua, Dahybi said: “The Lagrange
point. Every two-body system has them. It’s where the
moonlet’s gravity is balanced by Murora’s, which means
you can activate a starship’s nodes inside it without
worrying about gravitonic stress desynchronization.
Technically, they’re points, but in practice they work out
as a relatively spherical zone. A small zone.”
“For Murora VII, about two and a half kilometres in
diameter,” Joshua said. “Unfortunately, we’ll be
travelling at about twenty-seven kilometres per second
when we reach it. That gives us a tenth of a second to
trigger the nodes.”
“Oh, shit,” Ashly grunted.
“It won’t be a problem for the flight computer,” Joshua
said blandly.
“But where will the jump take us?” Melvyn asked.
“I can give us a rough alignment on Achillea, the third
gas giant. It’s on the other side of the system now,
about seven billion kilometres away.
We’ll jump a billion kilometres, align Lady Mac properly
on one of its outer moons, then jump again. No way will
Maranta be able to follow us through those kind of
manoeuvres. When we get to Achillea we slingshot
round the moon onto a Lalonde trajectory and jump in.
Total elapsed time eighty minutes maximum.”
“Oh, God … well, I suppose you know what you’re
talking about.”
“Him?” Sarha exclaimed. “You must be joking.”
“It has a certain degree of style,” Dahybi said. He
nodded approvingly.
“OK, Joshua, I’ll have the nodes primed. But you’re
going to have to be staggeringly accurate when we hit
that Lagrange point.”
“My middle name.”
Sarha studied the bridge decking. “I know another one,”
she muttered under her breath.

“So who’s the lucky one that gets to EVA in the rings
and blow up the Gramine?” Melvyn asked.
“Volunteers can draw lots,” Joshua said. “Put my name
in.”
“Don’t be stupid,” Sarha said. “We all know you’re going
to have to fly the Lady Mac, no one else could hit that
moonlet, let alone its Lagrange point. And Ashly has to
take the spaceplane down, I expect that flight’s going to
need a professional. So the rest of us will draw for it.”
“Kindly include twenty of us,” Gaura said. “We are all
qualified in EVA work, and we have the added
advantage of being able to communicate with Aethra in
case the starship should alter course.”
“Nobody is volunteering, nobody is drawing lots,”
Warlow said, using excessive volume to obliterate any
dissent. “This is my job. It’s what I’m designed for. And
I’m the oldest here. So I qualify on all counts.”
“Don’t be so bloody morbid,” Joshua said, annoyance
covering his real concern. “You just plant the nuke on a
rock particle and come straight back.”
Warlow laughed, making them all wince. “Of course, so
easy.”
Now, finally, under the slowly spinning inferno and
looking up into a glaring formless void. Journey’s end.
Chas Paske had to turn down his optical sensors’
receptivity, the light was so bright. At first he had
thought some kind of miniature sun lurked up there at
the centre of the flaming vortex of cloud, but now the
boat had carried him faithfully under the baleful cone he
could see the apex had burst open like a malignant
tumour. The rent was growing larger. The cyclone was
growing larger, deeper and wider.
He knew its purpose at last, that knowledge was
inescapable where he was, pressed down in the bottom
of the flat boat under the sheer pressure of the light. It
was a mouth, jaws opening wide. One day, soon, it
would devour the whole world.
He gave a wild little giggle at the notion.
That heavy, heavy light was migrating from whatever
(wherever?) lay on the other side. Weighty extrinsic
photons sinking slowly downwards like snow to smother
the land and river in their own special frost. Whatever

they touched, gleamed, as though lit from within. Even
his body, shoddy, worthless thing it was now, had
acquired a dignified lustre.
Above the gashed cloud was a sheer plane of white
light, a mathematical absolute. The ocean into which his
white silk dream river emptied. A universal ocean into
which Lalonde was destined to fall like a pearl droplet,
and lose itself for evermore. He felt himself wanting to
rise up towards it, to defy gravity and soar. Into the
perpetual light and warmth which would cleanse him and
banish sorrow. It would ripple once as he penetrated
the meniscus, throwing out a polished wave crown, a
single ephemeral spire rising at the centre. After that
there would be no trace.
To pass through was to transcend.
His remoulded face was incapable of smiling. So he lay
there gladly on the boat, mind virtually divorced from his
body, looking up at his future, awaiting his moment of
ascension. His physical purpose long since
abandoned.
Even though the red cloud’s thunder had retreated to a
muffled rumbling he never heard the starting gun being
fired, so the first cannonball shattered his serenity with
shocking abruptness.
They had known he was there, the possessed, they had
been aware of him all along. From the moment he’d
passed under the aegis of the red cloud he had
registered in their consciousness, as an orbiting gnat
might impinge upon a man’s peripheral vision. His
hapless journey down the river was of no consequence
to them; in his miserable degenerative state he was
simply not worth their attention nor a moment’s effort.
The river was bringing him surely to their bosom, they
were content to let him come in his own time.
Now he was here, and they had assembled down by the
docks to provide a maliciously frolicsome reception. It
was a black-hearted jamboree suitable to celebrate the
last possession before Lalonde escaped the universe
for good.
The iron ball whistled low over Chas’s boat with a
backlash crack that set the insecure craft rocking, then
splattered into the snowlily mush thirty metres away.
Purple smoke and ten-metre magnesium flames
squirted joyously into the air like a jumbo Roman
candle.

Chas shunted round on his elbows, looking in disbelief
at the chromatic blaze. The snowlilies started to melt
away around his boat, lowering it into sparkling clear
blue water. Whoops and catcalls wafted over the river
from the shore. He twisted round.
Durringham with all of its white towers and onion-dome
spires and lofty castles and lush hanging gardens
formed a magnificent backdrop to the armada racing to
collect him. There were Polynesian war canoes with
flower-garlanded warriors digging their paddles into the
clear water; rowing eights with lean young men sweating
under the cox’s bellowed orders; triremes, their massed
oars flashing in immaculate unison; Viking marauders
sporting resplendent scarlet and gold sun-god sails;
dhows whose lateens strained ahead of the fresh
breeze; junks, sampans, ketches, sloops … and riding
fast and proud out in front was a big three-masted
buccaneer, its crew in striped shirts scrambling over
the rigging. A quarter of the city’s population crowded
the circular harbours (now ancient solid stone) cheering
on their chosen team in a boisterous rollicking carnival
atmosphere.
Chas gagged at the sight of it all; the nightmare dormant
in every human brain the entire world is out to get me.
The whole city was chasing him, wanted him, hated him.
He was their new toy, the day’s amusement.
His body spasmed in massive quakes, implants
faltering. Intolerable waves of pain from his leg crashed
past the crumbling analgesic blocks.
“Bastards!” he roared. “You shit-eating bastards. You
don’t play with me. I am your enemy. I am not a joke.
Fear me. Fear me, God damn you!”
A dainty ring of smoke puffed out of the buccaneer’s
forward gun. Chas screamed, fury and terror in one
incoherent blast of sound.
The cannonball hit the water ten metres away, sending
up a sheet of steaming white water. Wavelets rushed
out, slapping his boat.
“Bastards.” It wasn’t even a whisper. Adrenalin and
nerves could do nothing more for him, he was devoid of
strength. “I’ll show you. Freaks. Zoo people. I am not a
joke.” Somewhere far away a soprano chorus was
singing black canticles.

Chas datavised the activation code into the kiloton
bomb strapped in its harness at his side. Good old
faithful bomb. Stuck to him the whole time.
That’ll wipe the smile off their faces.
Nothing happened, his neural nanonics had shut down.
Pain was burning through him, leaving only numbness in
its wake. Fingers scrabbled feebly at the bomb’s small
manual control panel, prising open the cover. His head
flopped to one side to follow the movement. He
eventually managed to focus an optical sensor. The
panel keyboard was dark, inert. It had failed. He had
failed.
Almost forgotten natural tear glands squeezed out their
very last drops as he slowly knocked a fist on the
wooden planking in utter futility.
A couple of the triremes were gaining on the
buccaneer. It was developing into a three-boat race,
though one of the war canoes refused to give up,
warriors pounding the water with their paddles, skin
gleaming as though they were sweating oil. Back on the
harbours the elated cheering mixed with songs and
chants from across five millennia.
The buccaneer crew fired another cannon to terrorize
their crushed victim.
“You won’t have me!” Chas cried in defiance. He put a
hand on each gunwale and started to rock the boat as
the cannonball’s wavelets broke against the hull.
“Never. Never. I won’t be a part of it, not of you.”
Pain and numbness had gorged on his torso. His arms
began to fail as the swaying reached a peak. Water
slopped in over the narrow gunwale. The flimsy boat
turned turtle, dumping him into the Juliffe. He saw
bubbles churning past. The rumpled silver foil of the
surface receded. Neural nanonics told him his lungs
were filling with water. Pain diminished. His implants
were working again. They couldn’t reach him under
water, he was beyond them here. He focused every
sensor he had on the bomb whose weight was dragging
him down.
On shore the audience had stopped cheering when
their prey (so unsportingly) capsized himself. A groan
went up. He’d pay for that.
Boat crews stopped rowing and slumped over their

oars, exhausted and angry. The buccaneer’s sails
calmly rolled themselves up as the sailors hung like
listless spiders in the rigging. They stared morosely at
the tiny half-sunken boat bobbing about ahead of them.
Together Durringham’s possessed exerted their power.
The river around the hull of Chas Paske’s boat began
to ripple energetically.
“Hey look, it’s Moses!” someone yelled from the
harbour wall. A laugh ran along the spectators. They
clapped their hands and stomped their feet, a stadium
crowd demanding their sporting hero appear. “Moses!
Moses! Moses!”
The waters of the Juliffe parted.
Chas felt it happening. His surroundings were getting
lighter, pressure was reducing. Below his fingers the
bomb’s keyboard was a glowing ruby chessboard. He
typed in the code, refusing to hurry, watching the
numbered squares turn green. There was a loud
gurgling sound building all around. Fast-conflicting
currents sucked at him, twisting his lifeless legs about.
Then the rucked surface came rushing down to seek
him out.
Too late.
The kiloton nuke detonated at the bottom of a twenty-
metre crater in the river. Its initial blast pulse was
punched straight up into the core of the transplanarity
ferment raging above. A solar fireball arose from the
water with splendid inevitability, and the entire river
seemed to lift with it. Energy in every spectrum poured
outwards, smashing solid matter apart. None of those
lining the harbour wall really knew what was happening.
Their stolen bodies disintegrated before the nerve
impulses could reach the brain. Only after annihilation,
when the possessing souls found themselves back in
the bestial beyond, did the truth dawn.
Two seconds after the bomb exploded, a forty-metre
wall of water moving at near-sonic speed slammed into
Durringham. And the dead, ensconced in their beautiful
new mansions and fanciful castles, died again in their
tens of thousands beneath the usurping totem of the
radiant mushroom cloud.
===========================================================================

Chapter 12
^
With his enhanced retinas switched to full sensitivity it
appeared as though Warlow was flying through a dry
iridescent mist. Ring particles still crawled with wayward
spurts of energy; micrometre dust flowed in slow
streams around the larger boulders and ice chunks.
Despite the shimmering phosphorescence he was
basically flying blind. Occasionally he could catch a
glimpse of stars flickering past his feet, short-lived
embers skipping from an invisible bonfire.
After leaving the Lady Macbeth he had moved twelve
kilometres out from Murora, an orbit which saw him
falling behind the sheltering starship.
The big dark sphere, upper hull glinting in the livid red
glow from its own thermo-dump panels, had been lost
from sight in three minutes.
Isolation had tightened its bewitching fingers almost
immediately.
Strangely enough, here, where he could barely see ten
metres, a realization of the universe’s vastness was all
too strong.
The ten-megaton bomb was strapped to his chest, a fat
ovoid seventy-five centimetres high. Weightless, yet
weighing heavily in his heart, titanium and composite
device though it was.
Sarha had given him one of the Edenist bitek processor
blocks which she had modified with augmentation
modules. The idea was to provide him with a link to
Aethra in case the Gramine should unexpectedly alter
track.
Makeshift, like this whole mission.
“Can I speak with you alone?” he datavised.
“Of course,” the habitat answered. “I would be glad to
keep you company. Yours is a fraught task.”
“But it is mine alone.”
“You are the best qualified.”
“Thank you. I wanted to ask you a question on the

nature of death.”
“Yes?”
“It involves a small story.”
“Go on. I am always interested to hear of human
events. I understand very little of your species so far,
even though I have inherited a wealth of data.”
“Ten years ago I was a crew-member in the starship
Harper’s Dragon. It was a line cargo ship, nothing
special, although the pay was comfortingly regular. We
had a new cadet lieutenant join us on Woolsey, called
Felix Barton. He was only twenty, but he had
assimilated his didactic courses well. I found him
competent, and a reasonable messmate. He was no
different to any other young man starting his career.
Then he fell in love with an Edenist woman.”
“Ah; this is, perhaps, a Shakespearian tragedy?”
Warlow saw thin ribbons of orange dust winding
corkscrew fashion around an ice chunk straight ahead;
a bird-kite’s tail, he thought. They sparked pink on his
carbotanium space armour as he splashed through.
Then he was past them and curving round a mealy
boulder, guidance and optical interpretation programs
operating in tandem to steer him automatically around
obstacles. “Not at all. It is a very straightforward story.
He simply became besotted. I admit she was beautiful,
but then every geneered human seems to be. Harper’s
Dragon had a regular contract to supply her habitat with
specialist chemicals for one of their electronics
manufacturing stations. After four trips, Felix declared
he could not bear to be parted from her. And he was
lucky, she felt the same way about him.”
“How fortunate.”
“Yes. Felix left Harper’s Dragon and became an
Edenist. He had neuron symbionts implanted to give
him general affinity, and underwent specialist
counselling to help him adapt. The last time Harper’s
Dragon visited, I spoke with him, and he was extremely
happy. He said he had fitted in perfectly and that she
was expecting their first child.”
“That is nice. There are something like a million and a
half Adamists who become Edenists every year.”
“So many? I didn’t know.”

“Seventy per cent are love cases similar to your friend,
the rest join because it attracts them intellectually or
emotionally. Over half of the love cases are Adamists
who form relationships with voidhawk crew-members,
which is only to be expected given that they have the
most contact with Adamists. It leads to many jokes
about the voidhawk families having wild blood.”
“So tell me, is the conversion absolute, do these
newfound Edenists transfer their memories into the
habitat when they die?”
“Of course.”
His neural nanonics displayed a guidance plot, updating
his position.
Purple and yellow vectors slithered through his head,
temporarily displacing his view of the irradiated dust. He
was on course. His course.
“Then my question is this. Is it possible to transfer a
person’s memories into a habitat if that person has
neural nanonics rather than affinity?”
“I have no record of it ever having been done. Although
I can see no reason why not; the process would take
longer, however, datavising is not as efficient as
affinity.”
“I want to become an Edenist. I want you to accept my
memories.”
“Warlow, why?”
“I am eighty-six, and I am not geneered. My shipmates
do not know, but all that is left of my real body is the
brain and a few nerve cords. The rest of me perished
long ago. I spent far too much time in free fall, you see.”
“I’m sorry.”
“Don’t be. It has been a full life. But now my neurons
are dying at a rate which is beyond even Confederation
gene therapy’s ability to replace. So, understandably, I
have come to think a lot about death recently. I had
even considered downloading my memories into a
processor array, but that would simply be an echo of
myself. You on the other hand are a living entity, within
you I too could continue to live.”
“I would be happy and honoured to accept your

memories. But, Warlow, the transference must take
place at death, only that way can continuity be
achieved. Anything less would be that echo of self
which you spoke of. Your personality would know it was
not complete because its conclusion was missing.”
He flew along a cliff of charcoal-textured rock. A virtual
mountain of a particle, worn and abraded by aeons of
murmuring dust, the lethal knife-blade spires
unsheathed by its fractured formation now a moorland
landscape of undulations, barrows of its youthful virility.
“I know.”
“Are you worried then that Captain Calvert will not be
able to escape through the Lagrange point?”
“No. Joshua will be able to fly that manoeuvre with
ease. My concern is that he is given the chance to fly
it.”
“You mean eliminating the Gramine?”
“I do. This mission to mine the rings is the weakest link
in Joshua’s plan to escape. It assumes the Gramine will
not deviate its orbit by more than five hundred metres in
the next two hours. It assumes too much. I propose to
position the warhead accurately on Gramine’s orbital
track, and detonate it while it passes. That way I can be
sure.”
“Warlow, neither Gramine nor Maranta have deviated
their track by more than a hundred metres since the
search began. I urge you to reconsider this action.”
“Why? I have only a few years to live at best. Most of
those would be spent with my memories and rationality
slipping away. Our medical science has achieved too
much in that direction. My synthetic body can keep
pumping blood through my comatose brain for decades
yet. Would you wish that on me when you know you
yourself can provide me with a worthwhile
continuance?”
“That is, I believe, a loaded question.”
“Correct. My mind is made up. This way I have two
chances of cheating death. There are few who can say
that.”
“Two? How so?”
“Possession implies an afterlife, somewhere a soul can

return from.”
“You believe that is the fate which has befallen
Lalonde?”
“Do you know what a Catholic is?” A solid glacier wall of
ice appeared out of the dust. The cold-gas nozzles of
his manoeuvring pack fired heavily. For a moment he
saw the splay of waxen vapour shiver as it was
siphoned away into the blue and emerald phosphenes
of dust.
“Catholicism is one of the root religions which made up
the Unified Christian Church,” Aethra said.
“Almost. Officially, by decree of the Pope, Catholicism
was absorbed. But it was a strong faith. You cannot
modify and dilute such an intense devotion simply by
compromising prayers and services to achieve unity
with other Christian denominations. My home asteroid
was Forli, an ethnic-Italian settlement. It kept the faith,
unofficially, unobtrusively. Try as I might, I cannot throw
away the teachings of my childhood. Divine justice is
something I think all living things will have to face.”
“Even me?”
“Even you. And Lalonde looks to confirm my belief.”
“You think Kelly Tirrel was telling the truth?”
Warlow’s manoeuvring pack was nudging him gingerly
round the rimed iceberg, loyally following the ins and
outs of its gentle contours. Its surface was true crystal,
but eventually it sank into total blackness, as though a
wormhole interstice had frozen open at its core. When
his armour-suit sensors scanned round they showed
him the constellations returning to their full majesty
through the attenuating dust. “I do. I am convinced of it.”
“Why?”
“Because Joshua believes her.”
“A strange rationale.”
“Joshua is more than a superlative captain. In all my
years I have never come across anyone quite like him.
He behaves execrably with women and money, and
even his friends on occasion. But, if you will excuse my
clumsy poetry, he is in tune with the universe. He knows
truth. I put my faith in Joshua, I have done so ever

since I signed on with the Lady Macbeth, and I will
continue to do so.”
“Then there is an afterlife.”
“If not, I will live on as part of your multiplicity. But Kelly
Tirrel has been convinced that there is. She is a tough,
cynical person, she would take a lot of convincing such
a thing could be. And, as now appears likely, if there is
an afterlife, I have an immortal soul and death is not to
be feared.”
“And do you fear death?”
He rose out of the iceberg’s umbra cloak. It was similar
to emerging from a dark layer of rain-cloud into clear
evening sky, there was only a remote diaphanous
shimmer of dust left above him. Gramine shone like a
second-magnitude star, forty kilometres away and
drifting towards him.
“Very much.”
The hovercraft slewed and bucked on the river, tossed
about by white-water waves swelling over semi-
submerged stones. Theo was concentrating hard on
keeping them straight and level, but it was tough going.
Kelly didn’t remember yesterday’s journey up this same
river as being so difficult. She and Shaun Wallace were
sitting on the rear bench, clinging on grimly as they
were slung about. The propeller droned behind her.
“Already I feel wearied by the journey, daunted by what
we are attempting. This is not even snatching victory
from the jaws of defeat, although it might be termed a
last vain attempt to salvage the team’s dignity. We
came to this planet with such confidence and high
ideals; we were going to vanquish the evil invader and
restore order and stability to twenty million people, give
them their lives back. Now all we dare hope for is to
escape with thirty children. And even that will tax us to
the limit.”
“Such a worrier, Miss Kelly.” Shaun smiled congenially.
The hovercraft swerved, pushing her against him, for
the briefest second the channel to her sensorium flek
recorder block dropped out, and he smiled politely as
they righted themselves. “You mean I shouldn’t be
worrying?”
“Now I never said that. But worry is the Devil’s disciple,

it rots the soul.”
“Well, you’d certainly be the one to know all about
souls.”
Shaun chuckled softly.
Kelly glanced up at the red cloud. They had been under
it for half an hour now. It was thicker than it had been
yesterday, its constituent tresses twirling sluggishly.
Somehow she was aware of its weight, a heaviness
necessary to blot out not just the sight of space but the
physical laws governing existence. A complex
intertwining of associated emotions defeated her, as
though she was sensevising some obscure xenoc
ceremony. “That cloud means a lot to you, doesn’t it?”
she asked.
“Not the cloud itself, Miss Kelly, that’s nothing, but what
it represents, yes. That’s like seeing your aspirations
take form. To me, to all of us damned souls, it means
freedom. A precious commodity when you’ve been
denied it for seven hundred years.”
Kelly switched her attention to the second hovercraft,
with Horst Elwes and Russ sitting on the bench behind
Ariadne, faces ploughed up against the biting
slipstream wind. Cannonades of thunder thrashed
overhead, as if the cloud was the taut skin of some
gigantic drum. She saw Russ push himself closer
against the priest. The simple act of trust was
immensely poignant.
The privation dropped upon Shaun Wallace without the
slightest warning.
He experienced the dreadful exodus, the flight of souls
expelled from the universe exerting a tidal force on his
own precarious possession. Their lamentations and
enmity spilled back from the beyond in that eerily
pervasive chorus, and then came venomous anger of
those who accompanied them on their expulsion, those
they had possessed. All of them, preying on each other,
hating each other. The conflict permeated his skull,
wrenching at his thoughts. He gagged, eyes widening in
shock. His face betrayed an emotion of uttermost
despair, then he flung his head back and howled.
Reza never wanted to hear a cry like it again. The
outpouring of anguish compressed into that one
cataclysmic bawl spoke for an entire planet.

Grief paralysed him, and loss, loss so profound he
wanted the universe to end so he could be spared.
It finished as Shaun ran out of breath. Unsteadily, Reza
twisted round on the front bench. Tears were streaming
down the possessed man’s cheeks. He drew breath
and howled again.
Kelly’s hands were clasped against her puckered lips.
“What?” she wailed.
“What is it?” Her eyes shut instinctively at the next
outburst.
Reza tried to block it all out and project some comfort to
Fenton and Ryall. “Pat?” he datavised. “Can Octan see
anything happening?”
“Not a thing,” the second-in-command answered from
the other hovercraft.
“What’s going on? Wallace frightened the shit out of
us.”
“I’ve no idea.”
Kelly shook Shaun’s arm imploringly. “What’s wrong?
What is it? Speak to me!” Panic was giving her voice a
shrill edge. “Shaun!”
Shaun gulped down a breath, his shoulders shivering.
He lowered his head until he was staring at Reza.
“You,” he hissed. “You killed them.”
Reza looked at him through a cross-grid of yellow
target graphics, his forearm gaussrifle was aimed
directly at the possessed man’s temple.
“Killed who?”
“The city, the whole city. I felt them go, thousands upon
thousands blown back to the beyond like so much ash.
Your devil bomb, it went off. No, it was set off. What
kind of creatures are you to slaughter so
indiscriminately?”
Reza felt a grin reflex coming on, which his restructured
face portrayed as a moderate widening of his mouth
slit. “Someone got through, didn’t they? Someone hit
back.”
Shaun’s head sagged brokenly. “One man. That’s all,
one bloody man.”

“So you’re not so invincible, after all. I hope it pains you,
Mr. Wallace, I hope it pains all your kind. That way you
may begin to know something of the horror we felt when
we found out what you did to this planet’s children.”
The flash of guilt on the man’s face proved the barb had
hit home.
“Oh, yes, Mr. Wallace, we know. Even if Kelly here is
too tactful to mention it. We know the barbarism we are
dealing with.”
“What bomb?” Kelly asked. “What are you two talking
about?”
“Ask him,” Shaun said, and sneered at Reza. “Ask him
how he was intending to help the poor people of this
planet he was hired to save.”
“Reza?”
The mercenary leader swayed as the hovercraft
banked around a boulder.
“Terrance Smith was concerned we might not get all the
fire support we needed from the starships. He gave
each team leader a nuke.”
“Oh, Christ.” Kelly looked from one man to the other.
“Do you mean you’ve got one as well?”
“You should know, Kelly,” Reza said. “You’re sitting on
it.”
She tried to jump to her feet, only to have Shaun grab
her arm and keep her sitting.
“Have you learned nothing of him yet, Miss Kelly?
There’s no human part left in that mockery of a body.”
“Point to your body, Mr. Wallace, the one you were
born with,” Reza said. “After that I’ll talk morality and
ethics with you all day long.”
They stared at each other.
Darkness began to fall. Kelly looked up to see the red
light bleeding from the cloud, leaving behind a swollen
slate-grey mantle massing sinisterly low overhead. A
blade of purple-white lightning screwed down on the
savannah to the east.

“What’s happening?” Kelly shouted as thunder crashed
over the hovercraft.
“You are happening, Miss Kelly. They sense you. They
fear and hate you now your true nature and power has
been exposed. This is the last mercenary team left, you
see. None of the others survived.”
“So what will they do?”
“Hunt you down, whatever the cost below the muzzles
of your weapons.”
Two hours after Warlow had left Lady Mac Joshua was
accessing the flight computer’s memory cores, looking
for records of starships jumping from inside a Lagrange
point. He and Dahybi had gone through the small
amount of available data on Murora VII, using it to
refine their computations of the Lagrange point’s size
and position, locking the figures into the trajectory plot.
He could pilot Lady Mac right into its heart, no doubt
about that: now he wanted to know what would happen
when the energy patterning nodes were activated.
There was a lot of theory in the physics files about how
it should be possible, but no actual verified ZTT jump.
Who’s going to be stupid enough to take part in an
experiment like that? he asked himself. But he was lying
on his acceleration couch, and Dahybi, Ashly, and
Sarha were on the bridge with him, so he kept any
qualms to himself. He was just wondering if there would
be a reference in a history file, surely the ZTT pioneers
would want to know the limits of their craft, when Aethra
datavised him.
“Warlow wants to talk with you,” the habitat said.
He cancelled the link to the memory cores. “Hello,
Warlow. How’s it going?”
“Superbly,” Warlow said.
“Where are you?” The cosmonik ought to be back on
board in another twenty minutes if everything was
running on schedule. Joshua had helped draw up the
flight vector through the ring.
“Twenty kilometres from Gramine.”
“What?”
“I can see it.”

“Jesus shit, Warlow. What the fuck are you playing at?
The schedule doesn’t have any margin for error.”
“I know. That’s why I’m here. I’m going to make certain
that Gramine is destroyed by the blast. I shall detonate
it when the ship is in an optimum position.”
“Oh, Jesus, Warlow, get your iron arse back here
now!”
“Sorry, Captain. Maranta will only be seven thousand
three hundred kilometres away when Gramine is
eliminated. But that will still give you an eighteen-second
lead on the combat wasps. That’s easily enough time.”
“Warlow, stop this. We can wait until the end of the next
sweep and position the bomb again. That’s only another
five hours. We’ll still be at Lalonde before Amarisk’s
evening.”
“Joshua, you have six minutes before I detonate. Make
sure everyone is strapped down, please.”
“Don’t do it. Jesus, Warlow, I’m begging you.”
“You know this has to be done properly. And I can
ensure it is.”
“Not like this. Please, come back.”
“Don’t worry about me, Joshua. I’ve thought it out, I will
be quite all right.”
“Warlow!” Joshua’s face was crushed into a mask of
anger and desperation.
He jerked round to look at Ashly. The pilot was moving
his lips silently, eyelashes sticky with tears. “Say
something,” Joshua commanded. “Get him back.”
“Warlow, for Heaven’s sake come back,” Ashly
datavised. “Just because you can’t navigate properly
there’s no need for this. I’ll do it next time, and do it
right.”
“I would like you to do me a favour, Ashly.”
“What?”
“Next time you come out of zero-tau, in fifty years or
so, I want you to come back here and visit me.”
“Visit you?”

“Yes. I am transferring my memories to Aethra. I’m
going to become one of the multiplicity. I won’t die.”
“You crazy old bastard.”
“Gaura!” Joshua shouted. “Can he do that? He’s not an
Edenist.”
“The datavise has already begun,” Gaura replied. “He
is doing it.”
“Oh, Jesus wept.”
“Is everyone in their acceleration couches?” Warlow
asked. “I’m giving you the chance you really need to
escape the rings. You’re not going to waste that, are
you, Joshua?”
“Shit.” A hot steel band was constricting Joshua’s
chest, far worse than any gee force. “They’re getting
onto the couches, Warlow.” He datavised the flight
computer for an image from the cabin cameras,
watching Edenists tighten the webbing around
themselves. Melvyn was swimming about, checking
they had done it properly.
“And what about the thermo-dump panels, have you
retracted them? There’s only five minutes left.”
Joshua datavised the flight computer to retract the
thermo-dump panels.
Systems schematics appeared as he prepped the
generators and drive tubes; mostly green, some amber.
The old girl was in good shape. Sarha started to help
him with the checklist.
“Please, Warlow?”
“Fly the bastards into the ground, Joshua. You can do
it.”
“Jesus, I don’t know what to say.”
“Promise me something.”
“Yes.”
“Gotcha. You should have asked me what it was first.”
Joshua coughed. Laughed painfully. It made his vision
all blurred for some unfathomable reason. “What is it?”

“Hard luck, you committed. I want you to be more
considerate to your girls. You never see the effect you
have on them. Some of them get hurt, Joshua.”
“Jesus, cosmonik and social worker.”
“Promise?”
“I promise.”
“You were a good captain, Joshua. Lady Macbeth was
a great way to finish. I wouldn’t have had it any other
way.”
Sarha was sobbing on her acceleration couch. Ashly
was clenching and unclenching his fists.
“I would,” Joshua said silently.
Aethra showed them Gramine. The starship was
traversing the ring surface with the suavity of a maglev
train, straight and sure. Three thermo-dump panels
were extended to the full, shining a dull vermilion. A
long, narrow flame of blue ions flickered for an instant.
“Who’d have thought it,” Warlow datavised. “Me, an
Edenist.”
Joshua had never felt so pathetically worthless as he
did then. He’s my crewman.
The bomb exploded. It sent a flat circle of sheer white
light flaring out across the ring surface. Gramine was a
tiny dark speck above its centre.
Joshua fired the restraint bolts. Taut silicon-fibre cables
tethering the Lady Macbeth to its rock shield recoiled
from the hull, writhing in serpentine coils. Lights inside
the four life-support capsules dimmed and sputtered as
the one active auxiliary generator powered up the four
remaining primary generators. Ion thrusters fired,
hosing the dark rock with unaccustomed turquoise
luminosity.
A sphere of plasma inflated at the centre of the white
shroud thrown across the ring, fast at first, then slowing
when it was five kilometres across, diminishing slightly.
Black phantoms migrated across its surface.
Gramine’s lower hull shone brighter than a sun as it
reflected the diabolical corona seething four kilometres
below.

Thousands of fragmented rock splinters flew out of the
heart of the fusion blast, overtaking the disbanding
plasma wave. They had the same riotous glow of
doomed meteorites caught by an atmosphere. Unlike
the plasma they left behind, their velocity didn’t fall off
with distance.
“Generators on-line,” Sarha called out. “Power output
stabilizing.”
Joshua closed his eyes. Datavised displays filled his
head with technicolour dragonfly wings. Lady Mac
cleared the rock. Her radar started to fire hard
microwave pulses at the loose shoal of ring particles,
evaporating snowflakes and inflaming carbonaceous
motes. Beams of blue-white radiance shone out of the
secondary reaction-drive nozzles, rigid as lasers.
They started to rise up through the ring. Dust currents
splashed over the monobonded-silicon hull, producing
short-lived surf-bloom patterns.
Pebbles and larger stones hit and bounced. Ice
splattered and stuck, then slipped downwards to fall
away in the turbulent glare of the drive exhaust.
A rock chunk crashed into the Gramine, shattering its
hull open and decimating the internal systems.
Cryogenic tanks ruptured, white gases scintillating from
the dying fusion bomb’s energy barrage. Four life-
support capsules raced out of the destruction, charred
nultherm foam flaking away, emergency beacons
blaring.
Lady Mac cleared the ring surface. Fifty kilometres
above her a wave of scarlet meteors streaked across
the starfield.
“Stand by for high gees,” Joshua said. The fusion
drives came on, tormenting the abused ring still further.
Lady Mac tilted round, and started chasing down the
inside of the tapering orange vector tube in Joshua’s
mind. He monitored the displays to ensure their course
was aligned correctly as the gee forces built, then
datavised an extra order into the flight computer.
“Joshua, what, ” Ashly’s startled voice faded away as
the bridge trembled softly.
The last combat wasp left its launch-tube.
“Watch it coming, shitheads,” Joshua purred. Jesus,

but it felt good to see the vector lines emerge as the
submunitions separated. Purple threads linking Lady
Mac with the tumbling wreckage.
It took eight seconds for the submunitions to reach the
Gramine’s life-support capsules. A stipple of kinetic
explosions boiled above the ring for a few scant
seconds before the vacuum absorbed them as
effortlessly as it did all human-born pollution.
The inside of the homestead cabin was even worse
than Jay Hilton imagined hell must be like. She wouldn’t
let any of the other children go outside, so they had to
use buckets in the small second bedroom when they
wanted to go to the toilet. The smell was atrocious, and
it got viler every time they opened the door. To add to
their woes, the heat had reached a zenith which even
Lalonde had never matched before. They had opened
all the shutters as well as the door, but the air was solid,
motionless. The cabin’s timber creaked and popped as
the frame expanded.
The physical ordeal was bad enough, but Jay felt so
agonizingly lonely too. It was stupid, there were twenty-
seven children crammed in around her so tight you
couldn’t move without nudging someone. But she didn’t
want other kids, she wanted Father Horst. He had
never done this before, not leave them alone for a
whole day, and certainly not at night. Jay suspected
Father Horst was as scared by the night as she was.
All this wretchedness had started when the starships
had appeared, and with them the red cloud. Yesterday,
just yesterday. It should have been a wonderful time.
Rescue was here, the navy marines would come and
take them all away and make everything right again.
The long dragging miserable days out here on the
unchanging savannah were over.
The idea was a little bit scary, because there was
always some comfort in routine, even one as difficult as
the homestead. But that didn’t matter, she was leaving
Lalonde. And nobody was ever going to make her come
back.
Not even Mummy!
They had spent a happy morning outside, keeping
watch over the savannah for the first sign of their
rescuers. Though the growing red cloud had been a bit
frightening.

Then Russ had seen what he claimed was an
explosion, and Father Horst had ridden off to
investigate.
“I’ll be back in a couple of hours,” were his last words to
her as he’d left.
They had waited and waited. And the red cloud had slid
over the sky above, bringing its horrible noise with it, as
though it was hiding an avalanche of boulders.
She had done what she could, organizing meals and
rotas. Things to do, things to keep them busy. And still
he hadn’t come back.
Her watch had told her when it was night. She would
never have known otherwise. They had closed the
shutters and the door, but red light from the cloud
seemed to slide in through every crack and cranny.
There was no escape. Sleep was difficult, the boomy
thunder-noise kept going the whole time, mingling with
the higher pitched sounds of crying.
Even now the youngest children remained tearful, the
older ones subdued.
Jay leant on the window-sill, gazing off in the direction
Father Horst had gone. If he didn’t come back very
soon, she knew she wouldn’t be able to hold her own
tears back. Then everything would be lost.
I must try not to.
But she had been badly shaken by the way the red light
had vanished ninety minutes ago. Now ghastly black
clouds swept low and silent over the savannah, turning
everything to funereal greys. At first she had tried to
play the shapes game, to make them less sinister, but
her mind’s eye could only conjure up witches and
monsters.
Jay turned round from the window, registering the
frightened faces.
“Danny, the fridge should have done some more ice by
now. Make everyone some orange juice.”
He nodded, happy to be given some task. Usually he
was a real moaner.
“Jay!” Eustice squealed. “Jay, there’s something out
there.” She backed away from her window, hands

pressed to her cheeks.
There was an outbreak of crying and wails behind Jay.
Furniture was kicked and scraped as the children
instinctively made for the rear wall.
“What was it?” Jay asked.
Eustice shook her head. “I don’t know,” she said
wretchedly. “Something!”
Jay could hear the cows mooing plaintively, sometimes
the bleating of a goat. It might just be a sayce, she
thought. Several had gone by yesterday, driven from
the jungle by the red cloud. She gave the open door a
nervous glance, she’d have to shut it. With shivers in
each limb she shuffled back to the window and peeked
round the frame.
Lightning was playing along the horizon. The
savannah’s darkling grass was perfectly still, which
made the movement easy to spot. Two ebony blobs
jutting up above the blade tips. They were growing
steadily larger.
She heard a humming noise. Mechanical.
It had been so long since she’d heard any kind of motor
that it took a moment to place the sound; and even
longer for her to bring herself to believe. Nobody on this
planet had ground transport.
“Father!” she shrieked. “He’s back!” Then she was out
of the open door and running towards the hovercraft,
heedless of the stiff, dry grass slapping and scratching
her bare legs.
Horst saw her coming and jumped off the hovercraft as
Ariadne slowed to a halt fifteen metres from the
homestead. He had told himself all through the trip that
nothing had happened to them, that they would be all
right.
Praying and praying that it would be so. But actually
seeing Jay alive and in one piece was too much, and
the repressed guilt and instituted fear burst out,
overwhelming him. He fell to his knees and opened his
arms.
Jay hit him as if she was giving a rugby tackle. “I
thought you were dead,” she blubbed. “I thought you’d
left us.”

“Oh, Jay, darling Jay. You know I never would.” He
cradled her head and rocked her gently. Then the other
children came streaming down the homestead’s
ramshackle steps, squealing and shouting. He smiled at
them all and held out his arms once more.
“We were scared,” Eustice said.
“The sky’s gone real funny.”
“It’s so hot.”
“Nobody collected the eggs.”
“Or milked the cows.”
Bo narrowed her eyes as the mercenaries climbed out
of the hovercraft.
“Are these the marines you promised?” she asked
sceptically.
“Not quite,” Horst said. “But they’re just as good.”
Danny goggled up at Sewell. The big combat-adept had
gaussrifles plugged into both elbow sockets. “What is
he?” the boy asked.
Horst grinned. “He’s a special sort of soldier. Very
strong, very clever. Everything is going to be all right
now. He’ll look after you.”
Kelly had kept her retinas on wide-field focus, scanning
the whole reunion scene. There was a big dry lump
forming in her throat.
“Holy Jesus, will you look at it all,” Shaun Wallace said
in a small demoralized voice. “What kind of a God could
do this to us? Not the one I was taught about, that’s for
sure. Look at them all, little children. Crying their bloody
damn eyes out. And all for what?”
Kelly turned round at the unaccustomed savagery and
bitterness in his tone. But he was already striding
towards Reza, who was watching Horst and the
children impassively.
“Mr Malin?”
“Yes, Mr. Wallace?”
“You have to move these children away now.”

“I intend to.”
“No, I mean right now. My kind, they’re over there in the
edge of the jungle. There’s a couple of hundred of
them, if not more. They’re meaning to get you, Mr.
Malin, to end the threat once and for all.”
Reza focused his sensors on the first rank of stunted,
scrappy trees four or five kilometres away. The cloud
over the jungle was still glowing a sombre red, giving the
leaves a coral tinge. Heat shimmer and fluttering leaves
defeated him, he couldn’t tell. “Pat, what can Octan
see?”
“Nothing much. But there’s definitely a few people
roving round in there, and … Oh my God.”
The pages emerged first, young boys, ten or twelve
years old, holding their heraldic banners high. Then the
drums started up, and the pikemen marched out of the
cover of trees. It was a long solid black line, almost as if
the trees themselves were advancing. Following, and
holding a tight formation at the centre, came the
mounted knights. Silver armour shone by its own
accord under the unbroken veil of leaden clouds.
The army assembled itself in front of the trees to the
order of the drummer. Knight commanders rode up and
down, organizing stragglers. Then when the ranks were
neatly laid out, a single bugle note rang across the
savannah. They started to tramp over the uneven
grassland towards the homestead.
“OK,” Reza said equably. “Time to go.”
Along with all the other children Jay found herself being
hurriedly lifted into one of the hovercraft by a
mercenary and told to hang on.
Boxes and equipment were being tossed out to
accommodate them. Father Horst was in the other
hovercraft; Jay wanted to be with him, but she didn’t
think the mercenaries would listen if she asked. Shona
was plonked down beside her, and Jay smiled timidly,
reaching for the disfigured girl’s hand. Their fingers
pressed together urgently.
There was a lot of shouting going on all around.
Everyone was moving at such a rush. One of the big
(really big) mercenaries dashed into the homestead
and came out half a minute later carrying Freya.

“Put her in my hovercraft,” Horst said. “I’ll look after
her.” The limp girl was laid on the front bench, and he
eased a bundle of cloth under her head.
Through all the confusion and bustle Jay saw one of the
mercenaries strap a dark globe to the neck of a huge
dog. A man (who she thought looked a bit like Rai Molvi)
and a lady who had come with the mercenaries were
arguing hotly in front of the cabin. It ended when she
made a slashing motion with one arm and climbed into
the pilot’s seat of the second hovercraft. The other
mercenaries were ransacking the ammunition boxes
that lay on the ground, slotting magazines into their
backpacks. Then the impellers on Jay’s hovercraft
began to spin and the decking wobbled as it rose up.
She wondered where the mercenaries were going to fit,
her hovercraft had seventeen children packed in
between the pilot’s seat and the fan at the rear. But
when both vehicles swung round and began to pick up
speed she realized they were jogging alongside.
“Where are we going?” Shona shouted above the
teeth-grating buzz of the fans.
The small hairless pilot didn’t seem to hear.
Aethra watched the Lady Macbeth streak across the
ring. Triple fusion exhausts twining into a single braid of
near-pure radiation that stretched for over two hundred
kilometres behind the fleeing starship.
Murora VII was a thousand kilometres ahead of her. A
battered sphere of grey-brown rock not quite a hundred
and twenty kilometres in diameter.
Along with the other three shepherd moonlets it brought
a certain degree of order to the edge of the ring,
creating a tidy boundary line. Dust, iceflakes, and
pebbles extended out across the gas giant’s ecliptic
plane far past the immature habitat’s orbit, although
their density slowly dropped away until at a million
kilometres it was no different to interplanetary space.
But none of the larger particles, the flying mountains
and icebergs, were to be found beyond the hundred and
eighty thousand kilometre limit where the shepherds
orbited.
Lady Macbeth’s exhaust plume yawed a degree, then
straightened out again, honing her trajectory. Three
thousand kilometres behind her, five combat wasps,
arranged in a precise diamond configuration, were
accelerating at twenty gees. It had taken the Maranta a

long time to respond to the break-out, its possessed
crew wasting seven expensive seconds before
launching the combat wasps, though they couldn’t know
that. Now the drones could never catch her.
Aethra had never known emotional tension before.
Always, it had reflected the feelings of the supervisory
station staff. Now though, as it watched the starship
curving over the moonlet, it knew, understood, the
meaning of trepidation. It willed the starship to succeed.
The station staff were lying on their acceleration
couches, that wicked gee force squeezing them
relentlessly. Aethra could see the ceiling of the cabin
through a dozen sets of pained eyes, feeling the
cushioning give below overstressed back muscles.
Three seconds away from the Lagrange point. Lady
Macbeth’s fusion drives reduced to four gees as she
skimmed eight kilometres above Murora VII, tracing a
slight parabola around its minuscule gravity field. A
couple of ion thrusters fired. The pursuing combat
wasps cleared the edge of the ring.
Aethra prepared thirty-three storage areas in its neural
strata. Ready to receive the memories of the Edenists
on board. Although it would be so quick …
An event horizon eclipsed the Lady Macbeth.
Her fusion plume lingered briefly like a broken-hearted
wraith before melting away. Then there was no physical
evidence left of her ever having existed.
Five combat wasps converged on the Lagrange point.
Their courses intersected, drive exhausts a dazzling
asterisk, and they sped outwards on divergent vectors,
electronic brains crashing in program overload
confusion.
“I told you Joshua could fly that manoeuvre,” Warlow
said.
Aethra tasted smugness in the subsidiary mentality’s
thoughts. It wasn’t used to that, but then the last twenty-
four hours had contained a lot of unknowns. “Yes, you
did.”
“You should have more faith.”
“And you’re the one to teach me?”

“About faith? Yes, I could try. I think we both have the
time now.”
The hovercraft battered its way through the tall, heavy
savannah grass.
It had never been designed with this particular terrain in
mind. The grass was too high, too resilient for the skirt
to surmount; it all had to be ridden down. That took
power, and they were overladen with the children as
well.
Kelly datavised the vehicle’s electron-matrix-
management processor for a status review. Reserves
were down to thirty-five per cent; not nearly enough to
make it past the end of the cloud. Impeller monitor
programs were flashing amber cautions into her brain
as they struggled to maintain skirt inflation. Burnout
wasn’t imminent, though it was something she’d have to
watch for.
A long mound arose out of nowhere, and she tilted the
joystick exactly right to veer round its base. The piloting
program Ariadne had datavised to her was operating in
primary mode, enabling her to steer with the same
consummate skill the mercenary had owned. Her
weight, or rather lack of it, made her the ideal choice.
Theo piloted the other hovercraft, and the priest was
sitting behind her, but apart from them the team ran
alongside. Even Shaun Wallace, though the few times
she glimpsed him he was as red faced as a marathon
runner on the home straight.
The mounted knights were pushing them hard, keeping
a steady three kilometres behind, just enough to put
them beyond the range of the gaussrifles. One or two
would occasionally break rank for a charge. Then
Sewell or Jalal would fire a few EE rounds to ward them
off. Thankfully the sturdy pikemen were unable to match
the boosted mercenaries’ physical endurance (so how
come Shaun could?); they had been left nearly seven
kilometres behind. So far so good, but the situation
couldn’t hold stable for long.
Fenton was racing ahead of the hovercraft, scouting
the land, his mass and brawn making easy work of the
bristling grass blades. Reza looked through the hound’s
eyes, leaving a locomotion program to guide his own
body down the trail left by the two hovercraft. He was
developing a feel for the land beneath the rhythmic
pounding of the hound’s paws, anticipating the folds and

abrupt rises which belied the savannah’s faade of
interminable mellow ground.
There was a small but certain change in the texture of
the grass whipping against Fenton’s blunt muzzle. The
dead mat of decaying blades covering the flinty soil
becoming thicker, springier. Water, and close by.
Fenton slowed to smell the air.
“Kelly,” Reza datavised. “There’s a small stream two
hundred metres ahead, steep gully sides. Head for it.
Part of the bank has collapsed, you can take the
hovercraft down.”
A guidance plot filled her mind, all close-packed brown
and blue contour lines, a computer image of how the
earth would look stripped of vegetation. Neural
nanonics integrated it with the piloting program, and she
tweaked the joystick.
“Where does it lead?” she asked. So far all they had
done was build distance between them and the
homestead cabin, heading due south without any
attempt to get back on the river which led to the
mountains.
“Nowhere. It’s cover for us, that’s all. The knights are
trying to wear us down; and the bastards are
succeeding. We can’t keep this pace going for ever,
and the hovercraft electron matrices are being drained.
Once we’re immobile the pikemen will catch up, and it’ll
all be over. They know we can’t fight off that many of
them. We have to regain the initiative.”
Kelly didn’t like the implications leaping round inside her
skull at that statement. But she did her best to ignore
them. Hunted beasts couldn’t afford scruples,
especially ones that knew exactly what lay in store if
they were caught.
She datavised a query at her communication block.
Since they left the homestead cabin it had been
broadcasting a continuous signal up to the
geosynchronous platform and the secure satellites
Terrance Smith had brought with him. There was no
need for secrecy now. But the darkened cloud was still
blocking the directional beam very effectively.
Theo’s hovercraft slowed as it neared the stream, then
the nose fell and it went into a controlled slither down
the scree of crumbling earth. The gully was three
metres deep, with tall reed-grass growing along the top.

Smooth grey stones filled the flat bottom, with a trickle
of water running down the middle. A muddy pool had
built up behind the scree.
Kelly followed the first hovercraft down, juggling the fan
deflectors frantically to stop them from sliding into the
opposite bank. She turned upstream keeping ten
metres behind Theo. He reached the deepest part of
the gully and killed the lift.
The mercenaries were jumping down from the top of the
bank.
“Everybody out of the hovercraft,” Reza said. “And sit
with your backs to the gully here.” He pointed.
Northern side, Kelly thought. She stood up, don’t think
about it, and helped to hand the children over the
gunwale. They looked round in bewilderment, young
faces lost and doleful. “It’s all right,” she kept saying.
“Everything’s all right.” Don’t think about it. She kept
smiling too, so they wouldn’t catch her anxiety.
Octan glided down into the gully, and perched himself
on Pat Halahan’s broad shoulder, wings folding tightly.
Fenton was already nosing round Reza’s legs.
Don’t think about it. Kelly sat beside Jay. The little girl
obviously knew something terrible was about to happen.
“It’s all right,” Kelly whispered. “Really.” She winked,
though it was more like a nervous tic.
Flints in the gully wall were sharp on her back. Water
gurgled round her boots.
“Joshua,” Kelly datavised into her communication block.
“Joshua, answer me, for Christ’s sake. Joshua!” All
she was given in reply was the oscillating ghost-wind of
static.
There was a scuttling sound as the mercenaries sat
down on the stones.
Several children were sniffling.
“Shut your eyes, and keep them shut,” Reza said loudly.
“I shall smack anyone who I see with open eyes.”
The children hurriedly did as they were told.
Kelly closed her eyes, took a breath, and slowly folded
her shaking arms over her head.

As soon as the event horizon collapsed, Joshua
accessed the image supplied by the short-range
combat sensors. Lady Mac had emerged from her jump
six thousand kilometres above Lalonde. There was
nothing within two thousand kilometres. He datavised
the full sensor-suite deployment, and triggered the
fusion drives. They moved in at a cautious two gees,
aiming for a thousand-kilometre orbit.
No starships were left in orbit, the sensors reported,
even the inter-orbit craft from Kenyon had vanished.
Victim of a combat wasp, Joshua assumed. There was
a lot of metallic wreckage, most of it in highly eccentric
elliptical orbits, and all of it radioactive.
“Melvyn, access the communication satellites, see if
there’s any data traffic for us. And Sarha, see if there
are any low-orbit observation satellites left, their
memories might hold something useful.”
They both acknowledged their orders and datavised
instructions to the flight computer. The starship’s main
dish found one of the secure communication satellites,
and beams of microwave radiation sprang up to
enmesh the planet in a loose web. Lady Macbeth
started to receive data from the various observation
systems left functional.
Everybody seemed to be working smoothly. Their flight
to Achillea and the slingshot round its moon had passed
off flawlessly. Jubilation at the successful jump from
Murora had temporarily balanced out the loss of
Warlow. Certainly Joshua experienced none of the
sense of accomplishment which should have
accompanied the Lagrange-point stunt. The most
fantastic piece of flying in his life.
Gaura said he wasn’t sure, but he thought the
transference had worked, certainly a large quantity of
the old cosmonik’s memories had been datavised
successfully into Aethra. The habitat had been
integrating them when Lady Mac jumped.
The prospect of him living on as part of the multiplicity
helped ease the grief, to a degree. Joshua felt a lot of
regrets bubbling below his surface thoughts; things he’d
said, things he should have said. Jesus, did Warlow
have a family? I’ll have to tell them.
“Nothing from the communication satellites, Joshua,”
Melvyn said heavily.

“Thanks.” The idea that Kelly and the mercenaries had
been caught was unbearable. That would mean their
own flight had been for nothing, and Warlow, “Stand by
to broadcast a message from Lady Mac’s main dish,
we’ll see if we can break through the cloud with sheer
power. Sarha, what have you got?”
“Not much. There are only seven low-orbit observation
satellites left. They took a real pounding in the battle
yesterday. But, Joshua, someone detonated a nuke
down there earlier this morning.”
“Jesus. Where?”
“I think it was at Durringham. The satellite only saw the
blast as it fell below the horizon.”
Joshua accessed the main sensor image. The red
cloudbands over the tributaries had expanded
dramatically. Individual strands had blended together
producing a homogenized oval smear that covered the
entire Juliffe basin. He realized the bright flame-glimmer
Durringham had produced before was missing.
Then he noticed a large circular section of cloud in the
south-east had lost its red nimbus altogether, becoming
a malaised grey. Interest stirred at the back of his mind;
it almost looked as if the red cloud was being ruined by
some cancerous growth. He datavised the flight
computer for a guidance grid.
“It’s south of the Quallheim villages,” he said with a
sense of growing confidence.
“That grey patch?” Sarha asked.
“Yeah. Exactly where Kelly said they were going.”
“Could be,” Dahybi said. “Maybe the mercenaries have
found a way of damaging the cloud.”
“Perhaps. Melvyn, focus our dish on it, and start
transmitting. See if you can punch through and raise
Kelly directly.” Joshua centred an optical sensor on the
area and upped the magnification. The hoary
amorphous cloudscape rushed out to fill his mind. It
wasn’t giving any clues away, there were no breaks, no
glimpses of the ground below.
“Ashly, have you been following this?”
“Yes, Joshua,” the pilot answered from the spaceplane

cabin.
“We’ll be in orbit in another three minutes. I want you to
launch as soon as we finish decelerating. Loiter above
those mountains in the south, and we’ll see if the
mercenary team can get out from under the cloud.
Under no circumstances are you to go under it.”
“No fear.”
“Good.” He datavised the flight computer to open the
spaceplane hangar doors. “Anything from Kelly, yet?”
“Sorry, Joshua, only static.”
“She said they wouldn’t be out from under the cloud until
the afternoon,” Sarha pointed out. “It isn’t quite noon
there yet.”
“I know. But that cloud is still growing, even the grey
section. If it reaches the mountains they’ll be in serious
trouble. The hovercraft won’t be able to handle that sort
of country. They’ll be trapped between the two.”
“We can wait,” Dahybi said. “For a week if we have to.”
Joshua nodded vaguely, eyes tight shut as he flipped
through sensor inputs, desperate for any sort of hint.
“Come on, Kelly,” he murmured.
“Show us you’re there.”
Ryall padded stealthily through the long grass. The
scent of humans was strong in the air. Many had
passed by very recently. But none were near him now.
After leaving his master he had run swiftly east, the big
weight fastened round his neck jouncing about
uncomfortably. After a couple of kilometres the
masterlove thoughts in his brain had guided him to one
side. He had traced a wide curve over the savannah,
now he was heading back to his starting point.
When he reached a wide swath of grass, beaten down
by many tramping feet, Ryall waited at the edge for a
moment, listening, sniffing. Instinct told him he was
alone. Satisfied, the masterlove thoughts urged him out.
The swath led all the way back to the jungle, he turned
the other way. Five hundred metres ahead of him, the
homestead cabin jutted up out of the grassland. He
hurried towards it, a hungering sensation racing through
his blood.

The grass was beaten down all around the cabin.
Fences had been broken.
Cows wandered about, grazing placidly, paying no
attention to him. Goats saw him coming and ran jerkily
until they realized he wasn’t chasing them. Chickens
escaped from their smashed pen were scratching in the
dirt; they scattered squawking when he trotted up to the
cabin.
Height. The masterlove thoughts wanted him to have
height. Ryall swung his big head from side to side,
viewing the back wall of the cabin; then loped over to a
pile of composite pods stacked at one corner. He
jumped, bounding up the pods, then sprang for the
eaves. Paws skated unsteadily on the solar-cell panels
nailed to the roof, but he found his footing on the ginger
qualtook-bark tiles and scampered his way up to the
apex.
His master used his eyes to peer out across the
savannah. The line of men carrying pikes were a
kilometre away. And almost lost in the gloaming ahead
of them the band of knights on horseback galloped after
their prey.
Ryall felt a curious mix of excitement and sorrow. But
the masterlove thoughts were full of gentle praise. He
thumped his tail on the qualtook tiles in response.
Then the masterlove thoughts were guiding his left
forepaw to the heavy weight hanging from his neck. He
bent his head round and watched attentively as his
extended nails caught the edge of a small hinged panel
and eased it open. Glowing squares were revealed.
Masterlove adoration flowed through him. Very carefully
his nail touched one of the squares. Once. Twice.
Thrice,
The spaceplane stopped shaking as it dropped to
subsonic velocity. It had been a fast, steep descent,
Ashly had made the little craft stand almost on its tail to
aerobrake. Now he levelled out and datavised the wings
into their forward-sweep position. Nose-mounted
sensors showed him the mountains rolling past below;
the fringe of the cloud was fifty kilometres to the north.
Short puffy fronds extended out from the main bulk,
snaking through the air like blind searching insect
antennae towards the foothills.
He datavised the flight computer for a channel up to

Lady Macbeth. “Any word yet?”
“Nothing,” Joshua replied. “Sarha says the observation
satellites recorded that patch of cloud turning grey
immediately after the Durringham nuke. We’re not too
sure what that means, but then I don’t think normal logic
applies here.”
“Too right. I’ve got enough power in the electron
matrices for a five-hour flight before I have to come
back up and recharge. If you want that extending I could
land on one of these peaks, they’re fairly isolated.”
“No. You keep airborne, Ashly. Frankly, if they’re not
out of there in five hours I don’t think we’ll see them
again. And I’ve already lost one crewman today.”
“You didn’t lose him, Joshua. Silly old fart. Now I’ve got
to come back and wander through Aethra’s parkland
talking to the trees. Hell, he’ll love that. Kill himself
laughing I expect.”
“Thanks, Ashly.”
The pilot loaded a course into the computer, a patrol
circuit along the length of the grey cloud section,
staying at eight thousand metres.
Thermals shooting up off the rocky slopes rocked the
wings in agitated rhythms as the spaceplane flew
overhead.
Jay thought it was a lightning bolt. Blackness suddenly
and silently turned to bright scarlet. She sucked in a
breath, it must have been frightfully close. But there was
no thunderclap. Not at first.
The redness faded away. She risked opening her eyes.
Everything seemed normal, except it was a lot lighter
than it had been before. As if the sun was finally rising
behind her back. Then the noise started, a dry roar
which built and built. She heard some of the children
start to whimper. The ground began to tremble, the gully
wall vibrating her back.
And the brightness behind her kept growing. A sheet of
white light sprang across the top of the gully, throwing
the floor into deep shadow. It began to tilt downwards,
turning the opposite bank unbearably bright. Jay could
just hear the lady beside her shouting what sounded like
a prayer at the top of her voice. She closed her eyes
again, little squeaks of fear escaping from her throat.

Lady Macbeth was passing over Amarisk’s western
coast, a hundred kilometres north of Durringham, when
Reza detonated the nuke. The sensors caught its initial
flash, a concussion of photons turning the grey clouds
momentarily translucent.
“Jesus Christ,” Joshua gasped. He datavised the flight
computer for a secure communication channel to the
spaceplane. “Ashly, did you see that?”
“I saw it, Joshua. The spaceplane sensors registered
an emp pulse equivalent to about a kiloton blast.”
“Are your electronics OK?”
“Yes. Couple of processor drop-outs, but the backups
are on line.”
“It’s them. It has to be.”
“Joshua!” Sarha called. “Look at the cloud.”
He accessed the sensor image again. A four hundred
metre circle of the cloud looked as if it was on fire
below the surface. As he watched it rose up into a lofty
ignescent fleuron. The tip burst open. A ragged beam of
rose-gold light shone through.
Lady Mac’s flight computer datavised a priority signal
from one of the communication satellites direct into
Joshua’s neural nanonics.
“Joshua?” Kelly called. “This is Reza’s team calling
Lady Mac. Joshua, are you up there?”
Tactical graphics immediately overlaid the optical
sensor image, pinpointing her communications block to
within fifteen centimetres. Close to the blast point, very
close. “I’m here, Kelly.”
“Oh, Christ, Joshua! Help us. Now!”
“Spaceplane’s on its way. What’s your situation, have
you got the children?”
“Yes, damn it. They’re with us, all of them. But we’re
being chased to hell and back by the fucking Knights of
the Round Table. You’ve got to get us out of here.”
Vast strips of rank grey cloud were peeling back from
the centre of the blast. Joshua could see down onto the
savannah. It was a poor angle, but a vivid amber fireball
was ascending from the centre of a calcinated

was ascending from the centre of a calcinated
wasteland.
“Go,” Joshua datavised to Ashly. “Go go go.”
Reza stood on top of the gully, bracing himself against
the baked wind driving out from the blast. A mushroom
cloud was roiling upwards from the cemetery of the
homestead, alive with gruesome internal energy
surges. It had gouged a wide crater, uneven curving
sides spouting runnels of capricious magma.
He brought a series of filter programs on-line, and
scanned the savannah.
A firestorm was raging for two kilometres around the
crater. Pixels from the section of ground where the
marching pikemen had been were amplified.
He studied the resulting matrix of square lenses. There
were no remnants, not even pyres; none of them had
survived. He tracked back. Knights and horses had
been hurled indiscriminately across the smouldering
grass two and a half kilometres away. Encased in that
metal armour human bodies should have first been
triturated by the blast wave then fried by the infrared
radiation.
He watched one silver figure struggle to its knees, then
use a broadsword shoved into the ground to clamber to
its feet.
Ye Gods, what will kill them?
A horse kicked its legs and rolled over, surging
upwards. It trotted obediently over to its fallen rider.
Slowly but surely the entire band was remounting.
Reza jumped back into the gully. Children were being
packed back into the hovercraft.
“Joshua’s here,” Kelly yelled over the trumpeting wind.
Her tear-stained face framed a radiant smile. “Lady
Mac’s in orbit. The spaceplane’s on its way. We’re
safe, we’re out of here!”
“How long?”
“Ashly says about ten minutes.”
Not enough, Reza thought. The knights will be here by
then, they’ll hit the spaceplane with their white fire, if
they don’t just switch off its circuitry with that black
magic. “Kelly, you and Theo take off south. The rest of

you, with me. We’re going to arrange a small delay.”
“No, Reza!” Kelly implored. “You can’t, not now. It’s
over. Ashly will get here.”
“That was an order, Kelly. We’ll catch up with you when
we’ve finished off these mounted pricks.”
“Oh, Christ.”
“Hey, Kell, stop fretting,” Sewell said. “You’ve got the
wrong attitude for this game. Win some or lose some,
who cares, you’ve just gotta have fun playing.” He
laughed and vaulted up to the top of the gully.
Horst made the sign of the cross to Reza. “Bless you,
my son. May the Lord watch over you.”
“Get in the bloody hovercraft, Father, take the kids
somewhere they can have a life. Theo, blast some
grass, get them clear.”
“Yes, boss.” The jungle-rover mercenary fed power into
the impellers even as Horst was scrambling on board.
With the skirt bouncing against the gully wall the
hovercraft turned in a tight curve and sped back up the
scree.
Reza joined his team on the top of the bank. Out on the
savannah the knights were mustering into a V-shaped
battle phalanx.
“Move out,” Reza said. There was a strange kind of
glee running loose in his mind. Now we’ll show you
babykillers what happens when you face a real enemy,
one that can fight back. See how you like that.
The six mercenaries started to march over the grass
towards the waiting knights.
Sunlight and rain poured down on the hovercraft,
surrounding them with a fantastic exhibition of
rainbows. The clouds were breaking up, losing their
supernatural cohesion. They were just ordinary rain-
clouds again.
The rain sprayed against Kelly’s face as she battled the
hovercraft’s inertia against the wind and damp cloying
grass. Speed tossed them about like a dinghy on a
storm-swollen sea.
“How big are the children?” Joshua asked.

“Small, they’re mostly under ten.”
“Ashly will probably have to make two trips. He can
bring the children up first then come back for you and
the mercenaries.”
She tried to laugh, but all that emerged was a gullet-
rasping cough. “No, Joshua, there’s only going to be
one flight. Reza’s team won’t be coming. Just the
children, and me and the priest if the spaceplane can
handle our mass.”
“The way you diet to keep your image, you’re into
negative mass, Kelly. I’ll tell Ashly.”
She heard the first fusillade of EE projectiles exploding
behind her.
Sewell and Jalal stood four metres apart, facing the
apex of the charging knights. The reverberant thud of
the horses galloping over the savannah rose above the
hot squalls spinning off from the chthonic maelstrom of
the blast’s epicentre.
“I make that forty-nine,” Jalal said.
“The lead is mine, you take the right flank.”
“Sure thing.”
The knights lowered their lances, spurring on their
horses. Sewell waited until his rangefinder put the lead
knight a hundred and twenty metres away, and fired
both heavy-calibre gaussrifles plugged into his elbow
sockets. Feed tubes from his backpack hummed
efficiently. He laid down three fragmentation rounds
over the knight’s plumed helmet, and followed it up with
twenty-five EE shells into the ground ahead of the left
flank.
Jalal was laying down a similar fire pattern across the
right flank, his two gaussrifles traversing the line, guided
by a targeting program.
Pamiers had shown that the possessed were capable
of defending themselves against almost anything short
of a direct hit by an EE round; he was going for the
horses. Kill the mounts, chop the legs out from under
them, slow them down. More fragmentation bursts
saturated the air. The knights were veiled by smoke,
fountains of soil, and riotous static webs.

Streaks of white fire ripped out of the carnage. Sewell
and Jalal leaped aside. Four knights sped towards them
out of the furore. Sewell spun round as he hit the
ground, white fire was gnawing into his left leg. His
targeting program locked on to the first knight; one of
his gaussrifles was responding sluggishly, the other
fired ten EE rounds. The knight and his horse vanished
inside a tangled screen of rampaging electrons. Gore
spat outwards.
Sewell’s optical sensors were tracking more knights
riding out from the first assault point. Several bodies
were scattered on the crushed grass behind them. His
neural nanonics automatically fired a salvo of
fragmentation rounds at the renewed charge.
He tried to get up, but there was no response from his
leg. One of the gaussrifles had packed up completely.
Some of his sensor inputs were wavering. Horses were
charging at him from three directions. His functional
gaussrifle blasted at one. Another knight aimed a lance
at his head, and fire squirted out of its tip.
Sewell rolled desperately. He flung a grenade as the
fire caught him on the shoulder, punching him round.
The grenade went off beneath the horse, lifting it clear
of the ground. It crashed down, the knight tumbling
through the air before landing with a bonebreaker
smash.
The horse’s outline imploded into an amalgam of purple
flesh and pumping organs. Eight or nine sayce had
been moulded together, like living dough, into a rough
sculpture of the terrestrial animal. Heads stuck out of
its sides and haunches, encased in thick vein-laced
membranes, jaws working silently beneath the naked
protoplasm.
Neither of Sewell’s gaussrifles were working. He
swivelled them down, and used them as crutches to
lever himself upright. His medical program was flashing
red caution warnings into his mind. He cancelled it
completely, and drew a TIP carbine from its holster.
The fallen knight was rising to his feet, crumpled armour
straightening out. Sewell flicked the TIP carbine to
continuous fire with his thumb, and pulled the trigger. It
was like using a battering ram. The energy pulses kept
smacking into the armour with jackhammer blows,
knocking him down and kicking him across the ground.
A violet corona seethed around the silver metal. Sewell
pulled a grenade from his belt and lobbed it at the limp

figure.
A lance caught him in the middle of his back, splitting his
ribs apart then puncturing his lungs and an oxygenated-
blood-reserve bladder before sliding out of his chest.
The blow flung him three metres across the grass. He
landed awkwardly, the lance jarring round violently and
causing more internal damage.
The knight who had speared him reigned his horse
round and dismounted. He drew his broadsword and
walked towards the crippled mercenary.
Sewell managed to achieve a precarious balance on
his knees. His right hand closed on the lance, boosted
fingers exerting their full power, crushing the wood. It
snapped off, leaving a splintered twenty-centimetre
stump sticking out of his chest. A huge quantity of blood
coursed down into the grass.
“Not good enough, my friend,” the knight said. He ran
his broadsword through Sewell’s short neck.
Sewell reached out with his left arm and grabbed the
knight’s shoulder, pulling him even closer. There was a
sharp grunt of surprise from the knight. Little crackles
of energy skated over the surface of his armour.
The broadsword penetrated up to the hilt, but Sewell
opened his mouth slit wide.
The knight got out one frantic “No!” before Sewell’s
silicon carbide teeth clamped round his neck, slicing
cleanly through the chain-mail.
The northern horizon was an uncompromising clash of
turquoise and red, both colours textured as fine as silk,
pressing smoothly against each other. Both unyielding.
Beautiful, from a distance. Directly in front of the
spaceplane, filth and fire was belching from a widening
fissure in the rain-clouds.
Ashly altered the camber of the wings, and sent the
spaceplane on a steep dive through the dank clouds.
Water slicked the pearl-white fuselage, misting the
optical sensor images. Then he was through, levelling
out.
It was a small confined world of darkness and squalor
into which he had come. At the centre, clouds reflected
the diseased irradiation of the crater, tarnishing the
land with the flickers of dying atoms. Wildfire scoured

the malaised savannah around its base, eating its way
outwards.
Twisters roamed the scorched earth, scattering soot
and ash all around to form a greasy crust of embers
over the flattened grass.
But further out the rain was falling, cleansing the land.
Spears of sunlight wrested their way past the shredding
clouds, returning cool natural colours to the fractal
wilderness of greys.
Sensors locked on to Kelly’s communication block.
Ashly banked the spaceplane in a swift high-gee turn,
riding the signal to its source.
Ahead and below, two tiny hovercraft bounced and
jerked their way across the uneven countryside.
Reza counted twenty-one knights escaping from the
small holocaust Sewell and Jalal unleashed. That was
good, he had expected it to be more. He and Pat
Halahan were next. His sensors showed him the
spaceplane sinking fast out of the sky a couple of
kilometres behind him.
“Five minutes, that’s all they need.”
“They’ve got it,” Pat said urbanely.
Reza fired his forearm gaussrifle. Targeting-program-
controlled muscles shifted the barrel round as his
sensors went into a track-while-scan mode. All his
conscious thoughts had to do was designate.
He picked off three knights with EE rounds, and brought
a further two horses down before the gaussrifle
malfunctioned. Some of his processor blocks were
glitched as well. Sensor resolution was falling off. He
dumped the gaussrifle and switched to a ten-millimetre
automatic pistol.
Chemical bullets which produced a scythe of kinetic
death, and nothing the possessed could do to stop it.
Two more knights were down when he ran out of spare
magazines. White fire hit his shoulder, blowing his left
arm off. A two-metre jet of blood squirted out until his
neural nanonics closed artery valves.
Pat was still sluicing bullets at a pair of knights off to
Reza’s left.

Stimulant and suppressor programs were working hard
to eliminate shock.
Reza saw a mounted knight thundering towards him,
whirling a mace around.
A momentum prediction program went into primary
mode. The horse was three metres away when Reza
took one step back. His remaining hand came up inside
the slashing arc of the mace. He grabbed, pulled,
twisted. His carbon-fibre skeleton twanged at the
severe loading as the inertia of the spiked iron club
yanked him off his feet. Glossy armour shrieked a
metallic protest as the knight was catapulted backwards
out of the saddle, then clanged like a bell as he landed.
They climbed to their feet together. Reza raised the
mace and started to walk forwards, a locomotion auto-
balance program compensating for his lost arm.
The knight saw him coming and pointed his broadsword
like a rifle. White flame raced down the blade.
“Cheat,” Reza said. He detonated the fragmentation
grenades clipped to his belt. Both of them vanished
inside a dense swarm of furious black silicon micro-
blades.
A hurricane squall of rain stung Kelly’s face as the
spaceplane swooped fifteen metres overhead. Its
compressor nozzle efflux nearly overturned the
hovercraft. She engaged the fan deflector and killed the
impellers.
They skidded to a rumbustious halt.
The spaceplane slipped round sideways in the air then
landed hard, undercarriage struts pistoning upwards.
Rain pattered loosely on its extended wings, dribbling
off the flaps.
Kelly turned around in her seat. The children were
huddled together on the hard silicon deck, clothes
soaked, hair straggly. Terrified, crying, peeing in their
shorts and pants. Wide eyes stared at her, brimming
with incomprehension. There were no clever words left
to accompany the scene for the recording. She simply
wanted to put her arms round every one of them, pour
out every scrap of comfort she owned. And that was far
less than they deserved.
Three kilometres behind the hovercraft, EE explosions

strobed chaotically, while antagonistic streamers of
white fire curled and thrashed above the blood-soaked
grass.
We did it, she thought, the knights can’t reach us now.
The children are going to live. Nothing else mattered,
not the hardships, not the pain, not the sickening fear.
“Come on,” she said to them, and the smile came so
easily. “We’re leaving now.”
“Thank you, lady,” Jay said.
Kelly glanced up as a figure hiked out of the rain. “I
thought you’d left,” she said.
Shaun Wallace grinned. His sodden LDC one-piece
was shrunk round his body, mud and grass clung to his
boots, but the humour in his eyes couldn’t be
vanquished. “Without saying goodbye? Ah now, Miss
Kelly, I wouldn’t be wanting you to think the worst of me.
Not you.” He lifted the first child, a seven-year-old girl,
over the gunwale. “Come along then, you rabble. You’re
all going on a long, beautiful trip to a place far away.”
The spaceplane’s outer airlock hatch slid open, and the
aluminium stairs telescoped out.
“Get a move on, Kelly, please,” Ashly datavised.
She joined Shaun at the side of the hovercraft and
began lifting the exhausted, bedraggled children out.
Horst stood at the bottom of the stairs, harrying his
small charges along. A word here, a smile, pat on the
head. They scooted up into the cabin where Ashly
cursed under his breath as he tried to work out how on
earth to fit them all in.
Kelly had the last boy in her arms, a four-year-old who
was virtually asleep, when Theo started up his
hovercraft. “Oh no, Theo,” she datavised. “Not you as
well.”
“They need me,” he replied. “I can’t leave them. I’m a
part of them.”
Great bands of sunlight were raking the savannah. The
fighting was over.
Kelly could see three or four knights on horseback
milling about. None of them showed any interest in the
spaceplane now. “But they’re dead, Theo.”

“You don’t know that, not for sure. In any case, haven’t
you heard, there’s no such thing, not any more.” He
stuck his arm up and waved.
“Hell.” She tipped her head back, letting the sweet rain
wash her face.
“Come along now, Miss Kelly.” Shaun leant over and
gave her cheek a platonic kiss. “Time you was leaving.”
“I don’t suppose it would do any good asking you to
come?”
“Would I ask you to stay?”
She put a foot on the bottom rung, the drowsy child
heavy in her arms.
“Goodbye, Shaun. I wish it could have been different.”
“Aye, Miss Kelly. Me too.”
Kelly sat in the cabin with one eight-year-old boy on her
lap and her arms round a pair of girls. The children
squirmed round, fidgeting, excited and nervous, asking
her about the waiting starship. Lalonde was already
half-forgotten, yesterday’s nightmare.
If only, she wished.
The compressor whine permeated the overcrowded
cabin as Ashly fed power into the fans. Then they were
airborne, the deck tilting up, a press of acceleration.
Kelly closed her eyes and accessed the spaceplane’s
sensor suite. A lone figure was trudging over the
savannah, a well-built man with tousled ginger hair,
wearing a thick red and blue check cotton shirt, collar
up against the rain as he headed for home.
A minute later a stentorian sonic boom broke across
the vast grass plain.
Fenton raised his great head at the sound, but there
was nothing in the sky apart from rain and clouds. He
lowered his gaze again, and resumed his earthbound
search for his lost masterlove.
===========================================================================