ARE YOU TALL?
ARE YOU GREEN?
ARE YOU SCARY?
IF YOU ANSWERED “YES” To THOSE QUESTIONS,
“THEN COME WORK AT HORRORLAND THEME PARK!
IMPORTANT: HORRORLAND WILL ONLY HIRE MONSTERS
WHO KNOW HOW TO KEEP SECRETS.
~NIA
3013050466542

= PRE YOu SCSAS R
*
F YOU Answered “YES” To THOSE QUESTIONS
"THEN COME WORK AT HORRORLAND THEME Pétich
IMPORTANT. LORROR: AND WILL ONLY HIRE MONSTERS. .
e WR) KNOW ROW em aaa SECRETS.
=
&
Herron
www.Enterte

coosesumes HorrorLand”
ALL-NEW, ALL-TERRIFYING
@ REVENGE OF THE LIVING DUMMY
@ CREEP FROM THE DEEP
© MONSTER BLOOD FOR BREAKFAST!
@ THE SCREAM OF THE HAUNTED MASK
@ DR MANIAC Vs ROBBY SCHWARTZ
@ wio's your mummy?
@ MY FRIENDS CALL ME MONSTER
@ SAY CHEESE - AND DIE SCREAMING!
GOOSEBUMPS’
NOW WITH BONUS FEATURES!
LOOK IN THE BACK OF THE BOOK
FOR EXCLUSIVE AUTHOR INTERVIEWS AND MORE.
NIGHT OF THE LIVING DUMMY
DEEP TROUBLE
MONSTER BLOOD
THE HAUNTED MASK
ONE DAY AT HORRORLAND
THE CURSE OF THE MUMMY’S TOMB
BE CAREFUL WHAT YOU WISH FOR
SAY CHEESE AND DIE!

MY FRIENDS CALL
ME MONSTER
R.L. STINE

Scholastic Children’s Books
A division of Scholastic Ltd
Euston House, 24 Eversholt Street
London, NW1 1DB, UK
Registered office: Westfield Road, Southam, Warwickshire, CV47 0RA
SCHOLASTIC, GOOSEBUMPS, GOOSEBUMPS HORRORLAND, and
associated logos
are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of Scholastic Inc.
First published in the US in 2009 by Scholastic Inc.
This edition published in the UK by Scholastic Ltd, 2009
Goosebumps series created by Parachute Press, Inc.
Copyright © 2009 by Scholastic Inc.
The right of R.L. Stine to be identified as the author of this work
has been asserted by him.
ISBN 978 1407 10756 1
British Library Cataloguing-in-Publication Data.
A CIP catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library
All rights reserved
This book is sold subject to the condition that it shall not, by way of trade
or otherwise, be lent, hired out or otherwise circulated in any form of
binding or cover other than that in which it is published. No part of this
publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted
in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical, photocopying,
recording or otherwise) without the prior written permission of
Scholastic Limited.
Printed in the UK by CPI Bookmarque, Croydon
Papers used by Scholastic Children’s Books are made from wood grown in
sustainable forests.
13579108642
This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places, incidents and dialogues
are products of the author’s imagination or are used fictitiously. Any
resemblance to actual people, living or dead, events or locales is entirely
coincidental.
www.scholastic.co.uzko/ne
Essex Coun
Council Libraries

8 RIDES IN 4!
MY FRIENDS CALL ME MONSTER
l
ENTER HORRORLAND
97
FEAR FILE
145

MY FRIENDS CALL
ME MONSTER —

“Michael, this is crazy,’ my friend Daisy
Edwards whispered. “We shouldn’t be here.”
“Too late,” I whispered back. “We’re already
here.”
Daisy was right. Sneaking into our teacher’s
house was probably a bad idea.
But there we were, the three of us — me, Daisy
and our friend DeWayne Walker — standing in Mrs
Hardesty’s kitchen. My eyes darted around,
trying to see in the dim light. All the shades
were pulled.
“Weird. She keeps her house as dark as our
classroom,” DeWayne said.
The kitchen smelled of cinnamon. Mrs
Hardesty had a lot of snapshots on her fridge
door. I glanced at them quickly. The faces all
seemed blurry. An empty egg carton stood open
on the sink.
I led the way into the front room. The shades
were down there, too.

The sofa and four chairs all matched. They
were black leather. I saw knitting needles _
sticking out of a ball of wool on a table beside the
sofa. A tall wooden clock on the mantel ticked
loudly.
“l’m not happy about this,” Daisy
whispered. “What if she comes home and finds us?
We're dead!”
“No worries,” I said. “She’s still at school.”
“Let’s dump the cat and get out of here,”
DeWayne said. He raised the carrier in front of
him. I could see the black cat’s blue eyes peering
out at me.
You're probably wondering why we sneaked
into Mrs Hardesty’s house with a black cat. Well,
our plan was simple.
Mrs H is very superstitious. So... she comes
home. She looks down and sees this black cat
rubbing against her ankles...and it totally
freaks her mind!
I wished I could be there when she went nuts.
But I planned to be far, far away.
The cat pawed the front of the carrier and
meowed. I think it wanted out.
“Monster, just open the carrier,” DeWayne
said. “Let it go, and we’re outta here.”
My friends call me Monster.
It’s kind of a cool nickname. You see, I’m a big
dude. I’m twelve, but I look like a high school
guy. I’m pretty strong, too.
4

That’s a gdod thing.
But I guess kids also call me Monster because
of my temper. That’s a bad thing.
My parents say I have ashort fuse. That means
I explode a lot. But, hey, I’m not angry all the
time. Just when someone pushes my buttons.
_ Which is why my two friends and I were in
Mrs Hardesty’s house. Our teacher had been
pushing my buttons ever since she arrived at
Adams Middle School.
“Let the cat out,’ DeWayne said, holding the
carrier up to my face.
“Not here,” I said. “Mrs H will see it too soon.
That’s no fun.”
“How about the basement?” Daisy said. “Mrs
Hardesty opens the basement door, and there’s a
black cat at the bottom of the stairs, staring up
at her. Can you picture it?”
“Awesome!” I said. I jabbed my finger into
Daisy’s forehead. “I like the way you think.”
We searched the hall till we found the basement
door. I pulled it open, and we stared down into
the darkness. I fumbled for the light switch, and
a bulb flashed on overhead.
I led the way down the creaky wooden
steps. The cat meowed again. “Be patient,” I
said. “You'll have a nice, new basement
to explore. And Mrs H will take good care
of you.”
We stepped into a short hallway. The air grew
5

cold and damp. The basemenwtas divided into
two rooms. Both doors were shut.
DeWayne set the carrier down on the floor.
He bent to open its door.
That’s when we heard the sound. A heavy
thump. From one of the rooms.
We all froze. DeWayne’s hands shot up, away
from the carrier. He stared at me, his mouth
open. Daisy took a step back.
I heard a groan. Another thump.
My heart did a flip-flop in my chest. “There’s
someone down here!” I whispered.
We didn’t say another word. DeWayne grabbed
the carrier by the handle, we spun away from the
doors, and took off.
We scrambled up the stairs. Our trainers
thudded loudly all the way up.
I was nearly at the top when I heard a
metal chiiing. Something hit a stair and
bounced down.
“Something fell out of my pocket!” I cried.
Was it my mobile phone?
I couldn’t go back for it. We had to get out of
there.
Someone — or something — was coming after us!

TWO WEEKS EARLIER
“How many of you have heard of the Loch Ness
monster?” Mrs Hardesty asked. Several hands
went up.
“Here she goes again,” I whispered to
DeWayne. He sat beside me in class.
DeWayne rolled his eyes. “Always monsters.”
“The other sixth-grade class is doing the Civil
War,” I said. “All we talk about is monsters. How
weird is that?”
DeWayne laughed. He’s a lanky, good-looking
dude. He wears low-riding, baggy jeans and long
T-shirts with hip-hop singers across the front.
He has big brown eyes and keeps sae black hair
shaved close to his head.
He’s a good guy, except his laugh is too loud,
which gets me in trouble a lot.
I suddenly realized Mrs Hardesty had her

beady little black eagle eyes on me. “Is something
funny, Michael?” she asked.
I shrugged.
“Would you like to share it with the whole
class?”
I shrugged again. “Whatever.”
I should’ve just said sorry or something. Why
do I always look for trouble with her?
Maybe because she’s always on my case?
She stared at me with that cold expression,
her face frozen like a statue.
Mrs Hardesty looks a lot like a bird, with tiny
round eyes pushed up against a long beaky nose.
She has short, feathery, white-blonde hair that
puffs up around her pale narrow face.
“Would you care to tell the class what you
think the Loch Ness monster looks like,
Michael?” ;
“Well... it looks a lot like DeWayne, except
it’s prettier.”
That got everyone laughing, except for Mrs
Hardesty. She wrinkled her nose and made that
sniffing sound she always makes when she’s
unhappy about something.
She held up a large photograph. “This is a
photo of the Loch Ness monster,” she said. She
moved it from side to side, but it was really hard
to see in the dim light.
She always keeps it dark in the room. Ride aa re
always stumbling over their backpacks. When
8

we take tests, we have to hold the paper up close
to our faces to read it.
It was a bright, sunny day outside, but the
shades were down and the ceiling lights were
dim as usual.
“As you can see, the monster looks a lot like a
dinosaur,” Mrs Hardesty continued. “A lot of
people claim this photo is a fake. People don’t
want to believe in monsters.”
I reached into my jeans pocket and pulled out
my silver dog whistle.
“But hundreds of people visit the lake in
Scotland every year,” Mrs H said. “They want to
see the monster for themselves.”
Kids gasped in surprise as one of the window
shades shot up with a loud snap. Sunlight poured
into the room.
Mrs Hardesty shielded her eyes. She edged
sideways to the window and tugged the shade
back down. The room grew dark again.
Mrs Hardesty picked up her lucky rabbit’s foot
from the desk. She always squeezes it in her
hand when she gets tense. Which means she
- squeezes it a lot!
“Many other water monsters have been spotted
over the centuries,” she said. “In ancient times,
sailors believed in sea serpents. And—”
SNAP.
The same window shade zipped back up to
the top.

Mrs H gasped and dived to the window.
She tugged it down and held it there for a few
seconds. Then she returned to the front of her
desk, rolling the rabbit’s foot in her hand.
SNAP.
The shade flipped back up. Everyone laughed.
Sunlight poured over the front of the room.
I hid the dog whistle under my desk. She hadn’t
seen me blow it. She had no idea what a mechanical
genius Michael Munroe is.
Yeah, I’m real good with tech stuff. People
don’t expect it, because I’m Monster, the big hulk
of a dude who is always getting into trouble.
But I’ve got a lot of skill with computers and
all kinds of tech stuff.
Before class, I rigged the window shade. I put
a tiny receiver on it. The dog whistle sent high-
pitched sound waves to the receiver. Sound
waves that humans can’t hear. And the sound
made the window shade go flying up.
SNAP.
I did it again. Just to upset Mrs H and get
everyone laughing. Then I hid the whistle behind
my textbook.
Mrs Hardesty scratched her head. “Why does
that shade keep going up?” she asked.
“Maybe an evil spirit is doing it!” DeWayne said.
He knew I was doing it. But he liked to
torture her, too. “Owooooo0.” He made a nice
ghost howl.
10

Mrs Hardesty’s mouth dropped open. She
didn’t think it was funny. She was squeezing that
lucky rabbit’s foot flat! |
“One should never joke about evil spirits,” she
said. Her voice trembled.
She kept a jar of black powder on her desk.
She reached into the jar, pulled out a handful,
and tossed it over her shoulder. ,
Is she the weirdest teacher on earth or what?
We're always trying to figure out what the
black powder is. Daisy thinks it’s ground-up bat
wings. DeWayne says it’s powdered eye of newt.
He learned about eye of newt in one of the scary
books he’s always reading.
Mrs Hardesty tugged the window shade down
and examined it carefully. I hoped she wouldn't
spot the little receiver I’d planted there.
She returned to the front of the class. I raised
my dog whistle and prepared to blow it again.
OOPS.
The whistle slipped out of my hand. I made a
wild grab for it. But it bounced off my desk, hit
the floor, and rolled halfway to Mrs Hardesty.
Did she see it?
Yes.
She squinted at it, then raised her eyes to me.
“Uh ...am [in trouble?” I asked.
11

Yes, I was in trouble. She made me come back to
class after school.
Outside, rain clouds covered the sky. That
made the classroom even darker than before.
Mrs Hardesty had two tall white candles
flickering on her desk. She was leaning over
them, whispering to herself, when I dragged
myself in.
“Mrs Hardesty, I’m sorry about the whistle
thing,” I said. “But I can’t stay after school.”
She kept whispering for a long while, her eyes
shut. The candle smoke floated over her face, but
she didn’t seem to mind it.
Finally, she looked up at me. Her skin appeared
grey and powdery in the candlelight. “Of course
you will stay, Michael.”
“No. Really) I said. “T can’t. I'll miss wrestling
practice.”
Monster eee is the captain of the wrestling
team. Who else?
12

“Sit down, ‘Michael,” Mrs H said. She pointed
to a chair. “I want you to wrestle with your
thoughts.”
I let out a groan. “I can’t go to practice?”
She reached into her jar and tossed a little black
powder over her shoulder. “Sit down,” she said. ~
_I sat down. I threw my backpack angrily to
the floor. I muttered some bad words under my
breath.
I had that burning feeling in my chest.
The feeling I get when someone is making me
really mad.
Mrs Hardesty blew out the candles. She
seemed to inhale the smoke. “Michael, do you
think it’s smart to make a fool of your teacher?”
she asked.
“T really didn’t have to try!” I blurted out.
OOPS. I did it again. Why can’t I ever shut
my trap?
I heard kids burst out laughing in the hall. I
knew it was Daisy and DeWayne.
Mrs Hardesty leaped up from behind her desk.
She strode to the classroom door and dragged
my two friends in.
DeWayne plopped down next to me, shaking
his head.
Daisy didn’t look too happy, either. She never
gets in trouble. She has this cute, innocent
look. Curly carrot-coloured hair, lots of freckles,
and dimples in her cheeks even when she isn’t
13

smiling. So everyone thinks she’s totally sweet
and adorable.
Of course, I know better. I know she has a
wicked-cold sense of humour. She could be a big
problem child like me — if she put her mind to it.
“We didn’t do anything,” Daisy told Mrs
Hardesty. “Why do we have to stay?”
The teacher waved for Daisy to sit down. Then
she frowned at us one by one.
“You three need an attitude change,” she said.
She rubbed her pointed chin. “I think I know
what will help.”
“Me, too,” I said. “Wrestling practice will help
me. It’ll change my attitude. Really.”
DeWayne grinned at Mrs Hardesty. “I got an
A in Attitude last term,” he said. “You can check
it out.”
Mrs Hardesty rolled her eyes. “We don’t grade
for attitude,” she muttered.
DeWayne squinted at her. “You sure?”
He was goofing on her. But she never got
a joke.
“I know what will help you,” Mrs H repeated.
“Some honest work.”
All three of us groaned.
“T'll give you a choice,” she said. “You can stay
two hours after school every day for a week.”
We groaned again, louder.
“Or you can do some community service,”
Mrs H said.
14

We stared blankly at her. I had a sudden urge
to take out my dog whistle and make the shade
fly up again.
“I have a project that’s perfect for you three,”
Mrs Hardesty said. “It’s in the plot right by my
house. You can come on Saturday.”
_“T can’t,” I said. “My dad is taking me to the
big computer tech show. I—”
“I can't,’ Daisy said. “I have my tennis
lesson, and—”
“Saturday,” Mrs Hardesty insisted. “No
excuses.”
I heard a cough behind us. I turned and saw
Mr Wong step into the room.
Mr Wong is our new principal. He’s a little
weird-looking. He’s not old, but he has these
sagging cheeks and bulging eyes that make him
look like a frog. I’ll bet his nickname was Froggy
or Toadboy when he was a kid.
He wears dark pinstriped suits, white shirts
and dark ties. He’s a short dude. But he has a
deep, booming voice. Kinda like a bullfrog.
But he’s a good guy.
We never saw our old principal. She never
came out of her office. Mr Wong is always out in
the hall, greeting everyone and slapping high
fives. He likes hanging out with us.
Mr Wong pulled Mrs Hardesty aside and asked
what was going on. He kept. glancing
at the three of us. Mrs Hardesty had a frown
15

on her face and kept pointing a long bony
finger at me.
I couldn’t hear everything they said. But
I heard Mr Wong say, “I think you’re being
too hard on them. They were only having a
little fun.”
I told you. The Wongster is a good dude.
But Mrs Hardesty kept shaking her head,
making her feathery hair bounce up and down.
Finally, Mr Wong shrugged his shoulders and
stepped back. Defeated.
Mrs Hardesty turned to us. “You three will
show up for community service at two o’clock on
Saturday. No excuses. We will meet at my
house.”
She walked back to her desk and started piling
up papers.
Mr Wong walked up to us. “My house is right
down the street from hers,” he whispered. “I’ll
come out and check on how you're doing.”
He turned and left the room.
The three of us started complaining to each
other.
“Listen up,” Mrs Hardesty said. “This is
important. Be sure to wear work clothes on
Saturday. And you'd better bring nose plugs.”
Huh? Nose plugs?
What did she want us to do on Saturday?
16

Saturday was supposed to be totally fun. Dad
had promised to take me to the computer tech
show at the convention centre. I’d waited all year
for this show.
But where was I on Saturday afternoon?
Standing with Daisy and DeWayne behind Mrs
Hardesty’s house.
It was a warm, sunny day with a few white
puffy clouds floating in a clear blue sky. But I
didn’t care.
I was really, really angry. I wanted to toss
back my head and roar, and then start heaving
things through Mrs Hardesty’s window.
Instead, I followed my friends as Mrs H led us
to the abandoned plot. The warm air started to
smell — a really gross, sick smell. She stopped at
a huge skip. A rubbish skip that stunk to high
heaven.
“I need you to go through the rubbish,”
17

Mrs H said, “and pull out all the cans and bottles
that can be recycled.”
“Whoa!” DeWayne staggered back.
“Excuse me?” I said to Mrs H. “You want us
to climb into the rubbish?”
“T thought I made it clear,” she replied.
Daisy held her nose. She looked a little green.
“This is your community service,” Mrs
Hardesty said. “Climb in. Dig through the
rubbish. Find all the cans, bottles and jars
you can.”
“But it stinks!” DeWayne cried. “It’s putrid.
It’s sickening!”
Mrs Hardesty handed us each a long-handled
shovel. “Good hunting,” she said.
“But — but—” I sputtered.
She trotted back to her house.
Daisy, DeWayne and I stared at each other.
Did we have a choice? I didn’t think so.
A minute later, we were standing up to our
knees in wet, putrid, slimy rubbish. The gunk
soaked the legs of my jeans. The skunk-like
aroma made my throat tighten up. I struggled
not to choke. .
I tried to walk. It was hard to balance. After a
step or two, something squished under my
trainer. A dead raccoon.
“IT DON’T BELIEVE THIS!” I screamed.
“This is totally UNFAIR!”
18

I lost it. I began to grab rubbish and heave it
at the walls of the skip.
This wild picture flashed into my mind. I saw
myself lifting the whole skip — like Superman —
and emptying the rubbish into Mrs Hardesty’s
front window.
“NO WAY! NO WAAAAY!” I screamed,
heaving rubbish all over the place.
Daisy grabbed one shoulder. DeWayne grabbed
the other.
“Easy, Monster. Take it easy, dude,” DeWayne
said softly.
They were trying to hold me ien ee But I
lunged forward and broke free.
And fell face down into the wet rubbish.
I felt something ooze over my face. Something
very wet and smelly soaked my T-shirt. I sat up
on the skip floor, sputtering and shaking eggshells
and rotten chunks of maggoty meat from my
hair.
I tried to wipe the green, mouldy goop off my
face, but it stuck there.
Finally, my friends pulled me to my feet.
DeWayne handed me my shovel. “Feeling
better?”
I laughed. Suddenly, all three of us were
laughing.
We started to shovel up rubbish. We didn’t
find many bottles or cans. Most people don’t
19

throw them in with the rubbish. But we kept
searching through the yucky muck.
“Mrs Hardesty knew there wasn’t much here
to manyels, ” I said. “She put us in here just to be
mean.”
“AAAIII!” Daisy let out a scream. She started
beating the rubbish frantically with the head of -
her shovel. “There’s something ALIVE down
there!” she wailed.
BAM! BAM! BAM!
Yes. She was right. Something down low in the
skip was making the rubbish bubble up.
DeWayne and I grabbed Daisy, and we helped
lower her from the skip. We followed her down to
the ground and tossed our shovels away.
“Hey!” I let out a startled cry. Mr Wong was
standing there.
Even though it was Saturday, he was dressed
in one of his striped suits and a brown tie. His
slicked-down black hair gleamed in the sunlight.
His froggy eyes were soft and watery.
He had a smile on his face. But it disappeared
when he saw the three of us covered in wet
chunks of rubbish. He held his nose for a
minute.
I didn’t blame him. I could smell myself.
Believe me, it wasn’t pretty.
“Nice job, guys,” he said, still holding his nose.
“Here. I brought you candy bars. For energy.”
He handed us each a chocolate bar.
20

Then he pulled out a wad of paper towels from
his jacket pocket. “Here. You can wipe some of
the rubbish off.”
We thanked him. He hurried away, running,
not walking. Our smell was making him feel
sick.
I used a paper towel to wipe sticky stuff off
my forehead. My jeans and T-shirt were soaked
through and stained. My back itched. Rubbish
bugs had climbed under my shirt.
Daisy and DeWayne were muttering to each
other. I couldn’t hear them. My ears were ringing.
_ That happens a lot when I’m really angry.
“’'m going to take a two-hour shower,”
DeWayne said.
Daisy pulled a brown hunk of lettuce from her
hair. The lettuce was covered with tiny brown
worms.
“The next time my mom asks me to take out
the rubbish, I’ll probably go berserk,” she said.
I clenched my teeth. I stared at Mrs Hardesty’s
house. “I’m going to pay her back,”I said. “This
was totally mean and unfair. I’m going to find a
way to pay her back.”
But how?
We said goodbye. We headed off in different
directions to our houses.
I was slinking home through back gardens.
Trying to stay in the shadows. I didn’t want
anyone to see me. Or smell me!
21

I saw something move. I stopped. Between
two houses ~ a black cat. It was sitting very still
now, staring at me with big blue eyes.
More bad luck?
No. No way. Suddenly, I knew just how I was
going to get my revenge.
22

And that’s how Daisy, DeWayne and I ended up
sneaking into Mrs Hardesty’s house with the
black cat.
My two friends didn’t really want to do it.
Sneaking into a teacher’s house is kind of scary.
But it didn’t take much to convince them.
Daisy had shampooed her hair ten times. But
it still had bugs crawling in it. And DeWayne
said he had to throw out his jeans and T-shirt.
His mother refused to wash anything that
smelly.
So we all had a good reason for getting even
with Mrs Hardesty.
We knew how superstitious she was. She
talked all the time about how black cats really do
bring bad luck. She told us that once you have
the bad luck, it’s hard to shake it off.
So what could be better?
A black cat suddenly appears in her basement.
And she FREAKS. She totally freaks!
23

The black cat was always around our
neighbourhood. No one knew who it belonged to.
I think it had a hundred and nine lives! I saw it
wherever I went.
So we gathered up the cat and hurried to Mrs
Hardesty’s house after school. We knew she was
staying late for some parent meetings. We made
sure her blue car wasn’t in the driveway. And
none of the neighbours were watching.
The back door was unlocked. We walked right
into the kitchen.
Down to the basement. We tried to be as silent
as possible. The cat kept pacing back and forth
inside the carrier.
We planned to be fast. Get in. Free the cat.
Get out.
But it didn’t work that way.
We heard thumps and moans and groans
coming from one of the rooms. My heart did a
flip-flop in my chest.
Someone else was down there.
We stumbled up the stairs as fast as we could.
Something fell out of my jeans pocket, but I
didn’t go back for it. The cat was meowing like
crazy.
We made it back upstairs, breathing hard.
Were we being chased?
I turned and stared down into the dark
basement. No. No one on the stairs.
24

I gripped the basement door and leaned
against it, waiting for my heart to stop pounding.
“It’s OK,” I finally said. “We’re OK.”
Daisy glanced around. “Let the cat out,” she
told DeWayne. “And let’s go.”
DeWayne set the carrying case on the floor.
He reached for the clasp.
“No. Wait,” I said. “The attic. Let’s take it up
to the attic.”
They both squinted at me. “Why?”
“Tt’ll be scarier,” I said. “Think about it. Mrs
H is sitting in the living room. She hears
something creeping down the attic stairs. She
opens the attic door —- and there is BAD LUCK
staring her in the face!”
I laughed. I could just picture it.
DeWayne shook his head. “Monster, you are
too bad!” he said.
“Too stupid,” Daisy muttered. “I can’t believe
I’m doing this. If we get caught. . .” She shivered,
then hugged herself.
“We won't get caught,” I said. I glanced out
the front window. No sign of the teacher’s car.
“You know how long those parent meetings take.
We have all afternoon.”
We had to explore a little to find the attic steps.
The door stood at the end of the hall next to Mrs
Hardesty’s bedroom.
We opened the door. The attic was pitch-black.
25

As we climbed, the air grew warmer. It smelled
stale, kind of musty.
The cat thumped the side of the carrier. It was
eager to get out.
I stepped into the attic. It was huge. The walls
were knotty pine. Two tiny windows faced the
front. They let in narrow beams of light.
The attic was filled with furniture covered
with sheets. An old typewriter and a black plastic
radio sat on a wooden crate. A long brown leather
sofa stood sideways in the middle of the floor.
The sheet had fallen off one side of it.
Something big and tall and almost round stood
near us at the top of the stairs. It was totally
covered by a sheet. It was at least six feet tall.
What could it be? Some kind of sculpture?
I started to lift the sheet to take a peek. But
Daisy pulled me away. “No time to sightsee,” she
whispered. “It’s hot up here. Let’s hurry.”
DeWayne set the carrier down in front of the
long sofa. He opened the front.
The cat stepped out quickly. It took three or
four steps, then stretched its legs, tilting its head
from side to side. It glanced around the long
room for a few seconds. Then it just stood there,
staring up at us with its blue eyes.
“Mission accomplished,” I said. “This is way
perfect. I can’t wait—”
That’s when I heard the car door slam
outside. |
26

My mouth dropped open. I saw Daisy’s eyes go
wide. The three of us froze. So did the cat!
I dived to one of the tiny windows and peered
down at the driveway.
I groaned. “Oh, wow. It’s Mrs Hardesty! She’s
home.”
DeWayne looked ill. Daisy let out a cry. “How
do we get out of here?”
I watched Mrs H step up to her front door.
“We’re kinda trapped,” I said.
27

We heard the front door open and close. We
heard Mrs Hardesty step into the front hall.
She coughed. Muttered something to herself.
I could hear every sound. It was as if I suddenly
had super hearing skills!
“If she catches us, we’re dead meat,” Daisy
whispered.
DeWayne swallowed. “Think we'llbe suspended
from school?”
“She'll probably put us in front of a firing
Squad,” Daisy said.
“Bad attitude,” I said. “We’ll get out of this.”
I always try to look on the bright side. Even
when I’m doomed!
I gazed around the attic. No back door. No
escape route. If we started down the stairs now,
she'd see us.
Could we climb out a window and lower
ourselves to the ground?
No. The windows were too small.
28

I waved the’ others behind the long sofa. We
crouched down on our hands and knees.
Where was the cat?
I poked my head out and searched. No sign of
it. Was it already heading down the stairs?
That could be trouble.
I pressed my side against the back of the sofa
and listened. I couldn’t hear Mrs Hardesty.
The only sound I heard was my own heavy
_ breathing.
Then I heard water running. Probably from -
the kitchen sink?
It stopped. I could hear Mrs Hardesty
humming to herself. Then I heard footsteps
growing louder.
“She’s coming upstairs,’ Daisy whispered.
“Probably to her bedroom. To change out of her
school clothes.”
DeWayne sniggered. “Do teachers have school
clothes?”
“Shhhh.” Daisy gave DeWayne a shove. “Want
her to hear you?” she whispered.
More footsteps. Mrs Hardesty coughed again.
The sound floated up the attic stairs.
She was too close, too close to us now.
One sound, and she’d know someone was up
there.
I held my breath. All three of us froze.
That’s when the cat decided to meow. A long,
shrill ery.
29

I gasped and shut my eyes.
Doomed. Doomed!
I opened my eyes and saw the ae sitting
beside me.
“Shhhh,” I whispered. Do cats understand
what shhhh means?
I wrapped both arms around the cat and pulled
it close to my chest. I held it there, praying it
wouldn’t make another sound.
“Meeeeeeeeeceeew!”
Another long howl.
I gritted my teeth. DeWayne shut his eyes and
crouched with his hands raised in a praying
position. Daisy stared straight ahead.
And we heard footsteps. The attic stairs
creaked. The footsteps were coming closer.
We were caught. Mrs Hardesty was climbing
the attic stairs.
30

I hugged the cat even closer to my chest.
“Please,” I whispered. “Please be quiet.”
The attic stairs creaked and groaned. Keeping
low, I poked my head out just enough to see.
Mrs Hardesty climbed into the attic.
Daisy was right. She had changed her clothes.
She was wearing a grey sweatshirt over baggy
purple trousers. Instead of her black pumps, she
wore black trainers.
Please dov’t meow. Please dowt make a sound,
I silently begged the cat.
Mrs Hardesty glanced around. She took a few
steps towards the sofa.
She wiped something off the old radio with
one hand. Then she moved to a window and
peered down at the street.
Was it the longest, scariest moment of my
life?
Yes. But I knew it would get a lot scarier if our
teacher caught us there.
31

I heard voices. Some kids playing outside. I
wished I was out there with them.
I hugged the cat tighter. Was I smothering the
poor thing?
Mrs Hardesty moved away from the window.
She stepped up to the tall covered thing by the
stairs.
Still hugging the cat to my chest, I peeked out
from behind the sofa.
She was pulling the sheet off. After a few
seconds, I could see a little bit of what was
underneath. It was smooth and white.
She tugged the sheet away and folded it neatly.
I stared at what she had uncovered. Stared at it
in disbelief.
It was an egg. A six-foot-tall egg.
Daisy and DeWayne were crouched beside me
behind the sofa. They couldn’t see what I was
seeing. They stared straight ahead, afraid to
breathe.
Mrs Hardesty walked around the egg a few
times, inspecting it. She smoothed her hand
gently over the shell as she circled it.
She had a strange smile on her face. Her eyes
sparkled with excitement.
What kind of bird or animal could lay an egg
that big? I asked myself.
A few weeks earlier, I had seen dinosaur eggs
on a cool show on the Discovery Channel. They
were tiny compared to this giant egg.
32

It can’t be real, I decided. It’s a sculpture. Yes.
That’s it. It’s a piece of art.
Someone’ made it out of plaster or
something. That’s why Mrs Hardesty was acting
so proud of it.
While those thoughts whirred through my
mind, Mrs H stopped circling. She faced the
egg and stretched both arms around its wide
middle.
Was she hugging it?
No.
I gasped as she pulled Herself off the floor. Her
trainers pushed against the eggshell. She slid
her hands higher .. . higher. . .
And in seconds, she had climbed to the top.
Then she turned to face the window. She was
sitting on top of the egg!
Wow. That shell must be really thick and
tough, I thought.
I watched her settle herself up there. She
lowered her hands beside her on the shell.
Daisy and DeWayne had to see this. Otherwise,
they’d think I was making it up.
Silently, I crawled backwards and made a
space for them. Then I waved for them to move
and take a look.
They didn’t make a sound. They foked their
heads around the side of the sofa. I saw their
eyes bulge in shock. They both shook their heads,
totally bewildered.
33

I pushed them back so I could see again. My
head was spinning.
What on earth was our teacher doing up there?
Was she hatching the egg?
What would come bursting out of it? A giant
CHICKEN?!?
How weird is this?
She stared out the window. Her sia de rested
on top of the egg. Her trainers dangled three
feet off the floor. She seemed very comfortable
up there.
We have to get out of here!
That thought repeated in my brain.
But how?
I was still holding the cat. I glanced down. It
had fallen asleep in my arms. Sweet.
The cat was one thing I didn’t have to worry
about — for now. How long would Mrs H sit on
that egg? Till dinner time? Even later?
I settled against the back of the sofa. I set the
cat down on the floor. Then I crossed my arms
and waited. My friends didn’t move, either. I
think it was the longest we'd ever sat still.
The longest day of my life!
Time passed so slowly. The afternoon sun
turned red as it lowered in the attic windows. I
could see the evening sky and a pale, white half-
moon in the skylight above us.
I heard a sound. A soft snore.
I peeked around the edge of the sofa. Yes!
34

Mrs H was still sitting on top of the egg. But her
head was down and she was snoring softly.
“She’s asleep,” I whispered to my friends.
They both sat forward. Their eyes went wide.
DeWayne stretched his arms over his head.
“Think we can sneak past her?” Daisy
whispered.
“It’s our only chance,” I said.
“If we wake her up. . .” DeWayne’s voice trailed
away.
I knew it was going to be tough. We had to
walk right past the egg to get to the attic
stairs. |
One little sound . . . one quick move could wake
Mrs Hardesty.
And then we'd be caught standing there —
seeing her. Seeing her hatching a giant egg!
What would she do to us?
“Take off your shoes,” I whispered. “Don’t
make a sound.”
Leaning against the sofa back, we tugged off
our trainers. Then, carrying them in front of us,
we tiptoed towards the stairs.
I led the way, taking one step at a time.
The floor squeaked under my foot. I stopped,
my eyes on Mrs Hardesty. She didn’t raise .
her head.
I realized I wasn’t breathing. I sucked in a
deep breath and held it. Then I continued
creeping slowly forward, one step at a time.
30

It seemed to take hours. Finally, I was standing
in front of the egg. Mrs Hardesty’s knees were
inches from my face. Two more steps and I would
reach the top of the stairs.
One...
Two...
And a hand grabbed me hard by the
shoulder!
36

I gasped and froze. I turned my head.
Daisy!
“S-sorry,” she whispered. “I started to trip.”
Her hand slid from my shoulder.
My heart was still doing a four-minute mile!
On top of the egg, Mrs Hardesty let out a soft
murmur. Was she waking up?
Leaning on the banister, I flew down the stairs
without looking back. I reached the hall, ran past
Mrs Hardesty’s bedroom, and kept going. I heard
my two friends close behind me.
We stopped at the kitchen door and listened.
No sounds from upstairs. Maybe Mrs H was still
sleeping.
We burst outside into the cool evening air. The
sun was nearly down, just a red stripe behind
the houses. The trees fluttered in gusts of wind.
We didn’t say a word. We ran through several
back gardens, then an empty plot.
I stopped running at the traffic light on the
37

corner of my street. I pressed my hands against
my knees, waiting to catch my breath.
DeWayne kept glancing behind him. The air
was cold, but his face was drenched with sweat.
“What should we do now?” he asked.
“We have to tell someone what we saw,” Daisy
said. She gripped a street light. She looked pale
in the white light. All of her freckles had
disappeared.
“Who can we tell?” I asked, standing up. I felt
a little dizzy. “And what could we say? That we
saw Mrs Hardesty hatching a giant egg?”
“Think people would laugh at us?” DeWayne
asked.
“Yeah. I think so,” I said.
“We should tell Mr Wong,” Daisy said. “He’d
listen to us.”
“He’d listen to us,” I said. “But he wouldn't
believe us. I’m not sure J believe it!”
We stared at each other. A dark car rolled past
with loud music blasting out the windows.
Kids waved to us from the back. We didn’t wave
back.
“Let’s go home and just think about this,”
DeWayne said.
Daisy shuddered. “I won’t be able to think
about anything else!” she said.
“Wait! I’ve got it!” DeWayne cried. He tapped
his head. “The Great Brain strikes again!”
38

I squinted at him. “What have you got?” I
asked.
“I can explain it,” he said. “I can explain
everything.” |
“Spill,” Daisy said. She turned to me. “This
should be good.”
“Mrs Hardesty saw us,” DeWayne said. “She
knew we were hiding behind the sofa. So she
climbed up on the egg and pretended to be
hatching it just to freak us out.”
I shook my head. “It was all a joke? Then
explain this: why does she have a giant egg in
her attic? In case some kids sneak up there and
hide behind her sofa?”
“And why did she fall asleep if she was goofing
on us?” Daisy asked. “And why did she let us get
away so easily?”
DeWayne shrugged. “Do you think I know
everything?”
My stomach growled. “Let’s go home,’ I said.
“We're late for dinner. Let’s go home and think
about this. Catch you later.”
We headed off in different directions.
_ Mom greeted me at the kitchen door. “Michael,
you're so late,” she said. “Where were you?”
“Uh... wrestling practice,” I said.
I got to school a little late the next morning. I
dumped my jacket in my locker and looked for
39

Daisy and DeWayne. No sign of them. I guessed
they were already in class.
“Yo, Monster!” A guy from the wrestling team
flashed me a thumbs up. 3
I turned a corner — and bumped into Mr Wong.
He was in his usual pinstriped suit. But today he
wore a bright red tie. Very bold. .
“Michael, what’s up?” he asked, grinning at
me. “How are things going?”
Should I tell him?
“My friends and I saw something way weird,
Mr Wong. We saw Mrs Hardesty-climb up on a
giant egg and try to hatch it.”
No. No way. I couldn’t say it.
“Things are OK, I guess,” I said.
He was so short, he reached up to put a hand
on my shoulder. “If you have any problems, you
come to me,” he said. “And we'll talk about it,
OK? My door is always open.”
I nodded. “Thanks,” I muttered. I didn’t know
what else to say.
He hurried away. I stood there and watched
him bounce down the hall.
Weird, I thought. Does he suspect that
something is wrong with Mrs Hardesty? Is that
why he said that to me?
I started to walk into class. But Mrs Hardesty
stopped me at the door.
40

She led me‘back into the hall and closed the
door behind us. Her tiny round eyes stared
into mine.
“Is anything wrong?” I asked. I tried to keep
my voice calm and normal.
She didn’t answer. Just kept staring at me.
I gazed right back at her. If she wanted a
staring contest, I was up for it. I’ve never lost a
staring contest in my life. I once stared so long
and hard at DeWayne, he went cross-eyed!
“I found something in my house last night,”
Mrs H said finally.
She blinked. I won the contest.
“I found a black cat in my bedroom,” she
said. Her teeth were clenched tight. Her cheeks
turned red.
“Really?” I said. “Black cats are bad luck,
aren’t they?”
Was she buying my innocent act?
“T stayed up all night, Michael,” she said. “All
night, trying to rid my house of the bad luck.”
I didn’t reply.
She brought her face close to mine, so close I
could smell the coffee on her breath. “Did you
have anything to do with that, Michael?” she
asked. She said my name as if it was something
disgusting.
I backed up against the tile wall. She kept her
face right above mine.
41

“Michael? Tell me the truth. Did you have
something to do with bringing that bad-luck cat
into my house?”
“No way,” I said. “Of course not.”
Her eyes - cold as ice — sent a chill rolling down
my back.
She is dangerous, I decided.
Why was she standing so close? Why was she
staring so hard?
Was she trying to read my mind?
I have to tell someone about her, I thought. J
have to get proof so they will believe me.
I have to find out what she’s hatching in her
attic.
I suddenly realized I had no choice. I had to
sneak back up to that attic to see what came
crawling out of that egg.
42

“No way,” Daisy said.
“Ditto,” DeWayne said.
I had to chase them down the street. “You
won't come back to the attic with me?”
“Do I look like ’m crazy?” Daisy asked. “Don’t
- answer that.”
“Monster, it’s not our business,” DeWayne said.
“If Mrs H wants to hatch giant chickens in her
attic, that’s her problem.”
“But — but—” I sputtered.
- I couldn’t believe my friends were refusing to
come along with me. “Yow’re the giant chickens!”
I said.
~ They both nodded. “You got that right,”
DeWayne said.
“But don’t you want to know the ‘truth?” I
asked. “Don’t you want to be able to prove to
people how crazy she is?” ;
DeWayne lifted two fingers to his ear. “Call
43

me,” he said. “Call me later and tell me what you
found.”
“Yeah. Call me, too,” Daisy said. “Long
distance. I’m never going near that house
again.”
They trotted away.
Which is why I ended up in Mrs Hardesty’s
attic that afternoon all by myself.
The back door was unlocked, just like before. I
sneaked into the house and made my way up to
the attic without stopping.
I didn’t see any sign of the black cat. It
was probably back outside, prowling the
neighbourhood.
Dark storm clouds hung low in the sky. The
attic was even darker than before. I stood beside
the egg, waiting for my eyes to adjust.
Should I lift the sheet?
I wanted to feel the egg. Was it warm or cold?
Did it feel like a regular eggshell? Could I feel a
giant chicken growing inside it?
I gripped the sheet and started to pull.
No.
I changed my mind. Mrs Hardesty might
notice that it was moved.
I let go of the sheet and crossed the room.
Dropping down behind the sofa, I prepared
to wait. .
This time, I had brought two chocolate bars so
I wouldn’t starve.
44

I was half finished with the second bar when
I heard a car door slam out in the driveway. A
few seconds later, I heard the front door open
and close.
My heart started to pound. My hands were
suddenly cold and sweaty.
I jammed the rest of the chocolate bar into my
backpack. Then I pressed my back against the
sofa and made myself comfortable.
After a short while, I heard Mrs Hardesty
climb the stairs to her room. She was in there a
long time. I could hear her walking around.
Maybe she isn't coming up to the attic today, I
thought.
Maybe I sneaked up here for nothing.
But no. After a few more minutes, I heard the
attic door open. Then I heard Mrs Hardesty’s
footsteps on the creaking wooden stairs.
I stayed frozen behind the sofa until she
stepped into the attic. Then I poked my head out
just enough to see her.
She had changed into the same grey sweatshirt
and loose-fitting purple trousers. She had
her back to me. She was tugging the sheet off the
egg.
She folded it up and set it aside on the floor. Then,
once again, she circled the egg slowly, running her
open hand along the fat middle of the shell.
I kept blinking in the grey light of the attic. I
A5

still couldn’t believe what I was seeing!
Will she hatch the egg today?
Will it EVER hatch?
I had this sudden impulse. A crazy thought.
I pictured myself climbing out from behind the
sofa. Walking over to her. Very casual-like. My
hands in my pockets. A big smile on my face.
And I'd say, “Hey, Mrs H, what’s up with that
big egg? What’ve you got goin’ on there?” And
then I'd click a photo with my mobile phone.
Luckily, I held myself back.
I mean, a dude could get in trouble for sneaking
into a teacher’s house — especially if the teacher
had a big secret to keep.
So I stayed on my hands and knees. Kept
myself as low to the floor as possible. And I
stared in silence as my teacher climbed the egg
once again and perched on top.
She sat up there a long time without moving. I
didn’t move, either.
My arms were getting sore, and my neck felt
stiff.
Raindrops pattered the roof, and I heard
thunder in the distance. The sky darkened to
black, and the blackness seeped into the attic.
I hunched there, squinting through the dim
light. Watching... waiting... watching.
My head jerked back when I heard the loud
crack.
46

My muscles tightened. I blinked several times,
trying to wake myself up.
Another craaaack. Louder this time.
Mrs Hardesty’s eyes bulged, and a smile
spread over her face. She turned her body
around. Wrapped her arms around the shell. And
slid down to the floor.
CRAAAACK.
Mrs Hardesty pumped her fists in the air. She
let out a happy cheer. I could see that she was
very excited.
I heard more cracking sounds. Some soft
thuds. A tap-tap-tap sound like a hammer against
wood.
A tiny wedge of the shell poked open and fell
to the floor.
I held my breath. It was so hard to stay still.
This was the big moment!
Another long CRAAAAACK.
Another section of eggshell dropped off the
egg. I could see yellow yolky stuff inside.
And then... then...
I slapped my hand over my mouth to keep from
making a sound.
And I stared in shock as a glistening, wet
green arm poked out of the egg. Dripping with
yolk slime, the scaly arm stretched itself out,
then curled and uncurled its pointed claw.
AT

I couldn’t breathe. I couldn’t blink.
The shell cracked open. Yellow goo drained on
to the floor and formed a wide puddle at Mrs
Hardesty’s feet.
She had this strange anak frozen on her face.
Her eyes flashed with excitement.
As I stared in shock, she grabbed the wet
green arm. Gently, she wrapped her fingers
around its bony claw — and tugged.
I almost screamed as the creature came
tumbling out of the egg.
It was big - as big as my neighbour’s Labrador
retriever!
It had bumpy green skin covered in thick slime,
like a layer of yellow mucus. The skin reminded
me of alligator skin. Or maybe lizard skin.
“UNNNNNH. UNNNNNH.”
It made loud, disgusting choking noises as it
tried to breathe. It opened up its long snout and
coughed up huge balls of yellow snot.
48

Its round black eyes rolled crazily in its thin
lizardy head. “UNNNH. UNNNNH.” It coughed
up more snot balls and sent them plopping at Mrs
Hardesty’s feet.
The creature stood awkwardly on its hind legs.
The legs were short, like alligator legs. But the
creature had a long bumpy body. And a large
smooth head with a long snout.
It stretched its front legs out. It curled
and uncurled its claws. Its slime-covered
head tilted and turned as it gazed around the
attic.
Then, with a hoarse cry, it stumbled back into
the shell.
Mrs Hardesty reached out both hands and
tugged it out on to its feet.
The creature opened its long snout and
whimpered. Like a baby!
This isn't happening, I told myself.
I’m not hunched here on my hands and knees
in my teacher’s attic, watching her hatch a giant
green monster!
“UNNNNH. UNNNNNH.” It tossed back its
head and uttered more choking sounds.
“Hasy, my little baby,’ Mrs Hardesty said
softly. “Easy. Let Mama help you.”
She picked up a bath towel and began to wipe
the thick mucus off the creature’s back. “There,
there, little baby.”
Inttle baby?!
49

She was very gentle with it. It took four towels
to wipe all the sticky goo off its body. She
carefully wiped its legs, its claws and its tiny
black nails.
It oohed and cooed as she towelled it down. It
snapped its jaws in the air. Testing them out, I
guess. I couldn’t believe it. It already had teeth!
“Stand still, my little baby,’ Mrs Hardesty
whispered. She gently plucked a big piece of.
eggshell off the monster’s back. Then she towelled
it some more.
She petted its smooth head for a minute or two
and talked baby talk to it.
I almost puked when she said, “OK, little baby,
give Mama a kiss.”
A snaky black tongue slid out of its mouth.
Mrs Hardesty leaned forward-and gave the
creature a big... wet... KISS! Smack smack.
Ohhhh, gross!
Could it be any more sick?
“You're going to be a good boy,” Mrs Hardesty
said. She petted its head some more. “You love
your mama-—don’t you! You’re not like those
nasty students.”
Oh, wow. I didn’t want to hear any more of it.
I wanted to get out of there. I was desperate to
tell everyone what was going on here.
My arms and legs were numb from not moving
all that time. My back ached. My brain was
spinning.
50

I peeked out from behind the sofa. Mrs
Hardesty had the monster by the claw. ene
tugged it forward slowly.
She was guiding it down the attic stairs.
“UNNNNH.” It coughed up a snot ball and
sent it sailing on to the wall. Its legs moved
awkwardly. Its big body bumped the stair
railing.
Where was she taking it?
They were climbing down the stairs one at a
time. When her head disappeared from view, I
crawled out from my hiding place.
Did I dare follow her? I had to. I had to know
where she planned to keep the thing.
I got to my feet. My legs were totally numb. I
stretched, trying to get my blood flowing again.
Silently, I tiptoed to the stairs.
I held my breath. Moving slowly, carefully, I
began to follow them.
“I’ve GOT you!” Mrs Hardesty cried.
51

I gasped-—and grabbed the specen to keep
from falling.
It took me several seconds to vibalies she was
talking to the baby monster. Not to me.
I forced myself to breathe again. I waited for
my heart to stop pounding against my chest.
They were out of my sight, already in the
first-floor hallway.
I made my way down the attic stairs Sb
peered into the hall. She was leading it down to
the ground floor.
The monster was walking more steadily now.
Mrs Hardesty gripped its claw in one hand and
kept talking gently to it. I couldn’t hear what she
was saying. I knew it was probably more goo-
goo baby talk.
Yucko.
I stayed back, waiting for them to go down the
stairs. I pressed myself against the wall and hid
in the shadows.
52

Finally, it was safe to move again. By the
time I reached the kitchen, Mrs Hardesty was
already taking the monster downstairs. To the
basement.
I stepped into the doorway. The basement
stairs were dark. But if she turned around, she’d
~gee me.
She didn’t turn around.
I remembered that her basement was divided
into two rooms. She took the monster to the door
on the right. She fumbled around in her trouser
pocket, then pulled out a key.
I crept down one step. Then one more.
I couldn’t get too close. But I had to see what ©
she was doing with the creature.
I tried one more step. It squeaked loudly under
my feet.
I froze.
Did Mrs Hardesty hear it?
No. She unlocked the door and pulled it open.
Oh, wow. I saw a dimly lit room. And...
and...at least a dozen green monsters. All of
them stood on their hind legs. All of them turned
to watch Mrs Hardesty bring in the new baby.
Mrs Hardesty stepped into the room. They
lumbered forward to greet her, grunting and
mewing.
“Hello, my babies! My cute babies!” she
exclaimed.
Cute babies?
53

They were even taller than Mrs Hardesty.
Their dark green bodies were scaly and
lizardy. Their jaws snapped excitedly.
“How are all my little babies?” Mrs Hardesty
asked. She used a tender voice I’d never heard in
class.
The monsters formed a circle around her. One
of them stuck its black snake tongue out and
licked her face.
She laughed. “Sweet! Sweet!”
Then her smile faded. “Soon, I will not have
to hide you away down here,” she _ told
them. “Soon, there will be more of US than
of THEM!”
What was she talking about? More
MONSTERS than HUMANS?
A chill ran down my back. What was she
planning to do with these monsters she was
hatching?
“I made a promise to Commander Xannx,”
Mrs Hardesty said. “We will succeed in our
mission. We will take over this planet. And we
will TRIUMPH over the weak Earthlings!”
I shook my head hard. This was too
disturbing.
It was like I couldn’t take it all in. I reeognized
all the words she said, but they didn’t make
sense to me.
She couldn’t be saying what I beac she was
saying.
54

Was Mrs Hardesty an alien? From another
planet? Sent here by some alien commander with
a name no human could pronounce?
And was she planning a war- monsters
against humans?
No. Please — no.
If it was true, I was the only human on Earth
who knew about it. The only human on
Earth who could stop her.
But, whoa. Wait. I’m big and I’m strong — but
I’m just a twelve-year-old kid.
If I was going to stop Mrs Hardesty and her
monster war, I was gonna need HELP. A lot of
help!
I stared into the room. The monsters had
closed in on Mrs Hardesty. One of them was
licking her face. Another green scaly beast
was licking the back of her hand. Two of them
had their front legs around her shoulders and
were hugging her.
And she kept chang to them and saying, “ My
babies . .. my babies.”
I teal to get away from there. I had to tell
someone. Everyone!
The main thing was to escape this house
without being caught.
I turned. I gripped the banister. I started to
climb the stairs.
I made it up three steps — and then I couldn't
help it. IS NEEZED.
55

Caught.
There was no way she didn’t hear that.
It wasn’t a quiet sneeze. I never learned how
to sneeze quietly.
I swallowed hard and held my breath. I stood
there with one foot on one step, the other beneath
it on a lower step.
I froze there — every muscle tensed — and shut
my eyes. And waited for her to call me down
there.
But no.
I heard her gooey-sweet voice. “Does one of
my babies have a cold?”
I let my breath out slowly. She thought one of
the monsters had sneezed!
I turned back to the room. Through the open
door, I saw Mrs Hardesty walk to a refrigerator
against the back wall. “Are my babies hungry?
Are you ready for din-din?”
This got them all excited. They began huffing
56

and puffing and jumping up and down. Two of
them got into a headbutting contest. Each time
their heads collided, it made a wet smack.
Mrs Hardesty pulled open the fridge door and
leaned inside. She came out with big hunks of
red, raw meat.
She tossed the meat chunks high in the air.
They landed on the floor. The excited monsters
dived head first for them.
They scrambled for the meat. Head-
butted and shoved and tackled each other out of
the way.
The smack of their bodies rang out over the
sick gobbling and slurping. They sucked the meat
chunks into their open mouths and swallowed
them whole. Then they tossed back their heads,
opened their mouths wide, and let out deafening,
two- and three-minute burps.
As the monsters devoured the meat, Mrs
Hardesty stepped to the side. She crossed
her arms in front of her and watched. She had
an adoring smile pasted on her face. She
actually thought these slobbering, burping beasts
were cute!
A few minutes later, the meat was gone. The
last monster finished his roaring burp. The
basement room grew quiet. |
Mrs Hardesty stepped forward. “OK, my
babies,” she said. “Listen up now. I want you to
lay more eggs.”
57

The creatures stood at attention, their eyes
locked on her. A short chubby one made a
gurgling noise and vomited up his meat on to
the floor. He bent down and quickly ate it a
second time.
“Lay more eggs!” Mrs H told them. “We oa
use some of them to hatch more babies. And I
will feed some of the eggs to the kids at my
school. Then to the whole town! And then- —
monsters rule! Monsters rule! Monsters rule!”
Her chant got the monsters all psyched. They
nodded their heads up and down. They danced as
if getting ready for battle. A few of them did
some more headbutting.
“The Commander will be proud!” Mrs
Hardesty shouted, pumping a fist in the air. “We
will take over this puny planet —-or my name
isn’t Hyborg-Xrxuz!”
The monsters were pumped. They roared and
hopped up and down.
“Oh, wow,” I murmured. “Oh, wow.”
Mrs Hardesty wasn’t really Mrs Hardesty.
She had a weird alien name - because she was
an alien!
An alien who came to Earth to get rid of
humans and make a home for these ugly
monsters.
I spun around and ran up the basement stairs
as fast as I could. The monsters were making
58

such a racket down there, I knew Mrs H couldn’t
hear me. .
My legs felt rubbery and weak. My heart was
thumping in my chest.
But I ran out the back door and kept running.
I had to tell everyone. I had to warn everyone.
We were all in danger.
A horn honked and tyres squealed as I ran
across the street. I hadn’t even locked to see if
anyone was coming. I heard the driver shout at
me from his open window. But I didn’t stop.
The houses and gardens were a blur. I ran all
the way home. Mrs Hardesty’s cheer rang in my
ears: “Monsters rule! Monsters rule!”
I saw her pumping her fist in the air as the
monsters bounced up and down. “Monsters rule!
Monsters rule!”
No way! I told myself.
I burst in through the back door. Mom and
Dad were standing in the kitchen. Dad was
chopping onions at the table. His face was red,
and tears rolled down his cheeks. Mom was
stirring a pot on the stove.
They turned when I came roaring in.
“Michael, where have you been?” pie asked
through his tears.
I struggled to catch my breath. “I was at Mrs
Hardesty’s,” I choked out. “Mom! Dad! She’s
hatching big green monsters. She keeps them in
59

her basement. She’s going to turn everyone in
town into monsters!”
Dad set down the onions. He blinked at
me. “That’s pretty serious, Michael,’ he said.
“Let’s get the police over there and put an end
to this!”
60

Dad’s onion tears rolled down his cheeks, and he
laughed.
Mom laughed, too.
I stood there still breathing hard, my legs
trembling. I gritted my teeth and watched them
laugh at me.
“Michael, we know you don’t like your teacher,”
Mom said finally. “And yes, I’ll admit she’s a little
different...”
“But there’s no point in making up crazy
stories about her,” Dad said.
Mom tapped me on the head with her long
wooden spoon. “Good imagination,” she said.
“Why don’t you sit down at your computer and
write up that story?” Dad added. “Maybe you're
going to be a science fiction writer.”
“Aaaaaagh!” I let out an angry cry. “It’s not
science fiction!” I screamed. “It’s real!”
I could feel myself start to lose it. I almost
61

grabbed the spoon out of Mom’s hand and tossed
it out the window.
Almost. I caught myself just in time.
I balled my hands into tight fists at my sides
and stomped out of the kitchen.
When those disgusting monsters and Mrs H
and her commander ran the world, it wouldn’t be
so funny — would it?
I stormed into my room and slammed the door
behind me.
I tossed my backpack on to the bed and started
pacing furiously back and forth.
~ Who would believe me?
Would Daisy and DeWayne believe me? Maybe.
But who cared? They couldn’t help.
I needed to find somebody who could stop Mrs
Hardesty.
Mr Wong? Maybe. The town police? Maybe.
The military unit my cousin Brad is in? Maybe.
But they wouldn’t believe me, either.
No one would believe me - unless I had proof.
I banged my forehead against the wall. I had
my mobile phone with me in the attic. Why didn’t
I take pictures?
Why?
Now I knew what I had to do. I had to go back
there and take good, clear pictures of those
monsters. Then people would have to believe me.
I shuddered.
62

I had no choice. I was the only one in the world
who knew about Mrs Hardesty’s plot. I was the
only one who could stop her.
I sat down at my computer. I messaged Daisy
and DeWayne. I asked them to come with me,
back to Mrs H’s house. I told them it was a total
emergency.
They both said no.
DeWayne wrote:
SOUNDS LIKE A BAD PLAN. NO WAY I’M EVER GOING
ON HER STREET AGAIN.
Daisy wrote a very short message:
ALLERGIC TO GIANT EGGS. SORRY.
OK. OK. I was on my own.
“T ean do this,” I told myself. “They don’t call
me Monster for nothing.”
Saturday morning, I checked out the camera in
my mobile phone. I snapped some shots of Mom
and Dad at breakfast, just to make sure it was
working. Then I tucked it carefully into my jeans
pocket.
Mom and Dad hurried off to play their Saturday
morning golf game.
I hurried off to save the world.
63

Mrs Hardesty’s blue car ‘wasn'tii n her driveway.
Was she away?
I circled the house a few times to make sure.
No signs of life. Nothing moving.
I crept up close to the front and peered into
the living room window. I saw a newspaper folded
up on the sofa. A coffee mug on the table beside
it.
No Mrs Hardesty.
I crossed my fingers. Maybe she was out
shopping for more meat or something. I could
just slip down to the basement. Take a bunch of
photos. And leave.
Maybe...
I crept around to the back. I peeked into the
kitchen window.
“OH!”
I uttered a cry and dropped to the ground.
A green monster was standing in the kitchen —
staring right out at me!
64

I hunched below the window, squeezing myself
into a tight ball. And waited for the creature to
stick its head out the window. Or to come flying
out the back door to grab me.
But no.
After a minute or so, I realized it probably
hadn’t seen me. So I took a deep breath and
pulled myself back up to the window.
The monster stood over the stove. It had a long
white spatula tucked in one claw. It was stirring
something in a big frying pan.
Eggs?
I squinted through the window. Yes, it was
cooking up a big pan of eggs.
Now it had its back to me. I straightened up a
little higher to see better.
How did it escape from the basement?
And how did it know how to cook?
A thousand questions whirred through my
mind. I shook them away and reached into
65

my jeans for my phone. I raised the phone to the
window and steadied it.
No. No good. Too dark in the kitchen.
I clicked the phone shut and shoved it back
into my jeans pocket. I pressed my nose against
the window. I watched the monster stir the eggs
with the long spatula.
And then the creature stuck out its other claw.
It grabbed up a big hunk of egg and slid it into
its mouth. It turned to the side. I could see the
smile on its snout as it chewed.
It chewed the eggs for a short while, then
swallowed.
And instantly, the monster began to change.
Its whole shape wriggled and pulled in. Its green
head shrunk and shifted -until it became a
human head!
In seconds, the monster ees into Mrs
Hardesty!
I gasped. I nearly hit my head on the window.
Mrs Hardesty was a monster, too!
The eggs changed her back to her human body.
If only I had taken a picture.
If only Daisy and DeWayne had come with me.
I'd have witnesses. I’d have proof.
I watched Mrs Hardesty reach into the pan.
She picked up another chunk of scrambled
egg. She took a big bite.
In seconds, she stood there—a monster
again!
66

Another bite of egg. And she transformed back —
into Mrs Hardesty.
Wow! I couldn’t believe what I was seeing. But
I realized how powerful those eggs were. They
could turn you from a monster into a human and
back again — in seconds.
“No one will ever believe this!” I muttered to
myself. And she planned to bring these eggs
to school and feed them to everyone!
I slid down to the ground. I sat with my back
to the wall, trying to think. Trying to make
a plan.
How could I get pictures of this without being
caught?
Even with the pictures, would anyone believe
the power of the eggs?
I shook my head, trying to clear my brain.
And the back door swung open. Mrs Hardesty
stepped out.
“Michael!” she cried. “I thought I saw you.
What are you doing here?” :
67

I struggled to my feet. “Uh... well. . .”
Panic froze my brain.
She stared at me, gripping the spatula tightly
in one hand.
“Uh... I needed help,” I said finally. “With a
homework assignment. I...I thought maybe
you could help me.”
“On a Saturday morning?” she asked. “It’s
very early.”
“You're right,” I said. “What was I thinking?”
I started to walk away.
“Come in, Michael,” Mrs Hardesty said. “Don’t
hurry away. You’re just in time. I want you to
try my special eggs.”
“Huh?” I gasped. No way!
I almost blurted out, “I saw what they do!”
But I stopped myself at the last second.
“Come in, Michael.” She held the door open.
“I can’t,” I said. “I’m late for... uh... T’m late
for something.”
68

Lame. How lame was that?
“It will only take a second,” Mrs Hardesty
said. “It’s a new egg recipe. You'll be the first to
try it.”
No, I won't. I saw you try it!
“T...1 think I might be allergic to eggs,”
I said.
She laughed. “Not these eggs. These eggs are
special.” Then her smile faded. “Michael, get in
here,” she ordered.
Before I knew it, I was sitting at her kitchen
table.
Her dark eyes flashed as she set a big plate of
eggs down in front of me. “I’m so glad you
stopped by,” she said.
I gulped—and gazed down at the eggs.
They were fluffy and bright yellow. They
didn’t smell like eggs. They smelled kind
of like hay and fertilizer. You know that
smell when you drive past a farm in the
summer?
“T can’t,” I said. “I’m sorry. I had such a huge
breakfast.” I started to stand up.
- But Mrs Hardesty leaned over me, forcing me
to sit back down. She took a fork and scooped a
chunk of egg. Then she slid the fork into my
mouth.
“Bat up, Michael,” she said softly, her breath
brushing my ear. “Delicious, right?”
I didn’t want to swallow. But the egg
69

slid down my tongue. It tasted like chalk.
Very dry.
My heart started to do a tap dance in my chest.
My ears tingled.
Mrs Hardesty forced another forkful down my
throat.
I was terrified and angry at the same time.
She tried to feed me more. I shoved her hand
- away. The eggs went flying across the table.
Too late. Too late, I realized.
I already felt strange. My whole body tingled.
My skin felt rubbery. I shuddered.
“You’ve been a lot of trouble, Michael,” Mrs
Hardesty said softly. She backed away. Her face
was twisted in excitement.
“You’ve been a lot of trouble to me — haven’t
you?” she said. “But from now on, I think we’re ~
going to get along just fine!”
“Nooo—” I tried to ery out. But only a hoarse
croak escaped my throat.
I felt my arms shrinking, my hands folding
into my wrists. I raised them — and groaned. My
skin was green and covered in bumps. In place of
fingers, I had claws.
My stomach lurched. Strange sounds burst
from my open mouth. I felt my face changing. I
reached up and wrapped a claw around my long
snout. A long, dry snake tongue whipped out of
my mouth.
70

I leaped up from the kitchen table. I jumped
right out of my clothes. My chair went flying
backwards.
I tried to run — and tripped over my jeans. My
lizardy body heaved in and out.
~I’ma MONSTER! I realized. It took only two
little forkfuls —and I’m a MONSTER!
I staggered back on my stubby legs. I felt sick.
The room became a black-and-white blur. My
tongue slid in and out.
Mrs Hardesty tossed back her head and
laughed. “You look wonderful, Michael,” she said.
She slapped my green bumpy back.
“Unnnh unnnnnh.” I couldn’t make words.
“You're my little baby now,’ Mrs Hardesty
said. “I’m going to keep you nice and safe with
my other little babies. Won’t that be fun?”
She dug her nails into my shoulders as she
forced me down the basement stairs. Blocking
my escape, she unlocked the door and pushed me —
in with the other monsters.
“See you later, little babies,” she cooed. “Mama
is going out to shop for supplies. I’m going to
scramble up a big egg on Monday — big enough
for the whole school!”
She laughed a cold laugh. “Who said teachers
don’t have fun!”
She slammed the door. I heard the click of
the lock.
71

I spun away from the door and glanced around
the room. Was there a window I could escape
through? Another door?
I had to get out of there and warn everyone.
She was planning to turn the whole school into
' monsters on Monday!
I shut my eyes, trying to think. Even if I
escaped, how could I warn everyone? I couldn’t
even speak. Besides, who would listen to a lizardy
green monster?
When I opened my eyes, I had a surprise. The
other monsters had lined up. They stood in a
straight line, staring at me.
Their tongues flicked in and out. They lowered
their heads, opened their jaws, and uttered low
growls.
Not friendly.
I didn’t need any hints. I could see they weren’t
happy about me.
“Dudes, I’m on your side.” That’s what I
wanted to say. Instead, it came out, “Urrrrrf
UPUTFTT,.”
I started to back towards the door. But they
moved quickly.
They slid across the floor and formed a circle
around me.
I raised both front claws. I surrender.
It didn’t impress them. The circle grew tighter
as they closed in on me.
Closer ... closer...
72

I was trapped in the middle. Nowhere to run.
Their growls grew louder. And what was that
snapping sound?
Their jaws moving hungrily.
I gritted my teeth. I held my breath. And they
pounced. ..
73

As they dived for me, I dropped to my stomach
and hit the floor.
To my surprise, I heard the lock click on
the other side of the door. And the door
swung open.
The sudden movement made the monsters pull
back.
Daisy and iii is poked their heads into
the room.
“Michael? Are you in here?” Daisy called.
“We've been looking everywhere—”
She stopped. They both let out horrified cries
when they saw they had stepped into a roomful
of monsters.
I was so happy to see them. My rescuers!
I stuck out my arms and went running to hug
my friends.
A huge mistake.
They screamed again.
74

What would:you do if you saw a six-foot-tall
monster running at you?
DeWayne pulled back his arm - and gave me a
hard punch under my snout.
“UNNNNNH.” The punch sent me flying back.
Pain shot down my body. I dropped to my
knees.
Daisy and DeWayne gaped down at me.
I waited for the room to stop spinning.
The other monsters were huffing and puffing
again, hopping up and down excitedly.
“It?s ME! Michael!” I shouted to Daisy and
DeWayne. But it came out, “Uuwunnngh
urrrrf.”
How could I make them understand?
How could I show them it was me?
I knew I had only a few seconds. My two
horrified friends were already backing out of
the room.
Once they closed the door, I’d be trapped. And
no one would be able to stop Mrs Hardesty
and her egg plot.
How could I let them know?
- Something gleamed on the floor right outside
the door. I squinted at it. Something silvery.
It took me a moment to realize it was my dog
whistle.
So that’s what fell from my pocket when we
were down here with the black cat!
75

I stood up and moved slowly to it. With a quick
swipe of my claw, I grabbed the whistle off the
floor.
Please, I thought. Please—let Daisy and
DeWayne figure out that it’s me!
I sucked in a deep breath. Raised the dog
whistle to my snout.
And started to blow.
Then I waved it in the air so they could see it.
Then I blew it some more.
Please! Please. . .
76

I waved the whistle at them. Did they recognize
it? I blew it some more.
Daisy and DeWayne had backed to the door.
They stared at me, their faces scrunched up in
confusion.
I blew another long blast.
To my shock, the monsters all started to
whimper. They curled up on themselves, trying
to cover their ears.
All of them were shaking and quaking.
Wow, I thought. They definitely don’t like
high-pitched sounds.
It hurt my ears, too. But I blew the whistle
again.
The monsters hunched over, trembling,
whimpering softly.
“Michael? Is that really you?” Daisy called.
“Aye you nuts?” DeWayne snapped at her.
“That’s not Michael. That’s a monster waving a
dog whistle at us!”
it

“UNNNNH!” I cried. I raised the whistle to
Daisy. I pointed it at myself.
Sign language. Desperate sign language.
“We're out of here!” DeWayne cried. “They’re
gonna eat us or something!”
But Daisy kept staring hard at me.
“Michael?”
I nodded. I took a bow. I nodded some more. I
waved the dog whistlei n front of her.
“We've been looking everywhere for you!”
Daisy cried. She realized it was me! “Did Mrs
_ Hardesty do this to you?”
I nodded some more.
DeWayne was starting to believe, too. He
pointed to the others. “Mrs Hardesty hatched all
these from giant eggs?”
I nodded again.
I knew there wasn’t time for any more
questions. Mrs H would be back from the store
at any minute.
I lowered my head and took off running. I
burst between my two friends and out the door.
My lizardy feet pounded the stairs up to the
kitchen.
Daisy and DeWayne followed after me. No sign
of Mrs Hardesty.
Now what?
I was free. Out of the basement room. But no
way I could tell the whole story while I was still
a monster.
78

My eyes darted around the kitchen. I saw my
jeans and T-shirt piled in a corner. Then I gazed
at the stove.
The eggs!
Were there any eggs left in the pan?
I pushed my two friends out of the way and
stomped to the stove.
“Michael? What are you doing?” Daisy cried.
I looked down at the frying pan. Just a tiny
chunk of egg left. A teaspoonful, stuck to the
bottom.
Was it enough to turn me back into me?
It had to be!
I lowered my face into the pan. Flicked out my
snaky tongue and wrapped it around the little
piece of egg. I pulled it into my mouth and
swallowed it.
Yes. Come on. Change, Michael! Change!
I waited. Waited...
Nothing happened.
79

No. Wait.
My stomach started to churn. The room tilted
and swayed. My skin heated up. I felt as if my
whole body was melting . . . melting to the floor.
I looked down. I still had claws. My lizard arms
were green and bumpy.
But my legs were back. My feet. I stomped
hard on the floor. Yes, my feet were there!
I hurried to the corner and pulled on my
clothes. Then I trotted to the hall mirror — and
gasped.
“Michael!” Daisy cried. “You’re . . . back!”
“Kinda,” DeWayne added.
I stared in the mirror.
My face ... my head — they were back.
But my neck and chest were green. I still had
monster arms and claws!
“Not enough eggs!” The words burst from my
throat in a growl. “I need more eggs!”
I dived back to the stove. I scraped the bottom
80

of the pan with my claws. I pulled the pan off the
stove and flipped it upside down.
No. None left.
I turned and saw my two friends staring at me
in horror.
“Michael, how did this happen to you?” Daisy
cried.
“No time to explain,” I said. “Mrs Hardesty
will be back any second.” |
“But... but you... youre still half monster!”
DeWayne exclaimed.
I rolled my eyes. “Tell me something I
don’t know.”
“But I don’t understand,” Daisy said, shaking
her head. “Are you—”
“We'll talk later. We’ve got to get help — right
away,’ I said. “Mrs Hardesty is a monster,
too. She and her commander have a terrible
plan. She’s going to make a big batch of her eggs
for the whole class. They... they plan to turn
everyone in town into monsters!”
They both squinted at me. “Everyone in
town?” DeWayne asked.
I headed to the back door. “Who can help us?”
I asked. “Who?”
“How about Mr Wong?” Daisy said. “He lives
down the street, remember?”
“Yeah,” DeWayne said. “Wong said to come
see him if we have a problem. And we definitely
have a problem!”
81

“OK. It’s a plan,” I said. “Let’s do it.”
I grabbed the doorknob with one claw and
pulled open the kitchen door. Bright sunlight
greeted us as we ran out into the garden. I saw
someone’s big golden Lab sprawled on its back in
the driveway. Squirrels darted for the trees
when they saw us.
We ran to the back of the garden. The big skip
was still in the plot. Someone had leaned a bike
with no tyres against it.
We crossed the plot and made our way to
Mr Wong’s garden. My legs felt trembly and
strange. I think they were still part
monster legs.
Suddenly, I heard low grunts and growls
behind us. And the thunder of heavy feet against
the ground.
“Look!” DeWayne spun around and pointed.
“Oh, no!”
I turned and saw the big green monsters
lumbering after us. They moved in twos and
threes, stumbling forward on their hind legs,
eyes half shut in the bright sunlight.
Had they ever seen the sun before?
“We left the basement door open!” Daisy said.
“They’re following us.”
The monsters began to growl. They bared
their teeth as they lumbered after us. Some of
them chewed up big clumps of earth and grass
and spat them at us.
82

“We...cant outrun them,’ DeWayne
murmured.
A wet clump of earth smacked me in the back.
I shook it off.
“Not a problem!” I cried. “We’re almost at
Mr Wong’s house. When Mr Wong sees them,
he’ll have to believe our story. He’ll have to
help us!”
Mr Wong had a small square house with red
brick walls and white shutters on all the windows.
A small satellite dish stood behind the garage. A
vegetable garden stretched across the back. I
almost stumbled over a rake half hidden by the
tall grass as I ran around to the front.
He had a big screened porch facing the street.
It was empty. I climbed the front step and rang
the bell with one claw.
As we waited, the monsters lined up behind us
in the grass. They snapped their jaws, preparing —
to attack. Thick drool ran down their jagged
teeth. They pawed the ground impatiently.
Then they came at us astep at atime. Closer...
closer. . .
I kept glancing behind me as I rang the bell
again and again. The principal didn’t answer.
“He’s GOT to be home!” I boomed. “This is an
emergency. Those monsters are HUNGRY!”
The monster part of me suddenly took over.
I lowered my big shoulder to the door— and
83

rammed it with my monster strength. The door
cracked open. I led the way inside.
Mr Wong’s living room was dark and silent.
The curtains were pulled, and the lights were
off. I saw a pile of school books on the coffee
table.
I started to call his name, then stopped.
I saw a light in the next room. And heard
voices.
I moved towards it. The room had a big
flatsereen TV on the wall. An old black-and-
white movie was on.
I stepped closer. I saw a dark sofa and a big
armchair.
And then. ..
In the doorway to the TV room, I turned to
my friends. “I don’t think Mr Wong is going
to be any help to us,” I whispered.
Their faces filled with surprise. “Why not?”
Daisy asked.
I moved back so they could see into the
corner. And there sat Mr Wong - right on top of
a giant egg.
84

He had his eyes closed. He didn’t see us staring
at him in shock from the doorway.
He had his suit jacket off. His tie was loosened.
Perched on top of the egg, he leaned his
back against the wall. His hands were clasped in
his lap.
The egg was twice as big as the one in Mrs
Hardesty’s attic!
“Wow,” DeWayne whispered, shaking his
head. “He’s hatching eggs, too. Do you
believe it?”
“TLet’s get out of here,” I whispered.
Daisy, DeWayne and I turned to leave. But our
path was blocked.
The snarling monsters had followed us inside.
Snapping their jaws, drooling, they pushed
into the small living room. They knocked over
tables and chairs and tore the carpet with their
sharp claws.
85

As I stared in horror, they squeezed closer,
forcing us back into the TV room.
“We're trapped,” Daisy whispered. “We can’t
get out.” .
“They’re going to CRUSH us!” DeWayne
cried. “Crush us and then EAT us!”
I turned back to Mr Wong. How could he sleep
through this?
“We have no choice. We have to run
through the monsters,” I said. “No other
way out.” |
But before we could move, I heard the front
door slam. A few seconds later, Mrs Hardesty
stepped into the room. She carried a platter
heaped high with scrambled eggs.
Mrs H had a big smile on her face as she
entered. But it faded instantly when she saw the
roomful of monsters.
Her mouth dropped open in an O of shock. And
she nearly dropped the egg platter.
The monsters forgot about us and turned to
greet her. Daisy, DeWayne and I scrunched down
and hid behind the monsters. They began
jumping up and down with excitement and
making shrill crying noises.
But she wasn’t happy to see them. “How did
you escape?” she cried. “Who let you out?”
And then she shouted to the sleeping principal:
“Commander Xannx! WAKE UP!”
86

Behind us, on top of his egg, Mr Wong blinked
a few times.
“Commander — what is happening here?” Mrs
Hardesty shouted. “My babies! My babies have |
escaped!”
Daisy, DeWayne and I exchanged glances. So
Mr Wong was Commander Xannx!
“My babies! My babies!” Mrs Hardesty cried.
“How did you get over here?”
Daisy, DeWayne and I tried to scrunch down
even more. But it didn’t take long for Mrs
Hardesty to spot us.
Her pale face darkened. Her eyes narrowed.
“YOU!” she screamed. “YOU evil kids let them
out!”
Behind us, Mr Wong shook himself awake.
“What is happening here?” he called. “Hyborg?
Is that you?”
Balancing the egg platter in one hand, Mrs
Hardesty pointed to her monsters. “Attack those
kids!” she ordered them in a deep growl.
My heart skipped a beat. I glanced around
quickly. How to escape?
Mr Wong behind us. Mrs Hardesty and the
monsters in front of us.
It didn’t look good.
“Attack those kids!” Mrs ae screamed.
“Protect the Commander! I ORDER you to
attack!”
87

The monsters tossed back their heads and
roared. The noise shook the room.
I felt weak. Trapped. Nowhere to move.
Snapping their jaws, rolling their eyes wildly,
they came for us.
88

I felt something explode in my chest. Was it fear?
Was it anger?
I didn’t have time to think about it. I only knew
that I wasn’t going to stand there and let Mrs
Hardesty’s monsters attack us.
I was still only half human. And as the monsters
lumbered forward, I let the beast in me take
over.
“They call me MONSTER!” I cried. “And I
am a monster!”
With an animal cry, I spun around. And
slammed my claws into the giant eggshell.
Mr Wong uttered a startled shout. His arms
flew up as the eggshell cracked.
The crack was loud enough to silence the
monsters. I saw the jagged line spread down the
egg from top to bottom.
And then, with another loud CRAAAAACK,
the top of the shell fell in.
89

Mr Wong uttered a cry. His hands shot straight
up in the air - and he dropped into the egg!
He made a loud splash. He kicked out a small
jagged piece of shell. I could see him thrashing
and kicking under the thick yellow yolk.
His head sank under the yolky yellow slime,
then slid up again. He was sputtering and
choking. He sank again. Then pushed his face
above the thick surface.
“T can’t swim!” he screamed. “Get me out of
here! I can’t swim! Hyborg-Xrxuz — help me!”
“Coming, Commander!” she cried. She dived
towards the egg.
But the monster anger still burned in my
chest. I lifted Mrs Hardesty — or whatever her
name was -— off the floor with my claws.
She squirmed and struggled. But I was too
strong for her.
I held her high — and heaved her over the top
_ into the giant egg.
She made a big splash. She and Wong struggled,
climbing over each other, twisting and kicking.
Sputtering, they sank beneath the yellow yolk.
Their mouths opened to scream. They
swallowed egg yolk.
As my friends and I stared in amazement, they
both began to change. Their skin turned green.
Their human faces shifted into green monster
heads. Their bodies ballooned and twisted.
90

And now we were watching two green
monsters. Slapping their claws at each other,
wrestling, snarling like beasts, they floundered
and thrashed inside the egg.
In seconds, they pulled each other down...
down to the bottom of the egg.
I couldn’t see them through the thick
yellow goo.
Daisy, DeWayne and I stood gaping at the egg.
Watching for them. .. Watching. .
They didn’t come back up.
Whew.
I breathed a sigh of relief. The evil aliens
had been defeated-—thanks to me, Monster
Munroe.
Daisy and DeWayne flashed me the thumbs up
sign.
But we had no time to celebrate.
The other monsters remained silent for a few
seconds more. They stared at the egg as if
waiting for their two leaders to return.
And then they opened their mouths in one long
angry roar. Their eyes turned red with fury.
They raised their heads and snapped their jaws
hungrily. And came at us, their feet ee on
the carpet.
I swallowed hard, watching them eagle And
thought: I can’t fight them all - CAN I??
91

I planted my feet and raised my claws in front
of me. I gritted my teeth and prepared for a
battle.
No need.
The attacking monsters had no interest in my
friends and me.
They dived head first at the platter of eggs
on the floor. Snarling, slapping each other
away, fighting, slurping loudly, they gobbled up
the eggs.
Daisy, DeWayne and I didn’t move. I kept my
claws raised. I held my breath.
I watched the monsters devour the eggs.
Seconds later, their bodies began to change.
Their green skin faded to a lighter shade. They
turned yellow, and their skin began to bubble.
“They — they’re turning to liquid!” DeWayne
cried. |
Yes. He was right. Their bones shrank. Their
92

heads melted away. Their bodies plopped wetly
to the floor.
In seconds, they had become yellow puddles
on the carpet.
I knew what was happening. “The eggs — they
turn you back to what you were originally,” |
said. “So... the monsters turned back into egg
yolks!”
“We won! We beat them!” Daisy cried, pumping
her fists in the air.
I tried to slap her a high five. Then I
remembered I still had monster claws.
“One more thing to do,” I said. I lowered my
face to the giant cracked egg. And I licked some
yolk off the shell.
Yuck. It tasted totally gross. Lumpy like sour
milk. I almost puked. But I choked it down.
Then I stared at my claws... and waited.
Yesssss!
A few seconds later, my arms stretched out.
My hands returned. My skin turned back to its
original colour.
“’m a human again!” I shouted, jumping up
and down. “I’m totally human! I don’t want
anyone to ever call me Monster again!”
Stepping over the puddles of egg’ yolk, we
started towards the door.
“Can you believe it?” Daisy said. “We just
saved the world from evil aliens.”
93

“No one will ever. believe it,” I said:
DeWayne stopped me at the door. “Yes, they
will,” he said. “I’ve got proof.”
He held up his mobile phone and grinned.
“T’ve been snapping photos the whole time. I’ve
got Mrs Hardesty, the monsters, Mr Wong-
everything. Got it all right here.”
“You do?” I cried. I gave him a hard slap on
the back. “That’s awesome. Let me see.”
I took the phone from him and flipped it open.
I scrolled through his snapshots. All feet. Just
shoes. DeWayne’s shoes. Picture after picture.
I handed the phone back to him. “DeWayne,
did you ever take pictures before with this
phone?” I asked.
“No. It’s a new phone.”
He glanced through the snapshots. Then he
shook his head sadly. “Guess we don’t have
prod..."
“Michael, I’ve never seen you eat like that!” Mom
exclaimed at dinner. “Be careful. Don’t eat the
place mat!”
Dad laughed. “Guess you worked up an
appetite, huh?” he said. “Did you have a busy
day?”
“Yeah. Kind of busy,” I said.
Of course, I didn’t tell them about Commander
Xannx or Hyborg-Xrxuz. Or their monsters. Or
saving the whole planet from evil aliens.
94

I had no proof.
“What’s for dessert?” I asked.
Mom sliced large pieces of cake for the three
of us. I grabbed my fork and started to shovel it
into my mouth.
I’d never been so starving in my life. And this
cake tasted awesome! The three of us ate in
silence for a while.
“Isn't it good?” Mom said. “Mrs Hardesty
brought it over yesterday.”
“Huh?” I tried to talk, but I had a mouthful
of cake.
“Wasn't that nice of her to bring us dessert?”
Mom said. “She said she made it with her own
special eggs!”
95

ENTER
HORRORLAND

= :
aes |
=

THE STORY SO FAR...
Several kids received mysterious invitations to be Very
Special Guests at HorrorLand theme park. They looked
forward to a week of scary fun. But the scares quickly
became TOO REAL when Slappy the evil dummy, Dr
Maniac and other menacing villains started to appear.
Two Very Special Guests— Britney Crosby and
Molly Molloy—disappeared in a café with a mirrored
wall. The others have been trying desperately to find
them. The park guides—called Horrors—have heen no
help at all.
Except for one Horror, called Byron. He warned
the kids they were all in danger. He said he’d help them
escape from HorrorLand. He gave them tokens, which
turned out to be tracking devices.
Was he trying to protect them? Most of the kids
didn’t like the idea of being spied on. They gave away
their tokens. :
Byron told them to meet him at the Bat Barn and
he’d explain what was going on. But he didn’t show

up—and the kids were attacked by bats. The Bat Barn
was supposed to he a fun attraction. But these bats
were REAL!
Michael Munroe arrived the day before. And now
he finds himself in a terrifying battle in the Bat Barn
with the other Very Special Guests. He continues the
story...

Red-eyed bats shrieked as they darted and
swooped over us. I ducked as a bat whistled
past my head, then soared up to the rafters of the
barn.
Kids screamed and covered their faces. I
swung both arms hard and swatted a bat off a
girl’s shoulder.
“The bats are REAL!” someone screamed.
“Tt’s supposed to be a JOKE!” a boy cried.
A fat creature thudded into my chest, wings
flapping furiously. Sharp claws dug into my
T-shirt. I gripped the bat with both hands and
flung it off me.
_ My new friend, Abby Martin, pressed her
hands over her face. She screamed as a bat
danced on her head, pulling at her hair. With a
loud cry, I slapped it away.
My second day as a Very Special Guest at
HorrorLand. It wasn’t exactly what I had
imagined.
101

Where was that Horror, Byron? The tall
one with the yellow horns? He told us to meet
him here.
We didn’t have time to think about him. The
screeching, glowing-eyed bats were out for blood.
The barn was big and dark. The doors had
closed behind us. The only light came from a
narrow window high in the roof of the barn.
In the darkness, it seemed like a thousand
wings were beating around us. A thousand shrill
creatures zooming low, tearing and biting at us.
Abby screamed again. I lurched towards her
and stumbled over a pile of straw. Suddenly, I
had an idea. Could I stop the bat attack?
The kids back home call me Monster. Believe
me, I know a lot about monsters — because I WAS
one! My parents and I would still be monsters.
But I led them to Mr Wong’s house. Talk about
luck! There was enough of the disgusting egg
yolk left to turn us back to humans.
It’s a long story. But ever since, I always carry
my lucky dog whistle with me. I pulled it out
of my jeans pocket and raised it to my mouth.
Would it be lucky now?
Yes! Seconds later, the shrill bat cries stopped.
A strange hush fell over the barn.
The bats appeared to freeze in mid-air. They
stopped their furious flapping. They glided up to
the rafters.
102

They-didn’t come back down.
The other kids were blinking, stating and
shivering, gazing around in confusion. Carly
Beth and Sabrina dropped to their knees in the
straw. Robby spun around in a circle, hands
raised. The bats were gone, but he was still
fighting them off.
“Hey, Michael—” Matt strode up to me. “How
did you do that? How did you stop the bats?”
I raised my dog whistle. “Had this in my jeans,”
I said. “Thought I’d give it a try. I guess the sound
hurt them or confused them or something.”
“Good work, Michael,” Abby said. Her hands
trembled as she tugged at her long black hair,
trying to smooth it down. She slapped me a high
five. “That was scary.”
Billy Deep and his sister, Sheena, stared at
the rafters. “They’re still up there,” Sheena
murmured. “Think they’ll attack again?”
“We're outta here,” Matt said. He pushed past
me and led the way to the barn doors. He shoved
one open.
Late afternoon sunlight poured in. We followed
him to a small grassy field beside the barn.
Sabrina gazed around. “Where is Byron?” she
asked. “He was supposed to meet us here.”
“Must’ve got held up,” Robby said.
“What if it was an ambush?” I said. I tapped
the dog whistle against my palm. My skin still
103

tingled from the touch of the bat claws.
“What if this dude Byron planned the whole
thing?” I asked.
“You mean he told us to come here knowing
the bats would attack?” Abby asked.
“No way!” Matt replied, shaking his head.
“Byron is our only friend here.”
“Matt’s right,” Billy said. “He’s the only Horror
who told us the truth. Byron warned us we were
all invited here for a reason. He told us we
were all in dangev.”
“But Byron is the one who gave us ian
tokens, right?” I said. “And they turned out to
be tracking devices. He wanted to spy on us.”
I pointed to the Bat Barn. “And now he sent us
here to be creamed by screaming bats!”
“Don’t accuse Byron,” Matt said, narrowing
his eyes at me.
I started to lose it. “Sorry if Byron is your
hero — but I'll accuse whoever I want!” I snapped.
Matt clenched his hands into fists. He was a
big dude, almost as big as me. “You just got here,
Michael,” he said, sneering. “You don’t know
enough to start mouthing off.”
I should’ve just shut up. But that would be a first.
“IT know enough to fight back when I’m in
trouble,” I said. “I don’t just stand around like
you — shaking like a wimp, waiting for someone
to come help me!”
104

“Stop it, you, two!” Sabrina cried. “We don’t
have time—”
Too late.
Matt rushed at me. I timed it just right — and
gave him a hard BUMP with my chest.
His eyes went wide with surprise. He stumbled
back. And landed on his bum in a wide patch of
mud.
With a furious cry, he leaped to his feet.
Grabbed me by the shoulders. Pulled me down
into the mud. And we started wrestling.
“Stop it! Stop it!” Sabrina grabbed my
shoulders and tried to pull me off Matt. But she
wasn’t strong enough.
I grabbed Matt’s head and pushed his face into
the mud.
He came up sputtering.
“What are you fighting for?” Abby cried.
“We're in danger! We have to stay on the
same side!”
Matt spat a mouthful of mud in my face. I
pushed his shoulders down and pinned him to
the ground.
“Stop! Stop the fight!”
I heard two voices I didn’t recognize.
I raised my head. Turned — and saw two black-
and-orange-uniformed Monster Police running
towards us, swinging wooden clubs.
“Dudes — RUN!” Billy screamed.
105

I jumped to my feet and helped pull Matt up from
the mud.
Why were we fighting? I couldn’t remember.
As they stampeded towards us, the Monster
Police waved their sticks and screamed at us to
stop. I knew they wouldn’t hurt us. I mean, we
were guests at the park - right?
But I took off anyway. We all did. We ran in
different directions.
I was close behind Abby for a while. But then
I lost her in the crowd. And then I lost myself in
the crowd!
Where was I? I was running full speed now
along a wire fence. On the other side, I saw kids
on a beach. The kids were screaming and
laughing, sinking into the sand.
Finally, I saw a sign: QUICKSAND BEACH. DROP IN
ANY TIME!
It looked like fun. I spun around. I’d lost the
two Monster Policemen.
106

I took a few minutes to catch my breath. Then
I made my way back to Stagger Inn.
A short while later, everyone gathered in my
room on the thirteenth floor. Matt and I stared
at each other with our hands in our jeans pockets.
Then we both apologized at once. We even shook
hands.
“We're cool?” I asked.
“We're cool,” Matt said.
“Look, we’re all scared and stressed out,”
Carly Beth said. “But we have to stick
together.”
She sighed and dropped down on to the edge
of my bed next to her friend Sabrina. “Sabrina
and I didn’t believe any of this,” she said. “You
know. About the missing girls and the other
park.” .
“But we do now,” Sabrina said.
“Look, Abby and I just got here yesterday,” I
said. “We don’t know why everyone is so
nervous. Tell us what’s up.”
They all started talking at once. Finally, Matt
said he’d try to explain everything.
“As soon as I arrive,” he started, “this Horror
called Byron runs up to me. He says I’m in
danger. And he gives me this.”
Matt pulled a grey plastic card from his wallet.
“Tt’s a room key card,” he said. “But it’s not from
HorrorLand. And it seems to have special
107

powers. It helped me win at the carnival games.
And it opens doors that regular key cards
don’t open—”
“Our first day, my sister Sheena and I met
these two girls,” Billy Deep interrupted. “Molly
Molloy and Britney Crosby. Then they
disappeared. Gone. rial We’ve heen searching
for them ever since.”
“The Horrors won’t help us,” Sheena said.
“They say the girls were never here.”
“We saw them in a café with a big mirrored
wall,” Matt said. “This key card opened the door
to the café. But when we went inside, the girls
were gone.”
“The mirror was soft, like liquid,” Sheena
explained. “I stuck my arm into it—and I
disappeared, too. It’s all very hazy. But I think I
ended up in a different park.”
“Byron keeps leaving us hints about santos
park,” Matt said. He held up the two pieces of an
old park guide. One showed a carousel with
flames shooting out of it. It was called The Wheel
of Fire. The other showed a hall of mirrors, called
Mirror Mansion.
“Strange characters keep following us here,”
Robby said. “Trying to frighten us. We’ve all
had scary problems back home. And they’ve
followed us to the park!”
“When we looked into a piece of mirror, we
108

~ saw Britney and Molly on that burning carousel,”
Billy said.
“T think we’re in real danger,” Carly Beth said.
“We need to make a plan. We need to get out of
this park.”
“Whoa. Wait asec,” I said. “Tell me more about.
the mirrors. All this stuff about mirrors is really
interesting.”
“I searched my whole room,” Abby said. “T
couldn’t find a mirror anywhere. Whoever heard
of a hotel room without mirrors?”
Again, everyone started talking at once. None
of us had mirrors in our rooms.
“This is totally disturbing,” I said. “It means
we have to find a mirror. Mirrors must be a very
important clue.”
“We have to find Byron first,” Matt said. “He’s
the only one who can tell us what’s going on.”
I didn’t want to fight with Matt again. I could
see he wanted to be leader of the group. And
that was OK with me.
But once I get something in my head, I can’t
get it out. And right then, mirrors were definitely
in my head.
So we split up. They all went out to search
for Byron. And I went on a hunt for a mirror.
We planned to meet in Matt’s room in two
hours.
I searched every inch of my room first. The
109

other kids were right. No mirror. Nothing even
shiny enough to be used as a mirror.
I was dying to know why.
What if I just ask someone for a mirror? I
thought.
It seemed like a good plan. I took the dark,
creaky lift down to the hotel lobby. The lift had
thick cobwebs hanging from its roof. Eerie organ
music played all the way down.
But I wasn’t in the mood for that kind of scary
fun. I was on a mission.
I stepped up to the front desk. A green-skinned
Horror with curly green hair and one brown eye
and one blue eye stood behind the counter. He
wore a bright purple tuxedo and lacy white shirt.
A very colourful dude.
His name tag read: Boomer. He looked up from
his laptop. “Help you?”
“Yes,” I said. “Do you have a mirror I could
borrow?”
“A mirror?” he replied, squinting at me with
his brown eye.
“Yes, do you have a mirror?” I repeated.
He smiled. “Sure thing,” he said. “No problem.”
I blinked. That was easy.
110

Then Boomer’s smile grew wider. He leaned
closer over the counter. “With your face, sonny,
are you sure you want a mirror?” He burst out
laughing.
Ha-ha.
I didn’t crack a smile. “Yes,” I said. “I couldn’t
find a mirror in my room.”
“Of course not,” he said.
“T don’t get it,” I said. “Why aren’t there any
mirrors here?”
Boomer lowered his voice to a whisper.
“Because a lot of our guests are vampires,” he
said. “It makes them sad to pass a mirror and
‘not see their reflection. We’re just trying to be
considerate, see?”
I felt myself start to get steamed. “Boomer,” I
said, “I’m not going to get a straight answer from
you — am I?”
He shook his head. “No, you're not,” he
replied.
111

“Well... can you tell me where I might find a
mirror?” I asked.
He thought for a moment. “Have you tried
Mirror Lake?”
“Excuse me?” I said. “Mirror Lake? Is that in
this park?”
He shrugged. “I don’t know. I just made it up.”
He laughed again.
Ha-ha. The dude was a riot.
“Thanks a bunch,” I said. I turned and walked
out of the hotel. I knew I’d find a mirror
somewhere in HorrorLand.
I tried the shops first. Clothing stores always
have mirrors. I walked into a shop called FruR GET
IT. They had T-shirts and caps “made of genuine
werewolf fur”.
I tried on a cap. It was way itchy. I asked the
sales clerk behind the counter for a mirror so I
could see how the cap looked.
“Sorry, kid,” he said. “No mirrors here. We’re
very superstitious. What if we broke one? Seven
years’ bad luck.”
That made me think of Mrs Hardesty - or
whatever her real name was. She was
superstitious, too.
I tried the mask store across the road. No
mirrors.
I tried three more shops. No mirrors
anywhere.
112

This was definitely a mystery that needed to
be solved. —
I began stopping people who passed by. “Do
you have ‘ mirror I could borrow? It’s really
important.”
Most of them thought I was crazy. Or they
thought it was some kind of HorrorLand joke.
They just kept walking.
I was ready to give up. The sun was sinking
behind the trees of Wolfsbane Forest. I felt tired
and hungry. And angry that I couldn’t find such
a simple thing as a mirror. -
I guess my nick-n Moansmtere - is a good
one. When things don’t go my way, I can feel my
anger start to boil up.
I turned back towards the hotel. My brain was
spinning with the story of the two girls who
disappeared in the café with the soft, liquid
mirror.
Then a small black-and-white sign caught my
eye. It was on the wall of a low white building,
set back from the street. The building had a
narrow white door and no windows.
The sign read: OFF-LIMITS. STAFF ONLY. DO NOT
ENTER.
I read the sign three times. Then I stepped up
to the narrow door. Was the door locked?
Normally, I would have obeyed the sign. But
right now I was feeling angry and frustrated. I
118

don’t like mysteries. I wanted to solve this one
quickly.
I turned the knob. The door opened easily. Did
someone forget to lock it?
I stepped inside and closed it behind me. I was
in a tiny square hallway. In front of me-a
concrete stairway leading steeply down.
A sign above the stairway read: po NOT
ENTER.
I peered down the stairs. Too dark to see
anything down there. Silence. No sounds floating
up.
Maybe they hide all the mirrors here, 1 told
myself. Maybe I'll find stacks and stacks of
Mirrors.
I knew that was dumb. But I had to find out
what was down there. I took a deep breath and
started down the stairs.
My shoes thudded on the concrete. The stairs
seemed to go down for ever.
I stopped halfway and squinted into the dim
light. I still couldn’t see anything. Just a high
concrete wall.
No people. No Horrors. No sounds.
I climbed the rest of the way down. Gazing all
around, I found myself in an enormous cavern. It
seemed to stretch for miles!
It was silent there. I could hear my fontabeps
echo off the concrete walls.
I came to a dark tunnel entrance in the wall.
114

Glancing around, I saw dozens of tunnels heading
off in all directions.
Fat pipes and electrical cables stretched down
the tunnels. From deep in the tunnel, I could
hear the hum of machinery.
I jumped when I heard a shrill BEEP BEEP
BEEP.
Spinning around, I saw a row of robots
shuffling out of one tunnel. Dozens of them. They
looked like shiny metal wheelbarrows with
heads and arms. A wheel in front and two short
legs at the back.
Their heads were round and covered in control
buttons and dials. The heads were spinning and
beeping as the wheelbarrow bodies rolled across
the floor. Each wheelbarrow carried a large
wooden crate.
I stood frozen, watching them. Finally, they
disappeared into another tunnel.
Alone again, I moved to the next tunnel. I
could see two rows of computer screens and
keyboards all down the tunnel.
The controls are here underground, I realized.
Everything that runs the park. The tunnels must
stretch from one end of HorrorLand to the other.
It’s all electronic. Computerized. No people, I
realized.
Wrong!
I gasped as a powerful hand grabbed me
tightly by the shoulder and spun me around.
115

My mouth dropped open but no sound
came out.
I stared up at a giant Horror. He must have
been at least eight feet tall!
He had long black horns standing straight up
from the thick brown fur of his head. He wore a
black-and-orange Monster Police uniform, tight
over his massive chest.
He gripped my shoulders and didn’t let go.
And stared down at me with cold black eyes.
“kid,” he boomed. “Youve made a bad
mistake.”
116

I don’t scare easy. After all, I faced real monsters
back home, and I defeated them all.
But this dude was a GIANT!
“I — J know I made a mistake,” I stammered.
Think fast, Michael.
“T... thought ...this was the Doom Slide,” I
said. “Some kids pointed me here. They said this
was the Doom Slide ride.”
He didn’t let go of my shoulders. He leaned
over me. His breath smelled of onions. “Kid, can
you read?” he asked.
I nodded. “Yeah. Oh. You mean those signs?”
“Right. The Do Not Enter signs,” he said. “You
read them?”
“T thought they were a joke,” I said. “You
know. Part of the Doom Slide. Like, to scare
kids. Like everything else here.”
His deep black eyes burned into mine. He was
trying to decide if he should believe me or not.
117

“You could get lost down here,” he said in a
low whisper. “You could get lost in these tunnels
for ever.”
A chill tightened the back of my neck. Was he
threatening me?
He let go of my shoulders. He stepped back.
His shadow on the floor stretched for miles. “The
signs were real,” he said. “Go back outside, kid.
Walk straight to Zombie Plaza. Then follow the
signs to the Doom Slide.”
“OK. Thanks,” I said. I turned and hurried to
the stairs.
“Sorry if I scared you,” he called after me.
Was he kidding? I didn’t wait to find out.
We met in Matt’s room a short while later.
The other kids had no luck, either. No sign of the
Horror called Byron.
We were all hot and tired and jittery. We
weren’t having any fun. And we weren’t getting
any where.
What was going on in this creepy park? We
still didn’t have a clue.
But we couldn’t stop discussing it.
“T had that golden token,” Robby said. “It said
Panic Park — remember?”
“In the vampire restaurant, I stared into the
token,” Abby said. “And I started to feel strange.
Like it was pulling me. Pulling me into it.”
118

“Abby, could you see your reflection in it?” I
asked. “Was it like a mirror?”
Abby nodded yes.
“What happened to it?” I asked.
“A waitress took it,” Robby said. “She thought |
it was her tip.”
“OK. But this is cool!” I said, suddenly excited.
“A coin can act like a mirror, right?”
“It has to be real shiny,” Robby said.
“Come on,” I said. “Who has a shiny coin? Get
em out.”
We all searched our pockets. I pulled out five
or six coins from my jeans. They were all rubbed
dull. No shiny ones.
Angrily, I tossed them on to the floor.
“Anyone?” I cried.
No. We had only old scuffed coins.
Lots of groans of disappointment.
“Don’t give up,” Matt said. “We can’t give up.
We're really in danger here. And Byron is gone.
There’s no one to help us.”
“T’ll be right back,” I said. I hurried to my
room and grabbed my laptop. I carried it back to
- Matt’s room.
“Tet’s search the Internet for the words Panic
Park,” I said. “Let’s find out everything we can
about it.”
I started to boot up the computer.
“You can’t,” Matt said. “There’s no Internet.”
119

“Our mobile phones don’t work, either,” Billy
said.
“There’s no way to get online,” Sheena said. “I
guess they don’t use computers here.”
“Are you joking?” I cried. “The whole place is
run by computers! I’ve seen them!”
I tapped away, but I couldn’t get online. No
wireless connection. No connection of any kind.
But it didn’t matter. I suddenly knew what we
had to do. I had a plan.
A dangerous plan.
“Follow me,” I said.
120

I led them to the white building with the Do NoT
ENTER Sign.
It was a warm, sunny day. The park was
jammed with people.
We passed long lines of kids waiting to get into
the Werewolf Petting Zoo and the Haunted
Theatre. People were even crowding around the
cart that sold larvae-flavoured ice cream.
We passed several Horrors. But they didn’t
pay any attention to us.
I stopped at the front door of the building. “It’s
all underground,” I explained. “Lots of tunnels
going everywhere. We can hide down there.
Then I can finally get online. No problem.”
Carly Beth and Sabrina glanced around
nervously. “Are you sure about this?” Sabrina
asked. “Those warning signs look serious.”
“No big deal,” I said. “We’re special guests. If
we get caught, they’ll just send us back to our
rooms. Right?”
121

A few kids muttered, “Right.” The others
‘weren’t so sure.
I grabbed the knob and tried to pull the
door open.
Locked.
I tugged harder.
No way. This time, someone had remembered
to lock it. .
“That was a long walk for nothing,” Billy
grumbled. |
Matt shoved me out of the way. “Let’s try this,”
he said. He raised his strange key card to the
door — and it swung open!
We touched knuckles. “Hey, I’m impressed,”
I said.
“Tt’s all in the wrist,” Matt said. He tucked the
card back into his wallet.
That was the last joke anyone made. Everyone
turned very serious as we made our way down
the steep steps and into the huge concrete
cavern.
The air grew warmer, heavy and damp. In the
far distance, I could hear the roar of machinery
and the beep beep of the wheelbarrow robots
carrying their packages. The sounds echoed in
the vast cavern.
I stopped at the bottom of the stairs and
glanced around. No guards. No sign of that eight-
foot-tall dude.
“Follow me,” I whispered. We kept close to the
122

wall and edged our way to the first tunnel. I
squinted into the dim light. The tunnel was
jammed with old signs and stage props and
furniture.
“Is that guillotine real?” Billy asked, pointing.
“Hope not,” I said. “But we can hide behind it.”
I led them into the tunnel. We hunched down
behind the guillotine. I kept peering around.
Tense. Expecting a guard to come jumping out
at us.
I sat on the floor with my back against the
tunnel wall. I propped my laptop on my lap and
started typing. “Yesss!” I cried. “I knew it.
There’s a wireless connection down here.”
Carly Beth leaned over my shoulder. “Type in
HorrorLand,’ she said. “We’ve got to find out
what’s going on here.”
A few seconds later, I found a long article about
HorrorLand. I started reading it to the others.
“‘HorrorLand theme park was built in the
mid-1970s. It was the brainchild of a man named
Kit Katzman. Katzman was a huge horror fan
his entire life.
“He populated the park with strange-looking |
workers named Horrors. At first, Katzman
thought they were wearing costumes and masks.
Later, he wasn’t so sure.’”
Matt grabbed my shoulder. “This stuff isn’t
helping us,” he said. “Look up Panic Park. See
what it says.”
123

I did a search for Panic Park. I clicked on
several links. But for some reason, they had been
deleted or shut down. Finally, I found an article
titled “Vanished Amusement Parks.”
I started to read it to everyone.
“Panic Park was built in the 1950s by an odd,
private man named Karloff Mennis. It was a
park designed for people who liked the worlds of
horror, fantasy and the bizarre.’”
Matt shook his head. “Scroll down,” he said.
“We don’t care about the 1950s. What about
today?”
“Wait! Wait!” I cried. “This is good. Listen to
this. It’s about that carousel ride. The one that’s
on fire.”
I read from my laptop screen. ““The Wheel of
Fire was one of the most popular rides at Panic
Park. People loved twirling around while their
horses flamed.’”
“So... that page Byron left us,’ Sheena said.
“It was definitely from Panic Park.”
“Byron was leaving us clues about Panic Park,”
Matt said. “He must want us to find out more
about it.”
“We...we saw Britney and Molly on that
ride,” Billy said.
Robby stared at the screen. “And that
golden token I had - it came from Panic Park,”
he said.
124

“Let’s see what else we can find out about
Panic Park,” I said. I leaned close to the screen
and clicked on a few more links.
“Wait. Check this out,” I said. “It’s a blog. By
a boy and a girl. Luke and Lizzy somebody. They
say they spent some time in HorrorLand. But —
whoa. I don’t believe this. They are warning us.
In their blog. They—”
My voice was drowned out by a high, shrill
siren. So loud I pressed my hands over my ears.
And then we heard a_ voice booming
through the sound system: “INTRUDERS!
INTRUDERS! LOCKDOWN! INTRUDERS!”
125

We jumped to our feet. A chill shot down my
back. I could’ hear shouts. Heavy, running
footsteps in all directions.
“How did they find us?” Matt whispered.
“I know,” Carly Beth said. “Sabrina and I
made a terrible mistake. We never should have
kept the tracking tokens Byron gave us.”
The two girls tossed their tokens far into the
tunnel.
“They’re hiding in Tunnel B-4!” a deep voice
boomed. The alarm siren rose and fell. The
thundering footsteps grew louder.
“Let’s go!” I cried.
We ran deeper into the tunnel. Was there a
way to escape? We didn’t know.
We ran from the footsteps and the loud, angry
voices. The tunnel twisted and turned. The light
grew dimmer. We ducked beneath cables and
wires and tangles of cords.
126

“Tunnel B-4!” the loudspeaker echoed behind
us. “Intruders! Tunnel B-4!”
Breathing hard, we stopped at a narrow door.
It had the word LaB painted on the front.
Matt raised his key card to the door, and
it swung open. “Maybe we can hide in here,”
- he said.
He and I led the way in. The room was long
and narrow. Lit by a row of dim fluorescent
lights on the ceiling.
I waited for my eyes to adjust. Then I saw a
long row of lab tables. Behind them, tall cabinets
lined the wall.
“Are those cages?” Carly Beth pointed to the
big boxes in the centre of the room.
We took a few steps towards them —- then
stopped.
“Oh, wow!”
“T don’t believe this!”
“Are they real?”
We all gasped in shock — and stared at the ugly
creatures inside the barred cages. They were
dark and furry, like gorillas. Except their
faces ... their faces were almost human.
They had bald heads with long pointed ears.
And they all had bright blue eyes. Human eyes.
But their fat bodies were covered with black
fur. And they had big paws with curled claws,
like bears.
127

They gnashed their teeth. Drool spilled from
their mouths. They stuck their long furry arms
out through the bars and swiped at us.
“Gorilla creatures!” Sheena cried. “Are they
real? Are they robots or something?”
They sure looked real. “Maybe they are some
kind of lab experiments,” I said.
The ugly creatures grunted and gnashed
their teeth. They pushed against the bars
of their cages, trying to get at us.
“We can’t stay here,” I said. “We have to—”
The door burst open. Ten or twelve Monster
Police came running in. Shouting, ee waved
wooden clubs above their heads.
“Freeze!” one of them boomed. “If you move,
you'll be gorilla food!”
128

I glanced around. No other door. No way to
escape.
The Monster Police formed a tight line. No
way we could make a mad dash for the door.
They backed us up against the cages. The
gorilla creatures swiped the air, trying
frantically to grab us. They roared and slammed
their cages.
My mind spun. I had an idea. I turned to Matt.
“Quick — hand me that key card.”
He started to reach into his jeans pocket.
“What are you going to do with it, Michael?” he
whispered.
“Try to open some cages,” I said. “Let a few
monsters out. You know. Distract the MPs. While
they’re chasing the gorillas, maybe we can get
away.”
Matt blew a long breath through his lips. We
both knew it was a crazy idea.
But sometimes crazy ideas are the best ideas.
129

He pulled the key card from his pocket. I
grabbed for it.
“NOOO!” IT yelled as it fell out of my hand.
I watched in horror as the card hit the floor—
and slid under one of the cages.
We’re doomed! I thought.
But Matt dived to the cage and dropped to his
knees. He bent down low and slid one hand under
the bottom of the cage.
And then we all cried out as one of the gorilla
creatures reached out of the cage. It grabbed
Matt with both paws-—and lifted him off the
floor!
130

Matt let out a scream. The gorilla creature pulled
him up — then crushed him against the cage bars.
It was trying to pull him into its cage!
Matt thrashed his arms and legs. But the beast
had a powerful grip. Matt couldn’t break free.
He screamed again as the gorilla slammed him
against the bars.
I dived to the ground. Reached under the cage.
Slid my fingers around the key card. Then I
raised it and waved it in front of the lock.
Would it work?
Yes! The cage door swung open.
It took the creature a few seconds to realize
the door was open. Then it dropped Matt
to the floor and came lumbering out a the cage
on two legs.
“STOP RIGHT THERE!” an MP boomed.
“WHAT ARE YOU DOING? ARE YOU
CRAZY?”
131

Matt looked dazed. But he scrambled back to
the other kids while I dived for the next cage. I
held up the key card. The cage door swung open,
and another gorilla beast eagerly staggered out.
The two creatures stared at each other. They
both growled.
I let out a third gorilla. It stumbled out of its
cage, drooling and rolling its blue human eyes.
The MPs were screaming at us, waving their
clubs.
The three creatures stood between the cages,
eyeing each other. And then with a deafening
roar, they leaped at each other.
As I watched in amazement, they began to
wrestle. They pounded each other with their big
paws. Scratched at each other’s faces. Rolled on
the floor, snarling and groaning.
The MPs rushed to break up the fight.
That left the door unguarded.
In seconds, we all tore through it. Back into
the tunnel. We turned and ran. No MPs out
there. We could hear the monstrous fight grow
louder in the lab behind us.
We ran deeper into the tunnel. We didn’t talk.
We didn’t stop running.
Above us, we saw signs...DOOM SLIDE...
A-NILE-ATOR .. . QUICKSAND BEACH. . .
We were running underneath those attractions.
At each sign, a ladder led up to the top of the
tunnel.
132

re Sy
Pe9: ps
iie i.
I stopped at a sign that read: GOODBYE LAND.
My legs ached from running. I had a sharp
pain in my side. “If I remember the map,
Goodbye Land is at the back of the park,’ I
choked out. “Maybe there’s an exit up there.
_Maybe we can escape HorrorLand.”
_ I grabbed the sides of the ladder and climbed
to the top. A door in the ceiling opened easily. I
could see the sky above me. I scrambled out — on
to grass. And held the door open for the others.
“We're out!” Carly Beth cried, pumping her
fists in the air.
“We got away from those MPs,” Robby said.
He slapped me on the back. “That was awesome,
Michael! Letting those beasts out of their cages —
that was genius!”
I raised my face to the sun. The warmth felt
really good. My heart was still pounding from
our narrow escape. “Those gorilla creatures
were real,” I said. “They weren’t pretend.”
“How did they get down there?” Sheena asked,
shaking her head. “Why do they keep them
underground? What is going on here?”
“Let’s just get out of the park,” I said. “We can
try to figure it out later.”
“Do you really think there’s an exit in
Goodbye Land?” Billy asked.
“Only one way to find out,” I said.
Goodbye Land stood behind a tall hedge. The
hedge rose up way over our heads.
133

No way to climb it. I trotted along in its
shadow, looking for an opening. Finally, I saw a
tiny space.
I scrunched up my body. Turned sideways.
And pushed myself through the hedge.
Brushing prickly needles off me, I gazed
around. I was in a wide grassy park. A patch of
tall trees threw a long shadow over the grass.
No people anywhere in sight. No Horrors
or MPs.
A wide empty park.
I turned back to the hedge. Where were the
others?
“Hey!” I opened my mouth to call to them.
But a hand wrapped around my mouth from
behind. Then another hand wrapped around my
waist — and dragged me into the trees.
134

The hands let go. I spun around — and stared at
two gigantic Horrors.
I let out an angry roar. The monster in me
took over. I balled my hands into tight fists. I got
ready to attack them both.
“What’s the big idea?” I screamed. “What do
you think you’re doing? My friends and I are
Very Special Guests here. Have you all gone
crazy?”
They both motioned for me to calm down. I
read the name tags on the front of their purple
uniforms. One was called Benson. The other was
Clem.
“Easy, kid,” Benson said. “No one is going to
hurt you.”
“Were you trying to leave? You were — weren't
you!” Clem said. “We can’t let you leave the park.
You and your friends have to stay here.”
“Why?” I yelled. “This is a free country! I can
go anywhere I want!”
135

“You and your friends think you’ve figured
everything out,’ Benson said. “But you don’t —
know what you’re doing.”
“I know what I’m doing,” I shot back. “I’m
going to get my friends out of danger.”
“Look, kid,” Benson said. “We’ve had a few
small problems here. I’ll admit it. A few things
went wrong.”
“But we need you to stay here,” his partner
said. “Take it easy. Enjoy the park, Michael. And
stop being such a troublemaker.”
“No way!” I cried. “If you think I’m a.
troublemaker, too bad. Someone is out to get us
here. Someone is trying to hurt us. And I’m
going to get owt of this park and take my friends
with me. Then we’re going to tell the whole world
what goes on here.”
They narrowed their eyes to slits. Their
expressions turned angry. They took a few steps
towards me.
I raised my fists and prepared to fight them.
But a third Horror suddenly appeared. “T’ll
handle this,” he boomed. He waved Benson and
Clem away. “You can go. I’ve got this kid.”
This new Horror was tall and athletic-looking.
He had short yellow horns on top of wavy green
hair. His fat nose and tiny chin made him look a
lot like a pug dog.
He waited for the other two to leave. Then he
turned to me. I saw that he had taken off his
136

name tag. “Michael,” he said, “you want out of |
-HorrorLand — don’t you?”
I didn’t answer his question. Instead, I took a
few steps back. “Who are you?” I demanded.
“Why did you take off your name tag? What are
you planning to do to me?”
_“T’m going to help you,” he said softly. He pulled
a small square mirror from his pocket. “You
want to go, Michael. So I’m going to help you go.”
“Huh?” I squinted at him. Then I gazed into
the mirror.
I suddenly felt strange. Off-balance. I felt a
strong pull from the mirror. As if I were being
drawn to it by a powerful magnet.
“Go ahead,” the Horror urged. “Don’t fight it,
Michael. You want to leave, remember? I’m
helping you leave. Go with it... Go with it...”
His voice faded as I was pulled... pulled
towards the glass. Pulled to my reflection in the
little mirror.
So strange...
I could feel the smoothness of the glass ... the
cool liquid feel of it...
Deeper into the glass...deeper. And then
through it!
Through the mirror.
A rush of cold air blew over me. It made me
shut my eyes. |
I felt myself falling. I struggled to catch my
balance.
137

When I opened my eyes, the Horror... the
trees... the grass... all had disappeared.
“Hey — where am I?” I cried out loud.
I gazed around. I was standing in a huge
amusement park. But I didn’t recognize
anything.
I squinted, waiting for my eyes to focus. I
saw roller coasters high in the sky. And a
Ferris wheel with cars shaped like sharks
and alligators. .
And then...my eyes stopped at a red-
and-white sign. It had big blood-red letters
across it: PP.
PP? Panic Park?
Was this really Panic Park?
“Hey, I’m in Panic Park! I found it. I found
Panic Park!” I shouted.
Then I felt a wave of fear slide over me.
I glanced around, my heart pounding. But...
where IS Panic Park? I wondered. And... how
do I get back to my friends?
138

To be continued in...
SAY CHEESE
But first. ..

Before HorrorLand,
another monster starred in
BE CAREFUL WHAT YOU WISH FOR
Take a peek
at R.L. Stine's classic bone-chilling prequel.
Now available with exclusive
new bonus features -
including fortune-telling tools of the trade!

Having your breath knocked out has to be the
worst feeling in the world. It’s just so scary. You
try to breathe, and you can’t. And the pain just
keeps swelling, like a balloon being blown up
right inside your chest.
I really thought I was dead meat.
Of course I was perfectly OK a few minutes
later. I still felt a little shaky, a little dizzy. But I
was basically OK.
Ellen insisted that one of the girls walk me to
the locker room. Naturally, Judith volunteered.
As we walked, she apologized. She said it had
been an accident. Totallyan accident.
I didn’t say anything. I didn’t want her to
apologize. I didn’t want to talk to her at all. I
just wanted to strangle her again.
This time for good.
I mean, how much can one girl take in a day?
Judith had tripped me in maths class, dumped
her disgusting tapioca pudding all over my new

Doc Martens in Home Ec., and kicked me
unconscious in basketball practice.
Did I really have to smile and accept her
apology now?
No way! No way in a million years.
I trudged silently to the locker room, my head
bent, my eyes on the floor.
When she saw that I wasn’t going to buy her
cheap apology, Judith got angry. Do you believe
that? She shoves her knee through my chest —
then she gets angry!
“Why don’t you just fly away, Byrd!” she
muttered. Then she went trotting back to the
gym floor.
I got changed without showering. Then I
collected my stuff, slunk out of the building, and
got my bike.
That's really the last straw, I thought, walking
my bike across the car park behind school.
It was about half an hour later. The late
afternoon sky was grey and overcast. I felt a few
light drops of rain on my head.
The last straw, I repeated to myself.
I live two streets away from the school, but I
didn’t feel like going home. I felt like riding and
riding and riding. I felt like just going straight
and never turning back.
I was angry and upset and shaky. But mainly
angry.

Ignoring the raindrops, I climbed on to my
bike and began pedalling in the direction away
from my house. Front gardens and houses went
by in a whir. I didn’t see them. I didn’t see
anything. |
I pedalled harder and harder. It felt so good
to get away from school. To get away from
Judith.
The rain started to come down a little harder.
I didn’t mind. I raised my face to the sky as I
pedalled. The raindrops felt cold and refreshing
on my hot skin.
When I looked down, I saw that I had reached
Jeffers’ Woods, along stretch of trees that divides
my neighbourhood from the next.
A narrow bike path twisted through the tall,
old trees, which were winter bare and looked
sort of sad and lonely without their leaves.
Sometimes I took the path, seeing how fast I
could ride over its curves and bumps.
But the sky was darkening, the black clouds
hovering lower. And I saw a glimmering streak
of lightning in the sky over the trees.
I decided I’d better turn around and ride
home.
But as I turned, someone stepped in front
of me.
A woman!
I gasped, startled to see someone on this
empty road by the woods.

I squinted at her as the rain began to fall
harder, pattering on the pavement around me.
She wasn’t young, and she wasn’t old. She had
dark eyes, like two black pieces of coal, on a
pale face. Her thick black hair flowed loosely
behind her.
Her clothing was sort of old-fashioned. She
had a bright red heavy woollen shawl pulled
around her shoulders. She wore a long black skirt
down to her ankles.
Her dark eyes seemed to light up as she met
my stare.
She looked confused.
I should have run.
I should have pedalled away from her as fast
as I could.
If only I had known. ..
But I didn’t flee. I didn’t escape.
Instead, I smiled at her. “Can I help you?” I
asked.

MHP pee,
28 SER aR OAS
=ae e

oe
~ o o H u u e t r r r th r o i i r s d L e a f s n o d r a m n i d s a a l n t o d t o r k s a i e c n n t g i d o f n i o s t r . t o a I f L f e Y e s O w U C g h o a o r o m e d p e a m m o - m n o s n M t s o e t n r e s s r t , e t r o p l o e R p a el e s a e r t a i t f o i e n l l s :
Name: |
Length of Horns:
|
Height: -
|
“ L
W
e
h
n
i
g
c
t
h
h
o
o
f
f
t
T
h
ai
e
l
s
:
e
creatures do you lo
y
ok
e
li
e
ke ? Circle one:
A giant insect
An
octopus
A
Komodo
dragon
All of the above
\| ona seale of 1 to 5, how ugly are you?
1: A little Ugly
2:
3:
a
5
:
: Too Ugly to work
anywhere else

y see
Pi ep \)
y ie it (ll
a (WW
r ? all
“Ly
ie
oi|
Lraedn e >o| )o
aS~+)L2 9UU0 ym/
xt

About the Author
R.L. Stine’s books are read all over the worid.
So far, his books have sold more than 300 million.
copies, making him one of the most popular chil-
dren’s authors in history. Besides Goosebumps,
R.L. Stine has written the teen series Fear
Street and the funny series Rotten School, as
well as the Mostly Ghostly series, The Nightmare
Roomseries, and the two-book thriller Dangerous
Girls. R.L. Stine lives in New York with his wife,
Jane, and Minnie, his King Charles spaniel. You
can learn more about him at www.RLStine.com.

_ THIS BOOK IS _
TO
TICKET
YOUR
-www.EnterHorrorLand.com
CHECKLIST #7
[ | You're trapped in the Bat Barn. Ouch! Those
bats have sharp claws! Can you stop this
BAT-astrophe?
ied Uh-oh! Here come the Monster Police! Don’t
fall into their trap!
LJ Search for the hidden stairway into the MY FRI R EN L DS CALL ME MO E N STER
HorrorLand underground.
[ | Explore the tunnels beneath HorrorLand. &
Find the right door to escape the gorillas
but be careful not to enter Panic Park...
fe Danger! An 8-foot Horror awaits you! Can
you defeat him before it’s too late?
NOW WITH
USER NAME
BONUS
PASSWORD ti‘ ‘COC™S# FEATURES!
RBSCHOLASTIC SCHOLASTIC and associated logos are trademarks and/
of registered trademarks of Scholastic Inc.

An EeG-citing Mystery!
e 6 . is BOOK IS YOUR
e
®
e o
Ud TICKET 10
,e
‘e
&
@
®
6
a
2
®
6
Cover design by Steve Scott ISBN 978-1-407107-56-1
Cover art by Brandon ~ ie
[uaS CHOLA2STIC ]
(814074107561
www-scholastic-co-uk/zone
ey