I Am Your
Evil Twin

Look out for more books in the Goosebumps Series 2000
by R.L. Stine:
1 Cry of the Cat
2 Bride of the Living Dummy
3 Creature Teacher
4 Invasion of the Body Squeezers Part 1
5 Invasion of the Body Squeezers Part 2
7 Revenge R Us
8 Fright Camp

-] Am Your
Evil Twin
: R.L. Stine
ons

Scholastic Children’s Books,
Commonwealth House, 1—19 New Oxford Street, London WC1A 1NU, UK
a division of Scholastic Ltd
London ~ New York ~ Toronto ~ Sydney ~ Auckland
Mexico City ~ New Delhi ~ Hong Kong
First published in the USA by Scholastic Inc., 1998
First published in the UK by Scholastic Ltd, 1999
Copyright © Parachute Press Inc., 1998
GOOSEBUMPS is a trademark of Parachute Press, Inc.
ISBN 0 590 11381 X
All rights reserved
Typeset by Rowland Phototypesetting Ltd, Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk
Printed by Mackays of Chatham plc, Chatham, Kent.
10987654321
This book is sold subject to the condition that it shall not, by way of trade or
otherwise, be lent, resold, hired out, or otherwise circulated without the
publisher’s prior consent in any form of binding or cover other than that in
which it is published and without a similar condition, including this
condition, being imposed upon the subsequent purchaser.

“Here we are—home,” Uncle Leo said. He pulled
into the driveway of a big, run-down brick house
and switched off the engine.
_ “The old place hasn’t changed at all since we
were kids, Leo!” Mum exclaimed. She raised her
eyebrows. “Except that the weeds are taller. And
the vines are thicker.”
“I don’t have much time for gardening. I’m
always in my lab,” Uncle Leo admitted. He
peered at me through his thick glasses. “I hope
you'll be happy here, Montgomery.”
That was when I knew it was going to be a
long year.
My name is Montgomery Adams. My mum
actually believes Montgomery is a good name for
a kid. “It’s what your father wanted,” she always
says. My dad died a month before I was born.
“Besides, it’s elegant.”
I don’t want to be elegant. I want to be normal.
It’s hard enough when youre a tall, skinny
1

twelve-year-old who has red hair and a sort of
big nose.
But when your name is Montgomery, normal
goes right out of the window.
I hadn’t seen Uncle Leo since I was about six.
When he picked Mum and me up at the Phila-
delphia airport, the first thing he said to me
was, “You must be Montgomery.” His voice was
deep and sort of hollow.
“Yeah. Everyone calls me Monty,” I told
him.
He kept calling me Montgomery anyway.
Uncle Leo climbed out of the car and strode
towards the house. Mum and I followed, lugging
our bags.
“Look, ee There’s the tree iftice we had
our rope swing.” Mum pointed to an old maple
by the side of the house. “I bet Leo has some
rope, if you want to make another one. Oh,
you're going to love it here.”
I peered suspiciously at the maple tree. “It
looks dead to me,” I muttered. “The house
doesn’t look too alive, either.”
“Stop being so negative, Monty.” Mum
frowned. “This is an adventure.” _ |
An adventure. Right.
Mum is a zoologist. She works for a univer-
sity. In a couple of months, she’s going off to
spend a year in the jungles of Borneo, studying
orang-utans. The university gave her loads of
2

money to do it. She-is really excited. Mum loves
adventures.
I hate adventures. All I want is a normal life.
Mum can’t take me with her, because there
are no good schools in the jungles of Borneo.
Instead, she was planning to stick me with her
brother—my uncle Leo.
Which would be fine. Except that Uncle Leo
is not normal. He does some kind of weird sci-
ence. He’s a professor—Professor Matz. But he
doesn’t teach. He does research. He works in his
lab all the time. And he lives in this huge wreck
of a house in the dinky little town of Mortonville,
outside Philadelphia.
_ And he calls me Montgomery.
“It’s too bad Nan isn’t here this weekend,”
Mum remarked as we went inside.
“That’s true,” I muttered. Uncle Leo’s house
might not seem.so bad with Nan around.
My cousin Nan is Leo’s daughter. She’s cool—
and nothing like her father. She spends most
summers in California with us, while Uncle Leo
travels round the world doing his weird science.
Nan and I have a lot in common. We're the
same age. We both have single parents—Nan’s
mum died when she was two. And we both play
. the piano.
She’s good at sport—better than I am—but
she doesn’t rub my face in it. And she’s funny.
We like the same jokes.
3

“Nan is away at music camp until August,”
Uncle Leo explained. He glanced at me. “Your
mother tells me you’re quite a talented piano
player yourself, Montgomery.”
We walked into the living-room, a huge,
shabby place with faded brown furniture. I
sniffed. The air smelled funny—a combination
of mould and something sour and chemical.
Yuck.
“What are you working on, Leo?” Mum asked,
settling into one of the brown armchairs. “Any-
thing earth-shattering?”
Uncle Leo’s cheeks flushed. “Oh, this and
that,” he mumbled.
Mum laughed. “You’re so hush-hush about
your work,” she teased. “Like one of those mad
scientists from the movies.”
I studied Uncle Leo. He did look like a mad
scientist, with his thick glasses, bony face and
wild tufts of reddish hair. He was tall and
stooped, and he wore a short-sleeved blue shirt
with a plastic pocket protector.
Yes. I could definitely picture him in a lab,
cackling and rubbing his hands over beakers of
bubbling green liquid.
SCREEE! Something creaked over my head.
I jumped. “What was that noise?”
“Just the house settling,” Uncle Leo
answered. “It’s old. Old houses do that.”
“Or maybe it’s one of the Others,” Mum sug-
4

gested. “Remember, Leo, how you and I used
to believe there was a whole other family that
secretly lived in the attic?”
“Maybe you believed it,” Uncle Leo muttered.
“I never did.”
I sank into the musty sofa and sighed. A mad
scientist and this creepy old house.
It was going to be a long year.
I had a hard time falling asleep that night. The
house kept creaking around me. Some of the
noises sounded almost like human voices.
Growling, moaning.
Finally I did fall asleep. For a minute.
I woke up to the sound of a shrill squeal. I
squinted around the room. What was that bright
light glaring in my eyes?
Hey! I wasn’t in my bed any more.
I seemed to be in a hospital operating room!
My heart began to pound. What was going on?
A tall, thin figure loomed over me. A man.
But I couldn’t see his face because of the light
shining in my eyes. All I could see was the out-
line of his head. He wore a surgical cap and
mask.
He held up a gloved hand. A piece of metal
glittered in his grip.
My eyes widened in horror.
A scalpel!
I tried to sit up.

I couldn’t move!
“Help!” I shouted.
But no sound came from my throat!
“Relax,” the man in the mask said. His
impossibly deep voice boomed in my ears. It
sounded like a worn, stretched cassette tape.
My heart raced. I wanted to jump up. To run.
But I couldn’t make my body obey me.
This is a nightmare! A horrible nightmare!
That’s when it hit me.
It was a nightmare!
Yeah! That’s it, I thought.
I’m dreaming. This isn’t real.
That’s why I can’t move. Or speak.
It’s a dream. That’s all. Just a dream.
My heartbeat began to slow down.
And then the man in the mask lowered the
scalpel to my ear—and began to scrape it across
my skin.

“No!” I yelled with all my strength. “Nooooo!”
And suddenly, I could move. I bolted up in
bed, gasping.
Sweat poured down my cheeks.
I stared around.
I was back in a dark bedroom. A guest room
in Uncle Leo’s house.
The man with the scalpel had gone.
The door swung open. “Monty?” Mum called.
“Are you all right? I thought I heard you call
out.”
“T think I was dreaming,” I managed. “Sorry
if I woke you.”
“Don’t worry about it. Go back to sleep,” Mum
advised.
I lay back down. I stared at the ceiling while
my racing heart slowed down.
I closed my eyes.
But it was a long time before I fell asleep again.
*
7

I went home for the summer. In October, Mum
left for the jungle. Uncle Leo pickedme up at
the airport. He wore another blue short-sleeved
shirt with a plastic pocket protector. Or maybe
it was the same one. I couldn’t tell.
It was a cool, clear autumn day. The leaves
on the trees were just starting to change colour.
Mortonville looked pretty. But I still felt
nervous.
As we pulled into the driveway, the front door
of Uncle Leo’s house opened. My cousin Nan
stepped out on to the porch.
“Hi!” she yelled, running up to the car. “You're
here at last! Has Aunt Rebecca left? Don’t you
wish you could go to Borneo with her?”
Nan was as tall as me, and thin. She wore
baggy jeans and a blue hooded sweatshirt. Her.
hair, a lighter shade of red than mine, hung in
a long, single braid down her back. Her green
eyes sparkled from under a thick fringe.
“Hi!” was all I managed before she began
chattering away again.
“Come on in,” she urged, leading me inside. “Did
Dad show you round the house when you last came
to visit? I bet he didn’t. Dad always forgets stuff
like that. Oh, well, I’ll show you. It’s a cool house.
You'll like it.” She rolled her eyes. “Except the hot
water doesn’t always work very well.”
In the living-room, Uncle Leo cleared his
throat. “Montgomery, I have a little present for
8

you,” he announced. “Just something to welcome
you to our house.”
I stared at him in surprise. A welcome pre-
sent? I never would have expected something
like that from Uncle Leo.
He reached into his jacket pocket and pulled
out something small and silvery. He held it up
for me to inspect.
I peered at it. It was a pin, shaped like an
eight-point star. As Uncle Leo moved his hand,
a rainbow of soft colours played across the sur-
face of the star.
“Wow. What is that stuff?” I asked.
“Dad invented it,” Nan explained proudly.
“It’s a new kind of glow-in-the-dark material.
You know. For people to put on their bikes and
jogging clothes et cetera. He made me a pair of
earrings shaped like moons. Isn’t it neat?”
“It’s really cool,” I agreed, staring at the pin.
“!’'m working on lots of cool things, Mont-
gomery,” Uncle Leo said. He peered at me
through his glasses. “I wish I could tell you
about them all.”
He stood there a moment, gazing at me with
his head tilted to one side. I felt my ears start
to turn red.
What is he staring at? I wondered.
Then Uncle Leo seemed to shake himself. “Here,
let me pin it on for you,” he suggested. Stepping
forward, he reached for a fold of my T-shirt.
9

“That’s okay.” I brought my hands up quickly.
“I can—OW!”
I felt a sharp pain in my index finger.
Uncle Leo had jabbed the pin into it!
I stared at my hand. A drop of bright red blood
welled up from the puncture.
“Oh, my! I am so sorry, Montgomery!” Uncle
Leo whipped out a handkerchief and dabbed at
the blood. “Are you all right? Really, ’'m very,
very sorry. That must have hurt.”
“I’m okay,” I mumbled. My finger throbbed.
And I wished he would stop fussing. “It’s no big
deal. Anyway, thanks for the pin. I really like it.”
“He’s fine, Dad,” Nan assured Uncle Leo.
“Come on, let’s go into the kitchen. I saw a bag
of doughnuts in there.”
“Of course.” Uncle Leo handed me the pin.
Then, tucking his handkerchief back into his
pocket, he strode towards the kitchen. Nan and
I followed him.
“A new bakery opened in town last week. They
bake fresh doughnuts three times a day,” Nan
explained. “They were still warm when we
bought them.”
She crossed to the worktop and pulled a box
out of a white paper bag. As she lifted the top,
a delicious cinnamon aroma filled the air. My
mouth began to water. Breakfast on the plane
- seemed a long time ago.
“How about some apple juice to wash them
10

down?” Uncle Leo opened the refrigerator and
took out a large jug.
“Sounds great,” I declared, taking a seat at
the wooden breakfast table. Uncle Leo might be
weird, but at least he wasn’t a health nut like
Mum. She never bought doughnuts.
Nan set the box on the table. I picked out a
doughnut and bit into it. Mmmmm! It was still
a little bit warm on the inside. The sugar and
cinnamon crunched against my teeth.
I gobbled down the rest of the doughnut in
about three bites. Then I took a big swig of apple
juice.
I gazed round the kitchen. It was big and
cheerful, with green-and-white-checked lino on
_ the floor and green curtains at the window.
It’s not so bad when Nan is here, I thought
happily. I reached for a second doughnut.
That’s when I started to feel strange. Very
strange.
My stomach clenched as if someone had just
punched me. Waves of hot and cold spread
through my body.
My throat closed. I couldn’t breathe.
My stomach clenched again.
My ears buzzed.
What’s wrong? I wondered dizzily.
What is happening to me?
11

I sat at the table, swaying. My ears rang.
“Monty, are you okay?” Nan asked. “You look
a bit pale.”
“I...” I groaned. “I don’t feel. . .”
I leaned forward. My stomach heaved.
And I threw up all over the green-and-white
kitchen floor.
Nan jumped up from her chair and backed
away. “Yuck!” she groaned.
“Montgomery! What on earth... !” Uncle Leo
cried. :
I straightened up in my chair, feeling a little
better. I stared in horror at the hideous mess
on the floor. “I—I’m sorry,” I stammered.
I was so embarrassed. My face was on fire. I
felt like crawling under the table and staying
there. For the rest of the year.
Uncle Leo fetched a mop and bucket and
began cleaning up the mess. “Are you ill?”
“Maybe you need a doctor,” Nan chimed in.
12

“No. Im all right,” I mumbled. “Really.”
In fact, I felt much better. I even thought I
knew what had made me throw up.
I picked up the doughnut bag and studied the
label. Underneath the name of the bakery was
a list of ingredients. I found the one I was
searching for right away.
“It’s the doughnuts,” I explained. “They’re
fried in peanut oil.”
Nan slapped her forehead. “Oh, no! You're
allergic to peanuts! I didn’t even think of that.
Poor Monty!”
“Yes, indeed,” Uncle Leo agreed quickly. “I’m
so sorry, Montgomery. You walk into the house.
First I stab you, and then I poison you! What a
beginning.”
“It wasn’t your fault,” I protested, embar-
rassed. “You didn’t know. Um—I’d better brush
my teeth.”
“You remember where the toilet is? The
second door on the left, upstairs,” Nan told me.
“When you come down we can make sandwiches
for lunch. Not peanut butter and jelly,” she
added with a grin.
I went up and splashed water all over my face
and brushed my teeth. By now I felt perfectly
fine—except that I wished I hadn’t made such
an idiot of myself.
I stepped out of the toilet and walked down the
long hallway. Even in the middle of the day, it
13

was dark and shadowy. The floorboards creaked
as I moved. The hall was lined with wooden
doors—at least five on each side. All closed.
Why did Uncle Leo need such a huge house?
It was just him and Nan—and me, now. What
did three people need with all this space?
What was behind all those doors?
At the far end of the hall, I spotted a low,
arched doorway. Peering in, I saw that it led to
a back staircase. Where does that come out? I
wondered.
I started down the narrow, steep stairs.
CREAK! CREAK! The worn treads felt as if they
were bending under my feet.
I hope the whole thing doesn’t collapse under
me, I thought nervously. Then Id really be off
to a great start with Uncle Leo.
A moment later I reached the landing at the
bottom. I seemed to be in the back of the house
now. Through a doorway on the left, I glimpsed
Uncle Leo’s study. A room next to it contained
a piano and a couple of armchairs.
In front of me, across the hall, I saw another
door. Unlike the other doors in the house, this
one was metal, and painted bright white.
And it stood open, just a tiny bit.
What’s in there? I wondered. I reached for the
doorknob. ;
“Don’t!” a voice growled in my ear. “Don’t ever
go in there!”
14

My heart gave a hard THUD.
I spun round—and found myself staring at
Uncle Leo.
“I—uh—.” I didn’t know what to say. Did he
think I was snooping or something? “I think ’m
lost.”
“I understand. It’s a big house,” Uncle Leo
rumbled. “I didn’t mean to sound harsh. It’s just
that this door leads to my lab. Many of my
experiments are very delicate—and some are
quite dangerous. I wouldn’t want you to get
hurt, Montgomery.”
“Um—right.” All I wanted at that moment
was to get out of there. Uncle Leo was giving
me the creeps.
“The kitchen is that way.” Uncle Leo pointed
down the hall. Then he opened the lab door and
vanished inside.
I thought I heard a bolt slide shut behind
him. .
15

Weird, I thought, as I hurried down the hall.
Definitely weird.
That afternoon, Nan took me to a car park where
kids went to Rollerblade. I liked Nan’s friends.
Especially a girl called Ashley. She was kind of
cute, with straight, shoulder-length dark hair
and big brown eyes. She laughed at my jokes.
And she was the best Rollerblader there.
On Sunday it rained. Nan and I hung around
the house. We spent a while in her room, playing
games on her computer. Then we decided to go
downstairs and see what was on TV.
We walked down the first-floor hall, past door
after door. The house creaked and groaned
around us. Thick, shifting shadows hung in the
grey light.
“So what’s behind all those doors?” I asked.
Nan shrugged. “Bedrooms, mostly. The house
has ten of them. I think it used to be an inn or
something.” .
“It’s creepy,” I complained. “I keep getting
confused and forgetting which room is mine.
And the house makes all these weird noises. It
always sounds like there are people sneaking
around behind my back.”
“You mean Dad didn’t tell you?” Nan stared
at me.
“Tell me what?”
“About...” Nan’s voice trailed off.
16

“About what?”
Nan drew a deep breath. “About . . . about the
mutants. They live in this house with us,” she
explained. She lowered her voice. “They only
come out at night. They can’t stand light.”
The back of my neck prickled. “Stop kidding
around.”
“Tm serious!” Nan insisted. “Why do you think
we have all those extra bedrooms?”
“But—but—where do they come from?” I
sputtered. “How come your dad lets them stay
here?”
“Theyre experiments that went wrong,” Nan
whispered. “Dad feels responsible for them, I
suppose.”
I stopped walking. My eyes went wide. “Whoa!”
Then I noticed a grin creeping across Nan’s
face.
“You believed me! You really believed me!”
she cried.
I scowled. “Very funny. I did not.”
“Yes you did!” she crowed.
“No way. Who would believe such a lame
story?” I grumbled. |
“It was a good story. Don’t be such a sore loser,
Monty. You know I won’t tell anyone.”
I hoped she wouldn’t. Especially not Ashley.
Nan led me down the back stairs. Past Uncle
Leo’s lab and into the room with the piano. That
was also where the TV was.
17

Low, muffled noises came through the wall
from the lab. What was Uncle Leo doing in
there?
“Have you ever been in your dad’s lab?” I
asked Nan in a low voice as we sat down.
“Only once. Dad is very strict about that, you
know,” Nan told me. .
“T noticed,” I muttered. “So what happened?”
“T was about seven,” Nan recalled. “I sneaked
in one day while Dad was taking a nap. I was
sure there would be all kinds of freaky experi-
ments. Two-headed rabbits and stuff.”
“Yeah? Were there?” I asked.
Nan shook her head. “Just a load of test-tubes
and charts. It was boring. But before I could get
out, Dad woke up. I knew Id be in huge trouble
if he caught me there. So I hid in the supply
closet. It was awful! I must have been in there
for two hours. And I really had to go to the toilet.
Finally Dad left—and I managed to slip out.”
She laughed. “I’ve never tried to sneak in
again.”
I picked up the remote and clicked the TV on. ~
“How come your dad always calls me Mont-
gomery?” I asked, flipping channels.
Nan shrugged. “I don’t know. Dad’s weird that
way,” she remarked. “Formal.” She reached over
and grabbed the remote from me. “Give me that!
I hate the way you flip channels. You go so fast
I can’t tell what anything is.”
18

“I wish he’d call me Monty like everybody
else,” I grumbled.
“Hey, look!” Nan poked me in the side with
the remote. “The Twilight Zone movie! I love
this movie. I’ve seen it four times.”
I’m not crazy about scary movies. But I wasn’t
about to tell Nan that. She’d just call me a wimp.
I leaned back on the sofa and thought about
better names for me.
“This is the best part,” Nan whispered. “Are
you watching?”
“Dave,” I said.
“Huh?” She stared at me. “What are you talk-
ing about?”
“Dave,” I repeated. “What do you think? ‘Dave
Adams’. It has kind of a ring to it.”
Nan snorted. “Don’t be an idiot.”
“Well, what about Paul?” I asked. “Do I look
like a Paul to you? I think I look like a Paul.”
“T think you look like an idiot,” Nan replied.
She glanced back at the TV. A commercial was
playing. “And you made me miss the best part
of the movie!”
“So what? You’ve seen it four times already,”
I pointed out. “Hey—how about Alan?”
“Shut up, Monty.” Nan poked me with the
remote again. “Go and make some popcorn.”
“You make it!” I objected.
“IT don’t want to miss the movie,” Nan
declared.
19

So I headed for the kitchen. I found a bag of
popcorn and stuck it in the microwave.
“Hurry up, Monty!” Nan yelled from the TV
room. “It’s starting again!”
“Big whoop,” I muttered.
When the popcorn was ready, I dumped it into
a bowl and went back to the TV room.
As I passed the door to the lab, I heard Uncle
Leo’s voice inside. “No!” he cried. “No, it’s
impossible.”
There was a moment of silence. Then I heard
a voice—but it spoke too softly for me to make
out any words.
I paused by the door. Who was he talking to
in there?
I caught my breath as Uncle Leo’s voice rang
out again.
“No!” he shouted. “No! You’re insane! Do you
hear me? Insane!”
20

The back of my neck prickled.
Who was Uncle Leo yelling at? Who was
insane?
I hadn’t seen anyone else in the house—and
I’d been here all day.
What was going on in that lab?
“Monty! Get in here!” Nan yelled.
I stepped into the TV room and shut the door
behind me.
I cleared my throat. “Nan—your dad is
screaming at someone in his lab,” I told
her.
Nan shrugged. “Dad gets quite emotional
about his work,” she said without taking her
eyes off the TV.
“But who is he talking to?” I demanded. “Who
is in there with him?”
Nan turned to stare at me. Then she broke
into laughter.
“Hello! What century are you from, Monty?
21

Haven’t you ever heard of the phone?” she
asked.
“Oh.” I felt my face grow hot with embar-
rassment.
The phone. Of course. Uncle Leo was talking
on the phone.
I thought I’d heard two voices. But obviously
that was impossible.
I flopped down on the sofa beside Nan. “Here,”
I offered, passing her the bowl of popcorn.
I settled back to watch the rest of the
movie.
But I had a hard time concentrating. I kept
thinking of Uncle Leo’s voice. Of the way he
shouted “You’re insane!” ;
I don’t care what Nan says, I thought. I don’t
care if he was on the phone.
Uncle Leo is really strange.
“Well, this is it—Taft Middle School,” Nan
announced.
I gazed up at the long brick building. It looked
pretty much like my old school in California,
except that it was bigger. Same rows of metal-
framed windows with dirty white shades, same
rectangle of scrubby grass in the front.
Even though the day was dark and misty, kids
hung around on the grass, talking and throwing
Frisbees before classes began.
“Youre in Ms Kckstat’s tutor group,” Nan
22

said, studying my printed schedule. “Too bad
you're not in Mr Schneider’s with me. Ms Eck-
stat is all right, but she’s pretty strict.”
“That’s okay. I’m not exactly a troublemaker,”
I pointed out.
I was nervous. It’s hard enough starting a new
school. But starting a month after everyone else
is even tougher.
The bell rang. We hurried inside. Nan pointed
out my classroom on the ground floor. “I'll meet
you in the canteen later,” Nan promised. “Good
luck!”
“Thanks.” I gazed after my cousin as she hur-
ried to her own class.
I tried to look casual as I walked into my class-
room. Ms Eckstat gave me a nod and a smile.
She was in her fifties, I guessed, with curly grey
hair cut short and glasses that ane eeosn a chain
round her neck.
Nan’s friend Ashley was in my tutor group.
Her dark hair was pulled into a pony-tail, and
she wore a sweatshirt that said PENN STATE.
I tried to catch her eye, but she was in the
middle of a conversation with another girl.
I glanced round the room. There were several
empty seats. “Where should I sit, Ms Eckstat?”
I asked.
Ms Eckstat frowned. “You know where to sit,
Montgomery,” she said. “I assigned you a seat
last week, when you came to see me.”
23

I stared at her for a second, blinking. See her?
Last week?
“Um —excuse me, Ms Eckstat,” I began, “but
I wasn’t here last week. This is my first day.”
Ms Eckstat put her hands on her hips and
sighed. “Stop fooling around, Montgomery, and
take your seat.”
I turned towards the class and scanned the
seats. Ashley pointed to a chair near the
windows.
“Don’t argue,” she whispered. “Just sit down.”
I stumbled to the middle row and sank into
the seat. A chubby kid in the back sniggered in
a mean way.
Ms Eckstat started writing on the blackboard.
I tried to pay attention, but it was hard.
What was Ms Eckstat talking about? I hadn’t
been to Taft Middle School until today. ’'d never
met any of the teachers.
Last week I was still in California.
So why did she say she’d talked to me?
24

That afternoon I had my first piano lesson. I.
was studying with Nan’s teacher, Mr Schneider.
He’s also the school music teacher.
I'm a pretty good player, but today it took me
a while to warm up. I was rattled.
I kept thinking about Ms Eckstat mixing me
up with another kid. There weren’t any kids
who looked like me in my class. I was the only
redhead.
Mr Schneider leaned over the piano and
frowned. He was bald, except for a fringe of wiry
hair round the sides of his egg-shaped head. He
wore a striped sweater over a polka-dot tie.
“Try again,” he instructed when I messed up
my scales for the second time. “At this rate, I -
don’t know if you'll be ready for the school
assembly next week.”
“What school assembly?” I glanced up at him,
startled,
“Didn’t Nan mention it? Next Friday's
25

assembly will showcase student musical talent,”
Mr Schneider explained. “She says your playing
is on the same level as hers. I thought maybe
the two of you could play a duet.”
That could be fun, I thought. And maybe
Ashley would be impressed, if I played really
well. .
Maybe my new life in Mortonville would start
getting better. It had been pretty strange so
far.
First Uncle Leo practically killed me with
those doughnuts he bought. Then my teacher
yelled at me for not remembering something
that never happened. And those voices I heard
in the lab...
I needed something normal in my life. And
what’s more normal than a piano recital?
“Let’s get to work!” I declared, and attacked
my scales again.
The rest of the lesson went well. Mr Schneider
smiled and nodded as I breezed through my
exercises. “Good, very good,” he kept saying.
Finally he gave me a pile of sheet music and
sent me home. “Good work! But keep practising,
Monty,” he called after me from his doorway.
I hurried home. I took the porch steps two at
a time. “Nan? Uncle Leo?” I called as I walked
into the empty kitchen. “Hello?”
No one answered me. Then I remembered—
Nan was babysitting for a kid down the block.
26

Uncle Leo must be in his lab, I thought. I
suppose he can’t hear me in there.
I hurried down the hall to the lab. I grasped
the knob and pulled the door open.
“Shut that door!” someone screamed from.
inside the lab. |
I was so startled I let the door go. It banged
shut.
That wasn’t Uncle Leo’s voice! It wasn’t even
a man’s voice. It was too high.
Someone else was in his lab.
But who?
27

A moment later the door swung open. Uncle
Leo stepped out. His face looked even paler
than usual. There were dark circles under his
eyes.
“Did you need something, Montgomery?” he
asked.
“T—uh—” I felt flustered. “I didn’t mean to
bother you.”
“It’s all right.” Uncle Leo gave me a wide grin.
It looked really weird on his bony face. “I’m sorry
I snapped at you. Next time, please remember
to knock.”
“You snapped at me?” I blurted out. “But that
wasn’t your voice, Uncle Leo.”
“Of course it was,” Uncle Leo insisted. He
cleared his throat. “I may have sounded a bit,
ah, tense. I was in the middle of a very delicate
experiment.” .
“But...” My voice trailed off. I felt very
confused.
28

I turned away. “Sorry to bother you,” I
mumbled.
“It’s all right,” Uncle Leo repeated. “Better get
started on your homework.”
“Right.”
Uncle Leo whisked back inside his lab. I
headed towards the kitchen. I needed a snack.
And I needed to think.
I was almost positive the voice that screamed
at me wasn’t Uncle Leo’s.
Was Uncle Leo lying to me?
Why?
What did he have to hide?
The next day, school started pretty well. I made —
everyone at my lunch table laugh with my imita-
tion of our gym teacher, Mr Mason. He’s really
short and walks like a duck. A muscle-bound
duck.
Ashley. was there. She laughed really
hard.
Sixth period I had art. When I walked into
the art room, the first person I spotted was
Ashley. She grinned and pointed to the seat next
to her.
All right! I thought as I crossed to her table.
Things are looking up!
I recognized a couple of other kids in the class
too. Vinny Arnold, another of Nan’s friends, sat
near the door. And Seth Block, the big kid who
29

had laughed at me in tutor time, was at the
table next to ours.
“Good afternoon,” the teacher, Ms Braun,
called. She was a wispy-looking woman with
long brown hair that kept escaping from its bun
and straggling into her eyes. “Today we'll con-
tinue to explore shapes and colours in three
dimensions. I’ve set up papier-maché tubs and
paints at every table. Be creative, people!”
I glanced over at Seth’s table. He and two
other boys were already building something
huge and lumpy out of papier-maché.
“Hey, boys—how’s your project going?” Ms
Braun asked them.
“Ours is the coolest,” Seth boasted. “It’s a vol-
cano. We're going to paint it so it looks like
there’s real lava pouring down the sides. And
were going to make little tiny bodies of people
who got caught in the flow. Ahhh! I’m burning!”
He clutched his throat and began to make hor-
rible faces.
Ashley rolled her eyes. “He is such a jerk.”
She picked up a brush and began to dab blue
paint on the mask she was making.
“What are they making?” I whispered to her.
- “Seth’s head?”
Ashley cracked up. “It isn’t lumpy enough to
be his head!” she replied.
I scooped some papier-maché out of the tub
and began to mould it around my hand. “I’m
30

going to make a life-sized model of myself. What
do you think so far?”
“Not lumpy enough,” Ashley said with a grin.
She plunged her hand into the papier-maché
tub and slapped some glop on my hand. “There.
That’s better.”
“Hey!” I protested. I grabbed another paint-
_ brush and swirled a big red circle on the cheek
of her mask. “How about some nice rosy
cheeks?” :
“You want rosy cheeks? Ill give you rosy
cheeks!” Ashley dipped her brush in the red
paint. Before I could stop her, she painted a red
circle on my cheek.
“All right, you asked for it.” I reached for the
jar of green paint.
“No way!” Ashley exclaimed when she saw
what I was doing. She grabbed at my arm. I
jerked away.
I think I must have pulled a little too hard.
WHACK! My arm slammed into the row of
paint jars. They flew off the table—and shat-
tered on the floor.
Except for the yellow paint. That went all over
Seth’s table. All over Seth’s model volcano.
Shocked silence fell over the room.
Ashley and I stared at each other in horror.
Then everyone started talking at once.
“Youre history!” Seth growled. He balled his
right hand into a fist and glared at me.
31

“Way to go, Monty!” someone else called.
Ms Braun hurried over. She glared down at
us with her hands on her hips.
“Look at the mess you’ve made,” she scolded.
“And the paint you’ve wasted!”
“Sorry,” I mumbled. “It—it was an accident.”
“Well, I hope you didn’t do it on purpose!” Ms
Braun snapped. She sighed. “I'd better call the
caretaker to clean up all this broken glass. Until
then, please be very careful where you walk,
people.”
She turned and gave Ashley and me another
glare. “I want you back in here after school.
You're going to clean up this entire art room.
Maybe that will teach you some respect for the
materials.”
I ducked my head. “Yes, ma’am.”
“This stinks! I have soccer after school,”
Ashley complained as Ms Braun walked away.
She scowled at me. “Why did you have to be so
clumsy?”
Me? If she hadn’t grabbed my arm, I wouldn’t
have knocked the paints over.
But I was too embarrassed to argue.
It was only the second day at my new school.
And already I'd got into trouble twice.
“Sorry,” I said again.
For the rest of the class, Ashley and I worked
in silence. Ashley got fresh paints and painted
her mask. I tried to make an alligator out of.
32

papier-maché, but it ended up looking like a
sausage with legs.
After my last class, I headed back to the art
room to meet Ashley. I flung open the door—
and stared in horror.
The room was a complete wreck.
Rainbows of paint spattered the floor, the
walls, the windows, the furniture. A tub of pap-
ier-maché had been emptied over the teacher’s
desk. Drawing paper had been yanked off the
shelves and ripped into confetti.
It looked as if someone had beaten the papier-
maché projects with a baseball bat. I glimpsed
Seth’s volcano. It was completely smashed. So
was my alligator. And everything else.
Ashley stood in the middle of the mess,
staring at it. I took a step inside.
“Huh? What happened?” I murmured.
Ashley wheeled round. She was crying.
“Stay away from me!” she cried. “Youre
crazy!”
“What are you—” I began, bewildered.
“I saw you!” Ashley cried. “I saw you, Monty!
Why did you do this?”
33

“Me?” I stared at Ashley in confusion. “What are
you talking about?” é
“You wrecked the entire art room!” Ashley
shrieked. “Why did you do such a stupid
thing?” .
“But—but I didn’t!” I protested. “I didn’t do
this! I wasn’t even here!”
“How can you say that?” Ashley aimed a finger
at me. “I saw you! I saw you smash all this stuff.
Then you climbed out of the window.”
“It’s not true!” I cried. “I swear, Ashley, you’re
wrong. It wasn’t me. I’ve just got out of science
class. I didn’t do this.”
Ashley wiped her eyes with a tissue. “Are you
going to try to blame me for this?”
“No! I know you didn’t do it. But I didn’t,
either! I swear!”
“But I saw you!”
I put a hand to my forehead. “This is really
weird!”
34

Ashley looked past me towards the door. “Ms
Braun!” she gasped. “I—um—”
I whirled round.
“What happened here?” the art teacher
demanded.
I froze, my mouth hanging open. Ashley
stared at her feet.
“Well?” Ms Braun insisted. “Ashley, are you
responsible for this mess?”
“No,” Ashley replied.
“Monty?” Ms Braun asked.
“No!” I cried, a little too loudly.
Ashley took a deep breath. “I saw Monty do
it,” she mumbled.
The art teacher stepped towards me from the
doorway. She shook her head.
“Ashley, you may go. Monty, I’m taking you
to the head teacher’s office,” she told me. “Right
now. Let’s go!”
“Mrs Williams will see you now,” the secretary
announced.
I gulped. I’d hardly ever been sent to the head
before.
Especially for something I didn’t do!
Ms Braun put a hand on my shoulder and
steered me into Mrs Williams’s office. “I’m afraid
we have some trouble here,” she declared.
The head was a tall, heavy-set woman in a
grey suit. She wore her black hair cut very short.
35

As she glanced up at me, her stern dark eyes
narrowed.
“So you're back again,” she remarked. “I’m not
surprised. I told you this morning that smart
mouth of yours would get you into trouble.”
She turned her gaze to Ms Braun. “What has
he done this time?”
My jaw dropped.I stared at Mrs Williams in
shock.
This morning?
I wasn’t in her office this morning!
I'd never even seen her before!
What is going on?
36

Angrily, Ms Braun began to tell Mrs Williams
about the mess in the art room.
I listened in shock.
Am I going crazy?
Did I really wreck the art room—without
knowing it?
Did I get sent to the head’s office this morn-
ing? If I did, how come I can’t even remember
it?
No way! It’s impossible!
With a shiver I remembered what had hap-
pened the day before. When Ms Eckstat insisted
she’d met me last week.
Something really weird was going on.
“It wasn’t me!” I burst out. “Honestly, I didn’t
do it. I didn’t do any of it!”
Both women stared at me. Mrs Williams
shook her head.
“We know you did it, Monty,” she pointed out.
“Another student saw you. Unless you can tell
37

us why Ashley would lie about something like
that.”
“I don’t know!” I cried. “But I know I didn’t
do it. And I’ve never been to your office before,
Mrs Williams. I’ve never even met you
before!”
Mrs Williams studied my face as if she
couldn’t believe what she was hearing.
“I know it’s hard, Monty,” she said quietly. “I
know it’s not easy adjusting to a new school and
a new home.”
I bit my lip. I wanted to scream. No matter
what I said, she’d never believe me.
“But this behaviour is unacceptable,” she
went on. “And lying about it only makes things |
worse.”
“Tm telling the truth!” I insisted.
Mrs Williams shook her head. “I’m willing to
give you one more chance. But this lying must
stop. Go back to the art room and clean up that
- mess. And I don’t want to see you in my office
again.”
I trudged back to the art room, shoulders
slumped.
This is a nightmare! I thought. What is hap-
pening to me?
I found cleaning supplies in a cupboard and
got to work. This is going to take hours, I real-
ized. It’s so unfair!
I gathered up the rubbish on ithe floor and
38

threw it away. With a sigh, I started scrubbing
the paint off one of the walls.
Then, out of the corner of my eye, I caught a
sudden movement in the window. I glanced to
my right.
My own face stared in at me—wiry red hair,
big nose, everything.
My heart stood still for a moment.
Then I realized I was simply seeing my reflec-
tion in the window glass.
Get a grip, Monty! I told myself. I turned away
and started scrubbing again.
Another flash of movement at the window. I
glanced round sharply. Was there someone out
there?
Again, I found myself staring at my reflection.
It seemed awfully sharp and clear. Maybe
because the day was so dark, I thought. I
frowned.
My reflection frowned.
Weird. I noticed something squinty about my
eyes. A sly gleam. Do I really look like that? I
wondered.
I stuck out my tongue.
My reflection stuck out its tongue.
I raised my left hand and waggled my fingers.
My reflection didn’t move.
39

My mouth fell open. I dropped the scrubbing
brush and moved to the window.
A loud clattering noise made me jump.
The room was plunged into darkness.
I glanced wildly round the darkened room.
Ms Braun stood by the window. She held the
cord of the venetian blind in her hand. The blind
was down now—covering the window.
Hiding my reflection.
Ms Braun frowned at me.
“Why are you staring out of the window?” she
demanded. “You should be cleaning! You’ve
hardly made a dent in this mess.”
“I—I—” I stammered. “My reflection! It—”
I broke off. How could I explain.
“Stop fooling around, Monty,” Ms Braun
snapped. “Get back to work.”
She gave me one last angry stare. Then she
turned and strode towards the door.
“T’ll be back in an hour,” she warned.
40

I barely heard her. I was still picturing my
reflection—my reflection that didn’t move.
An hour later, I dumped the last bucketful of
dirty water down the sink and gazed round the
art room. |
It looked better, but not perfect. I hadn’t been
able to get all the paint off the walls. Faint blue
and red streaks still stained them.
But I'd done my best. I grabbed my books from
my locker and started to walk home. I hoped
Nan would be there. I needed to talk to her.
I felt as if I were going crazy!
Long shadows stretched across the pavement.
A chilly breeze stirred the leaves over my head.
I quickened my pace as I passed a vacant plot.
Nan and Uncle Leo were probably wondering
where I was.
SNAP! A twig cracked somewhere behind me.
I glanced over my shoulder. Was there some-
one back there?
The pavement seemed empty.
I kept walking. I was only a few blocks from
home now. But as I passed under a big maple
tree, I heard a snigger behind me.
I turned round and peered into the shadows.
There! A dark shape darted behind a thick
tree trunk.
My heart began to pound.
Someone is following me.
41

Maybe it’s the person who set me up in the
art room!
Maybe now I'l find out what’s going on.
I adjusted the straps of my rucksack. I pulled
my Dodgers cap lower on my forehead.
“I know you're there!” I yelled. My pulse was
racing. “Why don’t you come out where I can see
you?”
For a moment nothing happened. Then some-
one stepped out from behind the tree.
Seth.
A second later, Vinny and Rob, his two bud-
dies from art class, came out from behind other
trees. For the first time I noticed how big they
both were. At least as big as Seth.
Twice my size.
And there were three of them. You do the
maths.
They stepped towards me. Surrounded me.
Seth made a fist. He ground it into his palm.
Uh-oh. I gulped.
“Wh-what’s up?” I asked. I meant to sound
cool. But my voice came out all squeaky.
“You know what’s up,” Seth growled.
“You smashed our volcano,” one of his friends
accused me. “Ashley told us.”
“It took us three weeks to build it,” the other
one said.
“So now we're going to smash you,” Seth
muttered.
42

“Oh, no,” I groaned.
“Please.” I tried to oe “You’re making a
big mistake. I didn’t—
That was as far as I got—before they all
jumped on me.
43

“Nooo!” I threw my arms up to cover my head.
“Hold his arms!” Seth instructed his buddies.
I struggled wildly. But it was no use. All I got
was a torn shirt and a punch in the nose.
Blood trickled down my cheek. I could already
feel my nose swelling up. Great. Now it would
look even bigger than usual.
Seth and his friends high-fived one another,
then ran away.
Ten minutes later I anes up the drive to
Uncle Leo’s house. I had a moustache of dried
blood. My nose throbbed. My ribs ached.
I walked inside and slammed the door behind
me. I could hear Nan practising the piano in the
back of the house.
“Is that you, Monty?” she called as I started
up the stairs.
“Yeah,” I muttered.
“Come in here! We should practise our duet.”
I didn’t answer. I didn’t even slow down.
AA

., JOINTHE | a
" S 5 7 y > one ‘ » fi i ec a \S N
Wa E¥ D 1, RRSp a RE On ) Le ~*~ Y
~7~iy. QP COLLECTORS’ ) CLUB...
It's a great chance for you to build up the complete collection of the spine-chilling Goosebumps series - at a fraction oft he publisher's price!
Your introductory pack will be delivered to your
home in about 28 days. If for any reason you
aren't completely satisfied, just return it to us fo
a full refund. Then, with no obligation, and for a
long as you want, each month we will send you
another exciting pack for only £7.99 (inc. £2 p&p
- saving pounds on the published price. You can
cancel at any time.
— 3
Yes! Please send me my introductory Goosebumps Collectors’ Club pack for only £4.99 (inc. £2 p&p)
HIS SECTION MUST BE COMPLETED By A PARENT/GUARDIAN
LOCK CAPITALS PLEASE)
rent’s/Guardian's name: Mr/Mrs/Ms (Delete as appropriate)
Idress
roe |_| | | | | TJ
nature
over 18 23203-3
er valid only in the UK and the Republic of Ireland. If you are not entirely delighted with your introductory offer you can return it for a full refund.
ease make payable to Red House Books Ltd. Please return to The Red House, Customer Service, C
arlborough Road, Aldbourne, Marlborough, Wilts SN8 2HP

)i a
\
J
"

I didn’t feel like seeing anyone. Not even Nan.
I didn’t feel like explaining how I got beaten up
for something I didn’t even do. I just wanted to
- hide in my room.
Better yet, I wanted to board the next plane
out of Mortonville.
Borneo was sounding better all the time!
On Monday morning I had English third period.
Ms Eckstat, my tutor, was also my English
teacher.
I got to class a little late. Ms Eckstat gave me
a stern look as I hurried to my seat. The one by
the window.
I settled myself in and pulled out my bocks.
“Can anyone tell me what a proper noun is?”
Ms Eckstat asked. “Let’s see ... Monty?”
“Uh—” Why did she have to call on me? I hate
grammar! Especially early in the morning. I
searched around in my brain.
“Uh—is it a person, place, or thing?” I
tried.
Ms Eckstat folded her arms. “Yes—but which
one?”
Uh-oh. I could feel myself starting to sweat.
I glanced nervously round the room.
My gaze caught on the window—where my
own face grinned back at me.
For a second I thought I was staring at my
reflection in the glass again.
45

Then I realized I couldn’t be seeing my
reflection.
The window was wide open!
There was a kid standing outside, staring in
at me.
And he looked exactly like me!
46

I jumped up from my seat. “Hey!” I burst out.
“What’s the matter, Monty?” Ms Eckstat
demanded.
I didn’t reply. I couldn’t stop staring at the
kid outside the window. My double.
He gave me a mocking grin. “What’s the mat-
ter, Monty?” he whispered.
Then he turned and ran.
“Hey!” I shouted again. I didn’t even stop to
think what I was doing.
I leapt out of the window—and ran after him.
He sprinted towards a clump of trees. “Stop!”
I yelled as I tore across the lawn. “Come back
here!”
Who was he? Where was he going?
“Monty!” I heard Ms Eckstat call behind me.
“Monty—come back this minute!”
I ignored her and raced up a small hill.
But when I reached the Oe my double was
nowhere in sight.
47

“No!” I cried. How could I have lost him? Fran-
tic, I scanned the lawn. The clump of trees.
Nothing. He had completely vanished.
I bent down and rested my hands on my
knees, trying to catch my breath. Could he have
ducked back into the school? I wondered.
I turned towards the brick building. And spot-
ted the open window of my classroom.
“Oh, no!” I gasped.
- Ms Eckstat was framed in the window. So was
about half my class. They were all staring and
pointing at me.
What had I done? How could I explain?
Maybe someone else had seen the double.
Maybe someone would back up my story.
I jogged back across the lawn. This time I
went round to the front doors. I figured Ms Eck-
stat wouldn’t want me to climb back in through
the window.
As I hurried to class, I kept an eye out for my
double. But there was no one else around. My
footsteps echoed through the deserted halls.
Ms Eckstat met me at the classroom door,
with folded arms. “What was that all about?”
she demanded. She was getting pretty fed up
with me, I suppose.
“Tm sorry, Ms Eckstat. But I saw something
really—” I began.
She cut me off. “I don’t know what kind of
rules you have at school in California,” she
48

snapped, “but around here we don’t jump out of
the window and run around whenever we feel
like it.”
“I know. But—” I tried again.
“You know?” Ms Eckstat interrupted. “Well,
if you know the rules, then I don’t understand
your behaviour at all. Or were you trying to be
funny?”
“No!” I cried, horrified. “I—”
“Because if that’s the case, I should warn you
that clowning around won’t get you anywhere
in my class,” Ms a said ried
“But Ms Eckstat—
Ms Eckstat frowned. “I’ve heard enough,
Monty. Go back to your seat. And remember,
I’ve got my eye on you.”
Heard enough? She hadn’t let me say any-
thing at all!
Everyone stared at me as I slunk down the
aisle to my desk. Whispers and sniggers fol-
lowed me.
And I still hadn’t found out anything about
that kid who looked just like me. My twin.
My twin! How could somebody look so much
like me?
Who was he? Where did he go?
And why was he trying to ruin my life?
“So what happened?” Nan whispered as we
moved up the hot-lunch queue. “Everyone is
49

talking about how you went nuts in English
class this morning.”
I set a plateful of lasagne on my tray. “Have
you ever seen a boy round here who looks like
me?” I asked.
Nan frowned. “Not really,” she admitted. “I
mean, there’s Gus Halloran. He has red hair—
but he wears it in a crew cut. And he’s quite
fat.”
“No. I mean a Jot like me.” I glanced round
the canteen. “Exactly like me. Like my twin or
something.”
Nan’s frown deepened. “No. There’s no one at
this school who looks that much like you.”
I drew a deep breath. “Well, this morning dur-
ing English some kid who looks exactly like me
stared in at the window. So I chased after him
to find out who he was. Only he disappeared.”
I grabbed a milk from the cooler. “And no one
else saw him but me.”
“No way!” Nan laughed. “Get serious.”
“I am serious. Very serious,” I insisted. “I’m
telling you, this really happened.”
“Come on!” Nan scoffed. She led me towards
a table. “Maybe it was just some stranger pass-
ing by who sort of looked like you. Or maybe it
was some weird kind of mirage or something.”
“No,” I insisted. “He spoke to me! He was real!
And you know what else? I think he must be
the one who trashed the art room and mouthed
50

off to Mrs Williams. That’s why everyone thinks
it was me—because he looks just like me!”
Nan’s green eyes went wide. “Monty, do you
know how crazy you sound? A kid who looks just
like you who’s going around getting you into
trouble?”
Nan shook her head. I could tell she thought
I was making it all up.
But I knew what I had seen.
And I also knew who I had to ask about it.
Uncle Leo.
There’s only one answer, I thought.
I must have a twin. A twin that Mum never
told me about.
Uncle Leo will know. He’s Mum’s brother.
He has to tell me!
I raced home after my piano lesson that after-
noon. I hurried through the house to the
kitchen.
Uncle Leo was there, pouring himself a cup
of coffee. I noticed that his hands were shaking
slightly.
When he caught sight of me, he seemed to
give a start. Coffee splashed out of his cup on
to the worktop.
“Montgomery!” He frowned. “Has_ school
finished already?”
“Uncle Leo.” I planted myself in front of him.
“IT have to know. Tell me the truth. Do I have a
twin?”
51

Uncle Leo gasped. His face slowly turned a
fiery red.
“How did you find out?” he whispered.
52 :

I gasped. I felt as if all the air had been knocked
out of me.
“You mean it’s true? I do have a twin?”
Uncle Leo gazed at me. Then, slowly, he low-
ered himself into a kitchen chair.
“Yes, you do. It’s a sad story,” he said in a low
voice.
“What is?” I slid into the chair opposite him.
“Please, Uncle Leo. Tell me!”
Uncle Leo cleared his throat.
“What you must understand, Montgomery, is
that twelve years ago, your mother was very
young—and very poor,” he began. “Your father
had just died, leaving her alone. She was a
student. She had no job, no money—nothing.
She didn’t even have a house to live in. Just a
tiny little apartment on the university campus.”
“Okay, okay. I get the picture,” I said
impatiently. “Go on!”
“When you and your twin were born,” Uncle
53

Leo continued, “it was the happiest day of her
life—but also the saddest. You see, she knew
that she couldn’t possibly feed and care for two
children by herself.”
Uncle Leo sipped his coffee and gazed into his
cup. “Your mother thought long and hard about
it,” he told me. “But finally she had to accept
the truth. The best thing she could do for both
of you children was to send one of you away. To
someone who could care for you properly.”
He gave a little shrug. “You were the first-
born, Montgomery. By ten minutes. She kept —
you and sent your twin away.”
I sat there staring at the table. I hardly knew
what to think. My whole world seemed to be
turning upside down.
“Wow!” I murmured finally. “This is wild!”
“Tm sorry you had to find out this way. Your
mother was going to tell you herself—on your
thirteenth birthday,” Uncle Leo explained. He
paused. “How did you find out?”
I glanced up. “I’ve seen him. He lives some-_
where in this town. Isn’t that amazing?”
“He?” Uncle Leo repeated. His face filled with
confusion. “No, no. Your twin isn’t a boy, Mont-
gomery.” Uncle Leo leaned forward. “Nan is
your twin!” .
54

“Nan?” I cried. I gaped at Uncle Leo. “Nan is
my twin?”
“Of course!” Uncle Leo nodded. “I thought
you understood that. Your mother didn’t want
to give her daughter to a stranger. And your
Aunt Susan and I always wanted children of
our own. I’ve raised Nan as my own daughter
all these years. But she isn’t. She’s your twin
sister.”
“But—but—” I sputtered. I put my hand to
my head. I felt so confused!
“Does she know?” I asked after a moment.
“No, she doesn’t. Not yet,” Uncle Leo replied.
He cleared his throat. “I was going to tell her
on her thirteenth birthday too, just like your
mother. But now I suppose she has to know. I'd
like to tell her myself. Alone, if you don’t mind.
It will be ... well, a shock.”
“Sure.” I nodded. The news was bizarre
enough to me. I couldn’t even imagine how it
55

would hit Nan. The man she had always thought
of as her father ... was her uncle!
And she had a brother—me!
Talk about a shock.
I felt a surge of happiness for a second. I have
a sister! A twin sister! And it’s Nan!
It was quite cool. But it was also really weird.
All this time I had a twin and didn’t know it.
What else was going on that I didn’t know
about?
I started to feel as if I couldn’t trust anybody.
How did I know what was real? Or what was
the truth?
The really strange thing was, Uncle Leo still
hadn’t answered my question.
“But what about this kid I saw who looked just
like me?” I asked Uncle Leo. “Who was that?”
Uncle Leo frowned. “I don’t know anything
about that,” he muttered. “It must be a coinci-
dence.” He stared off into space for a moment.
“Uncle Leo?” I prompted.
He seemed to shake himself. “Yes, it’s a coinci-
dence. That’s all.”
“But—” I began.
We both jumped as the front door slammed.
“Hello?” Nan’s voice called out. “Anybody
home?”
Uncle Leo and I exchanged quick glances. I
stood up.
“Tm going,” I whispered.
56

I ran for the back stairs. Let Uncle Leo give
Nan this bizarre news in private. I had some
thinking to do, anyway.
My life was getting weirder by the minute.
“It’s still so hard to believe,” Nan murmured.
“You aren’t my cousin—you’re my brother. And
Dad isn’t Dad—he’s Uncle Leo. And Aunt
Rebecca is Mum.” She shook her head.
It was past midnight. Nan and I sat on her
bed, talking. We’d been talking for hours
already.
“You have to admit it explains a lot,” she
added. “Like how come we're both good piano
players.”
“Maybe. But we don’t really look that much
alike,” I argued. “I mean, we both have red hair,
and we're both tall and skinny, but—”
“But I’m much better looking than you,” Nan
broke in. She grinned at me. “We're fraternal
twins, not identical twins. Boy-girl twins are
never identical, dummy.”
“Hey—watch it.” I punched her shoulder.
“Remember, I’m your older brother.”
“By a whole ten minutes. Big deal,” Nan
scoffed.
“Hey. You know what should have tipped us
off?” I said.
“The fact that we have the same birthday?”
Nan teased.
57

“Well—yeah. But I mean, besides that.
Remember the summer we were seven, when
we went to that birthday party at that kid Evan
Seymour’s house?”
“The really spoilt kid with the crooked teeth?”
Nan asked.
“Yeah. And remember how he got that cool
model train set for a birthday present?” I went
on. “And then at the end of the party, the engine
and the caboose were missing and no one could
find them?”
“Yeah...” Nan eyed me. “So?”
I leant forward. “Well, I stole the engine,” I
told her, lowering my voice. “I just thought it
was the coolest thing I’d ever seen. I had to have
it. And later, when I went into your room to
get something, I found the caboose in your desk
drawer.”
Nan’s cheeks turned red. “Are you kidding?
You mean you knew I took that caboose and you
never said anything?”
“What was I going to say?” I asked. “I took
the engine. I couldn’t say anything or I might
have got caught myself.” I shrugged. “Besides,
I never liked Evan.”
“Yeah. He was a jerk,” Nan agreed.
We both burst out laughing.
“I can’t believe it,” Nan gasped. “We both had
the same guilty secret all these years!”
“So, are you—are you angry with Mum?” I
58

ventured at last. “I mean, because she didn’t
keep you.”
Nan frowned and glanced down. She played
with the end of her long red braid.
“I don’t know,” she said after a moment. “I
mean, it feels really weird when I think about
it. That she knew all the time that I was her
daughter, but she never said anything.”
I shook my head. “I still can’t believe it. But
if it makes you feel better, I know she loves you.
She always talks about how great you are and
everything.”
She shrugged. “I know. Aunt Rebecca—I
mean, Mum—” She shivered. “It sounds so
strange! Mum. Anyway, she’s always been
incredibly nice to me. I’ve spent. almost every
summer with you lot. She calls and writes let-
ters to me all the time. I suppose I feel as if she
really loves me. Even though she couldn’t keep
me.”
She paused. “What am I going to say to her
next time I see her? When she comes back to
get you?”
I thought that over. “I don’t know. We have a
long time to think about it.”
I kicked the heel of my shoe against the floor.
My head was so full of questions I thought it
would explode.
“How about Uncle Leo?” I added. “Are you
angry with him for not telling you sooner?”
59

Nan shook her head. “I was at first. But now—
I mean, he’s my dad. I love him. I'll always think
of him as my dad. Knowing that he’s really my
uncle doesn’t change that. And he did plan to
tell me when I turned thirteen.”
I yawned. “Well, ’'d better go to bed.” I stood
up and strode to the door. “See you in the morn-
ing—Sis.”
“Yuck!” Nan made gagging noises. “I don’t
care if you are my brother. Don’t ever, ever call
me that again! It is so lame!”
I laughed and closed the door behind me.
As I passed the phone in the hall, it rang.
Weird. Who would call at this hour?
I picked up the receiver. “Hello?”
“You're going to get it now,” a boy’s voice
threatened. .
“Huh?” I frowned. “Who is this?”
“You're going to get it,” the voice repeated.
“Things are going to get tough, Monty. Very
tough. Starting now.”
60

“Who is this?” I whispered into the phone.
“What are you talking about?”
CLICK!
“Hello? Hello?”
No answer.
No one there.
I stood there in my pyjamas, clutching the
receiver in my hand. A chill swept over me.
Who was that on the phone?
What did he mean, things were going to get
tough?
What was he going to do to me?
“Are you nervous?” Nan whispered.
“A bit. What about you?” I whispered back.
“Very,” she admitted.
It was the next Friday. Nan and I were wait-
_ ing backstage in the school auditorium. We were
about to play our piano duet for the assembly.
I glanced at my blue button-down shirt and
61

khaki trousers. They looked okay. No food stains
or anything.
Four days had passed since I’d got that weird
phone call—but nothing had happened. Yet.
Probably Seth, I figured. Just playing around,
giving me a hard time for wrecking his volcano.
What if it wasn’t Seth?
Somebody had already started messing with
my life. Pretending to be me. Getting me blamed
. for things I hadn’t done.
What if it was my double?
The head was finishing up her announce-
ments. Nan and I were on next. Better make
sure I have all my music, I thought. I opened
my black plastic folder. .
My stomach lurched.
The folder was empty. Completely empty.
“Oh, no!” I gasped. “My music! It isn’t here!”
“What?” Nan grabbed my arm. “You moron!
Did you leave it at home?”
“No! I checked my folder three times before
we left the house,” I insisted. I snapped my
fingers. “It must be in my locker. Maybe it fell
out of the folder or something. I have to go and
get it.”
“But we’re going on in five seconds!” Nan
whispered frantically. “What am I supposed to
do?”
“Stall them. Play a solo. I don’t know!”
I raced through the wings and down the hall.
62

Of course, my locker was at the far end of the
building. It figured.
I skidded up to my locker and twirled the
dial desperately. “Twelve—seven—eleven,” I
mumbled under my breath as I spun the little
wheel.
I squeezed the latch. The metal door swung
open. I stared into the locker.
My jacket hung on a hook. My books were
stacked on the shelf.
No sheet music.
I tugged the books out of the locker. I pawed-
frantically through them. Was the music inside
my notebook?
No. Not there.
I had no idea where it was.
Maybe Id lost it in the hall somewhere, I
thought. Or left it in the toilet.
I stumbled through the halls, staring at the
floor. No sign of my music.
I turned a corner and saw an open door. I
paused for a second to peer into the room.
Just a supply room.
But before I had a chance to turn round, some-
one gave me a quick, hard shove.
OOF! I landed on my belly on the floor. The
door slammed shut. The room went dark.
“Hey!” I cried.
CLICK! A key turned in the lock. I sprang to
my feet and yanked on the door.
63

Someone had locked me in!
“Let me out!” I shouted. I banged on the door
with my fists.
No one answered.
“Open this door!” I yelled. “Let me out! Now!”
I set my ear to the door and listened. Not a
sound.
I felt a sudden cold lump in my stomach.
Someone had locked me in here on purpose, I
thought. Why?
I tried the door again. It didn’t budge.
What am I going to do?
I sniffed. Then I coughed. There was a sharp,
bitter scent in the air. And it seemed a bit smoky
in here.
After a moment I realized the smell—and the
smoke—was coming from a puddle of an oily-
looking liquid. More of the stuff oozed out of a
plastic jug that lay on its side on the floor.
“Ohhh,” I moaned.
And then I began to cough.
I bent over double, hacking and wheezing.
A thick grey cloud poured out of the mouth of
the jug on the floor.
“No!” I gasped.
The fumes from that jug! They’re choking me!
I can’t breathe.
Can’t breathe!

I clutched my stomach, coughing and gagging.
“Help!” I tried to cry. But I couldn’t choke the
word out.
I banged on the door. But no one came to let
me out.
Clouds of toxic smoke rose up from the jug on
the floor.
This is serious! I realized. If I don’t get out of
here soon, I'll pass out.
I might even die!
I peered round the little room frantically.
Struggling to see. The smoke made my eyes
water and burn.
But I could make out the rectangle of light
from a little window. A little window near the
ceiling. It was the kind that latched at the top
~ and pulled down.
It was higher than my head. Can I climb
through it? I wondered.
I have to. I don’t have any choice!
65
Pore

I staggered over to the window. I saw a stack
of metal rubbish bins in a corner. I dragged one
under the window and turned it upside down.
Then I climbed on top of it.
The fumes were much thicker up high. I
pulled my shirt up to cover my mouth and nose.
I grabbed the latch on the little window and
pulled with all my strength.
“Come on,” I panted. “Come on. Come on.”
POP! At last it sprang open. The window
swung down and banged against the concrete
wall. One of the panes shattered. But I didn’t
have time to worry about that.
Coughing, I seized the edges of the window-
frame and hauled myself up. My arms shook.
I’m not going to make it, I thought.
I don’t have the strength to pull myself
through!
And then my head was outside and I was
breathing in gulps of fresh air.
I hung there for a moment, just sucking it into
my lungs.
Then I dragged myself the rest of the way
through the little window. It was a tight fit.
“Ow!” I cried out as my trousers got stuck on a
nail. Iy anked and yanked until they ripped free.
At last I was out. I sprawled on the grass,
gasping. Greyish smoke trickled out of the little
window and floated away with the breeze.
Aftera few seconds, I felt strong enough to
66

climb to my feet. I limped towards the front
entrance of the school.
I was sure I'd missed my chance to play the
duet with Nan. I didn’t care. I was glad to be
alive.
I stumbled towards the auditorium with a sick
feeling in my stomach. I coughed again. My
lungs felt as if theyd been scrubbed with
sandpaper.
I slipped backstage. I heard the sound of a
piano playing, then applause.
Nan had started without me, I realized.
I stepped into the wings to watch. Nan stood
in front of a piano, taking a bow.
Then I noticed something else. J was on-stage
too.
I gaped in amazement at a kid on-stage who
looked just like me! :
He had my hair. My nose. My long, thin face.
He even wore khakis and a blue button-down
shirt.
He and Nan bowed to the audience together.
I stared, frozen in horror.
She thinks he’s me! I realized. My own
cousin—I mean sister!—thinks that’s me on-
stage with her!
He’s pretending he’s me!
Who is he? Why is he doing this?
I had to find out. Now was my chance.
A whole auditorium of people watched. They’d
67

all see that I had a double. At last, they would
believe me.
“Hey!” I yelled from the wings.
My double spun round. Our eyes locked.
I made a move to the stage. But my double
leapt towards the baby grand piano—and
shoved it as hard as he could. It rumbled across
the stage like a speeding Mack truck.
Roaring at me!
I stood for a second with my mouth hanging
open in shock.
He was trying to kill me—with the piano!
The piano shot towards me. It was going to
crush me. I was trapped!
At the last second, I dodged to the side.
The piano thundered past. I felt the wind as
it went by.
It smashed into the back wall with a jargling
CRACK.
I sagged against the wall, panting.
From the auditorium, I heard gasps, then
shouts. I caught a glimpse of Nan’s shocked face
as she stared into the wings. Her mouth was
wide open.
My double ran past me as I stood there.
He was laughing!
“Hey!” I yelled. I tore after him. “Come back
here! Come back!”
My double pounded down the empty hall. I
raced after him.
68

“Stop!” I screamed. “What are you doing? Who
are you?”
My double rounded the corner. He was head-
ing for the front doors! He was getting away!
I gritted my teeth and tore round the corner
after him.
And suddenly I was face to face with him!
I stumbled to a halt. My chest heaved.
“Who—are—you?” I panted. “Who?”
The boy with my face gave me a mocking
smile.
“Do you want to know the truth about me?”
he asked.
“Yes!” I cried. My voice echoed in the hall.
“You think you’re so tough,” he breathed in
my face. “Well, youre not. I’m better than you.
And I’m going to prove it.”
My double took a step towards me.
Then he hauled his fist back and punched me
in the stomach. Hard. Harder than I’d ever been
punched before.
I doubled over, gasping for air. Red spots
danced in front of my eyes.
I glanced up at him through blurry eyes.
“'m taking over your life, Monty,” he said
softly. “And you can’t stop me. That’s all you
need to know.”
69

He turned and jogged to the front doors.
I tried to stumble after him. But I had no
strength in my legs. I couldn’t seem to draw a
deep breath.
My knees buckled. I slumped to the floor.
My head whirled.
And everything began to go black.
I’m about to pass out! I realized dimly.
“No!” I groaned.
I can’t!
I have to follow him. Find out where he lives.
Who he is.
I have to stop him before he completely ruins
my life!
Gasping, I hauled myself to my feet. I stag-
gered through the school doors.
Outside, I propped myself against the side of
the building and sucked in air. It was growing
easier to breathe.
70

I scanned the street in both directions. Which
way did he go?
There! I spotted a flash of red hair turning
the corner. I stumbled after him. He was about
half a block ahead of me.
I'm going to trail that boy if it kills me, I
thought. How could somebody look so much like
me? And what did he mean, he was going to
take over my life?
My double didn’t seem to be in any big hurry.
He didn’t realize I was following him. He picked
up a stick and trailed it along the wrought-iron
fences. CLANG! CLANG! CLANG!
Then he threw the stick away and pulled
something out of his pocket. I couldn’t make out
what it was.
He shook it, then aimed it at a car. A dark
cloud hissed out.
Spray paint! I sucked in my breath. My double
was spray-painting the side of a car!
Man, was this kid bad news!
If I didn’t stop him—soon—he wouldn’t just
get me kicked out of school. He’d get me sent to
jail!
I hurried forward—and accidentally kicked a
bottle on the pavement. It rolled clattering into
the gutter.
My double turned his head sharply.
“Whoa,” I muttered. I ducked behind a tree.
Had he seen me?
71

I counted to ten, then peeked round the thick
trunk.
No. He hadn’t spotted me. He made a final
pass with the spray-paint can. Then he stuck it
back in his pocket and continued on his way.
I followed. But when I got to the car he had
spray-painted, I stopped and stared in horror.
He had painted a giant red heart on the door
of the white car. Inside the heart were the words
MONTY LUVS ASHLEY 4EVER.
“Oh, no,” I groaned.
I untucked the tail of my shirt and tried to
rub the paint off. Too late. It was dry.
I knew Ashley walked home this way. Half
the school walked home this way.
They would all see it.
They would all believe I wrote it.
And there was nothing I could do about it.
“Aargh!” I pounded my fist on the bonnet in
frustration. Then I took off after my double
again.
I had to stop him!
I trailed him down three more blocks.
When he turned left on Chester, I began to
wonder.
He was taking the same route home that I
did.
Where did this kid live, anyway?
He crossed Chester at the traffic— and
started up my block.
72

This is too weird, I thought. He can’t possibly
live on the same block as me. Nan or Uncle Leo
would have noticed.
Halfway up the block, my double turned right.
Into the driveway of Uncle Leo’s house.
“Huh?” I gasped.
I couldn’t waste time hanging back half a
block any more. I sprinted up the street. Cut
across the lawn.
And skidded to a stop. My mouth fell open in
horror.
My double was climbing into the kitchen
window of Uncle Leo’s house!
73

“No way!” I cried. ;
Why was he going to my house?
Had he already convinced Uncle Leo he was
me? Nan fell for it—why not Uncle Leo?
What if Uncle Leo thought J was the double—
and kicked me out? He really would be living
my life!
I ran up the porch steps, digging in my pocket
for my key. I jammed it into the lock and threw
the door open.
“Uncle Leo?” I yelled. I charged towards the
kitchen. “Uncle Leo! Look out for that kid. He’s
not me! He’s not Monty!”
Silence.
Then I remembered. Uncle Leo was at school
today. He’d come to watch Nan and me play our
duet.
I burst into the kitchen and stared wildly
around.
Empty. The room stood empty. The curtains
74

at the open window billowed softly in the breeze.
Where did he go? Where was my double? What
was he doing here?
I raced through the house, checking all the
rooms. .
He wasn’t in the living-room. Or the dining-
room. Or the TV room.
I stuck my head into Uncle Leo’s study. No
one there. A screensaver of chemical formulas
marched across his computer monitor.
I ran up to the first floor. Tore down the hall,
throwing open the doors to all the bedrooms.
Nothing.
I couldn’t find him anywhere. I even checked
the attic.
Finally, panting, I plodded down the front
stairs.
Where could he have gone? Had he sneaked
out of the house while I was searching the first
floor?
What was he up to?
The door burst open just as I reached the
bottom of the stairs. Nan ran in.
“Monty!” she cried when she caught sight of
me. “What is the matter with you? Are you com-
pletely crazy? Why did you smash the piano?
Why?”
I grabbed her arm. “Nan, listen. You have to
believe me!” I cried. “That wasn’t me! I swear
it wasn’t me! I was backstage—lI saw the whole
75

thing. I’m telling you, I really do have a double!
He’s the one that smashed the piano! He’s
evil!”
“Cut it out,” Nan snapped. “This isn’t funny!”
“I’m not joking! Why won’t you believe me?”
I begged.
“You say you have a double Site looks like
you—and dresses like you too?” Nan crossed her
arms. “Do I look like a moron?”
“He’s my double. My twin. I swear! It’s not
impossible. Think about it. ’m your twin, and
you didn’t know it until a week ago.”
Nan’s eyes widened. “Are you saying—oh,
wow!”
I nodded. “Nan, what if we’re not just twins?
What if we’re triplets?”
Nan put a hand to her forehead. “This is too
weird,” she murmured. “Come on. Let’s ask
Dad.”
“Uncle Leo? Isn’t he at school for our recital?”
Nan was already hurrying down the hall. “He
never showed up,” she called over her shoulder.
“He was writing a paper for a science magazine
this morning. I bet he got all involved in his
work and forgot to come.”
She pushed open the door to Uncle Leo’s study
and strode in. “Dad?”
“He isn’t here,” I said, following her in. “I
looked.”
“Maybe he’s in di lab.” Nan bit her lip. “We
76

have to go in there and talk to him. We have to
find out the truth!”
I turned to leave the room.
That’s when I caught sight of the paper lying
on top of Uncle Leo’s printer. Its title leapt out
at me.
THE FUTURE OF CLONING by Dr Leo E.
Matz.
I gasped. For a moment the room seemed to
swim before my eyes. I clutched the edge of the
desk. .
“Nan,” I croaked. “Look at this!”
Nan turned back and peered at the paper.
“So?”
“Don’t you get it?” I cried. “The double is a
clone! He cloned me. Uncle Leo cloned me!”
77

“Cloned you? Wow. Now I know you're losing
it,” Nan exclaimed. “Even if he could do it—
which he can’t—my father would never clone
you.”
“How do you know?” I shot back.
Nan glared at me. “I just know. He wouldn’t
do a sick thing like that!”
“But it all fits!” I argued.
Everything was falling into place in my mind.
“Remember when Uncle Leo gave me that pin—
and he poked my finger with it? And then he >
whipped out his handkerchief and wiped up all
the blood? I think he was getting a cell sample
or something!”
“He was not!” Nan’s green eyes flashed. “I
can’t believe you, Monty. He was just trying to
be nice to you.”
“But my double appeared just a few days
later,” I pointed out. “A few days after Uncle
Leo wipes up my blood with his handkerchief,
78

a kid appears who looks exactly like me. And
when I follow him, he comes back to this house.
How do you explain that?”
Nan’s face set in a scowl. “I don’t know. But I
know my dad didn’t clone you,” she said. “You're
wrong, Monty. Dead wrong. And I’m going to
prove it to you.”
I folded my arms. “How?”
“I'm going to ask him. Right now,” Nan
declared. “Come on. He’s got to be in his lab.
Let’s go.”
She whirled round and marched towards the
white metal door.
I followed her a little more slowly. I was terri-
fied of facing Uncle Leo.
But I had to know the truth.
Had Uncle Leo really cloned me?
Nan yanked open the door to the lab and
stepped in. I was right behind her.
She stopped so suddenly that I crashed into
her. I heard her gasp.
Then I saw what she was staring at. And I
gasped too.
Uncle Leo faced us. He wore a white lab coat.
Next to him stood my double.
Next to that double stood another double.
And another. And another.
There were four exact copies of me in Uncle
Leo’s lab.
79

The four clones smiled at me. “Hi, Monty,” they
sang out.
“T don’t believe this!” I gasped.
I felt as if I were going insane!
Uncle Leo glared at us. “I warned you never
to come in here!” he snapped.
Nan took a step forward. “But ... but, Dad
. why?” she cried. “Why did you do this to
Monty?”
Uncle Leo straightened to his full height.
“T am a scientist,” he declared. “I can’t worry
about one boy’s silly problems. With my cloning
project, I am going to change the world. For
ever.”
“No!” I shouted. “You can’t! I_— ”
Uncle Leo frowned. “I’m sorry. I hoped it
wouldn’t come to this. But I can’t allow you two
to spoil things.”
He turned to the clones. “Get them!” he
80

barked, pointing at Nan and me. “Don’t let them
escape!”
Instantly the clones spread out around the
lab.
“Dad! No!” Nan wailed.
I swallowed hard. What were they going to do
to us? How could Uncle Leo turn against us like
this?
The clones edged closer.
We had to get out of there. Clutching Nan’s
arm, I began to back towards the door.
“Where are you going, Monty?” one of the
clones called. He leapt behind us to the door. He
slammed the bolt shut.
We were locked in!
They surrounded us. Nan and I huddled
together.
Think! I told myself. Find a way out!
The clones circled us. The circle tightened.
“Get away from us!” Nan pleaded. “Leave us
alone!”
Two of the clones made a grab for me. I dodged
away—and dived to one of the lab worktops. I
grabbed a beaker full of clear liquid.
The clones surrounded Nan and blocked the
door.
“Get back,” I warned. “Away from the door.
Or Ill throw this in your faces.”
The clones laughed. “Go ahead!” one of them
urged. “It’s tap water.”
81

Water! In a lab beaker?
Maybe he was bluffing.
Desperately, I hurled the beaker at the hones
“Nan—look out!” I called.
The clones ducked. Nan too. The beaker shat-
tered against the door.
“Stop that!” Uncle Leo called sharply. “You’re
destroying expensive equipment!”
One clone seized Nan by the arms. She
struggled fiercely. “Let go of me! Let go!”
I started towards her. “Leave her alone!”
Another clone marched up to me and grabbed
my arms. “You can’t win. Don’t even try to fight
us,” he sneered.
“No!” I gasped. I ripped one arm free. “Hi-ya!”
I karate-chopped the clone’s wrist and yanked
my other arm free. Ducking away, I crouched
and ran under a stainless-steel table.
That is, I tried to run under the table. But I
didn’t duck low enough.
WHACK! I rammed my head against the
rounded metal edge.
I fell backwards. “Ohhhhh,” I moaned.
“Monty!” Nan gasped.
It was all over. Two of the clones grabbed me
on the lab floor. They dragged Nan and me over
to the supply closet.
Then they opened the door and shoved us in.
I heard a key turn in the lock.
I stared into the darkness. A faint light
82

washed in from a high, frosted window. I banged
my fists against the wooden door. “Let us out!”
I screamed.
“Monty,” Nan said in a hushed voice. “Over
here. Quick!”
I turned round. Nan was crouching by some-
thing in the corner. In the dim light it resembled
a pile of old rags.
Then it moved. Groaned. Sat up.
Light fell on a pale face.
I cried out in shock.
“Uncle Leo!”
83

“Dad!” Nan cried. She reached out a hand to
Uncle Leo.
Then she yanked it back.
“Dad—is it really you?” she whispered
fearfully.
“It’s really me. I promise,” Uncle Leo replied
weakly. He gazed from Nan to me. “So they got
you too. I was afraid of this. I’m so sorry, kids.”
Nan eyed him suspiciously. “If you’re you—
who’s that man out there?”
Uncle Leo rubbed a hand wearily over his
face. “He’s a clone. They all are,” he explained.
“Human clones, grown in my lab.”
I shivered. Even though I had guessed the
truth, hearing it from Uncle Leo made it worse
somehow.
“Why?” I cried. “Why did you clone me?”
Uncle Leo shook his head. “I didn’t,” he
declared. “I would never clone another human
being! Please believe me, Montgomery.”
84

“Then how ...?” Nan stared at Uncle Leo. “I
don’t get it, Dad.”
“I would never experiment on another human
being. But I did experimenton myself,” Uncle
Leo explained. “Several months ago, I succeeded
in cloning myself. It was an incredible break-
through.”
“Several months ago?” Nan gasped. “You
mean there have been two of you running
around for the last few months?”
“Not running around,” Uncle Leo corrected. “I
explained to my clone the importance of staying
hidden in my lab—until we were ready to show
him to the world. I thought he understood and
agreed.”
He heaved a deep sigh. “But what I didn’t
realize was that my clone is insane—insane and
evil.”
“Evil?” I echoed. I felt a cold knot in my
stomach.
“I don’t know what other word to use,” Uncle
Leo continued. “He’s the one who cloned you,
Montgomery. I think he took DNA samples from
you last summer, when you and your mother
came to visit. He sneaked out of the lab and
into your bedroom in the middle of the night. I
caught him in the hall, but he claimed he was
simply taking a walk because he couldn’t sleep.”
I gasped. I had a sudden memory of the hor-
rible nightmare from that night. The one where
85

the man was scraping at my skin with a scalpel.
But it wasn’t a nightmare at all. If Uncle Leo
was right, it had really happened!
“So when you pricked Monty with that pin,
you weren't taking DNA samples, were you, —
Dad?” Nan asked.
“Of course not!” Uncle Leo sounded shocked.
“My goodness, that was just an accident. I cer-
tainly didn’t mean to do it.”
“T told you,” Nan declared.
“Yeah, well...” I muttered. You couldn’t
blame me for being suspicious.
After all, I wasn’t that far from the truth!
Uncle Leo put a hand on my shoulder. “I’m
sorry. I would have stopped my clone—if only I
had known. But it never crossed my mind that
he might be lying to me. Why should he? It
would be like me lying to myself.” He sighed
again. “Or that’s what I thought in the
beginning.
“Anyway, he continued, “as I continued run-
ning tests on my clone, I grew more and more
worried. I began to suspect that there was some-
thing wrong with his mind. Something twisted.”
I jumped up impatiently and began to pace
back and forth. I wanted to get to the important
part.
“But what about the clones of me?” I
demanded.
“Leo Two was making them all along, in
86

secret,” Uncle Leo told me. “He worked at night,
while I slept. And he hid the Montgomery clones
in the spare bedrooms so I wouldn’t find them.”
“No way!” Nan cried. “You mean I was sleep-
ing next door to clones of Monty all this time?”
I shuddered. It was a horrible picture. While
Nan and Uncle Leo and I went about our lives,
these copies of me watched us...spied onus...
“T didn’t find out about the Montgomery clones
until two days ago,” Uncle Leo told us. He
turned to me. “When you described a boy who
looked exactly like you, I began to wonder. Could
Leo Two have been continuing my work behind
my back?
“I went into the lab that night to confront
him. To my horror, I found several Montgomery
clones in there with him. When I threatened to
stop them, they overpowered me. They locked
me up in here.”
He shook his head. “The only reason I’m still
alive is because they think they need me. My
scientific knowledge.”
He fell silent. We all sat there for a moment
in the dark closet. I didn’t know what to say.
“Dad, isn’t there any way to tell these clones
apart from real people?” Nan demanded at last.
“I mean, how do I know yov’e not really just
another clone? Or Monty?”
“Hey!” I protested. “I’m no clone. I’m me!”
“How do I know that?” Nan challenged.
87

Uncle Leo leant his head back against the
wall. “It’s a good question,” he sighed. “Of
course, I needed a way to tell a clone from its
original. So I made sure each clone had a tiny
flaw.”
He held up his right hand. “Each of the clones
has a small blue dot here on the tip of his right
thumb,” he explained. “It looks like a tattoo, but
it’s not. It’s more like a birthmark. It can’t be
removed.”
Uncle Leo shook his head. “There is another
difference between the clones and their origi-
nals,” he added. “I don’t know why, or how, but
all of the clones are evil. They take pleasure in
doing harm to other people.”
“But what do they want? Why did Leo Two
make so many clones of me?” I asked. “What are
they planning to do?”
“Leo Two uses those clones of you as his per-
sonal slaves,” Uncle Leo said. “The more, the
better. He could never have overpowered me
without them.
“But I don’t know what they’re planning,” he
admitted. “Whatever they’re up to, it’s bad.”
He climbed stiffly to his feet. “Kids, we have
to find some way to get out of here. We have to
stop them somehow!”
CLICK! I heard a key turn in the lock behind
me.
Heart pounding, I whirled round. The door
88

swung open. I squinted in the bright light.
Two clones of me stood in the doorway.
“Come here, Monty. We need you,” one of
them commanded. He grabbed my arm.
“No!” I yelled. I twisted my arm, trying to pull
free. But I couldn’t shake off his grip. And the
clone didn’t even seem to be straining.
He might look like me, but he was a whole lot
stronger!
He dragged me out of the closet. I struggled
wildly, but it was no use.
“What do you want?” I cried. My voice shook.
“What are you going to do to me?”
89

“Let me go!” I screamed. “What are you doing?”
The clone gripped me tighter. “You'll find out,”
he promised. :
“Nooooo!” I threw myself backwards, thrash-
ing as hard as I could. I kicked the clone in
the shins. I twisted my head, trying to bite his
hand.
“Nice try,” he growled. “Monty, help me hold
him.”
The other three clones immediately stepped
forward.
Oh, no! They all answered to my name!
The four of them dragged me to a stainless-
steel lab table. It was covered with white
paper—the kind doctors use to protect their
examining tables. Leather straps hung from the
four corners.
They're going to strap me down,.I realized.
Strap me down so I can’t struggle—while they
do something horrible to me!
90

“Stop! Please!” I begged. But they hoisted me
on to the table.
The Uncle Leo clone stepped forward and
peered down at me as I lay there, helpless. He
held up something that looked like a ballpoint
pen. But at the tip I saw a long, shining needle.
Three of the Monty clones stepped back. The
remaining one grabbed my right hand and
spread it out.
The Uncle Leo clone flipped a tiny switch on
the side of the pen. It began to buzz. The silver
needle vibrated.
He lowered it to my right hand.
“No!” I shrieked. “Noooooo!”
I watched in horror as the needle touched the
tip of my thumb.
Burning pain shot through my hand.
The Uncle Leo clone lifted the buzzing needle
away.
I raised my head and stared down at my hand.
Stared down at a small blue dot tattooed on
my right thumb.
My head fell back against the table. And my
eyes met those of the Monty clone who held me
down.
“There,” he said softly. “Now you're just like
us, Monty.”
91

_I closed my eyes, shuddering.
With the blue dot on my thumb, there was no
_ way to prove that I wasn’t a clone.
How am I going to get out of this? I wondered
desperately.
“Unstrap him,” the Uncle Leo clone com-
manded. “Let him sit up. He won’t struggle any
more.”
The Monty clones began to unbuckle the
leather straps that held my arms and legs.
Out of the corner of my eye I saw the door to
the supply closet slowly inch open. The clones
must have forgotten to lock it.
Nan peeked round the edge of the door. She
met my gaze.
And I knew what I had to do. I had to keep
their attention away from Nan.
As soon as my legs were free, I kicked out at
two of the clones. I yelled and screamed like a
maniac. I thrashed around on the table.
92

“Hold him down!” the Leo clone commanded
sharply.
“I thought you said he wouldn’t struggle any
more!” one of the Monty clones yelled.
He tried to grab my shoulders. I snapped my
teeth at his hand.
On the other side of the room, I caught a
glimpse of Nan. She was creeping towards the
lab door. She was almost there!
I struggled harder. “Let go of me!”
“He’s too stupid to realize he can’t escape.
These originals are all so stupid,” the Leo clone
snapped. |
“’'m not stupid!” I shouted. “Youre the one
who’s stupid. You’re just a dumb clone!”
“Watch your mouth, Monty,” one of the Monty
clones warned. “You don’t know what you're
talking about.”
I didn’t reply. I turned to the lab door. Nan
had opened it. She was sneaking out.
One of the Monty clones spun to the door.
Too late! He was just in time to see Nan’s red
braid vanish as she hurried out.
“The girl!” the clone shouted furiously. “She
got out!”
“Run, Nan!” I screamed at the top of my lungs.
“Run!”
Three of the clones raced after Nan.
The other one stared down at me. “That was
stupid, Monty,” he told me. “She won’t get away.
93

We'll catch her. You two don’t want to make
Uncle Leo angry. Uncle Leo can be mean when
he’s angry.”
My skin prickled. But I tried to look as if I
wasn’t scared.
“She will get away,” I declared. “You clones
are history.”
“Us?” My clone laughed. “What about you?
Don’t forget, you’re one of us now. Monty.”
“No!” I shouted. “No way!”
I sat there, feeling helpless.
How was I going to get out of this?
The minutes ticked by. The clones didn’t
return with Nan. My hopes began to rise.
Did she escape? Was she bringing help?
All I could do was wait.
After about half an hour, I heard a knock on
the lab door.
“Who’s there?” the Leo clone barked.
“Its Monty,” a voice called through the
door.
I shuddered. I would never get used to that!
A clone hurried over and unlocked the door.
The other three clones stepped inside.
Without Nan.
“Where’s the girl?” the Leo clone demanded.
“She got away,” one of my clones admitted.
“We couldn’t find her anywhere,” another one
said. “She’s gone.”
“Yes!” I cheered.
94

The Leo clone scowled. “That’s bad,” he mut-
tered. He gnawed on his thumb. “Bad.”
“Don’t worry about it,” one of my clones
scoffed. “What can she do to us? She’s just a
dumb original.”
“Who would believe her story anyway?”
another clone added.
I felt cold. The clones were right. How could
Nan ever convince a grown-up that she was tell-
ing the truth? |
The Leo clone stretched and yawned. “I was
up all night working—and all day looking after
you brats. I’m going to take a nap.”
He headed for a narrow bed in a corner of the
lab. He lay down and closed his eyes. In seconds,
he was snoring softly.
I sneezed.
As if they were one person, all of my clones
turned to stare at me.
Then they began to move slowly towards me.
My breath caught in my throat.
What were they thinking? What did they
want?
I jumped up from the lab table. I backed away
from the clones until I was pressed against the
wall.
The clones moved closer.
“What’s the matter?” one of them asked. “You
aren’t shy, are you, Monty?”
“Yeah. Are you, Monty?” another one jeered.
95

I hated the way they kept repeating my name.
There was something so creepy about it!
“Leave me alone!” I cried shrilly. “Just leave
me alone!”
They laughed. My laugh.
“After a while you'll get used to being part of
a group,” another of the clones said.
“But I’m not!” I declared. My heart thumped.
“lm me!”
“No, J’m you,” one of them corrected me.
“No, J’m you,” another one insisted.
“No, I’m you!”
“I’m you!”
I stared from one identical face to the other.
I felt a buzzing in my ears. This is insane, I
thought. Insane!
Then one of the clones held up his hand.
“Initiation time,” he announced.
96

“Initiation?” I cried weakly.
“It’s just a little test,” a clone told me.
Two of them grabbed me. They dragged me to
the worktop piled high with Uncle Leo’s electrical
equipment.
“No!” I cried. “Stop! Leave me alone!”
One of them pulled a box of wooden matches
out of a drawer. He struck a match, then lit a
Bunsen burner. A blue flame rose up in front of
me.
“Ready, Monty?” he asked.
“Ready, Monty?” the other three clones
chorused.
“No!” I yelled. “Please!”
Two of them held me so I couldn’t struggle.
A third grabbed my hand—and forced it into
the blue flame!
“Yaaaiii!” I screamed.
The fire seared my palm.
97

I snatched my hand away. And stared down
avuits
The skin on my palm was burned red.
“What are you trying to do—kill me?” I cried.
“What do you want?”
“Watch,” one of the clones said.
He held his hand up in front of my face. Then,
smiling, he stuck it into the flame.
And held it there.
“What are you doing?” I gasped. “Are you
crazy?”
The clone pulled his hand back. “See?” he said.
“Tt doesn’t hurt me.”
“Or me,” one of the other clones chimed in.
He stuck his hand into the flame.
“Or me,” the third one called.
“Or me,” the fourth one added.
“Don’t you get it? We don’t feel pain. We’re
better than you, Monty,” the first clone
said. “Smarter. Stronger. Were an improve-
ment!”
I cried out in horror.
I had to get away from these frightening
clones!
I yanked my arms free and dived for the lab
door. I threw myself at it, wrestling with the
bolt.
The clones grabbed me and pulled me back.
“No way,” one of them scolded. “Youre staying
with us!”
98

“Then lock me up!” I demanded. “Lock me up
with Uncle Leo if I’m your prisoner!”
“You don’t get it, do you?” The clone folded
his arms. “You're in the group now, Monty. In
fact, call me Monty. Because I’m you. I’m taking
your life. And do you know what I’m going to
call you?”
I couldn’t speak. I simply shook my head.
The clone leant close. “Nothing,” he whis-
pered. “You’re just a clone.”
Just a clone. The words echoed in my head.
Just a clone.
“Are you asleep yet, Monty?” one of the clones
whispered in the darkness.
I was awake. But I lay quiet and didn’t
answer.
First of all, he probably wasn’t talking to me.
Second, I wanted them all to think I was
sleeping. Then maybe they'd fall asleep—and I
could escape.
There were no windows in the lab. But I was
pretty sure it was dark outside. Nan had been
gone for hours already.
Where is she? I wondered. She probably can’t
get anyone to help her. Or believe her.
I knew she was still trying. But what if she
failed? . |
It’s up to me to get out of here, I realized. To
help Nan. To rescue Uncle Leo.
99

I strained my ears in the darkness. Were they
awake?
All I could hear was steady breathing.
They’re sleeping, I decided. They must be!
Now or never, Monty!
As silently as I could, I sat up. I swung my
legs over the edge of the bed. Then I used my
hands to push myself up.
Yow! I bit my lip to keep from crying in pain.
My burned palm throbbed.
I stood there for a second, catching my breath,
waiting for the pain to fade.
No time to waste. I tiptoed to the lab door. I
grasped the bolt and began to work it gently
back and forth.
My heart pounded. Would they wake up?
The bolt wiggled under my hand.
Yes! I wanted to cheer.
I was almost out!
Almost free!
One more second. One more second and I’m
out!
The lights flickered on.
I froze in terror.
Slowly, I turned round.
100

The four clones stood in a ring around me. The
Leo clone rose up behind them, glaring at me.
“Going somewhere?” he demanded.
“I—I—” I sputtered.
“We’re very light sleepers,” one of the clones
said. “I told you before, Monty, we’re better than
you. Don’t think you can—”
BAM! BAM! BAM!
Loud blows rang out. The lab door! I jumped
away.
The door flew open. Nan burst in—followed
by three men.
They all appeared to be about Uncle Leo’s
age. They wore rumpled suits. Two were plump
and balding. The third was tall and broad-
shouldered—but his glasses were even thicker
than Uncle Leo’s.
“This is the help you brought?” I shoked
out.
But no one paid any attention to me. The
101

men’s eyes were practically popping out as they
stared at the clones.
The tall man turned to the Leo clone.
“Leo!” he cried. “What’s going on?”
“Who are you?” the Leo clone demanded
angrily. “What right do you have to burst into
my lab like this?”
“That's not my dad!” Nan cried. “He didn’t
even recognize his old college room-mates. He’s
the clone! Grab him!”
The three men exchanged glances.
Then the two plump ones stepped forward and
seized the Leo clone by the arms!
“All right!” I cheered.
“Let’s get him out to the truck,” the tall man
- said. They began to haul the Leo clone out of
the room.
The Leo clone’s fiesw as beet-red. “This is out-
rageous!” he cried. “Outrageous!”
I glanced at my clones. I waited for them to
help the Leo clone.
But they did nothing. They just stood there,
watching in silence.
Why? I wondered uneasily.
What are they planning?
Nan ran across the room. She turned the key
in the lock of the supply closet. “Dad!” she called.
Uncle Leo stumbled out, blinking in the light.
“Nan!” he exclaimed, embracing her. “Are mon
all right?”
102

“I'm fine,” Nan declared. “I brought your col-
lege room-mates, Dad.”
“Tm so glad you lot are here!” Uncle Leo cried.
“I wrote to you last week because I was afraid
my experiments were spinning out of control!”
“I tried to find help, but no one would believe
me,” Nan explained. “Not even the police! So I
hid in the garage and waited for your friends to
come.”
“But what are they going to do?” I asked.
“They're going to deal with the clones,” Nan
replied. “Theyre setting up a special lab in
South America. Soon the clones will be far
away.” .
“T can’t wait,” I said. “Nan, I’m so glad you’re
back. I was beginning to think something had
happened to you!” .
I was so relieved that I reached out to hug
her.
She jerked away. “Don’t touch me!”
I stared at her in shock. “But—”
“T don’t know who you are!” Nan said sharply.
“You could be one of them.”
“Nan!” I couldn’t believe it. “Don’t you recog-
nize me? Can’t you tell the difference?”
“Don’t listen to him!” one of my clones cried.
“He’s trying to trick you. I’m the real Monty!”
“They're both lying!” another one declared.
“Tt’s me!”
Nan’s eyes narrowed. “Let me see your right
103

thumbs.” The tattoo! She would see the tattoo!
Fear gripped me. I slowly held out my right
hand.
So did my clones.
“You don’t understand,” I said miserably.
“They tattooed me. We’re all the same now.”
Nan’s eyes widened as she stared at all our
thumbs.
Uncle Leo frowned. “That is a problem.”
The men came back into the room. “Leo!” the
tall one exclaimed. “Is that really you?”
“Fred!” Uncle Leo grabbed the man’s hand
and shook it. “Thank goodness you three got
here in time!”
“Barely,” one of the short, bald men pointed
out. He waved a hand around at me and all the
clones. “Which one is your nephew?”
“That’s the trouble,” Uncle Leo murmured.
“We aren’t sure.”
“It’s no problem at all,” one of my clones
announced.
I stared at him. “What do you mean? It’s a
big problem!”
“No, it isn’t,” the clone declared. “I can prove
I’m the real Monty!”
“How?” one of Uncle Leo’s room-mates asked.
“I know things no copy could possibly know,”
the clone announced.
He turned to Nan. “Remember what I told you
the other night? About what happened when we
104

were seven? How we both stole parts of Evan
Seymour’s train set? I got the engine, and you
got the caboose?”
“And we never told anyone else,” Nan said
slowly.
I gasped. That night when Nan and I were
talking—the clone must have been listening to
us the whole time!
“Hey!” I yelled. “That’s my story! I’m the one
who told you that story, Nan! Not him! Don’t
_ believe him!”
“No! I am!” one of the other clones shouted.
“Liar! I am!”
“No! I am!”
I clapped my hands over my ears to shut out
the noise. “It was me!” I shouted. “I told you
that story. Me! I’m Monty!”
Nan stepped forward.
“T believe you,” she said softly. “You're really
Monty.”
And she held out her hand—to the clone.
105

“Noooo!” I howled. “No! Nan! You can’t do this!”
“Nan!” the other three clones shrieked. “Don’t
you know me?”
Nan shook her head. “Let’s go,” she begged
Uncle Leo.
He nodded. “You and Montgomery go on. We'll
bring the clones out to the truck. The sooner we
get them out of the house, the better.”
Nan and the clone hurried out of the lab.
Then the four men each grabbed hold of one
of us. They hustled us through the house. Out
to a white removal van that stood in the
driveway.
They opened the rear doors and shoved us in.
The clones struggled and yelled—but I couldn't.
I was in a daze of horror.
My own twin sister couldn’t recognize me! She
thought I was a clone!
What was I going to do now?
How was I going to get out of this?
106

The inside of the truck was fitted with two
rows of plastic seats, bolted to the floor.
The Leo clone huddled in one of the corner
seats, muttering to himself.
I heard the murmur of voices outside as Uncle
Leo and his friends discussed what to do next.
I caught little snatches of sentences—“ship
leaves tomorrow morning” and “warehouse by
the river”.
Fred, the tall man, stuck his head in.
“Buckle up,” he advised us. “We’re about to get
moving.”
Then he slammed the rear doors. We were
locked in.
I chose a seat and strapped on my seat-belt.
The clones did the same.
The truck started up. We rode in silence.
Think. Think. Think! I ordered myself. I had -
to find a way out of this—before I ended up in
a lab in South America!
About fifteen minutes later, the truck
stopped. Outside, I heard the whine of big
machines and the beep of trucks as they backed
up. Where were we? I wondered.
“Sounds like a loading dock,” one of my clones
remarked.
“We're at the river,” another one added.
“They'll load us on the ship to South America
in the morning,” a third one said.
The little window between the back of the
107

truck and the cab slid open. Fred peered out at
us.
“We'll be here a while,” he told us. “Might as
well make yourselves comfortable. And in case
you have any ideas about trying to escape—
we're posting a guard outside the truck.”
A guard! I slumped down in my seat in
despair.
I knew this was my last chance to escape.
Once they put me on that ship to South America,
I was history. There was no way I could get
back.
I would spend the rest of my life as a lab
experiment!
But how could I escape?
I gazed round the inside of the truck. The
window into the cab was too small to wriggle
through. And the doors looked far too solid to
break down. Besides, a guard stood outside.
I glanced up.
And saw it. A hatch in the ceiling.
A sliding hatch, open a crack.
Could I escape through the top of the truck?
The ceiling of the truck was far over my head.
How could I reach the hatch?
Could I stack up some of the plastic seats and
climb up on them?
No. They were bolted to the floor.
I swallowed hard. There was only one thing
to do.
108

I had to ask my clones for help.
“Hey,” I began. My voice squeaked.
I cleared my throat and tried again. “Hey. We
can get out if we work together. How about it—
uh, Monty? Will you help me?”
My clones all stared at me.
“Why should I help you?” one of them
demanded. “I’m Monty. You're the one that
should be helping me.”
“No, /’m Monty,” the second one objected.
“No, J am!” the third one cried. “You should
all help me!”
The Leo clone glared at us from his corner.
“Pipe down,” he snapped. “I’m sick of all this
arguing. You're all Monty.”
That was when I got an idea. A really smart
idea.
“Listen to me!” I called over the noise. “Uncle
Leo is right. We are all the same!”
The clones stopped yelling and stared at me
again.
“Let’s face it—we’re all clones and we know
it,” I went on. “Why are we trying to fool each
other? That dumb original is back there, living
our life, while we get shipped off to some lab. Is
that right? Is that fair?”
“No!” the clones shouted.
“He’s just an original!” one of them added.
“We're better than him!”
“Right!” I yelled. “So I say let’s work together.
109

Let’s all get out of this truck—and then go back
to the house and get rid of him. This is all his
fault anyway.” |
“Yeah!”
“Let’s go {”?
Yes! I had to struggle to keep-a smile from
spreading over my face. I suppose we originals
aren’t so dumb after all! I thought.
“Okay, here’s how we're going to do it,” I
began. I grabbed one of the clones and pulled
him to the middle of the truck, underneath the
hatch. “Stand here, Monty.”
Next I pointed at a second clone. “You—climb
on Monty’s shoulders. Then the other Monty
here will help me get on your shoulders. Ill
climb out the hatch up there and find some rope
to lower down to you lot. Got it?”
“Got it, Monty,” the clones replied.
Of course, there was no way I'd lower any
rope down to them. Once I was out, it would
be “So long, suckers!” In fact, I planned to
bolt the hatch from the outside as soon as I
was through. Just to make sure they couldn’t
escape.
Two of the clones made a kind of human lad-
der for me. The third one boosted me up on to
the second one’s shoulders. The Leo clone sat in
the corner, watching.
Cautiously, I reached for the edge of the
hatch.
110

“Go on, Monty!” one of the clones cheered.
“You can do it!”
“Got it!” I grunted. I slid the hatch open. Then
I felt around the edges of the hatch for a
handhold.
I felt a sudden sharp pain in my index finger.
“Ow!” I yelped, jerking my hand back. I must
have jabbed it on a nail or something.
Below me, there was sudden silence.
Then the Leo clone yelled, “He’s the original!
Get him!”
Oh, no!
The clones don’t feel pain! I remembered. I
gave myself away!
Before I could move, hands seized my ankles.
They grabbed me—and pulled me down on to
the floor of the truck.
“Nooo!” I hit the metal floor feet first and
rolled. WHAM! My head slammed into the
corner of one of the plastic seats.
“Ohhh,” I moaned. I huddled on the floor,
clutching my head. I closed my eyes in
pain.
When I opened them again, three identical
faces were glaring into mine. The Leo clone
towered over them.
“You lied to us, Monty,” one of my clones said
softly. “We don’t like that.”
“We don’t like you, Monty,” another one
added. “We don’t like anything about you.”
111

My throat closed up with fear.
“Wh-wh-what are you going to do to me?” I
stammered.
“What you said we should do,” he told me.
“We're going to get rid of you, Monty.”
Three pairs of hands reached out for me.
112

“Wait!” I pleaded. “Can’t we talk about this?”
“What is there to talk about, Monty?” one of
the clones demanded.
“Yeah, Monty. What could you possibly have
to say to us?” another asked.
“You're a loser, Monty,” the third one sneered.
Why do they keep repeating my name? I won-
dered desperately.
And then I got my second idea.
It was a long shot. But at least it might
distract them while I thought of a better
plan.
“You hate the name Monty, don’t you?” I
asked.
The clones paused.
“Well, I mean, who wouldn’t?” I continued.
“It’s a terrible name. That’s what you hate about
me the most.”
“So?” one of them demanded.
“At least let me pick another name before I
113

die,” I urged. “Like Pete, maybe. I always
wanted to be called Pete.”
“Pete?” the first clone repeated.
“Yeah. Pete Adams. Sounds good, don’t you
think?” I forced a smile.
The second clone sat back on his heels. “Yeah.
Pete,” he declared. “It has a ring to it. I like
it!”
“No way!” another clone protested. “Pete is
boring. What about Ferris?”
Ferris! I tried not to make a face. “Yeah, that’s
good too,” I said.
“Ferris! That’s even worse than Monty!” the
first clone jeered. “What are you—a total geek?”
The third clone scrambled to his feet. “Who
are you calling a geek, Monty?”
“Don’t call me Monty!” the first clone yelled.
“I hate that name! I’m Pete!”
“No, I’m Pete!” the second clone cried.
“No, I am!” the first one insisted.
“Let’s get on with this,” the Leo clone snapped.
“Forget this silly name business.”
“Don’t call me Monty!” a third clone shouted.
“T’m Ferris!”
“You're a bonehead!” another clone exclaimed
nastily.
“Aaargh!” another clone screeched—and
dived angrily at the other two.
In a moment the three of them were rolling
on the floor. Kicking. Punching. Yelling.
114

“Oh, wonderful,” the Leo clone grumbled. He
retreated to a corner seat and stared unhappily
at the floor.
Now was my chance.
“Help!” I screamed. “Help!”
“Hey!” a voice called from outside the truck.
“What’s going on in there?”
The guard! He heard me!
“Help me—please!” I cried.
The clones paid no attention. They were too
busy fighting one another.
The rear doors of the truck flew open. A tall,
powerful-looking man with curly black hair
stood in the opening. “What’s all the noise?” he
demanded.
His eyes widened as he took in the three
clones. Then his gaze shifted to me.
“What is this?” he gasped. “Quadruplets? A
circus act?”
I’ve never thought fanigesi n my life.
“You have to stop them!” I yelled. “My
brothers—they’re killing each other!”
“Okay, kids. Break it up. Break it up!” the
guard bellowed.
Now was my chance.
Heart pounding, I pushed past the guard—
and leapt out of the back of the truck.
I gazed round. We were at some kind of load-
ing dock on the river. It was late at night, but
giant floodlights made the place as bright as
115

day. Huge cranes whined around me, hoisting
metal containers in and out of ships.
“Hey!” I heard the guard cry. “Come back
here! Hey—somebody stop that kid!”
I ran as fast as I could. I never glanced
back.
I didn’t know where I was going. I just knew
I had to get away.
Heavy feet pounded after me. I dodged behind
a stack of huge metal containers.
“Where did he go?” someone yelled.
As quietly as I could, I doubled back the other
way.
I worked my way away from the river’s edge.
Keeping to the shadows. Freezing every time I
heard a voice or a footstep. Running across the
open spaces as fast as I could.
I found myself at the entrance to the docks.
A tall chain-link fence towered above me. Big
trucks rumbled past.
A green highway sign read PHILADELPHIA
28. MORTONVILLE 8. The arrow for
Mortonville pointed to the left.
I was eight miles from Uncle Leo’s house.
I glanced back. No one seemed to be following
me.
Still sticking to the shadows, I stepped out on
to the road and began to walk. Eight miles. With
luck, I would be home in time for breakfast. . .
I walked all night. A red sun was just peeking
116

over the roofs of the houses as I made my way
up to Uncle Leo’s house.
My shirt was rumpled and drenched in sweat.
My khakis were stained with mud.
Trembling all over, I sneaked a peek into the
kitchen window. I could see Nan, Uncle Leo and
my clone. My clone, sitting at the breakfast table
as if he belonged there!
I ducked away. And made my way to the front
porch.
In a few seconds, I’d be facing him, facing the
boy Nan mistook for me. The boy who stole my
life.
I had to take my life back. I had to prove to
Nan and Uncle Leo that I am the real Monty.
But how?
How?
Swallowing hard, my heart thumping in my
chest, I rang the doorbell.
Dig

“Was that the doorbell?” I asked.
“T didn’t hear anything, Nan,” Monty replied.
He tapped a spoon against his empty cereal
bowl. “Pass the Frosted Flakes.”
I stared out of the kitchen window. Morning
sunlight streamed into the room.
I hadn’t slept much all night. I couldn’t stop
thinking about the horrors of yesterday. Those
evil clones.
Thank goodness it’s over, I thought with a
sigh. I hope those clones are on their way to
South America. Dad, Monty and I won’t feel safe
until they are far away.
“Nan—the cereal please,” Monty repeated.
“Oh. Sorry,” I murmured. “I was _ think-
ing...”
“Don’t think about it any more, Nan,” Dad
said. “It was a frightening thing. Now we have
to go on with our lives.”
I passed the cereal to Monty and then pulled
118

a sugar doughnut from the bag on the table.
“Mmmm.” Soft and fresh.
The doorbell rang.
“I did hear the doorbell!” I exclaimed.
“Tll get it.” Monty jumped up and hurried out
of the kitchen.
I heard him open the front door. And then I
heard shouting.
“What are you doing here?” Monty cried. “Get
away from here!”
“What in the world?” Dad rose from his
chair.
Loud, hurried footsteps. Then Monty burst
breathlessly back into the kitchen.
Followed by—Monty!
I jumped up. My heart skipped a beat. I stared -
from one to the other.
The first Monty wore a_blue-and-white-
striped soccer jersey and faded jeans. The
second Monty wore a mud-stained pair of khakis
and a torn, rumpled, sweaty blue shirt.
“He escaped from the truck!” the first Monty
cried. “He’s a clone!”
“Listen to me,” the second one gasped. “He’s
the clone! ’m Monty! You were wrong yester-
day, Nan. You have to believe me!”
Oh wow, I thought. My head started to spin.
I dropped back into my chair.
The nightmare—it’s starting again...
“T won’t let you do this!” the first Monty cried.
119

“You have to go to South America with the
others. You can’t steal my life!”
“Your life!” the second one choked out. “It’s
mine!”
With a desperate cry, he threw himself on the
first Monty. The two boys wrestled on the
kitchen floor, punching each other, rolling over
and over. |
I pressed my hands to my face and watched
them fight. “Dad—what are we going to do?” I
cried.
“IT don’t know how to solve this,” he sighed. “I
don’t know how to tell them apart!”
I snapped my fingers.
“T do,” I said. “I have an idea.”
120

I picked up the doughnut bag from the breakfast
table. I pulled out two doughnuts. “Stop fight-
ing!” I screamed. “Stop it right now. I know how
to solve this.”
To my surprise, they stopped wrestling. They
pulled apart, breathing hard.
My heart was pounding. I hope this works! I
thought.
I handed them each a doughnut. “Go ahead.
Eat it,” I instructed them. “Remember what
happened last time? In a few seconds we'll know
which one is really Monty.”
Both Montys hesitated.
“Go on. Do it,” I insisted.
One Monty shrugged. Then he bit into the
doughnut.
The second Monty hesitated a moment
longer. “I wish there was another way,” he
muttered.
Then he bit into his doughnut too.
121

I waited with my arms crossed. Dad stared at
them over the top of his glasses.
I glanced at the kitchen clock. It seemed as if
each second took an hour.
And then—“Brrraaaagh!”
The first Monty pitched forward. And vomited
all over the kitchen floor.
“Monty!” I shrieked. I threw my arms around
him. I didn’t even care that he was still puking.
“IT knew it was you!” I cried.
“Very clever, Nan!” Dad said, smiling. “But
you took a chance. No one is sure exactly how
allergies work. The clone might have been aller-
gic to peanut oil too.”
I chuckled, still hugging my brother. “Good
thing I don’t know anything about allergies!”
The Monty clone snarled with rage. “It’s a
trick!” he fumed.
“That’s enough out of you,” Dad growled. He
seized the clone by his shirt collar. “You're going
back to the truck! You can wait in my lab until
Fred and the others come for you.”
“You're wrong!” the clone howled. “He’s the
clone. I’m telling you, he’s the clone!”
“You just won’t give up—will you!” I declared.
Dad dragged the clone away. Monty and I
hurried to get paper towels to clean up the
mess.
That evening, Monty and I were sprawled on
the rug in front of the television. We were
122

sharing a big bowl of popcorn, watching a stupid
Police Academy movie.
“The ship with the clones must be on its way
to South America by now,” Monty said.
I shivered. “I’m so glad they’re out of our lives!
Wasn't it smart of me to think of that doughnut
test?”
Monty rolled over on to his side. “I was even
smarter,” he said softly.
“Huh?” I stared at him.
“I switched the doughnuts before you woke
up,” he said. “I bought baked doughnuts in-
stead of fried. So there was no peanut oil in
them.”
“But—but I don’t understand!” I stammered.
“You got sick, Monty! You threw up!”
He shrugged. “I faked it. I’ve been practising
for weeks.”
My heart skipped a beat. I pulled myself up
to my knees. “You mean you’re the clone?” My
whole body was trembling. “And we sent the
real Monty to South America?”
“You’re slow,” he sneered. “But you’ve got it
now.”
~ “But how?” I gasped. “How did you do it? How
did you know about the doughnuts—and every-
thing else?”
“T overheard a lot of stuff,” he replied. “Like
that stupid story about how you two stole birth-
day presents. And I was hiding outside the
123

kitchen window when he ate that doughnut and
puked all over the place.”
I felt cold all over. “How could you?” I moaned.
“How could you do that to poor Monty?”
The clone grinned at me. A wide, cruel grin.
“Nan,” he whispered in my ear. “I’m your evil
twin!”
124

é ; \
Welcome to the new. millennium of fear
OOBENUSSYS
Les) popde telele,
_ RL. STINE
~~ ee , ‘
My double rounded the corner. He was heading for
the tentd oors! He was getting away!
I wae Ne teeth and tore around the iv
corner after him. \
And suddenly Ia e face-to-face with him! |
EM ho = aren\ you?” I panted. “Who?” \
- The boy with my face gave me a mocking smile. \
“I'm taking over your lifeM onty,” he said softly.
Ne cant stop me.”
2000 fiGieS the scares!
tit
BN 0-590-11381-
apes
9 "78059